[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the IIlinnois. WINNER Win"ner, n. Defn: One who wins, or gains by success in competition, contest, or gaming. WINNING Win"ning, a. Defn: Attracting; adapted to gain favor; charming; as, a winning address. "Each mild and winning note." Keble. WINNING Win"ning, n. 1. The act of obtaining something, as in a contest or by competition. 2. The money, etc., gained by success in competition or contest, esp, in gambling; -- usually in the plural. Ye seek land and sea for your winnings. Chaucer. 3. (Mining) (a) A new opening. (b) The portion of a coal field out for working. Winning headway (Mining), an excavation for exploration, in post-and-stall working. -- Winning post, the post, or goal, at the end of a race. WINNINGLY Win"ning*ly, adv. Defn: In a winning manner. WINNINGNESS Win"ning*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being winning. "Winningness in style." J. Morley. WINNINISH Win"nin*ish, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The land-locked variety of the common salmon. [Canada] WINNOW Win"now, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Winnowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Winnowing.] Etym: [OE. windewen, winewen, AS. windwian; akin to Goth. winpjan (in comp.), winpi-skauro a fan, L. ventilare to fan, to winnow; cf. L. wannus a fan for winnowing, G. wanne, OHG. wanna. . See Wind moving air, and cf. Fan., n., Ventilate.] 1. To separate, and drive off, the chaff from by means of wind; to fan; as, to winnow grain. Ho winnoweth barley to-night in the threshing floor. Ruth. iii. 2. 2. To sift, as for the purpose of separating falsehood from truth; to separate, as had from good. Winnow well this thought, and you shall find This light as chaff that flies before the wind. Dryden. 3. To beat with wings, or as with wings.[Poetic] Now on the polar winds; then with quick fan Winnows the buxom air. Milton. WINNOW Win"now, v. i. Defn: To separate chaff from grain. Winnow not with every wind. Ecclus. v. 9. WINNOWER Win"now*er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, winnows; specifically, a winnowing machine. WINNOWING Win"now*ing, n. Defn: The act of one who, or that which, winnows. WINROW Win"row`, n. Defn: A windrow. WINSING Win"sing, a. Defn: Winsome. [Obs.] Chaucer. WINSOME Win"some, a. [Compar. Winsomer; superl. Winsomest.] Etym: [AS. wynsum, fr. wynn joy; akin to OS. wunnia, OHG. wunna, wunni, G. wonne, Goth. wunan to rejoice (in unwunands sad), AS. wunian to dwell. Win, v. t., Wont, a.] 1. Cheerful; merry; gay; light-hearted. Misled by ill example, and a winsome nature. Jeffrey. 2. Causing joy or pleasure; gladsome; pleasant. Still plotting how their hungry ear That winsome voice again might hear. Emerson. WINSOMENESS Win"some*ness, n. Defn: The characteristic of being winsome; attractiveness of manner. J. R. Green. WINTER Win"ter, n. Etym: [AS. winter; akin to OFries. & D. winter, OS. & OHG. wintar, G. winter, D. & Sw. vinter, Icel. vetr, Goth. wintrus; of uncertain origin; cf. Old Gallic vindo- white (in comp.), OIr. find white. 1. The season of the year in which the sun shines most obliquely upon any region; the coldest season of the year. "Of thirty winter he was old." Chaucer. And after summer evermore succeeds Barren winter, with his wrathful nipping cold. Shak. Winter lingering chills the lap of May. Goldsmith. Note: North of the equator, winter is popularly taken to include the months of December, January, and February (see Season). Astronomically, it may be considered to begin with the winter solstice, about December 21st, and to end with the vernal equinox, about March 21st. 2. The period of decay, old age, death, or the like. Life's autumn past, I stand on winter's verge. Wordsworth. Winter apple, an apple that keeps well in winter, or that does not ripen until winter. -- Winter barley, a kind of barley that is sown in autumn. -- Winter berry (Bot.), the name of several American shrubs (Ilex verticillata, I. lævigata, etc.) of the Holly family, having bright red berries conspicuous in winter. -- Winter bloom. (Bot.) (a) A plant of the genus Azalea. (b) A plant of the genus Hamamelis (H. Viginica); witch-hazel; -- so called from its flowers appearing late in autumn, while the leaves are falling. -- Winter bud (Zoöl.), a statoblast. -- Winter cherry (Bot.), a plant (Physalis Alkekengi) of the Nightshade family, which has, a red berry inclosed in the inflated and persistent calyx. See Alkekengi. -- Winter cough (Med.), a form of chronic bronchitis marked by a cough recurring each winter. -- Winter cress (Bot.), a yellow-flowered cruciferous plant (Barbarea vulgaris). -- Winter crop, a crop which will bear the winter, or which may be converted into fodder during the winter. -- Winter duck. (Zoöl.) (a) The pintail. (b) The old squaw. -- Winter egg (Zoöl.), an egg produced in the autumn by many invertebrates, and destined to survive the winter. Such eggs usually differ from the summer eggs in having a thicker shell, and often in being enveloped in a protective case. They sometimes develop in a manner different from that of the summer eggs. -- Winter fallow, ground that is fallowed in winter. -- Winter fat. (Bot.) Same as White sage, under White. -- Winter fever (Med.), pneumonia. [Colloq.] -- Winter flounder. (Zoöl.) See the Note under Flounder. -- Winter gull (Zoöl.), the common European gull; -- called also winter mew. [Prov. Eng.] -- Winter itch. (Med.) See Prarie itch, under Prairie. -- Winter lodge, or Winter lodgment. (Bot.) Same as Hibernaculum. -- Winter mew. (Zoöl.) Same as Winter gull, above. [Prov. Eng.] -- Winter moth (Zoöl.), any one of several species of geometrid moths which come forth in winter, as the European species (Cheimatobia brumata). These moths have rudimentary mouth organs, and eat no food in the imago state. The female of some of the species is wingless. -- Winter oil, oil prepared so as not to solidify in moderately cold weather. -- Winter pear, a kind of pear that keeps well in winter, or that does not ripen until winter. -- Winter quarters, the quarters of troops during the winter; a winter residence or station. -- Winter rye, a kind of rye that is sown in autumn. -- Winter shad (Zoöl.), the gizzard shad. -- Winter sheldrake (Zoöl.), the goosander. [Local, U.S.] -- Winter sleep (Zoöl.), hibernation. -- Winter snipe (Zoöl.), the dunlin. -- Winter solstice. (Astron.) See Solstice, 2. -- Winter teal (Zoöl.), the green-winged teal. -- Winter wagtail (Zoöl.), the gray wagtail (Motacilla melanope). [Prov. Eng.] -- Winter wheat, wheat sown in autumn, which lives during the winter, and ripens in the following summer. -- Winter wren (Zoöl.), a small American wren (Troglodytes hiemalis) closely resembling the common wren. WINTER Win"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Wintered; p. pr. & vb. n. Wintering.] Defn: To pass the winter; to hibernate; as, to winter in Florida. Because the haven was not commodious to winter in, the more part advised to depart thence. Acts xxvii. 12. WINTER Win"ter, v. i. Defn: To keep, feed or manage, during the winter; as, to winter young cattle on straw. WINTER-BEATEN Win"ter-beat`en, a. Defn: Beaten or harassed by the severe weather of winter. Spenser. WINTERGREEN Win"ter*green`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A plant which keeps its leaves green through the winter. Note: In England, the name wintergreen is applied to the species of Pyrola which in America are called English wintergreen, and shin leaf (see Shin leaf, under Shin.) In America, the name wintergreen is given to Gaultheria procumbens, a low evergreen aromatic plant with oval leaves clustered at the top of a short stem, and bearing small white flowers followed by red berries; -- called also checkerberry, and sometimes, though improperly, partridge berry. Chickweed wintergreen, a low perennial primulaceous herb (Trientalis Americana); -- also called star flower. -- Flowering wintergreen, a low plant (Polygala paucifolia) with leaves somewhat like those of the wintergreen (Gaultheria), and bearing a few showy, rose-purple blossoms. -- Spotted wintergreen, a low evergreen plant (Chimaphila maculata) with ovate, white-spotted leaves. WINTER-GROUND Win"ter-ground`, v. t. Defn: To coved over in the season of winter, as for protection or shelter; as, to winter-ground the roods of a plant. The ruddock would . . . bring thee all this, Yea, and furred moss besides, when flowers are none To winter-ground thy corse. Shak. WINTERKILL Win"ter*kill`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Winterkilled; p. pr. & vb. n. Winterkilling.] Defn: To kill by the cold, or exposure to the inclemency of winter; as, the wheat was winterkilled. [U. S.] WINTERLY Win"ter*ly, a. Defn: Like winter; wintry; cold; hence, disagreeable, cheerless; as, winterly news. [R.] Shak. The sir growing more winterly in the month of April. Camden. WINTER-PROUD Win"ter-proud`, a. Defn: Having too rank or forward a growth for winter. When either corn is winter-proud, or other plants put forth and bud too early. Holland. WINTER-RIG Win"ter-rig`, v. t. Etym: [See Winter and Ridge.] Defn: To fallow or till in winter. [Prov. Eng.] WINTER'S BARK Win"ter's bark`. (Bot.) Defn: The aromatic bark of tree (Drimys, or Drymis, Winteri) of the Magnolia family,