[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

SECT Sect, n. Etym: [L. secare, sectum, to cut.] Defn: A cutting; a scion. [Obs.] Shak. SECT Sect, n. Etym: [F. secte, L. sects, fr. sequi to follew; often confused with L. secare, sectum, to cut. See Sue to follow, and cf. Sept, Suit, n.] Defn: Those following a particular leader or authority, or attached to a certain opinion; a company or set having a common belief or allegiance distinct from others; in religion, the believers in a particular creed, or upholders of a particular practice; especially, in modern times, a party dissenting from an established church; a denomination; in philosophy, the disciples of a particular master; a school; in society and the state, an order, rank, class, or party. He beareth the sign of poverty, And in that sect our Savior saved all mankind. Piers Plowman. As of the sect of which that he was born, He kept his lay, to which that he was sworn. Chaucer. The cursed sect of that detestable and false prophet Mohammed. Fabyan. As concerning this sect [Christians], we know that everywhere it is spoken against. Acts xxviii. 22. SECTANT Sec"tant, n. Etym: [L. secare, sectum, to cut.] Defn: One of the portions of space bounded by the three coordinate planes. Specif. (Crystallog.), one of the parts of a crystal into which it is divided by the axial planes. SECTARIAN Sec*ta"ri*an, n. Defn: Pertaining to a sect, or to sects; peculiar to a sect; bigotedly attached to the tenets and interests of a denomination; as, sectarian principles or prejudices. SECTARIAN Sec*ta"ri*an, n. Defn: One of a sect; a member or adherent of a special school, denomination, or religious or philosophical party; one of a party in religion which has separated itself from established church, or which holds tenets different from those of the prevailing denomination in a state. Syn. -- See Heretic. SECTARIANISM Sec*ta"ri*an*ism, n. Defn: The quality or character of a sectarian; devotion to the interests of a party; excess of partisan or denominational zeal; adherence to a separate church organization. SECTARIANIZE Sec*ta"ri*an*ize, v. t. Defn: To imbue with sectarian feelings; to subject to the control of a sect. SECTARISM Sec"ta*rism, n. Defn: Sectarianism. [Obs.] SECTARIST Sec"ta*rist, n. Defn: A sectary. [R.] T. Warton. SECTARY Sec"ta*ry, n.;pl. Sectaries. Etym: [F. sectaire. See Sect.] Defn: A sectarian; a member or adherent of a sect; a follower or disciple of some particular teacher in philosophy or religion; one who separates from an established church; a dissenter. I never knew that time in England when men of truest religion were not counted sectaries. Milton. SECTATOR Sec*ta"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. sectari, v. intens. fr. sequi to follow. See Sue to follow.] Defn: A follower; a disciple; an adherent to a sect. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. SECTILE Sec"tile, a. Etym: [L. sectilis, fr. secare, sectum, to cut: cf. F. sectile. See Section.] Defn: Capable of being cut; specifically (Min.), capable of being severed by the knife with a smooth cut; -- said of minerals. SECTILITY Sec*til"i*ty, n. Defn: The state or quality of being sectile. SECTION Sec"tion, n. Etym: [L. sectio, fr. secare, sectum, to cut; akin to E. saw a cutting instrument: cf. F. section. See Saw, and cf. Scion, Dissect, Insect, Secant, Segment.] 1. The act of cutting, or separation by cutting; as, the section of bodies. 2. A part separated from something; a division; a portion; a slice. Specifically: -- (a) A distinct part or portion of a book or writing; a subdivision of a chapter; the division of a law or other writing; a paragraph; an article; hence, the character §, often used to denote such a division. It is hardly possible to give a distinct view of his several arguments in distinct sections. Locke. (b) A distinct part of a country or people, community, class, or the like; a part of a territory separated by geographical lines, or of a people considered as distinct. The extreme section of one class consists of bigoted dotards, the extreme section of the other consists of shallow and reckless empirics. Macaulay. (c) One of the portions, of one square mile each, into which the public lands of the United States are divided; one thirty-sixth part of a township. These sections are subdivided into quarter sections for sale under the homestead and preëmption laws. 3. (Geom.) Defn: The figure made up of all the points common to a superficies and a solid which meet, or to two superficies which meet, or to two lines which meet. In the first case the section is a superficies, in the second a line, and in the third a point. 4. (Nat. Hist.) Defn: A division of a genus; a group of species separated by some distinction from others of the same genus; -- often indicated by the sign §. 5. (Mus.) Defn: A part of a musical period, composed of one or more phrases. See Phrase. 6. The description or representation of anything as it would appear if cut through by any intersecting plane; depiction of what is beyond a plane passing through, or supposed to pass through, an object, as a building, a machine, a succession of strata; profile. Note: In mechanical drawing, as in these Illustrations of a cannon, a longitudinal section (a) usually represents the object as cut through its center lengthwise and vertically; a cross or transverse section (b), as cut crosswise and vertically; and a horizontal section (c), as cut through its center horizontally. Oblique sections are made at various angles. In architecture, a vertical section is a drawing showing the interior, the thickness of the walls, ets., as if made on a vertical plane passed through a building. Angular sections (Math.), a branch of analysis which treats of the relations of sines, tangents, etc., of arcs to the sines, tangents, etc., of their multiples or of their parts. [R.] -- Conic sections. (Geom.) See under Conic. -- Section liner (Drawing), an instrument to aid in drawing a series of equidistant parallel lines, -- used in representing sections. -- Thin sections, a section or slice, as of mineral, animal, or vegetable substance, thin enough to be transparent, and used for study under the microscope. Syn. -- Part; portion; division. -- Section, Part. The English more commonly apply the word section to a part or portion of a body of men; as, a section of the clergy, a small section of the Whigs, etc. In the United States this use is less common, but another use, unknown or but little known in England, is very frequent, as in the phrases "the eastern section of our country," etc., the same sense being also given to the adjective sectional as, sectional feelings, interests, etc. SECTIONAL Sec"tion*al, a. 1. Of or pertaining to a sections or distinct part of larger body or territory; local. All sectional interests, or party feelings, it is hoped, will hereafter yield to schemes of ambition. Story. 2. Consisting of sections, or capable of being divided into sections; as, a sectional steam boiler. SECTIONALISM Sec"tion*al*ism, n. Defn: A disproportionate regard for the interests peculiar to a section of the country; local patriotism, as distinguished from national. [U. S.] SECTIONALITY Sec"tion*al"i*ty, n. Defn: The state or quality of being sectional; sectionalism. SECTIONALIZE Sec"tion*al*ize, v. t. Defn: To divide according to gepgraphical sections or local interests. [U. S.] The principal results of the struggle were to sectionalize parties. Nicilay & Hay (Life of Lincoln). SECTIONALLY Sec"tion*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a sectional manner. SECTIONIZE Sec"tion*ize, v. t. Defn: To form into sections. [R.] SECTISM Sect"ism, n. Defn: Devotion to a sect. [R.] SECTIST Sect"ist, n. Defn: One devoted to a sect; a soetary. [R.] SECTIUNCLE Sect"i*un`cle, n. Defn: A little or petty sect. [R.] "Some new sect or sectiuncle." J. Martineau. SECTOR Sec"tor, n. Etym: [L., properly, a cutter, fr. secare, sectum, to cut: cf. F. secteur. See Section.] 1. (Geom.) Defn: A part of a circle comprehended between two radii and the included arc. 2. A mathematical instrument, consisting of two rulers connected at one end by a joint, each arm marked with several scales, as of equal parts, chords, sines, tangents, etc., one scale of each kind on each arm, and all on lines radiating from the common center of motion. The sector is used for plotting, etc., to any scale. 3. An astronomical instrument, the limb of which embraces a small portion only of a circle, used for measuring differences of declination too great for the compass of a micrometer. When it is used for measuring zenith distances of stars, it is called a zenith sector. Dip sector, an instrument used for measuring the dip of the horizon. -- Sector of a sphere, or Spherical sector, the solid generated by the revolution of the sector of a circle about one of its radii, or, more rarely, about any straight line drawn in the plane of the sector through its vertex. SECTORAL Sec"tor*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a sector; as, a sectoral circle. SECTORIAL