[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

entrance. "The citizens of Rome placed the images of their ancestors in the vestibules of their houses." Bolingbroke VESTIBULED TRAIN Vestibuled train. (Railroad) Defn: Same as Vestibule train, under Vestibule. VESTIBULUM Ves*tib"u*lum, n.; pl. Vestibula. Etym: [L., vestibule.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A cavity into which, in certain bryozoans, the esophagus and anus open. VESTIGATE Ves"ti*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. vestigatus, p. p. of vestigare. See Vestige.] Defn: To investigate. [Obs.] VESTIGE Ves"tige, n. Etym: [F., from L. vestigium footprint, trace, sign; the last part (-stigium) is probably akin to E. sty, v. i. Cf. Investigate.] Defn: The mark of the foot left on the earth; a track or footstep; a trace; a sign; hence, a faint mark or visible sign left by something which is lost, or has perished, or is no longer present; remains; as, the vestiges of ancient magnificence in Palmyra; vestiges of former population. What vestiges of liberty or property have they left Burke. Ridicule has followed the vestiges of Truth, but never usurped her place. Landor. Syn. -- Trace; mark; sign; token. -- Vestige, Trace. These words agree in marking some indications of the past, but differ to some extent in their use and application. Vestige is used chiefly in a figurative sense, for the remains something long passed away; as, the vestiges of ancient times; vestiges of the creation. A trace is literally something drawn out in a line, and may be used in this its primary sense, or figuratively, to denote a sign or evidence left by something that has passed by, or ceased to exist. Vestige usually supposes some definite object of the past to be left behind; while a trace may be a mere indication that something has been present or is present; as, traces of former population; a trace of poison in a given substance. VESTIGIAL Ves*tig"i*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a vestige or remnant; like a vestige. VESTING Vest"ing, n. Defn: Cloth for vests; a vest pattern. VESTITURE Ves"ti*ture, n. Etym: [See Vesture.] Defn: In vestiture. [R.] VESTLET Vest"let, n. Etym: [Dim. of vest.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of actinians belonging to the genus Cerianthus. These animals have a long, smooth body tapering to the base, and two separate circles of tentacles around the mouth. They form a tough, flexible, feltlike tube with a smooth internal lining, in which they dwell, whence the name. VESTMENT Vest"ment, n. Etym: [OE. vestement, vestiment, OF. vestement, vestiment, F. vêtement, fr. L. vestimentum, fr. vestire to clothe, fr. vestis a garment, clothing. See Vest.] Defn: A covering or garment; some part of clothing or dress; specifically (Eccl.), any priestly garment. "Royal vestiment." Chaucer. "Priests in holy vestments." Shak. The sculptor could not give vestments suitable to the quality of the persons represented. Dryden. VESTRY Ves"try, n.; pl. Vestries. Etym: [OE. vestrye, F. vestiaire, L. vestiarium, fr. vestiarius belonging to clothes, fr. vestis a garment. See Vest, n., and cf. Vestiary.] 1. A room appendant to a church, in which sacerdotal vestments and sacred utensils are sometimes kept, and where meetings for worship or parish business are held; a sacristy; -- formerly called revestiary. He said unto him that was over the vestry, Bring forth vestments for all the worshipers of Baal. 2 Kings x. 22. 2. (Ch. of Eng.) Defn: A parochial assembly; an assembly of persons who manage parochial affairs; -- so called because usually held in a vestry. 3. (Prot. Epis. Ch.) Defn: A body, composed of wardens and vestrymen, chosen annually by a parish to manage its temporal concerns. Metropolitan vestry, in the city of London, and certain specified parishes and places in England, a body composed of householders who pay poor rates. Its duties include the repair of churches, care of highways, the appointment of certain officers, etc. -- Select vestry, a select number of persons chosen in large and populous English parishes to represent and manage the concerns of the parish for one year. Mozley & W. -- Vestry board (Ch. of Eng.), a vestry. See def. 2, above. -- Vestry clerk, an officer chosen by the vestry, who keeps a record of its proceedings; also, in England, one who keeps the parish accounts and books. -- Vestry meeting, the meeting of a vestry or vestry board; also, a meeting of a parish held in a vestry or other place. VESTRYMAN Ves"try*man, n.; pl. Vestrymen (. Defn: A member of a vestry; especially (Prot. Epis. Ch.), a member other than a warden. See Vestry. VESTURE Ves"ture, n. Etym: [OF. vesture, vesteure, F. vêture, LL. vestitura, from L. vestire to clothe, dress. See Vest, v. t., and cf. Vestiture.] 1. A garment or garments; a robe; clothing; dress; apparel; vestment; covering; envelope. Piers Plowman. Approach, and kiss her sacred vesture's hem. Milton. Rocks, precipices, and gulfs, appareled with a vesture of plants. Bentley. There polished chests embroidered vestures graced. Pope. 2. (O. Eng. Law) (a) The corn, grass, underwood, stubble, etc., with which land was covered; as, the vesture of an acre. (b) Seizin; possession. VESTURED Ves"tured, a. Defn: Covered with vesture or garments; clothed; enveloped. We be vestured with poor cloth. Ld. Berners. VESUVIAN Ve*su"vi*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. Vésuvien, It. Vesuviano.] Defn: Of or pertaining to Vesuvius, a volcano near Naples. VESUVIAN Ve*su"vi*an, n. Etym: [G. vesuvian. See Vesuvian, a.] (Min.) Defn: Vesuvianite. VESUVIANITE Ve*su"vi*an*ite, n. (Min.) Defn: A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, and also massive, of a brown to green color, rarely sulphur yellow and blue. It is a silicate of alumina and lime with some iron magnesia, and is common at Vesuvius. Also called idocrase. VESUVINE Ve*su"vine, n. Defn: A trade name for a brown dyestuff obtained from certain basic azo compounds of benzene; -- called also Bismarck brown, Manchester brown, etc. VETCH Vetch, n. Etym: [Also fitch; OE. ficche, feche, for veche, OF. veche, vecce, vesche, vesce, F. vesce, fr. L. vicia.] (Bot.) Defn: Any leguminous plant of the genus Vicia, some species of which are valuable for fodder. The common species is V. sativa. Note: The name is also applied to many other leguminous plants of different genera; as the chichling vetch, of the genus Lathyrus; the horse vetch, of the genus Hippocrepis; the kidney vetch (Anthyllis vulneraria); the milk vetch, of the genus Astragalus; the licorice vetch, or wild licorice (Abrus precatorius). VETCHLING Vetch"ling, n. Etym: [Vetch + -ling.] (Bot.) Defn: Any small leguminous plant of the genus Lathyrus, especially L. Nissolia. VETCHY Vetch"y, a. 1. Consisting of vetches or of pea straw. "A vetchy bed." Spenser. 2. Abounding with vetches. VETERAN Vet"er*an, a. Etym: [L. veteranus, from vetus, veteris, old; akin to Gr. vatsara. See Wether.] Defn: Long exercised in anything, especially in military life and the duties of a soldier; long practiced or experienced; as, a veteran officer or soldier; veteran skill. The insinuating eloquence and delicate flattery of veteran diplomatists and courtiers. Macaulay. VETERAN Vet"er*an, n. Etym: [L. veteranus (sc. miles): cf. F. vétéran.] Defn: One who has been long exercised in any service or art, particularly in war; one who has had. Ensigns that pierced the foe's remotest lines, The hardy veteran with tears resigns. Addison. Note: In the United States, during the civil war, soldiers who had served through one term of enlistment and had reënlisted were specifically designated veterans. VETERANIZE Vet"er*an*ize, v. i. Defn: To reënlist for service as a soldier. [U.S.] Gen. W. T. Sherman. VETERINARIAN Vet`er*i*na"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. veterinarius. See Veterinary.] Defn: One skilled in the diseases of cattle or domestic animals; a veterinary surgeon. VETERINARY Vet"er*i*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. veterinarius of or belonging to beasts of burden an draught, fr. veterinus, probably originally, of or pertaining to yearlings: cf. F. vétérinaire. See Veteran, Wether.] Defn: Of or pertaining to the art of healing or treating the diseases of domestic animals, as oxen, horses, sheep, etc.; as, a veterinary writer or school. VETIVER Vet"i*ver, n. (Bot.) Defn: An East Indian grass (Andropogon muricatus); also, its fragrant roots which are much used for making mats and screens. Also called kuskus, and khuskhus. [Sometimes written vetivert, and vitivert.] VETO Ve"to, n.; pl. Vetoes (. Etym: [L. veto I forbid.] 1. An authoritative prohibition or negative; a forbidding; an interdiction. This contemptuous veto of her husband's on any intimacy with her family. G. Eliot. 2. Specifically: -- (a) A power or right possessed by one department of government to forbid or prohibit the carrying out of projects attempted by another department; especially, in a constitutional government, a power vested in the chief executive to prevent the enactment of measures passed by the legislature. Such a power may be absolute, as in the case of the Tribunes of the People in ancient Rome, or limited, as in the case of the President of the United States. Called also the veto power. (b) The exercise of such authority; an act of prohibition or prevention; as, a veto is probable if the bill passes. (c) A document or message communicating the reasons of the executive