[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

apple ripe about St. John's Day. Same as Apple-john. -- John Bull, an ideal personification of the typical characteristics of an Englishman, or of the English people. -- John Bullism, English character. W. Irving. -- John Doe (Law), the name formerly given to the fictitious plaintiff in an action of ejectment. Mozley & W. -- John Doree, John Dory. Etym: [John (or F. jaune yellow) + Doree, Dory.] (Zoöl.) An oval, compressed, European food fish (Zeus faber). Its color is yellow and olive, with golden, silvery, and blue reflections. It has a round dark spot on each side. Called also dory, doree, and St. Peter's fish. JOHNADREAMS John"a*dreams`, n. Defn: A dreamy, idle fellow. Shak. JOHNNY John"ny, n.; pl. Johnnies (. 1. A familiar diminutive of John. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A sculpin. [Local cant] Johny Crapaud (, a jocose designation of a Frenchman, or of the French people, collectively. JOHNNYCAKE John"ny*cake`, n. Defn: A kind of bread made of the meal of maize (Indian corn), mixed with water or milk, etc., and baked. [U.S.] J. Barlow. JOHNSONESE John`son*ese", n. Defn: The literary style of Dr. Samuel Johnson, or one formed in imitation of it; an inflated, stilted, or pompous style, affecting classical words. E. Everett. JOHNSON GRASS John"son grass`. Etym: [Named after W. Johnson of Alabama, who planted it about 1840-1845.] (Bot.) Defn: A tall perennial grass (Sorghum Halepense), valuable in the Southern and Western States for pasture and hay. The rootstocks are large and juicy and are eagerly sought by swine. Called also Cuba grass, Means grass, Evergreen millet, and Arabian millet. JOHNSONIAN John*so"ni*an, a. Defn: Pertaining to or resembling Dr. Johnson or his style; pompous; inflated. JOHNSONIANISM John*so"ni*an*ism, n. Defn: A manner of acting or of writing peculiar to, or characteristic of, Dr. Johnson. [Written also Johnsonism.] JOHN'S-WORT John's"-wort`, n. Defn: See St. John's-wort. JOIN Join, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Joined; p. pr. & vb. n. Joining.] Etym: [OE. joinen, joignen, F. joindre, fr. L. jungere to yoke, bind together, join; akin to jugum yoke. See Yoke, and cf. Conjugal, Junction, Junta.] 1. To bring together, literally or figuratively; to place in contact; to connect; to couple; to unite; to combine; to associate; to add; to append. Woe unto them that join house to house. Is. v. 8. Held up his left hand, which did flame and burn Like twenty torches joined. Shak. Thy tuneful voice with numbers join. Dryden. 2. To associate one's self to; to be or become connected with; to league one's self with; to unite with; as, to join a party; to join the church. We jointly now to join no other head. Dryden. 3. To unite in marriage. He that joineth his virgin in matrimony. Wyclif. What, therefore, God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. Matt. xix. 6. 4. To enjoin upon; to command. [Obs. & R.] They join them penance, as they call it. Tyndale. 5. To accept, or engage in, as a contest; as, to join encounter, battle, issue. Milton. To join battle, To join issue. See under Battle, Issue. Syn. -- To add; annex; unite; connect; combine; consociate; couple; link; append. See Add. JOIN Join, v. i. Defn: To be contiguous, close, or in contact; to come together; to unite; to mingle; to form a union; as, the hones of the skull join; two rivers join. Whose house joined hard to the synagogue. Acts xviii. 7. Should we again break thy commandments, and join in affinity with the people of these abominations Ezra ix. 14. Nature and fortune joined to make thee great. Shak. JOIN Join, n. (Geom.) Defn: The line joining two points; the point common to two intersecting lines. Henrici. JOINANT Join"ant, a. Etym: [OF. & F. joignant, p. pr. of joindre to join.] Defn: Adjoining. [Obs.] Chaucer. JOINDER Join"der, n. Etym: [F. joindre. See Join, v. t.] 1. The act of joining; a putting together; conjunction. Confirmed by mutual joinder of your hands. Shak. 2. (Law) (a) A joining of parties as plaintiffs or defendants in a suit. (b) Acceptance of an issue tendered in law or fact. (c) A joining of causes of action or defense in civil suits or criminal prosecutions. JOINER Join"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, joins. 2. One whose occupation is to construct articles by joining pieces of wood; a mechanic who does the woodwork (as doors, stairs, etc.) necessary for the finishing of buildings. "One Snug, the joiner." Shak. 3. A wood-working machine, for sawing, plaining, mortising, tenoning, grooving, etc. Syn. -- See Carpenter. JOINERY Join"er*y, n. Defn: The art, or trade, of a joiner; the work of a joiner. A piece of joinery . . . whimsically dovetailed. Burke. JOINHAND Join"hand`, n. Defn: Writing in which letters are joined in words; -- distinguished from writing in single letters. Addison. JOINT Joint, n. Etym: [F. joint, fr. joindre, p. p. joint. See Join.] 1. The place or part where two things or parts are joined or united; the union of two or more smooth or even surfaces admitting of a close-fitting or junction; junction as, a joint between two pieces of timber; a joint in a pipe. 2. A joining of two things or parts so as to admit of motion; an articulation, whether movable or not; a hinge; as, the knee joint; a node or joint of a stem; a ball and socket joint. See Articulation. A scaly gauntlet now, with joints of steel, Must glove this hand. Shak. To tear thee joint by joint. Milton. 3. The part or space included between two joints, knots, nodes, or articulations; as, a joint of cane or of a grass stem; a joint of the leg. 4. Any one of the large pieces of meat, as cut into portions by the butcher for roasting. 5. (Geol.) Defn: A plane of fracture, or divisional plane, of a rock transverse to the stratification. 6. (Arch.) Defn: The space between the adjacent surfaces of two bodies joined and held together, as by means of cement, mortar, etc.; as, a thin joint. 7. The means whereby the meeting surfaces of pieces in a structure are secured together. Coursing joint (Masonry), the mortar joint between two courses of bricks or stones. -- Fish joint, Miter joint, Universal joint, etc. See under Fish, Miter, etc. -- Joint bolt, a bolt for fastening two pieces, as of wood, one endwise to the other, having a nut embedded in one of the pieces. -- Joint chair (Railroad), the chair that supports the ends of abutting rails. -- Joint coupling, a universal joint for coupling shafting. See under Universal. -- Joint hinge, a hinge having long leaves; a strap hinge. -- Joint splice, a reënforce at a joint, to sustain the parts in their true relation. -- Joint stool. (a) A stool consisting of jointed parts; a folding stool. Shak. (b) A block for supporting the end of a piece at a joint; a joint chair. -- Out of joint, out of place; dislocated, as when the head of a bone slips from its socket; hence, not working well together; disordered. "The time is out of joint." Shak. JOINT Joint, a. Etym: [F., p. p. of joindre. See Join.] 1. Joined; united; combined; concerted; as joint action. 2. Involving the united activity of two or more; done or produced by two or more working together. I read this joint effusion twice over. T. Hook. 3. United, joined, or sharing with another or with others; not solitary in interest or action; holding in common with an associate, or with associates; acting together; as, joint heir; joint creditor; joint debtor, etc. "Joint tenants of the world." Donne. 4. Shared by, or affecting two or more; held in common; as, joint property; a joint bond. A joint burden laid upon us all. Shak. Joint committee (Parliamentary Practice), a committee composed of members of the two houses of a legislative body, for the appointment of which concurrent resolutions of the two houses are necessary. Cushing. -- Joint meeting, or Joint session, the meeting or session of two distinct bodies as one; as, a joint meeting of committees representing different corporations; a joint session of both branches of a State legislature to chose a United States senator. "Such joint meeting shall not be dissolved until the electoral votes are all counted and the result declared." Joint Rules of Congress, U. S. -- Joint resolution (Parliamentary Practice), a resolution adopted concurrently by the two branches of a legislative body. "By the constitution of the United States and the rules of the two houses, no absolute distinction is made between bills and joint resolutions." Barclay (Digest). -- Joint rule (Parliamentary Practice), a rule of proceeding adopted by the concurrent action of both branches of a legislative assembly. "Resolved, by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), that the sixteenth and seventeenth joint rules be suspended for the remainder of the session." Journal H. of R., U. S. -- Joint and several (Law),