[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

air to be used as a motive power. -- Air crossing, a passage for air in a mine. -- Air cushion, an air-tight cushion which can be inflated; also, a device for arresting motion without shock by confined air. -- Air fountain, a contrivance for producing a jet of water by the force of compressed air. -- Air furnace, a furnace which depends on a natural draft and not on blast. -- Air line, a straight line; a bee line. Hence Air-line, adj.; as, air-line road. -- Air lock (Hydr. Engin.), an intermediate chamber between the outer air and the compressed-air chamber of a pneumatic caisson. Knight. -- Air port (Nav.), a scuttle or porthole in a ship to admit air. -- Air spring, a spring in which the elasticity of air is utilized. -- Air thermometer, a form of thermometer in which the contraction and expansion of air is made to measure changes of temperature. -- Air threads, gossamer. -- Air trap, a contrivance for shutting off foul air or gas from drains, sewers, etc.; a stench trap. -- Air trunk, a pipe or shaft for conducting foul or heated air from a room. -- Air valve, a valve to regulate the admission or egress of air; esp. a valve which opens inwardly in a steam boiler and allows air to enter. -- Air way, a passage for a current of air; as the air way of an air pump; an air way in a mine. -- In the air. (a) Prevalent without traceable origin or authority, as rumors. (b) Not in a fixed or stable position; unsettled. (c) (Mil.) Unsupported and liable to be turned or taken in flank; as, the army had its wing in the air. -- To take air, to be divulged; to be made public. -- To take the air, to go abroad; to walk or ride out. AIR Air, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aired; p. pr. & vb. n. Airing.] Etym: [See Air, n., and cf. A.] 1. To expose to the air for the purpose of cooling, refreshing, or purifying; to ventilate; as, to air a room. It were good wisdom . . . that the jail were aired. Bacon. Were you but riding forth to air yourself. Shak. 2. To expose for the sake of public notice; to display ostentatiously; as, to air one's opinion. Airing a snowy hand and signet gem. Tennyson. 3. To expose to heat, for the purpose of expelling dampness, or of warming; as, to air linen; to air liquors. AIR BED Air" bed`. Defn: A sack or matters inflated with air, and used as a bed. AIR BLADDER Air" blad`der. 1. (Anat.) Defn: An air sac, sometimes double or variously lobed, in the visceral cavity of many fishes. It originates in the same way as the lungs of air-breathing vertebrates, and in the adult may retain a tubular connection with the pharynx or esophagus. 2. A sac or bladder full of air in an animal or plant; also an air hole in a casting. AIR BRAKE Air" brake`. (Mach.) Defn: A railway brake operated by condensed air. Knight. AIR BRUSH Air brush. Defn: A kind of atomizer for applying liquid coloring matter in a spray by compressed air. AIR-BUILT Air"-built`, a. Defn: Erected in the air; having no solid foundation; chimerical; as, an air-built castle. AIR CELL Air" cell`. 1. (Bot.) Defn: A cavity in the cellular tissue of plants, containing air only. 2. (Anat.) Defn: A receptacle of air in various parts of the system; as, a cell or minute cavity in the walls of the air tubes of the lungs; the air sac of birds; a dilatation of the air vessels in insects. AIR CHAMBER Air" cham`ber. 1. A chamber or cavity filled with air, in an animal or plant. 2. A cavity containing air to act as a spring for equalizing the flow of a liquid in a pump or other hydraulic machine. AIR COCK Air" cock`. Defn: A faucet to allow escape of air. AIR COOLING Air cooling. Defn: In gasoline-engine motor vehicles, the cooling of the cylinder by increasing its radiating surface by means of ribs or radiators, and placing it so that it is exposed to a current of air. Cf. Water cooling. -- Air"-cooled`, a. AIRCRAFT Air"craft`, n. sing. & pl. Defn: Any device, as a balloon, aëroplane, etc., for floating in, or flying through, the air. AIR-DRAWN Air"-drawn", a. Defn: Drawn in air; imaginary. This is the air-drawn dagger. Shak. AIR DRILL Air" drill`. Defn: A drill driven by the elastic pressure of condensed air; a pneumatic drill. Knight. AIR ENGINE Air" engine`. Defn: An engine driven by heated or by compressed air. Knight. AIRER Air"er, n. 1. One who exposes to the air. 2. A frame on which clothes are aired or dried. AIR GAP Air gap. (Physics) Defn: An air-filled gap in a magnetic or electric circuit; specif., in a dynamo or motor, the space between the field-magnet poles and the armature; clearance. AIR GAS Air" gas`. Defn: See under Gas. AIR GUN Air" gun`. Defn: A kind of gun in which the elastic force of condensed air is used to discharge the ball. The air is powerfully compressed into a reservoir attached to the gun, by a condensing pump, and is controlled by a valve actuated by the trigger. AIR HOLE Air" hole`. 1. A hole to admit or discharge air; specifically, a spot in the ice not frozen over. 2. (Founding) Defn: A fault in a casting, produced by a bubble of air; a blowhole. AIRILY Air"i*ly, adv. Defn: In an airy manner; lightly; gaily; jauntily; fippantly. AIRINESS Air"i*ness, n. 1. The state or quality of being airy; openness or exposure to the air; as, the airiness of a country seat. 2. Lightness of spirits; gayety; levity; as, the airiness of young persons. AIRING Air"ing, n. 1. A walk or a ride in the open air; a short excursion for health's sake. 2. An exposure to air, or to a fire, for warming, drying, etc.; as, the airing of linen, or of a room. AIR JACKET Air" jack`et. Defn: A jacket having air-tight cells, or cavities which can be filled with air, to render persons buoyant in swimming. AIRLESS Air"less, a. Defn: Not open to a free current of air; wanting fresh air, or communication with the open air. AIR LEVEL Air" lev`el. Defn: Spirit level. See Level. AIRLIKE Air"like`, a. Defn: Resembling air. AIR LINE Air line. Defn: A path through the air made easy for aërial navigation by steady winds. AIRLING Air"ling, n. Defn: A thoughtless, gay person. [Obs.] "Slight airlings." B. Jonson. AIRMAN Air"man, n. Defn: A man who ascends or flies in an aircraft; a flying machine pilot. AIRMANSHIP Air"man*ship, n. Defn: Art, skill, or ability in the practice of aërial navigation. AIROL Air"ol, n. (Pharm.) Defn: A grayish green antiseptic powder, consisting of a basic iodide and gallate of bismuth, sometimes used in place of iodoform. [A Trademark] AIROMETER Air*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Air + -meter.] Defn: A hollow cylinder to contain air. It is closed above and open below, and has its open end plunged into water. AIR PIPE Air" pipe`. Defn: A pipe for the passage of air; esp. a ventilating pipe. AIR PLANT Air" plant`. (Bot.) Defn: A plant deriving its sustenance from the air alone; an aërophyte. Note: The "Florida moss" (Tillandsia), many tropical orchids, and most mosses and lichens are air plants. Those which are lodged upon trees, but not parasitic on them, are epiphytes. AIR POISE Air" poise`. Etym: [See Poise.] Defn: A AIR PUMP Air" pump`. 1. (Physics) Defn: A kind of pump for exhausting air from a vessel or closed space; also, a pump to condense air of force in into a closed space. 2. (Steam Engines) Defn: A pump used to exhaust from a condenser the condensed steam, the water used for condensing, and any commingled air. AIR SAC Air" sac`. (Anat.) Defn: One of the spaces in different parts. of the bodies of birds, which are filled with air and connected with the air passages of the lungs; an air cell. AIR SHAFT Air" shaft`. Defn: A passage, usually vertical, for admitting fresh air into a mine or a tunnel. AIRSICK Air`sick`, a. Defn: Affected with aërial sickness. -- Air"sick`ness, n. AIR-SLACKED Air"-slacked`, a. Defn: Slacked, or pulverized, by exposure to the air; as, air-slacked lime. AIR STOVE Air" stove`. Defn: A stove for heating a current of air which is directed against its surface by means of pipes, and then distributed through a building. AIR-TIGHT Air"-tight`, a. Defn: So tight as to be impermeable to air; as, an air-tight cylinder. AIR-TIGHT Air"-tight`, n. Defn: A stove the draft of which can be almost entirely shut off. [Colloq. U. S.] AIR VESSEL Air" ves`sel. Defn: A vessel, cell, duct, or tube containing or conducting air; as the air vessels of insects, birds, plants, etc.; the air vessel of