[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

The rain it raineth every day. Shak. 2. To fall or drop like water from the clouds; as, tears rained from their eyes. RAIN Rain, v. t. 1. To pour or shower down from above, like rain from the clouds. Then said the Lord unto Moses, Behold, I will rain bread from heaven for you. Ex. xvi. 4. 2. To bestow in a profuse or abundant manner; as, to rain favors upon a person. RAINBOW Rain"bow`, n. Etym: [AS. regenboga, akin to G. regenbogen. See Rain, and Bow anything bent,] Defn: A bow or arch exhibiting, in concentric bands, the several colors of the spectrum, and formed in the part of the hemisphere opposite to the sun by the refraction and reflection of the sun's rays in drops of falling rain. Note: Besides the ordinary bow, called also primary rainbow, which is formed by two refractions and one reflection, there is also another often seen exterior to it, called the secondary rainbow, concentric with the first, and separated from it by a small interval. It is formed by two refractions and two reflections, is much fainter than the primary bow, and has its colors arranged in the reverse order from those of the latter. Lunar rainbow, a fainter arch or rainbow, formed by the moon. -- Marine rainbow, or Sea bow, a similar bow seen in the spray of waves at sea. -- Rainbow trout (Zoöl.), a bright-colored trout (Salmoirideus), native of the mountains of California, but now extensively introduced into the Eastern States. Japan, and other countries; -- called also brook trout, mountain trout, and golden trout. -- Rainbow wrasse. (Zoöl.) See under Wrasse. -- Supernumerary rainbow, a smaller bow, usually of red and green colors only, sometimes seen within the primary or without the secondary rainbow, and in contact with them. RAINBOWED Rain"bowed`, a. Defn: Formed with or like a rainbow. RAINDEER Rain"deer`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Reindeer. [Obs.] RAINDROP Rain"drop`, n. Defn: A drop of rain. RAINFALL Rain"fall`, n. Defn: A fall or descent of rain; the water, or amount of water, that falls in rain; as, the average annual rainfall of a region. Supplied by the rainfall of the outer ranges of Sinchul and Singaleleh. Hooker. RAININESS Rain"i*ness, n. Defn: The state of being rainy. RAINLESS Rain"less, a. Defn: Destitute of rain; as, a rainless region. RAIN-TIGHT Rain"-tight`, a. Defn: So tight as to exclude rain as, a rain-tight roof. RAINY Rain"y, a. Etym: [AS. regenig.] Defn: Abounding with rain; wet; showery; as, rainy day or season. RAIP Raip, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. reip rope. Cf. Rope.] Defn: A rope; also, a measure equal to a rod. [Scot.] RAIS Rais, n. Defn: Same as 2d Reis. RAISABLE Rais"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being raised. RAISE Raise, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Raised; p. pr. & vb. n. Raising.] Etym: [OE. reisen, Icel. reisa, causative of risa to rise. See Rise, and cf. Rear to raise.] 1. To cause to rise; to bring from a lower to a higher place; to lift upward; to elevate; to heave; as, to raise a stone or weight. Hence, figuratively: -- (a) To bring to a higher condition or situation; to elevate in rank, dignity, and the like; to increase the value or estimation of; to promote; to exalt; to advance; to enhance; as, to raise from a low estate; to raise to office; to raise the price, and the like. This gentleman came to be raised to great titles. Clarendon. The plate pieces of eight were raised three pence in the piece. Sir W. Temple. (b) To increase the strength, vigor, or vehemence of; to excite; to intensify; to invigorate; to heighten; as, to raise the pulse; to raise the voice; to raise the spirits or the courage; to raise the heat of a furnace. (c) To elevate in degree according to some scale; as, to raise the pitch of the voice; to raise the temperature of a room. 2. To cause to rise up, or assume an erect position or posture; to set up; to make upright; as, to raise a mast or flagstaff. Hence: -- (a) To cause to spring up from recumbent position, from a state of quiet, or the like; to awaken; to arouse. They shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep. Job xiv. 12. (b) To rouse to action; to stir up; to incite to tumult, struggle, or war; to excite. He commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind. Ps. cvii. 25. Æneas . . . employs his pains, In parts remote, to raise the Tuscan swains. Dryden. (c) To bring up from the lower world; to call up, as a spirit from the world of spirits; to recall from death; to give life to. Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God should raise the dead Acts xxvi. 8. 3. To cause to arise, grow up, or come into being or to appear; to give to; to originate, produce, cause, effect, or the like. Hence, specifically: -- (a) To form by the accumulation of materials or constituent parts; to build up; to erect; as, to raise a lofty structure, a wall, a heap of stones. I will raise forts against thee. Isa. xxxix. 3. (b) To bring together; to collect; to levy; to get together or obtain for use or service; as, to raise money, troops, and the like. "To raise up a rent." Chaucer. (c) To cause to grow; to procure to be produced, bred, or propagated; to grow; as, to raise corn, barley, hops, etc.; toraise cattle. "He raised sheep." "He raised wheat where none grew before." Johnson's Dict. Note: In some parts of the United States, notably in the Southern States, raise in also commonly applied to the rearing or bringing up of children. I was raised, as they say in Virginia, among the mountains of the North. Paulding. (d) To bring into being; to produce; to cause to arise, come forth, or appear; -- often with up. I will raise them up a prophet from among their brethren, like unto thee. Deut. xviii. 18. God vouchsafes to raise another world From him [Noah], and all his anger to forget. Milton. (e) To give rise to; to set agoing; to occasion; to start; to originate; as, to raise a smile or a blush. Thou shalt not raise a false report. Ex. xxiii. 1. (f) To give vent or utterance to; to utter; to strike up. Soon as the prince appears, they raise a cry. Dryden. (g) To bring to notice; to submit for consideration; as, to raise a point of order; to raise an objection. 4. To cause to rise, as by the effect of leaven; to make light and spongy, as bread. Miss Liddy can dance a jig, and raise paste. Spectator. 5. (Naut.) (a) To cause (the land or any other object) to seem higher by drawing nearer to it; as, to raise Sandy Hook light. (b) To let go; as in the command, Raise tacks and sheets, i. e., Let go tacks and sheets. 6. (Law) Defn: To create or constitute; as, to raise a use that is, to create it. Burrill. To raise a blockade (Mil.), to remove or break up a blockade, either by withdrawing the ships or forces employed in enforcing it, or by driving them away or dispersing them. -- To raise a check, note, bill of exchange, etc., to increase fraudulently its nominal value by changing the writing, figures, or printing in which the sum payable is specified. -- To raise a siege, to relinquish an attempt to take a place by besieging it, or to cause the attempt to be relinquished. -- To raise steam, to produce steam of a required pressure. -- To raise the wind, to procure ready money by some temporary expedient. [Colloq.] -- To raise Cain, or To raise the devil, to cause a great disturbance; to make great trouble. [Slang] Syn. -- To lift; exalt; elevate; erect; originate; cause; produce; grow; heighten; aggravate; excite. RAISED Raised, a. 1. Lifted up; showing above the surroundings; as, raised or embossed metal work. 2. Leavened; made with leaven, or yeast; -- used of bread, cake, etc., as distinguished from that made with cream of tartar, soda, etc. See Raise, v. t., 4. Raised beach. See under Beach, n. RAISER Rais"er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, raises (in various senses of the verb). RAISIN Rai"sin, n. Etym: [F. raisin grape, raisin, L. racemus cluster of grapes or berries; cf. Gr. Raceme.] 1. A grape, or a bunch of grapes. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 2. A grape dried in the sun or by artificial heat. Raisin tree (Bot.), the common red currant, whose fruit resembles the small raisins of Corinth called currants. [Eng.] Dp. Prior. RAISING Rais"ing, n. 1. The act of lifting, setting up, elevating, exalting, producing, or restoring to life. 2. Specifically, the operation or work of setting up the frame of a