[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Called also spotted turbot, daylight, spotted sand flounder, and water flounder. WINDOWY Win"dow*y, a. Defn: Having little crossings or openings like the sashes of a window. [R.] Donne. WINDPIPE Wind"pipe`, n. (Anat.) Defn: The passage for the breath from the larynx to the lungs; the trachea; the weasand. See Illust. under Lung. WIND-PLANT Wind"-plant`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A windflower. WIND-RODE Wind"-rode`, a. (Naut.) Defn: Caused to ride or drive by the wind in opposition to the course of the tide; -- said of a vessel lying at anchor, with wind and tide opposed to each other. Totten. WINDROW Wind"row`, n. Etym: [Wind + row.] 1. A row or line of hay raked together for the purpose of being rolled into cocks or heaps. 2. Sheaves of grain set up in a row, one against another, that the wind may blow between them. [Eng.] 3. The green border of a field, dug up in order to carry the earth on other land to mend it. [Eng.] WINDROW Wind"row, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Windrowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Windrowing.] Defn: To arrange in lines or windrows, as hay when newly made. Forby. WIND-SHAKEN Wind"-shak`en, a. Defn: Shaken by the wind; specif. (Forestry), Defn: affected by wind shake, or anemosis (which see, above). WIND SIGNAL Wind signal. Defn: In general, any signal announcing information concerning winds, and esp. the expected approach of winds whose direction and force are dangerous to shipping, etc. The wind-signal system of the United States Weather Bureau consists of storm, information, hurricane, hot wind, and inland storm signals. WINDSOR Wind"sor, n. Defn: A town in Berkshire, England. Windsor bean. (Bot.) See under Bean. -- Windsor chair, a kind of strong, plain, polished, wooden chair. Simmonds. -- Windsor soap, a scented soap well known for its excellence. WINDSTORM Wind"storm, n. Defn: A storm characterized by high wind with little or no rain. WIND-SUCKER Wind"-suck`er, n. 1. (Far.) A horse given to wind-sucking Law. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The kestrel. B. Jonson. WIND-SUCKING Wind"-suck`ing, n. (Far.) Defn: A vicious habit of a horse, consisting in the swallowing of air; -- usually associated with crib-biting, or cribbing. See Cribbing, 4. WINDTIGHT Wind"tight`, a. Defn: So tight as to prevent the passing through of wind. Bp. Hall. WIND-UP Wind"-up`, n. Defn: Act of winding up, or closing; a concluding act or part; the end. WINDWARD Wind"ward, n. Defn: The point or side from which the wind blows; as, to ply to the windward; -- opposed to Ant: leeward. To lay an anchor to the windward, a figurative expression, signifying to adopt precautionary or anticipatory measures for success or security. WINDWARD Wind"ward, a. Defn: Situated toward the point from which the wind blows; as, the Windward Islands. WINDWARD Wind"ward, adv. Defn: Toward the wind; in the direction from which the wind blows. WINDY Wind"y, a. [Compar. Windier; superl. Windiest.] Etym: [AS. windig.] 1. Consisting of wind; accompanied or characterized by wind; exposed to wind. "The windy hill." M. Arnold. Blown with the windy tempest of my heart. Shak. 2. Next the wind; windward. It keeps on the windy side of care. Shak. 3. Tempestuous; boisterous; as, windy weather. 4. Serving to occasion wind or gas in the intestines; flatulent; as, windy food. 5. Attended or caused by wind, or gas, in the intestines. "A windy colic." Arbuthnot. 6. Fig.: Empty; airy. "Windy joy." Milton. Here's that windy applause, that poor, transitory pleasure, for which I was dishonored. South. WINE Wine, n. Etym: [OE. win, AS. win, fr. L. vinum (cf. Icel. vin; all from the Latin); akin to Gr. o'i^nos, , and E. withy. Cf. Vine, Vineyard, Vinous, Withy.] 1. The expressed juice of grapes, esp. when fermented; a beverage or liquor prepared from grapes by squeezing out their juice, and (usually) allowing it to ferment. "Red wine of Gascoigne." Piers Plowman. Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging, and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise. Prov. xx. 1. Bacchus, that first from out the purple grape Crushed the sweet poison of misused wine. Milton. Note: Wine is essentially a dilute solution of ethyl alcohol, containing also certain small quantities of ethers and ethereal salts which give character and bouquet. According to their color, strength, taste, etc., wines are called red, white, spirituous, dry, light, still, etc. 2. A liquor or beverage prepared from the juice of any fruit or plant by a process similar to that for grape wine; as, currant wine; gooseberry wine; palm wine. 3. The effect of drinking wine in excess; intoxication. Noah awoke from his wine. Gen. ix. 24. Birch wine, Cape wine, etc. See under Birch, Cape, etc. -- Spirit of wine. See under Spirit. -- To have drunk wine of ape or wine ape, to be so drunk as to be foolish. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- Wine acid. (Chem.) See Tartaric acid, under Tartaric. [Colloq.] - - Wine apple (Bot.), a large red apple, with firm flesh and a rich, vinous flavor. -- Wine bag, a wine skin. -- Wine biscuit, a kind of sweet biscuit served with wine. -- Wine cask, a cask for holding wine, or which holds, or has held, wine. -- Wine cellar, a cellar adapted or used for storing wine. -- Wine cooler, a vessel of porous earthenware used to cool wine by the evaporation of water; also, a stand for wine bottles, containing ice.a drink composed of approximately equal parts of wine and some carbonated beverage (soda). Also called California cooler. -- Wine fly (Zoöl.), small two-winged fly of the genus Piophila, whose larva lives in wine, cider, and other fermented liquors. -- Wine grower, one who cultivates a vineyard and makes wine. -- Wine measure, the measure by which wines and other spirits are sold, smaller than beer measure. -- Wine merchant, a merchant who deals in wines. -- Wine of opium (Pharm.), a solution of opium in aromatized sherry wine, having the same strength as ordinary laudanum; -- also Sydenham's laudanum. -- Wine press, a machine or apparatus in which grapes are pressed to extract their juice. -- Wine skin, a bottle or bag of skin, used, in various countries, for carrying wine. -- Wine stone, a kind of crust deposited in wine casks. See 1st Tartar, 1. -- Wine vault. (a) A vault where wine is stored. (b) A place where wine is served at the bar, or at tables; a dramshop. Dickens. -- Wine vinegar, vinegar made from wine. -- Wine whey, whey made from milk coagulated by the use of wine. WINEBERRY Wine"ber`ry, n. (Bot.) (a) The red currant. (b) The bilberry. (c) A peculiar New Zealand shrub (Coriaria ruscifolia), in which the petals ripen and afford an abundant purple juice from which a kind of wine is made. The plant also grows in Chili. WINEBIBBER Wine"bib`ber, n. Defn: One who drinks much wine. Prov. xxiii. 20. -- Wine"bib`bing, n. WINEGLASS Wine"glass`, n. Defn: A small glass from to drink wine. WINEGLASSFUL Wine"glass`ful;, n. pl. Wineglassfuls (. Defn: As much as a wineglass will hold; enough to fill a wineglass. It is usually reckoned at two fluid ounces, or four tablespoonfuls. WINELESS Wine"less, a. Defn: destitute of wine; as, wineless life. WINERY Win"er*y, n. Etym: [Cf. F. vinerie.] Defn: A place where grapes are converted into wine. WINESAP Wine"sap`, n. [Wine + sap for sop.] Defn: A variety of winter apple of medium size, deep red color, and yellowish flesh of a rich, rather subacid flavor. WING Wing, n. Etym: [OE. winge, wenge; probably of Scand. origin; cf. Dan. & Sw. vinge, Icel. vængr.] 1. One of the two anterior limbs of a bird, pterodactyl, or bat. They correspond to the arms of man, and are usually modified for flight, but in the case of a few species of birds, as the ostrich, auk, etc., the wings are used only as an assistance in running or swimming. As an eagle stirreth up her nest, fluttereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth them on her wings. Deut. xxxii. 11. Note: In the wing of a bird the long quill feathers are in series. The primaries are those attached to the ulnar side of the hand; the secondaries, or wing coverts, those of the forearm: the scapulars, those that lie over the humerus; and the bastard feathers, those of the short outer digit. See Illust. of Bird, and Plumage. 2. Any similar member or instrument used for the purpose of flying. Specifically: (Zoöl.) (a) One of the two pairs of upper thoracic appendages of most hexapod insects. They are broad, fanlike organs formed of a double membrane and strengthened by chitinous veins or nervures. (b) One of the large pectoral fins of the flying fishes. 3. Passage by flying; flight; as, to take wing. Light thickens; and the crow Makes wing to the rooky wood. Shak. 4. Motive or instrument of flight; means of flight or of rapid motion. Fiery expedition be my wing. Shak. 5. Anything which agitates the air