[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

money obtained from the sale of that which will destroy the purchaser. BLOODROOT Blood"root` (, n. (Bot.) Defn: A plant (Sanguinaria Canadensis), with a red root and red sap, and bearing a pretty, white flower in early spring; -- called also puccoon, redroot, bloodwort, tetterwort, turmeric, and Indian paint. It has acrid emetic properties, and the rootstock is used as a stimulant expectorant. See Sanguinaria. Note: In England the name is given to the tormentil, once used as a remedy for dysentery. BLOODSHED Blood"shed` (, n. Etym: [Blood + shed] Defn: The shedding or spilling of blood; slaughter; the act of shedding human blood, or taking life, as in war, riot, or murder. BLOODSHEDDER Blood"shed`der, n. Defn: One who sheds blood; a manslayer; a murderer. BLOODSHEDDING Blood"shed`ding, n. Defn: Bloodshed. Shak. BLOODSHOT Blood"shot` (, a. Etym: [Blood + shot, p. p. of shoot to variegate.] Defn: Red and inflamed; suffused with blood, or having the vessels turgid with blood, as when the conjunctiva is inflamed or irritated. His eyes were bloodshot, . . . and his hair disheveled. Dickens. BLOOD-SHOTTEN Blood"-shot`ten, a. Defn: Bloodshot. [Obs.] BLOODSTICK Blood"stick", n. (Far.) Defn: A piece of hard wood loaded at one end with lead, and used to strike the fleam into the vein. Youatt. BLOODSTONE Blood"stone` (, n. (Min.) (a) A green siliceous stone sprinkled with red jasper, as if with blood; hence the name; -- called also heliotrope. (b) Hematite, an ore of iron yielding a blood red powder or "streak." BLOODSTROKE Blood"stroke` (, n. Etym: [Cf. F. coup de sang.] Defn: Loss of sensation and motion from hemorrhage or congestion in the brain. Dunglison. BLOODSUCKER Blood"suck`er, n. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any animal that sucks blood; esp., the leech (Hirudo medicinalis), and related species. 2. One who sheds blood; a cruel, bloodthirsty man; one guilty of bloodshed; a murderer. [Obs.] Shak. 3. A hard and exacting master, landlord, or money lender; an extortioner. BLOODTHIRSTY Blood"thirst`y, a. Defn: Eager to shed blood; cruel; sanguinary; murderous. -- Blood"thirst`i*ness (n. BLOODULF Blood"ulf, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The European bullfinch. BLOOD VESSEL Blood" ves`sel. (Anat.) Defn: Any vessel or canal in which blood circulates in an animal, as an artery or vein. BLOODWITE; BLOODWIT Blood"wite`, Blood"wit` (, n. Etym: [AS. bl; bl blood, + wite wite, fine.] (Anc. Law) Defn: A fine or amercement paid as a composition for the shedding of blood; also, a riot wherein blood was spilled. BLOODWOOD Blood"wood, n. (Bot.) Defn: A tree having the wood or the sap of the color of blood. Note: Norfolk Island bloodwood is a euphorbiaceous tree (Baloghia lucida), from which the sap is collected for use as a plant. Various other trees have the name, chiefly on account of the color of the wood, as Gordonia Hæmatoxylon of Jamaica, and several species of Australian Eucalyptus; also the true logwood ( Hæmatoxylon campechianum). BLOODWORT Blood"wort` (, n. (Bot.) Defn: A plant, Rumex sanguineus, or bloody-veined dock. The name is applied also to bloodroot (Sanguinaria Canadensis), and to an extensive order of plants (Hæmodoraceæ), the roots of many species of which contain a red coloring matter useful in dyeing. BLOODY Blood"y, a. Etym: [AS. bl.] 1. Containing or resembling blood; of the nature of blood; as, bloody excretions; bloody sweat. 2. Smeared or stained with blood; as, bloody hands; a bloody handkerchief. 3. Given, or tending, to the shedding of blood; having a cruel, savage disposition; murderous; cruel. Some bloody passion shakes your very frame. Shak. 4. Attended with, or involving, bloodshed; sanguinary; esp., marked by great slaughter or cruelty; as, a bloody battle. 5. Infamous; contemptible; -- variously used for mere emphasis or as a low epithet. [Vulgar] Thackeray. BLOODY Blood"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bloodied (; p. pr. & vb. n. Bloodying.] Defn: To stain with blood. Overbury. BLOODYBONES Blood"y*bones` (, n. Defn: A terrible bugbear. BLOODY FLUX Blood"y flux`. Defn: The dysentery, a disease in which the flux or discharge from the bowels has a mixture of blood. Arbuthnot. BLOODY HAND Blood"y hand` (. 1. A hand stained with the blood of a deer, which, in the old forest laws of England, was sufficient evidence of a man's trespass in the forest against venison. Jacob. 2. (Her.) Defn: A red hand, as in the arms of Ulster, which is now the distinguishing mark of a baronet of the United Kingdom. BLOODY-MINDED Blood"y-mind"ed, a. Defn: Having a cruel, ferocious disposition; bloodthirsty. Dryden. BLOODY SWEAT Blood"y sweat` (. Defn: A sweat accompanied by a discharge of blood; a disease, called sweating sickness, formerly prevalent in England and other countries. BLOOM Bloom, n. Etym: [OE. blome, fr. Icel. bl, bl; akin to Sw. blom, Goth. bl, OS. bl, D. bloem, OHG. bluomo, bluoma, G. blume; fr. the same root as AS. bl to blow, blossom. See Blow to bloom, and cf. Blossom.] 1. A blossom; the flower of a plant; an expanded bud; flowers, collectively. The rich blooms of the tropics. Prescott. 2. The opening of flowers in general; the state of blossoming or of having the flowers open; as, the cherry trees are in bloom. "Sight of vernal bloom." Milton. 3. A state or time of beauty, freshness, and vigor; an opening to higher perfection, analogous to that of buds into blossoms; as, the bloom of youth. Every successive mother has transmitted a fainter bloom, a more delicate and briefer beauty. Hawthorne. 4. The delicate, powdery coating upon certain growing or newly- gathered fruits or leaves, as on grapes, plums, etc. Hence: Anything giving an appearance of attractive freshness; a flush; a glow. A new, fresh, brilliant world, with all the bloom upon it. Thackeray. 5. The clouded appearance which varnish sometimes takes upon the surface of a picture. 6. A yellowish deposit or powdery coating which appears on well- tanned leather. Knight. 7. (Min.) Defn: A popular term for a bright-hued variety of some minerals; as, the rose-red cobalt bloom. BLOOM Bloom, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bloomed; p. pr. & vb. n. Blooming.] 1. To produce or yield blossoms; to blossom; to flower or be in flower. A flower which once In Paradise, fast by the tree of life, Began to bloom. Milton. 2. To be in a state of healthful, growing youth and vigor; to show beauty and freshness, as of flowers; to give promise, as by or with flowers. A better country blooms to view, Beneath a brighter sky. Logan. BLOOM Bloom, v. t. 1. To cause to blossom; to make flourish. [R.] Charitable affection bloomed them. Hooker. 2. To bestow a bloom upon; to make blooming or radiant. [R.] Milton. While barred clouds bloom the soft-dying day. Keats. BLOOM Bloom, n. Etym: [AS. bl a mass or lump, isenes bl a lump or wedge of iron.] (Metal.) (a) A mass of wrought iron from the Catalan forge or from the puddling furnace, deprived of its dross, and shaped usually in the form of an oblong block by shingling. (b) A large bar of steel formed directly from an ingot by hammering or rolling, being a preliminary shape for further working. BLOOMARY Bloom"a*ry, n. Defn: See Bloomery. BLOOMER Bloom"er, n. Etym: [From Mrs. Bloomer, an American, who sought to introduce this style of dress.] 1. A costume for women, consisting of a short dress, with loose trousers gathered round ankles, and (commonly) a broad-brimmed hat. 2. A woman who wears a Bloomer costume. BLOOMERY Bloom"er*y, n. (Manuf.) Defn: A furnace and forge in which wrought iron in the form of blooms is made directly from the ore, or (more rarely) from cast iron. BLOOMING Bloom"ing, n. (Metal.) Defn: The process of making blooms from the ore or from cast iron. BLOOMING Bloom"ing, a. 1. Opening in blossoms; flowering. 2. Thriving in health, beauty, and vigor; indicating the freshness and beauties of youth or health. BLOOMINGLY Bloom"ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a blooming manner. BLOOMINGNESS Bloom"ing*ness, n. Defn: A blooming condition. BLOOMLESS Bloom"less, a. Defn: Without bloom or flowers. Shelley. BLOOMY Bloom"y, a. 1. Full of bloom; flowery; flourishing with the vigor of youth; as, a bloomy spray. But all the bloomy flush of life is fled. Goldsmith. 2. Covered with bloom, as fruit. Dryden. BLOOTH Blooth, n. Defn: Bloom; a blossoming. [Prov. Eng.] All that blooth means heavy autumn work for him and his hands. T. Hardy. BLORE Blore, n. Etym: [Perh. a variant of blare, v. i.; or cf. Gael. & Ir. blor a loud noise.] Defn: The act of blowing; a roaring wind; a blast. [Obs.] A most tempestuous blore. Chapman. BLOSMY Blos"my, a. Defn: Blossomy. [Obs.] Chaucer. BLOSSOM Blos"som, n. Etym: [OE. blosme, blostme, AS. bl, bl, blossom; akin to D. bloesem, L. fios, and E. flower; from the root of E. blow to blossom. See Blow to blossom, and cf. Bloom a blossom.] 1. The flower of a plant, or the essential organs of reproduction, with their appendages; florescence; bloom; the flowers of a plant, collectively; as, the blossoms and fruit of a tree; an apple tree in