[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

to impose upon; to cheat by inspiring foolish confidence; as, to fool one out of his money. You are fooled, discarded, and shook off By him for whom these shames ye underwent. Shak. To fool away, to get rid of foolishly; to spend in trifles, idleness, folly, or without advantage. FOOLAHS Foo"lahs`, n. pl.; sing. Foolah. (Ethnol.) Defn: Same as Fulahs. FOOL-BORN Fool"-born`, a. Defn: Begotten by a fool. Shak. FOOLERY Fool"er*y, n.; pl. Fooleries (. 1. The practice of folly; the behavior of a fool; absurdity. Folly in fools bears not so strong a note, As foolery in the wise, when wit doth dote. Shak. 2. An act of folly or weakness; a foolish practice; something absurd or nonsensical. That Pythagoras, Plato, or Orpheus, believed in any of these fooleries, it can not be suspected. Sir W. Raleigh. FOOLFISH Fool"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The orange filefish. See Filefish. (b) The winter flounder. See Flounder. FOOL-HAPPY Fool"-hap`py, a. Defn: Lucky, without judgment or contrivance. [Obs.] Spenser. FOOLHARDIHOOD Fool"har`di*hood, n. Defn: The state of being foolhardy; foolhardiness. FOOLHARDILY Fool"har`di*ly, adv. Defn: In a foolhardy manner. FOOLHARDINESS Fool"har`di*ness, n. Defn: Courage without sense or judgment; foolish rashness; recklessness. Dryden. FOOLHARDISE Fool"har`dise, n. Etym: [Fool, F. fol, fou + F. hardiesse boldness.] Defn: Foolhardiness. [Obs.] Spenser. FOOLHARDY Fool"har`dy, a. Etym: [OF. folhardi. See Fool idiot, and Hardy.] Defn: Daring without judgment; foolishly adventurous and bold. Howell. Syn. -- Rash; venturesome; venturous; precipitate; reckless; headlong; incautious. See Rash. FOOL-HASTY Fool"-has`ty, a. Defn: Foolishly hasty. [R.] FOOLIFY Fool"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [Fool + -fy.] Defn: To make a fool of; to befool. [R.] Holland. FOOLISH Fool"ish, a. 1. Marked with, or exhibiting, folly; void of understanding; weak in intellect; without judgment or discretion; silly; unwise. I am a very foolish fond old man. Shak. 2. Such as a fool would do; proceeding from weakness of mind or silliness; exhibiting a want of judgment or discretion; as, a foolish act. 3. Absurd; ridiculous; despicable; contemptible. A foolish figure he must make. Prior. Syn. -- Absurd; shallow; shallow-brained; brainless; simple; irrational; unwise; imprudent; indiscreet; incautious; silly; ridiculous; vain; trifling; contemptible. See Absurd. FOOLISHLY Fool"ish*ly, adv. Defn: In a foolish manner. FOOLISHNESS Fool"ish*ness, n. 1. The quality of being foolish. 2. A foolish practice; an absurdity. The preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. 1 Cor. i. 18. FOOL-LARGE Fool"-large`, a. Etym: [OF. follarge. See Fool, and Large.] Defn: Foolishly liberal. [Obs.] Chaucer. FOOL-LARGESSE Fool"-lar*gesse`, n. Etym: [See Fool-large, Largess.] Defn: Foolish expenditure; waste. [Obs.] Chaucer. FOOLSCAP Fools"cap`, n. Etym: [So called from the watermark of a fool's cap and bells used by old paper makers. See Fool's cap, under Fool.] Defn: A writing paper made in sheets, ordinarily 16 x 13 inches, and folded so as to make a page 13 x 8 inches. See Paper. FOOT Foot, n.; pl. Feet. Etym: [OE. fot, foot, pl. feet. AS. f, pl. f; akin to D. voet, OHG. fuoz, G. fuss, Icel. f, Sw. fot, Dan. fod, Goth. f, L. pes, Gr. pad, Icel. fet step, pace measure of a foot, feta to step, find one's way. *77, 250. Cf. Antipodes, Cap-a-pie, Expedient, Fet to fetch, Fetlock, Fetter, Pawn a piece in chess, Pedal.] 1. (Anat.) Defn: The terminal part of the leg of man or an animal; esp., the part below the ankle or wrist; that part of an animal upon which it rests when standing, or moves. See Manus, and Pes. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The muscular locomotive organ of a mollusk. It is a median organ arising from the ventral region of body, often in the form of a flat disk, as in snails. See Illust. of Buccinum. 3. That which corresponds to the foot of a man or animal; as, the foot of a table; the foot of a stocking. 4. The lowest part or base; the ground part; the bottom, as of a mountain or column; also, the last of a row or series; the end or extremity, esp. if associated with inferiority; as, the foot of a hill; the foot of the procession; the foot of a class; the foot of the bed. And now at foot Of heaven's ascent they lift their feet. Milton. 5. Fundamental principle; basis; plan; -- used only in the singular. Answer directly upon the foot of dry reason. Berkeley. 6. Recognized condition; rank; footing; -- used only in the singular. [R.] As to his being on the foot of a servant. Walpole. 7. A measure of length equivalent to twelve inches; one third of a yard. See Yard. Note: This measure is supposed to be taken from the length of a man's foot. It differs in length in different countries. In the United States and in England it is 304.8 millimeters. 8. (Mil.) Defn: Soldiers who march and fight on foot; the infantry, usually designated as the foot, in distinction from the cavalry. "Both horse and foot." Milton. 9. (Pros.) Defn: A combination of syllables consisting a metrical element of a verse, the syllables being formerly distinguished by their quantity or length, but in modern poetry by the accent. 10. (Naut.) Defn: The lower edge of a sail. Note: Foot is often used adjectively, signifying of or pertaining to a foot or the feet, or to the base or lower part. It is also much used as the first of compounds. Foot artillery. (Mil.) (a) Artillery soldiers serving in foot. (b) Heavy artillery. Farrow. -- Foot bank (Fort.), a raised way within a parapet. -- Foot barracks (Mil.), barracks for infantery. -- Foot bellows, a bellows worked by a treadle. Knight. -- Foot company (Mil.), a company of infantry. Milton. -- Foot gear, covering for the feet, as stocking, shoes, or boots. -- Foot hammer (Mach.), a small tilt hammer moved by a treadle. -- Foot iron. (a) The step of a carriage. (b) A fetter. -- Foot jaw. (Zoöl.) See Maxilliped. -- Foot key (Mus.), an organ pedal. -- Foot level (Gunnery), a form of level used in giving any proposed angle of elevation to a piece of ordnance. Farrow. -- Foot mantle, a long garment to protect the dress in riding; a riding skirt. [Obs.] -- Foot page, an errand boy; an attendant. [Obs.] -- Foot passenger, one who passes on foot, as over a road or bridge. -- Foot pavement, a paved way for foot passengers; a footway; a trottoir. -- Foot poet, an inferior poet; a poetaster. [R.] Dryden. -- Foot post. (a) A letter carrier who travels on foot. (b) A mail delivery by means of such carriers. -- Fot pound, and Foot poundal. (Mech.) See Foot pound and Foot poundal, in the Vocabulary. -- Foot press (Mach.), a cutting, embossing, or printing press, moved by a treadle. -- Foot race, a race run by persons on foot. Cowper. -- Foot rail, a railroad rail, with a wide flat flange on the lower side. -- Foot rot, an ulcer in the feet of sheep; claw sickness. -- Foot rule, a rule or measure twelve inches long. -- Foot screw, an adjusting screw which forms a foot, and serves to give a machine or table a level standing on an uneven place. -- Foot secretion. (Zoöl.) See Sclerobase. -- Foot soldier, a soldier who serves on foot. -- Foot stick (Printing), a beveled piece of furniture placed against the foot of the page, to hold the type in place. -- Foot stove, a small box, with an iron pan, to hold hot coals for warming the feet. -- Foot tubercle. (Zoöl.) See Parapodium. -- Foot valve (Steam Engine), the valve that opens to the air pump from the condenser. -- Foot vise, a kind of vise the jaws of which are operated by a treadle. -- Foot waling (Naut.), the inside planks or lining of a vessel over the floor timbers. Totten. -- Foot wall (Mining), the under wall of an inclosed vein. By foot, or On foot, by walking; as, to pass a stream on foot. -- Cubic foot. See under Cubic. -- Foot and mouth disease, a contagious disease (Eczema epizoötica) of cattle, sheep, swine, etc., characterized by the formation of vesicles and ulcers in the mouth and about the hoofs. -- Foot of the fine (Law), the concluding portion of an acknowledgment in court by which, formerly, the title of land was conveyed. See Fine of land, under Fine, n.; also Chirograph. (b). -- Square foot. See under Square. -- To be on foot, to be in motion, action, or process of execution. -- To keep the foot (Script.), to preserve decorum. "Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God." Eccl. v. 1. -- To put one's foot down, to take a resolute stand; to be determined. [Colloq.] -- To put the best foot foremost, to make a good appearance; to do one's best. [Colloq.] -- To set on foot, to put in motion; to originate; as, to set on foot a subscription. -- To