[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a European labiate plant (Ajuga Chamæpitys). -- Yellow bunting (Zoöl.), the European yellow-hammer. -- Yellow cat (Zoöl.), a yellow catfish; especially, the bashaw. -- Yellow copperas (Min.), a hydrous sulphate of iron; -- called also copiapite. -- Yellow copper ore, a sulphide of copper and iron; copper pyrites. See Chalcopyrite. -- Yellow cress (Bot.), a yellow-flowered, cruciferous plant (Barbarea præcox), sometimes grown as a salad plant. -- Yellow dock. (Bot.) See the Note under Dock. -- Yellow earth, a yellowish clay, colored by iron, sometimes used as a yellow pigment. -- Yellow fever (Med.), a malignant, contagious, febrile disease of warm climates, attended with jaundice, producing a yellow color of the skin, and with the black vomit. See Black vomit, in the Vocabulary. -- Yellow flag, the quarantine flag. See under Quarantine, and 3d Flag. -- Yellow jack. (a) The yellow fever. See under 2d Jack. (b) The quarantine flag. See under Quarantine. -- Yellow jacket (Zoöl.), any one of several species of American social wasps of the genus Vespa, in which the color of the body is partly bright yellow. These wasps are noted for their irritability, and for their painful stings. -- Yellow lead ore (Min.), wulfenite. -- Yellow lemur (Zoöl.), the kinkajou. -- Yellow macauco (Zoöl.), the kinkajou. -- Yellow mackerel (Zoöl.), the jurel. -- Yellow metal. Same as Muntz metal, under Metal. -- Yellow ocher (Min.), an impure, earthy variety of brown iron ore, which is used as a pigment. -- Yellow oxeye (Bot.), a yellow-flowered plant (Chrysanthemum segetum) closely related to the oxeye daisy. -- Yellow perch (Zoöl.), the common American perch. See Perch. -- Yellow pike (Zoöl.), the wall-eye. -- Yellow pine (Bot.), any of several kinds of pine; also, their yellowish and generally durable timber. Among the most common are valuable species are Pinus mitis and P. palustris of the Eastern and Southern States, and P. ponderosa and P. Arizonica of the Rocky Mountains and Pacific States. -- Yellow plover (Zoöl.), the golden plover. -- Yellow precipitate (Med. Chem.), an oxide of mercury which is thrown down as an amorphous yellow powder on adding corrosive sublimate to limewater. -- Yellow puccoon. (Bot.) Same as Orangeroot. -- Yellow rail (Zoöl.), a small American rail (Porzana Noveboracensis) in which the lower parts are dull yellow, darkest on the breast. The back is streaked with brownish yellow and with black, and spotted with white. Called also yellow crake. -- Yellow rattle, Yellow rocket. (Bot.) See under Rattle, and Rocket. -- Yellow Sally (Zoöl.), a greenish or yellowish European stone fly of the genus Chloroperla; -- so called by anglers. -- Yellow sculpin (Zoöl.), the dragonet. -- Yellow snake (Zoöl.), a West Indian boa (Chilobothrus inornatus) common in Jamaica. It becomes from eight to ten long. The body is yellowish or yellowish green, mixed with black, and anteriorly with black lines. -- Yellow spot. (a) (Anat.) A small yellowish spot with a central pit, the fovea centralis, in the center of the retina where vision is most accurate. See Eye. (b) (Zoöl.) A small American butterfly (Polites Peckius) of the Skipper family. Its wings are brownish, with a large, irregular, bright yellow spot on each of the hind wings, most conspicuous beneath. Called also Peck's skipper. See Illust. under Skipper, n., 5. -- Yellow tit (Zoöl.), any one of several species of crested titmice of the genus Machlolophus, native of India. The predominating colors of the plumage are yellow and green. -- Yellow viper (Zoöl.), the fer-de-lance. -- Yellow warbler (Zoöl.), any one of several species of American warblers of the genus Dendroica in which the predominant color is yellow, especially D. æstiva, which is a very abundant and familiar species; -- called also garden warbler, golden warbler, summer yellowbird, summer warbler, and yellow-poll warbler. -- Yellow wash (Pharm.), yellow oxide of mercury suspended in water, -- a mixture prepared by adding corrosive sublimate to limewater. -- Yellow wren (Zoöl.) (a) The European willow warbler. (b) The European wood warbler. YELLOW Yel"low, n. 1. A bright golden color, reflecting more light than any other except white; the color of that part of the spectrum which is between the orange and green. "A long motley coat guarded with yellow." Shak. 2. A yellow pigment. Cadmium yellow, Chrome yellow, Indigo yellow, King's yellow, etc. See under Cadmium, Chrome, etc. -- Naples yellow, a yellow amorphous pigment, used in oil, porcelain, and enamel painting, consisting of a basic lead metantimonate, obtained by fusing together tartar emetic lead nitrate, and common salt. -- Patent yellow (Old Chem.), a yellow pigment consisting essentially of a lead oxychloride; -- called also Turner's yellow. YELLOW Yel"low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Yellowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Yellowing.] Defn: To make yellow; to cause to have a yellow tinge or color; to dye yellow. YELLOW Yel"low, v. i. Defn: To become yellow or yellower. YELLOWAMMER Yel"low*am`mer, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Yellow-hammer. YELLOWBILL Yel"low*bill`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The American scoter. YELLOWBIRD Yel"low*bird`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The American goldfinch, or thistle bird. See Goldfinch. (b) The common yellow warbler; -- called also summer yellowbird. See Illust. of Yellow warbler, under Yellow, a. YELLOW BOOK Yellow Book. [F. livre jaune.] Defn: In France, an official government publication bound in yellow covers. YELLOW-COVERED Yel"low-cov`ered, a. Defn: Covered or bound in yellow paper. Yellow-covered literature, cheap sensational novels and trashy magazines; -- formerly so called from the usual color of their covers. [Colloq. U. S.] Bartlett. YELLOW-EYED Yel"low-eyed`, a. Defn: Having yellow eyes. Yellow-eyed grass (Bot.), any plant of the genus Xyris. YELLOWFIN Yel"low*fin`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large squeteague. YELLOWFISH Yel"low*fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A rock trout (Pleurogrammus monopterygius) found on the coast of Alaska; -- called also striped fish, and Atka mackerel. YELLOW-GOLDS Yel"low-golds`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A certain plant, probably the yellow oxeye. B. Jonson. YELLOWHAMMER Yel"low*ham`mer, n. Etym: [For yellow-ammer, where ammer is fr. AS. amore a kind of bird; akin to G. ammer a yellow-hammer, OHG. amero.] (Zoöl.) (a) A common European finch (Emberiza citrinella). The color of the male is bright yellow on the breast, neck, and sides of the head, with the back yellow and brown, and the top of the head and the tail quills blackish. Called also yellow bunting, scribbling lark, and writing lark. [Written also yellow-ammer.] (b) The flicker. [Local, U. S.] YELLOWING Yel"low*ing, n. Defn: The act or process of making yellow. Softened . . . by the yellowing which time has given. G. Eliot. YELLOWISH Yel"low*ish, a. Defn: Somewhat yellow; as, amber is of a yellowish color. -- Yel"low*ish*ness, n. YELLOWLEGS Yel"low*legs`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of long-legged sandpipers of the genus Totanus, in which the legs are bright yellow; -- called also stone snipe, tattler, telltale, yellowshanks; and yellowshins. See Tattler, 2. YELLOWNESS Yel"low*ness, n. 1. The quality or state of being yellow; as, the yellowness of an orange. 2. Jealousy. [Obs.] I will possess him with yellowness. Shak. YELLOWROOT Yel"low*root`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Any one of several plants with yellow roots. Specifically: (a) See Xanthorhiza. (b) Same as Orangeroot. YELLOWS Yel"lows, n. 1. (Far.) Defn: A disease of the bile in horses, cattle, and sheep, causing yellowness of the eyes; jaundice. His horse . . . sped with spavins, rayed with the yellows. Shak. 2. (Bot.) Defn: A disease of plants, esp. of peach trees, in which the leaves turn to a yellowish color; jeterus. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: A group of butterflies in which the predominating color is yellow. It includes the common small yellow butterflies. Called also redhorns, and sulphurs. See Sulphur. YELLOWSEED Yel"low*seed`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of pepper grass (Lepidium campestre). YELLOWSHANKS; YELLOWSHINS Yel"low*shanks`, Yel"low*shins`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Yellolegs. YELLOWTAIL Yel"low*tail`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of marine carangoid fishes of the genus Seriola; especially, the large California species (S. dorsalis) which sometimes weighs thirty or forty pounds, and is highly esteemed as a food fish; -- called also cavasina, and white salmon. (b) The mademoiselle, or silver perch. (c) The menhaden. (d) The runner, 12. (e) A California rockfish (Sebastodes flavidus). (f) The sailor's choice (Diplodus rhomboides). Note: Several other fishes are also locally called yellowtail. YELLOWTHROAT Yel"low*throat`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of American ground warblers of the genus Geothlypis, esp. the Maryland yellowthroat (G. trichas), which is a very common species. YELLOWTOP Yel"low*top`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of grass, perhaps a species of Agrostis. YELLOWWOOD Yel"low*wood`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The wood of any one of several different kinds of trees; also, any one of the trees themselves. Among the trees so called are the Cladrastis tinctoria, an American leguminous tree; the several species of prickly ash (Xanthoxylum); the Australian Flindersia Oxleyana, a tree related to the mahogany; certain South African species of Podocarpus, trees related to the yew; the East Indian Podocarpus latifolia; and the true satinwood (Chloroxylon Swietenia). All these Old World trees furnish valuable timber. YELLOWWORT Yel"low*wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A European yellow-flowered,