[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

variety tubulufera), having very fine fibers, native of Florida, and the West Indies. -- Grass sponge, any one of several varieties of coarse commercial sponges having the surface irregularly tufted, as Spongia graminea, and S. equina, variety cerebriformis, of Florida and the West Indies. -- Horse sponge, a coarse commercial sponge, especially Spongia equina. -- Platinum sponge. (Chem.) See under Platinum. -- Pyrotechnical sponge, a substance made of mushrooms or fungi, which are boiled in water, dried, and beaten, then put in a strong lye prepared with saltpeter, and again dried in an oven. This makes the black match, or tinder, brought from Germany. -- Sheep's-wool sponge, a fine and durable commercial sponge (Spongia equina, variety gossypina) found in Florida and the West Indies. The surface is covered with larger and smaller tufts, having the oscula between them. -- Sponge cake, a kind of sweet cake which is light and spongy. -- Sponge lead, or Spongy lead (Chem.), metallic lead brought to a spongy form by reduction of lead salts, or by compressing finely divided lead; -- used in secondary batteries and otherwise. -- Sponge tree (Bot.), a tropical leguminous tree (Acacia Farnesiana), with deliciously fragrant flowers, which are used in perfumery. -- Toilet sponge, a very fine and superior variety of Mediterranean sponge (Spongia officinalis, variety Mediterranea); -- called also turkish sponge. -- To set a sponge (Cookery), to leaven a small mass of flour, to be used in leavening a larger quantity. -- To throw up the sponge, to give up a contest; to acknowledge defeat; -- from a custom of the prize ring, the person employed to sponge a pugilist between rounds throwing his sponge in the air in token of defeat. [Cant or Slang] "He was too brave a man to throw up the sponge to fate." Lowell. -- Vegetable sponge. (Bot.) See Loof. -- Velvet sponge, a fine, soft commercial sponge (Spongia equina, variety meandriniformis) found in Florida and the West Indies. -- Vitreous sponge. See Glass-sponge. -- Yellow sponge, a common and valuable commercial sponge (Spongia agaricina, variety corlosia) found in Florida and the West Indies. SPONGE Sponge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sponged; p. pr. & vb. n. Sponging.] 1. To cleanse or wipe with a sponge; as, to sponge a slate or a cannon; to wet with a sponge; as, to sponge cloth. 2. To wipe out with a sponge, as letters or writing; to efface; to destroy all trace of. Hooker. 3. Fig.: To deprive of something by imposition. "How came such multitudes of our nation . . . to be sponged of their plate and their money" South. 4. Fig.: To get by imposition or mean arts without cost; as, to sponge a breakfast. Swift. SPONGE Sponge, v. i. 1. To suck in, or imbile, as a sponge. 2. Fig.: To gain by mean arts, by intrusion, or hanging on; as, an idler sponges on his neighbor. E. Eggleston. The fly is an intruder, and a common smell-feast, that sponges upon other people's trenchers. L'Estrange. 3. To be converted, as dough, into a light, spongy mass by the agency of yeast, or leaven. SPONGELET Sponge"let, n. Defn: See Spongiole. SPONGEOUS Spon"geous, a. Etym: [See Spongious.] Defn: Resembling sponge; having the nature or qualities of sponge. SPONGER Spon"ger, n. 1. One who sponges, or uses a sponge. 2. One employed in gathering sponges. 3. Fig.: A parasitical dependent; a hanger-on. SPONGIAE Spon"gi*æ, n. pl. Etym: [See Sponge.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The grand division of the animal kingdom which includes the sponges; -- called also Spongida, Spongiaria, Spongiozoa, and Porifera. Note: In the Spongiæ, the soft sarcode of the body is usually supported by a skeleton consisting of horny fibers, or of silleceous or calcareous spicules. The common sponges contain larger and smaller cavities and canals, and numerous small ampullæ which which are lined with ciliated cells capable of taking in solid food. The outer surface usually has minute pores through which water enters, and large openings for its exit. Sponges produce eggs and spermatozoa, and the egg when fertilized undergoes segmentation to form a ciliated embryo. SPONGIDA Spon"gi*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] Defn: Spongiæ. SPONGIFORM Spon"gi*form, a. Defn: Resembling a sponge; soft and porous; porous. SPONGILLA Spon*gil"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of spongia a sponge.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of siliceous spongea found in fresh water. SPONGIN Spon"gin, n. (Physiol. Chem.) Defn: The chemical basis of sponge tissue, a nitrogenous, hornlike substance which on decomposition with sulphuric acid yields leucin and glycocoll. SPONGINESS Spon"gi*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being spongy. Dr. H. More. SPONGING Spon"ging, Defn: a. & n. from Sponge, v. Sponging house (Eng. Law), a bailiff's or other house in which debtors are put before being taken to jail, or until they compromise with their creditors. At these houses extortionate charges are commonly made for food, lodging, etc. SPONGIOLE Spon"gi*ole, n. Etym: [L. spongiola a rose gall, small roots, dim. of spongia: cf. F. spongiole.] (Bot.) Defn: A supposed spongelike expansion of the tip of a rootlet for absorbing water; -- called also spongelet. SPONGIOLITE Spon"gi*o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Paleon.) Defn: One of the microsporic siliceous spicules which occur abundantly in the texture of sponges, and are sometimes found fossil, as in flints. SPONGIOPILIN Spon`gi*o*pi"lin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.) Defn: A kind of cloth interwoven with small pieces of sponge and rendered waterproof on one side by a covering of rubber. When moistend with hot water it is used as a poultice. SPONGIOSE; SPONGIOUS Spon"gi*ose`, Spon"gi*ous, a. Etym: [L. spongious, spongeosus: cf. F. spongieux. See Sponge.] Defn: Somewhat spongy; spongelike; full of small cavities like sponge; as, spongious bones. SPONGIOZOA Spon`gi*o*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Sponglæ. SPONGOBLAST Spon"go*blast, n. Etym: [Gr. -blast.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the cells which, in sponges, secrete the spongin, or the material of the horny fibers. SPONGOID Spon"goid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] Defn: Resembling sponge; like sponge. SPONGY Spon"gy, a. 1. Soft, and full of cavities; of an open, loose, pliable texture; as, a spongy excrescence; spongy earth; spongy cake; spongy bones. 2. Wet; drenched; soaked and soft, like sponge; rainy. "Spongy April." Shak. 3. Having the quality of imbibing fluids, like a sponge. Spongy lead (Chem.), sponge lead. See under Sponge. -- Spongy platinum. See under Platinum. SPONK Sponk, n. Defn: See Spunk. SPONSAL Spon"sal, a. Etym: [L. sponsalis, fr. sponsus a betrothal, fr. spondere, sponsum, to betroth. See Spouse, and cf. Esousal, Spousal.] Defn: Relating to marriage, or to a spouse; spousal. SPONSIBLE Spon"si*ble, a. Etym: [Abbrev. from responsible.] Defn: responsible; worthy of credit. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] SPONSION Spon"sion, n. Etym: [L. sonsio, fr. spondere, sponsum, to promise solemnly.] 1. The act of becoming surety for another. 2. (Internat. Law) Defn: An act or engagement on behalf of a state, by an agent not specially authorized for the purpose, or by one who exceeds the limits of authority. SPONSIONAL Spon"sion*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a pledge or agreement; responsible. [R.] He is righteous even in that representative and sponsional person he put on. Abp. Leighton. SPONSON Spon"son, n. (Shipbuilding) (a) One of the triangular platforms in front of, and abaft, the paddle boxes of a steamboat. (b) One of the slanting supports under the guards of a steamboat. (c) One of the armored projections fitted with gun ports, used on modern war vessels. SPONSOR Spon"sor, n. Etym: [L., from spondere, sponsum, to engage one's self. See Spose.] 1. One who binds himself to answer for another, and is responsible for his default; a surety. 2. One who at the baptism of an infant professore the christian faith in its name, and guarantees its religious education; a godfather or godmother. SPONSORIAL Spon*so"ri*al, a. Defn: Pertaining to a sponsor. SPONSORSHIP Spon"sor*ship, n. Defn: State of being a sponsor. SPONTANEITY Spon`ta*ne"i*ty, n.; pl. Spontaneities. Etym: [Cf. F. spontanéité.] 1. The quality or state of being spontaneous, or acting from native feeling, proneness, or temperament, without constraint or external force. Romney Leigh, who lives by diagrams, And crosses not the spontaneities Of all his individual, personal life With formal universals. Mrs. Browning. 2. (Biol.) (a) The tendency to undergo change, characteristic of both animal and vegetable organisms, and not restrained or cheked by the environment. (b) The tendency to activity of muscular tissue, including the voluntary muscles, when in a state of healthful vigor and refreshment. SPONTANEOUS Spon*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. spontaneus, fr. sponte of free will, voluntarily.] 1. Proceding from natural feeling, temperament, or disposition, or from a native internal proneness, readiness, or tendency, without constraint; as, a spontaneous gift or proportion. 2. Proceeding from, or acting by, internal impulse, energy, or natural law, without external force; as, spontaneous motion; spontaneous growth. 3. Produced without being planted, or without human labor; as, a spontaneous growth of wood. Spontaneous combustion, combustion produced in a substance by the evolution of heat through the chemical action of its own elements; as, the spontaneous combustion of waste matter