[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

whether as a rival or a foe; a body of advocates or partisans; a party; hence, the interest or cause which one maintains against another; a doctrine or view opposed to another. God on our side, doubt not of victory. Shak. We have not always been of the . . . same side in politics. Landor. Sets the passions on the side of truth. Pope. 7. A line of descent traced through one parent as distinguished from that traced through another. To sit upon thy father David's throne, By mother's side thy father. Milton. 8. Fig.: Aspect or part regarded as contrasted with some other; as, the bright side of poverty. By the side of, close at hand; near to. -- Exterior side. (Fort.) See Exterior, and Illust. of Ravelin. -- Interior side (Fort.), the line drawn from the center of one bastion to that of the next, or the line curtain produced to the two oblique radii in front. H. L. Scott. -- Side by side, close together and abreast; in company or along with. -- To choose sides, to select those who shall compete, as in a game, on either side. -- To take sides, to attach one's self to, or give assistance to, one of two opposing sides or parties. SIDE Side, a. 1. Of or pertaining to a side, or the sides; being on the side, or toward the side; lateral. One mighty squadron with a side wind sped. Dryden. 2. Hence, indirect; oblique; collateral; incidental; as, a side issue; a side view or remark. The law hath no side respect to their persons. Hooker. 3. Etym: [AS. sid. Cf Side, n.] Defn: Long; large; extensive. [Obs. or Scot.] Shak. His gown had side sleeves down to mid leg. Laneham. Side action, in breech-loading firearms, a mechanism for operating the breech block, which is moved by a lever that turns sidewise. -- Side arms, weapons worn at the side, as sword, bayonet, pistols, etc. -- Side ax, an ax of which the handle is bent to one side. -- Side-bar rule (Eng. Law.), a rule authorized by the courts to be granted by their officers as a matter of course, without formal application being made to them in open court; -- so called because anciently moved for by the attorneys at side bar, that is, informally. Burril. -- Side box, a box or inclosed seat on the side of a theater. To insure a side-box station at half price. Cowper. -- Side chain, one of two safety chains connecting a tender with a locomotive, at the sides. -- Side cut, a canal or road branching out from the main one. [U.S.] -- Side dish, one of the dishes subordinate to the main course. -- Side glance, a glance or brief look to one side. -- Side hook (Carp.), a notched piece of wood for clamping a board to something, as a bench. -- Side lever, a working beam of a side-lever engine. -- Side-lever engine, a marine steam engine having a working beam of each side of the cylinder, near the bottom of the engine, communicating motion to a crank that is above them. -- Side pipe (Steam Engine), a steam or exhaust pipe connecting the upper and lower steam chests of the cylinder of a beam engine. -- Side plane, a plane in which the cutting edge of the iron is at the side of the stock. -- Side posts (Carp.), posts in a truss, usually placed in pairs, each post set at the same distance from the middle of the truss, for supporting the principal rafters, hanging the tiebeam, etc. -- Side rod. (a) One of the rods which connect the piston-rod crosshead with the side levers, in a side-lever engine. (b) See Parallel rod, under Parallel. -- Side screw (Firearms), one of the screws by which the lock is secured to the side of a firearm stock. -- Side table, a table placed either against the wall or aside from the principal table. -- Side tool (Mach.), a cutting tool, used in a lathe or planer, having the cutting edge at the side instead of at the point. -- Side wind, a wind from one side; hence, an indirect attack, or indirect means. Wright. SIDE Side, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sided; p. pr.& vb. n. Siding.] 1. To lean on one side. [Obs.] Bacon. 2. To embrace the opinions of one party, or engage in its interest, in opposition to another party; to take sides; as, to side with the ministerial party. All side in parties, and begin the attack. Pope. SIDE Side, v. t. 1. To be or stand at the side of; to be on the side toward. [Obs.] His blind eye that sided Paridell. Spenser. 2. To suit; to pair; to match. [Obs.] Clarendon. 3. (Shipbuilding) Defn: To work (a timber or rib) to a certain thickness by trimming the sides. 4. To furnish with a siding; as, to side a house. SIDEBOARD Side"board`, n. Defn: A piece of dining-room furniture having compartments and shelves for keeping or displaying articles of table service. At a stately sideboard, by the wine, That fragrant smell diffused. Milton. SIDEBONE Side"bone`, n. (Far.) Defn: A morbid growth or deposit of bony matter and at the sides of the coronet and coffin bone of a horse. J. H. Walsh. SIDE-CHAIN THEORY Side"-chain` the`o*ry. (Physiol. Chem.) Defn: A theory proposed by Ehrlich as a chemical explanation of immunity phenomena. In brief outline it is as follows: Animal cells and bacteria are complex aggregations of molecules, which are themselves complex. Complex molecules react with one another through certain of their side chains, but only when these side chains have a definite correspondence in structure (this account for the specific action of antitoxins). SIDED Sid"ed, a. Defn: Having (such or so many) sides; -- used in composition; as, one-sided; many-sided. SIDEFLASH Side"flash`, n. (Elec.) Defn: A disruptive discharge between a conductor traversed by an oscillatory current of high frequency (as lightning) and neighboring masses of metal, or between different parts of the same conductor. SIDEHILL Side"hill`, n. Defn: The side or slope of a hill; sloping ground; a descent. [U. S.] SIDE LINE Side line. 1. (a) A line pert. or attached to the side of a thing. (b) Specif., a line for hobbling an animal by connecting the fore and the hind feet of the same side. 2. (a) A line of goods sold in addition to one's principal articles of trade; a course of business pursued aside from one's regular occupation. (b) A secondary road; esp., a byroad at right angles to a main road. [Canada] SIDELING Side"ling, adv. Etym: [OE. sideling, fr. side side. See Side, and cf. Sidelong, Headlong.] Defn: Sidelong; on the side; laterally; also, obliquely; askew. A fellow nailed up maps . . . some sideling, and others upside down. Swift. SIDELING Side"ling, a. Defn: Inclining to one sidel directed toward one side; sloping; inclined; as, sideling ground. SIDELONG Side"long`, adv. Etym: [See Sideling, adv.] 1. Laterally; obliquely; in the direction of the side. 2. On the side; as, to lay a thing sidelong. Note: [See Sideling, adv. ] Evelyn. SIDELONG Side"long`, a. Defn: Lateral; oblique; not being directly in front; as, a sidelong glance. The bashful virgin's sidelong looks of love. Goldsmith. SIDEPIECE Side"piece`, n. (Joinery) Defn: The jamb, or cheek, of an opening in a wall, as of door or window. SIDER Sid"er, n. Defn: One who takes a side. SIDER Si"der, n. Defn: Cider. [Obs.] SIDERAL Sid"er*al, a. Etym: [L. sideralis. See Sidereal.] 1. Relating to the stars. 2. (Astrol.) Defn: Affecting unfavorably by the supposed influence of the stars; baleful. "Sideral blast." Milton. SIDERATED Sid"er*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. sideratus, p. p. of siderari to be blasted by a constellation, fr. sidus, sideris, a constellation.] Defn: Planet-struck; blasted. [Obs.] SIDERATION Sid`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. sideratio.] Defn: The state of being siderated, or planet-struck; esp., blast in plants; also, a sudden and apparently causeless stroke of disease, as in apoplexy or paralysis. [Obs.] Ray. SIDEREAL Si*de"re*al, a. Etym: [L. sidereus, from sidus, sideris, a constellation, a star. Cf. Sideral, Consider, Desire.] 1. Relating to the stars; starry; astral; as, sidereal astronomy. 2. (Astron.) Defn: Measuring by the apparent motion of the stars; designated, marked out, or accompanied, by a return to the same position in respect to the stars; as, the sidereal revolution of a planet; a sidereal day. Sidereal clock, day, month, year. See under Clock, Day, etc. -- Sideral time, time as reckoned by sideral days, or, taking the sidereal day as the unit, the time elapsed since a transit of the vernal equinox, reckoned in parts of a sidereal day. This is, strictly, apparent sidereal time, mean sidereal time being reckoned from the transit, not of the true, but of the mean, equinoctial point. SIDEREALIZE Si*de"re*al*ize, v. t. Defn: To elevate to the stars, or to the region of the stars; to etherealize. German literature