[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

eating. [R.] For such pleasure till that hour At feed or fountain never had I found. Milton. 5. The water supplied to steam boilers. 6. (Mach.) (a) The motion, or act, of carrying forward the stuff to be operated upon, as cloth to the needle in a sewing machine; or of producing progressive operation upon any material or object in a machine, as, in a turning lathe, by moving the cutting tool along or in the work. (b) The supply of material to a machine, as water to a steam boiler, coal to a furnace, or grain to a run of stones. (c) The mechanism by which the action of feeding is produced; a feed motion. Feed bag, a nose bag containing feed for a horse or mule. -- Feed cloth, an apron for leading cotton, wool, or other fiber, into a machine, as for carding, etc. -- Feed door, a door to a furnace, by which to supply coal. -- Feed head. (a) A cistern for feeding water by gravity to a steam boiler. (b) (Founding) An excess of metal above a mold, which serves to render the casting more compact by its pressure; -- also called a riser, deadhead, or simply feed or head Knight. -- Feed heater. (a) (Steam Engine) A vessel in which the feed water for the boiler is heated, usually by exhaust steam. (b) A boiler or kettle in which is heated food for stock. -- Feed motion, or Feed gear (Mach.), the train of mechanism that gives motion to the part that directly produces the feed in a machine. -- Feed pipe, a pipe for supplying the boiler of a steam engine, etc., with water. -- Feed pump, a force pump for supplying water to a steam boiler, etc. -- Feed regulator, a device for graduating the operation of a feeder. Knight. -- Feed screw, in lathes, a long screw employed to impart a regular motion to a tool rest or tool, or to the work. -- Feed water, water supplied to a steam boiler, etc. -- Feed wheel (Mach.), a kind of feeder. See Feeder, n., 8. FEEDER Feed"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, gives food or supplies nourishment; steward. A couple of friends, his chaplain and feeder. Goldsmith. 2. One who furnishes incentives; an encourager. "The feeder of my riots." Shak. 3. One who eats or feeds; specifically, an animal to be fed or fattened. With eager feeding, food doth choke the feeder. Shak. 4. One who fattens cattle for slaughter. 5. A stream that flows into another body of water; a tributary; specifically (Hydraulic Engin.), a water course which supplies a canal or reservoir by gravitation or natural flow. 6. A branch railroad, stage line, or the like; a side line which increases the business of the main line. 7. (Mining) (a) A small lateral lode falling into the main lode or mineral vein. Ure. (b) A strong discharge of gas from a fissure; a blower. Raymond. 8. (Mach.) Defn: An auxiliary part of a machine which supplies or leads along the material operated upon. 9. (Steam Engine) Defn: A device for supplying steam boilers with water as needed. FEEDING Feed"ing, n. 1. the act of eating, or of supplying with food; the process of fattening. 2. That which is eaten; food. 3. That which furnishes or affords food, especially for animals; pasture land. Feeding bottle. See under Bottle. FEE-FAW-FUM Fee`-faw`-fum", n. Defn: A nonsensical exclamation attributed to giants and ogres; hence, any expression calculated to impose upon the timid and ignorant. "Impudent fee-faw-fums." J. H. Newman. FEEJEE Fee"jee, a. & n. (Ethnol) Defn: See Fijian. FEEL Feel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Felt; p. pr. & vb. n. Feeling.] Etym: [AS. f; akin to OS. gif to perceive, D. voelen to feel, OHG. fuolen, G. fühlen, Icel. falma to grope, and prob. to AS. folm paim of the hand, L. palma. Cf. Fumble, Palm.] 1. To perceive by the touch; to take cognizance of by means of the nerves of sensation distributed all over the body, especially by those of the skin; to have sensation excited by contact of (a thing) with the body or limbs. Who feel Those rods of scorpions and those whips of steel. Creecn. 2. To touch; to handle; to examine by touching; as, feel this piece of silk; hence, to make trial of; to test; often with out. Come near, . . . that I may feel thee, my son. Gen. xxvii. 21. He hath this to feel my affection to your honor. Shak. 3. To perceive by the mind; to have a sense of; to experience; to be affected by; to be sensible of, or sensetive to; as, to feel pleasure; to feel pain. Teach me to feel another's woe. Pope. Whoso keepeth the commandment shall feel no evil thing. Eccl. viii. 5. He best can paint them who shall feel them most. Pope. Mankind have felt their strength and made it felt. Byron. 4. To take internal cognizance of; to be conscious of; to have an inward persuasion of. For then, and not till then, he felt himself. Shak. 5. To perceive; to observe. [Obs.] Chaucer. To feel the helm (Naut.), to obey it. FEEL Feel, v. i. 1. To have perception by the touch, or by contact of anything with the nerves of sensation, especially those upon the surface of the body. 2. To have the sensibilities moved or affected. [She] feels with the dignity of a Roman matron. Burke. And mine as man, who feel for all mankind. Pope. 3. To be conscious of an inward impression, state of mind, persuasion, physical condition, etc.; to perceive one's self to be; - - followed by an adjective describing the state, etc.; as, to feel assured, grieved, persuaded. I then did feel full sick. Shak. 4. To know with feeling; to be conscious; hence, to know certainly or without misgiving. Garlands . . . which I feel I am not worthy yet to wear. Shak. 5. To appear to the touch; to give a perception; to produce an impression by the nerves of sensation; -- followed by an adjective describing the kind of sensation. Blind men say black feels rough, and white feels smooth. Dryden. To feel after, to search for; to seek to find; to seek as a person groping in the dark. "If haply they might feel after him, and find him." Acts xvii. 27. - To feel of, to examine by touching. FEEL Feel, n. 1. Feeling; perception. [R.] To intercept and have a more kindly feel of its genial warmth. Hazlitt. 2. A sensation communicated by touching; impression made upon one who touches or handles; as, this leather has a greasy feel. The difference between these two tumors will be distinguished by the feel. S. Sharp. FEELER Feel"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, feels. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the sense organs or certain animals (as insects), which are used in testing objects by touch and in searching for food; an antenna; a palp. Insects . . . perpetually feeling and searching before them with their feelers or antennæ. Derham. 3. Anything, as a proposal, observation, etc., put forth or thrown out in order to ascertain the views of others; something tentative. FEELING Feel"ing, a. 1. Possessing great sensibility; easily affected or moved; as, a feeling heart. 2. Expressive of great sensibility; attended by, or evincing, sensibility; as, he made a feeling representation of his wrongs. FEELING Feel"ing, n. 1. The sense by which the mind, through certain nerves of the body, perceives external objects, or certain states of the body itself; that one of the five senses which resides in the general nerves of sensation distributed over the body, especially in its surface; the sense of touch; nervous sensibility to external objects. Why was the sight To such a tender ball as the eye confined, . . . And not, as feeling, through all parts diffused Milton. 2. An act or state of perception by the sense above described; an act of apprehending any object whatever; an act or state of apprehending the state of the soul itself; consciousness. The apprehension of the good Gives but the greater feeling to the worse. Shak. 3. The capacity of the soul for emotional states; a high degree of susceptibility to emotions or states of the sensibility not dependent on the body; as, a man of feeling; a man destitute of feeling. 4. Any state or condition of emotion; the exercise of the capacity for emotion; any mental state whatever; as, a right or a wrong feeling in the heart; our angry or kindly feelings; a feeling of pride or of humility. A fellow feeling makes one wondrous kind. Garrick. Tenderness for the feelings of others. Macaulay. 5. That quality of a work of art which embodies the mental emotion of the artist, and is calculated to affect similarly the spectator. Fairholt. Syn. -- Sensation;