[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

other genera of the family Psittacidæ, as distinguished from the parrakeets, macaws, and lories. They have a short rounded or even tail, and often a naked space on the cheeks. The gray parrot, or jako (P. erithacus) of Africa (see Jako), and the species of Amazon, or green, parrots (Chrysotis) of America, are examples. Many species, as cage birds, readily learn to imitate sounds, and to repeat words and phrases. Carolina parrot (Zoöl.), the Carolina parrakeet. See Parrakeet. -- Night parrot, or Owl parrot. (Zoöl.) See Kakapo. -- Parrot coal, cannel coal; -- so called from the crackling and chattering sound it makes in burning. [Eng. & Scot.] -- Parrot green. (Chem.) See Scheele's green, under Green, n. -- Parrot weed (Bot.), a suffrutescent plant (Bocconia frutescens) of the Poppy family, native of the warmer parts of America. It has very large, sinuate, pinnatifid leaves, and small, panicled, apetalous flowers. -- Parrot wrasse, Parrot fish (Zoöl.), any fish of the genus Scarus. One species (S. Cretensis), found in the Mediterranean, is esteemed by epicures, and was highly prized by the ancient Greeks and Romans. PARROT Par"rot, v. t. Defn: To repeat by rote, as a parrot. PARROT Par"rot, v. i. Defn: To chatter like a parrot. PARROTER Par"rot*er, n. Defn: One who simply repeats what he has heard. [R.] J. S. Mill. PARROTRY Par"rot*ry, n. Defn: Servile imitation or repetition. [R.] Coleridge. "The supine parrotry." Fitzed. Hall. PARROT'S-BILL Par"rot's-bill`, n. Etym: [So called from the resemblance of its curved superior petal to a parrot's bill.] (Bot.) Defn: The glory pea. See under Glory. PARRY Par"ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Parried; p. pr. & vb. n. Parrying.] Etym: [F. paré, p. p. of parer. See Pare, v. t.] 1. To ward off; to stop, or to turn aside; as, to parry a thrust, a blow, or anything that means or threatens harm. Locke. Vice parries wide The undreaded volley with a sword of straw. Cowper. 2. To avoid; to shift or put off; to evade. The French government has parried the payment of our claims. E. Everett. PARRY Par"ry, v. i. Defn: To ward off, evade, or turn aside something, as a blow, argument, etc. Locke. PARRY Par"ry, n.; pl. Parries (. Defn: A warding off of a thrust or blow, as in sword and bayonet exercises or in boxing; hence, figuratively, a defensive movement in debate or other intellectual encounter. PARSE Parse, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Parsed; p. pr. & vb. n. Parsing.] Etym: [L. pars a part; pars orationis a part of speech. See Part, n.] (Gram.) Defn: To resolve into its elements, as a sentence, pointing out the several parts of speech, and their relation to each other by government or agreement; to analyze and describe grammatically. Let him construe the letter into English, and parse it over perfectly. Ascham. PARSEE Par"see, n. Etym: [Hind. & Per. parsi a Persian, a follower of Zoroaster, a fire worshiper. Cf. Persian.] 1. One of the adherents of the Zoroastrian or ancient Persian religion, descended from Persian refugees settled in India; a fire worshiper; a Gheber. 2. The Iranian dialect of much of the religious literature of the Parsees. PARSEEISM Par"see*ism, n. Defn: The religion and customs of the Parsees. PARSER Pars"er, n. Defn: One who parses. PARSIMONIOUS Par`si*mo"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. parcimonieux. See Parsimony.] Defn: Exhibiting parsimony; sparing in expenditure of money; frugal to excess; penurious; niggardly; stingy. -- Par`si*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv. -- Par`si*mo"ni*ous*ness, n. A prodigal king is nearer a tyrant than a parsimonious. Bacon. Extraordinary funds for one campaign may spare us the expense of many years; whereas a long, parsimonious war will drain us of more men and money. Addison. Syn. -- Covetous; niggardly; miserly; penurious; close; saving; mean; stingy; frugal. See Avaricious. PARSIMONY Par"si*mo*ny, n. Etym: [L. parsimonia, parcimonia; cf. parcere to spare, parsus sparing: cf. F. parcimonie.] Defn: Closeness or sparingness in the expenditure of money; -- generally in a bad sense; excessive frugality; niggardliness. Bacon. Awful parsimony presided generally at the table. Thackeray. Syn. -- Economy; frugality; illiberality; covetousness; closeness; stinginess. See Economy. PARSLEY Pars"ley, n. Etym: [OE. persely, persil, F. persil, L. petroselinum rock parsley, Gr. Celery.] (Bot.) Defn: An aromatic umbelliferous herb (Carum Petroselinum), having finely divided leaves which are used in cookery and as a garnish. As she went to the garden for parsley, to stuff a rabbit. Shak. Fool's parsley. See under Fool. -- Hedge parsley, Milk parsley, Stone parsley, names given to various weeds of similar appearance to the parsley. -- Parsley fern (Bot.), a small fern with leaves resembling parsley (Cryptogramme crispa). -- Parsley piert (Bot.), a small herb (Alchemilla arvensis) formerly used as a remedy for calculus. PARSNIP Pars"nip, n. Etym: [OE. parsnepe, from a French form, fr. L. pastinaca; cf. pastinare to dig up, pastinum a kind of dibble; cf. OF. pastenade, pastenaque.] (Bot.) Defn: The aromatic and edible spindle-shaped root of the cultivated form of the Pastinaca sativa, a biennial umbelliferous plant which is very poisonous in its wild state; also, the plant itself. Cow parsnip. See Cow parsnip. -- Meadow parsnip, the European cow parsnip. -- Poison parsnip, the wild stock of the parsnip. -- Water parsnip, any plant of the umbelliferous genus Sium, the species of which are poisonous. PARSON Par"son, n. Etym: [OE. persone person, parson, OF. persone, F. personne person, LL. persona (sc. ecclesiae), fr. L. persona a person. See Person.] 1. (Eng. Eccl. Law) Defn: A person who represents a parish in its ecclesiastical and corporate capacities; hence, the rector or incumbent of a parochial church, who has full possession of all the rights thereof, with the cure of souls. 2. Any clergyman having ecclesiastical preferment; one who is in orders, or is licensed to preach; a preacher. He hears the parson pray and preach. Longfellow. Parson bird (Zoöl.), a New Zealand bird (Prosthemadera Novæseelandiæ) remarkable for its powers of mimicry and its ability to articulate words. Its color is glossy black, with a curious tuft of long, curly, white feathers on each side of the throat. It is often kept as a cage bird. PARSONAGE Par"son*age, n. 1. (Eng. Eccl. Law) Defn: A certain portion of lands, tithes, and offerings, for the maintenance of the parson of a parish. 2. The glebe and house, or the house only, owned by a parish or ecclesiastical society, and appropriated to the maintenance or use of the incumbent or settled pastor. 3. Money paid for the support of a parson. [Scot.] What have I been paying stipend and teind, parsonage and vicarage, for Sir W. Scott. PARSONED Par"soned, a. Defn: Furnished with a parson. PARSONIC; PARSONICAL Par*son"ic, Par*son"ic*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a parson; clerical. Vainglory glowed in his parsonic heart. Colman. -- Par*son"ic*al*ly, adv. PARSONISH Par"son*ish, a. Defn: Appropriate to, or like, a parson; -- used in disparagement. [Colloq.] PART Part, n. Etym: [F. part, L. pars, gen. partis; cf. parere to bring forth, produce. Cf. Parent, Depart, Parcel, Partner, Party, Portion.] 1. One of the portions, equal or unequal, into which anything is divided, or regarded as divided; something less than a whole; a number, quantity, mass, or the like, regarded as going to make up, with others, a larger number, quantity, mass, etc., whether actually separate or not; a piece; a fragment; a fraction; a division; a member; a constituent. And kept back part of the price, . . . and brought a certain part and laid it at the apostles'feet. Acts v. 2. Our ideas of extension and number -- do they not contain a secret relation of the parts Locke. I am a part of all that I have met. Tennyson. 2. Hence, specifically: (a) An equal constituent portion; one of several or many like quantities, numbers, etc., into which anything is divided, or of which it is composed; proportional division or ingredient. An homer is the tenth part of an ephah. Ex. xvi. 36. A thought which, quartered, hath but one part wisdom, And ever three parts coward. Shak. (b) A constituent portion of a living or spiritual whole; a member; an organ; an essential element. All the parts were formed . . . into one harmonious body. Locke. The pulse, the glow of every part. Keble. (c) A constituent of character or capacity; quality; faculty; talent; -- usually in the plural with a collective sense. "Men of considerable parts." Burke. "Great quickness of parts." Macaulay. Which maintained so politic a state of evil, that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with them. Shak. (d) Quarter; region; district; -- usually in the plural. "The uttermost part of the heaven." Neh. i. 9. All parts resound with tumults, plaints, and fears. Dryden. (e) (Math.) Defn: Such portion of any quantity, as when taken a certain number of times, will exactly make that quantity; as, 3 is a part of 12; -- the opposite of multiple. Also, a line or other element of a geometrical figure. 3. That which