[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

and drink sparingly, or by prescribed rules; to regulate medicinally the food of. She diets him with fasting every day. Spenser. DIET Di"et, v. i. 1. To eat; to take one's meals. [Obs.] Let him . . . diet in such places, where there is good company of the nation, where he traveleth. Bacon. 2. To eat according to prescribed rules; to ear sparingly; as, the doctor says he must diet. DIET Di"et, n. Etym: [F. diète, LL. dieta, diaeta, an assembly, a day's journey; the same word as diet course of living, but with the sense changed by L. dies day: cf. G. tag dayReichstag.] Defn: A legislative or administrative assembly in Germany, Poland, and some other countries of Europe; a deliberative convention; a council; as, the Diet of Worms, held in 1521. DIETARIAN Di`e*ta"ri*an, n. Defn: One who lives in accordance with prescribed rules for diet; a dieter. DIETARY Di"et*a*ry, a. Defn: Pertaining to diet, or to the rules of diet. DIETARY Di"et*a*ry, n.; pl. Dietaries (. Defn: A rule of diet; a fixed allowance of food, as in workhouse, prison, etc. DIETER Di"et*er, n. Defn: One who diets; one who prescribes, or who partakes of, food, according to hygienic rules. DIETETIC; DIETETICAL Di`e*tet"ic, Di`e*tet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. diététique. See Diet.] Defn: Of or performance to diet, or to the rules for regulating the kind and quantity of food to be eaten. DIETETICALLY Di`e*tet"ic*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a dietetical manner. DIETETICS Di`e*tet"ics, n. Defn: That part of the medical or hygienic art which relates to diet or food; rules for diet. To suppose that the whole of dietetics lies in determining whether or not bread is more nutritive than potatoes. H. Spencer. DIETETIST Di`e*tet"ist, n. Defn: A physician who applies the rules of dietetics to the cure of diseases. Dunglison. DIETHYLAMINE Di*eth`yl*am"ine, n. Etym: [Pref. di- + ethylamine.] (Chem.) Defn: A colorless, volatile, alkaline liquid, NH(C2H5)2, having a strong fishy odor resembling that of herring or sardines. Cf. Methylamine. DIETIC Di*et"ic, a. Defn: Dietetic. DIETICAL Di*et"ic*al, a. Defn: Dietetic. [R.] Ferrand. DIETINE Di"et*ine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. diétine.] Defn: A subordinate or local assembly; a diet of inferior rank. DIETIST; DIETITIAN Di"et*ist, Di`e*ti"tian, n. Defn: One skilled in dietetics. [R.] DIFFAME Dif*fame`, n. Etym: [See Defame.] Defn: Evil name; bad reputation; defamation. [Obs.] Chaucer. DIFFARREATION Dif*far`re*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. diffarreatio; dif- = farreum a spelt cake. See Confarreation.] Defn: A form of divorce, among the ancient Romans, in which a cake was used. See Confarreation. DIFFER Dif"fer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Differed; p. pr. & vb. n. Differing.] Etym: [L. differre; dif- = dis- + ferre to bear, carry: cf. F. différer. See 1st Bear, and cf. Defer, Delay.] 1. To be or stand apart; to disagree; to be unlike; to be distinguished; -- with from. One star differeth from another star in glory. 1 Cor. xv. 41. Minds differ, as rivers differ. Macaulay. 2. To be of unlike or opposite opinion; to disagree in sentiment; -- often with from or with. 3. To have a difference, cause of variance, or quarrel; to dispute; to contend. We 'll never differ with a crowded pit. Rowe. Syn. -- To vary; disagree; dissent; dispute; contend; oppose; wrangle. -- To Differ with, Differ from. Both differ from and aiffer with are used in reference to opinions; as, "I differ from you or with you in that opinion."" In all other cases, expressing simple unlikeness, differ from is used; as, these two persons or things differ entirely from each other. Severely punished, not for differing from us in opinion, but for committing a nuisance. Macaulay. Davidson, whom on a former occasion we quoted, to differ from him. M. Arnold. Much as I differ from him concerning an essential part of the historic basis of religion. Gladstone. I differ with the honorable gentleman on that point. Brougham. If the honorable gentleman differs with me on that subject, I differ as heartily with him, and shall always rejoice to differ. Canning. DIFFER Dif"fer, v. t. Defn: To cause to be different or unlike; to set at variance. [R.] But something 'ts that differs thee and me. Cowley. DIFFERENCE Dif"fer*ence, n. Etym: [F. différence, L. differentia.] 1. The act of differing; the state or measure of being different or unlike; distinction; dissimilarity; unlikeness; variation; as, a difference of quality in paper; a difference in degrees of heat, or of light; what is the difference between the innocent and the guilty Differencies of administration, but the same Lord. 1 Cor. xii. 5. 2. Disagreement in opinion; dissension; controversy; quarrel; hence, cause of dissension; matter in controversy. What was the difference It was a contention in public. Shak. Away therefore went I with the constable, leaving the old warden and the young constable to compose their difference as they could. T. Ellwood. 3. That by which one thing differs from another; that which distinguishes or causes to differ;; mark of distinction; characteristic quality; specific attribute. The marks and differences of sovereignty. Davies. 4. Choice; preference. [Obs.] That now be chooseth with vile difference To be a beast, and lack intelligence. Spenser. 5. (Her.) Defn: An addition to a coat of arms to distinguish the bearings of two persons, which would otherwise be the same. See Augmentation, and Marks of cadency, under Cadency. 6. (Logic) Defn: The quality or attribute which is added to those of the genus to constitute a species; a differentia. 7. (Math.) Defn: The quantity by which one quantity differs from another, or the remainder left after subtracting the one from the other. Ascensional difference. See under Ascensional. Syn. -- Distinction; dissimilarity; dissimilitude; variation; diversity; variety; contrariety; disagreement; variance; contest; contention; dispute; controversy; debate; quarrel; wrangle; strife. DIFFERENCE Dif"fer*ence, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Differenced; p. pr. & vb. n. Differencing.] Defn: To cause to differ; to make different; to mark as different; to distinguish. Thou mayest difference gods from men. Chapman. Kings, in receiving justice and undergoing trial, are not differenced from the meanest subject. Milton. So completely differenced by their separate and individual characters that we at once acknowledge them as distinct persons. Sir W. Scott. DIFFERENT Dif"fer*ent, a. Etym: [L. differens, -entis, p. pr. of differre: cf. F. différent.] 1. Distinct; separate; not the same; other. "Five different churches." Addison. 2. Of various or contrary nature, form, or quality; partially or totally unlike; dissimilar; as, different kinds of food or drink; different states of health; different shapes; different degrees of excellence. Men are as different from each other, as the regions in which they are born are different. Dryden. Note: Different is properly followed by from. Different to, for different from, is a common English colloquialism. Different than is quite inadmissible. DIFFERENTIA Dif`fer*en"ti*a, n.; pl. Differentiæ. Etym: [L. See Difference.] (Logic) Defn: The formal or distinguishing part of the essence of a species; the characteristic attribute of a species; specific difference. DIFFERENTIAL Dif`fer*en"tial, a. Etym: [Cf. F. différentiel.] 1. Relating to or indicating a difference; creating a difference; discriminating; special; as, differential characteristics; differential duties; a differential rate. For whom he produced differential favors. Motley. 2. (Math.) Defn: Of or pertaining to a differential, or to differentials. 3. (Mech.) Defn: Relating to differences of motion or leverage; producing effects by such differences; said of mechanism. Differential calculus. (Math.) See under Calculus. -- Differential coefficient, the limit of the ratio of the increment of a function of a variable to the increment of the variable itself, when these increments are made indefinitely small. -- Differential coupling, a form of slip coupling used in light machinery to regulate at pleasure the velocity of the connected shaft. -- Differential duties (Polit. Econ.), duties which are not imposed equally upon the same products imported from different countries. -- Differential galvanometer (Elec.), a galvanometer having two coils or circuits, usually equal, through which currents passing in opposite directions are measured by the difference of their effect upon the needle. -- Differential gearing, a train of toothed wheels, usually an epicyclic train, so arranged as to constitute a differential motion. -- Differential motion, a mechanism in which a simple differential combination produces such a change of motion or force as would, with ordinary compound arrangements, require a considerable train of parts. It is used for overcoming great resistance or producing very slow or very rapid motion. -- Differential pulley. (Mach.) (a) A portable hoisting apparatus, the same in principle as the differential windlass. (b) A hoisting pulley to which power is applied through a differential gearing. -- Differential screw, a compound screw by which a motion is produced equal to the difference of the motions of the component screws. -- Differential thermometer, a thermometer usually with a U-shaped tube terminating in two air bulbs, and containing a colored liquid, used for indicating the difference between the temperatures to which the two bulbs are exposed, by the change of position of the colored fluid, in consequence of the different expansions of the air in the