[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

world, all that exists; all that is possible; as, all the precaution in the world would not save him. -- A world to see, a wonder to see; something admirable or surprising to see. [Obs.] O, you are novices; 't is a world to see How tame, when men and women are alone, A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew. Shak. -- For all the world. (a) Precisely; exactly. (b) For any consideration. -- Seven wonders of the world. See in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction. -- To go to the world, to be married. [Obs.] "Thus goes every one to the world but I . . . ; I may sit in a corner and cry heighho for a husband!" Shak. -- World's end, the end, or most distant part, of the world; the remotest regions. -- World without end, eternally; forever; everlastingly; as if in a state of existence having no end. Throughout all ages, world without end. Eph. iii. 21. WORLDLINESS World"li*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being worldly; a predominant passion for obtaining the good things of this life; covetousness; addictedness to gain and temporal enjoyments; worldly-mindedness. WORLDLING World"ling, Etym: [World + -ling.] Defn: A person whose soul is set upon gaining temporal possessions; one devoted to this world and its enjoyments. A foutre for the world and worldlings base. Shak. If we consider the expectations of futurity, the worldling gives up the argument. Rogers. And worldlings blot the temple's gold. Keble. WORLDLY World"ly, a. Etym: [AS. woroldlic.] 1. Relating to the world; human; common; as, worldly maxims; worldly actions. "I thus neglecting worldly ends." Shak. Many years it hath continued, standing by no other worldly mean but that one only hand which erected it. Hooker. 2. Pertaining to this world or life, in contradistinction from the life to come; secular; temporal; devoted to this life and its enjoyments; bent on gain; as, worldly pleasures, affections, honor, lusts, men. With his soul fled all my worldly solace. Shak. 3. Lay, as opposed to clerical. [Obs.] Chaucer. WORLDLY World"ly, adv. Defn: With relation to this life; in a worldly manner. Subverting worldly strong and worldly wise By simply meek. Milton. WORLDLY-MINDED World"ly-mind`ed, a. Defn: Devoted to worldly interests; mindful of the affairs of the present life, and forgetful of those of the future; loving and pursuing this world's goods, to the exclusion of piety and attention to spiritual concerns. -- World"ly*mind`ed*ness, n. WORLDLYWISE; WORLDLY-WISE World"ly*wise`, World"ly`-*wise`, a. Defn: Wise in regard to things of this world. Bunyan. WORLD-WIDE World"-wide`, a. Defn: Extended throughout the world; as, world-wide fame. Tennyson. WORM Worm (wûrm), n. Etym: [OE. worm, wurm, AS. wyrm; akin to D. worm, OS. & G. wurm, Icel. ormr, Sw. & Dan. orm, Goth. waúrms, L. vermis, Gr. Vermicelli, Vermilion, Vermin.] 1. A creeping or a crawling animal of any kind or size, as a serpent, caterpillar, snail, or the like. [Archaic] There came a viper out of the heat, and leapt on his hand. When the men of the country saw the worm hang on his hand, they said, This man must needs be a murderer. Tyndale (Acts xxviii. 3, 4). 'T is slander, Whose edge is sharper than the sword, whose tongue Outvenoms all the worms of Nile. Shak. When Cerberus perceived us, the great worm, His mouth he opened and displayed his tusks. Longfellow. 2. Any small creeping animal or reptile, either entirely without feet, or with very short ones, including a great variety of animals; as, an earthworm; the blindworm. Specifically: (Zoöl.) (a) Any helminth; an entozoön. (b) Any annelid. (c) An insect larva. (d) pl. Defn: Same as Vermes. 3. An internal tormentor; something that gnaws or afflicts one's mind with remorse. The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul! Shak. 4. A being debased and despised. I am a worm, and no man. Ps. xxii. 6. 5. Anything spiral, vermiculated, or resembling a worm; as: (a) The thread of a screw. The threads of screws, when bigger than can be made in screw plates, are called worms. Moxon. (b) A spiral instrument or screw, often like a double corkscrew, used for drawing balls from firearms. (c) (Anat.) A certain muscular band in the tongue of some animals, as the dog; the lytta. See Lytta. (d) The condensing tube of a still, often curved and wound to economize space. See Illust. of Still. (e) (Mach.) A short revolving screw, the threads of which drive, or are driven by, a worm wheel by gearing into its teeth or cogs. See Illust. of Worm gearing, below. Worm abscess (Med.), an abscess produced by the irritation resulting from the lodgment of a worm in some part of the body. -- Worm fence. See under Fence. -- Worm gear. (Mach.) (a) A worm wheel. (b) Worm gearing. -- Worm gearing, gearing consisting of a worm and worm wheel working together. -- Worm grass. (Bot.) (a) See Pinkroot, 2 (a). (b) The white stonecrop (Sedum album) reputed to have qualities as a vermifuge. Dr. Prior. -- Worm oil (Med.), an anthelmintic consisting of oil obtained from the seeds of Chenopodium anthelminticum. -- Worm powder (Med.), an anthelmintic powder. -- Worm snake. (Zoöl.) See Thunder snake (b), under Thunder. -- Worm tea (Med.), an anthelmintic tea or tisane. -- Worm tincture (Med.), a tincture prepared from dried earthworms, oil of tartar, spirit of wine, etc. [Obs.] -- Worm wheel, a cogwheel having teeth formed to fit into the spiral spaces of a screw called a worm, so that the wheel may be turned by, or may turn, the worm; -- called also worm gear, and sometimes tangent wheel. See Illust. of Worm gearing, above. WORM Worm, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Wormed; p. pr. & vb. n. Worming.] Defn: To work slowly, gradually, and secretly. When debates and fretting jealousy Did worm and work within you more and more, Your color faded. Herbert. WORM Worm, v. t. 1. To effect, remove, drive, draw, or the like, by slow and secret means; -- often followed by out. They find themselves wormed out of all power. Swift. They . . . wormed things out of me that I had no desire to tell. Dickens. 2. To clean by means of a worm; to draw a wad or cartridge from, as a firearm. See Worm, n. 5 (b). 3. To cut the worm, or lytta, from under the tongue of, as a dog, for the purpose of checking a disposition to gnaw. The operation was formerly supposed to guard against canine madness. The men assisted the laird in his sporting parties, wormed his dogs, and cut the ears of his terrier puppies. Sir W. Scott. 4. (Naut.) Defn: To wind rope, yarn, or other material, spirally round, between the strands of, as a cable; to wind with spun yarn, as a small rope. Ropes . . . are generally wormed before they are served. Totten. To worm one's self into, to enter into gradually by arts and insinuations; as, to worm one's self into favor. WORMAL Wor"mal, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Wormil. WORM-EATEN Worm"-eat`en, a. 1. Eaten, or eaten into, by a worm or by worms; as, worm-eaten timber. Concave as a covered goblet, or a worm-eaten nut. Shak. 2. Worn-out; old; worthless. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh. -- Worm"-eat`en*ness, n. [R.] Dr. John Smith. WORMED Wormed, a. Defn: Penetrated by worms; injured by worms; worm-eaten; as, wormed timber. WORMHOLE Worm"hole`, n. Defn: A burrow made by a worm. WORMIAN Wor"mi*an, a. (Anat.) Defn: Discovered or described by Olanus Wormius, a Danish anatomist. Wormian bones, small irregular plates of bone often interposed in the sutures between the large cranial bones. WORMIL Wor"mil, n. Etym: [Cf. 1st Warble.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any botfly larva which burrows in or beneath the skin of domestic and wild animals, thus producing sores. They belong to various species of Hypoderma and allied genera. Domestic cattle are often infested by a large species. See Gadfly. Called also warble, and worble. [Written also wormal, wormul, and wornil.] 2. (Far.) Defn: See 1st Warble, 1 (b). WORMLING Worm"ling, n. Defn: A little worm. O dusty wormling! dost thou strive and stand With heaven's high monarch Sylvester. WORMSEED Worm"seed`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Any one of several plants, as Artemisia santonica, and Chenopodium anthelminticum, whose seeds have the property of expelling worms from the stomach and intestines. Wormseed mustard, a slender, cruciferous plant (Erysinum cheiranthoides) having small lanceolate leaves. WORM-SHAPED Worm"-shaped`, a. Defn: Shaped like a worm; as, a worm-shaped root. WORM-SHELL Worm"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of Vermetus. WORMUL Wor"mul, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Wornil. WORMWOOD Worm"wood, n. Etym: [AS. werm, akin to OHG. wermuota, wormuota, G. wermuth, wermut; of uncertain origin.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: A composite plant (Artemisia Absinthium), having a bitter and slightly aromatic taste, formerly used as a tonic and a vermifuge, and to protect woolen garments from moths. It gives the peculiar flavor to the cordial called absinthe. The volatile oil is