[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

WIRE-PULLING Wire"-pull`ing, n. Defn: The act of pulling the wires, as of a puppet; hence, secret influence or management, especially in politics; intrigue. WIRE-TAILED Wire"-tailed`, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having some or all of the tail quills terminated in a long, slender, pointed shaft, without a web or barbules. WIRE TAPPER Wire tapper. Defn: One that taps, or cuts in on, telegraph wires and intercepts messages; hence (Slang), Defn: a swindler who pretends to tap wires or otherwise intercept advance telegraphic news for betting. -- Wire tapping. WIREWORK Wire"work`, n. Defn: Work, especially openwork, formed of wires. WIRE-WORKER Wire"-work`er, n. Defn: One who manufactures articles from wire. WIREWORM Wire"worm`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) One of the larvæ of various species of snapping beetles, or elaters; -- so called from their slenderness and the uncommon hardness of the integument. Wireworms are sometimes very destructive to the roots of plants. Called also wire grub. (b) A galleyworm. WIRE-WOUND GUN Wire"-wound` gun. (Ordnance) Defn: A gun in the construction of which an inner tube (either entire or in segments) is wound with wire under tension to insure greater soundness and uniformity of resistance. In modern construction hoops and jackets are shrunk on over the wire. WIRINESS Wir"i*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being wiry. WIRING Wir"ing, n. 1. The act of one that wires anything. 2. The wires or conductors employed in a system of electric distribution. WIRY Wir"y, a. Etym: [Written also wiery.] 1. Made of wire; like wire; drawn out like wire. 2. Capable of endurance; tough; sinewy; as, a wiry frame or constitution. "A little wiry sergeant of meek demeanor and strong sense." Dickens. He bore his age well, and seemed to retain a wiry vigor and alertness. Hawthorne. WIS Wis, adv. Etym: [Aphetic form of iwis, ywis; or fr. Icel. viss certain. See Ywis.] Defn: Certainly; really; indeed. [Obs.] "As wis God helpe me." Chaucer. WIS Wis, v. t. Etym: [Due to mistaking OE. iwis certain, AS. gewiss, for I wis. See Ywis.] Defn: To think; to suppose; to imagine; -- used chiefly in the first person sing. present tense, I wis. See the Note under Ywis. [Obs. or Poetic] "Howe'er you wis." R. Browning. Nor do I know how long it is (For I have lain entranced, I wis). Coleridge. WISARD Wis"ard, n. Defn: See Wizard. WISDOM Wis"dom (-dûm), n. Etym: [AS. wisdom. See Wise, a., and -dom.] 1. The quality of being wise; knowledge, and the capacity to make due use of it; knowledge of the best ends and the best means; discernment and judgment; discretion; sagacity; skill; dexterity. We speak also not in wise words of man's wisdom, but in the doctrine of the spirit. Wyclif (1 Cor. ii. 13). Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding. Job xxviii. 28. It is hoped that our rulers will act with dignity and wisdom that they will yield everything to reason, and refuse everything to force. Ames. Common sense in an uncommon degree is what the world calls wisdom. Coleridge. 2. The results of wise judgments; scientific or practical truth; acquired knowledge; erudition. Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in words and in deeds. Acts vii. 22. Syn. -- Prudence; knowledge. Wisdom, Prudence, Knowledge. Wisdom has been defined to be "the use of the best means for attaining the best ends." "We conceive," says Whewell, " prudence as the virtue by which we select right means for given ends, while wisdom implies the selection of right ends as well as of right means." Hence, wisdom implies the union of high mental and moral excellence. Prudence (that is, providence, or forecast) is of a more negative character; it rather consists in avoiding danger than in taking decisive measures for the accomplishment of an object. Sir Robert Walpole was in many respects a prudent statesman, but he was far from being a wise one. Burke has said that prudence, when carried too far, degenerates into a "reptile virtue," which is the more dangerous for its plausible appearance. Knowledge, a more comprehensive term, signifies the simple apprehension of facts or relations. "In strictness of language," says Paley, " there is a difference between knowledge and wisdom; wisdom always supposing action, and action directed by it." Knowledge and wisdom, far from being one, Have ofttimes no connection. Knowledge dwells In heads replete with thoughts of other men; Wisdom, in minds attentive to their own. Knowledge, a rude, unprofitable mass, The mere materials with which wisdom builds, Till smoothed, and squared, and fitted to its place, Does but encumber whom it seems to enrich. Knowledge is proud that he has learned so much; Wisdom is humble that he knows no more. Cowper. Wisdom tooth, the last, or back, tooth of the full set on each half of each jaw in man; -- familiarly so called, because appearing comparatively late, after the person may be supposed to have arrived at the age of wisdom. See the Note under Tooth, 1. WISDOM LITERATURE Wis"dom lit"er*a*ture. Defn: The class of ancient Hebrew writings which deal reflectively with general ethical and religious topics, as distinguished from the prophetic and liturgical literature, and from the law. It is comprised chiefly in the books of Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiasticus, Ecclesiastes, and Wisdom of Solomon. The "wisdom" (Hokhmah) of these writings consists in detached sage utterances on concrete issues of life, without the effort at philosophical system that appeared in the later Hellenistic reflective writing beginning with Philo Judæus. WISE Wise, a. [Compar. Wiser; superl. Wisest.] Etym: [OE. wis, AS. wis; akin to OS. & OFries. wis, D. wijs, G. weise, OHG. wis, wisi, Icel. viss, Sw. vis, Dan. viis, Goth. weis; akin to wit, v. i. See Wit, v., and cf. Righteous, Wisdom.] 1. Having knowledge; knowing; enlightened; of extensive information; erudite; learned. They are wise to do evil, but to do good they have no knowledge. Jer. iv. 22. 2. Hence, especially, making due use of knowledge; discerning and judging soundly concerning what is true or false, proper or improper; choosing the best ends and the best means for accomplishing them; sagacious. When clouds appear, wise men put their cloaks. Shak. From a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. 2 Tim. iii. 15. 3. Versed in art or science; skillful; dexterous; specifically, skilled in divination. Fal. There was, mine host, an old fat woman even now with me; but she's gone. Sim. Pray you, sir, was't not the wise woman of Brentford Shak. 4. Hence, prudent; calculating; shrewd; wary; subtle; crafty. [R.] "Thou art . . . no novice, but a governor wily and wise." Chaucer. Nor, on the other side, Will I be penuriously wise As to make money, that's my slave, my idol. Beau. & Fl. Lords do not care for me: I am too wise to die yet. Ford. 5. Dictated or guided by wisdom; containing or exhibiting wisdom; well adapted to produce good effects; judicious; discreet; as, a wise saying; a wise scheme or plan; wise conduct or management; a wise determination. "Eminent in wise deport." Milton. To make it wise, to make it a matter of deliberation. [Obs.] " We thought it was not worth to make it wise." Chaucer. -- Wise in years, old enough to be wise; wise from age and experience; hence, aged; old. [Obs.] A very grave, state bachelor, my dainty one; He's wise in years, and of a temperate warmth. Ford. You are too wise in years, too full of counsel, For my green experience. Ford. WISE Wise, a. Etym: [OE. wise, AS. wise; akin to OS. wisa, OFries. wis, D. wijs, wijze, OHG. wisa, G. weise, Sw. vis, Dan. viis, Icel. övis otherwise; from the root of E. wit; hence, originally, knowledge, skill. See Wit, v., and cf. Guise.] Defn: Way of being or acting; manner; mode; fashion. "All armed in complete wise." Spenser. To love her in my beste wyse. Chaucer. This song she sings in most commanding wise. Sir P. Sidney. Let not these blessings then, sent from above, Abused be, or spilt in profane wise. Fairfax. Note: This word is nearly obsolete, except in such phrases as in any wise, in no wise, on this wise, etc. " Fret not thyself in any wise to do evil." Ps. xxxvii. 8. "He shall in no wise lose his reward." Matt. x. 42. " On this wise ye shall bless the children of Israel." Num. vi. 23. Note: Wise is often used as a suffix in composition, as in likewise, nowise, lengthwise, etc., in which words -ways is often substituted with the same sense; as, noways, lengthways, etc. WISEACRE Wise"a*cre, n. Etym: [OD. wijssegger or G. weissager a foreteller, prophet, from weissagen to foretell, to prophesy, OHG. wissag, corrupted (as if compounded of the words for wise and say) fr. wizzag, fr. wizzag a prophet, akin to AS. witiga, witga, from the root