[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Wa"ter rat"tler. (Zoöl.) Defn: The diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus); -- so called from its preference for damp places near water. WATER-RET Wa"ter-ret`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Water-retted; p. pr. & vb. n. Water- retting.] Defn: To ret, or rot, in water, as flax; to water-rot. WATER RICE Wa"ter rice". Defn: Indian rice. See under Rice. WATER ROCKET Wa"ter rock"et. 1. (Bot.) Defn: A cruciferous plant (Nasturtium sylvestre) with small yellow flowers. 2. A kind of firework to be discharged in the water. WATER-ROT Wa"ter-rot`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Water-rotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Water- rotting.] Defn: To rot by steeping in water; to water-ret; as, to water-rot hemp or flax. WATER SAIL Wa"ter sail`. (Naut.) Defn: A small sail sometimes set under a studding sail or under a driver boom, and reaching nearly to the water. WATER SAPPHIRE Wa"ter sap"phire. Etym: [Equiv. to F. saphir d'eau.] (Min.) Defn: A deep blue variety of iolite, sometimes used as a gem; -- called also saphir d'eau. WATERSCAPE Wa"ter*scape", n. Etym: [Cf. Landscape.] Defn: A sea view; -- distinguished from landscape. [Jocose] Fairholt. WATER SCORPION Wa"ter scor"pi*on. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Nepa. WATER SCREW Wa"ter screw`. Defn: A screw propeller. WATERSHED Wa"ter*shed`, n. Etym: [Cf. G. wasserscheide; wasser water + scheide a place where two things separate, fr. scheiden to separate.] 1. The whole region or extent of country which contributes to the supply of a river or lake. 2. The line of division between two adjacent rivers or lakes with respect to the flow of water by natural channels into them; the natural boundary of a basin. WATER SHIELD Wa"ter shield`. (Bot.) Defn: An aquatic American plant (Brasenia peltata) having floating oval leaves, and the covered with a clear jelly. WATERSHOOT Wa"ter*shoot`, n. 1. A sprig or shoot from the root or stock of a tree. [Obs.] 2. (Arch.) Defn: That which serves to guard from falling water; a drip or dripstone. 3. A trough for discharging water. WATER SHREW Wa"ter shrew`. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of shrews having fringed feet and capable of swimming actively. The two common European species (Crossopus fodiens, and C. ciliatus) are the best known. The most common American water shrew, or marsh shrew (Neosorex palustris), is rarely seen, owing to its nocturnal habits. WATER SNAIL Wa"ter snail`. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any aquatic pulmonate gastropod belonging to Planorbis, Limnæa, and allied genera; a pond snail. 2. (Mech.) Defn: The Archimedean screw. [R.] WATER SNAKE Wa"ter snake`. (Zoöl.) (a) A common North American colubrine snake (Tropidonotus sipedon) which lives chiefly in the water. (b) Any species of snakes of the family Homalopsidæ, all of which are aquatic in their habits. WATER-SOAK Wa"ter-soak`, v. t. Defn: To soak water; to fill the interstices of with water. WATER SOLDIER Wa"ter sol`dier. (Bot.) Defn: An aquatic European plant (Stratiotes aloides) with bayonet- shaped leaves. WATER SOUCHY Wa"ter souch`y. (Cookery) Defn: A dish consisting of small fish stewed and served in a little water. [Written also water souchet.] See Zoutch. WATER SPANIEL Wa"ter span"iel. Defn: A curly-haired breed of spaniels, naturally very fond of the water. WATER SPARROW Wa"ter spar"row. (Zoöl.) (a) The reed warbler. [Prov. Eng.] (b) The reed bunting. [Prov. Eng.] WATER SPEEDWELL Wa"ter speed"well. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of speedwell (Veronica Anagallis) found in wet places in Europe and America. WATER SPIDER Wa"ter spi"der. (Zoöl.) (a) An aquatic European spider (Argyoneta aquatica) which constructs its web beneath the surface of the water on water plants. It lives in a bell-shaped structure of silk, open beneath like a diving bell, and filled with air which the spider carries down in the form of small bubbles attached one at a time to the spinnerets and hind feet. Called also diving spider. (b) A water mite. (c) Any spider that habitually lives on or about the water, especially the large American species (Dolomedes lanceolatus) which runs rapidly on the surface of water; -- called also raft spider. WATER SPINNER Wa"ter spin`ner. (Zoöl.) Defn: The water spider. WATERSPOUT Wa"ter*spout`, n. Defn: A remarkable meteorological phenomenon, of the nature of a tornado or whirlwind, usually observed over the sea, but sometimes over the land. Note: Tall columns, apparently of cloud, and reaching from the sea to the clouds, are seen moving along, often several at once, sometimes straight and vertical, at other times inclined and tortuous, but always in rapid rotation. At their bases, the sea is violently agitated and heaped up with a leaping or boiling motion, water, at least in some cases, being actually carried up in considerable quantity, and scattered round from a great height, as solid bodies are by tornadoes on land. Sir J. Herschel. WATER SPRITE Wa"ter sprite`. Defn: A sprite, or spirit, imagined as inhabiting the water. J. R. Drake. WATER-STANDING Wa"ter-stand`ing, a. Defn: Tear-filled. [R.] "Many an orphan's water-standing eye." Shak. WATER STAR GRASS Wa"ter star" grass`. (Bot.) Defn: An aquatic plant (Schollera graminea) with grassy leaves, and yellow star-shaped blossoms. WATER STARWORT Wa"ter star"wort`. Defn: See under Starwort. WATER SUPPLY Wa"ter sup*ply". Defn: A supply of water; specifically, water collected, as in reservoirs, and conveyed, as by pipes, for use in a city, mill, or the like. WATER TABBY Wa"ter tab"by. Defn: A kind of waved or watered tabby. See Tabby, n., 1. WATER TABLE Wa"ter ta"ble. (Arch.) Defn: A molding, or other projection, in the wall of a building, to throw off the water, -- generally used in the United States for the first table above the surface of the ground (see Table, n., 9), that is, for the table at the top of the foundation and the beginning of the upper wall. WATERTATH Wa"ter*tath`, n. Etym: [Water + tath, n.] Defn: A kind of coarse grass growing in wet grounds, and supposed to be injurious to sheep. [Prov. Eng.] WATER TELESCOPE Water telescope. 1. (Optics) A telescope in which the medium between the objective and the eye piece is water instead of air, used in some experiments in aberration. 2. A telescope devised for looking into a body of water. WATER TENDER Water tender. (Nav.) Defn: In the United States navy, a first-class petty officer in charge in a fireroom. He "tends" water to the boilers, sees that fires are properly cleaned and stoked, etc. There is also a rating of chief water tender, who is a chief petty officer. WATER THERMOMETER Wa"ter ther*mom"e*ter. (Physics) Defn: A thermometer filled with water instead of mercury, for ascertaining the precise temperature at which water attains its maximum density. This is about 39º Fahr., or 4º Centigrade; and from that point down to 32º Fahr., or 0º Centigrade, or the freezing point, it expands. WATER THIEF Wa"ter thief`. Defn: A pirate. [R.] Shak. WATER THRUSH Wa"ter thrush`. (Zoöl.) (a) A North American bird of the genus Seiurus, belonging to the Warbler family, especially the common species (S. Noveboracensis). (b) The European water ousel. (b) The pied wagtail. WATER THYME Wa"ter thyme`. (Bot.) Defn: See Anacharis. WATER TICK Wa"ter tick`. Defn: Same as Water mite. WATER TIGER Wa"ter ti"ger. (Zoöl.) Defn: A diving, or water, beetle, especially the larva of a water beetle. See Illust. b of Water beetle. WATER-TIGHT Wa"ter-tight`, a. Defn: So tight as to retain, or not to admit, water; not leaky. WATER TORCH Wa"ter torch`. (Bot.) Defn: The common cat-tail (Typha latifolia), the spike of which makes a good torch soaked in oil. Dr. Prior. WATER TOWER Wa"ter tow"er. Defn: A large metal pipe made to be extended vertically by sections, and used for discharging water upon burning buildings. WATER TREE Wa"ter tree`. (Bot.) Defn: A climbing shrub (Tetracera alnifolia, or potatoria) of Western Africa, which pours out a watery sap from the freshly cut stems. WATER TREFOIL Wa"ter tre"foil`. (Bot.) Defn: The buck bean. WATER TUBE Wa"ter tube`. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of a system of tubular excretory organs having external openings, found in many invertebrates. They are believed to be analogous in function to the kidneys of vertebrates. See Illust. under Trematodea, and Sporocyst. WATER TUPELO Wa"ter tu"pe*lo. (Bot.) Defn: A species of large tupelo (Nyssa aquatica) growing in swamps in the southern of the United States. See Ogeechee lime. WATER TURKEY Wa"ter tur"key. (Zoöl.) Defn: The American snakebird. See Snakebird. WATER TU TUYERE Wa"ter tu tu`yère". Defn: A tuyère kept cool by water circulating within a casing. It is used for hot blast. WATER TU TWIST Wa"ter tu twist`. Defn: Yarn made by the throstle, or water frame. WATER VINE Wa"ter vine`. (Bot.) Defn: Any plant of the genus Phytocrene, climbing shrubs of Asia and Africa, the stems of which are singularly porous, and when cut stream with a limpid potable juice. WATER VIOLET Wa"ter vi"o*let. (Bot.) Defn: See under Violet. WATER VIPER Wa"ter vi"per. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Water moccasin. WATER VOLE Wa"ter vole`. (Zoöl.) Defn: See under Vole. WATER WAGTAIL Wa"ter wag"tail`. Defn: See under Wagtail. WATERWAY Wa"ter*way`, n. (Naut.) Defn: Heavy plank or timber extending fore and aft the whole length of a