[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the investigation of statical problems. With respect to any given force of a number of forces holding a material system in equilibrium, it is the projection, upon the direction of the force, of a line joining its point of application with a new position of that point indefinitely near to the first, to which the point is conceived to have been moved, without disturbing the equilibrium of the system, or the connections of its parts with each other. Strictly speaking, it is not a velocity but a length. -- Virtual work. (Mech.) See Virtual moment, above. VIRTUALITY Vir`tu*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. virtualité.] 1. The quality or state of being virtual. 2. Potentiality; efficacy; potential existence. [Obs.] In one grain of corn, there lieth dormant a virtuality of many other. Sir T. Browne. VIRTUALLY Vir"tu*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a virtual manner; in efficacy or effect only, and not actually; to all intents and purposes; practically. VIRTUATE Vir"tu*ate, v. t. Defn: To make efficacious; to give virtue of efficacy. [Obs.] Harvey. VIRTUE Vir"tue, n. Etym: [OE. vertu, F. vertu, L. virtus strength, courage, excellence, virtue, fr. vir a man. See Virile, and cf. Virtu.] 1. Manly strength or courage; bravery; daring; spirit; valor. [Obs.] Shak. Built too strong For force or virtue ever to expugn. Chapman. 2. Active quality or power; capacity or power adequate to the production of a given effect; energy; strength; potency; efficacy; as, the virtue of a medicine. Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him, turned him about. Mark v. 30. A man was driven to depend for his security against misunderstanding, upon the pure virtue of his syntax. De Quincey. The virtue of his midnight agony. Keble. 3. Energy or influence operating without contact of the material or sensible substance. She moves the body which she doth possess, Yet no part toucheth, but by virtue's touch. Sir. J. Davies. 4. Excellence; value; merit; meritoriousness; worth. I made virtue of necessity. Chaucer. In the Greek poets, . . . the economy of poems is better observed than in Terence, who thought the sole grace and virtue of their fable the sticking in of sentences. B. Jonson. 5. Specifically, moral excellence; integrity of character; purity of soul; performance of duty. Virtue only makes our bliss below. Pope. If there's Power above us, And that there is all nature cries aloud Through all her works, he must delight in virtue. Addison. 6. A particular moral excellence; as, the virtue of temperance, of charity, etc. "The very virtue of compassion." Shak. "Remember all his virtues." Addison. 7. Specifically: Chastity; purity; especially, the chastity of women; virginity. H. I believe the girl has virtue. M. And if she has, I should be the last man in the world to attempt to corrupt it. Goldsmith. 8. pl. Defn: One of the orders of the celestial hierarchy. Thrones, dominations, princedoms, virtues, powers. Milton. Cardinal virtues. See under Cardinal, a. -- In, or By, virtue of, through the force of; by authority of. "He used to travel through Greece by virtue of this fable, which procured him reception in all the towns." Addison. "This they shall attain, partly in virtue of the promise made by God, and partly in virtue of piety." Atterbury. -- Theological virtues, the three virtues, faith, hope, and charity. See 1 Cor. xiii. 13. VIRTUELESS Vir"tue*less, a. Defn: Destitute of virtue; without efficacy or operating qualities; powerless. Virtueless she wished all herbs and charms. Fairfax. VIRTUOSITY Vir`tu*os"i*ty, n. 1. The quality or state of being a virtuoso; in a bad sense, the character of one in whom mere artistic feeling or æsthetic cultivation takes the place of religious character; sentimentalism. This famous passage . . . over which the virtuosity of modern times, rejoicing in evil, has hung so fondly. C. Kingsley. 2. Virtuosos, collectively. Carlyle. 3. An art or study affected by virtuosos. VIRTUOSO Vir`tu*o"so, n.; pl. Virtuosos; It. Virtuosi. Etym: [It. See Virtuous.] 1. One devoted to virtu; one skilled in the fine arts, in antiquities, and the like; a collector or ardent admirer of curiosities, etc. Virtuoso the Italians call a man who loves the noble arts, and is a critic in them. Dryden. 2. (Mus.) Defn: A performer on some instrument, as the violin or the piano, who excels in the technical part of his art; a brilliant concert player. VIRTUOSOSHIP Vir`tu*o"so*ship, n. Defn: The condition, pursuits, or occupation of a virtuoso. Bp. Hurd. VIRTUOUS Vir"tu*ous, a. Etym: [OE. vertuous, OF. vertuos, vertuous, F. vertueux, fr. L. Virtuous. See Virtue, and cf. Virtuoso.] 1. Possessing or exhibiting virtue. Specifically: -- (a) Exhibiting manly courage and strength; valorous; valiant; brave. [Obs.] Old Priam's son, amongst them all, was chiefly virtuous. Chapman. (b) Having power or efficacy; powerfully operative; efficacious; potent. [Obs.] Chaucer. Lifting up his virtuous staff on high, He smote the sea, which calméd was with speed. Spenser. Every virtuous plant and healing herb. Milton. (c) Having moral excellence; characterized by morality; upright; righteous; pure; as, a virtuous action. The virtuous mind that ever walks attended By a strong siding champion, conscience. Milton. 2. Chaste; pure; -- applied especially to women. Mistress Ford . . . the virtuous creature, that hath the jealous fool to her husband. Shak. -- Vir"tu*ous*ly, adv. -- Vir"tu*ous*ness, n. VIRULENCE; VIRULENCY Vir"u*lence, Vir"u*len*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. virulence, L. virulentia an offensive odor, a stench.] 1. The quality or state of being virulent or venomous; poisonousness; malignancy. 2. Extreme bitterness or malignity of disposition. "Refuted without satirical virulency." Barrow. The virulence of one declaimer, or the profundities and sublimities of the other. I. Taylor. VIRULENT Vir"u*lent, a. Etym: [L. virulentus, fr. virus poison: cf. F. virulent. See Virus.] 1. Extremely poisonous or venomous; very active in doing injury. A contagious disorder rendered more virulent by uncleanness. Sir W. Scott. 2. Very bitter in enmity; actuated by a desire to injure; malignant; as, a virulent invective. VIRULENTED Vir"u*lent*ed, a. Defn: Made virulent; poisoned. [Obs.] VIRULENTLY Vir"u*lent*ly, adv. Defn: In a virulent manner. VIRUS Vi"rus, n. Etym: [L., a slimy liquid, a poisonous liquid, poison, stench; akin to Gr. visha. Cf. Wizen, v. i.] 1. (Med.) (a) Contagious or poisonous matter, as of specific ulcers, the bite of snakes, etc.; -- applied to organic poisons. (b) The special contagion, inappreciable to the senses and acting in exceedingly minute quantities, by which a disease is introduced into the organism and maintained there. Note: The specific virus of diseases is now regarded as a microscopic living vegetable organism which multiplies within the body, and, either by its own action or by the associated development of a chemical poison, causes the phenomena of the special disease. 2. Fig.: Any morbid corrupting quality in intellectual or moral conditions; something that poisons the mind or the soul; as, the virus of obscene books. VIS Vis, n. 1. Force; power. 2. (Law) (a) Physical force. (b) Moral power. Principle of vis viva (Mech.), the principle that the difference between the aggregate work of the accelerating forces of a system and that of the retarding forces is equal to one half the vis viva accumulated or lost in the system while the work is being done. -- Vis impressa Etym: [L.] (Mech.), force exerted, as in moving a body, or changing the direction of its motion; impressed force. -- Vis inertiæ. Etym: [L.] (a) The resistance of matter, as when a body at rest is set in motion, or a body in motion is brought to rest, or has its motion changed, either in direction or in velocity. (b) Inertness; inactivity. Vis intertiæ and inertia are not strictly synonymous. The former implies the resistance itself which is given, while the latter implies merely the property by which it is given. -- Vis mortua Etym: [L.] (Mech.), dead force; force doing no active work, but only producing pressure. -- Vis vitæ, or Vis vitalis Etym: [L.] (Physiol.), vital force. -- Vis viva Etym: [L.] (Mech.), living force; the force of a body moving against resistance, or doing work, in distinction from vis mortua, or dead force; the kinetic energy of a moving body; the capacity of a moving body to do work by reason of its being in motion. See Kinetic energy, in the Note under Energy. The term vis viva is not usually understood to include that part of the kinetic energy of the body which is due to the vibrations of its molecules. VISA Vi"sa, n. Etym: [F.] Defn: See Vis. VISA Vi"sa, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Visaed; p. pr. & vb. n. Visaing.] Defn: To indorse, after examination, with the word visé, as a passport; to visé. VISAGE Vis"age (; 48), n. Etym: [F. visage, from L. visus a seeing, a look, fr. videre, visum, to see. See Vision.] Defn: The face, countenance, or look of a person or an animal; -- chiefly applied to the human face. Chaucer. "A visage of demand." Shak. His visage was so marred more than