[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

censorious remarks. Syn. -- Fault-finding; carping; caviling; captious; severe; condemnatory; hypercritical. -- Cen*so"ri*ous*ly, adv. -- Cen*so"ri*ous*ness, n. CENSORSHIP Cen"sor*ship, n. Defn: The office or power of a censor; as, to stand for a censorship. Holland. The press was not indeed at that moment under a general censorship. Macaulay. CENSUAL Cen"su*al, a. Etym: [L. censualis, fr. census.] Defn: Relating to, or containing, a census. He caused the whole realm to be described in a censual roll. Sir R. Baker. CENSURABLE Cen"sur*a*ble, a. Defn: Deserving of censure; blamable; culpable; reprehensible; as, a censurable person, or censurable conduct. -- Cen"sur*a*bleness, n. -- Cen"sur*a*bly, adv. CENSURE Cen"sure, n. Etym: [L. censura fr. censere: cf. F. censure. Cf. Censor.] 1. Judgment either favorable or unfavorable; opinion. [Obs.] Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment. Shak. 2. The act of blaming or finding fault with and condemning as wrong; reprehension; blame. Both the censure and the praise were merited. Macaulay. 3. Judicial or ecclesiastical sentence or reprimand; condemnatory judgment. Excommunication or other censure of the church. Bp. Burnet. Syn. -- Blame; reproof; condemnation; reprobation; disapproval; disapprobation; reprehension; animadversion; reprimand; reflection; dispraise; abuse. CENSURE Cen"sure, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Censured; p. pr. & vb. n. Censuring.] Etym: [Cf. F. ensurer.] 1. To form or express a judgment in regard to; to estimate; to judge. [Obs.] "Should I say more, you might well censure me a flatterer." Beau. & Fl. 2. To find fault with and condemn as wrong; to blame; to express disapprobation of. I may be censured that nature thus gives way to loyalty. Shak. 3. To condemn or reprimand by a judicial or ecclesiastical sentence. Shak. Syn. -- To blame; reprove; rebuke; condemn; reprehend; reprimand. CENSURE Cen"sure, v. i. Defn: To judge. [Obs.] Shak. CENSURER Cen"sur*er, n. Defn: One who censures. Sha. CENSUS Cen"sus, n. Etym: [L. census, fr. censere. See Censor.] 1. (Bot. Antiq.) Defn: A numbering of the people, and valuation of their estate, for the purpose of imposing taxes, etc.; -- usually made once in five years. 2. An official registration of the number of the people, the value of their estates, and other general statistics of a country. Note: A general census of the United States was first taken in 1790, and one has been taken at the end of every ten years since. CENT Cent, n. Etym: [F. cent hundred, L. centum. See Hundred.] 1. A hundred; as, ten per cent, the proportion of ten parts in a hundred. 2. A United States coin, the hundredth part of a dollar, formerly made of copper, now of copper, tin, and zinc. 3. An old game at cards, supposed to be like piquet; -- so called because 100 points won the game. Nares. CENTAGE Cent"age, n. Defn: Rate by the hundred; percentage. CENTAL Cen"tal, n. Etym: [L. centum a hundred.] Defn: A weight of one hundred pounds avoirdupois; -- called in many parts of the United States a Hundredweight. CENTAL Cen"tal, n. Defn: Relating to a hundred. Cental system, the method of buying and selling by the cental, or hundredweight. CENTARE Cen"tare`, n. Etym: [F. centiare; centi- (L. centum) + -are.] Defn: A measure of area, the hundredth part of an are; one square meter, or about 1 CENTAUR Cen"taur, n. Etym: [L. centaurus, Gr. 1. (Class. Myth.) Defn: A fabulous being, represented as half man and half horse. 2. (Astron.) Defn: A constellation in the southern heavens between Hydra and the Southern Cross. CENTAUREA Cen`tau*re"a, n. Etym: [NL. See Centaury.] (Bot.) Defn: A large genus of composite plants, related to the thistles and including the cornflower or bluebottle (Centaurea Cyanus) and the star thistle (C. Calcitrapa). CENTAUROMACHY Cen`tau*rom"a*chy, n. [Gr. ; centaur + battle.] (Ancient Art) Defn: A fight in which centaurs take part, -- a common theme for relief sculpture, as in the Parthenon metopes. CENTAURY Cen"tau*ry, n. Etym: [L. centaureum and centauria, Gr. (Bot.) Defn: A gentianaceous plant not fully identified. The name is usually given to the Erytheræa Centaurium and the Chlora perfoliata of Europe, but is also extended to the whole genus Sabbatia, and even to the unrelated Centaurea. CENTENARIAN Cen`te*na"ri*an, a. Defn: Of or relating to a hundred years. -- n. Defn: A person a hundred years old. CENTENARY Cen"te*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. centenarius, fr. centum a hundred.] 1. Relating to, or consisting of, a hundred. 2. Occurring once in every hundred years; centennial. "Centenary solemnities." Fuller. CENTENARY Cen"te*na*ry, n.; pl. Centenaries (. 1. The aggregate of a hundred single things; specifically, a century. "Every centenary of years." Hakewill. 2. A commemoration or celebration of an event which occurred a hudred years before. CENTENNIAL Cen*ten"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. centum a hundred + annus year.] 1. Relating to, or associated with, the commemoration of an event that happened a hundred years before; as, a centennial ode. 2. Happening once in a hundred years; as, centennial jubilee; a centennial celebration. 3. Lasting or aged a hundred years. Thet opened through long lines Of sacred ilex and centennial pines. Longfellow. CENTENNIAL Cen*ten"ni*al, n. Defn: The celebration of the hundredth anniversary of any event; a centenary. [U. S.] CENTENNIALLY Cen*ten"ni*al*ly, adv. Defn: Once in a hundred years. CENTENNIAL STATE Centennial State. Defn: Colorado; -- a nickname alluding to the fact that it was admitted to the Union in the centennial year, 1876. CENTER Cen"ter, n. Etym: [F. centre, fr. L. centrum, fr. round which a circle is described, fr. 1. A point equally distant from the extremities of a line, figure, or body, or from all parts of the circumference of a circle; the middle point or place. 2. The middle or central portion of anything. 3. A principal or important point of concentration; the nucleus around which things are gathered or to which they tend; an object of attention, action, or force; as, a center of attaction. 4. The earth. [Obs.] Shak. 5. Those members of a legislative assembly (as in France) who support the existing government. They sit in the middle of the legislative chamber, opposite the presiding officer, between the conservatives or monarchists, who sit on the right of the speaker, and the radicals or advanced republicans who occupy the seats on his left, See Right, and Left. 6. (Arch.) Defn: A temporary structure upon which the materials of a vault or arch are supported in position util the work becomes self-supporting. 7. (Mech.) (a) One of the two conical steel pins, in a lathe, etc., upon which the work is held, and about which it revolves. (b) A conical recess, or indentation, in the end of a shaft or other work, to receive the point of a center, on which the work can turn, as in a lathe. Note: In a lathe the live center is in the spindle of the head stock; the dead center is on the tail stock. Planer centers are stocks carrying centers, when the object to be planed must be turned on its axis. Center of an army, the body or troops ossupying the place in the line between the wings. -- Center of a curve or surface (Geom.) (a) A point such that every line drawn through the point and terminated by the curve or surface is bisected at the point. (b) The fixed point of reference in polar coördinates. See Coördinates. -- Center of curvature of a curve (Geom.), the center of that circle which has at any given point of the curve closer contact with the curve than has any other circle whatever. See Circle. -- Center of a fleet, the division or column between the van and rear, or between the weather division and the lee. -- Center of gravity (Mech.), that point of a body about which all its parts can be balanced, or which being supported, the whole body will remain at rest, though acted upon by gravity. -- Center of gyration (Mech.), that point in a rotating body at which the whole mass might be concentrated (theoretically) without altering the resistance of the intertia of the body to angular acceleration or retardaton. -- Center of inertia (Mech.), the center of gravity of a body or system of bodies. -- Center of motion, the point which remains at rest, while all the other parts of a body move round it. -- Center of oscillation, the point at which, if the whole matter of a suspended body were collected, the time of oscillation would be the same as it is in the actual form and state of the body. -- Center of percussion, that point in a body moving about a fixed axis at which it may strike an obstacle without communicating a shock to the axis. -- Center of pressure (Hydros.), that point in a surface pressed by a fluid, at which, if a force equal to the whole pressure and in the same line be applied in a contrary direction, it will balance or counteract the whole pressure of the fluid. CENTER; CENTRE Cen"ter, Cen"tre v. i. [imp. & p. p.