[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

weak understandings, which penetrate no deeper than the surface. V. Knox. 3. (Geom.) Defn: A magnitude that has length and breadth without thickness; superficies; as, a plane surface; a spherical surface. 4. (Fort.) Defn: That part of the side which is terminated by the flank prolonged, and the angle of the nearest bastion. Stocqueler. Caustic surface, Heating surface, etc. See under Caustic, Heating, etc. -- Surface condensation, Surface condenser. See under Condensation, and Condenser. -- Surface gauge (Mach.), an instrument consisting of a standard having a flat base and carrying an adjustable pointer, for gauging the evenness of a surface or its height, or for marking a line parallel with a surface. -- Surface grub (Zoöl.), the larva of the great yellow underwing moth (Triphoena pronuba). It is often destructive to the roots of grasses and other plants. -- Surface plate (Mach.), a plate having an accurately dressed flat surface, used as a standard of flatness by which to test other surfaces. -- Surface printing, printing from a surface in relief, as from type, in distinction from plate printing, in which the ink is contained in engraved lines. SURFACE Sur"face, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surfaced; p. pr. & vb. n. Surfacing.] 1. To give a surface to; especially, to cause to have a smooth or plain surface; to make smooth or plain. 2. To work over the surface or soil of, as ground, in hunting for gold. SURFACE LOADING Sur"face load`ing. (Aëronautics) Defn: The weight supported per square unit of surface; the quotient obtained by dividing the gross weight, in pounds, of a fully loaded flying machine, by the total area, in square feet, of its supporting surface. SURFACER Sur"fa*cer, n. Defn: A form of machine for dressing the surface of wood, metal, stone, etc. SURFACE TENSION Sur"face ten"sion. (Physics) Defn: That property, due to molecular forces, which exists in the surface film of all liquids and tends to bring the contained volume into a form having the least superficial area. The thickness of this film, amounting to less than a thousandth of a millimeter, is considered to equal the radius of the sphere of molecular action, that is, the greatest distance at which there is cohesion between two particles. Particles lying below this film, being equally acted on from all sides, are in equilibrium as to forces of cohesion, but those in the film are on the whole attracted inward, and tension results. SURFBOAT Surf"boat`, n. (Naut.) Defn: A boat intended for use in heavy surf. It is built with a pronounced sheer, and with a view to resist the shock of waves and of contact with the beach. SURFEIT Sur"feit, n. Etym: [OE. surfet, OF. surfait, sorfait, excess, arrogance, crime, fr. surfaire, sorfaire, to augment, exaggerate, F. surfaire to overcharge; sur over + faire to make, do, L. facere. See Sur-, and Fact.] 1. Excess in eating and drinking. Let not Sir Surfeit sit at thy board. Piers Plowman. Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made. Shak. 2. Fullness and oppression of the system, occasioned often by excessive eating and drinking. To prevent surfeit and other diseases that are incident to those that heat their blood by travels. Bunyan. 3. Disgust caused by excess; satiety. Sir P. Sidney. Matter and argument have been supplied abundantly, and even to surfeit. Burke. SURFEIT Sur"feit, v. i. 1. To load the stomach with food, so that sickness or uneasiness ensues; to eat to excess. They are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that starve with nothing. Shak. 2. To indulge to satiety in any gratification. SURFEIT Sur"feit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surfeited; p. pr. & vb. n. Surfeiting.] 1. To feed so as to oppress the stomach and derange the function of the system; to overfeed, and produce satiety, sickness, or uneasiness; -- often reflexive; as, to surfeit one's self with sweets. 2. To fill to satiety and disgust; to cloy; as, he surfeits us with compliments. V. Knox. SURFEITER Sur"feit*er, n. Defn: One who surfeits. Shak. SURFEIT-WATER Sur"feit-wa`ter, n. Defn: Water for the cure of surfeits. [Obs.] Locke. SURFEL; SURFLE Sur"fel, Sur"fle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Sulphur.] Defn: To wash, as the face, with a cosmetic water, said by some to be prepared from the sulphur. [Obs.] She shall no oftener powder her hair, [or] surfel her cheeks, . . . but she shall as often gaze on my picture. Ford. SURFER Surf"er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The surf duck. [U. S.] SURFMAN Surf"man, n.; pl. Surmen (. Defn: One who serves in a surfboat in the life-saving service. SURFOOT Sur"foot`, a. Defn: Tired or sore of foot from travel; lamed. [Obs.] Nares. SURFY Surf"y, a. Defn: Consisting of, abounding in, or resembling, surf; as, a surfy shore. Scarce had they cleared the surfy waves That foam around those frightful caves. Moore. SURGE Surge, n. Etym: [L. surgere, surrectum, to raise, to rise; sub under + regere to direct: cf. OF. surgeon, sourgeon, fountain. See Regent, and cf. Insurrection, Sortie, Source.] 1. A spring; a fountain. [Obs.] "Divers surges and springs of water." Ld. Berners. 2. A large wave or billow; a great, rolling swell of water, produced generally by a high wind. He that doubteth is like the surge of the sea driven by the wind and tossed. James i. 6 (Rev. Ver.) He flies aloft, and, with impetuous roar, Pursues the foaming surges to the shore. Dryden. 3. The motion of, or produced by, a great wave. 4. The tapered part of a windlass barrel or a capstan, upon which the cable surges, or slips. SURGE Surge, v. i. 1. To swell; to rise hifg and roll. The surging waters like a mountain rise. Spenser. 2. (Naut.) Defn: To slip along a windlass. SURGE Surge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surged; p. pr. & vb. n. Surging.] Etym: [Cf. F. surgir to cast anchor, to land. Cf. Surge, n.] (Naut.) Defn: To let go or slacken suddenly, as a rope; as, to surge a hawser or messenger; also, to slacken the rope about (a capstan). SURGEFUL Surge"ful, a. Defn: Abounding in surges; surgy. "Tossing the surgeful tides." Drayton. SURGELESS Surge"less, a. Defn: Free from surges; smooth; calm. SURGENT Sur"gent, a. Etym: [L. surgens, p.pr.] Defn: Rising; swelling, as a flood. [R.] Robert Greene. SURGEON Sur"geon, n. Etym: [OE. surgien, OF. surgien, contr. fr. chirurgien. See Chirurgeon.] 1. One whose profession or occupation is to cure diseases or injuries of the body by manual operation; one whose occupation is to cure local injuries or disorders (such as wounds, dislocations, tumors, etc.), whether by manual operation, or by medication and constitutional treatment. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of chætodont fishes of the family Teuthidæ, or Acanthuridæ, which have one or two sharp lancelike spines on each side of the base of the tail. Called also surgeon fish, doctor fish, lancet fish, and sea surgeon. Surgeon apothecary, one who unites the practice of surgery with that of the apothecary. Dunglison. -- Surgeon dentist, a dental surgeon; a dentist. -- Surgeon fish. See def. 2, above. -- Surgeon general. (a) In the United States army, the chief of the medical department. (b) In the British army, a surgeon ranking next below the chief of the medical department. SURGEONCY Sur"geon*cy, n. Defn: The office or employment of a surgeon, as in the naval or military service. SURGEONRY Sur"geon*ry, n. Defn: Surgery. [Obs.] SURGERY Sur"ge*ry, n. Etym: [OE. surgenrie, surgerie; cf. OF. cirurgie, F. chirurgie, L. chirurgia, Gr. Surgeon.] 1. The art of healing by manual operation; that branch of medical science which treats of manual operations for the healing of diseases or injuries of the body; that branch of medical science which has for its object the cure of local injuries or diseases, as wounds or fractures, tumors, etc., whether by manual operation or by medicines and constitutional treatment. 2. A surgeon's operating room or laboratory. SURGICAL Sur"gi*cal, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to surgeons or surgery; done by means of surgery; used in surgery; as, a surgical operation; surgical instruments. Surgical fever. (Med.) (a) Pyæmia. (b) Traumatic fever, or the fever accompanying inflammation. SURGICALLY Sur"gi*cal*ly, adv. Defn: By means of surgery. SURGY Sur"gy, a. Defn: Rising in surges or billows; full of surges; resembling surges in motion or appearance; swelling. "Over the surgy main." Pope. SURICAT Su"ri*cat, n. Etym: [F. surikate, from the native name in South Africa.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Zenick. [Written also suricate, surikate.] SURINAM TOAD Su`ri*nam" toad". (Zoöl.) Defn: A species of toad native of Surinam. See Pipa. SURINTENDANT Sur`in*tend"ant, n. Etym: [F. See Superintendent.] Defn: Superintendent. [R.] SURLILY Sur"li*ly, adv. Defn: In a surly manner. SURLINESS Sur"li*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being surly. SURLING Sur"ling, n. Etym: [See Surly.] Defn: A sour, morose fellow. [Obs.] Camden. SURLOIN Sur"loin`, n. Etym: [F. surlonge; sur upon + longe loin. See Sur-, and Loin.] Defn: A loin of beef, or the upper part of the