[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of their having contributed. Such solicitation is now subject to legal restriction in various places. TAGGER Tag"ger, n. 1. One who, or that which, appends or joins one thing to another. 2. That which is pointed like a tag. Hedgehogs' or procupines' small taggers. Cotton. 3. pl. Defn: Sheets of tin or other plate which run below the gauge. Knight. 4. A device for removing taglocks from sheep. Knight. TAGLET Tag"let, n. Defn: A little tag. TAGLIA Tagl"ia, n. Etym: [It., a cutting, a pulley, from tagliare to cut. See Tailor.] (Mech.) Defn: A peculiar combination of pulleys. Brande & C. TAGLIACOTAIN Tagl`ia*co"tain, a. (Surg.) Defn: Of or pertaining to Tagliacozzi, a Venetian surgeon; as, the Tagliacotian operation, a method of rhinoplasty described by him. [Also Taliacotian, and Tagliacozzian.] TAGLIONI Tagl*io"ni, n. Defn: A kind of outer coat, or overcoat; -- said to be so named after a celebrated Italian family of professional dancers. He ought certainly to exchange his taglioni, or comfortable greatcoat, for a cuirass of steel. Sir W. Scott. TAGLOCK Tag"lock`, n. Defn: An entangled lock, as of hair or wool. Nares. TAGNICATE Tag"ni*cate, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The white-lipped peccary. TAG-RAG Tag"-rag`, n. & a. Etym: [See Tag an end, and Rag.] Defn: The lowest class of people; the rabble. Cf. Rag, tag, and bobtail, under Bobtail. If the tag-rag people did not clap him and hiss him, I am no true man. Shak. TAGSORE Tag"sore`, n. (Far.) Defn: Adhesion of the tail of a sheep to the wool from excoriation produced by contact with the feces; -- called also tagbelt. [Obs.] TAGTAIL Tag"tail`, n. 1. A worm which has its tail conspicuously colored. 2. A person who attaches himself to another against the will of the latter; a hanger-on. TAGUAN Tag"u*an, n. Etym: [From the native name in the East Indies.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A large flying squirrel (Pteromys petuarista). Its body becomes two feet long, with a large bushy tail nearly as long. TAGUICATI Ta`gui*ca"ti, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The white-lipped peccary. TAHA Ta"ha, n. Defn: The African rufous-necked weaver bird (Hyphantornis texor). TAHALEB Ta*ha"leb, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A fox (Vulpes Niloticus) of Northern Africa. TAHITIAN Ta*hi"ti*an, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Tahiti, an island in the Pacific Ocean. -- n. Defn: A native inhabitant of Tahiti. TAHR Tahr, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Thar. TAI Tai, a. Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, the chief linguistic stock of Indo-China, including the peoples of Siamese and Shan speech. TAI Tai, n. Defn: A member of one of the tribes of the Tai stock. The Tais first appeared in history in Yunnan, and from thence they migrated into Upper Burma. The earliest swarms appear to have entered that tract about two thousand years ago, and were small in number. Census of India, 1901. TAIL Tail, n. Etym: [F. taille a cutting. See Entail, Tally.] (Law) Defn: Limitation; abridgment. Burrill. Estate in tail, a limited, abridged, or reduced fee; an estate limited to certain heirs, and from which the other heirs are precluded; -- called also estate tail. Blackstone. TAIL Tail, a. (Law) Defn: Limited; abridged; reduced; curtailed; as, estate tail. TAIL Tail, n. Etym: [AS. tægel, tægl; akin to G. zagel, Icel. tagl, Sw. tagel, Goth. tagl hair. *59.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: The terminal, and usually flexible, posterior appendage of an animal. Note: The tail of mammals and reptiles contains a series of movable vertebræ, and is covered with flesh and hairs or scales like those of other parts of the body. The tail of existing birds consists of several more or less consolidated vertebræ which supports a fanlike group of quills to which the term tail is more particularly applied. The tail of fishes consists of the tapering hind portion of the body ending in a caudal fin. The term tail is sometimes applied to the entire abdomen of a crustacean or insect, and sometimes to the terminal piece or pygidium alone. 2. Any long, flexible terminal appendage; whatever resembles, in shape or position, the tail of an animal, as a catkin. Doretus writes a great praise of the distilled waters of those tails that hang on willow trees. Harvey. 3. Hence, the back, last, lower, or inferior part of anything, -- as opposed to the Ant: head, or the superior part. The Lord will make thee the head, and not the tail. Deut. xxviii. 13. 4. A train or company of attendants; a retinue. "Ah," said he, "if you saw but the chief with his tail on." Sir W. Scott. 5. The side of a coin opposite to that which bears the head, effigy, or date; the reverse; -- rarely used except in the expression "heads or tails," employed when a coin is thrown up for the purpose of deciding some point by its fall. 6. (Anat.) Defn: The distal tendon of a muscle. 7. (Bot.) Defn: A downy or feathery appendage to certain achens. It is formed of the permanent elongated style. 8. (Surg.) (a) A portion of an incision, at its beginning or end, which does not go through the whole thickness of the skin, and is more painful than a complete incision; -- called also tailing. (b) One of the strips at the end of a bandage formed by splitting the bandage one or more times. 9. (Naut.) Defn: A rope spliced to the strap of a block, by which it may be lashed to anything. 10. (Mus.) Defn: The part of a note which runs perpendicularly upward or downward from the head; the stem. Moore (Encyc. of Music). 11. pl. Defn: Same as Tailing, 4. 12. (Arch.) Defn: The bottom or lower portion of a member or part, as a slate or tile. 13. pl. (Mining) Defn: See Tailing, n., 5. Tail beam. (Arch.) Same as Tailpiece. -- Tail coverts (Zoöl.), the feathers which cover the bases of the tail quills. They are sometimes much longer than the quills, and form elegant plumes. Those above the quills are called the upper tail coverts, and those below, the under tail coverts. -- Tail end, the latter end; the termination; as, the tail end of a contest. [Colloq.] -- Tail joist. (Arch.) Same as Tailpiece. -- Tail of a comet (Astron.), a luminous train extending from the nucleus or body, often to a great distance, and usually in a direction opposite to the sun. -- Tail of a gale (Naut.), the latter part of it, when the wind has greatly abated. Totten. -- Tail of a lock (on a canal), the lower end, or entrance into the lower pond. -- Tail of the trenches (Fort.), the post where the besiegers begin to break ground, and cover themselves from the fire of the place, in advancing the lines of approach. -- Tail spindle, the spindle of the tailstock of a turning lathe; -- called also dead spindle. -- To turn tail, to run away; to flee. Would she turn tail to the heron, and fly quite out another way; but all was to return in a higher pitch. Sir P. Sidney. TAIL Tail, v. t. 1. To follow or hang to, like a tail; to be attached closely to, as that which can not be evaded. [Obs.] Nevertheless his bond of two thousand pounds, wherewith he was tailed, continued uncanceled, and was called on the next Parliament. Fuller. 2. To pull or draw by the tail. [R.] Hudibras. To tail in or on (Arch.), to fasten by one of the ends into a wall or some other support; as, to tail in a timber. TAIL Tail, v. i. 1. (Arch.) Defn: To hold by the end; -- said of a timber when it rests upon a wall or other support; -- with in or into. 2. (Naut.) Defn: To swing with the stern in a certain direction; -- said of a vessel at anchor; as, this vessel tails down stream. Tail on. (Naut.) See Tally on, under Tally. TAILAGE Tail"age, n. (O. Eng. Law) Defn: See Tallage. TAIL-BAY Tail"-bay`, n. 1. (Arch.) Defn: One of the joists which rest one end on the wall and the other on a girder; also, the space between a wall and the nearest girder of a floor. Cf. Case-bay. 2. The part of a canal lock below the lower gates. TAILBLOCK Tail"block`, n. (Naut.) Defn: A block with a tail. See Tail, 9. TAILBOARD Tail"board`, n. Defn: The board at the rear end of a cart or wagon, which can be removed or let down, for convenience in loading or unloading. TAILED Tailed, a. Defn: Having a tail; having (such) a tail or (so many) tails; -- chiefly used in composition; as, bobtailed, longtailed, etc. Snouted and tailed like a boar. Grew. TAILING Tail"ing, n. 1. (Arch.) Defn: The part of a projecting stone or brick inserted in a wall. Gwilt. 2. (Surg.) Defn: Same as Tail, n., 8 (a). 3. Sexual intercourse. [Obs.] Chaucer. 4. pl. Defn: The