[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

guide or honeyguide; honey locust or honey-locust. Honey ant (Zoöl.), a small ant (Myrmecocystus melliger), found in the Southwestern United States, and in Mexico, living in subterranean formicares. There are larger and smaller ordinary workers, and others, which serve as receptacles or cells for the storage of honey, their abdomens becoming distended to the size of a currant. These, in times of scarcity, regurgitate the honey and feed the rest. -- Honey badger (Zoöl.), the ratel. -- Honey bear. (Zoöl.) See Kinkajou. -- Honey buzzard (Zoöl.), a bird related to the kites, of the genus Pernis. The European species is P. apivorus; the Indian or crested honey buzzard is P. ptilorhyncha. They feed upon honey and the larvæ of bees. Called also bee hawk, bee kite. -- Honey creeper (Zoöl.), one of numerous species of small, bright, colored, passerine birds of the family Coerebidæ, abundant in Central and South America. -- Honey easter (Zoöl.), one of numerous species of small passerine birds of the family Meliphagidæ, abundant in Australia and Oceania; - - called also honeysucker. -- Honey flower (Bot.), an evergreen shrub of the genus Melianthus, a native of the Cape of Good Hope. The flowers yield much honey. -- Honey guide (Zoöl.), one of several species of small birds of the family Indicatoridæ, inhabiting Africa and the East Indies. They have the habit of leading persons to the nests to wild bees. Called also honeybird, and indicator. -- Honey harvest, the gathering of honey from hives, or the honey which is gathered. Dryden. -- Honey kite. (Zoöl.) See Honey buzzard (above). -- Honey locust (Bot.), a North American tree (Gleditschia triacanthos), armed with thorns, and having long pods with a sweet pulp between the seeds. -- Honey month. Same as Honeymoon. -- Honey weasel (Zoöl.), the ratel. HONEY Hon"ey, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Honeyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Honeying.] Defn: To be gentle, agreeable, or coaxing; to talk fondly; to use endearments; also, to be or become obsequiously courteous or complimentary; to fawn. "Honeying and making love." Shak. Rough to common men, But honey at the whisper of a lord. Tennyson. HONEY Hon"ey, v. t. Defn: To make agreeable; to cover or sweeten with, or as with, honey. Canst thou not honey me with fluent speech Marston. HONEY-BAG Hon"ey-bag`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The receptacle for honey in a honeybee. Shak. Grew. HONEYBEE Hon"ey*bee`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any bee of the genus Apis, which lives in communities and collects honey, esp. the common domesticated hive bee (Apis mellifica), the Italian bee (A. ligustica), and the Arabiab bee (A. fasciata). The two latter are by many entomologists considered only varieties of the common hive bee. Each swarm of bees consists of a large number of workers (barren females), with, ordinarily, one queen or fertile female, but in the swarming season several young queens, and a number of males or drones, are produced. HONEYBERRY Hon"ey*ber`ry, n.; pl. -berries. The fruit of either of two trees having sweetish berries: (a) An Old World hackberry (Celtis australis). (b) In the West Indies, the genip (Melicocca bijuga). HONEYBIRD Hon"ey*bird`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The honey guide. HONEYCOMB Hon"ey*comb`, n. Etym: [AS. hunigcamb. See Honey, and 1st Comb.] 1. A mass of hexagonal waxen cells, formed by bees, and used by them to hold their honey and their eggs. 2. Any substance, as a easting of iron, a piece of worm-eaten wood, or of triple, etc., perforated with cells like a honeycomb. Honeycomb moth (Zoöl.), the wax moth. -- Honeycomb stomach. (Anat.) See Reticulum. HONEYCOMBED Hon"ey*combed`, a. Defn: Formed or perforated like a honeycomb. Each bastion was honeycombed with casements. Motley. HONEYDEW Hon"ey*dew`, n. 1. A sweet, saccharine substance, found on the leaves of trees and other plants in small drops, like dew. Two substances have been called by this name; one exuded from the plants, and the other secreted by certain insects, esp. aphids. 2. A kind of tobacco moistened with molasses. HONEYED Hon"eyed, a. 1. Covered with honey. 2. Sweet, as, honeyed words. Milton. HONEYLESS Hon"ey*less, a. Defn: Destitute of honey. Shak. HONEYMOON Hon"ey*moon`, n. Defn: The first month after marriage. Addison. HONEY-MOUTHED Hon"ey-mouthed`, a. Defn: Soft to sweet in speech; persuasive. Shak. HONEYSTONE Hon"ey*stone`, n. Defn: See Mellite. HONEYSUCKER Hon"ey*suck`er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Honey eater, under Honey. HONEYSUCKLE Hon"ey*suc`kle, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. hunis privet. See Honey, and Suck.] (Bot.) Defn: One of several species of flowering plants, much admired for their beauty, and some for their fragrance. Note: The honeysuckles are properly species of the genus Lonicera; as, L. Caprifolium, and L. Japonica, the commonly cultivated fragrant kinds; L. Periclymenum, the fragrant woodbine of England; L. grata, the American woodbine, and L. sempervirens, the red-flowered trumpet honeysuckle. The European fly honeysuckle is L. Xylosteum; the American, L. ciliata. The American Pinxter flower (Azalea nudiflora) is often called honeysuckle, or false honeysuckle. The name Australian honeysuckle is applied to one or more trees of the genus Banksia. See French honeysuckle, under French. HONEYSUCKLED Hon"ey*suc`kled, a. Defn: Covered with honeysuckles. HONEY-SWEET Hon"ey-sweet`, a. Defn: Sweet as honey. Chaucer. HONEY-TONGUED Hon"ey-tongued`, a. Defn: Sweet speaking; persuasive; seductive. Shak. HONEYWARE Hon"ey*ware`, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Badderlocks. HONEYWORT Hon"ey*wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A European plant of the genus Cerinthe, whose flowers are very attractive to bees. Loudon. HONG Hong, n. Etym: [Chinese hang, Canton dialect hong, a mercantile house, factory.] Defn: A mercantile establishment or factory for foreign trade in China, as formerly at Canton; a succession of offices connected by a common passage and used for business or storage. Hong merchant, one of the few Chinese merchants who, previous to the treaty of 1842, formed a guild which had the exclusive privilege of trading with foreigners. HONG Hong, v. t. & i. Defn: To hang. [Obs.] Chaucer. HONIED Hon"ied, a. Defn: See Honeyed. HONITON LACE Hon"i*ton lace` Defn: . A kind of pillow lace, remarkable for the beauty of its figures; -- so called because chiefly made in Honiton, England. HONK Honk, n. Etym: [Of imitative origin.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The cry of a wild goose. -- Honk"ing, n. HONOR Hon"or, n. Etym: [OE. honor, honour, onour, onur, OF. honor, onor, honur, onur, honour, onour, F. honneur, fr. L. honor, honos.] [Written also honour.] 1. Esteem due or paid to worth; high estimation; respect; consideration; reverence; veneration; manifestation of respect or reverence. A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country. Matt. xiii. 57. 2. That which rightfully attracts esteem, respect, or consideration; self-respect; dignity; courage; fidelity; especially, excellence of character; high moral worth; virtue; nobleness; specif., in men, integrity; uprightness; trustworthness; in women, purity; chastity. If she have forgot Honor and virtue. Shak. Godlike erect, with native honor clad. Milton. 3. A nice sense of what is right, just, and true, with course of life correspondent thereto; strict conformity to the duty imposed by conscience, position, or privilege. Say, what is honor 'T is the finest sense Of justice which the human mind can frame, Intent each lurking frailty to disclaim, And guard the way of life from all offense Suffered or done. Wordsworth. I could not love thee, dear, so much, Loved I not honor more. Lovelace. 4. That to which esteem or consideration is paid; distinguished position; high rank. "Restored me to my honors." Shak. I have given thee . . . both riches, and honor. 1 Kings iii. 13. Thou art clothed with honor and majesty. Ps. civ. 1. 5. Fame; reputation; credit. Some in theiractions do woo, and affect honor and reputation. Bacon. If my honor is meant anything distinct from conscience, 't is no more than a regard to the censure and esteem of the world. Rogers. 6. A token of esteem paid to worth; a mark of respect; a ceremonial sign of consideration; as, he wore an honor on his breast; military honors; civil honors. "Their funeral honors." Dryden. 7. A cause of respect and fame; a glory; an excellency; an ornament; as, he is an honor to his nation. 8. A title applied to the holders of certain honorable civil offices, or to persons of rank; as, His Honor the Mayor. See Note under Honorable. 9. (Feud. Law) Defn: A seigniory or lordship held of the king, on which other lordships and manors depended. Cowell. 10. pl. Defn: Academic or university prizes or distinctions; as, honors in classics. 11. pl. (Whist) Defn: The ace, king, queen, and jack of trumps. The ten and nine are sometimes called Dutch honors. R. A. Proctor. Affair of honor, a dispute to be decided by a duel, or the duel itself. -- Court of honor, a court or tribunal to investigate and decide questions relating to points of honor; as a court of chivalry, or a military court to investigate acts or omissions which are unofficerlike or ungentlemanly in their nature. -- Debt of honor, a debt contracted by a verbal promise, or by betting or gambling, considered more binding than if recoverable by law. -- Honor