[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

That which draws; as: (a) A team of oxen or horses. Blackstone. (b) A sink or drain; a privy. Shak. Matt. xv. 17. (c) pl. (Med.) Defn: A mild vesicatory; a sinapism; as, to apply draughts to the feet. 4. Capacity of being drawn; force necessary to draw; traction. The Hertfordshire wheel plow . . . is of the easiest draught. Mortimer. 5. (Naut.) Defn: The depth of water necessary to float a ship, or the depth a ship sinks in water, especially when laden; as, a ship of twelve feet draught. 6. (Com.) Defn: An allowance on weighable goods. [Eng.] See Draft, 4. 7. A move, as at chess or checkers. [Obs.] Chaucer. 8. The bevel given to the pattern for a casting, in order that it may be drawn from the sand without injury to the mold. 9. (Masonry) Defn: See Draft, n., 7. Angle of draught, the angle made with the plane over which a body is drawn by the line in which the pulling force acts, when the latter has the direction best adapted to overcome the obstacles of friction and the weight of the body. -- Black draught. See under Black, a. -- Blast draught, or Forced draught, the draught produced by a blower, as by blowing in air beneath a fire or drawing out the gases from above it. -- Natural draught, the draught produced by the atmosphere flowing, by its own weight, into a chimney wherein the air is rarefied by heat. -- On draught, so as to be drawn from the wood (as a cask, barrel, etc.) in distinction from being bottled; as, ale on draught. -- Sheer draught. See under Sheer. DRAUGHT Draught, a. 1. Used for drawing vehicles, loads, etc.; as, a draught beast; draught hooks. 2. Relating to, or characterized by, a draft, or current of air. 3. Used in making drawings; as, draught compasses. 4. Drawn directly from the barrel, or other receptacle, in distinction from bottled; on draught; -- said of ale, cider, and the like. Note: This word, especially in the first and second meanings, is often written draft, a spelling which is approved by many authorities. Draught box. See Draught tube, below. -- Draught engine (Mining), an engine used for pumping, raising heavy weights, and the like. -- Draught hook (Mil.), one of the hooks on a cannon carriage, used in drawing the gun backward and forward. -- Draught horse, a horse employed in drawing loads, plowing, etc., as distinguished from a saddle horse or carriage horse. -- Draught net, a seine or hauling net. -- Draught ox, an ox employed in hauling loads, plowing, etc. -- Draught tube (Water Wheels), an airtight pipe extending downward into the tailrace from a turbine wheel located above it, to make whole fall available; -- called also draught box. DRAUGHT Draught (draft), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Draughted; p. pr. & vb. n. Draughting.] 1. To draw out; to call forth. See Draft. Addison. 2. To diminish or exhaust by drawing. [R.] The Parliament so often draughted and drained. Sir W. Scott. 3. To draw in outline; to make a draught, sketch, or plan of, as in architectural and mechanical drawing. Draughting room, a room draughtsmen to work in, and where plans are kept. DRAUGHTBOARD Draught"board`, n. Defn: A checkered board on which draughts are played. See Checkerboard. DRAUGHTHOUSE Draught"house`, n. Defn: A house for the reception of waste matter; a privy. [Obs.] 2 Kings x. 27. DRAUGHTS Draughts, n. pl. Defn: A mild vesicatory. See Draught, n., 3 (c). DRAUGHTS Draughts, n. pl. Defn: A game, now more commonly called checkers. See Checkers. Note: Polish draughts is sometimes played with 40 pieces on a board divided into 100 squares. Am. Cyc. DRAUGHTSMAN Draughts"man, n.; pl. Draughtsmen (. 1. One who draws pleadings or other writings. 2. One who draws plans and sketches of machinery, structures, and places; also, more generally, one who makes drawings of any kind. 3. A "man" or piece used in the game of draughts. 4. One who drinks drams; a tippler. [Obs.] Tatler. DRAUGHTSMANSHIP Draughts"man*ship, n. Defn: The office, art, or work of a draughtsman. DRAUGHTY Draught"y, a. Defn: Pertaining to a draught, or current of air; as, a draughtly, comfortless room. DRAVE Drave Defn: , old imp. of Drive. [Obs.] DRAVIDA Dra"vi*da, n. pl. Etym: [Skr. Dravi, prob. meaning, Tamil.] (Ethnol.) Defn: A race Hindostan, believed to be the original people who occupied the land before the Hindoo or Aryan invasion. DRAVIDIAN Dra*vid"i*an, a. Etym: [From Skr. Dravi, the name of the southern portion of the peninsula of India.] (Ethnol.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the Dravida. Dravidian languages, a group of languages of Southern India, which seem to have been the idioms of the natives, before the invasion of tribes speaking Sanskrit. Of these languages, the Tamil is the most important. DRAW Draw, v. t. [imp. Drew; p. p. Drawn; p. pr. & vb. n. Drawing.] Etym: [OE. dra, drahen, draien, drawen, AS. dragan; akin to Icel. & Sw. draga, Dan. drage to draw, carry, and prob. to OS. dragan to bear, carry, D. dragen, G. tragen, Goth. dragan; cf. Skr. dhraj to move along, glide; and perh. akin to Skr. dhar to hold, bear. Drag, Dray a cart, 1st Dredge.] 1. To cause to move continuously by force applied in advance of the thing moved; to pull along; to haul; to drag; to cause to follow. He cast him down to ground, and all along Drew him through dirt and mire without remorse. Spenser. He hastened to draw the stranger into a private room. Sir W. Scott. Do not rich men oppress you, and draw you before the judgment seats James ii. 6. The arrow is now drawn to the head. Atterbury. 2. To influence to move or tend toward one's self; to exercise an attracting force upon; to call towards itself; to attract; hence, to entice; to allure; to induce. The poet Did feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones, and floods. Shak. All eyes you draw, and with the eyes the heart. Dryden. 3. To cause to come out for one's use or benefit; to extract; to educe; to bring forth; as: (a) To bring or take out, or to let out, from some receptacle, as a stick or post from a hole, water from a cask or well, etc. The drew out the staves of the ark. 2 Chron. v. 9. Draw thee waters for the siege. Nahum iii. 14. I opened the tumor by the point of a lancet without drawing one drop of blood. Wiseman. (b) To pull from a sheath, as a sword. I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them. Ex. xv. 9. (c) To extract; to force out; to elicit; to derive. Spirits, by distillations, may be drawn out of vegetable juices, which shall flame and fume of themselves. Cheyne. Until you had drawn oaths from him. Shak. (d) To obtain from some cause or origin; to infer from evidence or reasons; to deduce from premises; to derive. We do not draw the moral lessons we might from history. Burke. (e) To take or procure from a place of deposit; to call for and receive from a fund, or the like; as, to draw money from a bank. (f) To take from a box or wheel, as a lottery ticket; to receive from a lottery by the drawing out of the numbers for prizes or blanks; hence, to obtain by good fortune; to win; to gain; as, he drew a prize. (g) To select by the drawing of lots. Provided magistracies were filled by men freely chosen or drawn. Freeman. 4. To remove the contents of; as: (a) To drain by emptying; to suck dry. Sucking and drawing the breast dischargeth the milk as fast as it can generated. Wiseman. (b) To extract the bowels of; to eviscerate; as, to draw a fowl; to hang, draw, and quarter a criminal. In private draw your poultry, clean your tripe. King. 5. To take into the lungs; to inhale; to inspire; hence, also, to utter or produce by an inhalation; to heave. "Where I first drew air." Milton. Drew, or seemed to draw, a dying groan. Dryden. 6. To extend in length; to lengthen; to protract; to stretch; to extend, as a mass of metal into wire. How long her face is drawn! Shak. And the huge Offa's dike which he drew from the mouth of Wye to that of Dee. J. R. Green. 7. To run, extend, or produce, as a line on any surface; hence, also, to form by marking; to make by an instrument of delineation; to produce, as a sketch, figure, or picture. 8. To represent by lines drawn; to form a sketch or a picture of; to represent by a picture; to delineate; hence, to represent by words; to depict; to describe. A flattering painter who made it his care To draw men as they ought to