[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #33642]

length John's head was healed. John stirred. He opened his eyes and looked about angrily. He stood up and hit Calvin in the face with his fist. Calvin, tears streaming down his cheeks, fingered his nose and sobbed brokenly. He put out a hand to touch Walt reassuringly. Walt was his friend. Walt--he had no other name--was six feet two inches tall, and, as Julia observed, handsome. His parents--he did not know this--were Americans; he had never seen them. He had been stolen from the hospital by Forential shortly after he was born. The alien, invisible, had come for him, clucked softly, wrapped him in a warm, invisible mantle, and taken him away; and the council of aliens had drawn a line through the names of another set of parents who had been exposed to the powerful, mutation-inducing field. Walt thought of Forential--in charge of their compartment--as a friend, as a parent, as a playmate, and as a counselor. * * * * * Shortly after Walt had healed John, the mutants of the smaller compartment gathered at the observation screen in the floor--or what was to them the floor: it was actually the broad rim of the wheel. They could look down at the screen and see a somewhat flickering image of Earth lying below their feet. "Forential told us we'd get many strange powers...." one said. _Just before we went down to the planet_, another completed the thought. _It's growing time, then._ They laughed together with excitement, and Calvin cracked his knuckles nervously. "Let's play a trick on Forential," Calvin said. "Let's see if we can go through the bulkhead." His face was bright and hopeful. "Let's huh?" Calvin raced to the far end of the compartment. "Come on!" Like guilty children, they looked at one another. Then a few of them joined Calvin. _All right, let's._ "Don't," Walt cautioned. "It's just machinery on the other side." _Why can't our thoughts penetrate it, then?_ _We aren't developed enough_, Walt thought. "Huh?" Calvin asked. He began pounding the bulkhead with his fist. "No," one of the other mutants said. "Like this." He concentrated and tried to put a hand through the bulkhead. _We aren't developed enough._ Still the mutants continued. Since the aliens had stepped up the power in the two transmitters (power that closed the final connection in the mutants' brains and held it closed) the mutants were able to assault any problem with the full potentialities of the human brain. But even that was not enough. The aliens had planned carefully in order to keep the two mutant groups from discovering each other. * * * * * Forential came to make a special announcement. He spoke English with an accent that the mutants (who had learned the language from him) could not even imitate. As he surveyed them, his eyes shone with pride: they were a good, sturdy, healthy lot. "Children," he said. "Earth is now in the middle of a war. There will be little work left for us within another two months." Calvin cried and waved his arms wildly and bounced the ball viciously around the room. Every earthman who killed an earthman was depriving him personally, of a victim. He wrung his hands. "There'll be a thousand or so left, Calvin," Forential promised. "You must practice very diligently to be able to cope with them." Calvin sniffed and shook his head. "I can kill that many in a minute. You stop the war, Forential, _please_." "Think of it this way," Forential said. "The less work there is to do, the sooner you can return to your own planet." "There's no earthmen to kill on Lyria," Calvin insisted stubbornly. "_Please_ stop the war." "I'll see what I can do." The alien smiled kindly. "You have the proper spirit. You are all very good children. You hurry, now, and practice all you can." I can see Lyria's star now, Walt thought. We'll be home in another year, then. How welcome that will be.... He had not broadcast the thought. And suddenly, as if on another channel, another frequency, he felt Calvin in his mind and his mind in Calvin's--an odd, unexpected blending of thoughts that seemingly had occurred unconsciously. _Forential describes it so it is so pretty, our planet_, Calvin was thinking: _Green wartle rivers whack throw the ball at him, easy now.... God, I hate those earthmen._ "I'll practice," Walt made Calvin say. He made Calvin hold the ball stationary. Then the contact between their minds was broken. "Who did that?" Calvin demanded. "I'll hit him and break all his bones!" Forential smiled sadly at Calvin and withdrew. "It's nearly time," a mutant rejoiced. "God, I hate them, every one of them." The mutants instinctively began forming their minds for the death radiation. "They'll issue the rods shortly," Walt said. Hatred blazed on Calvin's face. He had already forgotten about the contact a moment before. "I will kill them even without a rod." "The radiation isn't lethal unless we have something to focus it with, remember that." "With my hands!" Calvin cried happily. "I will kill them with my hands!" Sweat beaded John's face. "There will be enough of killing." _It will be great pleasure to hunt them down._ _They will kill some of us_, Walt thought back. And, to himself: I wish I could be afraid. _Not me!_ Calvin thought joyously. It was uncertain when Calvin could telepath. _Not me!_ _They have powerful weapons, too. Atom bombs, they are called. It will not be easy to kill them all._ This thought came as a reminder from one of the aliens. Calvin moved his powerful hands. "I can kill them all by myself." * * * * * The smaller compartment, itself, was huge. To the left lay the hydroponics tanks, and to the right, the mutants' cubicles. In the center of the compartment was the games space where the mutants boxed and wrestled and exercised with weights. The walls of each cubicle were so designed as to produce the illusion of great distances. The mutants would be required to face vast open spaces, and their cubicles partially conditioned them for the experience. Huge as their world was, it was miniscular compared to the one that would confront them. Calvin, sitting beside Walt in Walt's cubicle, was trying to express an abstract concept. "... Forential is afraid of earthmen," he said. He puckered his face in a frown. "I have just thought of that." "Forential is afraid of everything," Walt said respectfully. "I remember once when I shoved him he was very afraid. I shouldn't have," Calvin said, "... it must be wonderful to be afraid." "He is more advanced than we are." "We can kill earthmen, though," Calvin said. "He's too afraid to; so we get to kill them for him." "You got it wrong; you always get things wrong. We are killing earthmen for ourselves." "Oh, yes," Calvin nodded. "I forget." "Forential is a friend," Walt said. "He helps the Lyrians from the goodness of his heart." "Earthmen are very bad." "That's right." "They are a great evil," Calvin said excitedly. "They must be killed." "Yes, yes, yes!" Calvin agreed. "I will kill them with my hands." He fell silent, thinking. "... there is a Lyrian on Earth," Walt said slowly "I have been hearing her thoughts." "I can think to you," Calvin said proudly. "Listen." He concentrated. Muscles in his jaws quivered, "... not today," he said sadly. "My brain ... sometimes ... you know? ... sometimes...." "I am hearing thoughts from a Lyrian on Earth," Walt said in dull amazement. "Do you understand?" "No; no." "It's a female." "All the females are on Lyria.... This is a man's work. We are ... are going to fight for females, isn't that right?" "I tell you," Walt said, "she's down there. The first time, _I_ thought I was mistaken." Calvin shook his head and flipped the ball toward an unseen mutant. "I can do that good," he said. The ball whistled back at him through the cubicle wall--leaving the wall unmarked as the atoms of one passed through the atomic spaces of the other. Happily, Calvin stopped it in mid flight. "She's down there," Walt said. "I'll have to tell Forential about her." Calvin tapped his head and smiled. "I think funny thoughts some times, too. You go see Forential. He can't help, but you go see him, Walt." "I wasn't sure until just before you came in," Walt said. "You go see him," Calvin said. Walt stood up. "I was thinking with her just a little while ago. I don't understand it." "I can think to you ... some times." "I'll be back," Walt said. * * * * * At the steel ladder leading up toward the alien section, Walt stopped and pressed the emergency-audience button. He waited for permission to ascend the ladder. Under no circumstance would he have ascended without it. The permissive light blinked. He began to