[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

vessel's deck at the line of junction with the sides, forming a channel to the scuppers, which are cut through it. In iron vessels the waterway is variously constructed. WATER WAY Wa"ter way`. Defn: Same as Water course. WATERWEED Wa"ter*weed`, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Anacharis. WATER WHEEL Wa"ter wheel`. 1. Any wheel for propelling machinery or for other purposes, that is made to rotate by the direct action of water; -- called an overshot wheel when the water is applied at the top, an undershot wheel when at the bottom, a breast wheel when at an intermediate point; other forms are called reaction wheel, vortex wheel, turbine wheel, etc. 2. The paddle wheel of a steam vessel. 3. A wheel for raising water; a noria, or the like. WATER-WHITE Wa"ter-white`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A vinelike plant (Vitis Caribæa) growing in parched districts in the West Indies, and containing a great amount of sap which is sometimes used for quenching thirst. WATER WILLOW Wa"ter wil`low. (Bot.) Defn: An American aquatic plant (Dianthera Americana) with long willowlike leaves, and spikes of small purplish flowers. WATER WING Wa"ter wing`. (Arch.) Defn: One of two walls built on either side of the junction of a bridge with the bank of a river, to protect the abutment of the bridge and the bank from the action of the current. WATER WITCH Wa"ter witch`. (Zoöl.) (a) The dabchick. (b) The stormy petrel. [Prov. Eng.] WATER-WITHE Wa"ter-withe`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A vinelike plant (Vitis Caribæa) growing in parched districts in the West Indies, and containing a great amount of sap which is sometimes used for quenching thirst. WATERWORK Wa"ter*work`, n. 1. (Paint.) Defn: Painting executed in size or distemper, on canvas or walls, -- formerly, frequently taking the place of tapestry. Shak. Fairholt. 2. An hydraulic apparatus, or a system of works or fixtures, by which a supply of water is furnished for useful or ornamental purposes, including dams, sluices, pumps, aqueducts, distributing pipes, fountains, etc.; -- used chiefly in the plural. WATERWORN Wa"ter*worn`, a. Defn: Worn, smoothed, or polished by the action of water; as, waterworn stones. WATERWORT Wa"ter*wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Any plant of the natural order Elatineæ, consisting of two genera (Elatine, and Bergia), mostly small annual herbs growing in the edges of ponds. Some have a peppery or acrid taste. WATERY Wa"ter*y, a. Etym: [AS. wæterig.] 1. Of or pertaining to water; consisting of water. "The watery god." Dryden. "Fish within their watery residence." Milton. 2. Abounding with water; wet; hence, tearful. 3. Resembling water; thin or transparent, as a liquid; as, watery humors. The oily and watery parts of the aliment. Arbuthnot. 4. Hence, abounding in thin, tasteless, or insipid fluid; tasteless; insipid; vapid; spiritless. WATT Watt, n. Etym: [From the distinguished mechanician and scientist, James Watt.] (Physics) Defn: A unit of power or activity equal to 107 C.G.S. units of power, or to work done at the rate of one joule a second. An English horse power is approximately equal to 746 watts. WATTEAU Wat*teau", a. (Art) Defn: Having the appearance of that which is seen in pictures by Antoine Watteau, a French painter of the eighteenth century; --said esp. of women's garments; as, a Watteau bodice. WATTEAU BACK Watteau back. Defn: The back of a woman's gown in which one or more very broad folds are carried from the neck to the floor without being held in at the waist, while the front and sides of the gown are shaped to the person and have a belt or its equivalent. WATTLE Wat"tle, n. Etym: [AS. watel, watul, watol, hurdle, covering, wattle; cf. OE. watel a bag. Cf. Wallet.] 1. A twig or flexible rod; hence, a hurdle made of such rods. And there he built with wattles from the marsh A little lonely church in days of yore. Tennyson. 2. A rod laid on a roof to support the thatch. 3. (Zoöl.) (a) A naked fleshy, and usually wrinkled and highly colored, process of the skin hanging from the chin or throat of a bird or reptile. (b) Barbel of a fish. 4. (a) The astringent bark of several Australian trees of the genus Acacia, used in tanning; -- called also wattle bark. (b) (Bot.) The trees from which the bark is obtained. See Savanna wattle, under Savanna. Wattle turkey. (Zoöl.) Same as Brush turkey. WATTLE Wat"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wattled; p. pr. & vb. n. Wattling.] 1. To bind with twigs. 2. To twist or interweave, one with another, as twigs; to form a network with; to plat; as, to wattle branches. 3. To form, by interweaving or platting twigs. The folded flocks, penned in their wattled cotes. Milton. WATTLEBIRD Wat"tle*bird`, n. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of honey eaters belonging to Anthochæra and allied genera of the family Meliphagidæ. These birds usually have a large and conspicuous wattle of naked skin hanging down below each ear. They are natives of Australia and adjacent islands. Note: The best-known species (Anthochæra carunculata) has the upper parts grayish brown, with a white stripe on each feather, and the wing and tail quills dark brown or blackish, tipped with withe. Its wattles, in life, are light blood-red. Called also wattled crow, wattled bee-eater, wattled honey eater. Another species (A. inauris) is streaked with black, gray, and white, and its long wattles are white, tipped with orange. The bush wattlebirds, belonging to the genus Anellobia, are closely related, but lack conspicuous wattles. The most common species (A. mellivora) is dark brown, finely streaked with white. Called also goruck creeper. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The Australian brush turkey. WATTLED Wat"tled, a. Defn: Furnished with wattles, or pendent fleshy processes at the chin or throat. The wattled cocks strut to and fro. Longfellow. WATTLESS Watt"less, a. (Elec.) Defn: Without any power (cf. Watt); -- said of an alternating current or component of current when it differs in phase by ninety degrees from the electromotive force which produces it, or of an electromotive force or component thereof when the current it produces differs from it in phase by 90 degrees. WATTLING Wat"tling, n. Defn: The act or process of binding or platting with twigs; also, the network so formed. Made with a wattling of canes or sticks. Dampier. WATTMETER Watt"me`ter, n. Etym: [Watt + meter.] (Physics) Defn: An instrument for measuring power in watts, -- much used in measuring the energy of an electric current. WAUCHT; WAUGHT Waucht, Waught, n. Etym: [Cf. Quaff.] Defn: A large draught of any liquid. [Scot.] Jamieson. WAUL Waul, v. i. Etym: [Of imitative origin.] Defn: To cry as a cat; to squall; to wail. [Written also wawl.] The helpless infant, coming wauling and crying into the world. Sir W. Scott. WAUR Waur, a. Etym: [See Worse.] Defn: Worse. [Scot.] Murder and waur than number. Sir W. Scott. WAVE Wave, v. t. Defn: See Wave. Sir H. Wotton. Burke. WAVE Wave, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Waved; p. pr. & vb. n. Waving.] Etym: [OE. waven, AS. wafian to waver, to hesitate, to wonder; akin to wæfre wavering, restless, MHG. wabern to be in motion, Icel. vafra to hover about; cf. Icel. vafa to vibrate. Cf. Waft, Waver.] 1. To play loosely; to move like a wave, one way and the other; to float; to flutter; to undulate. His purple robes waved careless to the winds. Trumbull. Where the flags of three nations has successively waved. Hawthorne. 2. To be moved to and fro as a signal. B. Jonson. 3. To fluctuate; to waver; to be in an unsettled state; to vacillate. [Obs.] He waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither good nor harm. Shak. WAVE Wave, v. t. 1. To move one way and the other; to brandish. "[Æneas] waved his fatal sword." Dryden. 2. To raise into inequalities of surface; to give an undulating form a surface to. Horns whelked and waved like the enridged sea. Shak. 3. To move like a wave, or by floating; to waft. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 4. To call attention to, or give a direction or command to, by a waving motion, as of the hand; to signify by waving; to beckon; to signal; to indicate. Look, with what courteous action It waves you to a more removed ground. Shak. She spoke, and bowing waved Dismissal. Tennyson. WAVE Wave, n. Etym: [From Wave, v.; not the same word as OE. wawe, waghe, a wave, which is akin to E. wag to move. Wave, v. i.] 1. An advancing ridge or swell on the surface of a liquid, as of the sea, resulting from the oscillatory motion of the particles composing it when disturbed by any force their position of rest; an undulation. The wave behind impels the wave before. Pope. 2. (Physics) Defn: A vibration propagated from particle to particle through a body or elastic medium, as in the transmission of sound; an assemblage of vibrating molecules in all phases of a vibration, with no phase repeated; a