[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the orange, lemon, citron, etc., originally natives of southern Asia. CITTERN Cit"tern, n. Etym: [L.cithara, Gr. Cithara, Gittern.] (Mus.) Defn: An instrument shaped like a lute, but strung with wire and played with a quill or plectrum. [Written also cithern.] Shak. Note: Not to be confounded with zither. CITTERN-HEAD Cit"tern-head`, n. Defn: Blockhead; dunce; -- so called because the handle of a cittern usually ended with a carved head. Marsion CITY Cit"y (, n.; pl. Cities. Etym: [OE. cite, F. citcivitas citizenship, state, city, fr. civis citizen; akin to Goth. heiwa (in heiwafrauja man of the house), AS. heirath marriage, prop., providing a house, E. hind a peasant.] 1. A large town. 2. A corporate town; in the United States, a town or collective body of inhabitants, incorporated and governed by a mayor and aldermen or a city council consisting of a board of aldermen and a common council; in Great Britain, a town corporate, which is or has been the seat of a bishop, or the capital of his see. A city is a town incorporated; which is, or has been, the see of a bishop; and though the bishopric has been dissolved, as at Westminster, it yet remaineth a city. Blackstone When Gorges constituted York a city, he of course meant it to be the seat of a bishop, for the word city has no other meaning in English law. Palfrey 3. The collective body of citizens, or inhabitants of a city. "What is the city but the people" Shak. Syn. -- See Village. CITY Cit"y, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a city. Shak. City council. See under Council. -- City court, The municipal court of a city. [U. S.] -- City ward, a watchman, or the collective watchmen, of a city. [Obs.] Fairfax. CIVE Cive, n. (Bot.) Defn: Same as Chive. CIVET Civ"et, n. Etym: [F. civette (cf. It. zibetto) civet, civet cat, fr. LGr. zub, zab, civet.] 1. A substance, of the consistence of butter or honey, taken from glands in the anal pouch of the civet (Viverra civetta). It is of clear yellowish or brownish color, of a strong, musky odor, offensive when undiluted, but agreeble when a small portion is mixed with another substance. It is used as a perfume. 2. (Zoöl) Defn: The animal that produces civet (Viverra civetta); -- called also civet cat. It is carnivorous, from two to three feet long, and of a brownish gray color, with transverse black bands and spots on the body and tail. It is a native of northern Africa and of Asia. The name is also applied to other species. CIVET Civ"et, v. t. Defn: To scent or perfume with civet. Cowper CIVIC Civ"ic, a. Etym: [L.civicus, fr. civis citizen. See City.] Defn: Relating to, or derived from, a city or citizen; relating to man as a member of society, or to civil affairs. Civic crown (Rom. Antiq.), a crown or garland of oak leaves and acorns, bestowed on a soldier who had saved the life of a citizen in battle. CIVICISM Civ"i*cism, n. Defn: The principle of civil government. CIVICS Civ"ics, n. Defn: The science of civil government. CIVIL Civ"il, a. Etym: [L. civilis, fr. civis citizen: cf. F. civil. See City.] 1. Pertaining to a city or state, or to a citizen in his relations to his fellow citizens or to the state; within the city or state. 2. Subject to government; reduced to order; civilized; not barbarous; -- said of the community. England was very rude and barbarous; for it is but even the other day since England grew civil. Spenser. 3. Performing the duties of a citizen; obedient to government; -- said of an individual. Civil men come nearer the saints of God than others; they come within a step or two of heaven. Preston 4. Having the manners of one dwelling in a city, as opposed to those of savages or rustics; polite; courteous; complaisant; affable. Note: "A civil man now is one observant of slight external courtesies in the mutual intercourse between man and man; a civil man once was one who fulfilled all the duties and obligations flowing from his position as a 'civis' and his relations to the other members of that 'civitas.'" Trench 5. Pertaining to civic life and affairs, in distinction from military, ecclesiastical, or official state. 6. Relating to rights and remedies sought by action or suit distinct from criminal proceedings. Civil action, an action to enforce the rights or redress the wrongs of an individual, not involving a criminal proceeding. -- Civil architecture, the architecture which is employed in constructing buildings for the purposes of civil life, in distinction from military and naval architecture, as private houses, palaces, churches, etc. -- Civil death. (Law.) See under Death. -- Civil engineering. See under Engineering. -- Civil law. See under Law. -- Civil list. See under List. -- Civil remedy (Law), that given to a person injured, by action, as opposed to a criminal prosecution. -- Civil service, all service rendered to and paid for by the state or nation other than that pertaining to naval or military affairs. -- Civil service reform, the substitution of business principles and methods for the spoils system in the conduct of the civil service, esp. in the matter of appointments to office. -- Civil state, the whole body of the laity or citizens not included under the military, maritime, and ecclesiastical states. -- Civil suit. Same as Civil action. -- CCivil war. See under War. -- Civil year. See under Year. CIVILIAN Ci*vil"ian, n. Etym: [From Civil] 1. One skilled in the civil law. Ancient civilians and writers upon government. Swift. 2. A student of the civil law at a university or college. R. Graves. 3. One whose pursuits are those of civil life, not military or clerical. CIVILIST Civ"il*ist, n. Defn: A civilian. [R.] Warbur CIVILITY Ci*vil"i*ty, n.; pl. Civilities. Etym: [L. civilitas: cf. F. civilité. See Civil.] 1. The state of society in which the relations and duties of a citizen are recognized and obeyed; a state of civilization. [Obs.] Monarchies have risen from barbarrism to civility, and fallen again to ruin. Sir J. Davies. The gradual depature of all deeper signification from the word civility has obliged the creation of another word -- civilization. Trench. 2. A civil office, or a civil process [Obs.] To serve in a civility. Latimer. 3. Courtesy; politeness; kind attention; good breeding; a polite act or expression. The insolent civility of a proud man is, if possible, more shocking than his rudeness could be. Chesterfield. The sweet civilities of life. Dryden. Syn. -- Urbanity; affability; complaisance. CIVILIZABLE Civ"i*li`za*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being civilized. CIVILIZATION Civ`i*li*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. civilisation.] 1. The act of civilizing, or the state of being civilized; national culture; refinement. Our manners, our civilization, and all the good things connected with manners, and with civilization, have, in this European world of ours, depended for ages upon two principles -- . . . the spirit of a gentleman, and spirit of religion. Burke 2. (Law) Defn: Rendering a criminal process civil. [Obs.] CIVILIZE Civ"i*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Civilized; p. pr. & vb. n. Civilizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. civilizer, fr.L. civilis civil. See Civil.] 1. To reclaim from a savage state; to instruct in the rules and customs of civilization; to educate; to refine. Yet blest that fate which did his arms dispose Her land to civilize, as to subdue. Dryden 2. To admit as suitable to a civilized state. [Obs. or R.] "Civilizing adultery." Milton. Syn. -- To polish; refine; humanize. CIVILIZED Civ"i*lized, a. Defn: Reclaimed from savage life and manners; instructed in arts, learning, and civil manners; refined; cultivated. Sale of conscience and duty in open market is not reconcilable with the present state of civilized society. J. Quincy. CIVILIZER Civ"i*li*zer, n. Defn: One who, or that which, civilizes or tends to civilize. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION Civil Service Commission. Defn: In the United States, a commission appointed by the President, consisting of three members, not more than two of whom may be adherents of the same party, which has the control, through examinations, of appointments and promotions in the classified civil service. It was created by act of Jan, 16, 1883 (22 Stat. 403). CIVIL SERVICE REFORM Civil Service Reform. Defn: The substitution of business principles and methods for political methods in the conduct of the civil service. esp. the merit system instead of the spoils system in making appointments to office. CIVILY Civ"i*ly, adv. Defn: In a civil manner; as regards civil rights and privileges; politely; courteously; in a well bred manner. CIVISM Civ"ism, n. Etym: [Cf.F. civisme, fr.L. civis citizen.] Defn: State of citizenship. [R.] Dyer. CIZAR Ciz"ar, v. i. Etym: [From Cizars.] Defn: To clip with scissors. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. CIZARS Ciz"ars, n. pl. Defn: Scissors. [Obs.] Swift. CIZE Cize, n. Defn: Bulk; largeness. [Obs.] See Size. CLABBER Clab"ber, n. Etym: [See Bonnyclabber] Defn: Milk curdled so