[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

EARSHRIFT Ear"shrift`, n. Defn: A nickname for auricular confession; shrift. [Obs.] Cartwright. EARSORE Ear"sore`, n. Defn: An annoyance to the ear. [R.] The perpetual jangling of the chimes . . . is no small earsore Sir T. Browne. EAR-SPLITTING Ear"-split`ting, a. Defn: Deafening; disagreeably loud or shrill; as, ear-splitting strains. EARST Earst, adv. Defn: See Erst. [Obs.] Spenser. EARTH Earth, n. Etym: [AS. eor; akin to OS. ertha, OFries. irthe, D. aarde, OHG. erda, G. erde, Icel. jör, Sw. & Dan. jord, Goth. airpa, OHG. ero, Gr. ear to plow.] 1. The globe or planet which we inhabit; the world, in distinction from the sun, moon, or stars. Also, this world as the dwelling place of mortals, in distinction from the dwelling place of spirits. That law preserves the earth a sphere And guides the planets in their course. S. Rogers. In heaven, or earth, or under earth, in hell. Milton. 2. The solid materials which make up the globe, in distinction from the air or water; the dry land. God called the dry land earth. Gen. i. 10. He is pure air and fire, and the dull elements of earth and water never appear in him. Shak. 3. The softer inorganic matter composing part of the surface of the globe, in distinction from the firm rock; soil of all kinds, including gravel, clay, loam, and the like; sometimes, soil favorable to the growth of plants; the visible surface of the globe; the ground; as, loose earth; rich earth. Give him a little earth for charity. Shak. 4. A part of this globe; a region; a country; land. Would I had never trod this English earth. Shak. 5. Worldly things, as opposed to spiritual things; the pursuits, interests, and allurements of this life. Our weary souls by earth beguiled. Keble. 6. The people on the globe. The whole earth was of one language. Gen. xi. 1. 7. (Chem.) (a) Any earthy-looking metallic oxide, as alumina, glucina, zirconia, yttria, and thoria. (b) A similar oxide, having a slight alkaline reaction, as lime, magnesia, strontia, baryta. 8. A hole in the ground, where an animal hides himself; as, the earth of a fox. Macaulay. They [ferrets] course the poor conies out of their earths. Holland. Note: Earth is used either adjectively or in combination to form compound words; as, earth apple or earth-apple; earth metal or earth- metal; earth closet or earth-closet. Adamic earth, Bitter earth, Bog earth, Chian earth, etc. See under Adamic, Bitter, etc. -- Alkaline earths. See under Alkaline. -- Earth apple. (Bot.) (a) A potato. (b) A cucumber. -- Earth auger, a form of auger for boring into the ground; -- called also earth borer. -- Earth bath, a bath taken by immersing the naked body in earth for healing purposes. -- Earth battery (Physics), a voltaic battery the elements of which are buried in the earth to be acted on by its moisture. -- Earth chestnut, the pignut. -- Earth closet, a privy or commode provided with dry earth or a similar substance for covering and deodorizing the fæcal discharges. -- Earth dog (Zoöl.), a dog that will dig in the earth, or enter holes of foxes, etc. -- Earth hog, Earth pig (Zoöl.), the aard-vark. -- Earth hunger, an intense desire to own land, or, in the case of nations, to extend their domain. -- Earth light (Astron.), the light reflected by the earth, as upon the moon, and corresponding to moonlight; -- called also earth shine. Sir J. Herschel. -- Earth metal. See 1st Earth, 7. (Chem.) -- Earth oil, petroleum. -- Earth pillars or pyramids (Geol.), high pillars or pyramids of earth, sometimes capped with a single stone, found in Switzerland. Lyell. -- Earth pitch (Min.), mineral tar, a kind of asphaltum. -- Earth quadrant, a fourth of the earth's circumference. -- Earth table (Arch.), the lowest course of stones visible in a building; the ground table. -- On earth, an intensive expression, oftenest used in questions and exclamations; as, What on earth shall I do Nothing on earth will satisfy him. [Colloq.] EARTH Earth, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Earthed; p. pr. & vb. n. Earthing.] 1. To hide, or cause to hide, in the earth; to chase into a burrow or den. "The fox is earthed." Dryden. 2. To cover with earth or mold; to inter; to bury; -- sometimes with up. The miser earths his treasure, and the thief, Watching the mole, half beggars him ere noon. Young. Why this in earthing up a carcass R. Blair. EARTH Earth, v. i. Defn: To burrow. Tickell. EARTH Earth, n. Etym: [From Ear to plow.] Defn: A plowing. [Obs.] Such land as ye break up for barley to sow, Two earths at the least, ere ye sow it, bestow. Tusser. EARTHBAG Earth"bag`, n. (Mil.) Defn: A bag filled with earth, used commonly to raise or repair a parapet. EARTHBANK Earth"bank`, n. Defn: A bank or mound of earth. EARTHBOARD Earth"board`, n. (Agric.) Defn: The part of a plow, or other implement, that turns over the earth; the moldboard. EARTHBORN Earth"born`, a. 1. Born of the earth; terrigenous; springing originally from the earth; human. Some earthborn giant. Milton. 2. Relating to, or occasioned by, earthly objects. All earthborn cares are wrong. Goldsmith. EARTHBRED Earth"bred`, a. Defn: Low; grovelling; vulgar. EARTHDIN Earth"din`, n. Defn: An earthquake. [Obs.] EARTHDRAKE Earth"drake`, n. Defn: A mythical monster of the early Anglo-Saxon literature; a dragon. W. Spalding. EARTHEN Earth"en, a. Defn: Made of earth; made of burnt or baked clay, or other like substances; as, an earthen vessel or pipe. EARTHEN-HEARTED Earth"en-heart`ed, a. Defn: Hard-hearted; sordid; gross. [Poetic] Lowell. EARTHENWARE Earth"en*ware`, n. Defn: Vessels and other utensils, ornaments, or the like, made of baked clay. See Crockery, Pottery, Stoneware, and Porcelain. EARTH FLAX Earth" flax`. (Min.) Defn: A variety of asbestus. See Amianthus. EARTHFORK Earth"fork`, n. Defn: A pronged fork for turning up the earth. EARTHINESS Earth"i*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being earthy, or of containing earth; hence, grossness. EARTHLIGHT Earth"light`, n. (Astron.) Defn: The sunlight reflected from the earth to the moon, by which we see faintly, when the moon is near the sun (either before or after new moon), that part of the moon's disk unillumined by direct sunlight, or "the old moon in the arms of the new." EARTHLINESS Earth"li*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being earthly; worldliness; grossness; perishableness. EARTHLING Earth"ling, n. Etym: [Earth + -ling.] Defn: An inhabitant of the earth; a mortal. Earthings oft her deemed a deity. Drummond. EARTHLY Earth"ly, a. 1. Pertaining to the earth; belonging to this world, or to man's existence on the earth; not heavenly or spiritual; carnal; worldly; as, earthly joys; earthly flowers; earthly praise. This earthly load Of death, called life. Milton. Whose glory is in their shame, who mind earthly things. Phil. iii. 19. 2. Of all things on earth; possible; conceivable. What earthly benefit can be the result Pope. 3. Made of earth; earthy. [Obs.] Holland. Syn. -- Gross; material; sordid; mean; base; vile; low; unsubstantial; temporary; corrupt; groveling. EARTHLY Earth"ly, adv. Defn: In the manner of the earth or its people; worldly. Took counsel from his guiding eyes To make this wisdom earthly wise. Emerson. EARTHLY-MINDED Earth"ly-mind`ed, a. Defn: Having a mind devoted to earthly things; worldly-minded; -- opposed to spiritual-minded. -- Earth"ly-mind`ed*ness, n. EARTHMAD Earth"mad`, n. Etym: [Earth + mad an earthworm.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The earthworm. [Obs.] The earthmads and all the sorts of worms . . . are without eyes. Holland. EARTHNUT Earth"nut`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A name given to various roots, tubers, or pods grown under or on the ground; as to: (a) The esculent tubers of the umbelliferous plants Bunium flexuosum and Carum Bulbocastanum. (b) The peanut. See Peanut. EARTHPEA Earth"pea`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A species of pea (Amphicarpæa monoica). It is a climbing leguminous plant, with hairy underground pods. EARTHQUAKE Earth"quake`, n. Defn: A shaking, trembling, or concussion of the earth, due to subterranean causes, often accompanied by a rumbling noise. The wave of shock sometimes traverses half a hemisphere, destroying cities and many thousand lives; -- called also earthdin, earthquave, and earthshock. Earthquake alarm, a bell signal constructed to operate on the theory that a few seconds before the occurrence of an earthquake the magnet temporarily loses its power. EARTHQUAKE Earth"quake`, a. Defn: Like, or characteristic of, an earthquake; loud; starling. The earthquake voice of victory. Byron. EARTHQUAVE Earth"quave`, n. Defn: An earthquake. EARTH SHINE Earth" shine`. Defn: See Earth light, under Earth. EARTHSHOCK Earth"shock`, n. Defn: An earthquake. EARTHSTAR Earth"star`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A curious fungus of the genus Geaster, in which the outer coating splits into the shape of a star, and the inner one forms a ball containing the dustlike spores. EARTH-TONGUE Earth"-tongue`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A fungus of the genus Geoglossum. EARTHWARD; EARTHWARDS Earth"ward, Earth"wards (, adv. Defn: Toward the earth; -- opposed to heavenward or skyward. EARTHWORK Earth"work`, n. 1. (Mil.) Defn: Any construction, whether a