[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the first magnitude. CANISTER Can"is*ter, n. Etym: [L. canistrum a basket woven from reeds Gr. canistre. See Cane, and Canaster.] 1. A small basket of rushes, or wilow twigs, etc. 2. A small box or case for holding tea, coffee, etc. 3. (Mil.) Defn: A kind of case shot for cannon, in which a number of lead or iron balls in layers are inclosed in a case fitting the gun; -- called also canister shot, CANKER Can"ker, n. Etym: [OE. canker, cancre, AS. cancer (akin to D. kanker, OHG chanchar.), fr. L. cancer a cancer; or if a native word, cf. Gr. cancre, F. chancere, fr. L. cancer. See cancer, and cf. Chancre.] 1. A corroding or sloughing ulcer; esp. a spreading gangrenous ulcer or collection of ulcers in or about the mouth; -- called also water canker, canker of the mouth, and noma. 2. Anything which corrodes, corrupts, or destroy. The cankers of envy and faction. Temple. 3. (Hort.) Defn: A disease incident to trees, causing the bark to rot and fall off. 4. (Far.) Defn: An obstinate and often incurable disease of a horse's foot, characterized by separation of the horny portion and the development of fungoid growths; -- usually resulting from neglected thrush. 5. A kind of wild, worthless rose; the dog-rose. To put down Richard, that sweet lovely rose. And plant this thorm, this canker, Bolingbroke. Shak. Black canker. See under Black. CANKER Can"ker, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cankered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cankering.] 1. To affect as a canker; to eat away; to corrode; to consune. No lapse of moons can canker Love. Tennyson. 2. To infect or pollute; to corrupt. Addison. A tithe purloined canker the whole estate. Herbert. CANKER Can"ker, v. i. 1. To waste away, grow rusty, or be oxidized, as a mineral. [Obs.] Silvering will sully and canker more than gliding. Bacom. 2. To be or become diseased, or as if diseased, with canker; to grow corrupt; to become venomous. Deceit and cankered malice. Dryden. As with age his body uglier grows, So his mind cankers. Shak. CANKER-BIT Can"ker-bit`, a. Defn: Eaten out by canker, or as by canker. [Obs.] CANKER BLOOM Can"ker bloom`. Defn: The bloom or blossom of the wild rose or dog-rose. CANKER BLOSSOM Can"ker blos`som. Defn: That which blasts a blossom as a canker does. [Obs.] O me! you juggler! you canker blossom! You thief of Love! Shak. CANKERED Can"kered, a. 1. Affected with canker; as, a cankered mouth. 2. Affected mentally or morally as with canker; sore, envenomed; malignant; fretful; ill-natured. "A cankered grandam's will." Shak. CANKEREDLY Can"kered*ly, adv. Defn: Fretfully; spitefully. CANKER FLY Can"ker fly`. Defn: A fly that preys on fruit. CANKEROUS Can"ker*ous, a. Defn: Affecting like a canker. "Canrerous shackles." Thomson. Misdeem it not a cankerous change. Wordsworth. CANKER RASH Can"ker rash". (Med.) Defn: A form of scarlet fever characterized by ulcerated or putrid sore throat. CANKERWORM Can"ker*worm`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The larva of two species of geometrid moths which are very injurious to fruit and shade trees by eating, and often entirely destroying, the foliage. Other similar larvæ are also called cankerworms. Note: The autumnal species (Anisopteryx pometaria) becomes adult late in autumn (after frosts) and in winter. The spring species (A. vernata) remains in the ground through the winter, and matures in early spring. Both have winged males and wingless females. The larvæ are similar in appearance and habits, and beling to the family of measuring worms or spanworms. These larvæ hatch from the eggs when the leaves being to expand in spring. CANKERY Can"ker*y, a. 1. Like a canker; full of canker. 2. Surly; sore; malignant. CANNA Can"na, n. Etym: [It.] Defn: A measure of length in Italy, varying from six to seven feet. See Cane, 4. CANNA Can"na, n. Etym: [L., a reed. See Cane.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of tropical plants, with large leaves and often with showy flowers. The Indian shot. (C. Indica) is found in gardens of the northern United States. CANNABENE Can"na*bene, n. Etym: [From Cannabis.] (Chem.) Defn: A colorless oil obtained from hemp dy distillation, and possessing its intoxicating properties. CANNABIN Can"na*bin, n. (Chem.) Defn: A pisonous resin extracted from hemp (Cannabis sativa, variety Indica). The narcotic effects of hasheesh are due to this resin. CANNABINE Can"na*bine, a. Etym: [L. cannabinus.] Defn: Pertaining to hemp; hempen. [R.] CANNABIS Can"na*bis, n. Etym: [L., hemp. See Canvas.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of a single species belonging to the order Uricaceæ; hemp. Cannabis Indica (, the Indian hemp, a powerful narcotic, now considered a variety of the common hemp. CANNEL COAL Can"nel coal`. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. ndle coal.] Defn: A kind of mineral coal of a black color, sufficiently hard and solid to be cut and polished. It burns readily, with a clear, yellow flame, and on this account has been used as a substitute for candles. CANNELE Can`ne*lé", n. [F., pop., fluted.] (Textiles) Defn: A style of interweaving giving to fabrics a channeled or fluted effect; also, a fabric woven so as to have this effect; a rep. CANNELURE Can"ne*lure (kan"ne*lur), n. [F., fr. canneler to groove.] (Mil.) Defn: A groove in any cylinder; specif., a groove around the cylinder of an elongated bullet for small arms to contain a lubricant, or around the rotating band of a gun projectile to lessen the resistance offered to the rifling. Also, a groove around the base of a cartridge, where the extractor takes hold. --Can"ne*lured (#), a. CANNERY Can"ner*y, n. Defn: A place where the business of canning fruit, meat, etc., is carried on. [U. S.] CANNIBAL Can"ni*bal, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cannibale. Columbus, in a letter to the Spanish monarchs written in Oct., 1498, mentions that the people of Hayti lived in great fear of the Caribales (equivalent to E. Caribbees.), the inhabitants of the smaller Antilles; which form of the name was afterward changed into NL. Canibales, in order to express more forcibly their character by a word intelligible through a Latin root "propter rabiem caninam anthropophagorum gentis." The Caribbees call themselves, in their own language. Calinago, Carinago, Calliponam, and, abbreviated, Calina, signifying a brave, from which Columbus formed his Caribales.] Defn: A human being that eats human flesh; hence, any that devours its own kind. Darwin. CANNIBAL Can"ni*bal, a. Defn: Relating to cannibals or cannibalism. "Cannibal terror." Burke. CANNIBALISM Can"ni*bal*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cannibalisme.] Defn: The act or practice of eating human flesh by mankind. Hence; Murderous cruelty; barbarity. Berke. CANNIBALLY Can"ni*bal*ly, adv. Defn: In the manner of cannibal. "An he had been cannibally given." Shak. CANNIKIN Can"ni*kin, n. Etym: [Can + -kin.] Defn: A small can or drinking vessel. CANNILY Can"ni*ly, adv. Defn: In a canny manner. [N. of Eng. & Scot.] CANNINESS Can"ni*ness, n. Defn: Caution; crafty management. [N. of Eng. & Scot.] CANNON Can"non, n.; pl.Cannons, collectively Cannon. Etym: [F. cannon, fr. L. canna reed, pipe, tube. See Cane.] 1. A great gun; a piece of ordnance or artillery; a firearm for discharging heavy shot with great force. Note: Cannons are made of various materials, as iron, brass, bronze, and steel, and of various sizes and shapes with respect to the special service for which they are intended, as intended, as siege, seacoast, naval, field, or mountain, guns. They always aproach more or less nearly to a cylindrical from, being usually thicker toward the breech than at the muzzle. Formerly they were cast hollow, afterwards they were cast, solid, and bored out. The cannon now most in use for the armament of war vessels and for seacoast defense consists of a forged steel tube reinforced with massive steel rings shrunk upon it. Howitzers and mortars are sometimes called cannon. See Gun. 2. (Mech.) Defn: A hollow cylindrical piece carried by a revolving shaft, on which it may, however, revolve independently. 3. (Printing.) Defn: A kind of type. See Canon. Cannon ball, strictly, a round solid missile of stone or iron made to be fired from a cannon, but now often applied to a missile of any shape, whether solid or hollow, made for cannon. Elongated and cylindrical missiles are sometimes called bolts; hollow ones charged with explosives are properly called shells. -- Cannon bullet, a cannon ball. [Obs.] -- Cannon cracker, a fire cracker of large size. -- Cannon lock, a device for firing a cannon by a percussion primer. -- Cannon metal. See Gun Metal. -- Cannon pinion, the pinion on the minute hand arbor of a watch or clock, which drives the hand but permits it to be moved in setting. -- Cannon proof, impenetrable by cannon balls. -- Cannon shot. (a) A cannon ball. (b) The range of a cannon. CANNON Can"non, n. & v. (Billiards) Defn: See Carom. [Eng.] CANNONADE Can"non*ade", n. Etym: [F. Canonnade; cf. It. cannanata.] 1. The act of discharging cannon and throwing ball, shell, etc., for the purpose of destroying an army, or battering a town, ship, or fort; -- usually, an attack of some continuance. A furious cannonade was