[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

held. This is a special jurisdiction. -- Chancellor of a university, the chief officer of a collegiate body. In Oxford, he is elected for life; in Cambridge, for a term of years; and his office is honorary, the chief duties of it devolving on the vice chancellor. -- Chancellor of the exchequer, a member of the British cabinet upon whom devolves the charge of the public income and expenditure as the highest finance minister of the government. -- Chancellor of the order of the Garter (or other military orders), an officer who seals the commissions and mandates of the chapter and assembly of the knights, keeps the register of their proceedings, and delivers their acts under the seal of their order. -- Lord high chancellor of England, the presiding judge in the court of chancery, the highest judicial officer of the crown, and the first lay person of the state after the blood royal. He is created chancellor by the delivery into his custody of the great seal, of which he becomes keeper. He is privy counselor by his office, and prolocutor of the House of Lords by prescription. CHANCELLORSHIP Chan"cel*lor*ship, n. Defn: The office of a chancellor; the time during which one is chancellor. CHANCE-MEDLEY Chance"-med`ley, n. Etym: [Chance + medley.] 1. (Law) Defn: The kiling of another in self-defense upon a sudden and unpremeditated encounter. See Chaud-Medley. Note: The term has been sometimes applied to any kind of homicide by misadventure, or to any accidental killing of a person without premeditation or evil intent, but, in strictness, is applicable to such killing as happens in defending one's self against assault. Bouvier. 2. Luck; chance; accident. Milton. Cowper. CHANCERY Chan"cer*y, n. Etym: [F. chancellerie, LL. cancellaria, from L. cancellarius. See Chancellor, and cf. Chancellery.] 1. In England, formerly, the highest court of judicature next to the Parliament, exercising jurisdiction at law, but chiefly in equity; but under the jurisdiction act of 1873 it became the chancery division of the High Court of Justice, and now exercises jurisdiction only in equity. 2. In the Unites States, a court of equity; equity; proceeding in equity. Note: A court of chancery, so far as it is a court of equity, in the English and American sense, may be generally, if not precisely, described as one having jurisdiction in cases of rights, recognized and protected by the municipal jurisprudence, where a plain, adequate, and complete remedy can not be had in the courts of common law. In some of the American States, jurisdiction at law and in equity centers in the same tribunal. The courts of the United States also have jurisdiction both at law and in equity, and in all such cases they exercise their jurisdiction, as courts of law, or as courts of equity, as the subject of adjudication may require. In others of the American States, the courts that administer equity are distinct tribunals, having their appropriate judicial officers, and it is to the latter that the appellation courts of chancery is usually applied; but, in American law, the terms equity and court of equity are more frequently employed than the corresponding terms chancery and court of chancery. Burrill. Inns of chancery. See under Inn. -- To get (or to hold) In chancery (Boxing), to get the head of an antagonist under one's arm, so that one can pommel it with the other fist at will; hence, to have wholly in One's power. The allusion is to the condition of a person involved in the chancery court, where he was helpless, while the lawyers lived upon his estate. CHANCRE Chan"cre, n. Etym: [F. chancere. See Cancer.] (Med.) Defn: A venereal sore or ulcer; specifically, the initial lesion of true syphilis, whether forming a distinct ulcer or not; -- called also hard chancre, indurated chancre, and Hunterian chancre. Soft chancre. A chancroid. See Chancroid. CHANCROID Chan"croid, n. Etym: [Chancre + -oil.] (Med.) Defn: A venereal sore, resembling a chancre in its seat and some external characters, but differing from it in being the starting point of a purely local process and never of a systemic disease; -- called also soft chancre. CHANCROUS Chan"crous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chancreux.] (Med.) Defn: Of the nature of a chancre; having chancre. CHANDELIER Chan`de*lier", n. Etym: [F. See Chandler.] 1. A candlestick, lamp, stand, gas fixture, or the like, having several branches; esp., one hanging from the ceiling. 2. (Fort.) Defn: A movable parapet, serving to support fascines to cover pioneers. [Obs.] CHANDLER Chan"dler, n. Etym: [F. chandelier a candlestick, a maker or seller of candles, LL. candelarius chandler, fr. L. candela candle. See Candle, and cf. Chandelier.] 1. A maker or seller of candles. The chandler's basket, on his shoulder borne, With tallow spots thy coat. Gay. 2. A dealer in other commodities, which are indicated by a word prefixed; as, ship chandler, corn chandler. CHANDLERLY Chan"dler*ly, a. Defn: Like a chandler; in a petty way. [Obs.] Milton. CHANDLERY Chan"dler*y, n. Defn: Commodities sold by a chandler. CHANDOO Chan*doo", n. Defn: An extract or preparation of opium, used in China and India for smoking. Balfour. CHANDRY Chan"dry, n. Defn: Chandlery. [Obs.] "Torches from the chandry." B. Jonson. CHANFRIN Chan"frin, n. Etym: [F. chanfrein. Cf. Chamfron.] Defn: The fore part of a horse's head. CHANGE Change, v. t. [Imp. & p. p. Changed; p. pr. & vb. n. Changing.] Etym: [F. changer, fr. LL. cambiare, to exchange, barter, L. cambire. Cf. Cambial.] 1. To alter; to make different; to cause to pass from one state to another; as, to change the position, character, or appearance of a thing; to change the countenance. Therefore will I change their glory into shame. Hosea. iv. 7. 2. To alter by substituting something else for, or by giving up for something else; as, to change the clothes; to change one's occupation; to change one's intention. They that do change old love for new, Pray gods, they change for worse! Peele. 3. To give and take reciprocally; to exchange; -- followed by with; as, to change place, or hats, or money, with another. Look upon those thousands with whom thou wouldst not, for any interest, change thy fortune and condition. Jer. Taylor. 4. Specifically: To give, or receive, smaller denominations of money (technically called change) for; as, to change a gold coin or a bank bill. He pulled out a thirty-pound note and bid me change it. Goldsmith. To change a horse, or To change hand (Man.), to turn or bear the horse's head from one hand to the other, from the left to right, or from the right to the left. -- To change hands, to change owners. -- To change one's tune, to become less confident or boastful. [Colloq.] -- To change step, to take a break in the regular succession of steps, in marching or walking, as by bringing the hollow of one foot against the heel of the other, and then stepping off with the foot which is in advance. Syn. -- To alter; vary; deviate; substitute; innovate; diversify; shift; veer; turn. See Alter. CHANGE Change, v. i. 1. To be altered; to undergo variation; as, men sometimes change for the better. For I am Lord, I change not. Mal. iii. 6. 2. To pass from one phase to another; as, the moon changes to-morrow night. CHANGE Change, n. Etym: [F. change, fr. changer. See Change. v. t.] 1. Any variation or alteration; a passing from one state or form to another; as, a change of countenance; a change of habits or principles. Apprehensions of a change of dynasty. Hallam. All the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come. Job xiv. 14. 2. A succesion or substitution of one thing in the place of another; a difference; novelty; variety; as, a change of seasons. Our fathers did for change to France repair. Dryden. The ringing grooves of change. Tennyson. 3. A passing from one phase to another; as, a change of the moon. 4. Alteration in the order of a series; permutation. 5. That which makes a variety, or may be substituted for another. Thirty change (R.V. changes) of garments. Judg. xiv. 12. 6. Small money; the money by means of which the larger coins and bank bills are made available in small dealings; hence, the balance returned when payment is tendered by a coin or note exceeding the sum due. 7. Etym: [See Exchange.] Defn: A place where merchants and others meet to transact business; a building appropriated for mercantile transactions. [Colloq. for Exchange.] 8. A public house; an alehouse. [Scot.] They call an alehouse a change. Burt. 9. (Mus.) Defn: Any order in which a number of bells are struck, other than that of the diatonic scale. Four bells admit twenty-four changes in ringing. Holder. Change of life, the period in the life of a woman when menstruation and the capacity for conception cease, usually occurring between forty-five and fifty years of age. -- Change ringing, the continual production,