[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

water is not. Johnson. FIGURAL Fig"ur*al, a. Etym: [From Figure.] 1. Represented by figure or delineation; consisting of figures; as, figural ornaments. Sir T. Browne. 2. (Mus.) Defn: Figurate. See Figurate. Figural numbers. See Figurate numbers, under Figurate. FIGURANT Fig"u*rant` ( or ), n. masc. Etym: [F., prop. p.pr. of figurer figure, represent, make a figure.] Defn: One who dances at the opera, not singly, but in groups or figures; an accessory character on the stage, who figures in its scenes, but has nothing to say; hence, one who figures in any scene, without taking a prominent part. FIGURANTE Fig"u*rante` ( or ), n. fem. Etym: [F.] Defn: A female figurant; esp., a ballet girl. FIGURATE Fig"ur*ate, a. Etym: [L. figuratus, p.p. of figurare. See Figure.] 1. Of a definite form or figure. Plants are all figurate and determinate, which inanimate bodies are not. Bacon. 2. Figurative; metaphorical. [Obs.] Bale. 3. (Mus.) Defn: Florid; figurative; involving passing discords by the freer melodic movement of one or more parts or voices in the harmony; as, figurate counterpoint or descant. Figurate counterpoint or descant (Mus.), that which is not simple, or in which the parts do not move together tone for tone, but in which freer movement of one or more parts mingles passing discords with the harmony; -- called also figural, figurative, and figured counterpoint or descant (although the term figured is more commonly applied to a bass with numerals written above or below to indicate the other notes of the harmony). -- Figurate numbers (Math.), numbers, or series of numbers, formed from any arithmetical progression in which the first term is a unit, and the difference a whole number, by taking the first term, and the sums of the first two, first three, first four, etc., as the successive terms of a new series, from which another may be formed in the same manner, and so on, the numbers in the resulting series being such that points representing them are capable of symmetrical arrangement in different geometrical figures, as triangles, squares, pentagons, etc. Note: In the following example, the two lower lines are composed of figurate numbers, those in the second line being triangular, and represented thus: --. 1, 2, 3, 4, etc. . . . 1, 3, 6, 10, etc. . . . . . . . etc. 1, 4, 10, 20, etc . . . . . . . . . . . . FIGURATED Fig"ur*a`ted, a. Defn: Having a determinate form. FIGURATELY Fig"ur*ate*ly, adv. Defn: In a figurate manner. FIGURATION Fig`u*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. figuratio.] 1. The act of giving figure or determinate form; determination to a certain form. Bacon. 2. (Mus.) Defn: Mixture of concords and discords. FIGURATIVE Fig"ur*a*tive, a. Etym: [L. figurativus: cf. F. figuratif. See Figurative.] 1. Representing by a figure, or by resemblance; typical; representative. This, they will say, was figurative, and served, by God's appointment, but for a time, to shadow out the true glory of a more divine sanctity. Hooker. 2. Used in a sense that is tropical, as a metaphor; not literal; -- applied to words and expressions. 3. Ambounding in figures of speech; flowery; florid; as, a highly figurative description. 4. Relating to the representation of form or figure by drawing, carving, etc. See Figure, n., 2. They belonged to a nation dedicated to the figurative arts, and they wrote for a public familiar with painted form. J. A. Symonds. Figurative counterpointdescant. See under Figurate. -- Fig"ur*a*tive*ly, adv. -- Fig"ur*a*tive*ness, n. FIGURE Fig"ure, n. Etym: [F., figure, L. figura; akin to fingere to form, shape, feign. See Feign.] 1. The form of anything; shape; outline; appearance. Flowers have all exquisite figures. Bacon. 2. The representation of any form, as by drawing, painting, modeling, carving, embroidering, etc.; especially, a representation of the human body; as, a figure in bronze; a figure cut in marble. A coin that bears the figure of an angel. Shak. 3. A pattern in cloth, paper, or other manufactured article; a design wrought out in a fabric; as, the muslin was of a pretty figure. 4. (Geom.) Defn: A diagram or drawing; made to represent a magnitude or the relation of two or more magnitudes; a surface or space inclosed on all sides; -- called superficial when inclosed by lines, and solid when inclosed by surface; any arrangement made up of points, lines, angles, surfaces, etc. 5. The appearance or impression made by the conduct or carrer of a person; as, a sorry figure. I made some figure there. Dryden. Gentlemen of the best figure in the county. Blackstone. 6. Distinguished appearance; magnificence; conspicuous representation; splendor; show. That he may live in figure and indulgence. Law. 7. A character or symbol representing a number; a numeral; a digit; as, 1, 2,3, etc. 8. Value, as expressed in numbers; price; as, the goods are estimated or sold at a low figure. [Colloq.] With nineteen thousand a year at the very lowest figure. Thackeray. 9. A person, thing, or action, conceived of as analogous to another person, thing, or action, of which it thus becomes a type or representative. Who is the figure of Him that was to come. Rom. v. 14. 10. (Rhet.) Defn: A mode of expressing abstract or immaterial ideas by words which suggest pictures or images from the physical world; pictorial language; a trope; hence, any deviation from the plainest form of statement. To represent the imagination under the figure of a wing. Macaulay. 11. (Logic) Defn: The form of a syllogism with respect to the relative position of the middle term. 12. (Dancing) Defn: Any one of the several regular steps or movements made by a dancer. 13. (Astrol.) Defn: A horoscope; the diagram of the aspects of the astrological houses. Johnson. 14. (Music) (a) Any short succession of notes, either as melody or as a group of chords, which produce a single complete and distinct impression. Grove. (b) A form of melody or accompaniment kept up through a strain or passage; a musical or motive; a florid embellishment. Note: Figures are often written upon the staff in music to denote the kind of measure. They are usually in the form of a fraction, the upper figure showing how many notes of the kind indicated by the lower are contained in one measure or bar. Thus, 2/4 signifies that the measure contains two quarter notes. The following are the principal figures used for this purpose: --2/22/42/8 4/22/44/8 3/23/43/8 6/46/46/8 Academy figure, Canceled figures, Lay figure, etc. See under Academy, Cancel, Lay, etc. -- Figure caster, or Figure flinger, an astrologer. This figure caster." Milton. -- Figure flinging, the practice of astrology. -- Figure-of-eight knot, a knot shaped like the figure 8. See Illust. under Knot. -- Figure painting, a picture of the human figure, or the act or art of depicting the human figure. -- Figure stone (Min.), agalmatolite. -- Figure weaving, the art or process of weaving figured fabrics. -- To cut a figure, to make a display. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott. FIGURE Fig"ure, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Figured; p. pr. & vb. n. Figuring.] Etym: [F. figurer, L. figurare, fr. figura. See Figure, n.] 1. To represent by a figure, as to form or mold; to make an image of, either palpable or ideal; also, to fashion into a determinate form; to shape. If love, alas! be pain I bear, No thought can figure, and no tongue declare.Prior. 2. To embellish with design; to adorn with figures. The vaulty top of heaven Figured quite o'er with burning meteors. Shak. 3. To indicate by numerals; also, to compute. As through a crystal glass the figured hours are seen. Dryden. 4. To represent by a metaphor; to signify or symbolize. Whose white vestments figure innocence. Shak. 5. To prefigure; to foreshow. In this the heaven figures some event. Shak. 6. (Mus.) (a) To write over or under the bass, as figures or other characters, in order to indicate the accompanying chords. (b) To embellish. To figure out, to solve; to compute or find the result of. -- To figure up, to add; to reckon; to compute the amount of. FIGURE Fig"ure, v. t. 1. To make a figure; to be distinguished or conspicious; as, the envoy figured at court. Sociable, hospitable, eloquent, admired, figuring away brilliantly. M. Arnold. 2. To calculate; to contrive; to scheme; as, he is figuring to secure the nomination. [Colloq.] FIGURED Fig"ured, a. 1. Adorned with figures; marked with figures; as, figured muslin. 2. Not literal; figurative. [Obs.] Locke. 3. (Mus.) (a) Free and florid; as, a figured descant. See Figurate, 3. (b) Indicated or noted by figures. Figured bass. See Continued bass, under Continued. FIGUREHEAD Fig"ure*head`, n. 1. (Naut.) Defn: The figure, statue, or bust, on the prow of a ship. 2. A person who allows his name to be used to give standing to enterprises in which he has no responsible interest or duties; a nominal, but not real, head or chief. FIGURIAL Fi*gu"ri*al, a.