[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

atom. -- Vortex wheel, a kind of turbine. VORTEX FILAMENT Vor"tex fil"a*ment. Defn: A vortex tube of infinitesimal cross section. VORTEX FRINGE Vor"tex fringe. Defn: The region immediately surrounding a disk moving flatwise through air; -- so called because the air has a cyclic motion as in vortex ring. VORTEX LINE Vortex line. Defn: A line, within a rotating fluid, whose tangent at every point is the instantaneous axis of rotation as that point of the fluid. VORTEX RING Vortex ring. (Physics) Defn: A ring-shaped mass of moving fluid which, by virtue of its motion of rotation around an axis disposed in circular form, attains a more or less distinct separation from the surrounding medium and has many of the properties of a solid. VORTEX THEORY Vortex theory. (Chem. & Physics) Defn: The theory, advanced by Thomson (Lord Kelvin) on the basis of investigation by Helmholtz, that the atoms are vortically moving ring-shaped masses (or masses of other forms having a similar internal motion) of a homogeneous, incompressible, frictionless fluid. Various properties of such atoms (vortex atoms) can be mathematically deduced. VORTEX TUBE Vortex tube. (Physics) Defn: An imaginary tube within a rotating fluid, formed by drawing the vortex lines through all points of a closed curve. VORTICAL Vor"ti*cal, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a vortex or vortexes; resembling a vortex in form or motion; whirling; as, a vortical motion. -- Vor"ti*cal*ly, adv. VORTICEL Vor"ti*cel, n. Etym: [Cf. F. vorticelle. See Vortex.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A vorticella. VORTICELLA Vor`ti*cel"la, n.; pl. E. Vorticellas (, L. Vorticellæ (. Etym: [NL., dim. fr. L. vortex. See Vortex.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of ciliated Infusoria belonging to Vorticella and many other genera of the family Vorticellidæ. They have a more or less bell-shaped body with a circle of vibrating cilia around the oral disk. Most of the species have slender, contractile stems, either simple or branched. VORTICOSE Vor"ti*cose`, a. Etym: [L. vorticosus.] Defn: Vortical; whirling; as, a vorticose motion. VORTIGINOUS Vor*tig"i*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. Vertiginous.] Defn: Moving rapidly round a center; vortical. [R.] Cowper. VOTARESS Vo"ta*ress, n. Etym: [See Votary, n.] Defn: A woman who is a votary. Shak. VOTARIST Vo"ta*rist, n. Etym: [See Votary.] Defn: A votary. Like a sad votarist in palmer's weed. Milton. VOTARY Vo"ta*ry, a. Etym: [From L. votus, p. p. vovere to vow, to devote. See Vote, Vow.] Defn: Consecrated by a vow or promise; consequent on a vow; devoted; promised. Votary resolution is made equipollent to custom. Bacon. VOTARY Vo"ta*ry, n.; pl. Votaries (. Defn: One devoted, consecrated, or engaged by a vow or promise; hence, especially, one devoted, given, or addicted, to some particular service, worship, study, or state of life. "You are already love's firm votary." Shak. 'T was coldness of the votary, not the prayer, that was in fault. Bp. Fell. But thou, my votary, weepest thou Emerson. VOTE Vote, n. Etym: [L. votum a vow, wish, will, fr. vovere, votum, to vow: cf. F. vote. See Vow.] 1. An ardent wish or desire; a vow; a prayer. [Obs.] Massinger. 2. A wish, choice, or opinion, of a person or a body of persons, expressed in some received and authorized way; the expression of a wish, desire, will, preference, or choice, in regard to any measure proposed, in which the person voting has an interest in common with others, either in electing a person to office, or in passing laws, rules, regulations, etc.; suffrage. 3. That by means of which will or preference is expressed in elections, or in deciding propositions; voice; a ballot; a ticket; as, a written vote. The freeman casting with unpurchased hand The vote that shakes the turrets of the land. Holmes. 4. Expression of judgment or will by a majority; legal decision by some expression of the minds of a number; as, the vote was unanimous; a vote of confidence. 5. Votes, collectively; as, the Tory vote; the labor vote. Casting vote, Cumulative vote, etc. See under Casting, Cumulative, etc. VOTE Vote, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Voted; p. pr. & vb. n. Voting.] Etym: [Cf. F. voter.] Defn: To express or signify the mind, will, or preference, either viva voce, or by ballot, or by other authorized means, as in electing persons to office, in passing laws, regulations, etc., or in deciding on any proposition in which one has an interest with others. The vote for a duelist is to assist in the prostration of justice, and, indirectly, to encourage the crime. L. Beecher. To vote on large principles, to vote honestly, requires a great amount of information. F. W. Robertson. VOTE Vote, v. t. 1. To choose by suffrage; to elecas, to vote a candidate into office. 2. To enact, establish, grant, determine, etc., by a formal vote; as, the legislature voted the resolution. Parliament voted them one hundred thousand pounds. Swift. 3. To declare by general opinion or common consent, as if by a vote; as, he was voted a bore. [Colloq.] 4. To condemn; to devote; to doom. [Obs.] Glanvill. VOTER Vot"er, n. Defn: One who votes; one who has a legal right to vote, or give his suffrage; an elector; a suffragist; as, as, an independent voter. VOTING Vot"ing, Defn: a. & n. from Vote, v. Voting paper, a form of ballot containing the names of more candidates than there are offices to be filled, the voter making a mark against the preferred names. [Eng.] VOTIST Vot"ist, n. Defn: One who makes a vow. [Obs.] Chapman. VOTIVE Vo"tive, a. Etym: [L. votivus, fr. votum a vow: cf. F. votif. See Vow.] Defn: Given by vow, or in fulfillment of a vow; consecrated by a vow; devoted; as, votive offerings; a votive tablet. "Votive incense." Keble. We reached a votive stone, that bears the name Of Aloys Reding. Wordsworth. Embellishments of flowers and votive garlands. Motley. Votive medal, a medal struck in grateful commemoration of some auspicious event. -- Votive offering, an offering in fulfillment of a religious vow, as of one's person or property. -- Vo"tive*ly, adv. -- Vo"tive*ness, n. VOTRESS Vo"tress, n. Defn: A votaress. Dryden. VOUCH Vouch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Vouched; p. pr. & vb. n. Vouching.] Etym: [OE. vouchen, OF. vochier to call, fr. L. vocare to call, fr. vox, vocis, voice. See Voice, and cf. Avouch.] 1. To call; to summon. [Obs.] [They] vouch (as I might say) to their aid the authority of the writers. Sir T. Elyot. 2. To call upon to witness; to obtest. Vouch the silent stars and conscious moon. Dryden. 3. To warrant; to maintain by affirmations; to attest; to affirm; to avouch. They made him ashamed to vouch the truth of the relation, and afterwards to credit it. Atterbury. 4. To back; to support; to confirm; to establish. Me damp horror chilled At such bold words vouched with a deed so bold. Milton. 5. (Law) Defn: To call into court to warrant and defend, or to make good a warranty of title. He vouches the tenant in tail, who vouches over the common vouchee. Blackstone. Syn. -- To obtest; declare; affirm; attest; warrant; confirm; asseverate; aver; protest; assure. VOUCH Vouch, v. i. 1. To bear witness; to give testimony or full attestation. He will not believe her until the elector of Hanover shall vouch for the truth of what she has . . . affirmed. Swift. 2. To assert; to aver; to declare. Shak. VOUCH Vouch, n. Defn: Warrant; attestation. [Obs.] The vouch of very malice itself. Shak. VOUCHEE Vouch*ee", n. (Law) Defn: The person who is vouched, or called into court to support or make good his warranty of title in the process of common recovery. Blackstone. VOUCHER Vouch"er, n. 1. One who vouches, or gives witness or full attestation, to anything. Will his vouchers vouch him no more Shak. The great writers of that age stand up together as vouchers for one another's reputation. Spectator. 2. A book, paper, or document which serves to vouch the truth of accounts, or to confirm and establish facts of any kind; also, any acquittance or receipt showing the payment of a debt; as, the merchant's books are his vouchers for the correctness of his accounts; notes, bonds, receipts, and other writings, are used as vouchers in proving facts. 3. (Law) (a) The act of calling in a person to make good his warranty of title in the old form of action for the recovery of lands. (b) The tenant in a writ of right; one who calls in another to establish his warranty of title. In common recoveries, there may be a single voucher or double vouchers. Blackstone. VOUCHMENT Vouch"ment, n. Defn: A solemn assertion. [R.] VOUCHOR Vouchor, n. (Law) Defn: Same as Voucher, 3 (b). VOUCHSAFE Vouch*safe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Vouchsafed; p. pr. & vb. n. Vouchsafing.] Etym: [Vouch + safe, that is, to vouch or answer for safety.] 1. To condescend to grant; to concede; to bestow. If ye vouchsafe that it be