[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

-- Quarter cloths (Naut.), long pieces of painted canvas, used to cover the quarter netting. -- Quarter day, a day regarded as terminating a quarter of the year; hence, one on which any payment, especially rent, becomes due. In matters influenced by United States statutes, quarter days are the first days of January, April, July, and October. In New York and many other places, as between landlord and tenant, they are the first days of May, August, November, and February. The quarter days usually recognized in England are 25th of March (Lady Day), the 24th of June (Midsummer Day), the 29th of September (Michaelmas Day), and the 25th of December (Christmas Day). -- Quarter face, in fine arts, portrait painting, etc., a face turned away so that but one quarter is visible. -- Quarter gallery (Naut.), a balcony on the quarter of a ship. See Gallery, 4. -- Quarter gunner (Naut.), a petty officer who assists the gunner. -- Quarter look, a side glance. [Obs.] B. Jonson. -- Quarter nettings (Naut.), hammock nettings along the quarter rails. -- Quarter note (Mus.), a note equal in duration to half a minim or a fourth of semibreve; a crochet. -- Quarter pieces (Naut.), several pieces of timber at the after- part of the quarter gallery, near the taffrail. Totten. -- Quarter point. (Naut.) See Quarter, n., 1 (n). -- Quarter railing, or Quarter rails (Naut.), narrow molded planks reaching from the top of the stern to the gangway, serving as a fence to the quarter-deck. -- Quarter sessions (Eng. Law), a general court of criminal jurisdiction held quarterly by the justices of peace in counties and by the recorders in boroughs. -- Quarter square (Math.), the fourth part of the square of a number. Tables of quarter squares have been devised to save labor in multiplying numbers. -- Quarter turn, Quarter turn belt (Mach.), an arrangement in which a belt transmits motion between two shafts which are at right angles with each other. -- Quarter watch (Naut.), a subdivision of the full watch (one fourth of the crew) on a man-of- war. -- To give, or show, quarter (Mil.), to accept as prisoner, on submission in battle; to forbear to kill, as a vanquished enemy. -- To keep quarter. See Quarter, n., 3. QUARTER Quar"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quartered; p. pr. & vb. n. Quartering.] 1. To divide into four equal parts. 2. To divide; to separate into parts or regions. Then sailors quartered heaven. Dryden. 3. To furnish with shelter or entertainment; to supply with the means of living for a time; especially, to furnish shelter to; as, to quarter soldiers. They mean this night in Sardis to be quartered. Shak. 4. To furnish as a portion; to allot. [R.] This isle . . . He quarters to his blue-haired deities. Milton. 5. (Her.) Defn: To arrange (different coats of arms) upon one escutcheon, as when a man inherits from both father and mother the right to bear arms. Note: When only two coats of arms are so combined they are arranged in four compartments. See Quarter, n., 1 (f). QUARTER Quar"ter, v. i. Defn: To lodge; to have a temporary residence. QUARTER Quar"ter, v. i. Etym: [F. cartayer.] Defn: To drive a carriage so as to prevent the wheels from going into the ruts, or so that a rut shall be between the wheels. Every creature that met us would rely on us for quartering. De Quincey. QUARTERAGE Quar"ter*age, n. Defn: A quarterly allowance. QUARTER-DECK Quar"ter-deck`, n. (Naut.) Defn: That part of the upper deck abaft the mainmast, including the poop deck when there is one. Note: The quarter-deck is reserved as a promenade for the officers and (in passenger vessels) for the cabin passengers. QUARTERED Quar"tered, a. 1. Divided into four equal parts or quarters; separated into four parts or regions. 2. Furnished with quarters; provided with shelter or entertainment. 3. Quarter-sawed; -- said of timber, commonly oak. QUARTERFOIL Quar"ter*foil`, n. Etym: [Quarier + foil: cf. F. quatre.] (Arch.) Defn: An ornamental foliation having four lobes, or foils. QUARTERHUNG Quar"ter*hung`, a. (Ordnance) Defn: Having trunnions the axes of which lie below the bore; -- said of a cannon. QUARTERING Quar"ter*ing, a. 1. (Naut.) Defn: Coming from a point well abaft the beam, but not directly astern; -- said of waves or any moving object. 2. (Mach.) Defn: At right angles, as the cranks of a locomotive, which are in planes forming a right angle with each other. QUARTERING Quar"ter*ing, n. 1. A station. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu. 2. Assignment of quarters for soldiers; quarters. 3. (Her.) (a) The division of a shield containing different coats of arms into four or more compartments. (b) One of the different coats of arms arranged upon an escutcheon, denoting the descent of the bearer. 4. (Arch.) Defn: A series of quarters, or small upright posts. See Quarter, n., 1 (m) (Arch.) Gwilt. Quartering block, a block on which the body of a condemned criminal was quartered. Macaulay. QUARTERLY Quar"ter*ly, a. 1. Containing, or consisting of, a fourth part; as, quarterly seasons. 2. Recurring during, or at the end of, each quarter; as, quarterly payments of rent; a quarterly meeting. QUARTERLY Quar"ter*ly, n.; pl. Quarterlies (. Defn: A periodical work published once a quarter, or four times in a year. QUARTERLY Quar"ter*ly, adv. 1. By quarters; once in a quarter of a year; as, the returns are made quarterly. 2. (Her.) Defn: In quarters, or quarterings; as, to bear arms quarterly; in four or more parts; -- said of a shield thus divided by lines drawn through it at right angles. QUARTERMASTER Quar"ter*mas`ter, n. Etym: [Quarter + master: cf. F. quartier- maître.] 1. (Mil.) Defn: An officer whose duty is to provide quarters, provisions, storage, clothing, fuel, stationery, and transportation for a regiment or other body of troops, and superintend the supplies. 2. (Naut.) Defn: A petty officer who attends to the helm, binnacle, signals, and the like, under the direction of the master. Totten. Quartermaster general (Mil.), in the United States a staff officer, who has the rank of brigadier general and is the chief officer in the quartermaster's department; in England, an officer of high rank stationed at the War Office having similar duties; also, a staff officer, usually a general officer, accompanying each complete army in the field. -- Quartermaster sergeant. See Sergeant. QUARTERN Quar"tern, n.Etym: [OE. quarteroun, quartron, F. quarteron, the fourth part of a pound, or of a hundred; cf. L. quartarius a fourth part, quarter of any measure, quartern, gill. See Quarter, and cf. Quarteron, Quadroon.] 1. A quarter. Specifically: (a) The fourth part of a pint; a gill. (b) The fourth part of a peck, or of a stone (14 ibs.). 2. A loaf of bread weighing about four pounds; -- called also quartern loaf. Simmonds. QUARTERON Quar"ter*on, n. Etym: [F. See Quartern.] Defn: A quarter; esp., a quarter of a pound, or a quarter of a hundred. Piers Plowman. QUARTERON; QUARTEROON Quar"ter*on, Quar"ter*oon, n. Defn: A quadroon. QUARTERPACE Quar"ter*pace`, n. (Arch.) Defn: A platform of a staircase where the stair turns at a right angle only. See Halfpace. QUARTER ROUND Quar"ter round`. (Arch.) Defn: An ovolo. QUARTER-SAW Quar"ter-saw`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quarter-sawed -sawn; p. pr. & vb. n. Quarter-sawing.] Defn: To saw (a log) into quarters; specif., to saw into quarters and then into boards, as by cutting alternately from each face of a quarter, to secure lumber that will warp relatively little or show the grain advantageously. QUARTERSTAFF Quar"ter*staff`, n.; pl. Quarterstaves (. Defn: A long and stout staff formerly used as a weapon of defense and offense; -- so called because in holding it one hand was placed in the middle, and the other between the middle and the end. QUARTET; QUARTETTE Quar*tet", Quar*tette", n. Etym: [It. quartetto, dim. of quarto the fourth, a fourth part, fr. L. quartus the fourth. See Quart.] 1. (Mus.) (a) A composition in four parts, each performed by a single voice or instrument. (b) The set of four person who perform a piece of music in four parts. 2. (Poet.) Defn: A stanza of four lines. QUARTIC Quar"tic, a. Etym: [L.quartus fourth.] (Mach.) Defn: Of the fourth degree. QUARTIC Quar"tic, n. (a) (Alg.) A quantic of the fourth degree. See Quantic. (b) (Geom.) A curve or surface whose equation is of the fourth degree in the variables. QUARTILE Quar"tile, n. Etym: [F.quartile aspect, fr. L. quartus the fourth. See Quart.] (Astrol.) Defn: Same as Quadrate. QUARTINE Quar"tine, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. quartus the fourth.] (Bot.) Defn: A supposed fourth integument of an ovule, counting from the outside. QUARTO Quar"to, a. Etym: [L. in quarto in fourth, from quartus the fourth: cf. F. (in) quarto. See Quart.] Defn: Having four leaves to the sheet; of the form or size of a quarto. QUARTO Quar"to, n.; pl. Quartos (. Defn: Originally, a book of the size of the fourth of sheet of printing paper;