[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a kind of wartwort (Euphorbia Helioscopia). WARTED Wart"ed, a. (Bot.) Defn: Having little knobs on the surface; verrucose; as, a warted capsule. WART HOG Wart" hog`. (Zoöl.) Defn: Either one of two species of large, savage African wild hogs of the genus Phacochoerus. These animals have a pair of large, rough, fleshy tubercles behind the tusks and second pair behind the eyes. The tusks are large and strong, and both pairs curve upward. The body is scantily covered with bristles, but there is long dorsal mane. The South African species (Phacochoerus Æthiopicus) is the best known. Called also vlacke vark. The second species (P. Æliani) is native of the coasts of the Red Sea. WARTLESS Wart"less, a. Defn: Having no wart. WARTWEED Wart"weed`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Same as Wartwort. WARTWORT Wart"wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A name given to several plants because they were thought to be a cure for warts, as a kind of spurge (Euphorbia Helioscopia), and the nipplewort (Lampsana communis). WARTY Wart"y, a. 1. Having warts; full of warts; overgrow with warts; as, a warty leaf. 2. Of the nature of warts; as, a warty excrescence. Warty egg (Zoöl.), a marine univalve shell (Ovulum verrucosum), having the surface covered with wartlike elevations. WARTY-BACK Wart"y-back`, n. Defn: An American fresh-water mussel (Quadrula pustulosa). Its shell is used in making buttons. WARWICKITE War"wick*ite, n. (Min.) Defn: A dark brown or black mineral, occurring in prismatic crystals imbedded in limestone near Warwick, New York. It consists of the borate and titanate of magnesia and iron. WARWORN War"worn`, a. Defn: Worn with military service; as, a warworn soldier; a warworn coat. Shak. WARY Wa"ry, a. [Compar. Warier; superl. Wariest.] Etym: [OE. war, AS. wær; akin to Icel. v, Dan. & Sw. var, Goth. wars, G. gewahr aware, OHG. wara notice, attention, Gr. Aware, Garment, Garnish, Garrison, Panorama, Ward, v. t. Ware, a., Warren.] 1. Cautious of danger; carefully watching and guarding against deception, artifices, and dangers; timorously or suspiciously prudent; circumspect; scrupulous; careful. "Bear a wary eye." Shak. We should be wary, therefore, what persecution we raise against the living labors of public men. Milton. 2. Characterized by caution; guarded; careful. It behoveth our words to be wary and few. Hooker. Syn. -- Cautious; circumspect; watchful. See Cautious. WARYE War"ye, v. t. Etym: [AS. wergian, wyrgean. Cf. Worry.] Defn: To curse; to curse; to execrate; to condemn; also, to vex. [Obs.] [Spelled also warrie, warry, and wary.] "Whom I thus blame and warye." Chaucer. WAS Was. Etym: [AS. wæs, 2d pers. wære, 3d pers. wæs, pl. wæron, with the inf. wesan to be; akin to D. wezen, imp. was, OHG. wesan, imp. was, G. wesen, n., a being, essence, war was, Icel. vera to be, imp. var, Goth. wisan to be, to dwell, to remain, imp. was, Skr. vas to remain, to dwell. sq. root148. Cf. Vernacular, Wassail, Were, v.] Defn: The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. WASE Wase, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. vase a sheaf.] Defn: A bundle of straw, or other material, to relieve the pressure of burdens carried upon the head. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. WASH Wash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Washed; p. pr. & vb. n. Washing.] Etym: [OE. waschen, AS. wascan; akin to D. wasschen, G. waschen, OHG. wascan, Icel. & Sw. vaska, Dan. vaske, and perhaps to E. water. sq. root150.] 1. To cleanse by ablution, or dipping or rubbing in water; to apply water or other liquid to for the purpose of cleansing; to scrub with water, etc., or as with water; as, to wash the hands or body; to wash garments; to wash sheep or wool; to wash the pavement or floor; to wash the bark of trees. When Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing, . . . he took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. Matt. xxvii. 24. 2. To cover with water or any liquid; to wet; to fall on and moisten; hence, to overflow or dash against; as, waves wash the shore. Fresh-blown roses washed with dew. Milton. [The landscape] washed with a cold, gray mist. Longfellow. 3. To waste or abrade by the force of water in motion; as, heavy rains wash a road or an embankment. 4. To remove by washing to take away by, or as by, the action of water; to drag or draw off as by the tide; -- often with away, off, out, etc.; as, to wash dirt from the hands. Arise, and be baptized, and wash away thy sins. Acts xxii. 16. The tide will wash you off. Shak. 5. To cover with a thin or watery coat of color; to tint lightly and thinly. 6. To overlay with a thin coat of metal; as, steel washed with silver. To wash gold, etc., to treat earth or gravel, or crushed ore, with water, in order to separate the gold or other metal, or metallic ore, through their superior gravity. -- To wash the hands of. See under Hand. WASH Wash, v. i. 1. To perform the act of ablution. Wash in Jordan seven times. 2 Kings v. 10. 2. To clean anything by rubbing or dipping it in water; to perform the business of cleansing clothes, ore, etc., in water. "She can wash and scour." Shak. 3. To bear without injury the operation of being washed; as, some calicoes do not wash. [Colloq.] 4. To be wasted or worn away by the action of water, as by a running or overflowing stream, or by the dashing of the sea; -- said of road, a beach, etc. WASH Wash, n. 1. The act of washing; an ablution; a cleansing, wetting, or dashing with water; hence, a quantity, as of clothes, washed at once. 2. A piece of ground washed by the action of a sea or river, or sometimes covered and sometimes left dry; the shallowest part of a river, or arm of the sea; also, a bog; a marsh; a fen; as, the washes in Lincolnshire. "The Wash of Edmonton so gay." Cowper. These Lincoln washes have devoured them. Shak. 3. Substances collected and deposited by the action of water; as, the wash of a sewer, of a river, etc. The wash of pastures, fields, commons, and roads, where rain water hath a long time settled. Mortimer. 4. Waste liquid, the refuse of food, the collection from washed dishes, etc., from a kitchen, often used as food for pigs. Shak. 5. (Distilling) (a) The fermented wort before the spirit is extracted. (b) A mixture of dunder, molasses, water, and scummings, used in the West Indies for distillation. B. Edwards. 6. That with which anything is washed, or wetted, smeared, tinted, etc., upon the surface. Specifically: -- (a) A liquid cosmetic for the complexion. (b) A liquid dentifrice. (c) A liquid preparation for the hair; as, a hair wash. (d) A medical preparation in a liquid form for external application; a lotion. (e) (Painting) A thin coat of color, esp. water color. (j) A thin coat of metal laid on anything for beauty or preservation. 7. (Naut.) (a) The blade of an oar, or the thin part which enters the water. (b) The backward current or disturbed water caused by the action of oars, or of a steamer's screw or paddles, etc. 8. The flow, swash, or breaking of a body of water, as a wave; also, the sound of it. 9. Ten strikes, or bushels, of oysters. [Prov. Eng.] Wash ball, a ball of soap to be used in washing the hands or face. Swift. -- Wash barrel (Fisheries), a barrel nearly full of split mackerel, loosely put in, and afterward filled with salt water in order to soak the blood from the fish before salting. -- Wash bottle. (Chem.) (a) A bottle partially filled with some liquid through which gases are passed for the purpose of purifying them, especially by removing soluble constituents. (b) A washing bottle. See under Washing. -- Wash gilding. See Water gilding. -- Wash leather, split sheepskin dressed with oil, in imitation of chamois, or shammy, and used for dusting, cleaning glass or plate, etc.; also, alumed, or buff, leather for soldiers' belts. WASH Wash, a. 1 Defn: Washy; weak. [Obs.] Their bodies of so weak and wash a temper. Beau. & Fl. 2. Capable of being washed without injury; washable; as, wash goods. [Colloq.] WASHABLE Wash"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being washed without damage to fabric or color. WASHBOARD Wash"board`, n. 1. A fluted, or ribbed, board on which clothes are rubbed in washing them. 2. A board running round, and serving as a facing for, the walls of a room, next to the floor; a mopboard. 3. (Naut.) Defn: A broad, thin plank, fixed along the gunwale of boat to keep the sea from breaking inboard; also, a plank on the sill of a lower deck