[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

-- Wood titmouse (Zoöl.), the goldcgest. -- Wood tortoise (Zoöl.), the sculptured tortoise. See under Sculptured. -- Wood vine (Bot.), the white bryony. -- Wood vinegar. See Wood acid, above. -- Wood warbler. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of numerous species of American warblers of the genus Dendroica. See Warbler. (b) A European warbler (Phylloscopus sibilatrix); -- called also green wren, wood wren, and yellow wren. -- Wood worm (Zoöl.), a larva that bores in wood; a wood borer. -- Wood wren. (Zoöl.) (a) The wood warbler. (b) The willow warbler. WOOD Wood, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wooded; p. pr. & vb. n. Wooding.] Defn: To supply with wood, or get supplies of wood for; as, to wood a steamboat or a locomotive. WOOD Wood, v. i. Defn: To take or get a supply of wood. WOODBIND Wood"bind`, n. Defn: Woodbine. Dryden. A garland . . . of woodbind or hawthorn leaves. Chaucer. WOODBINE Wood"bine`, n. Etym: [AS. wudubind black ivy; -- so named as binding about trees. See Wood, and Bind, v. t.] (Bot.) (a) A climbing plant having flowers of great fragrance (Lonicera Periclymenum); the honeysuckle. (b) The Virginia creeper. See Virginia creeper, under Virginia. [Local, U. S.] Beatrice, who even now Is couched in the woodbine coverture. Shak. WOOD-BOUND Wood"-bound`, a. Defn: Incumbered with tall, woody hedgerows. WOODBURY-TYPE Wood"bur*y-type`, n. Etym: [After the name of the inventor, W. Woodbury.] 1. A process in photographic printing, in which a relief pattern in gelatin, which has been hardened after certain operations, is pressed upon a plate of lead or other soft metal. An intaglio impression in thus produced, from which pictures may be directly printed, but by a slower process than in common printing. 2. A print from such a plate. WOODCHAT Wood"chat`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of Asiatic singing birds belonging to the genera Ianthia and Larvivora. They are closely allied to the European robin. The males are usually bright blue above, and more or less red or rufous beneath. (b) A European shrike (Enneoctonus rufus). In the male the head and nape are rufous red; the back, wings, and tail are black, varied with white. WOODCHUCK Wood"chuck`, n. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A common large North American marmot (Arctomys monax). It is usually reddish brown, more or less grizzled with gray. It makes extensive burrows, and is often injurious to growing crops. Called also ground hog. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The yaffle, or green woodpecker. [Prov. Eng.] WOODCOCK Wood"cock`, n. Etym: [AS. wuducoc.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of long-billed limicoline birds belonging to the genera Scolopax and Philohela. They are mostly nocturnal in their habits, and are highly esteemed as game birds. Note: The most important species are the European (Scolopax rusticola) and the American woodcock (Philohela minor), which agree very closely in appearance and habits. 2. Fig.: A simpleton. [Obs.] If I loved you not, I would laugh at you, and see you Run your neck into the noose, and cry, "A woodcock!" Beau. & Fl. Little woodcock. (a) The common American snipe. (b) The European snipe. -- Sea woodcock fish, the bellows fish. -- Woodcock owl, the short-eared owl (Asio brachyotus). -- Woodcock shell, the shell of certain mollusks of the genus Murex, having a very long canal, with or without spines. -- Woodcock snipe. See under Snipe. WOODCRACKER Wood"crack`er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The nuthatch. [Prov. Eng.] WOODCRAFT Wood"craft`, n. Defn: Skill and practice in anything pertaining to the woods, especially in shooting, and other sports in the woods. Men of the glade and forest! leave Your woodcraft for the field of fight. Bryant. WOODCUT Wood"cut`, n. Defn: An engraving on wood; also, a print from it. Same as Wood cut, under Wood. WOODCUTTER Wood"cut`ter, n. 1. A person who cuts wood. 2. An engraver on wood. [R.] WOODCUTTING Wood"cut`ting, n. 1. The act or employment of cutting wood or timber. 2. The act or art of engraving on wood. [R.] WOODED Wood"ed, a. Defn: Supplied or covered with wood, or trees; as, land wooded and watered. The brook escaped from the eye down a deep and wooded dell. Sir W. Scott. WOODEN Wood"en, a. 1. Made or consisting of wood; pertaining to, or resembling, wood; as, a wooden box; a wooden leg; a wooden wedding. 2. Clumsy; awkward; ungainly; stiff; spiritless. When a bold man is out of countenance, he makes a very wooden figure on it. Collier. His singing was, I confess, a little wooden. G. MacDonald. Wooden spoon. (a) (Cambridge University, Eng.) The last junior optime who takes a university degree, -- denoting one who is only fit to stay at home and stir porridge. "We submit that a wooden spoon of our day would not be justified in calling Galileo and Napier blockheads because they never heard of the differential calculus." Macaulay. (b) In some American colleges, the lowest appointee of the junior year; sometimes, one especially popular in his class, without reference to scholarship. Formerly, it was a custom for classmates to present to this person a wooden spoon with formal ceremonies. -- Wooden ware, a general name for buckets, bowls, and other articles of domestic use, made of wood. -- Wooden wedding. See under Wedding. WOODENLY Wood"en*ly, adv. Defn: Clumsily; stupidly; blockishly. R. North. WOODENNESS Wood"en*ness, n. Defn: Quality of being wooden; clumsiness; stupidity; blockishness. We set our faces against the woodenness which then characterized German philology. Sweet. WOOD GUM Wood gum. (Chem.) Defn: Xylan. WOODHACK; WOODHACKER Wood"hack`, Wood"hack`er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The yaffle. [Prov. Eng.] WOODHEWER Wood"hew`er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A woodpecker. WOODHOLE Wood"hole`, n. Defn: A place where wood is stored. WOODHOUSE Wood"house`, n. Defn: A house or shed in which wood is stored, and sheltered from the weather. WOOD HYACINTH Wood hyacinth. Defn: A European squill (Scilla nonscripta) having a scape bearing a raceme of drooping blue, purple, white, or sometimes pink, bell- shaped flowers. WOODINESS Wood"i*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being woody. Evelyn. WOODKNACKER Wood"knack`er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The yaffle. WOODLAND Wood"land, n. Defn: Land covered with wood or trees; forest; land on which trees are suffered to grow, either for fuel or timber. Here hills and vales, the woodland and the plain, Here earth and water seem to strive again. Pope. Woodlands and cultivated fields are harmoniously blended. Bancroft. WOODLAND Wood"land, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to woods or woodland; living in the forest; sylvan. She had a rustic, woodland air. Wordsworth. Like summer breeze by woodland stream. Keble. Woodland caribou. (Zoöl.) See under Caribou. WOODLANDER Wood"land*er, n. Defn: A dweller in a woodland. WOOD-LAYER Wood"-lay`er, n. (Bot.) Defn: A young oak, or other timber plant, laid down in a hedge among the whitethorn or other plants used in hedges. WOODLESS Wood"less, a. Defn: Having no wood; destitute of wood. Mitford. -- Wood"less*ness, n. WOODLY Wood"ly, adv. Defn: In a wood, mad, or raving manner; madly; furiously. [Obs.] Chaucer. WOODMAN Wood"man, n.; pl. Woodmen (. [Written also woodsman.] 1. A forest officer appointed to take care of the king's woods; a forester. [Eng.] 2. A sportsman; a hunter. [The duke] is a better woodman than thou takest him for. Shak. 3. One who cuts down trees; a woodcutter. Woodman, spare that tree. G. P. Morris. 4. One who dwells in the woods or forest; a bushman. WOODMEIL Wood"meil, n. Defn: See Wadmol. WOODMONGER Wood"mon`ger, n. Defn: A wood seller. [Obs.] WOODNESS Wood"ness, n. Etym: [From Wood mad.] Defn: Anger; madness; insanity; rage. [Obs.] Spenser. Woodness laughing in his rage. Chaucer. WOOD-NOTE Wood"-note`, n. Etym: [Wood, n. + note.] Defn: A wild or natural note, as of a forest bird. [R.] Or sweetest Shakespeare, fancy's child, Warble his native wood-notes wild. Milton. WOOD PARTRIDGE Wood partridge. (a) Any of several small partridges of Java, Sumatra, Borneo, and neighboring regions belonging to the genera Caloperdix, Rollulus, and Melanoperdix. (b) The Canada grouse. [Local, U. S.] WOODPECK Wood"peck`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A woodpecker. [Obs.] WOODPECKER Wood"peck`er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of scansorial birds belonging to Picus and many allied genera of the family Picidæ. Note: These birds have the tail feathers pointed and rigid at the tip to aid in climbing, and a strong chisellike bill with which they are able to drill holes in the bark and wood of trees in search of insect larvæ upon which most of the species feed. A few species feed partly upon the sap of trees (see Sap sucker, under Sap), others spend a portion of their time on the ground in search of ants and other insects. The most common European species are the greater spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus major), the lesser spotted woodpecker (D. minor), and the green woodpecker, or yaffle (see Yaffle). The best- known American species are the pileated woodpecker (see under Pileated), the ivory-billed woodpecker (Campephilus principalis), which is one of the largest known species, the red-headed woodpecker, or red-head (Melanerpes erythrocephalus), the red-bellied woodpecker (M. Carolinus) (see Chab), the superciliary woodpecker