[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

work raised in front of the main wall. [Written also vaimure, and vamure.] Camden. VAUQUELINITE Vauque"lin*ite, n. Etym: [So called after the French chemist Vauquelin, who died in 1829: cf. F. vauquelinite.] (Min.) Defn: Chromate of copper and lead, of various shades of green. VAUT Vaut, v. i. Defn: To vault; to leap. [Obs.] Spenser. VAUT Vaut, n. Defn: A vault; a leap. [Obs.] Spenser. VAUTY Vaut"y, a. Defn: Vaulted. "The haughty vauty welkin." [Obs.] Taylor (1611). VAVASOR Vav"a*sor, n. Etym: [OE. vavasour, OF. vavassor, vavassour, F. vavasseur, LL. vavassor, probably contr. from vassus vassorum vassal of the vassals. See Vassal.] (Feud. Law) Defn: The vassal or tenant of a baron; one who held under a baron, and who also had tenants under him; one in dignity next to a baron; a title of dignity next to a baron. Burrill. "A worthy vavasour." Chaucer. [Also written vavasour, vavassor, valvasor, etc.] Vavasours subdivide again to vassals, exchanging land and cattle, human or otherwise, against fealty. Motley. VAVASORY Vav"a*so*ry, n. Etym: [F. vavassorie.] (Feud. Law) Defn: The quality or tenure of the fee held by a vavasor; also, the lands held by a vavasor. VAWARD Va"ward`, n. Etym: [For vanward, equivalent to vanguard. See Vanguard, Ward guard.] Defn: The fore part; van. [Obs.] Since we have the vaward of the day. Shak. VAZA PARROT Va"za par`rot. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of parrots of the genus Coracopsis, native of Madagascar; -- called also vasa parrot. VEADAR Ve"a*dar, n. Defn: The thirteenth, or intercalary, month of the Jewish ecclesiastical calendar, which is added about every third year. VEAL Veal, n.Etym: [OE. veel, OF. veel, F. veau, L. vitellus, dim. of vitulus a calf; akin to E. wether. See Wether, and cf. Vellum, Vituline.] Defn: The flesh of a calf when killed and used for food. VECTION Vec"tion, n. Etym: [L. vectio, from vehere, vectum, to carry.] Defn: Vectitation. [Obs.] VECTITATION Vec`ti*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. vectitatus bornve, v. intens. fr. vehere, vectum, to carry.] Defn: The act of carrying, or state of being carried. [Obs.] VECTOR Vec"tor, n. Etym: [L., a bearer, carrier. fr. vehere, vectum, to carry.] 1. Same as Radius vector. 2. (Math.) Defn: A directed quantity, as a straight line, a force, or a velocity. Vectors are said to be equal when their directions are the same their magnitudes equal. Cf. Scalar. Note: In a triangle, either side is the vector sum of the other two sides taken in proper order; the process finding the vector sum of two or more vectors is vector addition (see under Addition). VECTURE Vec"ture, n. Etym: [L. vectura, from vehere, vectum, to carry. Cf. Vettura, Voiture.] Defn: The act of carrying; conveyance; carriage. [Obs.] Bacon. VEDA Ve"da, n. Etym: [Skr. v, properly, knowledge, from vid to know. See Wit.] Defn: The ancient sacred literature of the Hindoos; also, one of the four collections, called Rig-Veda, Yajur-Veda, Sama-Veda, and Atharva-Veda, constituting the most ancient portions of that literature. Note: The language of the Vedas is usually called Vedic Sanskrit, as distinguished from the later and more settled form called classical Sanskrit. VEDANTA Ve*dan"ta, n. Etym: [Skr. V.] Defn: A system of philosophy among the Hindoos, founded on scattered texts of the Vedas, and thence termed the "Anta," or end or substance. Balfour (Cyc. of India.) VEDANTIC Ve*dan"tic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the Vedas. VEDANTIST Ve*dan"tist, n. Defn: One versed in the doctrines of the Vedantas. VEDETTE Ve*dette", n. Etym: [F. vedette, It. vedetta, for veletta (influenced by vedere to see, L. videre), from It. veglia watch, L. vigilia. See Vigil.] Defn: A sentinel, usually on horseback, stationed on the outpost of an army, to watch an enemy and give notice of danger; a vidette. VEDRO Ve"dro, n. Etym: [Russ.] Defn: A Russian liquid measure, equal to 3.249 gallons of U.S. standard measure, or 2.706 imperial gallons. McElrath. VEER Veer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Veered; p. pr. & vb. n. Veering.] Etym: [F. virer (cf. Sp. virar, birar), LL. virare; perhaps fr. L. vibrare to brandish, vibrate (cf. Vibrate); or cf. L. viriae armlets, bracelets, viriola a little bracelet (cf. Ferrule). Cf. Environ.] Defn: To change direction; to turn; to shift; as, wind veers to the west or north. "His veering gait." Wordsworth. And as he leads, the following navy veers. Dryden. an ordinary community which is hostile or friendly as passion or as interest may veer about. Burke. To veer and haul (Naut.), to vary the course or direction; -- said of the wind, which veers aft and hauls forward. The wind is also said to veer when it shifts with the sun. VEER Veer, v. t. Defn: To direct to a different course; to turn; to wear; as, to veer, or wear, a vessel. To veer and haul (Naut.), to pull tight and slacken alternately. Totten. -- To veer away or out (Naut.), to let out; to slacken and let run; to pay out; as, to veer away the cable; to veer out a rope. VEERING Veer"ing, a. Defn: Shifting. -- Veer"ing*ly, adv. VEERY Veer"y, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An American thrush (Turdus fuscescens) common in the Northern United States and Canada. It is light tawny brown above. The breast is pale buff, thickly spotted with brown. Called also Wilson's thrush. Sometimes I hear the veery's clarion. Thoreau. VEGA Ve"ga, n. (Astron.) Etym: [Ar. w, properly, falling: cf. F. Wéga.] Defn: A brilliant star of the first magnitude, the brightest of those constituting the constellation Lyra. VEGETABILITY Veg`e*ta*bil"i*ty, n. Defn: The quality or state of being vegetable. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. VEGETABLE Veg`e*ta*ble, a. Etym: [F. végétable growing, capable of growing, formerly also, as a noun, a vegetable, from L. vegetabilis enlivening, from vegetare to enliven, invigorate, quicken, vegetus enlivened, vigorous, active, vegere to quicken, arouse, to be lively, akin to vigere to be lively, to thrive, vigil watchful, awake, and probably to E. wake, v. See Vigil, Wake, v.] 1. Of or pertaining to plants; having the nature of, or produced by, plants; as, a vegetable nature; vegetable growths, juices, etc. Blooming ambrosial fruit Of vegetable gold. Milton. 2. Consisting of, or comprising, plants; as, the vegetable kingdom. Vegetable alkali (Chem.), an alkaloid. -- Vegetable brimstone. (Bot.) See Vegetable sulphur, below. -- Vegetable butter (Bot.), a name of several kinds of concrete vegetable oil; as that produced by the Indian butter tree, the African shea tree, and the Pentadesma butyracea, a tree of the order Guttiferæ, also African. Still another kind is pressed from the seeds of cocoa (Theobroma). -- Vegetable flannel, a textile material, manufactured in Germany from pine-needle wool, a down or fiber obtained from the leaves of the Pinus sylvestris. -- Vegetable ivory. See Ivory nut, under Ivory. -- Vegetable jelly. See Pectin. -- Vegetable kingdom. (Nat. Hist.) See the last Phrase, below. -- Vegetable leather. (a) (Bot.) A shrubby West Indian spurge (Euphorbia punicea), with leathery foliage and crimson bracts. (b) See Vegetable leather, under Leather. -- Vegetable marrow (Bot.), an egg-shaped gourd, commonly eight to ten inches long. It is noted for the very tender quality of its flesh, and is a favorite culinary vegetable in England. It has been said to be of Persian origin, but is now thought to have been derived from a form of the American pumpkin. -- Vegetable oyster (Bot.), the oyster plant. See under Oyster. -- Vegetable parchment, papyrine. -- Vegetable sheep (Bot.), a white woolly plant (Raoulia eximia) of New Zealand, which grows in the form of large fleecy cushions on the mountains. -- Vegetable silk, a cottonlike, fibrous material obtained from the coating of the seeds of a Brazilian tree (Chorisia speciosa). It us used for various purposes, as for stuffing, and the like, but is incapable of being spun on account of a want of cohesion among the fibers. -- Vegetable sponge. See 1st Loof. -- Vegetable sulphur, the fine highly inflammable spores of the club moss (Lycopodium clavatum); witch. -- Vegetable tallow, a substance resembling tallow, obtained from various plants; as, Chinese vegetable tallow, obtained from the seeds of the tallow tree. Indian vegetable tallow is a name sometimes given to piney tallow. -- Vegetable wax, a waxy excretion on the leaves or fruits of certain plants, as the bayberry. Vegetable kingdom (Nat. Hist.), that primary division of living things which includes all plants. The classes of the vegetable kingdom have been grouped differently by various botanists. The following is one of the best of the many arrangements of the principal subdivisions. I. Phænogamia (called also Phanerogamia). Defn: Plants having distinct flowers and true seeds. { 1. Dicotyledons (called also Exogens). -- Seeds with two or more cotyledons. Stems with the pith, woody fiber, and bark concentrically arranged. Divided into two subclasses: Angiosperms, having the woody fiber interspersed with dotted or annular ducts, and the seed contained in a true ovary; Gymnosperms, having few or no ducts in the woody fiber, and the seeds naked. 2. Monocotyledons (called also Endogens). -- Seeds with single