[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

much used, is pale brownish with darker streaks. YACHT Yacht, n. Etym: [D. jagt, jacht; perhaps properly, a jagen to chase, hunt, akin to G. jagen, OHG. jag, of uncertain origin; or perhaps akin to OHG. gahi quick, sudden (cf. Gay).] (Naut.) Defn: A light and elegantly furnished vessel, used either for private parties of pleasure, or as a vessel of state to convey distinguished persons from one place to another; a seagoing vessel used only for pleasure trips, racing, etc. Yacht measurement. See the Note under Tonnage, 4. YACHT Yacht, v. i. Defn: To manage a yacht; to voyage in a yacht. YACHTER Yacht"er, n. Defn: One engaged in sailing a jacht. YACHTING Yacht"ing, n. Defn: Sailing for pleasure in a yacht. YACHTMAN Yacht"man, n. Defn: See Yachtsman. YACHTSMAN Yachts"man, n.; pl. Yachtsmen (. Defn: One who owns or sails a yacht; a yachter. YAF Yaf, obs. imp. of Give. Etym: [AS. geaf, imp. of giefan to give. See Give] Defn: Gave. See Give. Chaucer. YAFFINGALE Yaf"fin*gale, n. Etym: [See Yaffle, and cf. Nightingale.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The yaffle. [Prov. Eng.] YAFFLE Yaf"fle, n. Etym: [Probably imitative of its call or cry.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The European green woodpecker (Picus, or Genius, viridis). It is noted for its loud laughlike note. Called also eccle, hewhole, highhoe, laughing bird, popinjay, rain bird, yaffil, yaffler, yaffingale, yappingale, yackel, and woodhack. YAGER Ya"ger, n. Etym: [G. jäger a hunter, from jagen to chase, hunt.] (Mil.) Defn: In the German army, one belonging to a body of light infantry armed with rifles, resembling the chasseur of the French army. [Written also jager.] YAGUARUNDI Ya`gua*run"di, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Jaguarondi. [Written also yaguarondi, and yagouarondi.] YAHOO Ya"hoo, n. 1. One of a race of filthy brutes in Swift's "Gulliver's Travels." See in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction. 2. Hence, any brutish or vicious character. 3. A raw countryman; a lout; a greenhorn. [U. S.] YAHWEH; YAHWE; JAHVEH; JAHVE Yah"weh, Yah"we, n. Also Jah"veh, Jah"ve, etc. Defn: A modern transliteration of the Hebrew word translated Jehovah in the Bible; -- used by some critics to discriminate the tribal god of the ancient Hebrews from the Christian Jehovah. Yahweh or Yahwe is the spelling now generally adopted by scholars. YAHWISM; JAHVISM Yah"wism, n. Also Jah"vism. 1. The religion or worship of Yahweh (Jehovah), or the system of doctrines, etc., connected with it. 2. Use of Yahweh as a name of God. YAHWIST; JAHVIST; JAHWIST; JEHOVIST Yah"wist, n. Also Jah"vist, Jah"wist, older Je*ho"vist. Defn: The author of the passages of the Old Testament, esp. those of the Hexateuch, in which God is styled Yahweh, or Jehovah; the author of the Yahwistic, or Jehovistic, Prophetic Document (J); also, the document itself. YAJUR-VEDA Yaj"ur-Ve"da, n. Etym: [Skr. yajur-v.] Defn: See Veda. YAK Yak, n. Etym: [Thibetan gyag.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A bovine mammal (Poëphagus grunnies) native of the high plains of Central Asia. Its neck, the outer side of its legs, and its flanks, are covered with long, flowing, fine hair. Its tail is long and bushy, often white, and is valued as an ornament and for other purposes in India and China. There are several domesticated varieties, some of which lack the mane and the long hair on the flanks. Called also chauri gua, grunting cow, grunting ox, sarlac, sarlik, and sarluc. Yak lace, a coarse pillow lace made from the silky hair of the yak. YAKAMILK Yak"a*milk, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Trumpeter, 3 (a). YAKARE Yak"a*re`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Yacare. YAKIN Ya"kin, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large Asiatic antelope (Budorcas taxicolor) native of the higher parts of the Himalayas and other lofty mountains. Its head and neck resemble those of the ox, and its tail is like that of the goat. Called also budorcas. YAKOOTS Ya*koots", n. pl.; sing. Yakoot (. Defn: (Ethnol.) A nomadic Mongolian tribe native of Northern Siberia, and supposed to be of Turkish stock. They are mainly pastoral in their habits. [Written also Yakuts.] YAKSHA Yak"sha, n. Etym: [Skr.] (Hindoo Myth.) Defn: A kind of demigod attendant on Kuvera, the god of wealth. YAKUT Ya*kut", n. Defn: The Turkish language of the Yakuts, a Mongolian people of northeastern Siberia, which is lingua franca over much of eastern Siberia. YALAH Ya"lah, n. Defn: The oil of the mahwa tree. YAM Yam, n. Etym: [Pg. inhame, probably from some native name.] (Bot.) Defn: A large, esculent, farinaceous tuber of various climbing plants of the genus Dioscorea; also, the plants themselves. Mostly natives of warm climates. The plants have netted-veined, petioled leaves, and pods with three broad wings. The commonest species is D. sativa, but several others are cultivated. Chinese yam, a plant (Dioscorea Batatas) with a long and slender tuber, hardier than most of the other species. -- Wild yam. (a) A common plant (Dioscorea villosa) of the Eastern United States, having a hard and knotty rootstock. (b) An orchidaceous plant (Gastrodia sesamoides) of Australia and Tasmania. YAMA Ya"ma, n. Etym: [Skr. yama a twin.] (Hindoo Myth.) Defn: The king of the infernal regions, corresponding to the Greek Pluto, and also the judge of departed souls. In later times he is more exclusively considered the dire judge of all, and the tormentor of the wicked. He is represented as of a green color, with red garments, having a crown on his head, his eyes inflamed, and sitting on a buffalo, with a club and noose in his hands. YAMEN Ya"men, n. [Chin. ya a civil or military court + men a gate.] Defn: In China, the official headquarters or residence of a mandarin, including court rooms, offices, gardens, prisons, etc.; the place where the business of any public department is transcated. YAMMA Yam"ma, n. Etym: [See Llama.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The llama. YAMP Yamp, n. (Bot.) Defn: An umbelliferous plant (Carum Gairdneri); also, its small fleshy roots, which are eaten by the Indians from Idaho to California. YANG Yang, n. Etym: [Of imitative origin.] Defn: The cry of the wild goose; a honk. YANG Yang, v. i. Defn: To make the cry of the wild goose. YANK Yank, n. Etym: [Cf. Scot. yank a sudden and severe blow.] Defn: A jerk or twitch. [Colloq. U. S.] YANK Yank, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Yanked; p. pr. & vb. n. Yanking.] Defn: To twitch; to jerk. [Colloq. U. S.] YANK Yank, n. Defn: An abbreviation of Yankee. [Slang] YANKEE Yan"kee, n. Etym: [Commonly considered to be a corrupt pronunciation of the word English, or of the French word Anglais, by the native Indians of America. According to Thierry, a corruption of Jankin, a diminutive of John, and a nickname given to the English colonists of Connecticut by the Dutch settlers of New York. Dr. W. Gordon ("Hist. of the Amer. War," ed, 1789, vol. i., pp. 324, 325) says it was a favorite cant word in Cambridge, Mass., as early as 1713, and that it meant excellent; as, a yankee good horse, yankee good cider, etc. Cf. Scot yankie a sharp, clever, and rather bold woman, and Prov. E. bow- yankees a kind of leggins worn by agricultural laborers.] Defn: A nickname for a native of citizen of New England, especially one descended from old New England stock; by extension, an inhabitant of the Northern States as distinguished from a Southerner; also, applied sometimes by foreigners to any inhabitant of the United States. From meanness first this Portsmouth Yankey rose, And still to meanness all his conduct flows. Oppression, A poem by an American (Boston, 1765). YANKEE Yan"kee, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a Yankee; characteristic of the Yankees. The alertness of the Yankee aspect. Hawthorne. Yankee clover. (Bot.) See Japan clover, under Japan. YANKEE-DOODLE Yan`kee-Doo"dle, n. 1. The name of a tune adopted popularly as one of the national airs of the United States. 2. Humorously, a Yankee. We might have withheld our political noodles From knocking their heads against hot Yankee-Doodles. Moore. YANKEEISM Yan"kee*ism, n. Defn: A Yankee idiom, word, custom, or the like. Lowell. YAOURT Yaourt, n. Etym: [Turk. yoghurt.] Defn: A fermented drink, or milk beer, made by the Turks. YAP Yap, v. i. Etym: [Icel. gjalpa; akin to yelp. Cf. Yaup.] Defn: To bark; to yelp. L'Estrange. YAP Yap, n. Defn: A bark; a yelp. YAPOCK Ya"pock, n. Etym: [Probably from the river Oyapok, between French Guiana and Brazil.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A South American aquatic opossum (Chironectes variegatus) found in Guiana and Brazil. Its hind feet are webbed, and its fore feet do not have an opposable thumb for climbing. Called also water opossum. [Written also yapack.] YAPON Ya"pon, n. (Bot.) Defn: Same as Yaupon. YARAGE Yar"age (; 48), n. Etym: [See Yare, a.] (Naut.) Defn: The power of moving, or being managed, at sea; -- said with reference to a ship. Sir T. North. YARD Yard, n. Etym: [OE. yerd, AS. gierd, gyrd, a rod, ierde, OS. gerda, D. garde, G. gerte, OHG. gartia, gerta, gart, Icel. gaddr a goad, sting, Goth. gazds, and probably to L.