[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

[L. contemptus, fr. contemnere: cf. OF. contempt. See Contemn.] 1. The act of contemning or despising; the feeling with which one regards that which is esteement mean, vile, or worthless; disdain; scorn. Criminal contempt of public feeling. Macaulay. Nothing, says Longinus, can be great, the contempt of which is great. Addison. 2. The state of being despised; disgrace; shame. Contempt and begarry hangs upon thy back. Shaks. 3. An act or expression denoting contempt. Little insults and contempts. Spectator. The contempt and anger of his lip. Shak. 4. (Law) Defn: Disobedience of the rules, orders, or process of a court of justice, or of rules or orders of a legislative body; disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent language or behavior in presence of a court, tending to disturb its proceedings, or impair the respect due to its authority. Note: Contempt is in some jurisdictions extended so as to include publications reflecting injuriously on a court of justice, or commenting unfairly on pending proceedings; in other jurisdictions the courts are prohibited by statute or by the constitution from thus exercising this process. Syn. -- Disdain; scorn; derision; mockery; contumely; neglect; disregard; slight. CONTEMPTIBILITY Con*tempt`i*bil"i*ty, n. Defn: The quality of being contemptible; contemptibleness. Speed. CONTEMPTIBLE Con*tempt"i*ble, a. 1. Worthy of contempt; deserving of scorn or disdain; mean; vile; despicable. Milton. The arguments of tyranny are ascontemptible as its force is dreadful. Burke. 2. Despised; scorned; neglected; abject. Locke. 3. Insolent; scornful; contemptuous. [Obs.] If she should make tender of her love, 't is very possible he 'll scorn it; for the man . . . hath a contemptible spirit. Shak. Syn. -- Despicable; abject; vile; mean; base; paltry; worthless; sorry; pitiful; scurrile. See Contemptuous. -- Contemptible, Despicable, Pitiful, Paltry. Despicable is stronger than contemptible, as despise is stronger than contemn. It implies keen disapprobation, with a mixture of anger. A man is despicable chiefly for low actions which mark his life, such as servility, baseness, or mean adulation. A man is contemptible for mean qualities which distinguish his character, especially those which show him to be weak, foolish, or worthless. Treachery is despicable, egotism is contemptible. Pitiful and paltry are applied to cases which are beneath anger, and are simply contemptible in a high degree. CONTEMPTIBLENESS Con*tempt"i*ble*ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being contemptible, or of being despised. CONTEMPTIBLY Con*tempt"i*bly, adv. Defn: In a contemptible manner. CONTEMPTUOUS Con*temp"tu*ous, a. Defn: Manifecting or expressing contempt or disdain; scornful; haughty; insolent; disdainful. A proud, contemptious behavior. Hammond. Savage invectiveand contemptuous sarcasm. Macaulay. Rome . . . entertained the most contemptuous opinion of the Jews. Atterbury. Syn. -- Scornful; insolent; haughty; disdainful; supercilious; insulting; contumelious. -- Contemptuous, Contemptible. These words, from their similarity of sound, are sometimes erroneously interchanged, as when a person speaks of having "a very contemptible opinion of another." Contemptible is applied to that which is the object of contempt; as, contemptible conduct; acontemptible fellow. Contemptuous is applied to that which indicates contempts; as, a contemptuous look; a contemptuous remark; contemptuous treatment. A person, or whatever is personal, as an action, an expression, a feeling, an opinion, may be either contemptuous or contemptible; a thing may be contemptible, but can not be contemptuous. CONTEMPTUOUSLY Con*temp"tu*ous*ly, adv. Defn: In a contemptuous manner; with scorn or disdain; despitefully. The apostles and most eminent Christians were poor, and used contemptuously. Jer. Taylor. CONTEMPTUOUSNESS Con*temp"tu*ous*ness, n. Defn: Disposition to or manifestion of contempt; insolence; haughtiness. CONTEND Con*tend", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Contended; p.pr. & vb.n. Contending.] Etym: [OF. contendre, L. contendere, -tentum; con- + tendere to strech. See Tend.] 1. To strive in opposition; to contest; to dispute; to vie; to quarrel; to fight. For never two such kingdoms did content Without much fall of blood. Shak. The Lord said unto me, Distress not the Moabites, neither contend with them in battle. Deut. ii. 9. In ambitious strength I did Contend against thy valor. Shak. 2. To struggle or exert one's self to obtain or retain possession of, or to defend. You sit above, and see vain men below Contend for what you only can bestow. Dryden. 3. To strive in debate; to engage in discussion; to dispute; to argue. The question which our author would contend for. Locke. Many things he fiercely contended about were trivial. Dr. H. More. Syn. -- To struggle; fight; combat; vie; strive; oppose; emulate; contest; litigate; dispute; debate. CONTEND Con*tend", v. t. Defn: To struggle for; to contest. [R.] Carthage shall contend the world with Rome.Dryden. CONTENDENT Con*tend"ent, n. Etym: [L. contendens, p.pr.] Defn: n antagonist; a contestant. [Obs.] In all notable changes and revolutions the contendents have been still made a prey to the third party. L'Estrange. CONTENDER Con*tend"er, n. Defn: One who contends; a contestant. CONTENDRESS Con*tend"ress, n. Defn: A female contestant. [R.] CONTENEMENT Con*ten"e*ment, n. Etym: [Pref. con- + tenemnt.] (Law) Defn: That which is held together with another thing; that which is connected with a tenetment, or thing holden, as a certin quantity of land a Burrill. CONTENT Con*tent, a. Etym: [F. content, fr. L. contentus, p.p. of contenire to hold together, restrain. See Contain.] Defn: Contained within limits; hence, having the desires limited by that which one has; not disposed to repine or grumble; satisfied; contented; at rest. Having food rainment, let us be therewith content. 1 Tim. vi. 8. CONTENT Con"tent ( or ; 277), n.; usually in pl., Contents. 1. That which is contained; the thing or things held by a receptacle or included within specified limits; as, the contents of a cask or bale or of a room; the contents of a book. I shall prove these writings . . . authentic, and the contents true, and worthy of a divine original. Grew. 2. Power of containing; capacity; extent; size. [Obs.] Strong ship's, of great content. Bacon. 3. (Geom.) Defn: Area or quantity of space or matter contained within certain limits; as, solid contents; superficial contents. The geometrical content, figure, and situation of all the lands of a kingdom. Graunt. Table of contents, or Contents, a table or list of topics in a book, showing their order and the place where they may be found: a summary. CONTENT Con*tent", v. t. Etym: [F. contenter, LL. contentare, fr. L. contentus, p.p. See Content, a.] 1. To satisfy the desires of; to make easy in any situation; to appease or quiet; to gratify; to please. Do not content yourselves with obscure and confused ideas, where clearer are to be attained. I. Watts. Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas unto them. Mark xv. 15. 2. To satisfy the expectations of; to pay; to requite. Come the next Sabbath, and I will content you. Shak. Syn. -- To satisfy; appease; plese. See Satiate. CONTENT Con*tent", n. 1. Rest or quietness of the mind in one's present condition; freedom from discontent; satisfaction; contentment; moderate happiness. Such is the fullness of my heart's content. Shak. 2. Acquiescence without examination. [Obs.] The sense they humbly take upon content. Pope. 3. That which contents or satisfies; that which if attained would make one happy. So will I in England work your grace's full content. Shak. 4. (Eng. House of Lords) Defn: An expression of assent to a bill or motion; an affirmate vote; also, a member who votes "Content.". Supposing the number of "Contents" and "Not contents" strictly equal in number and consequence.Burke. CONTENTATION Con`ten*ta"tion, n. Etym: [LL. contentatio.] Defn: Content; satisfaction. [Obs.] Bacon. CONTENTED Con*tent"ed, a. Defn: Content; easy in mind; satisfied; quiet; willing. -- Con*tent"ed*ly, adv. -- Con*tent"ed*ness, n. CONTENTFUL Con*tent"ful, a. Defn: Full of content. [Obs.] Barrow. CONTENTION Con*ten"tion, n. Etym: [F. contention, L. contentio. See Contend.] 1. A violent effort or struggle to obtain, or to resist, something; contest; strife. I would my arcontenion. Shak. 2. Strife in words; controversy; altercation quarrel; dispute; as, a bone of contention. Contentions and strivings about the law. Titus iii. 9. 3. Vehemence of endeavor; eagerness; ardor; zeal. An end . . . worthy our utmost contenion to obtain. Rogers. 4. A point maintained in an argument, or a line of argument taken in its support; the subject matter of discussion of strife; a position taken or contended for. All men seem agreed what is to be done; the contention is how the subject is to be divided and defined. Bagehot. This was my original contention, and I still maintain that you should abide by your former decision. Jowett. Syn. -- Struggle; strife; contest; quarrel; combat; conflict; feud; litigation; controversy; dissension; variance; disagreement; debate; competition; emulation. -- Contention, Strife. A struggle between two parties is the idea common to these two words. Strife is a struggle for mastery; contention is a struggle for the possession of some desired object, or the accomplishment of some favorite end. Neither of the words is necessairly used in a bad sense, since there may be a generous strife or contention between two friends as to which shall incur danger or submit to sacrifices. Ordinarily, however, these words denote a struggle arising