[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

or larch turpentine, is obtained from Larix Europæa. It is a clear, colorless balsam, having a tendency to solidify. Canada turpentine, or Canada balsam, is the purest of all the pine turpentines (see under Balsam). The Carpathian and Hungarian varieties are derived from Pinus Cembra and Pinus Mugho. Carolina turpentine, the most abundant kind, comes from the long-leaved pine (Pinus palustris). Strasburg turpentine is from the silver fir (Abies pectinata). Oil of turpentine (Chem.), a colorless oily hydrocarbon, C10H16, of a pleasant aromatic odor, obtained by the distillation of crude turpentine. It is used in making varnishes, in medicine, etc. It is the type of the terpenes and is related to cymene. Called also terebenthene, terpene, etc. -- Turpentine moth (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small tortricid moths whose larvæ eat the tender shoots of pine and fir trees, causing an exudation of pitch or resin. -- Turpentine tree (Bot.), the terebinth tree, the original source of turpentine. See Turpentine, above. TURPENTINE STATE Tur"pen*tine State. Defn: North Carolina; -- a nickname alluding to its extensive production of turpentine. TURPETH Tur"peth, n. Etym: [NL. turpethum, fr. Per. tirbid a cathartic, turbad a purgative root. Cf. Turbith.] [Written also turbeth, and turbith.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: The root of Ipomoea Turpethum, a plant of Ceylon, Malabar, and Australia, formerly used in medicine as a purgative; -- sometimes called vegetable turpeth. 2. (Chem.) Defn: A heavy yellow powder, Hg3O2SO4, which consists of a basic mercuric sulphate; -- called also turpeth mineral. TURPIN Tur"pin, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A land tortoise. [Obs.] TURPITUDE Tur"pi*tude, n. Etym: [L. turpitudo, from turpis foul, base.] Defn: Inherent baseness or vileness of principle, words, or actions; shameful wickedness; depravity. Shak. TURQUOISE; TURQUOIS Tur*quoise", Tur*quois", n. Etym: [F. turquoise; cf. Pr. & Sp. turquesa, It. turchese, turchina, LL. turchesius, turchina; -- so called because first brought from Turkey. See 1st Turkey.] (Min.) Defn: A hydrous phosphate of alumina containing a little copper; calaite. It has a blue, or bluish green, color, and usually occurs in reniform masses with a botryoidal surface. [Formerly written also turcois, and turkois.] Note: Turquoise is susceptible of a high polish, and when of a bright blue color is much esteemed as a gem. The finest specimens come from Persia. It is also found in New Mexico and Arizona, and is regarded as identical with the chalchihuitl of the Mexicans. TURQUOISE Tur*quoise", a. Defn: Having a fine light blue color, like that of choice mineral turquoise. TURREL Tur"rel, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. touroul a little wooden instrument to fasten doors or windows.] Defn: A certain tool used by coopers. Sherwood. TURRET Tur"ret, n. Etym: [OE. touret, OF. tourette, dim. of tour a tower, L. turris. See Tower.] 1. (Arch.) Defn: A little tower, frequently a merely ornamental structure at one of the angles of a larger structure. 2. (Anc. Mil.) Defn: A movable building, of a square form, consisting of ten or even twenty stories and sometimes one hundred and twenty cubits high, usually moved on wheels, and employed in approaching a fortified place, for carrying soldiers, engines, ladders, casting bridges, and other necessaries. 3. (Mil.) Defn: A revolving tower constructed of thick iron plates, within which cannon are mounted. Turrets are used on vessels of war and on land. 4. (Railroads) Defn: The elevated central portion of the roof of a passenger car. Its sides are pierced for light and ventilation. Turret clock, a large clock adapted for an elevated position, as in the tower of a church. -- Turret head (Mach.), a vertical cylindrical revolving tool holder for bringing different tools into action successively in a machine, as in a lathe. -- Turret lathe, a turning lathe having a turret head. -- Turret ship, an ironclad war vessel, with low sides, on which heavy guns are mounted within one or more iron turrets, which may be rotated, so that the guns may be made to bear in any required direction. TURRET DECK Tur"ret deck. Defn: A narrow superstructure running from stem to stern on the upper deck of a steam cargo vessel having a rounded gunwale and sides curved inward convexly. TURRETED Tur"ret*ed, a. 1. Furnished with a turret or turrets; specifically (Zoöl.), having the whorls somewhat flattened on the upper side and often ornamented by spines or tubercles; -- said of certain spiral shells. 2. Formed like a tower; as, a turreted lamp. Bacon. TURRET STEAMER Tur"ret steam`er. Defn: A whaleback steamer with a hatch coaming, usually about seven feet high, extending almost continuously fore and aft. TURRIBANT Tur"ri*bant, n. Etym: [See Turban.] Defn: A turban. [Obs.] With hundred turrets like a turribant. Spenser. TURRICAL Tur"ric*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a turret, or tower; resembling a tower. TURRICULATE; TURRICULATED Tur*ric"u*late, Tur*ric"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. turricula small tower, turret.] Defn: Furnished with, or formed like, a small turret or turrets; somewhat turreted. TURRILITE Tur"ri*lite, n. Etym: [L. turris tower + Gr. turrilite.] (Paleon.) Defn: Any fossil ammonite of the genus Turrilites. The shell forms an open spiral with the later whorls separate. TURRITELLA Tur`ri*tel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim fr. L. turris tower.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any spiral marine gastropod belonging to Turritella and allied genera. These mollusks have an elongated, turreted shell, composed of many whorls. They have a rounded aperture, and a horny multispiral operculum. TURRITELLOID Tur`ri*tel"loid, a. Etym: [Turritella + -oid.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the turritellas. TURTLE Tur"tle, n. Etym: [AS. turtle, L. turtur; probably of imitative origin. Cf. Turtle the sea tortoise.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The turtledove. TURTLE Tur"tle, n. Etym: [Probably the same word as the word preceding, and substituted (probably by sailors) for the Spanish or Portuguese name; cf. Sp. tortuga tortoise, turtle, Pg. tartaruga, also F. tortue, and E. tortoise.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of the numerous species of Testudinata, especially a sea turtle, or chelonian. Note: In the United States the land and fresh-water tortoises are also called turtles. 2. (Printing) Defn: The curved plate in which the form is held in a type-revolving cylinder press. Alligator turtle, Box turtle, etc. See under Alligator, Box, etc. -- green turtle (Zoöl.), a marine turtle of the genus Chelonia, having usually a smooth greenish or olive-colored shell. It is highly valued for the delicacy of its flesh, which is used especially for turtle soup. Two distinct species or varieties are known; one of which (Chelonia Midas) inhabits the warm part of the Atlantic Ocean, and sometimes weighs eight hundred pounds or more; the other (C. virgata) inhabits the Pacific Ocean. Both species are similar in habits and feed principally on seaweed and other marine plants, especially the turtle grass. -- Turtle cowrie (Zoöl.), a large, handsome cowrie (Cypræa testudinaria); the turtle-shell; so called because of its fancied resemblance to a tortoise in color and form. -- Turtle grass (Bot.), a marine plant (Thalassia testudinum) with grasslike leaves, common about the West Indies. -- Turtle shell, tortoise shell. See under Tortoise. TURTLEBACK Tur"tle*back`, n. 1. (Archæol.) A rude stone celt of a form suggesting the back of a turtle. 2. (Naut.) A convex deck at the bow or stern of a vessel, so made to shed the seas quickly. TURTLEDOVE Tur"tle*dove`, n. Etym: [See 1ts Turtle.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of pigeons belonging to Turtur and allied genera, native of various parts of the Old World; especially, the common European species (Turtur vulgaris), which is noted for its plaintive note, affectionate disposition, and devotion to its mate. Note: The South African turtledove (T. albiventris), and the ashy turtledove of India (T. rubicolus), are similar to the European species in their habits. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of pigeons more or less resembling the true turtledoves, as the American mourning dove (see under Dove), and the Australian turtledove (Stictopelia cuneata). Note: The turtledove of the Scriptures is probably Turtur risorius, a species which is still plentiful in Egypt and other Eastern countries. It is closely allied to the European turtledove. TURTLE-FOOTED Tur"tle-foot`ed, a. Defn: Slow-footed. [R.] "Turtle-footed Peace." Ford. TURTLEHEAD Tur"tle*head`, n. (Bot.) Defn: An American perennial herb (Chelone glabra) having white flowers shaped like the head of a turtle. Called also snakehead, shell flower, and balmony. TURTLE PEG Tur"tle peg. Defn: A sharp steel spear attached to a cord, used in taking sea turtles. -- Turtle pegging. TURTLER Tur"tler, n. Defn: One who catches turtles or tortoises. "The Jamaica turtlers." Dampier. TURTLE-SHELL Tur"tle-shell`, n. Defn: The turtle cowrie. TURTLING Tur"tling, n. Defn: The act, practice, or art of catching turtles. Marryat. TURVES Turves, obs. Defn: pl. of Turf. TUSCAN Tus"can, a. Etym: [L. Tyscanus, Tuscus.] Defn: Of or pertaining to Tuscany in Italy; -- specifically designating one of the five orders of architecture recognized and described by the Italian writers of the 16th century, or characteristic of the order. The original of this order was not used by the Greeks, but by the Romans under the Empire. See Order, and Illust. of Capital. TUSCAN Tus"can, n. Defn: