[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

man's favor. Shak. 3. To gain by insinuating arts or covert means. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. 2 Sam. xv. 6. 4. To get into one's power gradually and by imperceptible degrees; to take possession of by a gradual and imperceptible appropriation; -- with away. Variety of objects has a tendency to steal away the mind from its steady pursuit of any subject. I. Watts. 5. To accomplish in a concealed or unobserved manner; to try to carry out secretly; as, to steal a look. Always, when thou changest thine opinion or course, profess it plainly, . . . and do not think to steal it. Bacon. To steal a march, to march in a covert way; to gain an advantage unobserved; -- formerly followed by of, but now by on or upon, and sometimes by over; as, to steal a march upon one's political rivals. She yesterday wanted to steal a march of poor Liddy. Smollett. Fifty thousand men can not easily steal a march over the sea. Walpole. Syn. -- To filch; pilfer; purloin; thieve. STEAL Steal, v. i. 1. To practice, or be guilty of, theft; to commit larceny or theft. Thou shalt not steal. Ex. xx. 15. 2. To withdraw, or pass privily; to slip in, along, or away, unperceived; to go or come furtively. Chaucer. Fixed of mind to avoid further entreaty, and to fly all company, one night she stole away. Sir P. Sidney. From whom you now must steal, and take no leave. Shak. A soft and solemn breathing sound Rose like a steam of rich, distilled perfumes, And stole upon the air. Milton. STEALER Steal"er, n. 1. One who steals; a thief. 2. (Shipbuilding) Defn: The endmost plank of a strake which stops short of the stem or stern. STEALING Steal"ing, n. 1. The act of taking feloniously the personal property of another without his consent and knowledge; theft; larceny. 2. That which is stolen; stolen property; -- chiefly used in the plural. STEALINGLY Steal"ing*ly, adv. Defn: By stealing, or as by stealing, furtively, or by an invisible motion. Sir P. Sidney. STEALTH Stealth, n. Etym: [OE. staple. See Steal, v. t.] 1. The act of stealing; theft. [Obs.] The owner proveth the stealth to have been committed upon him by such an outlaw. Spenser. 2. The thing stolen; stolen property. [Obs.] "Sluttish dens . . . serving to cover stealths." Sir W. Raleigh. 3. The bringing to pass anything in a secret or concealed manner; a secret procedure; a clandestine practice or action; -- in either a good or a bad sense. Do good by stealth, and blush to find it fame. Pope. The monarch, blinded with desire of wealth, With steel invades the brother's life by stealth. Dryden. I told him of your stealth unto this wood. Shak. STEALTHFUL Stealth"ful, a. Defn: Given to stealth; stealthy. [Obs.] -- Stealth"ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Stealth"ful*ness, n. [Obs.] STEALTHILY Stealth"i*ly, adv. Defn: In a stealthy manner. STEALTHINESS Stealth"i*ness, n. Defn: The state, quality, or character of being stealthy; stealth. STEALTHLIKE Stealth"like`, a. Defn: Stealthy; sly. Wordsworth. STEALTHY Stealth"y, a. [Compar. Stealthier; superl. Stealthiest.] Defn: Done by stealth; accomplished clandestinely; unperceived; secret; furtive; sly. [Withered murder] with his stealthy pace, . . . Moves like a ghost. Shak. STEAM Steam, n. Etym: [OE. stem, steem, vapor, flame, AS. steám vapor, smoke, odor; akin to D. stoom steam, perhaps originally, a pillar, or something rising like a pillar; cf. Gr. stand.] 1. The elastic, aëriform fluid into which water is converted when heated to the boiling points; water in the state of vapor. 2. The mist formed by condensed vapor; visible vapor; -- so called in popular usage. 3. Any exhalation. "A steam og rich, distilled perfumes." Milton. Dry steam, steam which does not contain water held in suspension mechanically; -- sometimes applied to superheated steam. -- Exhaust steam. See under Exhaust. -- High steam, or High-pressure steam, steam of which the pressure greatly exceeds that of the atmosphere. -- Low steam, or Low-pressure steam, steam of which the pressure is less than, equal to, or not greatly above, that of the atmosphere. -- Saturated steam, steam at the temperature of the boiling point which corresponds to its pressure; -- sometimes also applied to wet steam. -- Superheated steam, steam heated to a temperature higher than the boiling point corresponding to its pressure. It can not exist in contact with water, nor contain water, and resembles a perfect gas; - - called also surcharged steam, anhydrous steam, and steam gas. -- Wet steam, steam which contains water held in suspension mechanically; -- called also misty steam. Note: Steam is often used adjectively, and in combination, to denote, produced by heat, or operated by power, derived from steam, in distinction from other sources of power; as in steam boiler or steam- boiler, steam dredger or steam-dredger, steam engine or steam-engine, steam heat, steam plow or steam-plow, etc. Steam blower. (a) A blower for producing a draught consisting of a jet or jets of steam in a chimney or under a fire. (b) A fan blower driven directly by a steam engine. -- Steam boiler, a boiler for producing steam. See Boiler, 3, and Note. In the illustration, the shell a of the boiler is partly in section, showing the tubes, or flues, which the hot gases, from the fire beneath the boiler, enter, after traversing the outside of the shell, and through which the gases are led to the smoke pipe d, which delivers them to the chimney; b is the manhole; c the dome; e the steam pipe; f the feed and blow-off pipe; g the safety value; hthe water gauge. -- Steam car, a car driven by steam power, or drawn by a locomotive. -- Steam carriage, a carriage upon wheels moved on common roads by steam. -- Steam casing. See Steam jacket, under Jacket. -- Steam chest, the box or chamber from which steam is distributed to the cylinder of a steam engine, steam pump, etc., and which usually contains one or more values; -- called also valve chest, and valve box. See Illust. of Slide valve, under Slide. -- Steam chimney, an annular chamber around the chimney of a boiler furnace, for drying steam. -- Steam coil, a coil of pipe, or collection of connected pipes, for containing steam; -- used for heating, drying, etc. -- Steam colors (Calico Printing), colors in which the chemical reaction fixed the coloring matter in the fiber is produced by steam. -- Steam cylinder, the cylinder of a steam engine, which contains the piston. See Illust. of Slide valve, under Slide. -- Steam dome (Steam Boilers), a chamber upon the top of the boiler, from which steam is conduced to the engine. See Illust. of Steam boiler, above. -- Steam fire engine, a fire engine consisting of a steam boiler and engine, and pump which is driven by the engine, combined and mounted on wheels. It is usually drawn by horses, but is sometimes made self- propelling. -- Steam fitter, a fitter of steam pipes. -- Steam fitting, the act or the occupation of a steam fitter; also, a pipe fitting for steam pipes. -- Steam gas. See Superheated steam, above. -- Steam gauge, an instrument for indicating the pressure of the steam in a boiler. The mercurial steam gauge is a bent tube partially filled with mercury, one end of which is connected with the boiler while the other is open to the air, so that the steam by its pressure raises the mercury in the long limb of the tume to a height proportioned to that pressure. A more common form, especially for high pressures, consists of a spring pressed upon by the steam, and connected with the pointer of a dial. The spring may be a flattened, bent tube, closed at one end, which the entering steam tends to straighten, or it may be a diaphragm of elastic metal, or a mass of confined air, etc. -- Steam gun, a machine or contrivance from which projectiles may be thrown by the elastic force of steam. -- Steam hammer, a hammer for forging, which is worked directly by steam; especially, a hammer which is guided vertically and operated by a vertical steam cylinder located directly over an anvil. In the variety known as Nasmyth's, the cylinder is fixed, and the hammer is attached to the piston rod. In that known as Condie's, the piston is fixed, and the hammer attached to the lower end of the cylinder. -- Steam heater. (a) A radiator heated by steam. (b) An apparatus consisting of a steam boiler, radiator, piping, and fixures for warming a house by steam. -- Steam jacket. See under Jacket. -- Steam packet, a packet or vessel propelled by steam, and running periodically between certain ports. -- Steam pipe, any pipe for conveying steam; specifically, a pipe through which steam is supplied to an engine. -- Steam plow or