[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Boyle. 3. A point of time; esp., one made critical or important by a concurrence of circumstances; hence, a crisis; an exigency. "Extraordinary junctures." Addison. In such a juncture, what can the most plausible and refined philosophy offer Berkeley. JUNE June, n. Etym: [L. Junius: cf. F. Juin. So called either from Junius, the name of a Roman gens, or from Juno, the goddess.] Defn: The sixth month of the year, containing thirty days. And what is so rare as a day in June Then, if ever, come perfect days. Lowell. June beetle, June bug (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large brown beetles of the genus Lachnosterna and related genera; -- so called because they begin to fly, in the northern United States, about the first of June. The larvæ of the June beetles live under ground, and feed upon the roots of grasses and other plants. Called also May bug or May beetle. -- June grass (Bot.), a New England name for Kentucky blue grass. See Blue glass, and Illustration in Appendix. JUNEATING June"a*ting, n. Defn: A kind of early apple. [Written also jenneting.] JUNEBERRY June"ber`ry, n. (Bot.) (a) The small applelike berry of American trees of genus Amelanchier; -- also called service berry. (b) The shrub or tree which bears this fruit; -- also called shad bush, and had tree. JUNGERMANNIA Jun`ger*man"ni*a, n.; pl. Jungermanniæ. Etym: [NL. Named after Ludwig Jungermann, a German botanist.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of hepatic mosses, now much circumscribed, but formerly comprising most plants of the order, which is sometimes therefore called Jungermanniaceæ. JUNGLE Jun"gle, n. Etym: [Hind. jangal desert, forest, jungle; Skr. ja desert.] Defn: A dense growth of brushwood, grasses, reeds, vines, etc.; an almost impenetrable thicket of trees, canes, and reedy vegetation, as in India, Africa, Australia, and Brazil. The jungles of India are of bamboos, canes, and other palms, very difficult to penetrate. Balfour (Cyc. of India). Jungle bear (Zoöl.), the aswail or sloth bear. -- Jungle cat (Zoöl.), the chaus. -- Jungle cock (Zoöl.), the male of a jungle fowl. -- Jungle fowl. (Zoöl.) (a) Any wild species of the genus Gallus, of which several species inhabit India and the adjacent islands; as, the fork-tailed jungle fowl (G. varius) of Java, G. Stanleyi of Ceylon, and G. Bankiva of India. Note: The latter, which resembles the domestic gamecock, is supposed to be one of the original species from which the domestic fowl was derived. (b) An Australian grallatorial bird (Megapodius tumulus) which is allied to the brush turkey, and, like the latter, lays its eggs in mounds of vegetable matter, where they are hatched by the heat produced by decomposition. JUNGLY Jun"gly, a. Defn: Consisting of jungles; abounding with jungles; of the nature of a jungle. JUNIOR Jun"ior, a. Etym: [L. contr. fr. juvenior, compar. of juvenis young. See Juvenile.] 1. Less advanced in age than another; younger. Note: Junior is applied to distinguish the younger of two persons bearing the same name in the same family, and is opposed to senior or elder. Commonly applied to a son who has the same Christian name as his father. 2. Lower in standing or in rank; later in office; as, a junior partner; junior counsel; junior captain. 3. Composed of juniors, whether younger or a lower standing; as, the junior class; of or pertaining to juniors or to a junior class. See Junior, n., 2. 4. Belonging to a younger person, or an earlier time of life. Our first studies and junior endeavors. Sir T. Browne. JUNIOR Jun"ior, n. 1. A younger person. His junior she, by thirty years. Byron. 2. Hence: One of a lower or later standing; specifically, in American colleges, one in the third year of his course, one in the fourth or final year being designated a senior; in some seminaries, one in the first year, in others, one in the second year, of a three years' course. JUNIORITY Jun*ior"i*ty, n. Defn: The state or quality of being junior. JUNIPER Ju"ni*per, n. Etym: [L. juniperus, prop., youth-producing, and so called from its evergreen appearance, from the roots of E. juvenile, and parent. Cf. Gin the liquor.] (Bot.) Defn: Any evergreen shrub or tree, of the genus Juniperus and order Coniferæ. Note: The common juniper (J. communis) is a shrub of a low, spreading form, having awl-shaped, rigid leaves in whorls of threes, and bearing small purplish blue berries (or galbuli), of a warm, pungent taste, used as diuretic and in flavoring gin. A resin exudes from the bark, which has erroneously been considered identical with sandarach, and is used as pounce. The oil of juniper is acrid, and used for various purposes, as in medicine, for making varnish, etc. The wood of several species is of a reddish color, hard and durable, and is used in cabinetwork under the names of red cedar, Bermuda cedar, etc. Juniper worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a geometrid moth (Drepanodes varus). It feeds upon the leaves of the juniper, and mimics the small twigs both in form and color, in a remarkable manner. JUNIPERIN Ju"ni*per*in, n. (Chem.) Defn: A yellow amorphous substance extracted from juniper berries. JUNIPERITE Ju"ni*per*ite, n. (Paleon.) Defn: One of the fossil Coniferæ, evidently allied to the juniper. JUNK Junk, n. Defn: A fragment of any solid substance; a thick piece. See Chunk. [Colloq.] Lowell. JUNK Junk, n. Etym: [Pg. junco junk, rush, L. juncus a bulrush, of which ropes were made in early ages. Cf. Junket.] 1. Pieces of old cable or old cordage, used for making gaskets, mats, swabs, etc., and when picked to pieces, forming oakum for filling the seams of ships. 2. Old iron, or other metal, glass, paper, etc., bought and sold by junk dealers. 3. (Naut.) Defn: Hard salted beef supplied to ships. Junk bottle , a stout bottle made of thick dark-colored glass. -- Junk dealer, a dealer in old cordage, old metal, glass, etc. -- Junk hook (Whaling), a hook for hauling heavy pieces of blubber on deck. -- Junk ring. (a) A packing of soft material round the piston of a steam engine. (b) A metallic ring for retaining a piston packing in place; (c) A follower. -- Junk shop, a shop where old cordage, and ship's tackle, old iron, old bottles, old paper, etc., are kept for sale. -- Junk vat (Leather Manuf.), a large vat into which spent tan liquor or ooze is pumped. -- Junk wad (Mil.), a wad used in proving cannon; also used in firing hot shot. JUNK Junk, n. Etym: [Pg. junco; cf. Jav. & Malay jong, ajong, Chin. chwan.] (Naut.) Defn: A large vessel, without keel or prominent stem, and with huge masts in one piece, used by the Chinese, Japanese, Siamese, Malays, etc., in navigating their waters. JUNKER Jun"ker, n. Etym: [G. Cf. Yonker.] Defn: A young German noble or squire; esp., a member of the aristocratic party in Prussia. JUNKERISM Jun"ker*ism, n. Defn: The principles of the aristocratic party in Prussia. JUNKET Jun"ket, n. Etym: [Formerly also juncate, fr. It. giuncata cream cheese, made in a wicker or rush basket, fr. L. juncus a rush. See 2d Junk, and cf. Juncate.] 1. A cheese cake; a sweetmeat; any delicate food. How Faery Mab the junkets eat. Milton. Victuals varied well in taste, And other junkets. Chapman. 2. A feast; an entertainment. A new jaunt or junket every night. Thackeray. JUNKET Jun"ket, v. i. Defn: To feast; to banquet; to make an entertainment; -- sometimes applied opprobriously to feasting by public officers at the public cost. Job's children junketed and feasted together often. South. JUNKET Jun"ket, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Junketed; p. pr. & vb. n. Junketing.] Defn: To give entertainment to; to feast. The good woman took my lodgings over my head, and was in such a hurry to junket her neighbors. Walpole. JUNKETING Jun"ket*ing, n. Defn: A feast or entertainment; a revel. All those snug junketings and public gormandizings for which the ancient magistrates were equally famous with their modern successors. W. Irving. The apostle would have no reveling or junketing upon the altar. South. JUNKETRIES Jun"ket*ries, n. pl. Defn: Sweetmeats. [Obs.] JUNO Ju"no, n.; pl. Junos. Etym: [L.] 1. (Rom. Myth.) Defn: The sister and wife of Jupiter, the queen of heaven, and the goddess who presided over marriage. She corresponds to the Greek Hera. Sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes. Shak. 2. (Astron.) Defn: One of the early discovered asteroids. Bird of June, the peacock. JUNO Ju"no (ju"no), n.; pl. Junos (-noz). [L.] 1. (Rom. Myth.) The sister and wife of Jupiter, the queen of heaven, and the goddess who presided over marriage. She corresponds to the Greek Hera. Sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes. Shak. 2. (Astron.) One of the early discovered asteroids. Bird of Juno, the peacock. JUNOLD Jun"old, a. [Obs.] Defn: See Gimmal. JUNTA Jun"ta, n.; pl. Juntas. Etym: [Sp., fr. L. junctus joined, p. p. of jungere to join. See Join, and cf. Junto.] Defn: