[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Hindoo sage Gautama Siddartha, surnamed Buddha, "the awakened or enlightened," in the sixth century b.c., and adopted as a religion by the greater part of the inhabitants of Central and Eastern Asia and the Indian Islands. Buddha's teaching is believed to have been atheistic; yet it was characterized by elevated humanity and morality. It presents release from existence (a beatific enfranchisement, Nirvâna) as the greatest good. Buddhists believe in transmigration of souls through all phases and forms of life. Their number was estimated in 1881 at 470,000,000. BUDDHIST Bud"dhist, n. Defn: One who accepts the teachings of Buddhism. BUDDHIST Bud"dhist, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Buddha, Buddhism, or the Buddhists. BUDDHISTIC Bud*dhis"tic, a. Defn: Same as Buddhist, a. BUDDING Bud"ding, n. 1. The act or process of producing buds. 2. (Biol.) Defn: A process of asexual reproduction, in which a new organism or cell is formed by a protrusion of a portion of the animal or vegetable organism, the bud thus formed sometimes remaining attached to the parent stalk or cell, at other times becoming free; gemmation. See Hydroidea. 3. The act or process of ingrafting one kind of plant upon another stock by inserting a bud under the bark. BUDDLE Bud"dle, n. Etym: [Prov. E., to cleanse ore, also a vessel for this purpose; cf. G. butteln to shake.] (Mining) Defn: An apparatus, especially an inclined trough or vat, in which stamped ore is concentrated by subjecting it to the action of rynning water so as to wash out the lighter and less valuable portions. BUDDLE Bud"dle, v. i. (Mining) Defn: To wash ore in a buddle. BUDE BURNER Bude" burn`er. Etym: [See Bude light.] Defn: A burner consisting of two or more concentric Argand burners (the inner rising above the outer) and a central tube by which oxygen gas or common air is supplied. BUDE LIGHT Bude" light`. Etym: [From Bude, in Cornwall, the residence of Sir G.Gurney, the inventor.] Defn: A light in which high illuminating power is obtained by introducing a jet of oxygen gas or of common air into the center of a flame fed with coal gas or with oil. BUDGE Budge, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Budged; p. pr. & vb. n. Budging.] Etym: [F. bouger to stir, move (akin to Pr. bojar, bolegar, to stir, move, It. bulicare to boil, bubble), fr. L. bullire. See Boil, v. i.] Defn: To move off; to stir; to walk away. I'll not budge an inch, boy. Shak. The mouse ne'er shunned the cat as they did budge From rascals worse than they. Shak. BUDGE Budge, a. Etym: [See Budge, v.] Defn: Brisk; stirring; jocund. [Obs.] South. BUDGE Budge, n. Etym: [OE. bouge bag, OF. boge, bouge, fr. L. bulga a leathern bag or knapsack; a Gallic word; cf. OIr. bolc, Gael. bolg. Cf. Budge, n.] Defn: A kind of fur prepared from lambskin dressed with the wool on; -- used formerly as an edging and ornament, esp. of scholastic habits. BUDGE Budge, a. 1. Lined with budge; hence, scholastic. "Budge gowns." Milton. 2. Austere or stiff, like scholastics. Those budge doctors of the stoic fur. Milton. Budge bachelor, one of a company of men clothed in long gowns lined with budge, who formerly accompanied the lord mayor of London in his inaugural procession. -- Budge barrel (Mil.), a small copper-hooped barrel with only one head, the other end being closed by a piece of leather, which is drawn together with strings like a purse. It is used for carrying powder from the magazine to the battery, in siege or seacoast service. BUDGENESS Budge"ness, n. Defn: Sternness; severity. [Obs.] A Sara for goodness, a great Bellona for budgeness. Stanyhurst. BUDGER Budg"er, n. Defn: One who budges. Shak. BUDGEROW budg"e*row, n. Etym: [Hindi bajra.] Defn: A large and commodious, but generally cumbrous and sluggish boat, used for journeys on the Ganges. BUDGET Budg"et, n. Etym: [OE. bogett, bouget, F. bougette bag, wallet, dim. of OF. boge, bouge, leather bag. See Budge, n., and cf. Bouget.] 1. A bag or sack with its contents; hence, a stock or store; an accumulation; as, a budget of inventions. 2. The annual financial statement which the British chancellor of the exchequer makes in the House of Commons. It comprehends a general view of the finances of the country, with the proposed plan of taxation for the ensuing year. The term is sometimes applied to a similar statement in other countries. To open the budget, to lay before a legislative body the financial estimates and plans of the executive government. BUDGY Budg"y, a. Etym: [From Budge, n.] Defn: Consisting of fur. [Obs.] BUDLET Bud"let, n. Etym: [Bud + -let.] Defn: A little bud springing from a parent bud. We have a criterion to distinguish one bud from another, or the parent bud from the numerous budlets which are its offspring. E. Darwin. BUFF Buff, n. Etym: [OE. buff, buffe, buff, buffalo, F. buffle buffalo. See Buffalo.] 1. A sort of leather, prepared from the skin of the buffalo, dressed with oil, like chamois; also, the skins of oxen, elks, and other animals, dressed in like manner. "A suit of buff." Shak. 2. The color to buff; a light yellow, shading toward pink, gray, or brown. A visage rough, Deformed, unfeatured, and a skin of buff. Dryden. 3. A military coat, made of buff leather. Shak. 4. (Med.) Defn: The grayish viscid substance constituting the buffy coat. See Buffy coat, under Buffy, a. 5. (Mech.) Defn: A wheel covered with buff leather, and used in polishing cutlery, spoons, etc. 6. The bare skin; as, to strip to the buff. [Colloq.] To be in buff is equivalent to being naked. Wright. BUFF Buff, a. 1. Made of buff leather. Goldsmith. 2. Of the color of buff. Buff coat, a close, military outer garment, with short sleeves, and laced tightly over the chest, made of buffalo skin, or other thick and elastic material, worn by soldiers in the 17th century as a defensive covering. -- Buff jerkin, originally, a leather waistcoat; afterward, one of cloth of a buff color. [Obs.] Nares. -- Buff stick (Mech.), a strip of wood covered with buff leather, used in polishing. BUFF Buff, v. t. Defn: To polish with a buff. See Buff, n., 5. BUFF Buff, v. t. Etym: [OF. bufer to cuff, buffet. See Buffet a blow.] Defn: To strike. [Obs.] B. Jonson. BUFF Buff, n. Etym: [See Buffet.] Defn: A buffet; a blow; -- obsolete except in the phrase "Blindman's buff." Nathless so sore a buff to him it lent That made him reel. Spenser. BUFF Buff, a. Etym: [Of uncertain etymol.] Defn: Firm; sturdy. And for the good old cause stood buff, 'Gainst many a bitter kick and cuff. Hudibras. BUFFA Buf"fa, n. fem. (Mus.) Etym: [It. See Buffoon.] Defn: The comic actress in an opera. -- a. Defn: Comic, farcical. Aria buffa, a droll or comic air. -- Opera buffa, a comic opera. See Opera bouffe. BUFFALO Buf"fa*lo, n.; pl. Buffaloes (. Etym: [Sp. bufalo (cf. It. bufalo, F. buffle), fr. L. bubalus, bufalus, a kind of African stag or gazelle; also, the buffalo or wild ox, fr. Gr. Cow the animal, and cf. Buff the color, and Bubale.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A species of the genus Bos or Bubalus (B. bubalus), originally from India, but now found in most of the warmer countries of the eastern continent. It is larger and less docile than the common ox, and is fond of marshy places and rivers. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A very large and savage species of the same genus (B. Caffer) found in South Africa; -- called also Cape buffalo. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of wild ox. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: The bison of North America. 5. A buffalo robe. See Buffalo robe, below. 6. (Zoöl.) Defn: The buffalo fish. See Buffalo fish, below. Buffalo berry (Bot.), a shrub of the Upper Missouri (Sherherdia argentea) with acid edible red berries. -- Buffalo bird (Zoöl.), an African bird of the genus Buphaga, of two species. These birds perch upon buffaloes and cattle, in search of parasites. -- Buffalo bug, the carpet beetle. See under Carpet. -- Buffalo chips, dry dung of the buffalo, or bison, used for fuel. [U.S.] -- Buffalo clover (Bot.), a kind of clover (Trifolium reflexum and T.soloniferum) found in the ancient grazing grounds of the American bison. -- Buffalo cod (Zoöl.), a large, edible, marine fish (Ophiodon elongatus) of the northern Pacific coast; -- called also blue cod, and cultus cod. -- Buffalo fish (Zoöl.), one of several large fresh-water fishes of the family Catostomidæ, of the Mississippi valley. The red-mouthed or brown (Ictiobus bubalus), the big-mouthed or black (Bubalichthys urus), and the small-mouthed (B. altus), are among the more important species used as food. -- Buffalo fly, or Buffalo gnat (Zoöl.), a small dipterous insect of the genus Simulium, allied to the black fly of the North. It is often extremely abundant in the lower part of the Mississippi