[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Norsk, fr. nord north. See North.] Defn: Of or pertaining to ancient Scandinavia, or to the language spoken by its inhabitants. NORSE Norse, n. Defn: The Norse language. NORSEMAN Norse"man, n.; pl. Norsemen (. Defn: One of the ancient Scandinavians; a Northman. NORTELRY Nor"tel*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. Nurture.] Defn: Nurture; education; culture; bringing up. [Obs.] Nortelry . . . learned at the nunnery. Chaucer. NORTH North, n. Etym: [AS. noredh; akin to D. noord, G., Sw., & Dan. nord, Icel. noredhr. Cf. Norman, Norse.] 1. That one of the four cardinal points of the compass, at any place, which lies in the direction of the true meridian, and to the left hand of a person facing the east; the direction opposite to the south. 2. Any country or region situated farther to the north than another; the northern section of a country. 3. Specifically: That part of the United States lying north of Mason and Dixon's line. See under Line. NORTH North, a. Defn: Lying toward the north; situated at the north, or in a northern direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the north, or coming from the north. North following. See Following, a., 2. -- North pole, that point in the heavens, or on the earth, ninety degrees from the equator toward the north. -- North preceding. See Following, a., 2. -- North star, the star toward which the north pole of the earth very nearly points, and which accordingly seems fixed and immovable in the sky. The star a (alpha) of the Little Bear, is our present north star, being distant from the pole about 1º 25', and from year to year approaching slowly nearer to it. It is called also Cynosura, polestar, and by astronomers, Polaris. NORTH North, v. i. Defn: To turn or move toward the north; to veer from the east or west toward the north. NORTH North, adv. Defn: Northward. NORTHEAST North`east", n. Defn: The point between the north and east, at an equal distance from each; the northeast part or region. NORTHEAST North`east", a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the northeast; proceeding toward the northeast, or coming from that point; as, a northeast course; a northeast wind. Northeast passage, a passage or communication by sea between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans along the north coast of Asia. NORTHEAST North`east", adv. Defn: Toward the northeast. NORTHEASTER North`east"er, n. Defn: A storm, strong wind, or gale, coming from the northeast. NORTHEASTERLY North`east"er*ly, a. Defn: Pertaining to the northeast; toward the northeast, or coming from the northeast. NORTHEASTERLY North`east"er*ly, adv. Defn: Toward the northeast. NORTHEASTERN North`east"ern, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the northeast; northeasterly. NORTHEASTWARD; NORTHEASTWARDLY North`east"ward, North`east"ward*ly, adv. Defn: Toward the northeast. NORTHER North"er, n. Defn: A wind from the north; esp., a strong and cold north wind in Texas and the vicinity of the Gulf of Mexico. NORTHERLINESS North"er*li*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being northerly; direction toward the north. NORTHERLY North"er*ly, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the north; toward the north, or from the north; northern. NORTHERLY North"er*ly, adv. Defn: Toward the north. NORTHERN North"ern, a. Etym: [AS. noredherne.] 1. Of or pertaining to the north; being in the north, or nearer to that point than to the east or west. 2. In a direction toward the north; as, to steer a northern course; coming from the north; as, a northern wind. Northern diver. (Zoöl.) See Loon. -- Northern lights. See Aurora borealis, under Aurora. -- Northern spy (Bot.), an excellent American apple, of a yellowish color, marked with red. NORTHERNER North"ern*er, n. 1. One born or living in the north. 2. A native or inhabitant of the Northern States; -- contradistinguished from Ant: Southerner. [U. S.] NORTHERNLY North"ern*ly, adv. Defn: Northerly. [Obs.] Hakewill. NORTHERNMOST North"ern*most`, a. Etym: [Cf. Northmost.] Defn: Farthest north. NORTHING North"ing, n. 1. (Surv. & Navigation) Defn: Distance northward from any point of departure or of reckoning, measured on a meridian; -- opposed to Ant: southing. 2. (Astron.) Defn: The distance of any heavenly body from the equator northward; north declination. NORTHMAN North"man, n.; pl. Northmen. Etym: [AS. noredhman. See North, and Man, and cf. Norman.] Defn: One of the inhabitants of the north of Europe; esp., one of the ancient Scandinavians; a Norseman. NORTHMOST North"most`, a. Etym: [AS. nor. Cf.Aftermost.] Defn: Lying farthest north; northernmost. Northmost part of the coast of Mozambique. De Foe. NORTHNESS North"ness, n. Defn: A tendency in the end of a magnetic needle to point to the north. Faraday. NORTH STAR STATE North Star State. Defn: Minnesota; -- a nickname. NORTHUMBRIAN North*um"bri*an, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Northumberland in England. -- n. Defn: A native or inhabitant of Northumberland. NORTHWARD North"ward, a. Etym: [AS. noredhweard.] Defn: Toward the north; nearer to the north than to the east or west point. NORTHWARD; NORTHWARDS North"ward, North"wards, adv. Defn: Toward the north, or toward a point nearer to the north than to the east or west point. NORTHWARDLY North"ward*ly, a. Defn: Having a northern direction. NORTHWARDLY North"ward*ly, adv. Defn: In a northern direction. NORTHWEST North`west", n. Etym: [AS. noredhwest.] Defn: The point in the horizon between the north and west, and equally distant from each; the northwest part or region. NORTHWEST North`west", a. 1. Pertaining to, or in the direction of, the point between the north and west; being in the northwest; toward the northwest, or coming from the northwest; as, the northwest coast. 2. Coming from the northwest; as, a northwest wind. Northwest passage, a passage or communication by sea between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans along the north coast of America, long sought for by navigators. NORTHWEST North`west", adv. Defn: Toward the northwest. NORTHWESTER North`west"er, n. Defn: A storm or gale from the northwest; a strong northwest wind. NORTHWESTERLY North`west"er*ly, a. Defn: Toward the northwest, or from the northwest. NORTHWESTERN North`west"ern, a. Defn: Of, pertaining to, or being in, the northwest; in a direction toward the northwest; coming from the northwest; northwesterly; as, a northwestern course. NORTHWESTWARD; NORTHWESTWARDLY North`west"ward, North`west"ward*ly, adv. Defn: Toward the northwest. NORWEGIAN Nor*we"gi*an, a. Etym: [Cf. Icel. Noregr, Norvegr, Norway. See North, and Way.] Defn: Of or pertaining to Norway, its inhabitants, or its language. NORWEGIAN Nor*we"gi*an, n. 1. A native of Norway. 2. That branch of the Scandinavian language spoken in Norway. NORWEGIUM Nor*we"gi*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Norwegian.] (Chem.) Defn: A rare metallic element, of doubtful identification, said to occur in the copper-nickel of Norway. NORWEYAN Nor*we"yan, a. Defn: Norwegian. [Obs.] Shak. NOSE Nose, n. Etym: [AS. nosu; akin to D. neus, G. nase, OHG. nasa, Icel. nös, Sw. näsa, Dan. näse, Lith. nosis, Russ. nos', L. nasus, nares, Skr. nasa, nas. Nasal, Nasturtium, Naze, Nostril, Nozzle.] 1. (Anat.) Defn: The prominent part of the face or anterior extremity of the head containing the nostrils and olfactory cavities; the olfactory organ. See Nostril, and Olfactory organ under Olfactory. 2. The power of smelling; hence, scent. We are not offended with a dog for a better nose than his master. Collier. 3. A projecting end or beak at the front of an object; a snout; a nozzle; a spout; as, the nose of a bellows; the nose of a teakettle. Nose bit (Carp.), a bit similar to a gouge bit, but having a cutting edge on one side of its boring end. -- Nose hammer (Mach.), a frontal hammer. -- Nose hole (Glass Making), a small opening in a furnace, before which a globe of crown glass is held and kept soft at the beginning of the flattening process. -- Nose key (Carp.), a fox wedge. -- Nose leaf (Zoöl.), a thin, broad, membranous fold of skin on the nose of many species of bats. It varies greatly in size and form. -- Nose of wax, fig., a person who is pliant and easily influenced. "A nose of wax to be turned every way." Massinger -- Nose piece, the nozzle of a pipe, hose, bellows, etc.; the end piece of a microscope body, to which an objective is attached. -- To hold, put, or bring one's nose to the grindstone. See under Grindstone. -- To lead by the nose, to lead at pleasure, or to cause to follow submissively; to lead blindly, as a person leads a beast. Shak. -- To put one's nose out of joint, to humiliate one's pride, esp. by supplanting one in the affections of another. [Slang] -- To thrust one's nose into, to meddle officiously in. -- To wipe one's nose of, to deprive of; to rob. [Slang] NOSE Nose, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nosed; p. pr. & vb. n. Nosing.] 1. To smell; to scent; hence, to track, or trace out. 2. To touch with the nose; to push the nose into or against; hence, to interfere with; to treat insolently. Lambs . . . nosing the mother's udder. Tennyson. A sort of national convention, dubious in its nature . . . nosed Parliament in the very seat of its authority. Burke. 3.