[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tibia; as, tibiotarsus, tibiofibular. TIBIOTARSAL Tib`i*o*tar"sal, a. (Anat.) (a) Of or pertaining to both to the tibia and the tarsus; as, the tibiotarsal articulation. (b) Of or pertaining to the tibiotarsus. TIBIOTARSUS Tib`i*o*tar"sus, n.; pl. Tibiotarsi (. (Anat.) Defn: The large bone between the femur and tarsometatarsus in the leg of a bird. It is formed by the union of the proximal part of the tarsus with the tibia. TIBRIE Tib"rie, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The pollack. [Prov. Eng.] TIC Tic, n. Etym: [F.] (Med.) Defn: A local and habitual convulsive motion of certain muscles; especially, such a motion of some of the muscles of the face; twitching; velication; -- called also spasmodic tic. Dunglison. Tic douloureux (. Etym: [F., fr. tic a knack, a twitching + douloureux painful.] (Med.) Neuralgia in the face; face ague. See under Face. TICAL Ti*cal", n. 1. A bean-shaped coin of Siam, worth about sixty cents; also, a weight equal to 236 grains troy. Malcom. 2. A money of account in China, reckoning at about $1.60; also, a weight of about four ounces avoirdupois. TICE Tice, v. t. Etym: [Aphetic form of entice.] Defn: To entice. [Obs.] The Coronation. TICE Tice, n. (Cricket) Defn: A ball bowled to strike the ground about a bat's length in front of the wicket. TICEMENT Tice"ment, n. Defn: Enticement. [Obs.] TICHORRHINE Tich"or*rhine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.) Defn: A fossil rhinoceros with a vertical bony medial septum supporting the nose; the hairy rhinoceros. TICK Tick, n. Etym: [Abbrev. from ticket.] Defn: Credit; trust; as, to buy on, or upon, tick. TICK Tick, v. i. 1. To go on trust, or credit. 2. To give tick; to trust. TICK Tick, n. Etym: [OE. tike, teke; akin to D. teek, G. zecke. Cf. Tike a tick.] (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of numerous species of large parasitic mites which attach themselves to, and suck the blood of, cattle, dogs, and many other animals. When filled with blood they become ovate, much swollen, and usually livid red in color. Some of the species often attach themselves to the human body. The young are active and have at first but six legs. (b) Any one of several species of dipterous insects having a flattened and usually wingless body, as the bird ticks (see under Bird) and sheep tick (see under Sheep). Tick bean, a small bean used for feeding horses and other animals. -- Tick trefoil (Bot.), a name given to many plants of the leguminous genus Desmodium, which have trifoliate leaves, and joined pods roughened with minute hooked hairs by which the joints adhere to clothing and to the fleece of sheep. TICK Tick, n. Etym: [LL. techa, teca, L. theca case, Gr. Thesis.] 1. The cover, or case, of a bed, mattress, etc., which contains the straw, feathers, hair, or other filling. 2. Ticking. See Ticking, n. TICK Tick, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ticked; p. pr. & vb. n. Ticking.] Etym: [Probably of imitative origin; cf. D. tikken, LG. ticken.] 1. To make a small or repeating noise by beating or otherwise, as a watch does; to beat. 2. To strike gently; to pat. Stand not ticking and toying at the branches. Latimer. TICK Tick, n. 1. A quick, audible beat, as of a clock. 2. Any small mark intended to direct attention to something, or to serve as a check. Dickens. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: The whinchat; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.] Death tick. (Zoöl.) See Deathwatch. TICK Tick, v. t. Defn: To check off by means of a tick or any small mark; to score. When I had got all my responsibilities down upon my list, I compared each with the bill and ticked it off. Dickens. TICKEN Tick"en, n. Defn: See Ticking. [R.] R. Browning. TICKER Tick"er, n. Etym: [See Tick.] Defn: One who, or that which, ticks, or produces a ticking sound, as a watch or clock, a telegraphic sounder, etc. Ticker tape Tape from or designed to be used in a stock ticker, usu. of paper and being narrow but long. -- Stock ticker, an electro-mechanical information receiving device connected by telegraphic wire to a stock exchange, and which prints out the latest transactions or news on stock exchanges, commonly found in the offices of stock brokers. By 1980 largely superseded by electronic stock quotation devices. ticker tape parade A parade to honor a person, held in New York City, during which people in the tall buildings of Manhattan throw large quantities of paper, confetti, paper ribbons, or the like onto the parading group. The name comes form the ticker tape originally thrown onto the parade when it passed stockbrokers' offices in lower Manhattan, before stock tickers became obsolete. TICKET Tick"et, n. Etym: [F. étiquette a label, ticket, fr. OF. estiquette, or OF. etiquet, estiquet; both of Teutonic origin, and akin to E. stick. See Stick, n. & v., and cf. Etiquette, Tick credit.] Defn: A small piece of paper, cardboard, or the like, serving as a notice, certificate, or distinguishing token of something. Specifically: -- (a) A little note or notice. [Obs. or Local] He constantly read his lectures twice a week for above forty years, giving notice of the time to his auditors in a ticket on the school doors. Fuller. (b) A tradesman's bill or account. [Obs.] Note: Hence the phrase on ticket, on account; whence, by abbreviation, came the phrase on tick. See 1st Tick. Your courtier is mad to take up silks and velvets On ticket for his mistress. J. Cotgrave. (c) A certificate or token of right of admission to a place of assembly, or of passage in a public conveyance; as, a theater ticket; a railroad or steamboat ticket. (d) A label to show the character or price of goods. (e) A certificate or token of a share in a lottery or other scheme for distributing money, goods, or the like. (f) (Politics) A printed list of candidates to be voted for at an election; a set of nominations by one party for election; a ballot. [U.S.] The old ticket forever! We have it by thirty-four votes. Sarah Franklin (1766). Scratched ticket, a ticket from which the names of one or more of the candidates are scratched out. -- Split ticket, a ticket representing different divisions of a party, or containing candidates selected from two or more parties. -- Straight ticket, a ticket containing the regular nominations of a party, without change. -- Ticket day (Com.), the day before the settling or pay day on the stock exchange, when the names of the actual purchasers are rendered in by one stockbroker to another. [Eng.] Simmonds. -- Ticket of leave, a license or permit given to a convict, or prisoner of the crown, to go at large, and to labor for himself before the expiration of his sentence, subject to certain specific conditions. [Eng.] Simmonds. -- Ticket porter, a licensed porter wearing a badge by which he may be identified. [Eng.] TICKET Tick"et, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ticketed; p. pr. & vb. n. Ticketing.] 1. To distinguish by a ticket; to put a ticket on; as, to ticket goods. 2. To furnish with a tickets; to book; as, to ticket passengers to California. [U.S.] TICKETING Tick"et*ing, n. Defn: A periodical sale of ore in the English mining districts; -- so called from the tickets upon which are written the bids of the buyers. TICKING Tick"ing, n. Etym: [From Tick a bed cover. Cf. Ticken.] Defn: A strong, closely woven linen or cotton fabric, of which ticks for beds are made. It is usually twilled, and woven in stripes of different colors, as white and blue; -- called also ticken. TICKLE Tic"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tickled; p. pr. & vb. n. Tickling.] Etym: [Perhaps freq. of tick to beat; pat; but cf. also AS. citelian to tickle, D. kittelen, G. kitzlen, OHG. chizzilon, chuzzilon, Icel. kitla. Cf. Kittle, v. t.] 1. To touch lightly, so as to produce a peculiar thrilling sensation, which commonly causes laughter, and a kind of spasm which become dengerous if too long protracted. If you tickle us, do we not laugh Shak. 2. To please; to gratify; to make joyous. Pleased with a rattle, tickled with a straw. Pope. Such a nature Tickled with good success, disdains the shadow Which he treads on at noon. Shak. TICKLE Tic"kle, v. i. 1. To feel titillation. He with secret joy therefore Did tickle inwardly in every vein. Spenser. 2. To excite the sensation of titillation. Shak. TICKLE Tic"kle, a. 1. Ticklish; easily tickled. [Obs.] 2. Liable to change; uncertain; inconstant. [Obs.] The world is now full tickle, sikerly. Chaucer. So tickle is the state of earthy things. Spenser. 3. Wavering, or liable to waver and fall at the slightest touch; unstable; easily overthrown. [Obs.] Thy head stands so tickle on thy shoulders, that a milkmaid, if she be in love, may sigh