[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

by pricking; to mark by punctured dots; as, to prick a pattern for embroidery; to prick the notes of a musical composition. Cowper. 5. To ride or guide with spurs; to spur; to goad; to incite; to urge on; -- sometimes with on, or off. Who pricketh his blind horse over the fallows. Chaucer. The season pricketh every gentle heart. Chaucer. My duty pricks me on to utter that. Shak. 6. To affect with sharp pain; to sting, as with remorse. "I was pricked with some reproof." Tennyson. Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart. Acts ii. 37. 7. To make sharp; to erect into a point; to raise, as something pointed; -- said especially of the ears of an animal, as a horse or dog; and usually followed by up; -- hence, to prick up the ears, to listen sharply; to have the attention and interest strongly engaged. "The courser . . . pricks up his ears." Dryden. 8. To render acid or pungent. [Obs.] Hudibras. 9. To dress; to prink; -- usually with up. [Obs.] 10. (Naut) (a) To run a middle seam through, as the cloth of a sail. (b) To trace on a chart, as a ship's course. 11. (Far.) (a) To drive a nail into (a horse's foot), so as to cause lameness. (b) To nick. PRICK Prick, v. i. 1. To be punctured; to suffer or feel a sharp pain, as by puncture; as, a sore finger pricks. 2. To spur onward; to ride on horseback. Milton. A gentle knight was pricking on the plain. Spenser. 3. To become sharp or acid; to turn sour, as wine. 4. To aim at a point or mark. Hawkins. PRICK-EARED Prick"-eared`, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having erect, pointed ears; -- said of certain dogs. Thou prick-eared cur of Iceland. Shak. PRICKER Prick"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, pricks; a pointed instrument; a sharp point; a prickle. 2. One who spurs forward; a light horseman. The prickers, who rode foremost, . . . halted. Sir W. Scott. 3. A priming wire; a priming needle, -- used in blasting and gunnery. Knight. 4. (Naut.) Defn: A small marline spike having generally a wooden handle, -- used in sailmaking. R. H. Dana, Ir. PRICKET Prick"et, n. Etym: [Perhaps so called from the state of his horns. See Prick, and cf. Brocket.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A buck in his second year. See Note under 3d Buck. Shak. PRICKING Prick"ing, n. 1. The act of piercing or puncturing with a sharp point. "There is that speaketh like the prickings of a sword." Prov. xii. 18 [1583]. 2. (Far.) (a) The driving of a nail into a horse's foot so as to produce lameness. (b) Same as Nicking. 3. A sensation of being pricked. Shak. 4. The mark or trace left by a hare's foot; a prick; also, the act of tracing a hare by its footmarks. [Obs.] 5. Dressing one's self for show; prinking. [Obs.] PRICKING-UP Prick"ing-up, n. (Arch.) Defn: The first coating of plaster in work of three coats upon laths. Its surface is scratched once to form a better key for the next coat. In the United States called scratch coat. Brande & C. PRICKLE Pric"kle, n. Etym: [AS. pricele, pricle; akin to LG. prickel, D. prikkel. See Prick, n.] 1. A little prick; a small, sharp point; a fine, sharp process or projection, as from the skin of an animal, the bark of a plant, etc.; a spine. Bacon. 2. A kind of willow basket; -- a term still used in some branches of trade. B. Jonson. 3. A sieve of filberts, -- about fifty pounds. [Eng.] PRICKLE Pric"kle, v. t. Defn: To prick slightly, as with prickles, or fine, sharp points. Felt a horror over me creep, Prickle skin, and catch my breath. Tennyson. PRICKLEBACK; PRICKLEFISH Pric"kle*back`, Pric"kle*fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The stickleback. PRICKLINESS Prick"li*ness, n. Etym: [From Prickly.] Defn: The quality of being prickly, or of having many prickles. PRICKLING Prick"ling, a. Defn: Prickly. [Obs.] Spenser. PRICKLOUSE Prick"louse`, n. Defn: A tailor; -- so called in contempt. [Old slang] L'Estrange. PRICKLY Prick"ly, a. Defn: Full of sharp points or prickles; armed or covered with prickles; as, a prickly shrub. Prickly ash (Bot.), a prickly shrub (Xanthoxylum Americanum) with yellowish flowers appearing with the leaves. All parts of the plant are pungent and aromatic. The southern species is X. Carolinianum. Gray. -- Prickly heat (Med.), a noncontagious cutaneous eruption of red pimples, attended with intense itching and tingling of the parts affected. It is due to inflammation of the sweat glands, and is often brought on by overheating the skin in hot weather. -- Prickly pear (Bot.), a name given to several plants of the cactaceous genus Opuntia, American plants consisting of fleshy, leafless, usually flattened, and often prickly joints inserted upon each other. The sessile flowers have many petals and numerous stamens. The edible fruit is a large pear-shaped berry containing many flattish seeds. The common species of the Northern Atlantic States is Opuntia vulgaris. In the South and West are many others, and in tropical America more than a hundred more. O. vulgaris, O. Ficus-Indica, and O. Tuna are abundantly introduced in the Mediterranean region, and O. Dillenii has become common in India. -- Prickly pole (Bot.), a West Indian palm (Bactris Plumierana), the slender trunk of which bears many rings of long black prickles. -- Prickly withe (Bot.), a West Indian cactaceous plant (Cereus triangularis) having prickly, slender, climbing, triangular stems. -- Prickly rat (Zoöl.), any one of several species of South American burrowing rodents belonging to Ctenomys and allied genera. The hair is usually intermingled with sharp spines. PRICKMADAM Prick"mad`am, n. Etym: [F. trique-madame. Cf. Tripmadam.] (Bot.) Defn: A name given to several species of stonecrop, used as ingredients of vermifuge medicines. See Stonecrop. PRICKPUNCH Prick"punch`, n. Defn: A pointed steel punch, to prick a mark on metal. PRICKSHAFT Prick"shaft`, n. Defn: An arrow. [Obs.] PRICKSONG Prick"song`, n. Etym: [See Prick, v. t., 4.] Defn: Music written, or noted, with dots or points; -- so called from the points or dots with which it is noted down. [Obs.] He fights as you sing pricksong. Shak. PRICKWOOD Prick"wood`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A shrub (Euonymus Europæus); -- so named from the use of its wood for goads, skewers, and shoe pegs. Called also spindle tree. PRICKY Prick"y, a. Defn: Stiff and sharp; prickly. Holland. PRIDE Pride, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. lamprede, LL. lampreda, E. lamprey.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A small European lamprey (Petromyzon branchialis); -- called also prid, and sandpiper. PRIDE Pride, n. Etym: [AS. pryte; akin to Icel. pryedhi honor, ornament, pr to adorn, Dan. pryde, Sw. pryda; cf. W. prydus comely. See Proud.] 1. The quality or state of being proud; inordinate self-esteem; an unreasonable conceit of one's own superiority in talents, beauty, wealth, rank, etc., which manifests itself in lofty airs, distance, reserve, and often in contempt of others. Those that walk in pride he is able to abase. Dan. iv. 37. Pride that dines on vanity sups on contempt. Franklin. 2. A sense of one's own worth, and abhorrence of what is beneath or unworthy of one; lofty self-respect; noble self-esteem; elevation of character; dignified bearing; proud delight; -- in a good sense. Thus to relieve the wretched was his pride. Goldsmith. A people which takes no pride in the noble achievements of remote ancestors will never achieve anything worthy to be remembered with pride by remote descendants. Macaulay. 3. Proud or disdainful behavior or treatment; insolence or arrogance of demeanor; haughty bearing and conduct; insolent exultation; disdain. Let not the foot of pride come against me. Ps. xxxvi. 11. That hardly we escaped the pride of France. Shak. 4. That of which one is proud; that which excites boasting or self- gratulation; the occasion or ground of self-esteem, or of arrogant and presumptuous confidence, as beauty, ornament, noble character, children, etc. Lofty trees yclad with summer's pride. Spenser. I will cut off the pride of the Philistines. Zech. ix. 6. A bold peasantry, their country's pride. Goldsmith. 5. Show; ostentation; glory. Pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war. Shak. 6. Highest pitch; elevation reached; loftiness; prime; glory; as, to be in the pride of one's life. A falcon, towering in her pride of place. Shak. 7. Consciousness of power; fullness of animal spirits; mettle; wantonness; hence, lust; sexual desire; esp., an excitement of sexual appetite in a female beast. [Obs.] Pride of India, or Pride of China. (Bot.) See Margosa. -- Pride of the desert (Zoöl.), the camel. Syn. -- Self-exaltation; conceit; hauteur; haughtiness; lordliness; loftiness. -- Pride, Vanity. Pride is a high or an excessive esteem of one's self for some real or imagined superiority, as rank, wealth, talents, character, etc. Vanity is the love of being admired, praised, exalted, etc., by others. Vanity is an ostentation of pride; but one may have great pride without displaying it. Vanity, which is etymologically "emptiness," is applied especially to