[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

spake in this manner. Chaucer. Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. 1 Sam. iii. 9. 2. To express opinions; to say; to talk; to converse. That fluid substance in a few minutes begins to set, as the tradesmen speak. Boyle. An honest man, is able to speak for himself, when a knave is not. Shak. During the century and a half which followed the Conquest, there is, to speak strictly, no English history. Macaulay. 3. To utter a speech, discourse, or harangue; to adress a public assembly formally. Many of the nobility made themselves popular by speaking in Parliament against those things which were most grateful to his majesty. Clarendon. 4. To discourse; to make mention; to tell. Lycan speaks of a part of Cæsar's army that came to him from the Leman Lake. Addison. 5. To give sound; to sound. Make all our trumpets speak. Shak. 6. To convey sentiments, ideas, or intelligence as if by utterance; as, features that speak of self-will. Thine eye begins to speak. Shak. To speak of, to take account of, to make mention of. Robynson (More's Utopia). -- To speak out, to speak loudly and distinctly; also, to speak unreservedly. -- To speak well for, to commend; to be favorable to. -- To speak with, to converse with. "Would you speak with me" Shak. Syn. -- To say; tell; talk; converse; discourse; articulate; pronounce; utter. SPEAK Speak, v. t. 1. To utter with the mouth; to pronounce; to utter articulately, as human beings. They sat down with him upn ground seven days and seven nights, and none spake a word unto him. Job. ii. 13. 2. To utter in a word or words; to say; to tell; to declare orally; as, to speak the truth; to speak sense. 3. To declare; to proclaim; to publish; to make known; to exhibit; to express in any way. It is my father;s muste To speak your deeds. Shak. Speaking a still good morrow with her eyes. Tennyson. And for the heaven's wide circuit, let it speak The maker's high magnificence. Milton. Report speaks you a bonny monk. Sir W. Scott. 4. To talk or converse in; to utter or pronounce, as in conversation; as, to speak Latin. And French she spake full fair and fetisely. Chaucer. 5. To address; to accost; to speak to. [He will] thee in hope; he will speak thee fair. Ecclus. xiii. 6. each village senior paused to scan And speak the lovely caravan. Emerson. To speak a ship (Naut.), to hail and speak to her captain or commander. SPEAKABLE Speak"a*ble, a. 1. Capable of being spoken; fit to be spoken. Ascham. 2. Able to speak. Milton. SPEAKER Speak"er, n. 1. One who speaks. Specifically: (a) One who utters or pronounces a discourse; usually, one who utters a speech in public; as, the man is a good speaker, or a bad speaker. (b) One who is the mouthpiece of others; especially, one who presides over, or speaks for, a delibrative assembly, preserving order and regulating the debates; as, the Speaker of the House of Commons, originally, the mouthpiece of the House to address the king; the Speaker of a House of Representatives. 2. A book of selections for declamation. [U. S.] SPEAKERSHIP Speak"er*ship, n. Defn: The office of speaker; as, the speakership of the House of Representatives. SPEAKING Speak"ing, a. 1. Uttering speech; used for conveying speech; as, man is a speaking animal; a speaking tube. 2. Seeming to be capable of speech; hence, lifelike; as, a speaking likeness. A speaking acquaintance, a slight acquaintance with a person, or one which merely permits the exchange of salutations and remarks on indifferent subjects. -- Speaking trumpet, an instrument somewhat resembling a trumpet, by which the sound of the human voice may be so intensified as to be conveyed to a great distance. -- Speaking tube, a tube for conveying speech, especially from one room to another at a distance. -- To be on speaking terms, to be slightly acquainted. SPEAKING Speak"ing, n. 1. The act of uttering words. 2. Public declamation; oratory. SPEAR Spear, n. Etym: [OE. spere, AS. spere; akin to D. & G. speer, OS. & OHS. sper, Icel. spjör, pl., Dan. spær, L. sparus.] 1. A long, pointed weapon, used in war and hunting, by thrusting or throwing; a weapon with a long shaft and a sharp head or blade; a lance. Note: [See Illust. of Spearhead.] "A sharp ground spear." Chaucer. They shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Micah iv. 3. 2. Fig.: A spearman. Sir W. Scott. 3. A sharp-pointed instrument with barbs, used for stabbing fish and other animals. 4. A shoot, as of grass; a spire. 5. The feather of a horse. See Feather, n., 4. 6. The rod to which the bucket, or plunger, of a pump is attached; a pump rod. Spear foot, the off hind foot of a horse. -- Spear grass. (Bot.) (a) The common reed. See Reed, n., 1. (b) meadow grass. See under Meadow. -- Spear hand, the hand in which a horseman holds a spear; the right hand. Crabb. -- Spear side, the male line of a family. Lowell. -- Spear thistle (Bot.), the common thistle (Cnicus lanceolatus). SPEAR Spear, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Speared; p. pr. & vb. n. Spearing.] Defn: To pierce with a spear; to kill with a spear; as, to spear a fish. SPEAR Spear, v. i. Defn: To shoot into a long stem, as some plants. See Spire. Mortimer. SPEARER Spear"er, n. Defn: One who uses a spear; as, a spearer of fish. SPEARFISH Spear"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) A large and powerful fish (Tetrapturus albidus) related to the swordfish, but having scales and ventral fins. It is found on the American coast and the Mediterranean. (b) The carp sucker. SPEARHEAD Spear"head`, n. Defn: The pointed head, or end, of a spear. SPEARMAN Spear"man, n.; pl. Spearmen (. Defn: One who is armed with a spear. Acts xxiii. 23. SPEARMINT Spear"mint`, n. Etym: [So named from its spiry, not capitate, inflorescence. Dr. Prior.] (Bot.) Defn: A species of mint (Mentha viridis) growing in moist soil. It vields an aromatic oil. See Mint, and Mentha. SPEARWOOD Spear"wood`, n. (Bot.) Defn: An Australian tree (Acacia Doratoxylon), and its tough wood, used by the natives for spears. SPEARWORT Spear"wort`, n. Etym: [AS. sperewyrt.] (Bot.) Defn: A name given to several species of crowfoot (Ranunculus) which have spear-shaped leaves. SPEARY Spear"y, a. Defn: Having the form of a spear. SPECE Spece, n. Defn: Species; kind. [Obs.] Chaucer. SPECHT Specht, n. Etym: [See Speight.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A woodpecker. [Obs. or prov. Eng.] Sherwood. SPECIAL Spe"cial, a. Etym: [L. specialis, fr. species a particular sort, kind, or quality: cf. F. spécial. See Species, and cf. Especial.] 1. Of or pertaining to a species; constituting a species or sort. A special is called by the schools a "species". I. Watts. 2. Particular; peculiar; different from others; extraordinary; uncommon. Our Savior is represented everywhere in Scripture as the special patron of the poor and the afficted. Atterbury. To this special evil an improvement of style would apply a special redress. De Quincey. 3. Appropriate; designed for a particular purpose, occasion, or person; as, a special act of Parliament or of Congress; a special sermon. 4. Limited in range; confined to a definite field of action, investigation, or discussion; as, a special dictionary of commercial terms; a special branch of study. 5. Chief in excellence. [Obs.] The king hath drawn The special head of all the land together. Shak. Special administration (Law), an administration limited to certain specified effects or acts, or one granted during a particular time or the existence of a special cause, as during a controversy respecting the probate of a will, or the right of administration, etc. -- Special agency, an agency confined to some particular matter. -- Special bail, Bail above, or Bail to the action (Law), sureties who undertake that, if the defendant is convicted, he shall satisfy the plaintiff, or surrender himself into custody. Tomlins. Wharton (Law Dict.). -- Special constable. See under Constable. Bouvier. -- Special damage (Law), a damage resulting from the act complained of, as a natural, but not the necessary, consequence of it. -- Special demurrer (Law), a demurrer for some defect of form in the opposite party pleading, in which the cause of demurrer is particularly stated. -- Special deposit, a deposit made of a specific thing to be kept distinct from others. -- Special homology. (Biol.) See under Homology. -- Special injuction (Law), an injuction granted on special grounds, arising of the circumstances of the case. Daniell. -- Special issue (Law), an issue produced upon a special plea. Stephen. -- Special jury (Law), a jury consisting of persons of some particular calling, station, or qualification, which is called upon motion of either party when the cause is supposed to require it; a struck jury. -- Special orders (Mil.), orders which do not concern,