[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a rioting. [Obs. & R.] Feltham. GRASS-GREEN Grass"-green`, a. 1. Green with grass. 2. Of the color of grass; clear and vivid green. GRASS-GROWN Grass"-grown`, a. Defn: Overgrown with grass; as, a grass-grown road. GRASSHOPPER Grass"hop`per, n. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any jumping, orthopterous insect, of the families Acrididæ and Locustidæ. The species and genera are very numerous. The former family includes the Western grasshopper or locust (Caloptenus spretus), noted for the great extent of its ravages in the region beyond the Mississippi. In the Eastern United States the red-legged (Caloptenus femurrubrum and C. atlanis) are closely related species, but their ravages are less important. They are closely related to the migratory locusts of the Old World. See Locust. Note: The meadow or green grasshoppers belong to the Locustidæ. They have long antennæ, large ovipositors, and stridulating organs at the base of the wings in the male. The European great green grasshopper (Locusta viridissima) belongs to this family. The common American green species mostly belong to Xiphidium, Orchelimum, and Conocephalus. 2. In ordinary square or upright pianos of London make, the escapement lever or jack, so made that it can be taken out and replaced with the key; -- called also the hopper. Grove. Grasshopper engine, a steam engine having a working beam with its fulcrum at one end, the steam cylinder at the other end, and the connecting rod at an intermediate point. -- Grasshopper lobster (Zoöl.) a young lobster. [Local, U. S.] -- Grasshopper warbler (Zoöl.), cricket bird. GRASSINESS Grass"i*ness, n. Etym: [From Grassy.] Defn: The state of abounding with grass; a grassy state. GRASSLESS Grass"less, a. Defn: Destitute of grass. GRASSPLOT Grass"plot`, n. Defn: A plot or space covered with grass; a lawn. "Here on this grassplot." Shak. GRASS TREE Grass" tree". (Bot.) (a) An Australian plant of the genus Xanthorrhoea, having a thick trunk crowned with a dense tuft of pendulous, grasslike leaves, from the center of which arises a long stem, bearing at its summit a dense flower spike looking somewhat like a large cat-tail. These plants are often called "blackboys" from the large trunks denuded and blackened by fire. They yield two kinds of fragrant resin, called Botany-bay gum, and Gum Acaroides. (b) A similar Australian plant (Kingia australis). GRASSY Grass"y a. 1. Covered with grass; abounding with grass; as, a grassy lawn. Spenser. 2. Resembling grass; green. GRATE Grate, a. Etym: [L. gratus agreeable, grateful: cf. It. & Sp. grato. See Grace, and cf. Agree.] Defn: Serving to gratify; agreeable. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. GRATE Grate, n. Etym: [LL.. grata, fr. L. crates hurdle; or It. grata, of the same origin. Sae Crate, Hurdle.] 1. A structure or frame containing parallel or crosed bars, with interstices; a kind of latticework, such as is used ia the windows of prisons and cloisters. "A secret grate of iron bars." Shak. 2. A frame or bed, or kind of basket, of iron bars, for holding fuel while burning. Grate surface (Steam, Boiler) the area of the surface of the grate upon which the fuel lies in the furnace. GRATE Grate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grated; p. pr. &. vb. n. Grating.] Defn: To furnish with grates; to protect with a grating or crossbars; as, to grate a window. GRATE Grate, v. t. Etym: [OF grater to scrape, scratch, F. gratter, LL. gratare, cratare; of German origin; cf. OHG. chrazzon G. kratzen, D. krassen, Sw. Kratta, and perh. E. scratch.] 1. To rub roughly or harshly, as one body against another, causing a harsh sound; as, to grate the teeth; to produce (a harsh sound) by rubbing. On their hinges grate Harsh thunder. Milton. 2. To reduce to small particles by rubbing with anything rough or indented; as, to grate a nutmeg. 3. To fret; to irritate; to offend. News, my good lord Rome . . . grates me. Shak. GRATE Grate, v. i. 1. To make a harsh sound by friction. I had rather hear a brazen canstick turned, Or a dry wheel grate on the exletree. Shak. 2. To produce the effect of rubbing with a hard rough material; to cause wearing, tearing, or bruising. Hence; To produce exasperation, soreness, or grief; to offend by oppression or importunity. This grated harder upon the hearts of men. South. GRATED Grat"ed, a. Etym: [From 2d Grate.] Defn: Furnished with a grate or grating; as, grated windows. GRATEFUL Grate"ful, a. Etym: [Grate, a. + full; cf. F. gré thanks, good will, fr. L. gratum, neut. of gratus agreeable, grateful. See Grate, a.] 1. Having a due sense of benefits received; kindly disposed toward one from whom a favor has been received; willing to acknowledge and repay, or give thanks for, benefits; as, a grateful heart. A grateful mind By owing, owes not, but still pays. Milton. 2. Affording pleasure; pleasing to the senses; gratifying; delicious; as, a grateful present; food grateful to the palate; grateful sleep. Now golden fruits on loaded branches shine, And grateful clusters swell. Pope. Syn. -- Thankful; pleasing; acceptable; gratifying; agreeable; welcome; delightful; delicious. -- Grate"ful*ly, adv. -- Grate"ful*ness, n. GRATER Grat"er, a. Etym: [From Qrate, v.] Defn: One who, or that which, grates; especially, an instrument or utensil with a rough, indented surface, for rubbing off small particles of any substance; as a grater for nutmegs. GRATICULATION Gra*tic"u*la"tion, n. Etym: [F. graticulation, craticulation, fr. graticuler, craticuler, to square, fr. graticule, craticule, graticule, L. craticula, dim. of crates wickerwork. See 2d Grate.] Defn: The division of a design or draught into squares, in order the more easily to reproduce it in larger or smaller dimensions. GRATICULE Grat"i*cule, n. Etym: [F. See Graticulation.] Defn: A design or draught which has been divided into squares, in order to reproduce it in other dimensions. GRATIFICATION Grat"i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. gratificatio: cf. F. gratification.] 1. The act of gratifying, or pleasing, either the mind, the taste, or the appetite; as, the gratification of the palate, of the appetites, of the senses, of the desires, of the heart. 2. That which affords pleasure; satisfaction; enjoyment; fruition: delight. 3. A reward; a recompense; a gratuity. Bp. Morton. GRATIFIED Grat"i*fied, a. Defn: Pleased; indulged according to desire. Syn. -- Glad; pleased. See Glad. GRATIFIER Grat"i*fi"er, n. Defn: One who gratifies or pleases. GRATIFY Grat"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gratified; p. pr. & vb. n. Gratifying.] Etym: [F. gratifier, L. gratificari; gratus pleasing + - ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy.] 1. To please; to give pleasure to; to satisfy; to soothe; to indulge; as, to gratify the taste, the appetite, the senses, the desires, the mind, etc. For who would die to gratify a foe Dryden. 2. To requite; to recompense. [Obs.] It remains . . . To gratify his noble service. Shak. Syn. -- To indulge; humor please; delight; requite; recompense. -- To Gratify, Indulge, Humor. Gratify, is the generic term, and has reference simply to the pleasure communicated. To indulge a person implies that we concede something to his wishes or his weaknesses which he could not claim, and which had better, perhaps, be spared. To humor is to adapt ourselves to the varying moods, and, perhaps, caprices, of others. We gratify a child by showing him the sights of a large city; we indulge him in some extra expense on such an occasion; we humor him when he is tired and exacting. GRATIN Gra`tin", n. [F.] (Cookery) Defn: The brown crust formed upon a gratinated dish; also, dish itself, as crusts bread, game, or poultry. GRATINATE Grat"i*nate, v. t. [F. gratiner, v.i., to form a crust.] (Cookery) Defn: To cook, as macaroni, in a savory juice or sauce until juice is absorbed and a crisp surface forms. GRATING Grat"ing, n. Etym: [See 2d Grate.] 1. A partition, covering, or frame of parallel or cross bars; a latticework resembling a window grate; as, the grating of a prison or convent. 2. (Optics) A system of close equidistant and parallel lines lines or bars, especially lines ruled on a polished surface, used for producing spectra by diffraction; -- called also diffraction grating. 3. pl. (Naut.) The strong wooden lattice used to cover a hatch, admitting light and air; also, a movable Lattice used for the flooring of boats. GRATING Grat"ing, a. Etym: [See Grate to rub harshy.] Defn: That grates; making a harsh sound; harsh. -- Grat"ing*ly, adv. GRATING Grat"ing, n. Defn: A harsh sound caused by attrition. GRATIOLIN Gra*ti"o*lin, n. (Chem.) Defn: One of the essential principles of the hedge hyssop (Gratiola officinalis). GRATIS Gra"tis, adv. Etym: [L., contr. fr. gratiis out of favor or kindness, without recompense, for nothing, fr. gratia favor. See Grace.] Defn: For nothing; without fee or recompense; freely; gratuitously. GRATITUDE Grat"i*tude, n. Etym: [F. gratitude, LL. gratitudo, from gratus agreeable, grateful. See Grate, a.] Defn: The state of being grateful; warm and friendly feeling toward a benefactor; kindness awakened by a favor received; thankfulness. The debt immense of endless gratitude. Milton. GRATUITOUS Gra*tu"i*tous a. Etym: [L. gratuitus, from gratus pleasing.