[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

brows. Shak. CHARADE Cha*rade", n. Etym: [F. charade, cf. Pr. charrada long chat, It ciarlare to chat, whence E. charlatan.] Defn: A verbal or acted enigma based upon a word which has two or more significant syllables or parts, each of which, as well as the word itself, is to be guessed from the descriptions or representations. CHARBOCLE Char"bo*cle, n. Defn: Carbuncle. [Written also Charboncle.] [Obs.] Chaucer. CHARBON Char"bon, n. Etym: [F., coal, charbon.] 1. (Far.) Defn: A small black spot or mark remaining in the cavity of the corner tooth of a horse after the large spot or mark has become obliterated. 2. A very contagious and fatal disease of sheep, horses, and cattle. See Maligmant pustule. CHARCOAL Char"coal`, n. Etym: [See Char, v. t., to burn or to reduce to coal, and Coal.] 1. Impure carbon prepared from vegetable or animal substances; esp., coal made by charring wood in a kiln, retort, etc., from which air is excluded. It is used for fuel and in various mechanical, artistic, and chemical processes. 2. (Fine Arts) Defn: Finely prepared charcoal in small sticks, used as a drawing implement. Animal charcoal, a fine charcoal prepared by calcining bones in a closed vessel; -- used as a filtering agent in sugar refining, and as an absorbent and disinfectant. -- Charcoal blacks, the black pigment, consisting of burnt ivory, bone, cock, peach stones, and other substances. -- Charcoal drawing (Fine Arts), a drawing made with charcoal. See Charcoal, 2. Until within a few years this material has been used almost exclusively for preliminary outline, etc., but at present many finished drawings are made with it. -- Charcoal point, a carbon pencil prepared for use un an electric light apparatus. -- Mineral charcoal, a term applied to silky fibrous layers of charcoal, interlaminated in beds of ordinary bituminous coal; -- known to miners as mother of coal. CHARD Chard, n. Etym: [Cf. F. carde esclent thistle.] 1. The tender leaves or leafstalks of the artichoke, white beet, etc., blanched for table use. 2. A variety of the white beet, which produces large, succulent leaves and leafstalks. CHARE Chare, n. Defn: A narrow street. [Prov. Eng.] CHARE Chare, n. & v. Defn: A chore; to chore; to do. See Char. CHARGE Charge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charged; p. pr. & vb. n. Charging.] Etym: [OF. chargier, F. charger, fr. LL. carricare, fr. L. carrus wagon. Cf. Cargo, Caricature, Cark, and see Car.] 1. To lay on or impose, as a load, tax, or burden; to load; to fill. A carte that charged was with hay. Chaucer. The charging of children's memories with rules. Locke. 2. To lay on or impose, as a task, duty, or trust; to command, instruct, or exhort with authority; to enjoin; to urge earnestly; as, to charge a jury; to charge the clergy of a diocese; to charge an agent. Moses . . . charged you to love the Lord your God. Josh. xxii. 5. Cromwell, I charge thee, fing away ambition. Shak. 3. To lay on, impose, or make subject to or liable for. When land shal be charged by any lien. Kent. 4. To fix or demand as a prince; as, he charges two dollars a barrelk for apples. 5. To place something to the account of as a debt; to debit, as to charge one with goods. Also, to enter upon the debit side of an account; as, to charge a sum to one. 6. To impute or ascribe; to lay to one's charge. No more accuse thy pen, but charge the crime On native loth and negligence of time. Dryden. 7. To accuse; to make a charge or assertion against (a) person or thing); to lay the responsibility (for something said or done) at the door of. If the did that wrong you charge with. Tennyson. 8. To place within or upon any firearm, piece of apparatus or machinery, the quantity it is intended and fitted to hold or bear; to load; to fill; as, to charge a gun; to charge an electrical machine, etc. Their battering cannon charged to the mouths. Shak. 9. To ornament with or cause to bear; as, to charge an architectural member with a molding. 10. (Her.) Defn: To assume as a bearing; as, he charges three roses or; to add to or represent on; as, he charges his shield with three roses or. 11. To call to account; to challenge. [Obs.] To charge me to an answer. Shak. 12. To bear down upon; to rush upon; to attack. Charged our main battle's front. Shak. Syn. -- To intrust; command; exhort; instruct; accuse; impeach; arraign. See Accuse. CHARGE Charge, v. i. 1. To make an onset or rush; as, to charge with fixed bayonets. Like your heroes of antiquity, he charges in iron. Glanvill. "Charge for the guns!" he said. Tennyson. 2. To demand a price; as, to charge high for goods. 3. To debit on an account; as, to charge for purchases. 4. To squat on its belly and be still; -- a command given by a sportsman to a dog. CHARGE Charge, n. Etym: [F. charge, fr. charger to load. See Charge, v. t., and cf. Cargo, Caricature.] 1. A load or burder laid upon a person or thing. 2. A person or thing commited or intrusted to the care, custody, or management of another; a trust. Note: The people of a parish or church are called the charge of the clergyman who is set over them. 3. Custody or care of any person, thing, or place; office; responsibility; oversight; obigation; duty. 'Tis a great charge to come under one body's hand. Shak. 4. Heed; care; anxiety; trouble. [Obs.] Chaucer. 5. Harm. [Obs.] Chaucer. 6. An order; a mandate or command; an injunction. The king gave cherge concerning Absalom. 2. Sam. xviii. 5. 7. An address (esp. an earnest or impressive address) containing instruction or exhortation; as, the charge of a judge to a jury; the charge of a bishop to his clergy. 8. An accusation of a wrong of offense; allegation; indictment; specification of something alleged. The charge of confounding very different classes of phenomena. Whewell. 9. Whatever constitutes a burden on property, as rents, taxes, lines, etc.; costs; expense incurred; -- usually in the plural. 10. The price demanded for a thing or service. 11. An entry or a account of that which is due from one party to another; that which is debited in a business transaction; as, a charge in an account book. 12. That quantity, as of ammunition, electricity, ore, fuel, etc., which any apparatus, as a gun, battery, furnace, machine, etc., is intended to receive and fitted to hold, or which is actually in it at one time 13. The act of rushing upon, or towards, an enemy; a sudden onset or attack, as of troops, esp. cavalry; hence, the signal for attack; as, to sound the charge. Never, in any other war afore, gave the Romans a hotter charge upon the enemies. Holland. The charge of the light brigade. Tennyson. 14. A position (of a weapon) fitted for attack; as, to bring a weapon to the charge. 15. (Far.) Defn: A soft of plaster or ointment. 16. (Her.) Defn: A bearing. See Bearing, n., 8. 17. Etym: [Cf. Charre.] Defn: Thirty-six pigs of lead, each pig weighing about seventy pounds; -- called also charre. 18. Weight; import; value. Many suchlike "as's" of great charge. Shak. Back charge. See under Back, a. -- Bursting charge. (a (Mil.) The charge which bursts a shell, etc. (b (Mining) A small quantity of fine powder to secure the ignition of a charge of coarse powder in blasting. -- Charge and discharge (Equity Practice), the old mode or form of taking an account before a master in chancery. -- Charge sheet, the paper on which are entered at a police station all arrests and accusations. -- To sound the charge, to give the signal for an attack. Syn. -- Care; custody; trust; management; office; expense; cost; price; assault; attack; onset; injunction; command; order; mandate; instruction; accusation; indictment. CHARGEABLE Charge"a*ble, a. 1. That may be charged, laid, imposed, or imputes; as, a duty chargeable on iron; a fault chargeable on a man. 2. Subject to be charge or accused; liable or responsible; as, revenues chargeable with a claim; a man chargeable with murder. 3. Serving to create expense; costly; burdensome. That we might not be chargeable to any of you. 2. Thess. iii. 8. For the sculptures, which are elegant, were very chargeable. Evelyn. CHARGEABLENESS Charge"a*ble*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being chargeable or expensive. [Obs.] Whitelocke. CHARGEABLY Charge"a*bly, adv. Defn: At great cost; expensively. [Obs.] CHARGEANT Char"geant, a. Etym: [F. chargeant, fr. charger to load.] Defn: Burdensome; troublesome. [Obs.] Chaucer. CHARGE D'AFFAIRES Char`gé" d'af`faires", n.; pl. Chargés d'affaires. Etym: [F., "charged with affairs."] Defn: A diplomatic representative, or minister of an inferior grade, accredited by the government of one state to the minister of foreign affairs