[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

chirps by his den, And the wilding bee hums merrily by. Bryant. WILDISH Wild"ish, a. Defn: Somewhat wild; rather wild. "A wildish destiny." Wordsworth. WILDLY Wild"ly, adv. Defn: In a wild manner; without cultivation; with disorder; rudely; distractedly; extravagantly. WILDNESS Wild"ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being wild; an uncultivated or untamed state; disposition to rove or go unrestrained; rudeness; savageness; irregularity; distraction. WILDWOOD Wild"wood, n. Defn: A wild or unfrequented wood. Also used adjectively; as, wildwood flowers; wildwood echoes. Burns. WILE Wile, n. Etym: [OE. wile, AS. wil; cf. Icel. v, væl. Cf. Guile.] Defn: A trick or stratagem practiced for insnaring or deception; a sly, insidious; artifice; a beguilement; an allurement. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Eph. vi. 11. Not more almighty to resist our might, Than wise to frustrate all our plots and wiles. Milton. WILE Wile, v. t. 1. To practice artifice upon; to deceive; to beguile; to allure. [R.] Spenser. 2. To draw or turn away, as by diversion; to while or while away; to cause to pass pleasantly. Tennyson. WILEFUL Wile"ful, a. Defn: Full of wiles; trickish; deceitful. WILFLEY TABLE Wil"fley ta`ble. (Ore Dressing) Defn: An inclined percussion table, usually with longitudinal grooves in its surface, agitated by side blows at right angles to the flow of the pulp; -- so called after the inventor. WILFUL; WILFULLY; WILFULNESS Wil"ful, a., Wil"ful*ly, adv., Wil"ful*ness, n. Defn: See Willful, Willfully, and Willfulness. WILINESS Wi"li*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being wily; craftiness; cunning; guile. WILK Wilk, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Whelk. [Obs.] WILL Will, n. Etym: [OE. wille, AS. willa; akin to OFries. willa, OS. willeo, willio, D. wil, G. wille, Icel. vili, Dan. villie, Sw. vilja, Goth wilja. See Will, v.] 1. The power of choosing; the faculty or endowment of the soul by which it is capable of choosing; the faculty or power of the mind by which we decide to do or not to do; the power or faculty of preferring or selecting one of two or more objects. It is necessary to form a distinct notion of what is meant by the word "volition" in order to understand the import of the word will, for this last word expresses the power of mind of which "volition" is the act. Stewart. Will is an ambiguous word, being sometimes put for the faculty of willing; sometimes for the act of that faculty, besides [having] other meanings. But "volition" always signifies the act of willing, and nothing else. Reid. Appetite is the will's solicitor, and the will is appetite's controller; what we covet according to the one, by the other we often reject. Hooker. The will is plainly that by which the mind chooses anything. J. Edwards. 2. The choice which is made; a determination or preference which results from the act or exercise of the power of choice; a volition. The word "will," however, is not always used in this its proper acceptation, but is frequently substituted for "volition", as when I say that my hand mover in obedience to my will. Stewart. 3. The choice or determination of one who has authority; a decree; a command; discretionary pleasure. Thy will be done. Matt. vi. 10. Our prayers should be according to the will of God. Law. 4. Strong wish or inclination; desire; purpose. Note: "Inclination is another word with which will is frequently confounded. Thus, when the apothecary says, in Romeo and Juliet, -- My poverty, but not my will, consents; . . . Put this in any liquid thing you will, And drink it off. the word will is plainly used as, synonymous with inclination; not in the strict logical sense, as the immediate antecedent of action. It is with the same latitude that the word is used in common conversation, when we speak of doing a thing which duty prescribes, against one's own will; or when we speak of doing a thing willingly or unwillingly." Stewart. 5. That which is strongly wished or desired. What's your will, good friar Shak. The mariner hath his will. Coleridge. 6. Arbitrary disposal; power to control, dispose, or determine. Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies. Ps. xxvii. 12. 7 7 (Law) Defn: The legal declaration of a person's mind as to the manner in which he would have his property or estate disposed of after his death; the written instrument, legally executed, by which a man makes disposition of his estate, to take effect after his death; testament; devise. See the Note under Testament, 1. Note: Wills are written or nuncupative, that is, oral. See Nuncupative will, under Nuncupative. At will (Law), at pleasure. To hold an estate at the will of another, is to enjoy the possession at his pleasure, and be liable to be ousted at any time by the lessor or proprietor. An estate at will is at the will of both parties. -- Good will. See under Good. -- Ill will, enmity; unfriendliness; malevolence. -- To have one's will, to obtain what is desired; to do what one pleases. -- Will worship, worship according to the dictates of the will or fancy; formal worship. [Obs.] -- Will worshiper, one who offers will worship. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. -- With a will, with willingness and zeal; with all one's heart or strength; earnestly; heartily. WILL Will, v. t. & auxiliary. [imp. Would. Indic. present, I will (Obs. I wol), thou wilt, he will (Obs. he wol); we, ye, they will.] Etym: [OE. willen, imp. wolde; akin to OS. willan, OFries. willa, D. willen, G. wollen, OHG. wollan, wellan, Icel. & Sw. vilja, Dan. ville, Goth. wiljan, OSlav. voliti, L. velle to wish, volo I wish; cf. Skr. vrs to choose, to prefer. Cf. Voluntary, Welcome, Well, adv.] 1. To wish; to desire; to incline to have. A wife as of herself no thing ne sholde [should] Wille in effect, but as her husband wolde [would]. Chaucer. Caleb said unto her, What will thou Judg. i. 14. They would none of my counsel. Prov. i. 30. 2. As an auxiliary, will is used to denote futurity dependent on the verb. Thus, in first person, "I will" denotes willingness, consent, promise; and when "will" is emphasized, it denotes determination or fixed purpose; as, I will go if you wish; I will go at all hazards. In the second and third persons, the idea of distinct volition, wish, or purpose is evanescent, and simple certainty is appropriately expressed; as, "You will go," or "He will go," describes a future event as a fact only. To emphasize will denotes (according to the tone or context) certain futurity or fixed determination. Note: Will, auxiliary, may be used elliptically for will go. "I'll to her lodgings." Marlowe. Note: As in shall (which see), the second and third persons may be virtually converted into the first, either by question or indirect statement, so as to receive the meaning which belongs to will in that person; thus, "Will you go" (answer, "I will go") asks assent, requests, etc.; while "Will he go" simply inquires concerning futurity; thus, also,"He says or thinks he will go," "You say or think you will go," both signify willingness or consent. Note: Would, as the preterit of will, is chiefly employed in conditional, subjunctive, or optative senses; as, he would go if he could; he could go if he would; he said that he would go; I would fain go, but can not; I would that I were young again; and other like phrases. In the last use, the first personal pronoun is often omitted; as, would that he were here; would to Heaven that it were so; and, omitting the to in such an adjuration. "Would God I had died for thee." Would is used for both present and future time, in conditional propositions, and would have for past time; as, he would go now if he were ready; if it should rain, he would not go; he would have gone, had he been able. Would not, as also will not, signifies refusal. "He was angry, and would not go in." Luke xv. 28. Would is never a past participle. Note: In Ireland, Scotland, and the United States, especially in the southern and western portions of the United States, shall and will, should and would, are often misused, as in the following examples: -- I am able to devote as much time and attention to other subjects as I will [shall] be under the necessity of doing next winter. Chalmers. A countryman, telling us what he had seen, remarked that if the conflagration went on, as it was doing, we would [should] have, as our next season's employment, the Old Town of Edinburgh to rebuild. H. Miller. I feel assured that I will [shall] not have the misfortune to find conflicting views held by one so enlightened as your excellency. J. Y.