[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

plough, a plow, or gang of plows, moved by a steam engine. -- Steam port, an opening for steam to pass through, as from the steam chest into the cylinder. -- Steam power, the force or energy of steam applied to produce results; power derived from a steam engine. -- Steam propeller. See Propeller. -- Steam pump, a small pumping engine operated by steam. It is usually direct-acting. -- Steam room (Steam Boilers), the space in the boiler above the water level, and in the dome, which contains steam. -- Steam table, a table on which are dishes heated by steam for keeping food warm in the carving room of a hotel, restaurant, etc. -- Steam trap, a self-acting device by means of which water that accumulates in a pipe or vessel containing steam will be discharged without permitting steam to escape. -- Steam tug, a steam vessel used in towing or propelling ships. -- Steam vessel, a vessel propelled by steam; a steamboat or steamship; -- a steamer. -- Steam whistle, an apparatus attached to a steam boiler, as of a locomotive, through which steam is rapidly discharged, producing a loud whistle which serves as a warning signal. The steam issues from a narrow annular orifice around the upper edge of the lower cup or hemisphere, striking the thin edge of the bell above it, and producing sound in the manner of an organ pipe or a common whistle. STEAM Steam, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Steamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Steaming.] 1. To emit steam or vapor. My brother's ghost hangs hovering there, O'er his warm blood, that steams into the air. Dryden. Let the crude humors dance In heated brass, steaming with fire intence. J. Philips. 2. To rise in vapor; to issue, or pass off, as vapor. The dissolved amber . . . steamed away into the air. Boyle. 3. To move or travel by the agency of steam. The vessel steamed out of port. N. P. Willis. 4. To generate steam; as, the boiler steams well. STEAM Steam, v. t. 1. To exhale. [Obs.] Spenser. 2. To expose to the action of steam; to apply steam to for softening, dressing, or preparing; as, to steam wood; to steamcloth; to steam food, etc. STEAMBOAT Steam"boat`, n. Defn: A boat or vessel propelled by steam power; -- generally used of river or coasting craft, as distinguished from ocean steamers. STEAMBOATING Steam"boat`ing, n. 1. The occupation or business of running a steamboat, or of transporting merchandise, passengers, etc., by steamboats. 2. (Bookbinding) Defn: The shearing of a pile of books which are as yet uncovered, or out of boards. Knight. STEAM ENGINE Steam" en"gine. Defn: An engine moved by steam. Note: In its most common forms its essential parts are a piston, a cylinder, and a valve gear. The piston works in the cylinder, to which steam is admitted by the action of the valve gear, and communicates motion to the machinery to be actuated. Steam engines are thus classified: 1. According to the wat the steam is used or applied, as condencing, noncondencing, compound, double-acting, single-acting, triple-expansion, etc. 2. According to the motion of the piston, as reciprocating, rotary, etc. 3. According to the motion imparted by the engine, as rotative and nonrotative. 4. According to the arrangement of the engine, as stationary, portable, and semiportable engines, beam engine, oscillating engine, direct-acting and back-acting engines, etc. 5. According to their uses, as portable, marine, locomotive, pumping, blowing, winding, and stationary engines. Locomotive and portable engines are usually high- pressure, noncondencing, rotative, and direct-acting. Marine engines are high or low pressure, rotative, and generally condencing, double- acting, and compound. Paddle engines are generally beam, sideScrew engines are generally direct-acting, back-acting, or oscillating. Stationary engines belong to various classes, but are generally rotative. A horizontal or inclined stationary steam engine is called a left-hand or a right-hand engine when the crank shaft and driving pulley are on the left-hand side, or the right-hand side, respectively, or the engine, to a person looking at them from the cylinder, and is said to run forward or backward when the crank traverses the upward half, or lower half, respectively, of its path, while the piston rod makes its stroke outward from the cylinder. A marine engine, or the engine of a locomotive, is said to run forward when its motion is such as would propel the vessel or the locomotive forward. Steam engines are further classified as double-cylinder, disk, semicylinder, trunk engines, etc. Machines, such as cranes, hammers, etc., of which the steam engine forms a part, are called steam cranes, steam hammers, etc. See Illustration in Appendix. Back- acting, or Back-action, steam engine, a steam engine in which the motion is transmitted backward from the crosshead to a crank which is between the crosshead and the cylinder, or beyond the cylinder. -- Portable steam engine, a steam engine combined with, and attached to, a boiler which is mounted on wheels so as to admit of easy transportation; -- used for driving machinery in the field, as trashing machines, draining pumps, etc. -- Semiportable steam engine, a steam engine combined with, and attached to, a steam boiler, but not mounted on wheels. STEAMER Steam"er, n. 1. A vessel propelled by steam; a steamship or steamboat. 2. A steam fire engine. See under Steam. 3. A road locomotive for use on common roads, as in agricultural operations. 4. A vessel in which articles are subjected to the action of steam, as in washing, in cookery, and in various processes of manufacture. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: The steamer duck. Steamer duck (Zoöl.), a sea duck (Tachyeres cinereus), native of Patagonia and Terra del Fuego, which swims and dives with great agility, but which, when full grown, is incapable of flight, owing to its very small wings. Called also loggerhead, race horse, and side wheel duck. STEAMINESS Steam"i*ness, n. Defn: The quality or condition of being steamy; vaporousness; mistness. STEAMSHIP Steam"ship`, n. Defn: A ship or seagoing vessel propelled by the power of steam; a steamer. STEAMY Steam"y, a. Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, steam; full of steam; vaporous; misty. Cowper. STEAN Stean, n. & v. Defn: See Steen. Spenser. STEANINGP Stean"ingp, n. Defn: See Steening. STEAPSIN Ste*ap"sin, n. (Physiol Chem.) Defn: An unorganized ferment or enzyme present in pancreatic juice. It decomposes neutral fats into glycerin and fatty acids. STEARATE Ste"a*rate, n. (Chem.) Defn: A salt of stearic acid; as, ordinary soap consists largely of sodium or potassium stearates. STEARIC Ste*ar"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. stéarique.] (Physiol. Chem.) Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, stearin or tallow; resembling tallow. Stearic acid (Chem.), a monobasic fatty acid, obtained in the form of white crystalline scales, soluble in alcohol and ether. It melts to an oily liquid at 69°C.C18H36O2, CH3.(CH2)16.COOH; sodium stearate, with sodium palmitate, is the main component of ordinary bar soaps (Such as Ivory soap). STEARIN Ste"a*rin, n. Etym: [Gr. stéarine.] (Physiol. Chem.) Defn: One of the constituents of animal fats and also of some vegetable fats, as the butter of cacao. It is especially characterized by its solidity, so that when present in considerable quantity it materially increases the hardness, or raises the melting point, of the fat, as in mutton tallow. Chemically, it is a compound of glyceryl with three molecules of stearic acid, and hence is technically called tristearin, or glyceryl tristearate. STEAROLIC Ste`a*rol"ic, a. Etym: [Stearic + oleic + -ic.] (Chem.) Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acetylene series, isologous with stearis acid, and obtained, as a white crystalline substance, from oleïc acid. STEARONE Ste"a*rone, n. (Chem.) Defn: The ketone of stearic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, (C17H35)2.CO, by the distillation of calcium stearate. STEAROPTENE Ste`a*rop"tene, n. Etym: [Stearic + -optene as in elæoptene.] (Chem.) Defn: The more solid ingredient of certain volatile oils; -- contrasted with elæoptene. STEARRHEA Ste`ar*rhe"a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.) Defn: seborrhea. STEARYL Ste"a*ryl, n. Etym: [Stearic + -yl.] (Chem.) Defn: The hypothetical radical characteristic of stearic acid. STEATITE Ste"a*tite, n. Etym: [Gr. stéatite.] (Min.) Defn: A massive variety of talc, of a grayish green or brown color. It forms extensive beds, and is quarried for fireplaces and for coarse utensils. Called also potstone, lard stone, and soapstone. STEATITIC Ste`a*tit"ic, n. (Min.) Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, steatite; containing or resembling steatite. STEATOMA Ste`a*to"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.) Defn: A cyst containing matter like suet. STEATOMATOUS Ste`a*tom"a*tous, a. (Med.) Defn: Of the nature of steatoma. STEATOPYGA Ste`a*top"y*ga, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Defn: A remarkable accretion of fat upon the buttocks of Africans of certain tribes, especially of Hottentot women. STEATOPYGOUS Ste`a*top"y*gous, a. Defn: Having fat buttocks. Specimens of the steatopygous Abyssinian breed. Burton. STED; STEDFAST; STEDFASTLY Sted, n., Sted"fast, a., Sted"fast*ly, adv., etc. Defn: See Stead, Steadfast, etc. STEE Stee, n. Etym: [Cf. G. stiege. *164. See Stair.] Defn: A ladder. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] [Written also stey.] STEED Steed, n.