[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

issuable on these grounds. Issuable plea (Law), a plea to the merits, on which the adverse party may take issue and proceed to trial. ISSUABLY Is"su*a*bly, adv. Defn: In an issuable manner; by way of issue; as, to plead issuably. ISSUANCE Is"su*ance, n. Defn: The act of issuing, or giving out; as, the issuance of an order; the issuance of rations, and the like. ISSUANT Is"su*ant, a. (Her.) Defn: Issuing or coming up; -- a term used to express a charge or bearing rising or coming out of another. ISSUE Is"sue, n. Etym: [OF. issue, eissue, F. issue, fr. OF. issir, eissir, to go out, L. exire; ex out of, from + ire to go, akin to Gr. i., Goth. iddja went, used as prefect of gaggan to go. Cf. Ambition, Count a nobleman, Commence, Errant, Exit, Eyre, Initial, Yede went.] 1. The act of passing or flowing out; a moving out from any inclosed place; egress; as, the issue of water from a pipe, of blood from a wound, of air from a bellows, of people from a house. 2. The act of sending out, or causing to go forth; delivery; issuance; as, the issue of an order from a commanding officer; the issue of money from a treasury. 3. That which passes, flows, or is sent out; the whole quantity sent forth or emitted at one time; as, an issue of bank notes; the daily issue of a newspaper. 4. Progeny; a child or children; offspring. In law, sometimes, in a general sense, all persons descended from a common ancestor; all lineal descendants. If the king Should without issue die. Shak. 5. Produce of the earth, or profits of land, tenements, or other property; as, A conveyed to B all his right for a term of years, with all the issues, rents, and profits. 6. A discharge of flux, as of blood. Matt. ix. 20. 7. (Med.) Defn: An artificial ulcer, usually made in the fleshy part of the arm or leg, to produce the secretion and discharge of pus for the relief of some affected part. 8. The final outcome or result; upshot; conclusion; event; hence, contest; test; trial. Come forth to view The issue of the exploit. Shak. While it is hot, I 'll put it to the issue. Shak. 9. A point in debate or controversy on which the parties take affirmative and negative positions; a presentation of alternatives between which to choose or decide. 10. (Law) Defn: In pleading, a single material point of law or fact depending in the suit, which, being affirmed on the one side and denied on the other, is presented for determination. See General issue, under General, and Feigned issue, under Feigned. Blount. Cowell. At issue, in controversy; disputed; opposing or contesting; hence, at variance; disagreeing; inconsistent. As much at issue with the summer day As if you brought a candle out of doors. Mrs. Browning. -- Bank of issue, Collateral issue, etc. See under Bank, Collateral, etc. -- Issue pea, a pea, or a similar round body, used to maintain irritation in a wound, and promote the secretion and discharge of pus. -- To join, or take, issue, to take opposing sides in a matter in controversy. ISSUE Is"sue, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Issued; p. pr. & vb. n. Issuing.] 1. To pass or flow out; to run out, as from any inclosed place. From it issued forced drops of blood. Shak. 2. To go out; to rush out; to sally forth; as, troops issued from the town, and attacked the besiegers. 3. To proceed, as from a source; as, water issues from springs; light issues from the sun. 4. To proceed, as progeny; to be derived; to be descended; to spring. Of thy sons that shall issue from thee. 2 Kings xx. 18. 5. To extend; to pass or open; as, the path issues into the highway. 6. To be produced as an effect or result; to grow or accrue; to arise; to proceed; as, rents and profits issuing from land, tenements, or a capital stock. 7. To close; to end; to terminate; to turn out; as, we know not how the cause will issue. 8. (Law) Defn: In pleading, to come to a point in fact or law, on which the parties join issue. ISSUE Is"sue, v. t. 1. To send out; to put into circulation; as, to issue notes from a bank. 2. To deliver for use; as, to issue provisions. 3. To send out officially; to deliver by authority; as, to issue an order; to issue a writ. ISSUELESS Is"sue*less, a. Defn: Having no issue or progeny; childless. "The heavens . . . have left me issueless." Shak. ISSUER Is"su*er, n. Defn: One who issues, emits, or publishes. -IST -ist. Etym: [Gr. iste.] Defn: A noun suffix denoting an agent, or doer, one who practices, a believer in; as, theorist, one who theorizes; socialist, one who holds to socialism; sensualist, one given to sensuality. IS'T Is't. Defn: A contraction of is it. ISTHMIAN Isth"mi*an, a. Etym: [L. Isthmius, Gr. Isthmus.] Defn: Of or pertaining to an isthmus, especially to the Isthmus of Corinth, in Greece. Isthmian games (Gr. Antiq.), one of the four great national festivals of Greece, celebrated on the Isthmus of Corinth in the spring of every alternate year. They consisted of all kinds of athletic sports, wrestling, boxing, racing on foot and in chariots, and also contests in music and poetry. The prize was a garland of pine leaves. ISTHMUS Isth"mus, n.; pl. Isthmuses. Etym: [L. isthmus, Gr. 'isqmo`s a neck, a neck of land between two seas, an isthmus, especially the Isthmus of Corinth; prob. from the root of 'ie`nai to go; cf. Icel. eiedh isthmus. See Issue.] (Geog.) Defn: A neck or narrow slip of land by which two continents are connected, or by which a peninsula is united to the mainland; as, the Isthmus of Panama; the Isthmus of Suez, etc. Isthmus of the fauces. (Anat.) See Fauces. ISTLE Is"tle, n. Defn: Same as Ixtle. ISURET I*su"ret, n. Etym: [Iso- + urea.] (Chem.) Defn: An artificial nitrogenous base, isomeric with urea, and forming a white crystalline substance; -- called also isuretine. IT It, pron. Etym: [OE. it, hit, AS. hit; cf. D. het. sq. root181. See He.] Defn: The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural (they, their of theirs, them). Note: The possessive form its is modern, being rarely found in the writings of Shakespeare and Milton, and not at all in the original King James's version of the Bible. During the transition from the regular his to the anomalous its, it was to some extent employed in the possessive without the case ending. See His, and He. In Dryden's time its had become quite established as the regular form. The day present hath ever inough to do with it owne grief. Genevan Test. Do, child, go to it grandam, child. Shak. It knighthood shall do worse. It shall fright all it friends with borrowing letters. B. Jonson. Note: In the course of time, the nature of the neuter sign i in it, the form being found in but a few words, became misunderstood. Instead of being looked upon as an affix, it passed for part of the original word. Hence was formed from it the anomalous genitive it, superseding the Saxon his. Latham. The fruit tree yielding fruit after his (its) kind. Gen. i. 11. It is used, -- 1. As a substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it home. 2. As a demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John. It is I; be not afraid. Matt. xiv. 27. Peter heard that it was the Lord. John xxi. 7. Often, in such cases, as a substitute for a sentence or clause; as, it is thought he will come; it is wrong to do this. 3. As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains. 4. As a substitute for such general terms as, the state of affairs, the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick man Think on me when it shall be well with thee. Gen. xl. 14. 5. As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk). The Lacedemonians, at the Straits of Thermopylæ, when their arms failed them, fought it out with nails and teeth. Dryden. Whether the charmer sinner it, or saint it, If folly grows romantic, I must paint it. Pope. Its self. See Itself. ITACISM I"ta*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. itacisme. See Etacism, and cf. Iotacism.] (Greek Gram.) Defn: Pronunciation of e