[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

To arrive at the end of; to bring to an end; to put an end to; to make an end of; to terminate. And heroically hath finished A life heroic. Milton. 2. To bestow the last required labor upon; to complete; to bestow the utmost possible labor upon; to perfect; to accomplish; to polish. Syn. -- To end; terminate; close; conclude; complete; accomplish; perfect. FINISH Fin"ish, v. i. 1. To come to an end; to terminate. His days may finish ere that hapless time. Shak. 2. To end; to die. [R.] Shak. FINISH Fin"ish, n. 1. That which finishes, puts an end to 2. (Arch.) Defn: The joiner work and other finer work required for the completion of a building, especially of the interior. See Inside finish, and Outside finish. 3. (Fine Arts) (a) The labor required to give final completion to any work; hence, minute detail, careful elaboration, or the like. (b) See Finishing coat, under Finishing. 4. The result of completed labor, as on the surface of an object; manner or style of finishing; as, a rough, dead, or glossy finish given to cloth, stone, metal, etc. 5. Completion; -- opposed to Ant: start, or Ant: beginning. FINISHED Fin"ished, a. Defn: Polished to the highest degree of excellence; complete; perfect; as, a finished poem; a finished education. Finished work (Mach.), work that is made smooth or polished, though not necessarily completed. FINISHER Fin"ish*er, n. 1. One who finishes, puts an end to, completes, or perfects; esp. used in the trades, as in hatting, weaving, etc., for the workman who gives a finishing touch to the work, or any part of it, and brings it to perfection. O prophet of glad tidings, finisher Of utmost hope! Milton. 2. Something that gives the finishing touch to, or settles, anything. [Colloq.] FINISHING Fin"ish*ing, n. Defn: The act or process of completing or perfecting; the final work upon or ornamentation of a thing. FINISHING Fin"ish*ing, a. Defn: Tending to complete or to render fit for the market or for use. Finishing coat. (a) (Plastering) the final coat of plastering applied to walls and ceilings, usually white and rubbed smooth. (b) (Painting) The final coat of paint, usually differently mixed applied from the others. -- Finishing press, a machine for pressing fabrics. -- Finishing rolls (Iron Working), the rolls of a train which receive the bar from roughing rolls, and reduce it to its finished shape. Raymond. FINITE Fi"nite, a. Etym: [L. finitus, p.p. of finire. See Finish, and cf. Fine, a.] Defn: Having a limit; limited in quantity, degree, or capacity; bounded; -- opposed to infinite; as, finite number; finite existence; a finite being; a finite mind; finite duration. FINITELESS Fi"nite*less, a Defn: Infinite. [Obs.] Sir T. browne. FINITELY Fi"nite*ly, adv. Defn: In a finite manner or degree. FINITENESS Fi"nite*ness, n. Defn: The state of being finite. FINITUDE Fin"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. finire. See Finish.] Defn: Limitation. Cheyne. FINJAN Fin*jan", n. [Also fingan, findjan, fingian, etc.] [Ar. finjan.] Defn: In the Levant, a small coffee cup without a handle, such as is held in a cup or stand called a zarf. FIN KEEL Fin keel. (Naut.) Defn: A projection downward from the keel of a yacht, resembling in shape the fin of a fish, though often with a cigar-shaped bulb of lead at the bottom, and generally made of metal. Its use is to ballast the boat and also to enable her to sail close to the wind and to make the least possible leeway by offering great resistance to lateral motion through the water. FINLANDER Fin"land*er, n. Defn: A native or inhabitant of Finland. FINLESS Fin"less, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: destitute of fins. FINLET Fin"let, n. Etym: [Fin + -let.] Defn: A little fin; one of the parts of a divided fin. FINLIKE Fin"like`, a. Defn: Resembling a fin. FINN Finn, a. Defn: A native of Finland; one of the FinnFinns. FINNAN HADDIE Fin"nan had"die. Etym: [See Haddock.] Defn: Haddock cured in peat smoke, originally at Findon (pron. fìn"an), Scotland. the name is also applied to other kinds of smoked haddock. [Written also finnan haddock.] FINNED Finned, a. Defn: Having a fin, or fins, or anything resembling a fin. Mortimer. FINNER Fin"ner, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A finback whale. FINNIC Finn"ic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the Finns. FINNIKIN Fin"ni*kin, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A variety of pigeon, with a crest somewhat resembling the mane of a horse. [Written also finikin.] FINNISH Finn"ish, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Finland, to the Finns, or to their language. -- n. Defn: A Northern Turanian group of languages; the language of the Finns. FINNS Finns, n. pl.; sing. Finn. (Ethnol.) (a) Natives of Finland; Finlanders. (b) A branch of the Mongolian race, inhabiting Northern and Eastern Europe, including the Magyars, Bulgarians, Permians, Lapps, and Finlanders. [Written also Fins.] FINNY Fin"ny, a. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having, or abounding in, fins, as fishes; pertaining to fishes. 2. Abounding in fishes. With patient angle trolls the finny deep. Goldsmoth. FINOCHIO Fi*no"chi*o, n. Etym: [It. finocchio fennel, LL. fenuclum. See Fennel.] (Bot.) Defn: An umbelliferous plant (Foeniculum dulce) having a somewhat tuberous stem; sweet fennel. The blanched stems are used in France and Italy as a culinary vegetable. FINOS Fi"nos, n. pl. Etym: [Sp., pl., fr. fino fine.] Defn: Second best wool from Merino sheep. Gardner. FINPIKE Fin"pike`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The bichir. See Crossopterygii. FINSEN LIGHT Fin"sen light. [After Prof. Niels R. Finsen (b. 1860), Danish physician.] (Med.) Defn: Highly actinic light, derived from sunlight or from some form of electric lamp, used in the treatment of lupus and other cutaneous affections. FINT Fint, Defn: 3d pers. sing. pr. of Find, for findeth. [Obs.] Chaucer. FIN-TOED Fin"-toed`, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having toes connected by a membrane; palmiped; palmated; also, lobate. FIORD Fiord (fyi or y consonant, § 272), n. Etym: [Dan. & Norw. fiord. See Frith.] Defn: A narrow inlet of the sea, penetrating between high banks or rocks, as on the coasts of Norway and Alaska. [Written also fjord.] FIORIN Fi"o*rin, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. fiothran a sort of grass.] (Bot.) Defn: A species of creeping bent grass (Agrostis alba); -- called also fiorin grass. FIORITE Fi"o*rite, n. (Min.) Defn: A variety of opal occuring in the cavities of volcanic tufa, in smooth and shining globular and botryoidal masses, having a pearly luster; -- so called from Fiora, in Ischia. FIORITURE Fio`ri*tu"re, n. pl. Etym: [It., pl. of fioritura a flowering.] (Mus.) Defn: Little flowers of ornament introduced into a melody by a singer or player. FIPPENNY BIT Fip"pen*ny bit` ( or ). Etym: [Corruption of five penny bit.] Defn: The Spanish half real, or one sixteenth of a dollar, -- so called in Pennsylvania and the adjacent States. [Obs.] Note: Before the act of Congress, Feb. 21, 1857, caused the adoption of decimal coins and the withdrawal of foreign coinage from circulation, this coin passed currently for 6fourpence ha'penny or fourpence; in New York a sixpence; in Pennsylvania, Virginia, etc., a fip; and in Louisiana, a picayune. FIPPLE Fip"ple (fer), n. Etym: [perh. fr. L. fibula a clasp, a pin; cf. Prov. E. fible a stick used to stir pottage.] Defn: A stopper, as in a wind instrument of music. [Obs.] Bacon. FIR Fir, n. Etym: [Dan. fyr, fyrr; akin to Sw. furu, Icel. fura, AS. furh in furhwudu fir wood, G. föhre, OHG. forha pine, vereheih a sort of oak, L. quercus (Bot.) Defn: A genus (Abies) of coniferous trees, often of large size and elegant shape, some of them valued for their timber and others for their resin. The species are distinguished as the balsam fir, the silver fir, the red fir, etc. The Scoth fir is a Pinus. Note: Fir in the Bible means any one of several coniferous trees, including, cedar, cypress, and probably three species of pine. J. D. Hooker. FIRE Fire, n. Etym: [OE. fir, fyr, fur AS. fr; akin to D. vuur, OS. & OHG. fiur, G. feuer, Icel. f, f, Gr. purus pure, E. pure Cf. Empyrean, Pyre.] 1. The evolution of light and heat in the combustion of bodies; combustion; state of ignition. Note: The form of fire exhibited in the combustion of gases in an ascending stream or current is called flame. Anciently, fire, air, earth, and water were regarded as the four elements of which all things are composed. 2. Fuel in a state of combustion, as on a hearth, or in 3. The burning of a house or town; a conflagration. 4. Anything which destroys or affects like fire. 5. Ardor of passion, whether love or hate; excessive warmth; consumingviolence of temper. he had fire in his temper.Atterbury. 6. Liveliness of imagination or fancy; intellectual and moral enthusiasm; capacity for ardor and zeal. And bless their critic with a poet's fire.Pope. 7. Splendor; brilliancy; luster; hence, a star. Stars, hide your fires.Shak. As in a zodiac representing the heavenly fires.Milton. 8. Torture by burning; severe trial or affliction. 9. The discharge of firearms; firing;