[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

modified to serve many of the functions of the above-named organs. Both asexual and sexual reproduction, often of a complex type, occur in these forms. The Thallophyta exist almost exclusively as gametophytes, the sporophyte being absent or rudimentary. By those who do not separate the Myxophyta from the Tallophyta as a distinct phylum the latter is treated as the lowermost group in the vegetable kingdom. THALLOPHYTE Thal"lo*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.) Defn: Same as Thallogen. THALLOUS Thal"lous, a. (Chem.) Defn: Of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing, thallium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with the thallic compounds. [Written also thallious.] THALLUS Thal"lus, n.; pl. Thalli. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.) Defn: A solid mass of cellular tissue, consisting of one or more layers, usually in the form of a flat stratum or expansion, but sometimes erect or pendulous, and elongated and branching, and forming the substance of the thallogens. THALWEG Thal"weg`, n. [G., fr. thal valley + weg way. See Dale; Way.] (Physiography) (a) A line following the lowest part of a valley, whether under water or not. (b) The line of continuous maximum descent from any point on a land surface, or that cutting all contours and angles. THAMMUZ; TAMMUZ Tham"muz, Tam"muz, n. Etym: [Heb. thammuz.] 1. A deity among the ancient Syrians, in honor of whom the Hebrew idolatresses held an annual lamentation. This deity has been conjectured to be the same with the Phoenician Adon, or Adonis. Milton. 2. The fourth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, -- supposed to correspond nearly with our month of July. THAMNOPHILE Tham"no*phile, n. Etym: [Gr. qa`mnos a bush + fi`los loving.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A bush shrike. THAMYN Tha"myn, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An Asiatic deer (Rucervus Eldi) resembling the swamp deer; -- called also Eld's deer. THAN Than, conj. Etym: [OE. than, thon, then, thanne, thonne, thenne, than, then, AS. thanne, thonne, th\'91nne; akin to D. dan, OHG. danne, G. dann then, denn than, for, Goth. Þan then, and to E. the, there, that. See That, and cf. Then.] Defn: A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want. Behold, a greater than Solomon is here. Matt. xii. 42. Which when Beelzebub perceived, than whom, Satan except, none higher sat. Milton. It's wiser being good than bad; It's safer being meek than fierce; It's fitter being sane than mad. R. Browning. THAN Than, adv. Defn: Then. See Then. [Obs.] Gower. Thanne longen folk to gon on pilgrimages. Chaucer. THANA Tha"na (tä"nä), n. [Written also tana, tanna.] [Hind. thana.] Defn: A police station. [India] Kipling. THANAGE Than"age, n. Defn: The district in which a thane anciently had jurisdiction; thanedom. THANATOID Than"a*toid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] Defn: Deathlike; resembling death. Dunglison. THANATOLOGY Than`a*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] Defn: A description, or the doctrine, of death. Dunglison. THANATOPSIS Than`a*top"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Defn: A view of death; a meditation on the subject of death. Bryant. THANE Thane, n. Etym: [OE. thein, Þein, AS. Þegen, Þegn; akin to OHG. degan a follower, warrior, boy, MHG. degen a hero, G. degen hero, soldier, Icel. Þegn a thane, a freeman; probably akin to Gr. Þius servant, AS. Þeón, G. dienen to serve.] Defn: A dignitary under the Anglo-Saxons and Danes in England. Of these there were two orders, the king's thanes, who attended the kings in their courts and held lands immediately of them, and the ordinary thanes, who were lords of manors and who had particular jurisdiction within their limits. After the Conquest, this title was disused, and baron took its place. Note: Among the ancient Scots, thane was a title of honor, which seems gradually to have declined in its significance. Jamieson. THANEDOM Thane"dom, n. Defn: The property or jurisdiction of a thane; thanage. Sir W. Scott. THANEHOOD Thane"hood, n. Defn: The character or dignity of a thane; also, thanes, collectively. J. R. Green. THANESHIP Thane"ship, n. Defn: The state or dignity of a thane; thanehood; also, the seignioralty of a thane. THANK Thank, n.; pl. Thanks. Etym: [AS. Þanc, Þonc, thanks, favor, thought; akin to OS. thank favor, pleasure, thanks, D. & G. dank thanks, Icel. Þ\'94kk, Dan. tak, Sw. tack, Goth. Þagks thanks; -- originally, a thought, a thinking. See Think.] Defn: A expression of gratitude; an acknowledgment expressive of a sense of favor or kindness received; obligation, claim, or desert, or gratitude; -- now generally used in the plural. "This ceremonial thanks." Massinger. If ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye for sinners also do even the same. Luke vi. 33. What great thank, then, if any man, reputed wise and constant, will neither do, nor permit others under his charge to do, that which he approves not, especially in matter of sin Milton. Thanks, thanks to thee, most worthy friend, For the lesson thou hast taught. Longfellow. His thanks, Her thanks, etc., of his or her own accord; with his or her good will; voluntary. [Obs.] Full sooth is said that love ne lordship, Will not, his thanks, have no fellowship. Chaucer. -- In thank, with thanks or thankfulness. [Obs.] -- Thank offering, an offering made as an expression of thanks. THANK Thank, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Thanked; p. pr. & vb. n. Thanking.] Etym: [AS. Þancian. See Thank, n.] Defn: To express gratitude to (anyone) for a favor; to make acknowledgments to (anyone) for kindness bestowed; -- used also ironically for blame. "Graunt mercy, lord, that thank I you," quod she. Chaucer. I thank thee for thine honest care. Shak. Weigh the danger with the doubtful bliss, And thank yourself if aught should fall amiss. Dryden. THANKFUL Thank"ful, a. Etym: [AS. Þancfull.] 1. Obtaining or deserving thanks; thankworthy. [R.] Ladies, look here; this is the thankful glass That mends the looker's eyes; this is the well That washes what it shows. Herbert. 2. Impressed with a sense of kindness received, and ready to acknowledge it; grateful. Be thankful unto him, and bless his name. Ps. c. 4. -- Thank"ful*ly, adv. -- Thank"ful*ness, n. THANKLESS Thank"less, a. 1. Not acknowledging favors; not expressing thankfulness; unthankful; ungrateful. That she may feel How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child! Shak. 2. Not obtaining or deserving thanks; unacceptable; as, a thankless task. To shepherd thankless, but by thieves that love the night allowed. Chapman. -- Thank"less*ly, adv. -- Thank"less*ness, n. THANKLY Thank"ly, adv. Defn: Thankfully. [Obs.] Sylvester (Du Bartas). THANKSGIVE Thanks"give, v. t. Defn: To give or dedicate in token of thanks. [Obs. or R.] Mede. THANKSGIVER Thanks"giv`er, n. Defn: One who gives thanks, or acknowledges a kindness. Barrow. THANKSGIVING Thanks"giv`ing, n. 1. The act of rending thanks, or expressing gratitude for favors or mercies. Every creature of God is good, and nothing to be refused, if it be received with thanksgiving. 1 Tim. iv. 4. In the thanksgiving before meat. Shak. And taught by thee the Church prolongs Her hymns of high thanksgiving still. Keble. 2. A public acknowledgment or celebration of divine goodness; also, a day set apart for religious services, specially to acknowledge the goodness of God, either in any remarkable deliverance from calamities or danger, or in the ordinary dispensation of his bounties. Note: In the United States it is now customary for the President by proclamation to appoint annually a day (usually the last Thursday in November) of thanksgiving and praise to God for the mercies of the past year. This is an extension of the custom long prevailing in several States in which an annual Thanksgiving day has been appointed by proclamation of the governor. THANKWORTHINESS Thank"wor`thi*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being thankworthy. THANKWORTHY Thank"wor`thy, a. Defn: Deserving thanks; worthy of gratitude; mreitorious. For this thankworthy, if a man, for conscience toward God, endure grief, suffering wrongfully. 1 Pet. ii. 19. THAR Thar, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A goatlike animal (Capra Jemlaica) native of the Himalayas. It has small, flattened horns, curved directly backward. The hair of the neck, shoulders, and chest of the male is very long, reaching to the knees. Called also serow, and imo. [Written also thaar, and tahr.] THAR Thar, v. impersonal, pres. Etym: [OE. thar, Þarf, AS. Þearf, infin. Þurfan to need; akin to OHG. durfan, G. dürfen to be allowed, Icel. Þurfa to need, Goth. Þaúrban.] Defn: It needs; need. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. What thar thee reck or care Chaucer. THARMS Tharms, n. pl. Etym: [AS. Þearm a gut; akin to D. & G. darm, Icel. Þarmr, Sw. & Dan. tarm. *53.]