[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Know In measure what the mind may well contain. Milton. All the world speaks well of you. Pope. 5. Considerably; not a little; far. Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age. Gen. xviii. 11. Note: Well is sometimes used elliptically for it is well, as an expression of satisfaction with what has been said or done, and sometimes it expresses concession, or is merely expletive; as, well, the work is done; well, let us go; well, well, be it so. Note: Well, like above, ill, and so, is used before many participial adjectives in its usual adverbial senses, and subject to the same custom with regard to the use of the hyphen (see the Note under Ill, adv.); as, a well-affected supporter; he was well affected toward the project; a well-trained speaker; he was well trained in speaking; well-educated, or well educated; well-dressed, or well dressed; well- appearing; well-behaved; well-controlled; well-designed; well- directed; well-formed; well-meant; well-minded; well-ordered; well- performed; well-pleased; well-pleasing; well-seasoned; well-steered; well-tasted; well-told, etc. Such compound epithets usually have an obvious meaning, and since they may be formed at will, only a few of this class are given in the Vocabulary. As well. See under As. -- As well as, and also; together with; not less than; one as much as the other; as, a sickness long, as well as severe; London is the largest city in England, as well as the capital. -- Well enough, well or good in a moderate degree; so as to give satisfaction, or so as to require no alteration. -- Well off, in good condition; especially, in good condition as to property or any advantages; thriving; prosperous. -- Well to do, well off; prosperous; -- used also adjectively. "The class well to do in the world." J. H. Newman. -- Well to live, in easy circumstances; well off; well to do. Shak. WELL Well, a. 1. Good in condition or circumstances; desirable, either in a natural or moral sense; fortunate; convenient; advantageous; happy; as, it is well for the country that the crops did not fail; it is well that the mistake was discovered. It was well with us in Egypt. Num. xi. 18. 2. Being in health; sound in body; not ailing, diseased, or sick; healthy; as, a well man; the patient is perfectly well. "Your friends are well." Shak. Is your father well, the old man of whom ye spake Gen. xliii. 27. 3. Being in favor; favored; fortunate. He followed the fortunes of that family, and was well with Henry the Fourth. Dryden. 4. (Marine Insurance) Defn: Safe; as, a chip warranted well at a certain day and place. Burrill. WE'LL We'll. Defn: Contraction for we will or we shall. "We'll follow them." Shak. WELLADAY Well"a*day, interj. Etym: [Corrupted from wela way.] Defn: Alas! Welaway! Shak. WELLAT Wel"lat, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The king parrakeet See under King. WELL-BEING Well"-be`ing, n. Defn: The state or condition of being well; welfare; happiness; prosperity; as, virtue is essential to the well-being of men or of society. WELL-BORN Well"-born`, a. Defn: Born of a noble or respect able family; not of mean birth. WELL-BRED Well"-bred`, a. Defn: Having good breeding; refined in manners; polite; cultivated. I am as well-bred as the earl's granddaughter. Thackera WELLDOER Well"do`er, n. Defn: One who does well; one who does good to another; a benefactor. WELLDOING Well"do`ing, n. Defn: A doing well; right performance of duties. Also used adjectively. WELLDRAIN Well"drain`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Welldrained; p. pr. & vb. n. Well- draining.] Defn: To drain, as land; by means of wells, or pits, which receive the water, and from which it is discharged by machinery. WELLFARE Well"fare`, n. Defn: See Welfare. [Obs.] WELL-FAVORED Well"-fa"vored, a. Defn: Handsome; wellformed; beautiful; pleasing to the eye. Rachel was beautiful and well-favored. Gen. xxix. 17. WELLHEAD Well"head`, n. Defn: A source, spring, or fountain. At the wellhead the purest streams arise. Spenser. Our public-school and university life is a great wellhead of new and irresponsible words. Earle. WELLHOLE Well"hole`, n. 1. (Arch.) (a) The open space in a floor, to accommodate a staircase. (b) The open space left beyond the ends of the steps of a staircase. 2. A cavity which receives a counterbalancing weight in certain mechanical contrivances, and is adapted also for other purposes. W. M. Buchanan. WELL-INFORMED Well`-in*formed", a. Defn: Correctly informed; provided with information; well furnished with authentic knowledge; intelligent. WELLINGTON BOOT Wel"ling*ton boot. [After the Duke of Wellington.] Defn: A riding boot for men, the front of which came above the knee; also, a similar shorter boot worn under the trousers. WELLINGTONIA Wel`ling*to"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL. So named after the Duke of Wellington.] (Bot.) Defn: A name given to the "big trees" (Sequoia gigantea) of California, and still used in England. See Sequoia. WELLINGTONS Wel"ling*tons, n. pl. Etym: [After the Duke of Wellington.] Defn: A kind of long boots for men. WELL-INTENTIONED Well`-in*ten"tioned, a. Defn: Having upright intentions or honorable purposes. Dutchmen who had sold themselves to France, as the wellintentioned party. Macaulay. WELL-KNOWN Well"-known`, a. Defn: Fully known; generally known or acknowledged. A church well known with a well-known rite. M. Arnold. WELL-LIKING Well"-lik`ing, a. Defn: Being in good condition. [Obs. or Archaic] They also shall bring forth more fruit in their age, and shall be fat and well-liking. Bk. of Com. Prayer (Ps. xcii.). WELL-MANNERED Well`-man"nered, a. Defn: Polite; well-bred; complaisant; courteous. Dryden. WELL-MEANER Well"-mean`er, n. Defn: One whose intention is good. "Well-meaners think no harm." Dryden. WELL-MEANING Well"-mean`ing, a. Defn: Having a good intention. WELL-NATURED Well`-na"tured, a. Defn: Good-natured; kind. Well-natured, temperate, and wise. Denham. WELL-NIGH Well"-nigh`, adv. Defn: Almost; nearly. Chaucer. WELL-PLIGHTED Well"-plight`ed, a. Defn: Being well folded. [Obs.] "Her well-plighted frock." Spenser. WELL-READ Well"-read`, a. Defn: Of extensive reading; deeply versed; -- often followed by in. WELL-SEEN Well"-seen`, a. Defn: Having seen much; hence, accomplished; experienced. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. Well-seen in arms and proved in many a fight. Spenser. WELL-SET Well"-set`, a. 1. Properly or firmly set. 2. Well put together; having symmetry of parts. WELL-SPED Well"-sped`, a. Defn: Having good success. WELL-SPOKEN Well"-spo`ken, a. Etym: [Well + speak.] 1. Speaking well; speaking with fitness or grace; speaking kindly. "A knight well-spoken." Shak. 2. Spoken with propriety; as, well-spoken words. WELLSPRING Well"spring` n. Defn: A fountain; a spring; a source of continual supply. Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it; but the instruction of fools is folly. Prov. xvi. 22. WELL-WILLER Well"-will`er, n. Defn: One who wishes well, or means kindly. [R.] "A well-willer of yours." Brydges. WELL-WISH Well"-wish` n. Defn: A wish of happiness. "A well-wish for his friends." Addison. WELLWISHER Well"wish`er, n. Defn: One who wishes another well; one who is benevolently or friendlily inclined. WELS Wels, n. Etym: [G.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The sheatfish; -- called also waller. WELSBACH Wels"bach, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Auer von Welsbach or the incandescent gas burner invented by him. -- Welsbach burner, a burner in which the combustion of a mixture of air and gas or vapor is employed to heat to incandescence a mantle composed of thoria and ceria. The mantle is made by soaking a "stocking" in a solution of nitrates of thorium and cerium (approx. 99 : 1), drying, and, for use, igniting to burn the thread and convert the nitrates into oxides, which remain as a fragile ash. The light far exceeds that obtained from the same amount of gas with the ordinary fishtail burner, but has a slight greenish hue. WELSH Welsh, a. Etym: [AS. wælisc, welisc, from wealh a stranger, foreigner, not of Saxon origin, a Welshman, a Celt, Gael; akin to OHG. walh, whence G. wälsch or welsch, Celtic, Welsh, Italian, French, Foreign, strange, OHG. walhisc; from the name of a Celtic tribe. See Walnut.] Defn: Of or pertaining to Wales, or its inhabitants. [Sometimes written also Welch.] Welsh flannel, a fine kind of flannel made from the fleece of the flocks of the Welsh mountains, and largely manufactured by hand. -- Welsh glaive, or Welsh hook, a weapon of war used in former times by the Welsh, commonly regarded as a kind of poleax. Fairholt. Craig. -- Welsh mortgage (O. Eng. Law), a species of mortgage, being a conveyance of an estate, redeemable at any time on payment of the principal, with an understanding that the profits in the mean time shall be received by the mortgagee without account, in satisfaction of interest. Burrill. -- Welsh mutton, a choice and delicate kind of mutton obtained from a breed of small sheep in Wales. -- Welsh onion (Bot.), a kind of onion (Allium fistulosum) having hollow inflated stalks and leaves, but scarcely any bulb, a native of Siberia. It is said to have been introduced from Germany, and is supposed to have derived its name from the German term wälsch foreign. -- Welsh parsley, hemp, or halters made from hemp. [Obs. & Jocular] J. Fletcher. -- Welsh rabbit. See under Rabbit. WELSH Welsh, n.