[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

custom duty. (b) A port where goods of all kinds are received from ships of all nations at equal rates of duty. -- Free public house, in England, a tavern not belonging to a brewer, so that the landlord is free to brew his own beer or purchase where he chooses. Simmonds. -- Free school. (a) A school to which pupils are admitted without discrimination and on an equal footing. (b) A school supported by general taxation, by endowmants, etc., where pupils pay nothing for tuition; a public school. -- Free services (O.Eng. Law), such feudal services as were not unbecoming the character of a soldier or a freemen to perform; as, to serve under his lord in war, to pay a sum of money, etc. Burrill. -- Free ships, ships of neutral nations, which in time of war are free from capture even though carrying enemy's goods. -- Free socage (O.Eng. Law), a feudal tenure held by certain services which, though honorable, were not military. Abbott. -- Free States, those of the United States before the Civil War, in which slavery had ceased to exist, or had never existed. -- Free stuff (Carp.), timber free from knots; clear stuff. -- Free thought, that which is thought independently of the authority of others. -- Free trade, commerce unrestricted by duties or tariff regulations. -- Free trader, one who believes in free trade. -- To make free with, to take liberties with; to help one's self to. [Colloq.] -- To sail free (Naut.), to sail with the yards not braced in as sharp as when sailing closehauled, or close to the wind. FREE Free, adv. 1. Freely; willingly. [Obs.] I as free forgive you As I would be forgiven. Shak. 2. Without charge; as, children admitted free. FREE Free, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Freed; p. pr. & vb. n. Freeing.] Etym: [OE. freen, freoien, AS. freógan. See Free, a.] 1. To make free; to set at liberty; to rid of that which confines, limits, embarrasses, oppresses, etc.; to release; to disengage; to clear; -- followed by from, and sometimes by off; as, to free a captive or a slave; to be freed of these inconveniences. Clarendon. Our land is from the rage of tigers freed. Dryden. Arise, . . . free thy people from their yoke. Milton. 2. To remove, as something that confines or bars; to relieve from the constraint of. This master key Frees every lock, and leads us to his person. Dryden. 3. To frank. [Obs.] Johnson. FREEBOOTER Free"boot`er, n. Etym: [D. vrijbuiter, fr. vrijbuiten to plunder; vrij free + buit booty, akin to E. booty. See Free, and Booty, and cf. Filibuster.] Defn: One who plunders or pillages without the authority of national warfare; a member of a predatory band; a pillager; a buccaneer; a sea robber. Bacon. FREEBOOTERY Free"boot`er*y, n. Defn: The act, practice, or gains of a freebooter; freebooting. Booth. FREEBOOTING Free"boot`ing, n. Defn: Robbery; plunder; a pillaging. FREEBOOTING Free"boot`ing, a. Defn: Acting the freebooter; practicing freebootery; robbing. Your freebooting acquaintance. Sir W. Scott. FREEBOOTY Free"boot`y, n. Defn: Freebootery. [Obs.] FREEBORN Free"born`, a. Defn: Born free; not born in vasssalage; inheriting freedom. FREE COINAGE Free coinage. Defn: In the fullest sense, the conversion of bullion (of any specified metal) into legal-tender coins for any person who chooses to bring it to the mint; in a modified sense, such coinage when done at a fixed charge proportionate to the cost of the operation. FREE-DENIZEN Free"-den`i*zen, v. t. Defn: To make free. [R.] FREEDMAN Freed"man, n.; pl. Freedmen (. Defn: A man who has been a slave, and has been set free. FREEDOM Free"dom, n. Etym: [AS. freód; freófree + -dom. See Free, and -dom.] 1. The state of being free; exemption from the power and control of another; liberty; independence. Made captive, yet deserving freedom more. Milton. 2. Privileges; franchises; immunities. Your charter and your caty's freedom. Shak. 3. Exemption from necessity, in choise and action; as, the freedom of the will. 4. Ease; facility; as, he speaks or acts with freedom. 5. Frankness; openness; unreservedness. I emboldened spake and freedom used. Milton. 6. Improper familiarity; violation of the rules of decorum; license. 7. Generosity; liberality. [Obs.] Chaucer. Freedom fine, a sum paid on entry to incorporations of trades. -- Freedom of the city, the possession of the rights and privileges of a freeman of the city; formerly often, and now occasionally, conferred on one not a resident, as a mark of honorary distinction for public services. Syn. -- See Liberty. FREEDSTOOL Freed"stool`, n. [Obs.] Defn: See Fridstol. FREE-HAND Free"-hand`, a. Defn: Done by the hand, without support, or the guidance of instruments; as, free-hand drawing. See under Drawing. FREE-HANDED Free"-hand`ed, a. Defn: Open-handed; liberal. FREE-HEARTED Free"-heart`ed, a. Defn: Open; frank; unreserved; liberal; generous; as, free-hearted mirth. -- Free"-heart`ed*ly, adv. -- Free"-heart`ed*ness, n. FREEHOLD Free"hold`, n. (LAw) Defn: An estate in real property, of inheritance (in fee simple or fee tail) or for life; or the tenure by which such estate is held. Kent. Burrill. To abate into a freehold. See under Abate. FREEHOLDER Free"hold`er, n. (Law) Defn: The possessor of a freehold. FREE-LIVER Free"-liv`er, n. Defn: One who gratifies his appetites without stint; one given to indulgence in eating and drinking. FREE-LIVING Free"-liv`ing, n. Defn: Unrestrained indulgence of the appetites. FREE-LOVE Free"-love`, n. Defn: The doctrine or practice of consorting with the opposite sex, at pleasure, without marriage. FREE-LOVER Free"-lov`er, n. Defn: One who believes in or practices free-love. FREELTE Freel"te, n. Defn: Frailty. [Obs.] Chaucer. FREELY Free"ly, adv. Etym: [AS. freólice.] Defn: In a free manner; without restraint or compulsion; abundantly; gratuitously. Of every tree of the garden thou mayst freely eat. Gen. ii. 16. Freely ye have received, freely give. Matt. x. 8. Freely they stood who stood, and fell who fell. Milton. Freely we serve Because we freely love. Milton. Syn. -- Independently; voluntarily; spontaneously; unconditionally; unobstructedly; willingly; readily; liberally; generously; bounteously; munificently; bountifully; abundantly; largely; copiously; plentifully; plenteously. FREEMAN Free"man, n.; pl. Freemen. Etym: [AS. freóman; freófree + mann man.] 1. One who enjoys liberty, or who is not subject to the will of another; one not a slave or vassal. 2. A member of a corporation, company, or city, possessing certain privileges; a member of a borough, town, or State, who has the right to vote at elections. See Liveryman. Burrill. Both having been made freemen on the same day. Addison. FREE-MARTIN Free"-mar`tin, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An imperfect female calf, twinborn with a male. FREEMASON Free"ma`son, n. Defn: One of an ancient and secret association or fraternity, said to have been at first composed of masons or builders in stone, but now consisting of persons who are united for social enjoyment and mutual assistance. FREEMASONIC Free`ma*son"ic, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the institutions or the practices of freemasons; as, a freemasonic signal. FREEMASONRY Free"ma`son*ry, n. Defn: The institutions or the practices of freemasons. FREE-MILLING Free"-mill`ing, a. Defn: Yielding free gold or silver; -- said of certain ores which can be reduced by crushing and amalgamation, without roasting or other chemical treatment. Raymond. FREE-MINDED Free"-mind`ed, a. Defn: Not perplexed; having a mind free from care. Bacon. FREENESS Free"ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being free; freedom; liberty; openness; liberality; gratuitousness. FREER Fre"er, n. Defn: One who frees, or sets free. FREE SILVER Free silver. Defn: The free coinage of silver; often, specif., the free coinage of silver at a fixed ratio with gold, as at the ratio of 16 to 1, which ratio for some time represented nearly or exactly the ratio of the market values of gold and silver respectively. FREE-SOIL Free"-soil`, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or advocating, the non-extension of slavery; -- esp. applied to a party which was active during the period 1846-1856. [U.S.] -- Free"soil`er, n. [U.S.] -- Free"-soil`ism, n. [U.S.] FREE-SPOKEN Free"-spo`ken, a. Defn: Accustomed to speak without reserve. Bacon. -- Free"-spo`ken-ness, n. FREESTONE Free"stone`, n. Defn: A stone composed of sand or grit; -- so called because it is easily cut or wrought. FREESTONE Free"stone`, a. Defn: Having the flesh readily separating from the stone, as in certain kinds of peaches. FREE-SWIMMING Free"-swim`ming, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Swimming in the open sea; -- said of certain marine animals. FREETHINKER Free"think`er, n. Defn: One who speculates or forms opinions independently of the authority of others; esp., in the sphere or religion, one who forms opinions independently of the authority of revelation or of the church; an unbeliever; -- a term assumed by deists and skeptics in the eighteenth century. Atheist is an old-fashioned word: I'm a freethinker, child. Addison. Syn. -- Infidel; skeptic; unbeliever. See Infidel. FREETHINKING Free"think`ing, n. Defn: Undue boldness of speculation; unbelief. Berkeley. -- a. Defn: Exhibiting undue boldness of speculation; skeptical. FREE-TONGUED Free"-tongued`, a. Defn: Speaking without reserve. Bp. Hall. FREEWHEEL Free"wheel`, n. (Mach.) Defn: A clutch fitted in the rear hub of a cycle, which engages the rear sprocket with the rear wheel when the pedals are