[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

having an umbrella-shaped shell; -- called also umbrella shell. Umbrella ant (Zoöl.), the sauba ant; -- so called because it carries bits of leaves over its back when foraging. Called also parasol ant. -- Umbrella bird (Zoöl.), a South American bird (Cephalopterus ornatus) of the family Cotingidæ. It is black, with a large handsome crest consisting of a mass of soft, glossy blue feathers curved outward at the tips. It also has a cervical plume consisting of a long, cylindrical dermal process covered with soft hairy feathers. Called also dragoon bird. -- Umbrella leaf (Bot.), an American perennial herb (Dyphylleia cymosa), having very large peltate and lobed radical leaves. -- Umbrella shell. (Zoöl.) See Umbrella, 3. -- Umbrella tree (Bot.), a kind of magnolia (M. Umbrella) with the large leaves arranged in umbrellalike clusters at the ends of the branches. It is a native of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Kentucky. Other plants in various countries are called by this name, especially a kind of screw pine (Pandanus odoratissimus). UMBRERE; UMBRIERE Um*brere, Um*briere, n. Etym: [F. ombre a shade, L. umbra; cf. F. ombrelle a sunshade, OF. also ombrière. See Umbrella.] Defn: In ancient armor, a visor, or projection like the peak of a cap, to which a face guard was sometimes attached. This was sometimes fixed, and sometimes moved freely upon the helmet and could be raised like the beaver. Called also umber, and umbril. [Obs.] But only vented up her umbriere. Spenser. UMBRETTE Um*brette", n. Etym: [F. ombrette.] (Zoöl.) Defn: See Umber, 4. UMBRIFEROUS Um*brif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. umbrifer; umbra a shade + ferre to bear.] Defn: Casting or making a shade; umbrageous. -- Um*brif"er*ous*ly, adv. UMBRIL Um"bril, n. Defn: A umbrere. [Obs.] UMBRINE Um"brine, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Umbra, 2. UMBROSE Um"brose`, a. Etym: [L. umbrosus, fr. umbra a shade.] Defn: Shady; umbrageous. [Obs.] UMBROSITY Um*bros"i*ty, n. Defn: The quality or state of being umbrose; shadiness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. UMHOFO Um*ho"fo, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An African two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus, or Rhinoceros, simus); -- called also chukuru, and white rhinoceros. UMLAUT Um"laut, n. Etym: [G., from um about + laut sound.] (Philol.) Defn: The euphonic modification of a root vowel sound by the influence of a, u, or especially i, in the syllable which formerly followed. Note: It is peculiar to the Teutonic languages, and was common in Anglo-Saxon. In German the umlauted vowels resulting from a, o, u, followed by old i, are written ä, ö, ü, or ae, oe, ue; as, männer or maenner, men, from mann, man. Examples of forms resulting from umlaut in English are geese pl. of goose, men pl. of man, etc. UMLAUTED Um"laut*ed, a. (Philol.) Defn: Having the umlaut; as, umlauted vowels. There is so natural connection between umlauted forms and plurality. Earle. UMPIRAGE Um"pi*rage (; 48), n. Etym: [From Umpire.] 1. The office of an umpire; the power, right, or authority of an umpire to decide. The mind umpirage of the federal Union. E. Everett. 2. The act of umpiring; arbitrament. Bp. Hall. UMPIRE Um"pire, n. Etym: [OE. nompere, nounpere (also impier, fr. F. impair uneven), fr. OF. nomper uneven, F. non-pair; hence the meaning, uneven, i. e., third person; non not + OF. per even, equal, peer, F. pair; cf. L. impar uneven, unequal. See Non-, and Peer, n.] 1. A person to whose sole decision a controversy or question between parties is referred; especially, one chosen to see that the rules of a game, as cricket, baseball, or the like, are strictly observed. A man, in questions of this kind, is able to be a skillful umpire between himself and others. Barrow. 2. (Law) Defn: A third person, who is to decide a controversy or question submitted to arbitrators in case of their disagreement. Blackstone. Syn. -- Judge; arbitrator; referee. See Judge. UMPIRE Um"pire, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Umpired; p. pr. & vb. n. Umpiring.] 1. To decide as umpire; to arbitrate; to settle, as a dispute. Judges appointed to umpire the matter in contest between them, and to decide where the right lies. South. 2. To perform the duties of umpire in or for; as, to umpire a game. [Colloq.] UMPIRE Um"pire, v. i. Defn: To act as umpire or arbitrator. UMPIRESHIP Um"pire*ship, n. Defn: Umpirage; arbitrament. Jewel. UMPRESS Um"press, n. Defn: Female umpire. [R.] Marston. UMPTEEN umpteen, [Colloq.] Defn: An indefinite number, usu. more than ten and less than one hundred; a lot. Often used hyperbolically, and usually expressing the notion of more than the usual number or more than I would like; -- "I've told you umpteen times not to do that." umpteenth. Ordinal of umpteen, with corresponding signification. UMQUHILE Um"quhile, adv. Etym: [Cf. OF. umwhile for a time. See While.] Defn: Some time ago; formerly. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. -- a. Defn: Former. [Scot.] UN- Un-. Etym: [OE. un-, on-, the unaccented form of the accented prefix and- (cf. Answer); akin to D. ont-, G. ent-, OHG. int-, Goth. and-. See Anti-.] Defn: An inseparable verbal prefix or particle. It is prefixed: (a) To verbs to express the contrary, and not the simple negative, of the action of the verb to which it is prefixed; as in uncoil, undo, unfold. (b) To nouns to form verbs expressing privation of the thing, quality, or state expressed by the noun, or separation from it; as in unchild, unsex. Sometimes particles and participial adjectives formed with this prefix coincide in form with compounds of the negative prefix un- (see 2d Un-); as in undone (from undo), meaning unfastened, ruined; and undone (from 2d un- and done) meaning not done, not finished. Un- is sometimes used with an intensive force merely; as in unloose. Note: Compounds of this prefix are given in full in their proper order in the Vocabulary. UN- Un-. Etym: [OE. & AS. un-; akin to OFries. un-, D. on-, OS., OHG., & G. un-, Icel. o-, u-, Sw. o-, Dan. u-, W. an-, L. in-, Gr. an-, a-. *193. Cf. A- not In- not, No, adv.] Defn: An inseparable prefix, or particle, signifying not; in-; non-. In- is prefixed mostly to words of Latin origin, or else to words formed by Latin suffixes; un- is of much wider application, and is attached at will to almost any adjective, or participle used adjectively, or adverb, from which it may be desired to form a corresponding negative adjective or adverb, and is also, but less freely, prefixed to nouns. Un- sometimes has merely an intensive force; as in unmerciless, unremorseless. I. Defn: Un- is prefixed to adjectives, or to words used adjectively. Specifically: -- (a) To adjectives, to denote the absence of the quality designated by the adjective; as, ------ and the like. (b) To past particles, or to adjectives formed after the analogy of past particles, to indicate the absence of the condition or state expressed by them; as, -Unabolishable Unabsolvable Unabsurd Unabundant Unaccordant Unadoptable Unadventurous Unaffable Unaffectionate Unafraid Unalliable Unallowablew Unalterable Unambiguous Unambitious Unamendable Un-American Unamusive Unangular Unanxious Unapocryphal Unapostolic Unapparent Unappeasable Unapplausive Unappreciable Unapprehensible Unapprehensive Unapproachable Unartificial Unartistic Unassailable Unattainable Unattentive Unauthentic Unavailable Unbailable Unbearable Unbeautiful Unbeliefful Unbelievable Unbeneficial Unbenevolent Unblamable Unblemishable Unblissful Unboastful Unbold Unbookish Unbounteous Unbribable Unbrotherly Unburdensome Unbusinesslike Unbusy Uncandid Uncanonical Uncaptious Uncareful Uncelestial Unceremonious Unchallengeable Unchangeable Unchary Unchastisable Uncheerful ---- and the like. (c) To present particles which come from intransitive verbs, or are themselves employed as adjectives, to mark the absence of the activity, disposition, or condition implied by the participle; as, -- --- and the like. Note: The above classes of words are unlimited in extent, and such compounds may be formed by any writer or speaker at will from almost all the adjectives or participles in the language, excepting those which have a recognized and usual negative correspondent with the prefix -in. No attempt will be made, therefore, to define them all in this Dictionary; many will be omitted from its Vocabulary which are negations of the simple word, and are readily explained by prefixing a not to the latter. Derivatives of these words in -ly and -ness will also, for the most part, be omitted for the same or similar reasons. There will be inserted as separate articles with definitions, the following: --1. Those which have acquired an opposed or contrary, instead of a merely negative, meaning; as, unfriendly, ungraceful, unpalatable, unquiet, and the like; or else an intensive sense more than a prefixed not would express; as, unending, unparalleled, undisciplined, undoubted, unsafe, and the like. 2. Those which have the value of independent words, inasmuch as the simple words are either not used at all, or are rarely, or at least much less frequently, used; as, unavoidable, unconscionable, undeniable, unspeakable, unprecedented, unruly, and the like; or inasmuch as they are used in a different sense from the usual meaning of the primitive, or especially in one of the significations of the latter; as, unaccountable, unalloyed, unbelieving, unpretending, unreserved, and the like; or inasmuch as they are so frequently and familiarly used that they