[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

searches by feeling. GROPING-LY Grop"ing-ly, adv. Defn: In a groping manner. GROS Gros, n. Etym: [F. See Gross.] Defn: A heavy silk with a dull finish; as, gros de Naples; gros de Tours. GROSBEAK Gros"beak, n. Etym: [Gross + beak: cf. F. gros-bec.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of various species of finches having a large, stout beak. The common European grosbeak or hawfinch is Coccothraustes vulgaris. Note: Among the best known American species are the rose-breasted (Habia Ludoviciana); the blue (Guiraca coerulea); the pine (Pinicola enucleator); and the evening grosbeak. See Hawfinch, and Cardinal grosbeak, Evening grosbeak, under Cardinal and Evening. [Written also grossbeak.] Habia Ludoviciana). GROSCHEN Grosch"en, n. Etym: [G.] Defn: A small silver coin and money of account of Germany, worth about two cents. It is not included in the new monetary system of the empire. GROSGRAIN Gros"grain`, a. Etym: [F. Cf. Grogram.] Defn: Of a coarse texture; -- applied to silk with a heavy thread running crosswise. GROSS Gross, a. [Compar. Grosser (; superl. Grossest.] Etym: [F. gros, L. grossus, perh. fr. L. crassus thick, dense, fat, E. crass, cf. Skr. grathita tied together, wound up, hardened. Cf. Engross, Grocer, Grogram.] 1. Great; large; bulky; fat; of huge size; excessively large. "A gross fat man." Shak. A gross body of horse under the Duke. Milton. 2. Coarse; rough; not fine or delicate. 3. Not easily aroused or excited; not sensitive in perception or feeling; dull; witless. Tell her of things that no gross ear can hear. Milton. 4. Expressing, Or originating in, animal or sensual appetites; hence, coarse, vulgar, low, obscene, or impure. The terms which are delicate in one age become gross in the next. Macaulay. 5. Thick; dense; not attenuated; as, a gross medium. 6. Great; palpable; serious; vagrant; shameful; as, a gross mistake; gross injustice; gross negligence. 7. Whole; entire; total; without deduction; as, the gross sum, or gross amount, the gross weight; -- opposed to net. Gross adventure (Law) the loan of money upon bottomry, i. e., on a mortgage of a ship. -- Gross average (Law), that kind of average which falls upon the gross or entire amount of ship, cargo, and freight; -- commonly called general average. Bouvier. Burrill. -- Gross receipts, the total of the receipts, before they are diminished by any deduction, as for expenses; -- distinguished from net profits. Abbott. -- Gross weight the total weight of merchandise or goods, without deduction for tare, tret, or waste; -- distinguished from neat, or net, weight. GROSS Gross, n. Etym: [F. gros (in sense 1), grosse (in sense 2) See Gross, a.] 1. The main body; the chief part, bulk, or mass. "The gross of the enemy." Addison. For the gross of the people, they are considered as a mere herd of cattle. Burke. 2. sing. & pl. Defn: The number of twelve dozen; twelve times twelve; as, a gross of bottles; ten gross of pens. Advowson in gross (Law), an advowson belonging to a person, and not to a manor. -- A great gross, twelve gross; one hundred and forty-four dozen. -- By the gross, by the quantity; at wholesale. -- Common in gross. (Law) See under Common, n. -- In the gross, In gross, in the bulk, or the undivided whole; all parts taken together. GROSSBEAK Gross"beak`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Grosbeak. GROSS-HEADED Gross"-head`ed, a. Defn: Thick-skulled; stupid. GROSSIFICATION Gross`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Gross + L. ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy.] 1. The act of making gross or thick, or the state of becoming so. 2. (Bot.) Defn: The swelling of the ovary of plants after fertilization. Henslow. GROSSLY Gross"ly, adv. Defn: In a gross manner; greatly; coarsely; without delicacy; shamefully; disgracefully. GROSSNESS Gross"ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being gross; thickness; corpulence; coarseness; shamefulness. Abhor the swinish grossness that delights to wound the' ear of delicacy. Dr. T. Dwight. GROSSULAR Gros"su*lar, a. Etym: [NL. grossularius, from Grossularia a subgenus of Ribes, including the gooseberry, fr. F. groseille. See Gooseberry.] Defn: Pertaining too, or resembling, a gooseberry; as, grossular garnet. GROSSULAR Gros"su*lar, n. Etym: [See Grossular, a.] (Min.) Defn: A translucent garnet of a pale green color like that of the gooseberry; -- called also grossularite. GROSSULARIA Gros`su*la"ria, n. Etym: [NL. See Grossular.] (Min.) Defn: Same as Grossular. GROSSULIN Gros"su*lin, n. Etym: [See Grossular.] (Chem.) Defn: A vegetable jelly, resembling pectin, found in gooseberries (Ribes Grossularia) and other fruits. GROT Grot, n. Etym: [F. grotte, It. grotta. See Grotto.] Defn: A grotto. [Poetic] Milton. GROT; GROTE Grot, Grote (, n. Defn: A groat. [Obs.] Chaucer. GROTESQUE Gro*tesque", a. Etym: [F., fr. It. grottesco, fr. grotta grotto. See Grotto.] Defn: Like the figures found in ancient grottoes; grottolike; wildly or strangely formed; whimsical; extravagant; of irregular forms and proportions; fantastic; ludicrous; antic. "Grotesque design." Dryden. "Grotesque incidents." Macaulay. GROTESQUE Gro*tesque, n. 1. A whimsical figure, or scene, such as is found in old crypts and grottoes. Dryden. 2. Artificial grotto-work. GROTESQUELY Gro*tesque"ly, adv. Defn: In a grotesque manner. GROTESQUENESS Gro*tesque"ness, n. Defn: Quality of being grotesque. GROTESQUERY Gro*tesqu"er*y, n. [Written also grotesquerie.] [From Grotesque.] Defn: Grotesque action, speech, or manners; grotesque doings. "The sustained grotesquery of Feather-top." K. L. Bates. Vileness, on the other hand, becomes grotesquerie, wonderfully converted into a subject of laughter. George Gissing. GROTTO Grot"to, n.; pl. Grottoes. Etym: [Formerly grotta, fr. It. grotta, LL. grupta, fr. L. crypta a con cealed subterranran passage vault, cavern, Gr. Grot, Crypt.] Defn: A natural covered opening in the earth; a cave; also, an artificial recess, cave, or cavernlike apartment. GROTTO-WORK Grot"to-work`, n. Defn: Artificial and ornamental rockwork in imitation of a grotto. Cowper. GROUND Ground, n. Etym: [OE. ground, grund, AS. grund; akin to D. grond, OS., G., Sw., & Dan. grund, Icel. grunnr bottom, Goth. grundus (in composition); perh. orig. meaning, dust, gravel, and if so perh. akin to E. grind.] 1. The surface of the earth; the outer crust of the globe, or some indefinite portion of it. There was not a man to till the ground. Gen. ii. 5. The fire ran along upon the ground. Ex. ix. 23. Hence: Defn: A floor or pavement supposed to rest upon the earth. 2. Any definite portion of the earth's surface; region; territory; country. Hence: A territory appropriated to, or resorted to, for a particular purpose; the field or place of action; as, a hunting or fishing ground; a play ground. From . . . old Euphrates, to the brook that parts Egypt from Syrian ground. Milton. 3. Land; estate; possession; field; esp. (pl.), the gardens, lawns, fields, etc., belonging to a homestead; as, the grounds of the estate are well kept. Thy next design is on thy neighbor's grounds. Dryden. 4. 4. The basis on which anything rests; foundation. Hence: The foundation of knowledge, belief, or conviction; a premise, reason, or datum; ultimate or first principle; cause of existence or occurrence; originating force or agency; as, the ground of my hope. 5. (Paint. & Decorative Art) (a) That surface upon which the figures of a composition are set, and which relieves them by its plainness, being either of one tint or of tints but slightly contrasted with one another; as, crimson Bowers on a white ground. See Background, Foreground, and Middle-ground. (b) In sculpture, a flat surface upon which figures are raised in relief. (c) In point lace, the net of small meshes upon which the embroidered pattern is applied; as, Brussels ground. See Brussels lace, under Brussels. 6. (Etching) Defn: A gummy composition spread over the surface of a metal to be etched, to prevent the acid from eating except where an opening is made by the needle. 7. (Arch.) Defn: One of the pieces of wood, flush with the plastering, to which moldings, etc., are attached; -- usually in the plural. Note: Grounds are usually put up first and the plastering floated flush with them. 8. (Mus.) (a) A composition in which the bass, consisting of a few bars of independent notes, is continually repeated to a varying melody. (b) The tune on which descants are raised; the plain song. Moore (Encyc.). On that ground I'll build a holy descant. Shak. 9. (Elec.) Defn: A conducting connection with the earth, whereby the earth is made part of an electrical circuit. 10. pl. Defn: Sediment at the bottom of liquors or liquids; dregs; lees; feces; as, coffee grounds. 11. The pit of a theater. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Ground angling, angling with a weighted line without a float. -- Ground annual (Scots Law), an estate created in land by a vassal who instead of selling his land outright reserves an annual ground rent, which becomes a perpetual charge upon the land. -- Ground ash. (Bot.) See Groutweed. -- Ground bailiff (Mining), a superintendent of mines. Simmonds. -- Ground bait, bits of bread, boiled barley or worms, etc., thrown into the water to collect the fish, Wallon. -- Ground bass or base (Mus.), fundamental base; a fundamental base continually repeated to a varied melody. --