[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #14062]

in itself at all. With the facts of the object he has nothing to do, but with its appearance only, and appearance is a matter of light and shade, of masses, of position, and of value. Appearance is, in fact, a matter of effect merely, and it is with the effects of nature that you have to deal, not with the real condition of the object. What you, as painters, have to paint is not things as they are but things as they seem to be, not things as they are but things as they are not. No object is so ugly that, under certain conditions of light and shade, or proximity to other things, it will not look beautiful; no object is so beautiful that, under certain conditions, it will not look ugly. I believe that in every twenty-four hours what is beautiful looks ugly, and what is ugly looks beautiful, once. And, the commonplace character of so much of our English painting seems to me due to the fact that so many of our young artists look merely at what we may call 'ready-made beauty,' whereas you exist as artists not to copy beauty but to create it in your art, to wait and watch for it in nature. What would you say of a dramatist who would take nobody but virtuous people as characters in his play? Would you not say he was missing half of life? Well, of the young artist who paints nothing but beautiful things, I say he misses one half of the world. Do not wait for life to be picturesque, but try and see life under picturesque conditions. These conditions you can create for yourself in your studio, for they are merely conditions of light. In nature, you must wait for them, watch for them, choose them; and, if you wait and watch, come they will. In Gower Street at night you may see a letterbox that is picturesque; on the Thames Embankment you may see picturesque policemen. Even Venice is not always beautiful, nor France. To paint what you see is a good rule in art, but to see what is worth painting is better. See life under pictorial conditions. It is better to live in a city of changeable weather than in a city of lovely surroundings. Now, having seen what makes the artist, and what the artist makes, who is the artist? There is a man living amongst us who unites in himself all the qualities of the noblest art, whose work is a joy for all time, who is, himself, a master of all time. That man is Mr. Whistler. But, you will say, modern dress, that is bad. If you cannot paint black cloth you could not have painted silken doublet. Ugly dress is better for art--facts of vision, not of the object. What is a picture? Primarily, a picture is a beautifully coloured surface, merely, with no more spiritual message or meaning for you than an exquisite fragment of Venetian glass or a blue tile from the wall of Damascus. It is, primarily, a purely decorative thing, a delight to look at. All archaeological pictures that make you say 'How curious!' all sentimental pictures that make you say 'How sad!' all historical pictures that make you say 'How interesting!' all pictures that do not immediately give you such artistic joy as to make you say 'How beautiful!' are bad pictures. * * * * * We never know what an artist is going to do. Of course not. The artist is not a specialist. All such divisions as animal painters, landscape painters, painters of Scotch cattle in an English mist, painters of English cattle in a Scotch mist, racehorse painters, bull-terrier painters, all are shallow. If a man is an artist he can paint everything. The object of art is to stir the most divine and remote of the chords which make music in our soul; and colour is, indeed, of itself a mystical presence on things, and tone a kind of sentinel. Am I pleading, then, for mere technique? No. As long as there are any signs of technique at all, the picture is unfinished. What is finish? A picture is finished when all traces of work, and of the means employed to bring about the result, have disappeared. In the case of handicraftsmen--the weaver, the potter, the smith--on their work are the traces of their hand. But it is not so with the painter; it is not so with the artist. Art should have no sentiment about it but its beauty, no technique except what you cannot observe. One should be able to say of a picture not that it is 'well painted,' but that it is 'not painted.' What is the difference between absolutely decorative art and a painting? Decorative art emphasises its material: imaginative art annihilates it. Tapestry shows its threads as part of its beauty: a picture annihilates its canvas; it shows nothing of it. Porcelain emphasises its glaze: water-colours reject the paper. A picture has no meaning but its beauty, no message but its joy. That is the first truth about art that you must never lose sight of. A picture is a purely decorative thing. BIBLIOGRAPHY BY STUART MASON NOTE Part I. includes all the authorised editions published in England, and the two French editions of Salome published in Paris. Authorised editions of some of the works were issued in the United States of America simultaneously with the English publication. Part II. contains the only two 'Privately Printed' editions which are authorised. Part III. is a chronological list of all contributions (so far as at present known) to magazines, periodicals, etc., the date given being that of the first publication only. Those marked with an asterisk (*) were published anonymously. Many of the poems have been included in anthologies of modern verse, but no attempt has been made to give particulars of such reprints in this Bibliography. I.--AUTHORISED ENGLISH EDITIONS NEWDIGATE PRIZE POEM. RAVENNA. Recited in the Theatre, Oxford, June 26, 1878. By OSCAR WILDE, Magdalen College. Oxford: Thos. Shrimpton and Son, 1878. POEMS. London: David Bogue, 1881 (June 30). Second and Third Editions, 1881. Fourth and Fifth Editions [Revised], 1882. 220 copies (200 for sale) of the Fifth Edition, with a new title-page and cover designed by Charles Ricketts. London: Elkin Mathews and John Lane, 1892 (May 26). THE HAPPY PRINCE AND OTHER TALES. ('The Happy Prince,' 'The Nightingale and the Rose,' 'The Selfish Giant,' 'The Devoted Friend,' 'The Remarkable Rocket.') Illustrated by Walter Crane and Jacomb Hood. London: David Nutt, 1888 (May). Also 75 copies (65 for sale) on Large Paper, with the plates in two states. Second Edition, January 1889. Third Edition, February 1902. Fourth Impression, September 1905. Fifth Impression, February 1907. INTENTIONS. ('The Decay of Lying,' 'Pen, Pencil, and Poison,' 'The Critic as Artist,' 'The Truth of Masks.') London: James R. Osgood, McIlvaine and Co., 1891 (May). New Edition, 1894. Edition for Continental circulation only. The English Library, No. 54. Leipzig: Heinemann and Balestier, 1891. Frequently reprinted. THE PICTURE OF DORIAN GRAY. London: Ward, Lock and Co. [1891 (July 1).] Also 250 copies on Large Paper. Dated 1891. [Note.--July 1 is the official date of publication, but presentation copies signed by the author and dated May 1891 are known.] New Edition [1894 (October 1).] London: Ward, Lock and Bowden. Reprinted. Paris: Charles Carrington, 1901, 1905, 1908 (January). Edition for Continental circulation only. Leipzig: Bernhard Tauchnitz, vol. 4049. 1908 (July). LORD ARTHUR SAVILE'S CRIME AND OTHER STORIES. ('Lord Arthur Savile's Crime,' 'The Sphinx Without a Secret,' 'The Canterville Ghost,' 'The Model Millionaire.') London: James R. Osgood, McIlvaine and Co., 1891 (July). A HOUSE OF POMEGRANATES. ('The Young King,' 'The Birthday of the Infanta,' 'The Fisherman and His Soul,' 'The Star Child.') With Designs and Decorations by Charles Ricketts and C. H. Shannon. London: James R. Osgood, McIlvaine and Co., 1891 (November). SALOME. DRAME EN UN ACTE. Paris: Librairie de l'Art Independant. Londres: Elkin Mathews et John Lane, 1893 (February 22). 600 copies (500 for sale) and 25 on Large Paper. New Edition. With sixteen Illustrations by Aubrey Beardsley. Paris: Edition a petit nombre imprimee pour les Souscripteurs. 1907. 500 copies. [Note.--Several editions, containing only a portion of the text, have been issued for the performance of the Opera by Richard Strauss. London: Methuen and Co.; Berlin: Adolph Furstner. ] LADY WINDERMERE'S FAN. A PLAY ABOUT A GOOD WOMAN. London: Elkin Mathews and John Lane, 1893 (November 8). 500 copies and 50 on Large Paper. Acting Edition. London: Samuel French. (Text Incomplete.) SALOME. A TRAGEDY IN ONE ACT. Translated from the French [by Lord Alfred Bruce Douglas.] Pictured by Aubrey Beardsley. London: Elkin Mathews and John Lane, 1894 (February 9). 500 copies and 100 on Large Paper. With the two suppressed plates and extra title-page. Preface by Robert Ross. London: John Lane, 1907 (September 1906). New Edition (without illustrations). London: John Lane, 1906 (June), 1908. THE SPHINX.