[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

structure or contrivance, as a mole, or a wall at the mouth of a harbor, to break the force of waves, and afford protection from their violence. BREAM Bream, n. Etym: [OE. breme, brem, F. brême, OF. bresme, of German origin; cf. OHG. brahsema, brahsina, OLG. bressemo, G. brassen. Cf. Brasse.] 1. (Zoöl) Defn: A European fresh-water cyprinoid fish of the genus Abramis, little valued as food. Several species are known. 2. (Zoöl) Defn: An American fresh-water fish, of various species of Pomotis and allied genera, which are also called sunfishes and pondfishes. See Pondfish. 3. (Zoöl) Defn: A marine sparoid fish of the genus Pagellus, and allied genera. See Sea Bream. BREAM Bream, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Breamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Breaming.] Etym: [Cf. Broom, and G. ein schiff brennen.] (Naut.) Defn: To clean, as a ship's bottom of adherent shells, seaweed, etc., by the application of fire and scraping. BREAST Breast, n. Etym: [OE. brest, breost, As. breóst; akin to Icel. brj, Sw. bröst, Dan. bryst, Goth. brusts, OS. briost, D. borst, G. brust.] 1. The fore part of the body, between the neck and the belly; the chest; as, the breast of a man or of a horse. 2. Either one of the protuberant glands, situated on the front of the chest or thorax in the female of man and of some other mammalia, in which milk is secreted for the nourishment of the young; a mammma; a teat. My brother, that sucked the breasts of my mother. Cant. viii. 1. 3. Anything resembling the human breast, or bosom; the front or forward part of anything; as, a chimney breast; a plow breast; the breast of a hill. Mountains on whose barren breast The laboring clouds do often rest. Milton. 4. (Mining) (a) The face of a coal working. (b) The front of a furnace. 5. The seat of consciousness; the repository of thought and self- consciousness, or of secrets; the seat of the affections and passions; the heart. He has a loyal breast. Shak. 6. The power of singing; a musical voice; -- so called, probably, from the connection of the voice with the lungs, which lie within the breast. [Obs.] By my troth, the fool has an excellent breast. Shak. Breast drill, a portable drilling machine, provided with a breastplate, for forcing the drill against the work. -- Breast pang. See Angina pectoris, under Angina. -- To make a clean breast, to disclose the secrets which weigh upon one; to make full confession. BREAST Breast, v. t. [imp. & p. p.Breasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Breasted.] Defn: To meet, with the breast; to struggle with or oppose manfully; as, to breast the storm or waves. The court breasted the popular current by sustaining the demurrer. Wirt. To breast up a hedge, to cut the face of it on one side so as to lay bare the principal upright stems of the plants. BREASTBAND Breast"band`, n. Defn: A band for the breast. Specifically: (Naut.) A band of canvas, or a rope, fastened at both ends to the rigging, to support the man who heaves the lead in sounding. BREASTBEAM Breast"beam`, n. (Mach.) Defn: The front transverse beam of a locomotive. BREASTBONE Breast"bone`, n. Defn: The bone of the breast; the sternum. BREAST-DEEP Breast"-deep`, a. Defn: Deep as from the breast to the feet; as high as the breast. See him breast-deep in earth, and famish him. Shak. BREASTED Breast"ed, a. Defn: Having a breast; -- used in composition with qualifying words, in either a literal or a metaphorical sense; as, a single-breasted coat. The close minister is buttoned up, and the brave officer open- breasted, on these occasions. Spectator. BREASTFAST Breast"fast`, n. (Naut.) Defn: A large rope to fasten the midship part of a ship to a wharf, or to another vessel. BREASTHEIGHT Breast"height`, n. Defn: The interior slope of a fortification, against which the garnison lean in firing. BREAST-HIGH Breast"-high`, a. Defn: High as the breast. BREASTHOOK Breast"hook`, n. (Naut.) Defn: A thick piece of timber in the form of a knee, placed across the stem of a ship to strengthen the fore part and unite the bows on each side. Totten. BREASTING Breast"ing, n. (Mach.) Defn: The curved channel in which a breast wheel turns. It is closely adapted to the curve of the wheel through about a quarter of its circumference, and prevents the escape of the water until it has spent its force upon the wheel. See Breast wheel. BREASTKNOT Breast"knot`, n. Defn: A pin worn of the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; a brooch. BREASTPIN Breast"pin` (brest"pin`), n. Defn: A pin worn on the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; a brooch. BREASTPLATE Breast"plate`, n. 1. A plate of metal covering the breast as defensive armor. Before his old rusty breastplate could be scoured, and his cracked headpiece mended. Swift. 2. A piece against which the workman presses his breast in operating a breast drill, or other similar tool. 3. A strap that runs across a horse's breast. Ash. 4. (Jewish Antiq.) Defn: A part of the vestment of the high priest, worn upon the front of the ephod. It was a double piece of richly embroidered stuff, a span square, set with twelve precious stones, on which were engraved the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. See Ephod. BREASTPLOW; BREASTPLOUGH Breast"plow`, Breast"plough`, n. Defn: A kind of plow, driven by the breast of the workman; -- used to cut or pare turf. BREASTRAIL Breast"rail`, n. Defn: The upper rail of any parapet of ordinary height, as of a balcony; the railing of a quarter-deck, etc. BREASTROPE Breast"rope`, n. Defn: See Breastband. BREASTSUMMER Breast"sum`mer, n. (Arch.) Defn: A summer or girder extending across a building flush with, and supporting, the upper part of a front or external wall; a long lintel; a girder; -- used principally above shop windows. [Written also brestsummer and bressummer.] BREASTWHEEL Breast"wheel`, n. Defn: A water wheel, on which the stream of water strikes neither so high as in the overshot wheel, nor so low as in the undershot, but generally at about half the height of the wheel, being kept in contact with it by the breasting. The water acts on the float boards partly by impulse, partly by its weight. BREASTWORK Breast"work`, n. 1. (Fort.) Defn: A defensive work of moderate height, hastily thrown up, of earth or other material. 2. (Naut.) Defn: A railing on the quarter-deck and forecastle. BREATH Breath, n. Etym: [OE. breth, breeth, AS. br odor, scent, breath; cf. OHG. bradam steam, vapor, breath, G. brodem, and possibly E. Brawn, and Breed.] 1. The air inhaled and exhaled in respiration, air which, in the process of respiration, has parted with oxygen and has received carbonic acid, aqueous vapor, warmth, etc. Melted as breath into the wind. Shak. 2. The act of breathing naturally or freely; the power or capacity to breathe freely; as, I am out of breath. 3. The power of respiration, and hence, life. Hood. Thou takest away their breath, they die. Ps. civ. 29. 4. Time to breathe; respite; pause. Give me some breath, some little pause. Shak. 5. A single respiration, or the time of making it; a single act; an instant. He smiles and he frowns in a breath. Dryden. 6. Fig.: That which gives or strengthens life. The earthquake voice of victory, To thee the breath of life. Byron. 7. A single word; the slightest effort; a triffle. A breath can make them, as a breath has made. Goldsmith. 8. A very slight breeze; air in gentle motion. Calm and unruffled as a summer's sea, when not a breath of wind flies o'er its surface. Addison. 9. Fragrance; exhalation; odor; perfume. Tennison. The breath of flowers. Bacon. 10. Gentle exercise, causing a quicker respiration. An after dinner's breath. Shak. Out of breath, breathless, exhausted; breathing with difficulty. -- Under one's breath, in low tones. BREATHABLE Breath"a*ble, a. Defn: Such as can be breathed. BREATHABLENESS Breath"a*ble*ness, n. Defn: State of being breathable. BREATHE Breathe, v. i. [imp. & p. p Breathed; p. pr. & vb. n. Breathing.] Etym: [From Breath.] 1. To respire; to inhale and exhale air; hence;, to live. "I am in health, I breathe." Shak. Breathes there a man with soul so dead Sir W. Scott. 2. To take breath; to rest from action. Well! breathe awhile, and then to it again! Shak. 3. To pass like breath; noiselessly or gently; to exhale; to emanate; to blow gently. The air breathes upon us here most sweetly. Shak. There breathes a living fragrance from the shore. Byron. BREATHE Breathe, v. t. 1. To inhale and exhale in the process of respiration; to respire. To view the light of heaven, and breathe the vital air. Dryden. 2. To inject by breathing; to infuse; -- with into. Able to breathe life into a stone. Shak. And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground,