[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

By"-spell`(, n. Etym: [AS. bigspell.] Defn: A proverb. [Obs.] BYSS Byss, n. Defn: See Byssus, n., 1. BYSSACEOUS Bys*sa"ceous, a. Etym: [From Byssus.] (Bot.) Defn: Byssuslike; consisting of fine fibers or threads, as some very delicate filamentous algæ. BYSSIFEROUS Bys*sif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Byssus + -ferous.] Defn: Bearing a byssus or tuft. BYSSIN Bys"sin, n. Defn: See Byssus, n., 1. BYSSINE Bys"sine, a. Etym: [L. byssinus made of byssus, Gr.Byssus.] Defn: Made of silk; having a silky or flaxlike appearance. Coles. BYSSOID Bys"soid, a. Etym: [Byssus + -oid.] Defn: Byssaceous. BYSSOLITE Bys"so*lite, n. Etym: [Gr.-lite.] (Min.) Defn: An olive-green fibrous variety of hornblende. BYSSUS Bys"sus, n.; pl. E. Byssuses(#); L. Byssi.(#) Etym: [L. byssus fine flax, fine linen or cotton, Gr. 1. A cloth of exceedingly fine texture, used by the ancients. It is disputed whether it was of cotton, linen, or silk. [Written also byss and byssin.] 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A tuft of long, tough filaments which are formed in a groove of the foot, and issue from between the valves of certain bivalve mollusks, as the Pinna and Mytilus, by which they attach themselves to rocks, etc. 3. (Bot.) Defn: An obsolete name for certain fungi composed of slender threads. 4. Asbestus. BYSTANDER By"stand`er, n. Etym: [By + stander, equiv. to stander-by; cf. AS. big-standan to stand by or near.] Defn: One who stands near; a spectator; one who has no concern with the business transacting. He addressed the bystanders and scattered pamphlets among them. Palfrey. Syn. -- Looker on; spectator; beholder; observer. BY-STREET By"-street`, n. Defn: A separate, private, or obscure street; an out of the way or cross street. He seeks by-streets, and saves the expensive coach. Gay. BY-STROKE By"-stroke`, n. Defn: An accidental or a slyly given stroke. BY-TURNING By"-turn`ing, n. Defn: An obscure road; a way turning from the main road. Sir P. Sidney. BY-VIEW By"-view`(, n. Defn: A private or selfish view; self-interested aim or purpose. No by-views of his own shall mislead him. Atterbury. BY-WALK By"-walk`(, n. Defn: secluded or private walk. He moves afterward in by-walks. Dryden. BY-WASH By"-wash`, n. Defn: The outlet from a dam or reservoir; also, a cut to divert the flow of water. BYWAY By"way`, n. Defn: A secluded, private, or obscure way; a path or road aside from the main one. " Take no byways." Herbert. BY-WIPE By"-wipe`, n. Defn: A secret or side stroke, as of raillery or sarcasm. Milton. BYWORD By"word`, n. Etym: [AS.bïword; bï, E.by+word.] 1. A common saying; a proverb; a saying that has a general currency. I knew a wise man that had it for a byword. Bacon. 2. The object of a contemptuous saying. Thou makest us a byword among the heathen. Ps. xliv. 14 BYWORK By"work, n. Defn: Work aside from regular work; subordinate or secondary business. BYZANT; BYZANTINE Byz"ant, Byz"an*tine n.Etym: [OE. besant, besaunt, F. besant, fr. LL. Byzantius, Byzantinus, fr. Byzantium.] (Numis.) Defn: A gold coin, so called from being coined at Byzantium. See Bezant. BYZANTIAN By*zan"tian, a.& n. Defn: See Byzantine. BYZANTINE By*zan"tine, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Byzantium. -- n. Defn: A native or inhabitant of Byzantium, now Constantinople; sometimes, applied to an inhabitant of the modern city of Constantinople. [ Written also Bizantine.] Byzantine church, the Eastern or Greek church, as distinguished from the Western or Roman or Latin church.See under Greek. -- Byzantine empire, the Eastern Roman or Greek empire from A.D. 364 or A.D. 395 to the capture of Constantinople by the Turks, A.D. 1453. -- Byzantine historians, historians and writers (Zonaras, Procopius, etc.) who lived in the Byzantine empire. P. Cyc. Byzantine style (Arch.), a style of architecture developed in the Byzantine empire. Note: Its leading forms are the round arch, the dome, the pillar, the circle, and the cross. The capitals of the pillars are the endless variety, and full of invention. The mosque of St. Sophia, Constantinople, and the church of St. Mark, Venice, are prominent examples of Byzantine architecture. C 1. C is the third letter of the English alphabet. It is from the Latin letter C, which in old Latin represented the sounds of k, and g (in go); its original value being the latter. In Anglo-Saxon words, or Old English before the Norman Conquest, it always has the sound of k. The Latin C was the same letter as the Greek got it from the Phoenicians. The English name of C is from the Latin name ce, and was derived, probably, through the French. Etymologically C is related to g, h, k, q, s (and other sibilant sounds). Examples of these relations are in L. acutus, E. acute, ague; E. acrid, eagar; L. cornu, E. horn; E. cat, kitten; E. coy, quiet; L. circare, OF. cerchier, E. search. Note: See Guide to Pronunciation, t\'c5 221-228. 2. (Mus.) Defn: (a) The keynote of the normal or "natural" scale, which has neither flats nor sharps in its signature; also, the third note of the relative minor scale of the same (b) C after the clef is the mark of common time, in which each measure is a semibreve (four fourths or crotchets); for alla breve time it is written (c) The "C clef," a modification of the letter C, placed on any line of the staff, abows that line to be middle C. 3. As a numeral, C stands for Latin centum or 100, CC for 200, etc. C spring, a spring in the form of the letter C. CAABA Ca*a"ba, n. Etym: [Ar. ka'ban, let, a square building, fr. ka'b cube] Defn: The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which all Mohammedans must pray. [Written also kaaba.] Note: The Caaba is situated in Mecca, a city of Arabia, and contains a famous black stone said to have been brought from heaven. Before the time of Mohammed, the Caaba was an idolatrous temple, but it has since been the chief sanctuary and object of pilgrimage of the Mohammedan world. CAADA Ca*ña"da, n. [Sp.] Defn: A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less frequently, an open valley. [Local, Western U. S.] CAAS Caas, n. sing. & pl. Defn: Case. [Obs.] Chaucer. CAATINGA Caa*tin"ga, n. [Tupi caa-tinga white forest.] (Phytogeography) Defn: A forest composed of stunted trees and thorny bushes, found in areas of small rainfall in Brazil. CAB Cab, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. cabriolet.] 1. A kind of close carriage with two or four wheels, usually a public vehicle. "A cab came clattering up." Thackeray. Note: A cab may have two seats at right to the driver's seat, and a door behind; or one seat parallel to the driver's, with the entrance from the side or front. Hansom cab. See Hansom. 2. The covered part of a locomotive, in which the engineer has his station. Knight. CAB Cab, n. Etym: [Heb. gab, fr. qabab to hollow.] Defn: A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37) pints. W. H. Ward. 2 Kings vi. 25. CABAL Ca*bal", n. Etym: [F. cabale cabal, cabala LL. cabala cabala, fr. Heb. qabbaleh reception, tradition, mysterious doctrine, fr. qabal to take or receive, in Piël qibbel to abopt (a doctrine).] 1. Tradition; occult doctrine. See Cabala [Obs.] Hakewill. 2. A secret. [Obs.] "The measuring of the temple, a cabal found out but lately." B. Jonson. 3. A number of persons united in some close design, usually to promote their private views and interests in church or state by intrigue; a secret association composed of a few designing persons; a junto. Note: It so happend, by a whimsical coincidence, that in 1671 the cabinet consisted of five persons, the initial letters of whose names made up the word cabal; Clifford, Arlington, Buckingham, Ashley, and Lauderdale. Macaulay. 4. The secret artifices or machinations of a few persons united in a close design; in intrigue. By cursed cabals of women. Dryden. Syn. - Junto; intrigue; plot; combination; conspiracy. -- Cabal, Combination, Faction. An association for some purpose considered to be bad is the idea common to these terms. A combination is an organized union of individuals for mutual support, in urging their demands or resisting the claims of others, and may be good or bad according to circumstances; as, a combiniation of workmen or of employers to effect or to prevent a chang in prices. A cabal is a secret association of a few individuals who seek by cunning practices to obtain office and power. A faction is a larger body than a cabal, employed for selfish purposes in agitating the community and working up an excitement with a view to change the existing order of things. "Selfishness, insubordination, and laxity of morals give rise to combinations, which belong particularly to the lower orders of society. Restless, jealous, ambitious, and little minds are ever forming cabals. Factions belong especially to free governments, and are raised by busy and turbulent spirits for selfish porposes". Crabb. CABAL Ca*bal", v. i. [int. & p. p. Caballed; p. pr. & vb. n. Caballing]. Etym: [Cf. F.