# Larry Sweeney

Alexander K. Whybrow (February 18, 1981April 11, 2011) was an American professional wrestler and manager, better known by his ring name Larry Sweeney. He performed primarily on the American independent circuit, but also competed in Canada, Mexico, Japan and Europe.

Professional wrestling career
Sweeney's first professional match took place at the Windy City Pro Wrestling Battle of the Belts 2000 on May 20, 2000, at the Hammond Civic Center in Hammond, Indiana. He wrestled under the ring name 'El Zapatista' and participated in a three-ring, 120-man battle royale. He did not decide to pursue a career in professional wrestling until 2002, when he was living in India and training in amateur wrestling at the Sri Satpal Pehlewan Akhara at the Chattrasol Stadium in Model Town, Delhi, India. After returning to the states and completing his studies, he enrolled in the Chikara Wrestle Factory in Allentown, Pennsylvania, in September 2003, under head trainer Mike Quackenbush and co-instructors Chris Hero and Skayde. Sweeney also received training from Buddy Rose and Colonel DeBeers in Portland, Oregon, before debuting on May 1, 2004, in Ludlow, Massachusetts.

On June 16, 2005, he defeated veteran wrestler Glen Osbourne for the PWE Heavyweight Championship in Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania. He went on to hold the title for 11 months before losing it to Mike Quackenbush in May 2006; in the meantime he had become a regular for many of the larger independent wrestling companies in the US. In July 2006, he represented Chikara at MXW's InterPromotional Incident. On July 31, 2006, Sweeney made an appearance on Raw, broadcast live from the Meadowlands Arena in New Jersey, where he played an imposter Nick Hogan in a segment titled "Orton Knows Best". Later that year, he was the subject of the 'Introducing' feature article in the national magazine The Wrestler.

2007 saw him go on to a feud with Bryan Alvarez over the ICW/ICWA Texarkana Television Championship. On May 11, 2007, in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, he won the IWC Super Indy Title after defeating "Black Machismo" Jay Lethal, Azrieal, and Shiima Xion in a one-night tournament. He went on to feud for the title with "Fabulous" John McChesney, who defeated him for the title on July 7. After chasing McChesney for over six months, Sweeney regained the title on January 19, 2008, after winning a Texarkana Death Match. On July 20, 2007, Sweeney was crowned the first CWE Undisputed Champion after defeating Eddie Kingston and Chris Hero in separate matches in Youngstown, Ohio.

He competed in a War Games match for the NWA Upstate promotion in Rochester, New York, in April 2007, after successfully defending the ICW/ICWA title against Eddie Kingston in a strap match the night before at Colgate University. On May 18, 2007, he lost to wrestling legend Kamala at Women's Superstar United in New York City. Sweeney made his debut with the Hawaii-based promotion Action Zone Wrestling on January 7, 2008, CIMA at their event Battleclash III, a match billed on his 'ain't no doubt about it' DVD as the 66th Pearl Harbor anniversary showdown. He also participated in a Boxer vs Wrestler match against Larry Barnes (44–3–0, 17 KO's) on April 5, 2008, in New Rochelle, New York, at New Rochelle High School for the New York State Wrestling Federation.

In November 2008 he announced the formation of his own company, Bad Brothers of Wrestling (BBOW). Sweeney promoted two shows, in April 2007 and October 2008, at Colgate University and announced plans to run shows at schools and carnivals, primarily in the Midwest.

Chikara (2004–2009)
After being trained at the Chikara Wrestle Factory, Sweeney made his debut for the promotion on July 10, 2004, at the second annual Young Lions Cup, as the leader of Sweet 'n' Sour International, a stable of wrestlers who had been denied wildcard spots in the tournament. Throughout the tournament Sweeney's stable mates interfered in his matches and in the end he defeated Jigsaw to win the Chikara Young Lions Cup in only his seventh professional match. Jigsaw was looking for a rematch with Sweeney, but he was more interested in the bigger Chikara names, such as Chris Hero and Mike Quackenbush. On October 30, 2004, Sweeney's stable met a group led by Jigsaw in an eight on eight torneo cibernetico match. Sweeney was pinned by Jigsaw, after his stable mate Spyrazul turned on him and then unmasked himself as Quackenbush. On November 19 Sweeney lost the Young Lions Cup to Jigsaw in his first defense.

Sweeney entered the 2005 Tag World Grand Prix with Share Cropper, but they were eliminated from the tournament in the first round by Shane Storm and Mister ZERO. On May 20 Sweeney and Cropper were defeated by Jolly Roger and Lance Steel in a "Crybaby/Slave for a Month" match and as a result the entire Sweet 'n' Sour International were forced to wear diapers the following night. Sweeney refused to do this and after Crossbones pulled off his towel to reveal the diaper, Sweeney fired all of his stable mates and disbanded Sweet 'n' Sour International.

The following month Sweeney brought his ICW-ICWA Texarkana Television Championship to Chikara and debuted his new bodyguard, Mana the Polynesian Warrior. On March 31 Sweeney lost the Texarkana Television title to Milano Collection A.T. and after Sweeney and Mana were defeated on April 21 by Lance Steel and Lance Steel, Mana turned on Sweeney. The following month Sweeney debuted his new talk show segment, Winner's Circle, and then cleanly defeated Mana before regaining the Texarkana title from Milano Collection A.T. Sweeney then started a feud with Eddie Kingston, to whom he would lose the Texarkana title on July 22. During the feud Sweeney and Kingston performed an angle, where Sweeney ran over Kingston with a car. Sweeney recaptured the Texarkana title in Canada, but on November 18, 2006, at Talent Borrows, Genius Steals Kingston defeated him in a "Yellow Belly Strap match" to win the feud.

In 2007 Sweeney's Ring of Honor relationship with Chris Hero entered Chikara, when on April 22 he helped Hero defeat Claudio Castagnoli and thus force him back into The Kings of Wrestling. The following month Hero, Sweeney and Castagnoli joined forces with Team F.I.S.T. (Icarus, Gran Akuma and Chuck Taylor) to form the Kings of Wrestling superstable. The stable was later joined by Mitch Ryder, Shayne Hawke and Max Boyer. On December 9 Castagnoli defeated Hero, who afterwards left Chikara for good, thus disbanding the Kings of Wrestling. Sweeney continued to team with Mitch Ryder and Shayne Hawke as the Fabulous Three and together they made it to the quarter-finals of the 2008 King of Trios tournament, before losing to the Golden Trio of Delirious, Hallowicked and Helios. After a series of trios losses, Ryder fired Sweeney from the group on June 15, 2008, after which Sweeney turned tecnico for the first time in his Chikara career. After months of trying to earn the trust of former Kings of Wrestling stable mate Claudio Castagnoli, he finally agreed to team with Sweeney on December 14. However, in the match against the Fabulous Two Sweeney turned on Castagnoli by hitting him with brass knucks and re-joined Ryder and Hawke.

On January 25, 2009, at Revelation X Sweeney called out Castagnoli, despite knowing that he was at the time wrestling in Japan for Pro Wrestling Noah. Chikara Director of Fun Leonard F. Chikarason came out and announced that since Shayne Hawke was unable to make it to the show, the Fabulous Three were taken out of the 2009 King of Trios. That same night Sweeney and Ryder defeated Los Ice Creams (El Hijo del Ice Cream and Ice Cream, Jr.), but this would end up being Sweeney's for the moment final appearance for the company, as afterwards Ryder left the company and the Fabulous Three quietly disbanded.

Ring of Honor (2006–2009)

On December 23, 2006, Sweeney made his debut in Ring of Honor (ROH), interfering on behalf of the Kings of Wrestling (Chris Hero and Claudio Castagno