# 2006–07 A1 Grand Prix season

The 2006–07 A1 Grand Prix season was the second season for the A1 Grand Prix series. 
It began on 1 October 2006, at Circuit Park Zandvoort, and the season ended at Brands Hatch on 29 April 2007. A1 Team Germany won it with 128 points, 35 points lead ahead Team New Zealand.

Calendar
The second A1 Grand Prix season consisted of 11 races held in 10 different countries. Each race is to be run over a three-day weekend, including a practice session on each of Friday and Saturday before a qualifying session on Saturday, and then two races on Sunday. Changes in the weekend program for second season included changing the time certain limits of the Sprint race to 20 minutes and Feature race to 70 minutes, and reducing the pointscore in the Sprint race to only the top six positions.

Calendar changes
 A 12th race had been scheduled to have been held in Brazil; however, on 17 January 2007 the A1GP organisation announced that as a result of a delay in obtaining a local terrestrial television agreement then the event would be cancelled.
 After the finish to the Australian Feature race resulted in time certainty confusion, the time certain limits were reduced by a minute with an additional lap added after the time expired.

Entry list
24 teams, each representing a different country, signed up for the second A1 Grand Prix season. All teams and drivers competed in Zytek-powered, Cooper Avon-shod and Lola A1GP chassis. Teams representing Greece and Singapore made their debuts, whilst the representatives of Austria, Japan and Russia did not return from the previous season.

Mid-season changes
 A1 Team Greece only participated in the opening two rounds.
 A1 Team Singapore missed the last three races allegedly due to an injury suffered by their driver Christian Murchison in South Africa.
 A1 Team Portugal started their season in South Africa.

Results and standings

Results summary

Championship standings

References

External links

 Official season standings and results at results.a1gp.com

 
A1 Grand Prix
A1 Grand Prix
A1 Grand Prix
A1 Grand Prix