# European Heavyweight Championship

The European Heavyweight Championship is a name used for various top titles competed for throughout the European professional wrestling circuit.

The title was recognised as official by UK national TV network ITV for the purposes of their coverage of the UK wrestling scene and by its listings magazine TVTimes in accompanying magazine feature coverage.

The title was defended in many promotions in Europe, and other versions of this one title also appeared in certain promotions. On August 25, 2001 the European Wrestling Union produced a European Heavyweight Championship tournament in Bochum, Germany, bringing in wrestlers some of whom claimed to already be the champion. This tournament saw these titles merge into one with Britain's Robbie Brookside confirming his claim as champion by defeating American "Five Star" Cory K in a championship decider.

The title history below shows all the holders of the traditional/"old school" title in chronological order plus some major "new school" versions. However, there are instances where another wrestler has taken the role of champion, or claimed the title but no official title change was recorded (these are noted with "unknown title history", or other details.)

Title history

BWA European Heavyweight Championship history 
The European Heavyweight Championship is a professional wrestling championship owned by British Wrestling Association.

}}

FFCP European Heavyweight Championship history 
The European Heavyweight Championship is a professional wrestling championship owned by Fédération Française de Catch Professionnel.

Corporación Internacional de Catch (Spain) European Heavyweight Championship history 
The European Heavyweight Championship is a professional wrestling championship.

JP European Heavyweight Championship history 
The European Heavyweight Championship was a professional wrestling championship owned by Joint Promotions.

ASW European Heavyweight Championship history 
The European Heavyweight Championship is a professional wrestling championship owned by All Star Wrestling.  It also appeared on shows promoted by Orig Williams under the "British Wrestling Federation" banner, including his Welsh language TV wrestling programme Reslo on S4C.

UEWA European Heavyweight Championship history 
The European Heavyweight Championship is a professional wrestling championship owned by Union of European Wrestling Alliances.  All Star Wrestling regards this version as a continuation of its own version of 1990-2003 (see above). In addition to the UEWA's partner promotions across Europe, the title has also been contested within Pro Wrestling Elite, Fife Pro Wrestling Asylum, British Championship Wrestling, Iron Girders Pro Wrestling and Insane Championship Wrestling in the United Kingdom and in Tira, Israel for All Wrestling Organization, among others. 

The current champion is Andy Roberts in his first reign, he has set records for longest reign and most cumulative days as champion while retaining the title against Doug Williams, Kez Evans, BT Gunn, James Mason, Wild Boar, Charlie Sterling, Rampage Brown, Jason Reed, Kenny Williams and others to also set the record for the most successful defences in the title's history.

Individual Reigns

Combined Reigns

FCW European Heavyweight Championship history 
The European Heavyweight Championship was a professional wrestling championship owned by British "new school" promotion Freestyle Championship Wrestling.

FWA European Heavyweight Championship history 
The European Heavyweight Championship was a professional wrestling championship owned by  British "new school" promotion Frontier Wrestling Alliance.

ICWA / NWA European Heavyweight Championship history 
The European Heavyweight Championship was a professional wrestling championship owned by  French "new school" promotion International Catch Wrestling Alliance.

See also 

 European Greco-Roman Heavyweight Championship
 NXT United Kingdom Championship
 WWE European Championship

References

External links 
 wrestling-titles.com

Heavyweight wrestling championships
Continental professional wrestling championships