# Mixed-species foraging flock

A mixed-species feeding flock, also termed a mixed-species foraging flock, mixed hunting party or informally bird wave, is a flock of usually insectivorous birds of different species that join each other and move together while foraging. These are different from feeding aggregations, which are congregations of several species of bird at areas of high food availability.

While it is currently unknown how mixed-species foraging flocks originate, researchers have proposed a few mechanisms for their initiation. Many believe that nuclear species play a vital role in mixed-species flock initiation. Additionally, the forest structure is hypothesized to play a vital role in these flocks' formation. In Sri Lanka, for example, vocal mimicry by the greater racket-tailed drongo might have a key role in the initiation of mixed-species foraging flocks, while in parts of the American tropics packs of foraging golden-crowned warblers might play the same role.

Composition 
Mixed-species foraging flocks tend to form around a "nuclear" species. Researchers believe nuclear species both stimulate the formation of a mixed-species flock and maintain the cohesion between bird species. They tend to have a disproportionately large influence on the flock. Nuclear species have a few universal qualities. Typically, they are both generalists that employ a gleaning foraging strategy and intraspecifically social birds. "Associate" or "attendant" species are birds that trail the flock only after it has entered their territory. Researchers have shown that these species tend to have a higher fitness following mixed-species foraging flocks. The third class of birds found in mixed-species flocks have been termed "sentinel" species. Unlike nuclear species, sentinels are fly-catching birds that are rarely gregarious. Their role is to alert the other birds in the mixed-species flock to the arrival of potential predators.

Benefits
Ecologists generally assume that species in the same ecological niche compete for resources. The formation of mixed-species flocks demonstrates a possible exception to this universal ecological assumption. Instead of competing with one another for limited resources, some bird species who share the same food source can co-exist in mixed-species flocks. In fact, the more similar body size, taxonomy, and foraging style two bird species are, the more likely they are to be found cooperating in mixed-species flocks. Researchers have proposed two primary evolutionary mechanisms to explain the formation of mixed-species flocks. The first mechanistic explanation is that these different bird species cooperate to gain access to more food. Studies have shown that birds in mixed-species flocks are more likely to spot potential food sources, avoid already exploited locations, and drive insects out of hiding. The second mechanistic explanation is that birds join mixed-species flocks to avoid predation. A bird reduces its risk of being eaten when it is surrounded by other birds who can be potential food for the predator instead. Other studies have hypothesized that multi-species flocks form because large groups reduce a predator's ability to single out one prey, while others have hypothesized that multi-species flocks are more likely to spot predators.

Costs 
Mixed-species feeding flocks are not purely beneficial for their member species. Some bird species suffer a higher cost when joining mixed-species flocks. Studies have shown that some bird species will leave their standard optimal feeding area to travel to a worse foraging location in order to follow the path of a mixed-species flock. Birds may also be forced to change their foraging strategy in order to conform with the flock. Another third proposed cost of mixed-species flocks is an increased risk of kleptoparasitism.

In the Holarctic 
In the North Temperate Zone, they are typically led by Paridae (tits and chickadees), often joined by nuthatches, treecreepers, woodpeckers (such as the downy woodpecker and lesser spotted woodpecker), kinglets, and in North America Parulidae (New World "warblers") – all insect-eating birds. This behavior is particularly common outside the breeding season.

The advantages of this behavior are not certain, but evidence suggests that it confers some safety from predators, especially for the less watchful birds such as vireos and woodpeckers, and also improves feeding efficiency, perhaps because arthropod prey that flee one bird may be caught by another.

In the Neotropics
Insectivorous feeding flocks reach their fullest development in tropical forests, where they are a typical feature of bird life. In the Neotropics the leaders or "core" members may be black-throated shrike-tanagers in southern Mexico, or three-striped warblers elsewhere in Central America. In South America, core species may include antbirds such as Thamnomanes, antshrikes, Furnariidae (ovenbirds and woodcreepers) like the buff-fronted foliage-gleaner or the olivaceous woodcreeper, or Parulidae (New World "warblers") like the golden-crowned warblers. In open cerrado habitat, it may be white-rumped or white-banded tanagers. Core species often have striking plumage and calls that attract other birds; they are often also known to be very active sentinels, providing warning of would-be predators.

But while such easy-to-locate bird species serve as a focal point for flock members, they do not necessarily initiate the flock. In one Neotropic mixed flock feeding on swarming termites, it was observed that buff-throated warbling finches were most conspicuous. As this species is not an aerial insectivore, it is unlikely to have actually initiated the flock rather than happening across it and joining in. And while Basileuterus species are initiators as well as core species, mixed flocks of Tangara species – in particular red-necked, brassy-breasted, and green-headed tanagers – often initiate formation of a larger and more diverse feeding flock, of which they are then only a less significant component.

Nine-primaried oscines make up much of almost every Neotropical mixed-species feeding flock. Namely, these birds are from families such as the cardinals, Parulidae (New World "warblers"), and in particular Passerellidae (American "sparrows") and Thraupidae (tanagers). Other members of a Neotropic mixed feeding flock may come from most of the local families of smaller diurnal insectivorous birds, and can also include woodpecker, toucans, and trogons. Most Furnariidae do not participate in mixed flocks, though there are exceptions such as Synallaxis spinetails and some species of the woodcreeper subfamily – e.g. those mentioned above or the lesser woodcreeper – are common or even "core" members. Among the tyrant flycatchers there are also some species joining mixed flocks on a somewhat regular basis, including the sepia-capped flycatcher, eared pygmy tyrant, white-throated spadebill, and Oustalet's tyrannulet.

However, even of commonly participating families not all species join mixed flocks. There are genera such as Vireo in which some species do not join mixed flocks, while others (e.g., the red-eyed vireo) will even do so in their winter quarters. Of the three subspecies groups of the yellow-rumped warbler, only one (Audubon's warbler) typically does. And while the importance of certain Thraupidae in initiating and keeping together mixed flocks has been mentioned already, for example the black-goggled tanager is an opportunistic feeder that will appear at but keep its distance from any disturbance – be it a mixed feeding flock, an army ant column or a group of monkeys – and pick off prey trying to flee.

Gnateaters are notable for their absence from these flocks, while swifts and swallows rarely join them, but will if there is for example an ant or termite swarm. Cotingidae (cotingas) are mainly opportunistic associates which rarely join flocks for long if they do so at all; the same holds true for most Muscicapoidea (mockingbirds