# 2006 South Carolina state elections

The 2006 South Carolina State Elections took place on November 7, 2006, and included the gubernatorial election. All nine popularly elected constitutional officers were up for reelection, and all races except the Attorney General's were contested.  The entire South Carolina House of Representatives, one state senator and six state circuit solicitors were also up for election.  Several constitutional amendments were also on the ballot.

Filing for the major parties closed on March 28, 2006, and filing for minor parties closed on August 15. The primaries for both parties were held on June 13, and run-offs were held June 27.  All results are taken from the South Carolina Election Commission's official results. Percentages may not add up to 100 because of rounding.

Constitutional Officers

Governor
Republican primary
Mark Sanford - incumbent Governor, former realtor and U.S. Representative
Oscar Lovelace - physician

Lovelace's candidacy was largely quixotic, although it did garner some interest from disaffected Republicans and Democrats.  The Prosperity doctor emphasized working across party lines, health care reform, opposition to school vouchers and job creation.  Sanford largely ignored Lovelace's campaign, even refusing to attend a South Carolina Educational Television (SCETV) debate with his opponent.  Although Lovelace made a stronger than expected showing in the primary, his loss was not surprising.

Democratic primary
Tommy Moore - State Senator from Aiken County and businessman
Frank Willis - mayor of Florence
C. Dennis Aughtry - attorney
Kenneth Lamar Holland (withdrew) - former U.S. Representative

Moore obtained the support of much of the state party months in advance, having declared his candidacy early.  Moore ran on a platform that stressed his experience in state government and support for consensus-building politics.  Willis largely self-financed his campaign, highlighting his history fighting crime in Florence and bringing economic development to the Pee Dee.  Aughtry was a late entrant in the race, and based almost his entire campaign off the idea of legalizing casino gambling in the state to boost revenues.  Holland briefly entered the race, but left when it became apparent he could not raise enough money to be an effective candidate.  His name was not on the primary ballot.  Moore won with an absolute majority, avoiding a run-off.

General Election

Before the general election campaign, major issues in the race were expected to likely be South Carolina's property tax, cigarette tax, and school vouchers.  However, the race had surprisingly low visibility, with the only major issue being the governor's combative relationship with the legislature.  Job creation and public school investment were minor issues in the campaign.  Despite being named one of the worst Governors in the country by Time Magazine  a year before the election and generally being seen as ineffective, Sanford defeated Moore in the general election by ten points.

State Senator Jake Knotts considered mounting an independent candidacy for governor, and collected enough petition signatures to theoretically qualify for the ballot, but decided not to run.

Lieutenant governor
Republican primary
André Bauer (Incumbent) - former state Representative from Lexington County and businessman
Mike Campbell - son of former Governor Carroll Campbell, businessman
Henry Jordan - frequent candidate

The Republican primary was expected to be messy and close between Bauer and Campbell, but the former's plane crash and resulting public sympathy late in the race stymied negative campaigning.  Campbell relied upon a base of support in the Upstate, where support for his father was strong, while Bauer made stops all across the state in a traditional face-to-face campaign.  Campbell received an endorsements from former president George H. W. Bush, support that was the basis of one of his television ads. Jordan, a late entrant, went negative against both camps in radio and internet ads, but never gained traction outside of Anderson. No candidate received 50% of the votes in the primary, and thus Campbell and Bauer faced each other in a run-off, which Bauer won.

General Election

The Lieutenant Governor's race was dominated by the missteps of Bauer, the incumbent.  Bauer came under criticism for multiple citations for speeding and flamboyant personality.  His controversial public image, and the fundraising prowess of his opponent, Robert Barber, who did not face a primary, kept the race close in public polling throughout the campaign.  In late May, a two-passenger plane which Bauer was piloting crashed in the Upstate.  Bauer's ankle was shattered, but otherwise he and the passenger in the plane survived with minimal injuries.  The plane crash was later determined to have been caused by faulty bolts in the plane's construction.  Barber later suffered from his own personal problems with his James Beard Award winning restaurant, Bowen's Island, burned late in the campaign.  Bauer eventually won the general election with less than one percent over the vote after a recount.

Secretary of State
Republican Primary
Mark Hammond (Incumbent)
Bill McKown - Surfside Beach Town Councilman
L. W. Flynn (withdrew) - 2004 candidate for the State House of Representatives

Hammond initially faced little opposition from Flynn and McKown and far out fundraised both.  However, Flynn withdrew from the race and endorsed McKown, whose campaign picked up traction based on questioning Hammond's conservatism and support for the governor.  Hammond eventually defeated McKown.  Although Flynn received 6.5% of the vote in the primary, his votes were not officially tallied.

General Election

Mark Hammond faced Democratic challenger Cheryl Footman, who did not face a primary.  In a rather bizarre moment in the race, Footman attempted to burst into patriotic song at the end of her SCETV debate with Hammond, but was quickly cut off by the moderator.  Hammond easily won re-election.

State Treasurer
Republican Primary
Thomas Ravenel - 2004 Senate Republican primary candidate and businessman
Greg Ryberg - 2002 Treasurer candidate, state Senator from Aiken
Rick Quinn - former SC House Majority Leader
Jeff Willis - real estate developer

The Republican treasurer's race was hotly contested.  Ryberg and Quinn were initially seen to be the front-runners, and Ryberg, the 2002 Republican nominee, made an early $2 million loan to his campaign.  Ultimately, Ravenel defeated his opponents in the primary just short of the necessary 50 percent total to prevent a run-off.  Ryberg and Quinn both withdrew from the run-off, citing the need for party unity behind Ravenel.  Ravenel easily defeated Willis in the run-off.

General Election

The treasurer's race pitted Thomas Ravenel, a young millionaire and emerging politician, against Grady Patterson, a nine-term incumbent who did not face primary opposition.  The race was largely fought over the state of South Carolina's employee pension fund, with Ravenel taking issue with the state's projected unfunded liability and its failure to invest the fund in equity funds, which he claims would boost returns.  Patterson retorted by pointing out Ravenel's inexperience and accusing Ravenel of using the race as a platform to run against incumbent Senator Lindsey Graham, which Ravenel denied was his intention.  Thomas Ravenel won the election, but was indicted on June 19, 2007, on cocaine charges, and has been suspended as Treasurer.

Attorney general

The incumbent, Henry McMaster, did not face a primary and ran unopposed in the general election.

Comptroller General

Neither party held a primary for the race.  The incumbent, Richard Eckstrom, was challenged by Drew Theodore, businessman and son of former Lieutenant Governor Nick Theodore.  The only public issue in the race was incumbent Richard Eckstrom's use of a state-owned car to drive himself to Minnesota a year earlier, and also his use of state fun