# Perth Heat

The Perth Heat is a baseball team in the current Australian Baseball League and a founding member of the Australian Baseball League. It is the most successful team in ABL history, winning 15 Claxton Shields.

Australian Baseball League (1989–1999)
Perth Heat won the ABL championship in 1990–91, when Graeme Lloyd pitched the Heat to a Game 5 championship win on the Gold Coast against the Dolphins to take the 3–2 series win. The Heat won a second championship in 1996–97 defeating the Brisbane Bandits.

During the original Australian Baseball League the Perth Heat were the second-most successful team in the league, winning the title twice and finishing runner-up a further three times.

Claxton Shield (2005–2009)
In 2005, the name was resurrected by the Western Australian baseball team competing in the Claxton Shield. This re-branding of the team, together with the facilities of the new Tom Bateman Reserve in the suburb of Thornlie, reportedly contributed to increased interest in the sport in Western Australia, with many exhibition matches attracting more than 2,000 spectators, very high compared with usual Australian attendances for the sport.

Western Australia hosted the 2007 Claxton Shield tournament at Tom Bateman Reserve, with games also being played in the nearby regional centres of Rockingham and Mandurah. Spectator numbers were between 1,000 and 1,500, and the grand final, eventually won by Victoria against New South Wales, attracted 1,500. However, the Heat was unable to win a game during the tournament.

In late 2007, the name was further applied to the state's junior representatives, with the under-14, under-16 and under-18 teams being renamed the "WA State Heat".

The Heat won back-to-back Claxton Shield titles in 2008 and 2009. In 2008, it won the Southern Division with an 8–4 record and swept New South Wales in the best-of-three semi final series in Sydney. In 2009, the Heat finished the regular season with the best record, at 12–4, and came back from losing the first game to beat New South Wales in three games in the Grand Final. The WA side led the deciding third game throughout but blew a 2–0 lead in the top of the ninth inning. With the game set for extra innings, outfielder Daniel Floyd hit a walk-off single to deliver back-to-back titles for Perth.

Australian Baseball League (2010 – present)
In early 2010, plans for a reformed Australian Baseball League were announced. The ABL, which is partly funded by Major League Baseball features six teams, Sydney Blue Sox, Melbourne Aces, Canberra Cavalry, Brisbane Bandits and Adelaide Bite. The first season featured a 40-game home-and-away regular season, with the top four teams qualifying for a three-round playoff format. The Heat's first game was at the Brisbane Exhibition Ground against the Brisbane Bandits on 11 November, won by Brisbane 8–3. The Heat won their first home game 4–2, on 17 November against the Adelaide Bite at the newly renovated Baseball Park.

The Heat made several key signings in preparation for the new season. 2008 Claxton Shield MVP Clint Balgera returned to the team after sitting out the last two seasons, while pitching prospect Liam Baron is another key acquisition, with the former collegiate pitcher expected to lead the Heat's rotation. Allan de San Miguel, Warwick Saupold, Daniel Schmidt and Mitch Graham, who have been some of the Heat's most significant players in recent Claxton Shield seasons, as well as Jesse Baron, Clint Knight, Brandon Dale, Aaron Bonomi and Tyler Anderson have also signed on for the upcoming season. However, 2009 MVP and former Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim minor league centre fielder Nick Kimpton is leaving the Heat to return home to play for Canberra, while Tim Kennelly will miss the first half of the season after it was announced he will be sent to the Arizona Fall League by the Philadelphia Phillies.

In early October, Perth announced a deal with the Baltimore Orioles, which saw the Major League Baseball outfit send four of their top prospects to play for the Heat during the first ABL season. Left-handed starter Cole McCurry, right-handed reliever Brett Jacobson and outfielders Ronnie Welty and Robbie Widlansky were the prospects Perth secured. Jacobson is the most noteworthy of the four, having been drafted by the Detroit Tigers in the 2008 MLB draft, before he was traded for Aubrey Huff. Jacobson was traded by the Orioles to Minnesota in the middle of the ABL season and he returned to America.

2010–11 season
The Heat started the 2010–11 season with a loss to the Brisbane Bandits, but quickly bounced back by winning the final three games of the series. They then won two out of four games in their next three series' before sweeping the Canberra Cavalry at home. Perth's season hit a snag when they lost every match of a four-game series to the Sydney Blue Sox but bounced back emphatically. The Heat won their next eight games before splitting the final home series against the Melbourne Aces to finish the regular season in second position. Among the highlights of the season were Widlansky, who led the league in hits with 52, and Daniel Schmidt, who was tied with Brisbane's Chris Mowday for most wins (six).

Perth faced Sydney in the major semi-final and swept the series, winning game one 4–2 after Matt Kennelly's go-ahead two-run home run in the ninth inning before taking game two 6–0. That ensured they hosted the inaugural ABL Championship Series, where they met the Adelaide Bite. In front of 2,680 fans in game one, which was broadcast nationally on Fox Sports, Adelaide won 4–3 despite allowing 14 hits. The Heat forced the best-of-three series to a deciding game with a 9–1 victory in game two, which came on the back of an eight-run fifth inning, where Ronnie Welty homered twice (a solo home run and then a grand slam) in front of 3,074 spectators. In game three, which was attended by 1,876 people, the Heat scored three in the fifth inning and four in the eighth to secure the title with a 7–1 victory. Import Ben Moore pitched a complete game four-hitter in game three, allowing just one run and striking out 10 without walking an Adelaide batter. Moore was named the MVP of the championship series.

2011–12 season
Before the 2011–12 season began, Perth announced they've recruited the previous season's Helms Award winner James McOwen from the Adelaide Bite. They also recruited American utility player Alex Burg, who is a San Francisco Giants minor league player and Brenden Webb, Mychal Givens, Aaron Baker from the Baltimore Orioles system. Brooke Knight returned to the Heat as the Manager of the team.

The Perth Heat began the 2011–12 season with an ABL record-breaking 11–0 November with three consecutive series victories against the Adelaide Bite, Melbourne Aces and Sydney Blue Sox. As Champions of the 2010–11 season, the Perth Heat made the trip to Taiwan to compete in the Asia Series against teams from Japan, Korea and Taiwan. Perth had a lead in two of the three games, ultimately finishing the tournament winless.

Returning to continue their 2011–12 season, the Perth Heat quickly lost their first game of the season against the Canberra Cavalry, 7–0 and then to lose the series 3–1. Perth ended the season winning the final six series' to finish the regular season with a record-breaking 34–11 win–loss record.

Entering the playoffs for the second consecutive season, Perth Heat hosted the Melbourne Aces for a five-game series. After Melbourne took game one 8–7, the Heat won the next three games outscoring Melbourne to a combined score of 21–10 to clinch their second ABL Championship Series berth.

Two weeks later the Melbourne Aces returned to Perth after winning the Preliminary Final Series 3–2 against the Sydney Blue Sox and then began a Championship Series to remember.

Game One of the 2012 ConocoPhillips Australian Baseball League Championship Series saw a Major League matchup with former major league pitcher Virgil Vasquez on the mound for t