# Coláiste Chríost Rí

Coláiste Chríost Rí () is a Catholic secondary school for boys based on Capwell Road in Turners Cross, Cork, Ireland. The school, which is under the trusteeship of the Presentation Brothers Schools Trust, had an enrollment of 513 students as of 2023.

History
The school was founded by the Presentation Brothers and owned by the order until 21 November 2009. The school was opened in its current location in 1960. A preceding primary school which offered some secondary education, Scoil Chríost Rí, was previously located in Kinsale Road and subsequently in Sawmill Street. 

Coláiste Chríost Rí was designated the "Cork School of Culture" during Cork's tenure as European Capital of Culture in 2005.

Curriculum

Coláiste Chríost Rí (CCRí) offers both the Junior and Leaving Certificate cycles.

Students first year undertake classes in Irish as L2; English as L1; mathematics; French as L2; science; history; geography; CSPE; SPHE; Religion; Life skills and physical education.
The student may then pick two subjects out of five choices, business studies; engineering; woodworking; art and graphics.
After completing the Junior Certificate, students undertake Transition Year.

The Leaving Certificate curriculum gives students six mandatory subjects; Irish as L2; English as L1; mathematics; religious studies; physical education and RSE / SPHE. The student also chooses one subject out of four additional option lines.

CCRí also offers the Leaving Certificate Vocational Programme (LCVP).

Activities

Sport
Gaelic football is the principal sport played at the school. The school has won the Hogan Cup on four occasions: 1968, 1970, 1983 and 1985. Several former students have gone on to represent Cork GAA at inter-county level in both Gaelic football and hurling.

In association football (soccer), a number of former students, including Damien Delaney, Denis Irwin, Chiedozie Ogbene, Frank O'Farrell and Kieran O'Regan, have represented the Republic of Ireland national football team.

Other sports at the school include basketball and athletics.

Clubs
Extra-curricular and co-curricular activities at Coláiste Chríost Rí include drama, a gym club, horticulture, a chess club, a music club and history club. 

The Rí Eolas magazine, an annual magazine produced by the school, has been published since the 1960s.

Former students

Politicians 
 Dan Boyle – Green Party senator
 Barry Desmond – former government minister
 Micheál Martin – Tánaiste and leader of Fianna Fáil

Others 
 Greg Delanty – poet
 Andrew Fitzgibbon - engineer
 Patrick G. O'Shea – former president of University College Cork

Film and theatre 
Shane Casey - actor
Bob Crowley - theatre designer
Dermot Crowley – actor

Broadcasters 
 Ger Canning – sports commentator
 Eddie Hobbs – television presenter

Association footballers 
 Damien Delaney - defender
 Denis Irwin - footballer and sports television presenter 
 Frank O'Farrell - wing half & manager
 Noel O'Mahony - defender & manager
 Kieran O'Regan - midfielder & manager
 Chiedozie Ogbene - winger

Athletes 
 Robert Heffernan - race walker
 Marcus O'Sullivan - middle distance runner

Rugby union players 
 Johnny Holland - rugby player (fly-half)

Gaelic footballers 
 Ray Cawley - goalkeeper
 Luke Connolly - forward
 Ray Cummins - full forward
 Billy Morgan - goalkeeper and manager
 Frank Cogan - manager
 Ephie Fitzgerald - corner forward
 Seán Hayes - centre forward
 John Kerins - manager
 Paul Kerrigan - left-wing forward
 James Masters - right corner forward
 Brian Murphy - left corner-back
 Colin Corkery - corner-forward

Hurlers 
 Jim Cashman - centre back
 Ray Cummins - full forward
 Darren McCarthy - midfield
 Brian Murphy - right corner-back
 Martin O'Doherty - full-back
 Fergal Ryan - right-corner back
 Tony Maher - right-corner back

References

External links
 

Boys' schools in the Republic of Ireland
Education in Cork (city)
Presentation Brothers schools
Secondary schools in County Cork
1938 establishments in Ireland
Educational institutions established in 1938