# 1st Battalion, 4th Marines

1st Battalion, 4th Marines (1/4) is an infantry battalion in the United States Marine Corps based out of Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, California consisting of approximately 800 Marines and sailors.  They fall under the command of the 1st Marine Regiment and the 1st Marine Division.

Subordinate units

 Headquarters and Service Company
A Company (Alpha Company)
B Company (Bravo Company)
C Company (Charlie Company)
D Company (Delta Company – not currently in use; company designation reserved for augmentation of a fourth rifle company into the battalion as needed)
 Weapons Company

History

Formation 
The battalion was originally activated in April 1911 as the 1st Battalion, 4th Marine Regiment. The battalion first saw combat in November 1916 in the Dominican Republic, where 1st Lieutenant Ernest Williams was awarded the battalion's first Medal of Honor. The mission in the Dominican Republic was to protect foreign lives and property and to provide the "muscle" for a military government whose strategic goal was to bring stability to the troubled island republic. In 1924, the battalion returned to its home base in San Diego, California. During 1926 to 1927 the battalion guarded American shores in a variety of outposts throughout the Western U.S.

The period from February 1927 to November 1941 was the timeframe for the deployment of the battalion in China, which would leave an enduring mark on its history. This service in Shanghai earned the battalion the title "China Marines" and started the practice of using the Chinese dragon in different official and unofficial logos and mast heads. In November 1941 the battalion along with the entire 4th Marines deployed from China to the Philippines.

World War II

The outbreak of World War II found the battalion serving as part of the U.S. Forces defending the Philippines. Ordered to the strategic island of Corregidor, the battalion fiercely defended their assigned sectors against overwhelming enemy forces. In the end, General Jonathan M. Wainwright, United States Army, ordered the battalion to surrender, in an effort to save lives against the hopeless situation. After the surrender, the battalion ceased to exist. As prisoners the men would endure torture and incredible hardships.

On 7 August 1942 the 1st Raider Battalion, assigned to the 1st Marine Division, landed on Tulagi in the British Solomon Islands as the opening phases of the Guadalcanal campaign commenced. After Tulagi was captured, the Raiders were moved to Guadalcanal to defend Henderson Field. One of their most notable engagements was the "Battle of Edson's Ridge", where the 1st Raiders scored a major victory over Japanese forces. For their heroic combat leadership, Colonel Merritt Edson and Major Kenneth Bailey were both awarded the Medal of Honor, the latter posthumously.

On 1 February 1944 a new 1st Battalion, 4th Marines was activated by the redesignation of the 1st Marine Raider Battalion to 1st Battalion, 4th Marines.  For the remainder of World War II the battalion would fight at two of the bloodiest campaigns in the Pacific, Guam and Okinawa. Corporal Richard E. Bush was awarded the Medal of Honor for his gallant actions on Okinawa. Of note, the 4th Marines, adopted the motto, "Hold High the Torch" during this period.  This legendary phrase served as a symbolic pledge to the warriors of the old 4th Marines who were captured at Corregidor.

From 1945 to 1952 the battalion would go through a series of deactivations and reactivations both overseas and in the U.S. The most notable service during this period was in China during 1946 where the battalion, belonging to the 6th Marine Division, participated in the occupation of North China. The battalion was deactivated in November 1947 and remained so until 1952. The battalion would spend the Korean War stationed in Camp Nara, Japan. In 1955, the battalion was transferred to Kaneohe Bay, Hawaii and would serve in the 1st Marine Brigade.

Vietnam War

In the spring of 1965 the battalion deployed to combat in South Vietnam.  From 1965 to 1969 the battalion engaged in numerous conventional and counter-insurgency operations in the I Corps.  Some of the major operations that 1/4 was involved in were Operation Prairie, Operation Beacon Hill, Operation Prairie IV, Operation Deckhouse IV, Operation Kentucky, Operation Purple Martin and Operation Napoleon/Saline would be fought from places such as the Rockpile, Camp Carroll, Con Thien and Ca Lu Combat Base.

Corporal Larry Maxam and Private First Class Douglas Dickey both heroically gave their lives in Vietnam and were posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for their brave actions.

In November 1969 the battalion was redeployed to Okinawa and would also serve off the coast of Vietnam. The battalion participated in the rescue of the SS Mayaguez in May 1975.

1980s 
In 1977 the battalion moved to Twentynine Palms, CA and remained there until 1989.

In 1988, after receiving Amphibious Assault Boat training at NSW Coronado, members of Bravo Company 1/4 from MCAGCC (Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center) 29 Palms, were deployed from May 1988 to Okinawa, Japan for additional helicopter "fast rope" ship insertion training, before being deployed to the Persian Gulf aboard the , and the MSB Hercules as members of III MEF/CMAGTF 3-88 during the Iran/Iraq War, in support of the Largest naval convoy operation since World War II, code named Operation Earnest Will, which earned the members of Bravo Company 1/4 the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal. Bravo Company 1/4 returned to 29 Palms in December 1988, and 1st Battalion, 4th Marines 29 Palms were redesignated as 3rd Battalion, 7th Marines 7th MEB (Marine Expeditionary Force), 29 Palms.

1990s

The battalion's history during the 1990s and into the 21st century were highlighted by expeditionary operations in support of national objectives in Southwest Asia, Eritrea, Kenya, Somalia and drug interdiction operations along the U.S. border. In January 1989 1st Battalion, 4th Marines were assigned to 1st Marines at Camp Horno, aboard Camp Pendleton.  In August 1990 the battalion deployed aboard ship to the Persian Gulf in support of Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm.

War on Terror
The terrorist's attacks on 11 September 2001 began the battalion's campaign in support of the Global War on Terror. In March 2002, as part of the 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit Special Operations Capable, the battalion served as a reserve force, for Operation Anaconda, and others, in support of the initial combat operations in Afghanistan.
In March 2003 the battalion was part of the initial ground invasion in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. The battalion fought its way through Iraq conducting combat operations in the cities of An Nasiriyah, Al Kut, Ah Numinayah, Abu Garaf, Hasan Al Hamzah (where Bravo Company lost Private First Class, Juan G. Garza), Ah Shatrah, Saddam City (Later Revolution City and Sadar City), Qalat Sakar, Al Hillah, Al Hayy, and Bagdad.

In May 2004, the battalion with the 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit, the battalion again returned to combat in Iraq for a 9-month deployment, which was highlighted by a major victory against insurgent forces in Najaf, after the fighting at Najaf cemetery, Bravo Company guarded Abu Ghanrib prison and supported Operation Phantom Fury.

In 2005 elements of the battalion supported Hurricane Katrina disaster relief efforts in Mississippi and Louisiana. After the Hurricane relief, in 2006, the battalion deployed on the 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit in support of the Western Pacific Deployment and conducted training in Kuwait in support of OEF 6–7.

From 2007 to 2009 the battalion conducted two more tours in Iraq, supporting Operation Iraqi Freedom. In spring of 2007 the battalion deployed to the Iraqi province of Al Anbar conducting operations in Al Qaim region, centered around the cities of Husaybah, Rawa, Ana. The battalion conducted thousands of mounted and dismounted combat infantry pat