# Bay Colony Railroad

The Bay Colony Railroad  is a shortline railroad (STB Class III) operating in Massachusetts.

Formerly operating along most of the south coast region (including all lines on Cape Cod), Bay Colony currently operates only along a roughly six-mile stretch of track between New Bedford and Westport, referred to as the Watuppa Branch, as well as a section of the Millis Branch from Medfield Junction to Millis. In addition to moving freight for its customers, Bay Colony also performs AAR-certified repairs on rolling stock and contract track construction projects for other railroads. It has a sister railroad, the Seminole Gulf Railway, which is based out of Fort Myers, Florida.

History 

The Bay Colony railroad was chartered on March 31, 1977, with the intent of taking over freight service on former New Haven lines from Conrail, which was planning to abandon service. The lines were purchased by the state government, and Bay Colony took over all freight operations on the lines on June 12, 1982 with a 25-year contract.

Bay Colony expressed interest in purchasing the Belfast and Moosehead Lake Railroad in 1983.

The contract for the railroad lines owned by the State of Massachusetts administered by the Executive Office of Transportation (EOT), which included the Cape Cod main expired on December 31, 2007.  It was awarded to a new company, the Massachusetts Coastal Railroad (“Mass Coastal”), which took over on January 1, 2008. At that time the Bay Colony ceased operation on those lines, but continued to maintain operations in other areas of the state, namely the Millis branch (until 2018) and the Watuppa branch. The Bay Colony Railroad is headquartered in Braintree, Massachusetts, and directly owns  of active tracks within Massachusetts.

Former Millis Branch 
Bay Colony continued operations along the Millis Branch, a roughly eight-mile segment of track between Needham Junction and the former Millis station. This line interchanges with CSX at Medfield. By May 2018, Bay Colony had ceased regular operations of this branch following the closure of GAR Roofing, the biggest customer on the line. Bay Colony still has a locomotive stored on the line and has moved equipment since.

Watuppa Branch 
Bay Colony also operates along the Watuppa Branch (also referred to as the North Dartmouth Industrial Track), a roughly six-mile stretch of track in the south coast of the state. The branch diverges from the New Bedford Secondary and passes through the town of Dartmouth before terminating in Westport. Bay Colony operates all freight rail along this line, and interchanges with Mass Coastal in New Bedford.

See also 
 Cape Cod Canal Railroad Bridge

References

External links 

 Company website

Massachusetts railroads
Spin-offs of Conrail