# National Crime Records Bureau

The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) is an Indian government agency responsible for collecting and analyzing, crime data as defined by the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Special and Local Laws (SLL). NCRB is headquartered in New Delhi and is part of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Government of India. Vivek Gogia (IPS) is current Director of National Crime Record Bureau.

NCRB was set-up in 1986 to function as a repository of information on crime and criminals so as to assist the investigators in linking crime to the perpetrators. It was set up based on the recommendation of the Task force, 1985 and National Police Commission, 1977 by merging the Directorate of Coordination and Police Computer (DCPC), Inter State Criminals Data Branch of CBI and Central Finger Print Bureau of CBI, Earlier Statistical Branch of Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D) was also merged with NCRB, but was later de-merged.

Mission

 To provide Indian Police with Information Technology and Criminal Intelligence to enable them to uphold law and protect people. 
 To provide leadership and excellence in crime analysis particularly on serious and organized crime.

Objectives
 Create and maintain secure sharable National Databases on crimes and criminals for law enforcement agencies and promote their use for public service delivery.
 Collect and process crime statistics at the national level and clearing house of information on crime and criminals both at National and International levels.
 Lead and coordinate development of IT applications and create an enabling IT environment  for Police organizations.
 National repository of fingerprints of all criminals.
 To evaluate, modernize and promote automation in State Crime Records Bureau and State Finger Print Bureau.
 Training and capacity building in Police Forces in Information Technology and Finger Print Science.

Evolution of NCRB

Crime and criminal tracking network and systems  

Crime and Criminal Information System (CCIS) was implemented at district level during the period 1995–2004. Common Integrated Police Application (CIPA) was implemented at  police station level  during the period 2004–2009  in three phases. Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) is approved by Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on 19.06.2009.

Objectives 
 Creating State and Central level databases on crime and criminals.
 Enable easy sharing of real-time information/ intelligence across police stations, districts and States.
 Improved investigation and crime prevention.
 Improved service delivery to the public/ stakeholders through Citizen Portals.

Current Status

Citizen Portal 
Various services as enlisted below are being provided/ proposed to be provided in the Citizen Portals of CCTNS. 
 Filing of Complaints 
 Obtaining the copies of FIRs.
 Obtaining the status of the complaint/ FIR.
 Details of arrested persons/ wanted criminals & their illegal activities.
 Details of missing/ kidnapped persons and their matching with arrested, unidentified persons and dead bodies. 
 Details of stolen/ recovered vehicles, arms and other properties. 
 Verification requests for servants, employment, passport, senior citizen registrations etc. 
 Requests for issue/renewal of various NOCs / Permits/ Clearances
 Portal for sharing information and enabling citizens to down load required forms.

Inter-operable Criminal Justice System (ICJS) 
ICJS has been mandated for integrating CCTNS (Police) with e-Courts, e-prisons, Forensics, Finger Print Bureaux and Prosecution, which are the key components of the Criminal Justice System. Implementation of ICJS will ensure quick data transfer among different pillars of criminal justice system.

Crime records matching 

The main objective of the Crime Records Branch is to collect, collate and disseminate information on Crime, Criminals, Persons and Property for matching purposes. The branch utilizes following software systems:
 VahanSamanvay - An online Motor Vehicle Coordination System for coordination of stolen and recovered motor vehicles across the country. Police, RTOs, and Insurance sector are main stakeholders. The general public is also benefited with this system.
 Talash Information System - This system is used to maintain and coordinate information on Missing, Traced, Unidentified persons and unidentified dead bodies.
 Fake Indian Currency Notes System (FICN) - It is an online system for compilation of fake Indian currency data. Police, Banks, Investigating agencies, other intelligence agencies and Ministries are stakeholders of this system.
 Fire Arms Coordination System - This system is used for coordination of missing/stolen and recovered firearms.
 Colour Portrait Building System - This system is used to create portraits of suspects based on the description given by victims and eyewitnesses.
 Since year 2011, 600 persons (live & dead) have been united with their families by matching photographs and other physical features.
 Since launch of online application "VahanSamanvay" in 2014 till date 14,14,055 data has been captured and 30,577 Stolen vehicles have been matched from different states.

Crime statistics 

NCRB brings out three annual reports i.e. Crime in India, Accidental Deaths & Suicides in India and Prison Statistics India. These reports are principal reference points for police officers, researchers, media & policy makers.

Besides, the Bureau is also collecting Crime Statistics and Anti-human Trafficking statistics on monthly basis. The complete software package of ‘Monthly Crime Statistics’ has been released in the month of December, 2016.

After extensive and exhaustive deliberation with various stakeholders, the proformae for Crime in India, Monthly Crime Statistics and Accidental Deaths & Suicides in India were revised in the year 2014.

NCRB has developed application software for Crime in India (CII), Monthly Crime Statistics (MCS), Accidental Deaths & Suicide in India (ADSI), Prison Statistics of India (PSI). The Bureau is also conducting Training of Trainers (ToT) on Crime in India and Accidental Death & Suicide in India and Prison Statistics India for officials of SCRBx and Prison Departments of States/UTs.

NCRB has been conferred with ‘Digital India Awards 2016’ in open data championship category with Silver on 9 December 2016 for updation of more than 3,000 datasets on Open Government Data (OGD) Platform India in open source format. NCRB has digitised ‘Crime in India’ since 1967 and Accidental Deaths & Suicides in India since 1998. The digitised data have been made available on national data portal https://data.gov.in.

Director, NCRB is designated as National Focal Point for United Nations Surveys on Crime Trends and the Operations of Criminal Justice Systems (UN-CTS). On the behalf of Government of India, NCRB is selected as Member to Technical Advisory Group (TAG) of International Classification of Crime for Statistical Purposes (ICCS).

Central finger print bureau 

The World's First Finger Print Bureau was set up in Calcutta in 1897. A CFPB was established at Shimla in 1905, however it was closed in 1922 as a result of retrenchment proposals of the Inchcape Committee. The Present CFPB came into existence in 1955 under the administrative control of Intelligence Bureau at Delhi. It was relocated to Calcutta (now Kolkata) in 1956. The administrative control of CFPB  shifted to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in 1973, and since July, 1986, this has been under the administrative control of NCRB.

Objectives 
 To maintain Finger Print record slips of the accused person convicted in various Acts. 
 To conduct search relating to unidentified Interstate arrested/suspected persons received from police stations and other investigating agencies in India.
 To maintain the fingerprints of international criminals and red corner notices sent by Interpol and to conduct search on references received from foreign countries, through Interpol.
 To undertake exam