# Steel Dragon 2000

is a steel roller coaster located at Nagashima Spa Land amusement park in Mie Prefecture, Japan.

Built by D. H. Morgan Manufacturing, Steel Dragon opened to the public on August 1, 2000. It takes its name from Chinese astrology and zodiac calendars in which the year 2000 represents the dragon. It broke several world records upon its debut, becoming the longest roller coaster in the world with a track length of , as well as the tallest and fastest among complete-circuit coasters. It remains the longest, and with a maximum speed of nearly , it is among the fastest featuring a traditional lift hill.

History
In November 1999, Nagashima Spa Land announced that they would be building Steel Dragon 2000. It would be the second giga coaster to be built, following Millennium Force at Cedar Point. 

Steel Dragon 2000 officially opened to the general public on August 1, 2000.

The ride originally featured trains built by Morgan. In 2013, Steel Dragon 2000 received new trains from Bolliger & Mabillard.

Layout
Out of the station, the track makes a right hand turn onto the lift hill. Due to the length of the lift hill, it utilizes two chains with separate motors. At the crest of the lift hill, the track plummets down a  drop to the ground, before passing over a  tall airtime hill. After this hill, the track rises over a  tall hill before dropping to the right into a pair of helixes, the first one being clockwise and the second being counterclockwise. Following the second helix, the track maneuvers through the supports of the first helix and third hill and makes a left turn into the midcourse brakes, which start the return trip.

The return trip consists of a series of airtime hills, running parallel to the outbound track, before hitting the final brake run next to the base of the lift hill. From the brake run, trains pass through the transfer track and storage area before making a sweeping left turn to return to the station.

Design 
 Much more steel was used to build Steel Dragon 2000 compared with most other rollercoasters. This was for earthquake protection. This is part of the reason the coaster cost over US$50 million to build.
 The ride includes two tunnels.

Records 
 Fifth tallest steel roller coaster in the world at  tall. It is behind Kingda Ka, Top Thrill Dragster, Red Force and Fury 325.
 Fifth longest roller coaster drop at .
 World's longest roller coaster since August 2000.

Incident 
On August 23, 2003, a sheared axle caused one of the trains to lose a wheel. A passenger suffered a serious back injury and a 28-year-old man swimming in the water park pool was injured when he was hit in the hip with the  wheel. The ride was closed for over three years and reopened on September 3, 2006.

Awards

References 

Roller coasters introduced in 2000
Roller coasters in Japan