# Brewster & Co.

Brewster & Company was an American custom carriage and motor coachbuilder, James Brewster established the company in 1810; it operated for approximately 130 years. Brewster got its start in New Haven, Connecticut, and quickly gained a reputation for producing the best carriages in the country. In 1827, he set his shop at 52 Broad Street in New York City.

The earliest known automotive bodywork done by Brewster was on an electric vehicle in 1896, followed by a Delaunay-Belleville chassis with a gasoline engine in 1905. They eventually constructed bodywork on a variety of chassis, winning a special partnership with Rolls-Royce America Inc. in Springfield, Massachusetts

Brewster built a series of elegant and pricey cars at their Long Island City facility between 1915 and 1925. In 1929, the Great Depression started, and sales of high-end vehicles decreased. In 1934–35, they built and sold luxury bodies on 135 Ford V8 chassis, but bankruptcy proceedings began in mid-1935 and the last of Brewster's assets were sold by auction in 1937.

Carriage building 

James Brewster (b.1788–d. 1866) of Connecticut apprenticed as a mechanic with carriage builder Colonel Charles Chapman from 1804–1809. He then worked as a journeyman for John Cook and married Cook's niece. Around the War of 1812, lightweight four-wheeled vehicles were introduced and Brewster made hundreds of 'Brewster Wagons'. In 1821 he purchased his employer's New Haven business, and his reputation as a carriage builder spread to the larger cities of eastern coastal US with exports to Cuba and South America.

In 1827, Brewster opened shop in New York City and purchased a local factory, travelling back and forth between New York and New Haven. Unable to keep up with the demand for his carriages, Brewster started purchasing vehicles from J. Cook & Sons as well as opened a new factory, which burned down in 1836. After the Panic of 1837 financial crisis, James Brewster sold his Connecticut and New York businesses to his business partners.

In 1838, he returned to the carriage business, and over the next few decades the Brewster name was involved in numerous carriage building companies with his sons James Benjamin and Henry, grandsons, and various partners in both New Haven and New York. His grandson William Brewster adopted the slogan, "Carriage Builder for the American Gentleman". Some of the many Brewster company names of the coachbuilding era include James Brewster & Son/Sons/Co., James B. Brewster & Co., J.B. Brewster & Co., Brewster & Collis, Brewster & Lawrence, and Brewster & Baldwin.

The Brewsters won many awards for their coachbuilding including the gold medal for best exhibit at the 1878 International Exposition in Paris and the Chevalier of the Legion of Honor presented by the president of France. More honors were received at the 1893 Columbian Exposition in Chicago.

Ignoring the emergent automobile industry, the firm's carriage trade failed in the early 1900s—their lawyers stating "the failure of the firm was due to the firm's inability to collect accounts, inability to dispose of high-grade carriages and vehicles in the current market without great sacrifice, and a gradual falling off of business due to the competition of the automobile industry."

Automobile bodies 

In 1905, Brewster became importers for Delaunay-Belleville, one of many desirable French brands of the time. This was their first venture into automobile body building, beginning their history of providing coachwork for prestigious autos. In 1914, most Brewster coachwork sales were on Delaunay-Bellevilles and other French makes. In 1914 Brewster was carefully selected to be sales agents for Rolls-Royce Limited and they became the main body suppliers for Rolls-Royce in the US.

By 1925, Brewster's car had few sales, trading with Europe had resumed, and Rolls-Royce America Inc was expanding and gaining bargaining power against Brewster. Executives from Rolls-Royce of America and Brewster met and decided on the purchase of Brewster & Co. and their debt. Brewster had chassis fitted with temporary seats and protection and driven from Rolls-Royce's Massachusetts plant to the Brewster Building in Long Island City, New York for bodies. The Rolls-Royce showrooms offered 28 standardized body styles so as to deliver cars to customers quicker and for a lower price. Customers could purchase models directly from the showroom as well. Brewster gave English city names to the coachwork choices manufactured in America, to include the Derby Touring Sedan, the York Roadster, the Huntington Limousine, the Avon Sedan, Newmarket Convertible Sedan, and the French city of Trouville Town Car.

After Rolls-Royce America Inc. folded, from 1931 to 1934 Rolls-Royce Phantom II chassis were shipped directly from Britain to Brewster's large facility in Long Island City.

cars made by Brewster 

Most bodywork were ordered to fit the imported chassis of the customers. Supplies were in danger once Europe entered the war in the summer of 1914. Following the 1915 shipwreck of the British liner Lusitania, Brewster started producing its own automobiles, a practice it kept up until 1925. They cost as much as "a Packard Twin Six limousine plus a fleet of five Model T Ford roadsters," while being smaller than their typical chassis for traversing Manhattan's streets. Brewster's personal cars had oval radiators and gleaming patent leather fenders, making them easy to identify. They were frequently equipped with Brewster's distinctive two-piece folding windscreen and were propelled by four-cylinder Knight engines with sleeve valves.

On a Ford V8 chassis, the 1934 Brewster Town Car was mounted.

When the Great Depression first began, there was strong sentiment against the wealthy and their archetypal Brewster-bodied Rolls-Royces and Brewster's bodies were not selling well. In 1934 sales chief J.S. Inskip, who had taken control of operations in the hope of saving Brewster, bought 135 Ford V8 roadster chassis for model year 1934 and designed a body for them easily identified by its swoopy fenders and a heart-shaped grille. Stylish and sold for US$3,500 ($ in  dollars ), it was a hit at the 1934 New York Auto Show. The bodies were worth more than the chassis. These cars were branded Brewster and sold at Rolls-Royce showrooms. Inskip marketed the cars to New York celebrities (see Notable Owners), with whom it became popular. Rolls-Royce Limited under English management strongly objected to coachwork being installed on Ford chassis, which lead to Rolls-Royce of America, Inc. changing their name to Springfield Manufacturing Corporation and renegotiating its contract with the British firm to continue importing British-made products into America. The Lincoln K series chassis installed with a V12 for 1934 did list the Brewster Non Collapsible Cabriolet with a 145" wheelbase but the coachwork choice did not continue for 1935.

Ford Brewster's initiative was originally profitable, but soon Brewster started to lose money, and the company's bondholders and directors asked that it be shut down. Dallas E. Winslow bought the company that was the subject of bankruptcy proceedings in July 1935.

Liquidation 
The last of Brewster's possessions were auctioned off in public on August 18, 1937. Under the leadership of previous sales director John Inskip, the Rolls-Royce dealership and body shop operated on the same location as before. During World War II, the Brewster Aeronautical Corporation remained in business.

Fame 

In 1956, Colonel Paul Downing penned the following for American Heritage Magazine: "It is unlikely, though, that America truly cemented its position in the world of genuinely stylish carriages prior to the company of Brewster & Company of Broome Street taking the initiative. The adage that a new design lacked value unless Brewster proved it became common knowledge in the industry."

Queens' Brewster & Co. building
Brewster maintained track of each customer's family crest and