# Foreign Beggars

Foreign Beggars were an English hip hop and dubstep group. Since their formation in 2002, the group's trajectory had seen them evolve from an underground hip hop group to an electronic crossover act. The group consisted of four artists individually known as Orifice Vulgatron (Pavan Mukhi, vocals), Metropolis Graham (Ebow Enyan Graham, vocals), DJ Nonames (James Miller, turntables), and Dag Nabbit (Dag Torgersbraten, producer). Vulgatron and Metropolis combined with Noisia to make the side project and supergroup "I Am Legion". They released their collaborative album I Am Legion on 2 September 2013.

Foreign Beggars made their start producing several singles and albums on their own Dented Records imprint. In 2011 they teamed up with the Never Say Die label on The Harder They Fall EP. Following a diverse series of singles for mau5trap released in 2012, the group released its new album The Uprising on the deadmau5-helmed label. In celebration of the release of the album, Foreign Beggars went on UK and North American tours to showcase their new material in the live arena.

On 9 May 2019, the group announced via Facebook they were to disband after 17 years together, with Mukhi announcing a new solo project, PAV4N, around the same date.

On 18 April 2020, Foreign Beggars member Ebow Enyan 'Metropolis' Graham 'suffered an accident at home and died in the early hours of the morning'.

On 29 January 2021, the group's remaining members collaborated with Delhi-based hip hop duo Seedhe Maut and producer Sez on the Beat to release the song 'No Enema'.

History 

Orifice Vulgatron and Dag Nabbit met in Dubai playing in metal, grunge and indie bands as early as 1993. They later formed a group making hip hop in 1996/1997 and soon after started throwing DnB house parties and raves in sports halls and ballrooms. Dag Nabbit moved to Norway in 1998, Orifice Vulgatron to London in 1999, both continued to produce, promote and perform.

DJ Nonames also met Metropolis at university in 2000. They soon joined hip hop and funk band Focused Few and began throwing warehouse parties and touring. Orifice Vulgatron was introduced to Nonames through DJ Gizroc, then part of the Mixologists Crew, whilst working on sound and lighting for "The Wizard of Oz", where Nonames was doing the entire sound with a Technics 1210, a vestax 05 and a "Wizard of Oz" vinyl. By late 2002 Orifice Vulgatron and Dag Nabbit decided to release Foreign Beggars on their own imprint Dented Records and started performing and recording alongside DJ Nonames, Metropolis and beatboxer Shlomo.

Release history

Where Did the Sun Go?  (01/ Feb 2003) 
The debut release from Foreign Beggars was a two-track single released on Dented Records. "Where Did the Sun Go?"  featured Anik from Dark Circle (defcon/JazzFudge) & Tommy Evans (Y&R productions) and a solo track called Pisstake Pictures by founding members Orifice Vulgatron and Dag Nabbit.

Season's Beatings 
Season's Beatings is the second release from Foreign Beggars in the form of a 3 track EP. The lead track 'Coded Rhythm Talk' features legendary UK rap Group Task Force. Evil Dr hip hop ft Dark Circle & A solo track called Dark Parts from Orifice Vulgatron

Asylum Speakers (Nov 2003) 
On 27 November 2003 the group released their first album Asylum Speakers. The record featured the following guest artists: Kashmere, Graziella, Dr. Syntax, Anik, Tommy Evans, MRX, Carnage, Grim, Finsta, DVS, Skinnyman, Wayne Wonda, Tau Rai, Lena, Farma G, Chester P, Task Force, Shlomo, Ed Skrein, Pye, Nassa, Super Novar and Highbreed.
Two videos were released from this album, "Hold On" (featuring Skinnyman & DVS) and "Frosted Perspeks" (featuring Lena), which were also released as double single. The track "Hold On" was remixed by D&B legend Mickey Finn and ERB N Dub and released on Urbanism. "Mind Out" was released as single by Skrein, who was featured on the track, on Dented Records.

Bukkake Ski Trip (April 2006) 
The controversially named Bukkake Ski Trip was released on 3 April 2006. The mixtape is a compilation of previously unheard tracks, vinyl-only releases, bootlegs, collaborations and remixes, mixed together by DJ Nonames. The albums features of range of MCs, DJs and producers including: Wildchild (Lootpack), Dr. Syntax, Skrein, Dark Circle, Kashmere the Iguana Man, DJ Square One, Dubbledge, Supar Novar (Kemet), Big Ben, DJ Sparo (Scenario), Vex'd (Planet-mu), Soundkillaz, and Ravi Shakti (Solenca). The artwork for this album was produced by legendary Spanish graffiti artist SLK/ Seleka and it is entitled "Kaps from the world famous pornostars" and now owner of Delimbo Galleries in Madrid & Sevilla.
Bukkake Ski Trip saw Foreign Beggars earliest foray into electronic music with a Dubstep collaboration with Vex'd (now Kuedo) which was recorded in 2004

Stray Point Agenda (May 2006) 
Foreign Beggars second studio album entitled Stray Point Agenda was released on 3 May 2006. The record described as darker than their original release featured guest production from Oh No (Stones Throw) and Ninja Tune’s recording artist DJ Vadim as well as guest spots from Dr. Syntax, Skrein, Dubbledge, Graziella, Wildchild and Dudley Perkins.
Prior to the release of the album, the singles "Let Go" (featuring Wildchild) which featured the B-sides "Million Skill March" (featuring Wildchild, Dr. Syntax & DJ IQ) and "Crying Shame" (featuring Dr. Syntax) and the single "Slow Broiled Ilk" produced by Oh No (Stonesthrow) which featured the B-sides "Backdraft" and "Hot Plate" (featuring Dubbledge) were released to promote the album. A video for "Slow Broiled Ilk" was also released.
Following the release of the album, the single "Black Hole Prophecies", produced by DJ Vadim, was released on 16 April 2007. The single also includes the "Wild Wild East" remix, which was produced by UK rap artist Jehst, and the B-side track "In It for a Minute" (featuring Graziella).

Beggars Brew (Aug 2006) 
This mixtape was released on a limited edition CD digi pack.

"Hit That Gash" (Oct 2008) 
The explicit and tongue-in-cheek themed "Hit That Gash" was a collaboration with French rappers Rouge À Levres (Grems and Disiz) and was released as a single with an accompanying video produced by Tony Truand which has received over 200,000 YouTube hits. The single contains a number of remixes from the following artists: Scratch Perverts' Prime Cuts, D - Code from shivasound system, Kid Dub (Definitive), Kyza, Dubbledge, Inja, Chester P (Taskforce) LDZ (aka London Zoo), Ranking Records' Seemoreproductions and Ruckspin, Dag Nabbit, and Sydney's Killa Queenz. A dubstep version of the record was released with remixes from DJ Primecuts and DJ Ruckspin entitled Hit That Gash (Dubstep Remixes)

Neurosonics Audiomedical Lab 
In 2009 Foreign Beggars, Dr Syntax and Stig of the Dump were asked to collaborate with The Scratch Perverts for the video Neurosonics Audiomedical Lab. The video features Metropolis, Orifice Vulgatron, Dr Syntax, Stig of the Dump and beatboxer Shlomo. The video was directed by Music Director Chris Carins and has been watched by over 600,000 people following an article in the London Publication "The Metro".

Seven Figure Swagger b/w Don't Dhoow It

Contact ft Noisia

United Colours of Beggattron (Oct 2009) 
In October 2009 the group released their third studio album United Colours of Beggattron, featuring notable production from Noisia and Ghosttown, as well as Dag Nabbit, guest appearances from Guilty Simpson (StonesThrow), Devlin, Phat Kat, Ben Sharpa, DJ 2Tall, Badness, Dubbledge, Jehst, Dr Syntax, Kyza and Kasmere.
The track "Contact" which was a collaboration with Drum N Bass outfit Noisia was made into a video direct by Tony Truand Datis and has since been watched by over 15 million people on YouTube, Foreign Beggars most watched video to date. The track, which was featured on the E4 series "Skins", was released as a single with the song "Shake It", also a collaboration with Noisia, as a promo prior to the release