# Here Comes Peter Cottontail

Here Comes Peter Cottontail is a 1971 Easter stop motion animated television special produced by Rankin/Bass Productions, currently distributed by Universal Television and based on the 1957 novel The Easter Bunny That Overslept by Priscilla and Otto Friedrich. The special is narrated by Danny Kaye and starring Casey Kasem, Vincent Price, Joan Gardner, and Paul Frees. The special also features Steve Nelson and Jack Rollins' Easter song "Here Comes Peter Cottontail".

It was originally broadcast on April 4, 1971, on the ABC television network in the United States. In later years, it has appeared on CBS, Fox Family, The CW, and Cartoon Network.

In 2005, it was followed by a computer-animated sequel Here Comes Peter Cottontail: The Movie.

Plot
Young Easter Bunny Peter Cottontail lives in April Valley, where all the other Easter bunnies live and work, making Easter candy, sewing bonnets, and decorating and delivering Easter eggs.

Colonel Wellington B. Bunny, the retiring Chief Easter Bunny, names Peter his successor. Peter, who has always dreamed of being the Chief Easter Bunny, accepts.

Meanwhile, bunny January Q. Irontail lives alone with his bat Montressor. Irontail wants Peter's job, only so he can ruin Easter for children as revenge after a child once accidentally roller-skated over his tail, forcing him to wear a prosthetic one made of iron. Irontail demands that Colonel Bunny hold a contest to see who delivers the most eggs, according to April Valley's Constitution. Peter accepts the challenge but stays up all night, partying with friends. Although he tells his rooster Ben to wake him up at 5:30 in the morning, Irontail sneaks into his house and feeds the rooster magic bubblegum, sealing his beak. Peter sleeps on, not hearing the crows from the popping bubbles.

Due to his appearance, Irontail tries all day long to deliver eggs but only manages to deliver one (to a sleeping man). Because it is still one egg more than Peter delivered, Irontail becomes the new Chief Easter Bunny, passing laws to make Easter a disaster, such as painting eggs brown and gray, ordering the candy sculptors to make chocolate tarantulas and octopuses instead of bunnies and chicks, and having Easter galoshes instead of bonnets.

Ashamed that his bragging and partying led to this tragedy, Peter leaves April Valley. He eventually meets inventor Seymour S. Sassafras, who supplies April Valley with colors for egg-painters from the colored vegetables in his Garden of Surprises. Sassafras lets Peter use his Yestermorrowbile, a time machine. Sassafras' assistant caterpillar Antoine will take Peter back to Easter to deliver his eggs, win the contest, and defeat Irontail. Irontail finds out about Peter's plan and sends his spider to sabotage the Yestermorrowbile, allowing Peter and Antoine to go to any holiday but Easter.

Since the contest's rules do not specifically say the eggs must be delivered on Easter, Peter tries to give them away at other holidays, to no avail. On the 4th of July, Peter paints the eggs red, white and blue and lies to two boys by passing them off as firecrackers, which ultimately fails. On Halloween, Peter meets Madame Esmeralda, a witch, and gives her a Halloween egg as a gift, making the score a tie. When she calls the other Halloween inhabitants, Irontail sends Montressor out to steal Peter's eggs. Peter gets the eggs back and wants to return home, but Antoine first has to land the craft to fix it.

After failing to give any of his eggs away on Thanksgiving, Peter and Antoine go to Christmas Eve where Peter, dressed as Santa Claus, tries to give eggs on the streets, which are deserted. There, Peter hears sobbing from a hat shop and meets Bonnie, an Easter bonnet who left April Valley years ago. Bonnie is sad that nobody wants to buy her, so Peter tells the shopkeeper that he will trade his Christmas eggs for Bonnie. However, Irontail steals them again. Peter and Bonnie go after him, accidentally leaving Antoine behind.

During the chase, Irontail and Montresor crash into Santa's sleigh. Santa returns the eggs to Peter, who cannot stop the Yestermorrowbile and is too sad to thank him since they left Antoine behind. After missing New Year's Day, Peter and Bonnie find the stop button and land on Valentine's Day. There, Peter meets a bunny named Donna and gives her a Valentine egg. However, Irontail finds the eggs again and casts a spell on them, turning them all green, inside and out.

After failing to give the green eggs away on Presidents' Day, Peter vows to be more honest and responsible. He and Bonnie land in St. Patrick's Day, which gives Peter another chance to give away his eggs — this time, Peter is successful and wins the contest, becoming the Chief Easter Bunny. Antoine returns as a butterfly, and Irontail works as the janitor of April Valley while Peter leads a parade.

Cast
The special featured the following cast members:

Soundtrack
Although not commercially released, a soundtrack album for the special was released for demonstration purposes by ABC.

 Here Comes Peter Cottontail – Seymour S. Sassafrass
 The Easter Bunny Never Sleeps – Colonel Wellington B. Bunny, Chorus
 The Easter Bunny Always Sleeps (Irontail's reprise; the diabolical version of The Easter Bunny Never Sleeps) – Irontail
 If I Could Only Get Back to Yesterday – Seymour S. Sassafrass, Chorus
 When You Can't Get It All Together, Improvise – Antoine, Peter Cottontail, Chorus
 Be Mine Today – Peter Cottontail, Donna, Chorus
 In The Puzzle of Life – Seymour S. Sassafrass, Chorus
 Here Comes Peter Cottontail (reprise) – Seymour S. Sassafrass, Chorus

Crew
 Producers/Directors – Jules Bass, Arthur Rankin, Jr.
 Teleplay – Romeo Muller
 Music and Lyrics – Jules Bass, Maury Laws
 Based on "Here Comes Peter Cottontail" – Steve Nelson/Jack Rollins © 1949 Hill & Range Songs, Inc.
 Based on "The Easter Bunny That Overslept" – Priscilla and Otto Friedrich © 1957 Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Company
 Illustration – Adrienne Adams
 Character Design – Paul Coker, Jr.
 Continuity Design – Steve Nakagawa
 Editorial Supervisor – Irwin Goldress
 Sound and Effects Recording – John Boyd, Jim Harris
 "Animagic" Supervision – Kizo Nagashima
 Character Model Sculptor – Ichiro Komuro (uncredited)
 Animators – Yutaka Mikome (uncredited), Takeo Nakamura, Hiroshi Tabata
 Musical Director – Maury Laws

Home media releases
Despite the acclaim such as TV Guide's comment that the special had "one of the best scores in children's special history," no original soundtrack album was ever released commercially. ABC and Rankin/Bass did produce a private vinyl LP pressing of the entire soundtrack recording in 1971, but no record company has released an official, legitimate audio version to date.

On video, the special has seen multiple releases in various formats. In 1990, 1992, 1993, 1998, and 2002, it was released on VHS by Family Home Entertainment and Sony Wonder. It has also seen the following releases on DVD:
February 12, 2002 (Sony Wonder)
February 15, 2005 (Sony Wonder)
February 10, 2009 (Genius Products)
February 18, 2014 (DreamWorks Animation)

The 2014 release is the first to include the sequel, Here Comes Peter Cottontail: The Movie.

A Blu-ray was released by DreamWorks on February 22, 2019 as a Wal-Mart exclusive, containing a heavily edited version that runs nearly ten minutes shorter. This same release was extended beyond Wal-Mart to all media retailers in 2020 with the same edited version.

See also
 The First Easter Rabbit (1976 Rankin-Bass traditional animated special)
 The Easter Bunny Is Comin' to Town (1977 Rankin-Bass stop-motion special)
 List of animated feature films
 List of stop-motion films

References

External links

 

American Broadcasting Company television specials
1970s animated television specials
American children's animated fantasy films
American children's films
American musical fantasy films
1971 television specials
1970s American television specials
Rankin/Bass Productions telev