# Violet Town Football Club

Violet Town Football Club is an Australian football club which was established in 1880 and has won 14 premierships in various Australian rules football leagues. The club recently won an Under 18's premiership in 2023, having gone undefeated all season. The club has also amalgamated with the Violet Town netball club to become the Violet Town Football and Netball Club Inc.

Leagues
The club is currently part of the Kyabram District Football and Netball League (KDFNL) and has four football teams:
Seniors,
Reserves,
Under 18's,
Under 14's

The seniors are currently coached by Wally Armstrong; the 2006 season was their first in the KDFNL. The senior team were premiers and champions in 2012, and a grand finalist in 2017.
1950 to 1966: Benalla Tungamah Football League
1967 to 1977: Tungamah Football League
1978 to 2005: Benalla & District Football League
2006 to present day: Kyabram District Football League

Location
Violet Town is located in North Eastern Victoria, Australia; the town is found on the route between Melbourne and Albury and is approximately 180 km north-north-east of Melbourne and is between Euroa and Benalla and is bypassed by the Hume Freeway (and former Hume Highway) which are found to the south.

Football Premierships
Seniors
North Eastern Football Association
1923 
Euroa District Football League
1927, 1928
Tatong & Thoona Football Association
1938, 1939
Euroa District Football League
1944, 1948, 1949
Benalla Tungamah Football League
1960, 1961
Benalla & District Football League
1982, 1987, 1990
Kyabram District Football League
2012

Reserves
 ?

U/18 Premierships
2007 (Kyabram & District Football League)
2023 (Kyabram & District Football League) *undefeated premiers and champions

Team Song
The team song has three official verses. They are as follows:

We're a happy team at Violet Town

We're the mighty flying town.

One for all, and all for one

The way we play at Towners,

we are the mighty flying Town.

There are times when you'll see us, 

busting our guts!

There are times when you'll wish that,

you'd never known us!

There are times when you'll know

That we're really made of gold

We are the boys from Violet Town.

You'll see us in the finals,

you'll see us do or die.

We'll fight and fight forever,

To see the banner fly.

Are we good? Are we good?

Are we any bloody good?

We are the boys from Violet Town!

Cult Figures

Gary 'Boyo' Abley
Boyo is the seniors' games leader and the primary groundsman for the palace on Tulip Street. Boyo is an absolute legend, with a trophy room so large it could have its own postcode. You are not a towner until Boyo himself has referred to you as 'boyo'.

Matthew 'Pres' Holmes
Holmesy could be said to be the walls of the Violet Town Football Club, as he fought for the club's survival, and has exponentially grown the club into the blossoming association it is today. Barack Obama was once compared to Matthew Holmes. 

Michael 'Mad Mick' McLaughlin
Mick is the father of all trainers and is so good that he appears in 155 club rooms across Victoria alone. Mick has dedicated over 600 Saturdays to the club, translating to approximately 2000 games, which is truly mind-boggling considering Mick is only 21 years old.

Ryan 'Hyphen' Lloyd-Williams
Known as the manliest man to ever live, Gary Ablett Snr once referred to Hyphen as the "toughest bloke he'd ever heard of." Hyphen recently reached his 50 senior game milestone, which is a credit to Hyphen for not being permanently suspended yet (due to his MMA style of play on the football field). Mr Lloyd-Williams is so hard at the ball that he allegedly was decapitated one day on his way through a pack. Despite this minor injury, hyphen continued to plow through anyone in his way, regaining his cranium and kicking the goal. Opposing wingmen cower in fear when they see Mr Lloyd-Williams line up against them, and beg for mercy when the ball is within a 100 metre radius of them.

Ryan 'Legs' Jennings
Renowned for his John Williamson karaoke and his eye-catching dance moves, Mr. Jenning's claim to fame was his touching quote "Not bad, ya shelf?" This amazing lyricism and obvious poetic skill is also why Legs is a premiership assistant coach, and even captain of the senior side.

Nathan 'Shredder' Abley
Son of Gary and nephew of Shane, Nathan (A.K.A Schooner Abley) is more than just a mustache. Mr Shredder is considered a 'pocket rocket', having once beaten Riley Kego in a time trial. Wheels is also an exceptional sword fighter, where his opponents are commonly heard crying and saying "no fair, his is bigger than mine!" Shredder bleeds Towner blood, and everyone, even Hyphen (who has no feelings except rage) love the beer sinking legend.

Ashton 'Triffo' Hillaire
Some may know him as the Under 18's co-coach of 2022, or others may know him as the driver of that noisy Subaru. However you know him, Triffo is the fastest football player you've ever seen. Having once run a sub 1-minute marathon, Triffo once tore his hamstring. Within the same season, Triffo also broke a couple of ribs. You know what that means? The footy gods are so scared of Ashton Hillaire that they need to injure him in order to restrain his running abilities.

Josh Mellington
 See: Crystal Meth

External links
Official Kyabram and District Football League Website

Kyabram & District Football League clubs
1880 establishments in Australia
Australian rules football clubs established in 1880