# Kálmán Tihanyi

Kálmán Tihanyi or in English language technical literature often mentioned as Coloman Tihanyi or Koloman Tihanyi (28 April 1897 – 26 February 1947) was a Hungarian physicist, electrical engineer and inventor. One of the early pioneers of electronic television, he made significant contributions to the development of cathode ray tubes (CRTs), which were bought and further developed by the Radio Corporation of America (later RCA), and German companies Loewe and Fernseh AG. He invented and designed the world's first automatic pilotless aircraft in Great Britain. He is also known for the invention of the first infrared video camera in 1929, and coined the first flat panel (plasma) display in 1936. His Radioskop patent was recognized as a Document of Universal Significance by the UNESCO thus became part of the Memory of the World Programme on September 4, 2001.

Career

Early life, WW1 and education

Born in Üzbég, Kingdom of Hungary (now Zbehy, Slovakia), after graduating from the local elementary school, Tihanyi's parents enrolled him in the Vocational School of Electrical Engineering in Pozsony (now Bratislava). While a student there he filed his first patent application with the Hungarian Patent Office in 1913, at the age of sixteen. The title of the patent was, "Pocket device for light handling of photographic plates". The first contract of his life was signed with a Viennese company, which purchased his equipment for the central, wireless switching on and off of road lights. At that time, he continued his high school studies in Vác, he graduated here as well, and the following year, in 1916, he entered the Hungarian Royal Army as a volunteer. As an officer candidate for the 4th Army Artillery Regiment he handled cannons on the eastern front and was then transferred to Transylvania, where he took part in the battles at one of the most important crossings in the Eastern Carpathians, the Ojtozi Strait. He was awarded a bronze medal of valor and promoted to the rank of lieutenant. Soon after he was transferred to one of the most important military ports of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy in Pula, where he no longer served as a soldier in a combat unit, but as a radio engineer, and for the first time in his life he came in contact with military technical developments. He designed a remotely controlled igniter for timing and detonating underwater shafts, and his land mine was credited as a distinguished military invention.

Interwar period

After World War I, Kálmán Tihanyi, who returned to civil life, continued his studies at the Royal Hungarian Joseph University of Technology in Budapest (today: Budapest University of Technology and Economics, commonly known as the Technical University), where the young man who has recently lost his father was left without any income. Luckily, he found a friend in Professor Imre Pöschl, who recognized his talent, while he could sell more and more patents and inventions, he could enjoy an increasing income, thus he could support his widowed mother and nine siblings.

Tihany's attention was already drawn to the attempts to create television during World War I. After Tihanyi studied Maxwell's equations, he discovered a hitherto unknown physical phenomenon.

The problem of low sensitivity to light resulting in low electrical output from transmitting or "camera" tubes would be solved with the introduction of charge-storage technology by Tihanyi in the beginning of 1924. His final design was patented under the name "Radioskop" (Hungarian patent: T-3768) on 20 March 1926. He described his cathode ray tube, charge-storage television system in not one, but in three versions - wired, wireless, and color, which meant he was thinking of color television even when black and white films were made in the vast majority of the film industry. His patent application contained 42 pages detailing its design and mass production. It is recorded in UNESCO's Memory of the World Programme. Though it bears certain similarities to earlier proposals employing a cathode ray tube (CRT) for both transmitter and receiver, Tihanyi's system represented a radical departure. Like the final, improved version Tihanyi would patent in 1928, it embodied an entirely new concept in design and operation, building upon a technology that would become known as the "storage principle". This technology involves the maintenance of photoemission from the light-sensitive layer of the detector tube between scans. By this means, accumulation of charges would take place and the "latent electric picture" would be stored. Tihanyi filed two separate patent applications in 1928 then extended patent protection beyond Germany, filing in France, the United Kingdom, the United States, and elsewhere. 

However, the radically new concepts what he represented in his Radioskop patent were not widely understood and recognised by the contemporary professionals until around 1930.

Berlin
In 1928, Tihanyi went to Berlin, where the development of mechanical television involving Nipkow disks had already been begun by the German Post Office and the larger manufacturers. He set up his own laboratory in Berlin, where he made his first experimental picture tube with his younger brother, who also was an electrical engineer.  The invention was received with enthusiasm by Telefunken and Siemens, but in the end, they opted to continue with the development of mechanical television. Then he was approached by the American Radio Corporation of America (RCA), contracted with him to purchase his patent, and began laboratory development of the image resolution tube. After a few months, the first well-functioning American camera tubes which based on Tihanyi's ideas were completed by Vladimir Zworykin at RCA, and the new television system was named the iconoscope.

London
In 1929, Tihanyi patented his new military invention under the title: "Automatic sighting and directing devices for torpedoes, guns and other apparatus" (See: British patent GB352035A)
In 1929, he moved to London, where he was invited to work on television guidance for defense applications, building prototypes of a camera for remotely guided aircraft for the British Air Ministry, and later adapting it for the Italian Navy.  The solutions of the technology what Tihanyi depicted in his 1929 patent were so influential, that American UAV producing companies still used many of its ideas even half century later, until the mid 1980s. In 1929, he invented the World's first infrared-sensitive (night vision) electronic television camera for anti-aircraft defense in Britain. In London he was commissioned with the designing of the remote-control devices and fire control systems for tanks, anti-aircraft guns and anti-aircraft reflectors for Britain.

Tihanyi's U.S. patents for his display and camera tubes, assigned to RCA, were issued in 1938 and 1939, respectively.

Budapest

In 1936 Tihanyi described the principle of "plasma television" and conceived the first flat-panel television system. It involved a single “transmission 
point” being moved at great speed behind a grid of cells arranged in a thin 
panel display, which would be excited to different levels by varying the 
voltages to the point

World War Two

"Titan" Ultrasound weapon

In the summer of 1940, he returned home with an elaborate plan for the acoustic beam projector. The experiments with Titan Ultrasound Weapon, codenamed TVR, were surrounded by the greatest secret. To achieve this, it soon reached an agreement with the approval of the Supreme Military Technical Council. It was completed by the end of 1941 by organizing the work, making construction drawings, setting up a plant and two laboratories.  The large workpieces were made in the Ganz and Láng factories; everything else, including a 2-meter-diameter parabolic mirror, was manufactured by themselves. He selected 45 Jewish origin employees of the Hungarian Royal Special Military Corps, including nine engineers, from the ranks of milit