# Sequoia Union High School District

The Sequoia Union High School District is a public union school district in the San Francisco Bay Area, primarily serving the southern San Mateo County communities of Atherton, Belmont, East Palo Alto, Ladera, San Carlos, Menlo Park, Portola Valley, Redwood City, and Woodside. The District currently serves more than 9,000 students, and also owns the radio station KCEA.

Schools 
High Schools:
Sequoia High School, founded in 1895 in Redwood City
Menlo-Atherton High School, founded in 1951 in Atherton
Carlmont High School, founded in 1952 in Belmont
Woodside High School, founded in 1958 in Woodside
East Palo Alto Academy, founded in 2001 in East Palo Alto
TIDE Academy, founded in 2019 in Menlo Park
Ravenswood High School, founded in 1958 and closed in 1976 due to low enrollment and racial tension (today the site of the Gateway 101 Shopping Center)
San Carlos High School, founded in 1960 and closed in 1982 due to low enrollment (today the site of Highlands Park)
Charter Schools:

Summit Preparatory Charter High School, founded in 2003 in Redwood City
Everest Public High School, founded in 2009 in Redwood City

Other Schools:
 Redwood Continuation High School, in Redwood City
 Cañada Middle College, in Redwood City
 Sequoia Adult School, in Menlo Park

Governance

Superintendent

 Crystal Leach (December 15, 2022–present)

Board of Trustees

The SUHSD Board of Trustees are elected by 5 districts, each representing a different geographic area served by the district. The trustees include:

 Amy Koo,  Area A
 Carrie Du Bois, Area B
 Richard Ginn, Area C
 Sathvik Nori,  Area D
 Shawneece Stevenson, Area E

Controversy 
In 2018, former Vice Principal Jennifer Cho of Carlmont High School was investigated by the district for inappropriate relationships with male students. During this investigation, spurred by a Change.org petition signed by thousands of Carlmont High School students, Cho was placed on administrative leave before being relocated elsewhere in the district.

On August 3, 2020, the Sequoia District Teachers Association announced a vote of no-confidence in Sequoia Union High School District Superintendent Mary Streshly's leadership, and asked for her removal from office. In the letter, teachers and administrators accused Streshly of mishandling the district's Covid-19 response. Along with this, it cited her inability to make and communicate plans and her dismissal of racial tensions in the district. The resolution received 200 staff signatures in the first 24 hours and 300 in total, accounting for roughly 60% of the union staff. In September 2020, Streshly resigned from her post and was succeeded by Crystal Leach who served as interim superintendent for the remainder of the school year while the district searched for a replacement.

On Friday, December 9, 2022, the Sequoia Union High School District called a special meeting and swore in two board members so they could participate in the private meeting that immediately followed. In that meeting they voted 4-1 to hire attorney Eugene Whitlock as their legal representative. This exasperated rumors that the new board was planning to fire Superintendent Dr. Darnise Williams. On Monday, December 12, 2022, the board heard public comment on the matter. They faced criticism from Sequoia District Teachers Association president Edith Salvatore for violating community trust. No community member expressed support for the board's actions. On Wednesday, December 14, 2022, the board announced Williams' resignation, confirming rumors. Many expressed their anger and frustration for the lack of communication about Williams' resignation. Williams received a $299,000 severance package—the same package she would have received under her contract had she been fired. Following the board's actions, the M-A Chronicle, Menlo Atherton High School's newspaper, published an editorial criticizing the board's secrecy on their website, machronicle.com, and as a guest opinion on the Almanac.

See also

Belmont–Redwood Shores School District
San Carlos School District
Redwood City School District
Menlo Park City School District
Woodside Elementary School District
Las Lomitas Elementary School District
Portola Valley Elementary School District
Ravenswood City School District

References

External links

School districts in San Mateo County, California
Menlo Park, California
Education in Redwood City, California
1895 establishments in California
School districts established in 1895