# Lionheart (1990 film)

Lionheart is a 1990 American martial arts film directed by Sheldon Lettich, starring Jean-Claude Van Damme, Deborah Rennard, Harrison Page and Lisa Pelikan and Brian Thompson. It also features the acting debut of Ashley Johnson. Van Damme plays a French Foreign Legionnaire stationed in Africa, who must desert to the United States and enter the underground fighting circuit to raise money for his murdered brother's family.

The film premiered in France on August 1, 1990, and opened in the U.S. on January 11, 1991. It received lackluster reviews, but marked Van Damme's breakthrough as a theatrical leading man in North America. It was released in the United Kingdom as A.W.O.L: Absent Without Leave, and in Oceania as Wrong Bet, two early titles considered by the producers.

Plot
Lyon Gaultier is in the French Foreign Legion stationed in Djibouti, East Africa. After his brother, who lives in Los Angeles, is set on fire during a drug deal gone bad, Lyon receives a letter from his sister-in-law Hélène begging him to come see his dying brother, who has been calling his name in agony. Lyon escapes the Legion in a daring breakout and sets off across the desert, until he reaches a dockyard on the coast, where he finds work aboard a tramp steamer headed for the United States. Lyon's Legion Commander, anticipating his destination, sends two of his own men to Los Angeles to bring Lyon back to meet court-martial.

Arriving in New York City with no money to cross the country to Los Angeles, Lyon is attracted to an illegal street fight being run by a tramp named Joshua Eldridge. He volunteers for the next fight and easily defeats his opponent. Impressed, Joshua takes Lyon to meet Cynthia Caldera, an unscrupulous organizer of underground fights for the rich elite. Cynthia agrees to sponsor Lyon, dubbing him "Lionheart" and setting him up in a no-holds-barred fight against Sonny, a fighter known for heavily taunting his opponents. Lyon defeats Sonny easily, then leaves with Joshua to find a phone booth to call Hélène, fending off an attack by a local street gang of punks. Joshua calls in a favor from Cynthia, who gets them both across the States to Los Angeles.

By the time Lyon reaches the hospital, his brother has died. Though his murderers were apprehended, Hélène was left penniless, with a stack of unpaid medical bills and little daughter Nicole to look after. Lyon and Joshua track down Hélène's address, but as Lyon tries to speak to Hélène, she angrily rejects his offers for much needed financial help, admonishing Lyon for deserting his brother and unjustly blaming him for her late husband's involvement in the drug business.

Lyon decides to help Hélène and Nicole without their knowledge. Through Cynthia, he joins the local street fighting circuit and has the profits delivered to Hélène in the form of checks, with Joshua claiming that her husband subscribed to life insurance prior to his death. Lyon defeats a number of high-profile fighters, including a dirty-fighting Scotsman, a wrestler in a squash court, and a martial artist in a shallow swimming pool. Seeing as Lyon is not keeping his winnings and spurns her advances, Cynthia grows suspicious of Lyon and jealous towards Hélène and puts her assistant Russell on Lyon's trail. Similarly, the two Legionnaires sent after Lyon stake out Hélène's apartment and eventually try to capture Lyon: he is saved by Russell but suffers a broken rib. Hélène, who has witnessed the attack, learns the truth about the nonexistent insurance policy, whereupon she finally acknowledges Lyon as Nicole's uncle.

Cynthia arranges for Lyon to fight with Attila, an undefeated combatant whose style includes giving his opponents the illusion of a fighting chance, only to permanently disable them with callous finishing moves. Cynthia agrees to hand Lyon over to the Legionnaires after the fight. In order to skew the odds, she shows potential bettors an altered tape of Attila which makes him look like a poor fighter, while she bets her entire fortune on Attila. Realizing Lyon is hurt, Joshua unsuccessfully tries to talk him out of the fight.

As the fight proceeds, Attila recognizes Lyon's rib wound and takes full advantage of it. When Attila appears to have won after repeatedly knocking down his opponent, Joshua begs Lyon to give up the fight and offers to split the winnings from his own bet against Lyon. This angers Lyon, who summons his remaining strength to defeat Attila with a series of kicks, knee blows and brutal punches. Lyon pummels Attila senseless but spares him, leaving Cynthia with a big debt and his family cared for with his own winning stake. The Legionaires capture Lyon, but with remorse listening to his niece's cry at the farewell to Lyon, they release him a couple of blocks away and wish him luck with his new life in America. The film ends with Lyon reunited with his family and Joshua.

Cast

 Jean-Claude Van Damme as Lyon "Lionheart" Gaultier 
 Harrison Page as Joshua Eldridge
 Deborah Rennard as Cynthia Caldera
 Lisa Pelikan as Hélène Gaultier
 Ashley Johnson as Nicole Gaultier
 Ash Adams as Francois Gaultier
 Brian Thompson as Russell
 George McDaniel as Adjutant
 Vojislav Govedarica (Voyo Goric) as Sgt. Hartog
 Michel Qissi as Moustafa
 Stefanos Miltsakis as Jeep Driver
 Billy Blanks as African Legionnaire
 Tony Halme as Security Guard
 Clement von Franckenstein as English Investor 
 Abdel Qissi as Attila
 Magic Schwarz as Raquetball Fighter
 Paco Christian Prieto as Pool Fighter
 Stuart F. Wilson as Scottish Fighter
 Jeff Langton as Sonny
 Tony "Satch" Williams as Garage Fighter
 James Brewster Thompson as N.Y. Monster Fighter 
 Jeff Speakman as Mansion Security Man
 Christopher M. Brown as Punk leader

Production

Development and writing
Lionheart has its roots in two different projects. Van Damme had written an outline for an underground fighting film, called The Wrong Bet. Meanwhile, his friend Sheldon Lettich was working on a script about the French Foreign Legion intended for Sylvester Stallone, for whom he had already written Rambo III. Van Damme occasionally helped Lettich with French language terms. When that film did not get made, it was decided to integrate the legionnaire backstory into The Wrong Bet to flesh out its central character.
A significant inspiration for the film was 1975's Hard Times, a favorite of both Van Damme and Lettich. The Wrong Bet followed a similar template, pairing a somber hero with a shifty yet endearing manager (respectively played by Charles Bronson and James Coburn in the classic film).

Sunil Shah of Imperial Entertainment, who had already worked with Van Damme on Black Eagle, was sold on the pitch. However he was reluctant to hire Lettich, whose WGA membership would entitle to substantial benefits and royalties. As Imperial regular Eric Karson was originally slated to direct, screenplay duties were assigned to his friend Stefani Warren, the writer of his previous movie Angel Town. Incidentally, the star of Angel Town, Imperial contract player Olivier Gruner, played a former legionnaire in that film and was a former French marine commando in real life. Looking to promote their in-house star, Imperial credited him as a military consultant on the upcoming feature.

When Warren turned in her first draft, it was deemed too sentimental to be commercially viable by everyone involved, except Karson, her friend and political ally at Imperial. At the insistence of Van Damme, Lettich was allowed to step in for a rewrite, and was eventually hired to direct. According to Lettich, the only contribution left from Warren's screenplay was the hero's nickname, "Lionheart". While her story was too slow-paced, Van Damme still hoped to show a more emotional side in the picture, as he had been hurt by previous criticism of his acting limitations. For this reason, he and Lettich decided to eschew the revenge plot common to many martial arts films, and never have the hero find his brother's killers, in or