# Ontario Highway 520

Secondary Highway 520, commonly referred to as Highway 520, is a provincially maintained highway in the Canadian province of Ontario. The highway is  in length, connecting several small communities in Parry Sound District with Highway 124 and Highway 11.

The highway links several remote First Nation hamlets to the major highway routes of the region. However, the only places of noteworthy size are the village of Magnetawan and the town of Burk's Falls. It is concurrent with Highway 124 for .

Route description 
Highway520 begins in Ardbeg as a continuation of the local Clear Lake Road, and travels south then east about  to reach a level crossing of the Canadian National Railway (CN) line at Ardbeg flag stop. It continues east, then south through a sparsely populated region of the Canadian Shield, though providing access to several First Nation villages. Upon reaching Highway124 at Dunchurch, the two routes travel east, concurrently, for . Highway520 then branches to the south, meets Highway 510 and passes through the village of Magnetawan.

Southeast of Magnetawan, the highway winds along the northern shore of Cecebe Lake, bisecting several small communities en route. It enters the town of Burk's Falls, where it is known as Ryerson Centre Road. Passing beneath the Burk's Falls Bypass of Highway11, Highway520 parallels the Magnetawan River briefly then turns south onto Ontario Street, the former alignment of Highway11. It crosses the river and travels through the centre of the town, meeting the bypass south of it. Highway520 ends at an interchange with Highway11, at Exit257, south of Burk's Falls.
The portion of Highway520 from the intersection of Ontario Street south to the Burk's Falls town limits is maintained under a Connecting Link agreement.

History 
Highway 520 is one of many Secondary Highways assigned a route number in 1956.
Prior to this time, the route was a numbered, but unposted Development Road maintained by the Department of Highways.

Major intersections

References 

520
Roads in Parry Sound District