# University of Texas Longhorn Band

The University of Texas Longhorn Band (LHB), also known as the Showband of the Southwest, is the marching band of The University of Texas at Austin. The Longhorn Band was founded in 1900 by distinguished professor of chemistry, Dr. Eugene P. Schoch. The band is currently under the direction of Dr. Cliff Croomes. The band performs at all in-state football games, for various Texas Longhorn Athletics teams, and at special pep rallies and parades throughout the year. The band includes about 375 students, all of whom must register for a year-round course offered by the Butler School of Music.

The Longhorn Band has received prestigious honors, such as the Sudler Trophy, in 1986 and performed at many notable occasions, including Super Bowl VIII and the inaugural parades of five presidents: John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, and George W. Bush.

History

Founding and early years (1900–1955) 
The Longhorn Band was founded in 1900 by distinguished professor of chemistry, Dr. Eugene P. Schoch. With Dr. H. E. Baxter, the first director of the Longhorn Band, they purchased $150 worth of instruments from a local pawn shop and recruited 16 students to make up the band. Dr. Baxter served as the director for five years before stepping aside, after which Dr. Schoch took full control of the band. Dr. Schoch stepped down as director after five years, but continued to serve as a chaperone for the band. For the next seven years, the Longhorn Band was run by students.

In 1921, Mr. Burnett "Blondie" Pharr became the director of the Longhorn Band. Pharr developed the young band and led it on a tour through 17 states, performing at the Chicago World's Fair, Madison Square Garden, and Washington, D.C. Colonel George E. Hurt became director in 1936. Under his tenure, the Longhorn Band grew to over 200 members. After Col. Hurt suffered a stroke in 1949, Moton Crockett assumed the directorship of the Longhorn Band. In his final year as director, Mr. Crockett oversaw the purchase of the large bass drum that is today known as Big Bertha and affectionately called the "Sweetheart of the Longhorn Band". Big Bertha was purchased from the University of Chicago for $1. The drum had sat in storage in the school's stadium after UChicago disbanded their varsity football program. Big Bertha was radioactively contaminated by testing for the Manhattan Project that occurred at the stadium.

Vincent R. DiNino era (1955–1975) 
In 1955, Vincent R. DiNino was hired as the director of the Longhorn Band. He is credited with shaping the band into the organization it is today. DiNino's time as director saw the introduction of many traditions and characteristics of the band, such as the western-style uniforms, Big Flags Brigade, the Longhorn Alumni Band, and cowbells. DiNino oversaw the introduction of women into the band in a position besides majorette in 1956 and the integration of the band in 1962. The adoption of the moniker "Showband of the Southwest" also occurred during this time.

Under the direction of Mr. DiNino, the Longhorn Band performed in the inaugural parades of Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.

Late 20th century (1975–2001) 
Tom C. Rhodes served as director of the band from 1975 to 1980. Glenn A. Richter, an alumnus of the University of Texas, returned to his alma mater as director of the Longhorn Band from 1980 to 1995. Paula Crider became director in 1995 and remained until 1999. Kevin Sedatole served as director for the short span from 1999 to 2001.

Present day (2001–present) 
Dr. Robert Carnochan assumed the directorship of the Longhorn Band in 2001. He served as director until 2015, leaving the Longhorn Band for a position as the Director of Bands at the University of Miami.

Dr. Scott Hanna became the 14th director of the Longhorn Band in 2015. Dr. Hanna had served as the associate director of the band for the sixteen years prior to his appointment as director.

In May 2021, Dr. Hanna announced his retirement, effective May 31. Dr. Cliff Croomes, then assistant director of bands at Louisiana State University was chosen to succeed as the 15th director of the Longhorn Band and the first Black director. Dr. Croomes graduated with his Bachelor of Music from the UT Butler School of Music in 2001 and is a former member of the Longhorn Band.

Directors

Drum Majors, Presidents, and Twirlers

Organizational structure

Audition Process 
Membership in the Longhorn Band is contingent upon a multi-step audition process. Prospective members must first submit a video playing audition. Upon approval of the video audition by band staff, the prospective member is invited to Band Week, which immediately precedes the start of the fall semester, and are sent traditional music and selected halftime music. At Band Week, prospective members are taught the band's marching style and attend multiple music rehearsals to prepare for the final marching and playing audition. This final audition determines membership in the band and field placement.

Auditions for feature twirler are held only when the position is open. These auditions occur separately from the auditions for the main band and are generally held in the spring.

Auditions for the colorguard involve submitting a short video demonstrating flag technique and dance skill. Upon approval of the video audition by the colorguard director, the prospective member is then invited to attend band week, where they will perform a short choreography and marching audition to determine membership in the band and field placement.

Instrumentation
Rather than mellophones, baritones, and tubas, LHB has Mellos, SOB's (Society of Baritones), and TUBA!s.  Also, the band does not march flutes, only piccolos or Piccs.

Marching
The Longhorn Band performs a different show at each home football game throughout the year. These shows include 'Traditional Shows', which feature signature music and drill, and 'Non-Traditional Shows', which feature contemporary music and a modern marching style.

Curl-on entrance
The curl-on entrance is a traditional entrance in which the marchers enter from both east and west sidelines. To reach this position, the section is positioned on the field, divided in the center, and then the marcher closest to the sideline begins a spiral towards the nearest end zone until all marchers are in a tight spiral with the last marcher on the sideline. This entrance is utilized for Wall-to-Wall Band performances, as well as other special occasions. Marchers enter with a Taps 8 to 5 stride, but adjust to a 6 to 5 interval for downfield marching.

Execution

After 4 whistles, the percussion will play eight "dead beats," during which time the band remains at attention. The function of these 8 counts is to establish tempo in a noisy stadium. Following the 8 dead beats, the person on the sideline leads on the marchers to the field. Marchers kick off from the sideline every two steps. After a designated number of counts, a 9-count halt cadence will be played.

Script Texas
First performed in 1957, "Script Texas" is a traditional halftime show performed every year. The Drum Major leads the band onto the field in a single-file line, spelling "Texas" in script writing. The band is split into two blocks at the start of the performance and begins by playing "The Yellow Rose of Texas." The Drum Major marches over to the front of block one and block one begins spelling out the T-E-X of "Texas". They only spell out the bottom part of the T and the / of the X, though. While the first block follows the Drum Major out onto the field, the color guard who are in block one march in a large circle to the side of the band before putting the top on the T after block one has marched to their positions. At the end of "The Yellow Rose of Texas," the band goes straight into "March of the Longhorns" and the rest of "Texas" is spelled out. Once "March of the Longhorns" is over, "Calypso" starts and the Drum Major leads the Saxophon