# Barry Robson

Barry Gordon George Robson (born 7 November 1978) is a Scottish football coach and former player, who is currently the manager of Scottish Premiership club Aberdeen. Robson played as a midfielder for several clubs in Scotland, England and Canada and represented Scotland internationally.

Robson began his career as a youth player with Rangers before spells with Inverness Caledonian Thistle, Dundee United and finally Celtic in his native Scotland. A move to England followed, where he spent two and a half years with Middlesbrough. Robson then moved to Canada to play for MLS side Vancouver Whitecaps FC before returning to England after one season to sign for Sheffield United. Robson returned to Scotland, joining Aberdeen in summer 2013. He retired from professional football in 2016 and took up a coaching position with Aberdeen. After a run of good results in his second stint as their interim manager, Robson became Aberdeen manager in 2023.

Robson appeared 17 times for Scotland between 2007 and 2012.

Club career

Early career
Robson began his professional career with Rangers, but failed to break through to the first team. During his time at Ibrox he was given the nickname 'Baby Oleg' by teammates who perceived a resemblance to the club's Ukrainian defender Oleh Kuznetsov. In October 1997, he signed for Inverness Caledonian Thistle, and although not always a first team regular in his early Inverness career, helped them win promotion from the Second Division in 1999. Robson spent most of the 1999–2000 season on loan at Forfar Athletic, but thereafter returned to establish himself in the Inverness line-up.

Dundee United
Dundee United submitted a bid for Robson in May 2003 and he signed ten days later for a fee of between £50,000 and £100,000. Despite being sent off on his United début, he became a regular in the team. Robson missed only two matches throughout the 2004–05 season, finishing as United's second top scorer with nine goals, and signed a new three-year contract at the end of the season. Robson scored the goal that ensured United's survival in the SPL in the final game of the season against his old club Inverness CT. He also featured in the season's Scottish Cup Final which Dundee United lost 1–0 to Celtic.

Robson started the 2006–07 season as United captain and scored against Falkirk on the opening day of the season. He made his 100th league appearance for United in the game against St Mirren in late August, scoring twice in a 3–1 win but also being sent off late in the match. In February 2007, Robson signed a new contract until 2011, with his first career hat-trick following in March in a 4–0 away win against Hearts. With 11 goals by mid-March, Robson finished the season as the league's top-scoring midfielder, four ahead of Rangers' Charlie Adam.

The following season, Robson managed an even better ratio, scoring 12 from 24 games in all competitions at the point of leaving United. With 11 league goals, Robson was second top scorer in the league, one ahead of colleague Noel Hunt. Six of his goals came in January 2008, including a second hat-trick against Hearts in less than a year.

Celtic
On the final morning of the January 2008 transfer window, Robson was in negotiations to move to Celtic after they had a "seven figure" bid, plus Celtic player Jim O'Brien on loan until the end of the season, accepted by United. He signed for Celtic that evening.

Robson made his Celtic debut on 10 February against Aberdeen, scoring with his first touch of the ball, a free-kick into the bottom corner of the goal. He scored his second goal for Celtic on his Champions League debut against Barcelona. An assist from Aiden McGeady allowed Robson to loop a header over Víctor Valdés, to put Celtic ahead, though they eventually lost 3–2. On 27 April, Robson scored his first Old Firm goal, converting a penalty which was the winning goal. On 10 August, Robson again scored from a penalty kick, this time against St Mirren, the opening goal of Celtic's league campaign for the 2008–09 season, in a 1–0 victory for Celtic. Robson's final game for Celtic was against Old Firm rivals Rangers.

Middlesbrough
Robson left Celtic in January 2010 and joined his former Celtic manager Gordon Strachan at Middlesbrough along with teammates Willo Flood, Scott McDonald and Chris Killen. He was sent-off on his home debut against Bristol City. He captained Middlesbrough against Peterborough United standing in for injured Gary O'Neil, and scored his first goal for the club in the seventh minute. His form continued as he scored two penalties against QPR on 27 February at the Riverside. He scored again in the Tyne-Tees derby against Newcastle on 13 March. Three days later he scored against Derby County at Pride Park.

Robson scored the quickest ever goal at the Riverside on 8 September 2010 against Reading, netting after just 24 seconds in a game which Middlesbrough went on to win 3–1. On 2 October 2010, Robson scored a penalty in a 2–2 draw with Portsmouth, in a match where he was also sent off in, in the 86-minute. He scored Middlesbrough's third in a 4–0 victory over Bristol City on 15 January 2011. On 2 May 2011, Robson scored Middlesbrough's second goal in a 3–0 victory over Cardiff City. He followed this up five days later, scoring a free-kick in the first half of his team 3–0 win over Doncaster.

Robson scored his first goal of the 2011–12 season in a 3–1 victory over Barnsley on 16 August 2011. On 21 August 2011, he scored the equalizer from a free kick in Middlesbrough's 3–1 win over Birmingham City. He followed this, three days later, by hitting his team's opener on four minutes in a 2–0 victory over Peterborough United in the second round of the 2011–12 Football League Cup. Robson's fine goal scoring form continued with a goal against Millwall and two against Doncaster to help extend Middlesbrough's strong start to the season. Robson scored a stunning goal from 35 yards in the 87th minute, to give Middlesbrough a vital 1–0 home victory over Hull City on 26 December 2011. On 29 January 2012, Robson scored a brilliant left footed volley against Sunderland at the Stadium of Light. This forced an FA Cup fourth-round replay at the Riverside Stadium. Following injury to club captain Matthew Bates, Robson was giving the captain's armband until the end of his final season at the Riverside. In April, Robson was announced as the player of the year for the Middlesbrough Official Supporters Club for the 2011–12 season. On 28 April 2012, Robson played in a 2–1 loss against Watford on the last day of the season, setting up Marvin Emnes for Boro's solitary goal. It was his final game for Middlesbrough.

Vancouver Whitecaps FC
In February 2012 Robson agreed to a three-year contract with the Vancouver Whitecaps FC as one of their two available Designated Players. Robson made his Whitecaps debut in a 1–0 away victory against the Colorado Rapids, and in his home debut, scored his first goal for the club in a 2–2 draw with Los Angeles Galaxy. Robson finished the season having played 18 times for Vancouver and scoring three goals.  With the Whitecaps returning for pre-season training in January 2013, they announced they had mutually agreed to terminate Robson's contract to enable him to return to the UK, citing the inability of his family to settle in Canada.

Sheffield United
On the last day of January 2013 transfer window Robson returned to England, signing a short-term contract with Sheffield United for the remainder of the season, taking the vacant number 19 shirt. Robson made his debut for the Blades the following day, as a substitute in a 2–1 home defeat against Coventry City, providing an assist with his first touch of the ball in a Blades shirt, setting up Dave Kitson's goal from a corner kick. His first goal for the Blades came in his first start for the club, netting from the penalty spot in a 3–0 win over Colchester United a few weeks later. Robson played regularly for the remainder of the s