# CS Sfaxien

Club Sportif Sfaxien (), known as CS Sfaxien or simply CSS for short, is a Tunisian football club based in Sfax. The club was founded in 1928 and its colours are black and white. Their home stadium, Taieb Mhiri Stadium, has a capacity of 22,000 spectators. The club is currently playing in the Tunisian Ligue Professionnelle 1.

History
The club was founded in 1928 as Club Tunisien, playing in green and red stripes. The team was promoted to the Tunisian First Division in 1947. In 1950, the first supporters group was founded by Béchir Fendri, and in 1962 the club was renamed "Club Sportif Sfaxien" and team colours were changed to the current black and white stripes.

CSS celebrated their half-centenary in 1978 by winning the Tunisian League title, largely thanks to the impressive performances of their Tunisian internationals, notably Hammadi Agrebi, Mohamed Ali Akid and Mokhtar Dhouib.
In November 1998, CSS captured the CAF Cup for the first time, beating Senegal's ASC Jeanne d'Arc in the final.

In more recent times, CSS reached the final of the CAF Champions League 2006 but were narrowly beaten in dramatic fashion, with a late second leg goal condemning them to a 2–1 aggregate defeat against Al Ahly of Egypt.

In September 2014, CSS reached the semi-finals of the CAF Champions League 2014 but they were beaten with a 2–1 score in both away and home matches against AS Vita Club.

In May 2015, CSS got disqualified from The CAF Champions League 2015 after a loss with 1–0 in their away match against Mouloudia Chabab El Eulma(Algeria) and then CSS won their match in Sfax with 1–0 at the Stade Taïeb Mhiri but they got disqualified since they lost by penalties (7–6).

CSS won the 2007 CAF Confederation Cup. A 4–2 first-leg victory in Sudan against Al Merreikh preceded a 1–0 second leg win, with CSS lifting the trophy in front of their own fans at the Stade Taïeb Mhiri.
In November 2008, CSS faced local rivals Etoile du Sahel (ESS) in the final of the CAF Confederation Cup. CSS became the most successful club in recent history of the tournament when a 0–0 draw in Sfax was followed by a 2–2 draw in Sousse, sending the cup back to Sfax for the second year in a row.

2009 saw the club win the Tunisian Cup.

In 2013, CSS won CAF Confederation Cup for the 3rd time in their history facing TP Mazembe in the final with 2–0 in Rades then a 2–1 defeat in Lubumbashi with a late goal from Fakhreddine Ben Youssef.

Club Sportif Sfaxien is considered by the IFFHS as one of the five best teams in this century.

Club Sfaxien participated in the 2017 CAF Confederation Cup.

In the 2018–19 the club won the Tunisian Cup again. The club won the Tunisian FA Cup for a sixth time on 28 June 2021.

SOCIOS-CSS
The SOCIOS-CSS network is an internal body attached to the Executive Committee of the Club Sportif Sfaxien, to which it is fully dependent and responsible for carrying out the missions indicated in this Internal Regulation. Launched on May 28, 2008, it became a permanent structure of Club Sportif Sfaxien following the revision of the club's status during the extraordinary general assembly of May 19, 2011.

All activities that the SOCIOS-CSS network is called upon to undertake are carried out in the name of Club Sportif Sfaxien. The same applies to all financial receipts collected by the network, which are entirely intended to strengthen the club's infrastructure and create projects that can provide stable and sustainable resources to CSS.

SOCIOS-CSS is managed in accordance with the provisions of the Internal Regulation approved by the Extraordinary General Assembly of SOCIOS-CSS on June 19, 2021, and the Executive Committee of Club Sportif Sfaxien.

Any natural or legal person who has submitted a membership application by committing to respect the provisions of the Internal Regulation is a member of the SOCIOS-CSS network. Each member is obliged to periodically pay a monetary contribution. Any member with the Active Socios status is automatically a member of Club Sportif Sfaxien. The SOCIOS-CSS Bureau is responsible for providing membership before the General Assembly of Club Sportif Sfaxien is held.

Since its inception in 2008, the SOCIOS-CSS network has been investing in projects of all sizes on behalf of Club Sportif Sfaxien. The SOCIOS-CSS network is represented abroad by SOCIOS CSS INTERNATIONAL, a French association under the 1901 law, number W751189505, based in France. The funds collected by this association are the property of Club Sportif Sfaxien and will be managed within the framework of the SOCIOS-CSS network concept. The SOCIOS CSS INTERNATIONAL association is required to prepare a semi-annual report on its activities and finances. This report is transmitted to the SOCIOS-CSS Bureau to ensure follow-up. Members of SOCIOS CSS INTERNATIONAL are full-fledged members of the SOCIOS-CSS network and enjoy all the benefits of SOCIOS-CSS members.

Objectives
Embody a professional vision that means "CSS communicates to survive."
Involve CSS supporters in moral and financial support for the club and in the daily management of CSS.
Develop a financial capital from membership fees for the "SOCIOS" network and others, to financially assist CSS in some of its needs.
Participate in the development of different aspects of CSS sponsorship.
Supervise, support, and encourage young people from the CSS Training Center.
Organize various events that revive the atmosphere around CSS.

SOCIOS-CSS slogan:"Ad Vitam Eternam"
This famous Latin expression reveals the essence of a Socio's belonging to his club, CSS, a club he cherishes and will cherish until his last breath. It is a fusional affection, a formidable passion that animates the SOCIOS CSS towards the Black & White Club. The Latin expression challenges, creates, and raises questions, that is the intended purpose, active marketing, not passive. It is up to the target to make the effort to decipher the message, not the other way around.

Partnership
In addition to the celebration of the 87th anniversary of Club Sportif Sfaxien, SOCIOS-CSS signed a membership protocol with Sandlanders Football, whereby SOCIOS-CSS joins an international network of clubs working for the development of sports clubs and sustainable infrastructure. The signing took place on Saturday, May 30th, 2015, on the sidelines of the festivities of the 87th anniversary of the club, in the presence of Mr. Paul Jones, Vice President of Sandlanders Football.

Players

Current squad

Official Honours
Source:soccerway.com

Performance in CAF competitions
CAF Champions League:

1996 – Semi-finals
2006 – Runner-up
2014 – Semi-finals

CAF Confederation Cup:

2007 – Winner
2008 – Winner
2010 – Runner-up

2012 – First round
2013 – Winner

CAF Super Cup:

2008 – Runner-up
2009 – Runner-up
2014 – Runner-up

CAF Cup:

1998 – Winner

Managers

Presidents

Provisional presidents

Fitness coaches

Rival clubs
 ES Tunis
 Club Africain
 Étoile Sportive du Sahel

See also
CS Sfaxien (volleyball)
CS Sfaxien Women's Volleyball
CS Sfaxien Women's Basketball
CS Sfaxien's Official Instagram Page

References

External links
CS Sfaxien at Sofascore

CS Sfaxien
Football clubs in Tunisia
Association football clubs established in 1928
1928 establishments in Tunisia
Sports clubs and teams in Tunisia
CAF Cup winning clubs
CAF Confederation Cup winning clubs