# Comboios de Portugal

CP — Comboios de Portugal, EPE (CP; English: Trains of Portugal) is a state-owned company which operates passenger trains in Portugal. Prior to June 2009, CP stood for Caminhos de Ferro Portugueses (English: Portuguese Railways) although the company has been using its current designation as a brand name since 2004.

CP can trace its origins back to October 1856 and the opening of the first railway line in Portugal; the majority of the network has long comprised Iberian gauge lines, compatible with neighboring Spain. During the 1950s, the Portuguese railway network spanned roughly , its greatest extent. In 1975, the Portuguese Railway Company was nationalised Amid a decline in passenger numbers, various lines were shut down, with almost a quarter of the rail network being closed by the twenty-first century.

During the 1990s, various efforts to restructure and improve CP services have been initiated. During 1999, CP introduced its new flagship service, the Alfa Pendular, which operates between Braga - Porto - Lisbon - Faro using tilting trains. Since 2005, management of the railway infrastructure has been split from CP, which instead focuses on train services, while the former role is now performed by Infraestruturas de Portugal (IP). Also, CP's cargo activities were transferred to private company MSC who operate them under the Medway label; leaving CP to only operate passenger trains. In 2015, a new long-term strategy for Portugal's railway network has been underway, under which full electrification of the network, the provision of European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS), and the general modernisation and improvement of trunk routes and international services is being conducted. Throughout early 2023, CP's operations have been repeatedly disrupted by industrial action.

History
On 28 October 1856, the first railway line in Portugal was inaugurated between Lisbon and Carregado; the event marked the origins of the Companhia dos Caminhos de Ferro Portugueses. While the early railways in Portugal had been constructed in standard gauge, subsequent lines were built to the Iberian gauge as to be compatible with neighboring Spain; the initial standard gauge tracks were also rebuilt into Iberian gauge for consistency.

The railway network was gradually expanded both south of the Tagus and to the north of the country, as well as in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and to Spain. Portugal's railways would play a role in numerous significant national events. On 14 December 1910; President Sidonio Bernardino Cardeso da Silva Paes was assassinated at Lisboa-Rossio Railway Station of one of the presidents of the first republic. In 1958, a railway rout formed a prominent part of the political campaign of the democratic opposition candidate Humberto Delgado for the Portuguese presidency. More generally, the railways had been crucial to the rapid dissemination of news across the more rural areas of the nation.

It was during the 1950s that the Portuguese railway network expanded to its greatest extent, covering roughly . Throughout the second half of the 20th century, the majority of CP's rolling stock was built in Portugal by Sorefame - notably carriages with stainless steel bodywork. Gradually, electrification was put in place for a little less than half the network. In 1975, the company was nationalised, after which its name was shortened to CP. During the 1970s and especially during the 1980s, as cars became increasingly affordable to average citizens, passenger demand on CP's network declined considerably, spurring decreases in investment, the cutting back on little-used services, and the closure of less trafficked lines. By the twenty-first century, almost a quarter of the rail network had been closed, around  remained operational, while of the roughly 900 stations once active, only 563 remained in use by 2023.

During the 1990s, CP inaugurated new trains for its suburban service within Lisbon; during 2001, new rolling stock was brought into service on Porto's suburban services as well. In September 2012, the Portuguese government announced its intention to privatise portions of the suburban rail services of Liborn and Porto via a leasing arrangement. The move was part of a wider initiative towards increasing the liberalisation of the domestic Portuguese rail network.

During 1999, CP introduced its new flagship service, the Alfa Pendular, which operates between Braga - Porto - Lisbon - Faro. Using a fleet of FIAT/Siemens tilting trains, it has a maximum operating speed of 220 km/h (138 mph). Despite this, the majority of Portugal's lines were not suitable for high speed operations, which was a partial consequence of the protracted lack of investment. By 2006, CP's network covers the majority of the country.

Various changes to modernise and improve CP's railway network were proposed during the early twenty-first century. At the time, the infrastructure suffered from a lack of uniformity, particularly in respect to signalling and electrical supply systems, while freight services were subject to numerous restrictions even on heavily trafficked trunk lines. A programme of works to finally connect all the district capitals by a fully electrified double line was to be implemented from 2010; elements of this plan were based on the Swiss Rail 2000 model. Furthermore, the Portuguese government was keen to improve intermobility between the rail network and various other logistic platforms, such as airports and seaports, as well as to improve links with pan-European transportation mediums in general.

In 2015, a new long-term strategy for Portugal's railway network was announced; it called for the full electrification of the network, along with the provision of European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) signaling and control apparatus, infrastructure compliance with the relevant European standards along all of the main freight corridors for complete interoperability, and changed to enable the running of -long trains carrying up to 1,400 tonnes of cargo. Particular attention was paid to the modernisation of those lines used by international services and trunk routes that traversed the country.

During 2019, CP transported 145 million passengers, an increase of 19 million from the previous year.

Throughout early 2023, CP's passenger services have been repeatedly disrupted by industrial action taken by its employees.

The Vouga line is presently the only narrow gauge line that remains operational.

Infrastructure

The infrastructure of the Portuguese network is managed by Infraestruturas de Portugal, usually abbreviated to IP

Portuguese railway network extent:
 Broad gauge (): ,  electrified at 25 kV 50 Hz AC and  at 1.5 kV DC.
 Narrow gauge (metre gauge) :  not electrified.
 The maximum extent of  was reached in 1949, but in the late 1980s and early 1990s some lines were shortened and some totally closed.

Organisation
CP is split into three divisions:
 CP Longo Curso, long-distance mainline services (Alfa Pendular, Intercidades and International trains).
 CP Regional, regional services (Interregional and Regional).
 CP Urban Services
 CP Lisboa, Lisbon's suburban network.
 CP Porto, Porto's suburban network.
 CP Coimbra, Coimbra's suburban network.

Services
CP offers the following types of trains:
 International (IN) is the service that connects Portugal with Spain and France. These are the Sud-Express (Lisbon-Hendaye), Lusitânia (Lisbon-Madrid) and Celta (Porto-Vigo). Both Sud Express and Lusitânia are night trains that run under Renfe's Trenhotel (Hotel Train) brand.
 Alfa Pendular (AP) is the fastest service, whose speeds can reach 220 km/h. This service runs from Lisbon to either Porto, Braga or Guimarães (passing through Coimbra, Aveiro and Porto) or between Porto and Faro. 
 Intercidades (IC) is a fast long-distance service whose speeds can reach 200 km/h. All IC services (apart from the Beja Shuttle) run from Lisbon to either Porto, Braga