# Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy

Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is an acquired autoimmune disease of the peripheral nervous system characterized by progressive weakness and impaired sensory function in the legs and arms. The disorder is sometimes called chronic relapsing polyneuropathy (CRP) or chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (because it involves the nerve roots). CIDP is closely related to Guillain–Barré syndrome and it is considered the chronic counterpart of that acute disease. Its symptoms are also similar to progressive inflammatory neuropathy. It is one of several types of neuropathy.

Types
Several variants have been reported. Specially important are:
 An asymmetrical variant of CIDP is known as Lewis-Sumner Syndrome or MADSAM (multifocal acquired demyelinating sensory and motor neuropathy).
 A variant with CNS involvement named combined central and peripheral demyelination (CCPD). This variant is special because it belongs at the same time to the CIDP syndrome and to the multiple sclerosis spectrum. These cases seem to be related to the presence of anti-neurofascin autoantibodies.

Causes 

Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (or polyradiculoneuropathy) is considered an autoimmune disorder destroying myelin, the protective covering of the nerves. Typical early symptoms are "tingling" (sort of electrified vibration or paresthesia) or numbness in the extremities, frequent (night) leg cramps, loss of reflexes (in knees), muscle fasciculations, "vibration" feelings, loss of balance, general muscle cramping and nerve pain.  CIDP is extremely rare but under-recognized and under-treated due to its heterogeneous presentation (both clinical and electrophysiological) and the limitations of clinical, serologic, and electrophysiologic diagnostic criteria. Despite these limitations, early diagnosis and treatment is favoured in preventing irreversible axonal loss and improving functional recovery.

There is a lack of awareness and treatment of CIDP.  Although there are stringent research criteria for selecting patients for clinical trials, there are no generally agreed-upon clinical diagnostic criteria for CIDP due to its different presentations in symptoms and objective data. Application of the present research criteria to routine clinical practice often misses the diagnosis in a majority of patients, and patients are often left untreated despite progression of their disease.

CIDP has been associated with diabetes mellitus, HIV infection, and paraproteinemias.

Variants with paranodal autoantibodies

Some variants of CIDP present autoimmunity against proteins of the node of Ranvier. These variants comprise a subgroup of inflammatory neuropathies with IgG4 autoantibodies against the paranodal proteins neurofascin-155, contactin-1 and caspr-1.

These cases are special not only because of their pathology, but also because they are non-responsive to the standard treatment. They are responsive to Rituximab instead.

Also some cases of combined central and peripheral demyelination (CCPD) could be produced by neurofascins.

Autoantibodies of the IgG3 Subclass in CIDP

Autoantibodies to components of the Ranvier nodes, specially autoantibodies the Contactin-associated protein 1 (CASPR), cause a form of CIDP with an acute "Guillain-Barre-like" phase, followed by a chronic phase with progressive symptoms. Different IgG subclasses are associated with the different phases of the disease. IgG3 Caspr autoantibodies were found during the acute GBS-like phase, while IgG4 Caspr autoantibodies were present during the chronic phase of disease.

Diagnosis and symptoms
Diagnosis is typically made on the basis of presenting symptoms in tandem with electrodiagnostic testing or a nerve biopsy. Doctors may use a lumbar puncture to verify the presence of increased cerebrospinal fluid protein.

Differential diagnosis
CIDP variants are among several types of immune-mediated neuropathies recognised. These include:
 Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) with subtypes:
 Classical CIDP
 CIDP with diabetes
 CIDP/monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance
 Sensory CIDP
 Multifocal motor neuropathy
 Multifocal acquired demyelinating sensory and motor neuropathy (Lewis-Sumner syndrome)
 Multifocal acquired sensory and motor neuropathy
 Distal acquired demyelinating sensory neuropathy
 Guillain–Barré syndrome with subtypes:
 Acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy
 Acute motor axonal neuropathy
 Acute motor and sensory axonal neuropathy
 Acute pandysautonomia
 Miller Fisher syndrome
 IgM monoclonal gammopathies with subtypes:
 Waldenström's macroglobulinemia
 Mixed cryoglobulinemia, gait ataxia, late-onset polyneuropathy syndrome
 Myelin-associated glycoprotein-associated gammopathy, polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, M-protein and skin changes syndrome (POEMS)

Other possible diagnoses are
 Bickerstaff brainstem encephalitis
 Fisher syndrome
 Guillain–Barré syndrome

For this reason a diagnosis of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy needs further investigations. The diagnosis is usually provisionally made through a clinical neurological examination.

Symptoms
Symptoms such as diminished or absent deep-tendon reflexes and sensory ataxia are common. Other symptoms include proximal and distal muscle weakness in the limbs.

Patients usually present with a history of weakness, numbness, tingling, pain and difficulty in walking.  They may additionally present with fainting spells while standing up or burning pain in extremities. Some patients may have sudden onset of back pain or neck pain radiating down the extremities, usually diagnosed as radicular pain. These symptoms are usually progressive and may be intermittent.

Autonomic system dysfunction can occur; in such a case, the patient would complain of orthostatic dizziness, problems breathing, eye, bowel, bladder  and cardiac problems. The patient may also present with a single cranial nerve or peripheral nerve dysfunction.

On examination the patients may have weakness, and loss of deep tendon reflexes (rarely increased or normal). There may be atrophy (shrinkage) of muscles, fasciculations (twitching) and loss of sensation. Patients may have multi-focal motor neuropathy, as they have no sensory loss.

Most experts consider the necessary duration of symptoms to be greater than 8 weeks for the diagnosis of CIDP to be made.

Fatigue has been identified as common in CIDP patients, but it is unclear how much this is due to primary (due to the disease action on the body) or secondary effects (impacts on the whole person of being ill with CIDP).

Tests
Typical diagnostic tests include:
 Electrodiagnostics – electromyography (EMG) and nerve conduction study (NCS). In usual CIDP, the nerve conduction studies show demyelination. These findings include:
 a reduction in nerve conduction velocities;
 the presence of conduction block or abnormal temporal dispersion in at least one motor nerve;
 prolonged distal latencies in at least two nerves;
 absent F waves or prolonged minimum F wave latencies in at least two motor nerves. (In some case EMG/NCV can be normal).
 Serum test to exclude other autoimmune diseases.
 Lumbar puncture and serum test for anti-ganglioside antibodies. These antibodies are present in the branch of CIDP diseases comprised by anti-GM1, anti-GD1a, and anti-GQ1b.
 Sural nerve biopsy; biopsy is considered for those patients in whom the diagnosis is not completely clear, when other causes of neuropathy (e.g., hereditary, vasculitic) cannot be excluded, or when profound axonal involvement is observed on EMG.
 Ultrasound of the peripheral nerves may show swelling of the affected nerves.
 Magnetic resonance imaging can also be used in the diagnostic workup.

In some cases electrophysiological studies fail to show any evidence of demyelination. Though conventional electrophysiological diagnostic criteria are not met, the patient may stil