# One Love (The Prodigy song)

"One Love" is a song by British electronic music act the Prodigy, released on 4 October 1993 by XL Recordings as the first single from the act's second album, Music for the Jilted Generation (1994). The song peaked at number eight on the UK Singles Chart and number five on the UK Dance Singles Chart. It was also a top 30 hit in Sweden and Switzerland.

Inspiration
Liam Howlett first released the songs "One Love" and "One Love" (Jonny L Remix) as two 12-inch white labels, called "Earthbound 1" and "Earthbound 2".

The version that appeared on the Prodigy's second studio album Music for the Jilted Generation was the shorter edit version due to the band having to trim some running time off the album to allow it to fit on the master CD.

Critical reception
Ian Gittins from Melody Maker felt "One Love" "lacks the maverick, individual quality which distinguished tracks like "Everybody in the Place", and I's guess it's unlikely to repeat the Prodigy's normal routine chart success." Andy Beevers from Music Week named the song Pick of the Week in the category of Dance and gave it four out of five, calling it a "charging percussion-laden and bass-heavy" track. James Hamilton from the Record Mirror Dance Update described the original mix of "One Love" as "hardcore star's muezzin punctuated surging frantic 148bpm".

Music video
The accompanying music video for the song was created by Hyperbolic Systems and featured computer generated graphics with occasional images of the band members dancing among tribal figures.

Soundtrack
In 1995, "One Love" (along with "Voodoo People") was included in the soundtrack for the movie Hackers, starring Jonny Lee Miller and Angelina Jolie.

Track listings
All songs were written by Liam Howlett.

 12-inch vinyl
 "One Love" (original mix) (5:50)
 "Rhythm of Life" (original mix) (5:05)
 "Full Throttle" (original mix) (5:28)
 "One Love" (Jonny L remix) (5:10)

 CD single
 "One Love" (edit) (3:53)
 "Rhythm of Life" (original mix) (5:05)
 "Full Throttle" (original mix) (5:28)
 "One Love" (Jonny L remix) (5:10)

Note: "One Love" (edit) is named "One Love" (Juliana mix) on the Japanese release

Charts

References

External links
 Further information about the single

The Prodigy songs
1993 singles
XL Recordings singles
Songs written by Liam Howlett
1993 songs