# Finvenkism

Finvenkismo () is an ideological current within the Esperanto movement. The name is derived from the concept of a fina venko (English: final victory), denoting the moment when Esperanto will be used as the predominant second language throughout the world. A finvenkist is thus someone who hopes for or works towards this "final victory" of Esperanto. According to some finvenkists, this "final victory" of Esperanto may help eradicate war, chauvinism, and cultural oppression. The exact nature of this adoption (e.g., individual vs state adoption), and what would constitute a "final victory" is often left unspecified.

Recently, some Esperantists have campaigned for the expression fina venko to be replaced with fina sukceso ("final success") because the former reminds some people of war due to its similarity to the German word Endsieg.

Origin
L. L. Zamenhof created Esperanto with the goal of widespread use as a second language for international communication. In the early days of the Esperanto movement, essentially all Esperantists maintained an idealized hope of widespread future adoption; however, as the Esperanto community grew, so did the diversity of ideologies among Esperantists, some of whom began to challenge the merits of preserving such an aspirational goal.

Possible ways to achieve 
During the 1910 World Esperanto Congress, Zamenhof highlighted two ways that widespread adoption could be achieved: through individual action (e.g., self-directed study of Esperanto) around the world, or by government action permitting or requiring Esperanto literacy to be taught in schools:

Among Esperantists, as Esperanto matured, the two ways began to be called  ("from below -ism") and  ("from above -ism"), respectively.

Raŭmismo and Civitanismo

Since 1980, finvenkismo encountered criticism by so-called raŭmistoj. This ideological current interprets the Esperanto community as a language diaspora, whose members should not concentrate on the propagation of the language, but rather on its cultivation. The term Raŭmismo comes from the Manifesto of Rauma signed by many participants of the International Youth Congress in the Finnish town Rauma in 1980.

Soon the word Raŭmismo acquired two different meanings: According to some, a Raŭmist is just someone who uses Esperanto without propagating it. Others follow Raŭmismo, an ideology that considers the Esperanto community a self-selected linguistic minority and supports attempts to get a state-like representation for this minority. Raŭmismo is now often called Civitanismo, because it is the official ideology of the Esperanta Civito (Esperanto Citizens' Community), an organisation which attempts to be such a state-like representation of the Esperanto diaspora. The Raŭmismo (Civitanismo) ideology, representing a small proportion of Esperantists, is perceived as spending more energy on criticising the finvenkist movement than on cultivating Esperanto, and thus has become somewhat isolated within the Esperanto community.

Manifesto of Prague
In response to the criticisms from Raŭmists, the Esperanto movement produced the Prague Manifesto (), which establishes a set of seven widely shared principles of the Esperanto movement. It was drafted at the 1996 World Esperanto Congress in Prague by Mark Fettes and others attending the congress. The document emphasizes democratic communication, language rights, preservation of language diversity, and effective language education.

References

External links

Text of the Prague Manifesto in English
Esperanta Civito

Esperanto culture
Esperanto movement