# Miss Globe International

Miss Globe is a global beauty pageant group that holds annual events. Currently, Miss Globe is produced simultaneously by three various organizations claiming to be the "official" organizers. The Miss Globe was first known to the public in 1925 with the name Dream Girl International. In 2010, the pageant was split into three organizations. Miss Globe International, based in Turkey, is produced annually (currently inactive event) by RCA Global Entertainment Co. and organized by Rasim Aydın. Miss Globe based in Albania is yearly produced by another organization, Deliart Association and produced by Petri Bozo. In 2016, a third organizer, Miss Globe Group Inc. based in Ontario, Canada also started to organize an annual Miss Globe pageant headed by Albert Xhaferri and Dickson Ng. MISS GLOBE originated from a competition held at the Emek Cinema in Istanbul's Beyoğlu district in 1925. The competition was conceived by one of the cinema's directors, Alen Mouradian. The contest was organized to increase the interest of movie audiences. Arak Çetin has become the owner of the crown and the first Miss Globe title. However, newspapers and magazines wrote that the contest was unfair. On that basis, they argue that Arak Çetin is favored not because of his beauty and knowledge but because he works as a presenter in the cinema. Fearing that this campaign against the cinema would commercially harm the cinema, the operators announced that they had abandoned the contest at the end of a one-week period after the contest was announced. organization and thus the crown and title given to Arak Çetin omitted
 
Alen came to the United States shortly after this event and settled in New Hamphsire. He again hosted the Miss Globe at the model ball, symbolizing the arrival of spring at Winnipesauke. At this contest, Alma Cavagnaro became the first official owner of the crown and the title of Miss Globe. The first official trademark registration of the Miss Globe beauty pageant for the Turkish Patent and Trademark Office was done in 1950. The contest was organized by the international film company RCA. registration, over time has become a traditional contest.
 
In 1975, Charlie See acquired the Miss Globe franchise after Alen death. He announced that he would reorganize the Miss Globe International contest in Turkey. An epic final competition was held under the chairmanship of Süha Özgermi. This competition was held at the open-air dance stage called Halikarnas in the Bodrum district of Muğla. After that date, Miss Globe International raised the bar to a business competition on a global scale, by organizing national competitions in both Turkey and other countries and with a finalist competition. internationally in which girls are considered degree-worthy. participate in these contests 

The current winner of The Miss Globe is Anabel Payano of Dominican Republic who won in 2022.

History
The three Miss Globe pageants are a spin-off from the original Miss Globe, founded by Charlie See and Alen Mouradian. Miss Globe was registered in the Bureau of Patents and Trademarks of Washington DC in 1925.

Rivne resident, Yulia Rybchuk from Ukraine, on November 12, 2020, became a finalist of the competition. 

The following are the countries that won multiple crowns if the 3 Miss Globe International organizations combined before it was splitted into three organization and these are the Philippines won 5 crowns, Venezuela and United States won 4 crowns in total, Brazil won 3 crowns, while Albania, Germany, Canada, Australia, Russia and Czech Republic won a total of 2 crowns. And countries that won 1 crown in total are Switzerland, Algeria, Romania, Lithuania, Slovakia, Peru, Turkey, France, Argentina, Estonia, Turkmenistan, Spain, Norway, India, Vietnam, China, Mexico, Kosovo and Dominic Republic.

The Miss Globe 
The following are the winners of The Miss Globe pageant arranged by Deliart association since 2004:

Country/Territory by number of wins

Miss Globe
The following are the winners of Miss Globe pageant arranged by Miss Globe Group Inc. since 1974:

Country/Territory by number of wins

Miss Globe International 

The following are original titleholders of Miss Globe International beauty contest before the pageant was split into 3 organizations in 2010:

See also
 List of beauty contests

References

 
International beauty pageants
Organizations based in Istanbul
Recurring events established in 1988