# Broadcast Protection Discussion Group

The Broadcast Protection Discussion Group (BPDG) is a working group of content providers, television broadcasters, consumer electronics manufacturers, information technology companies, interested individuals and consumer activists. The group was formed specifically for the purpose of evaluating the suitability of the broadcast flag for preventing unauthorized redistribution (including unauthorized redistribution over the Internet of unencrypted digital terrestrial broadcast television (DTV)) and to determine whether there was substantial support for the broadcast flag. The group completed its mission with the release of the BPDG Report.

The BPDG has reached a consensus on the use of a technical broadcast flag standard for digital broadcast copy protection. The broadcast flag is an electronic marker embedded in over-the-air digital broadcast signals that would block or limit the ability of consumer electronics devices to make copies of the programs. The broadcast flag would also prevent the redistribution of such programs over the Internet. Despite reaching a consensus on this standard, the BPDG did not reach any agreement concerning how to implement the use of the flag or enforce it.

Digital TV programs protection using broadcast flags 

The group proposed that digital TV programs be embedded with a "broadcast flag." All digital devices would be required to recognize the flag, which would prevent the protected content from being distributed on the Internet. The report states, "The proposed technical solution does not interfere with the ability of consumers to both make copies of DTV content, and to exchange such content among devices connected within a digital home network."

BPDG publications
After several meetings, the BPDG has published some reports in order to enforce the idea of the broadcast flag. Those publications are:
 BPDG Final Reportl
 Summary of EFF Report on BPDG
 Full EFF Report on BPDG
 Table A

What is EFF?
The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) is a nonprofit group of passionate people-—lawyers, technologists, volunteers, and visionaries-—working to protect digital rights.

Blending the expertise of lawyers, policy analysts, activists, and technologists, EFF achieves significant victories on behalf of consumers and the general public. EFF fights for freedom primarily in the courts, bringing and defending lawsuits even when that means taking on the US government or large corporations. By mobilizing more than 50,000 concerned citizens through our Action Center, EFF beats back bad legislation. In addition to advising policymakers, EFF educates the press and public. Sometimes just defending technologies is not enough, so EFF also supports the development of freedom-enhancing inventions.

Policy group is not a CPTWG sub-group?
Several CPTWG (Copy Protection Technical Working Group) participants indicated at CPTWG's June 5 meeting that the "parallel group" or "policy group" is "not a sub-group of CPTWG or "not part of CPTWG".

Broadcast flag is not a watermark
Some recent press coverage of BPDG refers to the BPDG proposal as recommending a watermark in digital TV broadcasts. This is a misperception of the nature of the broadcast flag. (There is a distinct proposal called the broadcast watermark which was not discussed extensively within BPDG and is not part of the BPDG's published recommendations.)

A watermark is commingled directly with the signal it marks, and thereby alters the signal (ideally, in an imperceptible way). By contrast, the broadcast flag exists side-by-side with video content it marks.

Terms to describe the broadcast flag, rather than watermark, might include "bit", "indicator", "flag", "descriptor", "tag", "header field", or "notice". But use of "watermark" is sure to generate confusion, especially because watermark proposals distinct from BPDG do exist. Watermarking is likely to be a big issue soon in a public forum—but not as a part of BPDG's proposal.

Misconceptions about BPDG

An article by John Dvorak seems to contain a misconception: that the result of BPDG's work will be the obsolescence of current digital TV receivers. As Dvorak writes:

"it appears that the new copy-protection schemes being dreamed up by Hollywood will make every single HDTV set sold to date obsolete. And buyers of new sets are not being told about this situation in a dubious attempt to dump very expensive inventory."

What happened was that the Hollywood folks, who are just freaked over the possibility that we'll be copying HDTV movies, have promoted copy protection that requires the decode circuit to be built into the display, not into the set-top box. This requires the set-top box to send a signal to a connector that new HDTV sets will have. If you're thinking of buying an HDTV, don't, unless it has this connector and circuit-whenever they are finalized."

One view is that Dvorak has got the situation backwards. Old equipment will continue to work. This is because BPDG is not planning to encrypt broadcasts at all—merely to cause them to include a "broadcast flag", and to obtain legislation forcing all manufacturers to comply with its rules.

The result of this would be that old equipment would be better and more useful than new equipment. Not only would it work properly, but it wouldn't have been crippled by having to comply with the Compliance and Robustness Rules. This is to say that old equipment would be more functional, not less functional, than new equipment.

Alphabet soup

"BPDG wants the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to mandate Digital Rights Management (DRM) for ATSC DTB receivers

In the body of this article, there are expansions for about 80 of the most common acronyms used in discussions about this issue. (The acronyms expanded include every acronym which appears in the BPDG's Draft Compliance and Robustness Rules, among others.)

Of course, this it not enough to appreciate the context behind these acronyms. For example, knowing that PCMCIA stands for Personal Computer Memory Card International Association gives no clue that the Association in question published a standard for tiny removable cards used in laptops. Hearing that 8VSB means "8-level vestigial side band" explains nothing about 8VSB's role in digital television broadcasting (that is DTB for the initiated).

The following list contains some of the most important acronyms related to this subject:

 4C  4 companies
 5C  5 companies
 8/VSB  8 level vestigial side band
 AC3  audio code 3
 ADC  analog to digital converter, analog to digital conversion
 AGP  accelerated graphics port
 AHRA  audio home recording act
 ASIC  application-specific integrated circuit
 ATSC  advanced television systems committee
 BF  broadcast flag
 BPDG  broadcast protection discussion group
 BW  broadcast watermark
 CA  conditional access
 CBDTPA  consumer broadband and digital television promotion act
 CE  consumer electronics
 CEA  consumer electronics association
 CIG  computer industry group
 CMI  copyright management information
 CP  copy protection, content protection
 CPRM  content protection for recordable media
 CPTWG  copy protection technical working group
 CRT  cathode ray tube
 CSS  content scramble system
 D-VHS  digital VHS
 DAC  digital to analog converter, digital to analog conversion
 DMCA  digital millennium copyright act
 DRM  digital rights management
 DT  digital terrestrial
 DTB  digital terrestrial broadcasting, digital terrestrial broadcast
 DTCP  digital transmission content protection
 DTLA  digital transmission licensing administrator
 DTV  digital television
 DVD  digital versatile disc
 DVDCCA  DVD copy control association
 DVI  digital video interface
 ECM  entitlement control message
 EEPROM  electrically erasable programmable read-only memory
 EFF  electronic frontier foundation
 EIT  event information table
 EPN  encryption plus non-assertion
 FCC  federal communications commission
 FPGA  field-programmable gate array
 HD  high definition
 HDCP