# New Zealand Ice Hockey League

The New Zealand Ice Hockey League (NZIHL) is New Zealand's top-level ice hockey league. Established in 2005 by Guenther Birgel, the NZIHL is sanctioned by New Zealand Ice Hockey Federation (a member of the International Ice Hockey Federation). The NZIHL is an amateur league with players not paid to play. The NZIHL champion is awarded the Birgel Cup. The NZIHL is currently contested by six teams from three affiliated regions, including three teams from the North Island and three teams from the South Island. The most successful team in NZIHL history is the SkyCity Stampede, who have claimed eight NZIHL championships. The current champion, from 2023, is the SkyCity Stampede.

History

The New Zealand Ice Hockey League (NZIHL) was formed in 2005 to develop the sport of ice hockey in New Zealand by Guenther Birgel, and to give the top players in the country regular competitive hockey to improve the skill level of the game domestically and make New Zealand more competitive on the international stage. The league was setup with restrictions on import players (players born outside of New Zealand and Australia) to assist in the promotion of local players to help achieve its founding goals. Scheduling for NZIHL would fit into the Northern Hemisphere's ice hockey offseason, to enable a small amount of quality import players to help grow the sport and teach local players. The league was founded with four teams that included the Canterbury Red Devils, West Auckland Admirals, Southern Stampede and South Auckland Swarm.

The first ever game of the NZIHL in the inaugural 2005 season, was played on 3 June 2005 at Paradice Botany Downs, Auckland. The game saw hosts, West Auckland Admirals, defeat the visiting Canterbury Red Devils 5–2, with all goals coming in the third period after blank first and second periods.

The maiden season ran for four rounds and twelve games followed by a best of three finals series in Dunedin. Southern Stampede finished top of the regular season standings, claiming the league premiership. The Stampede were joined by the Admirals in the finals series. Southern Stampede were crowned NZIHL champions and lifted the maiden NZIHL Trophy with a 2–0 clean sweep of the finals series. Simon Glass, from the Stampede, finished as the league's first top points scorer with 14 points and took out the league MVP award. Steven Reid, also of the Stampede, was named Finals MVP.

Prior to 2007 season, the South Auckland Swarm changed its name to the Botany Swarm in order to differentiate themselves with a more unique name from the West Auckland Admirals. Previously there had been confusion around the similar names. Botany was chosen as the Swarm's home rink is located in the Auckland suburb of Botany Downs.

In 2008, the league expanded for the first time and added a fifth team. The Dunedin Thunder joined the league as a second team from Otago, creating the first South Island derby in the league along with the Southern Stampede. The Stampede relocated to Queenstown leaving the Thunder to build its supporter base in Dunedin.

For the 2010 season, the league announced a change to the NZIHL championship trophy. The NZIHL trophy was retired and the league introduced the Birgel Cup to be handed to the league champion who wins the NZIHL Finals.

Teams

Foundation clubs

The NZIHL had four foundation clubs, Canterbury Red Devils, West Auckland Admirals, Southern Stampede and South Auckland Swarm. These four teams covered three of four affiliated regions that make up the New Zealand Ice Hockey Federation, this being Auckland, Canterbury and Southern.

Expansion

In 2008, the first expansion of the NZIHL took place. Dunedin Thunder was founded and admitted into the league. With the Thunder entering the league and basing itself in Dunedin, the Southern Stampede, who has been based in Dunedin, moved to Queenstown. In 2021, the NZIHL expanded for a second time by admitted a third Auckland based team into the league. Auckland Mako joined the league after being established in the same year as a youth development team following IIHF competition cancellations in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mako split home games between Paradice Avondale and Paradice Botany.

Future expansion

Future expansion of the NZIHL is limited due to small number of ice rink facilities across the country. There is ongoing discussions regarding construction of new ice facilities in different parts of New Zealand. If any new facility is built, expansion of the NZIHL is likely. Despite having a regional association with the Federation, Wellington, the capital of New Zealand, does not have any ice sports facilities. This has meant the third largest city in the country is not represented in the NZIHL. In 2011, it was reported that the local Wellington City Council was considering options for building a permanent ice rink facility, while they agreed to a privately paid for temporary rink to be constructed on Wellington's waterfront at Queens Wharf to attract Rugby World Cup fans and holidaying school children for the Wintergarden event. In 2015, the Wellington Regional Multi-Purpose Sports and Recreational Ice Arena Trust was incorporated with a view of planning, constructing and operating a 2,500 seat ice sports facility in the Wellington region. The project was estimated to cost $11 million, with the Trust looking to sign an agreement with the Wellington City Council for the land and then raise funding for the project through donations, fundraising and loans. However, as of 2023, no proposed ice rink project has been completed in Wellington despite the popularity of the temporary ice rinks in the city over the years.

New Zealand-Australia interaction

With the NZIHL quality improving over the years, there has been talk of creating a combined Oceania competition that would see the New Zealand league merge with the Australian league, Australian Ice Hockey League (AIHL). In 2011 the AIHL Chairman Tyler Lovering confirmed talks had taken place with NZIHL General Manager Gunther Birgel regarding the prospect of New Zealand based teams joining the AIHL within the next three years.

While no combined league has been subsequently established yet, in 2011 the Australian and New Zealand leagues did agree to set-up the Trans-Tasman Champions League. The Champions League would see the top two teams from each league qualify and compete in a tournament to be crowned Trans-Tasman champions. The first and only edition of the Champions League was played in Melbourne in 2012 with Botany Swarm, Southern Stampede, Newcastle North Stars and Melbourne Ice competing. The NZIHL teams failed to win a game in the tournament, and while the second edition was scheduled to be played in Queenstown in 2013, the tournament was cancelled and never contested again. 

Instead, the federations for Australia and New Zealand ice hockey favoured setting up more regular international series between the two countries, with the New Zealand Winter Games identified as a platform for the two national teams to come together and face-off regularly. The two nations have played together in series at the 2009, 2011, 2017, 2018 and 2019 New Zealand Winter Games.

In 2022, a new Australian based league was announced named the Pacific Hockey League (PHL). This new league identified expansion into New Zealand from its outset to create an Oceanian league connecting Australia and New Zealand. Rather than try and come to an agreement with the NZIHL and its member clubs, the PHL decided to establish a new team in Queenstown named the Queenstown Rush in 2022. It was intended that this new team would join the league in 2023, allowing sufficient lead time for the Rush to establish itself properly and get ready for competition. However, the Rush never got the opportunity to take part in the PHL, when in early 2023, the league announced it was ceasing operations.

Also in 2022, the Australian and New Zealand federations jointly announced a new concept of an A