# Marywood University

Marywood University is a private Catholic university in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Established in 1915 by the Sisters, Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Marywood currently enrolls more than 2,800 students in a variety of undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral programs. The university has a national arboretum with more than 100 types of trees and shrubs.

History 
The Sisters, Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary came to Scranton, Pennsylvania, and established St. Cecilia's Academy in 1878 "for young ladies". Mount St. Mary's Seminary opened in 1902. Mother M. Cyril Conway, IHM superior in 1901, deliberately chose the term "seminary" (roughly equivalent to a high school in present times) to avoid the suggestion of a finishing school – which was a much more common destination at that time for older girls who could afford to continue their education – as it was intended to be "a place where young scholars dedicated themselves to serious study". The Motherhouse was co-located with the seminary. Its buildings suffered major damage during a fire in the 1970s. As a result, the Jesuit Scranton Preparatory School, then a boys' school, became co-educational to accommodate the girls. The arch, now known as "Memorial Arch", which stood at the entrance to the seminary-cum-motherhouse, still stands on the present-day campus and the former seminary's name can be seen engraved on it.

The seminary was the next time step to the sisters' ultimate goal: to open a women's college in Scranton. Marywood College opened on September 8, 1915 with 34 students. Germaine O'Neil served as the first president and treasurer. It was the fifth Catholic women's college in the United States. The first batch of students graduated in 1919 with a Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, or Bachelor of Letters. By the 1930s, the college had diversified its curriculum, offering subjects ranging from the social sciences to pre-medical. In 1937, the sisters turned down an invitation to merge with St. Thomas College, then under the Christian Brothers. St. Thomas later came under the administration of the Jesuits after World War II and is now the University of Scranton.

By the 1970s, other single-sex Catholic colleges and universities in the diocese such as College Misericordia and King's College were becoming co-educational and Marywood followed suit, opening its doors to male students in the fall of 1989. In 1997, the college was granted university status by the Pennsylvania Department of Education, officially becoming Marywood University.

Over half the campus is located in Dunmore.

Academics 
Marywood's programs are administered through four degree-granting colleges, with 60 bachelor's degree, 36 master's degree, two doctoral degrees, two terminal degrees by program (MFA, Ed.S.). All students are required to complete a core curriculum in the liberal arts in addition to the courses in their major. Undergraduates may also enroll in double majors, honors, and independent study programs, practicums, internships, and study abroad, as well as Army and Air Force ROTC programs.

The university is structured into three colleges:

 College of Arts and Sciences
 Departments:
 Art
 Communication, Language and Literature
 Music, Theatre, and Dance
 Philosophy and Religious Studies
 Science, Mathematics, and Computer Science
 Social Sciences
 Galleries
 Undeclared Majors
 College of Health and Human Services
 Departments:
 Communication Sciences & Disorders
 Nutrition, Athletic Training, and Exercise Science
 Nursing
 Respiratory Therapy
 Physician Assistant
 Psychology and Counseling
 Social Work
 Human Physiology Lab
 College of Professional Studies
 Departments:
 Architecture 
 Business and Global Innovation
 Education
 Ph.D. Strategic Leadership and Administrative Studies and MPA Program
 Professional Continuing Education

Athletics 
Marywood University is an NCAA Division III school and member of the Atlantic East Conference. The official name given is the Marywood Pacers. Marywood competes at the varsity level in baseball, basketball, cross-country, field hockey, golf, lacrosse, rugby, soccer, softball, swimming and diving, tennis, track and field, and volleyball. Students may also choose from more than 30 intramural programs, including club sports, as well as fitness options, recreational classes, and activity clubs.  Marywood University's Mascot's name is Maxis Gillet after the Founder of the IHM Sisters, Mother Theresa Maxis and their Chaplain, Fr. Louis Gillet.

Campus buildings and landmarks 

Marywood University is home to about 20 different buildings on its campus, including the following:

The Center for Natural and Health Sciences houses several academic departments, including Mathematics, Science, Nursing, and Administrative Studies.
The Swartz Center for Spiritual Life, opened in 2007, contains the Marian Chapel, Campus Ministry, and Conference and Event Services.
The Fricchione Day Care Center, built in 1991, is a child development center for children of Marywood staff, faculty, and students.
Immaculata Hall was built in the 1950s. It was originally called Alumnae Hall, and it was renamed to honor Sister M. Immaculata Gillespie, Marywood's first dean. It houses the President's Office and the Office of Planning and Institutional Research.
The Insalaco Center for Studio Arts, completed in 2001, houses the Kresge Gallery and features drawing and painting studios showcasing naturally-lit rooms with fine views of the campus. There are studios and equipment for woodworking, fiber arts, jewelry-making, ceramics, sculpture, photography, printmaking, a computer Mac lab, and private and semi-private studios for upper level BFA, MA, and MFA students.
The Learning Commons, is a 21st Century library that focuses on actively empowering the learner. It is a scholars’ gathering place, where students from all disciplines converge, collaborate, and expand their horizons ever further. The facility includes traditional library services & facilities, a state of the art automatic book-retrieval system, knowledge bar & atrium, regional archives, center for Communication Arts, entrepreneurial launchpad, center for transformational teaching and learning, private and group study rooms, a cafe, audio/visual rooms, seminar rooms, and a memorial garden. It is also home to TV Marywood and VMFM-FM 91.7.
The Liberal Arts Center houses many academic departments, including Religious Studies, Philosophy, Social Sciences, English, and Foreign Languages. The Admissions Office is also located here. The LAC also features the Marywood Rotunda.
Maria Hall, one of the original campus structures, now houses the University Development/Advancement Office.
The Center for Athletics and Wellness includes a 1,500-seat arena, a   fitness center, and other athletic facilities. The center also includes the Aquatics Center; opened in 2011, it has an 8-lane NCAA regulation pool, 3-meter diving board, 1-meter diving boards, competition gutters, and seating for 200 spectators.
The Memorial Arch, built in 1902, originally held the inscription "Mt. St. Mary's" and marked the entrance to the original Motherhouse, which was the location of Mt. St. Mary's seminary. Even though the Motherhouse was destroyed by fire in 1971, the arch still stands as the welcoming landmark at the entrance of the campus. The statue of the Virgin Mary on top of the arch is often referred to by students as the "Electric Mary" due to its halo encircled by light bulbs. The original stone steps to the Motherhouse are behind the arch.

 The Michael and Gwen Calabro Delfino Amphitheatre, built in 2017, is an outdoor performing arts space with natural tiered lawn and is used for academics, staged art, outdoor exhibitions, and recreation.
The Memorial Commons was built in 1975 as a memorial to the original IHM Motherhouse that burned down in 1971. The Memorial Commons was renovated during the construction of the Learning Commons and was renamed the Motherhouse and