# Harvard University Band

The Harvard University Band (HUB) is the official student band of Harvard University.  The Harvard Wind Ensemble, the Harvard Summer Pops Band, and the Harvard Jazz Bands also fall under the umbrella organization of HUB. Currently, the band plays for all football games (both home and away) as well as home men's and women's ice hockey games. Occasionally it plays at men's and women's basketball games. The uniform for both football games and other formal appearances consists of a crimson wool HUB blazer worn over a white shirt with a black HUB logo tie, black pants (since 1961), and black shoes. In the early days of the Band, white sailor hats and khaki pants were worn. For hockey games, the band wears (over casual clothes) a custom Harvard Band hockey jersey, modeled after the home jerseys for men's hockey, which features images of Bertha (the huge bass drum) on the sleeves. Band alumni, known as crusties, maintain strong ties to the HUB, sometimes continuing to act as regular members well after graduating from the university. Illegitimum non carborundum (INC) is the HUB motto. Written correspondence from HUB or HUB members is frequently signed with INC.

History
The band was formed in 1919. By 1930 the band had become a scramble band, a method that was also adopted by most other Ivy League marching bands (as well as the Stanford Band and the Rice Marching Owl Band), with the exception of the Cornell University band. While the inventor of the scramble band technique remains in debate, the HUB maintains a strong claim to the title. A scramble band simply runs (in lieu of marching) from one formation to the next on a cue, typically a starter's pistol.

The HUB office was formerly at 9 Prescott St., and moved to 74 Mt. Auburn St, in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1995. The Harvard University Band's new headquarters was named the "Anderson Band Center" on October 26, 1995, in honor of Leroy Anderson, Director in 1929 and from 1931 to 1935.

Band leadership

The Band is led by a Senior Staff consisting of five officers: 
Manager: Oversees finances and activity bookings. The current Manager is Luke Jackson '24.
Drill Master: Writes and directs the field shows for football games; coordinates the cheers during hockey games. The current Drill Master is Ja'Karri Pierre '25.
Student Conductor: Conducts and writes arrangements. The current StudCon is Travis Tucker '25.
Drum Major: Serves as the leader for field and parade performances; assists in conducting with a mace; acts as the liaison with other Ivy Bands and coordinator of all away trips. The current Drum Major is Justin Su '24.
Schneider: Coordinates the social activities of the Band and maintains and bolsters esprit de corps. The current Schneider is Kyle Stevenson '25.

The senior staff uniforms vary from the standard uniform. The Drum Major wears a tuxedo, red bow tie, and carries a mace, the Drill Master wears a black trench coat, the Student Conductor wears a HUB bow tie, the Manager wears a unique black hat, and the Schneider wears a green tie.

Junior Staffers, who often later become Senior Staffers, work to build up band loyalty and spirit, and themselves provide the core active membership. Junior staff is composed largely of committees under each of the Senior Staff members:

Manager's Committee: Treasurer, Merchandise Coordinator, Webmaster, Alumni and Public Relations Coordinator, Mailing Coordinator, Historian
Drill Master's Committee: Assistant Drill Manager (ADM), Prop Crew Manager, Recruiting Coordinator, Cinematographer, Social Media Coordinator, Minecraft Maestro (retired position)
Student Conductor's Committee: Music Manager (2), Music Archivist, Arrangements and Licensing Coordinator, Percussion Arranging Coordinator, Instruments Manager
Drum Major's Committee: Internal, Trips Manager, Section Leaders - Saxophones, Clarinets, Trumpets, Flutes, Percussion, Low Brass
Schneider's Committee: Weisse (3-4), Schwartz
Miscellaneous: Wind Ensemble Manager, Jazz Band Manager

The Senior Staff is selected by the previous Senior Staff.  The official transition takes place annually in the HUB section of the stands after the completion of the halftime show at The Game.

Directors

Assistant directors

Large items

The Band's bass drum, depicted on the HUB logo, is towed on wheels and measures approximately 8 feet across. The HUB newsletter is also named the "Bass Drum Journal".  The drum is called Bertha, and it is the largest playable natural skin bass drum in the world (made from cow's hide). In the past, Bertha  was the target of thefts by the rival bands from Yale and Brown. In 1963, the giant drumstick used to sound rhythm on Bertha was spirited away during the second half of the Columbia game at Harvard's home stadium; members of the Columbia University Marching Band at the time, and their progeny, have no idea who may have taken the stick.
Bertha originally was purchased in 1927 by the Associated Harvard Clubs, when the band requested a bass drum to play at their convention.  Given a blank check, the band purchased the largest drum available.  The band has not been invited to play for any Associated Harvard Club conventions since.  The current one was purchased in 1956 after a series of fundraising concerts when the other became too damaged to play.
HUB owns one of the world's largest working tubas: a  triple B-flat Besson that is more than 50 years old.  The musician playing this instrument must experiment and relearn which valve combinations are appropriate for each note. Musicians who have played the tuba in public performances include Boston Symphony Orchestra tubist Chester Schmitz, and Sam Pilafian. The tuba last had a large accumulation of dent damage removed somewhere between 1994 and 2002. The Tuba is engraved "Besson & Sons, London England, Carl Fischer, U.S Agent, New York", and is one of three sub-bass Tubas.
 The band owns a large wooden chair (the Throne) which is ornately decorated with the Harvard logo and HUB motto.  It was a gift of the university and the Class of 1903, which the band received in 1953.  Currently it is the seat of the Drill Master during drill meetings at which the show for the next week is planned.

Prop Crew
The Band "Prop Crew" is part of the Harvard Band and is an integral part of the band's spirit and performance. Prop crew members do not play instruments but generally assist with putting on the halftime show (often acting as extras in the performances) and playing "Bertha." The attire for Prop Crew members is a white jumpsuit with "HARVARD BAND" emblazoned in red stitching on the back.

News and stunts

 1954 – On March 6, the band took to the ice for the first time to skate and play for the Yale Hockey game.
 1968 – The band is invited to play graveside at the interment service for Senator Robert F. Kennedy at Arlington National Cemetery.
 1970 – To celebrate the integration of the (female) Racliffe students into the traditionally all-male Harvard Houses (upper class dormitories), the band suggested that language study would be particularly improved by these "cunning linguists."  Ever since all halftime shows have been reviewed by administration officials.
 1971 – Director Thomas Everett founds the Harvard Jazz Band
 1972 – Members of the Brown University Band, posing as an ABC News crew complete with blazers, jump suits, camera and truck, persuades a band freshman to help them transport the "Big Bass Drum" down to Soldiers Field for pre-game filming whereupon they absconded with the drum. A friendly Massachusetts judge (and Band alumn) issues a bench warrant and the malefactors are soon caught by State Troopers. Future band manager Sam Coppersmith remains the only person ever to be awarded "Turkey of the Year" by two separate Ivy League Bands.
 1975 – At the Princeton game, student conductor Tom McGrath, in a tribute to the Boston Pops, led the audience in a mass sing-along of the "Ode to Joy" from the Finale of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, in the origin