# Roman Catholic Diocese of St. Augustine

The Diocese of St. Augustine () is a Latin Church ecclesiastical territory of the Catholic Church, located in the northeastern section of Florida in the United States. It includes the cities of St. Augustine, Jacksonville, and Gainesville.

The Diocese of St. Augustine is a suffragan diocese in the Ecclesiastical Province of Miami, covering much of North Florida,  The bishop's seat is the Cathedral Basilica of St. Augustine.  As of 2023, the current bishop is Erik T. Pohlmeier.

On March 11, 1870, the Vatican erected the Diocese of St. Augustine. It covered most of the Florida peninsula until the 1950s, when Florida's expanding population necessitated the creation of new dioceses.

History

1500 to 1850 
In the mid-1500s, present day Florida became a Spanish colony. Pedro Menéndez de Avilés in 1565 established the Nombre de Dios Mission in St. Augustine. His company included four priests, who were tasked to evangelize the Native American tribes. These priests celebrated the first mass in what would become the United States.

The Diocese of Santiago de Cuba established the first parish in the future United States in St. Augustine, appointing Martin Francisco Lopez de Mendoza Grajales as its first priest. Pending the arrival of regular missionaries, Menéndez appointed several soldiers  to provide religious instruction to the Native Americans.

After the signing of the 1763 Treaty of Paris to end the Seven Years War, the British took control of the Spanish colonies in Florida, prompting many Catholic settlers to leave. In 1783, after the end of the American Revolution, the British returned all of Florida to Spain and Catholic settlers began returning to the area.

In 1793, Pope Pius VI established the Diocese of Louisiana and the Floridas with jurisdiction over all of Spanish Florida.

In 1821, Spain ceded all of Florida to the United States. Four years later, the Vatican created the new Vicariate Apostolic of Alabama and Florida and named Michael Portier as the apostolic vicar.

1850 to 1870 
While in Europe, Vérot also secured funding to repair churches in St. Augustine and elsewhere in Florida. Florida. He also built new churches in Tampa, Fernandina Beach and Tallahassee. Three Christian Brothers from Canada opened a boys' school in St. Augustine.

During the American Civil War, Vérot condemned the looting of the Catholic church at Amelia Island, Florida, by Union Army troops.  He personally evacuated several Sisters of Mercy from Jacksonville to Savannah through the battle zone in Georgia. After the war, Vérot published a pastoral letter urging Catholics in the diocese to "put away all prejudice ... against their former servants". In 1866, the Sisters of St. Joseph were introduced from France, and despite the most adverse conditions, they had several flourishing schools and academies in operation before many years.

1870 to 1900 
On March 11, 1870, Pius IX elevated the Vicariate of Florida into the Diocese of St. Augustine and named Vérot as its first bishop. The new diocese covered all of Florida except for the Florida Panhandle region. Vérot died in 1876. In 1877, Pius IX named Reverend John Moore of Charleston as the second bishop of St. Augustine.

A contingent of Benedictine monks arrived in San Antonio, Florida, in 1886 initially to serve German immigrants. In 1887, a yellow fever outbreak in Florida killed several priests in the diocese. That same year, a fire destroyed the Cathedral of St. Augustine. At Moore's request, a group of Jesuit fathers arrived in Tampa, Florida, in 1888 to replace the priests lost to illness. In August 1888, the St. Mary's Home for Orphan Girls was opened in Jacksonville, Florida.  That same year, yellow fever broke out again in Jacksonville.  With the local priest William J. Kenny sidelined by the disease, Moore rushed there to run the parish and tend to the sick. 
 
In 1889, Moore asked the Benedictines to establish several mission churches on the Florida Gulf Coast from Pasco County northward.  He requested that the Jesuits cover Hillsborough County southward to Key West. Moore died in 1901.

1900 to 1920 
In 1902, Monsignor William Kenny was appointed as the third bishop of the Diocese of St. Augustine by Pope Leo XIII. During his tenure as bishop, Kenny increased the recruitment of Irish priests and nuns, reorganized diocesan offices, expanded missionary efforts to Florida's interior and smaller towns, and more than doubled diocesan fundraising. He also established the first Catholic parish for African Americans in the state. In 1913, the Florida Legislature had passed legislation prohibiting white women from teaching African-American children, a measure aimed at non-segregated Catholic schools.  Considering the law unconstitutional, Kenny told his teaching nuns to ignore it. Kenny died in 1913.

The next bishop of St. Augustine was Reverend Michael Curley, named by Pope Pius X in 1914.  In 1916, Florida Governor Park Trammell ordered the arrest of three Sisters of St. Joseph for violating the law on teaching African-American children. Curley vigorously attacked their arrests as part of a campaign against Catholic schools, gaining strong support from other Catholic prelates in the United States.

Curley attracted national attention in 1917 by successfully battling a bill in the Florida Legislature that would have mandated inspections of convents. Curley refused to comply with it. He led a successful legal campaign to have the law declared unconstitutional. He also sought to educate Floridians about Catholicism and demonstrate the bigotry of the Ku Klux Klan. By the end of his tenure, the Catholic population of the diocese had grown from 39,000 to 41,000, with 40 new churches built. In 1921, Pope Benedict XV named Curley as the new archbishop of the Archdiocese of Baltimore.

1920 to 2000 
In 1922, Monsignor Patrick Barry was appointed the fifth bishop of St. Augustine by Pope Pius XI. In 1931, Barry instituted an annual pilgrimage to the shrine of Nuestra Señora de la Leche at the Mission Nombre de Dios in order to draw attention to the heritage of the Catholic Church in St. Augustine. In 1940, Barry founded Barry University in Miami Shores along with his family members. Barry died in 1940 after 18 years in office.

Pius XII named Monsignor Joseph Hurley of the Diocese of Cleveland as the next bishop of St. Augustine.  In 1958, Pius XII erected the Diocese of Miami, taking its territory in South Florida from the Diocese of Augustine. Hurley was a staunch opponent of the American Civil Rights actions during the 1960s, even avoiding Martin Luther King Jr. at the airport when their paths crossed unexpectedly. King would eventually write Hurley a letter requesting his support for the movement, but failed to gain it. Hurley died in 1967.

Bishop Paul Tanner, general secretary of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, was the next bishop of St. Augustine, selected by Pope Paul VI in 1968. That same year, the pope erected the Dioceses of Orlando and St. Petersburg, both taking territory from the Diocese of St. Augustine. In 1975, Paul VI erected the Diocese of Pensacola-Tallahassee, taking more territory from St. Augustine. Tanner retired in 1979.  His replacement was Auxiliary Bishop John J. Snyder from the Diocese of Brooklyn, named by Pope John Paul II that same year. Snyder entered retirement in 2000.

2000 to present 
In 2001, John Paul II appointed Monsignor Victor Galeone of the Archdiocese of Baltimore as bishop of St. Augustine. Galeone retired in 2011 and Pope Benedict XVI replaced him with Auxiliary Bishop Felipe de Jesús Estévez of Miami.

Estévez initiated the first ecumenical vespers at the bishop-level in Florida in 2014 at the Cathedral Basilica of St. Augustine. The service was attended by Protestant and Orthodox leaders, clergy and lay people.  He attended the installation of Bishop Robert Schaefer of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America near Tampa, Florida. He collaborated with local Ea