# Autocorrelation

Autocorrelation, sometimes known as serial correlation in the discrete time case, is the correlation of a signal with a delayed copy of itself as a function of delay. Informally, it is the similarity between observations of a random variable as a function of the time lag between them. The analysis of autocorrelation is a mathematical tool for finding repeating patterns, such as the presence of a periodic signal obscured by noise, or identifying the missing fundamental frequency  in a signal implied by its harmonic frequencies. It is often used in signal processing for analyzing functions or series of values, such as time domain signals.

Different fields of study define autocorrelation differently, and not all of these definitions are equivalent. In some fields, the term is used interchangeably with autocovariance.

Unit root processes, trend-stationary processes, autoregressive processes, and moving average processes are specific forms of processes with autocorrelation.

Auto-correlation of stochastic processes 
In statistics, the autocorrelation of a real or complex random process is the Pearson correlation between values of the process at different times, as a function of the two times or of the time lag. Let  be a random process, and  be any point in time ( may be an integer for a discrete-time process or a real number for a continuous-time process). Then  is the value (or realization) produced by a given run of the process at time . Suppose that the process has mean  and variance  at time , for each . Then the definition of the auto-correlation function between times  and  is

where  is the expected value operator and the bar represents complex conjugation. Note that the expectation may not be well defined.

Subtracting the mean before multiplication yields the auto-covariance function between times  and :

Note that this expression is not well defined for all time series or processes, because the mean may not exist, or the variance may be zero (for a constant process) or infinite (for processes with distribution lacking well-behaved moments, such as certain types of power law).

Definition for wide-sense stationary stochastic process 
If  is a wide-sense stationary process then the mean  and the variance  are time-independent, and further the autocovariance function depends only on the lag between  and : the autocovariance depends only on the time-distance between the pair of values but not on their position in time. This further implies that the autocovariance and auto-correlation can be expressed as a function of the time-lag, and that this would be an even function of the lag  . This gives the more familiar forms for the auto-correlation function

and the auto-covariance function:

In particular, note that

Normalization 
It is common practice in some disciplines (e.g. statistics and time series analysis) to normalize the autocovariance function to get a time-dependent Pearson correlation coefficient. However, in other disciplines (e.g. engineering) the normalization is usually dropped and the terms "autocorrelation" and "autocovariance" are used interchangeably.

The definition of the auto-correlation coefficient of a stochastic process is

If the function  is well defined, its value must lie in the range , with 1 indicating perfect correlation and −1 indicating perfect anti-correlation.

For a wide-sense stationary (WSS) process, the definition is

.

The normalization is important both because the interpretation of the autocorrelation as a correlation provides a scale-free measure of the strength of statistical dependence, and because the normalization has an effect on the statistical properties of the estimated autocorrelations.

Properties

Symmetry property
The fact that the auto-correlation function  is an even function can be stated as

respectively for a WSS process:

Maximum at zero
For a WSS process:

Notice that  is always real.

Cauchy–Schwarz inequality
The Cauchy–Schwarz inequality, inequality for stochastic processes:

Autocorrelation of white noise
The autocorrelation of a continuous-time white noise signal will have a strong peak (represented by a Dirac delta function) at  and will be exactly  for all other .

Wiener–Khinchin theorem
The Wiener–Khinchin theorem relates the autocorrelation function  to the power spectral density  via the Fourier transform:

For real-valued functions, the symmetric autocorrelation function has a real symmetric transform, so the Wiener–Khinchin theorem can be re-expressed in terms of real cosines only:

Auto-correlation of random vectors

The (potentially time-dependent) auto-correlation matrix (also called second moment) of a (potentially time-dependent) random vector  is an  matrix containing as elements the autocorrelations of all pairs of elements of the random vector . The autocorrelation matrix is used in various digital signal processing algorithms.

For a random vector  containing random elements whose expected value and variance exist, the auto-correlation matrix is defined by

where  denotes the transposed matrix of dimensions .

Written component-wise:

If  is a complex random vector, the autocorrelation matrix is instead defined by

Here  denotes Hermitian transpose.

For example, if  is a random vector, then  is a  matrix whose -th entry is .

Properties of the autocorrelation matrix
 The autocorrelation matrix is a Hermitian matrix for complex random vectors and a symmetric matrix for real random vectors.
 The autocorrelation matrix is a positive semidefinite matrix, i.e.  for a real random vector, and respectively  in case of a complex random vector.
 All eigenvalues of the autocorrelation matrix are real and non-negative.
 The auto-covariance matrix is related to the autocorrelation matrix as follows:Respectively for complex random vectors:

Auto-correlation of deterministic signals 
In signal processing, the above definition is often used without the normalization, that is, without subtracting the mean and dividing by the variance. When the autocorrelation function is normalized by mean and variance, it is sometimes referred to as the autocorrelation coefficient or autocovariance function.

Auto-correlation of continuous-time signal 
Given a signal , the continuous autocorrelation  is most often defined as the continuous cross-correlation integral of  with itself, at lag .

where  represents the complex conjugate of . Note that the parameter  in the integral is a dummy variable and is only necessary to calculate the integral. It has no specific meaning.

Auto-correlation of discrete-time signal 
The discrete autocorrelation  at lag  for a discrete-time signal  is

The above definitions work for signals that are square integrable, or square summable, that is, of finite energy. Signals that "last forever" are treated instead as random processes, in which case different definitions are needed, based on expected values. For wide-sense-stationary random processes, the autocorrelations are defined as

For processes that are not stationary, these will also be functions of , or .

For processes that are also ergodic, the expectation can be replaced by the limit of a time average. The autocorrelation of an ergodic process is sometimes defined as or equated to

These definitions have the advantage that they give sensible well-defined single-parameter results for periodic functions, even when those functions are not the output of stationary ergodic processes.

Alternatively, signals that last forever can be treated by a short-time autocorrelation function analysis, using finite time integrals. (See short-time Fourier transform for a related process.)

Definition for periodic signals
If  is a continuous periodic function of period , the integration from  to  is replaced by integration over any interval  of length :

which is equivalent to

Properties
In the following, we will describe properties of one-dimensional autocorrelations only, since most properties are easily transferred from