# Kilmarnock Academy

Kilmarnock Academy (Scottish Gaelic: Acadamaidh Chille Mheàrnaig), formerly Kilmarnock Burgh School, is a state-funded secondary school in Kilmarnock, Scotland, currently serving in its third location on Sutherland Drive in the New Farm Loch area of the town. Previous sites for Kilmarnock Academy include Green Street, erected in 1876, and Elmbank Drive, erected in 1898. The school can be traced back to the 1630s when it was known as 'Kilmarnock Burgh School'. In 2022, it was ranked as the 233rd best performing state school in Scotland, an increase from 247th in the 2021 league table rankings.

Kilmarnock Academy is one of a few schools in the UK, and the first school in Scotland, to have educated several Nobel laureates: Alexander Fleming, discoverer of penicillin, and John Boyd Orr, 1st Baron Boyd-Orr, for his scientific research into nutrition and his work as the first Director-General of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Kilmarnock Academy thus matches Eton College in the number of Nobel laureate graduates.

The current head teacher is David Rose who was appointed in June 2015 on an acting basis, and was made permanent Head Teacher of Kilmarnock Academy (the newly formed school following merger with James Hamilton Academy) in April 2017.

History
From 1945, it was a state co-educational grammar school. It became a comprehensive school in 1968 and fees were abolished for students attending Kilmarnock Academy in 1945 following World War II. For the first time since opening, Kilmarnock Academy appointed its first woman Head Teacher, Carole Ford, who served in the position from 1997–2011.

At one point, Kilmarnock Academy provided both primary and secondary education to Kilmarnock's school children. The school at one point was a fee-paying school until 1969 when it became a government funded state school.

Origins and Green Street (1630s–1876)
Kilmarnock Academy can trace its history back to the local burgh school founded in the 1630s and the first school to bear the name was established in 1807. A Kilmarnock Academy operated from Green Street in Kilmarnock, before being relocated to Elmbank Drive to accommodate increased demand for places at the school.  In 1898, the school officially moved from Green Street to Elmbank Drive.

North Hamilton Street (1876–1898)

A new replacement Kilmarnock Academy opened on North Hamilton Street on August 1876, replacing the former Kilmarnock Academy on Green Street. The foundation stone for the new Kilmarnock Academy was laid on 20 November 1875, with the building designed by William Railton. The North Hamilton Street building cost £4,500 to build and was constructed by Andrew Calderwood, a local builder within Kilmarnock.

When the school opened at North Hamilton Street, it had 426 pupils enrolled and contained a School of Science and Art. The first headmaster of Kilmarnock Academy at North Hamilton Street was Hugh Dickie. The North Hamilton Street Kilmarnock Academy was where two Nobel laureates were educated – Alexander Fleming, discoverer of penicillin, and John Boyd Orr, 1st Baron Boyd-Orr, for his scientific research into nutrition and his work as the first Director-General of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).

The building at North Hamilton Street soon became cramped and could not accommodate the increased number of pupils wishing to attend the school, leading to a newer building being constructed at Elmbank Drive which was erected in 1898, with pupils transferring from North Hamilton Street to the new Elmbank Drive Kilmarnock Academy in 1898. The North Hamilton Street site formally housed Woodstock School, and following closure and demolition of Woodstock School, the site became the location for both Flowerbank Early Childhood Centre and the Sir Alexander Flemming Centre, which opened on 17 March 2015.

Technical College

The Technical School, as it was originally known, was built at the corner of Elmbank Drive between 1908–1909, next to Kilmarnock Academy. Constructed of Ballochmyle sandstone, the building was erected to plans by Gabriel Andrew and cost £18,000 to build, opening on 26 January 1910. The technical school contained laboratories "for the study of chemistry, physics, mechanics, high engineering, heavy engineering, electrical engineering, hydraulics, mining, weaving, horticulture, and biology". Additionally, pupils could study building design, art, domestic science, woodwork, metalwork and plumbing at the site.

When opened, the Technical School came under the remit of the rector of Kilmarnock Academy, however, was later separated from the academy and became its own separate entity, becoming known as the Technical College. The technical college later became part of Kilmarnock Academy again, however, in 1997, it was closed following the rearrangement of pupil catchment areas affecting Kilmarnock Academy, meaning there was no longer a requirement for the technical college.

Elmbank Drive (1898–2018)

The Kilmarnock Academy which was situated on Elmbank Drive was erected in 1898 to plans by Robert Ingram. The Elmbank Drive site was originally land that contained a nursery, with two acres of the site being used as the nursery playground. The foundation stone for the new Kilmarnock Academy at Elmbank Drive was laid on 31 October 1896. Built of traditional red sandstone, the new Kilmarnock Academy contained a gym, swimming pool and workshops, in addition to the usual classrooms.

A public clock was erected at the top of the building, facing towards the town centre, with a tall 80 ft square tower which was originally used for astronomy lessons. The new building could accommodate 868 pupils over the ground and second floor, with the third floor housing cookery classrooms, a lecture room and a chemical laboratory. Costing £22,000 to build, the new building had a total of 22 classrooms and opened to pupils and staff on 9 February 1899 by Sir Robert Murdoch Smith.

The first headmaster of Kilmarnock Academy at Elmbank Drive was Dr. Hugh Dickie who previously served as the headmaster of the school at the former site on North Hamilton Street. On 24 March 1923, a war memorial was dedicated by Sir Charles Fergusson, and was designed by former pupil of the school and architect W.F. Valentine. To commemorate the loss of soldiers in World War II, a library was opened in the school in 1955.

Due to population growth in Kilmarnock, the Elmbank Drive site had to be expanded a number of times. A new dining block was built in 1946, and a new "main building" was constructed between 1968–1969. In 1997, a new technology block was constructed. Throughout 1996–1998, the school roll was decreased by the educational authority to allow the commencement of a £2.5 programme of refurbishment work to bring the school up to an adequate standard for 21st century learning and teaching.

The Elmbank Drive site closed to pupils and staff on 29 March 2018 when Kilmarnock Academy and James Hamilton Academy merged together to create one school, with the new merged school retained the Kilmarnock Academy name. In 2019, the Elmbank Drive site and buildings were acquired by Kilmarnock based arts academy, CentreStage.

Proposals for merger (2013–2018)

In 2013, East Ayrshire Council launched a consultation report on the future of the education provision at a number of primary and secondary schools in the Kilmarnock area, including James Hamilton Academy, New Farm Primary School, New Farm Early Childhood Centre and Silverwood Primary School. This report put forward the case for educational provision at the schools coming to an end in term 2016/2017 (however, as of January 2017, this has run over time and projected now for 2018 completion), and the named educational establishments merge into one campus. This would lead to the creation of a "superschool", merging James Hamilton Academy and Kilmarnock Academy together, as well as New Farm Primary, New Farm Early Childhood Centre and Silverwood