# Miss Jones (radio personality)

Tarsha Nicole Jones (born October 24, 1969), better known as Miss Jones, is an R&B singer and radio personality. She previously worked for WQHT in New York City and 103.9 The Beat and WUSL in Philadelphia. Miss Jones was the first black woman to host Morning Radio on a hip hop radio format. She currently hosts the morning show for classic hip-hop "94.7 The Block" WXBK serving the New York City area.

Early life
Jones graduated with honors from the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, having majored in classical music. She also has a bachelor's degree in music from Syracuse University. After graduating from college, she worked several jobs until her chance meeting of Doug E. Fresh in front of Men's Walkers shoe store on 125th st where she was signed on the spot after an impromptu audition.

Career

Radio
Before taking on the role of host for WQHT's Miss Jones in the Morning show, Jones had a career as a recording artist under Tommy Boy and Motown records. She collaborated with various figures in the Hip Hop industry and earned recognition with gold and multi-platinum record achievements. In addition to her musical pursuits, Jones ventured into acting, making appearances in films like Paper Soldiers, Corrupt, The Wrecking Crew, and the Roc-A-Fella Records-inspired production Death of a Dynasty. Jones also played a role in the Star and Buc Wild morning show on Hot 97.

She wrote a best-selling autobiography, Have You Met Miss Jones?: The Life and Loves of Radio's Most Controversial Diva, in 2007, published by Random House.

On June 28, 2008, WQHT's contract with Jones expired, and she returned to the airwaves of Philadelphia. This city gave Jones with the Key to the city and several mayoral awards for her community service endeavors.

In January 2012, Jones developed and launched Jonesyradio.com, but due to Hurricane Sandy, the broadcast was short-lived.

In August 2022, Jones began hosting mornings at classic hip-hop "94.7 The Block" WXBK in Newark, New Jersey, owned and operated by American broadcasting company Audacy.

On April 22, 2023, Miss Jones announced via her Instagram account that her new comeback single entitled "Calling All Ladies" will be available for download on April 28, 2023. This is her first single in 25 years since her 1998 single "2 Way Street," which peaked at #62 on the Billboard Hot 100. Eddie F Presents Miss Jones "Calling All Ladies," produced by Lady And A Tramp (Terence Abney, Marcella Precise Brailsford), Spaceman Patterson and Eddie F, has also received airplay on her morning show at "94.7 The Block" WXBK in Newark, New Jersey and added to stations around the US.

Controversy
In 2005, Jones faced a two-week suspension due to contentious remarks she made on the air. The source of the controversy was a parody song called "Tsunami Song," penned by Rick Delgado, which targeted Asians following the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami. The fallout resulted in the dismissal of Delgado from the radio station, as well as Todd Lynn, who had made "offensive racial comments" during the broadcast. Jones herself was suspended following her impassioned on-air reaction to Miss Info, a Korean-American, who expressed her disapproval of the song.

Bibliography
 Jones, Tarsha. Have You Met Miss Jones?: The Life and Loves of Radio's Most Controversial Diva. New York: Random House: 2007. .

Discography

Albums

Singles

As featured artist

References 

20th-century African-American women singers
African-American radio personalities
American contemporary R&B singers
Singers from New York City
Syracuse University alumni
1969 births
Living people
Race-related controversies in radio
21st-century African-American people
21st-century African-American women