# Star Trek: The Next Generation (pinball)

Star Trek: The Next Generation is a widebody pinball game, designed by Steve Ritchie and released in November 1993 by Williams Electronics. It was part of WMS' SuperPin series (see also The Twilight Zone and Indiana Jones: The Pinball Adventure), and was based on the TV series. It is the only pinball machine that features three separate highscore-lists. Apart from the regular highscore-list and the buy-in-list, it also features a reminiscence to The Machine: Bride of Pin*Bot billionaires club. It is also the third pinball game overall based on the Star Trek franchise, following the 1979 pinball game by Bally, and the 1991 game by Data East (both based on the original series), and preceding the 2013 pinball game by Stern (based on the 2009 J. J. Abrams film).

Production notes

According to an interview, Steve Ritchie, a longtime Star Trek fan, stated that getting the license was a challenge, due to Paramount insisting that they don't want to put any violence in the game; however, he told them that he would never violate the Prime Directive.

Originally, the game was supposed to be based on the 1992 film, Under Siege.

The game uses the DCS Sound System and includes voice clips recorded by the cast of the television series, with:
Patrick Stewart as Captain Jean-Luc Picard
Jonathan Frakes as Commander William Riker
Brent Spiner as Lieutenant Commander Data
Gates McFadden as Dr. Beverly Crusher
Michael Dorn as Lieutenant Worf
Marina Sirtis as Counselor Deanna Troi
LeVar Burton as Lieutenant Commander Geordi La Forge 
Majel Barrett as the computer voice
John de Lancie as Q.

Launch options
When a new ball is launched into the plunger, the player is given one of five launch awards, which is selected when the ball is fired. Unless otherwise noted, the ball is launched through the spiral ramp and into the lock hole (above the pop bumpers). Another ball is popped from the left scoop and onto the left inlanes.
Start Mission: Starts lit mission.
Flipper Skill Shot: The player has to shoot the ball up the right ramp (the Beta Quadrant) for a random award.
Launch Probe: The ball will be loaded into one of the two cannons, located on top of the slings. Shoot the lit target for a random award. If the player misses, Data will say, "The probe has discovered nothing, sir".
Light Lock / Light Holodeck: Lights the ball lock, and the ball gets locked for multiball. When this option is selected twice, "Light Lock" changes to "Light Holodeck".
Warp Factor: Starts the ball at Warp Factor 4. After the player reaches Warp 9, (depending on the ROM version), the award changes to Warp 9.1, up to 9.9 (the player has only a limited amount of time to make either the left circle or Delta ramp for each point), then changes to "Warp Factor 2". The ball is sent to the pop bumpers.

Scoring and Game Modes 
There are several ways to score points outside of the missions as well as unlocking certain game modes.  The following modes are available:
 Explosive Millions - Shooting the Alpha Quadrant or Beta Quadrant ramps unlocks Explosive Millions.  Shooting the same or opposite ramp awards 5 million points, followed by 10 million for another shot, which compounds by 10 million every shot.  The player has ten seconds to hit the ramp to score or the mode ends.
 Bonus Multipliers - Hitting all three rollover lanes above the bumpers will increase the bonus multiplier for that ball. The first completion raises it to 2X, and subsequent steps raise it 2X at a time to a maximum of 10X.  When the 8X is achieved, the Extra Ball light is lit in the "Start Mission" pocket.  When the multiplier is maxed, completing the rollovers again awards 10 million, with the value increasing by 10 million every time afterward
 Holodeck - The player has two choices.  Score 25 million points, or play the "video mode" shuttle cavern.  If the player selects the video mode, the player has to go through the caverns in a shuttle, picking up 10 million point cards while avoiding mines and cavern walls.  There is an extra ball card somewhere in the caverns, as well as artifact (see below).  Reaching the Extra Ball is achieved by alternating Left, Left, Right, Right turns until cavern 7.  Depending on how many Extra Balls have already been earned and the games Extra Ball probability configuration it may end up either an Extra Ball or a 10 million point card.  Once an Extra Ball has been earned in the Holodeck all subsequent Holodeck runs will not award any Extra Balls, regardless of the path chosen.  Collecting the artifact, clearing all caverns, or crashing into a mine or wall immediately ends the video mode scoring the points collected in the mode. A maximum score of 159 million points is possible for a flawless run.

At the start of the Holodeck mode, pressing a flipper button along with pulling the launch trigger starts a "Riker's Poker Night" video mode.
 Kickback - Shooting the three left yellow targets lights Kickback, which saves the ball from draining from the left outlane.  If the game is in tournament mode this must initially be earned.  Otherwise the game starts out with the Kickback lit.  The Kickback can be recharged unlimited times by hitting the appropriate targets after it had been depleted. 
  Shuttles - Each shot to the Beta Quadrant ramp launches one shuttle. Awards such as Light Holodeck, Command Decision, and Light Extra Ball are given for reaching set numbers of shuttles. The ramp entrance is flanked by a pair of stand-up targets, either of which enables the ramp to award two shuttles for a few seconds when hit. If the player hits both targets and then shoots the ramp, four shuttles are awarded.

Once five extra balls are earned during game, for each one earned thereafter, points will be added.

"Missions" 
The game features seven "missions/episodes" the player must complete before entering The Final Frontier:
 Time Rift
 Worm Hole
 Search The Galaxy
 Battle Simulation
 Q's Challenge
 Rescue
 Asteroid Threat

There are various marked targets around the playfield with the Star Trek insignia. Different combinations of these are lit for different modes, indicating which shots the player needs to make. These modes are not stackable, meaning the player must complete one mission before starting another. There is a hole in the center at the top of the playfield labelled "Start Mission" which will start a mission at any time if the player makes the shot. In addition, hitting the lit "Command Decision" Target allows the player to select which mission to attempt, including already attempted missions (marked as "rerun" missions; varies from no allowable "reruns" to unlimited "reruns", depending on the machine's settings).

In all missions except Q's challenge, if the player fails to complete certain objectives by losing the ball to the drain, Data will say, "Had you projected the ball along the proper trajectory, you would have been rewarded."  Pressing both flippers during this line activates an Easter egg, in which Picard will interrupt Data and say, "Thank you, Mr. Data."  The Easter egg also adds 10 million points to the score.

"Artifacts"
Each Mission can award one or more "Artifacts", which add to the value and bonuses of the "Final Frontier" Mission. (Artifacts can also be earned during Warp Mode — see "Warp Factors" below - or in the Holodeck video mode.) These Artifacts are, in award order, Dilithium Crystals, an Isolinear Chip, a Duranium Sphere, and a Singing Stone. Once all four Artifacts are awarded, the order starts again with the Dilithium Crystals. Thus, multiples of each Artifact can be awarded. Every Artifact collected is worth 50 million points.

List of Missions
 Time Rift
All the signature targets are lit and worth 10 million points. Hitting the Time Rift targets to the left cause the count down timer to add time and the bonus amount to increase by 5 million. Both the time increases and the bonus amount top out once the bonus reaches 25 million; further hits add no extra time or score. Each