# Queen Elizabeth's Grammar School, Alford

Queen Elizabeth's Grammar School, Alford (QEGS) is a selective, co-educational, academy status Grammar School and Sixth Form in Alford, Lincolnshire, England. In 2021, the school held 544 pupils.

The school motto is Cor Unum Via Una which translates from Latin to English as: "One heart, one way." It is also the title of the school song.

Organisation of the school 
Currently the school has 1 headteacher and 3 assistant headteachers, all of whom make up members of the SLT (senior leadership team). There is 1 head of lower school (Years 7-8), 1 head of middle school (Years 9-11) and 1 head of sixth form. There is also 1 second in middle school. There are 12 Subject leaders. Altogether, there are 39 teachers (including subject leaders and SLT).

In each year there are approximately 90 students, apart from the sixth form years, each of which contain approximately 60 students. There are three houses that make up the school: Spanning, Cecil and Travers. Each year is divided into 3, with equal numbers in all houses

History
The school was first established in 1566 with the donation of £50 from an Alford merchant. In 1576 a charter was granted by Queen Elizabeth I "for the Education, Instruction and bringing up of children and Youth for ever to continue." In 1959, a new block was added to the school in preparation for the admittance of girls. The school attained grant-maintained status in 1989, and in 1999 was given Foundation status.

Notable former pupils

 Adrian Benjamin, former actor
 Glenn Kirkham, England national team and GB hockey player
 Ted Smith (conservationist), who founded The Wildlife Trusts
 Air Marshal Sir John Sutton KCB, Lieutenant Governor of Jersey 1990-05
 Sir William Hotham, barrister, serious fraud.

Former teachers
 Francis Marbury in 1585

Notes

External links
 School website
 BBC League Table Entry

Grammar schools in Lincolnshire
Educational institutions established in the 1560s
1566 establishments in England
Academies in Lincolnshire

Alford, Lincolnshire