# Roman Catholic Diocese of Columbus

The Diocese of Columbus () is a Latin Church ecclesiastical territory, or diocese, of the Catholic Church covering 23 counties in central Ohio in the United States. It is a suffragan diocese in the ecclesiastical province of the metropolitan Archdiocese of Cincinnati.

The mother church of the Diocese of Columbus is St. Joseph Cathedral in Columbus. The diocese was erected on March 3, 1868, by Pope Pius IX.  The current bishop of Columbus is Earl K. Fernandes.

Geography 
The Diocese of Columbus contains 108 parishes in 23 counties:

Coshocton, Delaware, Fairfield, Fayette, Franklin, Hardin, Hocking, Holmes, Jackson, Knox, Licking, Madison, Marion, Morrow, Muskingum, Perry, Pickaway, Pike, Ross, Scioto, Tuscarawas, Union, and Vinton.

History

1700 to 1860 
During the 17th century, present day Ohio was part of the French colony of New France. The Diocese of Quebec, had jurisdiction over the region. However, unlike other parts of the future American Midwest, there were no attempts to found Catholic missions in Ohio.

In 1763, Ohio Country became part of the British Province of Quebec, forbidden from settlement by American colonists. After the American Revolution ended in 1783, Pope Pius VI erected in 1784 the Prefecture Apostolic of the United States, encompassing the entire territory of the new nation.  In 1787, the Ohio area became part of the Northwest Territory of the United States. Pius VI created the Diocese of Baltimore, the first diocese in the United States, to replace the prefecture apostolic in 1789.

In 1808, Pope Pius VII erected the Diocese of Bardstown in Kentucky, with jurisdiction over the new state of Ohio along with the other midwest states. Dominican priests from Bardstown were the first missionaries and clergy in the Columbus area. The first Catholic chapel built in Ohio was a log structure in Perry County; it was dedicated in 1818 by Edward Fenwick

Pope Pius VII in 1821 erected the Diocese of Cincinnati, taking all of Ohio from Bardstown. The visit of Cincinnati Bishop John Purcell to central Ohio in June 1836, began the activity of the Catholic Church in the city of Columbus. After saying Mass in a house on Canal Street on June 5, Purcell asked the Catholic men in attendance to meet regarding the construction of a church. They developed a plan to build a church on a lot already owned by the Catholics of the area—where Holy Cross Church now stands. In 1837, the diocese sent a resident pastor, Henry Juncker, to cover the Columbus and Chillicothe areas. Juncker built Holy Cross Church, opening it in 1838 with a Sung Mass. By 1843, Holy Cross parish was scheduling multiple masses on Sundays and building a school.

1860 to 1900 
At the close of the Second Plenary Council of Baltimore in 1866, the American bishops petitioned Pope Pius IX to establish a new diocese with its seat in Columbus. On March 3, 1868, the pope erected the Diocese of Columbus, encompassing the portions of Ohio "...lying south of 40' and 41" and between the Ohio River on the East and the Scioto River on the West together with the Counties of Franklin, Delaware and Morrow." Pius IX appointed Auxiliary Bishop Sylvester Rosecrans of Cincinnati as the first bishop of Columbus.

When the Diocese of Columbus was erected, it had only three churches, all in the city of Columbus: Holy Cross, St. Patrick's, and St. Mary's. The diocese was mostly agricultural, having been settled first by Maryland and Pennsylvania residents who had moved west, and then later by German and Irish immigrants. Rosecrans established the Catholic Columbian, a newspaper for the diocese, in addition to opening St. Aloysius Seminary and St. Vincent's Orphan Asylum. He oversaw the construction of St. Joseph Cathedral to its consecration in 1878, before dying the following morning.

To replace Rosencrans, Pope Leo XIII appointed John Watterson as the second bishop of Columbus in 1880. The major challenge facing the diocese was the debt accrued by the construction of St. Joseph. During his 19-year-long tenure, Watterson increased the number of priests and schools in the diocese, oversaw the building of two hospitals and the Pontifical College Josephinum in Columbus and erected many new missions and parishes.

1900 to 1945 
On April 6, 1900, Henry K. Moeller, chancellor of the Archdiocese of Cincinnati, was appointed the third bishop of Columbus by Leo XIII. During his episcopacy, the diocesan debt was split among the parishes and nearly eliminated in three years and a diocesan synod was convened. Moeller also established missions, parishes, and schools to serve the increasing immigrant population of the Diocese. Moeller was appointed as the coadjutor bishop of Cincinnati by Pope Pius X in 1903.

Moeller's replacement, James Hartley, was appointed bishop in 1903. During his tenure, Hartley oversaw a significant growth of the diocese In 1905, he erected his first parishes, Holy Rosary and St. Aloysius. In 1906, he retired the debt on St. Joseph Cathedral. Within the first five years of his episcopate, Hartley began or dedicated over 25 churches, schools, and chapels. He established the following institutions:

 St. Charles Seminary in Columbus
 St. Joseph Cemetery in Lockbourne
 St. Ann Hospital in Westerville
 Mercy Hospital in Portsmouth
 Good Samaritan Hospital in Zanesville
 Mercy Hospital in Mount Vernon
 St. Therese Shrine in Columbus

Toward the end of his term as bishop, Hartley consecrated Edward Hettinger as the first auxiliary bishop of the Columbus diocese. Hartley died in 1944.

1945 to 1968 
Pope Pius XII appointed Michael Ready as bishop of Columbus in 1945.  That same year, the pope established the Diocese of Steubenville. He removed 13 counties from the Diocese of Columbus to form the new diocese (Carroll, Jefferson, Harrison, Guernsey, Belmont, Noble, Monroe, Morgan, Washington, Athens, Meigs, Gallia, and Lawrence). At the same time, the pope added nine counties (Hardin, Marion, Union, Madison, Fayette, Pickaway, Ross, Pike and Scioto) to the Diocese of Columbus from the Archdiocese of Cincinnati.

One of Ready's first tasks was overseeing the erection of the new Diocese of Steubenville. He established the Catholic Welfare Bureau and appointed a director of charities for the diocese. Ready was a critic of the Ohio State University board of trustees decision in 1951 that all campus speakers had to be cleared by University President Howard L. Bevis in advance.

Ready also organized the Holy Name Society, a Parent-Teacher Organization, the Council of Catholic Women, the Catholic Youth Council, and the St. Vincent de Paul Society in the diocese. He created 18 new parishes and oversaw the construction of nine elementary and five high schools. Ready founded two nursing homes, the diocesan Child Guidance Center, and the Catholic Student Center at Ohio State University. He worked with his fellow Ohio bishops to start the Ohio Catholic Welfare Conference.  Ready died in 1957.

Pope Pius XII appointed Auxiliary Bishop Clarence Issenmann of the Archdiocese of Cincinnati as the sixth bishop of Columbus on December 5, 1957. As bishop, Issenmann established the Diocesan Development Fund so as to supply for the expansion of the diocese, which added eight parishes and six high schools under Issenmann. He also found a new building to house diocesan offices, and offered a televised Mass every week. Pope Paul VI named him as coadjutor bishop of the Diocese of Cleveland in 1964.

Bishop John Carberry from the Diocese of Lafayette in Indiana was appointed the seventh bishop of Columbus by Pope Paul VI on January 16, 1965. As bishop, he implemented the reforms of the Second Vatican Council and supported the Civil Rights Movement and ecumenical movement. He established the Clergy Advisory Council, and oversaw the renovation of St. Joseph's Cathedral after issuing regulations for liturgical changes. Carberry also bought a new building to centralize the offices of the diocesan chancery. He helped found the I