# El Terrible

Damián Gutiérrez Hernández (born April 12, 1976), better known by his ring name El Terrible, is a Mexican professional wrestler who currently works for the Mexican wrestling promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL). He portrays a rudo ("bad guy") wrestling character. He started out under the ring name Engendro del Mal ("Spawn of Evil") and later adopted the name Damián El Terrible, before being shortened to his current name.

His CMLL career started in 2002 and included winning the CMLL World Heavyweight Championship, the Mexican National Heavyweight Championship, the CMLL World Tag Team Championship twice, with Tama Tonga and Rush, the CMLL World Trios Championship with Héctor Garza and Tarzan Boy. During his time in CMLL, he has also won several major tournaments, including the 2008 Leyenda Azul, the 2012 and 2019 Universal Championship, the 2012 Gran Alternativa with Euforia and the 2015 and 2018 Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increíbles with Máximo and Rush respectively.

Gutiérrez is currently the leader of Los Nuevos Ingobernables, alongside Ángel de Oro and Niebla Roja; he was the last remaining member of Los Ingobernables ("The Ungovernables") following the departure of leader Rush and his father La Bestia del Ring from the promotion. He was originally brought into CMLL as part of Los Guapos ("The Handsome Ones"), then later joined CMLL's main rudo faction Los Perros del Mal. When Los Perros del Mal left CMLL El Terrible was put together with Rey Bucanero and Texano Jr. to form La Fuerza TRT.

Professional wrestling career
Gutiérrez began wrestling in his native Monterrey and elsewhere for smaller independent promotions under a mask as El Engendro del Mal (Spawn of Evil).

Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (2002–current)
In 2002, he debuted in Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre without a mask as Damián El Terrible but later the "Damián" part of his name was dropped, possibly to alleviate any confusion with Damián 666.

Los Guapos (2002–2004)
He was part of Shocker's first "University of 1000% Guapos," a group of undercarders competing for a spot in Shocker's Los Guapos group. El Terrible was chosen to be the third of the trio with Shocker and Máscara Mágica and the group feuded with Los Talibanes (Emilio Charles Jr., Bestia Salvaje and Scorpio Jr.), who were previously known as "Los Guapos". The two groups faced off in a cage match in August 2003 where Terrible and Bestia Salvaje were the last two left in the cage. Terrible pinned Salvaje, meaning Salvaje would have his head shaved. Over the winter, Los Guapos started feuding with Los Capos leading to Terrible teaming with Perro Aguayo Jr. against Cien Caras and Máscara Año 2000 on CMLL's Homenaje a Dos Leyendas: El Santo y Salvador Lutteroth show in 2004 in a double hair vs hair match. Terrible and Aguayo won but Terrible started breaking off from Los Guapos. He fully turned into a rudo (villain) and feuded with Máscara Mágica, taking his hair the following month in a main event match in Arena México.

La Furia del Norte / Los Perros del Mal (2004–2008)

The natural feud with Shocker never really took off as expected and Terrible ended up joining Perro Aguayo's La Furia del Norte group. He formed a trio with Héctor Garza and Tarzan Boy that won the CMLL World Trios Championship by defeating titleholders Canek, Black Warrior and Rayo de Jalisco Jr. in November. Terrible joined Aguayo's new Los Perros del Mal group in early 2005 but suffered an orbital fracture while wrestling in Puerto Rico for the World Wrestling Council. He returned in September and immediately became involved in Los Perros' feud with Los Guerreros del Infierno.

On May 11, 2008, he and Damian 666 lost to The Hell Warriors (Animal and Power) in Mexico City in a match for the then recently vacated UWA World Tag Team Championship.

Los Hijos del Averno (2008–2011)

In the fall of 2009 El Terrible and El Texano Jr. became involved in a long running "Mexico vs. Japan" storyline that had been going on since the summer as they began working with the Japanese duo No Limit (Yujiro and Naito). On December 4, 2009 Terrible and Texano Jr. defeated No Limit in a Luchas de Apuesta hair vs. hair match that was the main event of CMLL's Sin Salida show. After the match both members of No Limit had their heads shaved completely bald per Lucha libre traditions. On February 14, 2010 Terrible and Texano Jr. travelled to Japan to challenge No Limit for the IWGP Tag Team Championship, but were not able to defeat No Limit in their home country. In October and November 2010, Terrible and Texano Jr. took part in New Japan Pro-Wrestling's 2010 G1 Tag League. After victories over Takashi Iizuka and Toru Yano and No Limit, Terrible and Texano Jr. finished fifth in their block and did not advance to the semi-finals of the tournament.

La Fuerza TRT (2011–2018)

In April 2011, El Terrible and El Texano Jr. left Los Hijos del Averno to form a new group with Rey Bucanero. The following month, the group was named La Fuerza TRT. On November 22, 2011, El Terrible's longtime tag team partner El Texano Jr. left CMLL. A week later, Tiger was introduced as the new third member of La Fuerza TRT. On December 25, El Terrible and Rush survived a torneo cibernetico match used to determine the two competitors in a match for the vacant CMLL World Heavyweight Championship. On January 1, 2012, El Terrible defeated Rush to win the CMLL World Heavyweight Championship for the first time.

The following April, El Terrible and Euforia won the 2012 Gran Alternativa. On August 31, El Terrible defeated New Japan Pro-Wrestling representative Hiroshi Tanahashi to become the 2012 Universal Champion. El Terrible's rivalry with Rush culminated on September 14 in the main event of CMLL's 79th Anniversary Show, where El Terrible was defeated in a Lucha de Apuesta Hair vs. Hair match and, as a result, shaved bald. On November 13, 2012 El Terrible and Tama Tonga won the CMLL World Tag Team Championship from Atlantis and Diamante Azul. In early 2013 Tama Tonga returned to Japan to work for NJPW, putting the status of the CMLL World Tag Team Championship in the air, leaving El Terrible and Tonga as the champions but no current plans for the two to even work in the same country.

In March 2013 El Terrible and Rush teamed up for the 2013 Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increibles like they had for the 2012 tournament, but the team lost in the first round to Dragón Rojo Jr. and Niebla Roja. Two weeks later they were on opposite sides of a six-man tag team match on the 2013 Homenaje a Dos Leyendas show where Rayo de Jalisco Jr., Shocker and Rush defeated Universo 2000, El Terrible and Mr. Niebla by disqualification. On April 7 at Invasion Attack, El Terrible and Tonga successfully defended the CMLL World Tag Team Championship against La Máscara and Valiente at New Japan's Invasion Attack event in Tokyo. On July 5, El Terrible returned for another two-week tour with New Japan and, during the first night, he and Tonga lost the CMLL World Tag Team Championship to Hiroshi Tanahashi and Jushin Thunder Liger. El Terrible worked the rest of the tour, which lasted until July 20, as a member of the villainous Bullet Club stable.

Upon his return to CMLL, Terrible and Bucanero kicked Tiger out of La Fuerza TRT on August 11 and gave his spot over to Vangelis. With Vangelis joining the group, the stable was renamed TRT: La Máquina de la Destrucción ("TRT: The Machine of Destruction"). In October, El Terrible, Bucanero and Tama Tonga formed the TRT and Bullet Club sub-group "Bullet Club Latinoamerica".

El Terrible's three-year reign as the CMLL World Heavyweight Champion ended on January 30, 2015, when he lost the title to Máximo in his first title defense in fourteen months. On March 6, El Terrible and Máximo won the 2015 Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increibles. On April 3, El Terrible, Rey Bucanero and Shocker formed a new trio named TGR (Terriblemente Guapo y un Rey, "Terribly Handsome King").

On October 29, 2