# AM (radio program)

AM is an Australian radio program.

It is the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's flagship current affairs radio program, aired each morning on both the ABC Radio National and ABC Local Radio networks.

First broadcast on 4 September 1967, AM is one of Australia's longest-running radio programs.

History

20th century
Robert Peach was the first host of AM when it first aired on the morning of 4 September 1967 on the ABC Radio 1 (metro) and ABC Radio 3 (regional) networks (now ABC Local Radio). The show aired on stations such as 2FC in Sydney, 2NA in Newcastle, 2CN in Canberra and 3AR in Melbourne.

In advertisements published in newspapers prior to the first edition of AM being broadcast, the program was described as: "lively, topical half-hour of reports from home and overseas" with a promise the show would "talk about the kind of things that you talk about - at home, at work, on the train..."

Introducing the first edition of AM, Peach said: "Good morning, I'm Robert Peach and every weekday morning from now on we'll be taking a fresh look at the world, what it's talking about, what people in the news are doing...”

Aired every morning at 8:00am immediately after the 7:45am news bulletin, AM soon became Australia's most popular morning radio current affairs program.

Two years later, ABC Radio's evening current affairs program, PM was created as a companion program, which became the ABC's flagship evening current affairs program.

AM did have its critics in the early years. In January 1968, AM was described by a journalist Harry Robinson in The Sydney Morning Herald as a flop. He said that this was due to "lifeless stories" and "dim presentation". The following month, Robinson described AM as "patchy" and "less than magnetic", stating: "some mornings the voice reports from overseas are lively and illuminating. On others they are like yesterday's loaf: dry. Australian stories are, with only few exceptions, banal and predictable." Robinson also opined that Wright deserved better material to deliver and that listeners deserved better stories to hear.

Former ATN-7 newsreader Brian Wright took over as the host of AM in 1968 while Peach stayed on as a producer. Robinson said it was doubtful that Wright's presence would be enough to "lift" AM.

Wright was succeeded in 1969 by Tony Lee - an Englishman who had served with the Britain's Fleet Air Arm during the Second World War before joining the ABC in Papua New Guinea while working for an oil exploration company. Lee hosted the show for six months before Robert Peach returned to the role in July 1969.

However, Lee had to temporarily return to hosting duties when Peach sustained serious injuries when he and his wife were hit by a car while walking in Sydney. Peach suffered facial lacerations, broken ribs and two broken legs in the accident. Glenn Menzies then filled in for Peach as he recovered from his injuries. Peach returned to AM on 18 May 1970 while still undergoing physiotherapy.

In 1974, Peach was succeeded by Bill Dowsett, who had been hosting PM. On 31 December 1972, Peach and Dowsett had hosted a one-off retrospective special titled At Last - The AM/PM Show.

With the introduction of a public affairs program was launched on ABC Radio 1 in 1976 called City Extra, Dowsett was appointed as the inaugural host of that show, forcing him to stand down as the host of AM. Hamish Robertson, who had already been filling in for Dowsett on AM was appointed to the role of AM host permanently.

When Robertson left the ABC the following year to join the BBC World Service, AM reporter Kel Richards was prompted to the hosting role.

After hosting AM for two years, Richards was replaced by Steve Cosser and demoted back to being a reporter which prompted a protest by the Australian Journalists Association and caused friction between Richards and the ABC. However, Richards was placated with a new role as an associate producer of ABC TV's new current affairs program Six O'Clock Statewide.

Replacing Steve Cossar in 1982 was Red Harrison who commenced his tenure as AM host. Harrison had a deep baritone voice which had been described by some colleagues as "whisky soaked" and a  unique stern presentation style. Harrison was described as sounding like "a British Army officer who never heard the 1918 Armistice bugle".

In 1987, John Highfield was appointed as the host of the program.

AM was later introduced to ABC Radio 2 (now Radio National) with a new early edition at 7:05am after the 7:00am news bulletin but in 1994, concerns were raised by staff at 2BL in Sydney about the possible issues arising out of having two near-identical editions of the same program competing against each other in two different timeslots on the two stations.

In 1987, the program celebrated its 20th anniversary. Past presenters Robert Peach, Red Harrison, Steve Cosser and Hamish Robertson as well as former reporter Bob Carr and host of PM Paul Murphy, gathered at the ABC studios in Sydney to record a commemorative anniversary program which went to air at 10am during Margaret Throsby's Mornings program on 2BL on 4 September 1987. Former reporters Richard Carleton, Ray Martin and Allan Hogan also contributed to the program via telephone.

Ellen Fanning became the first female host of AM in 1994, two and a half years after she became the first female host of its evening counterpart PM. Fanning continued in the role until the end of 1996 when she decided to concentrate on television journalism.

Fanning's successor was foreign correspondent Peter Cave, who took over in 1997. When the program celebrated its 30th anniversary in 1997, Cave presented a special edition of AM which explored the future of broadcast journalism in Australia. Among the program's high-profile guests were ABC managing director Brian Johns and original reporter Ray Martin.

21st century
Cave hosted the show for four and a half years until mid-2001 when he was appointed as the ABC's new foreign affairs editor. He was succeeded on AM by Linda Mottram who became the show's second female host.

After Mottram had hosted the show for two years, she stepped down from the role in 2003 and was replaced by Tony Eastley who had been presenting the New South Wales edition of ABC News on ABC TV.

In 2007, the program celebrated its 40th anniversary when former presenters recalled various memories of working on the program. Peter Cave revealed he had once passed out after running three times from the ABC's Sydney offices in William Street to the AM studios in Forbes Street to deliver scripts to host Bill Dowsett while the program was going live to air. He recalled: "One day all the other reporters claimed to have asthma and I was the only one who could run. I ran two stories up the hill. When I ran the third story up, it was getting close to the end of the program and I was totally out of breath. I ran into the studio to give Bill Dowsett the script. He began reading it almost immediately and I held my breath so the audience wouldn't hear me panting. I went back through the studio door and passed out cold."

After a decade of hosting AM and easily becoming the longest serving host of the program, Tony Eastley stood down from the role in 2014.

At the start of 2014, it was announced that Virginia Trioli from ABC TV's News Breakfast would succeed Eastley the new host of AM. However, in a surprising turnaround less than a week later, Trioli decided against hosting the AM and returned to her television role, co-hosting News Breakfast with Michael Rowland. Former 7.30 senior political editor Chris Uhlmann was appointed as the host of AM instead. Uhlmann only hosted the show for one year before leaving to become the ABC's political editor.

In 2017, AM celebrated the 50th anniversary of its first program. Early that year, it was announced Sabra Lane would be the host of AM replacing Brissenden who moved to ABC TV's Four Corners. It was also announced that as part of the program's 50th anniver