# Super Life-Form Transformers: Beast Wars Neo

is a 1999 Japanese Transformers television animated series, a toy line, and a sequel to Beast Wars II. It was produced by NAS, TV Tokyo, and Ashi Productions. Hozumi Gōda reprised his role as Lio Convoy from Beast Wars II when he appeared in the series. Each episode runs for about 30 minutes and were broadcast in standard 4:3 aspect ratio.

Plot
The series focuses on a battle between Maximal and Predacon factions for possession of mysterious Angolmois Capsules. The lone "one-man army" Big Convoy is assigned the task of being a teacher to a group of young recruits against Magmatron's group. By the end of the series, however, both forces unite to oppose the wrath of the dark god Unicron and his sub-group, the Blentrons.

Characters

This is a list of characters from the 1999 anime series Super Life-Form Transformers: Beast Wars Neo. A direct sequel to the series Beast Wars II, Beast Wars Neo sees a group of young Maximals led by Big Convoy traversing the galaxy to stop Magmatron's Predacons and Unicron's Blentrons from collecting a series of capsules containing Angolmois Energy.

Main
 Maximals - Descendants of the Autobots.
 Big Convoy - A Convoy warrior with a reputation for being a "one-man-army" due to his astounding power and tendency for heading into battle alone. Against his wishes, he is assigned by the planet Cybertron's supercomputer Vector Sigma and the Convoy Council to lead a group of young Maximals on a mission to retrieve the Angolmois Capsules before Magmatron and later Unicron can do so. Big Convoy can transform into a woolly mammoth and wields the Big Cannon.
 Longrack - Big Convoy's aggressively strict and talkative sub-commander of the group who can transform into a giraffe and specializes in tinkering with machines. In battle, he can perform the Arm Shot and Crush Arm attacks.
 Colada - A cold, quick-tempered, and arrogant Maximal who can transform into a cobra and possesses transformative powers that cause him to favor dry climates.
 Stampy - A cheery yet cowardly Maximal triple-changer, known for frustrating his teammates, who can transform into a domestic white rabbit and a pair of scissors. Additionally, he possesses enhanced hearing, speed, and intelligence-gathering capabilities.
 Break - A bold, anger-prone, and tidy Maximal who can transform into a penguin, specializes in cold environments, cares deeply for his teammates, and can launch the destructive Break Anchors from his right arm.
 Heinrad - An easy-going and sociable yet mischievous and unmotivated Maximal who can transform into a tanuki and possesses a clock on his body that allows him to freeze time for 30 seconds before his energy is drained.
 Mach Kick - A rowdy and free-spirited Maximal and the former second-in-command of the Thoroughbred Corps who can transform into a black horse and possesses copious battlefield experience. After losing his original team to the Predacons, Mach Kick joins Big Convoy, whom he idolizes, and seeks to please him despite clashing with his friend Longrack. In battle, Mach Kick can perform the Elastic Hand attack and wields the Tail Tomahawk.
 Predacons - Descendants of the Decepticons.
 Magmatron - The leader of a faction of Predacons and self-proclaimed "Emperor of Destruction" who seeks the Angolmois Capsules to exterminate all life in the universe. Additionally, he is capable of splitting into the Giganotosaurus-esque Landsaurus, the Quetzalcoatlus-esque Skysaurus, and the Elasmosaurus-esque Seasaurus and recombine into the chimeric Magmasaurus. After the Blentrons' goal of resurrecting Unicron threaten his plans, Magmatron attempts to destroy him, at the cost of his crew's loyalty.
 Guiledart - Magmatron's ambitious right hand, tactician, and engineer who serves as a supporter of reason. He can transform into a Triceratops, perform the Thunder Horn Blast attack, and wields the Tail Shooter gun.
 Saberback - A mysterious, crafty, and dishonest Predacon who enjoys tormenting Sling. He can transform into a Stegosaurus and wields the Triple Claw talons, which can fire lasers when fully powered. 
 Sling - A cowardly and immature Predacon who complains when the other Predacons belittle him. He can transform into a Dimetrodon, disguise himself as a flower, and wields the Tail Bunker and Sling Shield.
 Dead End - A cool-headed, solitary, and cruel Predacon soldier who can transform into an ammonite. In battle, he can perform the Spiral Bomb attack and wields the Dead Gun.
 Archadis - A cunning, yet vain, talkative, and snobbish Predacon who can transform into an Archaeopteryx. In battle, he wields the Wing Gundreads fully automatic cannons, Wing Bombs, and the Founder Shot.

Recurring
 Navi - The Maximals' navigational computer.
 DNAVI - The Predacons' dragonfly-shaped navigational computer.
 Unicron - A disembodied cosmic entity who seeks to restore his body via his lifeforce, Angolmois Energy. Possessing the body of dead Predacon commander Galvatron, Unicron tasks the chimeric Blendtrons with gathering the Angolmois Capsules so he can turn Cybertron into a new body for himself. Despite nearly succeeding, Unicron is foiled by Big Convoy and Lio Convoy.
 Blendtrons - Transformers that Unicron created to serve him and sport chimeric beast modes.
 Drancron - A Blendtron who can transform into an iguana/dragonfly chimera and wields the Drancutter, Clap Missiles, and Lizard Claws.
 Elphorpha - A brutal Blendtron who can transform into a killer whale/elephant chimera, possesses enhanced strength, acid production, the ability to stick to ceilings, and use of the Killer Tusks and Killer Shooter.
 Ratorarta - A cruel and vicious Blendtron who can transform into a lionfish/hornet chimera and wields the Poison Arrow, the Dust Hornet, and the Lato Thrasher.

Guest
 Rockbuster - An efficient and pragmatic Maximal vigilante who can transform into a crab and originally worked alongside Big Convoy before they had a falling out due to their shared solitary nature, with Rockbuster working independently of the Convoy Council. In battle, Rockbuster possesses a durable shell that grants enhanced endurance and wields the Claw Buster and Crush Claw weapons.
 Randy - A dedicated, patient, and honest yet reckless, overly serious, and single-minded Maximal soldier-for-hire who can transform into a wild boar and wields the Charge Buster.
 Sharp Edge - A dedicated and honorable yet unpredictable Maximal soldier who can transform into a sawshark, prides himself on his combat capability, and wields the Diamondtail blade.
 Bump - A reserved and solitary Maximal who can transform into an armadillo, possesses enhanced strength, shell-like skin, and a lightning-fast draw-and-fire technique.
 Survive - A Maximal assault commander who can transform into a glacier bear and possesses a bat-like reconnaissance scout called True One. He disagrees with Big Convoy's solitary attitude and desires to make him more willing to work with a team.
 Killerpunch - A sneaky and deceitful yet gullible Predacon intelligence operative obsessed with laying traps based on the information he acquires and outwitting his targets. He can transform into a Styracosaurus and perform the Head Punch attack, which possesses homing capabilities.
 Hydra - An overly friendly Predacon who desires companionship and Magmatron's approval. Due to being stationed in a remote Predacon outpost for an extended period of time however, he befriended a maid droid and became overprotective of it. He can transform into a Pteranodon and wields the Wing Shot.
 Crazybolt - A duplicitous Predacon escapologist who has a tendency to ramble. He can transform into a frilled lizard and wields a rifle capable of destroying starships.
 Bazooka - A serious, single-minded, and honorable Predacon who can transform into an Euoplocephalus and perform the Gigaton Stamp attack.
 Hardhead - A simple-minded yet tough Predacon warrior who can transform into a Pachycephalosaurus and wields the Pilesaber blade.
 Lio Convoy - The leader of a