# 1986 24 Hours of Le Mans

The 1986 24 Hours of Le Mans was the 54th Grand Prix of Endurance as well as the third round of the 1986 World Sports-Prototype Championship.  It took place at the Circuit de la Sarthe, France, on 31 May and 1 June 1986.
This year saw the return of a full Jaguar works team, to take on the strong Porsche works and customer teams. However, with the fuel regulations relaxed, the turbo-charged cars would be able to use more of their potential power to outrun the normally-aspirated 6-litre Jaguars. 

Although the works Porsche team locked out the front row of the grid, the Joest car (victor in 1984 and 1985) took the challenge to them from the start of the race and holding the lead till nightfall. The Jaguar team was competitive but gradually fell behind, leading the rest of the field until forced out with transmission and suspension problems.
Early on Sunday morning, third-placed Jochen Mass crashed out when he hit the C2 class-leading Ecosse of Mike Wilds who had spun on oil dropped in the Porsche Curves. Soon after however, there was a far worse incident when Jo Gartner was involved in a violent accident at very high speed as he accelerated onto the back straight. A transmission failure speared the Kremer Porsche into the barriers, and then got airborne hitting a telephone pole before ending upside down on fire, killing the driver instantly. The race was put behind pace cars for two hours to repair the damage.

While behind the pace-car the Joest car's engine failed, ending their chance for a third victory. From there, the works Porsche of Derek Bell and Hans-Joachim Stuck was untroubled and took a comfortable victory by a margin of 8 laps over the Brun Porsche of Oscar Larrauri, Jesús Pareja and Joël Gouhier. Bell joined an elite group of drivers with four Le Mans victories. Despite being the last classified finisher after a number of delays, the new Spice-Fiero won the Index of Thermal Efficiency prize.

Regulations
The FIA (Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile) changed the championship format this year, introducing several shorter-length races among the longer, endurance events. The name was changed to the World Sports-Prototype Championship, to take the emphasis off endurance racing. They also relaxed the fuel-restrictions. The C1 and GTP classes now had 2550 litres, up from 2210 litres, while the Class C2 went up from 1430 to 1650 litres. The fuel-rigs had the fuel-flow adjusted from 50 to 60 litres per minute, trimming the time for a full refuel by about 20 seconds.

FISA was risking alienating the manufacturers, with little consultation, with rules changes notified with relatively short notice. The Sports-Prototype Commission had only a single manufacturer's representative with the majority being from the race-tracks.

The public roads section of the circuit got a small modification this year. The département installed a roundabout at the Mulsanne corner as it was an accident black-spot. This in turn necessitated a section be built bypassing the roundabout, shortening the racetrack by 98 metres (320 feet). After the serious accidents in the previous year's race, the ACO (Automobile Club de l'Ouest) started putting triple-tier Armco along the length of the Hunaudières straight. The ACO also re-initiated the pre-race test-day (last run in 1974), however only 17 cars availed themselves of the opportunity.

Finally, the hors course rule was reinstated, again given the number of cars running with mechanical unreliability posed a safety issue to the other cars running at full pace. This time it was modified to apply within the final four hours to disqualify any car that had run less than 60% of the distance of the leader.

Entries
The biggest news was the full return of the works Jaguar team to the World Championship, and they had immediate success in the first two races in the series. This brought English fans to Le Mans in record numbers. Lancia had also run those first two races, but being outshone by Porsche and now Jaguar, chose to withdraw and focus on rallying. The increasing interest in Group C now saw Nissan join Toyota and Mazda from Japan in the top classes, to challenge the European manufacturers.
For the first time since 1956 there were no American teams entered.

Note: The first number is the number accepted, the second the number who started.

Group C1 and GTP
Once again, Porsche dominated the C1 entry-list with the mix of 962 and 956 models. The Rothmans Porsche works team arrived with the same four chassis that it had used in 1985, including the T-car. With the retirement of Jacky Ickx, the lead #1 car was now run by Derek Bell and Hans-Joachim Stuck, with 1983 winner Al Holbert brought in with them for this race. Bob Wollek had left Lancia at the end of last season. He was promptly picked up by the works team to run the #2 car with Jochen Mass. The third car, just running at Le Mans, and driven by Vern Schuppan and Drake Olson, was fitted with Porsche's experimental, new, dual-clutch PDK transmission that offered automatic electronic gearshifts (and an in-car camera).

The Porsche customer teams were again proving very competitive. Joest Racing had upheld Porsche honour, winning in 1983, and then beating the works team in 1984. This year, they brought that same lucky 956B chassis back with the same winning trio - Klaus Ludwig, Paolo Barilla and Louis Krages. In the absence of any American teams, Joest ran an all-American crew in their second car. Decked out in stars-and-stripes livery, Kenper Miller drove with former Can-Am champion George Follmer (20 years after his other Le Mans appearance) and John Morton. Getting racetime, the latter two had run with Barilla, the only Joest entry at the prior round at Silverstone where they finished sixth.
Brun Motorsport had three cars in the championship this year, made up of a pair of 962Cs (built at their own workshop) and their 956 workhorse. Owner Walter Brun stepped up to the lead car for Le Mans with Massimo Sigala and Frank Jelinski, bought in as a replacement for Stefan Bellof, killed in 1985. The other regular drivers Oscar Larrauri and Jésus Pareja, joined by Joël Gouhier, had the second 962C; while the 956 was driven by Thierry Boutsen/Didier Theys/Alain Ferté.
Kremer Racing were also regrouping after the death of their lead driver, Manfred Winkelhock. Austrian Jo Gartner came into the team, having won the Sebring 12 Hours earlier in the year with Stuck and Bob Akin. After a 3rd-place at Silverstone with Tiff Needell, he would race with Sarel van der Merwe and Kunimitsu Takahashi in the 962C. The team also brought out their 956 for Moroccan Max Cohen-Olivar and Frenchmen Pierre Yver and Hubert Striebig.
The John Fitzpatrick Racing team, likewise entered their 962C and reliable 956B (in conjunction with the Spanish Danone Porsche team). In the 1985 race, Richard Lloyd's modified 956B had been the only car able to keep up with the Joest car. Now renamed the RLR Liqui Moly team, they had drivers Mauro Baldi, Rob Dyson and Price Cobb. Hans Obermeier's team again returned with their 956. An outlier entry was the ex-Joest Porsche 936CJ car. Last seen in 1983, it had been purchased by German Ernst Schuster and entered again.
In total, Porsche would field an impressive armada of 15 cars in the top class. There was also an interesting internal Porsche tyre-battle brewing: Of the major teams, the works team had a long-standing relationship with Dunlop, Kremer had a new contract with Yokohama while Joest, JFR and Richard Lloyd ran with Goodyear. With Lancia's withdrawal, Michelin switched to support the Brun team.

Jaguar Cars had been impressed with the strong effort in the past seasons by the American Group 44 Racing team of [[Bob Tullius]. The company thought a full works effort was viable, but instead chose to ally with Tom Walkinshaw Racing - who had latterly been running the Jaguar XJ-S in the ETCC (European Touring Car Championship). Designer Tony Southgate (who had worked with Sh