# Roman Catholic Diocese of Orlando

The Diocese of Orlando () is a Latin Church ecclesiastical territory, or diocese, of the Catholic Church in central Florida in the United States. St. James Cathedral serves as the seat of the diocese. The current bishop is John Gerard Noonan.

The Diocese of Orlando is a suffragan diocese in the ecclesiastical province of the metropolitan Archdiocese of Miami.

Statistics 
The Diocese of Orlando encompasses about  spanning the following counties:

Orange, Osceola, Seminole, Marion, Lake, Volusia, Brevard, Polk, and Sumter.

In 2010, the diocese contained 81 parishes, 10 missions, and 37 schools.  It has two minor basilicas, Mary, Queen of the Universe Shrine, which ministers to Catholic tourists, and St. Paul's in Daytona Beach. In 2011, the estimated population of the diocese was approximately 400,923 Catholics. There were 208 priests, 87 religious nuns, and 181 permanent deacons.

Moon claim 

William Borders, the first bishop of the diocese, called himself the "bishop of the Moon", saying that under the then-active 1917 Code of Canon Law, newly explored territory came under the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the port of departure, making the Diocese of Orlando responsible for the moon following the flight of Apollo 11 from the Kennedy Space Center. If true, the total area of the diocese would be , making it the largest Catholic diocese (beating the Diocese of Saint Joseph at Irkutsk, at ).

Borders is reported to have made this claim to Pope Paul VI in 1969; it is unknown whether Pope Paul VI confirmed or rejected the claim, which is required for jurisdiction to actually be granted. A spokesperson for the current bishop said in 2019 that he did not consider himself to be bishop of the Moon (or of the International Space Station, also launched from the diocese).

History

Early history 
Florida was first part of the Archdiocese of Havana, Cuba, as early as 1606. Bishops of Santiago de Cuba ministered to Catholics in Florida until 1763, when England acquired Florida from Spain. The first mass migration to the New World took place when hundreds of Catholics from Menorca settled in New Smyrna in 1768. They were members there of San Pedro Church until they abandoned that Atlantic coastal site in 1777 and moved north to St. Augustine. Cuban bishops resumed control after Florida was returned to Spain in 1783.

In the Adams–Onís Treaty of 1819, Spain ceded all of Florida to the United States, which established the Florida Territory in 1821. For Catholics, the territory was still under the jurisdiction of the Diocese of Havana. In 1825, Pope Leo XII erected the Vicariate of Alabama and Florida, which included all of Florida.

A quarter century later, Pope Pius IX erected the Diocese of Savannah in 1850, including the new state of Florida minus the Florida Panhandle region. However, seven years later, he stripped Florida from the Diocese of Savannah and created a new Apostolic Vicariate of Florida. In 1858, Augustin Verot became Vicar Apostolic of part of Georgia and all of Florida. He became Bishop of Savannah in 1861 and remained Vicar Apostolic of Florida. In 1870, the Diocese of St. Augustine, including all of Florida, was formed with Verot its first bishop. The Orlando area would remain part of the Diocese of St. Augustine for the next 98 years.

In 1881, the first Catholic church in Orlando, St. James, was founded. In 1898, St. Paul's Church was dedicated in Daytona Beach, the first Catholic church in that community.

1968 to 1974 

Pope Paul VI erected the Diocese of Orlando on June 18, 1968, taking its present territory from the Diocese of St. Augustine and making it a suffragan of the Archdiocese of Miami. He appointed William Borders of the Diocese of Baton Rouge as the first bishop of Orlando. At its formation, the new diocese consisted of fifty parishes and served 128,000 Catholics.

During his tenure in Orlando, Borders laid the foundations for the new diocese while also implementing the directives of the Second Vatican Council. He oversaw the creation of parish councils and education boards, allowed the laity to serve as extraordinary ministers of Holy Communion, and formed a Sisters' Council for the nuns of the diocese. A Social Services Board correlated the work of already-existing agencies, and developed an educational program aimed at coordinating efforts in Catholic schools, campus ministry, and religious education. Borders also initiated social outreach centers to minister to migrant workers and the poor. In 1974, Paul VI named Borders as archbishop of the Archdiocese of Baltimore.

1974 to 1993 

The second bishop of Orlando was Auxiliary Bishop Thomas Grady from the Archdiocese of Chicago, appointed by Paul VI in 1974. He oversaw the establishment of 18 new parishes, the San Pedro Spiritual Development Center on the shores of Lake Howell, and a Mission Office to forge a relationship with the  Diocese of San Juan de la Maguana in the Dominican Republic. Grady also wrote a weekly column called "The Bishop's Corner" for the Florida Catholic weekly newspaper.

During Grady's tenure, the diocese saw significant growth. In 1976, St. Charles Borromeo Church in the College Park section of Orlando, the original cathedral, was burned in an electrical fire. St. James Church in downtown Orlando became the new Cathedral. To provide ministerial outreach to vacationers visiting Walt Disney World and the Lake Buena Vista Resort, Grady created a parish in the Lake Buena Vista area. In 1984, he started construction of the Shrine of Mary, Queen of the Universe in the same area. The diocese also expanded ministries to migrants and minorities, founded a scholarship program for African American students, and built apartment buildings for the elderly. Grady resigned in 1989. At the end of his tenure in 1990, the Catholic population of the diocese had grown over 76% and the number of parishes had increased by more than a third.

1993 to present 
Pope John Paul II named Auxiliary Bishop Norbert Dorsey of Miami as the next bishop of Orlando. In August 1993, the Shrine of Mary was dedicated. The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops designated it as a national shrine in 2004. Dorsey's tenure saw further growth especially due to the growing Hispanic community. Radio Paz and health clinics for migrant and farm workers were established to minister to this community. Bishop Grady Villas, which opened in 2004, was constructed as a residential community for adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities. A cemetery at San Pedro Retreat Center for priests of the diocese was established. Dorsey retired in 2004.

Auxiliary Bishop Thomas Wenski of Miami was selected by John Paul II to replace Dorsey as bishop of Orlando in 2004. Wenski convoked the first synod for the diocese in 2004. During his tenure, Wenski created six new parishes and two missions. A capital and endowment campaign raised $100 million. The Spanish language radio station, Buena Nueva FM, an  newspaper, El Clarin were also started. The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops held their spring convocation in the diocese in 2008. Wenski also designated 2008 as the "Year of Evangelization,". He persuaded the Vatican to raise the Basilica of St. Paul in Daytona Beach and the Shrine of Mary to the status of minor basilicas. In 2010, the diocese began both a $150 million capital campaign and an extensive renovation of St. James Cathedral in Orlando

Benedict XVI named Wenski as archbishop of Miami in 2010.Richard Walsh, pastor of St. Margaret Mary Parish in Winter Park, served diocesan administrator, until Auxiliary Bishop John Noonan was appointed by the pope that same year. In June 2017, Noonan attended a memorial service at St. James Cathedral for victims of the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando.

Reports of sex abuse
In February 1995, a man sued the Diocese of Orlando, saying that he had been sexually abused as a youth by former priest Thomas Pagni.  The plaintiff claimed that Pagn