# India at the Cricket World Cup

India has won the Cricket World Cup two times, in 1983 and 2011. India also finished as runners-up in 2003. India is currently participating in the ongoing 2023 Cricket World Cup.

History
India has participated in every edition of the tournament since 1975. India first won the 1983 Cricket World Cup, under the captaincy of Kapil Dev. India become the second team after the West Indies (when they won in 1975 and 1979) to win the Cricket World Cup. India's next win came at the 2011 Cricket World Cup, under the captaincy of Mahendra Singh Dhoni, 28 years after the previous win. With this win, India became the first nation to win the tournament on home soil as India was hosting the tournament final itself, and the second co-host to win the tournament after Sri Lanka (when they won in 1996). India became the third team after Australia (when they won in 1987, 1999, 2003 and 2007) and West Indies to win two world cups.

India has also finished as runners-up in the 2003 Cricket World Cup, where they lost the final to Australia and finished as semi-finalists in the 1987, 1996, 2015 and 2019 editions of the tournament, and in the super-sixes round in 1999

Overall record
A red box around the year indicates World Cups played within India

By opponent

India at the 1975 World Cup

 NR means No result.

The 1975 Cricket World Cup was the first Cricket World Cup. It was held in England in June 1975 and consisted of two weeks of one-day matches played 60-overs-a-side. The format consisted of a group stage, in which each team played the other three teams in its group of four. The top two teams from both groups would progress to the semifinals. India competed in Group B against England, New Zealand and East Africa, a team of cricketers from Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, and Northern Rhodesia.

The Indian team was led by off spinner Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan and included leading batsmen Sunil Gavaskar, Gundappa Vishwanath, and Farokh Engineer as well as Venkataraghavan's teammate from the Indian spin quartet, Bishen Singh Bedi. The team was relatively inexperienced at one-day cricket, having played their first ODI only a year earlier during their disastrous tour of England. India's first match, the first match of the Cup, was against England at Lord's in London. This match became notorious for Gavaskar's controversial knock. Chasing a mammoth 335 for victory, Gavaskar carried his bat for the entire 60 overs to score only 36 runs off 174 balls with just a solitary boundary and made no attempt to go for victory or even accelerate the scoring rate. As a result, India could only score 132/3 in 60 overs, losing the match by 202 runs, which severely affected their chances of making the semifinals. The match was a national disgrace for India with Gavaskar, in particular, castigated from all sides for his disgraceful innings. Even today, it is not fully clear as to why he played so slowly in that match, although Gavaskar claimed that he was out of form at the time.

India next played East Africa at Headingley in Leeds and as expected, won the match, thanks to disciplined bowling from medium pacer Madan Lal (3/15) which restricted East Africa to 120. In the chase, Gavaskar made amends for his atrocious innings against England with a fine half-century (65 not out from 86 balls, 9 fours). Supported by Engineer (54 not out from 93 balls, 7 fours), the duo hammered the amateurish East African bowling and steered India to a facile victory without losing a wicket. India's last match in the Group stage was a must-win encounter against New Zealand at Old Trafford in Manchester. Batting first, India scored 230, with Syed Abid Ali scoring a half-century (70 from 98 balls, 5 fours and 1 six) to make up for the top-order failure. However, the Indian bowlers were then completely hammered by Kiwi opener Glenn Turner, who scored his second century of the tournament (114 not out from 177 balls, 13 fours) as New Zealand chased down the target without much hassle. India crashed out of the tournament with this loss and finished 3rd in their group with 1 win and 2 losses.

Not much positives could come out of India's campaign in the inaugural World Cup. From an Indian perspective, the tournament continues to be known for Gavaskar's notorious innings against England. Still, Gavaskar scored the highest number of runs for India in the tournament, with 113. Among the bowlers, Abid Ali, with his 6 wickets, was the best bowler for India.

The Indian Squad that took part in the 1975 World Cup comprised
 Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan  (captain)
 Bishen Singh Bedi (vice-captain)
 Anshuman Gaekwad
 Brijesh Patel
 Eknath Solkar
 Farokh Engineer (wicketkeeper)
 Gundappa Vishwanath (reserve wicketkeeper)
 Karsan Ghavri
 Madan Lal
 Mohinder Amarnath
 Sunil Gavaskar
 Syed Abid Ali
India's record: 1−2 (Group B, 3rd place)
West Indies's record: 5−0 (champions)

India at the 1979 World Cup

 NR means No result.

The second edition of the Cricket World Cup was held in 1979 once again in England and with the same tournament format as in 1975. Like in 1975, India were not having much experience in playing ODI cricket and were still neglecting the limited-overs format of the game, so they were not considered favourites to win the Cup. Still, India were expected to put up a decent show as the team for the World Cup had world-class batsmen in Sunil Gavaskar, Gundappa Vishwanath and Dilip Vengsarkar, two members of the Indian spin quartet in captain Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan and Bishen Singh Bedi and decent all rounders in Mohinder Amarnath and a rising talent in Kapil Dev, though regular wicketkeeper Syed Kirmani was surprisingly dropped. India were grouped along with the defending champions, the West Indies, who were now the best team in international cricket, New Zealand and non-Test playing nation Sri Lanka in Group B in the Group stage.

India opened their campaign with a massive loss against the West Indies at Edgbaston in Birmingham. The West Indian fast bowling attack led by Michael Holding (4/33) and Andy Roberts (2/32) never allowed the Indian batsmen to settle down, and with only Vishwanath (75 from 134 balls, 7 fours) showing resistance, India were bowled all out for 190 in the 54th over. In reply, West Indian opener Gordon Greenidge scored an unbeaten century as the Caribbeans effortlessly chased down the target with the loss of just a single wicket. India were knocked out of the tournament in their next match against New Zealand at Headingley in Leeds, which was another one-sided match. A combined effort from the New Zealand bowling attack saw India crash to 182 all out, with the only significant contribution coming from Gavaskar (55 from 144 balls, 5 fours). Kiwi opener Bruce Edgar then scored an unbeaten 84 in the chase as New Zealand won without any hassle. India played for pride in their last match of the tournament against Sri Lanka at Old Trafford in Manchester and were expected to win against the minnows. But they lost this match too. Chasing 239 to win, none of the Indian batsmen could  manage even a half-century against the Sri Lankan bowling attack comprising Tony Opatha (3/31), Stanley de Silva (2/36) and Somachandra de Silva (3/29). India were bowled all-out for just 191, finishing their World Cup campaign winless and last in their group.

It was a nightmarish campaign for India, with no wins and none of the players contributing. The fact that India as a team were not able to score even 200 runs in a single match, that only Vishwanath crossed three-figures in terms of the total number of individual runs scored (106) with only him and Gavaskar scoring a half-century each, and that only Amarnath, with 4 wickets, and Kapil, with 2 wickets, took wickets in all the 3 matches, showed how horrible and pathetic the Indian performance was in the World Cup. This dismal performance generated an uproar in India. The tournament marked the end of the road for the now struggling Indian spin qu