# Conformal coating

Conformal coating is a protective, breathable coating of thin polymeric film applied to printed circuit boards (PCBs). Conformal coatings are typically applied at 25–250 μm to the electronic circuitry and provide protection against moisture and other harsher conditions.

Coatings can be applied in a number of ways including brushing, spraying, dispensing, and dip coating. A number of materials can be used as conformal coatings, such as acrylics, silicones, urethanes and parylene. Each has its own characteristics, making them contain different characteristics for different manufacturing use cases. Many circuit board assembly firms can coat assemblies with a layer of transparent conformal coating, which is used as an alternative to potting.

Reasons for use
Conformal coatings are used to protect electronic components from the environmental factors they are exposed to. Examples of these factors include moisture, dust, salt, chemicals, temperature changes and mechanical abrasion, as well as corrosion. More recently, conformal coatings are being used to reduce the formation of whiskers, and can also prevent current bleed between closely positioned components.

Conformal coatings are breathable, allowing trapped moisture in electronic boards to escape while maintaining protection from contamination. These coatings are not sealants, and prolonged exposure to vapors will cause transmission and degradation to occur. There are typically four classes of conformal coatings: Acrylic, Urethane, Silicone, and Varnish. While each has its own specific physical and chemical properties each is able to perform the following functions:

 Insulation: Allowing closer conductor spacing
 Minimal effect on component weight
 More board protection including that of environmental, chemical, and corrosive

Applications 

Precision analog circuitry may suffer degraded accuracy if insulating surfaces become contaminated with ionic substances such as fingerprint residues, which can become mildly conductive in the presence of moisture or heightened humidity. A suitably chosen material coating can reduce the effects of mechanical stress and vibrations on the circuit and its ability to perform in extreme temperatures.

For example, in a chip-on-board assembly process, a silicon die is mounted on the board with an adhesive or soldering process, then electrically connected by wire bonding, typically with 0.001-inch-diameter gold or aluminum wire. The chip and the wire are delicate, so they are encapsulated in a version of conformal coating called a blob top. This prevents accidental contact from damaging the wires or the chip. Another use of conformal coating is to increase the voltage rating of a dense circuit assembly. An insulating coating can withstand a much stronger electric field than air, particularly at high altitudes.

Except for Parylene, most organic coatings are easily penetrated by water molecules. A coating preserves the performance of electronics primarily by preventing ionizable contaminants such as salts from reaching circuit nodes and combining with water to form a microscopically thin electrolyte film. For this reason, the coating is far more effective if all surface contamination is removed first, using a highly repeatable industrial process such as vapor degreasing or semi-aqueous washing. Extreme cleanliness also improves adhesion. Pinholes defeat the purpose of the coating because a contaminant film would make contact with circuit nodes and form undesired conductive paths.

Coating application methods 
The coating material can be applied by various methods. This includes brushing, spraying, dipping or selectively coating by robots. Different methods of curing and drying are available depending on the conformal coating material. Nearly all modern conformal coatings contain a fluorescent dye to aid in coating coverage inspection.

Brush coating
This works by flow coating the material onto the board and is suitable for low volume application, finishing and repair. The finish tends to be cosmetically inferior and can be subject to many defects such as bubbles. The coating also tends to be thicker unless skilled operators apply the coating.

Spray application coating

This coating can be completed with a spray aerosol or spray booth with a spray gun and is suitable for low and medium-volume processing. The quality of the surface finish can be superior to all other methods when a skilled operator completes the process, provided that the circuit board is clean and the coating has no adhesion problems. The coating application may be limited due to 3D effects. Masking requirements are more of a shield nature rather than a barrier since there is less penetration. The lack of penetration can be a problem where the coating is desired to penetrate beneath devices.

Spray application can be one of the most cost-effective ways of applying conformal coating, as it can be done on the bench top for small rework and repair jobs. This method can be done in spray booths for medium-scale production.

One of the key attributes of atomized spraying is giving excellent tip coverage to components. When conformal coatings are applied to a PCB, they have a tendency to slump. The first layer of a coating can give a thin edge on the corners of components. This can be improved with a second coat by double-dipping or brushing, but this is a repeat process and may not be acceptable. To eliminate this problem, atomized spraying can be used.

Conformal coating dipping

This coating is a highly repeatable process. If the printed circuit board (PCB) is designed correctly, it can be the highest volume technique. The coating penetrates everywhere, including beneath devices, hence, masking must be perfect to prevent leakage. Therefore, many PCBs are unsuitable for dipping due to their design.

The issue of thin tip coverage where the material slumps around sharp edges ,can be a problem, especially in a condensing atmosphere. This tip coverage effect can be eliminated by either double dipping the PCB or using several thin layers of atomized spraying to achieve good coverage without exceeding coating thickness recommendations. A combination of the two techniques may also be used.

Selective coating by machine 
This method is the best choice for high-volume applications. It is a fast and accurate way of applying the coating to the exact areas of the board where it is required.

It works by using a needle and atomized spray applicator, non-atomized spray or ultrasonic valve technologies that can move above the circuit board and dispense/spray the coating material in select areas. Flow rates and material viscosity are programmed into the computer system controlling the applicator so that the desired coating thickness is maintained. This method is effective for large volumes, provided that the PCBs are designed for the method. There are limitations in the select coat process like in other processes, such as capillary effects around low profile connectors that suck up the coating accidentally. A skilled operator is required.

The process quality of dip or dam-and-fill coating and non-atomized spray technology can be improved by applying and then releasing a vacuum while the assembly is submerged in the liquid resin. This forces the liquid resin into all crevices, eliminating uncoated surfaces in interior cavities.

The differences in application methods can be seen in a comparison presentation. The choice of method is dependent on the complexity of the substrate to be coated, the required coating performance, and the throughput requirements.

Curing and drying method

Solvent and water-based conformal coatings
For standard solvent-based acrylics, air drying (film forming) is the normal process except where speed is essential. Then heat curing can be used, using batch or inline ovens with conveyors and using typical cure profiles.

Water-based conformal coatings can be treated in the same manner, but with mor