# Università Iuav di Venezia

Iuav University of Venice () is a university in Venice, Italy. It was founded in 1926 as the Istituto Universitario di Architettura di Venezia as one of the first Architecture schools in Italy. The university currently offers several undergraduate, graduate and higher education courses in Architecture, Urban Planning, Fashion, Arts, and Design.

It is a design-themed university focusing on the teaching, research, and practice of the design of living spaces and environments (buildings, cities, landscapes and territory) and in the design of everyday use objects, of fashion and of graphics. It has also a more recent courses in visual arts, theatre and performing arts, and multimedia events.

History 

In 1926 Giovanni Bordiga and Guido Cirilli founded the Scuola Superiore di Arti, a branch of the Accademia di Belle Arti di Venezia. It was the second architecture school in Italy after that of Rome. In 1940 The Istituto Universitario di Architettura di Venezia was founded. In the year 1963-64 Iuav moved to Tolentini with 1000 students enrolled and later in 1970 Giovanni Astengo coordinates Italy's first course in Urban Planning in Preganziol, but University reform in 1981 as the Urban Planning becomes a degree programme at Ca' Tron. By the beginning of the 90s, particularly in the year 1993 12,000 students were enrolled in 3 degree programmes (Urban and Regional Planning, History and Conservation of Cultural Heritage, and Architecture).

By the academic year 2000/2001 the Institute became a university with 3 faculties:
 Architecture
 Regional Planning
 Arts and Design
and in 2013 three new departments were opened:
 Department of Architecture, Construction and Conservation
 Department of Architecture and Arts
 Department of Design and Planning in Complex Environments
In the academic year 2001/2002, in parallel with the 75th anniversary, the Istituto Universitario di Architettura di Venezia (Iuav) officially changed its name to Università Iuav di Venezia and while the four letters of "Iuav" were no longer an acronym, the university decided to retain the abbreviations and use it as the university's name.

In 2002, the Iuav organized an international competition "newlogo Iuav" for the design of the new institutional logo of the university. Internationally known designers, specialized in the design of brands and logos were invited to participate in the competition, seven of the ten graphic designers selected have joined the competition. The jury, composed of Giovanni Anceschi, Enrico Camplani, Marino Folin, Bob Norda, Sergio Polano, Leonardo Sonnoli, Pierpaolo Vetta, chose the logo designed by the French graphic designer Philippe Apeloig, rather than designing an abstract symbol or a figure based on existing motifs, he developed a logo based almost entirely on the four letters I, U, A, and V, arranged vertically, a simple but richly connoted design that aims to represent past, present and future. The new logo replaces the historic seal with the effigy of the lion of St. Mark, redesigned by Massimo Scolari, who for years had been the symbol of the Iuav.

The old Logo – seal and coat of arms – of the University consisted of the frontal image, closed in circular field, of the winged Lion of Saint Mark regent the open gospel with the inscription "Pax tibi Marce Evangelista mei", the idea was not exclusive to Iuav and was used by other Venetian institutions. What distinguished the version of Iuav university were the two circular crowns bearing the words "University Institute of Architecture of Venice" and " Firmitas, Utilitas, Venustas " words used by Vitruvius which was one of the early definitions of architecture, but the addition of two new faculties and the consequent transformation of the university from Istituto Universitario to Università Iuav Università degli Studi, già IUAV  (which has changed to Università Iuav di Venezia ) made it possible to change the logo because the Iuav was no longer the Istituto Universitario and the Vitruvius's definition of architecture is no longer sufficient to represent the other two faculties that today with the faculty of Architecture make up the Iuav University. 
 
However, currently the old logo is used as the University Seal to distinguish logo and seal but with one modification of the university name from "University Institute of Architecture of Venice" to "Iuav University of Venice".

Internationally renowned architects as Carlo Scarpa, Giuseppe Samonà, Manfredo Tafuri, Aldo Rossi, Giovanni Astengo, Giancarlo De Carlo, Gino Valle, Michele De Lucchi, Nanda Vigo, Alejandro Aravena, and Egle Renata Trincanato were part of the school's history as students and/or tutors. Also Notable scholars and professionals such as Le Corbusier, Louis Kahn, Frank Lloyd Wright and, more recently, Judith Clark, Richard Serra, and Fabrizio Barozzi have been hosted as visiting professors at Iuav and have taught and tutored students in Iuav through the years.

IUAV buildings and locations

Tolentini is the Headquarters of Università Iuav di Venezia.  The Tolentini building complex is located near Piazzale Roma and comprises the Tolentini church convent complex and a few other neighbouring areas. In 1958, the Italian State, owner of the former convent, gave Iuav access to the building began construction work. The renovations of the whole complex took place between 1960 and 1965, project and work direction by the architect Daniele Calabi and the engineer Mario Bacci.
In 1985, the entrance area was transformed according to a project by Carlo Scarpa, work direction by architect Sergio Los, and structural calculation by the engineer Carlo Maschietto.

Palazzo Badoer In 1974, Iuav also bought the palace belonging to the Santa Caterina Sisters of Charity of Nevers. Construction work and adaptation of the palace to Department of Architecture began in April 1978. Palazzo Badoer has been the home to the Iuav School of Doctorate Studies since 2008.

Cotonificio veneziano History was inaugurated in 1883. In the previous year, a cotton spinning and production company was set up in Venice. Partially destroyed by a fire in 1916, the cotton mill (cotonificio) was rebuilt. About a thousand workers worked here: it remained operative until 1960, and then was abandoned for thirty years before restoration in the 1990s.Restored by the Venetian architecture studio of Gino Valle, the main building now houses an important part of the university: classrooms, the “Gino Valle” exhibit space, the “Archivio Progetti” (which includes a study room with nine consultation seats), the exhibition hall, a main office and a deposit. The exhibition room is permanently set up with an exhibition of models belonging to the collection of the “Archivio”, and it hosts temporary exhibits that display original documents from the archive funds. It is now the seat of “Archivio Progetti”, ArTec Archives on Techniques and Materials for Architecture and Industrial Design, infrastructure management, auditorium, “Gino Valle” exhibit space, Gradoni room, teaching activities.

Ca' Tron is the seat of exhibition spaces, and Ir.Ide research infrastructure. Was purchased by Iuav in 1972, and restored on a project by Architect L. Bellemo. Consolidation work, space reorganization, and space recovery were carried out for the new functions of the building. Two large salons, on the ground floor and on the first floor, offer students spaces to gather together. The palazzo is an exhibition venue for artistic events, available for both university and external users.

Mestre is the seat of LabSCo Construction Sciences Lab, FisTec Environmental Engineering Physics Lab. The headquarters of the Construction Sciences Lab, Environmental Engineering Physics Lab and TerraLab for Earth Sciences, inaugurated in 2003, is located in Mestre, on an area granted by the municipality to Venetian universities for the construction of a scientific development pole. The central core of the building consists of a “contrast struc