# New York high-speed rail

High-speed rail in New York has been a topic that is consistently discussed among legislators, political leaders and in particular, several past governors since the 1990s, but thus far little progress has been made. In his campaign speeches prior to his defeat by Governor George Pataki in 1994, Mario Cuomo promised to bring high speed (maglev) rail up the Hudson Valley and along the Catskill Mountains route.  It was not a priority for the subsequent administration.

Currently, Amtrak's Acela service between Washington, D.C., and Boston, Massachusetts is available to New York City, but the cities in Upstate New York and Western New York remain isolated from high-speed rail service. Further, destinations outside the New York metropolitan area have experienced delayed service for decades. In some areas, New York State has been quietly endorsing and even implementing rail improvements for years.

Frequently cited as a partial solution for Upstate and Western New York's economic stagnation, faster rail transportation between New York City and the rest of the state has been suggested as a way to make rural areas grow into suburban destinations for daily commuters, and easily accessible for businesses to relocate to cheaper real estate. Many politicians also endorse closer ties with destinations in Canada.

History 

Rail travel in New York has its roots in the early 19th century. The New York Central water-level route roughly followed the path of the Erie Canal, with four tracks along much of the route. For many years the 20th Century Limited and Empire State Express services, to Chicago and Buffalo were among the fastest trains in the world, with average speeds topping  and top speeds reportedly well over . Rail travel largely stagnated in the post-World War II economic boom, as the New York Thruway was built, and then the rest of the highway transportation and suburban lifestyles burgeoned. Nonetheless, rail culture lived on in the New York metropolitan area. It was kept alive by the subway culture in New York City, as well as suburban routes on Long Island and the northern suburbs of the city. The Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North Railroad are the two largest commuter railroads in the United States. New Jersey Transit, which serves New Jersey commuters to Manhattan, Philadelphia, and points within New Jersey, is also a major player in the U.S. commuter rail market.  Potential also exists for a high-speed rail line to Montreal, Quebec, Canada along existing train right of way.

Interest in updating the state's aging rail infrastructure was sparked in the early 1990s. In the early 1980s the State of New York paid Conrail to install cab signals from Poughkeepise to Hoffmans, west of Schenectady, to allow 110 mph train service.  This service actually went into service.  In the late 1990s, ground was broken on a new rail station in Rensselaer, at the time reported as the ninth busiest station in the entire United States; federal funding was secured for the project. In 2001, the state tested a newly rebuilt Turboliner RTL-III gas turbine trainset capable of reaching . In 2004, the Turboliner rehabilitation project had a falling out between Amtrak and New York State and the contractor doing the rehab. After lawsuits were filled, a settlement was reached to liquidate the unfinished Turboliner project. In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, New York Governor George Pataki attempted to secure, among other things, a high-speed rail link to Schenectady using federal emergency aid money. From 2004 until 2012, the unused Turboliners sat in storage at a cost of $150,000 per year to the taxpayers until a decision by Governor Andrew Cuomo to liquidate the remaining fleet for scrap metal.

Notably, federal planners identified New York State's Empire Corridor (Buffalo-Albany-New York City) as one of the best-suited for high-speed rail service. In 2005, New York State Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno expressed renewed interest in high-speed rail and proposed research into high-speed rail development in New York State as part of a plan to boost Upstate New York's economy.  In addition, the Empire Limited Amtrak service between New York and Albany already has one of the highest levels of ridership outside the Northeast Corridor and Acela lines.

American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 

In 2009, The New York State Department of Transportation released a statewide rail plan,
including a program of capital investments to increase passenger rail speed and reliability.
In October 2009, the state applied for funding for a number of these projects from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 High Speed Intercity Passenger Rail program.  The NYSDOT also named a project manager for high speed rail, Marie Corrado.

New York governor-elect Andrew Cuomo sent a letter to U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood shortly after his victory in the 2010 New York gubernatorial election requesting that New York receive the money granted by the federal government to high-speed rail projects in Wisconsin and Ohio that the governors of both states pledged to cancel.

According to a study by America 2050, the corridor between New York City and Albany has high potential among 8,000 possible routes nationwide as a high-speed corridor.

Projects
The state received $151 million from the federal government in early 2010, of which $58 million was planned to be used to build an  stretch of track between Riga and Byron capable of  speeds.  This was planned to be an entirely new track parallel to the existing CSX line used solely for Amtrak trains. The remainder of the money was used to construct a second track between Albany and Schenectady.  Negotiations between the state and CSX around the Western New York third track came to a halt in late spring of 2010 after CSX disclosed a requirement that the new track be located at least  from its right-of-way; in some places along the route, that amount of space is unavailable. The two parties subsequently came to an agreement, however, after further meetings arranged by Representative Louise Slaughter, allowing planning for the trackage to continue. Between Albany and Schenectady, construction of the third track is planned to begin in 2011. An additional $354 million, composed of funds rejected by other states, was granted to New York in May 2011. Of that, $58 million will be allocated to the ongoing Albany-Schenectady upgrades, $1.4 million will be allocated for a preliminary study for a new terminal in Rochester, and the remainder will go to New York City.

Beginning in 2010, a study was conducted by the New York State Department of Transportation for the Tier 1 Environmental Impact Statement on high speed rail service from New York City to Niagara Falls. The Tier 1 Draft EIS was released to the public in early 2014 and eliminates the alternatives with tops speeds of  and  due to high costs. The five alternatives that remain under consideration include the base alternative with top speeds remaining at  as well as higher speed rail with top speeds of  (options A and B), , and .

Issues in constructing high-speed rail lines in New York 

The entire upstate network lacks electrification for conventional high-speed service. In the past, New York investigated gas turbine alternatives which would not require electrification, such as the JetTrain by Bombardier Transportation or the older Turboliner fleet, but neither project proved feasible.

Sections of the Hudson River route have tight curves.  Some portions, notably the Spuyten Duyvil Bridge are operating with only a single track.

Most sections of the routes north and west of Albany share track with freight trains and extra tracks would be necessary to achieve high speed on the route; the federal government considers this to be "one of the largest projects" if upgrading.

Proposals 

Other proposals involve extensions of existing corridors or cooperation with age