# Rapibus

The Rapibus is a bus rapid transit system for the Société de Transport de l'Outaouais (STO) in the city of Gatineau, Quebec. Construction was completed in the summer of 2013 with service beginning in the fall.  The Rapibus aims to speed up the service for commuters in growing sub-divisions in the northern and eastern areas of the city by alleviating the congestion on key arteries currently served by bus-designated lanes. A direct link to Ottawa is included.

Development process
In the 1990s, the STO and the Communauté Urbaine de l'Outaouais had initiated plans to improve public transit in the Outaouais urban community as traffic problems were growing in several areas particularly in the eastern end of the city in the Quebec Autoroute 50 corridor as well as other bridges spanning the Gatineau and Ottawa Rivers. At that time, the CUO privileged existent railway corridors including the Canadian Pacific line in Hull and Gatineau for a future rapid transit corridor which would by-pass some the most congested areas of the city.

Plans were also made for improved inter-provincial crossing to Ottawa. Before newer studies were made, several new bus lanes were added on Boulevards Gréber, Fournier, Maisonneuve and Alexandre-Taché as well as the Portage Bridge in order to speed up the service in the late 1990s and 2000s. Environmental assessments began in the 2000s but government funding was not immediately available by both the federal and provincial levels.

It was in 2005 that the project started evolving faster as Marc Bureau, defeated Yves Ducharme for mayor of Gatineau in the municipal elections. During his campaign, Bureau listed the Rapibus system as one of his top priorities. A few months after his election win, talks between the City of Gatineau and the Quebec government in order to strike a deal for the amount of funding for the project. Some members of the Gatineau City Council, Mayor Bureau, STO administration staff and Cabinet Ministers of the Quebec provincial government including former Finance Minister Michel Audet and Transport Minister Michel Després along with Treasury Board President Monique Jérôme-Forget met in Quebec City on December 6, 2006, to discuss about the deal and how much each level will spend. Following the meeting, Bureau indicated some optimism about a future deal that would guarantee a $150 million funding by the government. However, the Minister responsible for the Outaouais region Benoît Pelletier told reporters in February 2007 that it would be difficult to realize the project in a short period and no funding was announced in the 2007 Quebec budget on February 20, 2007, prior to the provincial elections. Quebec Premier Jean Charest later promised during the electoral campaign that the project will be completed for 2010 while pledging $75 million for the project.

While awaiting government funding, the STO led by president and Gatineau councillor Louise Poirier launched in late-February 2007 a radio and television campaign promotion about the project to help attract more support from the local residents.

After the provincial elections, the Charest government tabled a second budget which included significant funding for the project which passed the National Assembly on June 1, 2007. An official announcement was made on October 26, 2007 during a press conference with Poirier, Pelletier, new Quebec Transport Minister Julie Boulet and federal Transport minister and former STO president Lawrence Cannon. The Quebec government would invest $146 million while the city of Gatineau will fund the remainder of the costs ($49 million), while there are no direct federal government funding for the project.
The initial proposed date for the inauguration of the Rapibus system was 2007; however, it was pushed back for 2010 because of various issues that slowed the process. Multiple environmental assessments were made, as portions of the route would pass through greenspace areas such as Lake Leamy park near the Casino and also near Lake Beauchamp Park in the east end of the city. Construction was set to start in late 2008 or early 2009 with the completion expected by fall 2010; however, it was delayed by a year. Construction of the Rapibus began in late 2009, with completion set for 2013. Groundbreaking on the project occurred on November 30, 2009, at the site of the future Montcalm Station.

Features

The Rapibus is similar to the OC Transpo's version of the Ottawa transitway. As with the Transitway, it is reserved for high occupancy articulated buses and other STO vehicles including Para-Transit service, inspectors and emergency vehicles. The busway (which will most likely be converted to light rail some time after the year 2031) currently begins in the east-end of the city in the vicinity of Labrosse and Saint-René Boulevards and follows the Quebec Gatineau Railway track (alongside boulevards Maloney and de la Carrière) towards downtown Hull. A bridge over the Gatineau River was expanded to accommodate the rapid transit lane as well as bike trails alongside near Lake Leamy.

As the project was announced, the City mentioned that the Rapibus will transformed significantly the City while Bureau added it was the government's biggest contribution for a project in the region. Bureau and Poirier added that it will encourage several projects along the busway including new work locations as well as housing while reducing significantly greenhouse emissions and increase by 15 to 25% the ridership. Several projects are already located, are under construction or planned. The main features that will be served by the system will include, the largest shopping centre in Gatineau, Les Promenades de l'Outaouais, the Cégep de l'Outaouais (Gatineau campus), Les Galeries de Hull shopping centre, the Casino du Lac-Leamy, the Maison de la Culture, A new power centre which includes a new Wal-Mart mega-store (the largest in Quebec) as well several big-box stores near the De la Gappe station location while near De la Cité Station, a large sports complex has been approved and slated for completion by 2009.

Meanwhile, in the Hull sector, the Université du Québec en Outaouais is planning to merge both of its Hull campuses and will be expanded further east to near the Rapibus terminus on Saint-Joseph Boulevard with the addition of several buildings for the faculties located outside the Alexandre-Taché campus (mainly the faculties at the Lucien-Brault campus located just a few blocks to the north).

When fully completed, the main segment of the line will run from the Lorrain Boulevard area in the Gatineau sector and along the CFQG line to near the intersection of Alexandre-Taché and Saint-Joseph Boulevards behind the Salaberry Armoury and just east the Université du Québec en Outaouais. Initial plans had the line terminate near Montcalm Street and Quebec Autoroute 50. A second segment will run along portions the Hull-Chelsea-Wakefield Railway from La Carrière Boulevard to Freeman Road. The total length of the completed busway will be approximately 17 kilometers and the current price tag of the project is estimated at around $195 million.

Transit stations

There are 12 Rapibus stations on the system's main segment, including two which opened on August 28, 2023. The Taché-UQO station was initially not included in these plans, but it was later added prior to opening, with two Rapibus routes serving it. Several stations will be accommodated by park and ride facilities.

Main segment
 Taché-UQO: It is the southernmost station of the main Rapibus segment, but it is not a terminus. As the name implies, it is located at 100 Alexandre-Taché Boulevard, near the Université de Québec en Outaouais. Two Rapibus routes serve this station at the northern and southern stops: route 800 with the Allumettières terminus is available from 6:15 AM to 10:54 PM, while route 18 with the Tunney's Pasture terminus is available during peak periods only. Both routes travel throughout the entire R