# 11th Marine Regiment

{{Infobox military unit
| unit_name = 11th Marine Regiment
| image = Cannoncockers11thMarReg.jpg
| image_size = 125px
| caption = 11th Marine Regiment Insignia
| dates = 
| country = 
| allegiance = 
| branch = 
| type = Artillery
| role = Provide fires in support of 1st Marine Division
| size = Regiment
| command_structure = 1st Marine Division
| current_commander = Colonel Patrick F. Eldridge
| garrison = Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton

Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine Palms
| ceremonial_chief = 
| colonel_of_the_regiment = 
| nickname = The Cannon Cockers
| patron = 
| motto = 
| colors = 
| march = 
| mascot = 
| battles = World War I
World War II
 Guadalcanal campaign
 Battle of Cape Gloucester
 Battle of Peleliu
 Battle of Okinawa
Korean War
 Battle of Incheon
 Battle of Chosin Reservoir
Vietnam War
Operation Desert Storm
War on Terror
 Operation Iraqi Freedom Operation Enduring Freedom
 Operation Inherent Resolve
| notable_commanders = Pedro del ValleRobert H. PepperWilliam H. HarrisonWilliam T. FairbournLewis J. FieldsCarl A. Youngdale
| anniversaries = 
}}

The 11th Marine Regiment''' is an artillery regiment of the United States Marine Corps based at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, California.  Known as the "Cannon Cockers", the regiment falls under the command of the 1st Marine Division and the I Marine Expeditionary Force. Its primary weapon system is the M777A2 howitzer with a maximum effective range of 30 km, however the 5th Battalion has converted to fire the HIMARS (High Mobility Artillery Rocket System) weapon system.

Current units
Headquarters Battery, 11th Marines (HQ 11th Marines)
 1st Battalion, 11th Marines (1/11th Marines)
 2nd Battalion, 11th Marines (2/11th Marines)
 3rd Battalion, 11th Marines (3/11th Marines)
 5th Battalion, 11th Marines (5/11th Marines)
 Battery A, 11th Marines (A/11th Marines)

Note: a "4th Battalion" of the 11th Marines was present in World War II, Korean War and Vietnam.

History

Early years
The 11th Marine Regiment was activated during World War I on 3 January 1918. Originally planned as a light artillery regiment, it was converted to an infantry unit and went to France as part of the 5th Marine Expeditionary Brigade in the waning days of the war. It did not see combat, but served as base guard troops and returned home to be disbanded on 11 August 1919.

On 9 May 1927, another 11th Regiment was activated from troops in Haiti and at Quantico for service in Nicaragua of brief duration. The regimental headquarters was disbanded on 31 July 1927, and the two battalions in September. Renewed political problems in Nicaragua and the intensified guerrilla campaign of the bandit leader Augusto Sandino caused the activation of another 11th Regiment at Norfolk, Virginia, and San Diego, California, in January 1928. A third battalion was organized on the east coast on 21 March 1928. Again, service in Nicaragua was brief, with the third battalion being disbanded on 15 June 1929 and the remainder of the regiment on 31 August 1929.

World War II
With the approach of World War II and the consequent expansion of the Marine Corps, an 11th Marines (Artillery) was activated at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, on 1 March 1941. Activation of the regiment's organic battalions already had been underway since 1 September 1940 when the 1st Battalion was created. After its return to the United States from Cuba, the regiment (less the 1st Battalion) shipped overseas with the 1st Marine Division to New Zealand in June–July 1942. The 1st Battalion went to Samoa with the 7th Marine Regiment in March 1942. Together they formed the 3rd Marine Brigade until they were sent to Guadalcanal that fall.

The 11th Marines participated in the Battle of Guadalcanal in August with the 1st Marine Division and played an especially significant part in the Battle of the Tenaru and the Battle of Bloody Ridge. The 1st Battalion rejoined the regiment in September on Guadalcanal. On 15 December 1942, the 11th Marines left Guadalcanal for Australia, rested and reorganized, and then reentered combat on New Britain at Cape Gloucester on 26 December 1943. Here the regiment furnished support to the infantry in their capture of the Japanese aerodrome. Following the New Britain campaign came a period of preparation for the Peleliu landing where the regiment was actively engaged.

For the first two weeks after the initial landing on 15 September 1944, the regiment took part in the Battle of Peleliu under Colonel William H. Harrison. All artillery support was handled both novelly and conventionally, providing massed preparatory, harassing, and interdicting fire. Later, the artillery was used to fire directly into the mouths of enemy caves. In March 1945, the 11th Marines participated in the Battle of Okinawa, its final combat operation of World War II. There the regiment played an important defensive role with effective counter-battery fire, and steadily suppressed enemy attempts to counter-attack objectives already won by U.S. forces. With the war won, in the fall of 1945 the 11th Marines moved to Tianjin in North China as an element of Operation Beleaguer. There it was soon involved in trying to keep peace in the midst of the increasing conflict between rival Chinese factions. Early in 1947, the regiment returned to the United States to be reduced virtually to a battalion-sized unit.

Korean War

Three years later North Korea invaded South Korea, and the 1st Battalion was part of the 1st Provisional Marine Brigade deployed in August 1950 to the Pusan Perimeter to help stem their advance. Other battalions were organized in the United States and were available for service when the 1st Marine Division made the Incheon landing. Shifted back to the east coast of Korea, the battalions were attached to regimental combat teams and participated in the Battle of Chosin Reservoir.

One of the more famous engagements of the regiment during the Korean War came on 7 December 1950 during the breakout from the Chosin Reservoir.  George and How Batteries of 2nd Battalion were halted along the main road by heavy machine gun fire.  The ensuing fight would pit two artillery batteries against a battalion of Chinese infantry in broad daylight and at close range.  The guns were laid level due to the proximity of the Chinese forces and the Marines braced their bodies against the guns because there was no time to dig them in.  When it was over the Marines counted over 500 enemy dead on the field and had expended over 600 rounds of ammunition.  One Marine officer was quoted at the time as saying, "Has field artillery ever had a grander hour?"

The 11th Marines participated in continued heavy action on the East Central Front throughout 1951, (such as the Battle of the Punchbowl) and in March 1952, moved to the Western Front, (Battle of Bunker Hill near Panmunjom). The 11th was finally able to sail from Korea for the United States and Camp Pendleton on 7 March 1955.

Vietnam War

The years between 1955 and 1965 were spent in continued training to maintain a constant state of readiness. During the Cuban Missile Crisis of October 1962, the 11th Marines played a role in the task force ordered to impose a naval quarantine against arms shipments to Cuba.

A new era opened on 8 March 1965 when the Marines were committed to ground action in South Vietnam. Beginning on 16 August 1965, the regiment was gradually deployed to South Vietnam. The transfer was completed by the arrival of the 2d Battalion on 27 May 1966. The nature of the war required the artillerymen to defend their own positions against numerous enemy probes and brought about a vastly increased employment of artillery by helicopters, both for displacement and resupply.

The regimental history in Vietnam was characterized by fighting as detachments in dispersed areas. Hastings, Hue City, Napoleon/Saline II, Mameluke Thrust, Oklahoma Hills, Pipestone Canyon and Imperial Lake were some of the more significant operations in wh