# What Time Is Love?

"What Time Is Love?" is a song released, in different mixes, as a series of singles by the band the KLF. It featured prominently and repeatedly in their output from 1988 to 1992 and, under the moniker of 2K, in 1997. In its original form, the track was an instrumental electronic dance anthem; subsequent reworkings, with vocals and additional instrumentation, yielded the international hit singles "What Time Is Love? (Live at Trancentral)" (1990), and "America: What Time Is Love?" (1991), which respectively reached number 5 and number 4 in the UK Singles Chart, and introduced the KLF to a mainstream international audience.

History
The KLF co-founders Jimmy Cauty and Bill Drummond began releasing music in March 1987, under the pseudonym the Justified Ancients of Mu Mu (the JAMs), named after a cultish organisation from The Illuminatus! Trilogy novels. The JAMs' output was created from plagiarised samples of popular music grafted together to form new songs, with beatbox rhythms and Drummond's often political raps. Their second album, Who Killed the JAMs?, was followed by a newsletter which expressed regret that people believed the JAMs were leading "a crusade for sampling", and suggested "We might put out a couple of 12-inch records under the name the K.L.F., these will be rap free just pure dance music, so don't expect to see them reviewed in the music papers." The first incarnation of "What Time Is Love?" followed.

"What Time Is Love?" became one of the KLF's central tracks, dubbed their "three-note warhorse of a signature tune" by Bill Drummond, in reference to the three-note bassline which, together with a high-pitched refrain on two notes (B bending to F#) characterises the song. The bassline is very similar to the one used by Anne Clark the electronic musician in her 1984 song Our Darkness and to the guitar introduction to the song Heaven on Their Minds from the musical Jesus Christ Superstar.

In common with the singles "3 a.m. Eternal", "Last Train to Trancentral" and "Justified and Ancient", "What Time Is Love?" evolved through substantial reworkings, each new version taking elements of its predecessors and placing them in the context of a different musical genre. There were three main versions, released in 1988, 1990 and 1991, shifting the KLF's sound from acid house through pop into heavy rock-oriented electronica, and a remake under a different moniker in 1997.

Pure Trance Original
The original 1988 12" single release launched the KLF's minimalist "Pure Trance" series of singles.

The "Pure Trance" version is a synthesiser composition based around an acid house riff on three low-pitched notes and one minor chord (B minor). The subtle progression of the piece occurs through the modulation of the main loops, the dub-like dropping of particular loops, and a recurring high-pitched refrain on two notes (B bending to F#). An Oberheim OB-8 synthesiser provided the instrumentation.

Two discs of different "Pure Trance" mixes, numbered KLF 004T (green writing on a black sleeve) and KLF 004R (yellow writing on a black sleeve, and a cover sticker), were given low-key releases on 24 November 1988 and 24 July 1989 respectively. The cumulative popularity of KLF 004T in continental European clubs prompted the KLF to release a compilation album of selected cover versions and sound-alikes, entitled The "What Time Is Love?" Story.

As Drummond had predicted, the "Pure Trance" release received little attention from the music press. However, upon the release of The "What Time Is Love?" Story, Q Magazine hailed the track as "a whirling house stomper ... not so much of a tune but a good beat".

Live at Trancentral
A 1990 version subtitled "Live at Trancentral" was the first of the KLF's upbeat "Stadium House Trilogy" and the single that introduced the KLF to an international mainstream audience, reaching No. 5 in the UK Singles Chart. It is a pop-house reworking of the Pure Trance Original, adding vocal samples, a new bassline, a new house rhythm and a self-proclaiming rap (performed by Isaac Bello). The "Trancentral" in the subtitle refers to the KLF's recording studio. Although crowd noise features on the mix, it is in fact a purely studio-based creation and a characteristic of the "Stadium House" recordings.  An LP version of this mix appears on the album The White Room.

A remix 12", "What Time Is Love? (Remodelled & Remixed)" was released a month after the "Stadium House" version. It contains remixes by Echo & the Bunnymen—for whom the KLF co-founder Bill Drummond had previously been manager—and the Moody Boys. Both "Live at Trancentral" and "Remodelled & Remixed" were declared 'Single of the Week' at different times by New Musical Express (NME), where "Live at Trancentral" was described as a collision of "energy, humour and violence". The magazine also ranked "Live at Trancentral" as the 47th best single of 1990.  Q Magazine noted the "awesome vitality" of the LP version. A retrospective review of the LP version by Splendid Magazine found the song to be "extraordinary". "It throbs and pulses in a still-riveting manner that transcends the dated beatdrops. Fusing the siren-wailing urgency of rave anthemry with the drunk-on-its-own-riff brilliance of the stupidest, simplest pop music, it's the kind of song that sends electrifying impulses through the drunken brain."

America: What Time Is Love?

The single release "America: What Time Is Love?" constituted a major reworking of the anthem and was the KLF's final UK retail musical offering. It was released in February 1992 in the UK, four months after it was first made available in the US.

"America" has a markedly different tone to previous incarnations of the song: harder, heavier and more guitar-laden (featuring the riff from Motörhead's song “Ace of Spades"). It opens with a protracted narration by the KLF's regular narrator Scott Piering, about the JAMs' odyssey of 992 to discover America. Like "It's Grim Up North", it features a climactic orchestral section and a spoken list of towns and cities. However, in common with the "Stadium House" tracks, the mood of the song is one of jubilation. Between verses, a male chorus chants the word "America" to the tune of the song "Aquarius" from the rock musical Hair. Isaac Bello again provided rap, and Glenn Hughes (formerly of Deep Purple) provided vocals – a turning point for Hughes which he said helped "saved his life" from drug abuse.

In contrast, the B-side "America No More" is a sombre anti-war statement focusing on US foreign policy. With ambient overtones, it features forlorn guitars, austere brass and a pipe band loudly playing an improvisation in the style of Scottish traditional folk music, set against the backdrop of artillery noise and the recorded words of US politicians, commentators and evangelists speaking either about or during major 20th century US military conflicts. According to Drummond, it was the final track to be recorded by the KLF. Evangelists feature elsewhere in the KLF's music (including Chill Out, "What Time Is Love? (Remodelled & Remixed)," and "Fuck the Millennium"), as does gunfire (in the three "Stadium House" singles).

Reviewing "America: What Time Is Love?", Melody Maker found that "the whole bizarre concoction's brilliantly bonkers", but questioned the KLF's strategy of recycling their songs. "America No More" was described by The Wire in 1997 as "a devastating protest-montage of helicopters, bagpipes and carpet-bombs". NME declined to make "America: What Time Is Love?" 'Single of the Week', declaring it instead to be 'Single of the Millennium'.

Fuck the Millennium

In 1997, "What Time Is Love?" was covered by the Williams Fairey Band, a brass band which under the stewardship of British artist Jeremy Deller pioneered the Acid Brass concept. Inspired by an Acid Brass concert, Drummond and Cauty collaborated with Deller and Acid Brass on a new version of "What Time Is Love?" called "Fuck the Millennium" under the moniker 2K.