# Witness (Show of Hands album)

Witness is the twelfth studio album by British folk duo Show of Hands. The album was recorded in January 2006 at Presshouse Studio, Colyton, Devon, and was produced by Simon Emmerson and Simon ‘Mass’ Massey from the Afro Celts, who helped to incorporate elements of traditional African, ambient and electronic dance music with the duo's characteristic folk style. It was the band's first album in twelve years to use a rhythm section. Lyrically, the album addresses communal and heritage values, and was described by the duo's lead singer Steve Knightley as a "cinematic style journey of the West Country." The album features unofficial third member Miranda Sykes on ten of its twelve tracks.

It was released in May 2006 on the band's Hands on Music label, with the catalogue number HMCD23. Although some fans were perplexed by the duo's new direction, many welcomed it and it received a positive reception from critics. Mojo Magazine ranked Witness at number 10 on their best folk albums of 2006 list. The album became the band's best-selling to date. To promote the album, "Witness", "If I Needed Someone" and "Roots" were singles. The latter also had a music video produced, parts of which were filmed at the Trowbridge Village Pump Festival. The duo toured the album from 2006–2007, culminating in a unique "Tour of Topsham" pubs.

Background and recording

Show of Hands had enjoyed in 2003 releasing two albums, the instrumental release The Path and the acclaimed Country Life. Critical praise greeted both releases and the latter brought the band a new wave of attention, with its title song being nominated in the BBC Radio 2 Folk Awards in 2005 and featuring on the accompanying compilation album. That same year, the duo recorded a cover version of The Beatles' "If I Needed Someone" for BBC Radio 2's tribute show and album Rubber Folk, commemorating the 40th anniversary of The Beatles' folk rock album Rubber Soul. Their exposure on Radio 2, the most popular radio station in the United Kingdom, had brought the band the most attention that had up until that point. Country Life was supported by a tour in 2003–04, followed by The Autumn Tour 2004. Miranda Sykes accompanied the band on the tour, playing double bass and performing as a backing vocalist. Although she had collaborated with the band before, the tour marked the first instance of her becoming the unofficial "third member" of Show of Hands. The tour produced the live album As You Were (2005).

For the band's next album, they sought a change in direction, with the duo and Sykes being influenced by numerous other music. They enlisted Simon Emmerson and Simon "Mass" Massey of the multi-genre worldbeat band Afro Celt Sound System to produce their new album. Emmerson, a Grammy-nominated multi-musician, guitarist and DJ, alongside Massey, introduced the band to a more world music and electronic-music influence sound, much mirroring the sound of Afro Celt Sound System, who infuse a wide variation of world music genres, experimenting and electronic technology and instruments. The album was recorded at Presshouse Studio in the small town of Colyton, Devon in January 2006. The album, named Witness, featured Sykes as a full-time unofficial third member, appearing on ten of the album's twelve tracks.

Music
The album marks a departure for the band, featuring the usage of bass and percussion, the second time the band had experimented with them–the first being Beat about the Bush (1994). The album incorporates elements of traditional African, ambient and electronic dance music with the duo's characteristic folk style. Steve Knightley noted "every original song on the CD is a first person narrative or testimonial. Incidents and events are witnessed and recorded and every narrator is a different character. It's really a series of scenes from a cinematic style journey of the West Country." The band's website refers to the album as "the most innovative" studio album the duo had recorded to date, noting the album is Show of Hands "as you've never heard them before". One commentary noted that the album "exemplifies how the digital recording techniques contribute to hybrid musical styles". Phil Beer of the duo said "It's cutting and pasting. You can take something from somewhere and put it anywhere else … so in a chorus of a song if a word sounds funny in one place but fine in another chorus, you cut and paste and see if they dovetail together". [Emmerson] spent hours and hours and hours agonising over where to lay a bell beat: do we put it there or a nanosecond earlier? Because it matters, it actually matters where it falls". The album features numerous guest musicians. Miranda Sykes appears on ten of the album's twelve compositions and features in the album photographs, whilst Massey appears on nine of the tracks, where he is mostly responsible for percussion and drum programming.

The album opens with "two punchy, driving songs" which lyrically have been described as "archetypal Steve", both concerning "the intentional desecration of English life of one kind or another". The first song, "Witness", refers to the desecration of life in a commune, whilst the following song "Roots" is an impassioned defence of England's musical heritage and identity, with both songs having been described as showcasing Knightley "venting his anger in lyrics of venom and guts while as ever preaching more tolerance of perfectly reasonable ways of living which just happen to be unorthodox." "Roots" has also been described as being about a "search for identity" "which questions a lot about cultural values, leaving the listener to infer the answers," and as one of Knightley's "acerbic epics". The song was triggered by minister Kim Howells’ comment that his idea of hell was listening to "three Somerset folk singers in the local pub". The chorus of the song is performed by Port Isaac-based shantymen group The Fisherman's Friends. Contrasting the two songs is the third track "The Dive", an "uptempo global workout" about the West Country coastline that has been compared to the Afro Celt Sound System. The song features sounds of the sea at West Bay, Dorset.

"The Falmouth Packet/Haul Away Joe" is a "foot-stomping", "beat-bedecked shanty" sung by Phil Beer. The first part of the piece, "The Falmouth Packet", is an instrumental composed by Beer and recorded originally for his collaborative album The Fiddle Collection (1999). The second part, "Haul Away Joe", is a traditional song arranged by the duo with "ancillary voices" performed by The Fisherman's Friends. "Undertow" is a "bleak tale of hopes and aspirations in small time-life". Beer plays an EBow on the song, giving an "eerie" feel to the song. Massey plays a shaker on the song. The duo's cover of the Beatles' "If I Needed Someone" was originally recorded in 2005 for the BBC Radio 2 show and album Rubber Folk, which celebrated the 40th anniversary of the release of the Beatles' Rubber Soul  album. Featuring a distinct Indian music influence, it features British-Indian percussionist Johnny Kalsi playing tablas, shakers and the mazhar. "Innocent's Song" is the duo's "dark" arrangement of Johnny Coppin's musical version of Charles Causley's poem of the same name. "Union Street" was described as "striking" and "sparsely-textured", "telling poignantly of the last letters between a Marine and his wife". The song features the band's frequent collaborator Miranda Sykes singing the lines of the wife. Producer Simon Emmerson is credited for recording the sounds of the A35 road present in "The Bet". The quirky "Scratch" shows "a cynical look at curious addictions". The album's final song, "All I'd Ever Lost", is a "reflection set in the ambient hautings of an attic-room", ending the album on "a highly personal yet truly universal note.

Release and promotion
The album was released on the band's own label Hands on Music on 15 May 2006. The CD version is packaged in a digipak. The duo released two double A-side singles f