# Ticonderoga Publications

Ticonderoga Publications is an Australian independent publishing house founded by Russell B. Farr in 1996. Currently, Farr and Liz Grzyb continue to run the publication. The publisher specializes in collections of science fiction short stories.

History and current
Ticonderoga Publications was founded by Russell B. Farr in 1996. Co-partner in Ticonderoga Publications is editor Liz Grzyb. The publisher initially specialized in collections of science fiction short stories. Between 1996 and 1999, it published collections by Steven Utley, Sean Williams, Stephen Dedman, and other writers.  According to Peek, "Under Farr, Ticonderoga Publications gathered a reputation for producing sturdy, thick-papered, elegant collections."

Ticonderoga Publications suspended their production of books in 1999. This was due to the Australian GST (Goods and Services Tax) that raised the price of books by ten percent, with the editor concentrating on his Ticonderoga Online webzine instead.

In 2005, Ticonderoga Publications announced resumed publication with two new anthologies released in late 2006-early 2007. In 2006, it published Troy, a collection by Simon Brown. In 2007, it published the Ditmar Award-winning Fantastic Wonder Stories, edited by Russell B. Farr.

Ticonderoga Publications has published several anthologies, including The Workers' Paradise (2007) edited by Russell B. Farr and Nick Evans, Australia's first SF anthology to explore the future of work; Scary Kisses (2010) edited by Liz Grzyb, Australia's first paranormal romance anthology; and Belong (2010) edited by Russell B. Farr, twenty-three stories of interstellar immigration with writers from Australia, Bulgaria, Canada, USA, UK, and New Zealand.

In 2008, Ticonderoga Publications published Magic Dirt: the best of Sean Williams, winner of the inaugural Aurealis Award for Best Collection.

From 2010 to 2015, Ticonderoga Press published The Year's Best Australian Fantasy and Horror series, edited by Liz Grzyb and Talie Helene.

The West Australian newspaper has described Ticonderoga Publications as one of "the most important micro presses in Australia".

Authors

Published
 Howard Waldrop
 Steven Utley
 Simon Brown
 Sean Williams
 Stephen Dedman
 Lewis Shiner
 Terry Dowling
 Kim Wilkins
 Kaaron Warren
 Angela Slatter
 Justina Robson
 Lucy Sussex
 Lisa L. Hannett
 Sara Douglass
 Felicity Dowker
 Greg Mellor
 Juliet Marillier
 Cat Sparks
 Glenda Larke
 Jason Fischer
 Patty Jansen
 Janeen Webb
 Ian McHugh
 R. J. Ashby
 Christine Daigle
 Stewart Sternberg
 Anna Tambour
 Alan Baxter

Books

1996
 Custer's Last Jump by Steven Utley and Howard Waldrop ( (chapbook with cover by Shaun Tan, out of print))

1997
 Ghost Seas by Steven Utley ( (first edition trade paperback, out of print),  (first edition ebook, 2007),  (second edition hardcover, 2009) and  (second edition trade paperback, 2009))

1998
 Cannibals of the Fine Light by Simon Brown ( (trade paperback with cover by Emma Barber, out of print))
 A View Before Dying by Sean Williams ( (chapbook with cover by Emma Barber, out of print))

1999
 New Adventures in Sci-fi by Sean Williams ( (trade paperback, out of print))
 The Lady of Situations by Stephen Dedman ( (trade paperback, out of print),  (second edition hardcover, 2009) and  (second edition trade paperback, 2009))

2006
 Troy by Simon Brown ( (trade paperback))

2007
 The Workers' Paradise edited by Russell B. Farr & Nick Evans ( (trade paperback with cover by Amanda Rainey))
 Fantastic Wonder Stories edited by Russell B. Farr ( (trade paperback))

2008
 Magic Dirt by Sean Williams ( (trade paperback))

2009
 Love in Vain by Lewis Shiner ( (hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 Basic Black by Terry Dowling ( (hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 Make Believe: A Terry Dowling Reader by Terry Dowling ( (hardcover) and  (trade paperback))

2010
 Belong edited by Russell B. Farr ( (hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 The Infernal by Kim Wilkins ( (limited hardcover))
 Scary Kisses edited by Liz Grzyb ( (trade paperback with cover by Amanda Rainey))
 Dead Sea Fruit by Kaaron Warren ( (hardcover with cover by Olga Read) and  (trade paperback with cover by Olga Read))
 The Girl With No Hands by Angela Slatter ( (hardcover with cover by Lisa L Hannett) and  (trade paperback with cover by Lisa L Hannett))

2011
 Heliotrope by Justina Robson ( (limited hardcover),  (trade paperback) and  (e-book))
 More Scary Kisses edited by Liz Grzyb ( (trade paperback) and  (e-book))
 Dead Red Heart edited by Russell B. Farr ( (limited hardcover),  (trade paperback), and  (e-book))
 Matilda Told Such Dreadful Lies by Lucy Sussex ( (limited hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 The Year's Best Australian Fantasy and Horror 2010 edited by Liz Grzyb and Talie Helene ( (hardcover),  (trade paperback), and  (e-book))
 Bluegrass Symphony by Lisa L Hannett ( (limited hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 The Hall of Lost Footsteps by Sara Douglass ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover), and  (trade paperback))

2012
 Damnation and Dames edited by Liz Grzyb and Amanda Pillar ( (trade paperback)
 Bread and Circuses by Felicity Dowker ( (limited hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 The Year's Best Australian Fantasy and Horror 2011 edited by Liz Grzyb and Talie Helene ( (hardcover) and  (paperback))
 Mage Heart Book 1 of The Chronicles of Dion by Jane Routley ( (hardcover))
 Aramaya Book 2 of The Chronicles of Dion by Jane Routley ( (hardcover) and )
 Fire Angels Book 3 of The Chronicles of Dion by Jane Routley ( (hardcover) and  and )
 Wild Chrome by Greg Mellor ( (limited hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 Bloodstones edited by Amanda Pillar ( (hardcover),  (trade paperback) and  (e-book))
 Midnight and Moonshine by Lisa L. Hannett and Angela Slatter ( (limited hardcover) and  (trade paperback)
 The 400-Million-Year Itch Volume 1 of The Silurian Tales by Steven Utley ( (limited hardcover) and  (trade paperback)))

2013
 Prickle Moon by Juliet Marillier ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 The Bride Price by Cat Sparks ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 The Year of Ancient Ghosts by Kim Wilkins ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 Dreaming of Djinn edited by Liz Grzyb ( (trade paperback))
 Havenstar by Glenda Larke ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 The Year's Best Australian Fantasy and Horror 2012 edited by Liz Grzyb and Talie Helene  (including  (hardcover) and  (paperback))
 Invisible Kingdoms Volume 2 of The Silurian Tales by Steven Utley (including  (hardcover),  (trade paperback) and  (e-book))
 Everything is a Graveyard by Jason Fischer ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover) and  (trade paperback) and  (e-book))
 Ambassador by Patty Jansen ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover) and  (trade paperback))

2014
 Death at the Blue Elephant by Janeen Webb ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover),  (trade paperback) and  (e-book))
 Kisses by Clockwork, edited by Liz Grzyb ()
 Black-Winged Angels by Angela Slatter (978-1-921857-54-6 (limited hardcover))
 The Year's Best Australian Fantasy and Horror 2013 edited by Liz Grzyb and Talie Helene ( (hardcover) and  (trade paperback) and  (e-book))
 Angel Dust by Ian McHugh ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover),  (trade paperback) and  (e-book))
 The Assassin of Nara (The Kingbreaker Chronicles 1) by R.J. Ashby ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover) and  (trade paperback))

2015
 The Scarlet Rider by Lucy Sussex ( (hardcover) and  (trade paperback))
 The Emerald Key by Christine Daigle and Stewart Sternberg ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover),  (trade paperback), and  (e-book))
 The Year's Best Australian Fantasy and Horror 2014, edited by Liz Grzyb and Talie Helene ( (hardcover),  (trade paperback), and  (e-book))
 Hear Me Roar, edited by Liz Grzyb ( (trade paperback) and  (e-book))
 The Finest Ass in the Universe by Anna Tambour ( (limited hardcover),  (hardcover) and  (trade paperback) and  (e-book))
 Bloodlines,