# Trisakti University

Trisakti University (Usakti, Trisakti) is Indonesia's largest private university located in Jakarta, Indonesia. Trisakti University, is the only private university in Indonesia which was established by the Government of the Republic of Indonesia. Founded on 29 November 1965, the university has more than 20,000 active students and has produced more than 100,000 alumni. Trisakti University currently employs 742 tenured faculty members (82%) and 160 part-time lecturers (18%).

History

Baperki University (1958–1962)
In 1958, Res Publica University was established as Baperki University by Baperki, an organization of Indonesians of Chinese descent.

Res Publica University (1962–1965)
The name "University Res Publica" was taken from a presidential address delivered by President Sukarno, and means "for the public interest". The school was destroyed after the attempted coup in Indonesia, Baperki banned, and Trisakti University established to replace the destroyed university. Many former students were banned over allegations of ties to the Indonesian Communist Party (PKI).

Trisakti University (1965-onwards)
There were originally five faculties at Trisakti University:

Faculty of Engineering with five departments (Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Civil Engineering Architecture and Fine Arts)
Faculty of Dentistry
Faculty of Medicine
Faculty of Economics with two subjects (Economics and Accounting)
Faculty of Law and Knowledge Society

Since 1980, several additional faculties were established to cope with fast technological development in Indonesia. The university currently has nine faculties.

1998 military shootings

The Trisakti shootings (Indonesian: Tragedi Trisakti [ˈtraɡedi trisakˈti], literally "Trisakti Tragedy") occurred at Trisakti University on 12 May 1998. At a demonstration demanding President Suharto's resignation, soldiers opened fire on unarmed protestors. Four students were killed and dozens more were injured. The shootings contributed to widespread student unrest and rioting during the Indonesian Revolution of 1998, which led to the resignation of President Suharto.

The Trisakti Museum was established in commemoration of the incident.

Building and locations 
Trisakti has several campuses around Jabodetabek.

Jakarta campuses 
A Campus is the main campus, located at Jl. Kyai Tapa no. 1 Grogol Jakarta Barat 11440. Administrative Center (Rektorat), Faculty of Law, Faculty of Economics, Faculty of Civil Engineering and Planning, Faculty of Industrial Technology, Faculty of Mineral Technology, Faculty of Landscape Architecture and Environmental Technology, Faculty of Arts and Design, and Graduate School Programs.
B Campus, located at Jl. Kyai Tapa Kav 262 Grogol Jakarta Barat 11440. Faculty of Medical Sciences and Faculty of Dentistry.
C Campus, located at Jl. A. Yani (By Pass) Kav. 85, Rawasari, Jakarta Timur 13210. 
D Campus, located at Jl. IKPN Tanah Kusir Bintaro Jakarta Selatan 12330. This is the main campus of Sekolah Tinggi Pariwisata Trisakti (STPT).
F Campus, located at Jl. Jenderal Ahmad Yani No 107 By Pass, Rawasari, Jakarta Timur 13210. This campus has another part of Faculty of Economics.
G Campus, located at Jl. Kyai Tapa no. 100 Grogol Jakarta Barat 11440. Trisakti Medical Center and some lecture halls for Faculty of Medical Sciences.

West Java campus 
Nagrak campus is the largest campus (124 ha), located at Jl. KH. Rafei-Alternatif Cibubur, Km 6, Bogor 16968. Temporary Management Office, Center of Science Technology and Community Development (CSTCD).

Organizations

Faculties 
The university has nine faculties:

Faculty of Law

Faculty of Medical Sciences

Faculty of Dentistry

Faculty of Economics and Business 
Department of Accounting
Department of Management
Department of Economics

Faculty of Civil Engineering and Planning 
Department of Civil Engineering
Department of Architecture

Faculty of Industrial Technology 
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Electrical Engineering
Department of Industrial Engineering
Department of Informatics and Information Systems

Faculty of Earth Technology and Energy 
Department of Petroleum Engineering
Department of Geology Engineering
Department of Mining Engineering

Faculty of Landscape Architecture and Environmental Technology 
Department of Landscape Architecture
Department of Environmental Engineering
Department of Regional and City Planning

Faculty of Arts and Design 
Department of Photography
Department of Interior Design
Department of Product Design
Department of Cinematography

Academic profile

Reputation and recognition 

Trisakti University has achieved world recognition in general, and particularly for the quantity and quality level of the job uptake for graduates.

International recognition of the visible courses from Trisakti University has held:
Double Degree Bachelor Program on 12 courses with Indiana-Purdue University Indianapolis, US; University of Missouri St. Louis, US; Curtin University, Sydney, Australia; Hogeschool Utrecht, University of Applied Science, Utrecht, The Netherlands; Northampton University, United Kingdom, Koffie Annan Business School The Netherlands, Saxion University of Applied Science of The Netherlands, Curtin University, Perth Western Australia, Inholland University of Applied Science The Netherlands.
Double Degree Master of Management at the Maastricht School of Management, the Netherlands, Markfield Institute of Higher Education UK, La Trobe University in Australia, Prince of Songkla University Thailand, United Emirates University, and the Asian Institute of Management in the Philippines.
International Class Doctoral Program with the Maastricht School of Management Netherlands, Colorado State University, US, Markfield Institute of Higher Education UK, La Trobe University in Australia.
In addition, international recognition is characterized by the presence of a number of foreign students from more than five countries. Whereas recognition of the quality nationally marked by the increasing quality of accreditation. In the academic year 2013/2014 of 45 study programs held by Trisakti University were accredited.

In addition, the Faculty of Medicine of Trisakti University, the result of Indonesia physician competency test (UKDI) is good, with a passing grade to 90% equal with other faculty of medicine in leading universities. The Faculty of Medicine Trisakti University is the only faculty of medicine which currently the graduates own certificate from the Center of Work Development and Hiperkes, so that the graduates of the Faculty of Medicine Trisakti University can directly work in the companies.

Next is that the 23 lecturers have national achievement by gaining trust to be a team / resource / jury nationally. Trisakti University lecturers are also trusted from the National Accreditation of University Board - Ministry of National Education is marked by the appointment of 15 tenured faculties of the faculty of the Trisakti University to become national assessors. Some lecturers earn the trust as Assessor of Certification Expertise.

The uptake of the working world can be measured with the alumni position indicator, the waiting span to get a job, the suitability of science, and the recognition of user graduates. Based on the alumni search results year 2013/2014, data showed that the average waiting span to get a job for graduates is less than three months, and considered very good; and good on the attributes of integrity, professionalism, communication, cooperation, self-development, and IT skills ability. This achievement needs to be improved, especially in terms of suitability science.

Quality and quantity uptake world of work cannot be separated from the academic achievements in the form of hard skills and soft skills competence, as well as character development of Trisakti University's graduates. Until the academic year 2013/2014, there are 104.247 graduates who occupy important positions in the country, such as Gov