# Gjøvdal

Gjøvdal (historic: Gjevedal) is a former municipality in the old Aust-Agder county in Norway. The municipality existed from 1908 until its dissolution in 1960. It covered the Gjøv river valley and the surrounding moors.  It is currently part of the municipality of Åmli in Agder county. The administrative centre was the village of Askland where Gjøvdal Church is located.

History
The parish of Gjøvdal was part of the municipality of Åmli since 1 January 1838 (see formannskapsdistrikt law). On 1 January 1908, the municipality of Åmli was split into three separate municipalities: Gjevedal (population: 590), Lille Topdal (population: 389), and Åmli (population: 2,024). In 1911, the name Gjevedal was changed to "Gjøvdal".

During the 1960s, there were many municipal mergers across Norway due to the work of the Schei Committee. On 1 January 1960, the municipality of Gjøvdal (population: 362) was reunited with Åmli (population: 1,947) to form a new, enlarged Åmli municipality. (The municipality of Tovdal was merged into Åmli in 1967.)

Name
The municipality (originally the parish) is named after the Gjevedal valley (). The first element of the name comes from the name of the river Gjøv () which flows through the valley. That name comes from the verb  which means "to give someone something". The last element is  which means "valley" or "dale". Thus, "the valley that gives"

Government
While it existed, this municipality was responsible for primary education (through 10th grade), outpatient health services, senior citizen services, unemployment, social services, zoning, economic development, and municipal roads. During its existence, this municipality was governed by a municipal council of directly elected representatives. The mayor was indirectly elected by a vote of the municipal council.

Municipal council
The municipal council  of Gjøvdal was made up of 13 representatives that were elected to four year terms. The tables below show the historical composition of the council by political party.

See also
List of former municipalities of Norway

References

External links

Åmli
Former municipalities of Norway
1908 establishments in Norway
1960 disestablishments in Norway