# Omar Hamadi Stadium

Omar Hamadi Stadium () is a multi-purpose stadium in Bologhine, Algiers, Algeria. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home ground of USM Alger. The stadium has a capacity of 7,500 people.

History

Opening the stadium

The stadium was built in 1919 as the home ground for l’Association Sportive Saint Eugénoise. It was known as the Stade Roger Lapergue for two years, its architecture made it one of the most beautiful stadiums of its time. It was initially built with two side stands and a Party hall. its name will then become the name of the city as Stade communal de Saint Eugène. Later the stadium becomes available to MC Alger, becoming the main stadium in the League Algiers. In 1957, the third platform will be built, consisting of two superimposed stands on the south side, arched and connecting the two original stands, this new platform will give a modern look at the municipal stadium. After the independence of Algeria in 1962, the city of St. Eugene will be called Bologhine new name for the town. The upper gallery of the stadium was severely damaged at the piers during the 1980 El Asnam earthquake (currently Chlef). And has since remained off limits to the public and eventually after endless work being demolished in 2003. The stadium hosted the Algerian Cup final once in 1970 between USM Alger and CR Belcourt, which ended for the latter with a score of 4–1. In 1998, Bologhine stadium was renamed Omar Hamadi, a former leader of USM Alger and revolutionary (he was sentenced to death during his country's war of independence) and who was killed along with his two son at Bouzareah (Algiers) by a terrorist group in 1995.

New stand and capacity
In 2000 a new stand was built to expand the home stadium capacity, and spent 8,000 to 10,000 spectators, USM Alger club that holds the concession for the stadium has also invested in the development of infrastructure necessary for recovery and training for players: sauna, gym and restaurant. In 2015, the stadium hosted the first leg of the CAF Champions League final between USM Alger and TP Mazembe, which ended for the latter with a score of 2–1. On March 9, 2021, USM Alger Administration renewed its contract with Bologhine Municipality regarding renting Omar Hammadi Stadium for a period of one year for 80 million centimes per month. Mayor of Bologhine added that The State Property Directorate used the old assessment, which stipulates that it should accommodate 12,000 spectators, before demolishing the upper stands, as the stadium now has only 7,500 spectators. In April 2023, the technical expert report related to the stadium concluded that it was necessary to demolish three stands namely the northern, southern and western, because they had become a real danger to the supporters.

External links
 StadiumDB page
 stade bologhine usmalger

References

Omar Hamadi
Buildings and structures in Algiers Province
Multi-purpose stadiums in Algeria
Sport in Algiers