# American Speech–Language–Hearing Association

The American Speech–Language–Hearing Association (ASHA) is a professional association  for speech–language pathologists, audiologists, and speech, language, and hearing scientists in the United States and internationally. It has more than 218,000 members and affiliates.

The association's national office is located at 2200 Research Boulevard, Rockville, Maryland.  The organization also has an office on Capitol Hill.

Vicki R. Deal-Williams is currently serving as the association's chief executive officer.

History
ASHA was founded in 1925 as the American Academy of Speech Correction.

The charter members were Margaret Gray Blanton, Smiley Blanton, Richard Carmen Borden, Frederick Warner Brown, Mary A Brownell, Alvin Clayton Busse, Pauline Beatrice Camp, Jane Dorsey (Zimmerman), Eudora Porter Estabrook, Mabel Farrington Gifford, Max Aaron Goldstein, Ruth Green, Laura Heilman, Elmer Lawton Kenyon, Mabel V Lacey, Elizabeth Dickinson McDowell, Thyrza Nichols, Samuel Dowse Robbins, Sara Mae Stinchfield (Hawk), Jane Bliss Taylor, Charles Kenneth Thomas, Lee Edward Travis, Lavilla Amelia Ward, Sina Fladeland Waterhouse, and Robert William West.

In 1927, they changed their name to American Society for the Study of Disorders of Speech, in 1934 to the American Speech Correction Association, in 1947 to the American Speech and Hearing Association.
The current name was adopted in 1978.

Council for Academic Accreditation 
The Council for Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech–Language Pathology (CAA) is the accreditation unit of the ASHA. Founded over 100 years ago by American universities and secondary schools, CAA established standards for graduate program accreditation that meet entry-level preparation in the speech and hearing field. Accreditation is available for graduate programs with a master's degree in Speech–Language Pathology or clinical doctoral program in audiology.

ASHA membership benefits
Professionals of Communication Sciences and Disorders (CSD) can become members of ASHA.  These professionals include audiologists, speech-language pathologists, and speech-language-hearing scientists.  As of December 31, 2021, there are more than 218,000 members and affiliates of ASHA.  Opportunities ASHA membership brings include access to publications associated with ASHA, to continuing education programs through ASHA, to a platform to network with other CSD professionals, to career-building tools, and to money-saving programs.

Special interest groups 
ASHA sponsors special interest groups (SIGs) within the organization as a means of promoting community and learning in more specialized topics. As of 2016, ASHA has 19 established Special Interest Groups. These have been added through the years. ASHA members can be a SIG Affiliate of any number of SIGs, with each affiliation requiring nominal yearly dues.

References 

1925 establishments in the United States
Medical associations based in the United States
Speech and language pathology
Medical and health organizations based in Maryland