# Debbi Wilkes

Debbi Wilkes (born December 16, 1946) is a Canadian former pair skater. With skating partner Guy Revell, she became a two-time Canadian national champion, the 1963 North American champion, and the 1964 Olympic silver medallist.

Personal life 
Wilkes was born on December 16, 1946, in Toronto. She graduated from York University with an honors degree in psychology and then earned a master's degree in communications at Michigan State University. She is currently married to Bruce McEwan.

Career 
On the ice by the age of five, Wilkes took up pairs at age ten and skated with her first partner until he quit.

She began skating with Guy Revell, six years her elder, in 1958 after meeting at the Unionville skating carnival. Though their height difference was adequate at the start of their partnership, by the time Wilkes was seventeen in 1963, her height was  to Revell's . They were coached by Bruce Hyland at Crosby Arena and represented the Unionville Skating Club throughout their career.

Wilkes fell from a lift while posing for press photographs prior to the 1963 World Championships, hitting the ice head-first and fracturing her skull. The pair had to withdraw from the competition.

Wilkes/Revell were awarded the bronze medal at the 1964 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck, while gold went to Ludmila Belousova / Oleg Protopopov and silver to Marika Kilius / Hans-Jürgen Bäumler. After taking the bronze at the 1964 World Championships in Dortmund, the pair parted ways — Wilkes decided to pursue an education while Revell elected to tour professionally in ice shows.

In 1966, Wilkes/Revell were informed that the silver medallists in Innsbruck, Marika Kilius / Hans-Jürgen Bäumler of Germany, had been disqualified after an International Olympic Committee investigation found they had signed pro contracts before the Olympics. IOC executive James Worrall presented Wilkes/Revell with the silver medals during the Canadian Championships in Peterborough, Ont. Later, Kilius/Baumler were reinstated in the record books, but the medals were never redistributed. In December 2013, after an investigation by The New York Times, the International Olympic Committee confirmed that Kilius/Bäumler and Wilkes/Revell share the 1964 Olympic silver medal and Joseph/Joseph of the United States are the bronze medallists. Despite the information on its website over the years, the IOC stated that this was intended to be the official result since 1987.

After retiring from competition, Wilkes became a television skating analyst, an author, a coach, and Skate Canada's Director of Marketing and Sponsorship.

Results

(with Revell)

References

1946 births
Living people
Figure skaters from Toronto
Canadian female pair skaters
Canadian television sportscasters
Olympic figure skaters for Canada
Figure skaters at the 1964 Winter Olympics
Women sports announcers
Figure skating commentators
Olympic medalists in figure skating
World Figure Skating Championships medalists
Medalists at the 1964 Winter Olympics
Olympic silver medalists for Canada
Canadian women television personalities