# Terry Collins

Terry Lee Collins (born May 27, 1949) is an American former professional baseball manager. He managed the Houston Astros, the Anaheim Angels and New York Mets in Major League Baseball and the Orix Buffaloes of Nippon Professional Baseball. He currently serves as a baseball analyst for Mets programming on SNY.

A former Minor League Baseball shortstop, Collins managed the Albuquerque Dukes of the Pacific Coast League and the Buffalo Bisons of the International League at the minor league level, and the Duluth Huskies of the Northwoods League at the summer collegiate league level. In 1994, he made his MLB managerial debut with the Houston Astros. He also managed the Anaheim Angels for three years. Known as a "feisty and intense manager", Collins had his longest tenure as manager of the New York Mets (his first major league job in a decade), where he led them to their first playoff appearance in nine years in 2015, which resulted in a trip to the 2015 World Series, their first pennant since 2000.

Since retiring from managing, Collins has worked in the Mets' front office as a special assistant to general managers Sandy Alderson (2018) and Brodie Van Wagenen (2019). He also joined Fox Sports as a studio analyst for the network's MLB coverage in 2019.

College career
Collins attended college at Eastern Michigan University from 1968–1971, where he played shortstop.  In each of the four years he attended Eastern Michigan, Collins led the team in steals. He was on the Eastern Michigan team that won the NAIA national championship in 1971, at which he won the honor of Outstanding Defensive Player of the Tournament. Collins was inducted into the Eastern Michigan University Athletic Hall of Fame in 1994.

Playing career
In 1971, Collins was drafted by the Pittsburgh Pirates. During a 10-year playing career, he played from 1970-1978 and in 1980 and 1984 in the Pittsburgh Pirates and Los Angeles Dodgers organizations. However, he never broke into the big leagues.  Collins batted left-handed and threw right-handed and stood  tall. He compiled a batting average of .255 in 671 games played.

Managing career

1981–92
In 1981, Collins began his managing career as pilot of the Dodgers' Class-A Lodi affiliate in the California League. In 1983, he managed the Albuquerque Dukes, the Dodgers' AAA affiliate also in winter to Mayos de Navojoa in the Mexican Pacific League. He managed the Dukes through the 1987 season, in which he won the PCL championship. He also led the Tigres de Licey to a victory in the 1984 Caribbean Series. He managed three years in Buffalo, the Pirates' AAA affiliate, winning 246 games in the process. He was promoted to bullpen coach for the Pirates in 1992, where he coached until the end of the 1993 season. In honor of his achievements in Buffalo, he was inducted into the Buffalo Baseball Hall of Fame in 1992. He was also inducted into the Albuquerque Baseball Hall of Fame in 2014.

1994–96: Houston Astros
After the 1993 season, the Houston Astros fired manager Art Howe because the owner did not favor Howe's "deliberate style." Astros General Manager Bob Watson replaced him with Collins, who never had a losing season in his three years there.  The Astros finished second all three years. 

The 1994 season seemed to be a highlight year for the Astros and Collins. They were 66-49, with a banner year from first basemen Jeff Bagwell, who was batting 
.368. They were a half game behind in the NL Central, but the 1994 strike complicated both dilemmas of the team: Bagwell had suffered a season-ending injury to his hand on August 10 but the strike that happened two days later meant that the season would not be concluded. Bagwell was the first MVP in Astros history.

The 1995 season was a 144-game season due to the strike lasting many months. The Astros went 76-68, good for a second-place finish in the Central behind the Cincinnati Reds. That year, Collins was a coach at the All-Star Game. They never were a particular threat to the Reds, but they were in the hunt for the newly instituted Wild Card until the Colorado Rockies (a third year expansion team) swooped in and won the spot by one game. 

The Astros had plenty to talk about in 1996. A feud between pitchers and batters boiled over to the public, while owner Drayton McLane pushed for a new ballpark with a second choice being a move to Virginia. On the field, they led for over a hundred days in 1996, leading as late as September 2, but an 8-17 September doomed their chances (including a road trip where they lost all eight games), and they finished in second place by six games behind the St. Louis Cardinals (incidentally, the Astros went 2-11 against the Cardinals that year). They finished with a record of 82-80.
He was dismissed at the end of the 1996 season, after the Astros suffered a late-season collapse. During a 1996 game against the Montreal Expos, Collins was hit in the face by a batting helmet thrown by Expos outfielder Moisés Alou during a brawl. Collins had to receive four stitches to close the wound above his lip. He finished his Astros career with a 224–197 record.

Baseball analyst Joe Morgan suggests that Collins was partly to blame for the Astros' failure to make the playoffs. Morgan wrote in 1999:

Adversity is part of baseball; if a manager can't cope with it his team will suffer. Terry Collins, the skipper of the Anaheim Angels learned this lesson when he was with Houston. The Astros were a talented team when Collins was there (1994–96). They finished second three times but failed to make the playoffs because their manager exerted too much pressure on them. He was so uptight, his players thought each pitch was life-or-death. It wasn't anything Terry said; it was his demeanor. Collins was edgy in the dugout during games, always looking like someone who was just waiting for disaster to strike. At the moment anything actually went wrong you could smell the panic in him. Players picked up on that. To alleviate the tension the manager was bringing to the clubhouse, they put added pressure on themselves to perform well, which invariably choked off their natural abilities so that they can't play their best. It's no coincidence that the Astros became a post-season participant once Houston replaced Collins with Larry Dierker. I don't know if Larry knows more about baseball than Collins, but he does have a laid-back attitude that immediately puts his players at ease. Dierker kept the pressure off the team by reminding them that while the goal of winning is serious, the game is still essentially supposed to be fun. (By the way, I have been watching Collins since he joined the Angels and he's a much more laid-back skipper. When I complimented him on this change, he said former Angel infielder-outfielder Tony Phillips had spoken to him about relaxing more and that it has really made an impression.)

Years later, Collins admitted as such that he demanded "probably too much" from his team.

1997–99: Anaheim Angels
Less than a month after being dismissed by the Astros, Collins was hired as manager of the Anaheim Angels for the 1997 season.  His first two years with the Angels also produced winning records and second-place finishes. In 1999, the Angels were hampered by injuries and Collins resigned with 29 games left in the season. He apparently received a vote of confidence from the front office, but the players had petitioned GM Bill Bavasi to fire him. He finished his Angels career with a 220–237 record.

2006–2009
At the end of the 2006 season, Collins signed a two-year deal to manage the Orix Buffaloes of the Pacific League in Japan. Terry resigned as manager of the Buffaloes on May 21, 2008, after a 7–3 inter-league loss to the Hanshin Tigers.  Orix were in 5th place in the Pacific League with a 21–28 record, despite investments in players such as Alex Cabrera in the prior off-season.  Injuries to the Buffaloes pitching staff certainly didn't help Collins' situation. However, the Buffaloes bounced ba