# List of Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle albums

Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle is a fantasy adventure manga series written by Clamp that is currently serializing in Kodansha's Weekly Shōnen Magazine which began publication in 2003. Set in a multiverse, its storyline follows a group of five travelers as they journey across the dimensions in search of Sakura's memories. It was adapted by Bee Train into a fifty-two episode anime television series directed by Kōichi Mashimo and partly by Hiroshi Morioka with music direction by Toru Nakano. The first season was broadcast in 2005 spanning twenty-six episodes. Production I.G adapted the series into an anime film directed by Itsuro Kawasaki and music direction by Kazuhiro Iwabayashi, that premiered in 2006. The second season of the anime series followed the film in 2006 spanning the last twenty-six episodes. Production I.G. adapted an additional two OVA series directed by Shunsuke Tada with music direction for the first OVA by Masafumi Mima that aired between 2007 and 2009 spanning five episodes in total. The discography for these adaptations consist of four soundtrack albums, one compilation album, eight maxi singles, two studio albums, and three drama CDs.

The core of the discography is the four soundtrack albums released by Victor Entertainment between 2005 and 2006, which together contain the original soundtrack for both seasons of the anime television series. The lyrics, arrangement, and composition for the soundtrack albums are provided by Yuki Kajiura who has provided the background music for anime series such as Madlax, Noir, and .hack//SIGN. The eight maxi singles released by both Victor Entertainment and R and C Limited between 2005 and 2006 and two studio albums released by Victor Entertainment during 2009 each contain one piece of theme music used in the various adaptations of the manga series. A vocal compilation album collecting various songs from the studio albums, maxi singles, and drama CDs released between 2005 and 2006.

Three drama CDs have been released by Victor Entertainment between 2005 and 2006 featuring dialogue between the characters from Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle voiced by their respective voice actors as well as theme music provided by various artists and performed by a varying combination of the series' five protagonists. Another three drama CDs have been released between 2006 and 2007, with a fourth to be released in 2009, that follow a spin-off storyline featuring characters from both Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle and its sister manga series, xxxHolic.

Concept and creation

When watching Tsubasa Chronicle, Maaya Sakamoto felt that Syaoran's straightforward feelings and strength to protect Sakura were very touching. Within "Kazemachi Jet", the ending theme of second season of the anime television series Tsubasa Chronicle, she tried to capture the image of Syaoran growing from his "naive" self into a young man as a result of experiencing the repetition of meetings and partings over his journey and Syaoran continuing to try to protect his loved one in spite of the mishaps along the way. In "Spica", an insert song into Tsubasa Chronicle that was sold alongside "Kazemachi Jet", she tried to capture the Sakura's feminine and maternal strength as one with courage to continually move forward despite the odds but also ability to show weakness at times. In "Saigo no Kajitsu", the ending of the OVA series Tsubasa Tokyo Revelations, she worked once more with Shōko Suzuki whom she had been with for three years prior and thus was very comfortable working with. She described having created the song as beginning quietly and building up into a magnificent and dramatic song as a wave washes over the surface of still water. She wrote its lyrics trying to capture the feelings of the characters who learn that the Syaoran whom they had been traveling with was in reality a copy and their desire to continue to choose their own future despite knowing the reason why Syaoran was cloned and what they would face by choosing to continuing their journey.

Kinya Kotani has been a fan of Clamp's work for quite some time and was extremely happy when he could take part in creating the theme music for adaptations of the group's work. When Kinya Kotani wrote the lyrics for the theme music for Tsubasa Chronicle and the anime film Tsubasa Chronicle the Movie: The Princess of the Country of Birdcages as if he were Syaoran. Kotani had to deliver both "Blaze" and "Aerial"—the opening themes for the first season of the anime series and the opening for the anime film respectively—on a tight schedule. When first creating "Aerial", he described always having the word "aerial" in his mind. He wrote the lyrics by comparing the universe of Tsubasa Chronicle with the everything that he had written so far. When creating the opening theme song "It's" for the second season of the anime, he tried to capture the sad feel of Syaoran's strength in his singing; he tried to create a clear image of Syaoran's feelings in writing the song's lyrics, both Syaoran's forwarding-facing and backward-facing characteristics. The music was designed to be simple but deep, conveying a sense of something missed and of something new. Kotani feels that "It's" is a song that conveys the feeling of one's back being propelled into a journey. For the film Yuki Kajiura was asked to create a score different from the one used in TV series in order to convey characters' states of mind. Producer Tetsuya Natakate was satisfied with the result, as Kajiura's music ended being what he hoped.

Season 1

"Blaze"
"Blaze" is a maxi single performed by Kinya Kotani first released on June 22, 2005 by R and C under the catalog number YRCN-10092. The lyrics, composition, and arrangement for the single are provided by Kinya Kotani, Nieve, and HΛL. It contains 3 tracks in regular and instrumental versions. The track "Blaze" is featured as the opening theme to the first season of the anime series Tsubasa Chronicle. Its B-side is titled "Refraction". Lesley Smith of Anime Fringe described "Blaze" as "an upbeat example of J-pop at its finest". It peak ranked 19th on the Oricon singles chart and remained on the chart for five weeks.

"Loop"
 is a maxi single performed by Maaya Sakamoto first released on May 11, 2005 by Victor Entertainment under the catalog number VICL-35791. The lyrics, composition, and arrangement for the single are provided by h's, Maaya Sakamoto, h-wonder, and Takeshi Nakatsuka. It contains 4 tracks in regular and instrumental versions and covers a duration of 18:08. The track "Loop" was featured as the ending theme to the first season of the anime series Tsubasa Chronicle. Its B-side is titled . Lesley Smith of Anime Fringe described "Loop" as "a powerful ballad, with slight Celtic overtones and a gorgeous melody". It peak ranked 7th on the Oricon singles chart and remained on the chart for nine weeks.

Future Soundscape I
Future Soundscape I is one of the four soundtrack albums for the anime television series Tsubasa Chronicle. The lyrics, composition, and arrangement for the album are provided by Yuki Kajiura except for the included pieces of theme music. It features the opening and ending themes for the first season as well as English versions of two of Sakura's image songs: "You Are My Love" performed by Eri Itō and "Yume no Tsubasa" (titled "Tsubasa" for this album) performed by FictionJunction KAORI. It spans 20 tracks and covers a duration of 54:59. It was first released on July 6, 2005 by Victor Entertainment with the catalog number VICL-61661. The limited edition of the album was released on the same day by Victor Entertainment with the catalog number VIZL-137 that features a wide book-case design showing Syaoran holding a golden staff and a pen with Sakura's feather attached to its end.

It peak ranked 39th on the Oricon albums chart and remained on the chart for three weeks. Lesley Smith from webzine Anime Fringe praised it as "a beautiful CD" that has "enchanting" music and "amazing voca