# Amputation

Amputation is the removal of a limb by trauma, medical illness, or surgery. As a surgical measure, it is used to control pain or a disease process in the affected limb, such as malignancy or gangrene. In some cases, it is carried out on individuals as a preventive surgery for such problems. A special case is that of congenital amputation, a congenital disorder, where fetal limbs have been cut off by constrictive bands. In some countries, amputation is currently used to punish people who commit crimes. Amputation has also been used as a tactic in war and acts of terrorism; it may also occur as a war injury. In some cultures and religions, minor amputations or mutilations are considered a ritual accomplishment. When done by a person, the person executing the amputation is an amputator. The oldest evidence of this practice comes from a skeleton found buried in Liang Tebo cave, East Kalimantan, Indonesian Borneo dating back to at least 31,000 years ago, where it was done when the amputee was a young child.

Types

Leg 
Lower limb amputations can be divided into two broad categories: minor and major amputations. Minor amputations generally refer to the amputation of digits. Major amputations are commonly below-knee- or above-knee amputations. Common partial foot amputations include the Chopart, Lisfranc, and ray amputations.

Common forms of ankle disarticulations include Pyrogoff, Boyd, and Syme amputations. A less common major amputation is the Van Nes rotation, or rotationplasty, i.e. the turning around and reattachment of the foot to allow the ankle joint to take over the function of the knee.

Types of amputations include:

 partial foot amputation amputation of the lower limb distal to the ankle joint
 ankle disarticulation amputation of the lower limb at the ankle joint
 trans-tibial amputation amputation of the lower limb between the knee joint and the ankle joint, commonly referred to as a below-knee amputation
 knee disarticulation amputation of the lower limb at the knee joint
 trans-femoral amputation amputation of the lower limb between the hip joint and the knee joint, commonly referred to an above-knee amputation
 hip disarticulation amputation of the lower limb at the hip joint
 trans-pelvic disarticulation amputation of the whole lower limb together with all or part of the pelvis, also known as a hemipelvectomy or hindquarter amputation

Arm
Types of upper extremity amputations include:
 partial hand amputation
 wrist disarticulation
 trans-radial amputation, commonly referred to as below-elbow or forearm amputation
 elbow disarticulation
 trans-humeral amputation, commonly referred to as above-elbow amputation
 shoulder disarticulation
 forequarter amputation
A variant of the trans-radial amputation is the Krukenberg procedure in which the radius and ulna are used to create a stump capable of a pincer action.

Other

 Facial amputations include but are not limited to:
 amputation of the ears
 amputation of the nose (rhinotomy)
 amputation of the tongue (glossectomy).
 amputation of the eyes (enucleation).
 amputation of the teeth (Dental evulsion). Removal of teeth, mainly incisors, is or was practiced by some cultures for ritual purposes (for instance in the Iberomaurusian culture of Neolithic North Africa).
 Breasts:
 amputation of the breasts (mastectomy).
 Genitals:
 amputation of the testicles (castration).
 amputation of the penis (penectomy).
 amputation of the foreskin (circumcision).
 amputation of the clitoris (clitoridectomy).

Hemicorporectomy, or amputation at the waist, and decapitation, or amputation at the neck, are the most radical amputations.

Genital modification and mutilation may involve amputating tissue, although not necessarily as a result of injury or disease.

Self-amputation

In some rare cases when a person has become trapped in a deserted place, with no means of communication or hope of rescue, the victim has amputated their own limb. The most notable case of this is Aron Ralston, a hiker who amputated his own right forearm after it was pinned by a boulder in a hiking accident and he was unable to free himself for over five days.

Body integrity identity disorder is a psychological condition in which an individual feels compelled to remove one or more of their body parts, usually a limb.  In some cases, that individual may take drastic measures to remove the offending appendages, either by causing irreparable damage to the limb so that medical intervention cannot save the limb, or by causing the limb to be severed.

Urgent
In surgery, a guillotine amputation is an amputation performed without closure of the skin in an urgent setting. Typical indications include catastrophic trauma or infection control in the setting of infected gangrene. A guillotine amputation is typically followed with a more time-consuming, definitive amputation such as an above  below knee amputation.

Causes

Circulatory disorders
 Diabetic vasculopathy
 Sepsis with peripheral necrosis
 Peripheral artery disease which can lead to gangrene
 A severe deep vein thrombosis (phlegmasia cerulea dolens) can cause compartment syndrome and gangrene

Neoplasm

 Cancerous bone or soft tissue tumors (e.g. osteosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, epithelioid sarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma, synovial sarcoma, sacrococcygeal teratoma, liposarcoma), melanoma

Trauma

 Severe limb injuries in which the efforts to save the limb fail or the limb cannot be saved.
 Traumatic amputation (an unexpected amputation that occurs at the scene of an accident, where the limb is partially or entirely severed as a direct result of the accident, for example, a finger that is severed from the blade of a table saw)
 Amputation in utero (Amniotic band)

Congenital anomalies
 Deformities of digits and/or limbs (e.g., proximal femoral focal deficiency, Fibular hemimelia)
 Extra digits and/or limbs (e.g., polydactyly)

Infection
 Bone infection (osteomyelitis) and/or diabetic foot infections
 Gangrene
 Trench foot
 Necrosis
 Meningococcal meningitis
 Streptococcus
 Vibrio vulnificus
 Necrotizing fasciitis
 Gas gangrene
 Legionella
 Influenza A Virus
 Animal bites
 Sepsis
 Bubonic plague

Frostbite 

Frostbite is a cold-related injury occurring when an area (typically a limb or other extremity) is exposed to extreme low temperatures, causing the freezing of the skin or other tissues. Its pathophysiology involves the formation of ice crystals upon freezing and blood clots upon thawing, leading to cell damage and cell death. Treatment of severe frostbite may require surgical amputation of the affected tissue or limb; if there is deep injury autoamputation may occur.

Athletic performance
Sometimes professional athletes may choose to have a non-essential digit amputated to relieve chronic pain and impaired performance.
 Australian Rules footballer Daniel Chick elected to have his left ring finger amputated as chronic pain and injury was limiting his performance.
 Rugby union player Jone Tawake also had a finger removed.
 National Football League safety Ronnie Lott had the tip of his little finger removed after it was damaged in the 1985 NFL season.

Criminal penalty 
 According to Quran 5:38, the punishment for stealing is the amputation of the hand. Under Sharia law, after repeated offense, the foot may also be cut off. This is still in practice today in countries like Brunei, the United Arab Emirates, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, and 11 of the 36 states within Nigeria.
 In 1779, Thomas Jefferson proposed a bill to the Virginia Assembly that ostensibly would have replaced capital punishment with other penalties, including amputation, for certain crimes, although not all were really punishable by death at the time. For the crimes of rape, sodomy, and polygamy (the latter removed from a later version), the punishment was to be castration for men or rhinotomy for women. For intentional maiming, the bill specified literal eye for an eye retribution. The bill never passed, due to the co