# William A. Fletcher

William Alan Fletcher (born June 6, 1945) is a senior United States circuit judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Appointed by President Bill Clinton, Fletcher was confirmed by the U.S. Senate in 1998. Fletcher taught at the UC Berkeley School of Law from 1977 to 1998.

Early life and education
Fletcher went to Roosevelt High School in Seattle, Washington, graduating in 1964. Fletcher received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Harvard University in 1968 and another from Merton College, Oxford, in 1970 as a Rhodes Scholar. He earned his Juris Doctor from Yale Law School in 1975. He clerked for Judge Stanley Alexander Weigel of the United States District Court for the Northern District of California from 1975 to 1976. Fletcher then clerked for Justice William J. Brennan Jr. of the United States Supreme Court from 1976 to 1977.

Fletcher's mother, Betty Binns Fletcher, was also a judge on the Ninth Circuit, although she held senior status from 1998 until her death in 2012.

Professional career
Fletcher was a Lieutenant in the United States Navy from 1970 to 1972 and a Professor of Law at UC Berkeley School of Law from 1977 to 1998. Fletcher was the author of the Ninth Circuit's decision in Demers v. Austin (January 2014). He also published a 100-page dissent on the decision to deny Kevin Cooper an en banc hearing.

Federal judicial service
Fletcher was nominated twice by former President Bill Clinton, his Rhodes Scholar classmate at Oxford, for a seat on the Ninth Circuit on April 1995, and on January 7, 1997 vacated by William Albert Norris. His first nomination was never voted on by the Senate, but his second nomination was confirmed by a 57–41 vote on October 8, 1998. He received his commission on October 9, 1998.

On May 18, 2021, Judge Fletcher announced that he is assuming senior status upon the appointment of his successor. He assumed senior status on January 24, 2022.

Judicial philosophy
Fletcher is seen as a pragmatist on the court. When Fletcher makes a decision, he looks at both the facts of the case and the legal reasoning behind his decision. Fletcher reported in an interview that "[p]robably the most important thing, beyond the obvious need for legal education of judges, is the development of a culture of decision making.  By this I mean a judicial culture in which it is expected that judges will—to the extent of their ability and to the extent human nature will permit—state carefully, fully, and honestly the factual and legal bases for their decisions.  I make no claim that American judges always live up to that ideal.  We do not.  But we try."

In October 2013, Fletcher delivered the 2013 Madison Lecture, "Our Broken Death Penalty". Fletcher was very critical of the death penalty, saying the title "suggests that it might have been unbroken. I think it's always been broken." In November 2014, in another speech Fletcher mentioned "The death penalty may not discourage criminals from committing murder and is very expensive."

Statistics

Between December 2014 and August 2020, Fletcher sat on 34 en banc panels, tied for the most out of any judge excluding Chief Judge Thomas, who sits on every en banc panel. Fletcher also tied for most en banc majority opinions written during that time period, having written four. Fletcher agreed with Chief Judge Thomas 97% of the time, while he agreed with Judge Callahan 45% of the time and Judge Ikuta only 38% of the time (in which Fletcher and said judge were on en banc panels together).

Notable rulings
Fletcher has made rulings on feminism, abortion, gun control, and the conditions of detainees at the border.

1st amendment

In Thunder Studios v. Kazal (9th Cir. 2021), decided on September 15, 2021, Fletcher ruled that the speech of Tarek ("Tony") and Adam Kazal, which included hiring protestors, organizing leafletting, hiring a van to drive around Los Angeles with a message on its side, and publishing emails to make the public aware of Thunder Studios' business practices is protected by the 1st amendment even though the Kazals were not in the United States at "all relevant times".

2nd amendment

In 2016, Fletcher wrote the majority opinion in Peruta v. San Diego County, ruling that the Second Amendment did not protect the right to carry a concealed weapon. The San Diego ban on concealed weapons was upheld by a vote of 7–4.

Abortion

On June 3, 2014, Fletcher blocked an Arizona abortion law that effectively prohibited all medication abortions.

In July 2019, Fletcher dissented when the 9th Circuit upheld the "gag rule" restricting abortion funding by a vote of 7–4. On February 24, 2020, he was one of four judges who voted strike down the gag rule in the same 7-4 split.

Consumer protection
On June 15, 2023, Fletcher wrote the majority opinion upholding a Nevada law requiring medical debt collectors to provide written notification to debtors 60 days before taking any action to collect the medical debt.

Death penalty

On May 11, 2009, Fletcher wrote a 101-page dissent when the 9th Circuit allowed the execution of Kevin Cooper to go forward. Fletcher asserted that Cooper may have been innocent and was denied a fair trial. Fletcher also reasoned that Cooper may have been treated unfairly due to his race, and accused Judge Marilyn Huff (who had denied Cooper's appeal) of intentionally sabotaging Cooper's hearing. He was joined by Judges Harry Pregerson, Stephen Reinhardt, Richard Paez, and Johnnie B. Rawlinson. Six other judges also dissented and agreed or mostly agreed with Fletcher's reasoning: Alex Kozinski, Sidney Runyan Thomas, Susan P. Graber, Raymond C. Fisher, Marsha Berzon, and Kim McLane Wardlaw

On December 29, 2015, Fletcher blocked a death sentence due to it being in violation of Roper v. Simmons, and argued that Roper applied retroactively. Fletcher was joined by Sidney Runyan Thomas, Kim McLane Wardlaw, Marsha Berzon, Morgan Christen, and Jacqueline Nguyen, over a dissent by Carlos Bea who argued that Roper did not apply retroactively.

Environmental issues

On July 10, 2013, Fletcher was one of six judges who voted to rehear Shell Offshore v. Greenpeace en banc.  The six judges in a dissent agreed with Greenpeace's argument that the injunction Shell won against Greenpeace's protests violated Greenpeace's 1st amendment rights.

On August 3, 2020, Fletcher wrote the majority opinion in EPIC v. Ann Carlson. The ruling prevented private loggers from removing large fire-damaged trees from up to 200 feet from either side of the road in Mendocino National Forest, which would have burned an estimated 288,000 acres. In oral arguments, Fletcher expressed concern for the environment, and reiterated John T. Noonan's argument that the forest service was cutting trees only for monetary gain. Fletcher also explained why the chances of a tree falling into the road is minimal, concluding "First it has to die. Then it has to fall over in the direction of the road."

In a September 16, 2021 ruling, Fletcher vacated an EPA permit regulating underground discharges. His ruling declared the permit "arbitrary and capricious" because the EPA had no way of monitoring such discharges, thus making the regulation impossible to enforce.

Gender equality

On April 14, 2006, Fletcher dissented in Jespersen v. Harrah's Operating Co. when the Ninth Circuit en banc ruled that a casino can require female workers to wear makeup.

On April 9, 2018, Fletcher was one of six judges who ruled that using one's prior salary to determine their current salary violates the Equal Pay Act, and that prior pay is not a "factor other than sex". However, that opinion was vacated by the Supreme Court in Yovino v. Rizo due to the death of Stephen Reinhardt, the author of the majority opinion. On February 27, 2020, Fletcher was in a different 6-judge bloc that effectively came to the same conclusion as the bloc led by Reinhardt.

Immigration

On May 10, 2019, in a concurrence in a case where the 9th Circuit permitted