# List of United States Marine Corps battalions

This is a list of current United States Marine Corps battalions, sorted by the mission they perform.


Active units

Ground Combat Element battalions

The ground combat element (GCE) consists of those combat and combat support units whose primary mission is to, (1) engage with and destroy the enemy by fire and/or maneuver, and/or shock effect, performed by infantry, field artillery, and tank units, (2) provide close battlefield support to other GCE units by assault amphibian, combat assault, light armored reconnaissance, reconnaissance, and combat engineer units, or (3) provide immediate command and control, and limited logistical support including consolidated Navy personnel administration and motor transport (medium truck) support to subordinate GCE battalions and regiments (infantry and artillery only) by Marine division (MARDIV) headquarters battalions. Additionally, this battalion provides communications networking and law enforcement support across the GCE. The headquarters battalion also includes the division band, whose tactical mission is to serve as a provisional rifle platoon in providing division headquarters security.

Note: Some GCE battalions and regiments are provided air liaison officers/forward air controllers (i.e., Marine Corps naval aviators — aircraft pilots, and naval flight officers — airborne weapons and sensor systems officers) with specialized skills in coordinating air support of ground units) from the Marine Aircraft Wing (MAW) of the aviation combat element (ACE). These officers facilitate employment of Marine aviation in support of GCE units to perform offensive air support (e.g., close air support), assault support (e.g., troop, cargo, and casualty transport, aerial command and control, liaison, communications, and illumination, and close-in fire support by light/attack helicopters), and aerial reconnaissance (e.g., tactical reconnaissance and artillery spotting).

Infantry battalions
Infantry battalions are the heart and soul of the ground combat element. The mission of locating, closing with, and destroying the enemy with fire and maneuver and repelling the enemy's assault with fire and close combat lies with the "grunts". Marine infantry battalions often have limited organic equipment outside of small arms, infantry crew-served weapons (e.g., heavy machine guns, medium mortars, and anti-tank missiles), and a few light tactical trucks. Marine infantry primarily maneuvers by foot as light infantry, and must be supplemented with additional trucks to become motorized infantry or Amphibious Assault Vehicles to become mechanized infantry.

A Marine infantry battalion is usually organized into three rifle companies, a weapons company, and a headquarters and service company. The rifle company has a company headquarters, three rifle platoons, with three rifle squads each, and a weapons platoon with medium machineguns, mortars, and assault weapons sections. The weapons company includes a company headquarters, a heavy machinegun platoon, an 81mm mortar platoon, and an antiarmor platoon. Sometimes, the commander will mix these into Combined Anti-Armor Teams. The headquarters and service company includes all command, administration, intelligence, operations, logistics, and communication Marines and equipment, as well as the battalion's  Scout Sniper platoon and Battalion Aid Station (BAS) staffed by U.S. Navy Hospital Corpsman.  By 2030 three battalions will be disbanded, and some reflagged: 1/8th becoming 2/2nd, 2/8th becoming 4/6th, 8th Marine HQ and 3rd Btn disband.

Artillery battalions
Field artillery units provide indirect, long-range cannon and rocket fire support for the Marine Air-Ground Task Force.
Currently, artillery regiments contain two or three (11th Marines only) cannon battalions and are equipped with the M777 lightweight, towed, 155 mm, medium howitzer and the Expeditionary Fire Support System (EFSS) 120 mm, heavy mortar. Two regiments (11th Marines and 14th Marines) also have one rocket battalion equipped with the M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS) equipped with the MGM-140 ATACMS surface-to-surface, guided missile.
Marine artillery battalions contain a Headquarters Battery and three or four firing batteries.
Firing batteries contain a headquarters platoon (including a liaison section with three forward observer teams) and one or two firing platoons (depending upon weapons systems). The firing platoon(s) contain a battery operations center, a fire direction center, and four or six artillery sections (depending upon weapon system). Counter-battery radar is usually a regimental asset, but can be detached to augment battalions or batteries.  By 2030 all but five artillery batteries will be disbanded.

Armor battalions
The mission of an armor unit is to conduct and support amphibious operations and other operations as required by landing and transporting to inland objectives the surface assault elements and their equipment, and by conducting light armored reconnaissance and limited offensive and defensive operations. When task-organized with infantry, tanks, and other forces, the battalion conducts combined arms operations as a separate maneuver element in support of the Marine Division.

Currently, Assault Amphibian (AA) battalions utilize the Amphibious Assault Vehicle (AAVP-7A1) and consist of a headquarters and service company and two to six AA companies. Each AA company is equipped with 42 AAVs (including personnel, command, and recovery variants) organized into three platoons of 12 AAVs each and an additional six AAVs in the company headquarters. Each AA platoon is capable of transporting an entire Marine rifle company plus any dismounted attachments (e.g., mortar forward observer teams, anti-tank missile crews, scout/sniper or reconnaissance squads) thus transforming into amphibious/mechanized infantry. (One AA company is capable of transporting the assault echelon of a Marine infantry battalion.)  Although plans were in place to replace it with the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle, the cancellation of the program is going to prolong use of the AAV.

Light Armored Reconnaissance (LAR) battalions use the LAV 25 series of vehicles and consist of a headquarters and service company and four LAR companies. Each LAR company is equipped with 25 LAVs (including 14 LAV-25, two mortar, four anti-tank, one command & control, three logistics, and one recovery variant).

Combat Engineer battalions
The mission of combat engineers is to provide mobility, counter mobility, survivability, and limited general engineering support.
Mobility includes the assessment and fortification of roadways and bridges, the clearing of enemy obstacles and landmines, and assault breaching. Counter mobility includes creating obstacles and barriers for the enemy, which could include the destruction of structures and/or bridges. Survivability includes the fortification of positions and the construction of new outposts. Other jobs can include Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD), construction, and utilities (such as generators and refrigeration).
Currently, combat engineers use a variety of tools for their trade. Some vehicles include the M9 Armored Combat Earthmover, D7 Bulldozer, M60A1 Armored Vehicle Launched Bridge, and various cranes and forklifts. Each combat engineer battalion consists of a headquarters and service company, three combat engineer companies, one mobility assault company, and an engineer support company.

Reconnaissance battalions
The mission of the reconnaissance battalions is to obtain information by visual observation about the activities and resources of an enemy or potential enemy, or about the meteorologic, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area. They specialize in amphibious recon, including hydrography; as well as airborne recon, infiltration via surface, subsurface and airborne operations, and conducting limited scale raids and ambushes. The battalions consist of a headquarter