[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #20218]

abovesaid day, month, and year the illustrious Doctor Gabriel de Loarte, in compliance with the order of his Excellency and in presence of me the said Secretary, caused to appear before him the Indians of the names, ages and _ayllus_ as follows: _Ayllu of Manco Ccapac._ Aged Sebastian Ylluc 30 Francisco Paucar Chima 30 _Ayllu of Sinchi Rocca._ Diego Cayo Hualpa 70 Don Alonso Puzcon 40 _Ayllu of Lloqui Yupanqui._ Hernando Hualpa 70 Don Garcia Ancuy 45 Miguel Rimachi Mayta 30 _Ayllu of Mayta Ccapac._ Don Juan Tampu Usca Mayta 60 Don Felipe Usca Mayta 70 Francisco Usca Mayta 30 _Ayllu of Ccapac Yupanqui._ Aged Don Francisco Copca Mayta 70 Don Juan Quispi Mayta 30 Don Juan Apu Mayta 30 _Ayllu of Inca Rocca._ Don Pedro Hachacona 53 Don Diego Mayta 40 _Ayllu of Yahuar-huaccac._ Juan Yupanqui 60 Martin Rimachi 26 _Ayllu of Viracocha._ Don Francisco Anti-hualpa 89 Martin Quichua Sucsu 64 Don Francisco Chalco Yupanqui 45 _Ayllu of Pachacuti._ Don Diego Cayo 68 Don Juan Hualpa Yupanqui 75 Don Domingo Pascac 90 Don Juan Quispi Cusi 45 Don Francisco Chanca Rimachi 40 Don Francisco Cota Yupanqui 40 Don Gonzalo Huacanhui 60 Don Francisco Quichua 68 _Ayllu of Tupac Inca._ Don Cristóval Pisac Tupac 50 Don Andres Tupac Yupanqui 40 Don Garcia Pilco Tupac 40 Don Juan Cozco 40 _Ayllu of Huayna Ccapac._ Don Francisco Sayri 28 Don Francisco Ninan Coro 24 Don Garcia Rimac Tupac 34 _Ayllu of Huascar._ Aged Don Alonso Titu Atauchi 40 _Besides these Ayllus._ Don Garcia Paucar Sucsu 34 Don Carlos Ayallilla 50 Don Juan Apanca 80 Don Garcia Apu Rinti 70 Don Diego Viracocha Inca 34 Don Gonzalo Tupac 30 These being together in presence of his Excellency, the said Alcalde of the court, by the words of Gonzalo Gomez Ximenes, interpreter to his Excellency, in the general language of the Indians, said:--"His Excellency, desiring to verify and put in writing and to record the origin of the Incas, your ancestors, their descent and their deeds, what each one did in his time, and in what parts each one was obeyed, which of them was the first to go forth from Cuzco to subdue other lands, and how Tupac Inca Yupanqui and afterwards Huayna Ccapac and Huascar, his son and grandson became lords of all Peru by force of arms; and to establish this with more authenticity, he has ordered that information and other proofs should be supplied in this city and other parts, and that the said information and proofs should be, by Captain Pedro Sarmiento to whom they were delivered, digested into a true history and chronicle. The said Pedro Sarmiento has now made it and presented it to his Excellency, to ascertain whether it is truthfully written in conformity with the sayings and declarations which were made by some Indians of the said _ayllus_. His Excellency is informed that the _ayllus_ and descendants of the twelve Incas have preserved among themselves the memory of the deeds of their ancestors, and are those who best know whether the said chronicle is correct or defective, he has therefore caused you to assemble here, that it may be read in your presence and understood. You, among yourselves, will discuss what will be read and declared in the said language, and see if it agrees with the truth as you know it, and that you may feel a stronger obligation to say what you know, it is ordered that you take an oath." The said Indians replied that they had understood why they had been sent for, and what it was that was required. They then swore, in the said language, by God our Lord, and by the sign of the cross, that they would tell the truth concerning what they knew of that history. The oaths being taken the reading was commenced in sum and substance. There was read on that and following days from their fable of the creation to the end of the history of the Incas. As it was read, so it was interpreted into their language, chapter by chapter. And over each chapter the Indians discussed and conferred among themselves in the said language. All were agreed in confirming and declaring through the interpreter, that the said history was good and true, and in agreement with what they knew and had heard their fathers and ancestors say, as it had been told to them. For, as they have no writing like the Spaniards, they conserve ancient traditions among themselves by passing them from tongue to tongue, and age to age. They heard their fathers and ancestors say that Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, the ninth Inca, had verified the history of the former Incas who were before him, and painted their deeds on boards, whence also they had been able to learn the sayings of their fathers, and had passed them on to their children. They only amended some names of persons and places and made other slight corrections, which the said Alcalde ordered to be inserted as the Indians had spoken, and this was done. After the said corrections all the Indians, with one accord, said that the history was good and true, in conformity with what they knew and had heard from their ancestors, for they had conferred and discussed among themselves, verifying from beginning to end. They expressed their belief that no other history that might be written could be so authentic and true as this one, because none could have so diligent an examination, from those who are able to state the truth. The said Alcalde signed The Doctor Loarte Gonzalo Gomez Ximenes Before me Alvaro Ruiz de Navamuel. After the above, in the said city of Cuzco, on the 2nd of March of the same year, his Excellency having seen the declaration of the Indians and the affidavits that were made on them, said that he ordered and orders that, with the corrections the said Indians stated should be made, the history should be sent to his Majesty, signed and authenticated by me the said Secretary. It was approved and signed by the said Doctor Gabriel de Loarte who was present at the verification with the Indians, and then taken and signed Don Francisco de Toledo Before Alvaro Ruiz de Navamuel I the said Alvaro Ruiz de Navamuel, Secretary to his Excellency, of the Government, and to the general visitation of these kingdoms, notary to his Majesty, certify that the said testimony and verification was taken before me, and is taken from the original which remains in my possession, and that the said Alcalde, the Doctor Loarte, who signed, said that he placed and interposed upon it his authority and judicial decree, that it may be valued and accepted within his jurisdiction and beyond it. I here made my sign in testimony of the truth Alvaro Ruiz de Navamuel [Illustration: _Facsimile (reduced) of the_ SIGNATURES OF THE ATTESTING WITNESSES TO THE SARMIENTO MS. 1572. _From the original, Göttingen University Library. Reproduced and printed for the Hakluyt Society by Donald Macbeth_.]