# Binomial distribution

In probability theory and statistics, the binomial distribution with parameters n and p is the discrete probability distribution of the number of successes in a sequence of n independent experiments, each asking a yes–no question, and each with its own Boolean-valued outcome: success (with probability p) or failure (with probability ). A single success/failure experiment is also called a Bernoulli trial or Bernoulli experiment, and a sequence of outcomes is called a Bernoulli process; for a single trial, i.e., n = 1, the binomial distribution is a Bernoulli distribution. The binomial distribution is the basis for the popular binomial test of statistical significance.

The binomial distribution is frequently used to model the number of successes in a sample of size n drawn with replacement from a population of size N. If the sampling is carried out without replacement, the draws are not independent and so the resulting distribution is a hypergeometric distribution, not a binomial one.  However, for N much larger than n, the binomial distribution remains a good approximation, and is widely used.

Definitions

Probability mass function

In general, if the random variable X follows the binomial distribution with parameters n ∈  and p ∈ [0,1], we write X ~ B(n, p). The probability of getting exactly k successes in n independent Bernoulli trials (with the same rate p) is given by the probability mass function:

for k = 0, 1, 2, ..., n, where

is the binomial coefficient, hence the name of the distribution. The formula can be understood as follows: k successes occur with probability pk and n − k failures occur with probability . However, the k successes can occur anywhere among the n trials, and there are   different ways of distributing k successes in a sequence of n trials.

In creating reference tables for binomial distribution probability, usually the table is filled in up to n/2 values. This is because for k > n/2, the probability can be calculated by its complement as

Looking at the expression f(k, n, p) as a function of k, there is a k value that maximizes it. This k value can be found by calculating

and comparing it to 1. There is always an integer M that satisfies

f(k, n, p) is monotone increasing for k < M and monotone decreasing for k > M, with the exception of the case where (n + 1)p is an integer. In this case, there are two values for which f is maximal: (n + 1)p and (n + 1)p − 1. M is the most probable outcome (that is, the most likely, although this can still be unlikely overall) of the Bernoulli trials and is called the mode.

Example

Suppose a biased coin comes up heads with probability 0.3 when tossed. The probability of seeing exactly 4 heads in 6 tosses is

Cumulative distribution function

The cumulative distribution function can be expressed as:

where  is the "floor" under k, i.e. the greatest integer less than or equal to k.

It can also be represented in terms of the regularized incomplete beta function, as follows:

which is equivalent to the  cumulative distribution function of the -distribution:

Some closed-form bounds for the cumulative distribution function are given below.

Properties

Expected value and variance

If X ~ B(n, p), that is, X is a binomially distributed random variable, n being the total number of experiments and p the probability of each experiment yielding a successful result, then the expected value of X is:

This follows from the linearity of the expected value along with the fact that  is the sum of  identical Bernoulli random variables, each with expected value .  In other words, if  are identical (and independent) Bernoulli random variables with parameter , then  and

The variance is:

This similarly follows from the fact that the variance of a sum of independent random variables is the sum of the variances.

Higher moments

The first 6 central moments, defined as , are given by 

The non-central moments satisfy

and in general

where  are the Stirling numbers of the second kind, and  is the th falling power of .
A simple bound
 follows by bounding the Binomial moments via the higher Poisson moments: 

This shows that if , then  is at most a constant factor away from

Mode

Usually the mode of a binomial B(n, p) distribution is equal to , where   is the floor function. However, when (n + 1)p is an integer and p is neither 0 nor 1, then the distribution has two modes: (n + 1)p and (n + 1)p − 1. When p is equal to 0 or 1, the mode will be 0 and n correspondingly. These cases can be summarized as follows:
 

Proof: Let

For  only  has a nonzero value with . For  we find  and  for . This proves that the mode is 0 for  and  for .

Let . We find

.

From this follows

So when  is an integer, then  and  is a mode. In the case that , then only  is a mode.

Median
In general, there is no single formula to find the median for a binomial distribution, and it may even be non-unique. However, several special results have been established:
 If  is an integer, then the mean, median, and mode coincide and equal .
 Any median m must lie within the interval .
 A median m cannot lie too far away from the mean: .
 The median is unique and equal to m = round(np) when  (except for the case when and n is odd).
 When p is a rational number (with the exception of  and n odd) the median is unique.
 When  and n is odd, any number m in the interval   is a median of the binomial distribution. If  and n is even, then   is the unique median.

Tail bounds
For k ≤ np, upper bounds can be derived for the lower tail of the cumulative distribution function , the probability that there are at most k successes. Since , these bounds can also be seen as bounds for the upper tail of the cumulative distribution function for k ≥ np.

Hoeffding's inequality yields the simple bound

which is however not very tight. In particular, for p = 1, we have that F(k;n,p) = 0 (for fixed k, n with k < n), but Hoeffding's bound evaluates to a positive constant.

A sharper bound can be obtained from the Chernoff bound:

where D(a || p) is the relative entropy (or Kullback-Leibler divergence) between an a-coin and a p-coin (i.e. between the Bernoulli(a) and Bernoulli(p) distribution):

Asymptotically, this bound is reasonably tight; see  for details.

One can also obtain lower bounds on the tail , known as anti-concentration bounds. By approximating the binomial coefficient with Stirling's formula it can be shown that

which implies the simpler but looser bound

For p = 1/2 and k ≥ 3n/8 for even n, it is possible to make the denominator constant:

Statistical inference

Estimation of parameters 

When n is known, the parameter p can be estimated using the proportion of successes:

This estimator is found using maximum likelihood estimator and also the method of moments. This estimator is unbiased and uniformly with minimum variance, proven using Lehmann–Scheffé theorem, since it is based on a minimal sufficient and complete statistic (i.e.: x). It is also consistent both in probability and in MSE.

A closed form Bayes estimator for p also exists when using the Beta distribution as a conjugate prior distribution. When using a general  as a prior, the posterior mean estimator is:

The Bayes estimator is asymptotically efficient and as the sample size approaches infinity (n → ∞), it approaches the MLE solution. The Bayes estimator is biased (how much depends on the priors),  admissible and consistent in probability.

For the special case of using the standard uniform distribution as a non-informative prior, , the posterior mean estimator becomes:

(A posterior mode should just lead to the standard estimator.) This method is called the rule of succession, which was introduced in the 18th century by Pierre-Simon Laplace.

When estimating p with very rare events and a small n (e.g.: if x=0), then using the standard estimator leads to  which sometimes is unrealistic and undesirable. In such cases there are various alternative estimators. One way is to use the Ba