# The Russian Futurists

The Russian Futurists are a Canadian indie pop band based in Toronto. Their music can be described as lo-fi, indie-electronica fused with a twee-pop temperament. The band started as a solo project of Matthew Adam Hart (born 1978), and later expanded into a band for live performances.

History
Hart was born and raised in Cornwall, Ontario. Influenced by songwriters like Stephin Merritt of The Magnetic Fields, he spent his early career creating indie hip hop music tracks, using improvised gear, in Cornwall and in Peterborough, Ontario.

Hart's first album under the name The Russian Futurists was released by Upper Class Recordings in 2000, and titled The Method of Modern Love. The album was praised by  Graham Coxon of Blur and Peter Buck of R.E.M. Uncut magazine called it "one of the most melodically seductive and exhilarating records of recent times". The band also received positive reviews in Pitchfork Media, Spin, The Guardian, and XLR8R.

In 2004 the band toured in the U.S., Canada and Spain. They toured with Peter Bjorn and John, Caribou and Junior Boys.

Hart recorded the first three lo-fi Futurists albums in his Toronto home, including 2005's Our Thickness; in June 2005 the album appeared on the !earshot Top 200 chart.

The band's track "Paul Simon" was chosen by Samsung to include on its phones as a featured song. Hart has remixed other artists' singles, including "Tonight I Have to Leave It" by Shout Out Louds and "The First Five Times" by Stars.

For The Russian Futurists' fourth studio album, looking for more sophisticated production, Hart began recording in a New York studio. The band released the album, The Weight’s On The Wheels, worldwide on November 16, 2010. It was produced by Hart with the aid of Michael Musmanno (Outkast, Lilys, Arrested Development). The lead single “Hoeing Weeds Sowing Seeds”, was mixed by Grammy Award winner Michael Brauer (Coldplay, John Mayer, The Bravery). The album, ten tracks in total feature tracks “Horseshoe Fortune”, “Register My Firearms? No Way!”,“100 Shopping Days ‘Til Christmas” and “One Night, One Kiss”, a duet with Heavy Blinkers singer Ruth Minnikin.

The Russian Futurists released a music video for “One Night, One Kiss” off their 2010 fourth studio album, The Weight’s on the Wheels. The songs "Paul Simon", and "Precious Metals" are featured on the NBA 2K11 soundtrack.

In September 2013, Hart began a 9-year stint as cohost of the morning show on Toronto's CIND-FM. He left the station in February 2022.

Hart shifted to producing several hip hop projects in 2022. He was credited with co-producing the track 'Ghost Photo' by Milano Constantine and Big Ghost Ltd. He also produced the EP 'From Russia With Love 2' by Allah Preme of The Umbrella Collective.

The latest Russian Futurists release is a co-production between Hart and Toronto producer Jordache (aka Andrew Carr). The EP entitled 'Don't Die' was released on October 31, 2022.

Currently, Hart is a host on Toronto's CFXJ-FM.

Discography

Albums
 The Method of Modern Love (2000)
 Let's Get Ready to Crumble (2002)
 Our Thickness (2005)
 Me, Myself And Rye... An Introduction To The Russian Futurists (2006, Memphis Industries)
 The Weight's on the Wheels (Nov 2010)

Singles
 Paul Simon (2006)
 Hoeing Weeds Sowing Seeds + Remixes EP (2010)
 One Night, One Kiss  (2011)

Compilations
 Me Myself & Rye... An Introduction to the Russian Futurists (2006)

EPs
 Ecole de Neige (1998)
 Reality Burger With A Side Of Life (2019)
 Don't Die (2022)

References

External links
 Russian Futurists official site
 The Russian Futurists Twitter

Canadian indie pop groups
Musical groups from Toronto
Musical groups established in 2000
Lo-fi music groups
2000 establishments in Ontario
Memphis Industries artists