# Battlefield High School

Battlefield High School is a public high school within the Gainesville District of unincorporated Prince William County, Virginia, United States, and is part of the Prince William County Public Schools. The school is located north of the town of Haymarket bearing a "Haymarket, Virginia" address. Battlefield is one of two Centers for Information Technology in the school division.  In the 2010-2011 football season Battlefield's team won the Cedar Run District Title, Northwest Region Title, and the AAA Division 6 State Title.

Communities served
The rapid construction of homes in the area surrounding Battlefield has resulted in a tremendous population increase, which guarantees that at least for now, the school will operate well over its intended capacity. A quick glance in the building during operating hours makes it clear that overcrowding is a considerable issue despite the building of Patriot High School nearby in 2011, and some students and parents even consider the overcrowding a danger. There is no publicized action currently being taken on the part of the county thus far to correct the issue further. Communities served by Battlefield include Bull Run Mountain Estates, Carterwood, Catharpin, Crossroads, Dominion Valley, Evergreen, Gainesville, Greenhill Crossing, Heritage Hunt, Hopewell's Landing, Parks at Piedmont, Piedmont, Rocky Run, Town of Haymarket, Oak Valley, Villages of Piedmont and West Market.

Administration 
The principal of Battlefield High School is Ryan Ferrera. Prior to coming to the school, Ferrera was an assistant principal at Woodbridge Senior High School. He also was a social studies teacher at Battlefield.

History
Battlefield High School was opened in September 2004 as the ninth high school in Prince William County.

Programs of study 
Battlefield High School is a Center for Information Technology, and includes limited computer-based and computer-related coursework. Enrollment in the "iT" program is optional for both Battlefield students and for those who are zone-designated for other PWCS high schools. Starting in the 2019 school year, students will no longer be able to transfer to Battlefield from other zones for the IT program. The program is led by Specialty Program Coordinator Joseph Huddle. The program has several branches consisting of Graphic Design, Networking, Programming, and Hardware support.

In 2006–2007, the school began hosting its Air Force JROTC program. It is a federal program authorized under United States Code, Title 10, Sections 2031-2033, and the ROTC Revitalization Act of 1964 and mandates that all participating cadets be volunteers.  There is no military service obligation associated with participation, but cadets who participate for at least three years, and are subsequently recommended by the Senior Air Science Instructor, may earn accelerated promotions in the active duty military.  These programs vary depending on the branch of service and experience level of the cadet.  Battlefield's AFJROTC program is supervised by Colonel (Ret) Dan Vasenko and Senior Master Sergeant (Ret) Dave Shuler. The program is renowned, and according to faculty, students, and parents alike, their accolades are well-deserved. Day to day operations are led by a cadet staff composed of seniors, with a senior 4th-year AFJROTC cadet leading each class under the supervision of the faculty instructor.  The curriculum is set by the Air Force and includes a 40% breakout of Air Science classes, 40% in leadership and character development, and 20% personal wellness (fitness and nutrition).  All extracurricular activities are led by cadets, including drill team, rocketry club, Academic Bowl, and the Raider team (a form of field skills and physical fitness competition).  Additionally, the cadets field their own CyberPatriot team to compete in the yearly competitions sponsored by the Air Force Association.  By Headquarters AFJROTC directives, the cadet corps must number no less than 100 cadets based on Battlefield's total number of students, and no more than 180 cadets, based on PWCS authorized instructor staffing.  Since the 2010-2011 school year, cadet enrollment has stabilized at roughly 150 cadets each year.  Battlefield's program earned the AFJROTC Distinguished Unit Award (with Merit) in 2011, the Distinguished Unit Award in 2012, and after a brief hiatus of unit accolades, received the Outstanding Organization Award in 2017.  For the 2016-2017 school year, they performed over 1,400 hours of community service in and around Haymarket and participated in 43 color guards for local organizations.
	 
In 2007–2008, the school began hosting its Criminal Justice program which serves as a "mini police academy," instructing essential constitutional law and criminal justice practices.

Student performance

Battlefield High School has been named a "School of Excellence" by Prince William County four times. According to PWCS, "a School of Excellence must be fully accredited by the state and ... must ensure that ninety-five percent of students beginning the year on or above grade level pass the SOL tests. They must also ensure that fifty percent of students beginning the year below grade level pass the SOL tests.".

During the 2016, Battlefield's median SAT scores exceeded the county and the state's median scores significantly. The AP participation rate is 66% at BHS.

Accreditation
Battlefield High School has been a fully accredited high school based on its performance on the Standards of Learning tests in Virginia since its opening in 2004.

Ranking
US News has ranked Battlefield High School as the Number 1 high school in the Prince William County System for several years. Additionally,  the school has been ranked as Number 18 in the state as well as Number 833 nationally in 2021 out of 17,857 high schools nationwide. BHS has performed exceptionally well against regional schools such as Briar Woods High School, traditionally seen as Loudoun County's premier high school which was ranked at Number 20 in the state and Number 1 in Loudoun County.

No Child Left Behind (NCLB)

Battlefield High School has made "Adequate Yearly Progress" (AYP) each year it has been open, according to the Virginia Department of Education's benchmarks set by the mandate of the No Child Left Behind Act.

School seal
The school seal, illustrated in the school colors of purple, black, and silver, was designed by Carl Kielbasa of Herff-Jones, Inc. The center of the seal is a representation of "graduation" with the traditional mortarboard and rolled diploma. Around the outside of the seal are representations of "the arts" (a drama mask, a lyre, and a palette), "academics" (the traditional "torch and tome"), "Information Technology" (the words wrapping the globe), and "athletics" (the winged shoe of Hermes (stylized as a modern sneaker) and the traditional laurel). The crest of the seal is a disembodied Bobcat head superimposed upon mountains, representing the Piedmont region of the Appalachian Mountains, a prominent local geographic feature. At the base of the seal on the tasseled scroll are the keywords "Courage," "Honor," and "Integrity."

Controversies
In March 2011, the students protested against Prince William County Student Dress and Appearance code banning "excessively tight and form fitting" clothing.

In December 2010, Battlefield High School made headlines after a candy cane food fight broke out before class. The students held responsible were part of the "Christmas Sweater Club," a group created to spread holiday cheer in the hallways. However, after the Christmas Sweater Club brought bags of candy canes to school one morning, chaos erupted as several students reported to have been hit in the head by flying candy canes. The students in the club were disciplined with two hours of detention, but parents protested that this was unfair punishment. Despite the controversy, the students were still given detention and were responsible for cleaning up their mess.