# SS Deutschland (1900)

SS Deutschland was a passenger liner built in Stettin and launched on the 10th of January 1900 for the Hamburg America Line (HAPAG) of Germany. She was officially the second ocean liner to have 4 funnels on the transatlantic route, the first being Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse of 1897.

The Deutschland took away the blue riband from the Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse on her maiden voyage and held the west-bound record for over 7 years, until Cunard took it back to Britain with the RMS Lusitania in 1907. Despite holding the record she suffered from persistent vibrations, especially in the stern area which gave her the nickname “The Cocktail Shaker” and made her unpopular with 1st class passengers.

Although her vibration problems were finally fixed around 1907, it was already too late, as she has lost the speed record to Cunard, and the direct competition had grander, larger and safer ships, so in 1910 she was pulled from the transatlantic route and refitted into the world's 2nd fully dedicated cruise liner. As a Victoria Luise she was enormously popular with the travelling public, and as she was about to start her 3rd around the world cruise WW1 broke out and she was requisitioned as an auxiliary cruiser.

However because of her conversion into a cruise ship her engines were throttled to a max speed of 17knts. And after a fire that broke out during her conversion into a cruiser it was decided to abandon the preparations and she was left standing at her pier till the end of WW1.

After the war she was in such a bad state that the Allies were not interested in seizing her as war reparations. In 1920 HAPAG decided to convert her into an immigrant ship and she was once again put on the Atlantic under a new name: Hansa, by 1921 as the United States introduced new immigration laws, she started becoming unprofitable and so ultimately she was sold for scrap in 1925.

Construction
After the introduction of Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse by the Nord Deutsches Lloyd and its enormous success with the travelling public, in 1899 the HAPAG board of directors has voted for once again building a greyhound for the transatlantic route despite the clear protests from the general director Albert Ballin, who argued that "the race for speed is futile, the line should focus on constructing big, safe and comfortable ocean liners".

As the Shipyard of choice, the line approached the Stettiner Vulcan Werft, the same yard that constructed their direct competition, the Kaiser. With the newly approaching 20th century, HAPAG decided that the Deutschland should be a culmination of all newest technologies, styles and trends.

She was the 3rd biggest ship on the world, after the great eastern, and the RMS Oceanic which also came out in 1899. She was outfitted with all the newest marine technologies that were available on the market, she had an early system of automatic watertight doors that could be closed off from the bridge at any time, an advanced steam recycling system, pneumatic tube messaging system, and a powerful pair of, double stroke, quadruple expansion steam engines with extra cylinders above the intermediate cylinders. Which gave her a max. horse power of 34.000 (Although on one voyage it was reported that 37.800 were reached.).

Deutschland's construction number was 244 and the keel was laid down around the end of 1899, during the entire time of the construction newspapers were boasting about the construction of the ship and reporting on all the newest methods of construction being used. The ship was launched on the 10th of January 1900 by the Kaiser family themselves. The fitting out process finished on the 25th of June 1900.

The ship in Germany would originally be addressed with the “Schnelldampfer”, “Doppelschraubenschnelldampfer” or with the more prestigious previx, “Reichspostdamper”.

Interior 

Comfort wise, the Deutschland had a whole new interior style be developed for it, as up to this point HAPAG was copying the styes of the NDL ships, the “Jugend Stil” or a more simplistic version of “Art nouveau” was chosen, as it was an emerging popular style in west Europe at that time which was being associated with modernity.

Deutschland's first-class accommodation which was in the center of the ship, spread out on 5 decks could accommodate up to 693 first class passengers in utmost comfort, the central piece of the ship was its enormous skylight spanning 4 decks, it provided natural light to the music room, grand staircase and the dining salon. The newspapers of that time were calling it: "the worlds most beautiful skylight". 

On the boat-deck, in the center of the ship was the first class entrance, with a couple of staterooms, a printers office for onboard newspaper (A technology that also the Deutschland introduced to ocean liners for the first time) and a nursery. Although around 1902/3 it was rebuilt into the “Vienna café” with light colors and golden details, the waiters were dressed in slightly "oriental uniforms" to further "exotify" the café. The reason for the replacement of the nursery is unknown, but it might be possible that around that time HAPAG decided to let the children dine with their parents in the main dining saloon, a practice that was rather uncommon at that time in the elite circles.

At the stern of the ship besides a couple of staterooms, was the “Grill room”, a small restaurant similar to the later “A la carte” restaurant found on the Olympic class liners. It was run by an independent restaurant staff from brought from Berlin, the style of the restaurant is supposed to remind the diner of an authentic german mountain “Gasthaus”. The woodwork was out of mahogany and in the center of the room except for the skylight and a bar was big green ceramic tiled oven, that was used to grill/prepare the dishes in front of the customers table.

On A deck was the music room/lounge kept in white colors with a golden wallpaper, smoking room with a big central skylight, a painting showing the Hamburg harbor and a statue on either side representing "trade" and the "market". The whole room was kept in a light blue color scheme.

B deck consisted mainly of 1st class staterooms, 4 suites every in a different style, a barber shop and purses office.

C deck had the first class dining saloon, made out of mahogany with red Japanese wallpaper on the walls and a light beige carpeting.

2nd class accommodations were in styles an exact replica of the ones found in first class but a lot smaller, that dining room could accommodate all 302 2nd class passengers in one sitting, unlike the 1st class dining saloon that needed 2 sittings.

3rd class was found at the bow of the ship, it did not differ a lot from the Kaiser Wilhelm der grosse.

Career 

The Deutschland left Bremerhaven on the 5th of July 1900, commanded by Captain Adolf Albers with a stop at Cherbourg and Plymouth bound for New York. She crossed by Sandy Hook in 5 days, 11 hours and 5 min. with an average 23,51knts. She won the blue riband from Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse, the fanfair both in Germany and the US was big, his majesty Kaiser Wilhelm II himself sent a telegram to HAPAG with the words “Bravo Deutschland!” congratulating her on breaking the record.

On the way back the broke the eastbound record averaging 23,38 knts. with 5 days 11 hours and 45 minutes. Among the fanfare however it became clear that the ship has big vibration problems, especially when reaching high speeds. 2nd class passengers felt it the worst as they were situated in the stern of the ship where the vibrations were the strongest. A year later she was drydocked in Stettin where her propellers were replaced to try to minimize the problem no avail.

In March 1902, she played a role in the Deutschland incident. When she was carrying Prince Henry, the brother of the Kaiser back to Europe from a highly publicized visit to the United States, the ship was prevented from using her Slaby-d'Arco system of wireless telegraphy as the Marconi radio stations ref