# Battle of Arica

The Battle of Arica, also known as Assault and Capture of Cape Arica, was a battle in the War of the Pacific. It was fought on 7 June 1880, between the forces of Chile and Peru.

After the Battle of Tacna and the following Bolivian withdrawal from the war, Peru had to stand alone for the rest of the conflict. The need for a port near to the location of the army, in order to supply and reinforce the troops and evacuate wounded, made the Chilean command put its attention on the remaining Peruvian stronghold in the Tacna Department. The Chilean army, led by Colonel Pedro Lagos, launched a giant assault to Arica, where the 1600 men of the defense fought more than 8000 Chileans, from sea and land, who finally captured the Morro de Arica (English: Cape Arica) after 55 minutes of combat. The defending Peruvian troops under the command of Colonel Francisco Bolognesi died as heroes. In this fight the old Peruvian Commander died along with several officers and more than 1,000 men.

The Chilean victory ended the phase of the conflict known as Campaña de Tacna y Arica (English: Campaign of Tacna and Arica), resulting in the occupation of the entire Tarapacá and Tacna provinces. After this action, a new stage began named Campaña de Lima (English: Lima Campaign), which concluded with the fall of the Peruvian capital city seven months later.

The city of Arica never returned to Peruvian hands. It was temporarily ceded to Chile after the signing of the Treaty of Ancon, on 1884; the city remained occupied by Chilean forces until the later signing of the Treaty of Lima in 1929, when it was ceded permanently to Chilean sovereignty.

Prelude 
Since the outbreak of war in 1879, the initial naval stage came to an end with the capture of the ironclad ship Huáscar at Angamos, on 8 October 1879. After this, the Chilean Army disembarked at Pisagua on 2 November and drove the Allies inland. The Chilean Army claimed a series of victories at Germania and San Francisco, but ended with the Peruvian success at Tarapacá, on 27 November. Despite this latter victory, the Allies lost the Tarapacá department. Popular discontent in the Allied countries led to the removal from office of both President Prado in Peru and Hilarión Daza in Bolivia, replaced respectively by Nicolás de Piérola and Gen. Narciso Campero.

Naval preliminary actions
On 27 February, the Chilean Navy began bombarding the city's ground defenses. These defenses had a range of 3.5 km, providing a large covering zone for the remaining Peruvian ironclad, the Manco Cápac. The now Chilean warship Huáscar, after its resurfacing at Angamos, Grau had scuttled the ship to avoid it being captured by Chile. It had was sent for repairs and fitted with two 40 lb Armstrong type guns, with a firing range between 6 and 7 km. The ironclad was put under the command of Captain Manuel Thomson. The Huáscar arrived in Arica on 25 February in order to take the place of the warship "Cochrane" in the port blockade. Later the "Magallanes", led by Captain Carlos Condell arrived to join the "Huáscar" in the operation. The Chilean ironclad fought an ongoing and inconclusive duel with the "Manco Cápac". Though outclassed, the Peruvian monitor, covered by the land defenses, managed to hold the Chilean ships at bay for 4 months. During this time, Thomson died, being replaced by Carlos Condell. On 9 April, the Peruvian port of Callao was also put under blockade.

Preliminary land movements and engagements
On 8 March, a Chilean expeditionary force was sent to Mollendo, in order to interrupt communications between this port with Arequipa, where 4,000 Peruvian soldiers were posted. On the 22nd, and with General Manuel Baquedano as the new Commander in Chief of the Army of Northern Operations, the Chileans obtained the victory at Los Ángeles Hill. After this battle, the Chilean forces marched to the Sama River valley. From this rendezvous point, the Chileans marched to Tacna on a perilous march. During this march, the Chilean Minister Rafael Sotomayor died at Las Yaras, being replaced by Jose Francisco Vergara. On 26 May, the Army of Northern Operations conclusively defeated an allied army of 10,000 in the outskirts of Tacna. This battle proved decisive because Bolivia was knocked out of the war and retired to the Andes, and never engaged in the war again. From then on, Peru had to fight alone.

After reorganizing its troops, the Chilean command decided to take the port of Arica. With the entire allied army in Tacna destroyed, the port was an easy target for the large number of Chilean troops. Since February, the Peruvian garrison had already endured a naval blockade that had stopped supplies from reaching the garrison. This blockade was broken twice for the Peruvian army. On 1 June, Chilean troops led by Cmdnt. Rafael Vargas captured Engineer Teodoro Elmore, from whom they obtained the location of the landmines scattered around the city. 7,500 men were dispatched from Tacna to Arica by train arriving there in the early days of June.

Chilean surrender request
In the early morning of 5 June, the Chilean Sergeant Major José de la Cruz Salvo reached the Peruvian lines with a parley flag, requesting an interview with the commander of Arica. After Salvo was conducted to Bolognesi's headquarters in the city, they had the following dialogue:

Salvo: Sir, the General commanding the Chilean Army, wishing to avoid useless bloodshed, after defeating the Allied Army at Tacna, has sent me to ask for your surrender, with all your men, provisions and munitions.
Bolognesi: I have sacred duties to fulfill, and I shall fulfill them until the last cartridge has been fired.
Salvo: Then, my mission is finished.

After consulting his officers on his decision, Bolognesi finally responded: "Tell your general that I am proud of my officers and am determined to fire until the last cartridge in Arica's defense, for it must not fall on your hands!" The phrase "until the last cartridge has been fired" (hasta quemar el último cartucho), which has now become part of the Spanish language, is also the official motto of the Peruvian Army.

The contenders

Peru

Peruvian situation
After the defeat in Tacna, the Arica Peruvian garrison lost communication with the army in retreat. Only five survivors from it came to Arica with news about the battle. Several telegraphs sent to Tacna had no answer. Bolognesi still hoped that the Allied army at Tacna had not been obliterated and a portion of it would come to reinforce his position. After Tacna, Montero had decided to withdraw the forces guarding Arica, knowing that the port was already lost. Pierola's deputy, Del Solar, sent Col. Pacheco Cespedes to Arica in order to communicate the decision to abandon the city, but he never arrived at his destination, due to the Chilean troops in the area.

After the Chilean forces started to concentrate on Arica, Bolognesi's troops were completely isolated. A Chilean cavalry vanguard captured the engineer Teodoro Elmore, who was to blow up the railroads captured by the Chileans in Lluta. With his capture, the Chilean army knew the location of minefields and reduced the troops' apprehension, thereby permitting a ground assault.

Peruvian forces
The Peruvian garrison at the port consisted of 1,628 men - 29 Chiefs, 223 officers and 1,376 soldiers. The defensive batteries at the cape were divided into three groups: East, North and South. The northern group had several batteries at town level: Santa Rosa (1 Vavasseur cannon with a 5 km range), San José (1 Vavasseur and 1 Pairot also with a 5 km range), and Dos de Mayo (1 Vavasseur). This group of cannons was led by Medardo Cornejo. The east group had seven Voruz cannons, protected by a sand trench, commanded by Juan Aillón. Finally the southern group, led by Juan Guillermo Moore, had eight cannons (6 Voruz, 1 Pairot and 1 Vavasseur), adding up a total of nineteen cannons.

The infantry posted here were the 7th and 8th divisions. The 7th Division had three batta