# USS McKean (DD-784)

USS McKean (DD-784) was a  of the United States Navy built by the Todd Pacific Ship Building Company in Seattle, Washington state.

Ship history

1940s

The USS McKean was launched on 31 March 1945 and commissioned on 9 June 1945, named after Commodore William Wister McKean, a squadron commander on the Union side during the American Civil War. DD-784 is the second ship in the United States Navy to be so named for Commodore McKean. In total, the McKean was one of the 98 Gearing class destroyers built.

Her first duty assignment was in the autumn of 1945 in a three-month tour as part of the overall occupation forces following the surrender of Japan.  This included clearing Allied floating mines from Japanese waters.

1950s

Following the outbreak of war in Korea in June 1950, McKean sailed from Long Beach, California, joining the 7th Fleet in August. She was assigned to Task Force 77, initially as part of DesDiv 112. She participated in the Inchon invasion which spearheaded the ground offensive operations against the North Korean Communists. Later, while steaming independently off the Chinnampo River, she discovered the first naval minefield reported during the Korean War.  McKean dropped five depth charges on a suspected submarine on 23 September 1950. Commander John Weatherwax, a former World War II submarine officer, took command of McKean in November 1950. From October to December 1950, she joined patrolling destroyers with Task Force 72 in the Taiwan Strait with the light cruiser , and the destroyers , , and . They had to battle Typhoon Clara which broke apart into two typhoons.

On the night of 25 November 1950, hundreds of thousands of Chinese troops had crossed the Yalu River into North Korea to attack advancing U.N. forces. Chinese troops cut off and surrounded the 5th and 7th Marine Regiments with a around the Chosin Reservoir on 27 November. The relief of UN troops depended upon air cover and firepower from planes of carriers stationed off the eastern coast. McKean, Hollister and Frank Knox were released from patrolling the Formosa Straits sometime after 8 December. Under a protective canopy of naval air cover, the leathernecks broke through 10 December at Chinhung-ni and moved to Hŭngnam for evacuation. The United States Navy completed the Hŭngnam withdrawal of 24 December after embarking 105,000 troops, 91,000 refugees, and vast quantities of military cargo. Needing upkeep, McKean first ported at Yokosuka, then to Sasebo until 23 December 1950.  She was to rejoin TF 77 on 24 December 1950, Christmas Eve. At that time TF 77 was the largest assembled fleet since World War II, with four carriers, the battleship Missouri, two cruisers and over 30 destroyers.

According to the book Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage by Sherry Sontag and Christopher Drew; "U.S. intelligence officials have long believed that a U.S. surface ship sank a Soviet sub that came close to an aircraft carrier attack force in 1950, early in the Korean War, according to two former intelligence officers." The United States was so concerned that the Soviet Navy would try to help the North Koreans that surface ships were under orders to protect U.S. warships by depth charging any possible hostile submarines, and in this case, a suspected Soviet submarine was attacked, with no signs that it had survived.

On 18 December 1950, McKean, codenamed "Rancher," had just left the harbor at Sasebo to rejoin Task Force 77. Task Force 77 included the battleship , the aircraft carriers , , and , the escort carriers  and , the heavy cruiser , the light cruiser , and dozens of destroyers to screen the capital ships. "Rancher" was steaming with the . About an hour after clearing the sub nets, but with the Japanese shoreline still in sight, she received a hard contact from sonar. "Bridge, Sonar, we have a solid contact." Sonar had picked up two contacts. The Duty Quartermaster on the bridge of "Rancher" was QM3 John D. Price, as Cdr. Weatherwax had gone to his stateroom. The officer on deck ordered Price to get the Captain; Cdr. Weatherwax ran to the bridge as fast he could go, and called general quarters.

After general quarters sounded, Cdr. Weatherwax ordered depth charge runs. QM3 Price was entered into the ship's log that "Rancher" was making depth charge runs on a submarine; when Weatherwax checked the log, he ordered Price to strike the word "submarine" from the log, remarking it could lead to an international incident. The Captain had the sonar sounds piped to the bridge, so they were able to follow the approach to contact. "Rancher" immediately sent out the international Morse identification code, "dot dash" or the letter A, for "American." The code was sent with no response, and evasive action was being taken by the subs.

"Rancher" started a depth charge run, rolling charges from the rear racks and firing from the side launchers. The tracker aircraft overhead reported a silhouette in the center of the pattern at the time of the explosions, after which it disappeared and was not sighted again. The aircraft then reported sighting air bubbles near the location of the first attack and an oil slick, which grew larger as time passed. This oil slick was also sighted by the McKean and the Frank Knox, which joined about 20 minutes after the first attack. She completed her initial run, at times she lost contact but then she picked it up again and made an additional run. "Rancher" dropped 11 depth charges per pattern. "Rancher" would drop a pattern and the Frank Knox would cross her wake and drop a pattern.

Torpedo man Hudnall was on depth charge central which was on the starboard side of the ship one deck below the bridge. Torpedo man Hudnall fired the K-guns electronically and the crews on the K-guns fired manually. The pattern of depth charges were eleven to a pattern, three on each side of the ship and two stern racks. The submarine was in 250 feet of water or above because any deeper the depth charges would not go off. McKean fired 54 depth charges the day of 18 December 1950.

"Rancher" had dropped about 84 depth charges in a 24-hour period. The morning of 19 December, one of the three anti-sub airplanes overhead reported a torpedo wake passing astern of the McKean. It just missed "Rancher", and she didn't even see it. The other Russian submarine was lashing back.

A salvage ship, the submarine rescue ship , arrived from Sasebo on 20 December, to join the five destroyers and three anti-submarine airplanes at the site of the sinking. A hard hat diver was lowered to the scene, and returned to the surface with a pair of new binoculars. In addition, the Russian submarines had deployed a decoy that the sounds of a submarine in order to confuse an attacking ship. This "Black Box" was so top secret the Greenlet immediately returned to Pearl Harbor with it, and rumor has it that the Greenlet was not allowed to return to the war area because it had retrieved so many Russian secrets. Perhaps it got their code books? Rumor also has it that 43 days later all the B girls knew everything that happened, but the crew couldn't say anything because they had signed the letters of secrecy. The story the crew was told was that it was a "sunken Jap freighter the Iona Maru. Supposedly the Iona Maru capsized on 10 December 1950.  The Navy brass had already formatted their cover story with the skipper of the USS Greenlet. "If those binoculars were from WWII, why wasn't there debris or barnacles, on the item". Recently a former shipmate commented, "We sunk a hulk ship that was doing five knots!."

After January 1951 McKean joined Task Force 95 for shore bombardment duty and blockade work around Wonsan, Songjin and Chinjŏn.  Early in 1952 she was converted to a radar picket ship and redesignated DDR-784. Special surface scanning radar was added and in addition, the 40mm, 20mm guns and torpedo tubes were removed and replaced with three twin mount 3in guns 3"50's.

In 1954 she app