# Angular momentum

In physics, angular momentum (sometimes called moment of momentum or rotational momentum) is the rotational analog of linear momentum. It is an important physical quantity because it is a conserved quantity – the total angular momentum of a closed system remains constant.  Angular momentum has both a direction and a magnitude, and both are conserved.  Bicycles and motorcycles, flying discs, rifled bullets, and gyroscopes owe their useful properties to conservation of angular momentum.  Conservation of angular momentum is also why hurricanes form spirals and neutron stars have high rotational rates.  In general, conservation limits the possible motion of a system, but it does not uniquely determine it.

The three-dimensional angular momentum for a point particle is classically represented as a pseudovector , the cross product of the particle's position vector  (relative to some origin) and its momentum vector; the latter is  in Newtonian mechanics. Unlike linear momentum, angular momentum depends on where this origin is chosen, since the particle's position is measured from it.

Angular momentum is an extensive quantity; that is, the total angular momentum of any composite system is the sum of the angular momenta of its constituent parts. For a continuous rigid body or a fluid, the total angular momentum is the volume integral of angular momentum density (angular momentum per unit volume in the limit as volume shrinks to zero) over the entire body.

Similar to conservation of linear momentum, where it is conserved if there is no external force, angular momentum is conserved if there is no external torque.  Torque can be defined as the rate of change of angular momentum, analogous to force. The net external torque on any system is always equal to the total torque on the system; in other words, the sum of all internal torques of any system is always 0 (this is the rotational analogue of Newton's third law of motion). Therefore, for a closed system (where there is no net external torque), the total torque on the system must be 0, which means that the total angular momentum of the system is constant. The change in angular momentum for a particular interaction is called angular impulse, sometimes twirl. Angular impulse is the angular analog of (linear) impulse.

Examples
The trivial case of the angular momentum  of a body in an orbit is given by

where  is the mass of the orbiting object,  is the orbit's frequency and  is the orbit's radius.

The angular momentum  of a uniform rigid sphere rotating around its axis instead is given by

where  is the sphere's mass,  is the frequency of rotation and  is the sphere's radius.

Thus, for example, the orbital angular momentum of the Earth with respect to the Sun is about 2.66 × 1040 kg⋅m2⋅s−1, while its rotational angular momentum is about 7.05 × 1033 kg⋅m2⋅s−1.

In the case of a uniform rigid sphere rotating around its axis, if, instead of its mass, its density is known, the angular momentum  is given by

where  is the sphere's density,  is the frequency of rotation and  is the sphere's radius.

In the simplest case of a spinning disk, the angular momentum  is given by

where  is the disk's mass,  is the frequency of rotation and  is the disk's radius.

If instead the disk rotates about its diameter (e.g. coin toss), its angular momentum  is given by

Definition in classical mechanics

Just as for angular velocity, there are two special types of angular momentum of an object: the spin angular momentum is the angular momentum about the object's centre of mass, while the orbital angular momentum is the angular momentum about a chosen center of rotation. The Earth has an orbital angular momentum by nature of revolving around the Sun, and a spin angular momentum by nature of its daily rotation around the polar axis. The total angular momentum is the sum of the spin and orbital angular momenta.  In the case of the Earth the primary conserved quantity is the total angular momentum of the solar system because angular momentum is exchanged to a small but important extent among the planets and the Sun. The orbital angular momentum vector of a point particle is always parallel and directly proportional to its orbital angular velocity vector ω, where the constant of proportionality depends on both the mass of the particle and its distance from origin. The spin angular momentum vector of a rigid body is proportional but not always parallel to the spin angular velocity vector Ω, making the constant of proportionality a second-rank tensor rather than a scalar.

Orbital angular momentum in two dimensions 

Angular momentum is a vector quantity (more precisely, a pseudovector) that represents the product of a body's rotational inertia and rotational velocity (in radians/sec) about a particular axis. However, if the particle's trajectory lies in a single plane, it is sufficient to discard the vector nature of angular momentum, and treat it as a scalar (more precisely, a pseudoscalar). Angular momentum can be considered a rotational analog of linear momentum. Thus, where linear momentum  is proportional to mass  and linear speed 

angular momentum  is proportional to moment of inertia  and angular speed  measured in radians per second.

Unlike mass, which depends only on amount of matter, moment of inertia depends also on the position of the axis of rotation and the distribution of the matter. Unlike linear velocity, which does not depend upon the choice of origin, orbital angular velocity is always measured with respect to a fixed origin. Therefore, strictly speaking,  should be referred to as the angular momentum relative to that center.

In the case of circular motion of a single particle, we can use  and  to expand angular momentum as  reducing to:

the product of the radius of rotation  and the linear momentum of the particle , where  is the linear (tangential) speed.

This simple analysis can also apply to non-circular motion if one uses the component of the motion perpendicular to the radius vector:

where  is the perpendicular component of the motion. Expanding,  rearranging,  and reducing, angular momentum can also be expressed,

where  is the length of the moment arm, a line dropped perpendicularly from the origin onto the path of the particle. It is this definition, , to which the term moment of momentum refers.

Scalar angular momentum from Lagrangian mechanics 
Another approach is to define angular momentum as the conjugate momentum (also called canonical momentum) of the angular coordinate  expressed in the Lagrangian of the mechanical system. Consider a mechanical system with a mass  constrained to move in a circle of radius  in the absence of any external force field. The kinetic energy of the system is

And the potential energy is

Then the Lagrangian is

The generalized momentum "canonically conjugate to" the coordinate  is defined by

Orbital angular momentum in three dimensions 

To completely define orbital angular momentum in three dimensions, it is required to know the rate at which the position vector sweeps out angle, the direction perpendicular to the instantaneous plane of angular displacement, and the mass involved, as well as how this mass is distributed in space. By retaining this vector nature of angular momentum, the general nature of the equations is also retained, and can describe any sort of three-dimensional motion about the center of rotation – circular, linear, or otherwise. In vector notation, the orbital angular momentum of a point particle in motion about the origin can be expressed as:

where
  is the moment of inertia for a point mass,
  is the orbital angular velocity of the particle about the origin,
  is the position vector of the particle relative to the origin, and ,
  is the linear velocity of the particle relative to the origin, and
  is the mass of the particle.

This can be expanded, reduced, and by the rules of vector algebra, rearranged:

which is the cross product of the po