# Bernoulli number

In mathematics, the Bernoulli numbers  are a sequence of rational numbers which occur frequently in analysis. The Bernoulli numbers appear in (and can be defined by) the Taylor series expansions of the tangent and hyperbolic tangent functions, in Faulhaber's formula for the sum of m-th powers of the first n positive integers, in the Euler–Maclaurin formula, and in expressions for certain values of the Riemann zeta function.

The values of the first 20 Bernoulli numbers are given in the adjacent table. Two conventions are used in the literature, denoted here by  and ; they differ only for , where  and . For every odd , . For every even ,  is negative if  is divisible by 4 and positive otherwise. The Bernoulli numbers are special values of the Bernoulli polynomials , with  and .

The Bernoulli numbers were discovered around the same time by the Swiss mathematician Jacob Bernoulli, after whom they are named, and independently by Japanese mathematician Seki Takakazu.  Seki's discovery was posthumously published in 1712 in his work Katsuyō Sanpō; Bernoulli's, also posthumously, in his Ars Conjectandi of 1713.  Ada Lovelace's note G on the Analytical Engine from 1842 describes an algorithm for generating Bernoulli numbers with Babbage's machine. As a result, the Bernoulli numbers have the distinction of being the subject of the first published complex computer program.

Notation
The superscript  used in this article distinguishes the two sign conventions for Bernoulli numbers. Only the  term is affected: 
  with  ( / ) is the sign convention prescribed by NIST and most modern textbooks.
  with  ( / ) was used in the older literature, and (since 2022) by Donald Knuth following Peter Luschny's "Bernoulli Manifesto".

In the formulas below, one can switch from one sign convention to the other with the relation , or for integer  = 2 or greater, simply ignore it.

Since  for all odd , and many formulas only involve even-index Bernoulli numbers, a few authors write "" instead of . This article does not follow that notation.

History

Early history 
The Bernoulli numbers are rooted in the early history of the computation of sums of integer powers, which have been of interest to mathematicians since antiquity.

Methods to calculate the sum of the first  positive integers, the sum of the squares and of the cubes of the first  positive integers were known, but there were no real 'formulas', only descriptions given entirely in words. Among the great mathematicians of antiquity to consider this problem were Pythagoras (c. 572–497 BCE, Greece), Archimedes (287–212 BCE, Italy), Aryabhata (b. 476, India), Abu Bakr al-Karaji (d. 1019, Persia) and Abu Ali al-Hasan ibn al-Hasan ibn al-Haytham (965–1039, Iraq).

During the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries mathematicians made significant progress.  In the West Thomas Harriot (1560–1621) of England, Johann Faulhaber (1580–1635) of Germany, Pierre de Fermat (1601–1665) and fellow French mathematician Blaise Pascal (1623–1662) all played important roles.

Thomas Harriot seems to have been the first to derive and write formulas for sums of powers using symbolic notation, but even he calculated only up to the sum of the fourth powers.  Johann Faulhaber gave formulas for sums of powers up to the 17th power in his 1631 Academia Algebrae, far higher than anyone before him, but he did not give a general formula.

Blaise Pascal in 1654 proved Pascal's identity relating the sums of the th powers of the first  positive integers for .

The Swiss mathematician Jakob Bernoulli (1654–1705) was the first to realize the existence of a single sequence of constants  which provide a uniform formula for all sums of powers.

The joy Bernoulli experienced when he hit upon the pattern needed to compute quickly and easily the coefficients of his formula for the sum of the th powers for any positive integer  can be seen from his comment. He wrote:

"With the help of this table, it took me less than half of a quarter of an hour to find that the tenth powers of the first 1000 numbers being added together will yield the sum 91,409,924,241,424,243,424,241,924,242,500."

Bernoulli's result was published posthumously in Ars Conjectandi in 1713.  Seki Takakazu independently discovered the Bernoulli numbers and his result was published a year earlier, also posthumously, in 1712. However, Seki did not present his method as a formula based on a sequence of constants.

Bernoulli's formula for sums of powers is the most useful and generalizable formulation to date. The coefficients in Bernoulli's formula are now called Bernoulli numbers, following a suggestion of Abraham de Moivre.

Bernoulli's formula is sometimes called Faulhaber's formula after Johann Faulhaber who found remarkable ways to calculate sum of powers but never stated Bernoulli's formula. According to Knuth a rigorous proof of Faulhaber's formula was first published by Carl Jacobi in 1834. Knuth's in-depth study of Faulhaber's formula concludes (the nonstandard notation on the LHS is explained further on):

"Faulhaber never discovered the Bernoulli numbers; i.e., he never realized that a single sequence of constants  ... would provide a uniform

for all sums of powers. He never mentioned, for example, the fact that almost half of the coefficients turned out to be zero after he had converted his formulas for  from polynomials in  to polynomials in ."

In the above Knuth meant ; instead using  the formula avoids subtraction:

Reconstruction of "Summae Potestatum" 

The Bernoulli numbers (n)/(n) were introduced by Jakob Bernoulli in the book Ars Conjectandi published posthumously in 1713 page 97. The main formula can be seen in the second half of the corresponding facsimile. The constant coefficients denoted , ,  and  by Bernoulli are mapped to the notation which is now prevalent as , , , . The expression  means  – the small dots are used as grouping symbols. Using today's terminology these expressions are falling factorial powers . The factorial notation  as a shortcut for  was not introduced until 100 years later. The integral symbol on the left hand side goes back to Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz in 1675 who used it as a long letter  for "summa" (sum). The letter  on the left hand side is not an index of summation but gives the upper limit of the range of summation which is to be understood as . Putting things together, for positive , today a mathematician is likely to write Bernoulli's formula as:

 

This formula suggests setting  when switching from the so-called 'archaic' enumeration which uses only the even indices 2, 4, 6... to the modern form (more on different conventions in the next paragraph). Most striking in this context is the fact that the falling factorial  has for  the value . Thus Bernoulli's formula can be written
 

if , recapturing the value Bernoulli gave to the coefficient at that position.

The formula for  in the first half of the quotation by Bernoulli above contains an error at the last term; it should be  instead of .

Definitions 
Many characterizations of the Bernoulli numbers have been found in the last 300 years, and each could be used to introduce these numbers.  Here only four of the most useful ones are mentioned:

 a recursive equation,
 an explicit formula,
 a generating function,
 an integral expression.

For the proof of the equivalence of the four approaches.

Recursive definition 
The Bernoulli numbers obey the sum formulas
 
where  and  denotes the Kronecker delta. Solving for  gives the recursive formulas

Explicit definition 
In 1893 Louis Saalschütz listed  a total of 38 explicit formulas for the Bernoulli numbers, usually giving some reference in the older literature. One of them is (for ):

Generating function 
The exponential generating functions are

where the substitution is . If we let  and  then

Then  and for  the m term in the series for  is:

If

then we find that

showing that the values of  obey the recursive formula for the Bernoul