# Musashi (novel)

, also listed as "Musashi: An Epic Novel of the Samurai Era" is a Japanese epic novel written by Eiji Yoshikawa, about the life and deeds of legendary Japanese swordsman Miyamoto Musashi.

The book follows Shinmen Takezō starting after the Battle of Sekigahara. It follows his life after the monk Takuan forces him to reinvent himself as Miyamoto Musashi. He wanders around Japan training young pupils, getting involved in feuds with samurai and martial arts schools, and finding his way through his romantic life.

It was originally released as a serial in the Japanese newspaper Asahi Shimbun, between 1935 and 1939. It has been re-released in book format (first fully-compiled publication by Fumiko Yoshikawa in 1971), most of which are collections of several volumes, which compile the many newspaper strips. With an estimated 120 million copies sold, it is one of the best-selling book series in history. 

The English translation was done by Charles S. Terry and features a foreword by Edwin O. Reischauer. It was first published in 1981 by Kodansha International Ltd., and Kodansha America, Inc.. Publication was assisted by a grant from the Japan Foundation. It was distributed in the United States by Kodansha America, Inc., and in the United Kingdom and continental Europe by Kodansha Europe Ltd..

Introduction
It is a fictionalized account of the life of Miyamoto Musashi, author of The Book of Five Rings and arguably the most renowned Japanese swordsman who ever lived.

The novel has been translated into English by Charles S. Terry, with a foreword by Edwin O. Reischauer, published by Kodansha International under .

The long epic (over 900 pages, abridged, in the English version) comprises seven "books" detailing the exploits of Miyamoto Musashi, beginning just after the battle of Sekigahara, following his journeys and the many people who become important in his life, and leading up to his climactic duel with Sasaki Kojiro on Ganryujima (Ganryu or Funa Island). Kojiro's cruelty contrasts with Musashi's reflective and selfless nature. 
Musashi becomes famous during the course of the novel as he searches for both perfection in swordsmanship and in consciousness. Innovating Japanese swordsmanship, he invents the style of simultaneously wielding both the katana and the wakizashi, something unheard of at that time in Japanese history.
Chance, as well as the characters' very different life decisions, give to the book a philosophical dimension that is revealed in its ending.

Release details
 .
 
 .
 .

See also

 Samurai Trilogy — film adaptation of the novel
 Vagabond — manga adaptation of the novel

References

1935 novels
Japanese serial novels
Historical novels
Novels first published in serial form
Works originally published in Asahi Shimbun
Novels set in Japan
Japanese novels adapted into films
Cultural depictions of Miyamoto Musashi