# Maryland State Police

The Maryland State Police (MSP), officially the Maryland Department of State Police (MDSP), is the official state police force of the U.S. state of Maryland. The Maryland State Police is headquartered at 1201 Reisterstown Road in the Pikesville CDP in unincorporated Baltimore County.

Organizational structure
The Maryland State Police is organized into a structure based on the United States military, composed of:

Department of State Police (commanded by the Colonel)
Bureaus (commanded by a Lieutenant Colonel)
Commands (commanded by a Major)
Troops (commanded by a Captain)
Divisions (commanded by a Captain or Civilian Director)
Barracks (commanded by a Lieutenant)
Sections (commanded by a Captain or Lieutenant or Civilian Director)
Units (commanded by a First Sergeant)

The Maryland State Fire Marshal is a member of the department and is charged with investigation and prosecution of suspicious fires and arson throughout the state.

All sworn members are organized into 1 of 4 bureaus or are assigned to the Office of the Superintendent.

Office of the Superintendent
The Office of the Superintendent includes staff and units that directly support the administrative responsibilities of the Secretary.  Those units and staff report to the chief of staff.  Some of the main functions of the Office of the Superintendent include:

Strategic Planning Command
The Strategic Planning Command deals with all planning within the department.  The command manages the Budget and Finance Division, Government Affairs Unit, Policing Division, Staff Inspections Section, and Planning and Research Division.  Within the Planning and Research Division is the Property Unit and the Accreditation Section.  The Accreditation Section is responsible for authoring, review and issuance of all departmental directives. In addition, this section manages all aspects of the MSP's CALEA accreditation.  The MSP received CALEA's coveted Tri-Arc award  in November 2014 and is accredited in Law Enforcement, Training Academy, and Communications.

Criminal Intelligence Section
The section collects, analyzes, and coordinates the acquisition and dissemination of criminal intelligence information.

Department Prosecutor Section
The section has overall responsibility for the prosecution of all sworn disciplinary cases.

Executive Protection Section
The Executive Protection Section provides security for executive branch leaders in the State of Maryland, such as the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Attorney General, Comptroller, and Treasurer.

Legislative Security Section
The Legislative Security Section is charged with ensuring the safety and security of the President of the Senate, Speaker of the House, and all members of the General Assembly while in session.

Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
The section is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Governor's Code of Fair Practices; state and federal discrimination laws; and administers an equal employment practices program consistent with the requirements of federal and state laws governing equal employment opportunity and the State Personnel and Pensions Article.

Internal Affairs Division
The section ensures thorough and objective investigations of allegations and complaints of misconduct against employees so that a proper defensive or appropriate disciplinary actions is processed.

Legal Counsel Section
The legal advisor represents the superintendent on legal issues and handles all matters referred by the superintendent.

Office of Media Communications
The office is responsible for the daily dissemination of information to the media and public, and the facilitation of internal communication from the Office of the Superintendent.

Vehicle Theft Prevention Council
Subtitle 2-702 of the Public Safety Article established the Vehicle Theft Prevention Council and Vehicle Theft Prevention Fund to assist in the prevention and deterrence of vehicle theft and related crimes, including vandalism and theft of property from vehicles.

Field Operations Bureau
The Field Operations Bureau is the most visible part of the Maryland State Police since it includes all troopers who regularly interact with the public. Within the Bureau are two commands: the Northern Command and Southern Command which together encompass the 22 barracks.  The Northern Command is divided into the Central, Northern, and Western troops and the Southern Command is divided into the Eastern, Southern, and Washington Metro troops.
In addition to the traditional law enforcement services, each Barrack also provides additional services to assist the public. These services include salvage inspections and car seat safety checks.

The Automotive Safety Enforcement Division is responsible, by law, for the State's vehicle safety inspection program and all safety equipment repair orders issued by law enforcement agencies.  The Division also supervises more than 1,600 inspection stations throughout the State.
The Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Division operates weigh and inspection stations.  It also focuses efforts on safety inspections of commercial motor vehicles traveling in the State, while also concentrating on the prevention of commercial vehicles being used as weapons of terror.  The Special Operations Division includes many specialized units and teams which provide safety and rescue assistance to the citizens of Maryland.

The Field Operations Bureau is currently commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Frank B. Lioi, Chief.

State Police Impaired Driving Reduction Effort
A component of the Field Operations Bureau, SPIDRE was launched in May 2013 and focuses on reducing alcohol related crashes in Maryland by targeting areas across the state with high crash rates involving impaired drivers.  The program complements the MSP's extensive efforts to improve highway safety and help Maryland achieve the goal of zero deaths on our roadways.  It is funded by the Maryland Department of Transportation's Highway Safety Office.
In 2013, 152 people were killed in alcohol related crashes, accounting for 33 percent of all traffic fatalities in 2013.  Using data to identify high risk areas, the elite team of seven specially trained Maryland state troopers and their partners continue to make arrests in these concentrated areas to further reduce the number of deaths and injuries caused by impaired driving.  Maryland state troopers will continue to collaborate with law enforcement partners in an effort to reduce the number of alcohol related crashes in Maryland.

Criminal Investigation Bureau
The Criminal Investigation Bureau provides the investigative functions for the Department in partnership with allied law enforcement agencies.  It consists of the Criminal Investigation Command and the Drug Enforcement Command.  The Criminal Investigation Command includes the Criminal Enforcement Division and the Forensic Sciences Division.

The Criminal Enforcement Division is composed of special investigative groups that work on criminal enforcement, gang and firearms enforcement, computer crimes, missing children, homicides, fugitive apprehension, vehicle theft, insurance fraud and environmental crimes.  The Forensic Sciences Division provides forensic laboratory analysis and expert testimony.

The Drug Enforcement Command includes the Drug Enforcement Division.  Their responsibility is to lead the Maryland State Police drug control strategy by focusing on the disruption of drug trafficking at every level.  Through a variety of investigative techniques, personnel attempt to identify, infiltrate, and dismantle drug organizations operating in Maryland.  The bureau underwent a realignment in 2013.  Barrack investigators were placed into regional commands scattered geographically throughout the state.  Investigators assist allied agencies with both minor and major investigations.  A primary focus of the bureau are those crimes having an inter-jurisdictional nexus (crimes which cross local, county, or state borders).
The Crim