# Delain

Delain is a Dutch symphonic metal band formed in 2002 by former Within Temptation keyboardist Martijn Westerholt, intending for the band to be solely a project. Singer Charlotte Wessels was invited to join in 2005. The name of the band comes from the Kingdom of Delain in Stephen King's novel, The Eyes of the Dragon. In February 2021, the members decided to part ways. In June 2021, Westerholt announced that there would be a new lineup involving former and new members.

History

Early years, Lucidity and April Rain (2002–2010)

In 2002, Westerholt formed Delain, after he was forced to leave Within Temptation due to Pfeiffer's disease. In the same year, they independently released the demo Amenity. After the demo, Westerholt temporarily left the project behind but continued to write music.

In 2005, he joined with Charlotte Wessels, and was signed to Roadrunner Records. At the time, the band was envisioned as a musical project featuring a host of guest musicians, and not as a live band.

Lucidity brought to fruition Westerholt's dream of a musical project, featuring many well-known musicians from the metal community: Marko Hietala, Liv Kristine, Ariën van Weesenbeek, Ad Sluijter, George Oosthoek and Guus Eikens, Sharon den Adel and Jan Yrlund.

Despite many delays, Lucidity was released in September 2006, to generally positive reviews. The album spawned three singles: Frozen, See Me In Shadow and The Gathering, and the response to the album allowed Delain to tour in support in the Netherlands and neighbouring countries. Rob van der Loo, Ronald Landa and Sander Zoer were added on bass, guitar and drums respectively to round out the live band.

At the end of 2007, Delain announced that they were working on their second album. New songs from the album – "Stay Forever" and "Start Swimming" – were added to the band's setlist in early 2008. Their second album, April Rain was released on 9 February 2009. The lead single was the title track, "April Rain", followed by "Stay Forever". The band toured extensively in support of the album, visiting many new countries such as the United States and Mexico, as well as performing at high-profile festivals in Europe, including Hellfest, Lowlands, Wacken Open Air and Sonisphere. In February 2010, Delain announced they had started working on their third album, and that bassist Rob van der Loo would leave the band the same year due to time constraints. In March, Otto Schimmelpenninck van der Oije was announced as Rob's successor.
On 4 October 2010, Delain announced they were to part company with guitarist Ewout Pieters. Timo Somers was announced as his replacement on 17 April 2011.

We Are the Others (2011–2013)

During their 2011 live shows, Delain debuted three new songs — "Manson" (later renamed to "Mother Machine"), "Get the Devil Out of Me" and "Milk and Honey" — from their third album, We Are the Others.
In an interview with Sonic Cathedral, Wessels discussed the inspiration she drew from the Sophie Lancaster case:
I remember when I first heard about it … it wasn't on Dutch news, I just heard about it through Internet networks and the goth scene … there was this movie made about it, a short film of about four minutes. I saw it, and I just cried. It's so incredibly sad! After seeing the movie, I didn't really DO anything with it until we were working on "We Are The Others." But the basic idea of the lyrics was there. It was just supposed to be a song about "we are the others" and a feeling of togetherness. On the one hand, being proud of whoever you are, whether you divert from the norm in whatever way you divert from the norm. But on the other hand, it is also kind of a song for "others". We just wanted a song about acceptance.
Originally intended for release in early 2012, the album's release date was unknown due to Warner Music's purchase of Roadrunner Records.  However, it was announced via a Facebook message on the band official page that the album would be released on 1 June 2012 with the album's first single, 'Get the Devil Out of Me' being released on 13 April 2012  via CNR Music, who took over Delain from Warner Music. The second single from the album was the title track, 'We Are the Others'.
It was announced on 3 November that Delain would headline Dames of Darkness Festival (Wolverhampton, UK) which they had previously headlined in 2009 (under the Femme Metal Festival).

On 26 February 2013, Delain announced that they will release a special album entitled Interlude that would include new songs, covers, live tracks, special versions of previous songs and a bonus DVD. It was released on various dates throughout the first week of May worldwide.

The Human Contradiction, Lunar Prelude EP and Moonbathers (2014–2018)

On 23 January 2014, Delain announced that they would release a new album entitled The Human Contradiction. It was released on 5 April 2014 in Europe, and on 8 April 2014 in North America.

On 4 June 2014, it was announced that drummer Sander Zoer would step down from the band due to personal reasons; he would continue working behind the scenes of Delain. The replacement drummer was announced to be Ruben Israel, who had stepped in for Zoer during Delain's tour with Kamelot. Zoer continued to perform until September, until he left for personal reasons and was replaced by Israel.

The band brought with them Merel Bechtold as a second guitarist for their UK tour in November 2014. Bassist Otto Schimmelpenninck van der Oije suffered an injury on 26 November 2014, when he was accidentally hit by a streamer cannon, causing his left testicle to rupture. This incident was said to be caused by uncertain stage positioning, as there were six people onstage instead of the usual five. While he was recovering, the band used pre-recorded bass parts. No permanent damage was done, and as of 12 January 2015, Schimmelpenninck van der Oije has resumed touring.  Merel Bechtold filled in for guitarist Timo Somers until February, due to Somers' full schedule.

Delain toured with Sabaton and Battle Beast, and also North America with Sabaton as support for Nightwish for the first half of 2015 and returned to Latin America during October as support of them. Delain toured as support again for Nightwish's tour on the second North American leg in 2016 with Sonata Arctica. This made it the fourth year in a row the band had toured in the United States and Canada.

On 19 October 2015, Delain made recurring touring guitarist Merel Bechtold a permanent member.

Delain announced an eight track EP of new and live songs named Lunar Prelude. The EP was released on 19 February 2016. Their first single, Suckerpunch, of the EP was released on 5 February.

The band announced a new album of ten original songs and one "Queen" cover named Moonbathers. The record was released on 26 August 2016.

Delain's first live video album, A Decade of Delain: Live at Paradiso was filmed at the Paradiso in Amsterdam, Netherlands for the band's 10th anniversary on 10 December 2016. It was released on 27 October 2017.

On 30 August 2018, Joey de Boer was made a permanent member of Delain after filling in for Ruben Israel, who left the band in October 2017.

Hunter's Moon EP and Apocalypse & Chill (2018–2020)

Delain announced a new EP titled Hunter's Moon on 13 December 2018. The EP was released on 22 February 2019. Masters of Destiny, the first single off of the EP was released on 11 January 2019 along with a music video.

Merel Bechtold announced on 16 June 2019 that she was amicably leaving the band to pursue other musical interests. Her last show with Delain took place at Graspop Metal Meeting on 23 June 2019.

On 27 September 2019, "Burning Bridges", the first single off of the album was released, which made its debut days before during their North America tour. On 15 November 2019, the second single off of the album, "One Second", was released.

The band officially announced the title of their sixth studio album, Apocalypse & Chill, on 29 November 2019.