# Royal Brunei Air Force

The Royal Brunei Air Force (RBAirF) (, abbreviation TUDB) is the air force of the sultanate of Brunei Darussalam.  It is headquartered and mainly based at the Royal Brunei Air Force Base, Rimba, within the Brunei International Airport (BIA).  The role of the Royal Brunei Air Force is to defend the national airspace and to provide air policing and surveillance of its land and maritime borders.  , the Royal Brunei Air Force operates twenty manned aircraft and four unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV).

The Royal Brunei Air Force was formed as an independent air force on .  It was originally created in  as the Air Wing of the Royal Brunei Malay Regiment ( – AMDB), the forerunner of today's Royal Brunei Armed Forces (RBAF).  The Air Wing of the Royal Brunei Armed Forces had operated helicopters (the Bell 205) since 1966.

History

The Royal Brunei Air Force was established as the Air Wing of the Royal Brunei Malay Regiment in 1965.  It was first tasked to fly doctors to rural area with two Sikorsky S-55 aircraft, which was operated by pilots from the Worldwide Helicopter Company.  In 1966, the tasks were taken over by three British pilots from the Royal Air Force (RAF) operating three RAF Westland Whirlwind helicopters.

In 1967, the unit was renamed as the Helicopter Platoon, and received five Bell 206 Jet Ranger helicopters.  The Air Technical Training School was established in 1980.  In 1981, No. 2 Squadron was established and equipped with six Bölkow BO105 helicopters.  

No. 3 Squadron was established in 1982 and equipped with SIAI-Marchetti SF260s.  On 1 September 1983, the No. 2 Wing was founded at what was previously the Air Defence Battery.  When Brunei assumed responsibility for its own defence from the United Kingdom in 1984, the Air Wing was expanded.  On 1 October 1991, with the consent of The Sultan, the Air Wing was officially renamed the Royal Brunei Air Force.  The Air Defence Battery was transferred to the Royal Brunei Air Force on 24 March 1995, and given the new name Air Defence Squadron.

No. 4 Squadron was established in 1997, and was equipped with the Blackhawk S-70A helicopters.  No. 5 Squadron was also established in 1997, and was equipped with a CN-235 fixed-wing aeroplane and the Base Defence Squadron.  In the same year, 3 Squadron received the Pilatus PC-7 Mk.II training aircraft.  No. 38 Squadron was established in 1999, and is equipped with the Mistral surface-to-air missile, following acquisition of its Mistral System.  In the same year, Airfield Ground Defence was transferred from the RBAirF's Administration Wing to the Air Regiment. 

A brand-new wing called No. 3 Wing was inaugurated on 27 July 2016.  In 2019, the RBAirF unveiled the Digital Disruptive Pattern BDU in digital grey colours at the 58th anniversary celebration at the Bolkiah Garrison.  As of 28 August 2020, the commander of the Royal Brunei Air Force is Brigadier General (U) Dato Seri Pahlawan Mohd Sharif bin Dato Paduka Haji Ibrahim. 

Following an order made in 2020, the RBAirF acquired five Boeing Insitu RQ-21 Blackjack unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) from the United States in 2021.  They will be used for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) around Brunei's territorial waters in the South China Sea.  The first was unveiled by the Sultan of Brunei, Hassanal Bolkiah, an event held in June 2021 to mark the 60th anniversary of the Royal Brunei Armed Forces.

A parade was held at the Air Movement Centre (AMC) in celebration of the 55th anniversary on 25 June 2021.  Of note was the introduction of Integrator into the RBAirF, a drone unmanned aerial system (UAS).  In collaboration with the Philippine Air Force (PAF) on 3 December 2021, pilots from the Philippines will carry out their training with the S-70i Blackhawk flight simulator at the Canadian Aviation Electronics (CAE) Brunei Multi-Purpose Training Centre (BMPTC).

The decommissioning ceremony of the RBAirF's Bölkow BO105 fleet was held at the AMC within the Air Force Base, Rimba, on 5 February 2022.  First introduced as a fleet of six helicopters into No. 2 Squadron, Air Wing in 1981, administered and maintained by the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers (REME) from the UK until 1993, this ended 41 years' service of the type as latterly operated by No. 1 Wing, Operations Group.

Organisation
The Royal Brunei Air Force is divided into seven (7) Wings:

The Operation Wing consists of four flying wings and three addition units:

No. 1 Wing consisted of four flying squadrons in it. Each squadron has unique operating requirements for their respective functions with the capability to conduct maritime and border patrol.
No. 11 Squadron (formerly No. 1) is equipped with Bell 214ST helicopters.  1 Sqn previously operated the Bell 212 until their retirement in 2013.  The primary roles of 1 Squadron are for troop lift, casualty evacuation, medical evacuation, fire suppression, VVIP lift, and search and rescue.
No. 12 Squadron (formerly No. 2) was previously equipped with Bölkow BO105 helicopters.  The primary roles of 2 Squadron are to provide flying doctor, reconnaissance, surveillance, close air support, VVIP lift, and search and locate services.
No. 14 Squadron (formerly No. 4) is equipped with Blackhawk S-70A helicopters.  The primary roles of 4 Squadron are special combat squadron operation task, troop lift, casualty evacuation, medical evacuation, fire fighting, VVIP lift, and search and rescue.
No. 15 Squadron (formerly No. 5) is equipped with a CN-235 aircraft.  The primary roles of 5 Squadron are to provide troop-lift, surveillance, and search and locate capabilities.

No. 2 Wing, formerly known as Air Regiment, is responsible for protecting the Royal Brunei Air Force Base and Brunei's airspace against aerial threats.
No. 233 Squadron (formerly No. 33 and Air Battery) is equipped with the Rapier FSB1 missile launcher. Its first base of operations was Penanjong Garrison, where Rapier FSB1, a short-range air defense system, was operated. However in 2010, the system was turned off. In addition to preparation for its new Air Defence System, the squadron became a supporting unit for No. 238 Squadron.
No. 236 Squadron (formerly Base Defence Squadron) is responsible for the protection of the Royal Brunei Air Force Base and any Forward Operating Base.
No. 238 Squadron (formerly No. 38) is equipped with the VSHORAD (Very Short Range Air Defence System) Mistral missile launcher, based in Berakas Garrison.
The Engineering Squadron is situated in Berakas Garison. Via maintenance, the squadron assists in guaranteeing the Air Defence Squadron's operational preparedness.

No. 3 Wing is tasked in helping with the operational group to carry out its duties and fulfill its mission. 
The Parachute Airborne Tactical Delivery Unit (PATDU) provides jungle rescue team, jungle line resupply, multi rope abseil.  PATDU are also involved in parachute competitions at the regional and international level.
The Fire Brigade Unit (formerly Fire Unit) provides fire and rescue cover of any aircraft during an emergency.
The Air Movement Flight supervises all aircraft entering and leaving the RBAirF base, with an addition in dealing with cargo.
The Air Space Control assist the Department of Civil Aviation (DCA) in controlling airplanes that fly over our area. Its goal is to find competent Air Traffic Controllers (ATCs).
No. 4 Wing, also known as the Supply Headquarter, is under the control of the Support Group Commander.
Domestic Supply Squadron (DSS) is tasked with providing logistical support and equipment for the personnel.
Supply Control and Accounting Flight (SCAF) is made up of five key cells which are the Control Accounting Cell (CAC), the Supply Accounting Cell (SAC), the Supply Control Cell (SCC), Receipt and Despatch (R&D), and the Bulk Fuel Installation Account.
Technical Supply Squadron (TSS), formerly known as Technical Supply Flight, is in charge of providing technical assistance to the RBAirF, which keeps its sp