# Superman dynasty

The Superman dynasty, an extension of the House of El, is a lineage of DC Comics superheroes. The term is used for the descendants of Kal-El, the original Superman, who continue to uphold his legacy of heroism well into the 853rd century, as depicted in the DC One Million crossover. Repeated references to members of the Superman dynasty as Superman's "descendants" and at least one reference to them as the "blood of his blood" would seem to indicate that they are, in fact, the biological descendants of Superman in some fashion.

History

The Superman dynasty starts with the House of El, and Kal-El. Unable to save Krypton, Jor-El decides to send his only son to Earth. Under the yellow sun, Kal-El becomes the first super-powered Kryptonian known as Superman. Superman is later joined by Kon-El, a clone who would become known as Superboy. Kara Zor-El his cousin, who would become known as Supergirl, as well as Kara Zor-L, also known as Power Girl, the Earth-Two counterpart of Super-girl, and the Eradicator, an artificial intelligence created by Kem-L.

In the future timeline of DC One Million, the death of Lois Lane compels Superman to leave Earth and wander the universe alone at the end of the 21st century. This version of Kal-El is immortal and is unclear within the comics on how he acquired it. In his place, he leaves his heir, who is called Superman Secundus. From that point on, descendants of Superman continue to protect his adopted home world for centuries, with at least one Superman emerging in each generation. As time passes, and more sources of power are discovered, new superpowers are added to the inheritance of the Supermen. Among these powers are the ten alien sensory powers brought into the lineage by the marriage of the Superman of the 67th century and Gzntplzk, queen of the 5th dimension (home in the 20th century to Mister Mxyzptlk), including super-ESP. Their powers are increased significantly again at the dawn of the 700th century, when the original Superman finally returns from his wandering, takes up residence on Earth's sun, and enters into a pact with the Superman of that time to provide them access to the vast powers he had gained in the 68,000 years he had been gone, in return for the dynasty's vow to continue to protect Earth.

The members of the Superman dynasty continue to be at the forefront of super heroism for centuries, leading such groups as the Office of Deputy Superhunters in the 250th century, the Justice League of the Atom (sometime after the 364th), and Justice Legion Alpha in the 853rd. A number of Supermen from different eras, including the Superman of the 853rd century, also form a team called the Superman Squad which travels through time fighting threats to the timestream. Superman even joins the Pancosmic Justice Jihad, but soon leaves over "policy issues".

A notable victory of the dynasty and its allies is the defeat of the Bizarro plague in the 250th century, and the dynasty's greatest foe is Solaris, the Tyrant Sun.

The ongoing Rebirth storyline raises new important questions about the Superman Dynasty future timeline. It has been revealed that the "Convergence" versions of Clark Kent/Superman and Lois Lane are not alternate reality versions of the post-Flashpoint/New 52 versions, but were in fact the original pre-Flashpoint versions somehow moved – for as-yet unknown reasons – by Doctor Manhattan to a "pocket reality" of his creation for over a decade while he created the New 52 Universe. Both versions have recently been merged into a combined Superman and Lois Lane, whose new history seems to mirror the pre-Flashpoint continuity far more than that of the New 52. This raises the question of whether or not the Superman Dynasty timeline is now back in continuity in this reality. If so, then it is possible their half-human son Jonathan is the future "Superman Secondus" from which the rest of the Dynasty descends in the distant future. It's also equally likely that the Dynasty's timeline of the Rebirth reality is no longer the same as the one presented in DC One Million. The answers to these questions clearly remain for after the confrontation with Doctor Manhattan and all questions about his tampering with the DC Universe - particularly Superman - are answered.

House of El

Earth-Two
 Jor-L
 Kal-L/Clark Kent
 Kara Zor-L: daughter of Zor-L and Allura In-Z). She arrived on Earth as a young woman after years spent traveling in suspended animation. On Earth, she adopted the human alias Karen Starr and became a superhero known as Power Girl. She survived Crisis on Infinite Earths but for many years she believed she was an Atlantean before she remembered the truth of her origins.
 Equinox: son of Kara Zor-L from a mystical pregnancy. He aged rapidly to adulthood and disappeared during the Zero Hour event.
 Devine: a clone of Kara Zor-L created by Doctor Sivana for Maxwell Lord.
 Zor-L

Earth-One
 Seg-El I: grandfather of Kal-El. He married Nimda An-Dor, and they had three sons: Jor-El II, Nim-El, and Zor-El. Their grandchildren were Kal-El, Kara Zor-El, and Don-El.
 Jor-El II: a Kryptonian scientist who accurately predicted the Destruction of Krypton, but he was not believed. He married Lara Lor-Van, daughter of Lor-Van and Lara Rok-Var, and they had one son: Kal-El. 
 Kal-El I
 Kal-El/Clark Kent
 Val-El
 Zim-El
 Nim-El: twin brother of Jor-El, uncle of Kal-El and Kara Zor-El, Superman's Pal, Jimmy Olsen #60 (April 1962). He marries Dondra Klu-Ta, and they have one son: Don-El.
 Don-El: the son of Nim-El and Dondra Klu-Ta.
 Zor-El: brother of Jor-El. He married Alura In-Zee, and they have one daughter, Kara Zor-El.
 Kalya Var-El: daughter of Var-El, the sister of Jor-El I and Zim-El, and the great-aunt of Superman and Supergirl. She married Nim-Zee, and they had three sons: Van-Zee, his twin Dik-Zee, and Gem-Zee. All three of her sons survived the Destruction of Krypton when Kandor was taken by Brainiac. 
 Van-Zee: Kandorian superhero "Nightwing", he married the Human woman Sylvia DeWitt and had twins: Lyle-Zee and Lili Van-Zee. 
 Gem-Zee: had two children, Thara and Rad-Zee. Thara Gem-Zee married Ak-Var, her uncle's sidekick, who was called "Flamebird".

Post-Crisis
 Jor-El: a Kryptonian scientist who accurately predicted the Destruction of Krypton, but he was not believed. He married Lara Lor-Van, and they had one son: Kal-El.
 Kal-El/Clark Kent
 Kem-L: a distant ancestor of the modern House of El. He created the Eradicator.
 Seyg-El: father of Jor-El and Zor-El and the grandfather of Superman and Supergirl.
 Ter-El: father of Seyg-El and the grandfather of Jor-El and Zor-El, making him the great-grandfather of Superman and Supergirl. 
 Superboy: also called Kon-El and Conner Kent, is a Genomorph hybrid of Superman and Lex Luthor's DNA who resembles Kal-El and was created by Cadmus Labs.
 Match: a clone of Conner Kent.
 Seraph: a DNAngel created by Dr. Amanda Spence at Project Cadmus with DNA donated by an unknown African-American woman in Superboy (vol. 4) #88 (July 2001).
 Bizarro: an imperfect copy of Superman.
 Cir-El: also called Mia and Cheryl Kent, is a human overwritten with Superman's DNA, a hybrid created by Brainiac in Superman 10-Cent Adventure #1.
 Mon-El: adopted Daxamite son of Kal-El who was adopted in Superboy #89 (June 1961) and Legion of Super-Heroes (vol. 3) #61 and Superboy (vol. 3) #17.
 Christopher Kent: the adopted son of Kal-El and Lois Lane. He is the biological son of General Dru-Zod and Ursa. He first appeared in Action Comics #844 (December 2006).
 Kara Zor-El: superhero known as Supergirl. She is the daughter of Zor-El and Alura In-Ze.
 Zor-El: brother of Jor-El. He married Alura In-Ze, and they have one daughter: Kara Zor-El.
 Laurel Kent: a descendant of Superman from the thirtieth century. 
 Kent Shakespeare: a descendant of Superman from the thirtieth century.

Post-Flashpoint
 Jon Lane Kent: the son of Kal-El and Lois Lane in Teen Titans (vol. 3) Annual #2 (October 2013) part of