[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #40780]

manbot is 120s, which amounts to 20 mancuses. "For the oath of a thegn equals the oaths of six villeins; if he is killed he is fully avenged by the slaying of six villeins and if compensation is paid for him, his wergeld is the wergeld for six villeins." Some freemen are 200 men, some 600 men, and others 1200 men. A 200 man has a wergeld of 200s., which equal 4 pounds. A 1200 man is a person of noble rank, that is, a thegn, whose wergeld is 1200s., which equal 25 pounds. His healsfang is 120s., which today equals 50s. (40 sheep are worth 20s., as is one horse.) Homicide by a magical potion or witchcraft or sorcery practiced with images or by any kind of enchantment cannot be compensated. If the bewitched person does not die, but suffers some change of the skin or demonstrable physical sickness, compensation shall be paid as prescribed by the ancient provisions of wise men, in accordance with the circumstances. "If anyone kills his lord, then if in his guilt he is seized, he shall in no manner redeem himself but shall be condemned to scalping or disemboweling or to human punishment which in the end is so harsh that while enduring the dreadful agonies of his tortures and the miseries of his vile manner of death he may appear to have yielded up his wretched life before in fact he has won an end to his sufferings, and so that he may declare, if it were possible, that he had found more mercy in hell than had been shown to him on earth." "If anyone kills his man without his having merited death, he shall just the same pay compensation for him to his relatives according to the amount of his wergeld, because the man was his to render service, not to be killed." "A person who breaks the king's peace which he confers on anyone with his own hand shall, if he is seized, suffer the loss of his limbs." "If anyone has the king's peace given by the sheriff or other official and a breach of it is committed against him, then this is a case of grithbreche and compensation of one hundred shillings shall be paid, if settlement can be effected by payment of compensation." "On whosoever's land a slaying takes place, the lord who has his rights of soke and sake shall, if the slayer, when caught on the spot, is released on providing security or is detained after being charged, receive the fihtwite." If anyone is slain in an attack by a band of marauders, the slayer shall pay the wergeld to the relatives, and manbot to the lord, and all who were present shall pay hlothbot, that is to say, they shall pay compensation of 30s. for a 200 man, 60s. for a 600 man, and 120s. for a 1200 man. In the case of every payment of wergeld for a slaying, two parts are the responsibility of the paternal kindred, and one third part is the responsibility of the maternal kin. If the kindred of a man who slays another abandons him and will not pay compensation for him, then all the kindred shall be free from the feud except the wrongdoer alone, if they thereafter provide him with neither food nor protection. "If a woman commits homicide, vengeance shall be taken against her or her descendants or her blood relatives (or she shall pay compensation for it), not against her husband or his innocent household." Amends shall nonetheless be made whether these things are done intentionally or unintentionally. However, the possibility of a friendly settlement or of clemency is to be treated as the more likely or the more remote depending on the degree of blame attaching to the person who has been slain, and according to the circumstances. If a woman is slain, compensation is to be paid according to her wergeld, which is decided by her paternal relationship. The manbot shall be determined by the standing of the lord. "Any person may aid his lord without incurring a wite if anyone attacks him, and may obey him in all lawful matters except in the case of breach of feudal loyalty, theft, murder, and similar offences, the commission of which has in absolutely no way been permitted, and which are branded as crimes by the laws." In the same way a lord must in the appropriate circumstances keep his man with advice as well as support, and may do so in all ways without penalty. "Anyone who fights in the king's dwelling shall forfeit his life." "If anyone commits the offence of blodwite [an amercement for bloodshed], fihtwite [a fine for making a quarrel to the disturbance of the peace], legerwite [fine for unlawful cohabitation], or anything of that nature, and he escapes from the scene without being obliged to provide security for future appearance in court or without a charge being laid there, the jurisdiction at law belongs to his own lord." Infiht or insocna is the offense committed by those who are living in community in a house; this is compensated for by a payment of the wite to the head of the household, if he has jurisdiction over accuser and accused. If anyone leaps to arms and disturbs the peace of a house, but does not strike anyone, his liability is half the penalty. Compensation for wounds are as follows: on the head if both bones have been pierced 30s.; on the head if only the outer bone has been pierced 15s.; a wound under the hair one inch long 5d., that is, 1s.; a wound in front of the hair 10d, that is 2s.; injury to the throat 12s.; injury on the neck causing a curvature or stiffness or a lasting disability 100s. plus whatever has been paid out for medical treatment.; external injury to the hand 20s.; if half the hand flies off 60s.; rib broken but the skin remains whole 10s.; rib broken and the skin is broken and the bone is drawn out 15s.; loss of any eye or hand or foot or tongue 66s.6d. and a third part of a penny; loss of sight but with the eye remaining in the head 22s.2d.; wound on the shoulder if the person lives 80s.; shoulder wound so that the fluid from the joints runs out 30s.; shoulder maimed 20s.; an injury within a shoulder so that a bone is drawn out 15s.; arm broken above the elbow 15s.; both bones in the arm broken 30s.; arm cut off below the elbow 80s.; wound in the belly 30s.; pierced through the belly 20s. for each opening; a thigh pierced or broken 30s.; shin struck off below the knee 80s.; the shin broken 30s.; shin pierced below the knee 12s.; broken shinbone 12s.; wound in the genitals so that there is loss of the capacity to procreate 80s.; loins maimed 60s.; loins pierced through 30s.; loins punctured 15s.; injury to the great sinews of another's lower leg if they recover through response to medical treatment 12s.; injury to the sinews which cauces lameness 30s.; injury to the small sinews 6s.; striking a blow without causing blood to flow 5d. for each blow up to a total of three blows, no matter how many blows are actually struck, for a total of 15d.; knocking out first teeth or incisors 8s.; canines or `cheek' teeth 4s.; molars 15s.; broken cheeks 15s.; a thumb cut off 30s.; a thumbnail cut off 5s.; an index finger 15s; an index fingernail 3s.; a middle or `unchaste' finger 121s; a middle fingernail 2s.; a ring finger or `medical' finger 17s.; a ring fingernail 4s.; an `ear' finger 9s.; an `ear' fingernail 1s., that is 5d.; the big toe cut off 20s.; the second toe 15s.; the third toe 9s.; the fourth toe 6s., the fifth toe 5s.; "If anyone suffers a wound, not involving the cutting off or maiming or breaking of a limb, on an uncovered and visible place (for example, in front of the hair or below the sleeve or beneath the knees), the compensation to be paid shall be double what would be due in the case of a wound inflicted on the head under the hair or on the limbs beneath the clothes, that is, on a concealed place." "Anyone who commits a theft, who betrays his lord, who deserts him in a hostile encounter or military engagement, who is defeated in trial by battle or who commits a breach of the feudal bond shall forfeit his land." In the case of stolen property worth more than 30d., the accused shall choose which of the two he wishes, either the simple ordeal or an oath of the value of one pound with oath helpers taken from three hundreds. "If anyone dares to dig up or despoil, in scandalous and criminal fashion, a body buried in the ground or in a