# Operation Prone

Operation Prone was a proposed military operation by the South African Defence Force (SADF) and South West African Territorial Force (SWATF) during the South African Border War and Angolan Civil War between May and September 1988. With the advance of the 50th Cuban Division towards Calueque and the South-West Africa border, the SADF formed the 10 SA Division to counter this threat. The plan for Operation Prone had two phases. Operation Linger was to be a counterinsurgency phase and Operation Pact a conventional phase.

Background and threat assessment
Caught off guard by the rapid movement southwards by the Cuban 10th Division, whose appearance was first noticed during April/May 1988 when SADF units in south-western Angola started to come into contact with advancing Cuban/FAPLA units, serious planning began. Initially, the plans were developed as a proposed attack on the Cuban/FAPLA forces in south-western Angola but as events played out and peace talks developed, the plan evolved to one of defence of north-western South-West Africa.

The South Africans anticipated attacks from two or three fronts possibly from Cahama, Xangongo or Ondjiva towards Ruacana and Calueque. They believed that the Cubans response to any South African counterattack, could be attacks by Cuban forces on SADF bases at Rundu, Ruacana, Oshakati, Ondangwa and Grootfontein and could also involve SWAPO insurgents in the SADF rear during the attacks. The SADF's main conventional unit in SWA, 61 Mechanised Battalion was in a state of reorganisation and training after Operation Hooper. 32 Battalion and 101 Battalion were engaged in south-western Angola against SWAPO while the other main conventional unit, 4 SAI, was also reorganising in South Africa and would be combat ready in SWA by 25 July. The South Africans did not believe that Cuban/FAPLA forces in south-eastern Angola at Cuito Cuanavale would try to attack the UNITA's bases at Mavinga and Jamba. This meant Cuban/FAPLA forces would concentrate their efforts in south-western Angola.

Order of battle

South African and South West Africa Territorial forces

10 SA Division (Operation Hilti/Prone) - Brigadier Chris Serfontein
 HQ 10 SA Division - Oshakati
 61 Mechanised Battalion incl. one tank squadron
 4 SAI Battalion - no tank squadron
 32 Battalion
 101 Battalion
 81 Armoured Brigade (South Africa) Brigade HQ
 one G-2 battery - 17 Field Regiment
 one tank regiment - 3 squadrons Pretoria Regiment
 one mechanized battalion - 1 Regiment Northern Transvaal
 one armoured car regiment - 2 Light Horse Regiment
 one field engineer regiment - 15 Field Regiment
 one anti-aircraft battery - Regiment Oos Transvaal
 one engineer support squadron
 one signal unit - 81 Signal Regiment
 one maintenance unit - 20 Maintenance Unit
 one field workshop - 32 Field Regiment
 one medical battalion group - 6 Medical Battalion Group
 one provost platoon - 8 Provost Unit
71 Motorised Brigade
 HQ Cape Town Highlanders
 two mechanized infantry companies - Cape Town Highlanders Regiment
 one support weapons company - Cape Town Highlanders
 one armoured car regiment - Regiment Orange River
 one field engineer troop - 6 Field Engineer Regiment
 one signal troop - 7 Signal Group
 one maintenance platoon - 4 Maintenance Unit
 one medical battalion - 3 Medical Battalion
 one light workshop troop - 71 Field Regiment
 one provost platoon - 7 Provost Unit
Parachute Battalion Group
 three parachute companies
 one parachute support company
 one anti aircraft troop
 one engineer troop
 one signal troop
 one maintenance platoon
 one reconnaissance section
 one light workshop troop
 one provost platoon
 one medical team
 two mobile air operations teams
 10 Artillery Brigade
 HQ 10 Artillery Brigade
 one G-5 battery - 4 SAI
 one G-5 battery - 61 Mechanised Battalion
 one G-2 battery - Transvaal State Artillery
 one G-2 battery - 51 Battalion
 one MRL battery - 32 Battalion
 one MRL battery - 4 Artillery Regiment
 one 120 mm mortar battery - 4 Artillery Regiment
 one 120 mm mortar battery - 18 Light Artillery Regiment Parachute Brigade
 two meteorological sections
 Reserves
 HQ elements from 71 Motorised Brigade
 HQ elements from 8th Armoured Division (South Africa)
 HQ elements from 44 Parachute Brigade
 one G-5 battery - based in SE Angola
 one G-2 battery - 71 Motorised Brigade
 8 Maintenance Unit
 30 Corps Maintenance Unit
 two 32mm anti aircraft batteries
 one provost platoon

10 SA Division (Operation Prone) - Brigadier Chris SerfonteinTask Force X-ray - Colonel Leon Marais
 53 Battalion
 54 Battalion
 4 SAI Battalion
 one combat wing - 101 Battalion
 17 Field Regiment HQ
 one G5 battery - 4 SAI
 one G2 battery - 17 Field Regiment
 one MRL battery - 17 Field Regiment
 one AA battery - Regiment VaalriverTask Force Zulu - Colonel Mucho Delport
 51 Battalion
 52 Battalion
 102 Battalion
 32 Battalion
 61 Mechanised Battalion incl. one tank squadron
 one combat wing - 101 Battalion
 14 Artillery Regiment HQ
 one G2 battery - Transvaal State Artillery Regiment
 one 35mm AA troop - Regiment Orange Free State
 two 20mm AA troops - Regiment Eastern TransvaalTask Force Yankee - Colonel Jan Lusse
 HQ 81 Armour Brigade
 HQ 10 Artillery Brigade
 one tank regiment (less one tank squadron) - 81 Armour Brigade
 one mechanized infantry company - 81 Armour Brigade
 one armoured car squadron - Light Horse Regiment|2 Light Horse Regiment
 two armoured car squadrons - 1 & 2 Special Service Battalion
 one 120mm mortar battery - 4 Artillery RegimentTask Force Whiskey all counter-insurgency units from Tsumeb/Grootfontein/Otavi10 Artillery Regiment - Colonel Jean Lausberg

Cuban forces50th Division''' - Brigadier General Patricio de la Guardia Font
 three special forces battalions - Cuban SPETSNAZ
 three tank battalions - Cuban tank regiment (105-110 tanks)
 one artillery regiment - Cuban regiment
 six infantry regiments - Cuban and Angolan soldiers (1500-2000 men each plus tanks)
 three raiding battalions - Cuban and SWAPO soldiers (200 Cuban + 250 SWAPO each)
 Missile air defence batteries, air force helicopters and aircraft

Initial clashes
With the Cuban movements southwards and continuing SADF/South West African Territorial Force operations against SWAPO in the same area, both forces would soon come into contact with each other.  On 18 April 1988, a SWATF unit, 101 Battalion, chasing a SWAPO unit was ambushed by Cuban elements from Xangongo near Chipeque. The battle ended with the South Africans losing two men and eleven wounded. Thereafter the Cubans continued patrolling southwards from Xangongo towards the SADF garrison at Calueque.

On 2 May 1988, SAAF Mirages attacked FAPLA positions south of Techipa. The Cubans, fearing a South African advance, retaliated and planned another ambush.

During the first round tripartite talks in London on the 3 May 1988, behind the scene talks between the military contingents of Cuba and South Africa was tense. The Cubans threatened to invade SWA/Namibia if the South Africans did not agree to the Cuban proposals while the South African indicated if they tried, it would be Cuba's darkest day. The talks ended the following day.

The Cuban ambush site was in position by 4 May 1988 less than 2 km south of Donguena. A SADF unit, the 101 Battalion, with twenty Casspirs and two trucks had been sent forward to occupy Donguena. They ran into the ambush with Cubans destroying or damaging four Casspirs. The South Africans withdrew at dusk having lost seven men and one captured, Sergeant Johan Papenfus and failed to retrieve the fourth Casspir and its equipment. The Cubans were said to have lost forty-five soldiers. Later that evening, a further three companies from 201 and 101 Battalions were sent forward to capture Donguena, but with Cuban tank positions south of the town, withdrew. The Cuban later withdrew the same evening.

On 12 May 1988, the 32 Battalion commander was called to a meeting in Oshakati to discuss a plan for the unit to attack SWAPO units at