# Indiana National Guard

The Indiana National Guard (INNG) is a component of the United States Armed Forces, the United States National Guard and the Military Department of Indiana (MDI). It consists of the Indiana Army National Guard, the Indiana Air National Guard, and the Adjutant General's Office.

Indiana National Guard units are trained and equipped as part of the United States Army and Air Force. The same ranks and insignia are used, and National Guardsmen are eligible to receive all United States military awards. The INNG also awards a number of state awards for local services rendered in or to the state of Indiana.

The Indiana National Guard consists of 14,000 soldiers and airmen, and maintains Army National Guard armories across the state, training facilities at Camp Atterbury-Muscatatuck, and Air National Guard wings at Fort Wayne and Terre Haute. During peacetime, the National Guard is commanded by the governor. In its state role, the National Guard assists local law enforcement agencies during emergencies at the direction of the governor. The distribution of soldiers, equipment and facilities across the state allows the National Guard to respond quickly and efficiently to emergencies statewide.

During times of national emergency, National Guard members may be called into active federal service by the president of the United States. The National Guard's dual federal-state mission is unique to the U.S. military and sets the National Guard apart from any other reserve component.

The Indiana National Guard is supported by the state's military defense force, the Indiana Guard Reserve, a supplemental military force authorized by both the State Code of Indiana and Executive Order. The IGR assumes the state mission of the Indiana National Guard in the event the Guard is federally mobilized.

Indiana Army National Guard

38th Infantry Division ("Cyclone")

 Headquarters and Headquarters Company
 38th Infantry Division Band

38th Sustainment Brigade ("Avengers")
 Headquarters and Headquarters Company
 38th Special Troops Battalion
 190th Motor Transportation Battalion
 519th Combat Sustainment Support Battalion

38th Combat Aviation Brigade ("Falcons")
 Headquarters and Headquarters Company
 2nd Battalion, 238th General Support Aviation Battalion
 1st Battalion, 137th Aviation Regiment
 DET 1, Company C, 1st Battalion, 136th Aviation Regiment
 638th Aviation Support Battalion

76th Infantry Brigade Combat Team ("Nighthawk Brigade")
 1st Battalion, 151st Infantry Regiment
 2nd Battalion, 151st Infantry Regiment
 2nd Battalion, 152nd Infantry Regiment
 1st Battalion, 293rd Infantry Regiment
 1st Squadron, 152nd Cavalry Regiment
 1st Battalion, 163rd Field Artillery Regiment
 113th Brigade Support Battalion
 776th Brigade Engineer Battalion

54th Security Force Assistance Brigade ("To the Very End")

219th Engineer Brigade ("Steel Soldiers - Anytime, Anywhere")

 Headquarters and Headquarters Company
 113th Engineer Battalion
 2nd Battalion, 150th Field Artillery Regiment
 738th Signal Company

81st Troop Command ("War Eagles")
 A Company, 2-20 Special Forces
 19th CBRNE Enhanced Response Force Package Battalion
 81st Military Police Battalion
 127th Cyber Protection Battalion
 53rd Civil Support Team
 120th Public Affairs Detachment
 135th Chaplain Detachment
 138th Military History Detachment
 1938th Acquisition Team
 1976th Acquisition Team

138th Regiment - Combat Arms ("Seek and Destroy")
 Headquarters, 138th Regiment (Combat Arms) Indiana Regional Training Institute

Indiana Air National Guard

Indiana Air National Guard Headquarters
 Headquarters and Headquarters Company

122nd Fighter Wing ("Blacksnakes")

 122nd Operations Group
 163rd Fighter Squadron
 122nd Maintenance Group
 122nd Mission Support Group
 122nd Medical Group

181st Intelligence Wing ("Racers")

 181st Mission Support Group
 181st Intelligence Group
 181st Medical Group
 113th Air Support Operations Squadron

History

Revolutionary War
The Indiana National Guard's roots began in pre-Independence North America. Around the time of the Beaver Wars, French colonists established trading posts and villages, forming militias for their defense.  When the American Revolutionary War began, many militias in modern-day Indiana, Illinois and Kentucky declared for the United States against the British. To express his support, militia Captain François Riday Busseron commissioned the first American flag of Indiana in 1778.  Militias in southern-Indiana, aided by George Rogers Clark and Piankeshaw natives, captured Fort Sackville in February 1779, an important British fort in the Ohio River Valley.

Indiana Territory
After the American victory in the Revolutionary War, on 25 July 1788 Governor Arthur St. Clair, the first governor of the newly purchased Northwest Territory, published a law organizing the territory's militias into an official armed force of the United States. The Northwest Territory proved difficult to subdue, however, as the local Miami and Shawnee tribes resisted the United States. This resistance escalated to begin the Northwest Indian War, as many American generals, still fresh from their victory over the British, took it upon themselves to defeat any resistance to the rapidly expanding United States. The War began horribly for the United States, and in quick succession the United States suffered two horrendous defeats in the 1790 Harmar campaign and the 1791 St. Clair's defeat - still to this day the most decisive defeat in the history of the American military.

After the failures of Harmar and St. Clair, General Anthony Wayne reorganized and expanded the Continental Army, calling his force the Legion of the United States. Wayne marched his army into the Northwest Territory, where he broke America's string of bad luck with his decisive victory at the 1794 Battle of Fallen Timbers. After his victory, he marched into Indiana and founded Fort Wayne, Indiana.

The Northwest Territory was broken up upon Ohio's admittance into the Union, and was renamed the Indiana Territory in 1800. The Indiana National Guard traces its unbroken history to 1801, when Indiana's first governor, William Henry Harrison, formed the Indiana Legion to defend settlers against the aggressive actions of the Native American tribes in the territory. Years later, in 1807, Harrison founded the Indiana Rangers, modeling them after General Wayne's mounted troops used at the Battle of Fallen Timbers.  The Indiana Legion was charged with the defense of all settlements in the Territory, while the Rangers were tasked with safeguarding the Buffalo Trace, the main transportation route between Louisville, Kentucky and Vincennes.

This era in Indiana history was particularly hazardous, as the Shawnee leader Tecumseh sought to unify the tribes of the Indiana Territory and drive the Americans out. Tensions climaxed when Harrison led the Indiana Legion, 1000 strong, to attack Tecumseh's capital of Prophetstown. Outside of Prophetstown, the Legion was ambushed early in the morning of November 7, 1811. The Legion and Rangers held their ground for two hours, defeating the ambush and burning Prophetstown to the ground. Over the next two years, simultaneously with the War of 1812, Harrison and the Indiana Legion continued to battle against Tecumeh's confederacy, chasing him into Canada and taking part in Tecumseh's final defeat at the 1813 Battle of the Thames. The Legion continued to fight the British in Canada until the cessation of the war in 1815.

Tragically, between the movement of Indiana's capital from Vincennes to Corydon, Indiana, and then again to Indianapolis, most documents regarding the Indiana Legion have been lost. In one unfortunate incident, a janitor sold a wagon load of official Legion papers as "waste paper."

Mexican-American War
Indiana units were first officially called to federal service in 1846, taking part in the Mexican–American War. General Joseph Lane's Indiana Brigade played a critical role on American army's left