# Boyd Hoyland

Boyd Hoyland is a fictional character from the Australian soap opera Neighbours, played by Kyal Marsh. He made his first on-screen appearance on 5 June 2002. In 2007, Marsh quit the serial and his character departed on 3 August 2007 along with Stephanie McIntosh's character Sky.

Casting
Marsh joined the cast of Neighbours as Boyd when he was fourteen. On 28 January 2007, Fiona Byrne of the Herald Sun reported Marsh would be leaving Neighbours. Producers did not renew Marsh's contract. The actor confirmed the news in March 2007 and he revealed that he would be shooting his final scenes a few weeks later. He added that Boyd was to leave "on good terms and with a woman he is meant to be with". Marsh told Will Martin from LastBroadcast that he was both sad and excited to leave Neighbours, explaining "I am going to miss everyone and the lifestyle I had working on Neighbours, but the excitement of starting a new life and adventure overrides the sad things."

Development
The serial's official website describe Boyd, stating: "Clearly, for a man working his way through medical school at a rapid pace, Boyd is extremely intelligent. When he first arrived in Ramsay Street he was something of a child genius and was placed in an accelerated learning programme at Erinsborough High. He compensated for being younger than his classmates by cultivating an attitude, determined not to be seen as a nerd." They also state that his stubbornness has led to several confrontations with his "equally obstinate dad". Boyd also has a big sense of responsibility, which led to a doomed relationship with Kayla Thomas (Virginia Ryan). Boyd and his family have been portrayed as generally close and loving.

In 2005, Boyd was diagnosed with adolescent schizophrenia. Following some erratic behaviour, Boyd becomes "terrified" that he has the condition. His diagnosis comes about after he mentions to his sister, Summer (Marisa Siketa), that he has arranged to meet their mother. Marsh told Inside Soap's Jason Herbison that Summer "freaks out" because their mother has been dead for years and when she tries to tell Boyd this, he does not listen. Summer becomes concerned and she follows Boyd into the bush, where he believes their mother is waiting. She begs him to stop and insists their mother is dead. Boyd becomes confused and when he realises she is right, it is upsetting for him. Marsh said "it's like he has to deal with her death all over again." Summer gets her brother to the hospital, where he is diagnosed as being in the early stages of adolescent schizophrenia. Of how his character is feeling, Marsh explained "Boyd freaks out, because this is what he has been afraid of all along." Boyd's stepmother Stephanie Scully (Carla Bonner) is then forced to have him committed to a psychiatric ward. Marsh revealed that he relished the challenging storyline and he did a lot of research beforehand. He used the internet and spoke to a relative who has the condition. The actor added "All those things gave me an idea for what it would be like, and I'm enjoying the storyline." Marsh later commented that the storyline had been one of his favourites.

Boyd marries Janae Timmins (Eliza Taylor-Cotter), but he later has an affair with fellow character Glenn Forrest (Cleopatra Coleman), which ruins his relationship with Janae. Behind the scenes Marsh was furious over the storyline and criticised the producers and branded it as "stupid", also stating: "I absolutely hated my character at the end. I couldn't believe what they made me do, I thought it was a stupid storyline and I copped a lot of flack over it. I was really upset." He also felt that after the storyline it was the right time for Boyd to leave.

Storylines
Boyd is the eldest child of Claire and Max Hoyland (Stephen Lovatt) and brother to Summer (Marissa Siketa). Claire died from an undiagnosed heart condition and Max left the children with their grandmother Rosie (Maggie Millar), while he worked on oil rigs in East Timor.

Boyd transfers to Erinsborough High from Eden Hills Grammar and is placed into Year 10 as part of the accelerated learning programme, despite him being a year younger. Boyd struggles socially and Libby Kennedy (Kym Valentine) gives him some extra tuition. Boyd develops a crush on Libby. Boyd befriends Saxon Garvey (Troy Lovett), whose mother had recently died. Saxon later decides to go live with his father in Sydney. Max arrives in Erinsborough and Max encourages him to take part in the local cricket team. Max becomes friends with the team captain, Adam Stevens (Nicholas Colla) and Boyd wants his father to be impressed with him too.

Boyd spends a few weeks at a camp for gifted children and he returns with a girlfriend, Heather Green (Megan Harrington). Heather brings trouble for Boyd and he is grounded after sneaking out to see her. Boyd brags to friends at school about Heather. He shares his first kiss with her, but she finds out about his bragging and dumps him. Boyd tries to win Heather back by stealing a street sign. Max catches him and Boyd gets a friend to make him one instead. Heather likes the gesture and Boyd convinces her to go to Susan (Jackie Woodburne) and Karl Kennedy's (Alan Fletcher) wedding.

Boyd's friend, Daniel Clohesy (Thomas Blackburne) tells Boyd that his father has been hitting him. Max agrees to let Daniel stay with them. Daniel and Boyd get into mischief by looking in the bathroom window of Number 26, to see the Scully sisters. Max and Joe Scully (Shane Connor) catch them and they are forced to apologise. Daniel later returns home. Boyd and Heather help Summer when she is bullied on her paper round by Jacinta Martin (Eliza Taylor-Cotter). Boyd is surprised when Rosie announces she is leaving Erinsborough to go to Papua New Guinea. Heather asks Boyd to go to her prom and he is hesitant because he cannot dance.

When Max begins a relationship with Stephanie Scully (Carla Bonner), Boyd expresses his disgust and acts up. Only after Summer threatens to never forgive him, Boyd accepts Max and Steph's relationship. Boyd's behaviour begins to take a downhill slide when he becomes rude to Max and Steph and steals $100 from Max's wallet to by an expensive pair of runners. When Steph finds out, Boyd's animosity grows. His behavior spoils Heather's birthday dinner at Lassiter's when he acts childishly and Heather dumps Boyd. Boyd later opens up to Max about his fears of Steph trying to replace his late mother.

Harold Bishop's (Ian Smith) granddaughter, Sky Mangel (Stephanie McIntosh) arrives in Ramsay Street and Harold encourages her to spend time with Boyd. They become good friends, but Boyd avoids Sky at school because her alternative look makes her unpopular. After Sky confronts him, Boyd kisses her in public and they become a couple. When Sky goes through the emotional trauma of confronting her mother's killer, Boyd offers his support, but he is unable to get through to her. Boyd is relieved when Sky goes back to being her old self.

Max's friend, Gus Cleary (Ben Barrack) comes to stay and he becomes involved with Boyd's aunt, Izzy Hoyland (Natalie Bassingthwaighte). Gus has mental health issues and begins trying to worm his way into the family, which annoys Boyd. Gus and Boyd fight and Gus leaves. He returns several weeks later and begins harassing the family, he is arrested and sectioned. Max marries Steph and Boyd acts as best man.

Boyd takes a job putting up posters and has Stingray Timmins (Ben Nicholas) help him. Unfortunately, they are warned off by older guy, Travis Dean (Adrian Foley). Boyd takes no notice and after he finds out Lana is a lesbian and attracted to Sky, he goes out of his way to prove his masculinity by taking Travis on but ultimately loses. Boyd passes his injuries off as a skateboarding accident, and continues with putting up the posters. Stingray tries to talk Boyd out of it, as Boyd has taken to carrying around a metal bar for protection. During this, Sky blames Boyd for Homophobi