# Hamilton Police Service

The Hamilton Police Service (HPS) is the police service of the city of Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. As of 2021, the service employed 829 sworn officers and 414 non-sworn staff, serving a population of about 570 000 residents. The service's headquarters are located at 155 King William St., Hamilton, Ontario. As of 2022, the service's budget is $183 542 539, roughly 18.5% of the City's overall budget. It is one of the oldest police forces in Ontario.

History

The Town of Hamilton was incorporated by Upper Canadian Parliament on February 13, 1833. On March 11 of that year, High Bailiff John Ryckman was appointed as Hamilton's first police officer.

In 1848, neighbouring Dundas raised its own municipal police force, followed two years later by Ancaster. The Township of Saltfleet and Town of Stoney Creek followed suit in 1940 and 1949, respectively.

On January 1, 1974, Wentworth County was reorganized to form the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Municipality, and these police forces, along with the Ontario Provincial Police detachments covering the remainder of the county, were amalgamated to form the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police Force.

In 1986, the Hamilton Harbour Police, an unarmed special constabulary maintained by the Hamilton Harbour Commission, was folded into the Hamilton Wentworth Regional Police Force.

In 1999, Lincoln Alexander, Ontario's lieutenant governor from 1985 to 1991 and Canada's first Black Member of Parliament, was named honorary chief of police of the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police Force. When Alexander passed in 2012, his casket was carried by members of the Hamilton Police Honour Guard.

On January 1, 2001, the communities of Ancaster, Dundas, Flamborough, Glanbrook, Stoney Creek and Hamilton were amalgamated to form the new single-tier City of Hamilton. At the same time, the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police Force was renamed and reorganized to become the Hamilton Police Service.

Coat of arms, flag and logo

Hamilton Police Service coat of arms
The Hamilton Police Service coat of arms and colours, standards and guidons were granted by the Canadian Heraldic Authority (created by Her Majesty the Queen Elizabeth II on the recommendation of His Excellency the Governor General of Canada) November 15, 2007.  The coat of arms is a version of the national coat of arms for municipal police services. It may be granted to any municipal police service which is part of a municipal corporation that possesses a coat of arms by lawful grant from the Crown. All such badges share a frame of gold maple leaves rising up from a representation of the provincial flower from the province in which the service is sited, all ensigned by the Royal Crown - St. Edward’s Crown.

"On a hurt a maple leaf gules fimbriated or, all within a wreath of maple leaves or issuant from a trillium flower proper between two cinquefoils gules, the whole ensigned by the Royal Crown proper and in base a ribbon sable edged or inscribed Hamilton Police Service in letters argent;"

Symbolism

There are many symbolic meanings to various parts of the Hamilton Police Service coat of arms. The exterior frame of maple leaves, the trillium, and St. Edward’s Crown follow the traditional style of police coats of arms for a municipal police service in Canada.  The police service has the responsibility of upholding the peace and the administration of justice under the Canadian Crown.  The Royal Crown, at the top of the coat of arms, symbolizes the administration of Crown’s justice, while the laurel of maple leaves and trillium refer to Canada and Ontario respectively.  The blue field represents the harbour of the City of Hamilton and the gold edges represent the city’s industry and wealth. The red maple leaf represents Canada.  The two cinquefoils allude to the arms of the City of Hamilton in which such a cinquefoil also appears. The cinquefoil is taken from the arms of the Chief of Clan Hamilton, and it thus refers to the city's namesake.  The coat of arms is included in the Public Register of Arms, Flags and Badges of Canada.

Flag

"Per bend sinister azure and gules a bend sinister or overall the badge;"
The symbolism of this emblem is found in other elements of this record

Consecration and trooping of the colours
It was on May 12, 2008, that a special event was planned to unveil the Hamilton Police Service Grant of Arms and the consecration and trooping the colour, the service’s first police colour. The grant of arms, more commonly known as a coat of arms incorporates symbolism reflecting the years of history and heritage of the Hamilton Police Service. A ‘colour’ is the ceremonial flag, with a specific registered design, awarded to the Hamilton Police Service by Queen Elizabeth II, Queen of Canada.  In Canada this is done through the Governor General of Canada and the Canadian Heraldic Authority. The design incorporates very specific symbolic features.  To consecrate a flag is to ceremonially dedicate it to the service of the men and women, officers and civilians, of the Hamilton Police Service. The consecration making the flag a visible symbol of the years which have passed since the Service was created, and emblematic of the years to come. It is meant to serve as an inspiration for the future, and is a silent challenge to the future members to meet and exceed the achievements of those who have come before them. In a ceremony steeped in protocol and pageantry, the colour was consecrated by a drumhead service.

Logo
The logo, similar to the heraldic crest, was developed by a police committee when the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police became the Hamilton Police Service.  It is the logo that appears on marked patrol vehicles, signage, letterhead, etc.
 St. Edward's Crown
 ribbon containing the words Hamilton
 banner below with the words police
 within the ribbon:
 maple leaf: while representing Canada, the leaf has six facets, representing the six municipalities that formed the Hamilton-Wentworth Region (1974) and then later the amalgamated City of Hamilton (2001). Those municipalities in addition to Hamilton are Ancaster, Dundas, Flamborough, Glanbrook and Stoney Creek.
 wreath of golden maple leaves
 waves - representing the connection of the city to Lake Ontario and Hamilton Harbour

The blue oval at the top of the red maple leaf represents the Hamilton Harbour, the six veins of the red maple leaf represent the six former municipalities, the veins of the leaf extending into the blue oval illustrate inclusiveness of the community, the gold trim around the maple leaf represents the wealth of industry, natural resources, business and community partnerships, the two blue waves at the bottom of the leaf represent the vision to be the best and most progressive police service.

Organization

Police services board
Like all municipalities in Ontario, the City of Hamilton maintains a police services board, responsible for overseeing policing services in the City. The board approves the police budget, hires the chief and deputy chiefs of police directly, and is the legal employer of every Hamilton Police employee. Although the board sets overall service policy and direction, it has no operational control over the service or its officers, and day-to-day policing decisions are the exclusive jurisdiction of the police chief.

The board is composed of seven members: the mayor (or their designate); two city councillors; one member of the public appointed by city council; and three members of the public appointed by the province. As of 2022, it consists of:

Special constabularies
In addition to maintaining the Hamilton Police Service, the Board is responsible for approving and overseeing special constabularies that operate in the City. Currently, there is only one special constabulary operating in the City of Hamilton that falls under the jurisdiction of the Board, the McMaster University Campus Security Service.

Historically, the Board was responsible for two other special constabular