[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #40780]

operated at the county level. The traditional county courts had lost much jurisdiction to the royal courts and were now limited to personal actions in causes involving usually no more than 40s. The great majority of cases had to do with 1) writ of right for recovery of land, 2) the possessory assizes for the protection of possession, 3) debt for recovery of money owed, such as rent 4) detinue for detention of a chattel, such as beasts and 5) convenant for breach of a contract, later to be limited to contracts under seal. There were also pleas of trespass and claims of fugitive villeins and their goods, nuisances, and encroachments. The action of trespass had broken free of the criminal law, which had been divided into the two categories of felony and trespass. But then the field of tort began to separate itself from that of crime and the more serious trespasses remained criminal while the less serious attached themselves to the civil sphere. The sheriff still constitutes and conducts the court, assisted by elected coroners. The earl of the county had little to do with its court except to take one-third of its profits of justice.The county court met every three or four weeks, usually in the sheriff's castle located in the chief borough of the county, but some met in the open air. It is attended by suitors, certain freeholders of the county who are bound to attend it, that is, to do suit to it. They are the judges of the court. The hundred court decided cases of theft, viewing of boundaries of land, claims for tenurial services, claims for homage, relief, and for wardship; enfeoffments made, battery and brawls not amounting to felony, wounding and maiming of beasts, collection of debts, trespass, detinue, and covenant, which now requires a sealed writing; defamation, and inquiries and presentments arising from the assizes of bread and ale and measures. The action of debt was used for five main purposes: 1) money lent, 2) the price of goods sold, 3) arrears of rent due upon a lease for years, 4) money due from a surety, and 5) a debt confessed by a sealed document. A paid bailiff had responsibility for the hundred court, which met every three weeks. Freeholders of these hundreds owe suit to it; these suitors are the judges. Twice a year the sheriff visited each hundred in the county to hold a turn, a court for small offenses, such as encroachment of public land, brewing and baking contrary to government regulations, and use of dishonest weights and measures. Everyone who held freehold land in the hundred except the greater magnates had to attend or be fined for absence. The sheriff annually viewed frankpledge, in which every layman without land that could be forfeited for felony, including villeins, were checked for being in a tithing, a group of neighbors responsible for each other's good conduct. This applied to every boy who had reached the age of twelve. He had to swear on the Bible "I will be a lawful man and bear loyalty to our lord the King and his heirs, and I will be justiciable to my chief tithing man, so help me God and the saints." Each tithing man paid a penny to the sheriff. The sheriff was the judge in his turn. Coordinate with the sheriff's turn was a leet court, which had private jurisdiction over the same small offences. If a county or a hundred court gave a false judgment, it had to pay a fine. Manorial courts were those in which a lord had for his tenants. It was presided over by the lord, or his steward, who decided the outcomes of cases, with or without the villeins attending it, based on the customs of the manor. It had a civil jurisdiction, and dealt typically with land issues and minor offenses, such as, actions when the amount at stake is less than 40 s., of debt, detinue, trespass and covenant. 40s. was the equivalent of around 13 oxen or 80 sheep. Usually, the lord's court had a single manor with a single vill. The cities and boroughs, having a degree of organization and independence, had municipal courts whose jurisdiction was determined by privileges.given by charter from the king or by prescription of ancient origin. Court was held by the sheriff, and after a time by its mayor, at the borough's weekly meeting of its burgesses. The burgesses would take the profits of the court and the tolls and house-rents that had been paid to the sheriff. Still in existence is the old self-help law of hamsocne, the thief hand-habbende, the thief back-berend, the old summary procedure where the thief is caught in the act, AEthelstan's laws, and Edward the Confessor's laws. Under the name of "actio furti" [appeal of larceny] is the old process by which a thief can be pursued and goods vindicated. As before and for centuries later, deodands were forfeited to the king to appease God's wrath. These chattel which caused the death of a person were usually oxen, carts, cart teams, horses, boats, cauldrons, or millwheels. Then they were forfeited to the community, which paid the king their worth. Sometimes the justices named the charitable purpose for which the deodand was to be spent, such as the price of a boat to go to the repair of a bridge. Five cases from a county court are: 1) "John Croc was drowned from his horse and cart in the water of Bickney. Judgment: misadventure. The price of the horse and cart is 4s.6d. deodand." 2) "Willam Ruffus was crushed to death by a certain trunk. The price of the trunk is 4d., for which the sheriff is to answer. 4d. deodand." 3) "William le Hauck killed Edric le Poter and fled, so he is -to be exacted and outlawed. He was in the tithing of Reynold Horloc in Clandon of the abbot of Chertsey (West Clandon), so it is in mercy. His chattels were 4 s., for which the bailiff of the abbot of Chertsey is to answer." 4) "Richard de Bregsells, accused of larceny, comes and denies the whole and puts himself on the country for good or ill. The twelve jurors and four vills say that he is not guilty, -so he is quit." 5) William le Wimpler and William Vintner sold wine contrary to the statute, so they are in mercy. Other cases dealt with issues of entry, e.g. whether land was conveyed or just rented; issues of whether a man was free, for which his lineage was examined; issues of to which lord a villein belonged; issues of nuisance such as making or destroying a bank, ditch, or hedge; diverting a watercourse or damming it to make a pool; obstructing a road, and issues of what grazing rights were conveyed in pasture land, waste, woods, or arable fields between harvest and sowing. Grazing right disputes usually arose from the ambiguous language in the grant of land "with appurtenances". Courts awarded specific relief as well as money damages. If a landlord broke his covenant to lease land for a term of years, the court restored possession to the lessee. If a lord did not perform the services due to his superior lord, the court ordered him to perform the services. The courts also ordered repair by a lessee. Debts of country knights and freeholders were heard in the local courts; debts of merchants and burgesses were heard in the courts of the fairs and boroughs; debts due under wills and testaments were heard in the ecclesiastical courts. The ecclesiastical courts deemed marriage to legitimize bastard children whose parents married, so they inherited personal property and money of their parents. Proof was by compurgation. Church law required excommunication to be in writing with the reasons therefore, and a copy given to the excommunicant. A church judge was required to employ a notary or two men to write down all acts of the judge and to give a copy to the parties to protect against unjust judges. No cleric was allowed to pronounce or execute a sentence of death or to take part in judicial tests or ordeals. Anyone knowingly accepting a stolen article was required to restore it to its owner. Heretics were to be excommunicated. Trial by combat is still available, although it is extremely rare for it to take place. In the appeal of felony, when offered combat, a defendant could choose between combat and recourse to a verdict of his neighbors. The manor court imposed penalties on those who did not perform their services to the manor and the lord wrote down the customs of the manor for future use in other courts. By statute, no fines could be taken of any man for fair pleading in the Circuit of Justiciars, county, hundred, or manor courts. Various statutes relaxed the requirements for attendance at court of those who were not involved in a case