# 1992 NASCAR Winston Cup Series

The 1992 NASCAR Winston Cup Series was the 44th season of professional stock car racing in the United States and the 21st modern-era Cup season. The season began on February 9, 1992, and ended on November 15, 1992. Independent owner/driver Alan Kulwicki of AK Racing won the Winston Cup championship.

The Generation 4 car was introduced this season, when body panels were removed, teams spent hours in a wind tunnel to gain aerodynamics, the led shot was replaced by the led ingot, the fuel mileage was cut for the drivers to lead more laps, and the bumpers, nose, and tail were composed to mullet fiber glass.

The 1992 season was considered one of the most dramatic and emotional years in NASCAR. The seven-time champion, and "King of stock car racing," Richard Petty retired from the sport at the season's end, concluding a year-long "Fan Appreciation Tour." Petty appeared across the country for autographs and diecasts were made of his No. 43 car for all 29 of the races he appeared in. The season also saw the quiet debut of a future champion Jeff Gordon, who was planning to move up after two seasons in the Busch Series. Gordon debuted his now-iconic No. 24 DuPont "Rainbow Warrior" Chevrolet at the final race of the year.

The season-long championship battle narrowed down to six drivers, the most ever going into the final race of the season. Davey Allison won the season-opening Daytona 500, and despite a roller-coaster season, remained first, or near the top of the standings all season. Bill Elliott and Alan Kulwicki experienced more consistent results, placing them comfortably near the top. Harry Gant, Mark Martin and Kyle Petty were also factors during the season. Two-time defending champion Dale Earnhardt, however, suffered a dismal season, winning only one race, dropping out several times, and finished outside the top ten at season's end, for just the second time in his Cup career.

The season's climax occurred at the final race of the season, the Hooters 500 at Atlanta. Six drivers entered the race with a mathematical chance at winning the Winston Cup championship. Davey Allison led the charge, but ultimately fell short when he was involved in an accident. The race and the championship came down to a two-man battle between Bill Elliott and Alan Kulwicki. Elliott won the race, while Kulwicki finished second. Kulwicki led 103 laps during the race (compared to 102 by Elliott), clinched the 5 bonus points for leading the most laps, and won the Winston Cup title.

Tragically, only months later, both Alan Kulwicki and Davey Allison would be killed in separate aviation crashes.

The 1992 season was also the final year of Oldsmobile as a manufacturer in the series. The 1992 season was also the first Manufacturers' championship for Ford since 1969. Ford swept the top three in points snapping GM's streak of 16 straight manufacturers' championships (between Chevrolet and Buick).

Teams and drivers

Complete schedule

Limited schedule

Schedule

Races

Busch Clash 

The Busch Clash, an exhibition event for all 1991 Busch Pole winners, and one "wild card" (from the fastest second round qualifiers from 1991) consisted of a 15-car field. The event was held Saturday, February 9 at Daytona International Speedway, a slight change from previous seasons, which usually saw the race held on Sunday. The move was made at the request of CBS, who wanted the additional time on Sunday for their coverage of the 1992 Winter Olympics.

Brett Bodine drew the pole.

The race consisted of two 10-lap "sprint" segments, separated by a competition yellow, during which the field would be inverted.
Sterling Marlin won the first 10-lap segment, and Geoff Bodine won the second 10-lap segment, to claim the overall victory.
Except for the 2-lap competition yellow, the race otherwise was completed caution-free.

Gatorade 125s 
Sterling Marlin won the pole for the Daytona 500 during time trials on Sunday, February 9. His Junior Johnson teammate Bill Elliott qualified second to take the "outside pole."

The Gatorade 125-mile qualifying races for the Daytona 500 were held Thursday, February 13 at Daytona International Speedway. Sterling Marlin and Bill Elliott started first in each of the races, respectively.

During the second race, a crash on lap 4 took out several cars, including Alan Kulwicki, Terry Labonte and A. J. Foyt. Richard Petty also wrecked out on lap 8. All four would qualify for the Daytona 500 based on speed or by provisional.

34th Daytona 500 by STP 
The Daytona 500 by STP was held on February 16 at Daytona International Speedway. Sterling Marlin won the pole.

Junior Johnson's stablemates, Bill Elliott and Sterling Marlin, controlled the front row, qualifying 1st–2nd, and leading 58 of the first 91 laps.
On lap 92, Elliott, Marlin, and Ernie Irvan went three wide coming out of turn two. Marlin, sandwiched in the middle, bounced off both his teammate and Irvan, and all three lost control in front of the entire field, triggering the "Big One". In all, 14 cars were eliminated from the event. Richard Petty, in his final Daytona 500, was among the cars spinning to the infield grass, but he was not heavily damaged, and was able to continue.
Davey Allison and Morgan Shepherd were among the few cars who slipped by unscathed. Allison led 95 of the final 100 laps to claim his first Daytona 500 victory, following in the footsteps of his father Bobby. Shepherd was a surprise second, while Geoff Bodine was third. Michael Waltrip also notably slipped by unscathed, but engine trouble late in the race took him out of contention. 
Alan Kulwicki started 41st after a crash in the Twin 125s qualifying race. He was running in the top ten when the "Big One" occurred. He spun out into the grass, but did not suffer any significant damage. He returned to the track and ran as high as second. In the closing laps, he was running third, just ahead of Geoff Bodine. On the final lap, while Allison and Shepherd were battling for the lead, Bodine got by Kulwicki down the backstretch and into turn three. Bodine snatched third, and Kulwicki came home fourth.
This would be the final Daytona 500 start for both Richard Petty and A. J. Foyt.
Three weeks removed from leading Washington to victory in Super Bowl XXVI; Joe Gibbs made his debut as a car owner, with his car finishing 36th after being collected in the aforementioned "Big One" on lap 92.

GM Goodwrench 500 
The GM Goodwrench 500 was held March 1 at Rockingham. The #42 of Kyle Petty won the pole.

Top ten results

 11-Bill Elliott
 28-Davey Allison
 33-Harry Gant
 30-Michael Waltrip, 1 lap down
 25-Ken Schrader, 1 lap down
 6-Mark Martin, 2 laps down
 94-Terry Labonte, 2 laps down
 26-Brett Bodine, 2 laps down
 12-Hut Stricklin, 2 laps down
 17-Darrell Waltrip, 2 laps down

Bill Elliott recovered from his crash at Daytona to lead the final 213 laps, and win in only his second start at Junior Johnson Motorsports.
Bill's margin of victory was a whopping 12.75 seconds, nearly half a lap.
Davey Allison followed up his Daytona victory finishing second, and extended his points lead.
Bill Elliott and Davey Allison led a combined 450 of 492 laps. Allison left the weekend 56 points ahead of Morgan Shepherd, who led 1 lap and finished 3 laps down in 13th.
Polesitter Kyle Petty, the two-time defending race and pole position winner, was unable to make it three in a row. The Unocal 76 Challenge bonus money had now rolled over 25 races, and would be $197,600 for the next race.

Pontiac Excitement 400 
The Pontiac Excitement 400 was held March 8 at Richmond International Raceway. Bill Elliott won the pole.

 Bill Elliott won his second consecutive race. Elliott was pushed to the limit by Alan Kulwicki, who made a late charge and nearly pulled off a last-lap pass. The two raced clean on the final lap, and Elliott nipped Kulwicki at the finish line by 18 inches. It was just Elliott's second career win on a short track.
Points leader Davey Allison finished 4th. 
This was Bill E