# Papillary thyroid cancer

Papillary thyroid cancer (papillary thyroid carcinoma, 
PTC) is the most common type of thyroid cancer, representing 75 percent to 85 percent of all thyroid cancer cases. It occurs more frequently in women and presents in the 20–55 year age group. It is also the predominant cancer type in children with thyroid cancer, and in patients with thyroid cancer who have had previous radiation to the head and neck. It is often well-differentiated, slow-growing, and localized, although it can metastasize.

Diagnosis
Papillary thyroid carcinoma is usually discovered on routine examination as an asymptomatic thyroid nodule that appears as a neck mass. In some instances, the mass may have produced local symptoms. This mass is normally referred to a fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNA) for investigation. FNA accuracy is very high and it is a process widely used in these cases. Other investigation methods include ultrasound imaging and nuclear scan. The ultrasound is a useful test to distinguish solid from cystic lesions and to identify calcifications. The thyroid ultrasound is also very effective to discover microcarcinomas, which refer to very small carcinomas (<1 cm).

Papillary thyroid carcinomas are also discovered when a hard nodule is found in multinodular goiter, when enlarged cervical lymph nodes are detected, or when there are unidentified metastatic lesions elsewhere in the body. Expanding lesions found in the thyroid gland, especially if they are painful, should be examined as they may indicate the presence of papillary thyroid carcinoma. Other clinical signs that could indicate papillary thyroid are fixation to the trachea, a firm neck mass, damage to recurrent laryngeal or cervical sympathetic nerves. Five percent of the population can have thyroid nodules, and the majority will be benign.

Appropriate workup includes an ultrasound of the neck, followed by lab studies. Patients will usually meet with both an endocrinologist and a surgeon (head and neck surgeon or endocrine surgeon).

Markers
Thyroglobulin can be used as a tumor marker for well-differentiated papillary thyroid cancer. HBME-1 staining may be useful for differentiating papillary carcinomas from follicular carcinomas; in papillary lesions it tends to be positive.

Reduced expression of ATP5E is significantly associated with the diagnosis of papillary thyroid cancer and may serve as an early tumor marker of the disease. Serum microRNAs have shown good diagnostic performance for distinguishing patients with papillary thyroid cancer from patients with benign thyroid nodules and healthy controls, and are suggested as novel and minimally invasive diagnostic approach in clinical practice.

Pathology

Papillary thyroid cancer gets its name from the papillae among its cells, visible on microscopy. Features include: 
Characteristic Orphan Annie eye nuclear clearings (nuclei with uniform staining, which appear empty due to powdery chromatin and marginal micronucleoli) and psammoma bodies on light microscopy. The former is useful in identifying the follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinomas.
Lymphatic spread is more common than hematogenous spread
Multifocality is common
The so-called lateral aberrant thyroid is usually a lymph node metastasis from a papillary thyroid carcinoma.
Papillary microcarcinoma is a subset of papillary thyroid cancer defined as measuring less than or equal to 1 cm. The highest incidence of papillary thyroid microcarcinoma in an autopsy series was reported by Harach et al. in 1985, who found 36 of 101 consecutive autopsies to have an incidental microcarcinoma. Michael Pakdaman et al. report the highest incidence in a retrospective surgical series at 49.9 percent of 860 cases. Management strategies for incidental papillary microcarcinoma on ultrasound (and confirmed on FNAB) range from total thyroidectomy with radioactive iodine ablation to observation alone. Harach et al. suggest using the term "occult papillary tumor" to avoid giving patients distress over having cancer. It was Woolner et al. who first arbitrarily coined the term "occult papillary carcinoma" in 1960, to describe papillary carcinomas ≤ 1.5 cm in diameter.

Several variants are recognized, although classic papillary thyroid carcinoma is the most frequent: microscopic-follicular variant, diffuse-sclerosing variant, tall-cell variant, columnar-cell variant, hobnail variant, and others. The encapsulated-follicular variant, specifically when noninvasive, has been newly reclassified as the noninvasive follicular thyroid neoplasm with papillary-like nuclear features.

Although papillary carcinoma has a propensity to invade lymphatics, it is less likely to invade blood vessels. 
These kinds of tumors are most commonly unencapsulated, and they have a high tendency to metastasize locally to lymph nodes, which may produce cystic structures near the thyroid that are difficult to diagnose because of the paucity of malignant tissue. Furthermore, papillary tumors may metastasize to the lungs and produce a few nodules or the lung fields may exhibit a snowflake appearance throughout.

Other characteristics of the papillary carcinoma is that E.M. shows increased mitochondria, increased RER, as well as increased apical microvilli. Moreover, papillary carcinomas have an indolent growth, and 40 percent of cases spread out of the capsule.

Associated mutations
Mutations associated with papillary thyroid cancer are mainly two forms of chromosomal translocation and one form of point mutation. These alterations lead to activation of a common carcinogenic pathway—the MAPK/ERK pathway.

Chromosomal translocations involving the RET proto-oncogene (encoding a tyrosine kinase receptor that plays essential roles in the development of neuroendocrine cells) located on chromosome 10q11 occur in approximately a fifth of papillary thyroid cancers. The fusion oncoproteins generated are termed RET/PTC proteins (ret/papillary thyroid carcinoma), and constitutively activate RET and the downstream MAPK/ERK pathway. The frequency of ret/PTC translocations is significantly higher in papillary cancers arising in children and after radiation exposure. The gene NTRK1 (encoding the TrkA receptor), located on chromosome 1q, is similarly translocated in approximately 5 percent to 10 percent of papillary thyroid cancers.

Approximately a third to a half of papillary thyroid carcinomas harbor point mutations in the BRAF oncogene, also activating the MAPK/ERK pathway. In those cases the BRAF mutations found were V600E mutation. After performing a multivariate analysis, it was found that the absence of tumor capsule was the only parameter associated (P=0.0005) with BRAF V600E mutation. According to recent studies, papillary cancers carrying the common V600E mutation tend to have a more aggressive long-term course. BRAF mutations are frequent in papillary carcinoma and in undifferentiated cancers that have developed from papillary tumors.

Many more changes in gene expression are currently being investigated. Previous studies demonstrated the dysregulation of different microRNAs in thyroid cancer. For example, downregulation of miR-369-3p and consequent upregulation of its target TSPAN13 appear to be involved in the pathophysiology of PTC.

Mitochondrial mutations:  MtDNA(mitochondrial) haplogroups, characterized by unique sets of non pathological mtDNA polymorphisms can modulate the pathogenesis of different diseases in specific populations because of its influence on the expression of genes related to ROS production and OXPHOS coupling efficiency and the regulation of apoptosis. In Asian populations, haplogroup D4a is associated with an increased risk of thyroid cancer while in European populations, Haplogroup K is considered to be protective of Thyroid cancer.

Treatment 
Surgery remains the mainstay of treatment for papillary thyroid cancer. The Revised 2009 American Thyroid Association guidelines for papillary thyroid cancer state that the initial