[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #40780]

other types of civil actions. Removable to the Royal Court from the county courts were issues of a lord's claim to a person as his villein, service or relief due to a lord, dower rights, a creditor's refusal to restore a gage [something given as security] to a debtor who offered payment or a deposit, money due to a lender, a seller, or a person to whom one had an obligation under a charter, fish or harvest or cattle taken from lands unjustly occupied, cattle taken from pasture, rights to enjoy a common, to stop troubling someone's transport, to make restitution of land wrongfully occupied, to make a lord's bailiff account to him for the profits of the manor. As of 1187, pleas concerning amounts of money less than 40s. were not heard by the Royal Court. The Royal Court also decided disputes regarding baronies, nuisance or encroachments on royal land or public ways or public waterways, such as diverting waters from their right course and issues of nuisance by the making or destroying of a ditch or the destruction of a pond by a mill to the injury of a person's freehold. Other pleas of the Crown were: insult to the royal dignity, treason, breaches of safe-conducts, and injury to the King's servants. Henry involved the Royal Court in many criminal issues, using the agencies of the county and hundred courts. To detect crimes, he required itinerant royal justices to form juries of presentment {indictment] composed of usually 12 knights or other landholders of every neighborhood and 4 respectable men of each township and ask them if any person were suspected of any murder, robbery, theft, etc. (These later evolved into grand juries). These assizes were an ancient institution in many parts of the country. What Henry's assize did was to insist upon the adoption of a standard procedure everywhere systematically. The procedure was made more regular instead of depending on crime waves. If indicted, the suspected persons were then sent directly to the ordeal. Henry abolished trial by compurgation in the Royal Courts. If determined guilty, the offender forfeited his chattels to the king and his land reverted to his landlord. The penalty prescribed by the assize of Clarendon of 1166 was loss of a foot and abjuring the realm. The assize of Northhampton of 1176 added loss of the right hand. Often, a man who had a bad reputation had to abjure the realm even if he had successfully undergone the ordeal. The most serious criminal matters such as killing the king or sedition or betraying the nation or the army, fraudulent concealment of treasure trove [finding a hoard of coins which had been buried when danger approached], breach of the King's peace, homicide, murder (homicide for which there were no eyewitnesses), burning (a town, house, men, animals or other chattel for hatred or revenge), robbery, rape and falsifying (e.g. false charters or false measures or false money) were punishable by death or loss of limb. Murders were now punished alike because the applicability of the murdrum fine couldn't be determined since it was impossible to prove that the slain man had been English since he would have been mutilated to hide his nationality. Women did not serve on juries. Having the jury of presentment precluded free men from being sent to the ordeal by compurgation oaths of the villeins. As of 1194, this jury of presentment procedure applied not only to criminal cases, but also to civil, and fiscal cases. As before, a person could also be brought to trial by the accusation of the person wronged by a felony ["appeal"]. If the accused still denied the charge after the accuser testified and the matter investigated by inquiries and interrogation and then analyzed, trial by combat was held, unless the accuser was over the age of sixty or maimed, in which case the accused went to the ordeal. The procedure of Henry II's assizes was extended from case to case as men lost faith in the older types of proof. The ordeal fell into disuse when the church prohibited blessing of ordeals in its Lateran Council of 1215. Henry introduced the petty or trial jury of 12 reputable men to provide a workable alternative to the ordeal, compurgation, and combat. These jurors were expected to know or to find out the facts that could lead to a decision. Gradually, witnesses had to be brought in to tesify to facts the jurors didn't know. Housebreaking, harboring outlaws, and interference with the royal perquisites of shipwreck and the beasts of the sea which were stranded on the coast [such as whales and sturgeon] were also punishable in the Royal Court. Trespass was a serious and forcible breach of the peace onto land that developed from the criminal law of felony. Trespass becomes a general term for almost all wrongful acts and defaults against a person, land, or chattels. It covered only direct damages due to physical contact. There are two main punishments: 1) amercement of a sum of money deetermined by at least two peers of the offender and 2) imprisonment in gaol redeemable by agreement to a fine after a couple of years in gaol. Another punishment was abjuration of a town or of the realm. In boroughs, an offending burgess may lose liberties or have to abjure their trade or craft. Pillory and tumbrel [e.g.ducking stool] was usual for bakers and alewives who broke the assizes of bread and beer, which was often. The Royal Court had grown substantially and was not always presided over by the King. To avoid court agents from having too much discretionary power, there was a systematic procedure for bringing cases to the Royal Court. First, a plaintiff had to apply to the King's Chancery for a standardized writ into which the cause had to fit. The plaintiff had to pay a fee and provide a surety that the plea was brought in good faith. The progress of the suit was controlled at crucial points by precisely formulated writs to the sheriff, instructing him for instance, to put the disputed property under royal protection pending a decision, to impanel an assize and have it view the property in advance of the justices' arrival, to ascertain a point of fact material to the plea, or to summon a 'warrantor' to support a claim by the defendant. The Royal Court kept a record on its cases on parchment kept rolled up: its "rolls". The oldest roll of 1194 is almost completely comprised of land cases. Anyone could appoint an agent, an "attorney", to appear in court on his behalf, it being assumed that the principal could not be present and royal authorization given. A wife could represent her husband. The principal was then bound by the actions of his agent. Gradually men appeared who made a business of representing whoever would employ them. The common law system became committed to the "adversary system" with the parties struggling judicially against each other. The Royal Court took jurisdiction over issues of whether certain land was civil or ecclesiastical [assize utrum], and therefore whether the land owed services or payment to the Crown or not. It also heard issues of disturbance of advowson, a complex of rights to income from a church and to the selection of a parson for the church [assize of darrein [last] presentment]. By this assize, the identity of the patron who last presented an incumbent to a particular church could be discovered. Many churches had been built by a lord on his manor for his villeins. The lord had then appointed a parson and provided for his upkeep out of the income of the church. In later times, the lord's chosen parson was formally appointed by the bishop. By the 1100s, many lords had given their advowsons to abbeys. This procedure used twelve recognitors selected by the sheriff. As before, the land of any person who had been outlawed or convicted of a felony escheated to his lord. His personal property, goods, and chattels became the King's. If he was executed, his heirs received nothing because they were of the same blood as the felon, which was corrupt: "corruption of the blood". The loss of civil rights and capacities after a sentence of death for felony or treason, which resulted in forfeiture of property and corruption of the blood, was called "attainder". There were two courts of the sheriff: the shire court for civil and criminal matters and the sheriff's tourn for petty crime only. The shire and borough courts heard cases of felonies, accusations against freemen, tort, and debts. The knights made the county courts work as legal and administrative agencies of the Crown. The manor court heard cases arising out of the unfree tenures of the lord's vassals. It also heard distraint, also called "distress", issues. Distraint was a landlord's method of forcing a tenant to perform the services of his fief. To distrain by the fief, a lord