# Fire alarm system

A fire alarm system is a building system designed to detect and alert occupants and emergency forces of the presence of smoke, fire, carbon monoxide, or other fire-related emergencies. Fire alarm systems are required in most commercial buildings. They may include smoke detectors, heat detectors, and manual fire alarm activation devices, all of which are connected to a Fire Alarm Control Panel (FACP) normally found in an electrical room or panel room. Fire alarm systems generally use visual and audio signalization to warn the occupants of the building. Some fire alarm systems may also disable elevators, which under most circumstances, are unsafe to use during a fire.

Design 
After the fire protection is established—usually by referencing the minimum levels of security mandated by the appropriate model building code, insurance agencies, and other authorities—the fire alarm designer will detail specific components, arrangements, and interfaces necessary to accomplish these goals. Equipment specifically manufactured for these purposes is selected, and standardized installation methods are anticipated during the design.

 ISO 7240-14 is the international standard for the Design, installation, commissioning, and service of fire detection and fire alarm systems in and around the building. This standard was published in August 2013; Status, Published; Edition 1; Technical Committee ISO/TC 21/SC 3 Fire detection and Alarm system.
 NFPA 72, The National Fire Alarm Code is an established and widely used installation standard from the United States. In Canada, the ULC is the standard for the fire system. 
Last version 2019; Status, Published. This code is part of a family standard NFPA
 TS 54 -14 is a Technical Specification (CEN/TS) for Fire detection and fire alarm system - Part 14: Guidelines for planning, design, installation, commissioning, use, and maintenance. Technical Committee CEN/TC72 has prepared this document, This document is part of the EN 54 series of standards. This standard was published in October 2018; Status, Published.
There are national codes in each European country for planning, design, installation, commissioning, use, and maintenance of fire detection systems with additional requirements that are mentioned on TS 54 -14
 Germany, Vds 2095
 Italy, UNI 9795
 France NF S61-936
 Spain UNE 23007-14
 United Kingdom BS 5839 Part 1
Across Oceania, some Standards outline the requirements, test methods, and performance criteria for fire detection control and indicating equipment (FDCIE) utilised in building fire detection and fire alarm systems.
 Australia AS 1603.4 (superseded), AS 4428.1 (superseded) and AS 7240.2:2018

Parts

 Fire alarm control panel (FACP), or fire alarm control unit (FACU): This component, the hub of the system, monitors inputs and system integrity, controls outputs, and transmits information.
 Remote Annunciator: a device that connects directly to the panel; the annunciator's main purpose is to allow emergency personnel to view the system status and take command from outside the electrical room the panel is located in. Usually, annunciators are installed by the front door, the door the fire department responds by, or in a fire command center. Annunciators typically have the same commands as the panel's LCD except programming, although some annunciators allow for full system control.
 Primary power supply: Commonly, a commercial power utility supplies the non-switched 120 or 240-volt alternating current source. A branch circuit is dedicated to the fire alarm system and its constituents in non-residential applications. "Dedicated branch circuits" should not be confused with "Individual branch circuits" which supply energy to a single appliance.
 Secondary (backup) power supplies: This component, commonly consisting of sealed lead-acid storage batteries or other emergency sources, including generators, is used to supply energy during a primary power failure. The batteries can be either inside the bottom of the panel or inside a separate battery box installed near the panel.
 Initiating devices: These components act as inputs to the fire alarm control unit and are manually or automatically activated. Examples include pull stations, heat detectors, duct detectors, and smoke detectors. Heat and smoke detectors have different categories of both kinds. Some categories are beam, photoelectric, ionization, aspiration, and duct.
 Fire alarm notification appliance: This component uses energy supplied from the fire alarm system or other stored energy source, to inform the proximate persons of the need to take action, usually to evacuate. This is done using pulsing incandescent light, flashing strobe light, electromechanical horn, siren, electronic horn, chime, bell, speaker, or a combination of these devices. Strobes are either made of xenon tubes (most common) or recently LEDs.
 Building safety interfaces: This interface allows the fire alarm system to control aspects of the built environment, prepare the building for fire, and control the spread of smoke fumes by influencing air movement, lighting, process control, human transport, and availability of exits.

Initiating devices 

 Manually actuated devices; also known as fire alarm boxes, manual pull stations, or simply pull stations, break glass stations, and (in Europe) call points. Devices for manual fire alarm activation are installed to be readily located (near the exits), identified, and operated. They are usually actuated using physical interaction, such as pulling a lever or breaking glass.
 Automatically actuated devices can take many forms intended to respond to any number of detectable physical changes associated with fire: convected thermal energy for a heat detector, products of combustion for a smoke detector, radiant energy for a flame detector, combustion gases for a fire gas detector, and operation of sprinklers for a water-flow detector. The newest innovations can use cameras and computer algorithms to analyze the visible effects of fire and movement in applications inappropriate for or hostile to other detection methods.

Notification appliances 

Alarms can be either motorized bells or wall-mountable sounders/horns. They can also be speaker strobes that sound an alarm, followed by a voice evacuation message for clearer instructions on what to do. Fire alarm sounders can be set to certain frequencies and different tones, including low, medium, and high, depending on the country and manufacturer of the device. Most fire alarm systems in Europe sound like a siren with alternating frequencies. Fire alarm electronic devices are known as horns in the United States and Canada and can be continuous or set to different codes. Fire alarm warning devices can also be set to different volume levels.

 Notification Appliances utilize audible, visible, tactile, textual or even olfactory stimuli (odorizer) to alert the occupants of the need to evacuate or take action in the event of a fire or other emergency. Evacuation signals may consist of simple appliances that transmit uncoded information, coded appliances that transmit a predetermined pattern, and or appliances that transmit audible and visible textual information such as live or prerecorded instructions, and illuminated message displays. Some Notification appliances are combined fire alarm/general emergency notification appliances, allowing fire and general emergency notifications from a single device.
 In the United States, fire alarm evacuation signals generally consist of a standardized audible tone, with visual notification in all public and common-use areas. Emergency signals are intended to be distinct and understandable to avoid confusion with other signals.
As per NFPA 72, 18.4.2 (2010 Edition)Temporal Code 3 is the standard audible notification in a modern system. It consists of a repeated three-pulse cycle (0.5 s on, 0.5 s off, 0.5 s on, 0.5 s off, 0.5 s on, 1.5 s off). Voice Evacuation is the second most comm