# Bessel function

Bessel functions, first defined by the mathematician Daniel Bernoulli and then generalized by Friedrich Bessel, are canonical solutions  of Bessel's differential equation

for an arbitrary complex number , which represents the order of the Bessel function. Although  and  produce the same differential equation, it is conventional to define different Bessel functions for these two values in such a way that the Bessel functions are mostly smooth functions of .

The most important cases are when  is an integer or half-integer. Bessel functions for integer  are also known as cylinder functions or the cylindrical harmonics because they appear in the solution to Laplace's equation in cylindrical coordinates. Spherical Bessel functions with half-integer  are obtained when solving the Helmholtz equation in spherical coordinates.

Applications of Bessel functions
The Bessel function is a generalization of the sine function. It can be interpreted as the vibration of a string with variable thickness, variable tension (or both conditions simultaneously); vibrations in a medium with variable properties; vibrations of the disc membrane, etc.

Bessel's equation arises when finding separable solutions to Laplace's equation and the Helmholtz equation in cylindrical or spherical coordinates. Bessel functions are therefore especially important for many problems of wave propagation and static potentials. In solving problems in cylindrical coordinate systems, one obtains Bessel functions of integer order (); in spherical problems, one obtains half-integer orders (). For example:

 Electromagnetic waves in a cylindrical waveguide
 Pressure amplitudes of inviscid rotational flows
 Heat conduction in a cylindrical object
 Modes of vibration of a thin circular or annular acoustic membrane (such as a drumhead or other membranophone) or thicker plates such as sheet metal (see Kirchhoff–Love plate theory, Mindlin–Reissner plate theory)
 Diffusion problems on a lattice
 Solutions to the radial Schrödinger equation (in spherical and cylindrical coordinates) for a free particle
 Solving for patterns of acoustical radiation
 Frequency-dependent friction in circular pipelines
 Dynamics of floating bodies
 Angular resolution
 Diffraction from helical objects, including DNA
 Probability density function of product of two normally distributed random variables
 Analyzing of the surface waves generated by microtremors, in geophysics and seismology. 

Bessel functions also appear in other problems, such as signal processing (e.g., see FM audio synthesis, Kaiser window, or Bessel filter).

Definitions
Because this is a second-order linear differential equation, there must be two linearly independent solutions. Depending upon the circumstances, however, various formulations of these solutions are convenient. Different variations are summarized in the table below and described in the following sections.

Bessel functions of the second kind and the spherical Bessel functions of the second kind are sometimes denoted by  and , respectively, rather than  and .

Bessel functions of the first kind: 

Bessel functions of the first kind, denoted as , are solutions of Bessel's differential equation. For integer or positive , Bessel functions of the first kind are finite at the origin (); while for negative non-integer , Bessel functions of the first kind diverge as  approaches zero. It is possible to define the function by its series expansion around , which can be found by applying the Frobenius method to Bessel's equation:

where  is the gamma function, a shifted generalization of the factorial function to non-integer values. The Bessel function of the first kind is an entire function if  is an integer, otherwise it is a multivalued function with singularity at zero. The graphs of Bessel functions look roughly like oscillating sine or cosine functions that decay proportionally to  (see also their asymptotic forms below), although their roots are not generally periodic, except asymptotically for large . (The series indicates that  is the derivative of , much like  is the derivative of ; more generally, the derivative of  can be expressed in terms of  by the identities below.)

For non-integer , the functions  and  are linearly independent, and are therefore the two solutions of the differential equation. On the other hand, for integer order , the following relationship is valid (the gamma function has simple poles at each of the non-positive integers):

This means that the two solutions are no longer linearly independent. In this case, the second linearly independent solution is then found to be the Bessel function of the second kind, as discussed below.

Bessel's integrals
Another definition of the Bessel function, for integer values of , is possible using an integral representation:

which is also called Hansen-Bessel formula.

This was the approach that Bessel used, and from this definition he derived several properties of the function. The definition may be extended to non-integer orders by one of Schläfli's integrals, for :

Relation to hypergeometric series
The Bessel functions can be expressed in terms of the generalized hypergeometric series as

This expression is related to the development of Bessel functions in terms of the Bessel–Clifford function.

Relation to Laguerre polynomials
In terms of the Laguerre polynomials  and arbitrarily chosen parameter , the Bessel function can be expressed as

Bessel functions of the second kind: 
The Bessel functions of the second kind, denoted by , occasionally denoted instead by , are solutions of the Bessel differential equation that have a singularity at the origin () and are multivalued. These are sometimes called Weber functions, as they were introduced by , and also Neumann functions after Carl Neumann.

For non-integer ,  is related to  by

In the case of integer order , the function is defined by taking the limit as a non-integer  tends to :

If  is a nonnegative integer, we have the series

where  is the digamma function, the logarithmic derivative of the gamma function.

There is also a corresponding integral formula (for ):

In the case where ,

 is necessary as the second linearly independent solution of the Bessel's equation when  is an integer. But  has more meaning than that. It can be considered as a "natural" partner of . See also the subsection on Hankel functions below.

When  is an integer, moreover, as was similarly the case for the functions of the first kind, the following relationship is valid:

Both  and  are holomorphic functions of  on the complex plane cut along the negative real axis. When  is an integer, the Bessel functions  are entire functions of . If  is held fixed at a non-zero value, then the Bessel functions are entire functions of .

The Bessel functions of the second kind when  is an integer is an example of the second kind of solution in Fuchs's theorem.

Hankel functions: , 

Another important formulation of the two linearly independent solutions to Bessel's equation are the Hankel functions of the first and second kind,  and , defined as

where  is the imaginary unit. These linear combinations are also known as Bessel functions of the third kind; they are two linearly independent solutions of Bessel's differential equation. They are named after Hermann Hankel.

These forms of linear combination satisfy numerous simple-looking properties, like asymptotic formulae or integral representations. Here, "simple" means an appearance of a factor of the form . For real  where ,  are real-valued, the Bessel functions of the first and second kind are the real and imaginary parts, respectively, of the first Hankel function and the real and negative imaginary parts of the second Hankel function. Thus, the above formulae are analogs of Euler's formula, substituting ,  for  and ,  for , , as explicitly shown in the asymptotic expansion.

The Hankel functions are used to express outward- and inward-propagating cylindrical-wave