[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #25864]

and bad results. WAS A MISTAKE MADE IN THE CREATION? At a given period of time the Lord said, "Let us make man." After He had made him He examined him, and pronounced him good, and not only good, but very good. Did He know what good was? Had He the skill to be a competent judge? If He was perfectly competent to judge skilled arts His approval of the work when done was the fiat of mental competency backed by perfection. Since that architect and skilled mechanic has finished man and given him dominion over the fowls of the air, the beast of the field and fishes of the sea, hasn't that person, being or superstructure proven to us that God, the creator of all things, has armed him with strength, with the mind and machinery to direct and execute? This being demonstrated and leaving us without a doubt as to its perfection, are we not admonished by all that is good and great to enter upon a minute examination of all the parts belonging to this being; acquaint ourselves with their uses and all the designs for which the whole being was created. If we are honestly interested with the acquaintance of the forms and uses of the parts in detail by close and thorough examination of the material, its form and object of its form, from whence this substance is obtained; how it is produced and sustained through life in kind and form. How it is moved, where it gets its power, and for what object does it move? A demand for a crucial examination of the skull, the heart, lungs, of the chest, the stomach, liver and other organs of the abdomen is made. The septum of the brain, the pericardium of the chest--the diaphragm of the abdomen which is a dividing septum between the abdomen and chest. In this examination we must know the reasons why any organs, vessel or any other substance is located at a given place. We must run with all the rivers of blood that travel through the system. AN EXPLORATION. We must start our exploring boat with the aorta, and float with this vital current; see the captain as he unloads supplies for the diaphragm and all that is under it. We must follow him and see what branch of this river will lead to a little or great toe, or to the terminals of the whole foot. We must pass through the waters of the dead sea by the way of the vena cava, and observe the boats loaded with exhausted and worn out blood, as it is poured in and channeled back to the heart, with all below the diaphragm. Carefully watch the emptying of the vena azygos major and minor, with the veins of the arms and head all being poured in from little or great rivers to the vena innominate on their way to the great hospital of life and nourishment; whose quarter-master is the heart; whose finishing mechanic is the lung. Having acquainted ourselves with the forms and locations of this great personality we are ready at this time after examination, and found worthy and well qualified to enter into a higher class in which we can obtain an acquaintance with the physiological workings separately and conjoined of the whole being. At this place we become acquainted with the hows and whys of the production of blood, bone and all elements found in them, necessary to sustain sensation, motion, nutrition, voluntary and involuntary action of the nerve system. The hows and whys of the lymphatics, the life sustaining powers of the brain, heart, lungs, and all the abdominal system, with their various actions and uses, from the lowest cellular membrane to the highest organ of the body. RESULT OF REMOVAL OF DIAPHRAGM. When we consult the form of the cross-bar that divides the body in two conjoined divisions and reason on its use, we arrive at the fact that the heart and lungs must have ample space or room to suit their actions while performing their functions. At this time a question comes up: What effect would follow the removal of the fence between heart, lungs and brain, above that dividing muscle, and the machinery that is situated below said cross-bar? We see at a glance that we would meet failure to the extent of the infringement on demanded room for normal work of heart to deliver below lungs to prepare blood, and the brain to pass nerve power to either engine above, and all organs below the diaphragm. SUSTAINING LIFE PRINCIPLES. The life of the living tree is with the bark and superficial fascia which lies between the bark of the body of the tree, its periostium. The remainder of the tree takes the position or place of secreting. Its excretory system is first upwards from the surface of the ground, and washes out frozen impurities in the spring, after which it secretes and conveys to the ground through the trunk of the tree to the roots which is like unto the placenta attached to mother earth, qualifying all substances of constructing fiber and leaf, of that part of the tree above the ground. Each year produces a new tree which is seen and known by circular rings called annular growths. That growth which was completed last year is now a stale being of the past and has no vital action of itself. But like all stale beings its process is a life of another order, and dependent upon the fascia for its life and cellular action which lies under the bark, for its own existence as a living tree. It can only act as a chemical laboratory and furnish crude material which is taken up by the superficial fascia and conveyed up to the lungs, and exchanges dead for living matter, to receive and return to all parts of the tree, keeping up vital formation. With frost its vital process ceases through the winter season until mother earth stimulates the placenta, and starts the growth of a new being, which is developed and placed in form on the old trunk. Thus you see everything of animal growth as we would call them, is a new being, and becomes a part of the next being or growth formed. STALE LIFE. Should this form of vitality cease with the tree another principle which we call stale life takes possession and constructs another tree which is just the reverse of the living tree, and builds a tree after its own power of formulation from the dead matter, to which it imparts a principle of stale life, which life produces mushrooms, frogstools and other peculiar forms of stale beings, from this form of growth. Thus we are prepared to reason that blood when ligated and retained in that condition of dead corpuscles, and no longer able to support animal life, can form a zoophyte and all the forms peculiar to the great law of association, as tumefactions of the lymphatics, pancreas, liver, kidneys, uterus, with all the glandular system, be they lymphatics, cellular, ganglia or any other parts of the body susceptible of such growths, below the diaphragm. Thus we can account for tubercles of the abdomen and all organs therein found. LAW APPLICABLE TO OTHER ORGANS. This same law is equally applicable to the heart, lungs, the brain, tissues, glands, fascia and all substances capable of receiving without the ability to excrete stale substances. As oedema marks the first tardiness of fluids we have the beginning step which will lead from miliary tuberculosis to the largest known forms of tubercles, which is the effect of the active principles of stale life or the life of dead matter. POWER OF DIAPHRAGM. At this point we will draw the attention of the reader to the fact that the diaphragm can contract and suspend the passage of blood and produce all the stagnant changes from start to completed deadly tubercle. Also the cancer, the wen, glandular thickening of neck, face, scalp, fascia and all substances found above the diaphragm. In this stale life we have a compass that will lead us as explorers from the North star, to the South pole, the rising sun of reason, and the evening dews of eternity. This diaphragm says: "By me you live and by me you die. I hold in my hand the powers of life and death, acquaint now thyself with me and be at ease." OMENTUM. The truth of the presentation of facts should be the principle object of every person who takes his pen with a view to give the reasons why certain witnesses' testimony are indispensable to establish supposable or known truths. This being the case I have summoned before this court of inquiry an important witness. He has now taken the oath to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, of the case before this court. His name is the Great Omentum. Mr.