# Jim Robinson (Neighbours)

Jim Robinson is a fictional character from the Australian soap opera Neighbours, played by Alan Dale. Jim was created by Reg Watson as one of Neighbours twelve original characters. He made his on-screen debut in the soap's first episode, which was broadcast on 18 March 1985. Jim was the patriarch of the Robinson family. Dale departed the show in 1993 after falling out with the producers over pay and his character was killed off on 29 April 1993. Dale filmed some scenes for the serial in September 2018, which aired on 25 December 2018 and 25 March 2019.

Creation and casting
Jim is one of the twelve original characters conceived by the creator and then executive producer of Neighbours, Reg Watson. Actor Robin Harrison was originally cast in the role and had already filmed some scenes when his contract negotiations broke down. The role was then recast to Alan Dale in January 1985, and the scenes featuring Harrison were re-shot. Dale had been out of regular work since his role in The Young Doctors ended in 1982, and was appearing in a small role in Possession when he was offered the part of Jim by producer John Holmes. The character had intrigued Dale, who thought that parts of Jim's life echoed his own life at the time. He said "It's like it was written for me. It's a great role and naturally it's one I can really relate to. You have to be fairly similar to a character you play, otherwise you'd go insane." Dale chose to relocate from Sydney to Melbourne, where Neighbours is filmed, but commuted between the two cities for some time while he was still appearing on Possession.

Development

Backstory and characterisation
In his 1988 book Neighbours: Behind the Scenes, James Oram wrote that the role of Jim was vital to Neighbours and described him as an anchor, in the same way Leslie Grantham's role of Den Watts was to British soap opera EastEnders. Jim was introduced as a widowed father of four, who lives in Ramsay Street with his mother-in-law Helen Daniels (Anne Haddy). In his fictional backstory, Helen moved in with Jim after her daughter, Anne, died during childbirth. Helen's husband Bill had also recently died and she was happy to come and help care for her grandchildren: Paul (Stefan Dennis), Julie (Vikki Blanche; Julie Mullins), Scott (Darius Perkins; Jason Donovan) and Lucy (Kylie Flinker; Sasha Close; Melissa Bell).

Jim's original character outline appeared in Oram's book:

When he began filming, Dale admitted that he was trying to get used to his character's large, older brood of children. The children's ages ranged from nine to 21. At the time, Dale's own sons were 14 and 15. He also felt that as he was also a single parent, he could bring some of his own experiences to the role. He stated "There are situations that are very similar to the ones I have had to meet myself. Living in the same situation will help. For example, I am very tactile with my kids – I kiss and cuddle them a lot – and if I hadn't had kids of my own and of that size I wouldn't have known that people really did behave like this." While he shared some similarities with his character, Dale insisted that he was not as steadfast or as patient as Jim.

Josephine Monroe, author of Neighbours: The First 10 Years, stated that Jim was the type of man that other men disliked because he had it all: a nice house, his own business, lovely children and a way with women. Monroe observed that Anne's death had caused Jim's personality to change and there was always a "reserved sadness about him". He was also perceived as being "stuffy and proper". Soap Box author Hilary Kingsley described him as being "reasonable, accessible, quiet and calm." He never argued with Helen and was polite to her friends. Jim was also reliable and understanding, particularly when it came to his children, who he was devoted to.

Relationships
Despite his reputation with women, Jim did not have that many romantic relationships during his time in the show, which Dale complained about, as he thought Jim's celibacy was unrealistic. The character's first romance occurred shortly after Neighbours began airing, as Maria Ramsay's (Dasha Bláhová) sister Anna Rossi (Roslyn Gentle) is introduced. Amanda Zachariah of TV Week noted that "falling in love at first sight" would not be a characteristic associated with Jim, who was known for being the show's "solid and stable widower". But Dale told her that is exactly what happens, explaining: "Jim meets Anna on the patio of his neighbor's house and wham, that's it for him. Anna has come down from Queensland to help her sister in a crisis, and as far as Jim is concerned it is love." Dale also pointed out that Jim had been a widower for nine years and devoted his life to raising his children. So when he starts dating Anna, he has new priorities and the children are not sure how to react. Anna eventually ends the relationship because she does not want to cause a feud between his family and the Ramsays.

Jim's next romance is with Zoe Davis (Ally Fowler), which shocks the neighbourhood because she is twenty years his junior. Dale did not think there was anything wrong with an older man dating a younger woman. The relationship does not sit well with the Robinsons and Lucy is especially unhappy about it. However, Jim and Zoe continue to date and are shocked when Zoe becomes pregnant. Jim is reluctant to become a father again in mid-forties and he and Zoe grow distant, as she wants to keep the baby. Jim later proposes to Zoe, but when she suffers an ectopic pregnancy, they break up.

Later that year, Jim meets Englishwoman Ruth Wilson (Stephanie Daniel) on a plane, while he is returning home from the United States. The couple "got on like a house on fire." Ruth checks into Lassiter's Hotel, which is run by Paul. However, when Ruth is unable to pay the bill, Jim steps in and pays it for her. He then invites her to stay with his family for the duration of her visit to Australia.

Producers developed a more prominent relationship between Jim and Beverly Marshall (Lisa Armytage). Dale told Amanda Zachary from TV Week that Jim was so taken with Beverly because he originally had competition for her affections when they first met. Writers soon married the pair but they did not have a traditional wedding. Dale described it as a quiet "family affair" which is conducted at home. Dale was "shocked" when producers informed him that Jim and Beverly would marry. Dale believed it marked a change in Jim's character, after three years of being portrayed as the working single parent. Dale added that "all of sudden he's a married man and his life is turned upside down." Jim's marriage also allowed writers to further explore Jim's characterisation; Dale told Zachary that "Jim has developed a lot more basic warmth and affection." He concluded that building a good rapport with Armytage allowed him to adjust to the married version of Jim.

Departure
Dale stayed for eight years before Jim was killed off. He left when he fell out with the producers over the pay he and the rest of the cast received. In an interview with the Metro newspaper, Dale called his time working for Grundy "the worst experience", he added "They practically forced us to be miserable. It paid me enough to get my boys through their teenage years, but I wasn't happy and we parted on bad terms." Dale also said that the Neighbours producers "stitched" him up on his last day of filming. Jim died of a heart attack and Dale said "they left me lying on the floor all day. They enjoyed themselves". Dale struggled to find work in Australia after Neighbours because he was typecast as Jim.

Return
In September 2018, Dale confirmed that he was filming for Neighbours in a studio in Atlanta. He did not specify what the scenes were or whether it was for the main show or an online webisode. Jess Lee of Digital Spy speculated that Jim may appear as a ghost or an apparition to a family member. Dale had previously paid a visit to the Neighbours set in April 2