[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #40780]

the rights of a freeman and the lord shall pay a fine or clear himself. If a freeman breaks an ordained fast, he shall pay a fine. If a slave does so, he shall undergo the lash or pay the fine in accordance with the nature of the deed. If anyone openly causes a breach of the fast of Lent by fighting or by intercourse with women or by robbery or by any great misdeed, he shall pay double compensation just as he must do during a high festival. If he denies the charge, he shall clear himself by the triple process of exculpation. *If anyone refuses by force the payment of ecclesiastical dues, he shall pay the full fine or he shall clear himself: he shall select 11 men and himself make a twelfth. If he wounds anyone, he shall make amends and pay the full fine to the lord and redeem his hands from the bishop or lose them. If he kills a man, he shall be outlawed and pursued with hostility. If he so acts as to bring about his own death by setting himself against the law, no compensation shall be paid for him. If anyone injures one of the clergy, he shall make amends according to the rank of the person injured, either by the payment of his wergeld or a fine or by the forfeiture of all his property. *If anyone commits adultery, he shall make amends according to the nature of the offense. It is wicked adultery for a pious man to commit fornication with an unmarried woman, and much worse with the wife of another man or with any woman who has taken religious vows. *If anyone commits incest, he shall make amends according to the degree of relationship between them, either by the payment of wergeld or of a fine, or by the forfeiture of all his possessions. *If anyone does violence to a widow or maiden, he shall pay his wergeld. *If a woman commits adultery, her husband shall have all she possesses and she shall lose her nose and her ears. If a married man commits adultery with his own slave, he shall lose her and make amends to God and to men. *If anyone has a lawful wife and also a concubine, no priest shall perform for him any of the offices which must be performed for a Christian man, until he desists and makes amends as the bishop shall direct. Foreigners, if they will not regularize their unions, shall be driven from the land with their possessions, and shall depart in sin. *Any murderer shall be given up to the kinsmen of the slain man. The bishop shall pronounce judgment. *If anyone plots against the king or his own lord, he shall forfeit his life and all that he possesses, unless he proves himself innocent by the triple ordeal. *If anyone violates the protection or a king, archbishop or bishop, he shall pay 5, 3, or 2 pounds respectively as compensation. *Anyone who fights at the king's court shall lose his life, unless pardoned by the king. *If a man unjustly disarms another, he shall compensate him by the payment of his healsfang. If he binds him, he shall compensate by the payment of half his wergeld. If anyone is guilty of a capital deed of violence while serving in the army, he shall lose his life or his wergeld. *If a man makes forcible entry into another man's house, he shall pay 5 pounds to the king. If he is slain in such a case, no compensation shall be paid for his death. *Anyone guilty of robbery shall restore the stolen goods and pay the injured man as much again and forfeit his wergeld to the king. *According to secular law, assaults upon houses, arson, theft which cannot be disproved, murder which cannot be denied, and treachery towards a man's lord are crimes for which no compensation can be paid. If anyone neglects the repair of fortifications or bridges or military service, he shall pay 120s. to the king or he shall clear himself with the support of 11 compurgators out of 14 nominated by the court. The whole nation shall assist in the repair of churches. If anyone unlawfully maintains an excommunicated person, he shall deliver him up in accordance with the law, and pay compensation to him to whom it belongs, and to the king his wergeld. Anyone keeping and maintaining as excommunicated man or an outlaw shall risk losing his life and all his property. Greater leniency shall be shown in passing judgment and in imposing penance on the weak than on the strong because they cannot bear an equally heavy burden. So we distinguish between age and youth, wealth and poverty, freemen and slaves, the sound and the weak. *When a man is an involuntary agent in evil-doing or does something unintentionally, he is more entitled to clemency. All my reeves shall provide for me from my own property and no man need give them anything as purveyance. If any of my reeves demands a fine, he shall forfeit his wergeld to me. The public has been so far too greatly oppressed by this. *If a man dies intestate [without a will], whether through negligence or sudden death, his lord shall take no more than his legal heriot. The property shall be divided among his wife and children and near kinsmen according to the share which belongs to him. Heriots shall be fixed with regard to the rank of the person for whom they are paid. The heriot of any earl is eight horses, four saddled and four unsaddled, four helmets, four coats of chainmail, eight spears, eight shields, four swords, and 200 mancuses of gold. The heriot of a king's thegn is four horses, two saddled and two unsaddled, two swords, four spears, four shields, four helmets, four coats of chain mail and 50 mancuses of gold, but among the Danes who possess rights of jurisdiction 4 pounds. The heriot of an ordinary thegn is a horse and its trappings and his weapons or his healsfang in Wessex, and in Mercia 2 pounds, and in East Anglia 2 pounds. The heriot of a man who stands in a more intimate relationship to the king shall be two horses, one saddled and one unsaddled, one sword, two spears, two shields, and 50 mancuses of gold. The heriot of a man who is inferior in wealth is 2 pounds. When a householder has dwelt all his time free from claims and charges, his wife and children shall dwell there unmolested by litigation. *Every widow who remains a year without a husband shall do what she herself desires. If within the space of a year, she chooses a husband, she shall lose her morning gift and all the property she had from her first husband, and his nearest relatives shall take the land and property which she had held. And the second husband shall forfeit his wergeld to the king or the lord to whom it has been granted. And although she has been married by force, she shall lose her possessions, unless she leaves the man and returns home. And no widow shall be too hastily consecrated as a nun. And every widow shall pay heriots within a year without incurring a fine, if it has not been convenient for her to pay earlier. *No woman or maiden shall be forced to marry a man whom she dislikes, nor shall she be given for money, except the suitor desires of his own freewill to give something. If anyone sets his spear at the door to another man's house, he himself having an errand inside, or if anyone carefully lays any other weapons where they might remain quietly, and another seizes the weapon and works mischief with it, he shall pay compensation for it. He who owns the weapon may clear himself by asserting that the mischief was done without his desire or authority or advice or cognizance. *If anyone carries stolen goods home to his cottage and is detected, the owner shall have what he has tracked. The wife shall be clear of any charge of complicity unless the goods had been put under her lock and key or in her storeroom, her chest, or her cupboard. But no wife can forbid her husband from depositing anything in his cottage. Until now it has been the custom for grasping persons to treat a child which lay in the cradle, even though it had never tasted food, as being guilty as though it were fully intelligent. I forbid this practice. The man who, through cowardice, deserts his lord or his comrades in an expedition, either by sea or by land, shall lose all he possesses and his own life, and the lord shall take back the property and the land which he had given him. And if he has land held by title-deed it