# List of Family Matters characters

Family Matters is an American sitcom revolving around the Winslow family, a middle-class African-American family living in Chicago. The series ran for nine seasons (eight of which were broadcast on ABC, one on CBS) and is a spin-off of Perfect Strangers. The series features a total of 12 main characters, some of which have been portrayed by multiple actors.

Casting
Jo Marie Payton originally appeared on Perfect Strangers in 1987 in the recurring role of Harriette Winslow, the elevator operator for the Chicago Chronicle. Reginald VelJohnson later made one appearance on Perfect Strangers in the 1989 episode "Crimebusters" as Carl Winslow, policeman and husband of Harriette Winslow. Due to the large popularity of Payton's character with audiences, the character was spun off to its own show, Family Matters. While Payton, VelJohnson, and Telma Hopkins (as Harriette's widowed sister Rachel) were initially the stars of the show, centered around the Winslow family, Jaleel White was introduced as nerdy neighbor, Steve Urkel, during the middle of the first season in the episode "Laura's First Date." Urkel, the lovesick pursuer of Laura Winslow (portrayed by Kellie Shanygne Williams), quickly became a popular breakout character with audiences.

Shortly after the introduction of White as Steve Urkel, Shawn Harrison was cast in the role of Waldo Faldo, initially as the sidekick to a bully portrayed by Larenz Tate who terrorized everyone, and Urkel. When Tate and Harrison were offered the chance to return to the show on a recurring basis, only Harrison took up the offer. As a result, his character was rewritten to be the best friend of Eddie Winslow (portrayed by Darius McCrary). Harrison eventually joined the main cast in the 1992–1993 season. Soon after, Michelle Thomas was cast in the role of Myra Monkhouse, love interest and later girlfriend of Steve Urkel. Thomas was initially only scheduled to appear occasionally, but became a permanent member of the main cast in the 1994-1995 season. In the 1996–1997 season, Orlando Brown was added to the cast as Jerry Jamal "3J" Jameson, a troubled youth mentored by Urkel, who later becomes the foster child of the Winslows.

Main characters
The series featured 12 main characters, whose actors appeared during the opening credits.

Carl Winslow
Played by Reginald VelJohnson.

Carlton "Carl" Otis Winslow, who originally appeared in the Perfect Strangers episode "Crimebusters" alongside his wife Harriette, is the son of Estelle Winslow and the late Samuel, brother-in-law of Rachel Crawford, father of Eddie, Laura, and Judy Winslow, uncle of Richie Crawford and adoptive father of "3J" Jameson. He is a short-tempered, miserly man, but still has a kind and humble nature. He mentioned in the season one episode "The Mama Who Came to Dinner" as having three brothers: Frank (who later appeared in the season 8 episode, "The Brother Who Came to Dinner"), Walter and Calvin; and in another episode from that same season, "The Party", a brother named Darryl. His initials spell "COW" and he is often teased because of this. He holds his position as "King of the Castle" (a self-proclaimed "Big Kahuna") very seriously; however, he is easy to admit defeat to Harriette when involved in typical marital disputes.

Carl is constantly annoyed, irritated, and bothered by his pesky neighbor, Steve Urkel, who has great respect for Carl and affectionately calls him "Big Guy". Although Steve is relentlessly annoying and has cost the Winslow family large amounts of time and money from his own clumsy demeanor, he has shown he's more mature than Eddie is in accepting responsibility. Carl is often there to back Steve up and help him out in times of distress. Although he continues to be exasperated and irritated by his antics, over the progression of the show, Carl develops a fondness for Steve that surprises even himself.

Carl is an officer for the Chicago Police Department. He takes his job seriously and it is often suggested that he is very good at what he does, despite working with several incompetent bosses. In the episode, "Good Cop, Bad Cop", it was revealed that Carl's own experience of being racially discriminated due to him being an African American descent was what motivated him to become a police officer to make differences in his community. He inevitably makes enemies in criminals in the city, but most are incompetent and always fail in their revenge against him. Fitting into the cop stereotype, he has an avid love for doughnuts and other junk food. This plays into the fact that he is overweight and in several stories throughout the series, Carl's physical health plays a role (in the season 4 episode "Driving Carl Crazy", he is revealed to have high blood pressure, which got dangerous because he tried to dodge dieting). Despite the stress of his job, he neither abuses alcohol or tobacco to cope with them; he rather depends on his family for comfort and support. Carl starts the series as a police sergeant; he is later promoted to lieutenant in season 5's "That's What Friends Are For," and eventually captain in season 9's "Who's Afraid of the Big Black Book?". 

Carl is also the only character to appear in every single episode of the series.

Harriette Winslow
Played by Jo Marie Payton (1989–1997), and Judyann Elder (1998).

Harriette Baines Winslow is Carl's wife, Rachel's big sister, biological mother of Eddie, Laura and Judy, aunt of Richie, adoptive mother of 3J and daughter of Jimmy and Darlene Baines. Harriette is a very conservative and strong-willed woman. She holds her role in society as a mother and working woman with high regard. Harriette is very reluctant to tell people what they want to hear, as she is very frank and upfront about her feelings. She first appeared in Perfect Strangers as an "elevator operator" for the Chicago Chronicle, before being laid off and later rehired as Director of Security in the season one episode "Two-Income Family" and then fired from the Chronicle in the season five episode "A Matter of Principle" for refusing to reduce her security staff during a budget crisis. She was later employed by Ferguson's Department Store, beginning with the season six episode "The Looney Bin," initially as a service clerk, then later promoted to Head of Sales in the season nine episode "Out With the Old". Previously, Harriette was enrolled to the police academy to become a police officer, where she met Carl, and graduated. However, Harriette didn't join the police force after she and Carl got married, instead uses her police skills on her security job and neighborhood watch.

As the voice of reason, she is quite competent at mediating conflicts in her family, often pointing out faults to everyone, but this also makes her very reluctant to take sides. For example, she is usually supportive of her husband, Carl, but during his feuds with another character, she rarely takes his side. Instead, she would criticize both him and the other person, hoping to reconcile them with each other. This especially makes it difficult for Carl to discipline their rebellious son, Eddie, who rarely learned from his mistakes. Conversely, she is especially strict towards her daughter, Laura, despite being far more responsible, obedient and trustworthy. Sometimes Harriette would go as far as turning against her own husband. She is fully aware that Carl is constantly harassed by their neighbor, Steve Urkel, but flat out sides with the nerd instead, due to his fragile feelings thereby winning her sympathy and their shared belief that Carl's agony is due to his own impatient attitude. 

Nonetheless, all of her reasoning, however self-righteous, is motivated by her love for her family and her hopes that all sides can reconcile with each other. Only on one occasion was she forced to side exclusively with Carl which was during his feud with their second neighbor, Nick Neidermeyer, because her first attempt to reprimand both of them failed, with Neidermey