# Luna-C

Luna-C (born Christopher Howell, 1 May 1973) is a British DJ and record producer, known for his work in breakbeat hardcore music. He was a member of the group Smart E's in 1992, who scored a  2 hit on the UK Singles Chart with "Sesame's Treet" which samples the Sesame Street theme song. He founded Kniteforce Records in 1992, for which he produced tracks and remixes under various aliases. The label was sold in 1997 but resurrected as Kniteforce Again (KFA) in 2001.

Early life
One of Christopher Howell's first passions in life was skateboarding. As a youngster, he was a junior champion in a major competition, and he continued to skate as a hobby for many years after.

On an early school report, his music teacher said that he had no ear for music and that his exam result of 13% reflected this. He was a huge fan of hip-hop music and DJ'd in his spare time well before he experienced the UK rave scene and hardcore music. In fact, he has said that he and his friends ridiculed hardcore music when they first heard it, especially as much of it sampled hip-hop and sped it up. He was persuaded however to go to the hardcore club Labyrinth in 1990, and it changed his view of the music and the scene forever. He soon began buying hardcore music in Music Power Records in Ilford, London, and Boogie Times in Romford. It was here that he met fellow record buyer Tom Orton, who he also worked with in a supermarket. Tom DJ'd as "Mr. Tom" and helped run a weeknight rave called "Ultimatum". Chris began DJing alongside Tom at these raves, and the two of them continued to buy records together in Boogie Times.

Boogie Times Records also had its own record label, Suburban Base, and after talking to the shop owners, Chris and Tom decided to make a record, purely for fun. Tom had a friend, Nick Arnold who had his own studio and had some experience in music production. The three of them decided on the name Smart E's and set about making a tune.

Career

Smart E's
Smart E's released its first single in 1992 on Boogie Times Records. It was called "Bogus Adventure" and was a simple hardcore track that featured samples from the film Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. It only sold a few hundred copies, which wasn't unusual for the first release on a small hardcore imprint. The group then produced a track sampling the theme song from Sesame Street entitled "Sesame's Treet". By this time, the Boogie Times Records label was no longer in business, so this track appeared on parent label Suburban Base Records. A number of promos were pressed and interest in the record skyrocketed. Steve Jackson hosted a house music show on London radio station Kiss FM, and began playing the record every day. Suburban Base and Smart E's saw an opportunity and realised that the record had the potential to be a big seller. They drafted Jackson to do a remix for the main release of the record. The record was being played at raves and on pirate radio stations (which were the main channel for hardcore music), and demand saw the number of copies requested by the distributor climb from 1,000 to 10,000 to 50,000. When the record was released it reached  2 on the UK singles chart, which at the time was the highest debut single entry ever.

The success of "Sesame's Treet" brought media attention to Howell and Smart E's. Many dance music magazines panned the trio as either a joke or opportunists trying to cash in on the rave scene. The first and second records were novelty records of sorts. "Sesame's Treet" was picked up for worldwide distribution and Smart E's signed with Pyrotech/Big Beat/Atlantic Records. They toured the United States, doing 29 live PAs in 32 days. Howell felt that the group was ripped off by many people during this time, and although Smart E's produced one album for Atlantic Records, he did not feel that he could continue working under the Smart E's name.

Kniteforce Records
To have more control over his music, Howell bought a studio and founded Kniteforce Records. The label's first release, The Luna-C Project 1 – Edge of Madness, was produced by Luna-C but engineered by Austin Reynolds at Suburban Base Records as Howell hadn't learned how to record. The second release, The Luna-C Project 2 – Mission of Madness, was entirely produced by Luna-C in his studio.

1992–1995
Kniteforce continued to release records which sold well in Germany and the UK. A good release would sell 5,000 copies and a hit would sell much more. Rebecca Try designed all of the label's logos, artwork and covers. Many of the tracks were played by DJs in the scene at the time. Howell produced tracks under the aliases Luna-C and Cru-L-T, and as part of the groups Future Primitive and The Trip. He took engineering duties on all Kniteforce releases, until artists DJ Force & The Evolution and DJ Ham presented ready-for-release tracks to Howell. During this period Luna-C very rarely performed DJ shows.

In 1995 Howell formed Remix Records with hardcore DJ Jimmy J, who owned a shop of the same name in Camden, London. The label and the shop shared the same logo, and the shop became a front for the Kniteforce label.

Under the name Cru-L-T, Howell produced Remix Records tracks with Jimmy J. They found success with the tracks "Take Me Away" and "Six Days", which sampled house tracks but reworked the vocals with piano riffs. "Six Days" sold well in Australia, and Howell and Jimmy J travelled there to DJ and perform live PAs to promote the record.

Rise and fall
Kniteforce records were not selling in the numbers Howell had anticipated. To bring more sales to the label, he commissioned a series of remixes from big-name DJs including Slipmatt, Sy, Vibes and Ramos.

Hardcore changed in 1995 with heavily distorted kick drum riding over the well-established breakbeats. Some of Luna-C's productions mirrored this to keep up with the sound, and in 1996 he set up Malice Records to cater to the hard-edged gabber sound that was being mixed with UK happy hardcore. The first release on Malice Records sold very well, but later releases underperformed in sales.

Howell started a sublabel called Knitebreed, intended for up-and-coming producers, but was unimpressed with the material submitted. He ended up using the label to release tracks from his various aliases. By this time Howell was recording under the names The Timespan, Eko, Garion Fey and DJ Psycangle, and as part of 2 Croozin and 2 Xperience, as well as the usual Luna-C and Cru-L-T monikers. This gave the label the appearance of having a larger roster of artists while allowing Howell greater anonymity.

As Luna-C, Howell had a unique sound he was passionate about, but these tracks weren't selling well and he became disenchanted with the hardcore scene in general. He got into trance music and started an unsuccessful trance label called Strange Room. Facing financial difficulties, Howell halted production on the label and lost interest in making music altogether. DJ Brisk, who had released tunes on Remix Records, formed Next Generation Records with Kniteforce stalwart DJ Ham; DJ Force & The Evolution started UK Dance and split into the two duos DJ Force & Styles and New Motion. Howell found himself in debt for taxes, and in 1997 was forced to sell Kniteforce Records.

Howell sold Kniteforce Records to Death Becomes Me, Ltd., which owned Rogue Trooper, Happy Trax, Punisher and a few other labels. He continued to engineer for the label, and produce tunes under yet more guises, but Kniteforce stopped releasing at number 60. Remix Records stopped its first run under Luna-C's direction, but the name was bought up by another company that released records under the same name and logo. That company in turn sold it on, and the label has continued in one form or another, on and off for years, but no longer has any association with Jimmy J & Cru-L-T.

After the label was sold, and as Luna-C started to recover his financial footing, he married a Japanese woman and began DJing in Japan during 1998. He forged a s