# Dante's Cove

Dante's Cove is an American LGBT-oriented supernatural soap opera which aired on here! from October 7, 2005, through December 21, 2007. Created and written by Michael Costanza and directed by Sam Irvin, the series combines elements of the horror and soap opera genres in telling the story of Kevin (Gregory Michael) and Toby (Charlie David), a young couple seeking to be together and to overcome the dark mystical forces that conspire to separate them. The show debuted to a mixed critical reception. Although an announcement was made regarding a fourth season, no fourth season was produced.

Plot
Young couple Kevin and Toby arrive in Dante's Cove, home to a sect dedicated to the supernatural religion Tresum. By freeing the charismatic Ambrosius from his magical imprisonment, Kevin reignites a rivalry between Ambrosius and the Tresum Avatar Grace that has simmered for over 150 years. Ambrosius's obsession with claiming Kevin and Grace's own obsession with avenging herself on Ambrosius threaten to tear Kevin and Toby apart forever, with unforeseen collateral damage.

Mythology
Tresum is a supernatural religion within the Dante's Cove universe, similar in all things but names to witchcraft. It's overseen by a council of unknown composition which acts through envoys, although there are rogue practitioners, like those of Dante's Cove, who don't abide by the council's rule. Tresum practitioners are shown to be able to teleport, control minds and kill with a glance.
 
All practitioners of Tresum are divided into two houses: Moon, related to water and female energy, and Sun related to fire and male energy, each having a book unreadable to non-initiates in which its knowledge is kept. A third house, Sky, is stated to combine both houses, with a book merging the knowledge of both. A fourth house, Shadows, is revealed as a major threat in season three, having previously been imprisoned by the other houses.

Within the mythology of Dante's Cove, Saint is an entheogenic drug local to the Dante's Cove area, obtained from a plant. In non-practitioners, it produces a euphoric high, sometimes accompanied by a prophetic trance. For Tresum practitioners, it induces visions of the past and future and enhances their magical abilities.

Cast

William Gregory Lee – Ambrosius "Bro" Vallin
Tracy Scoggins – Grace Neville
Gregory Michael – Kevin Archer
Charlie David – Toby Moraitis
Nadine Heimann (seasons 1–2, recurring via stock footage in season 3) – Van
Josh Berresford (season 1, recurring in season 2) – Cory Dalmass
Zara Taylor (season 1) – Amber
Rena Riffel (season 1) – Tina
Stephen Amell (season 1) & Jon Fleming (seasons 2–3) – Adam
Thea Gill (seasons 2–3)  – Diana Childs
Erin Cummings (season 2) & Jill Bennett (season 3) – Michelle
Gabriel Romero (season 2, one guest appearance in season 3) – Marco Laveau
Michelle Wolff (season 3, recurring in season 2) – Brit
German Santiago (season 2) – Kai
Jensen Atwood (season 3) – Griffen
Jenny Shimizu (season 3) – Elena
Reichen Lehmkuhl (season 3) – Trevor

Episodes

Season 1 (2005)

1. "In the Beginning"
In 1840, Ambrosius Vallin is engaged to marry Grace Neville in the island town of Dante's Cove. When she discovers Ambrosius having sex with his valet, she uses her powers as the Avatar, or high priestess, of one sect of the mystical religion, called Tresum, to kill the valet. Grace imprisons Ambrosius in the sub-basement of her home, cursing him with advanced age. The only way he can win his freedom is through the kiss of a handsome young man.

In the present, Kevin moves to Dante's Cove to be with his boyfriend Toby, after moving out of his home to get away from his abusive, homophobic stepfather. He moves in with Toby in Grace's old house, now the Hotel Dante, along with Toby's lesbian artist friend Van and Toby's childhood friend, Adam, who's a straight "trust fund brat." Kevin begins seeing visions and hearing voices calling him by name.

During a party, Kevin is drawn to the sub-basement and finds Ambrosius. Ambrosius kisses him, regaining his youth and freedom. Ambrosius uses his own Tresum powers, learned while he was in captivity, to force Kevin to cut his own wrist, landing Kevin in the hospital.

2. "Then There Was Darkness"
Ambrosius quickly becomes obsessed with Kevin, using his Tresum powers to seduce him. Grace, still jealous and angry over Ambrosius's betrayal, murders Kevin in the hospital. Enraged, Ambrosius attacks Grace and imprisons and ages her as she did him.

Through some unknown means, Kevin is restored to life by a kiss from Ambrosius. However, Grace's act breaks the spell that Kevin had been under, leaving him without any memory of Ambrosius. Using a spell from a Book of Tresum she's found, Van reverses this curse and frees Kevin to again be with Toby.

Also drawn into Ambrosius's influence is Cory, who also lives at the hotel. Cory develops a Renfield-like fixation on Ambrosius. After Cory tries and fails to break up the couple by lying about their infidelities, the season ends with Ambrosius, deeply obsessed with Kevin, and Cory seemingly murdering Toby and dumping his body in the ocean.

Season 2 (2006)
Season 2 sees the introduction of several new residents of Dante's Cove, including Kai, an amoral "fixer" who can get anything (and anyone) he wants; Marco, owner of the hot new club H2Eau; Michelle, Van's girlfriend; Brit, a bartender and scuba instructor; Colin, the owner and operator of a private sex club; and Diana, who has a mysterious connection to Ambrosius and Grace.

Jon Fleming took over the role of Adam from Stephen Amell. One of Amell's scenes from the first season was re-shot with Fleming for use in the recap of season one to establish him in the role.

1. "Some Kind of Magic"
Toby washes ashore, having survived Ambrosius's murder attempt, but with a loss of memory. Grace escapes her prison and reclaims her youth. Ambrosius digs up his own grave and recovers a cache of gold coins that his mother buried there. Following Adam's advice, he updates his look and wardrobe and starts calling himself "Bro." Van casts a spell to reveal the truth about what happened to Toby, drawing Grace's attention and her girlfriend Michelle's disapproval. Van promises not to use magic again but, when Grace attacks, the Book of Tresum rises and defends her and Michelle sees the aftermath.

Toby, having recovered his memory, follows Cory to Bro's new place and calls Van. Bro begins to strangle Cory and, when Toby tries to intervene, again tries to murder him. Van arrives and instinctively defeats Bro, casting him and Cory far out to sea. Adam later finds Cory's body washed up on shore. Michelle delivers Van an ultimatum to leave the island with her. Instead, Van casts a spell to make Michelle forget the magic. The spell backfires, wiping out Michelle's memory of Van completely.

2. "Playing with Fire"
Van and Toby spot Bro at Cory's funeral. After meeting the mysterious Diana Childs, Van gets into an argument with the amnesiac Michelle and Brit. Van then seeks out Grace, asking her to teach her Tresum, but Grace refuses because Van is unwilling to swear herself to Grace's service. Michelle and Brit have sex but Michelle is troubled by visions of Van.

Bro visits Diana, who warns him not to reveal her secrets. In flashback, it's revealed that Diana taught Ambrosius Tresum during his captivity. Van and Grace perform a spell to repel any "love magic" directed at Kevin by Ambrosius. At his new construction job at the hotel, a co-worker puts the moves on Kevin. Toby catches them and makes Kevin move out.

Diana tells Ambrosius that he has to secure a willing Aspirant before the upcoming Solstice. Diana insinuates herself further with Van, who offers her services as a house cleaner.

As an after-effect of Van's spell on her, Michelle is tormented by memory flashes.

3. "Come Together"
Van sketches Grace, who's surprised to see that Van has included Diana in the picture. Grace confronts Diana and it's revealed that they ar