# 3rd Reconnaissance Battalion

The 3rd Reconnaissance Battalion (3rd Recon) conducts amphibious and ground reconnaissance in support of the 3rd Marine Division and Marine Forces Pacific (MarForPac), operating in the commander's areas of influence.  The Battalion is based out of Camp Schwab, a satellite base of Marine Corps Base Camp Smedley D. Butler.  It is geographically located on the Okinawa Prefecture in Japan.

Mission and training

Organization
The 3rd Recon Battalion consists of approximately 450 Marines and Fleet Marine Force sailors that falls under the command of the 3rd Marine Division, III Marine Expeditionary Force.

Company B was formed from the 5th Force Reconnaissance Company due to the formation of the Marine Special Operations Teams (MSOT) in 2006.

3rd Recon Battalion supports the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit by augmenting a Reconnaissance and Surveillance (R&S) Platoon.

Chronology
The 3rd Reconnaissance Company was activated on 16 September 1942 at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, California as the Company E (Scouts), 3rd Tank Battalion, and assigned to the 3rd Marine Division.
On 20 April 1943, they were redesignated as 3rd Scout Company, Headquarters Battalion, 3rd Marine Division.
On 1 July 1943, they were redesignated as Company D (Scout), 3rd Tank Battalion.
On 1 April 1944, they were redesignated Division Reconnaissance Company, Headquarters Battalion, 3rd Marine Division.
Reactivated on 1 March 1952 at Camp Pendleton, they were designated as Reconnaissance Company, Headquarters Battalion and assigned to the 3rd Marine Division, Fleet Marine Force.
In August 1953, they deployed to Camp McGill, Japan; and subsequently redeployed in April 1956 to Camp Hauge, Okinawa.
They were deactivated on 14 April 1958 and reactivated the following day, 15 April 1958, at Camp Schwab, Okinawa, as the 3rd Reconnaissance Battalion, 3rd Marine Division.
3rd Recon Battalion deployed to various locations in the Western Pacific until its stand down and deactivation in 1992.
After de-activation, 3rd Recon Battalion companies devolved to three Regiments in 3rd Marine Division: A Company- Recon Company, 3rd Marine Regiment, B Company – Recon Company, 9th Marine Regiment, and D Company – Recon Company, 4th Marine Regiment. C Company personnel were folded into B and D companies prior to disbandment.
In January 1994, Recon companies, 4th Marine Regiment and 9th Marine Regiment merged to form Recon Company, Headquarters Battalion, 3rd Marine Division at Camp Schwab, Okinawa. Recon Company, 3rd Marine Regiment remained at the Regimental level.
On 2 June 2000, 3rd Reconnaissance Battalion was again reactivated by combining the force and company reconnaissance elements.

History

World War II

In January–February 1943, they deployed to Auckland, New Zealand.

During the recapture of Guam, the 3rd Marine Division and the 1st Provisional Marine Brigade each had its own reconnaissance company.  Major General Lemuel C. Shepherd split the 3rd Division's scout and sniper company into its three platoons to attach each to the brigade's regiments, the 4th and 22nd. The 22nd Marine Regiment's commander, Colonel Merlin F. Schneider, kept his regiment's assigned recon platoon close to the command post (CP).  They were used to for rapid deployment on recon missions for the regimental commander, or when not being used on a specific mission, they guarded the CP. Colonel Schneider retired with the rank of brigadier general after receiving the Navy Cross and Bronze Star.

At night, a landing was made on W-Day, General Shepherd and each of his regimental commanders waited for the usual nightly Japanese counterattacks.  The Japanese forces was led by Japanese Colonel Tsunetaro Suenaga of the 38th Regiment from the Imperial Japanese Army's 29th Division.  At 2130, Colonel Suenaga probed his attacks at the juncture of the regimental boundaries between the 3rd Marine Division's 4th Marines and the Marine Brigade's 22nd Marines.  The enemy charged in force and overran the forward Marine lines and began to penetrate the thinly held rear areas.  Using grenades, small arms, mortars, bayonet and close quarters combat, they were able to hold of the attacking Japanese army.

However, one Japanese element during their counterattack managed to reach the 75 mm pack howitzer artillery position before they were ultimately stopped by the gun crews.  A Japanese company of infiltrators approached the regimental command post.  At this point, the Marine defenders, all hands—clerks, cooks, and supernumeries, rallied around 1st Lt. Dennis Chavez, Jr. recon platoon.  They too immediately stopped the Japanese attack. By dawn, the Japanese 28th Infantry Regiment was eliminated.  Colonel Suenaga was wounded and later killed in these attacks.

Within the 1st Marine Prov. Brigade, on the night of 25–26 July 1944, Colonel Craig, the commanding officer of 9th Marines and the adjoining 21st Marines were concerned about the front line that was left open. Craig opted to use his regimental scout platoon to help fill the gap between the regiments.  At about 2330, a forward operating post reported increased activity.  By midnight, artillery and mortar fire bombarded the area starting another major counterattack by the Japanese.  As a consequence, the lightly armed scout platoon was forced to fall back.

The last reconnaissance on Guam was conducted by a mechanized reconnaissance-in-force.  A force consisted of Alpha, Echo (Scouts), and H&S Company of 3rd Tank Battalion; and I Company of 21st Marines.  During the last major actions beginning 3 August 1944, the 1st Battalion, 9th Marines (1/9) had secured a series of roads that junctioned in Finegayan Village, in the northern section of the islands.  Lieutenant Colonel Hartnoll J. Withers led the group, moving north-northwest.  Two M3 Half-track, two jeeps for communications purposes and one platoon of tanks supported by an infantry platoon were maneuvering toward Road Junction 177.

Their column was immediately hit by heavy concentrated fire from 75-mm and 105-m artillery, tanks, mortars and heavy small-arms and machine guns.  The Marines returned fire and after two hours, the Marines managed to destroy two of the 75 mm guns, one Japanese tank, and several machine-gun nests. Recognizing the Japanese held the advantage in terrain and cover, the Marines withdrew their forces back.  Later it was determined that the attack was against a full Japanese battalion of Rikusentai, the elite Special Naval Landing Force. Guam was finally declared secured on 10 August 1944, after an intense three-week battle.

In December 1945, they returned to Camp Pendleton, and were deactivated on 31 December 1945.

Vietnam War
The first U.S. combat units that landed during the Vietnam War were Marine units. On 8 March 1965 the 9th Marine Expeditionary Brigade landed at Red Beach, Da Nang to secure Da Nang Air Base and establish an effective beachhead. Within the original landing force, a platoon from Company A, 3rd Reconnaissance Battalion attached to Battalion Landing Team 3rd Battalion, 9th Marines became the first division reconnaissance element to be "resident" in South Vietnam.

The Marines made their encounter with a small company of Viet Cong on 22 April 1965. A recon patrol from D Company, 3rd Reconnaissance Battalion was scouting 13 kilometers southwest of Da Nang. The Marine patrol was accompanied by a few platoons from the Army of the Republic of Vietnam (ARVN). After a brief intense exchange of small-arms fire, the outnumbered recon Marines radioed in for support. An infantry company from Battalion Landing Team 1st Battalion, 3rd Marines (BLT 1/3) reinforced the small group of D Company and the ARVN. The combined force was able to push the hostile force back several kilometers before losing them in the heavily foliaged terrain. Two days later on 24 April, a recon squad positioned two kilometers south of Da Nang fell under a surprise attack by VC as the Marines were setting up defensive positions for