# 1919 in baseball

Headline Event of the Year
Chicago White Sox players accused of throwing World Series, resulting in the Black Sox scandal.

Champions
World Series: Cincinnati Reds over Chicago White Sox (5–3)

Awards and honors
MLB Most Valuable Player Award
 None

MLB statistical leaders

Major league baseball final standings

American League final standings

National League final standings

Events

January
January 26 – After the city of Pasadena, California passed an ordinance requiring all people to wear masks in public due to the Spanish flu pandemic, a California Winter League game took place between the Pasadena and La Habra teams in which all players and umpires wore masks.
January 30 – The Cincinnati Reds hire Pat Moran as manager when no word is received from manager Christy Mathewson, who is still in France.
January 31 – Future Hall of Fame member Jackie Robinson is born to Jerry and Mallie Robinson in Cairo, Georgia. Robinson will become the first African American player in 20th century major league history when he debuts for the Brooklyn Dodgers in .

February
February 1 – After winning an out-of-court settlement of his suit against the Brooklyn Robins for the balance of his salary ($2,150) when the 1918 season ended a month early, former MVP Jake Daubert is traded to the Reds for OF Tommy Griffith.
February 5 – Charges brought in 1918 by Reds owner Garry Herrmann and manager Christy Mathewson against Hal Chase for betting against his team and throwing games in collusion with gamblers are dismissed by National League president John Heydler.
February 19 - The Reds trade Chase to the New York Giants in exchange for first baseman Walter Holke and catcher Bill Rariden. 
February 21 – The New York Yankees acquire 35-year-old spitballer Jack Quinn from Vernon (PCL), sending in exchange P Happy Finneran, 1B Zinn Beck, and cash. Quinn will be named a designated spitballer when the wet pitch is outlawed, and in 1921 he will help the Yankees to their first American League pennant. Quinn won't call it quits until he's 50.
February 28 - The St, Louis Browns purchase the contract of catcher Wally Mayer from the Boston Red Sox for the sum of $5,000.

March
March 1 – Philadelphia Athletics owner Connie Mack makes one of his biggest player mistakes, trading 3B Larry Gardner, OF Charlie Jamieson, and P Elmer Myers to Cleveland in exchange for OF Braggo Roth. Vet writer Ernest Lanigan predicts that Roth will lead the circuit in homers at Shibe Park, but Roth will be shipped on to Boston by midseason. Gardner will put in six more .300 years, and Jamieson will be a top leadoff man and .303 hitter for the next 14 years.
March 7 – Christy Mathewson, back from World War I, rejoins the Giants as pitching coach and heir apparent to John McGraw.
March 17 – The Boston Red Sox, minus holdouts Carl Mays and Babe Ruth, sail from New York aboard the S.S. Arapahoe. The trip to spring training is stormy and most of the players will be seasick.

April
April 18 - The Brooklyn Robins purchase the contract of outfielder Lee Magee from the Cincinnati Reds. Magee would later be a key figure in Hal Chase's banishment from baseball when Magee confided to National League president John Heydler that Chase tried to bribe him to not hustle in a game.
April 19 – Pushed through the legislature by future New York City mayor Jimmy Walker, a bill legalizing Sunday baseball in the state is signed by Governor Al Smith.
April 25- Dickey Kerr makes his major league debut for the Chicago White Sox. He relieved starter Dave Danforth and pitched seven innings in a 7-2 loss to the St. Louis Browns. Kerr did not figure in the decision.

May
May 4 –  The New York Giants play their first legal Sunday game at home, before 35,000 fans, losing to the Philadelphia Phillies, 4–3. More than 25,000 turn out in Brooklyn the same day. By early June, the Giants will outdraw their 1918 attendance.
May 6- A 24 year old outfielder named George Halas makes his MLB debut for the New York Yankees. He goes one for four in a game against the Philadelphia Athletics. This would be the only season Halas plays in the majors before he became one of the founders of the National Football League.  
May 11:
Cincinnati Reds right-hander Hod Eller pitches a 6–0 no-hitter over the St. Louis Cardinals.
Walter Johnson retires 28 consecutive batters during a 12-inning scoreless tie against Jack Quinn and the New York Yankees. Future football immortal George Halas, batting leadoff for New York, goes 0-for-5 with two strikeouts.
May 15 –  The Cincinnati Reds bomb Al Mamaux for 10 runs in the 13th innings to beat the Brooklyn Robins, 10–0. Reds RF Greassy Neale has a record 10 putouts.
May 20 – Red Sox pitcher Babe Ruth hit his first career grand slam home run; the bomb comes against Dave Davenport of the St. Louis Browns in St. Louis. Boston wins 6–4.
May 21 –  The Giants send Jim Thorpe to Boston for the $1,500 waiver price.
May 23 –  It's Hank Gowdy Day in Boston, the catcher's first game after returning from the Army. He hits the first pitch he sees for a single.

June
June 14 –  Chicago White Sox ace Eddie Cicotte beats the Philadelphia Athletics for the 12th straight time en route to a 29–7 record and a 1.82 ERA.
 The New York Giants sign free agent infielder Frankie Frisch. Without spending a day in the minor leagues, Frisch, who'd just graduated from Fordham, makes his MLB three days later versus Chicago.
June 23:
Boston Red Sox 1B Stuffy McInnis makes his first error of the year after handling 526 chances.
Chicago White Sox CF Happy Felsch handles a record-tying 12 chances in a nine-inning game. Only Harry Bay of Cleveland in 1904 has been so busy.

July
July 1 – Going 5-for-5 in a 9–4 win over the Phillies, Brooklyn's Ed Konetchy gets his 10th straight hit, tying Jake Gettman's record set with Washington in 1897. Both will be topped by Walt Dropo in 1952.
July 6 – William Veeck, former sportswriter, replaces Fred Mitchell as Chicago Cubs president, but Mitchell remains as  manager for the team.
July 8 – Jack Coombs resigns as manager of the last-place Philadelphia Phillies. Slugger Gavvy Cravath replaces him.
July 29 - The New York Yankees trade pitchers Bob McGraw and Allen Russell to the Boston Red Sox for a player to be named later. The trade is completed the next day when the Red Sox ship pitcher Carl Mays to the Yankees.

August
August 8 – The Pittsburgh Pirates trade Casey Stengel to the Phillies for Possum Whitted, who will bat .389 for Pittsburgh in the last 35 games of the season.
August 11 – Cleveland's Tris Speaker ties an AL record, scoring five runs in a 15–9 win at New York.
August 14:
Babe Ruth hits his 17th home run, the first of seven homers in 12 days, which will include his fourth grand slam, setting an AL record until 1959. The Yankees overcome Muddy Ruel's hitting into a triple play and beat the Tigers in 15 innings, 5–4.
Chicago White Sox CF Happy Felsch ties the major-league record with four OF assists in one game, but the Boston Red Sox beats Chicago 15–6.
The Brooklyn Robins waste no time in splitting a pair with the Chicago Cubs, losing 2–0 in an hour and 10 minutes, then winning 1–0 in one hour and seven minutes in the second game.
August 16 –  The St. Louis Browns set an AL record with 53 total chances against the Philadelphia Athletics, but lose 7–4. The Browns have 26 assists and St. Louis 1B George Sisler has 17 putouts. With no putouts, the St. Louis outfielders have the day off.
August 20:
 Wichita OF Joe Wilhoit (Western League) fails to get a hit, ending a 69-game streak in which he collected 155 hits in 299 at bats for a .505 batting average. The previous record was 49 by Oakland's Jack Ness (Pacific Coast League) in 1915.
 The New York Yankees purchase the contracts of outfielder Bob Meusel from Vernon of the PCL, and pitcher Rip Collins from Dallas in the Texas League. Both players would play key roles in the Yankees' 1921 AL Pennant team.
August 24 –  Cleveland Indians P Ray Caldwell is flattened by