# Orthoreovirus

Orthoreovirus is a genus of viruses, in the family Reoviridae, in the subfamily Spinareovirinae. Vertebrates serve as natural hosts. There are ten species in this genus. Diseases associated with this genus include mild upper respiratory tract disease, gastroenteritis, and biliary atresia. Mammalian orthoreovirus 3 (strain dearing-T3D) induces cell death preferentially in transformed cells and therefore displays inherent oncolytic properties.

History
The name "orthoreovirus" comes from the Greek word ortho, meaning "straight" and the reovirus, which comes from taking the letters: R, E, and O from "respiratory enteric orphan virus". The Orthoreovirus was named an orphan virus because it was not known to be associated with any known disease. It was discovered in the early 1950s when it was isolated from the respiratory as well as gastrointestinal tracts of both sick and healthy individuals

Classification
Orthoreovirus is part of the family Reoviridae. Its genome is composed of segmented double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), thus it is classified as a group III virus according to the Baltimore classification system of viruses. This family of viruses is taxonomically classified into 15 distinct genera. These genera are sorted out taking into account the number of dsRNA genomes. The Orthoreovirus genus has 10 segments that have been isolated from a large range of hosts including mammals, birds, and reptiles. These genera are further divided into two phenotypic groups: fusogenic and non-fusogenic. The way that they are determined to belong to a specific group is if the virus is able to cause multinucleated cells known as syncytial cells. According to this classification, mammalian orthoreoviruses (MRV) are known to be non-fusogenic, meaning it does not produce syncytia, while other members of this genus are fusogenic, such as avian orthoreoviruses (ARV), baboon orthoreoviruses (BRV), reptilian orhtoreoviruses (RRV).

Taxonomy
The following ten species are assigned to the genus:
Avian orthoreovirus
Baboon orthoreovirus
Broome orthoreovirus
Mahlapitsi orthoreovirus
Mammalian orthoreovirus
Nelson Bay orthoreovirus
Neoavian orthoreovirus
Piscine orthoreovirus
Reptilian orthoreovirus
Testudine orthoreovirus

Structure
Mammalian orthoreovirus virions are non-enveloped with icosahedral symmetry created by a double-layered capsid reaching about 80 nm wide. Each capsid contains 10 segments of double stranded RNA (dsRNA) genome. The inner capsid or core particle (T=2) contains five different proteins: σ2, λ1, λ2, λ3, and μ2 and is approximately 70 nm in diameter. One hundred and twenty copies of the λ1 protein arranged in 12 decameric units make up the shell of the inner capsid structure. This shell is stabilized by one hundred and fifty copies of the σ2 protein that 'clamp'  adjacent λ1 monomers together. At the 12 five-fold axes of symmetry, pentamers of the λ2 protein form turret-like structures that protrudes from the surface of the shell. In the center of the λ2 turret a channel allows viral mRNAs to be extruded during transcription. The channel is 70Å at its base and 15Å at its narrowest point.  The core also contains within it twelve copies of λ3, the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. One λ3 protein is found slightly offset from each of the twelve pentameric λ2 turrets. Closely associated with λ3 are one or two copies of μ2, a transcriptase cofactor. μ2 has been found to have some enzymatic functions, such as NTPase activity. The λ3 protein is responsible for transcription of the double-stranded RNA genome segments. Each transcript is threaded through the λ2 pentameric turret as it is being extruded. Guanylyltransferase enzymatic activity in the λ2 turret adds a 5' guanosine cap to the extruded mRNA. In addition, two methyltransferase domains found in the λ2 structure act to methylate the 7N position of the added guanosine and the 2' O of the first templated nucleotide, which in all cases is also a guanosine. The outer capsid (T=13) is composed of μ1 and σ3 proteins with λ2, in compound with σ1, interspersed around the capsid. It has been proposed that λ2 is involved in replication due to its placement at the fivefold axes and its ability to interact with λ3 in solution. σ1, a filamentous trimer extruding from the outer capsid,  is responsible for cell attachment by interacting with sialic acid and other entry receptors. μ1 and σ3 are both involved in the attachment and thus entry of the virus via receptor-mediated endocytosis involving the formation of clathrin-coated pits.

Strains
Mammalian orthoreoviruses
The only orthoreovirus to not produce syncytia, mammalian orthoreoviruses have the capability of infecting all mammals, but do not cause disease, except in young populations enabling them to be studied frequently as a model for viral replication and pathogenesis. 
Pteropine orthoreovirus 
This orthoreovirus has been extracted from the heart blood of a fruit bat (Pteropus policephalus) in Australia with different viruses being isolated from different species, such as the flying fox (Pteropus hypomelanus) which have been found to cause respiratory infections in humans in Southeast Asia.  The Nelson Bay Orthoreovirus, like the Avian orthoreovirus, has 3 open reading frames (ORFs) which encode for three different proteins: P10 which promotes syncytia formation, P17, and σC involved in cell attachment.
Baboon orthoreovirus 
The syncytia inducing capabilities of this class of orthoreoviruses combined with their association to encephalitis in baboons, distinguish them from other mammalian orthoreoviruses. While these viruses have the signature Orthoreovirus genome, they have not been found to encode for a cell attachment protein (σC), they do not encode any S-class genome segments, and are organized differently from the other species of fusogenic orthoreoviruses. The BRV genome contains 2 ORFs and contains two proteins, p15 and p16, that are not homologous to known viral or cellular proteins; however, p15 has been found to be the cell fusion protein in BRV.
Avian orthoreovruses 
The Avian orthoreovirus has a similar structure compared to the Mammalian Orthoreovirus with the differences mainly existing in the proteins that it encodes: 10  structural proteins and 4 non-structural proteins. However, these proteins have not been studied in depth, so there is some skepticism regarding their exact functions. The pathogenesis of this virus has been studied in an attempt to determine the pathway of inducing apoptosis. Avian orthoreovirus induces apoptosis by what has been proposed as an upregulation of p53 and Bax, a mitochondria-mediated pathway. P17 has also been found to play a role in growth retardation involved in the p53 pathway. Avian Orthoreoviruses have been found to cause diseases in poultry including chronic respiratory disease, malabsorption syndrome, and arthritis representing economic losses that make this virus particularly important to study.
Reptilian orthoreovirus 
These orthoreoviruses were first isolated in 1987 from a moribund python (Python regius) and was found to cause high levels of syncytium formation but did not cause hemagglutination in human red blood cells (RBCs). In reptiles the virus has been found widely but is not necessarily associated with any specific disease. The virus has been found to have 2 ORFs encoding for p14, a cell fusion protein and σC. RRVs belong to the fusogenic subgroup and has only recently been classified as a distinct subgroup of orthoreoviruses.
Piscine orthoreovirus 
Also known as Piscine reovirus or PRV, was initially discovered in Atlantic salmon and subsequently in Pacific salmon and is associated with Heart and Skeletal Muscle Inflammation (HSMI)

Infection and transmission
Transmission of the virus is either through the fecal–oral route or through respiratory droplets.  The virus is transmitted horizontally and only known to cause disease in vertebrates.  Different levels of virulence may be observed depending on the s