# Reliable Replacement Warhead

The Reliable Replacement Warhead (RRW) was a proposed new American nuclear warhead design and bomb family that was intended to be simple, reliable and to provide a long-lasting, low-maintenance future nuclear force for the United States.  Initiated by the United States Congress in 2004, it became a centerpiece of the plans of the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) to remake the nuclear weapons complex.

In 2008, Congress denied funding for the program, and in 2009 the Obama administration called for work on the program to cease.

Background
During the Cold War, the United States, in an effort to achieve and maintain an advantage in the nuclear arms race with the Soviet Union, invested large amounts of money and technical resources into nuclear weapons design, testing, and maintenance. Many of the weapons designed required high upkeep costs, justified primarily by their Cold War context and the specific and technically sophisticated applications they were created for.  With the end of the Cold War, however, nuclear testing has ceased in the United States, and new warhead development has been significantly reduced. As a result, the need for high technical performance of warheads has decreased considerably, and the need for a longer-lasting and reliable stockpile has taken a high priority.

Prior nuclear weapons produced by the U.S. had historically become extremely compact, low weight, highly integrated, and low-margin designs which used exotic materials. In many cases the components were toxic and/or unstable. A number of older US designs used high explosive types which degraded over time, some of which became dangerously unstable in short lifetimes (PBX 9404 and LX-09).
Some of these explosives have cracked in warheads in storage, resulting in dangerous storage and disassembly conditions.

Most experts believe that the insensitive explosives (PBX 9502, LX-17) currently in use are highly stable and may even become more stable over time.

The use of beryllium and highly toxic beryllium oxide material as neutron reflector layers was a major health hazard to bomb manufacturer and maintenance staff. The long term stability of plutonium metal, which may lose strength, crack, or otherwise degrade over time is also a concern. (See Nuclear weapons design and Teller-Ulam design for technical context.)

The question of whether the plutonium-gallium alloy used in the cores of the weapons suffered from aging has been a major topic of research at the weapons laboratories in recent decades. Though many at the labs still insist on scientific uncertainty on the question, a study commissioned by the National Nuclear Security Administration to the independent JASON group concluded in November 2006 that "most plutonium pits have a credible lifetime of at least 100 years". The oldest pits currently in the US arsenal are still less than 50 years old.

Concept
The concept underlying the RRW program is that the US weapons laboratories can design new nuclear weapons that are highly reliable and easy and safe to manufacture, monitor, and test.  If that proves to be possible, designers could adapt a common set of core design components to various use requirements, such as different sized missile warheads, different nuclear bomb types, etc.

NNSA officials believe the program is needed to maintain nuclear weapons expertise in order to rapidly adapt, repair, or modify existing weapons or develop new weapons as requirements evolve.  They see the ability to adapt to changing military needs rather than maintain additional forces for unexpected contingencies as a key program driver.   However, Congress has rejected the notion that the RRW is needed to meet new military requirements.  In providing funds for 2006, the Appropriations Committee specified, "any weapons design under the RRW program must stay within the military requirements of the existing deployed stockpile and any new weapon design must stay within the design parameters validated by past nuclear tests".

According to a Task Force of the Secretary of Energy's Advisory Board (SEAB), the RRW program and weapon designs should have the following characteristics:
 Support an adaptable 1,700-2,200 weapon sustained force level (3.1)
 Resolve an issue with the weapons stockpile within 12 months
 Adapt a weapon to a new requirement in 18 months
 Design a new weapon within 36 months
 Be ready for full production within 48 months
 Be capable of conducting an underground nuclear test within 18 months
 Produce all new weapons using Insensitive High Explosive (see TATB and Plastic bonded explosive) and replace all existing weapons which use other explosives (3.1.2)
 Produce new weapons with the full spectrum of security and use control safety features available today, some of which are intrinsic to the basic design of a weapon and cannot possibly be retrofitted into the design of an existing weapon (3.1.3)
 Designs which trade off higher weight and larger volume to maximise: (3.1.4)
 Certification without nuclear testing
 Inexpensive manufacture and disassembly
 Ease of maintenance, surveillance, and disposition
 Modularity (primaries, secondaries, non-nuclear) across systems
 Maximizing component reuse and minimizing life-cycle costs
 Comparable or improved levels of reliability to existing designs, using larger margins and simpler components (3.1.5)
 Lower cost (3.1.6)
 Designs which can be designed and certified without necessarily undergoing nuclear testing (3.1.7)
 Consolidation of many nuclear weapon production and maintenance functions to one site (4.1)
 (in passing) Designs avoiding the use of beryllium or beryllium Oxide in the weapon fission reflector (4.6)

However, the full SEAB disavowed the Task Force's recommendations regarding the RRW, because the Task Force did not consider the program's potentially adverse impacts on U.S. nonproliferation objectives, which were beyond its expertise.

The RRW program has not to date publicly announced that it has developed any new nuclear weapon designs which are intended to be placed into production.  Presumably, once that occurs, the weapons will receive numbers in the US warhead designation sequence, which currently runs from the Mark 1 nuclear bomb (aka Little Boy) to the W91 nuclear warhead, which was cancelled in the 1990s.  RRW designs would presumably receive designations after that number, though new RNEP nuclear bunker buster weapons could conceivably be type-standardized and numbered prior to any RRW reaching that point, if the RNEP program does proceed.

Selected design

On March 2, 2007, the NNSA announced that the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory RRW design had been selected for the initial RRW production version.

One of the selection reasons given was that the LLNL proposed design was more closely tied to historical underground tested warhead designs.  It was described by Thomas P. D'Agostino, acting head of the National Nuclear Security Administration, as having been based on a design which was test fired in the 1980s, but never entered service.

LLNL staff have previously hinted in the press that LLNL was considering a design entry based on the tested but never deployed W89 design.
This warhead had been proposed as a W88 warhead replacement as early as 1991.  The W89 design was already equipped with all then-current safety features, including insensitive high explosives, fire-resistant pits, and advanced detonator safety systems.  The W89 was also reportedly designed using recycled pits from the earlier W68 nuclear weapon program, recoated in vanadium to provide the temperature resistance.  The W89 warhead was test fired in the 1980s.  It had entered Phase 2A technical definition and cost study in November, 1986, and Phase 3 development engineering and was assigned the numerical designation W89 in January 1988.  The lead designer, Bruce Goodwin, referred to the primary as the "SKUA9" design which he said had been tested a number of times.

The W8