# Mainz Microtron

The Mainz Microtron (German name: Mainzer Mikrotron), abbreviated MAMI, 
is a microtron (particle accelerator) which provides a continuous wave, high intensity, polarized electron beam with an energy up to 1.6 GeV. MAMI is the core of an experimental facility for particle, nuclear and X-ray radiation physics at the Johannes Gutenberg University in Mainz (Germany). It is one of the largest campus-based accelerator facilities for basic research in Europe. The experiments at MAMI are performed by about 200 physicists of many countries organized in international collaborations.

Research goals
The scientific research at MAMI focusses on the investigation of the 
structure and dynamics of hadrons, particles consisting of quarks and gluons
bound by the strong force.  
The most important hadrons 
are protons and neutrons, the basic constituents  
of atomic nuclei and, therefore, the building blocks of ordinary matter. 
Electrons and photons interact with the electric charges
and the magnetization of quarks inside a hadron in a relatively weak and  
well understood way providing undistorted information about 
basic hadronic properties like (transverse) size, magnetic moments, 
distribution of charge and magnetism, flavor structure, polarizabilities and 
excitation spectrum. 
At MAMI the full potential of electroweak probes is explored in an
energy region characteristic for the first hadronic excitations and with a 
spatial resolution in the order of the typical hadron size of about 1 fm.

The MAMI accelerator

The MAMI accelerator consists of four cascaded 
microtrons, an injector linac, a thermal source for unpolarized 
electrons and a laser-driven source for electrons with 80% spin polarization. 
The operation principle is based on the  
continuous wave (cw) microtron technique. There the
beam is recirculated many times 
through a normal-conduction linear accelerating structure
with a moderate energy gain per turn. Due to constant, homogeneous  magnetic bending 
fields the length of the beam path is increasing 
with energy after each turn. The magnetic fields, the radio-frequency (rf)
used to accelerate the electrons and the energy gain per turn
have to be adjusted to meet the microtron coherence condition, i.e. the 
condition that the length of each path is an integer factor of 
the rf wavelength. 
This microtron scheme makes efficient use of the rf power and 
the inherent strong longitudinal phase focussing guarantees 
excellent beam quality and stability.

 
In each of the first 3 stages 
the recirculation is archived by two homogeneous 180° bending magnets.
The electron tracks are reminiscent of the race track of an 
antique arena which is the origin for the name "race-track-microtron (RTM)".
The third stage, MAMI-B, started operation in 1990 and delivered 
a beam for experiments with energies up to 882 MeV and 100 A cw for more than
97800 h until the end of 2007. The quality of the beam is very high:
an energy spread of 30 keV and an emittance of 25 nm*rad is achieved 
routinely. The bending magnets of MAMI-B 
are approximately 5 m wide and weigh 450 t. At this 
point the mechanical limit of the RTM concept has been reached, leaving 
MAMI-B to be the biggest microtron in the world.

At the end of the 1990s, the demand for an energy increase up to about 1500 MeV arose. This was accomplished by adding a fourth accelerator stage. Adding another RTM was not possible because it would have required bending magnets of ~2200 tons each. Therefore, the technique was modified by splitting the 180°-dipoles into a system of symmetric pairs of 90°-dipoles, each forming an achromatic 180° 
bending system with magnets of only 250 tons each. To compensate for the strong vertical defocusing due to the 45° pole-face inclination 
between the magnets, these dipoles incorporate an appropriate field gradient normal to this pole edge. In this scheme 
there are two non-dispersive sections which allow to install  two linear accelerators. To meet the microtron coherence condition
within the confined space of existing experimental areas the acceleration frequency of one of these linacs is twice the MAMI-B frequency of 2.45 GHz.
The other linac still  operates at 2.45 GHz for enhanced 
longitudinal stability. 
This special rf scheme gave rise to the name Harmonic Double-Sided Microtron (HDSM). 
MAMI-C is the worldwide first accelerator
using this concept (Kaiser, K.H. et al., 2000). 

The construction work started in 2000. 
End of December 2006, within one day, 
the first test beam was guided through all 43 recirculations and reached 
the design energy of 1508 MeV. After only a few weeks of beam tests, 
the first nuclear physics experiment was conducted in February 2007. 
About 50% of the MAMI beam time in 2007 (7180 h) was used for 1.5 GeV 
operation. All design parameters of the HDSM, including the max. current 
of 100 µA (151 kW of beam power), have been verified. End of 2009 an energy 
of 1604 MeV was reached.
The mean availability of the beam for experiments (> 80%) is at a very 
high level, a clear demonstration that the 
HDSM scheme is as reliable and stable as the RTM cascade.

Experimental facilities

High-resolution electron scattering

 
The largest experimental hall of the MAMI accelerator complex houses 
three high-resolution, focussing  magnetic spectrometers operated by the A1 Collaboration. 
The high momentum resolution (p/p < ) together with the large acceptance in solid angle 
(up to 28 msr) and in  momentum (up to 25%) makes this setup ideal for
electron scattering in coincidence with hadron detection.
One of the spectrometers can be tilted up to an out-of-plane angle of 10°, allowing for out-of-plane kinematics. 
A proton recoil polarimeter gives, in combination with the polarized MAMI beam and 
a polarized helium-3 gas target, access to a broad variety of spin observables.
A fourth spectrometer (KAOS/A1), covering high momenta with a moderate path length for the 
detection of kaons, is currently in the commissioning phase. 
The main physics goals are:
Form factors in elastic electron scattering belong to the most fundamental observables characteristic for nuclear and sub-nuclear systems. They are directly related to transverse spatial densities of charge and magnetization. At MAMI elastic electron-nucleon scattering is studied at small momentum transfer Q² < 2 GeV²/c² with a very high precision.
  In radiative inelastic electron scattering, where an additional low energy photon is emitted (virtual Compton-scattering), the response of nucleons to quasi-static electromagnetic fields can be studied. This response is described in terms of polarizabilities and their spatial distribution. 
 Inelastic electron scattering in coincidence with mesons (pions, etas, kaons) provides information about the excitation spectrum of protons and neutrons. Form factors for the transition of a nucleon to specific excited states can be studied with high precision.
 The structure and the wave functions of nuclei and hypernuclei, where one proton or neutron has been replaced by a heavier lambda or sigma baryon, are studied in electron scattering off nuclei in coincidence with knocked-out nucleons or produced mesons.

A list of recent publications can be found here.

Photoabsorption experiments

The A2 Collaboration studies reactions induced by high-energy photons incident
on nucleons or nuclei. A beam of photons with known energy and flux 
is produced via bremsstrahlung using a dedicated 
tagging spectrometer provided by the University of Glasgow. 
A polarized electron beam produces circularly polarized photons. Linearly 
polarized photons can be obtained from coherent bremsstrahlung in an oriented crystal radiator.
The central part of the detector system is a hermetic calorimeter consisting
of the Crystal Ball detector (672 NaI crystals) in combination with the TAPS detector (384 BaF2 crystals)
in forward direction. For charged-particle tracking and identification 
two layers of c