# List of The Fairly OddParents characters

This article features an extensive cast of characters from the Nickelodeon animated series The Fairly OddParents, created by Butch Hartman.

Main

Timmy Turner

Timothy Tiberius Turner is a 10-year-old boy who was given fairy godparents to grant his every wish as a result of his neglectful parents and abuse from Vicky. He wears a pink hat and shirt with blue pants. He also has a comically large malocclusion, which is usually mocked. His wishes often have unpredictable and problematic side effects, and are often reverted upon Timmy's request by the end of the episode. His interests include comic books, video games, cartoons, and sports. During a time travel trip, Timmy accidentally arrives the day his parents moved into their house; unseen, he learns that they were expecting a girl, hence his pink hat.

Originally, Timmy was going to be named Mike after Butch Hartman's older brother, but this led to an argument, so Hartman instead named the character after his youngest brother. Hartman also originally wanted to give him the last name Taylor, but that was close to Tim Allen's character name Tim Taylor in Home Improvement. Hartman has also stated that Timmy is his alter ego: "He's a wise guy. He's sarcastic. He's quick-tempered... He loves comic books. He loves video games. ... He's pretty much my alter ego, except I didn't have fairy godparents."

Timmy is voiced by Mary Kay Bergman in the original  Oh Yeah! Cartoons shorts, and by Tara Strong in the main television series and related media. In the live-action films, he is portrayed by Drake Bell, but the animated portion in A Fairly Odd Summer is voiced by Strong. Alec Baldwin guest voiced adult Timmy in the "Channel Chasers" television special. In The Fairly OddParents: Fairly Odder, he is played by Caleb Pierce.

Cosmo and Wanda
Cosmo and Wanda are fairy godparents assigned to grant Timmy's, and later Chloe's, wishes. They were previously the godparents of Denzel Crocker, Billy Gates, Tina Turner, and other historical and modern day figures; such as Benjamin Franklin. To avoid being seen by humans other than Timmy, they often disguise themselves as animals or inanimate objects.

Cosmo
Cosmo Julius Fairywinkle-Cosma is Wanda's husband, Poof's father, and Timmy and Chloe's godfather. He is known for his dim-witted personality and has been responsible for inadvertently causing disasters since he was born. As explained in "Fairly Oddbaby", Cosmo's ability for destruction is such that when he was born, all fairies were henceforth no longer allowed to have children out of the fear that another potential fairy baby would be as bad as or worse than Cosmo. Although he is very laid back and dim, Cosmo is prone to fits of jealousy and becomes defensive when he sees others flirting with Wanda. He was the youngest fairy until Poof was born and, though he was considered an only child in earlier episodes, has a brother named Schnozmo that debuts later. His mother, Mama Cosma, is overprotective of Cosmo and thus despises Wanda. Cosmo has green hair and typically wears a white shirt, black pants, and a black necktie. He has shown to love pudding and a nickel named Philipp.

Cosmo is voiced by Daran Norris in the original Oh Yeah! Cartoons shorts, the main TV series and related media, including the 2022 live-action revival/reboot series Fairly Odder. In the live-action film A Fairly Odd Movie: Grow Up, Timmy Turner, the live-action Cosmo is portrayed by Jason Alexander, but the animated portions are still voiced by Norris.

Wanda
Wanda Venus Fairywinkle-Cosma is Cosmo's wife, Poof's mother, and Timmy and Chloe's godmother. She is depicted as being smart and caring. Unlike Cosmo, she tries to prevent Timmy from wishing for things which can be disastrous, though her attempts often fail. However, she is responsible for the extinction of dinosaurs, 65 million years ago. She has a sister, who is a popular actress, named Blonda whom she fights with a lot, as Wanda believes her sister's life as a Soap Star is easier than hers as a housewife. Wanda also has a father named Big Daddy, who also despised Cosmo similar to how Mama Cosma dislikes Wanda but to a much lesser extent. She has pink hair styled with a swirl in front and is usually shown wearing a yellow T-shirt and black pants. Wanda has an obsession with chocolate, and it is one of the only things that can distract her from her top priorities.

Wanda's design, especially the hair swirl, is based on Wilma from The Flintstones. In the original pitch for the show she was named Venus and had blue hair.

Wanda is voiced by Susanne Blakeslee in the original Oh Yeah! Cartoons shorts, the main TV series and related media, including the 2022 live-action revival/reboot series Fairly Odder. In the live-action film A Fairly Odd Movie: Grow Up, Timmy Turner, the live-action Wanda is portrayed by Cheryl Hines, but the animated portions are still voiced by Blakeslee.

Vicky 

Vicky is Timmy's rude, selfish, greedy, sadistic, conniving, malicious, and tyrannical 16-year-old babysitter, and one of the main antagonists in the series. She has but a few friends and enjoys torturing children, watching television and making the world miserable, especially for Timmy. She lives with her mother, her father, and her younger sister Tootie. She has encountered Cosmo and Wanda on numerous occasions, but does not believe in them.

Also, she has encountered Mark Chang in his natural form, which she dismisses in early seasons as a Halloween costume, but recognizes as his true form during Season 6. A plot point in the episode "Frenemy Mine" involved her belonging to a dark society known as B.R.A.T. (Babysitters Raging Against Twerps). She has been shown to be accepting of her own cruelty, and that the only reason she is, is that she was mistreated as a child by her own babysitter.

Vicky is voiced by Grey (DeLisle) Griffin in the original  Oh Yeah! Cartoons shorts, the main television series and related media. In the live-action films, she is portrayed by Devon Weigel. Vicky also appears as a recurring antagonist in The Fairly OddParents: Fairly Odder, where she is now a teacher at Dimmsdale Junior High, being portrayed by Mary Kate Wiles.

Mr. Crocker

Mr. Denzel Quincy Crocker, usually called Mr. Crocker, is a grayish-skinned, hunchbacked man and Timmy's fairy-obsessed teacher, and one of the main antagonists in the series. He correctly suspects that Timmy has fairy godparents of his own, and he is often able to tell what Timmy has wished for by the smallest, most irrelevant clues. His unshakable belief in fairy godparents leads to other adults perceiving him as mentally ill. A running gag has him spasm uncontrollably whenever he shouts, "Fairy godparents!".
 
Crocker has been shown to go to great extents to prove his theory that Timmy has fairy godparents, sinking vast quantities of money into expensive equipment and conducting elaborate experiments. He is also willing to do highly dangerous and immoral things to confirm the belief. For example, in his debut episode, "Transparents!", he attempts to test whether Cosmo and Wanda are fairies by trying to get them to sit in an electric chair. He states that, "If they survive, they're fairies!" but "If they don't, I have tenure!"
 
Surprisingly, Crocker is the previous godchild of Cosmo and Wanda. Though he lost them and the memories of their time with him, his belief in fairies remains. Timmy tries to alter this event via time travel in "The Secret Origin of Denzel Crocker!", but he paradoxically fails and becomes the reason Crocker lost Cosmo and Wanda and made him remember his belief in fairies.
 
Although being a middle-aged man, he still lives with his mother, Dolores Crocker. His father has never been seen or mentioned in the series.
 
In an ironic twist, Crocker served for many decades as the main power source for fairy magic; his belief is so strong that it was used to power the Big Wand, the source of all the magic in Fairy World. In the epis