# MultiCam

MultiCam is a camouflage pattern designed for use in a wide range of environments and conditions which was specifically developed and is produced by American company Crye Precision. As a result of the pattern's effectiveness across disparate environments and regions, it has found extensive adoption globally. Variants of it, some unlicensed, are in use with armed forces worldwide, particularly with special operations units.

The pattern is also available for purchase for civilian usage. Derived from the original standard pattern, additional specified variants were developed and later introduced, those are "Arid", "Tropic", "Alpine" and "Black".

History

First unveiled and designed in 2002, MultiCam was designed for the use of the U.S. Army in varied environments, seasons, elevations, and light conditions. It is a seven-color, multi-environment camouflage pattern developed by Crye Precision in conjunction with United States Army Soldier Systems Center.

The pattern was included in the U.S. Army's move to replace the 3-Color Desert and Woodland patterns, but in 2004 lost to the Universal Camouflage Pattern (UCP) that came to be used in the Army Combat Uniform. Nonetheless, it remained in limited use by the U.S. Army special forces in the mid-to-late 2000s in Iraq and Afghanistan. MultiCam was also continually trialed for its "Future Force Warrior" program demonstrations.

MultiCam was officially re-commissioned by the U.S. Army in 2010, replacing UCP for units deploying to fight in the War in Afghanistan, under the designation Operation Enduring Freedom Camouflage Pattern (OEF-CP). It had already been used by some American special operations units and civilian law enforcement agencies. The U.S. Army discontinued the use of UCP in October 2019.

MultiCam is available for commercial sale to civilians.

A version of MultiCam has been adopted by the armed forces of the United Kingdom as the Multi-Terrain Pattern (MTP), replacing their previous DPM camouflage. MTP retains the color palette of MultiCam but incorporates shapes similar to the previous DPM scheme. After using the MultiCam scheme in Afghanistan, Australia has also adopted its own version, combining the pattern of MultiCam with the color palette of its earlier DPCU / Auscam pattern.

On 25 November 2013, Crye Precision unveiled a family of MultiCam variants, which they claim can reduce the visual and near-IR signature of a person operating in different environments. There are four variants from the original MultiCam. First is arid, for users operating in desert environments. Second is tropic, for users operating in dense jungle environments and areas that predominantly consist of lush vegetation that remains relatively unaffected by seasonal changes. Third is alpine, for users operating in snow-covered environments and intended to be used in every area of operation that receives significant snowfall. Last is black that meets the unique requirements of police tactical units operating in high-risk environments and projects a distinctly authoritative presence appropriate for domestic operations.

Appearance

MultiCam has a background of a brown to light tan gradient, overprinted with a dark green, olive green, and lime green gradient and a top layer of opaque dark brown and cream-colored shapes spread throughout the pattern. This allows for the overall appearance to change from predominantly green to predominantly brown in different areas of the fabric, while having smaller shapes to break up the larger background areas.

The MultiCam color scheme in hex triplet is as follows:(i) Cream 524 B8A78B; (ii) Dark Brown 530 48352F; (iii) Tan 525 967860; (iv) Brown 529 6F573F; (v) Dark Green 528 5A613F; (vi) Olive 527 8C7D50; and (vii) Pale Green 526 85755C.

Variants

Australia

Army

On 19 November 2010, after trials by Australian special operations forces, the Australian Defence Force announced that MultiCam will be standard for all regular Australian Army personnel in Afghanistan. MultiCam, it is said, provided "... troops with greater levels of concealment across the range of terrains in Afghanistan – urban, desert and green." Previously, depending upon the terrain, Australian troops had to transition between green and desert colored Australian Disruptive Pattern Camouflage Uniforms (DPCU or AUSCAM). On 30 May 2011 the Defence Material Organisation announced that they had obtained licence to produce MultiCam in Australia for US$4.7 million and Crye would also design a new uniquely Australian pattern for another US$3.1 million.

The Australian Army decided to standardize MultiCam-patterned uniforms starting in October 2014 called the Australian Multicam Camouflage Uniform (AMCU). The Australian derivative retains colour and pattern elements of the previous DPCU pattern. The AMCU is manufactured domestically by Australian Defence Apparel and Pacific Brands Workwear Group and comes in two variations, field and combat, using a tested Australian Multi-Camouflage Pattern that can operate in bush, desert, and jungle conditions. Previous DPCU Uniforms and Australian MultiCam Pattern Operational Combat Uniforms will be worn until all Army personnel have been issued with the AMCU.

Air Force

In 2014 the Royal Australian Air Force began fielding a new MultiCam-based uniform to replace the DPCU, called the General Purpose Uniform (GPU), using the blue-and-grey colours of the RAAF. The uniform is not intended to be used as camouflage in warlike operations or environments.

Navy

In 2015, the Royal Australian Navy began their own testing of a new MultiCam uniform with a blue colourway, calling it the Maritime Multicam Pattern Uniform (MMPU) The new uniform and pattern was intended to replace the Navy's grey-and-green Disruptive Pattern Navy Uniform (DPNU) by 2017. In 2019, the Navy announced that it was fielding a variant of the new AMCU including the design and cut of the uniform itself, and reverting to the grey-and-green colours of the DPNU.

The fabric for the AMCU, MMPU, and GPU are produced in Australia by Bruck Textiles Pty Ltd.

Georgia

A domestic variant of MultiCam is in use with the Georgian Defense Forces as standard issue for all military branches as well as special units of the MIA and State Security. The pattern was adopted initially in 2009, replacing the DWC and MARPAT and since has been produced in a slightly altered version that fits better to the local environment.

Hungary

Indonesia
On 2 March 2022, the Army unveiled their field uniform with a new camo pattern known as "Loreng Angkatan Darat" (Army camo pattern) or "Loreng TNI AD". This camo is a variant of Multicam based on US Army OCP with local DPM color palette. A Desert/Arid variant intended to replace the older local Desert DPM Variant are also Present.

New Zealand

The New Zealand Defence Force announced in late 2019 that it would be replacing its local Multi Terrain Pattern camouflage (NZMTP), in use since 2014, with a variant of British Multi-Terrain Pattern. The rollout began in 2020. Prior to this, the New Zealand Special Air Service in Afghanistan wore uniforms in Crye Precision MultiCam.

Poland
A modified version of MultiCam has been adopted by the some of Polish Special Forces. It is named Suez.

Portugal
As part of the Sistemas de Combate do Soldado (Soldiers Combat Systems) project, in 2018, the Portuguese Army started to experiment a new individual equipment system for the dismounted soldiers, which includes a new camouflaged MultiCam-style uniform.  This new uniform was tested in the field by units deployed to the Central African Republic, Afghanistan and Iraq. In 2019, the MultiCam-style camouflaged was officially adopted as the Multiterreno (Multi-terrain), becoming the standard field uniform camouflage of the Portuguese Army, gradually replacing the Disruptive Pattern Material pattern.

It was developed in cooperation with the CINAMIL (Research Center for Development and Innovation of the Military Academy).

Romania
I