# Ricart–Agrawala algorithm

The Ricart–Agrawala algorithm is an algorithm for mutual exclusion on a distributed system. This algorithm is an extension and optimization of Lamport's Distributed Mutual Exclusion Algorithm, by removing the need for  messages. It was developed by computer scientists Glenn Ricart and Ashok Agrawala.

Algorithm

Terminology 
 A site is any computing device which runs the Ricart-Agrawala Algorithm
 The requesting site is the site which is requesting to enter the critical section.
 The receiving site is every other site which is receiving a request from the requesting site.

Algorithm
 Requesting Site 
 Sends a message to all sites. This message includes the site's name, and the current timestamp of the system according to its logical clock (which is assumed to be synchronized with the other sites)

 Receiving Site 
 Upon reception of a request message, immediately sending a timestamped reply message if and only if:
 the receiving process is not currently interested in the critical section OR
 the receiving process has a lower priority (''usually this means having a later timestamp)
 Otherwise, the receiving process will defer the reply message. This means that a reply will be sent only after the receiving process has finished using the critical section itself.

 Critical Section: 
 Requesting site enters its critical section only after receiving all reply messages.
 Upon exiting the critical section, the site sends all deferred reply messages.

Performance
 Max number of network messages: 
 Synchronization Delays: One message propagation delay

Common optimizations
Once site  has received a  message from site , site  may enter the critical section multiple times without receiving permission from  on subsequent attempts up to the moment when  has sent a  message to . This is called Roucairol-Carvalho optimization or Roucairol-Carvalho algorithm.

Problems
One of the problems in this algorithm is failure of a node. In such a situation a process may starve forever.
This problem can be solved by detecting failure of nodes after some timeout.

See also
 Lamport's bakery algorithm
 Lamport's distributed mutual exclusion algorithm
 Maekawa's algorithm
 Suzuki–Kasami algorithm
 Raymond's algorithm
 Naimi–Trehel's algorithm

References

Maekawa, M.,Oldehoeft, A.,Oldehoeft, R.(1987). Operating Systems: Advanced Concept.Benjamin/Cummings Publishing Company, Inc.

Distributed algorithms