# Australian Patrol Boat Group

The Australian Patrol Boat Group is a Force Element Group (FEG) of the Royal Australian Navy. It manages the Navy's patrol boats.

The Patrol Boat Group operates six s. The Group's headquarters is located at  in the city of Darwin, additional support is provided by the class logistics office at .

History
There have been three classes of patrol boat to serve in the Royal Australian Navy; the  from 1967 to 1994, the  from 1980 to 2007, and the Armidale class, which entered service in 2005.

1900s 
During the 1960s to mid-1980s, the local Australia Patrol Boat was divided into three main squadrons which were ported in the regions of Sydney (NSW), Cairns (Qld) and Darwin (NT). In the mid-1980s, the separation of squadrons was discontinued; , Darwin was established as the centralised headquarters.

2000s 
In 2002, increased illegal activity in Australia's northern maritime zones instigated the relocation of the patrol headquarters and vessels. This change resulted in the increase of capacity of the primary ports in Coonawarra, Darwin and Cairns, Queensland to incorporate the vessels from the Sydney home port, which was disestablished.

2010s 
In July 2010, the Australian Border Force submitted a request for the construction of a new class of patrol vessels to supplement, and eventually replace, the patrol capacities of the Bay Class Patrol Group (which were due to end service in early 2010). From the 2010–2011 budget, Australian government commissioned eight larger, upgraded vessels, named the . The $350m contract, stipulating the vessels' design, construction, and ongoing maintenance, was awarded to Austal on 12 August 2011. The vessels entered service over March 2013 to September 2015.

On 18 December 2014, the RAN was forced to decommission the Patrol Boat group's  of the Armidale Fleet. The vessel had sustained irreparable damage during a refit in August 2014 by a fire aboard the ship. To supplement the Armidale class, Austal was commissioned for two additional Cape-class patrol boats for the Royal Australian Navy (RAN), which were completed in 2017.

Insignia 
Commencing in 1968, the Australian Naval Board changed the visual squadron designation of all RAN vessels to the US classification style. The new patrol squadron classifications included:

·      AUSPABRON 1 (First Australian Patrol Boat Squadron)

·      AUSPABRON 2 (Second Australian Patrol Boat Squadron)

·      AUSPABRON 3 (Third Australian Patrol Boat Squadron)

·      PNGPABRON (Papua/New Guinea Patrol Boat Squadron)

Australian Patrol boats also adopted the traditional number system of the British Royal Navy. Single numbers were painted on the funnel of individual vessels as intra squadron identification. Each squadron also developed regional insignia, relating to its operational area.

The Sydney squadron, AUSPABRON 1, displayed the motif of a red kangaroo superimposed upon the harbour bridge.

The Cairns squadron, AUSPABRON 2, displayed the symbol of a blue marlin and the number 2 ringed in gold. The signification of the marlin was adopted from the official badge of .

The Darwin squadron, AUSPABRON 3, displayed the number 3 and an insignia of a water buffalo.

Patrol boats stationed in other Australian areas including Western Australia, Tasmania and South Australia also developed regional inspired insignia. These Included a black swan, Tasmanian devil, and magpie, respectively. The Papua New Guinea region squadron's Attack-class patrol boat insignia was unofficially displayed as a shark circling a palm tree.

Following the mid-1980s dissolution of separate regional squadrons, the squadron numerical identification ceased. Current nomenclature is displayed on the vessel's pennant, as a 2 to 3-digit number. Each patrol vessel is also ascribed a name according to their region of operation.

Relevant legislation evolution 
The Maritime Power Bill 2012 was introduced by the Gillard government on 30 May 2012. The 2012 Attorney-General Department stated the purpose for the bill was to "harmonise and simplify" existing legislation by creating a clear framework for the extent and abilities of Australian maritime enforcement powers. This framework outlines the authorisation of capabilities held by current vessels including Australian Patrol Boat Groups.  

The Maritime Powers (Consequential Amendments) Bill 2012 was introduced concurrently to the Maritime Power Bill 2012. The most significant action of the bill was repealing all maritime enforcement powers contained within the Migration Act 1958, as these powers were now enshrined within the new Maritime Power Bill. The bill repealed subsection 245F (8), which defined the ability of Australian vessels, including Patrol boat groups, to turn back unauthorised boats in Australian waters. However, this amendment was stated by the Attorney-General Department to not reduce or increase existing maritime powers. These Bills were passed and enforced as of 13 March 2013.

The Patrol Boat Group today 
The Australian Defence Force sets the Patrol Boat Group's mandate as to "protect the Australian border and offshore interests" ("Patrol Boat, General", n.d.). In concurrence with this federal policy, Australian patrol boats are tasked with constabulary and environmental protective duties. In peacetime, the group commit to civil surveillance and enforce Australian law on the border, policing illegal activity including unauthorised entry, illegal immigration, breaches of customs and drug smuggling. Patrol vessels also enhance law enforcement aiding preservation efforts to retain the condition of Australian marine life, aquatic environment, and resources.

Active vessels are authorised with multiple law enforcement responsibilities. The Royal Australian Navy authorises the currently active Armidale-class vessels with "tracking, intercepting, stopping and boarding other vessels, and sometimes arresting their crews and seizing cargo." ("Patrol Boat, General", n.d.).

These activities are supported and allied with the operations of Australian Federal Police, Australian Fisheries and Australian Border Force. Patrol vessels have jurisdiction in coastal Australian maritime zones, surrounding Australian island territories and Australia's exclusive economic zone (EEZ). The majority of patrol operations occur in northern maritime zones.

The Armidale-class fleet was commissioned into the RAN and became operational on 24 June 2005.  and remains in active service as of 2021 and currently consists of 12 active vessels. In addition to the Armidale-class patrol boats, two additional Cape-class vessels (ADV Cape Fourcroy and ADV Cape Inscription) are also in active service. All 14 vessels act as naval support for civilian authorities to enforce Australian regulation of maritime law and environment. The Patrol group provides 21 trained available crews to allow rotation.

Role in Operation Sovereign Borders 
In cooperation with Australian Border Force, Australian Patrol boats are the primary contribution to the National policy of “Operation Sovereign Borders” which was implemented by the Abbott government in 2013. Under the Policy, between its enactment and September 2018, Patrol boats intercepted and apprehended 33 vessels in Australian maritime zones. 827 individuals aboard were refouled and returned to their original country.

Ongoing/future vessels and contracts 
The federal defence initiative, the National Shipbuilding Plan aims to build 12 offshore patrol vessels (OPVs) to supplement, and eventually succeed the current Armidale-class fleet. In May 2017, Luerssen Australia Pty Ltd was selected as the main contractor and designer of the SEA1180 Offshore Patrol Vessel program. The company's US$3.6B contract stipulated the design and construction of 12 offshore patrol vessels for the Royal Australian Navy. As of October 2018, the projected competition date is 2029–2030. Construction of the first two patrol boat began on 15 November 2018. Construction of the subsequent 10 OP