# Gaysweek

Gaysweek was an American weekly gay and lesbian newspaper based in New York City printed from 1977 until 1979. Considered the city's first mainstream weekly lesbian and gay newspaper, it was founded by Alan Bell in 1977 as an 8-page single-color tabloid and finished its run in 1979 as a 24-page two-color publication. It featured articles, letter, art and poetry. It was, at the time, only one of three weekly publications geared towards gay people. It was also the first mainstream gay publication published by an African-American (Alan Bell).

Background
Gaysweek was New York City's first mainstream weekly lesbian and gay newspaper. It was founded by Alan Bell in 1977. Gaysweek began as an 8-page single-color tabloid and when it ceased publication in 1979 after 104 issues, it had grown to a 24-page two-color publication. Its monthly arts supplement, Gaysweek Arts and Letters, was edited by Byrne Fone. During its run, it was one of only three gay weeklies in the world and the only mainstream gay publication owned by an African American. A portion of Gaysweek archives are housed at Cornell University Library, Division of Rare and Manuscript Collections.

Although it was eventually granted, Gaysweeks application to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for registration of the Gaysweek trademark, was opposed by Newsweek, Inc. because, according to attorneys for the publication, they are similar "both phonetically and in appearance." Newsweek later sued Gaysweek for trademark infringement.

In 2002, the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston turned over a copy of the February 12, 1979 issue of Gaysweek, in relation to a lawsuit, which included an article titled "Men & Boys" that described a meeting in Boston in which Father Paul Shanley defended a relationship between a man and a boy. 

In 2015, Alan Bell was inducted into the LGBT Journalists Hall of Fame.

Notable writers

Eric Bentley
Perry Brass
Robert Chesley
Daniel Curzon
Martin Duberman
Harvey Fierstein

Robert Patrick
Felice Picano
David Rothenberg
Edmund White
George Whitmore

See also
 Bay Area Reporter
 BLK (magazine)
 Gay Community News (Boston) 
 LGBT culture in New York City
 Out Front Colorado
 Washington Blade

References

Further reading

External links
September 1978 issue of Gaysweek at Pride Museum

LGBT-related newspapers published in the United States
Weekly newspapers published in the United States
LGBT history in New York City
Defunct weekly newspapers
Defunct newspapers published in New York City
LGBT culture in New York City
Publications
LGBT
Publications
Newspapers published in New York City
Publications disestablished in 1979
Newspapers established in 1977