[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #40780]

been serving. And no one shall dismiss one of his men from his service until he is quit of every accusation which has been brought against him. *If anyone comes upon a thief and of his own accord lets him escape without raising the hue and cry, he shall make compensation by the payment of the thief's wergeld, or clear himself with the full oath, asserting that he did not know him to be guilty of any crime. And if anyone hears the hue and cry and neglects it, he shall pay the full fine for insubordination [120s] to the king, or clear himself by the full oath. *Regarding thoroughly untrustworthy men, if anyone has forfeited the confidence of the hundred, and he has charges brought against him to such an extent that he is accused by three men at once, no other course shall be open to him but to go to the triple ordeal. If, however, his lord asserts that he has failed neither in oath nor in ordeal since the assembly was held at Winchester, the lord shall choose two trustworthy men within the hundred - unless he has a reeve who is qualified to discharge this duty - and they shall swear that he has never failed in oath or ordeal or been convicted of stealing. If the oath is forthcoming, the man who is accused there shall choose whichever he will - either the simple ordeal or an oath equivalent to a pound in value, supported by compurgators found within the three hundreds, in the case of an object over 30d. in value. If they dare not give the oath, the accused shall go to the triple ordeal, which shall be opened by five compurgators selected by the accuser and he himself shall make a sixth. If the accused is proved guilty, on the first occasion he shall pay double value to the accuser and his wergeld to the lord who is entitled to receive his fine, and he shall appoint trustworthy sureties, that hence forth he will desist from all wrong-doing. And on the second occasion, if he is proved guilty, there shall be no compensation but to have his hands or his feet cut off or both, according to the nature of the offense. And if has wrought still greater crime, he shall have his eyes put out and his nose and ears and upper lip cut off or his scalp removed, whichever of these penalties is determined by those with whom rests the decision of the case; and thus punishment shall be inflicted, while, at the same time, the soul is preserved from injury. If, however, he escapes and avoids the ordeal, his surety shall pay the value of his goods to the plaintiff and the wergeld of the accused to the king or to the man who is entitled to receive his wergeld. And if the lord is accused of advising the man who had done wrong to escape, he shall choose five trustworthy men, and shall himself make a sixth, and shall clear himself of the accusation. If he succeeds in clearing himself, he shall be entitled to the wergeld. And if he fails, the king shall take the wergeld, and the thief shall be treated as an outlaw by the whole nation. Every lord shall be personally responsible as surety for the men of his own household. And if any accusation is brought against one of them, he shall answer if within the hundred in which he is accused. And if he is accused and escapes, the lord shall pay the man's wergeld to the king. And if the lord is accused of advising him to escape, he shall clear himself with the help of five thegns, himself making a sixth. And if he fails to clear himself, he shall pay his own wergeld to the king, and the man shall be an outlaw towards the king. If a slave is found guilty at the ordeal, he shall be branded on the first occasion. And on the second occasion, he shall not be able to make any amends except by his head. *Concerning untrustworthy men, if there is anyone who is regarded with suspicion by the general public, the king's reeve shall go and place him under surety so that he a may be brought to do justice to those who have made charges against him. If he has no surety, he shall be slain and buried in unconsecrated ground. And if anyone interposes in his defense, they shall both incur the same punishment. And he who ignores this and will not further what we have all determined upon shall pay 120s. to the king. The various boroughs shall have one common law with regard to exculpation. If a friendless man or one come from afar is so utterly destitute of friends as not to be able to produce a surety, on the first occasion that he is accused he shall go to prison, and wait there until he goes to God's ordeal where he shall experience whatever he can. Verily, he who pronounces a more severe judgment upon whom is friendless or come from afar than upon one of his own acquaintances injures himself. *Concerning perjury, if anyone swears a false oath on the relics and is convicted, he shall lose his hand or half his wergeld which shall be divided between the lord and the bishop. And henceforth he shall not be entitled to swear an oath, unless he makes amends to the best of his ability before God, and finds surety that ever afterwards he will desist from such perjury. *Concerning false witness, if anyone has given testimony which is manifestly false, and is convicted thereof, his testimony henceforth shall be valueless, and he shall pay to the king or to the lord of the manor a sum equivalent to his healsfang [payment due only to those very closely related to a killed man]. Special care must be taken to prevent lawlessness at sacred seasons and in sacred places. The greater a man is and the higher his rank, the more stringent shall be the amends which he shall be required to make to God and to men for lawless behavior. And ecclesiastical amends shall be diligently exacted in accordance with the directions contained in the canon law, and secular amends in accordance with secular law. If anyone slays a priest of the altar, he shall be both excommunicated and outlawed, unless he make amends to the best of his ability by pilgrimage, and likewise by the payment of compensation to the kin of the slain man, or else he shall clear himself by an oath equal in value to his wergeld. He shall begin to make amends to God and men within 30 days, under pain of forfeiting all that he possesses. If an attempt is made to deprive a man in orders or a stranger of his goods or his life, the king shall act as his kinsman and protector unless he has some other. And such compensation as is fitting shall be paid to the king, or he shall avenge the deed to the uttermost. If a minister of the altar commits homicide or any other great crime, he shall be deprived of his ecclesiastical office and banished, and shall travel as a pilgrim as far as the Pope appoints for him and zealously make amends. If he seeks to clear himself, he shall do so by the triple mode of proof. If he does not begin to make amends both to God and men within 30 days, he shall be outlawed. If anyone binds or beats or deeply insults a man in holy orders, he shall make amends towards him and shall pay the fine due to the bishop for sacrilege, in accordance with the rank of the injured man, and to his lord or to the king the full fine for breach of his mund, or he shall clear himself by the full process of exculpation. If a man in holy orders commits a capital crime, he shall be arrested, and his cases shall be reserved for the bishop's decision. If a condemned man desires confession, he shall never be refused him or pay the king 120s. or he shall clear himself by selecting five men and be himself the sixth. *No condemned man shall be put to death during the Sunday festival, unless he flees or fights, but he shall be arrested and kept in custody until the festival is over. If a freeman works during a church festival, he shall make amends by payment of his healsfang and make amends to God according to the directions given him. If as slave works, he shall undergo the lash or pay the fine, according to the nature of the offense. If a lord compels his slave to work during a church festival, he shall lose the slave, who shall then obtain