# Battle of the Dnieper

The Battle of the Dnieper was a military campaign that took place in 1943 on the Eastern Front of World War II. Being one of the largest operations of the war, it involved almost four million troops at one point and stretched over a  front.
Over four months, the eastern bank of the Dnieper was recovered from German forces by five of the Red Army's fronts, which conducted several assault river crossings to establish several lodgements on the western bank. Kiev was later liberated in the Battle of Kiev. 2,438 Red Army soldiers were awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union for their involvement.

Strategic situation 
Following the Battle of Kursk, the Wehrmachts Heer and supporting Luftwaffe forces in the southern Soviet Union were on the defensive in southern Ukraine. By mid-August, Adolf Hitler understood that the forthcoming Soviet offensive could not be contained on the open steppe and ordered construction of a series of fortifications along the line of the Dnieper river.

On the Soviet side, Joseph Stalin was determined to launch a major offensive in Ukraine. The main thrust of the offensive was in a southwesterly direction; the northern flank being largely stabilized, the southern flank rested on the Sea of Azov.

Planning

Soviet planning 

The operation began on 26 August 1943. Divisions started to move on a 1,400-kilometer front that stretched between Smolensk and the Sea of Azov. Overall, the operation would be executed by 36 Combined Arms, four Tank and five Air Armies. 2,650,000 personnel were brought into the ranks for this massive operation. The operation would use 51,000 guns and mortars, 2,400 tanks and 2,850 planes.

The Dnieper is the third largest river in Europe, behind only the Volga and the Danube. In its lower part, its width can easily reach three kilometres, and being dammed in several places made it even larger. Moreover, its western shore—the one still to be retaken—was much higher and steeper than the eastern, complicating the offensive even further. In addition, the opposite shore was transformed into a vast complex of defenses and fortifications held by the Wehrmacht.

Faced with such a situation, the Soviet commanders had two options. The first would be to give themselves time to regroup their forces, find a weak point or two to exploit (not necessarily in the lower part of the Dnieper), stage a breakthrough and encircle the German defenders far in the rear, rendering the defence line unsupplied and next to useless (very much like the German Panzers bypassed the Maginot line in 1940). This option was supported by Marshal Zhukov and Deputy Chief of Staff Aleksei Antonov, who considered the substantial losses after the Battle of Kursk. The second option would be to stage a massive assault without waiting, and force the Dnieper on a broad front. This option left no additional time for the German defenders, but would lead to much larger casualties than would a successful deep operation breakthrough. This second option was backed by Stalin due to the concern that the German "scorched earth" policy might devastate this region if the Red Army did not advance fast enough.

Stavka (the Soviet high command) chose the second option. Instead of deep penetration and encirclement, the Soviet intended to make full use of partisan activities to intervene and disrupt Germany's supply route so that the Germans could not effectively send reinforcements or take away Soviet industrial facilities in the region. Stavka also paid high attention to the possible scorched earth activities of German forces with a view to preventing them by a rapid advance.

The assault was staged on a 300-kilometer front almost simultaneously. All available means of transport were to be used to transport the attackers to the opposite shore, including small fishing boats and improvised rafts of barrels and trees (like the one in the photograph). The preparation of the crossing equipment was further complicated by the German scorched earth strategy with the total destruction of all boats and raft building material in the area. The crucial issue would obviously be heavy equipment. Without it, the bridgeheads would not stand for long.

Soviet organisation 
 Central Front (known as the Belorussian Front after 20 October 1943), commanded by Konstantin Rokossovsky and accounted for 579,600 soldiers (took no part in the Dnieper battle after 3 October)
 2nd Tank Army, led by Aleksei Rodin / Semyon Bogdanov (since September)
 9th Tank Corps, led by Hryhoriy Rudchenko (KIA), Boris Bakharov
 60th Army, led by Ivan Chernyakhovsky
 13th Army, led by Nikolay Pukhov
 65th Army, led by Pavel Batov
 61st Army, led by Pavel Belov
 48th Army, led by Prokofy Romanenko
 70th Army, led by Ivan Galanin / Vladimir Sharapov (September – October) / Aleksei Grechkin (since October)
 16th Air Army, led by Sergei Rudenko
 Voronezh Front (known as the 1st Ukrainian Front after 20 October 1943), commanded by Nikolai Vatutin and accounted for 665,500 soldiers
 3rd Guards Tank Army, led by Pavel Rybalko
 1st Tank Army, led by Mikhail Katukov
 4th Guards Tank Corps, led by Pavel Poluboyarov
 1st Guard Cavalry Corps, led by Viktor Baranov
 5th Guards Army, led by Aleksei Zhadov
 4th Guards Army, led by Grigory Kulik / Aleksei Zygin (KIA) / Ivan Galanin
 6th Guards Army, led by Ivan Chistyakov
 38th Army, led by Nikandr Chibisov / Kirill Moskalenko (since October)
 47th Army, led by Pavel Korzun / Filipp Zhmachenko (September – October) / Vitaliy Polenov (since October)
 27th Army, led by Sergei Trofimenko
 52nd Army, led by Konstantin Koroteev
 2nd Air Army, led by Stepan Krasovsky
 Steppe Front (known as the 2nd Ukrainian Front after 20 October 1943), commanded by Ivan Konev
 Southwestern Front (known as the 3rd Ukrainian Front after 20 October 1943), commanded by Rodion Malinovsky
 Southern Front (known as the 4th Ukrainian Front after 20 October 1943), commanded by Fyodor Tolbukhin

German planning 

The order to construct the Dnieper defence complex, known as "Ostwall" or "Eastern Wall", was issued on 11 August 1943 and began to be immediately executed.

Fortifications were erected along the length of the Dnieper. However, there was no hope of completing such an extensive defensive line in the short time available. Therefore, the completion of the "Eastern Wall" was not uniform in its density and depth of fortifications. Instead, they were concentrated in areas where a Soviet assault-crossing were most likely to be attempted, such as near Kremenchuk, Zaporizhia and Nikopol.

Additionally, on 7 September 1943, the SS forces and the Wehrmacht received orders to implement a scorched earth policy, by stripping the areas they had to abandon of anything that could be used by the Soviet war effort.

German organisation 
 Luftflotte 2 (selected units) – Wolfram Freiherr von Richthofen
 (in Ukraine) Army Group South – Erich von Manstein
 4th Panzer Army – Hermann Hoth
 1st Panzer Army – Eberhard von Mackensen
 8th Army – Otto Wohler
 6th Army – Karl-Adolf Hollidt (transferred to Army Group A control)
 Luftflotte 4 – Wolfram Freiherr von Richthofen / Otto Deßloch (since September)
 (in Crimea) Army Group A – Ewald von Kleist
 Army Group Center – Günther von Kluge
 2nd Army – Walter Weiß (took no part in the Dnieper battle after 3 October)

Description of the strategic operation

Initial attack 

Despite a great superiority in numbers, the offensive was by no means easy. German opposition was ferocious and the fighting raged for every town and city. The Wehrmacht made extensive use of rear guards, leaving some troops in each city and on each hill, slowing the Soviet offensive.

Progress of the offensive 

Three weeks after the start of the offensive, and despite heavy losses on the Soviet side, it became clear that the Germans could not hope to contain the Soviet offensive in the flat, open terrain of the steppes, where the Red Army's numerical strength would prevail. Manstein asked for as many as 12 new