# Arkansas National Guard

The Arkansas National Guard (ARNG), commonly known as the Arkansas Guard, is a component of the Government of Arkansas and the National Guard of the United States. It is composed of Army and Air National Guard units. The adjutant general's office is located at Camp Robinson MTC, North Little Rock.

Dual missions, state and federal
National Guard units can be mobilized at any time by presidential order to supplement regular armed forces, and upon declaration of a state of emergency by the governor of the state in which they serve. Unlike Army Reserve members, National Guard members cannot be mobilized individually (except through voluntary transfers and Temporary DutY Assignments (TDY)), but only as part of their respective units. However, there have been several individual activations to support military operations since 2001.

Federal mission
When National Guard troops are called to federal service, the President serves as Commander-In-Chief. The federal mission assigned to the National Guard is: "To provide properly trained and equipped units for prompt mobilization for war, National emergency or as otherwise needed."''' For much of the final decades of the 20th century, National Guard personnel typically served "one weekend a month, two weeks a year", with a portion working for the Guard in a full-time capacity. The current forces formation plans of the US Army call for the typical National Guard unit (or National Guardsman) to serve one year of active duty for every six years of service. More specifically, current Department of Defense policy is that individual Guardsman will be given 24 months between deployments of no more than 12 months each.

During the Little Rock School Crisis in 1957, President Eisenhower issued Executive Order 10730, which placed the Arkansas National Guard under Federal control. As of February 2023, the Executive Order 10730 has not been revoked.

State mission
The Governor may call individuals or units of the Arkansas National Guard into state service during emergencies or to assist in special situations which lend themselves to use of the National Guard. The state mission assigned to the National Guard is:"To provide trained and disciplined forces for domestic emergencies or as otherwise provided by state law."'' When not activated for its Federal mission, the Governor through the State Adjutant General commands Guard forces. The Governor can call the Guard into action during local or statewide emergencies, such as storms, drought, and civil disturbances, to name a few.

Military support to civilian authorities (MSCA)
Upon the request of either the judge or sheriff of a county or the mayor of a city...
...whenever it is made to appear to the Governor that there is a breach of the peace, riot, resistance to process of this State, or disaster or imminent danger thereof...
...the Governor may order into the active service of the state...
...for such period, and to such extent, and in such manner as he may deem necessary, all or any part of the organized militia.

The intent is that the National Guard is called only when civilian resources have been used first and fully exhausted.  While in this status, Guard units report only to military authorities, Guard Authorities do not replace Civilian Authorities.  The use of the National Guard is intended as a temporary measure to prevent the loss of life or damage to property.

Examples of MSCA missions conducted in state active duty status
When Tornados hit Dumas, Arkansas, on Saturday, February 24, 2007 the Arkansas National Guard deployed 130 Soldiers to conduct the following missions:
Security operations
Prevention of looting
Curfew enforcement
Power generation

In 2009 the Arkansas National Guard conducted over 101 MSCA missions, including:

Texas wildfires
Major ice storm – 81 missions
Mena tornado
Water purification to support the town of Dierks, Arkansas
H1N1 flu vaccinations

The types of missions that the Arkansas National Guard conducted in 2009 included:

Power generation
Emergency shelter
Cots and blankets
County disaster response teams (search and rescue, route clearance, debris removal)
Water provision

Examples of MSCA provided in a Title 32 status

The National Guard may also respond to natural disasters and other domestic operations in a Title 32 status.  In this situation, the Guard is still under the direct command and control of the Governor, but the Federal Government provides the funding through Title 32 of the United States Code.

Hurricane Katrina
The Governor of Arkansas initially activated troops in a state active duty status in response to an Emergency Management Assistance Compact (EMAC) request from the Governor of Louisiana.  EMAC provides mutual aid across state lines, provides assets for states' personnel and equipment shortfalls, places responding assets under operational control of requesting governor and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) recognizes cross-state support as reimbursable.

The Arkansas National Guard provided the first guard units from outside Louisiana to respond to the Louisiana Governor's request for support when the 77th Theater Aviation Brigade deployed assets to New Orleans. A total of 3000 Arkansas National Guard Soldiers and Airmen were mobilized, with 1500 deployed to Louisiana at the peak of operations.  The Arkansas National Guard assisted with processing over 10,000 evacuees through the Chaffee Maneuver Training Center (Fort Chaffee) at Fort Smith Arkansas. Arkansas National Guard units were among the last to leave Louisiana, finally handing off its missions to the Louisiana National Guard in February 2006.

Operation Jump Start
When President Bush ordered National Guard Troops to help secure the border with Mexico, the Arkansas National Guard responded with a Joint Task Force of Soldiers and Airmen, operating in Texas, New Mexico and Arizona.  At its peak, Arkansas had over 230 Arkansas troops and airmen on orders including:
Arizona – 23 Airmen from the 188th Fighter Wing and 189th Air Lift Wing
New Mexico – 137 from 39th Infantry Brigade Combat Team and 87th Troop Command, ans 1 Airman from 188th Fighter Wing
Texas – 53 from the 77th Theater Aviation Brigade
Arkansas – 19 support personnel at the state Joint Operations Center and the Joint Forces Headquarters

State military facilities
The Arkansas National Guard operates over 70 National Guard Readiness Centers (traditionally referred to as Armories) in 55 Arkansas Counties.  The state also maintains two Maneuver Training Centers, Chaffee Maneuver Training Center at Fort Smith, Arkansas, and Camp Robinson Maneuver Training Center at North Little Rock, Arkansas.

Fort Chaffee Maneuver Training Center
The Chaffee Maneuver Training Center (Fort Chaffee) encompasses over 65,000 acres, large enough to support Brigade size training exercises, or up to approximately 7000 soldiers. Acreage available to support Field Artillery training as well as various small arms training ranges. A recent addition to Fort Chaffee is the convoy live fire range to meet the latest training requirement of the Global War On Terrorism. Fort Chaffee became a center for processing hurricane evacuees, providing shelter and relief to over 10,000 Citizens of Louisiana during Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.

Camp Robinson Maneuver Training Center
The Camp Robinson Maneuver Training Center (Camp Joseph T, Robinson) is a 32,000 Acre facility located at North Little Rock, Arkansas, which houses the Joint Forces Headquarters, Arkansas National Guard, the Headquarters, Arkansas Air National Guard, Headquarters, 77th Combat Aviation Brigade, Headquarters, 87th Troop Command, and is home to 3 Premier Training Centers, the National Guard Professional Education Center (PEC), the Guard Marksmanship Training Center (NGMTC) and the 233rd Regional Training Institute.

Manpower
As of 2009, the Arkansas National Guard Consisted of 10,582 Soldiers and Airmen.  8,750 of these Soldiers and Airmen are conside