[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #33272]

____ per annum, which would give to each of the Heirs in the shape of rent Twenty five or Thirty dollars annually--while on the other hand owing as your Orators believe to the Convenient distance thence to Alexandria, George Town and Washington and the improved state of the farm in other respects, it would sell upon the usual terms of Sales of land for Twenty five dollars per Acre and thus afford an interest on the sale nearly double the annual rent--In addition to the fact that the rent would greatly fall short of the interest on the sale your orators have been advised that the property in the hands of tenants would in the course of a few years be excessively injured and lessened in value, the soil impoverished, the buildings and fencing neglected and suffered to delapidate perhaps destroyed. It is obvious that the land cannot be advantageously divided among the heirs Eight in number it would give about forty acres to each heir, and this without regard to improvements--And the consideration deeply affecting the interests of the infant is that this farm must be rented out all the shares together manifestly--if therefore those now of age and those that soon will be of age should sell their shares each share thus sold off, will not only proportionally lessen in value the shares of the other remaining unsold, but will place the younger children as they come of age in the power and at the mercy of the person who shall have purchased the other shares of the co-terminus neighbour. In the End the consequence will be that the two or three younger children will not only be forced to sell, being hemmed in on all sides, and not able to add to their Inheritance but must sell at any price they are offered. Your orators further state that besides the real Estate before mentioned in which their wards have as interest One Eighth each, after the payment of the debts of Thomas Moss deceased so far as it is practicable to make an Estimate at this time, it is believed that a surplus will be left for distribution of about fifteen or sixteen thousand dollars, which will give to each child say two thousand-- Viewing the present interest as well as the future interests of their wards your orators are of the opinion from the facts hereinbefore stated, that the interests of their wards manifestly require a sale of the real Estate herein before mentioned and that the rights of others will not be thereby violated. And to that end and in pursuance of the Acts of the Gen'l Assembly in such cases made and provided, they pray that said Anna R. Love late Anna R. Moss, Alfred Moss, Robert, Thomas Edgar, Charles R., Armistead and John Thomas Moss be made parties defendants to this bill--that the said Anna R. Love the wife of your orator and Alfred Moss who would be two of the Heirs of either of said infants if they are dead and that said Anna R. be permitted to answer for herself as if feme sole. That the said Anna R. Love, Robert Moss, Alfred Moss, Thomas Moss and all the other infants herein before mentioned who are over fourteen years of age may be compelled to answer this bill in proper person or oath--That a Guardian Ad Litem may be appointed according to Law to defend and answer for those infants as well those over fourteen years, as those under fourteen years of age.--That your orators may have a Decree of the Ct authorizing the sale of the said land in such manner and upon such terms of credit as to your Honor may seem right--And your orators pray for all other & further action by your Honor in the premises as may be right & proper according to the Act of assembly made and provided in such cases--May it please your honor &c. (Certified by J. B. Hunter, a Justice of the Peace, 29 October 1839) Appendix F Fairfax County (Va.) Will Book T-1, page 223: December 2, 1839 Thomas Moss' slaves divided among the several heirs. Lot 1--To Robert Moss--Jim $75.00, Winney $75.00, Teuton $300 and, to pay Lot 7 $30 $420. Lot 2--To John T. Moss--Dominick $425, and, to pay Lot 7 $5 420. Lot 3--To Armistead Moss--Sarah $450, and, to pay Lot 7 $85 and Lot 6 $45 420. Lot 4--To Charles Moss--Martha $450, and, to pay Lot 7 $30 420. Lot 5--To Thomas Moss Anzau (?)--Laura $350, Frances $450, and, pay Lot 7 $30 420. Lot 6--To Alfred Moss--Carolina $200, Harriet $175, and payment from Lot 3 $45. 420. Lot 7--To Edgar Moss--Susan $200, T. R. Love $280, plus others by amount of keeping Louisa, an insane negro $240 420. We have valued the advancement made to T. R. Love in negro Henry $700, plus bond of a Moss daughter, and to pay to Lot 7 $280 420. APPENDIX G A Visit from Mr. Polevoy THE NEW REPUBLIC Soviet newspapers are bitter about the insincerity of American visitors to their country. While in the USSR, they say, Americans are lavish with their praise, but on returning home, they speak quite differently of Russia to their fellow Americans. Our newspapers in turn maintain that Soviet delegations to this country wear a mask of friendliness but once back in Russia present a hostile and unrecognizable picture of the United States. Do visiting Soviet delegations present a true picture of their travels here to their own people? The editors of _The NR_ have been given an opportunity to test this question. A delegation of leading Soviet writers visited the United States in October, 1955, under the chairmanship of Boris Kampov-Polevoy, a Soviet novelist and Secretary of the Union of Soviet Writers. Mr. Polevoy and four members of his delegation spent one evening at the house of the _NR_ editor-at-large. In the third of his articles on his journeys through the US published in the March issue of the Soviet monthly, _Oktyabr_, Mr. Polevoy describes the occasion as he remembers it. A translation of his article, and our comments follow. In the evening we were invited to be the guests of Mr. Michael Straight, editor of the magazine _The New Republic_, at his out-of-town villa bearing the poetic name of "Green Spring Farm." This tiny villa was in no way different from the small suburban houses of well-to-do members of the "intelligentsia" which we already had the opportunity of visiting. Alone the huge agglomeration of books on long shelves--quite unusual for an American home--and the beautiful pictures on the walls revealed that the owners of this house had a passion for literature and an artistic taste which could enable them to discriminate between works of genuine art and the militant flatness, which under the mask of innovationism has impertinently seized the key positions in American art. There were canvasses and drawings which not only prompted one to wonder on passing by, but which induced a desire to stop, to admire and to think. The people who had gathered at the house were interesting too--journalists who had traveled a great deal, who had witnessed many events, who were able to think. A unionist leader was also present--an observing, aggressive, skeptical man. At the outset--as it is the custom in the United States--the host showed us around his house. The five of us were jammed in for quite a while on the second floor in the tiny bedrooms of his two sons. David, the eldest, a fair-haired, healthy looking youngster, had his little room in a state of complete disorder. The radio was roaring, the gay green parakeets were screaming. Some radio parts together with books, screwdrivers, tubes of glue, bookbinders and knives were heaped on the table. The little occupant, apparently ready to go to bed, was sitting on his bed without his shirt and was reading something. At the sight of strangers he felt bashful, grabbed his shirt, started putting it on and when his head eventually emerged through its collar, his face and his ears were flushed and his brow pearled with sweat. However, having dressed, he immediately regained his composure and, as though nothing had happened, stretched out his hand with earnest poise. David--he introduced himself. His younger brother, Mikey, had an artistic temperament. His table was all smeared with water-colors and pictures were hanging on the walls--fantastic tanks, ships, sinister profiles of Indians, noble-featured cowboys wearing hats of incredible dimensions. Mikey was evidently successful in this hobby of his and, after looking at his drawings, one could tell him without false flattery that he was an artist of the realist school and that many of his pictures were more accurate and perfect as to form than whatever is being exhibited by quite adult "uncles" at the opening of exhibitions of the so-called "new art." Mikey dressed, too, and we came down in a group to the living room