# Marine Air Support Squadron 2

Marine Air Support Squadron 2 (MASS-2), is a United States Marine Corps aviation command and control unit that provides the Direct Air Support Center (DASC) for the III Marine Expeditionary Force.  It is the oldest and most decorated aviation command and control unit in the Marine Corps.

Originally formed at Marine Corps Air Station El Centro, California on 1 July 1943, the squadron served as the senior air defense headquarters during the Battle of Okinawa.  It was the first aviation command and control unit to arrive in Korea as part of the 1st Provisional Marine Brigade in August 1950 and was part of the last Marine Corps units to leave in July 1956.  MASS-2 provided multiple DASCs and Air Support Radar Teams in support of Marine Corps operations in Vietnam from April 1965 until late 1973.  The squadron has also sent multiple small detachments to support operations in both Iraq and Afghanistan.  Today, the squadron is based out of Marine Corps Air Station Futenma, Okinawa, Japan and continues to regularly deploy in support of exercises and theater security cooperation engagements throughout the Indo-Pacific area of responsibility.

Mission
Provide Direct Air Support Center (DASC) capabilities for control and coordination of aircraft operating in direct support of Marine Air-Ground Task Force (MAGTF) Forces.

History

World War II

Marine Air Support Squadron 2 was activated 1 January 1943, at Marine Corps Air Station El Centro, California, as Headquarters Squadron 43, Services Group, Marine Wings Pacific. The unit originally functioned as the headquarters element of Marine Aircraft Base Defense Group 43.  In November 1944, the Group was assigned to Marine Aircraft Group 43. During the first two years of its existence the Squadron remained in California. With the departure of the Group, however, Headquarters Squadron 43 also moved to Hawaii. While deployed to the territory of Hawaii in January 1945, Headquarters Squadron 43 and Marine Aircraft Group 43 were reassigned to the 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing.

The stay in Hawaii was only of a brief duration, because on 22 February 1945, Headquarters Squadron 43 embarked and sailed on board  for the Western Pacific. En route to their destination their convoy stopped at Eniwetok, Babelthaup and the Philippines. Marine Aircraft Group 43 was designated to serve as the headquarters for the Tactical Air Force, Tenth Army for the forthcoming Battle of Okinawa. Its mission was first to occupy Japanese airfields and then to aid in furnishing of aerial defense for ground troops.  Upon landing, Headquarters Squadron, MAG-43 assumed responsibility for all land-based air warning and fighter direction facilities within the Air Defense Command.

During the course of the battle the unit was located about  southeast of Yontan Airfield and was subjected to nearly nightly Japanese air raids. Five Marines from the unit were killed and many more wounded on 20 April 1945 when a Japanese plane dropped a bomb on the mess tent. For its service during the battle for the island, the squadron was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation.

On 1 August 1945, Headquarters Squadron 43 was re-designated as Headquarters Squadron, Marine Air Defense Command 2 (MADC-2).  The squadron transferred responsibility for the Okinawa area to the 301st Fighter Wing on 1 January 1946 and began preparations to return to the United States.  Headquarters Squadron was reassigned in February 1946 to the 4th Marine Aircraft Wing and was reassigned to Air Fleet Marine Force, Pacific.  They closed their Okinawa Command Post at 1300 on 29 March 1946 and proceeded to board  for transit home. The squadron arrived back in San Diego on 15 April 1946 and were immediately redesignated as Headquarters Squadron, Marine Air Warning Group 2. On 1 August 1946, the unit was again re-designated as Headquarters Squadron, Marine Air Control Group 2 and relocated to Marine Corps Air Station Santa Ana, California.  On 1 July 1947 the squadron was given the name Marine Tactical Air Control Squadron 2 (MTACS-2).  Their newly assigned mission was to provide the central control facilities for air defense and air support operations, furnish administrative support to Group Headquarters and operate the special air control equipment assigned.

Korean War
At the outbreak of the Korean War, MTACS-2 was severely under strength.  Additional Marines were joined from other squadrons within Marine Air Control Group 2 to fill out the squadron's ranks prior to deployment.  The squadron departed Long Beach Harbor on 14 July 1950 on board .  They arrived in Kobe, Japan on August 1, 1950, the air defense section unloaded and set up operations at Itami Air Force Base, Honshu, Japan to be co-located with VMF(N)-513.  The air support section boarded the Japanese LST Q-109 and sailed for Pusan the next day.  After arriving in Pohang on 4 August, the Air Support Section assumed control of all close air support aircraft for 1st Provisional Marine Brigade engaged on the Pusan perimeter.  For the Inchon invasion, both sections of MTACS-2 departed their respective locations and headed for the new front. On 17 September, the squadron disembarked at Inchon. That same day, control of close air support passed from the Tactical Air Direction Center aboard  to MTACS-2 who was now controlling for all of X Corps.   The air support section aided the 1st Marine Division by enabling close air support throughout the battle. The air defense section provided air defense surveillance against possible enemy air intrusion.

When the 1st Marine Division sailed for Wonsan, both the Air Support and Air Defense sections of MTACS-2 sailed with them. Upon arrival at Wonsan, the Air Support section debarked on October 26, 1950, establishing the TADC on Wonsan Airfield, The Air Defense section moved to nearby Hamhung and was joined by the TADC on 6 November 1950. The Air Support section was with the 1st Marine Division from November 27 - December 10, 1950 during the Battle of Chosin Reservoir.  They controlled the flow of aircraft in support of the division and also manned a portion of the western perimeter at Hagaru-ri where the Division Headquarters was located. A new innovation that was first utilized during the breakout from the Chosin Reservoir was the use of an Airborne Tactical Air Direction Center.  Marines from MTACS-2 rigged additional radios into an R5D from VMR-152 and controlled close air support over the Marine column beginning on 7 December. Shortly after midnight on 15 December, MTACS-2 passed control of the airspace around Hungnam over to the Navy onboard Mount McKinley.

After the successful breakout of the Chosin Reservoir, the Air Support section was transported to Masan, on the southern coast of Korea. The Air Defense section remained aboard ship and sailed for Pusan, Korea and set up the TACC for operation at Pusan West AB (K-1). In August 1951, the Marine Air Support Radar Team 1 (MASRT-1) arrived from CONUS and was attached to MTACS-2. MASRT-1, nicknamed 'Devastate Charlie" and a first of its kind system in the Marine Corps, utilized an AN/TPQ-2 ground based radar to control close air support. This was the first time the Marine Corps ever had a system that enabled accurate, day/night, all weather close air support.  In March 1952, the Air Support section moved with the 1st Marine Division to the western front near Panmunjum. The Air Defense section continued to operate the TACC of the 1st Marine Aircraft Wing from its location at K-3 Airfield. The Squadron remained in Korea for the rest of the war until the Truce was signed in July 1953.

Interwar years
During the period July 1953 to July 1956, the squadron participated in the defense of the Korean Demilitarized Zone. It was stationed in the vicinity of Pohang, Korea and continued to train and participate in exercises.  On February 15, 1954, Marine Tactical Air Control Squadron 2 was re-designated as Marine Air Support Squadron 2 (MASS-2).  In July 1956, MA