# Kiambu

Kiambu is a town in Kiambu County, Kenya. It is  from the capital Nairobi. It is the capital of the Kiambu County, which bounds the northern border of Nairobi. Other proximate towns are Ruiru, Gatundu, Limuru and Kabete.

Administration 

Apart from central Kiambu, there are villages such as Ndumberi, Riabai, Kihingo, Ngegu, Kanunga and Kangoya among others. The town's administration is under the County Government of Kiambu, which came into force with the promulgation of Kenya's constitution in 2010. Kiambu is also centre of Kiambaa, an administrative division and electoral constituency of Kiambu District.

Infrastructure
The town is a favoured location for real estate development with projects such as Migaa by Home Afrika, Riverside estate, Edenville estate, Runda Palm estate, Runda paradise 1 estate, Tatu City, Village of Kenya estate, Hidden creek estate of Kenya and Four Ways Junction.

Kiambu Club, opened in 1916, is one of the oldest nine-hole golf courses in Kenya. The club also has other facilities like tennis courts and swimming pools. The club's main lounge is in honour of Kenya's first First Lady, also an honorary member of the club, Mama Ngina Kenyatta.

Education

In the outskirts of Kiambu town is Kiambu High School, a nationally recognized boarding school for its performance in academics and sports.

Other high performance schools are ACK St.James Academy inside the town's metropolitan and St.Ann Gichocho

There is also a science college i.e. Kiambu Institute of Science and Technology.

Other upcoming colleges are Pettans Driving and Computer College and Dykaan College

Religion

Churches in the town include ACK St.James Cathedral Kiambu, St.Peter and Paul Catholic church, PCEA Kiambu church, Word of Faith Kiambu church, AIC Kiambu church etc.Most of the population in Kiambu are Christians and a small percentage are either Muslims,Massais,Njemps and Arabs

References 

Kiambu County
Populated places in Central Province (Kenya)
County capitals in Kenya