# User Account Control

User Account Control (UAC) is a mandatory access control enforcement feature introduced with Microsoft's Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008 operating systems, with a more relaxed version also present in Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows 8, Windows Server 2012, Windows 8.1, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows 10, and Windows 11. It aims to improve the security of Microsoft Windows by limiting application software to standard user privileges until an administrator authorises an increase or elevation. In this way, only applications trusted by the user may receive administrative privileges and malware are kept from compromising the operating system. In other words, a user account may have administrator privileges assigned to it, but applications that the user runs do not inherit those privileges unless they are approved beforehand or the user explicitly authorises it.

UAC uses Mandatory Integrity Control to isolate running processes with different privileges. To reduce the possibility of lower-privilege applications communicating with higher-privilege ones, another new technology, User Interface Privilege Isolation, is used in conjunction with User Account Control to isolate these processes from each other. One prominent use of this is Internet Explorer 7's "Protected Mode".

Operating systems on mainframes and on servers have differentiated between superusers and userland for decades. This had an obvious security component, but also an administrative component, in that it prevented users from accidentally changing system settings.

Early Microsoft home operating-systems (such as MS-DOS, Windows 95-98 and Windows Me) did not have a concept of different user-accounts on the same machine. Subsequent versions of Windows and Microsoft applications encouraged the use of non-administrator user-logons, yet some applications continued to require administrator rights. Microsoft does not certify applications as Windows-compliant if they require administrator privileges; such applications may not use the Windows-compliant logo with their packaging.

Behavior in Windows versions 

 Windows 1.0-3.1 and 9x: all applications had  privileges equivalent to the operating system;
 All versions of Windows NT up to Windows XP: introduced multiple user-accounts, but in practice most users continued to function as an administrator for their normal operations. Further, some applications would require that the user be an administrator for some or all of their functions to work.
 Windows Vista: Microsoft developed Vista security firstly from the Limited User Account (LUA), then renamed the concept to User Account Protection (UAP) before finally shipping User Account Control (UAC). Introduced in Windows Vista, User Account Control (UAC) offers an approach to encourage "super-user when necessary".  The key to UAC lies in its ability to elevate privileges without changing the user context (user "Bob" is still user "Bob").  As always, it is difficult to introduce new security features without breaking compatibility with existing applications.
When someone logs into Vista as a standard user, the system sets up a logon session and assigns a token containing only the most basic privileges. In this way, the new logon session cannot make changes that would affect the entire system.  
When a person logs in as a user with membership in the Administrators group, the system assigns two separate tokens: the first token contains all privileges typically awarded to an administrator, and the second is a restricted token similar to what a standard user would receive.
User applications, including the Windows Shell, then start with the restricted token, resulting in a reduced-privilege environment – even when running under an Administrator account.
When an application requests higher privileges or when a user selects a "Run as administrator" option, UAC will prompt standard users to enter the credentials of an Administrator account and prompt Administrators for confirmation and, if consent is given, continue or start the process using an unrestricted token.
 Windows 7: Microsoft included a user interface to change User Account Control settings, and introduced one new notification mode: the default setting. By default, UAC does not prompt for consent when users make changes to Windows settings that require elevated permission through programs stored in %SystemRoot% and digitally signed by Microsoft. Programs that require permission to run still trigger a prompt. Other User Account Control settings that can be changed through the new UI could have been accessed through the registry in Windows Vista.
 Windows 8 and 8.1: add a design change.  When UAC is triggered, all applications and the taskbar are hidden when the desktop is dimmed.
 Windows 10: copies the same layout as Windows 8 and 8.1, but the Anniversary Update has a more modern look.  Also, Windows 10 adds support for Windows Hello in the User Account Control dialog box.

Tasks that trigger a UAC prompt
Tasks that require administrator privileges will trigger a UAC prompt (if UAC is enabled);  they are typically marked by a security shield icon with the 4 colors of the Windows logo (in Vista and Windows Server 2008) or with two panels yellow and two blue (Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2 and later).  In the case of executable files, the icon will have a security shield overlay.  The following tasks require administrator privileges:
Running an Application as an Administrator
Changes to system-wide settings
Changes to files in folders that standard users don't have permissions for (such as %SystemRoot% or %ProgramFiles% in most cases)
Changes to an access control list (ACL), commonly referred to as file or folder permissions
Installing and uninstalling applications outside of: 
The %USERPROFILE% (e.g. C:\Users\{logged in user}) folder and its sub-folders.
Most of the time this is in %APPDATA%. (e.g. C:\Users\{logged in user}\AppData), by default, this is a hidden folder.
Chrome's and Firefox's installer ask for admin rights during install, if given, Chrome will install in the Program Files folder and be usable for all users, if denied, Chrome will install in the %APPDATA% folder instead and only be usable by the current user.
The Microsoft Store.
The folder of the installer and its sub-folders. 
Steam installs its games in the /steamapps/ sub-folder, thus not prompting UAC. Some games require prerequisites to be installed, which may prompt UAC. 
Installing device drivers
Installing ActiveX controls
Changing settings for Windows Firewall
Changing UAC settings
Configuring Windows Update
Adding or removing user accounts
Changing a user's account name or type
Creating a new account or deleting a user account
Turning on Guest account (Windows 7 to 8.1)
Turning on network discovery, file and printer sharing, Public folder sharing, turning off password protected sharing or turning on media streaming
Configuring Parental Controls (in Windows 7) or Family Safety (Windows 8.1)
Running Task Scheduler
Backing up and restoring folders and files
Merging and deleting network locations
Turning on or cleaning logging in Remote Access Preferences
Running Color Calibration
Changing remote, system protection or advanced system settings
Restoring backed-up system files
Viewing or changing another user's folders and files
Running Disk Defragmenter, System Restore or Windows Easy Transfer (Windows 7 to 8.1)
Running Registry Editor
Running the Windows Experience Index assessment
Troubleshoot audio recording and playing, hardware / devices and power use
Change power settings, turning off Windows features, uninstall, change or repair a program
Change date and time and synchronizing with an Internet time server
Installing and uninstalling display languages
Change Ease of Access administrative settings

Common tasks, such as changing the time zone, do not require administrator privileges (although changing the system time itself does, since the system time is co