# Isothermal titration calorimetry

In chemical thermodynamics, isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) is a physical technique used to determine the thermodynamic parameters of interactions in solution. It is most often used to study the binding of small molecules (such as medicinal compounds) to larger macromolecules (proteins, DNA etc.) in a label-free environment. It consists of two cells which are enclosed in an adiabatic jacket. The compounds to be studied are placed in the sample cell, while the other cell, the reference cell, is used as a control and contains the buffer in which the sample is dissolved.

The technique was developed by H. D. Johnston in 1968 as a part of his Ph.D. dissertation at Brigham Young University, and was considered niche until introduced commercially by MicroCal Inc. in 1988. Compared to other calorimeters, ITC has an advantage in not requiring any correctors since there was no heat exchange between the system and the environment.

Thermodynamic measurements

ITC is a quantitative technique that can determine the binding affinity (), enthalpy changes (), and binding stoichiometry () of the interaction between two or more molecules in solution. This is achieved from integrating the area of the injection peaks and plotting the individual values by molar ratio of the binding event versus \Delta H (kcal/mol). From these initial measurements, Gibbs free energy changes () and entropy changes () can be determined using the relationship:

 

(where  is the gas constant and  is the absolute temperature).

For accurate measurements of binding affinity, the curve of the thermogram must be sigmoidal. The profile of the curve is determined by the c-value, which is calculated using the equation:

 

where  is the stoichiometry of the binding,  is the association constant and  is the concentration of the molecule in the cell. The c-value must fall between 1 and 1000, ideally between 10 and 100. In terms of binding affinity, it would be approximately from  ~ within the limit range.

Instrumental measurements 

An isothermal titration calorimeter is composed of two identical cells made of a highly efficient thermally conducting and chemically inert material such as Hastelloy alloy or gold, surrounded by an adiabatic jacket. Sensitive thermopile/thermocouple circuits are used to detect temperature differences between the reference cell (filled with buffer or water) and the sample cell containing the macromolecule. Prior to addition of ligand, a constant power (<1 mW) is applied to the reference cell. This directs a feedback circuit, activating a heater located on the sample cell. During the experiment, ligand is titrated into the sample cell in precisely known aliquots, causing heat to be either taken up or evolved (depending on the nature of the reaction). Measurements consist of the time-dependent input of power required to maintain equal temperatures between the sample and reference cells.

In an exothermic reaction, the temperature in the sample cell increases upon addition of ligand. This causes the feedback power to the sample cell to be decreased (remember: a reference power is applied to the reference cell) in order to maintain an equal temperature between the two cells. In an endothermic reaction, the opposite occurs; the feedback circuit increases the power in order to maintain a constant temperature (isothermal operation).

Observations are plotted as the power needed to maintain the reference and the sample cell at an identical temperature against time. As a result, the experimental raw data consists of a series of spikes of heat flow (power), with every spike corresponding to one ligand injection. These heat flow spikes/pulses are integrated with respect to time, giving the total heat exchanged per injection. The pattern of these heat effects as a function of the molar ratio [ligand]/[macromolecule] can then be analyzed to give the thermodynamic parameters of the interaction under study.

To obtain an optimum result, each injection should be given enough time for a reaction equilibrium to reach. Degassing samples is often necessary in order to obtain good measurements as the presence of gas bubbles within the sample cell will lead to abnormal data plots in the recorded results. The entire experiment takes place under computer control.

Direct titration is performed most commonly with ITC to obtain the thermodynamic data, by binding two components of the reaction directly to each other. However, many of the chemical reactions and binding interactions may have higher binding affinity above what is desirable with the c-window. To troubleshoot the limitation of c-window and conditions for certain binding interactions, various different methods of titration can be performed. In some cases, simply doing a reverse titration of changing the samples between the injection syringe and sample cell can solve the issue, depending on the binding mechanism. For most of the high or low affinity bindings require chelation or competitive titration. This method is done by loading pre-bound complex solution in the sample cell, and chelating one of the components out with a reagent of higher observed binding affinity within the desirable c-window.

Analysis and interpretation

Post-hoc analysis and proton inventory 
The collected experimental data reflects not only the binding thermodynamics of the interaction of interest, but any contributing competing equilibria associated to it. A post-hoc analysis can be performed to determine the buffer or solvent-independent enthalpy from the experimental thermodynamics, by simply going through the process of Hess’ law. Below example shows a simple interaction between a metal ion (M) and a ligand (L). B represents the buffer used for this interaction and H+ represents protons.M - B  <=> M + B                  -\Delta H_{MB}

L - H <=> L + H+                 

 H+ + B <=> H - B                

M + L <=> M - L                   

Therefore,which can be further processed to calculate the enthalpy of metal-ligand interaction. Although this example is between a metal and a ligand, it is applicable to any ITC experiment, regarding binding interactions.

As a part of the analysis, a number of protons are required to calculate the solvent-independent thermodynamics. This can be easily done by plotting a graph such as shown below.

The linear equation of this plot is the rearranged version of the equation above from the post-hoc analysis in a form of y = mx + b:

Equilibrium constant 
Equilibrium constant of the reaction is also not independent from the other competing equilibria. Competition would include buffer interactions and other pH-dependent reactions depending on the experimental conditions. The competition from species other than the species of interest is included in the competition factor, Q in the following equation:where,  represents species such a buffer or protons,  represents their equilibrium constant, when,

Applications 
For the past 30 years, isothermal titration calorimetry has been used in a wide array of fields. In the old days, this technique was used to determine fundamental thermodynamic values for basic small molecular interactions. In recent years, ITC has been used in more industrially applicable areas, such as drug discovery and testing synthetic materials. Although it is still heavily used in fundamental chemistry, the trend has shifted over to the biological side, where label-free and buffer independent values are relatively harder to achieve.

Enzyme kinetics 
Using the thermodynamic data from ITC, it is possible to deduce enzyme kinetics including proton or electron transfer, allostery and cooperativity, and enzyme inhibition. ITC collects data over time that is useful for any kinetic experiments, but especially with the proteins due to constant aliquots of injections. In terms of calculation, equilibrium constant and the slopes of binding can be directly utilized to determine the allostery and charge transfer, by