# Battle of Dražgoše

The Battle of Dražgoše () was a Second World War battle between the Slovene Partisans and Nazi Germany armed forces, which took place between January 9 and January 11, 1942, in the village of Dražgoše in German-annexed Slovenia. This battle was the first direct confrontation between the two. It ended with brutal reprisals of German forces against the villagers and the destruction of the village.

Background
Following the occupation of Slovenia, Germany planned to annex Upper Carniola, where Dražgoše is located, to the Reich, and Germanize the local population. The Germans expelled nearly all Slovene priests from the region, as well as teachers and other intellectuals, forbade the use of Slovene language in schools and churches, imported German-speaking teachers into Upper Carniola, while drafting local Slovenes into forced labor in the Reich. This soon generated resistance, with initially smaller scale actions, but the halting of the German Army before Moscow led to hopes the war would soon end, prompting the Slovene Liberation Front to start a wider uprising in Upper Carniola.

The main Partisan unit in Upper Carniola was the Cankar Battalion, founded in August 1941, which had already carried out a number of actions against the Germans, including an unsuccessful attempt to free prisoners from the Gestapo headquarters at Begunje. On December 12, 1941 the Cankar Battalion encountered a unit of German armed police near Rovte v Selški Dolini, killing 45 of them, perhaps one of the largest such single-battle successes to date in all occupied Europe. This further emboldened Slovenes, with hundreds voluntarily joining the Cankar Battalion.

News of the uprising reached Himmler, who ordered additional armed police battalions to suppress the uprising, and the German authorities also shot 37 Slovene prisoners, mostly Partisans and Partisan supporters, at their Gestapo headquarters in Begunje na Gorenjskem. The Germans attacked the Cankar Battalion at Pasja Ravan, where the Partisans resisted for three days, killing dozens of armed police. Knowing the Germans were sending reinforcements, the Cankar Battalion decided to retreat from Pasja Ravan and, after discussing a number of alternatives, decided to retreat to Dražgoše.

The battle

For the attack on Dražgoše, the Germans gathered four battalions with more than 2,000 well-armed men, including heavy artillery and a spotter airplane, to attack some 200 Partisans of the Cankar Battalion. Over three days of battles, from January 9 to 11, the Germans suffered 69 casualties - 27 killed and 42 wounded - while the Partisans had 20 casualties - 9 killed and 11 wounded.

On January 11, the Germans, with the help of local Slovene collaborators, managed to enter the village. That evening, the exhausted Partisans were forced to leave the village, withdrawing to Mount Jelovica, and some Dražgoše residents joined them in the withdrawal.

Some sources state the Partisans selected Dražgoše to challenge the German forces, and that villagers asked the Partisans forces to leave the village. Others note that going to Dražgoše was just one of multiple options considered by the Partisans, following their battles against the Germans at Rovte and Pasja Ravan, and point to the fact that when they arrived at the village, they permitted the locals to inform the Germans of their presence, so the village would not be held responsible and suffer reprisals.

Aftermath

Two days after the Dražgoše engagement, German troops attacked two Partisan platoons on the Mošnje Pasture (). During the 13-hour engagement, some 12 Partisans were killed and five were wounded.

After the battle at Dražgoše, German troops killed 41 villagers, including 21 civilians at Jelenšče, executing 18 (among them 7 children below 18 years, including two 11-year-olds, and a 13-year-old). They killed two more trying to escape, and also killed a 3-year-old girl, when a German soldier threw a grenade into a cellar full of civilians. During the evening of the following day, a further 18 male residents who had previously escaped, only to be apprehended as they returned, were executed, houses were looted, and the village was set on fire. In February 1942, the Germans returned to demolish the entire village with explosives, forbidding entry into the village until the end of the war. The remaining villagers were then rounded up and sent to concentration camps.

The German public announcement of the destruction of the village and the sending of women and children to concentration camps, proclaimed this was because the villagers did not report the Partisans’ presence,  which was clearly a lie, since the villagers reported the Partisans’ presence, with the approval of the Partisans, so they would not be held responsible. After listing the reprisals taken, the German announcement finished with a threat to all the residents of Upper Carniola: "Whoever is against us will be executed."

After the war, a number of memorials were erected in the village, including: 1) a memorial in front of the church with the names of 41 hostages shot by the Germans, plus 16 Dražgoše residents killed as members of the Partisans from 1942 to 1945; 2) a monument at the church to 18 Dražgoše residents executed by the Germans at that spot, erected by the Partisan Veterans Association; 3) a memorial at Jelenšče to 21 Dražgoše residents executed there by the Germans after the battle, erected by the Partisan Veterans Association; 4) a memorial at the church graveyard, where the hostages and Partisans were buried before they were transferred to a common grave; and 5) a large monument where 40 hostages and 8 Partisans are buried.

Interpretations

News of the Battle of Dražgoše spread to the United States, where it was lauded as a heroic act of defiance in occupied Europe. The battle was further celebrated in communist-era and present day Slovenia. The first small monument to the killed Partisans and villagers was erected in 1947. Based on interviews with Partisans and villagers, in 1971 Ivan Jan wrote a popular book on the Dražgoše battle which drew further attention to the event, and in 1976 a large monument was raised dedicated to the nine fallen Partisans and 41 executed civilians; three other monuments were also raised for the executed villagers. From soon after the battle to decades later, German casualties were overestimated by various Slovene sources, erroneously citing anywhere from at least 100 German dead and wounded to hundreds of German casualties. Jan stated that there were hundreds of German casualties, or at least 100 dead and 200 wounded, and he repeatedly claimed that the Germans were concealing information about the extent of their losses, noting that German documents were unavailable, and thus that there were no exact data on German losses. In a 1955, account a villager stated that German soldiers had told him they had suffered 1,200 dead at Dražgoše, or that there had not been even a single Partisan casualty. Yet a 1977 article stated that German casualties were unknown. The actual, German casualty counts of 27 dead, plus 42 wounded, were established only during the 1980s, when the relevant German historical documents became available.

The battle was also highly praised after Slovenia declared independence and introduced democracy. Danilo Türk, the president of Slovenia, described the Battle of Dražgoše as the "biggest moral victory" of the Slovene nation and as the "victory of responsibility for the future of one's own nation" in 2008. He stated that it was a foundation for Slovenia as an independent country. Commemorations of the battle are held every year at Dražgoše, with thousands of participants, including the president of Slovenia and other senior leaders. Some critical Slovene commentators have described the commemorations as a "cult."

Franc Kavčič, a longtime resident of Dražgoše who lived through the battle, has more recently presented a diverging first-hand personal account o