# List of birds of the Faroe Islands

This is a list of bird species confirmed in the Faroe Islands; a total of 358 species have been recorded. There are about 40 common breeding birds, including the seabirds northern fulmar (600,000 pairs), Atlantic puffin (550,000 pairs), European storm petrel (250,000 pairs), black-legged kittiwake (230,000 pairs), common guillemot (175,000 pairs), Manx shearwater (25,000 pairs).

This list's taxonomic treatment (designation and sequence of orders, families and species) and nomenclature (common and scientific names) follow the conventions of The Clements Checklist of Birds of the World, 2022 edition. The family accounts at the beginning of each heading reflect this taxonomy, as do the species counts found in each family account. Accidental species are included in the total species count for the Faroe Islands.

Symbolically, the most important of the birds of the Faroe Islands is the Eurasian oystercatcher (Haematopus ostralegus). Their annual arrival on about 12 March is celebrated by the Faroe Islanders as the start of spring. For this reason, the tjaldur (pronounced ), is recognised as the national bird of the Faroes. However, in numbers, the avifauna is dominated by an estimated two million pairs of breeding seabirds of several species. There are also some resident landbirds and many regular visitors, both passage migrants and breeders, as well as several species recorded occasionally as vagrants, mainly from Europe. The Faroese postal system, the Postverk Føroya, prints stamps portraying Faroe birds. See external links.

History
The great auk visited the Faroes and may have bred there, but became extinct throughout its range in the North Atlantic in the early 19th century due to human predation. The pied raven, a colour morph of the common raven, also occurred, but the last confirmed record was in 1902. The ordinary, black-colored variant of the common raven remains widespread in the archipelago.

Historically, harvesting seabirds for food was an important source of nutrition for the islanders. A reduced and strictly regulated harvest, mainly of fulmars and puffins, continues. In general, the seabirds and their nesting areas are now strongly protected.

The following tags highlight several categories of occurrence other than regular migrants and residents.

 (A) Accidental - a species that rarely or accidentally occurs in the Faroe Islands
 (I) Introduced - a species introduced to the Faroe Islands as a consequence, direct or indirect, of human actions

Ducks, geese, and waterfowl
Order: AnseriformesFamily: Anatidae

Anatidae includes the ducks and most duck-like waterfowl, such as geese and swans. These birds are adapted to an aquatic existence with webbed feet, flattened bills, and feathers that are excellent at shedding water due to an oily coating.

 Bar-headed goose, Anser indicus (A)
 Snow goose, Anser caerulescens (A)
 Graylag goose (grágás), Anser anser
 Greater white-fronted goose (korngás), Anser albifrons
 Taiga bean-goose, Anser fabalis (A)
 Tundra bean-goose, Anser serrirostris (A)
 Pink-footed goose (íslandsgás), Anser brachyrhynchus
 Brant (helsigás), Branta bernicla
 Barnacle goose (øshvít gás), Branta leucopsis
 Cackling goose, Branta hutchinsii (A)
 Canada goose, Branta canadensis (I)
 Mute swan (knubbsvanur), Cygnus olor (I)
 Tundra swan, Cygnus columbianus (A)
 Whooper swan (svanur, okn), Cygnus cygnus
 Common shelduck, Tadorna tadorna (A)
 Wood duck, Aix sponsa (A)
 Mandarin duck, Aix galericulata (A)
 Garganey, Spatula querquedula (A)
 Blue-winged teal, Spatula discors (A)
 Northern shoveler, Spatula clypeata (A)
 Gadwall, Mareca strepera (A)
 Eurasian wigeon (ennigul ont), Mareca penelope
 American wigeon, Mareca americana (A)
 Mallard (villdunna), Anas platyrhynchos
 American black duck, Anas rubripes (A)
 Northern pintail (stikkont), Anas acuta
 Green-winged teal (krikkont), Anas crecca
 Common pochard, Aythya ferina (A)
 Ring-necked duck, Aythya collaris (A)
 Ferruginous duck, Aythya nyroca (A)
 Tufted duck (trøllont), Aythya fuligula
 Greater scaup, Aythya marila (A)
 Lesser scaup, Aythya affinis (A)
 Steller's eider, Polysticta stelleri (A)
 King eider (æðukongur), Somateria spectabilis (A)
 Common eider (æða), Somateria mollissima
 Harlequin duck, Histrionicus histrionicus (A)
 Surf scoter, Melanitta perspicillata (A)
 Velvet scoter, Melanitta fusca (A)
 White-winged scoter, Melanitta deglandi (A)
 Common scoter (kolont), Melanitta nigra
 Long-tailed duck (ógvella), Clangula hyemalis
 Common goldeneye (súgont), Bucephala clangula
 Barrow's goldeneye (íslendsk súgont), Bucephala islandica (A)
 Smew, Mergellus albellus (A)
 Hooded merganser, Lophodytes cucullatus (A)
 Common merganser (tannont), Mergus merganser (A)
 Red-breasted merganser (toppont), Mergus serrator

Pheasants, grouse, and allies
Order: GalliformesFamily: Phasianidae

These are terrestrial species of gamebirds, feeding and nesting on the ground. They are variable in size but generally plump, with broad and relatively short wings.

 Willow ptarmigan, Lagopus lagopus (I)
 Rock ptarmigan, Lagopus muta (I)
 Black grouse, Lyrurus tetrix
 Common quail (vaktil), Coturnix coturnix (A)

Grebes
Order: PodicipediformesFamily: Podicipedidae

Grebes are small to medium-large freshwater diving birds. They have lobed toes and are excellent swimmers and divers. However, they have their feet placed far back on the body, making them quite ungainly on land.

 Little grebe (smágjør), Tachybaptus ruficollis (A)
 Pied-billed grebe, Podilymbus podiceps (A)
 Horned grebe (gjør), Podiceps auritus
 Red-necked grebe, Podiceps grisegena (A)
 Great crested grebe, Podiceps cristatus (A)

Pigeons and doves
Order: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae

Pigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere.

 Rock pigeon (bládúgva), Columba livia
 Stock dove (bládúgva), Columba oenas (A)
 Common wood-pigeon, Columba palumbus
 European turtle-dove, Streptopelia turtur
 Oriental turtle-dove, Streptopelia orientalis (A)
 Eurasian collared-dove, Streptopelia decaocto (A)
 Mourning dove, Zenaida macroura (A)

Sandgrouse
Order: PterocliformesFamily: Pteroclidae

Sandgrouse have small pigeon-like heads and necks, but sturdy compact bodies. They have long pointed wings and sometimes tails and a fast direct flight. Flocks fly to watering holes at dawn and dusk. Their legs are feathered down to the toes.

 Pallas's sandgrouse, Syrrhaptes paradoxus (A)

Cuckoos
Order: CuculiformesFamily: Cuculidae

The family Cuculidae includes cuckoos, roadrunners, and anis. These birds are of variable size with slender bodies, long tails, and strong legs. The Old World cuckoos are brood parasites.

 Common cuckoo, Cuculus canorus (A)

Nightjars and allies
Order: CaprimulgiformesFamily: Caprimulgidae

Nightjars are medium-sized nocturnal birds that usually nest on the ground. They have long wings, short legs, and very short bills. Most have small feet, of little use for walking, and long pointed wings. Their soft plumage is camouflaged to resemble bark or leaves.

 Common nighthawk, Chordeiles minor (A)
 Eurasian nightjar, Caprimulgus europaeus (A)

Swifts
Order: CaprimulgiformesFamily: Apodidae

Swifts are small birds which spend the majority of their lives flying. These birds have very short legs and never settle voluntarily on the ground, perching instead only on vertical surfaces. Many swifts have long swept-back wings which resemble a crescent or boomerang.

 White-throated needletail, Hirundapus caudacutus (A)
 Alpine swift, Apus melba (A)
 Common swift, Apus apus

Rails, gallinules, and coots
Order: GruiformesFamily: Rallidae

Rallidae is a large family of small to medium-sized birds which includes the rails, crakes, coots, and gallinules. Typically they inhabit dense vegetation in damp environments near lakes, swamps, or rivers. In general they are shy and secretive birds, making them difficult to observe. Most species have strong legs and long toes which are wel