# Campbell Barracks (Western Australia)

Campbell Barracks is an Australian Army base located in Swanbourne, a coastal suburb of Perth, Western Australia. It is named after Lieutenant Colonel  Campbell (1842–1924), former commandant of the Commonwealth Military Forces in Western Australia.

Campbell Barracks was originally "acquired" in 1935, to house coastal artillery, two six-inch guns. It was to host the northernmost part of Fremantle Fortress, the Freemantle coastal defences. Improvement work was carried out under the supervision of No. 6 Heavy Battery, Royal Australian Artillery. During the Second World War it host both artillery and garrison infantry.

The Special Air Service Regiment (SASR) has been based at Campbell Barracks since the regiment was first established as an independent company in 1957. Although Campbell Barracks is the home of the SASR, most of the training and selection for the regiment takes place in Bindoon, Western Australia.

The SASR is a special forces regiment of the Australian Army and is modelled on the original British SAS, while also drawing on the traditions of the Australian Z Special Force commando unit, and the Independent Companies which were active in the South Pacific during the Second World War.

The SASR's three 'sabre squadrons' rotate between the war/reconnaissance and counterterrorism/recovery roles. Two squadrons are maintained in the war/reconnaissance role with the remaining squadron filling the counterterrorism/recovery role. Rotations occur every 12 months, so each squadron fulfils the counterterrorism/recovery role and configuration every three years. Reports that the squadron filling the counterterrorism role is always designated 1 Squadron are incorrect as that practice ceased in the late 1980s.

All three sabre squadrons are garrisoned at Campbell Barracks save for certain units within each sabre squadron that can be rotated amongst bases within Australia. This usually only occurs with the current Counter Terrorist Squadron.

As stated in ex-SASR soldier Keith Fennell's book "Warrior Training", outside the headquarters for Campbell Barracks is a monument to every Australian SASR soldier who has died on active service with the regiment, be it during training or on deployment. The list currently stands at just over 40 soldiers, the majority having been killed in training accidents.

References

Barracks in Australia
Buildings and structures in Perth, Western Australia
Swanbourne, Western Australia
Military installations in Western Australia
Coastal artillery