# W-algebra

In conformal field theory and representation theory, a W-algebra is an associative algebra that generalizes the Virasoro algebra. W-algebras were introduced by Alexander Zamolodchikov, and the name "W-algebra" comes from the fact that Zamolodchikov used the letter W for one of the elements of one of his examples.

Definition

A W-algebra is an associative algebra that is generated by the modes of a finite number of meromorphic fields , including the energy-momentum tensor . For ,  is a primary field of conformal dimension . The generators  of the algebra are related to the meromorphic fields by the mode expansions

The commutation relations of  are given by the Virasoro algebra, which is parameterized by a central charge . This number is also called the central charge of the W-algebra. The commutation relations

are equivalent to the assumption that  is a primary field of dimension .
The rest of the commutation relations can in principle be determined by solving the Jacobi identities.

Given a finite set of conformal dimensions  (not necessarily all distinct), the number of W-algebras generated by  may be zero, one or more. The resulting W-algebras may exist for all , or only for some specific values of the central charge.

A W-algebra is called freely generated if its generators obey no other relations than the commutation relations. Most commonly studied W-algebras are freely generated, including the W(N) algebras. In this article, the sections on representation theory and correlation functions apply to freely generated W-algebras.

Constructions

While it is possible to construct W-algebras by assuming the existence of a number of meromorphic fields  and solving the Jacobi identities, there also exist systematic constructions of families of W-algebras.

Drinfeld-Sokolov reduction

From a finite-dimensional Lie algebra , together with an embedding , a W-algebra may be constructed from the universal enveloping algebra of the affine Lie algebra  by a kind of BRST construction.
Then the central charge of the W-algebra is a function of the level of the affine Lie algebra.

Coset construction

Given a finite-dimensional Lie algebra , together with a subalgebra , a W-algebra  may be constructed from the corresponding affine Lie algebras . The fields that generate  are the polynomials in the currents of  and their derivatives that commute with the currents of . The central charge of  is the difference of the central charges of  and , which are themselves given in terms of their level by the Sugawara construction.

Commutator of a set of screenings

Given a holomorphic field  with values in , and a set of  vectors , a W-algebra may be defined as the set of polynomials of  and its derivatives that commute with the screening charges . If the vectors  are the simple roots of a Lie algebra , the resulting W-algebra coincides with an algebra that is obtained from  by Drinfeld-Sokolov reduction.

The W(N) algebras

For any integer , the W(N) algebra is a W-algebra which is generated by  meromorphic fields of dimensions . The W(2) algebra coincides with the Virasoro algebra.

Construction

The W(N) algebra is obtained by Drinfeld-Sokolov reduction of the affine Lie algebra . 

The embeddings  are parametrized by the integer partitions of , interpreted as decompositions of the fundamental representation  of  into representations of . The set  of dimensions of the generators of the resulting W-algebra is such that  where  is the -dimensional irreducible representation of .

The trivial partition  corresponds to the W(N) algebra, while  corresponds to  itself. In the case , the partition 
 leads to the Bershadsky-Polyakov algebra, whose generating fields have the dimensions .

Properties

The central charge of the W(N) algebra is given in terms of the level  of the affine Lie algebra by 
 
in notations where the central charge of the affine Lie algebra is 

It is possible to choose a basis such that the commutation relations are invariant under .

While the Virasoro algebra is a subalgebra of the universal enveloping algebra of , the W(N) algebra with  is not a subalgebra of the universal enveloping algebra of .

Example of the W(3) algebra

The W(3) algebra is generated by the generators of the Virasoro algebra , plus another infinite family of generators . The commutation relations are

where  is the central charge, and we define 

The  field  is such that .

Representation theory

Highest weight representations

A highest weight representation of a W-algebra is a representation that is generated by a primary state: a vector  such that

for some numbers  called the charges, including the conformal dimension .

Given a set  of charges, the corresponding Verma module is the largest highest-weight representation that is generated by a primary state with these charges. A basis of the Verma module is 

where  is the set of ordered tuples of strictly positive integers of the type  with , and . Except for  itself, the elements of this basis are called descendant states, and their linear combinations are also called descendant states.  

For generic values of the charges, the Verma module is the only highest weight representation. For special values of the charges that depend on the algebra's central charge,  there exist other highest weight representations, called degenerate representations. Degenerate representations exist if 
the Verma module is reducible, and
they are quotients of the Verma module by its nontrivial submodules.

Degenerate representations

If a Verma module is reducible, any indecomposible submodule is itself a highest weight representation, and is generated by a state that is both descendant and primary, called a null state or null vector. A degenerate representation is obtained by setting one or more null vectors to zero. Setting all the null vectors to zero leads to an irreducible representation. 

The structures and characters of irreducible representations can be deduced by Drinfeld-Sokolov reduction from representations of affine Lie algebras.

The existence of null vectors is possible only under -dependent constraints on the charge . A Verma module can have only finitely many null vectors that are not descendants of other null vectors. If we start from a Verma module that has a maximal number of null vectors, and set all these null vectors to zero, we obtain an irreducible representation called a fully degenerate representation. 

For example, in the case of the algebra W(3), the  Verma module with vanishing charges  has the three null vectors  at levels 1, 1 and 2. Setting these null vectors to zero yields a fully degenerate representation called the vacuum module. 
The simplest nontrivial fully degenerate representation of W(3) has vanishing null vectors at levels 1, 2 and 3, whose expressions are explicitly known. 

An alternative characterization of a fully degenerate representation is that its fusion product with any Verma module is a sum of finitely many indecomposable representations.

Case of W(N)

It is convenient to parametrize highest-weight representations not by the set of charges , but by an element  of the weight space of , called the momentum. 

Let  be the simple roots of , with a scalar product  given by the Cartan matrix of , whose nonzero elements are . The  positive simple roots are sums of any number of consecutive simple roots, and the Weyl vector is their half-sum , which obeys . The fundamental weights  are defined by . Then the momentum is a vector 

The charges  are functions of the momentum and the central charge, invariant under the action of the Weyl group. In particular,  is a polynomial of the momentum of degree , which under the Dynkin diagram automorphism  behaves as . The conformal dimension is 

Let us parametrize the central charge in terms of a number  such that 
 
If there is a positive root  and two integers  such that  

then the Verma module of momentum  has a null vector at level . This null vector is