[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #33272]

Produced by Katherine Ward, Mark C. Orton and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net GREEN SPRING FARM Fairfax County, Virginia by ROSS AND NAN NETHERTON June 1970 [Illustration: Map of COUNTY OF FAIRFAX VIRGINIA] TABLE OF CONTENTS Page ILLUSTRATIONS iv PREFACE v ACKNOWLEDGMENTS vi INTRODUCTION 1 HISTORICAL NOTES I. Gentleman Freeholders: The Moss Family (1770-1835) 3 II. Orchard and Dairy: Fountain Beattie (1878-1917) 19 III. The End of the Farming Era: Michael Straight (1942-1969) 31 ARCHITECTURAL HISTORY AND DESCRIPTION: THE MANSION HOUSE 36 ASSOCIATED BUILDINGS I. The Tobey House 51 II. The Barn 55 III. The Log Cabin 57 IV. The Spring House 59 APPENDIXES A. Fairfax County Historic Landmarks Survey Form 63 B. Summary of Ownership 64 C. Will of John Moss, 1809 66 D. Inventory of Personal Estate of William Moss, April 15, 1835 68 E. Affidavit of Thomas Love and Alfred Moss, October 29, 1839 74 F. Inventory of Personal Estate of Thomas Moss, December 2, 1839 76 G. "A Visit From Mr. Polevoy," _The New Republic_, July 16, 1956 77 LIST OF SOURCE MATERIALS 81 ILLUSTRATIONS Figure Page 1 John Warner Survey Map, 1740 4 2 John Halley Survey Map, 1840 12 3 R. R. Farr Survey, 1874 12 4 Hopkins' Atlas Map, 1879 20 5 Fountain Beattie and Annie Hathaway Beattie, c. 1885 22 The Mosby and the Beatties, c. 1890 22 The Old Stone Spring House, c. 1885 22 The Lane to Green Spring Farm, c. 1885 22 6 John Singleton Mosby 24 Reunion at Manassas 24 7 Front View of Green Spring Farm, 1936 30 Side View of Green Spring Farm, 1936 30 8 Berry Survey Map, 1941 30 10 Floor Plans, Mansion House 38 14 Three Views of the Tobey House, c. 1960 50 15 Floor Plans of the Tobey House 52 19 Spring House Floor Plans 58 20 Fairfax County Property Map, 1969 62 PREFACE In the beginning was the land. It drew human life to our rich area of Fairfax County, and sustained us for centuries before we became so self-conscious about it as to make household language of words such as ecology and bio-degradable waste. This is where we are at, however, and thus it is thoroughly appropriate that the publication of historical research reports in this format, a new program for Fairfax County, should commence with a study of the Green Spring Farm. There is no better site for an example, probably, to illustrate the early patterns of life on the agricultural land of Fairfax County as well as to follow the changes and pressures that have come about through war, depression, boom, and technological change down to the present. Anyone familiar with the history of this parcel of land, the Green Spring Farm, will be familiar with a great deal of the history of Fairfax County--told not so much in terms of its famous and powerful people as in terms of those who drew sustenance directly from the land. This report is published under authority of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Fairfax. It is one result of a program of historical site survey and research carried on by the Fairfax County Division of Planning in cooperation with the Fairfax County History Commission. The original selection of Green Spring Farm as a research topic was made by the Fairfax County Historical Landmarks Preservation Commission, Bayard D. Evans, Chairman, the predecessor of the present History Commission as the chief historical agency of the County Government. Reproduction of the material in this report is invited, subject to the customary credit to author and publisher. John Porter Bloom Chairman Fairfax County History Commission April 1970 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS These notes are part of a series of research reports on the historic and architectural landmarks of Fairfax County, Virginia, prepared pursuant to a resolution of the Board of County Supervisors calling for a survey of the county's historic sites and buildings. Green Spring Farm was selected in 1967 by the Fairfax County Historical Landmarks Preservation Commission as a subject to be researched, and was later incorporated into a successor research program sponsored by the Division of Planning in cooperation with the Fairfax County History Commission. The authors of this report wish to acknowledge with special thanks the assistance of the following: Mr. and Mrs. John Mosby Beattie, Admiral Beverly Mosby Coleman, Mr. and Mrs. Michael W. Straight, Mr. and Mrs. John Quast, Mrs. Victor Fahringer, Mrs. Gwen Hempel, Mrs. Don Ritchie, and Mrs. Edith Moore Sprouse. The authors also extend their thanks to the Honorable Thomas P. Chapman, former Clerk of the Fairfax County Circuit Court, and the Honorable Franklin Gooding, present Clerk of the Fairfax County Circuit Court, for assistance in making available court records of the clerkships of various members of the Moss family. The Honorable George R. Rich, Clerk of the Virginia House of Delegates and Keeper of the Rolls of the State, furnished information on Robert Moss's term as a Delegate from Fairfax County. Thanks are extended to the staff of the National Archives who located and made available for examination the military and civil service records of Fountain Beattie. Many helpful suggestions on the interpretation of data concerning the history of agriculture in Northern Virginia were provided by C. Malcolm Watkins, Chairman of the Department of Cultural History, and John T. Schlebecker, Curator of the Division of Agriculture and Mining of the Smithsonian Institution's Museum of History and Technology. Details of the architectural history of the mansion house were furnished by Walter Macomber, who was in charge of the 1942 renovation, and David Condon, AIA, who designed the additional work done in 1960. Mr. Condon also provided both information and architectural plans for the Tobey House and the Spring House. The authors' sincere thanks are extended to both these gentlemen. Finally, the authors wish to acknowledge the efficient and valuable help that they, as part of the county's historical research project, received from the staff of the Fairfax County Headquarters Library. N.N. R.D.N. Fairfax, Virginia April 22, 1970 INTRODUCTION The land has always had a special value to Virginians. Land was the first form of wealth which the colonists knew; and it was through cultivation of the land that Virginians first enjoyed the heady feeling of prosperity that came with the rise of their tobacco empire. Ownership and cultivation of the land were the goals of those who indentured themselves to come to the New World, and they were the foundations on which Jefferson placed his reliance for the perpetuation of political freedom and economic strength for the infant republic which emerged from the Revolution. For more than three centuries, Virginians have associated the land with values which are both physical and spiritual. Against this background, the history of Green Spring Farm serves not only as a chronicle of the lives of three families who resided there but also as a reflection of the history of agriculture in Northern Virginia. Green Spring Farm was not one of the great estates of Tidewater Virginia. By the mid-eighteenth century, most of the original Northern Neck proprietary grants had been broken up and replaced by a pattern of smaller farms whose owners owed no allegiance to the tobacco empire and were willing to experiment with diversified crops. Green Spring Farm illustrated this emerging pattern of agriculture; and its first owners, John Moss and his heirs, who assembled the acreage in the 1770's and occupied it until 1839, were typical of the freeholder classes who took pride in their land and in regarding themselves as farmers. Their farming raised Virginia to its position of preeminance among the colonies and in the new nation after the Revolution. Farming remained the foundation of Virginia's economy through the nineteenth century, although changes in the methods of husbandry and transportation, together with the opening of farmlands in the Ohio Valley and the prairie states, had important consequences in Virginia. These impacts were followed by the devastating years of war from 1861 to 1865. Agriculture in Northern Virginia reached its low point in the 1870's. The period of rebuilding in Northern Virginia--the "Energetic Eighties," as one historian has called these years--brought a revival of agriculture. Farmers who could no longer compete in one agriculture market shifted to another where they enjoyed natural advantages. Thus, Green Spring Farm, under the ownership of Fountain Beattie from 1878 to 1917, became chiefly an orchard and dairy farm. Under the ownership of Michael Straight, from 1942 to the present (1969), Green Spring Farm came under assault from new economic forces which drastically affected farming in Northern Virginia and ultimately brought an end to the agricultural era there. Unlike the changing times of earlier centuries, there was no compromise with the forces of expanding urbanization; and, eventually, even stock farming was ended. Yet, in the twentieth century, as in the eighteenth and nineteenth, the farm continued to represent values which were social as well as economic. The alert eye of a Russian writer catches some of this value in