[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #40780]

for their hunting of boars and stags. A master forester maintained them. The boundaries of the Royal Forests were enlarged. They comprised almost one-third of the kingdom. Certain inhabitants thereof supplied the royal foresters with meat and drink and received certain easements and rights of common therein. The forest law reached the extreme of severity and cruelty under Henry I. Punishments given included blinding, emasculation, and execution. Offenders were rarely allowed to substitute a money payment. When fines were imposed they were heavy. A substantial number of barons and monasteries were heavily in debt to the Jews. The interest rate was 43% (2d. per pound per week). The king taxed the Jews at will. The Law Henry restored the death penalty (by hanging) for theft and robbery, but maintained William I's punishment of mutilation by blinding and severing of limbs for other offenses, for example, bad money. He decreed in 1108 that false and bad money should be amended, so that he who was caught passing bad denarii should not escape by redeeming himself but should lose his eyes and members. And since denarii were often picked out, bent, broken, and refused, he decreed that no denarius or obol, which he said were to be round, or even a quadrans, if it were whole, should be refused. (Money then reached a higher level of perfection, which was maintained for the next century.) Counterfeiting law required that "If any one be caught carrying false coin, the reeve shall give the bad money to the King however much there is, and it shall be charged in the render of his farm [payment] as good, and the body of the offender shall be handed over to the King for judgment, and the serjeants who took him shall have his clothes." The forest law stated that: "he that doth hunt a wild beast and doth make him pant, shall pay 10 shillings: If he be a freeman, then he shall pay double. If he be a bound man, he shall lose his skin." A "verderer" was responsible for enforcing this law, which also stated that: "If anyone does offer force to a Verderer, if he be a freeman, he shall lose his freedom, and all that he hath. And if he be a villein, he shall lose his right hand." Further, "If such an offender does offend so again, he shall lose his life." A wife's dower is one-third of all her husband's freehold land, unless his endowment of her at their marriage was less than one- third. Debts to townsmen were recoverable by this law: "If a burgess has a gage [a valuable object held as security for carrying out an agreement] for money lent and holds this for a whole year and a day, and the debtor will not deny the debt or deliver the gage, and this is proved, the burgess may sell the gage before good witnesses for as much as he can, and deduct his money from the sum. If any money is over he shall return it to the debtor. But if there is not enough to pay him, he shall take distress again for the amount that is lacking." Past due rent in a borough was punishable by payment of 10s. as fine. Judicial activity encouraged the recording of royal legislation in writing which both looked to the past and attempted to set down law current in Henry's own day in the Leges Henrici Primi. This showed an awareness of the ideal of written law as a statement of judicial principles as well as of the practice of kingship. In this way, concepts of Roman law used by the Normans found their way into English law. The laws of Henry I in the Leges Henrici Primi have as subjects judicial procedure, proper judging, conduct of people involved in litigation, litigation procedure, required witnesses, evidence, credibility, quotes from legal references, oaths, perjury, geographical divisions of England, court sessions and attendance, order of court proceedings, adjournments, frankpledge, strangers, types of causes and their manner of hearing, royal jurisdiction, ecclesiastical pleas of the king, offenses, compensations, penalties, reliefs, the king's peace, forest pleas, exculpation, soke, jurisdiction of royal judges, the king's judges, summons, oathhelpers, transfer of cases, trials of pleas, unjust judgments, sureties, lords who sue, accusations, court procedure, pleadings, postponements, record of proceedings, failure to appear, counsel, summoning the hundred, summoning the county court, distraints, partners of common property, rights of jurisdiction of a lord over his man, holdings in farm, disputes between neighbors, trial by battle, slaves, pleas between a lord's reeve and those who are subject to him, suits by royal judges, wergelds, murdrum fine, letting go of a thief, slaying of or by a cleric, confessions, men of ill repute, ordeals, compensations, bondmen, intent, inheritance, dowries, homicide by magicians, definition of homicide, killing one's lord, foreigners, debtors, illegitimacy, foundlings, the king's peace, homicide in the king's court, royal highways, self-defense, drinking assemblies, mutual enemies, leading into wrong-doing, lent arms, marauders, weapons, killing a relative, pledge, negligence, and wounds to body parts. A sampling of the laws of Henry I follows: "These are the jurisdictional rights which the king of England has in his land solely and over all men, reserved through a proper ordering of peace and security: breach of the king's peace given by his hand or writ; Danegeld; the pleas of contempt of his writs or commands; the death or injury of his servants wherever occurring; breach of fealty and treason; any contempt or slander of him; fortifications consisting of three walls; outlawry; theft punishable by death; murdrum; counterfeiting his coinage; arson; hamsocn [breach of the right of security and privacy in a man's house by forcible entry into it]; forestel [attacking an enemy unexpectedly or lying in wait for him on the road and attacking him] passenger on the king's highway]; fyrding [action regarding the military array or land force of the whole country]; flymenfyrm [the reception or relief of a fugitive or outlaw]; premeditated assault; robbery; stretbreche [destroying a road by closing it off or diverting it or digging it up]; unlawful appropriation of the king's land or money; treasure-trove; wreck of the sea; things cast up by the sea; rape; abduction; forests; the reliefs of barons; fighting in the king's dwelling or household; breach of the peace in the king's troop; failure to perform burgbot [a contribution to the repair of castles or walls of defense, or of a borough]; or brigbot [a tribute or contribution to the repair of bridges]; or firdfare [a summoning forth to a military expedition]; receiving and maintaining an excommunicated person or an outlaw; violation of the king's protection; flight in a military or naval battle; false judgment; failure of justice; violation of the king's law." "Some pleas cannot be compensated for with money; these are: husbreche [housebreaking or burglary], arson, manifest theft, palpable murder, treachery towards one's lord, and violation of the peace of the church or the protection of the king through the commission of homicide." "Compensation is effected by the payment of one hundred shillings for the following: grithbreche [breach of the peace], stretbreche, forestel, violation of the king's protection, hamsocn, and flymenfyrm." Hamsocn is an attack on a house and occurs if anyone assaults another in his own house or the house of someone else with a band of men or pursues him so that he hits the door or the house with arrows or stones or produces a perceptible blow from any source. It also is committed if anyone goes with premeditation to a house where he knows his enemy to be and attacks him there, whether he does this by day or by night. It also occurs if anyone pursues a person fleeing into a mill or sheephold. If in a court of house dissension has arisen and fighting follows as well, and someone pursues another person fleeing into the other house, it shall be considered hamsocn if there are two roofs there. The following place a man in the king's mercy: breach of his peace which he gives to anyone by his own hand; contempt of his writs and anything which slanders injuriously his own person or his commands; causing the death of his servants in a town or fortress or anywhere else; breach of fealty and treason; contempt of him; construction of fortifications without permission; the incurring of outlawry (anyone who suffers this shall fall into the king's hand, and if he has any bocland [lands held by deed or other written evidence of title]; manifest theft punishable by death." If any Englishman is slain without fault on his part, compensation shall be paid to his relatives according to this wergeld. Wite and manbot shall be paid to the appropriate lords in accordance with the amount of the wergeld. Where a wergeld of 200s. is payable, then 30s. must be paid as manbot, which equals 5 mancuses; where the wergeld is 1200s., that is, for a thegn, the