# Grey's Anatomy (season 1)

The first season of the American television medical drama Grey's Anatomy, began airing in the United States on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) on March 27, 2005, and concluded on May 22, 2005. The first season introduces the main character, Meredith Grey, as she enrolls in Seattle Grace Hospital's internship program and faces unexpected challenges and surprises. Season one had nine series regulars, three of whom have been part of the main cast ever since. The season initially served as a mid-season replacement for the legal drama Boston Legal, airing in the Sunday night time slot at 10:00, after Desperate Housewives. Although no clip shows have been produced for this season, the events that occur are recapped in "Straight to Heart", a clip-show which aired one week before the winter holiday hiatus of the second season ended. The season was officially released on DVD as two-disc Region 1 box set under the title of Grey's Anatomy: Season One on February 14, 2006, by Buena Vista Home Entertainment.

The series' protagonist and title character is Dr. Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo), who is accepted into the residency program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital. She joins the program as an intern and is assigned to work under their resident Dr. Miranda Bailey (Chandra Wilson), along with fellow interns: the extremely competitive Dr. Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh),  the insecure Dr. George O'Malley (T. R. Knight), ex model Dr. Izzie Stevens (Katherine Heigl), and the arrogant Dr. Alex Karev (Justin Chambers). The surgical wing is primarily supervised by the Chief of Surgery Dr. Richard Webber (James Pickens, Jr.). Dr. Preston Burke (Isaiah Washington) is the head of Cardio surgery. Meredith is in a romantic relationship with her attending Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey) a stranger she had a one-night stand with, and is the daughter of the renowned surgeon Ellis Grey (Kate Burton), who now suffers from Alzheimer's. 

The season's reviews and critiques were highly positive, and the series received several awards and nominations for the cast and crew including three nominations at the 57th Primetime Emmy Awards including Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series for Oh. The series also received three nominations at the Golden Globe Awards with the series itself being nominated for Best Drama Series, Dempsey nominated for Best Actor in a Drama Series, Oh winning the Best Supporting Actress while the entire cast was nominated in the Outstanding Cast – Drama Series category. Oh also won the Outstanding Actress in a Drama Series at the 12th Screen Actors Guild Awards. Chambers and Pompeo were nominated for Choice TV Breakout Performances at the 2005 Teen Choice Awards. Peter Horton and Jeffrey Melman were also nominated for the Best Directing – Drama Series, Night for A Hard Day's Night and Into You Like a Train respectively at the 58th Directors Guild of America Awards.

The last four episodes, written and shot to air as the final episodes of the first season, actually aired as part of the beginning of the second season, due to the high number of viewers that watched "Who's Zoomin' Who?", the season's highest-rated episode with 22.22 million viewers tuning in. The series was chosen in the top 10 for several 2005 "best of television" lists, including USA Today, San Jose Mercury News, The New York Times, The Boston Globe and Chicago Tribune.

Episodes 

The number in the "No. in series" column refers to the episode's number within the overall series, whereas the number in the "No. in season" column refers to the episode's number within this particular season. "U.S. viewers in millions" refers to the number of Americans in millions who watched the episodes live. The first season's episodes are altogether 387 minutes in length. Each episode of this season is named after a song.

Cast and characters

Main 
 Ellen Pompeo as Dr. Meredith Grey
 Sandra Oh as Dr. Cristina Yang
 Katherine Heigl as Dr. Izzie Stevens
 Justin Chambers as Dr. Alex Karev
 T.R. Knight as Dr. George O'Malley
 Chandra Wilson as Dr. Miranda Bailey
 James Pickens, Jr. as Dr. Richard Webber
 Isaiah Washington as Dr. Preston Burke
 Patrick Dempsey as Dr. Derek Shepherd

Notable guests 
 Kate Walsh as Dr. Addison Montgomery
 Kate Burton as Ellis Grey
 Sarah Utterback as Olivia Harper 
 Skyler Shaye as Katie Bryce
 Kathryn Joosten as Stephanie Drake
 Kevin Rahm as Mr. Duff
 Lauren Bowles as Alice Franklin
 Anjul Nigam as Dr. Raj Sen 
 Anna Maria Horsford as Elizabeth Fallon
 Robin Pearson Rose as Patricia Murphy

Production

Development 
The series was created by Shonda Rhimes and was aired on the ABC Network in the U.S. The season was produced by Touchstone Television, currently ABC Studios, The Mark Gordon Company, ShondaLand Production Company, and was distributed by Buena Vista International, Inc. The season's executive producers were Rhimes, Betsy Beers, Mark Gordon, James D. Parriott, Krista Vernoff, Rob Corn, and Mark Wilding. The staff writers were Rhimes, Parriott, Ann Hamilton, Vernoff, Kip Koenig, Mimi Schmir, Gabrielle Stanton, and Harry Werksman, Jr. The directors throughout the season were Peter Horton, Tony Goldwyn, Adam Davidson. John David Coles, Scott Brazil, Darnell Martin, Sarah Pia Anderson, and Wendey Stanzler. Rhimes served as the season's showrunner. She and Horton, who wrote and directed the first two episodes respectively, would also have written and directed the season's final two episodes, had they not been transferred into the second season. 

The show was announced in late 2004 as a mid-season replacement for Boston Legal. It was originally scheduled to run in the Boston Legal time slot for just four weeks, but after receiving high ratings remained in the time-slot for the remainder of the season. ABC Entertainment President Steve McPherson commented on the scheduling decision: "Ultimately we decided that, without having adequate lead time or marketing dollars to devote to moving either show so late in the season, we'd continue to let Grey's build on its tremendous momentum through May". Prior to broadcast, it was announced that the show's title would change from Grey's Anatomy to Complications, although ultimately this did not come to pass. Francie Calfo, executive vice president for development at ABC Entertainment, commented on the show's conception: "I think there was a need for this kind of show on our air, specifically a medical show. And Shonda found a twist on it that made it perfect for where we're at right now. Medical shows are hard, and it was hard trying to figure out where ours could be different. But where everybody else is speeding up their medical shows, she found a way to slow it down, so you get to know the characters. There's definitely a strong female appeal to it". Rhimes explained that she had found the idea of a show about smart women competing against one another an interesting one.

Casting 
Nine actors had star billing in the show's first season. Series creator Shonda Rhimes wanted a diverse cast, and so created characters without pre-specified races. Determined not to have a show in which "all the extras are white, except the lone janitor", she has created what The New York Times has called "one of the most colorful backgrounds in television." Rhimes used a "blind-casting" technique, which resulted in several roles going to actors of different racial backgrounds than first envisioned. Isaiah Washington, eventually cast as Preston Burke, was originally considered for the role of Derek Shepherd, while Burke was initially to be played by a white actor who dropped out at the last moment. Chandra Wilson was cast in the role of Miranda Bailey, who Rhimes had imagined as a blonde until auditioning Wilson. The Campus have observed that the Grey's Anatomy cast is actually more diverse than the city it emulates, noting that Seattle is actually 70% Caucasian.

The nine characters who appear as series-regulars in the first season all work in th