# Advance, North Carolina

Advance (pronounced with the stress on the first syllable) is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Davie County, North Carolina, United States. It is seventy-five miles northeast of Charlotte. As of the 2010 census it had a population of 1,138. It is located along North Carolina Highway 801 just south of Bermuda Run. Advance is part of the Piedmont Triad region of North Carolina.

Geography
Advance is located in eastern Davie County. The Yadkin River forms the eastern edge of the CDP and is the Davidson County line. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of , of which  is land and , or 0.95%, is water. Neighboring communities and municipalities include Bermuda Run,  to the north, and Mocksville, the Davie County seat,  to the west. The largest neighboring city is Winston-Salem, NC.

Demographics

2020 census

As of the 2020 United States census, there were 1,499 people, 469 households, and 320 families residing in the CDP.

Etymology
Various accounts exist for the origin of the town's name. Some suggest the name was derived from the name of a popular resident and freed slave, Samuel Vance Allen. Other accounts suggest the community was named by residents who hoped that with the addition of a post office, the community would advance.

Encompassing communities
While Advance remains unincorporated, it is recognized by the US Postal Service under ZIP code 27006. The common area of Advance includes several smaller unincorporated communities that are not recognized by the Postal Service:

Bixby
Cornatzer
Farmington (south of Spillman Road)
Fork Church
Fulton
Hillsdale
Redland
Shady Grove
Smith Grove

Education
Public schools in Advance are operated by Davie County Schools. Schools within advance are:
 Shady Grove Elementary School
 William Ellis Middle School

Macedonia Moravian Preschool is a local private school.

Landmarks
One significant landmark in the Advance area is the Vestal Potts Gymnasium. The basketball gymnasium is named after legendary coach Vestal Potts who coached Shady Grove's basketball teams to numerous championships.

Fulton United Methodist Church and John Edward Belle Shutt House and Outbuildings are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.

Notable person
 Ted Budd, United States Congressman

References

External links
 Advance Fire Department
 Underpass Road Communities

Census-designated places in Davie County, North Carolina
Census-designated places in North Carolina