# Lance Wilkinson

Lance Wilkinson (also Hails) is a fictional character from the Australian soap opera Neighbours, played by Andrew Bibby. He made his first on-screen appearance on 9 August 1995. Bibby was cast in the recurring role of Lance after an audition. After a year, Bibby auditioned for another character called Jon and the writers chose to turn him into Lance. Lance was a bookish, paranoid boy, with a kind heart and keen wit. Lance departed on 29 March 2001, but Bibby reprised his role in July 2005 for the show's 20th anniversary, in 2018 and also for the final episode in 2022.

Casting
Neighbours was Bibby's first major long-term role. Bibby said he went for a general audition, where there were five parts available. Bibby was given the role of Lance, a three-month occasional role. A year later, Bibby auditioned for another character called Jon, who the writers decided to turn into Lance. During the audition, Bibby had to share a scene with various girls to see how they looked together as twins. Brooke Satchwell, an actress Bibby had met before, came in and was given the role of Lance's sister, Anne. Bibby's first day of filming was on location outside the coffee shop set, a day later the actor had to perform a kissing scene with his co-star Rebecca Ritters (Hannah Martin). Bibby said it was "a bit embarrassing!"

Development

Characterisation
Lance became the man of the family after his parents, Ruth (Ailsa Piper) and Bill (Ian Stanley Pearce), separated. Lance is initially portrayed as a "bookish" character, who is also nervous and paranoid. A writer for the BBC said Lance is kind-hearted and has a keen wit. When he was asked how Lance has changed in the three and half years he had been on the show, Bibby said "He's changed a lot, and needless to say, has grown up a great deal. I suppose the biggest change for him was when his family left - his mum Ruth, and the inlaws, Phil and Hannah. That's when he had to move out of the nest and really grow up." Bibby went on to explain that after Anne left, Lance was "on his own" and that moving in with Toadfish Rebecchi (Ryan Moloney) and Joel Samuels (Daniel MacPherson) gave him the chance to "let loose" and have some fun.

Bibby enjoyed working with Moloney and McPherson as it gave his character something different to do, other than getting involved in romantic entanglements. Of Lance's friendship with Toadie and Joel, Bibby said "Together, we have this dynamic and kind of  each other, I guess you could say. We bounce off each other and we know how each other works, yet we are constantly thrown into situations that we have to try and get ourselves out of. That's where the humour comes from." Bibby opined that viewers liked Lance the way he is and he agreed with them, saying "I just want to see him stay the way as he was when I was cast. I want him to be individual, and not get too hooked up with the other characters or their character traits." Bibby revealed that he had become more distant from Lance, rather than like him. The actor added that he had matured, which the writers picked up on for Lance.

Gambling
After Lance placed some bets while watching the horse racing, he soon became hooked on gambling. The problem worsened when Lance became involved with an illegal bookie, who later gave him a fright when he came to collect his money. Lance learned to conceal his addiction and Bibby explained "He only realises he has a problem when Amy ends their relationship. She finds out he's been lying to her and has lost much money. What started out as a bit of fun has become very dangerous." Lance's gambling problem continued to get out of hand and after using up his money to bet on the horses, he eventually decided to steal from his mother to make another bet. Bibby commented that Lance could not stop himself. Lance decided to make one last bet to wipe out his debts and he took his mother's fob watch. Lance then faked a break in. Bibby said "He feels really guilty about what's he's done, but convinces himself that this will be his one last bet." Lance won the bet and his friend, Chris Burgess (Nathan Bocskay), delivered his money to him during Anne's birthday party. Anne witnessed the exchange and threatened to tell Ruth and Philip (Ian Rawlings). Bibby told an Inside Soap writer that Anne's threat is what makes Lance finally begin to realise that his gambling has got out of control.

Relationships
Writers created an on-screen partnership between Lance and Amy. They eventually break-up and writers paired Lance with Megan Townsend (Allison Byrne). Despite his new romance, Amy continued to play a central role to his story. Amy begins interfering in their relationship because she wants to protect Lance from Megan. Bibby told Belinda Young (TV Week) that Amy dislikes Megan and decides to follow them. Bibby stated that "Lance's love life is interesting" because he has two blonde females fighting over him. Lance becomes concerned about Amy's reluctance to accept Megan and accuses her of being a stalker. Bibby explained that there is "a series of coincidences where Amy happens to be in the same place Lance is, so Lance jumps to the conclusion that she must be stalking him." Writers initially depicted Lance in enjoyment over Amy's jealously but this changes when Amy sabotages Lance and Megan's romantic evening. He later realises that Megan is just "stringing him along" and they break-up. Despite his newfound single status, the pair continue to play a "jealous mind game". Bibby stated that "Lance has to eat his words and what's worse is that Amy rubs it in." Bibby was hopeful that Lance and Amy would reunite because their mutual attraction always remained.

Returns
In April 2005, it was announced that Bibby had reprised his role for Neighbours' 20th anniversary. His return aired in July of that year.

On 17 January 2018, it was announced that Bibby had reprised the role again, along with several other returning cast members, for a feature-length special episode, which first aired on 12 February 2018. The episode centres on a belated 21st birthday party for Toadie.

Storylines
Hannah Martin develops a crush on Lance, a student in Year 9. Lance eventually asks Hannah out and they begin dating. Lance takes his mother's jewellery and gives it to Hannah to impress her. When Lance's father reveals the truth about the jewellery, Hannah is furious, but forgives Lance. After boasting to his mates that he had had sex with Hannah, Lance is dumped. Lance changes schools and moves to the other side of Erinsborough. Lance returns and he and Hannah become friends again. Ruth and Philip Martin, Hannah's father, are opposed to their children hanging around together. After a while, things calm down and Lance returns to Erinsborough High and Ruth rents Number 32 from Philip. Lance gets a job at a plant nursery, so he can raise some money to send them on holiday in the hope they will get back together.

After denting Karl Kennedy's (Alan Fletcher) car with a shopping cart, Lance takes extra work at the nursery to pay for the damages. He discovers that his boss, Ned Goodman (Brett Tucker), is involved in some illegal activities and Lance's sister Anne urges him to stop Ned. Lance teams up with Toadie, so they can set Anne and Billy Kennedy (Jesse Spencer) up together. Lance finds Ruth and Philip kissing and he takes it very badly, as he hoped his parents would get back together. Ben Atkins (Brett Cousins) arrives in Erinsborough and reveals that he is Ruth's son. Lance agrees to bond with his half-brother. Amy Greenwood (Jacinta Stapleton) shows an interest in Lance and he is thrilled. However, Amy's friends do not like him. Jacinta Myers (Caroline Morgan) frames Lance for printing caricatures of Susan Kennedy (Jackie Woodburne), resulting in Lance's suspension. Toadie and Amy work together to get Jacinta to confess and Susan lifts Lance's suspension.

After returning home from a camping trip, Anne finds a snake in her belongings. Lance tries to save