[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #20218]

with the word _Auccacunapac_, for traitors.] [Note 83: According to Mossi _puruccayan_ was the general mourning on the death of the Inca.] Besides these corpses, Pachacuti made two images of gold. He called one of them Viracocha Pachayachachi. It represented the creator, and was placed on the right of the image of the Sun. The other was called _Chuqui ylla_, representing lightning, placed on the left of the Sun. This image was most highly venerated by all. Inca Yupanqui adopted this idol for his _guauqui_[84], because he said that it had appeared and spoken in a desert place and had given him a serpent with two heads, to carry about with him always, saying that while he had it with him, nothing sinister could happen in his affairs. To these idols the Inca gave the use of lands, flocks, and servants, especially of certain women who lived in the same House of the Sun, in the manner of nuns. These all came as virgins but few remained without having had connexion with the Inca. At least he was so vicious in this respect, that he had access to all whose looks gave him pleasure, and had many sons. [Note 84: _Huauqui_, brother.] Besides this House, there were some _huacas_ in the surrounding country. These were that of Huanacauri, and others called Anahuarqui, Yauira, Cinga, Picol, Pachatopan[85] [_to many they made the accursed sacrifices, which they called_ Ccapac Cocha, _burying children, aged 5 or 6, alive as offerings to the devil, with many offerings of vases of gold and silver_]. [Note 85: Anahuarqui was the name of the wife of Tupac Inca Yupanqui. Yauira may be for Yauirca, a fabulous creature described by Yamqui Pachacuti. Cinga and Picol do not occur elsewhere. Pachatopan is no doubt _Pacha tupac_, beautiful land.] The Inca, they relate, also caused to be made a great woollen chain of many colours, garnished with gold plates, and two red fringes at the end. It was 150 fathoms in length, more or less. This was used in their public festivals, of which there were four principal ones in the year. The first was called RAYMI or CCAPAC RAYMI, which was when they opened the ears of knights at a ceremony called _huarachico_. The second was called SITUA resembling our lights of St John[86]. They all ran at midnight with torches to bathe, saying that they were thus left clean of all diseases. The third was called YNTI RAYMI, being the feast of the Sun, known as _aymuray_. In these feasts they took the chain out of the House of the Sun and all the principal Indians, very richly dressed, came with it, in order, singing, from the House of the Sun to the Great Square which they encircled with the chain. This was called _moroy urco_[87]. [Note 86: The months and the festivals which took place in each month are given by several authorities. The most correct are those of Polo de Ondegardo and Calancha who agree throughout. Calancha gives the months as received by the first Council of Lima. 22 June--22 July. INTIP RAYMI (_Sun Festival_). 22 July--22 Aug. CHAHUAR HUARQUIZ--Ploughing month. 22 Aug.--22 Sept. YAPAQUIZ (SITUA _or Moon Festival_)--Sowing month. 22 Sept.--22 Oct. CCOYA RAYMI---Expiatory feast. Molina a month behind. 22 Oct.--22 Nov. UMA RAYMI--Month of brewing chicha. 22 Nov.--22 Dec. AYAMARCA--Commemoration of the dead. 22 Dec.--22 Jan. CCAPAC RAYMI (HUARACHICU _festival_). 22 Jan.--22 Feb. CAMAY--Month of exercises. 22 Feb.--22 March. HATUN POCCOY (great ripening). 22 March--22 April. PACHA POCCOY (MOSOC NINA _festival_). 22 April--22 May. AYRIHUA (Harvest). 22 May--22 June. AYMURAY (Harvest home).] [Note 87: The great chain, used at festivals, is called by Sarmiento Muru-urco. See also Molina. _Muru_ means a coloured spot, or a thing of variegated colours. Molina says that it was the house where the chain was kept that was called Muru-urco, as well as the cable. _Huasca_ is another name for a cable (See G. de la Vega, ii. p, 422).] XXXII. PACHACUTI INCA YUPANQUI DEPOPULATES TWO LEAGUES OF COUNTRY NEAR CUZCO. After Pachacuti had done what has been described in the city, he turned his attention to the people. Seeing that there were not sufficient lands for sowing, so as to sustain them, he went round the city at a distance of four leagues from it, considering the valleys, situation, and villages. He depopulated all that were within two leagues of the city. The lands of depopulated villages were given to the city and its inhabitants, and the deprived people were settled in other parts. The citizens of Cuzco were well satisfied with the arrangement, for they were given what cost little, and thus he made friends by presents taken from others, and took as his own the valley of Tambo [_which was not his_]. The news of the enlargement of this city went far and wide, and reached the ears of Viracocha Inca, retired in Caquia Xaquixahuana[88]. He was moved to go and see Cuzco. The Inca Yupanqui went for him, and brought him to Cuzco with much rejoicing. He went to the House of the Sun, worshipped at Huanacauri and saw all the improvements that had been made. Having seen everything he returned to his place at Caquia Xaquixahuana, where he resided until his death, never again visiting Cuzco, nor seeing his son Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui. [Note 88: This great plain to the north-west of Cuzco, called Xaquixahuana, and Sacsahuana, is now known as Surita. Most of the early writers call it Sacsahuana. Sarmiento always places the word Caquia before the name. _Capuchini_ is to provide, _capuchic_ a purveyor. Hence _Capuquey_ means "my goods," abbreviated to _Caguey_, "my property." The meaning is "my estate of Xaquixahuana."] XXXIII. PACHACUTI INCA YUPANQUI KILLS HIS ELDER BROTHER NAMED INCA URCO. Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui found himself so powerful with the companies he had got together by liberal presents to all, that he proposed to subjugate by their means all the territories he could reach. For this he mustered all the troops that were in Cuzco, and provided them with arms, and all that was necessary for war. Affairs being in this state Pachacuti heard that his brother Urco was in a valley called Yucay, four leagues from Cuzco, and that he had assembled some people. Fearing that the movement was intended against him the Inca marched there with his army. His brother Inca Rocca went with him, who had the reputation of being a great necromancer. Arriving at a place called Paca in the said valley, the Inca went out against his brother Urco, and there was a battle between them. Inca Rocca hurled a stone which hit Urco on the throat. The blow was so great that Urco fell into the river flowing down the ravine where they were fighting. Urco exerted himself and fled, swimming down the river, with his axe in his hand. In this way he reached a rock called Chupellusca, a league below Tampu, where his brothers overtook him and killed him. From thence the Inca Pachacuti Yupanqui, with his brother Inca Rocca marched with their troops to Caquia Xaquixahuana to see his father who refused ever to speak with or see him, owing to the rage he felt at the death of Inca Urco. But Inca Rocca went in, where Viracocha was and said, "Father! it is not reasonable that you should grieve so much at the death of Urco, for I killed him in self defence, he having come to kill me. You are not to be so heavy at the death of one, when you have so many sons. Think no more of it, for my brother Pachacuti Yupanqui is to be Inca, and I hold that you should favour him and be as a father to him." Seeing the resolution of his son Inca Rocca, Viracocha did not dare to reply or to contradict him. He dismissed him by saying that that was what he wished, and that he would be guided by him in everything. With this the Inca Yupanqui and his brother Inca Rocca returned to Cuzco, and entered the city triumphing over the past victories and over this one. The triumph was after this manner. The warriors marched in order, in their companies, dressed in the best manner possible, with songs and dances, and the captives, their eyes on the ground, dressed in long robes with many tassels. They entered by the streets of the city, which were very well adorned to receive them. They went on, enacting their battles and victories, on account of which they triumphed. On reaching the House of the Sun, the spoils and prisoners were thrown on the ground, and the Inca walked over them, trampling on them and saying--"I tread on my enemies." The prisoners were silent without raising their eyes. This order was used in all their triumphs. At the end of a short time Inca Viracocha died of grief at the death of Inca Urco, deprived and despoiled of all honour