# Rejimen Askar Wataniah

The  () is the military reserve force of the Malaysian Army.

The Regiment infantry units formerly consisted of 2 series of reservists; the mobilised 300 series and the volunteer 500 series. The 300 series, which consisted of 5 infantry battalions, with mobilised reservists for full-time duty, have since 2008 been converted into a new regular border regiment, the Rejimen Sempadan. The 500 series are reserve volunteers units, based in major towns and cities throughout the whole country. In all, there are about sixteen 500 series infantry battalions, in addition to other support and service support reserve units.

History
 Pioneer Units in Malaya

In 1861, the Penang Pioneers were formed as a volunteer army unit of the Straits Settlement. Similar units were created in Singapore and in the other Malay States.

In 1902, the Malay States formed the Malay States Volunteer Rifles (MSVR). The Unfederated Malay States also formed their own volunteer units. With further expansion, the formations were then known as the Federated Malay States Volunteer Force (FMSVF), Unfederated Malay States Volunteer Force (UFMSVF) and the Straits Settlement Volunteer Force (SSVF).
 Second World War
With the outbreak of the Second World War, the volunteer units were mobilised and fought alongside the regular British, Indian, and Australian troops in the defence of Malaya and Singapore.
 Japanese occupation of Malaya
During the Japanese Occupation of Malaya, the Chinese dominated Malayan People's Anti-Japanese Army conducted guerrilla warfare against the Japanese occupiers. As only the regular Malay Regiment led by British officers had acquitted itself well until the surrender in Singapore (February 1942), the British felt it was possible to involve Malays in the resistance against the Japanese but only with extensive training and by working in close cooperation with the stay-behind British forces. The British desperately needed Malay resistance fighters to operate in Malay-dominated areas. During the Japanese Occupation, a number of local Malays formed resistance groups and carried out guerrilla warfare against the Japanese. Resistance units in Pahang were called WATANIAH, derived from the Arabic word WATAN (state). The Wataniah was led by Yeop Mahidin Bin Mohamed Shafiff (known as the Father of Wataniah). Force 136 of the Special Operations Executive was amongst the British formations that coordinated the Malayan resistance (including the Wataniah movement) against the Japanese.
 Malayan Emergency
After the war, the volunteer units were reformed. With the start of the Malayan Emergency, the Home Guard was raised and tasked with local static defence, thus releasing regular British, Commonwealth, and Malayan units for combat operations against the Communist Terrorists. In 1958, with the security situation under control and the threat from the Communist Terrorists diminished, the Home Guard was disbanded.

However, many of the members of the Home Guard wished to continue their voluntary service, and the Federation Government agreed to the formation of the Territorial Army of Malaya, the Rejimen Askar Wataniah, with the passing of the Territorial Army Ordinance 1958. On 1 June 1958, the TA Ordinance took effect, officially marking the beginning of the TA of Malaysia and thus is marked as the Regimental Day of the Askar Wataniah. The first-generation Territorials were made up of mostly personnel of the Home Guard.

 Al-Mau'nah Arms Heist, 2000
The Al-Mau'nah Sauk Arms Heist happened on 2 July 2000 at an outpost and a camp manned by members of Bn 3524 of Rejimen Askar Wataniah was involved in an arms heist by the Al-Mau'nah militant group. In the small hours of the morning, 21 members of the militant group visited the outpost and camp of Bn 304 Rejimen Askar Wataniah under the guise of a surprise inspection and relieved the soldiers' weapons or carted away weapons from the armoury. They took away a huge cache of firearms and ammunition, including 97 M16 assault rifles, four GPMGs, five grenade launchers, 9,095 rounds of 5.56mm and 60 rounds of 40mm ammunition. The group was later cornered in the village of Sauk, Perak, and involved in a stand-off the Malaysian Army and Royal Malaysian Police forces. Police threw a containment cordon of Bukit Jenalik. The group then took several hostages and holed up for four days in Bukit Jenalik, Sauk before finally surrendering to security forces. However, they brutally tortured and murdered two of the hostages -— a soldier and a police officer.

The Al-Mau'nah group later surrendered, and the leaders were brought to trial for "waging war upon the King". Mohamed Amin Mohamed Razali and his group were brought to trial for charges of "waging war against the King", and became the first people convicted of such charges in Malaysia. Mohamed Amin Mohamed Razali and his two lieutenants, Zahit Muslim and Jamaluddin Darus, were sentenced to death. Sixteen others were given life sentences.

Combat element

The 500 series is tasked with the same mission as the combat infantry battalions of the Royal Malay Regiment and the Royal Ranger Regiment. There are currently 16 Wataniah Regiments, organized into a regimental HQ and (nominal) infantry battalions.

The national organization of these reserve regiments are as follows:
 Rejimen 501 Askar Wataniah HQ, Kem Tebrau, Johor Bahru, Johor
 Batalion 1, Kem Tebrau, Johor Bahru
 Kompeni A, Kem Tebrau, Johor Bahru
 Kompeni B, Kem Kota Tinggi
 Kompeni C, Kem Pontian
 Batalion 2, Kem Muar
 Kompeni A, Kem Muar
 Kompeni B, Kem Tangkak
 Kompeni C, Kem Segamat
 Batalion 3, Kem Kluang
 Kompeni A, Kem Kluang
 Kompeni B, Kem Batu Pahat
 Kompeni C, Kem Sri Pantai, Mersing
 Rejimen 502 Askar Wataniah HQ, Kem Sungai Buloh, Selangor
 Batalion 1, Kem Sungai Buloh
 Batalion 2, Kem Shah Alam
 Batalion 3, Kem Sabak Bernam
 Pusat Latihan Rejimen 502 Askar Wataniah, Kem Sungai Tenggi
 Rejimen 503 Askar Wataniah HQ, Kem Jalan Tambun, Ipoh, Perak
 Batalion 1, Kem Jalan Tambun, Ipoh
 Kompeni A, Kem Jalan Tambun, Ipoh
 Kompeni B, Kem Parit
 Kompeni C, Kem Sitiawan
 Kompeni D, Kem Politeknik Ungku Omar, Ipoh
 Batalion 2, Kem Jalan Temenggong, Taiping
 Kompeni A, Kem Jalan Temenggong, Taiping
 Kompeni B, Kem Kuala Kangsar
 Kompeni C, Kem Gerik
 Kompeni D, Kem Pengkalan Hulu
 Batalion 3, Kem Teluk Intan
 Kompeni A, Kem Tapah
 Kompeni B, Kem Teluk Intan
 Kompeni C, Kem Kolej Tuanku Abdul Rahman (Kampar)
 Kompeni D, Kem Politeknik Sultan Azlan Shah (Behrang)
 Pusat Latihan Rejimen 503 Askar Wataniah, Kem Jalan Tambun, Ipoh
 Rejimen 504 Askar Wataniah HQ, Kem Bukit Keteri, Kangar, Perlis
 Rejimen 505 Askar Wataniah HQ, Kem Force 136, Sungai Miang, Pahang
 Batalion 1, Kem Teluk Sisik / Kem Forever 1st, Kuantan, Pahang
 Batalion 2, Kem Susur Tembeling, Jerantut
 Batalion 3, Kem Puncak Mas, Raub
 Kompeni A, Kem Bentong
 Batalion 4, Kem Force 136, Sungai Miang, Pekan
 Rejimen 506 Askar Wataniah HQ, Kem Pengkalan Chepa, Kota Bahru, Kelantan
 Batalion 1, Kem Pengkalan Chepa, Kota Bahru
 Batalion 2, Kem Machang
 Batalion 3, Kem Sungai Durian, Kuala Krai
 Pusat Latihan Rejimen 506 Askar Wataniah, Kem Sungai Durian, Kuala Krai
 Rejimen 507 Askar Wataniah, Kem Bukit Perwira, Kota Kinabalu, Sabah
 Rejimen 508 Askar Wataniah HQ, Kem Jalan Rasah, Seremban, Negeri Sembilan
 Batalion 1, Kem Sikamat, Seremban
 Batalion 2, Kem Tampin
 Batalion 3, Kem Kuala Pilah
 Rejimen 509 Askar Wataniah HQ, Kem Lebuhraya Peel, George Town, Pulau Pinang
 Rejimen 510 Askar Wataniah, Kem Sri Rejang, Sibu, Sarawak
 Rejimen 511 Askar Wataniah, Kem Ria Kompleks, Kuching, Sarawak
 Rejimen 512 Askar Wataniah, Kem Padang Midin, Kuala Berang, Terengganu
 Rejimen 513 Askar Wataniah HQ, Kem Jalan Kolam Air, Sungai Petani, Kedah
 Batalion 1, Kem Jalan Kolam Air, Sungai Petani
 Batalion 2, Kem Kulim
 Batalion 3, Kem Bukit Pinang, Kepala Batas
 Rejimen 514 Askar Wataniah HQ, Kem Bukit Beruang, Melaka
 Batalion 1, Melaka Tengah, Kem Bukit Beruang
 Batalion 2, Alor Gajah, Kem Bukit Beruang
 B