# Hawaiian lobelioids

The Hawaiian lobelioids are a group of flowering plants in the bellflower family, Campanulaceae, subfamily Lobelioideae, all of which are endemic to the Hawaiian Islands. This is the largest plant radiation in the Hawaiian Islands, and indeed the largest on any island archipelago, with over 125 species. The six genera involved can be broadly separated based on growth habit: Clermontia are typically branched shrubs or small trees, up to  tall, with fleshy fruits; Cyanea and Delissea are typically unbranched or branching only at the base, with a cluster of relatively broad leaves at the apex and fleshy fruits; Lobelia and Trematolobelia have long thin leaves down a single, non-woody stem and capsular fruits with wind-dispersed seeds; and the peculiar Brighamia have a short, thick stem with a dense cluster of broad leaves, elongate white flowers, and capsular fruits. The relationships among the genera and sections remains unsettled .

Many species have beautiful and spectacular flowers, especially those in Lobelia and Trematolobelia.  They are also highly vulnerable to feeding by feral ungulates such as feral pigs; the stems are only partly woody, and contain few defenses against herbivory.  The bark contains a milky (but apparently non-poisonous) latex, and is often chewed by rats and pigs.  Seedlings are also vulnerable to disturbance by pig digging, and in areas with high densities of pigs it is not uncommon to find the only lobelioids being epiphytic on larger trees or on fallen logs.

Taxonomy
The group contains morphologically divergent species, and was long thought to have derived from at least three introductions: one for Lobelia and Trematolobelia, one for Brighamia, and one for Clermontia, Cyanea, and Delissea. Based on DNA sequence evidence, it was later suggested that all are derived from a single introduction. This was likely a Lobelia-like species that arrived about 13 million years ago, when Gardner Pinnacles and French Frigate Shoals were high islands and long before the current main islands existed. A molecular phylogenetic study published in 2021 found that Delissea plus Brighamia, Trematolobelia, Lobelia sect. Galeatella, and Lobelia sect. Revolutella formed a clade that was closely related to giant African and South American lobelioids. Clermontia formed a separate clade with some species of Cyanea, which was not monophyletic. The part of their cladogram that includes genera and sections from Hawaii is shown below, with added shading to show those treated as Hawaiian lobelioids, which do not form a single clade in this study.

The authors of the 2021 study described the taxonomy of several genera, including Lobelia, as "particularly frustrating" and called for further research.

Brighamia

Brighamia is quite unlike the other genera, with a succulent stem and long, thin, tubular flowers.  It was long thought to have been the result of a separate introduction, and its unique combination of characters made it difficult to place.  These characters are the result of adaptation to growing on cliffs and pollination by the endemic Hawaiian hawkmoth, Manduca blackburni.  This moth is now itself listed as endangered, surviving mainly on the southern slopes of Maui, well away from where Brighamia live.  Some pollination may be done by closely related alien hawkmoths such as the five-spotted hawkmoth (M. quinquemaculata) and pink-spotted hawkmoth (Agrius cingulata).  Despite their inaccessible habitat on cliffs, Brighamia are sometimes hand-pollinated by botanists to ensure seed set.  Both species are now extremely rare in the wild, but B. insignis enjoys some small scale popularity as a house plant. The genus is named in honour of the first director of the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, William Tufts Brigham.

Brighamia speciesBrighamia insignis* A.Gray – Ōlulu (Kauai, Niihau†)
Brighamia rockii* H.St.John – Pua Ala (Molokai, Lānai†, Maui†)

† species believed to be extinct
* species is listed as endangered

Lobelia

Lobelia is a cosmopolitan genus of over 350 species, including common ornamentals.  However, many lobelioid genera are derived from it and it is highly paraphyletic.  The Hawaiian species are divided into two sections (Galeatella, the giant lobelias of montane bogs, and Revolutella, the smaller lobelias of rocky crests and interior rock walls), based on flower color and other characters.  Like Brighamia and Trematolobelia, the fruit of Lobelia is a dry capsule.  These species are probably the closest in appearance to the original Hawaiian colonist.Lobelia species

section Galeatella: flowers red or yellow to white
Lobelia gaudichaudii* A.DC (Oahu)
Lobelia gloria-montis Rock (Maui, Molokai?)
Lobelia kauaensis (A.Gray) A. Heller - Pue (Kauai)
Lobelia villosa (Rock) H.St.John & Hosaka (Kauai)
section Revolutella: flowers blue or magenta
Lobelia dunbarii Rock (Molokai)
Lobelia grayana F.Wimmer (Maui)
Lobelia hillebrandii Rock (Maui)
Lobelia hypoleuca Hillebr. – Kuhiaikamoowahie (Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Lānai, Maui, Hawaii)
Lobelia monostachya* (Rock) Lammers (Oahu)
Lobelia niihauensis* H.St.John (Niihau†, Kauai, Oahu)
Lobelia oahuensis* Rock (Oahu)
Lobelia remyi Rock (Oahu†)
Lobelia yuccoides Hillebr. - Pānaunau (Kauai, Oahu)

† species believed to be extinct
* species is listed Endangered

Trematolobelia

Trematolobelia is distinguished from Lobelia by its unique dispersal method.  Rather than drying and splitting apart, the outer (green) wall of the fruit disintegrates, revealing a perforated hard "frame" that allows the tiny wind-dispersed seeds to escape.  They can be quite spectacular when in flower, with multiple flower branches and hundreds of flowers.  Individual plants live for 5–10 years before flowering and dying.

Trematobelia species
Trematolobelia grandifolia Rock (Hawaii)
Trematolobelia kauaiensis Rock – Kolii (Kauai)
Trematolobelia macrostachys (Hook. & Arn.) A. Zahlbr. – Kolii (Oahu, Molokai†, Lānai†, Maui, Hawaii†)
Trematolobelia singularis* H.St.John (Oahu)

† species believed to be extinct
* species is listed Endangered

Clermontia

Clermontia, with 22 species, are the most common of Hawaiian lobelioids.  Unlike Cyanea, which are typically found in dense forest, Clermontia are frequently found in more open areas and edges, and therefore persist better when forests become fragmented.  Nevertheless, there are still many endangered species.  The flowers are often large and spectacular; in section Clermontia, the calyx lobes are similar in color and size to the corolla, giving the appearance of a flower with twice the normal number of petals.

Clermontia is a very important host plant for many species of Hawaiian Drosophilidae, such as Drosophila silvestris.  The larvae of Drosophilidae flies breed in the rotting bark, leaves, flowers, and fruit of all lobelioids, but primarily Clermontia since it is largest and most common.  Several species of these native plants, especially on the Big Island, are epiphytic.

Clermontia species

section Clermontia: calyx lobes similar to petals
Clermontia calophylla* F.Wimmer  - Ōhā wai nui (Kohala, Hawaii)
Clermontia drepanomorpha* Rock - Ōhā wai (Kohala, Hawaii)
Clermontia grandiflora† Gaudich. - Ōhā wai (Molokai, Lānai, Maui)
Clermontia hawaiiensis (Hillebr.) Rock - Ōhā kēpau (Puna and Kaū on Hawaii)
Clermontia hanaulaensis* - Ōhā wai (west Maui)
Clermontia kakeana Meyen - Ōhā wai (Oahu, Molokai, Maui)
Clermontia kohalae Rock - Ōhā wai (Kohala and Hāmākua on Hawaii)
Clermontia lindseyana* Rock - Ōhā wai (Hawaii, east Maui)
Clermontia micrantha (Hillebr.) Rock - Ōhā wai (Lānai, west Maui)
Clermontia montis-loa Rock - Ōhā wai (Hilo, Puna, and Kaū on Hawaii)
Clermontia multiflora Hillebr. - Ōhā wai (Oahu†, west Maui†)
Clermontia oblongifolia* Gaudich. - Ōhā wai (Oahu, Molokai, Lānai, Maui)
Clermontia pallida Hillebr. - Ōhā wai (Molokai)
Clermontia parviflora Gaudich. ex A.Gray - Ōhā wai (windward Hawaii)
Clermontia persicifolia Gaudich. - Ōhā wai (Oahu)
Clermontia samuelii* C.N.Forbes - Ōhā