[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #40780]

coffin or a rock or a pyramid or any structure, he shall be regarded as an outlaw." "If a person condemned to death wishes to confess, it shall never be refused him." "If anyone who is a father dies and leaves as son or daughter to inherit, they shall not maintain an action or submit to a court judgment before reaching fifteen years of age; but they shall remain seised, under guardians and trustees in the lawful custody of their relatives, just as their father was on the day when he was alive and dead." "If anyone dies without children, his father or mother shall succeed to the inheritance, or his brother or sister, if neither father nor mother is living." If he does not possess these relatives, then his father's or mother's sister, and thereafter relatives up to the fifth `joint', whoever are the nearest in relationship, shall succeed by the law of inheritance. While the male line subsists, and the inheritance descends from that side, a woman shall not succeed. "The first born son shall have the father's ancestral fee' the latter shall give any purchases or subsequent acquisitions of his to whomever he pleases." If a person has bocland which his kinsmen have left him, he shall not dispose of it outside his kindred. "If a wife survives her husband she shall have in permanent ownership her dowry and her maritagium which had been settled on her by written documents or in the presence of witnesses and her morning-gift and a third part of all their jointly acquired property in addition to her clothing and her bed." "If a woman dies without children, her blood relatives shall divide up her share with her husband." A man may fight against as person whom he finds with his wedded wife, after the second or third prohibition, behind closed doors or under the one covering, or with his daughter whom he begot on his wife, or with his sister who was legitimately born, or with his mother who was lawfully wedded to his father. There is pecuniary compensation if a married woman commits fornication and she is of the rank of ceorl or belongs to the 600s. class or the 1200s. class, and physical mutilation has been prescribed for those persisting in the offence. "Women who commit fornication and destroy their embryos, and those who are accessories with them, so that they abort the foetus from the womb, are by an ancient ordinance excommunicated from the church until death." A milder provision has now been introduced: they shall do penance for ten years. "If anyone kills or while sleeping crushes another person's child who has been entrusted to him for rearing or instruction, he shall pay compensation for him just as if he had killed an adult person." The county meetings shall be attended by the bishops, earls, sheriffs, deputies, hundredmen, aldermen, stewards, reeves, barons, vavassors [those who hold of a baron], village reeves, and the other lords of lands who shall with diligence see to it that failure to punish evildoers or the viciousness of officials or the corruption of judges shall not destroy those suffering under their accustomed afflictions. Every cause shall be determined in the hundred court or county court or the hallmoot of those who have soke or in the courts of feudal lords or in the boundary courts of feudal equals or as it pertains to established places for court proceedings. "In the case of soke of pleas, some of these profits belong peculiarly and exclusively to the royal treasury, some are shared by it with others, some belong to the sheriffs and royal officials in their farm, and some belong to the lords who have soke and sake." "The king's judges shall be the barons of the county and those who hold free lands in the counties, by whom the causes and of individuals must be dealt with by the presentation in turn of complaint and defense." Anyone who violates or subverts the written law shall forfeit his wergeld on the first occasion; on the second occasion the penalty is twice the wergeld; and anyone who ventures to do it a third time shall lose whatever he possesses. "Each person is to be judged by men who are of equal status and from the same district as himself." "No one of high status shall be condemned by the judgment of lesser men." "Whoever gives an unjust judgment shall forfeit one hundred and twenty shillings and shall lose his judicial authority unless he redeems it from the king." If there are contrary opinions among the judges in serious pleas, the decision of the most substantial men and that with which the royal justice has concurred shall prevail. "Some persons are slaves by birth, others become slaves subsequently; of the latter, some are enslaved by purchase, some by way of satisfaction for an offence, some give themselves in slavery or are given by another person, and some become slave by falling under any other classifications, all of which we may wish nevertheless to be included in that one category of slavery, for which we propound the description `accident' - so that the position has been expressed in this way: some are slaves by accident, others by birth." Church law provided that only consent between a man and woman was necessary for marriage. There needn't be witnesses, ceremony, nor consummation. Consent could not be coerced. Penalties in marriage agreements for not going through with the marriage were deemed invalid. Villeins and slaves could marry without their lords' or owners' permission. A couple living together could be deemed married. Persons related by blood within certain degrees, which changed over time, of consanguinity were forbidden to marry. This was the only ground for annulment of a marriage. A legal separation could be given for adultery, cruelty, or heresy. Annulment, but not separation, could result in remarriage. Fathers were usually ordered to provide some sustenance and support for their illegitimate children. The court punished infanticide and abortion. Counterfeiters of money, arsonists, and robbers of pilgrims and merchants were to be excommunicated. Church sanctuary was to be given to fugitives of violent feuds until they could be given a fair trial. Judicial Procedure Courts extant now are the Royal Court, the King's Court of the Exchequer, county courts, and hundred courts, all of which were under the control of the King. His appointed justices administered justice in these courts on regular circuits. Instead of being the presiding official at the county court, the sheriff now only produced the proper people and preserved order at the county courts and presided over the nonroyal pleas and hundred courts. He impaneled recognitors, made arrests, and enforced the decisions of the royal courts. Also there are manor courts, borough courts, and ecclesiastical courts. In the manor courts, the lord's reeve generally presided. The court consisted of the lord's vassals and declared the customs and law concerning such offenses as failure to perform services and trespass on manorial woods, meadow, and pasture. The King's Royal Court heard issues concerning the Crown and breaches of the King's peace, which included almost all criminal matters: murder, robbery, rape, abduction, arson, treason, breach of fealty, housebreaking, ambush, certain kinds of theft, premeditated assault, and harboring outlaws or excommunicants. Henry personally presided over hearings of important legal cases. He punished crime severely. He hanged homicides, exiled traitors, and frequenly used loss of hand and foot. In comparison, William had no one hanged, but used emasculation and exoculation frequently. Offenders were brought to justice not only by the complaint of an individual or local community action, but by official prosecutors. A prosecutor was now at trials as well as a justice. Trial is still mostly by compurgation but trial by combat was relatively common. These offenses against the king placed merely personal property and sometimes land at the king's mercy. Thus the Crown increased the range of offenses subject to its jurisdiction and arrogated to itself profits from the penalties imposed. The death penalty could be imposed for murder and replaced the old wergeld. But a murderer could be given royal pardon from the death penalty so that he could pay compensation to the relatives. The Royal Court also heard these offenses against the king: fighting in his dwelling, contempt of his writs or commands, encompassing the death or injury of his servants, contempt or slander of the King, and violation of his protection or his law. It heard these offenses against royal authority: complaints of default of justice or unjust judgment, pleas of shipwrecks, coinage, treasure trove [money buried when danger approached], forest prerogatives, and control of castle building. Slander of the king, the government, or high officials was punishable as treason, felony, misprision of treason, or contempt, depending on the rank and office of the person slandered and the degree of guilt. Henry began the use of writs to intervene in civil matters such as inquiry by oath and