# WSWG

WSWG (channel 44) is a television station in Valdosta, Georgia, United States, affiliated with CBS, serving the Albany, Georgia, market. It is owned by Marquee Broadcasting alongside Cordele-licensed MyNetworkTV affiliate WSST-TV (channel 55). WSWG's offices are located on Slappey Boulevard in Albany, and its transmitter is located in unincorporated Cook County, northeast of Adel, Georgia. Master control and some internal operations are based at WSST's studios on 7th Street South in Cordele.

Although Valdosta is part of the Tallahassee, Florida, television market, which receives CBS programming from Thomasville, Georgia–licensed WCTV (channel 6), WSWG is the CBS affiliate for Albany. WSST-TV simulcasts two of WSWG's subchannels as 55.20 (CBS) and 55.2 (MeTV).

Channel 44 in Valdosta went on the air in 1980 as ABC affiliate WVGA. It operated as a small station with limited local programming from December 1980 to February 1992. During this time, it was off the air in late 1988 and early 1989 after a small airplane crashed into its tower. WTXL-TV, the ABC affiliate in Tallahassee, ran the station for seven months but ultimately withdrew from its attempt to buy it, after which time it was off the air for three years.

Hutchens Communications rebuilt the station as WB affiliate WGVP in 1995, changing to UPN in 1997. Financial issues snarled Hutchens Communications ownership and led to several attempts to force a sale and the ultimate resignation of the company's namesake. After being steadied by changes in ownership and management, Gray Television acquired it in 2005, combined its operations with WCTV under the call sign WSWG, and then repurposed it the next year as a semi-satellite of WCTV for the Albany area. This continued until 2019, when Gray purchased Raycom Media and was forced to sell WSWG to remain under ownership limits in the market. It was then purchased by Marquee Broadcasting.

History

WVGA
Peachtree Telecasting, a consortium of out-of-state investors, applied to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in 1978 to build a new TV station in Valdosta. The permit was issued in April 1979, and Peachtree began meeting with the major television networks, seeking an affiliation. The group agreed to become the ABC affiliate for the Valdosta area; ABC's affiliate in Tallahassee, Florida, WECA-TV (now WTXL-TV), did not adequately cover the city. Peachtree Telecasting investors also included Hi Ho Broadcasting, owner of ABC affiliate WDHN in Dothan, Alabama.

Construction stretched through most of 1980: the station set up facilities on Norman Drive and erected a tower near Adel. The station began broadcasting on the evening of December 24. However, the station got off to a visibly bumpy start. It had presented a $16,000 check to the local chamber of commerce for office renovations in a goodwill gesture, but the check turned out to be bad; further, the studio-transmitter link was misaligned, leading to a degraded signal. Local programming slowly ramped up, first with commercial production and a local farm show before debuting evening newscasts. However, the station had a very difficult time obtaining national advertising, affecting its financial viability. Valdosta was served by WALB in Albany and WCTV in Thomasville, which drew higher ratings in the market.

Morris Network acquired WVGA and WDHN in 1986. Two years later, however, tragedy struck. On the morning of August 17, 1988, a dense fog spread over the region. Frank Blaydes, a doctor from Cairo, was piloting a Cessna 172 and had been diverted from Valdosta's airport to Adel. He never made it: after apparently mistaking the lights on the WVGA tower for the lights at the Adel airport, his aircraft struck the tower, causing the mast to collapse and the plane to crash, killing the pilot. Investigators determined that the pilot was not rated to land in such weather conditions and that no information was available to him about the weather at Adel.

The tower collapse was a blow to the station, which was out of service until January 1989 and lost considerable advertising revenue. Blaydes's parents initially sued Peachtree Telecasting for wrongful death compensation, claiming the station had been negligent in maintaining the tower. That lawsuit was dropped and replaced with one against Morris, to which the company responded with a countersuit. The matter proceeded to a jury trial in Chatham County in July 1991.

In February 1992, Morris Network reached a deal to sell WVGA to WTXL-TV owner ET Broadcasting. The limited local programming on the station—which had not aired local news in more than a year—was immediately replaced with a simulcast of WTXL-TV, also an ABC affiliate. The FCC granted permission for the two stations to be commonly owned in September, citing the fact that Morris had shopped the station to buyers since 1987 without success; company officials also note that national ratings services could not agree as to which market WVGA belonged. However, the sale was never consummated due to what were described as technical differences. When ET withdrew on November 6, 1992, the station lost its programming source and left the air.

WB and UPN
For the next two years, several groups looked at purchasing the station, which Morris threatened to dismantle. Gary Hutchens, a local business owner whose Welcome Channel broadcast local programming on the Valdosta cable system and the owner of video production firm Georgia Video Professionals, mounted an effort to put the station back on the air, proposing initially to return it to the air as an ABC affiliate. His Hutchens Communications (HCI) acquired the station for $1 million and announced in January 1994 that it would use its own studio facilities in conjunction with the Adel tower.

Hutchens reopened the station on October 28, 1995, as WGVP, an affiliate of The WB. It originally operated from temporary studios in Remerton, Georgia, but it returned to the former WVGA building because no other suitable facility existed in Valdosta. The station's tower was the site of tragedy yet again on August 11, 1996, during a helicopter lift of the old antenna off the mast as part of its replacement. The helicopter clipped the tower and crashed into the forest; the pilot died instantly. 

WGVP switched to UPN on August 25, 1997, becoming the UPN affiliate of record in the Tallahassee and Albany media markets. In the switch, it retained its local news coverage, with newscasts at 6, 10, and 11 p.m., until January 1998. Even though it technically was the affiliate in the full market, its signal did not reach Tallahassee, leaving that city without UPN programming for more than a year until W17AB, later WVUP-LP, picked up the network as well in October 1998. Meanwhile, back in Valdosta, financial problems were beginning to arise. In September, some employees staged a walkout for lack of payment. Other employees would later speak of being paid in gift certificates to a local restaurant.

In order to find cash, Hutchens struck deals with two different companies related to the station. One was Venture Technologies Group, which granted a $50,000 loan and also filed in April 1998 to have the FCC license transferred to it. The other was Southern Nights Entertainment Corporation (SNE), owner of W17AB/WVUP-LP in Tallahassee, which in March 1998 entered into an agreement with Hutchens to run channel 44 under a local marketing agreement (LMA). The president of Southern Nights, Don Palmer, was unaware of the Venture Technologies deal until two months later. When Hutchens could not pay the loan to Venture, it sued for the money. A new lease agreement and deal to purchase 51 percent of the station was entered in September 1998, owing to HCI's heavy indebtedness. On its first attempt to buy the station alright, however, legal fallout from the pending Venture suit delayed the transfer. After Venture's suit was dropped in February 1999, Southern Nights reached another deal in Februar