# Fingerprint powder

Fingerprint powders are fine powders used, in conjunction with fingerprint brushes, by crime scene investigators and other law enforcement personnel to search for and enhance latent/invisible fingerprints that can be used to determine identification. This method of fingerprint development commonly referred to as dusting for fingerprints, involves the adherence of the powder particles to the moisture and sweat secretions deposited on to surfaces by the raised ridges on fingers, palms, or soles of feet designed for grip, called friction ridges.

Physical development of fingerprints using powders is one of many methods that can be employed to enhance fingerprints; it is typically used to search for fingerprints on large non-porous surfaces that cannot be submitted for chemical development within a laboratory.  However, this particular method is best suited for the enhancement of freshly deposited fingerprints because the adherence of the powder is diminished when the impression residue has dried.

Fingerprint powders are commonly used because of the versatility associated with this technique; there is a large selection of fingerprint powder compositions that have evolved, over time, to enable the safe and effective use of fingerprint powders on a wide range of backgrounds.

Composition
In general, two components are present in dry non-magnetic fingerprint powders: a colour, typically inorganic in nature, and a material for adhesion within the powder such as stearic acid, cornstarch or Lycopodium powder, the spores of the Lycopodium and other related plants. In addition, a filler material such as mesh pumice is often added to keep the colour and adhesion material together while preventing the formation of large clumps within the powder that would result in ineffective application onto the surface.

However, modern fingerprint powders are plentiful and include both dry and aqueous options. The dry fingerprint powders are often categorized into six basic types based on the general composition; however, some powders may belong to more than a single group. These dry powders can be added to a dilute detergent solution that can be applied to surfaces to develop fingerprints.

Flake powders 
Flake powders are composed of metal particles. The most common metal material used in this type of powder is aluminum; however, bronze, gold, copper, iron, and zinc are often used as well.Aluminum powder shows up on a variety of surfaces and is a particularly popular powder choice in the United Kingdom.

Granular powders 
Granular powders were invented in the 1920s as one of the first types of fingerprint powders available. The materials used to make these powders were chalk, lamp black, graphite and a variety of lead and mercury components. Modern granular powders do not use lead or mercury because they have been known to cause health complications with prolonged use. Black granular powders, commonly used in the United States of America, are now composed of carbon-based particles. However, a wide range of colours are also available to provide contrast with many backgrounds.

Magnetic powders 
The foundation of magnetic powders is granular or flake powder, of any colour. The magnetic aspect is attributed to the addition of small iron particles. Magnetic powders enhance fingerprint details more effectively than traditional granular and flake powders because the particles are finer and the method of application is less invasive.

Fluorescent powders 
Fluorescent powders are available in both granular and magnetic compositions. The fluorescent component is provided by adding a colour dye to the powder to allow for better visualization of dusted fingerprints on multi-coloured surfaces with the use of ultra-violet (UV) light or an alternate light source (ALS).

Nanopowders 
Nanopowders are a relatively new type of powder composed of nanoparticles. Similar the magnetic powders, these powders provide greater ridge detail in freshly deposited and aged fingerprints due to the extremely small particle size.

Infrared powders 
Infrared powders are used in conjunction with infrared light. The features of the fingerprint are distinguished from the surrounding background because the infrared light is absorbed in the fingerprint rather than reflected. These powders are most beneficial for enhancing fingerprints found on money bills in countries that use polymer currency because the powder removes issues related to the visualization of fingerprints on items with colourful, reflective and fluorescent properties.

Factor influencing fingerprint powder quality
There are several factors influencing the effectiveness of fingerprint powders.

Particle size and shape 

 The powders with finer particles show greater detail within the fingerprint than powders composed of larger coarse particles. In addition, particles with shapes that provides a larger surface area promote greater adhesion to the fingerprints.

Adhesion 

 Effective enhancement of fingerprints relies on the adhesion of the powder to residue composing the fingerprint impression without adherence to the rest of the surface, otherwise the view of the fingerprint will be obscured. Adhesion of the powder particles to the fingerprint residue is partially attributable to the electrostatic attraction between the two; however, the adhesion is mainly guided by the increased contact between the moisture in fingerprints and the powder, and the surface tension.

Colour 

 The fingerprint powder must be a suitable colour for the surface in question by providing contrast. The details of fingerprints deposited on light surfaces are best visualized by applying dark or black coloured powders. Conversely, white or grey powders are recommended for enhancing fingerprints found on dark surfaces. However, there are also powders available that contain elements that provide contrast on all types of surfaces; these powders are advantageous at crime scenes where both light and dark surfaces require fingerprint development because the powder type/colour does not need to be changed between uses. Although, multi-coloured surfaces are more complex and, therefore, fluorescent powders and additional light sources are required to provide the best contrast in these situations.

Consistency 

 The powder should not clump together because the important identifying details within the fingerprint can become destroyed during the application of the powder.

Powder selection and application
In the past, powders were selected based on personal choice or outlined standard procedures of the associated department or agency. However, despite this freedom in the powder selection process, crime scene investigators should ultimately choose powders that provide the best contrast against the surface the fingerprints are deposited on, with consideration for the characteristics of the surface itself.

Most fingerprint powders are applied with a fingerprint brush composed of extremely fine fibers designed to pick up powder and gently deposit it through a twirling motion onto the fingerprint to reveal it without removing the delicate residue composing the fingerprint itself. There are many different types of brushes that can be used for applying fingerprint powder; the choice mostly depends on the stage of fingerprint development. For example, feather fingerprint brushes enhance detail within fingerprints located during an initial search with  fingerprint brushes composed of fiberglass fibers. Fingerprint powder may be applied using aerosol methods that do not involve direct contact with the surface.

Magnetic powders differ slightly from traditional powders in the way that they are applied to fingerprints. Specifically, a magnetic applicator is used in place of a fingerprint brush composed of fibers. The magnet within the applicator attracts the magnetic powder forming a cluster of powder that can be gently moved across the fingerprint; once complete the magnet within the applicator