[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #4367]

strengthens him in all possibility as much as it does you. U. S. GRANT, Lieutenant-General. CITY POINT, VA., December 6, 1864--4 P.M. MAJOR-GENERAL THOMAS, Nashville, Tenn. Attack Hood at once and wait no longer for a remnant of your cavalry. There is great danger of delay resulting in a campaign back to the Ohio River. U. S. GRANT, Lieutenant-General. CITY POINT, VA., December 8, 1864.--8.30 P.M. MAJOR-GENERAL THOMAS, Nashville, Tenn. Your dispatch of yesterday received. It looks to me evident the enemy are trying to cross the Cumberland River, and are scattered. Why not attack at once? By all means avoid the contingency of a foot race to see which, you or Hood, can beat to the Ohio. If you think necessary call on the governors of States to send a force into Louisville to meet the enemy if he should cross the river. You clearly never should cross except in rear of the enemy. Now is one of the finest opportunities ever presented of destroying one of the three armies of the enemy. If destroyed he never can replace it. Use the means at your command, and you can do this and cause a rejoicing that will resound from one end of the land to the other. U. S. GRANT, Lieutenant-General. CITY POINT, VA., December 11, 1864.--4 P.M. MAJOR-GENERAL THOMAS, Nashville, Tenn. If you delay attack longer the mortifying spectacle will be witnessed of a rebel army moving for the Ohio River, and you will be forced to act, accepting such weather as you find. Let there be no further delay. Hood cannot even stand a drawn battle so far from his supplies of ordnance stores. If he retreats and you follow, he must lose his material and much of his army. I am in hopes of receiving a dispatch from you to-day announcing that you have moved. Delay no longer for weather or reinforcements. U. S. GRANT, Lieutenant-General. WASHINGTON, D. C., December 15, 1864. MAJOR-GENERAL THOMAS, Nashville, Tenn. I was just on my way to Nashville, but receiving a dispatch from Van Duzer detailing your splendid success of to-day, I shall go no further. Push the enemy now and give him no rest until he is entirely destroyed. Your army will cheerfully suffer many privations to break up Hood's army and render it useless for future operations. Do not stop for trains or supplies, but take them from the country as the enemy have done. Much is now expected. U. S. GRANT, Lieutenant-General. (*42) See orders to Major-General Meade, Ord, and Sheridan, March 24th, Appendix. (*43) See Appendix. (*44) NOTE.--The fac-simile of the terms of Lee's surrender inserted at this place, was copied from the original document furnished the publishers through the courtesy of General Ely S. Parker, Military Secretary on General Grant's staff at the time of the surrender. Three pages of paper were prepared in General Grant's manifold order book on which he wrote the terms, and the interlineations and erasures were added by General Parker at the suggestion of General Grant. After such alteration it was handed to General Lee, who put on his glasses, read it, and handed it back to General Grant. The original was then transcribed by General Parker upon official headed paper and a copy furnished General Lee. The fac-simile herewith shows the color of the paper of the original document and all interlineations and erasures. There is a popular error to the effect that Generals Grant and Lee each signed the articles of surrender. The document in the form of a letter was signed only by General Grant, in the parlor of McLean's house while General Lee was sitting in the room, and General Lee immediately wrote a letter accepting the terms and handed it to General Grant.