# Grey's Anatomy (season 2)

The second season of the American television medical drama Grey's Anatomy commenced airing on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) on September 25, 2005, and concluded on May 15, 2006. The season was produced by Touchstone Television, in association with Shondaland production company and The Mark Gordon Company, the showrunner being Shonda Rhimes. Actors Ellen Pompeo, Sandra Oh, Katherine Heigl, Justin Chambers, and T. R. Knight reprised their roles as surgical interns Meredith Grey, Cristina Yang, Izzie Stevens, Alex Karev, and George O'Malley respectively. Previous main cast members Chandra Wilson, James Pickens, Jr., Isaiah Washington and Patrick Dempsey also returned, while Kate Walsh, who began the season in a recurring capacity, was promoted to series-regular status, after appearing in 7 episodes as a guest-star.

The season continued to focus on the surgical residency of five young interns as they try to balance the challenges of their competitive careers with the difficulties that determine their personal lives. It was set in the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital, located in the city of Seattle, Washington. Whereas the first season put the emphasis mainly on the unexpected impact the surgical field has on the main characters, the second season provides a detailed perspective on the personal background of each character, focusing on the consequences that their decisions have on their careers. Throughout the season, new storylines were introduced, including the love-triangle between Meredith Grey, Derek Shepherd, and Addison Montgomery, this being the main arc of the season. Also heavily developed was the storyline involving Izzie Stevens' relationship with patient Denny Duquette, which resulted in high critical acclaim and positive fan response.

The season kept its original airtime from the previous season, taking over Boston Legal time slot at 10:00 pm on Sundays, while airing as a lead-out to the already-successful ABC series, Desperate Housewives. It contained 27 episodes, out of which 4 were originally produced for the first season. In addition to the regular episodes, 2 clip shows recapped previous events of the show, both narrated by Steven W. Bailey in his recently introduced role as Joe the Bartender. "Straight to Heart" aired 1 week before the winter-holiday hiatus ended, recapping the most memorable events of the first season and the first-half of the second. "Under Pressure" aired before the twenty-third episode. The season finale was conceived as a 3-part story-arc, the first of this kind in the series, and was scheduled to air on 2 consecutive nights.

The show ended its second season with 21.07 million total viewers and a 6.9 ratings share in the 18–49 demographic. The season opened to high critical acclaim, as most agreed on a significant improvement in storylines. The season saw numerous cast and crew members receive awards and nominations at ceremonies like the 58th Primetime Emmy Awards and the 64th Golden Globe Awards. Katherine Heigl and Chandra Wilson were the cast members with the most nominations for their portrayals of Izzie Stevens and Miranda Bailey, respectively. The series was chosen in the top 10 for several 2006 "best of television" lists, including USA Today, San Jose Mercury News, TV Guide, and Orlando Sentinel.

Episodes 

Each episode of this season is named after a song.

Cast and characters

Main 
 Ellen Pompeo as Dr. Meredith Grey
 Sandra Oh as Dr. Cristina Yang
 Katherine Heigl as Dr. Izzie Stevens
 Justin Chambers as Dr. Alex Karev
 T. R. Knight as Dr. George O'Malley
 Chandra Wilson as Dr. Miranda Bailey
 James Pickens Jr. as Dr. Richard Webber
 Kate Walsh as Dr. Addison Montgomery-Shepherd
 Isaiah Washington as Dr. Preston Burke
 Patrick Dempsey as Dr. Derek Shepherd

Recurring 
 Sara Ramirez as Dr. Callie Torres
 Brooke Smith as Dr. Erica Hahn
 Kate Burton as Ellis Grey
 Steven W. Bailey as Joe, the Bartender
 Chris O'Donnell as Finn Dandridge
 Loretta Devine as Adele Webber
 Jeffrey Dean Morgan as Denny Duquette

Notable guests 
 Eric Dane as Dr. Mark Sloan
 Sarah Utterback as Olivia Harper
 Kali Rocha as Sydney Heron
 Tsai Chin as Helen Yang 
 Jeff Perry as Thatcher Grey
 Mare Winningham as Susan Grey
 Laurie Metcalf as Beatrice Carver
 Jillian Armenante as Mindy Carlson
 Brian Kerwin as Holden McKee
 Jesse Plemons as Jake Burton 
 Tessa Thompson as Camille Travis
 Monica Keena as Bonnie Crasnoff
 Kym Whitley as Yvonne
 Katherine LaNasa as Vera Kalpana 
 Cress Williams as Tucker Jones 
 Anjul Nigam as Dr. Raj Sen 
 Robin Pearson Rose as Patricia Murphy
 George Dzundza as Harold O'Malley
 Tim Griffin as Ronny O'Malley
 Greg Pitts as Jerry O'Malley
 Mary Kay Place as Olive Warner 
 Christina Ricci as Hannah Davies
 John Cho as Marshall Stone
 Mandy Siegfried as Molly Grey
 Kyle Chandler as Dylan Young

Production

Crew 
The season was produced by Touchstone Television, currently ABC Studios, in association with ShondaLand Production Company and The Mark Gordon Company. Shonda Rhimes returned as the series' showrunner and executive producer. She also continued her position from the first 2 seasons as one of the most prominent members of the writing staff. Betsy Beers, Mark Gordon, Mark Wilding, and Rob Corn returned as executive producers, along with James D. Parriott, Peter Horton, and Krista Vernoff, who have been in this position since the inception of the series. Parriott, who also served as an episodic writer, left the series at the conclusion of the season. Joan Rater and Tony Phelan continued to serve as co-executive producers, with Rater being a supervising producer as well. Stacy McKee, who would be promoted to co-executive producer for the third season, returned to the series as a producer and a member of the writing staff. Having written 3 episodes for the first season, Rhimes returned as a writer for 5 episodes. Parriott, Vernoff, Phelan, Rater, Wilding and Mimi Schmir were the most prominent members of the writing staff, with Parriott, Phelan, Rater, Wilding, Clack writing 2 episodes and Schmir producing the script for 3. Gabrielle Stanton and Harry Werksman, Jr. worked together for the writing of 2 episodes, after having written 1 episode for the series in the past. 

The season includes the first episode to be written by Zoanne Clack, who would become one of the series' main writers, as well as a co-producer and executive story editor. Other writers include Kip Koenig, Blythe Robe and Elizabeth Klaviter. Executive producer Peter Horton returned to the series to direct 5 episodes for the season, after writing 2 episodes in the second season. Rob Corn directed 2 episodes, whereas Adam Davidson is credited for writing 3 episodes, his last ones in the series. Among the other directors are Wendey Stanzler, Mark Tinker, Jeff Melman, Jessica Yu, Lesli Linka Glatter, Michael Dinner, Dan Minahan, David Paymer, Julie Anne Robinson, Tricia Brock, and Seith Mann. Danny Lux continued his position as the main music composer for the series, while Herbert Davis, Tim Suhrstedt and Adam Kane served as the season's cinematography directors. Susan Vaill and Edward Ornelas resumed their positions as editors, joined by Briana London, who left the series after 9 episodes. Linda Lowy and John Brace, responsible for the casting since the beginning of the series, returned as casting team members. After the departure of Laurence Bennett, the production design team was taken over by Donald Lee Harris, with Amy B. Ancona and Brandee Dell'Aringa joining for 10 episodes each.

The series' set decoration crew was led by Karen Bruck, whereas the costume design department was led by Linda M. Bass, who would leave the show at the conclusion of the season, following her being replaced by Mimi Melgaard. The make-up department was led by head Norman T. Leavitt, along with assistant make-up artist Brigitte Bugayong. The special make-up effects team consisted of Thomas R. Burman, Bari Dreiband-Burman and Bart Mixon. Arleen