[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #25864]

by way of the excretory ducts through the skin? If the excretory ducts take up and carry this gas out of the body by way of the skin, and he is a healthy man, why not account for No. one's stomach ejecting this gas by way of the mouth, because of the fact that the secretions of the stomach are either clogged up or inactive, for want of vital motion of the nerve terminals of the stomach. Another question in connection with this subject: Why is the man whose stomach belches forth gas in such abundance also suffering with cold feet, hands and all over the body, while No. 2 is quite warm and comfortable, with a glow of warmth passing from his body all the time? With these hints I will ask the question: What is digestion? CHAPTER VI. THE LYMPHATICS. Importance of the Subject--Demands of Nature on the Lymphatics--Dunglinson's Definition--Dangers of Dead Substances--Lymph Continued--Solvent in Nature--Where Are the Lymphatics Situated?--The Fat and Lean. IMPORTANCE OF THE SUBJECT. Possibly less is known of the lymphatics than any other division of the life-sustaining machinery of man. Thus ignorance of that division is equal to a total blank with the operator. Finer nerves dwell with the lymphatics than even with the eye. The eye is an organized effect, the lymphatics the cause; in them the spirit of life more abundantly dwells. No atom can leave the lymphatics in an imperfect state and get a union with any part of the body. There the atom obtains form and knowledge of how and what to do. The lymphatics consume more of the finer fluids of the brain than the whole viscera combined. By nature, coarser substances are necessary to construct the organs that run the blast, and rough forging divisions. The lymphatics form, finish, temper and send the bricks to the builder with intelligence, that he may construct by adjusting all according to nature's plans and specifications. Nature makes machinery that can produce just what is necessary, and when united, produces what the most capable minds could exact. The lymphatics are closely and universally connected with the spinal cord and all other nerves, long or short, universal or separate, and all drink from the waters of the brain. By an action of the nerves of the lymphatics, a union of qualities necessary to produce gall, sugar, acids, alkalies, bone, muscle and softer parts, with the thought that elements can be changed, suspended, collected and associated and produce any chemical compound necessary to sustain animal life, wash out, salt, sweeten and preserve the being from decay and death by chemical, electric, atmospheric or climatic conditions. By this we are admonished in all our treatment not to wound the lymphatics, as they are undoubtedly the life giving centers and organs. Thus it behooves us to handle them with wisdom and tenderness, for by and from them a withered limb, organ or any division of the body receives what we call reconstruction, or is builded anew, and without this cautious procedure your patient had better save his life and money by passing you by as a failure, until you are by knowledge qualified to deal with the lymphatics. DEMANDS OF NATURE ON THE LYMPHATICS. Why not reason on the broad plain of known facts, and give the why he or she has complete prostration. When all systems are cut off from a chance to move and execute such duties as nature has allotted to them, motor nerves must drive all substances to and sensation must judge the supply and demand. Nutrition must be in action the time and keep all parts well supplied with power to labor or a failure is sure to appear. We must ever remember the demands of nature on the lymphatics, liver and kidneys. They must work all the time or a confusion for lack in their duties will mark a cripple in some function of life over which they preside. DUNGLINSON'S DEFINITION. Dunglinson's scientific definition of the lymphatics is very extensive, comprehensive and right to the point for our use as doctors of Osteopathy. He describes the lymphatic glands as countless in number, universally distributed all through the human body, containing vitalized water and other fluids necessary to the support of animal life, running parallel with the venous system, and more abundantly there than in other locations of the body, at the same time discharging their contents into the veins while conveying the blood back to the heart from the whole system. Is it not reasonable to suppose that besides being nutrient centers, that they accumulate and pass water through the whole secretory and excretory systems of the body, in order to reduce nourishment to that degree from thick to thin, that it may easily pass through all tubes, ducts and vessels interested in distribution, as nourishment first, and renovation second, through the excretory ducts. The question arises whence cometh this water? DANGERS OF DEAD SUBSTANCES. This leads us back to the lungs as one of the great sources of which you have been informed under the head of "Lungs, Gases and Water." With this fountain of life saving water provided by nature to wash away impurities as they accumulate in our bodies, would it not be great stupidity in us to see a human being burn to death by the fires of fever, or die from asphyxia by allowing bad or dead lymph, albumen, or any substance to load down the powers of nature and keep the blood from being washed to normal purity? If so, let us go deeper into the study of the life-saving powers of the lymphatics. Do we not find in death that the lymphatics are dark, and in life they are healthy and red? LYMPH CONTINUED. What we meet with in all diseases is dead blood, stagnant lymph, and albumen in a semi-vital or dead and decomposing condition all through the lymphatics and other parts of the body, brain, lungs, kidneys, liver and fascia. The whole system is loaded with a confused mass of blood, that is mixed with much or little unhealthy substances, that should have been kept washed out by lymph. Stop and view the frog's superficial lymphatic glands; you see all parts move just as regular as the heart does; they are all in motion during life. For what purpose do they move? if not to carry the fluids to sustain by building up, while the excretory channels receive and pass out all that is of no further use to the body. Now we see this great system of supply is the source of construction and purity. If this be true we must keep them normal all the time or see confused nature in the form of disease, the list through. Thus we strike at the source of life and death when we go to the lymphatics. With this fountain of life-saving water, provided by nature to wash away impurities as they accumulate in our bodies, would it not be great stupidity in us to see a human being burn to death by the fires of fever, or die from asphyxia, by allowing bad or dead lymph, albumen or any substance to load down the powers of nature to keep the blood washed to normal purity? If so let us go deeper in the study of the life-sustaining powers of the lymphatics. NATURE'S SOLVENTS. The brain flushes the nerves of the lymphatics first, and more than any other system of the body. No part is so small or remote that it is not in direct connection with some part or chain of the lymphatics. The doctor of Osteopathy has much to think about when he consults natural remedies, and how they are supplied and administered, and as disease is the effect of tardy deposits in some or all parts of the body, reason would bring us to hunt a solvent of such deposits, which hinder the natural motion of blood and other fluids in functional works, which are to keep the body pure from any substance that would check vital action. When we have searched and found that the lymphatics are almost the sole requisite of the body we then must admit that their use is equal to the abundant and universal supply of such glands. If we think and use a homely word and say that disease is only too much dirt in the wheels of life, then we will see that nature takes this method to wash out the dirt. As an application, pneumonia is too much dirt in the wheels of the lungs, if so we must wash out; no where can we go to a better place for water than to the lymphatics. Are they not like a fire company with nozzles in all windows ready to flush the burning house? WHERE ARE THE LYMPHATICS SITUATED? A student of life must take in all parts, and study their uses and relations to other parts and systems. We lay