# Separation logic

In computer science, separation logic is an extension of Hoare logic, a way of reasoning about programs.
It was developed by John C. Reynolds, Peter O'Hearn, Samin Ishtiaq and Hongseok Yang, drawing upon early work by Rod Burstall. The assertion language of separation logic is a special case of the logic of bunched implications (BI). A CACM review article by O'Hearn charts developments in the subject to early 2019.

Overview
Separation logic facilitates reasoning about:

 programs that manipulate pointer data structures—including information hiding in the presence of pointers;
 "transfer of ownership" (avoidance of semantic frame axioms); and
 virtual separation (modular reasoning) between concurrent modules.

Separation logic supports the developing field of research described by Peter O'Hearn and others as local reasoning, whereby specifications and proofs of a program component mention only the portion of memory used by the component, and not the entire global state of the system. Applications include automated program verification (where an algorithm checks the validity of another algorithm) and automated parallelization of software.

Assertions: operators and semantics
Separation logic assertions describe "states" consisting of a store and a heap, roughly corresponding to the state of local (or stack-allocated) variables and dynamically-allocated objects in common programming languages such as C and Java. A store  is a function mapping variables to values. A heap  is a partial function mapping memory addresses to values. Two heaps  and  are disjoint (denoted ) if their domains do not overlap (i.e., for every memory address , at least one of  and  is undefined).

The logic allows to prove judgements of the form , where  is a store,  is a heap, and  is an assertion over the given store and heap. Separation logic assertions (denoted as , , ) contain the standard boolean connectives and, in addition, , , , and , where  and  are expressions.
 The constant  asserts that the heap is empty, i.e.,  when  is undefined for all addresses.
 The binary operator  takes an address and a value and asserts that the heap is defined at exactly one location, mapping the given address to the given value. I.e.,  when  (where  denotes the value of expression  evaluated in store ) and  is otherwise undefined.
 The binary operator  (pronounced star or separating conjunction) asserts that the heap can be split into two disjoint parts where its two arguments hold, respectively. I.e.,  when there exist  such that  and  and  and .
 The binary operator  (pronounced magic wand or separating implication) asserts that extending the heap with a disjoint part that satisfies its first argument results in a heap that satisfies its second argument. I.e,.  when for every heap  such that , also  holds.

The operators  and  share some properties with the classical conjunction and implication operators. They can be combined using an inference rule similar to modus ponens

and they form an adjunction, i.e.,  if and only if  for ; more precisely, the adjoint operators are  and .

Reasoning about programs: triples and proof rules
In separation logic, Hoare triples have a slightly different meaning than in Hoare logic. The triple  asserts that if the program  executes from an initial state satisfying the precondition  then the program will not go wrong (e.g., have undefined behaviour), and if it terminates, then the final state will satisfy the postcondition . In essence, during its execution,  may access only memory locations whose existence is asserted in the precondition or that have been allocated by  itself.

In addition to the standard rules from Hoare logic, separation logic supports the following very important rule:

This is known as the frame rule (named after the frame problem) and enables local reasoning. It says that a program that executes safely in a small state (satisfying ), can also execute in any bigger state (satisfying ) and that its execution will not affect the additional part of the state (and so  will remain true in the postcondition). The side condition enforces this by specifying that none of the variables modified by  occur free in , i.e. none of them are in the 'free variable' set  of .

Sharing 

Separation logic leads to simple proofs of pointer manipulation for data structures that exhibit regular sharing patterns which can be described simply using separating conjunctions; examples include singly and doubly linked lists and varieties of trees. Graphs and DAGs and other data structures with more general sharing 
are more difficult for both formal and informal proof. Separation logic has, nonetheless, been applied successfully to reasoning about
programs with general sharing.

In their POPL'01 paper, O'Hearn and Ishtiaq explained how the magic wand connective  could be used to reason in the presence of sharing, at least in principle.
For example, in the triple

we obtain the weakest precondition for a statement that mutates the heap at location , and this works for any postcondition, not only one that is laid out neatly using the separating conjunction. This idea was taken much further by Yang, who used  to provide localized reasoning about mutations in the classic Schorr-Waite graph marking algorithm. Finally, one of the most recent works in this direction is that of Hobor and Villard, who 
employ not only  but also a connective 
which has variously been called overlapping conjunction or sepish, and which can be used to describe overlapping data structures:  holds of a heap  when
 and  hold for subheaps  and  whose union is , but which possibly have a nonempty portion  in common. Abstractly,   can be seen to be a version of the fusion connective of relevance logic.

Concurrent separation logic

A Concurrent Separation Logic (CSL),
a version of separation logic for concurrent programs, was originally proposed by Peter O'Hearn,
using a proof rule

which allows independent reasoning about threads that access separate storage. O'Hearn's proof rules adapted an early approach of Tony Hoare to reasoning about concurrency,
replacing the use of scoping constraints to ensure separation by reasoning in separation logic. In addition to extending Hoare's approach to apply in the presence of heap-allocated pointers, O'Hearn showed how reasoning in concurrent separation logic could track dynamic ownership transfer of heap portions between processes; examples in the paper include a pointer-transferring buffer, and a memory manager.

Commenting on the early classical work on interference freedom by Susan Owicki and David Gries, O'Hearn says that explicit checking for non-interference isn't necessary because his system rules out interference in an implicit way, by the nature of the way proofs are constructed.

A model for concurrent separation logic was first provided by Stephen Brookes in a companion paper to O'Hearn's. The soundness of the logic had been a difficult problem, and in fact a counterexample of John Reynolds had shown the unsoundness of an earlier, unpublished version of the logic; the issue raised by Reynolds's example is described briefly in O'Hearn's paper, and more thoroughly in Brookes's.

At first it appeared that CSL was well suited to what Dijkstra had called loosely connected processes, but perhaps not to fine-grained concurrent algorithms with significant interference.  However, gradually it was realized that the basic approach of CSL was considerably more powerful than first envisaged, if one employed non-standard models of the logical connectives and even the Hoare triples.

An abstract version of separation logic was proposed that works for Hoare triples
where the preconditions and postconditions are formulae interpreted over an arbitrary partial commutative monoid instead of a particular heap model. 
Later, by suitable choice of commutative monoid, it was surprisingly found that the proof rules of abstract versions of concurrent separation logic co