# Radlett railway station

Radlett railway station is on the Midland Main Line in England, serving the village of Radlett, Hertfordshire. It is  down the line from London St Pancras and is situated between  to the south and  to the north. Its three-letter station code is RDT.

The station is served by Thameslink-operated trains on the Thameslink route.

East Midlands Railway services from , ,  and  run through at speed, but do not stop. Interchange with inter-city services can be made at  and St Pancras.

It was built by the Midland Railway in 1868 on its extension to St Pancras. The original intention had been to name the station Aldenham. In the early 20th century, Walter Phillimore, who owned Radlett, built many houses, one of the first "commuter villages".

The station has a PlusBus scheme where train and bus tickets can be bought together for a cheaper price. In Summer 2019 Radlett became part of TfL's Oyster card and contactless payment travel system.

Services
All services at Radlett are operated by Thameslink using  EMUs.

The typical off-peak service in trains per hour is:
 6 tph to  of which 2 continue to 
 2 tph to  via 
 4 tph to  (2 of these run via  and 2 run via )

During the peak hours, the station is served by additional services to and from  and , as well as some late evening services to and from .

The station is also served by an hourly night service between Bedford and  on Sunday to Friday nights.

History
In 1979, the station was rebuilt at a cost of £500,000 as part of the Midland Suburban Electrification scheme between  and . The rebuilt station, which used the same box-shaped architectural design as the new station at Bedford, was formally opened on 17 December 1979 by the local MP, Cecil Parkinson. Speaking at the opening ceremony, British Rail London Divisional Manager, Harry Reed, expressed the hope that electrification would be extended to  and then from  to Bedford.

References

External links

Railway stations in Hertfordshire
DfT Category D stations
Former Midland Railway stations
Railway stations in Great Britain opened in 1868
Railway stations served by Govia Thameslink Railway
Radlett