# Jehovah's Witnesses congregational discipline

Jehovah's Witnesses employ various levels of congregational discipline as formal controls administered by congregation elders. Members who engage in conduct that is considered inappropriate may be counseled privately by elders and congregational responsibilities may be withheld or restricted.

Private hearings involving "serious sin" are performed by formal judicial committees, in which guilt and repentance are determined by a tribunal of elders. A variety of controls can be enforced, from reproof and restriction of congregational duties to excommunication, known as disfellowshipping, which includes shunning. Individuals who are disfellowshipped may be reinstated after an extended period if they are deemed to demonstrate repentance. The practice of disfellowshipping, particularly the shunning of family members, has been criticized by many non-members and ex-members.

Counsel and guidance

Personal counsel 
Congregation elders may offer counsel in privileged settings, with the opportunity for the member to confess wrongdoing. If counsel is not accepted, congregational responsibilities may be withheld or restricted, and elders may present a talk to the congregation about the type of behavior, without naming the individual. This is intended to alert other members already aware of the individual's conduct to limit social interaction with that person.

Counsel may be given in situations involving actions that are considered inappropriate but are not considered to be of sufficient gravity to necessitate a judicial committee. Counsel may be provided by a mature Witness in addition to self-discipline and family discipline. Elders may also give recommendations or warnings to members in non-judicial situations.

Shepherding calls 
Personal "shepherding visits" are intended to encourage members of the congregation, though may also include counsel and correction, then or on a subsequent visit. Two elders (or an elder and a ministerial servant) may schedule and perform a particular shepherding visit on their own or at the direction of the body of elders.

Withheld "privileges" 
An active Jehovah's Witness may have their congregational "privileges of service" limited, even without having committed a serious sin. While Witnesses sometimes refer to field ministry, after-meeting cleanup, and other responsibilities as "privileges", the term "privileges of service" often implies a specific range of assignments assisting elders and ministerial servants with meeting demonstrations and other responsibilities. Such limitations are usually temporary.

Elders, ministerial servants, pioneers, or other appointed Witnesses can lose their "special privileges of service". For example, an elder may be removed or choose to step aside voluntarily from his position if members of his household are not in "good standing". After resignation or removal from an appointed position, an announcement is made during the congregation's Service Meeting indicating that the person is "no longer serving [in that capacity]", without elaboration.

Withheld recommendations or assignments 
The body of elders may withhold its recommendation for a member to serve in a new position of responsibility, though still permitting existing responsibilities.

Marking 
Members who persist in a course considered scripturally wrong after repeated counsel by elders, but who are not considered guilty of something for which they could be disfellowshipped, can be "marked", based on Jehovah's Witnesses' interpretation of 2 Thessalonians 3:14–15 (NWT): "14 But if anyone is not obedient to our word through this letter, keep this one marked and stop associating with him, so that he may become ashamed. 15 And yet do not consider him an enemy, but continue admonishing him as a brother." Actions for which an individual may be "marked" include dating a non-member, dating when not "scripturally" or legally free to marry, being lazy, critical, or dirty, meddling, taking material advantage of others or indulging in "improper" entertainment. "Marking" is indicated by means of a warning talk given to the congregation outlining the shameful course, without explicitly naming any particular individual. Members who know whose actions are being discussed may then consider the individual "marked". Though not shunned, "marked" individuals are looked upon as "bad association" and social interaction outside of formal worship settings is generally curtailed. This action is intended to "shame" the person into following a particular course of action.

Local needs
At conventions and assemblies, and about once each month at a local midweek meeting, a short talk regarding "local needs" is presented. An elder addresses matters that are relevant to the local congregation, with instructions outlining the course of action considered appropriate. No specific individuals are identified during the talk, but the talk may relate to a matter for which a member has recently been "reproved". At times, some temporary policy may be announced that might be seen as disciplinary; for example, it may be that an additional attendant is assigned outside a Kingdom Hall to discourage children from running on the sidewalk.

Discipline involving "serious sin"

Jehovah's Witnesses consider many actions to be "serious sins", for which baptized Witnesses are subject to a judicial committee hearing. Such actions include:

Judicial situations
If an active baptized Witness is considered to have committed a "serious sin" for which the individual must demonstrate formal repentance, correction (or, "discipline") is administered by the congregation's body of elders. Such situations usually involve a "judicial committee" of three or more elders. Counsel may escalate to excommunication, known as disfellowshipping, which includes shunning by the congregation. Individuals who are disfellowshipped may be reinstated after an extended period if they are deemed to demonstrate repentance.

An individual may also be disfellowshipped for promoting activities that are considered "serious sins" without actually engaging in the practice, or for accepting related employment (e.g. selling lottery tickets, firearms or cigarettes; working in an abortion clinic, church or military base).

If a baptized Witness teaches contrary to Witness doctrines, it is considered apostasy and grounds for disfellowshipping. A 1981 letter to overseers—reproduced in a book by former Governing Body member Raymond Franz—directed that a member who "persists in believing other doctrine", even without promoting such beliefs, may also be subject to disfellowshipping. Elders usually try to reason with the individual before such action is taken. If a person believes that a teaching should be adjusted or changed, he is encouraged "to be patient and wait on Jehovah for change". The Watchtower of July 15, 2011, said "apostates are 'mentally diseased,' and they seek to infect others with their disloyal teachings" and to "avoid contact with them". Some have stated that this applies to all individuals who leave the organization.

Procedures
Evidence for actions that can result in congregational discipline is obtained by voluntary confession to the elders or by witnesses of the violation. A minimum of two witnesses is required to establish guilt, based on their understanding of Deuteronomy 17:6 and Matthew 18:16, unless the person confesses voluntarily. Members are instructed to report serious sins committed by other members. Failure to report a serious sin of another member is viewed as sharing in the sins of others, a sin before God. Witnesses are instructed that pledges of confidentiality may be broken to report what they believe to be transgressions.

A congregation's body of elders considers confessions or credible allegations of serious sin, and decides whether a judicial committee will be formed to address the matter. A judicial committee, usually consisting of three elders, investigates the details of the alleged sin furt