# Alcoholics Anonymous

Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) is a global peer-led mutual aid fellowship begun in the U.S. and dedicated to abstinence-based recovery from alcoholism through their spiritually inclined twelve-step program.  Besides stressing anonymity and offering membership to anyone wishing to stop drinking, AA's twelve traditions establish it as free to all, non-professional, non-denominational, apolitical and unaffiliated. In 2020 AA estimated its worldwide membership to be over two million with 75% of those in the U.S. and Canada.

In 1935, the recognized start of AA, Bill Wilson (Bill W.) first commiserated alcoholic-to-alcoholic with Bob Smith (Dr. Bob). Meeting through AA's immediate precursor the Christian revivalist Oxford Group, they and other alcoholics fellowshipped there until forming what became AA. In 1939 the new fellowship, then mostly male and white, published Alcoholics Anonymous: The Story of How More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered From Alcoholism, also known as the Big Book and as the source of AA’s name.

AA's twelve steps are a suggested and continuing sobriety program of prayer, reflection, admission, better conduct and atonement, all to effect a “spiritual awakening”, after which members should take others through the steps, usually by taking on sponsees. Divining and following the will of an undefined God—"as we understood Him", also designated as a “higher power”—is integral to the steps, but differing practices and beliefs, including those of atheists and other non-theists, are accommodated. 

The twelve traditions are guidelines to keep AA focused on altruistically helping others to recover from alcoholism. With AA's traditions membership goes to anyone professing a desire to stop drinking, and that all memberships should be kept anonymous, especially in public media, but no repercussions are prescribed for broken anonymity. Additionally the traditions have AA avoiding hierarchies, dogma, public controversies and other outside entanglements, or using AA for personal gain or public prestige. They also insist that no dues or fees are required, and to be self-supporting, no outside financial aid can be accepted. 

A 2020 scientific review found that clinical interventions increasing AA participation via AA Twelve Step Facilitation (AA/TSF) had sustained remission rates 20-60% better than other well-established treatments regardless of demographics. Additionally, 4 of the 5 economic studies in the review found that AA/TSF lowered healthcare costs considerably. Regarding the disease model of alcoholism, an otherwise receptive AA has not endorsed it while many AA members have promoted it towards wider acceptance.

AA has allowed other recovery fellowships such as Narcotics Anonymous and Al-Anon to adopt and adapt the twelve steps and twelve traditions.

History

AA was founded on 10 June 1935 but AA's origins are said to have begun when the renowned psychotherapist Carl Jung inspired Rowland H., an otherwise hopeless drunk, to seek a spiritual solution by sending him to the Oxford Group— a non-denominational, altruistic Christian movement modeled after first-century Christianity. Ebby Thacher got sober in that same Oxford Group and reached out to help his drinking buddy Bill Wilson. Thacher approached Wilson saying that he had "got religion", was sober, and that Wilson could do the same if he set aside objections and instead formed a personal idea of God, "another power" or "higher power". Feeling a "kinship of common suffering", Wilson attended his first group gathering, although he was drunk.  Within days, Wilson admitted himself to the Charles B. Towns Hospital after drinking four beers on the way—the last alcohol he ever drank. Under the care of Dr. William Duncan Silkworth (an early benefactor of AA), Wilson's detox included the deliriant belladonna. At the hospital, a despairing Wilson experienced a bright flash of light, which he felt to be God revealing himself. 
 
Following his hospital discharge, Wilson joined the Oxford Group and tried to recruit other alcoholics to the group.  These early efforts to help others kept him sober, but were ineffective in getting anyone else to join the group and get sober.  Dr. Silkworth suggested that Wilson place less stress on religion (as required by The Oxford Group) and more on the science of treating alcoholism. 
 
Wilson's first success came during a business trip to Akron, Ohio, where he was introduced to Robert Smith, a surgeon and Oxford Group member who was unable to stay sober. After thirty days of working with Wilson, Smith drank his last drink on 10 June 1935, the date marked by AA for its anniversaries.

The first female member, Florence Rankin, joined AA in March 1937, and the first non-Protestant member, a Roman Catholic, joined in 1939. The first Black AA group was established in 1945 in Washington, D.C. by Jim S., an African-American physician from Virginia.

While writing the Big Book in the several years after 1935, Wilson developed the Twelve Steps, which were influenced by the Oxford Group's 6 steps and various readings, including William James's The Varieties of Religious Experience.

The Big Book, the Twelve Steps, and the Twelve Traditions
To share their method, Wilson and other members wrote the initially-titled book, Alcoholics Anonymous: The Story of How More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism, from which AA drew its name. Informally known as "The Big Book" (with its first 164 pages virtually unchanged since the 1939 edition), it suggests a twelve-step program in which members admit that they are powerless over alcohol and need help from a "higher power". They seek guidance and strength through prayer and meditation from God or a higher power of their own understanding; take a moral inventory with care to include resentments; list and become ready to remove character defects; list and make amends to those harmed; continue to take a moral inventory, pray, meditate, and try to help other alcoholics recover. The second half of the book, "Personal Stories" (subject to additions, removal, and retitling in subsequent editions), is made of AA members' redemptive autobiographical sketches.

In 1941, interviews on American radio and favorable articles in US magazines, including a piece by Jack Alexander in The Saturday Evening Post, led to increased book sales and membership. By 1946, as the growing fellowship quarreled over structure, purpose, authority, finances and publicity, Wilson began to form and promote what became known as AA's "Twelve Traditions", which are guidelines for an altruistic, unaffiliated, non-coercive, and non-hierarchical structure that limited AA's purpose to only helping alcoholics on a non-professional level while shunning publicity. Eventually, he gained formal adoption and inclusion of the Twelve Traditions in all future editions of the Big Book. At the 1955 conference in St. Louis, Missouri, Wilson relinquished stewardship of AA to the General Service Conference, as AA had grown to millions of members internationally.

In May of 2017, Alcoholics Anonymous World Services Inc. filed a lawsuit in the Supreme Court of the State of New York seeking the return of the original manuscript of the Big Book from its then-owner. AAWS claimed that the manuscript had been given to them as a gift in 1979.  This action was criticized by many members of Alcoholics Anonymous since they didn't want their parent organization engaged in lawsuits.  Alcoholics Anonymous World Services Inc. asked the court to voluntarily discontinue the action in November of 2017.

Organization and finances

AA says it is "not organized in the formal or political sense", and Wilson, borrowing the phrase from anarchy theorist Peter Kropotkin, called it a "benign anarchy". In Ireland, Shane Butler said that AA "looks like it couldn't survive as there's no leadership or top-level telling local cumanns what to do, but it has worked and proved itself extremely robust". Butler ex