[Mechanics Textbook — Gutenberg #25864]

treatment. WILLIAM SMITH, L. R. C. P. and S., (EDIN.), D. O. THE END. * * * * * A. T. Still's Table or Device, That He Has Constructed For THE USE OF THE OPERATOR, THE EASE AND COMFORT OF THE PATIENT. It is a welcome success and does away with the lubberly old tables. It gives ease and support to all classes of patients. By its use the patient can sit in a chair or on a stool and feel at perfect ease during all treatments, then the operator gets results and is not tired to death when he has treated a patient; knows and feels that there has been some good done. The asthmatic knows he has gotten help because pain has left his chest and he breathes as with new lungs; he knows he is helped more by one treatment while sitting on a chair with his body easy and at rest in the cushioned swinging device than he would or has received by the best skill on any table. Then the operator says, "Thank fortune, I am not worn out, and know I have gotten every bone to the place it belongs, and I know I have given satisfactory relief because my patients say so." I think to an operator this device is his best friend. With it well understood he can do as much work as three good operators can do on the old tables. Remember this device does no part of the treatment but places the patient to your convenience while you do the work. I feel as I am the discoverer of the device, that I know its needs and feel free to advise pupils. The device will cost you $25 only. A. T. STILL, Founder. The American School of Osteopathy, KIRKSVILLE, MO. The course of study in The American School of Osteopathy is a carefully graded one, and is divided into four terms, of five months each. The terms beginning September and February of each year. The course thus requires two years for completion. COURSE OF STUDY. The course of study extends over two years, and is divided into four terms of five months each. FIRST TERM. The first term is devoted to Descriptive Anatomy including Osteology, Syndesmology and Myology; lectures on Histology illustrated by micro-stereopticon; the principles of General Chemistry and Physics. SECOND TERM. The second term includes Descriptive and Regional Anatomy; didactic and laboratory work in Histology; Physiology; Physiological Chemistry and Urinalysis; Principles of Osteopathy; Clinical Demonstrations in Osteopathy. THIRD TERM. The third term includes Demonstrations in Regional Anatomy; Physiology; lectures in Pathology illustrated by micro-stereopticon; Symptomatology; Physiological Psychology; Clinical Demonstrations in Osteopathy. FOURTH TERM. The fourth term includes Symptomatology; Minor Surgery; didactic and laboratory work in Pathology; Psycho-Pathology; Gynæocology; Obstetrics; Sanitation and Public Health; Venereal Diseases; Medical Jurisprudence; Clinical Demonstrations; Clinical Practice. * * * * * The school is open to students of both sexes without distinction, and all have equal opportunities and privileges, and are held to the same requirements. The methods of instruction are such as obtain in the best academic and collegiate institutions, and include recitations from standard text-books, lectures, quizzes, practical laboratory work, and practical clinical work. The equipment of the school is complete in every respect. The recitation and lecture rooms are amply provided with all necessary means of illustration, such as specimens fresh and preserved, skeletons, models, charts, manikins and diagrams. The respective laboratories are fitted up with all the necessary apparatus for practical work in the Anatomical, Histological, Microscopical, Chemical and Physiological departments. The clinical facilities and opportunities enjoyed by students in this school are exceptional. An abundance of material is always available for clinic demonstrations, which are continued daily through two terms, with practical work in the clinic operating rooms by each student, under the direction of the regular operators, daily during the whole of the last term. In addition to the regular clinical department, the A. T. Still Infirmary has constantly under treatment from three hundred to five hundred patients, and although the students do not see these patients, the many cases of diseases of all kinds under the care of the regular operators in the Infirmary give them constantly fresh and varied illustrations for use in their lectures. Sometimes, too, patients whose cases may be of special interest offer the use of their cases for the purpose of demonstration before the students. Opportunities are thus furnished to students for such practice and drill in the actual work of treating diseases as we believe is not equaled by any similar institution anywhere. The course of study is progressively graded with a view to giving students a thorough and comprehensive knowledge of the facts and principles upon which their future work is to be based. These clinic exercises in connection and immediately following give them facility and readiness in the art of applying the facts and principles which they have acquired in recognizing and treating diseased conditions. Catalogue mailed upon application. For information as to terms, etc., apply to A. T. STILL, AMERICAN SCHOOL OF OSTEOPATHY. PRESIDENT. KIRKSVILLE, MO. The A. T. Still Infirmary Cures by the Science of Osteopathy all Diseases Which are Known as Curable. Dr. A. T. STILL, founder of the Science of Osteopathy, has associated with him, in his infirmary organization, the oldest and most successful practitioners and exponents of the science, selected with special reference to their fitness for the work of practically demonstrating the principles of Osteopathy and occupying positions as teachers and lecturers in the American School of Osteopathy. All are regular graduates of this school. The students in the school are not permitted to even assist in treating the Infirmary patients. All the work is done by regular operators. The examination previous to treatment is conducted by Dr. Still's three sons assisted by the operators. After examination the patient is assigned to the room in which he or she will receive treatment, and placed under the care of an Osteopath best suited to the case. The fees for treatment at the Infirmary are $25 per month. Where patients are unable to come to the Infirmary for treatment, an extra charge of $1 to $2 per visit is added. The Infirmary maintains a complete bathing department in charge of competent attendants. As good baths are therefore obtainable in Kirksville as in any city. The charges are very moderate--twenty-five cents for a single bath, or $2.00 for a commutation ticket for ten baths. When bath tickets are procured no other fees to attendants are necessary. A representative of the Infirmary meets all trains, day and night, to help all patients who may need assistance and see that they are properly cared for. OPERATIVE SURGERY. To correct a misapprehension on the part of many, it should be understood that the A. T. STILL INFIRMARY is fully prepared to receive and handle the most difficult cases requiring the highest order of skilled surgery, and it is not necessary to send such cases to the great city hospitals in the east for even the most difficult and delicate operations. Dr. J. B. Littlejohn, of the faculty, is a graduate in surgery from the University of Glasgow, Scotland, and held for three years the position of Surgeon under the Government Board of England, besides other important and responsible positions in Europe and America. Dr. Wm. Smith holds evidences of qualifications as follows: Licentiate of the Royal College of Surgery, Edinburg; Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons, Glasgow; Licentiate in Midwifery, Edinburg and Glasgow; etc. Cases requiring careful and delicate Surgery, the removal of fibroid tumors, and in fact any operation of whatever nature will receive the best and most scientific treatment and care in this institution. The management has now secured a powerful and perfect Roentgen or X-Ray apparatus which will be used in connection with this department, in the examination of difficult cases. Patients coming to the A. T. Still Infirmary may rely upon the fact that they will in no case be subjected to unnecessary surgical operations, as the knife is never used unless absolutely necessary. Address all letters of inquiry to A. T. STILL INFIRMARY, KIRKSVILLE, MO +---------------------------------------------------------------------+ |Transcriber's note: | | | |Corrections have been made to everyday words printed incorrectly, but| |all technical terms are as in the original. | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+