# La Galissonnière-class cruiser

The La Galissonnière-class cruisers''' were commissioned by the French Navy in the 1930s. They were the last French cruisers completed after 1935, until the completion of  in 1956. They are considered fast, reliable and successful light cruisers.  Two cruisers of this class,  and , took part in the defence of Dakar in late September 1940 during World War II. With the cruiser , they joined the Allied forces after the successful Allied landings in North Africa in November 1942. The three other cruisers of the La Galissonière class, held under Vichy control at Toulon, were scuttled on 27 November 1942.

After refitting, Georges Leygues, Montcalm and Gloire took part in various Allied operations, including the Normandy landings in 1944. Postwar, several of the class acted as the flagship of the French Mediterranean Squadron, and carried out operations off Indo-China until 1954, and afterwards were deployed during the Suez Crisis and operations off Algeria. They were scrapped between 1958 and 1970.

Background

The French Navy emerged from World War I with light cruisers, in very small numbers, aged and exhausted by war service.  One Austrian () and four German light cruisers (, , , ), were received as reparations for war losses. They were renamed from Alsace-Lorraine towns, respectively Thionville, Colmar, Mulhouse, Strasbourg and Metz, armed with nine  guns for Thionville, and six to eight  guns for the others, a displacement of 4,000 tons for Thionville, 5,000 to 7,000 tons for the other cruisers, with a speed of . They were retired from active service by the early 1930s.

In 1920 the French Navy made plans to construct 5,200-ton light cruisers, with a main armament of  guns, capable of speeds over . Funds were granted in the 1922 budget for the three s, known as 8000 tons cruisers, which were launched in 1923–24. They had four turrets mounting two guns each. The  guns, in regular use by the French Army were chosen to facilitate a streamlined ammunition supply chain. With nearly no armour, they had a speed of .

Also remaining in service were armoured cruisers, built between 1900 and 1910, that were obsolete when they had been commissioned. With their armament arrangement in two double turrets of  guns, and single turrets and casemates of generally , (only the s Edgar Quinet and Waldeck-Rousseau cruisers had fourteen  guns as their main armament), a speed of , an armoured belt of , for a displacement of 12,000 to 14,000 tons, they were outgunned by their British or German contemporaries.

 Washington Naval Treaty 

The 1922 Washington Naval Treaty forbade the armoured cruiser type, with clauses limiting the cruiser tonnage to 10,000 tons, and the size of their guns to .

As war experience had clearly shown the importance of securing trade routes against surface threats, all the signatories of the treaty had built, until 1930, nearly only Washington heavy cruisers (fifteen each for the United Kingdom and the United States, twelve for Japan, seven each for France and Italy). These cruisers bore eight 203 mm guns in four double turrets, in the British, French and Italian navies, but nine to ten guns in the United States Navy, or the Imperial Japanese Navy, with a speed from , and a very light armour, for the earliest ships built, and a better protection, with a slightly reduced speed, for the next classes. On the first Washington heavy cruisers built, in the French Navy, , the weight of armour was 430 tons, and the maximum speed on trials reached , with , and, for the last one, , the weight of armour was 2,657 tons, and the maximum speed , with .

Germany was not subject to the restrictions in warship building resulting from the treaty, and the German Reichsmarine laid down, between 1926 and 1928, three cruisers of the  with a displacement of 6,650 tons, armed with three triple turrets of  guns, and a speed of 30–32 knots. In 1929, an improved unit, , with a more powerful cruising diesel engine installation, and a more extended armoured belt, with nearly the same displacement (6,710 tons).

The British Navy considered that the Washington cruiser type was too large for its needs, and, in 1927, a slightly smaller -gun cruiser was laid down, HMS York, with only six 8-inch guns. As the 1930 London Naval Conference had just opened, the United Kingdom announced the cancellation of the next projected 8-inch-gun cruiser design, while the first unit of a new class was to be built, with a displacement of 6,500 tons and armed with eight  guns, able to counter Leipzig. It was HMS Leander.

 London Naval Treaty 

The 1930 London Naval Treaty introduced a distinction between Type A cruisers (commonly called "heavy cruisers"), with guns over  (the main armament mounted on the Duguay-Trouin-class cruisers) and up to , and Type B cruisers (commonly called "light cruisers"), with guns of  or under. It fixed the limit for the number of Type A units of each signatory  to the number of existing cruisers, and authorized their replacement only twenty years after their completion.

In 1926, as France had started to produce classes of destroyers (, , and es) which were superior in displacement and firepower to the destroyers of that period, in order to counter this, Italy decided to produce a new class of cruiser that would be of intermediate size between the new French destroyer classes and the cruisers built in that period. The four units of the Da Giussano class (first sub-class of the  cruisers group) were laid down in 1928, and completed in 1931–32, respecting the newly signed London Naval Treaty. On a displacement of about 5,200 tons, they were armed with eight 152 mm guns in four double turrets, and could attain the remarkably high speed of , but with negligible armour and short radius of action.
   
A new French cruiser had been ordered in 1926 and launched in 1930, specially designed as a school ship for midshipmen. The cruiser  had the same 6.1-inch guns, in double turrets, as the Duguay-Trouin class. But when, after the London Naval Treaty, a new cruiser  was designed to operate both as a minelayer and as a destroyer flotilla leader, she was armed with a completely new armament and turret layout, nine  guns in three triple turrets, for the first time in the French Navy. She had two double and two single mounts of  for secondary anti-aircraft (AA) artillery. Reaching  on speed trials, with , she was the fastest of the French cruisers ever built.

The triple turret was unusual in the French Navy, which had preferred the double turret on its battleships, and on its previous cruisers, or the quadruple turret. In 1910, the Chief Naval Constructor, French Navy, had designed the s with three quadruple turrets, and the quadruple turret was broadly used, on the s, as the mounting for the main armament, and for the dual-purpose secondary battery. Triple turrets have been common in the Italian Navy battleships (uninterruptedly since the first Italian dreadnought built, ) as in the Russian, World War I Austro-Hungarian, U.S. Navies (since the  to the  battleship classes), and even in the British Royal Navy, with the s. On cruisers, the triple turret was used in all the U.S. Navy  Washington heavy cruiser classes, on the Reichsmarine light cruisers, and on  "pocket battleships".
 
This was on the basis of Émile Bertins armament, and on s  protection and propulsion that was designed the lead ship of the La Galissonnière class, launched in November 1933.

 Large light cruiser 

The Imperial Japanese Navy, and its Pacific Ocean rival the U.S. Navy, were both interested in large cruisers, whether they were classed "heavy" or "light". In the 1931 Building Program, Japan ordered the first units of a new light cruiser class, the , with fifteen  guns, in five triple turrets, and a speed of , announcing, falsely, a displacement of 8,500 tons. The U.S. Navy answered with the , with fifteen  guns, a speed of , but a more exact displacement of 9,700 tons. The first units of this class were l