# Entropy (classical thermodynamics)

In classical thermodynamics, entropy () is a property of a thermodynamic system that expresses the direction or outcome of spontaneous changes in the system. The term was introduced by Rudolf Clausius in the mid-19th century to explain the relationship of the internal energy that is available or unavailable for transformations in form of heat and work. Entropy predicts that certain processes are irreversible or impossible, despite not violating the conservation of energy. The definition of entropy is central to the establishment of the second law of thermodynamics, which states that the entropy of isolated systems cannot decrease with time, as they always tend to arrive at a state of thermodynamic equilibrium, where the entropy is highest. Entropy is therefore also considered to be a measure of disorder in the system.

Ludwig Boltzmann explained the entropy as a measure of the number of possible microscopic configurations  of the individual atoms and molecules of the system (microstates) which correspond to the macroscopic state (macrostate) of the system. He showed that the thermodynamic entropy is , where the factor  has since been known as the Boltzmann constant.

Concept

Differences in pressure, density, and temperature of a thermodynamic system tend to equalize over time. For example, in a room containing a glass of melting ice, the difference in temperature between the warm room and the cold glass of ice and water is equalized by energy flowing as heat from the room to the cooler ice and water mixture. Over time, the temperature of the glass and its contents and the temperature of the room achieve a balance. The entropy of the room has decreased. However, the entropy of the glass of ice and water has increased more than the entropy of the room has decreased. In an isolated system, such as the room and ice water taken together, the dispersal of energy from warmer to cooler regions always results in a net increase in entropy.  Thus, when the system of the room and ice water system has reached thermal equilibrium, the entropy change from the initial state is at its maximum. The entropy of the thermodynamic system is a measure of the progress of the equalization.

Many irreversible processes result in an increase of entropy. One of them is mixing of two or more different substances, occasioned by bringing them together by removing a wall that separates them, keeping the temperature and pressure constant. The mixing is accompanied by the entropy of mixing. In the important case of mixing of ideal gases, the combined system does not change its internal energy by work or heat transfer; the entropy increase is then entirely due to the spreading of the different substances into their new common volume.

From a macroscopic perspective, in classical thermodynamics, the entropy is a state function of a thermodynamic system: that is, a property depending only on the current state of the system, independent of how that state came to be achieved.  Entropy is a key ingredient of the Second law of thermodynamics, which has important consequences e.g. for the performance of heat engines, refrigerators, and heat pumps.

Definition
According to the Clausius equality, for a closed homogeneous system, in which only reversible processes take place,

With T being the uniform temperature of the closed system and delta Q the incremental reversible transfer of heat energy into that system.

That means the line integral  is path-independent.

A state function S, called entropy, may be defined which satisfies

Entropy measurement
The thermodynamic state of a uniform closed system is determined by its temperature  and pressure . A change in entropy can be written as

The first contribution depends on the heat capacity at constant pressure  through

This is the result of the definition of the heat capacity by  and . The second term may be rewritten with one of the Maxwell relations

and the definition of the volumetric thermal-expansion coefficient

so that

With this expression the entropy  at arbitrary  and  can be related to the entropy  at some reference state at  and  according to

In classical thermodynamics, the entropy of the reference state can be put equal to zero at any convenient temperature and pressure. For example, for pure substances, one can take the entropy of the solid at the melting point at 1 bar equal to zero. From a more fundamental point of view, the third law of thermodynamics suggests that there is a preference to take  at  (absolute zero) for perfectly ordered materials such as crystals.

 is determined by followed a specific path in the P-T diagram: integration over  at constant pressure , so that , and in the second integral one integrates over  at constant temperature , so that . As the entropy is a function of state the result is independent of the path.

The above relation shows that the determination of the entropy requires knowledge of the heat capacity and the equation of state (which is the relation between P,V, and T of the substance involved). Normally these are complicated functions and numerical integration is needed. In simple cases it is possible to get analytical expressions for the entropy. In the case of an ideal gas, the heat capacity is constant and the ideal gas law  gives that , with  the number of moles and R the molar ideal-gas constant. So, the molar entropy of an ideal gas is given by

In this expression CP now is the molar heat capacity. 

The entropy of inhomogeneous systems is the sum of the entropies of the various subsystems. The laws of thermodynamics hold rigorously for inhomogeneous systems even though they may be far from internal equilibrium. The only condition is that the thermodynamic parameters of the composing subsystems are (reasonably) well-defined.

Temperature-entropy diagrams

Entropy values of important substances may be obtained from reference works or with commercial software in tabular form or as diagrams. One of the most common diagrams is the temperature-entropy diagram (TS-diagram). For example, Fig.2 shows the TS-diagram of nitrogen, depicting the melting curve and saturated liquid and vapor values with isobars and isenthalps.

Entropy change in irreversible transformations

We now consider inhomogeneous systems in which internal transformations (processes) can take place. If we calculate the entropy S1 before and S2 after such an internal process the Second Law of Thermodynamics demands that S2 ≥ S1 where the equality sign holds if the process is reversible. The difference  is the entropy production due to the irreversible process. The Second law demands that the entropy of an isolated system cannot decrease.

Suppose a system is thermally and mechanically isolated from the environment (isolated system). For example, consider an insulating rigid box divided by a movable partition into two volumes, each filled with gas. If the pressure of one gas is higher, it will expand by moving the partition, thus performing work on the other gas. Also, if the gases are at different temperatures, heat can flow from one gas to the other provided the partition allows heat conduction. Our above result indicates that the entropy of the system as a whole will increase during these processes. There exists a maximum amount of entropy the system may possess under the circumstances. This entropy corresponds to a state of stable equilibrium, since a transformation to any other equilibrium state would cause the entropy to decrease, which is forbidden. Once the system reaches this maximum-entropy state, no part of the system can perform work on any other part. It is in this sense that entropy is a measure of the energy in a system that cannot be used to do work.

An irreversible process degrades the performance of a thermodynamic system, designed to do work or produce cooling, and results in entropy production.  The entropy generation during a reversible process is zero. Thus entropy production is a measure of the irr