# Jason Faunt

Jason Patrick Faunt (born November 20, 1974) is an American actor. He is best known for the role as Wesley Collins in Power Rangers Time Force, as well as his descendant Alex, the former Red Time Force Ranger.

Early life
Faunt grew up in the Chicago suburb of McHenry, Illinois. He attended McHenry High School East Campus. Due to his athletic prowess in high school, he used a partial baseball scholarship to attend the University of North Carolina at Asheville, where he earned a business degree. He originally was going to become a Major League Baseball player after graduating, but moved to Los Angeles instead to pursue an acting career.

Career
In 1999, he appeared in the supernatural horror films Witchouse  and Totem. In 2001, he played Wesley "Wes" Collins, the Red Time Force Ranger and Alex in Power Rangers Time Force. He later reprised the role of Wes in episodes of Power Rangers Wild Force, Super Megaforce, and Super Ninja Steel.

In 2017, he appeared in the film The Order alongside other Power Rangers alumni. He appeared in Resident Evil: Vendetta as the motion capture actor for Leon S. Kennedy and as the voice of Aaron.

Personal life
Faunt has two daughters, Keira and Makayla, with his ex-wife Stephanie. He currently resides in Orange County, California with his two daughters and wife Angela Lin. Faunt and his wife are expecting their first child together due in early 2024.  He appears many times at Power Morphicon for the celebrated Power Rangers franchise.

Filmography

Film

Television work

Video games
 Power Rangers Time Force (Video Game) (2001) Red Ranger voice actor
 Resident Evil 6 (2012) - Leon S. Kennedy motion capture actor

Producer
 Pact (2004/I) (producer)

Webseries
 No Nerds Here (2014)

References

External links
 Jason Faunt Official Web Site
 

1974 births
20th-century American male actors
Actors from Illinois
21st-century American male actors
American male film actors
American male television actors
American male voice actors
Living people
Illinois Republicans
Male motion capture actors
People from McHenry, Illinois
University of North Carolina at Asheville alumni