# Gail Robinson (Neighbours)

Gail Lewis (also Robinson) is a fictional character from the Australian soap opera Neighbours, played by Fiona Corke. She made her first screen appearance during the episode broadcast on 11 March 1987. Corke left the role in 1989, but made appearances in 2005, 2006 and 2007. She reprised the role in 2019, as Gail returns to Erinsborough to meet her granddaughter.

Casting
Corke first appeared in Neighbours in 1987. She described her time on the show as "an amazing experience" and added "It was so full on and so huge you didn't know if you were an actor or in a pop group half the time." In 1988, Corke became one of ten actors from the show who were flown to London to perform in front of the Queen at the Royal Variety Performance.

Development

Introduction and marriage
Gail was introduced alongside her father Rob Lewis (Ernie Bourne). They move to Erinsborough and Gail becomes reacquainted with Paul Robinson (Stefan Dennis), who she worked with when they were both flight attendants. Neil Wallis and Dave Hogan of The Neighbours Factfile said both Gail and Paul had become "talented ambitious high-flyers in business" in the intervening years. Gail is shown to be intelligent and a university graduate. Gail becomes Paul's number two at the Daniels Corporation. She puts her work first in order to "blot out" her private life and a failed marriage to racing driver Jeremy Lord (Tim Elston).

Producers created a marriage of convenience story for Gail and Paul. They decide to get married in order to trick Japanese businessman, Mr Udagawa (Lawrence Mah) and secure a business deal with him. Mr Udagawa believes marriage is a favourable indication of a man's judgement, and Gail quickly agrees to Paul's suggestion. They are married in the living room of Number 22 Ramsay Street in front of their families. Paul claims that they wanted something simple as they have both been married before. The plan works and Mr Udagawa awards them the contract, forcing them to work long hours together. Josephine Monroe wrote in her book The Neighbours Programme Guide: "sadly their dedication was only to their work."

Departure
Corke left Neighbours in August 1989, after deciding she wanted to experience life outside of the show. She initially commented, "I love Neighbours and I've had a ball, but it's time to move on." Corke later told Sue Larkin of the Aberdeen Press and Journal that quitting the show was a hard decision, but she did not want to be in it forever. She continued, "I decided to take a few risks, have a look round and see if I could do something else." Corke also told Larkin that the producers did not want to let her go. She had previously made "noises" about leaving six months earlier and they asked her to stay for longer, which she did. She said "This time I meant it, though. In an situation like that, you can go on and on helping people out and end up staying for years."

The producers and writers were surprised by Corke's decision, but immediately began planning how Gail would exit. Ideas included a fatal car accident, a disappearance, or a marriage break up. They favoured the latter option. After Rob is killed in a car accident, Gail partly blames Paul. The couple's marriage is strained further when Paul leaves the funeral for a business meeting. Corke commented, "that was just it for Gail, she couldn't take any more." Gail, who was seven months pregnant with triplets, realises that she probably will not receive the support from Paul that she needs, so she decides to move to Tasmania. Corke said one of the hardest things about leaving Neighbours was saying goodbye to her friends, including Dennis, who she got on with "fantastically".

Return
Corke made a cameo appearance, alongside many former cast members, in the serial's 20th anniversary celebration episode "Friends for Twenty Years". In January 2006, a reporter for Inside Soap confirmed Corke would be reprising the role for a guest stint later that year. Gail returns to Erinsborough in June, almost twenty years after she departed, for her children. Gail and Paul "face the terrible reality" that their son Robert Robinson (Adam Hunter) is a killer. Corke said that the triplets have been everything to Gail. Although she had a long-term relationship with a man in Tasmania, her life has been her children and her plant nursery business. Corke explained, "now she is so overcome by what's happened to her kids. At first, she is angry with Paul. She has brought these three kids up on her own, with no help from him, and they have been perfectly happy and healthy. Then as soon as they start staying with their Dad, everything goes wrong! Gail's really on her guard now." Paul's partner Izzy Hoyland (Natalie Bassingthwaighte) later brands Gail a bad mother and tells her she is in denial. At the same time, Paul is wondering whether he still loves Gail. Dennis thought that the former couple loved each other deeply, but they were refusing to acknowledge it due to the animosity between them. Corke also thought there was something unresolved between Gail and Paul, adding "the thing with Gail is that she's someone who doesn't declare her emotions easily".

Producers created a second sham wedding story for Gail and Paul, who hold the ceremony with the hope of drawing Robert out of hiding. Paul's partner Izzy comes up with the sham wedding idea in jest, but they decide to go ahead with it to help the police capture Robert. Dennis told Jason Herbison from Inside Soap that Robert's goal is to destroy Paul and having a publicised wedding provides Robert with an opportunity to get at Paul. He added "they're only pretending of course, so the marriage isn't binding."

Writers played on the fact Gail and Paul still share romantic feelings. Dennis explained that "the chemistry between Paul and Gail is still there, so the idea of them pretending to wed again is genius. Everyone's wondering if they've really fallen for each other. That's been the greatest thing about this storyline - you just never know. When we were filming it, we didn't even know ourselves!" When the wedding takes place, Gail and Paul say their vows and sound too convincing. Dennis added "it's almost as if he and Gail have to pull themselves up and remember what the day is actually about." When Robert fails to show, Paul shouts out load to get his attention and Robert shoots Paul in front of Gail. Following this, Robert gives himself up to the police and is arrested.

Further returns (2007, 2019)
Corke returned for a short guest stint in 2007. In December 2009, Stefan Dennis called for the return of Gail. He said "I'd like to see Fiona Corke come back, even for another guest role, because she's just adorable and fun to work with. And she's got every right to come back because she's still got a tie with Paul's children."

Corke reprised the role on 21 August 2019, as Gail returns to Erinsborough to get to know her granddaughter Harlow Robinson (Jemma Donovan). After breaking up a catfight between Harlow and Roxy Willis (Zima Anderson), Gail voices her concerns about Harlow living with Paul and his fiancée Terese Willis (Rebekah Elmaloglou). She later admits to Paul that she blames him for the loss of their sons, and warns Terese not to marry him, leaving Terese to question whether Gail wants Paul back.

Storylines

1987–1989
Gail applies for the job at the Daniels Corporation and moves to Ramsay Street with her adoptive father Rob Lewis. She meets Paul Robinson again, and it emerges that they had a brief romance while they worked as air stewards. Paul gives Gail the job and they begin working alongside each other. Her former husband Jeremy Lord arrives in Erinsborough in the hope that Gail will take him back and proposes to her again, but he is killed in a racing car accident. As Gail deals with her grief, she discovers that Jeremy was already married when his widow, Meredith (Terrie Waddell) arrives and reveals she is pregnant with his child. Gail and Paul kiss after signing