# Austin Police Department

Austin Police Department (APD) is the principal law enforcement agency serving Austin, Texas. As of Fiscal Year 2022, the agency had an annual budget of $443.1 million and employed around 2,484 personnel, including approximately 1,809 officers. The department also employs 24 K-9 police dogs and 16 horses. Joseph Chacon was confirmed as Austin's new interim police chief effective April 11, 2021.

Specialized units

Patrol divisions

Ranks

Fallen officers
Since the establishment of the Austin Police Department, twenty-three officers have died in the line of duty.

Staffing shortages, budget cuts follow protests 
Austin City Council voted unanimously in August of 2020 to drastically reduce the Department's budget of $434 million by approximately $150 million. Then councilman Greg Casar introduced a three-part plan which called for an immediate reallocation of $21.5 million of the Department's budget to social services. Other budget reduction measures included eliminating r150 vacant officer positions, and declining to add 30 new officer positions that had been budgeted as part of a broader staffing plan. The Texas Tribune reported the cuts to be "among the largest percentage decreases (in budget) in the nation this year." In the same year, Austin City Manager Spencer Cronk placed a moratorium on Austin Police Department cadet classes to allow for an audit of the training academy materials and curriculum.

In 2021, 210 Austin Police Officers left the Department, which was more than the two previous years combined.

The Shooting Death of Michael Ramos Prompts Protests, Criminal Charges 
The budget cuts were brought to a vote months after an Austin Police officer fatally shot 42-year-old Michael Ramos. Officer Christopher Taylor, and other officers, were dispatched to a Southeast Side apartment complex for a report of drug dealing. The caller told dispatchers they believed the man, later identified as Ramos, had a firearm. Responding officers stated Ramos ignored commands and a bean bag projectile before he got into his car and attempted to flee. Taylor's attorneys say he opened fire on Ramos believing other officers were in the path of the vehicle. Ramos was struck by the gunfire and later pronounced deceased. Ramos was unarmed.

Ramos' death, and the death of George Floyd, prompted weeks of protests in Austin throughout the summer of 2020. During the protests, two demonstrators were severely injured by rubber bullets deployed by officers.

Travis County District Attorney Jose Garza brought the shooting before a grand jury in 2021 and a grand jury returned a true bill of indictment against Taylor for murder. In May of 2023, a judge declared a mistrial in Taylor's case following issues selecting a jury. The judge reset the trial for October 2023. Taylor is reportedly the first officer to be charged with murder for on-duty conduct.

Austin Police Announce They Will No Longer Respond To "Non-emergencies" 
In October of 2021, Chief Joseph Chacon announced officers would no longer respond to non-emergency calls due to severe staffing shortages and at the recommendation of the Reimagining Public Safety Task Force. The policy, which took effect October 1, 2021, applies to burglaries no longer in progress, vehicle thefts, and vehicle collisions without injuries. Those who are seeking to make a report are fielded to 311 or encouraged to fill out a report on iReportAustin.com.

Gallery

See also 
List of law enforcement agencies in Texas

References

External links

Police
Municipal police departments of Texas