# Helspont

Helspont is a fictional character and a former supervillain in Wildstorm's comics who was transplanted to the DC Universe. In addition to the WildC.A.T.s, he has also fought Team One, Gen¹³, Backlash, and when folded into the DC Universe, Superman.

Fictional character biography
A member of the alien race known as the Daemonites, Helspont was a military lord. He was, essentially, the general who would command Daemonite forces in the field. Helspont possessed a being from another alien race (before the Wildstorm Universe separated from the Image universe, the being he possessed was an Acurian) at some unknown point in time (centuries after the fall of the Roman Empire, according to Spartan), becoming his usual form. Helspont was stationed on the Daemonite ship that crashed on Earth thousands of years ago. He, along with the two other highest-ranked surviving Daemonites, took the title High Lord and became a leader to the other Daemonites. Helspont had many Daemonites serving under him, though another lord, Defile, formed his rival faction. Helspont and his servants also formed alliances with several humans over the years, using the name "The Cabal" to refer to their organization at least once before the mid-20th Century.

During the Third Crusade, Helspont found an English crusader, Dakor of Cambria, who intended to commit suicide. Dakor had previously been found, severely injured, by the Kherubim warrior Zealot, then known as Constance, who attempted to train him in the ways of the Coda, the female warrior society to which she belonged. However, Dakor had failed Constance's tests and she and another Coda defeated him in combat. Shamed by having been defeated by women, Dakor attempted suicide, only to be stopped by Helspont, who convinced him that Constance had used magic to steal his strength and leading him to believe the duel was unfair as he was outnumbered. Helspont, wanting his own organization to counter-balance the Coda, had Dakor create a group of warriors known as the Quiet Men. The Quiet Men would go on to fight against the Coda and Zealot multiple times over the following centuries.

In the 1960s, Helspont encountered post-human mobster Slaughterhouse Smith and his gang, offering Smith control over North America by the end of the decade if he allied himself with Helspont against humanity, although how Helspont planned to achieve this has yet to be revealed. Helspont, his Daemonite foot-soldiers and Smith and his gang formed a new Cabal. Helspont led the Cabal in an attack on a U.S. nuclear missile base with the aim of using the nuclear missiles in the base to hold the country for ransom. Helspont ordered the Cabal to nuke New York City as a warning to the government, though Smith refused, since his family lived in New York, and his men turned against him, siding with Helspont. Helspont revealed his true goal to Smith as the destruction of the world. The U.S. government strike team known as Team One attempted to foil the Cabal's plans. Helspont briefly engaged in battle with Marc Slayton, before the fight was interrupted by Cabal member Daniel Pike. Helspont then found himself locked in battle with one his most hated enemies, Mr. Majestic, the two being evenly-matched. Helspont's plan failed due to Team One's intervention, and he went on to escape.

Reunification
Helspont returned with a new plan in the 90s. Instead of eradicating the human race on his own, he planned on contacting a Daemonite armada. Once contact was established, the next stage of his plan was to open a stargate in Earth's orbit so the fleet of alien ships at Daemon could reach Earth quickly and attack from space. The name of the process was the Reunification. To create and maintain the portal needed for the Reunification, Helspont needed one of several magical orbs of power. One of the other orbs was carried inside the body of Void, a member of the WildC.A.T.s. Since she carried an orb inside her, she knew when another one was being targeted and was able to warn Lord Emp, leader of the WildC.A.T.s before it was too late, and they fought to prevent Helspont from succeeding. To help him get the orb before the WildC.A.T.s could stop him, Helspont created his own group, a new incarnation of The Cabal. This Cabal was made up of Helspont, a Coda, Pike, a psychic named Providence, and a few humans and numerous Daemonites.

The first battle between the WildC.A.T.s and Helspont's people occurred in the first issue of WildC.A.T.S: Covert Action Teams, when Grifter was sent to recruit Voodoo. Helspont's hired Coda warrior and two Daemonites attacked him as he tried to recruit her. The attack ended with the destruction of the entire location in a fiery explosion, the deaths of Helspont's warriors, and the WildC.A.T.s' escape. However, Helspont continued with his goal for Reunification believing that they had died.

The next stage involved having one of his Daemonites break into a NASA compound and steal the orb. After the orb was stolen, the last step was getting a Daemonite into the body of Dan Quayle, the Vice President of the United States. This went without incident and now, with an inside man, he was able to secure a military base which provided the right machinery to operate the orb. Operating the orb would create the stargate.

To keep the WildC.A.T.s off his back, he'd tricked them into fight the Youngblood, another Wildstorm Team. Before the two teams could figure out they had been tricked, Spartan was almost totally destroyed. Voodoo and Maul were also incapacitated, and the rest of the team was forced abandon them and go after Helspont alone. Just as Helspont and his scientists had started to activate the machines to begin the Reunification, the remainder of the WildC.A.T.s (Emp, Zealot, Grifter, Warblade and Void) arrived and attacked. While Helspont tried to hurry up the process of Reunification, the super powered members of his Cabal (Pike and The Coda and a Daemonite) fought the WildC.A.T.s. Meanwhile, elsewhere in the base, another member of Helspont's Cabal arrived with his own minions. Gnome had planned on betraying Helspont from the start so he could wield the power of the orb on his own. He'd hired the Troika and his own Coda warrior and while Helspont's people fought the C.A.T.s, he made his way towards them. Unbeknown to all of these people, back where the Youngblood and WildC.A.T.s had been fighting, Voodoo, Maul and Spartan had all regained enough strength to kill the Daemonite in the body of the Vice President and fill the Youngblood in on what was happening. Back in the heart of the base, Helspont saw Emp for the first time that night and recognized him as an enemy he'd thought he'd killed when he fought Team One. This obviously angered Helspont and he started fighting on his own, no longer relying on Pike and The Coda to do it for him. With a few energy attacks and psychic assaults, he quickly took down the WildC.A.T.s on his own. With all his enemies out of the picture, Helspont activated the orb, opened a stargate in Earth-space and the night sky began to fill with Daemonite ships.

As Helspont basked in his victory, Voodoo, Maul and the entire Youngblood team (accompanied by Dan Quayle) attacked. This didn't bother him though. He laughed as he created a powerful energy shield that stopped the combined attack and then disabled the entire team in one blast. As the orb continued to bring in more ships, Emp used a hidden communicator to contact Spartan, who was at the buildings core, where the machines that powered the whole place were. Still damaged from before, he used the last of his power to shut down the entire compound. As a result, the orb stopped working properly (destroying ships in transit as well as ones near the stargate) and the machines that had been powering it exploded. Helspont was thrown back by the explosion but wouldn't give up on his chance to take over the world. He went to get what was left of the orb so he could use it, but when he