# WSEE-TV

WSEE-TV (channel 35) is a television station in Erie, Pennsylvania, United States, affiliated with CBS and The CW Plus. It is the flagship television property of locally based Lilly Broadcasting, and is a sister station to NBC affiliate WICU-TV (channel 12), to which Lilly provides certain services under a local marketing agreement (LMA) with SJL Broadcasting. Both stations share studios on State Street in downtown Erie, while WSEE-TV's transmitter is located on Peach Street in Summit Township, Pennsylvania.

WSEE-TV's over-the-air digital broadcast signal covers Erie, Warren, and Crawford counties in Pennsylvania; reaches east to Jamestown, New York, west to Ashtabula, Ohio, north to London and Hamilton in Ontario, Canada, and south to Clarion, Pennsylvania. The station can be seen via satellite in North America and the Caribbean through C band. It is available in Puerto Rico via Liberty Puerto Rico (via translator W22FA-D in Mayagüez) as well as part of the locals package on Dish Network.

Until 2017, WSEE-TV was simulcast in standard definition on WICU-TV's third digital subchannel on virtual channel 12.3 from a separate transmitter in Greene Township; this was dropped on May 29, 2017, in favor of Ion Television. An upgraded multiplexer allowed the restoration of the WSEE simulcast to WICU on January 24, 2018, this time on 12.4, in 720p high definition; it was dropped again in March 2019 in favor of Start TV.

History
WSEE began broadcasting on April 24, 1954. The station was originally owned by the Mead family, publishers of the Erie Times-News. ABC programming was shared by WSEE and WICU-TV until WJET-TV signed-on in 1966. The Meads sold the station to Gillett Broadcasting in 1978. In 1981, the "-TV" suffix was added to the WSEE calls. Gillett then sold the station to SCS Communications in 1982. In 1988, SCS sold WSEE to Price Communications. Price sold WSEE along with three of its stations (WAPT in Jackson, Mississippi; WZZM in Grand Rapids, Michigan; and WNAC-TV in Providence, Rhode Island) to Northstar Television Group in 1989. Channel 35 also served as the market's UPN affiliate on a secondary basis throughout that network's eleven-year history, carrying network programming on weekends.

In 2002, WICU-TV entered into a local marketing agreement with WSEE-TV. From that point until June 1, 2009, the station continued to operate from studios on Peach Street/US 19 in Downtown Erie. On that date, WSEE-TV merged into WICU-TV's facilities on State Street. WSEE has been digital-only since February 17, 2009.

WICU-TV and WSEE-TV merged their websites in June 2011.

WSEE-DT2
WSEE-DT2 is the CW+-affiliated second digital subchannel of WSEE-TV, broadcasting in 720p high definition on channel 35.2.

History
What would become WSEE-DT2 signed-on in September 1998 after WSEE-TV entered into a partnership with The WB 100+, a national programming service operated by The WB for television markets ranked below 100, and Time Warner Cable. At the time, it was a cable-exclusive station, and as a result, used the call sign "WBEP" (standing for "The WB Erie, Pennsylvania") in a fictional manner for identification purposes. WSEE-TV provided local advertisement and promotional duties for the outlet based at the CBS affiliate's original facilities on Peach Street.

Before then, WB programming was available in Erie via cable and satellite from superstations WPIX-TV and WGN-TV, along with over-the-air reception (and some fringe cable coverage) of WBNX-TV from Akron, Ohio. WBEP shifted to WSEE's over-the-air bandwidth as a second digital subchannel on September 18, 2006, when the merged UPN and WB networks were combined into The CW.

News operation
Although the local marketing agreement between WSEE-TV and WICU-TV was established in 2002, the actual beginning of newscast consolidation between the two did not start until WSEE-TV actually moved into WICU's studios. WSEE-TV aired the final newscast from its separate Peach Street studios on May 28, 2009. With the challenges of moving, this station went without local news for nearly four days while technical and logistical arrangements were finalized.

When it resumed broadcasts, WSEE-TV's weeknight news at 11:00 p.m. was recorded while it broadcast live on the CW at 10:00 p.m.

After WSEE-TV moved its operations into the State Street facility, the existing studio set was split in two, allowing each station's newscast to look unique.

For one year starting in March 2009, a special feed of WSEE-DT2 (incorrectly identified on-air as "WBEP-DT2 Northwest Pennsylvania CW") was aired in the portions of Cattaraugus County, New York, served by Atlantic Broadband. This special feed replaced the first run of the prime time news at 10:00 p.m. with a replay of WICU-TV's weeknight show seen earlier at 6:00 p.m.. The practice was performed to compensate for the fact that WICU-TV is not seen on Atlantic Broadband (whereas WSEE-TV and WSEE-DT2 both are). Without explanation, "WBEP-DT2" was discontinued in March 2010, and Cattaraugus County viewers began receiving the same WSEE-DT2 feed as viewers in Pennsylvania including the WSEE-TV-produced 10:00 p.m. newscast.

Originally, WSEE-TV's sixty-minute weekday morning show Mornings Live was recorded at 4:00 a.m. and then aired in the 6 o'clock a.m. hour. It retained the show's branding (as made obvious by the lack of current conditions during weather forecasts) despite the actual operation. During the 2012–13 season, following the national trend toward 4:00 a.m. newscasts, Mornings Live was actually seen "live" from 4:00 a.m.–5:00 a.m. on WSEE-DT2 in addition to being taped for its later showing on WSEE-TV.

Until January 2013, this station's weeknight news at 6:00 p.m. was usually recorded during the mid-afternoon. The studios were unable to air two live broadcasts at the same time until a second high-definition production control room was added. Sister station WICU-TV airs a midday show weekdays at 12:30 p.m. following WSEE-TV's long-running noon newscast. On weekends, the two stations jointly produce local news at 6:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. These shows are known as Weekends Now. The WSEE-TV news department also produces a weekly public affairs program The Insider, which airs weekends Sunday morning on WSEE-TV.

During the week, WSEE-TV and WICU-TV maintain talent for news and sports that generally appear on one station. Most video footage and content is shared, coming from the same newsroom. In cases of breaking news, severe weather, or election coverage, the two simulcast newscasts and occasionally include the CW subchannel as well. On weekday mornings, WSEE-DT2 provides a simulcast of the first hour of WICU's 12 News Today at 5:00 p.m. and the NBC affiliate's midday show at 12:30 p.m.. It also airs the nationally syndicated broadcast The Daily Buzz from 6:00 p.m. until 9:00 p.m. with other CW Plus stations.

Along with their sister station WICU-TV, WSEE-TV upgraded newscasts to high definition in November 2012. The Newswatch branding was dropped after 28 years to coincide with the switch. WSEE's newscasts are now branded as SEE News.

In September 2015, Lilly Broadcasting announced that WICU-TV and WSEE-TV would no longer produce separate morning and evening newscasts as of October 12; the two stations now simulcast newscasts in these time periods. The stations' executive vice president, John Christianson, said that the WICU and WSEE newscasts were seen by viewers to have been essentially the same newscast with different anchors.

WSEE signed a shared services agreement with Jamestown, New York-based The WNY Media Company (doing business as WNY News Now) in July 2021.

Notable former staff
Al Benedict – news anchor and Pennsylvania Auditor General (1977–1985)
Leila Feinstein – reporter (1995–2000); now at KTLA
Micah Johnson – reporter and news anchor (1984–1985); now CEO of Entegy Group
Lloyd Newell – primary news anchor (1984–1986); now professor at Brigham Young University and host of Musi