# Air transports of heads of state and government

Air transports for heads of state and government are, in many countries, provided by the air force in specially equipped airliners or business jets. One such aircraft in particular has become part of popular culture: Air Force One, used by the President of the United States and operated by the United States Air Force. Other well known official aircraft include the Russian presidential aircraft, the British Royal Air Force VIP aircraft, the French Cotam 001, the Royal Canadian Air Force VIP aircraft, the German Konrad Adenauer, the Royal Australian Airforce VIP aircraft, the Japanese Air Force One, the South Korean Code One, Air India One, the Brazilian Air Force One, and the Israeli Wing of Zion.

Another well-known means of transportation for world leaders is by helicopter. Helicopters are seen as not only cheaper and more cost effective but also more convenient than a motorcade. These include the US President's Marine One, the South Korean Presidential Helicopter, King Charles III's Helicopter, and the Brazilian Presidential Helicopter.

If officials do not have their own aircraft or if their VIP aircraft are under maintenance, they would occasionally hire private jets, in which case a flag/coat of arms decal/sticker is often added on or near the door.

History 

On 15 July 1910, the then Tsar of Bulgaria Ferdinand I became the first head of state to fly in an aircraft during a visit to Belgium.

In 1919, during Paris Peace Conference, senior British politicians including Prime Minister David Lloyd George and Leader of the House of Commons Bonar Law used several Airco DH.4 planes for the cross-Channel trips. Originally designed as bombers, modified planes featured an enclosed compartment for two passengers (cockpit was left open) and a separate luggage compartment. Dubbed Lloyd George's airplane, it was probably one of the first aircraft to be widely used by a political leader.

The British Monarch became the first head of state or government to receive official and dedicated air transport when two Westland Wapitis were delivered to No. 24 Squadron RAF at RAF Northolt for the express purpose of the transportation of the Royal Family in 1928. Between 1929 and 1935, Edward, Prince of Wales, purchased 13 aircraft. Although the RAF maintained at least one of these aircraft for a time, the Prince of Wales eventually became solely responsible for them. When the prince ascended to the throne in 1936 as Edward VIII, The King's Flight was formed as the world's first head of state aircraft unit. This unit initially used the King's own de Havilland DH.89 Dragon Rapide; however, this was replaced in May 1937 by an Airspeed AS.6J Envoy III.

In the United States, prior to World War II, overseas and cross-country presidential travel was rare. Franklin D. Roosevelt was the first president to fly in an aircraft while in office. During World War II, Roosevelt traveled on the Dixie Clipper, a Pan Am-crewed Boeing 314 flying boat, to the 1943 Casablanca Conference in Morocco. The flight covered 5,500 miles in three legs. The first dedicated aircraft proposed for presidential use was a Consolidated C-87 Liberator Express VIP transport aircraft. This aircraft, tail number 41-24159, was re-modified in 1943 for use as a presidential VIP transport, the Guess Where II, intended to carry President Franklin D. Roosevelt on international trips. The Secret Service subsequently reconfigured a Douglas C-54 Skymaster for duty as a presidential transport. This VC-54C aircraft, nicknamed the Sacred Cow, included a sleeping area, radio telephone, and retractable elevator to lift Roosevelt in his wheelchair. As modified, the VC-54C was used by President Roosevelt only once, on his trip to and from the Yalta Conference in February 1945.

In the postwar period, governments around the world have instituted similar provisions for the official aerial transportation of their heads of state and government.

Africa

Angola 
The government of Angola operates two Bombardier Global Express, two De Havilland Canada Dash 8-Q402, and one Dassault Falcon 900B. More often than not, however, officials tend to travel on private aircraft from companies like Deer Jet, Comlux, and Royal Jet.

Previously operated aircraft include models like a Boeing 707, a Yakovlev Yak-40, and a Tupolev Tu-134.

Any aircraft when used by the president flies under the callsign "ANGOLA1".

Benin 
The Government of Benin operated a now-dismantled Boeing 727 in 2015. They also operated a now-retired Boeing 707. A Boeing 737-200 belonging to the Government of Niger briefly sported Benin titles as it was being used by said government. Officials now fly on private jets.

A Xian MA-600 aircraft bearing a Benin Government livery was spotted at Kunming Changshui Airport in December 2022. It is unknown if this has been delivered to Benin as of 2023 or if it is being used for VIPs.

Any aircraft carrying the President flies under the callsign "BENIN01".

Botswana 
The Botswana Defence Force operated a Bombardier Global Express for use by the President in 2015 replacing a Gulfstream IV. A Pilatus PC-24 was also spotted in South Africa in 2018-2019 for training purposes.

The Bombardier Global Express flies under the callsign "F001".

Burkina Faso 
The government of Burkina Faso operated a Boeing 727 (registration XT-BFA) for medium range travel. As of 2023, this aircraft is reported to have been grounded. The government now utilises private jets for foreign travel. Any aircraft carrying the president flies under the callsign "BFA1".

Burundi 
The government of Burundi operated a Gulfstream IV in 2015. This was sold to a private operator and the government now uses commercial and private aircraft for travel.

Cabo Verde 
The government tends to travel either on commercial or private aircraft.

Cameroon 
The government of Cameroon operated a Gulfstream III in 2015. A Boeing 767 was also previously used for travel. Politicians tend to fly on private jets, notable examples being a Comlux 767 and a Aviation Link 777.

Any aircraft carrying the president flies under the callsign "CMR001".

Central African Republic
Government officials of the Central African Republic normally travel on chartered flights. For example, when President Faustin-Archange Touadéra travelled to Beijing for the Forum on China–Africa Cooperation summit, he flew on a commercial Air France Boeing 777.

Chad 

The government of Chad operated a McDonnell Douglas MD-87 in 2015. They also operated a Boeing Business Jet, ATR 72 and Dornier Do-328JET. For two years, they also travelled on a Comlux Malta Boeing 767-200, registration P4-CLA. Any aircraft carrying the president flies under the callsign "CHAD01".

Comoros 
The Comorian government utilises other countries' VIP aircraft for travel. For example, a delegation from Comoros travelled to a 2019 Africa Summit in Russia on a Nigeren 737BBJ.

Congo, Democratic Republic of the 
The government currently operates a Gainjet-owned Boeing 737-900 BBJ, registered T7-RDC. They also operate a Gulfstream which was impounded for several years in Spain due to debt disputes.

Previously operated aircraft include a Boeing 707 painted in a crude Boeing-style livery and a Boeing 727. Private aircraft are also occasionally used for travel.

Any aircraft carrying the president flies under the callsign "DRC001".

Congo, Republic of the 
The government have previously operated a Dassault Falcon 7X, however it was impounded at Paris Le Bourget Airport and has since been stored. They have nowadays resorted to hiring private jets. Previously operated aircraft have included a Boeing 707 in a JAR Aircraft Services livery and a McDonnell-Douglas DC 8-72.

Any aircraft carrying the president flies under the callsign "CONGO01".

Djibouti
The Djiboutian government owns a Dassault Falcon 7X for travel. A Boeing 727, Boeing 767, and Dassault Falcon 50 were previously used. They have also been known to use private planes for select trips. The Falcon 7