# Kendra's Law

Kendra's Law, effective since November 1999, is a New York State law concerning involuntary outpatient commitment also known as assisted outpatient treatment. It grants judges the authority to issue orders that require people who meet certain criteria to regularly undergo psychiatric treatment. Failure to comply could result in commitment for up to 72 hours.  Kendra's Law does not mandate that patients be forced to take medication.

It was originally proposed by members of the National Alliance on Mental Illness, the Alliance on Mental Illness of New York State, and many local NAMI chapters throughout the state. They were concerned that laws were preventing individuals with serious mental illness from receiving care until after they became "dangerous to self or others". They viewed outpatient commitment as a less expensive, less restrictive and more humane alternative to inpatient commitment.

The members of NAMI, working with NYS Assemblywoman Elizabeth Connelly, NYC Department of Mental Health Commissioner Luis Marcos, and Howard Telson were successful in getting a three-year pilot commitment program started at Bellevue Hospital. When the Bellevue Outpatient Commitment Program came to an end, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, the Treatment Advocacy Center and mental health advocate DJ Jaffe put together a coalition to pass a statewide law. It was based on the same concept as the Bellevue Outpatient Commitment Program but with important differences.

Background
In 1999, there was a series of incidents involving individuals with untreated mental illness becoming violent. In one assault in the New York City Subway, Andrew Goldstein,  29 and diagnosed with schizophrenia but off medication, pushed Kendra Webdale into the path of an oncoming N train at the 23rd Street station. Goldstein had recently attempted to get treatment but had been turned away. Webdale's family joined a coalition led by Governor Pataki, the Treatment Advocacy Center and Jaffe, and the family played a significant role in getting the law passed. Subsequently, in a similar incident, Julio Perez, age 43, pushed Edgar Rivera in front of an uptown 6 train at 51st Street. Rivera lost his legs and became a strong supporter of the law.  Kendra's Law, introduced by Pataki, was created as a response to these incidents. In 2005, the law was extended for five years.

As a result of these incidents, involuntary outpatient commitment moved from being seen as a program to help people with mental illness to a program that could increase public safety. Public safety advocates joined in trying to take the Bellevue Pilot Program statewide. What was formerly known as involuntary outpatient commitment was renamed euphemistically as "assisted outpatient treatment", in an attempt to imply a positive intent of the law.

Criteria
Kendra's Law allows courts to order certain people diagnosed with mental illness to attend treatment as a condition for living in the community. The law is aimed at those who have a pattern of not following treatment recommendations which has resulted in hospitalization, or violent behaviors placing the patient or others as serious risk of physical harm.

In order to be admitted to Kendra's Law, individuals must meet the following criteria established in Section 9.60 of NYS Mental Health Law. A patient may be ordered to obtain assisted outpatient treatment if the court finds by clear and convincing evidence that:
 the patient is eighteen years of age or older; and
 the patient is suffering from a mental illness; and
 the patient is unlikely to survive safely in the community without supervision, based on a clinical determination; and
 the patient has a history of lack of compliance with treatment for mental illness that has:
 at least twice within the last thirty-six months been a significant factor in necessitating hospitalization in a hospital, or receipt of services in a forensic or other mental health unit of a correctional facility or a local correctional facility, not including any period during which the person was hospitalized or incarcerated immediately preceding the filing of the petition or;
 resulted in one or more acts of serious violent behavior toward self or others or threats of, or attempts at, serious physical harm to self or others within the last forty-eight months, not including any period in which the person was hospitalized or incarcerated immediately preceding the filing of the petition; and
 the patient is, as a result of his or her mental illness, unlikely to voluntarily participate in the recommended treatment pursuant to the treatment plan; and
 in view of the patient's treatment history and current behavior, the patient is in need of assisted outpatient treatment in order to prevent a relapse or deterioration which would be likely to result in serious harm to the patient or others as defined in section 9.01 of this article; and
 it is likely that the patient will benefit from assisted outpatient treatment; and
 if the patient has executed a health care proxy as defined in article 29-C of the public health law, that any directions included in such proxy shall be taken into account by the court in determining the written treatment plan; and
 the treatment plan set forth is the least restrictive plan that is most likely to benefit the patient.

A patient can only be ordered to assisted outpatient treatment for a maximum 12-month period.  The assisted outpatient treatment may be renewed by petition filed prior to the current order's expiration.  Where the petition is for a renewal, the 36-month limit for hospitalizations and the 48-month limit for violent behavior do not apply.

Support
The New York Times reported that "a study has found that a controversial program that orders these patients to receive treatment when they are not hospitalized has had positive results. Patients were much less likely to end up back in psychiatric hospitals and were arrested less often. Use of outpatient treatment significantly increased, as did refills of medication. Costs to the mental health system and Medicaid of caring for these patients dropped by half or more."

According to the Treatment Advocacy Center, the following organizations (in part or in full) support the law:

National
 Treatment Advocacy Center (TAC)
 American Psychiatric Nurses Association
 American Psychiatric Association
 National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI)
 National Sheriffs Association
 National Crime Prevention Council

Statewide
 National Alliance on Mental Illness New York State (NAMI NYS)
 NYS Association of Chiefs of Police (NYSCOP)

Regional and local
 AMI-Friends of NYS Psychiatric Institute, NYC
 NAMI/Familya of Rockland County
 NAMI Schenectady
 NAMI Chautauqua County
 NAMI of Buffalo and Erie County
 NAMI of NYC/Staten Island
 NAMI Orange County
 NAMI Champlain Valley
 Harlem Alliance for the Mentally Ill
 NAMI of Montgomery, Fulton, Hamilton Counties
 NAMI/Albany Relatives
 NAMI North Country
 Albany County Forensic Task Force
 Westchester County Chiefs of Police Association
 Orange County Police Chiefs Association
 Town of New Windsor, police department
 Town of Chester, NY Police Department
 Town of Mechanicville, police department
 West Seneca, NY Police Department
 Broome County District Attorney

Selected individual supporters
 Xavier Amador – author, I am Not Sick, I Don't Need Help!
 Pete Early – author, Crazy: A Father's Search Through America's Mental Health Madness
 Rael Jean Isaac – co-author, Madness in the Streets
 Richard Lamb – Dept. of Psychiatry, USC
 Edgar Rivera – lost legs in subway pushing
 E. Fuller Torrey – author, Surviving Schizophrenia
 Pat Webdale – mother of Kendra Webdale
 Robert Yolken – Director of Developmental Neurovirology Johns Hopkins Univ.
DJ Jaffe, Executive Dir. Mental Illness Policy Org.

Media editorial supporters
 New York Times
 Newsday
 New York Post
 Daily News
 Albany Times Union
 Buffalo News
 Troy News
 Office of the Attorney General
 N