# Curragh Camp

The Curragh Camp () is an army base and military college in The Curragh, County Kildare, Ireland. It is the main training centre for the Irish Defence Forces and is home to 2,000 military personnel.

History

Longstanding military heritage 
The Curragh has historically been a military assembly area, owing to the wide expanse of plain. In 1599 Henry Harvey noted "a better place for the deploying of an Army I never beheld." However, the Curragh's history goes further back; it is mentioned in the Annals of the Four Masters that Lóegaire Lorc, the king of Ireland, was slain on the Curragh by Cobthach Cóel Breg.

Richard Talbot, 1st Earl of Tyrconnel chose the Curragh as a muster point for the cause of James II during the Williamite War in Ireland. In 1783, a review of the Irish Volunteers raised to assist in the defence of the country while Great Britain was at war with America held on the Curragh attracted upwards of 50,000 spectators.

It was also a muster point during the 1798 Rebellion and was mentioned in the Irish peasant song The Sean-Bhean bhocht. As translated by Padraic Colum in 1922:

Crimean War and establishment of Curragh Camp 
There were numerous training camps organised on the Curragh in the nineteenth century including the training of militia to defend the UK during the Napoleonic Wars. However, the first permanent military structures were designed and built from 1855 by British soldiers of the Corps of Royal Engineers in relation to the Crimean War. These structures for 10,000 infantry were wooden in character but the camp did have its own post office, a fire station, ten barracks, two churches, a water pumping station, a court house and a clock tower.

Events and routines in 19th-century camp 
In 1861, Queen Victoria and Prince Albert visited to inspect troops, including their son (Edward VII—the then Prince of Wales)—who was serving at the camp. A great troop review was held for the visit and an album of the occasion can be found in the Royal Archive at Windsor Castle.

The first of the "modern" barracks (Beresford Barracks) was built at the camp in 1879, and six new barracks were subsequently constructed through the start of the 20th century. The names of the barracks that were built by the British Army were Ponsonby Barracks, Stewart Barracks, A.S.C Barracks, Engineer Barracks, Gough Barracks and Keane Barracks.

By 1893, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) was Major-General Lord Ralph D. Kerr CB. The garrison was the 1st Battalion Royal Irish Regiment (18th Foot), the 1st Battalion Lancashire Fusiliers (20th Foot), and the 2nd Battalion Worcestershire Regiment (31st Foot). In 1894, the Worcestershires were replaced by the 2nd Battalion the Hampshire Regiment (67th Foot).

The Curragh was a little isolated, which led to stringent regulations about taxi fares. However, the camp was well provided for, with recreational facilities (including, for the officers, hunting with the local gentry), several postal deliveries a day (last collection for England at 11 pm), and a daily Mass for Catholics at the East Church. A gun was fired every day at reveille, at 1 pm and at 9.30 pm.

Wrens of the Curragh 

The Wrens of the Curragh were a community of women, who lived close to the Camp, in order that many of the women could be paid for sex work by the soldiers there. The Camp, like many military garrisons in Ireland at the time, attracted large numbers of prostitutes. It was mentioned in the British Parliament's Contagious Disease Acts, which allowed the authorities to stop and arrest women if they suspected them of being prostitutes.

The women lived in the furze-covered areas surrounding the camp, living in holes in banks and ditches with few possessions, in what were known as 'nests'. Their story gained prominence in a series of articles in the Pall Mall Gazette by the English journalist James Greenwood in 1867. His book The Seven Curses of London also contains a chapter on the Wrens.

The problem of sexually transmitted diseases due to the prevalence of prostitution and men willing to partake in their services can be seen by the numbers reporting with gonorrhea in the military hospital in the 1911 census.

Cemetery 

The Curragh Cemetery has many graves that attest to the British Army presence on the Curragh up to their departure in 1922. The Commonwealth War Graves Commission maintains the graves of 104 servicemen who died at the camp during World War I, which are scattered throughout the cemetery.

Handover 
At the time of the passage of the Home Rule Act in 1914, the Camp became the scene of the Curragh incident, where a number of officers proposed to resign rather than enforce Home Rule against the will of the Unionists.

After the Anglo-Irish War (21 January 1919 – 11 July 1921) the British Army handed over Curragh Camp to the Irish Free State Army. The handover took place at 10 o'clock on Tuesday 16 May 1922, when the camp was handed over to a party of Irish troops commanded by Lieutenant General O'Connell. On Monday evening the Union Flag was lowered for the last time. At noon, O'Connell climbed the water tower and hoisted the first Irish tricolour to fly over the Curragh Camp. By tradition the British Army had cut down the flagpole requiring the Irish officers to physically hold the flagpole while the tricolour was raised. Both the Union Flag and the tricolour, which measures  are now preserved in the DFTC.

Internment and escapes at the Curragh
In August 1920 the British Parliament passed the Restoration of Order in Ireland Act 1920 which permitted military authorities to arrest (intern) any Irish person without charge or trial. Under Section 3(6) of the Act, the military established nonpublic court martials in which lawyers (appointed by the military) could be present only in death penalty cases. Inquests of military or police actions were also banned. The Act was not repealed until 1953. In 1921 there were several camps within the Curragh that were used to house internees to include Hare Park and Tintown camps. During the Irish Civil War (June 1922 – May 1923) at least 30 internment camps/prisons existed in Ireland which were used by the newly formed Irish government to hold internees opposed to the Anglo-Irish Treaty. The official internment camp at the Curragh was the Rath camp which held 1,300 internees in 60 wooden army huts on a ten-acre area. The compound was surrounded by ten foot high fences with machine gun towers at each corner.

Multiple escape attempts were made using tunnels and other means to get men out of the Curragh. In April 1921 a tunnel was discovered resulting in the loss of internee privileges. On 11 July 1921 the Irish War of Independence was ended with a truce and all tunneling at the Curragh was suspended. Thirty seven internees who were elected to the new Irish Parliament Dáil Éireann were released from the Curragh to consider the terms of the British peace terms. Because there was no general release of internees escape efforts continued.

On 9 September 1921, between 50 and 70 men escaped from the Hare Park internment camp at the Curragh Camp through a tunnel which took over a month to construct using only knives and spoons. When the tunnel was completed the internees waited for a foggy night and used the noise from an ongoing concert to make their escape. None of the escapees were ever recaptured.

Civil War Executions, Deaths and Hunger Strikes 

In December 1922 seven men were executed in the Curragh Military Prison. The Leinster Leader of 23 December 1922 reported that a column of ten men had operated against railways, goods trains and shops in the vicinity of Kildare for some time. Five of them had apparently taken part in an attempt to disrupt communications by derailing engines on 11 December. Two engines had been taken from a shed at Kildare and one of them had been sent down the line into an obstruction at Cherryville, thereby blocking the line. It was also alleged that goods trains had been