# Julius H. Kroehl

Julius Hermann Kroehl (in German, Kröhl) (1820 – September 9, 1867) was a German American inventor and engineer. He invented and built the first submarine able to dive and resurface on its own, the Sub Marine Explorer, technically advanced for its era. His achievements in architecture, civil and mechanical engineering were also significant.

Origins and personal life

Early life

Julius Hermann Kröhl was born 1820 in Memel, East Prussia (today Klaipėda in Lithuania).  His family moved to Berlin, Kingdom of Prussia around 1828. He arrived in New York City on 29 July 1844 on board the Fairfield.  While residing in New York City, he became an American citizen on October 26, 1849, formally renouncing any loyalty to the King of Prussia and taking on the duties of American citizenship. During his civilian employment with the United States Navy, he was referred to as "captain."  Using the honorific title of "captain" was usually indicative of holding an officer's commission in foreign army or having served as an officer in a volunteer militia or fire company.  In his letter of introduction to Brigadier General Jacob Lauman, his qualifications were described as having served "in the artillery abroad."

Family
His father was Jacob Kroehl.  He was a merchant in Memel.  From 1829 to 1833, the family residence was listed as Hausvogteiplatz 11, Berlin, suggesting that the family relocated to the Prussian capitol around that time. His mother, Johann Philipine Dorothea, later immigrated to the United States in 1848, but as the wife of a British merchant, John Heanes.

His brother Henry (1819–1890) left to the U.S. in 1838.  He had established himself as a merchant, with a business in New York City, and later resided in Asbury Park, New Jersey, after 1870. He was a partner with Otto Dill, until he died in 1861.  Henry was married to the former Cornelia Rogers Turfler.  Their bodies were buried at Green-Wood Cemetery. Passenger lists and passport records suggest that Henry made a few trips to Germany throughout his life. No other siblings have been identified to this article at this time.

William John Kroehl (1816–1879) resided in England from 1836 through the remainder of his life.  UK marriage records show a different father; his citizenship petition showed that he came from Memel, and is likely a cousin.  He was naturalised a British citizen on 23 January 1849.

Otto Sackersdorff (1820–1879) also resided in New York City. Julius Kroehl thought highly of him as evidenced by his will in bequeathing many of his papers and reference books. Otto served in the U.S. Coast Survey around 1854, was active in city politics, and served as an officer of the 5th New York State Militia in 1861 for the protection of the nation's capital during its three-month mobilization. He later served as a surveyor for New York City until the end of his life.

Marriage

Julius married Sophia Rosa Lueber on November 25, 1858, at Holy Trinity Church of Georgetown in Washington, DC.  She was born on August 27. 1832, and was a native of Frederick, Maryland.  Her father, Francis Lueber (1791–1852), emigrated from Austria, and was a well-to-do merchant; her mother, Hellen Maria Simpson (1809–1890) came from the District of Columbia and was descended from the original English settlers in Maryland.  Julius and Sophia had no children.  After Julius' death, his widow did not remarry, but continued to live in Georgetown with her widowed mother, sisters and brother until her death on 29 September 1916, and is buried in Holy Rood Cemetery in Washington.  Sophia was the niece of the American portrait artist, James Alexander Simpson, and first cousin to another portrait artist, Charles S. Hein, and his brother, Lt. Col. Otto L. Hein.  She was also a distant relative of Raphael Semmes and Mary Jenkins Surratt.

Records of the Mount Morris Fire Watchtower also refer to a Nina Kroehl, of unknown relation to Julius.

Political activity

In late 1853, the Koszta Affair had militated many Americans to form societies supporting the U.S. government's interest against the claims of the Austrian Empire.  One such committee, the Society of Universal Democratic Republicanism, grew out of a movement to present Capt. Duncan Ingraham, USN, a medal for protecting Kostza in the port of Smyrna, Turkey.  Many members were Forty-Eighters as well as native-born nationalists.  One of the aims of the society was to monitor political situations around Europe through committees of correspondence, and note any violation of the rights of naturalized American citizens.  Kroehl brought to the attention of the society that one Henry von Rensche was arrested by Prussian authorities for crimes against the Crown despite being a naturalized citizen.  The Society of Universal Democratic Republicanism included Charles F. Henningsen, Hugh Forbes and Henry H. Morange as members.

Engineering and New York City

Kroehl listed himself as a "submarine engineer" on Broad Street in Lower Manhattan during the 1850s.  At this time, the term "submarine" referred to anything underwater, and not exclusively to diving vessels.  During this time, he was involved in several engineering and technical projects.

Photography

An 1851 article in Scientific American magazine describes the Fair of the American Institute.  One exhibit was of colored photographs by Messrs. Kroehl & Vetter, of No. 499 Broad Street.  This does not necessarily mean this was Julius Kroehl.  However, when Kroehl was ordered to support Union forces during the Vicksburg Campaign of 1863, he was directed to bring with him photographic equipment after spending one month being trained on their use by members of the U.S. Coast Survey in Washington, DC.  His personal effects enumerated at the time of his death included photographic supplies.  His proficiency in photographic uses in 1851 was possible.  No works are known to have survived.

New York Crystal Palace

From 1852 to 1853, Kroehl was employed as an assistant engineer during the construction of the New York Crystal Palace.  Several assistant engineers were employed to oversee the construction of certain parts of this exhibition hall.  He was responsible for the construction of the dome, the building's central feature.  For three years after, he was noted as the "engineer of the Crystal Palace."

Flange forming machine

Kroehl applied for a patent around March 1854 for a flange forming machine.  It is described in Scientific American as

an improvement in machinery for bending flanges on wrought iron beams.  There is a pair of horizontal, and a pair of vertical rollers; the former pair has one roller with a face of the full depth of the beam, and the other has its face the depth of the beam minus the thickness of the flanges.  The vertical rollers are both alike, and are of a width a little greater than the extreme width of the flanges.  They are arranged opposite the space between the horizontal ones, and work in close contact with the sides of the roller.  In order to give the flanges and their beams, a taper or an elliptic, or other curved form, the vertical rollers have flanges, whose faces bear on the edges of the flanges of the beam, and cause the said rollers to receive such a movement in the direction of their axes, and apply such a force I that direction as bends the flanges of the beam to the desired form.

Kroehl secured the patent as #12,133 on January 2, 1855.

Mount Morris Fire Watchtower

The City of New York, in order to improve safety during its growth, laid out a series of fire watch towers.  James Bogardus, an innovator of cast iron houses, introduced the first of these towers.  One was needed in the Harlem district, which would be situated on an outcropping of rock.  On January 14, 1856, the Commissioner of Repairs and Supplies received two bids.  Bogardus submitted his usual design at a bid of $5,750, but Kroehl and his partner Peter V. Husted (H&K) won the contract with a lower bid of $2,300; H&K pointed out that