# 2000 in Afghanistan

The following lists events that happened during 2000 in Afghanistan.

Incumbents
De facto head of state: Mohammed Omar 
 President: Burhanuddin Rabbani

Events

February
February 10 - The hijacking of an Ariana (Afghani airline) Boeing 727 aircraft, which was seized on an internal flight, and forced to fly via Central Asia to Moscow and then on to the UK, ends peacefully at Stansted airport north of London.

March
Ismail Khan, a former governor of Herat and leading opponent of the ruling Taliban regime, escapes from prison in Kandahar.

April
April 13 - After reaching an agreement with the UNHCR, Iran started a repatriation program that would send 7,700 Afghan refugees back to their homeland over the next three weeks.
April 15 - Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan authorities in Afghanistan arrested two Arabs on suspicion of spying. The suspects were flown from Kabul to Kandahar and were being held there under tight security.
April 17 - Speaking at the Tashkent University of World Economy and Diplomacy, United States Secretary of State Madeleine Albright promised $10 million in aid to Uzbekistan to help secure its border with Afghanistan. She called on the nations bordering Afghanistan to form open and democratic societies as a defense against extremism and terrorism. Albright also announced that the U.S. government was giving US$3 million apiece to help train border patrols in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan and to buy four-wheel drive vehicles for the rugged terrain.
April 17 - Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan aircraft carried out a number of sorties over the regions of Khasor and Lama in Saripul Province, Afghanistan.
April 18 - The Afghani lost over 25% of its value, increasing inflation in Afghanistan.
April 19 - The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan shut down the money market in Kabul, Afghanistan to stop a freefall of the Afghani currency. Valued at 55,075 to the U.S. dollar on March 31, by April 19 it traded at 75,000.
April 19 - Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan authorities signed agreements with the UAE-based SURIA Satellite Company and the Chinese EIIC Company to revive the communication sector in Afghanistan.
April 20 - Three people were killed and a number wounded in a clash between the Taliban and Hezb-e-Wahdat forces in Dara-e-Souf district, Samangan province, Afghanistan.
April 20 - Three people were killed and ten others injured in fighting between the Taliban and Ahmed Shah Masood forces in Parwan province, Afghanistan.
April 20 - Fatima Gilani, the head of the Association of the Women of Afghanistan, met in Islamabad, Pakistan with members of Amnesty International.
April 20 - UNICEF announced that over the past three weeks the measles had killed nearly 100 children in Tolak district, Ghor province, Afghanistan, and over 50 children in the Yaftalafain district of Badakhshan province. This brought the death toll to more than 1000. The outbreak first erupted in Dara-e-Souf district, Samangan province in January. UNICEF dispatched vaccine and other medicines to the areas.
April 20 - A six-month repatriation program designed by Iran and the UNHCR for Afghan refugees began. Under the agreement, 3000 refugees would be repatriated to Afghanistan every week.
April 21 - Warring factions in Afghanistan agreed to a three-day cease-fire (starting May 1) to allow the U.N. to carry out a polio vaccination campaign.
April 21 - In Dushanbe, Tajikistan, U.N. Special Envoy for Afghanistan Francesc Vendrell held peace talks with Northern Alliance commander Ahmed Shah Masood, former Nangarhar province governor Haji Abdul Qadeer and former member of the ousted Rabbani government Syed Hussain Anwari.
April 21 - Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan leadership distanced itself from posters circulating in Pakistan in which Osama bin Laden called for a holy war against the United States.
April 22 - The Northern Alliance accused the Taliban of executing at least 26 people in the Gusfandi district after the area fell to Taliban forces.
April 22 - Swarms of locusts descended on drought-hit wheat crops and fruit orchards in Baghlan province, Afghanistan.
April 22 - The Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan appealed to Pakistan to change its policy towards the Taliban and to condemn Taliban atrocities against Afghan women.
April 22 - In Taluqan, Takhar province, Afghanistan, Ahmed Shah Masood, Abdul Rashid Dostum, Abdullah, Waheedullah Sabawoon and Hisamuddin met to discuss attack strategies against the Taliban.
April 23 - At a U.N. guesthouse in downtown Kabul, Afghanistan, an Easter service was held for International aid workers.
April 23 - In Peshawar, Pakistan, three gunmen killed Maulvi Mohammad Siddiqullah, a former commander of Hezbi Islami.
April 24 - In the Dara-I-Nur district area in Nangarhar province, Afghanistan, dozens were killed in a clash between Taliban forces and supporters of Hazrat Ali, commander of the defunct Eastern Shoora. Taliban forces made a two kilometer advance in the area.
April 24 - Northern Alliance forces captured three Taliban military posts in Parwan province. Five Taliban militiamen were killed in the attack. The Taliban claimed these offensives were illegal under international rules because they occurred during an agreed cease fire meant to allow the U.N. to carry out a polio vaccination campaign. The Taliban voiced concerns that the U.N. made no condemnation of the breach by the Northern Alliance.
April 25 - In an attempt to bolster the Afghani, the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan banned the use of foreign currency to buy and sell goods.
April 25 - The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan foreign ministry accused the United Nations of being an enemy of Islam and of favoring the Northern Alliance.
April 25 - The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan and Iran signed a cooperation accord to check growing drug trafficking along their mutual border.
April 26 - Under a decree by Supreme Leader Mulla Mohammed Omar, the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan released approximately 300 opposition prisoners from the Pul-e-Charkhi prison in central Kabul. Many of those released were elderly. The decree was described as a goodwill gesture to mark the anniversary of the defeat of Afghanistan's communist government in 1992. About 1,500 prisoners remained in the jail.
April 27 - The World Food Program reported that the drought situation in Kandahar province and Zabul province were desperate. The Koochi people had lost up to 80% of their cattle and irrigation systems built to collect rainwater had dried up. Apricot and almond trees had withered and were without fruit. Camels were dying. Since February, the WFP had been feeding 30,000 families in the region and planned on adding another 10,000 families in May. The WFP was offering Afghans additional flour as an incentive if they remain in their villages.
April 27 - In Afghanistan, Taliban forces thwarted Northern Alliance offensives on the Bagram Air Base, Kala Masroor, and Ghorband front, killing six and arresting 18.
April 27 - In Kabul, Afghanistan, a 6-member Finnish parliamentary delegation visited the Afghan Foreign Minister Maulvi Wakil Ahmed Mutawakel.
April 27 - The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan was not invited to the two-day summit of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) in Islamabad, Pakistan. Ministers met to discuss transportation and communication.
April 27 - Dozens of Afghans awaiting the decision of their requests for asylum staged a demonstration in front of the Parliament House in Stockholm, Sweden. They called on officials to quicken their requests for immigration and positively respond to them.
April 28 - Fransesc Vendrell, the United Nations Secretary General's special envoy for Afghanistan, visited Kabul to promote peace. Vendrell met with Afghan Foreign Minister Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil.
April 28 - The United Nations Comprehensive Disabled Afghans Program launched an appeal for US$1 million extra funds for rehabilitation of 10,000 more landmine survivors in Afghanistan.
April 30