# Astigmatism

Astigmatism is a type of refractive error due to rotational asymmetry in the eye's refractive power.  This results in distorted or blurred vision at any distance. Other symptoms can include eyestrain, headaches, and trouble driving at night. Astigmatism often occurs at birth and can change or develop later in life. If it occurs in early life and is left untreated, it may result in amblyopia.

The cause of astigmatism is unclear; however, it is believed to be partly related to genetic factors. The underlying mechanism involves an irregular curvature of the cornea and protective reaction changes in the lens of the eye, called lens astigmatism, that has the same mechanism as spasm of accommodation. Diagnosis is by an eye examination called autorefractor keratometry (objective, allows to see lens and cornea components of astigmatism) and subjective refraction. 

Three treatment options are available: glasses, contact lenses, and surgery. Glasses are the simplest. Contact lenses can provide a wider field of vision and fewer artifacts than even double aspheric lenses. Refractive surgery permanently changes the shape of the eye and thereby cures astigmatism.

In Europe and Asia, astigmatism affects between 30% and 60% of adults. People of all ages can be affected by astigmatism. Astigmatism was first reported by Thomas Young in 1801.

Signs and symptoms

Although astigmatism may be asymptomatic, higher degrees of astigmatism may cause symptoms such as blurred vision, double vision, squinting, eye strain, fatigue, or headaches. Some research has pointed to the link between astigmatism and higher prevalence of migraine headaches.

Complications 

While astigmatism by itself is not a life-threatening condition, it can be an indirect cause of serious trauma or death if a vehicle driver refrains from wearing corrective lenses while driving, especially at night or in poor weather conditions.

Causes

Congenital
The cause of congenital astigmatism is unclear; however, it is believed to be partly related to genetic factors. Genetics, based on twin studies, appear to play only a small role in astigmatism as of 2007.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been used to investigate the genetic foundation of astigmatism. Although no conclusive result has been shown, various candidates have been identified. In a study conducted in 2011 on various Asian populations, variants in the PDGFRA gene on chromosome 4q12 were identified to be associated with corneal astigmatism. A follow-up study in 2013 on the European population, however, found no variant significantly associated with corneal astigmatism at the genome-wide level (single-nucleotide polymorphism rs7677751 at PDGFRA). Facing the inconsistency, a study by Shah and colleagues in 2018 included both populations with Asian and Northern European ancestry. They successfully replicated the previously identified genome-wide significant locus for corneal astigmatism near the PDGFRA gene, with a further success of identifying three novel candidate genes: CLDN7, ACP2, and TNFAIP8L3. Other GWAS studies also provided inconclusive results: Lopes and colleagues identified a susceptibility locus with lead single nucleotide polymorphism rs3771395 on chromosome 2p13.3 in the VAX2 gene (VAX2 plays an important role in the development of the dorsoventral axis of the eye); Li and associates, however, found no consistent or strong genetic signals for refractive astigmatism while suggesting a possibility of widespread genetic co-susceptibility for spherical and astigmatic refractive errors. They also found that the TOX gene region previously identified for spherical equivalent refractive error was the second most strongly associated region. Another recent follow-up study again had identified four novel loci for corneal astigmatism, with two also being novel loci for astigmatism: ZC3H11B (associated with axial length), NPLOC4 (associated with myopia), LINC00340 (associated with spherical equivalent refractive error) and HERC2 (associated with eye color).

Acquired
Astigmatism may also occur following a cataract surgery or a corneal injury. Contraction of the scar due to wound or cataract extraction causes astigmatism due to flattening of the cornea in one direction. In keratoconus, progressive thinning and steepening of the cornea cause irregular astigmatism.

Pathophysiology

Axis of the principal meridian
Regular astigmatism – principal meridians are perpendicular. (The steepest and flattest meridians of the eye are called principal meridians.)
With-the-rule astigmatism – the vertical meridian is steepest (a rugby ball or American football lying on its side).
Against-the-rule astigmatism – the horizontal meridian is steepest (a rugby ball or American football standing on its end).
Oblique astigmatism – the steepest curve lies in between 120 and 150 degrees and 30 and 60 degrees.
Irregular astigmatism – principal meridians are not perpendicular.

In with-the-rule astigmatism, the eye has too much "plus" cylinder in the horizontal axis relative to the vertical axis (i.e., the eye is too "steep" along the vertical meridian relative to the horizontal meridian). Vertical beams of light focus in front (anterior) to horizontal beams of light, in the eye. This problem may be corrected using spectacles which have a "minus" cylinder placed on this horizontal axis. The effect of this will be that when a vertical beam of light in the distance travels towards the eye, the "minus" cylinder (which is placed with its axis lying horizontally – meaning in line with the patient's horizontal meridian relative to the excessively steep vertical meridian) will cause this vertical beam of light to slightly "diverge", or "spread out vertically", before it reaches the eye. This compensates for the fact that the patient's eye converges light more powerfully in the vertical meridian than the horizontal meridian. Hopefully, after this, the eye will focus all light on the same location at the retina, and the patient's vision will be less blurred.

In against-the-rule astigmatism, a plus cylinder is added in the horizontal axis (or a minus cylinder in the vertical axis).

Axis is always recorded as an angle in degrees, between 0 and 180 degrees in a counter-clockwise direction. Both 0 and 180 degrees lie on a horizontal line at the level of the center of the pupil, and as seen by an observer, 0 lies on the right of both the eyes.

Irregular astigmatism, which is often associated with prior ocular surgery or trauma, is also a common naturally occurring condition. The two steep hemimeridians of the cornea, 180° apart in regular astigmatism, may be separated by less than 180° in irregular astigmatism (called nonorthogonal irregular astigmatism); and/or the two steep hemimeridians may be asymmetrically steep—that is, one may be significantly steeper than the other (called asymmetric irregular astigmatism). Irregular astigmatism is quantified by a vector calculation called topographic disparity.

Focus of the principal meridian
With accommodation relaxed:
Simple astigmatism
Simple hyperopic astigmatism – first focal line is on the retina, while the second is located behind the retina.
Simple myopic astigmatism – first focal line is in front of the retina, while the second is on the retina.
Compound astigmatism
Compound hyperopic astigmatism – both focal lines are located behind the retina.
Compound myopic astigmatism – both focal lines are located in front of the retina.
Mixed astigmatism – focal lines are on both sides of the retina (straddling the retina).

Throughout the eye
Astigmatism, whether it is regular or irregular, is caused by some combination of external (corneal surface) and internal (posterior corneal surface, human lens, fluids, retina, and eye-brain interface) optical properties. In some people, the external optics may have the greater influence, and in other people, the internal optics may predominate. Importantly, the axes and magnitudes of exter