# Jacksonville Sheriff's Office

The Jacksonville Sheriff's Office (JSO) is a joint city-county law enforcement agency, which has primary responsibility for law enforcement, investigation, and corrections within the consolidated City of Jacksonville and Duval County, Florida, United States. Duval County includes the incorporated cities of Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach, Baldwin, Jacksonville Beach, and Neptune Beach; the beach cities have their own police departments as well.

History

Jacksonville Police Department: 1822–1968

The first sheriff to be appointed in Jacksonville was James Dell in 1822 when Duval County was incorporated. A town ordinance in 1845 required all free males living in Jacksonville to participate in evening patrol duty. From 1865 to 1869 law enforcement was enforced by the continued occupation of the Union Army and t provost marshal and guard. A civilian Marshal was appointed as head of the department in 1871 along with the creation of the Captain of Police rank. The mayor appointed the captain who would then be confirmed by the city council.  In 1887 the captain of police became known as chief of police. A new charter was also established in 1887 creating a board of police commissioners. The department was composed mostly of African Americans. House Bill No. 4 was passed by the Florida State Legislature allowing the Governor to abolish all offices in Jacksonville and to make new appointments to fill the vacancies. The police force in 1889 consisted of a chief, three officers and 24 patrolmen. The first patrol wagon, pulled by two horses, was used in 1895. In 1904, as the automobile became more popular, the speed limit was set at 6 miles per hour. The first automobile patrol car was established in 1911.

Jacksonville Sheriff's Office: 1968–present
In 1967 a mandate was given by residents of Jacksonville and Duval County with 65 percent of the votes cast in favor of consolidating the city (Jacksonville Police Department) and county governments (Duval County Sheriff's Office). On October 1, 1968, the two governmental bodies were replaced with "a single unified government", the new organization, the Office of the Sheriff – Jacksonville Police, paralleled the name of the new jurisdiction. The four other municipalities within Duval County retained their own police departments. However, the Baldwin city council voted to disband their police department by 2007; at midnight on March 13, 2006, the sheriff's office took over responsibility of police services.

Starting in the late 1980s, the agency adopted the Glock 17 9×19mm pistol as their sidearm. The agency still issues Glock 17s as the sidearm.

On June 2, 2022, Mike Williams announced his retirement a year prior to the end of his second term. He moved his residence to nearby Nassau County in 2021 despite a Jacksonville Charter rule that requires elected officials to live in Duval County. Williams considered filing suit to challenge the law but decided against it. Public criticism that the leader of law enforcement was violating the rules forced Williams to make a choice. Williams stated that his last day would be June 10. Undersheriff Pat Ivey was appointed by Governor Ron DeSantis to replace Williams, and was sworn in on June 11, 2022. A special election was held August 23. No candidate received 50% of the vote, so a runoff was held on November 8, 2022. T.K. Waters (R) beat Lakesha Burton (D) 55%-45% on the November 8th election. Waters was sworn in on Sunday, November 20, 2022, in front of his church congregation.

Elected Sheriffs 
1903–1904      John Price
1913–1915      W. H. "Ham" Dowling
1924–1928      W. B. Cahoon
1932–1957 Rex Sweat
1957–1958 William Alpheus "Al" Cahill
1958–1986 Dale George Carson
1986–1996 Jim McMillan 
1996–2004 Nat Glover
2004–2015  John Rutherford
2015–2022  Mike Williams
June–November 2022 Pat Ivey 
November 2022 – present T.K. Waters

Organization 

The JSO is headed by the sheriff, a Florida constitutional officer elected to a four-year term. By virtue of Jacksonville's consolidated city-county status, the sheriff combines the functions of police chief of Jacksonville and sheriff of Duval County. He is one of the few popularly elected police chiefs in the country.

The sheriff appoints his own senior staff from Undersheriff to Assistant Chiefs.  All sworn members of the JSO are sworn in by the sheriff and are considered under the Florida constitution as his/her deputies.  All sworn members of the JSO are Law Enforcement Officers (LEO) or Correctional Officers with all powers allowed by state law to carry firearms and make arrest.  JSO also employs Community Service Officers, who are unsworn personnel that respond to primarily traffic-related incidents not requiring the full police powers of a sworn officer.

Departments 
The Sheriff's Office is divided into five departments, each sub-divided into divisions, sections, units, and squads.  Each department is commanded by a director with the rank director of a department.  Each division is commanded by a chief.  The department and its sections are as follows.

Department of Patrol & Enforcement 
There are three divisions in this department, and is headed by the Director of Patrol and Enforcement

Patrol Division 
Commanded by the Chief of Patrol who oversees the six patrol zones, each headed by an Assistant Chief/District Commander. 
District 1: Downtown, Springfield, Eastside, San Marco, Riverside
District 2: Arlington, Intercoastal West
District 3: Southside, Mandarin, E-Town
District 4: Avondale, Ortega, Westside, Argyle
District 5: Northwest, New Town, Baldwin
District 6: Northside, San Mateo, Oceanway

Patrol Support Division 
Commanded by the Chief of Patrol Support.
Community Engagement Section- Assistant Chief
Crime Prevention, International Affairs, Sheriff's Watch, Blight Abatement, Tele-Serv, Police Athletic League
Specialized Patrol Section- Assistant Chief
Aviation, Canine, Mounted, Civil Process, Risk Protection, Offender Tracking, Felony Registration, Police Auxiliary, Traffic Enforcement, DUI Enforcement, Motors Squad

Special Events Division 
Commanded by the Chief of Special Events 
Special Events Section- Assistant Chief
Special Events, Secondary Employment, Emergency Preparedness, Honor Guard, Mobile Field Force

Department of Investigations & Homeland Security 
There are three divisions in this department, and the director holds the title of director of the Department of Investigations & Homeland Security.

Detective Division 
The Detective Division is under the direction of the chief of detectives who is responsible for the overall operation of the division. The Detective Division comprises a Property Crimes Section, a Major Case Section, and a Violence Reduction Section, all of which are under the command of a respective assistant chief.
Property Crimes Section
Auto Crimes Unit – The Auto Crimes Unit handles auto theft and auto burglary investigations, many of which result in civil disputes. The unit also investigates thefts of marine craft, all terrain vehicles, motorcycles and aircraft. 
Traffic Homicide Unit – The Traffic Homicide Unit is responsible for investigating traffic fatalities, and hit and run crashes with serious bodily injury. They operate under the supervision of the Auto Crimes Unit commander. 
Burglary Unit – The Burglary Unit investigates all business and residential burglaries as well as thefts over a certain dollar amount. These squads are assigned to the geographic patrol zones.
Polygraph Unit – The Polygraph Unit is staffed by polygraphists who administer polygraph examinations to suspects, victims, and witnesses involved in criminal investigations.  They also administer polygraph examinations for police and other job applicants as part of their background investigation process.
Economic Crimes – The Economic Crimes Unit investigates forgeries, frauds, including Internet fraud, bank fraud and credit card fraud, along with identity theft, con games, and other economic crimes.
Crime Scene U