# History of pan-European liberalism

Pan-European liberalism has been a political force since the establishment of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party in 1976.

Milestones
 15 December 2005
 Leaders and Prime Ministers' Meeting in Egmont Palace, Brussels.

 27 October 2005
 Prime ministers Meeting in Hampton Court.

 23–24 September 2005
 ELDR Congress hosted in Bratislava, hosted by ANO. Annemie Neyts-Uyttebroeck is elected as new ELDR president.

 22 September 2005
 50th Anniversary of the ELDR Council meeting in Bratislava.

 16 June 2005
 40 ELDR Leaders and Ministers met in the Palais Egmont on the eve of the European Council summit under the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council of the EU to discuss the political situation after the EU referendums in France and the Netherlands, as well as to discuss the EU Financial perspectives.

 14 May 2005
 ELDR Council was organised at the fringe of the Liberal International Congress in Sofia, hosted by NMSS and MRF. The Council discussed "Liberalism in a Multicultural reality", it adopted the new internal rules of the ELDR Party aisbl. Two new member parties joined the ELDR, Convergencia from Catalonia, Spain, and Civic Alliance from Serbia

 22 March 2005
 The ELDR Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers and Party president Werner Hoyer met to discuss the EU's relaunch of the Lisbon strategy.

 18 October 2004
 ELDR Council met in the Bundestag in Berlin, hosted by FDP Leader Guido Westerwelle. Lex Corijn is re-elected unanimously as Secretary-general of the ELDR Party.

 July 2004
 Establishment of the ALDE political group by merger of the group of the ELDR Party with a group of MEPs from the newly established EDP Party, a splinter party from the EPP.

 17 June 2004
 Leaders and Ministers meeting in Palais Egmont, Brussels

 30 April 2004
 An Extraordinary congress was organised to create the ELDR Party aisbl, following the EU regulation 2004/2003, governing the statute and financing of European political parties. The ELDR Congress adopted the new statutes and elected three vice-presidents, Sharon Bowles, Liberal Democrats (United Kingdom), Androula Vassiliou, United Democrats (Cyprus) and Johannes Lebech, det radikale venstre (Denmark).

 29 April 2004
 About 1000 delegates from all ELDR member Parties from 22 countries attended the Electoral Rally "Freeing Europe's Potential" which was organised in the airport of Brussels to launch our top candidates and our ELDR European electoral campaign priorities.

 25 March 2004
PM meeting organised by ELDR and hosted in the official residence of PM Guy Verhofstadt.

 11–12 December 2003
 Liberal leaders and Ministers met in Val Duchesse, Brussels to discuss the draft European Constitution, ahead of the IGC. The meeting was preceded by a PM meeting which was attended by Mr Erdoğan, Prime Minister of Turkey

 12–14 November 2003
 European Liberal Democrats met in Amsterdam during the biggest ELDR Congress ever under the heading "Freeing Europe's Potential" in Amsterdam to adopt unanimously the Electoral Manifesto 2004. The ELDR Congress also elected Calin Tariceanu Popescu, from PNL Romania, Katarina Golev from ANO, Slovakia and Wilfried Derksen from D66, Netherlands, as ELDR Vice-Presidents. An urgency resolution was adopted by the ELDR Congress on the Constitutional Treaty.

 16 October 2003
 ELDR Prime Ministers and Liberal and Democrat leaders met at the fringe of the European Council summit, in the official residence of Guy Verhofstadt, to discuss mainly the IGC and European Council agenda, European Growth Initiative and European Defence.

 4 July 2003
 ELDR Council was held in London to discuss the final draft electoral manifesto 2004. The Council also welcomed three new political parties: Simeon II National Movement, from Bulgaria; the Liberals of Serbia and the Democratic Alliance Party from Albania

 19 June 2003
 34 Liberal and Democrat leaders meet in Thessaloniki, before the European Council summit held under Greek Presidency of the Council of the EU – the last summit to be held outside of Brussels. They welcomed the draft Constitutional Treaty as agreed by the European Convention.

 25 October 2002
 An ELDR Prime Ministers meeting was hosted by Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt.

 18 October 2002
 Under the title "Freedom for Growth", the ELDR Congress was organised in Bath, hosted by the Liberal Democrats. Three new vice-presidents were elected Androula Vassiliou, United Democrats from Cyprus, Alan Beith, Liberal Democrats, from United Kingdom and Johannes Lebech, det radikale venstre, Denmark. Under the ELWN leadership of Maria Kaisa Aula (keskusta, Finland), a gender equality and multicultural approach policy paper was adopted by the Congress.

 1 July 2002
 Liberal Prime Minister of Denmark, Anders Fogh Rasmussen inaugurates the semester of Danish Presidency of the Council of the EU. With Pat Cox as speaker of the European Parliament and Romano Prodi as President of the European Commission, the European Liberal Democrats now chair the three most important decision-making institutions of the EU.

 20 June 2002
 Despite a difficult domestic political climate at the time and two major general strikes, 35 Liberal and Democrat Leaders and Ministers met in Seville, at the eve of the European Council summit under Spanish Presidency of the Council of the EU. The meeting proved to be very successful.

 4 April 2002
 The Movement of Free Citizens (KEP) from Greece and ANO from Slovakia become full members of the ELDR Party. The European liberal family now brings together 49 political parties from the EU member states and candidate countries.

 16 January 2002
 Pat Cox, president of the ELDR Group, becomes the new President of the European Parliament. Graham Watson (UK) becomes the new leader of the ELDR Group in the European Parliament.

 13 December 2001
 An ELDR Leaders and Ministers meeting was held in Palais Egmont to discuss the agenda of the European Council.

 December 2001
 Four Parties from Croatia (Croatia People's Party), Bulgaria (Movement for Rights and Freedoms), Czech Republic (ODA) and Lithuania (New Union) become full members of the ELDR Party.

 25–28 September 2001
 The annual Autumn Congress 2001 is held in Ljubljana, Slovenia. The ELDR becomes the first European political party to organise its annual congress in an accession country. Rinnovamento Italiano becomes a full member of the ELDR Party.
 A new Bureau is elected. Dr Werner Hoyer is unanimously re-elected to the position of President of the ELDR Party with Maria Kaisa Aula, Lamberto Dini, Bas Eenhoorn and John Alderdice being elected as Vice-Presidents. Jules Maaten also unanimously re-elected as party Treasurer.
 Ljubljana Congress laid out the foundations for the work of the Electoral Manifesto 2004 under the chairmanship of Hans van Baalen, MP, VVD, Netherlands. It also laid the foundation of E-membership to the ELDR Party.

 15 September 2001
 ELDR launched its first quarterly newspaper edition "Insight", following the 25th anniversary of ELDR, highlighting ELDR's key mission to reunite Europe and strengthen our family

 14 June 2001
 Leaders and ministers met at the eve of the European Council summit in Gothenburg, under the Swedish Presidency of the Council of the EU in the National Opera.

 6–8 June 2001
 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Stuttgart Declaration and the creation of the first European Political family, ELD. During the Council meeting the Liberal Party of Gibraltar, the United Democrats of Cyprus and the Liberal Party of Andorra, became full members of the ELDR Party. The New Democracy of Serbia became an affiliate member.

 March 2001
 The Liberal Party of Greece is warmly welcomed as a full member whilst the Liberal Party of Macedonia becomes an affiliate member.

 December 2000
 "I democratici" from Italy become full Member of the ELDR Party

 October 2000
 Congress in Tenerife under the title " The Enlargement of a Reformed Union an Historical Imperative". Dr Werner Hoye