# WXYT (AM)

WXYT (1270 AM) is a commercial radio station licensed to Detroit, Michigan, featuring a betting-oriented sports format known as "The Bet Detroit". Owned by Audacy, Inc., the station serves Metro Detroit and much of Southeast Michigan. Studios for WXYT are located in Southfield, while the station transmitter resides in Ash Township. In addition to a standard analog transmission, WXYT is licensed for HD Radio broadcasting, is relayed over the third digital subchannel of WXYT-FM and is available online via Audacy.

History

WGHP
The station signed on the air in 1923 as WGHP, named after its owner, George Harrison Phelps, an adverting agency owner. The radio station first city of license was Detroit, then it moved to Mt. Clemens in 1927, and moved again to Fraser in 1928. The station was powered at 500 watts.

WGHP was a charter member of the CBS Radio Network, as one of the 16 stations that aired the first CBS network program on September 18, 1927.

According to FCC records, a predecessor company to Storer Broadcasting, also named the "American Broadcasting Company" actually owned WXYZ from 1929 until it was sold it to the Kunsky-Trendle Broadcasting Company in 1930. Storer would then go on to purchase WJBK in the late 1930s.

WXYZ
In 1930, the station was purchased by George W. Trendle. He was one of the partners in the Kunsky-Trendle Broadcasting Company. The call letters were switched to WXYZ, acquired from a U.S. Army station. WXYZ was powered at 1,000 watts when it moved back to Detroit in 1930. Trendle relocated the station to the Maccabees Building on Woodward Avenue in downtown Detroit, where it maintained facilities until 1959. Antennas and transmitter were located at the northwest corner of Joy and Greenfield Roads in western Detroit. The site was re-developed to a shopping center when the Broadcast House move occurred in 1959. However, most programming in the 1930s, 1940s and early 1950s originated from the former Mendelson Mansion on East Jefferson Avenue. In addition to local programs, WXYZ produced The Lone Ranger, Challenge of the Yukon and The Green Hornet for broadcast throughout the U.S. and Canada.

The station's slogan "The Last Word in Radio" would tie-in with its call letters. Another former slogan was "WXYZ, Where the Best Comes Last".

On June 1, 1932, WXYZ's affiliation with CBS ended. The trade magazine Broadcasting reported that the reason was "to make way for more local programs. In 1934, WXYZ was one of the founding stations of the Mutual Broadcasting System, along with WOR in New York, WGN in Chicago, and WLW in Cincinnati. On September 29, 1935, WXYZ dropped out of the Mutual group to become an affiliate of the NBC Blue Network. The following year, its parent company, Kunsky-Trendle, changed its name to King-Trendle. WXYZ was contractually obligated to provide The Lone Ranger to Mutual for another four years, so although the program originated from WXYZ, it was heard in the Detroit area on Mutual's new affiliate, CKLW 800 AM.

On May 3, 1946, the station was purchased by the American Broadcasting Company, which was recently formed from the NBC Blue Network by Edward Noble. On May 2, 1946, Noble, ABC board chairman, announced the purchase of King-Trendle Broadcasting Corp. (which consisted of WXYZ, WOOD Grand Rapids and the Michigan Radio Network) for $3,650,000. The sale was approved by FCC on July 18. WXYZ carried ABC's dramas, comedies, news, sports, soap operas, game shows and big band broadcasts during the "Golden Age of Radio".

Some time prior to the end of 1939, the radio station's power was increased to 5,000 watts daytime. WXYZ increased its night power to 5,000 watts with a mildly directional night pattern by the end of March 1941.

In 1948, WXYZ personalities contributed to launching programming on ABC's new Detroit television station WXYZ-TV, Channel 7. Also in 1948, WXYZ-FM (now WRIF) signed on at 101.1 MHz, which largely simulcast 1270 AM. Dick Osgood of WXYZ radio was the first face on Channel 7 from its studios in the Maccabees Building.

WXYZ had many of Detroit's most prominent radio personalities of the 1940s and 1950s including Dick Osgood, Fred Wolf, Ed McKenzie, Mickey Shorr, "The Lady of Charm" Edyth Fern Melrose, Jack Surrell (one of the earliest African-American air personalities on mainstream radio) and future CBS News correspondents Mike Wallace and Douglas Edwards.

ABC moved WXYZ-AM-FM-TV in 1959 from the Maccabees Building to a new home known as "Broadcast House". WXYZ radio occupied studios on the second floor of the new facility, located at 20777 W. Ten Mile Road in Southfield, Michigan, built on the site of a former farm. It was also the location of WXYZ's AM transmitter until 1984.

Channel 1270
Over the next decade, as network programming moved to television, WXYZ replaced many of the ABC radio network variety features with local record shows. They were hosted by such personalities as longtime morning show host Fred Wolf, Paul Winter, and Mickey Shorr, one of the most influential of Detroit's early rock and roll disc jockeys.

Under the guidance of Hal Neal, WXYZ was the first ABC owned-and-operated stations to adopt the Top 40 music format in 1958. Although WXYZ had already been making moves toward Top 40 in terms of playing more music and less network programming, the music played on the station during the various disc jockey shows encompassed a wide variety of genres, from Top 40 hits to middle of the road to show tunes to adult standards. The transition to Top 40 was completed in 1958 with the station instituting an official playlist and taking away disc jockeys' privileges to play what they wanted. Although many of the DJs were disenchanted with the changes (particularly Fred Wolf, who was notable for his distaste for rock and roll), WXYZ's move proved a success in terms of ratings. The station's popularity inspired ABC to convert two of its owned-and-operated stations, WABC in New York and WLS in Chicago, to Top 40 in 1960. Neal himself moved to New York to manage network flagship 770 WABC, which during the 1960s became the nation's most listened-to radio station. WXYZ was still, however, as an ABC network station, obliged to carry ABC's weekday morning variety show, "The Breakfast Club" as well as several ABC news shows.

During the late 1950s and early 1960s, "Channel 1270", or "Wixie" (also spelled "Wyxie") as it was affectionately known, battled with Storer Broadcasting's WJBK (1500 AM) and RKO General's CKLW (800 AM, often known as 'the Big 8') for the Top 40 audience in Detroit.

Some noteworthy personalities during WXYZ's Top 40 era included: longtime morning drive host Fred Wolf; Lee Alan "On The Horn"; Joel Sebastian, (who later moved on to WLS); Paul Winter; Fred Weiss; Dave Prince; Steve Lundy, Don Zee; and, for a short time in 1966, Joey Reynolds and Jim Hampton.

Transitions
In 1963, WXYZ, WJBK and CKLW were the dominant Top 40 music stations in Detroit. However, both stations saw their ratings impacted by the launch of WKNR "Keener 13" at 1310 on the dial. "Keener" had a tighter, faster presentation and a shorter playlist than the competition, and quickly took over as Detroit's number one rated station. WJBK was the first of WKNR's competitors to fall, switching to a middle of the road (MOR) format in 1964.

WXYZ battled for Top 40 listeners for over three years, but by the summer of 1966, WXYZ had fallen behind CKLW in the ratings.  As an ABC-owned-and-operated station, WXYZ continued to be hurt by its ABC network commitments such as "The Breakfast Club" and an hour-long block of news and commentary during the evening drive period. Although the disc jockeys continued to lobby to drop these programs to compete more effectively with WKNR, the network wanted to keep its shows on WXYZ. In early 1967, WXYZ was third-ranked out of the three Top 40 stations. As a result, the station changed direction, softening its music mix to an adult contemporary/MOR approach known as "