# Television in Cuba

Cuba was the first Latin American country  to begin television testing in December 1946 when station CM-21P conducted an experimental multi-point live broadcast. The first regular commercial broadcasting began in October 1950 by the small radio station Union Radio, soon followed by other stations. The broadcasts featured sport, soap operas, news, cooking shows, and comedy. Censorship was imposed following the 1952 coup by Fulgencio Batista, and again by the government of the Cuban revolution after their victory in 1959.

In 1958, Cuba was the second country in the world (after the United States) to begin color broadcasting.

In 2022, Cuba has five national television channels, fourth digital-only and fourth HD digital television channel and a number of provincial channels, and also some municipality channels  broadcasting  at least 2 hours by day. All are under the control of the new Cuban Institute for Information and Social Communication, replacing in 2021 the old Cuban Institute of Radio and Television (ICRT).

History

1950–1959
Commercial television arrived in Cuba on October 25, 1950, the first in the Caribbean and second in Latin America.  In the 1940s, Cuba's two largest radio stations, CMQ (which had begun testing in 1946) and RHC-Cadena Azul, announced they would soon start broadcasting television. Since building TV stations and broadcast networks from scratch was extremely expensive and complex, it took longer than expected.

They were both beaten to the air by the tiny radio station, Union Radio. Gaspar Pumarejo, owner of Union Radio, built the new station in the Havana home and garage of a family named Mestre. Pumarejo set the inauguration of his TV station for October 24, 1950, which was Journalists Day in Cuba. After honoring the journalist, Cuba's President Carlos Prío Socarrás was shown mugging it up for the camera and playing the role of cameraman. After this event Union Radio's slogan became Union Radio, primera en televisión, primera en popularidad ("Union Radio, first in television, first in popularity"). Union Radio was quickly followed by CMQ Television, which officially launched with its first broadcasts on December 18, 1950.

Variety of shows
One of the first shows broadcast on Union TV was live coverage of Cuban League baseball games beginning with the 1950-51 season. This was the first of many memorable seasons that would tie television to the Cuban baseball scene and would establish the game as Cuba's national pastime.

"In late October, the station carried the  first of what would be regular Cuban Winter League Baseball Games.  A crew drove to the stadium in a remote-control truck. The broadcasts were beamed to the Mestre's house by microwave, where they were rebroadcast. Cameramen were positioned at first base and home plate. The station's third camera remained in the house until newsman Alberto Gandero finished his newscast. After the newscast, the third camera was carried to the stadium by taxi and positioned near third base."

Soap operas ("telenovelas"), news, cooking shows, comedy shows and musical variety were shown. After Union Radio TV went on the air, Cuban demand for television sets soared. Luckily Cuban broadcasting coincided with a glut of sets in the US market.  Despite the high cost, ranging $350 for a 16" set to $2,000 for a 30" set, the Cuban government's Imports and Exports Analysis Agency estimated that Cubans had imported more than 100,000 television receivers by 1952.

Social and political aspects
From its inception, Cuban television played a huge part in the social and political fiber of Cuban life. Extensive discussions about television began to unfold in the radio and entertainment sections of Cuban newspapers and magazines in the year leading up to October 14, 1950, the day Union Radio TV became the first television station to broadcast in Havana. Critics believed that US television set a level of excellence that they wanted to uphold. They believed the medium's primary purpose in Cuba would be to enhance the "high culture" education of the Cuban citizen.

Censorship under Batista
On March 10, 1952 following Fulgencio Batista's successful coup, he sent for representatives of the media and imposed censorship. Though it was supposed to be temporary it wasn't until Journalists' Day, October 24, 1953 that the censorship was supposedly lifted. In truth the censorship became even harsher after Fidel Castro's July 26, 1953 attack on Moncada Barracks. Stations could be fined or shut down for various infractions. On March 14, 1953, CMCH-Radio Cadena Habana permitted a criticism of the coup. The station was immediately occupied by government soldiers.

The media learned to operate within the parameters of the censorship. In late 1957, Circuito Nacional Cubano, a station purported to be secretly owned by Batista, broadcast a fictional program called El Dictador De Valle Azul.  It starred Rolando Leyva as the rebel leader Taguary, who, with his group of men, roamed the Blue Valley and helped the people fight the valley's evil dictator in each episode. The comparisons with the dictator Batista and the rebel leader Castro were unmistakable. The government's failure to recognize the satire only made it appear inept as well as tyrannical.

Moral censorship also increased under Batista. There was a move towards more family friendly broadcasts and less sexually provocative variety shows. In particular these were the rumba and mambo-inspired dances and more specifically the female dancers.

On March 19, 1958, Gaspar Pumarejo once more made history at the inauguration of TELECOLOR S.A., on Channel 12, transmitting up to 16 hours a day of color programming. It was a commercial television station with studios located in the brand new and central Hotel Habana Hilton - now Habana Libre, which used the US NTSC system. It was the first ever color station in Cuba and Latin America.

1960s-70s: Nationalization and expansion 
Following the Cuban Revolution's conclusion in 1959, the Fidel Castro-led 26th of July Movement government began the process of forming a national television network, at the cost of the private operators. That year, Channel 11 serving Camagüey City was launched, the first ever provincial television station.

In 1960, the Cuban government purchased CMQ Channel 6 from its owners, becoming simply Channel 6 (Canal 6), the flagship channel owned and operated by the Government of the Republic thru the Bureau of Broadcasting, Ministry of Communications. A year later, the government ended all commercial advertising on Channel 6, as well as the remaining private channels 4 and 2. Channel 2 was later on purchased and reformatted under new owners Cuban Institute of Radio and Television in 1962, which had already become Channel 6's owner and operator. The CIRT was established that year as the official government agency for radio and television, as well as the holding company for radio and television operations within Cuba, acting as the representative of the National Government and the Communist Party of Cuba in mass media affairs provided that its broadcasts are aligned with its purpose of building a socialist and progressive Cuba and as representative of the country's socialist values, infused with the long history of struggle against aggression. These included news programming (produced by subsidiary Sistema Informativo de la Television Cubana, which also provides news reporters and presenters for these programs), current affairs, sports (including the flagship Cuban National Series launched on Channel 6 in 1961) and entertainment, including music, variety programming and drama series.

In 1961 the flagship news program, Noticiero National de Television Cubana - Edicion Estelar, officially made its television premiere on Channel 6. The next year CIRT, thru the Sistema Informativo subsidiary, took over its production.

In 1968 the CIRT launched a new station, Tele Rebelde, with regional programming for the then