Medical Research Paper

Title: Working on self-compassion online: A proof of concept and feasibility study

Abstract:
OBJECTIVES: Low self-compassion has repeatedly been associated with psychopathology. There are many promising face-to-face group format interventions focusing on self-compassion. We investigated the feasibility of an online self-compassion program. DESIGN: A feasibility and proof-of-concept study of an online adapted Mindfulness-based Compassionate Living (MBCL) program. PARTICIPANTS: Self-referred participants suffering from harsh self-criticism (N = 39) were offered an online program and were asked to complete outcome measures at baseline, after 8 weeks (post-intervention) and after 14 weeks (follow-up). INTERVENTION: The online program consisted of seven sessions, including a first session introducing mindfulness and mindfulness meditation followed by a six-session adaptation of the MBCL program. PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: The Self-Compassion Scale (SCS) was the primary outcome measure. Secondary outcome measures were the Forms of Self-criticizing/Attacking and Self-reassuring Scale (FSCRS), the Satisfaction with Life Scale (SWLS), the Comprehensive Inventory of Mindfulness Experience (CHIME), the Fear of Self-compassion (FSC), and the Perceived Stress Questionnaire (PSQ). Additionally, we assessed satisfaction with the program and negative effects related to the program. Furthermore, we used several measures of program usage (number of processed modules, number of logins, time spent in the program, number of diary entries, number of entries in completed exercises). RESULTS: s = 0.50-1.50) and comparable to those found within a face-to-face group format in a similar sample. Time spent in the program significantly predicted self-compassion at post. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this pilot study are promising. However, they must be seen as preliminary since replication in a randomized controlled trial, with clinical measures/diagnoses and a longer follow-up period, is necessary.