# Bruno's

Bruno's Supermarkets, LLC was an American chain of grocery stores with its headquarters in Birmingham, Alabama.

It was founded in 1932 by Joseph Bruno in Birmingham. During the company's pinnacle, it operated over 300 stores under the names Bruno's, Food World, Foodmax, Food Fair, Fresh Value, Vincent's Markets, Piggly Wiggly, Consumer Foods, and American Fare in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, Tennessee, and South Carolina. The chain was acquired by Birmingham-based Belle Foods which discontinued the brand in 2012.

History
The company began during the Great Depression as a market opened in Birmingham, Alabama, by Joseph Sam Bruno (October 2, 1912 – January 24, 1996), the son of immigrants from Bisacquino, Sicily.

According to the 1983 book Joe: The Fiftieth Anniversary of Bruno’s Food Stores by Pat Dunbar, "the store would have fit into a modern day meat cooler."  The company grew steadily, with ten stores in place during the 1950s, and 29 stores open under the Bruno's name when it became a publicly traded company in 1971. In 1972, Bruno's opened its discount grocery chain, Food World, which was followed by warehouse-oriented Consumer Foods. As Food World and Consumer Foods became more profitable, the old Bruno's stores began to be phased out.  Consumer Foods was replaced by Food Fair in 1983, and in 1984 Bruno's opened its first Foodmax stores. The 1980s and early 1990s saw Bruno's as a dominant force, not only in Alabama, but in the Southeastern US. In 1988, Bruno's acquired Piggly Wiggly Southern, which operated stores in Georgia. Everything changed when Bruno's top executives, including the chairman and vice chairman of the board, were killed in a plane crash.

On December 11, 1991, the nearly $3 billion (~$ in ) company suffered a catastrophic blow when its corporate jet crashed into Lavender Mountain in Rome, Georgia, killing all 9 passengers:  the chairman of the board, Mr. Angelo Bruno; his brother, the vice chairman of the board, Mr. Lee Bruno; Mr Sam Vacarella, senior vice president of merchandising; Mr. Edward C. Hyde, vice president of store operations; Mr. Randy Page, vice president of personnel; Mr. Karl Molica, director of produce; Mrs. Mary Faust, an advertising executive; and two pilots, Mr. John Tesney, and Mr Rob Stamps. The cause of the crash was not released until April 1992 along with the NTSB report, citing pilot error as the main cause of the crash. The senior pilot, John Tesney, who had been flying since World War II, was known for not following procedures and taking unnecessary risks. His co-pilot, Rob Stamps was known for his very keen experience with instrument and technical knowledge of flying. Stamps had already filed two reports/complaints with the FAA regarding John Tesney's disregard of proper aircraft procedures, none of which were followed up due to Tesney's length of flight time and experience. The most basic pre-flight tasks were ignored by the pilot John Tensey the morning of the crash. There was not a pre-flight checklist followed, in a hurry, the aircraft established VFR (visual flight rules) but did not have IFR (instrument flight rules) clearance, which could have only come from Atlanta, GA, because Rome, GA's small airport did not have radar. A very low fog was observed upon landing in Rome, GA nearly an hour before the accident. The Tower at Rome granted VFR clearance with the aircraft planning to get IFR clearance once airborne. There was not only heavy fog with a very low ceiling but there was another smaller prop aircraft student pilot flying above the clouds over Russell Regional Airport, in Rome, GA as well as a TV/Radio tower to the left of the runway at Rome. Neglecting for known knowledge of the heavy fog, TV tower, and small student aircraft that was observed and notated upon landing, the Beechjet received clearance to take off and began to taxi down the runway and lift off and fly to Huntsville, AL. Once in the air, the pilot, John Tesney, became aware of the smaller student aircraft, the TV Tower, and the very low ceiling. Unsure of his proximity to Lavender Mountain, Tesney pulled the aircraft to make a right 360-degree turn to take off and circle back over the airport and then push through the clouds on the way to Rome. Having neglected a pre-flight checklist, heavy fog warning from the tower, and constant warning from co-pilot, Rob Stamps, regarding the location of Lavender Mountain, Tesney took control of the aircraft, climbed using only VFR clearance, and struck the mountain traveling about 280mph, missing clearance of the mountain by only 100 feet. Upon reading the full FAA report, a former US Air Force veteran and 30 year FAA Air Traffic Controller stated it was the most preventable accident that he had ever read about in his entire career.

Following the crash, only 3-5 executives were left, including Founder Joe A. Bruno, who would pass away, at age 83, in 1996, his nephew CEO Ronald G. Bruno, who inherited his father's shares of the company stock making him the de facto chairman of the Board, Executive VP Paul Garrison, and Sr. VP for Store Operations, Samie Manzella, with a few others. With the majority of the company leadership and experienced grocers now deceased, the company quickly lost footing in the Birmingham, AL area along with other states and within four years the company had been sold to KKR, a grocery stores conglomerate.

The crash caused a large outpouring of grief among the Birmingham metropolitan community due to the family and the company's well-known philanthropic contributions. Bruno's quickly cut ties with the families who had lost loved ones in December 1991, as lawsuits began to be filed due to Bruno's gross neglect, causing the airplane crash. In an effort to memorialize Angelo and Lee Bruno, The Bruno's Classic, a PGA Seniors Tour tournament which was announced just prior to the crash, was renamed the Bruno's Memorial Classic.

The 1990s also saw the reintroduction of the Bruno's banner on stores, this time as Bruno's Supercenters and Bruno's Food and Pharmacy, both of which were upper-class stores. In 1996, Bruno's began converting its Foodmax stores to the Bruno's banner in the Nashville, Tennessee, market, including the construction of several new stores to replace smaller, aging ones. Before the process was complete (some stores carried Foodmax signage on the outside and Bruno's signage inside), the company sold these stores to Albertsons, which finished construction, but spent less than four years in the market before shuttering all of its Nashville-area locations (most of which later became Publix). In January the same year, Joseph Bruno died at the age of 83.

Another concept, the upscale Vincent's Market, was tried in a one-location experiment in Homewood, Alabama. The experimental store featured a wide variety of prepared foods such as seafood, bakery goods and take-out meals as well as regular grocery sales. Around 2000, Vincent's Market was converted to the Bruno's nameplate (though it was largely unchanged otherwise), and the Vincent's Market name was applied to the deli/bakery departments in all existing Bruno's stores.

In 1995, the company was acquired by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR), a leveraged buyout firm. That acquisition was ill-fated, as the company's debt structure combined with management missteps and increased competition from Wal-Mart Supercenters to drive it into Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The company emerged from bankruptcy in 2000 after closing a number of unprofitable stores, but acquiring three new stores from the Gregerson's chain in and around Gadsden, Alabama. The company was sold in December 2001 to Ahold, a Dutch corporation, who then combined it with BI-LO. The new management struggled as well, and in 2005, Ahold finally sold the combined operation to Lone Star Funds, a private investment company which also owns Captain D's and Shoney's restaurants. Lone Star then sold some stores to C&S Wholesale Grocers, which operated the new stores under its Southern Family Markets affiliate for a time but closed most of the acquired stores in 2007. C&S Wholesale also is the primary supplier for Bruno's which derives from the agreement between Lone Star and C&S.  C&S would own and operate the logistics and warehouse while Lone Star would own and operate the stores.

On March 20, 2007, Lone Star Funds announced it had spun out Bruno's from BI-LO creating a separate corporate entity. Seven unprofitable stores were closed as a result of this transaction.

In October 2008, Bruno's announced plans to close 22 of their 40 in-store pharmacies "because of their consistently low performance over the last several years and the lack of prospect for turning them around." This left Bruno's with 18 in-store pharmacies within the 66 stores they ran at the time. All inventories and records were sold to CVS/pharmacy, and all employees were either offered severance packages or employment with CVS.

In December 2008 the corpora