# Mashiro

is a unisex Japanese given name and a Japanese surname.

Meaning
When used as a name, the Kana writing  aka  is the standard reading of Mashiro. This reading is traditionally reserved for girls, as boys have their own kana readings for Mashiro. The first sound used for both genders is "Ma" which has many meanings that give a gentle and inclusive feeling. It also has a sense of openness, and is bright, active, expansive, and sociable when using the vowel "あ(a)" for the sound. In terms of luck, the  of any given name is determined by the number of strokes in the Kanji characters used. The standard feminine reading of  is considered . As a dictionary definition, the Kana  is now obsolete for  ("pure white" or "blank" e.g. mind, paper).

Possible writings
Outside of its standard feminine reading of , Mashiro can be written in dozens of different ways that individually exceed 100 for both sexes. Unique readings which are probable guesses are then split off from the larger group. For example, as a boy's name Mashiro has an extended list from one source that includes at least 77 syllabaries of which 15 are unique. As a girl's name, Mashiro can be written using at least 27 different syllabaries of which 10 are unique. As its impossible to list all of the combinations here, only the first 17 feminine writings are listed below.

People
, Japanese singer signed to Sacra Music
, Japanese professional wrestler

Fictional characters
 Mashiro Kazahana, a character in the Japanese anime series My-HiME and My-Otome
 Mashiro Kuna, a character in the Japanese manga and anime series Bleach
 Mashiro Kurata, a character in BanG Dream!
 Mashiro Mitsumine, a brown-haired monster from the Japanese four-panel manga Mikakunin de Shinkoukei
 Mashiro Nijigaoka, a character in the Japanese anime series Soaring Sky! Pretty Cure
 Mashiro Shiina, a character in the Japanese light novel series The Pet Girl of Sakurasou
 Moritaka Mashiro, a character in the Japanese manga series Bakuman
 Rima Mashiro, a character in the Japanese manga series Shugo Chara!

Notes

References

External links
Baby naming guide

Japanese unisex given names
Unisex given names
Japanese-language surnames