# Tibolone

Tibolone, sold under the brand name Livial among others, is a medication which is used in menopausal hormone therapy and in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis and endometriosis. The medication is available alone and is not formulated or used in combination with other medications. It is taken by mouth.

Side effects of tibolone include acne and increased hair growth among others. Tibolone is a synthetic steroid with weak estrogenic, progestogenic, and androgenic activity, and hence is an agonist of the estrogen, progesterone, and androgen receptors. It is a prodrug of several metabolites. The estrogenic effects of tibolone may show tissue selectivity in their distribution.

Tibolone was developed in the 1960s and was introduced for medical use in 1988. It is marketed widely throughout the world. The medication is not available in the United States.

Medical uses
Tibolone is used in the treatment of menopausal symptoms like hot flashes and vaginal atrophy, postmenopausal osteoporosis, and endometriosis. It has similar or greater effectiveness compared to older menopausal hormone therapy medications, but shares a similar side effect profile. It has also been investigated as a possible treatment for female sexual dysfunction.

Tibolone reduces hot flashes, prevents bone loss, improves vaginal atrophy and urogenital symptoms (e.g., vaginal dryness, dyspareunia), and has positive effects on mood and sexual function. The medication may have greater benefits on libido than standard menopausal hormone therapy, which may be related to its androgenic effects. It is associated with low rates of vaginal bleeding and breast pain.

A 2015 network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials found that tibolone was associated with a significantly decreased risk of breast cancer ( = 0.317). The decrease in risk was greater than that observed with most of the aromatase inhibitors and selective estrogen receptor modulators that were included in the analysis. However, paradoxically, other research has found evidence supporting an increased risk of breast cancer with tibolone.

Available forms
Tibolone is available in the form of 2.5 mg oral tablets. It is typically used once daily at a dosage of 1.25 or 2.5 mg.

Side effects
A report in September 2009 from Health and Human Services' Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality suggests that tamoxifen, raloxifene, and tibolone used to reduce the risk of breast cancer significantly reduce the occurrence of invasive breast cancer in midlife and older women, but also increase the risk of adverse effects.

Tibolone can infrequently produce androgenic side effects such as acne and increased facial hair growth. Such side effects have been found to occur in 3 to 6% of treated women.

A 2016 Cochrane review has been published on the short-term and long-term effects of tibolone, including adverse effects. Possible adverse effects of tibolone include unscheduled vaginal bleeding ( = 2.79; incidence 13–26% more than placebo), an increased risk of breast cancer in women with a history of breast cancer ( = 1.5) although apparently not without a history of breast cancer ( = 0.52), an increased risk of cerebrovascular events (strokes) ( = 1.74) and cardiovascular events ( = 1.38), and an increased risk of endometrial cancer ( = 2.04). However, most of these figures are based on very low-quality evidence.

Tibolone has been associated with increased risk of endometrial cancer in most studies.

Pharmacology

Pharmacodynamics

Tibolone possesses a complex pharmacology and has weak estrogenic, progestogenic, and androgenic activity. Tibolone, 3α-hydroxytibolone, and 3β-hydroxytibolone act as agonists of the estrogen receptors. Tibolone and its metabolite δ4-tibolone act as agonists of the progesterone and androgen receptors, while 3α-hydroxytibolone and 3β-hydroxytibolone, conversely, act as antagonists of these receptors. Relative to other progestins, tibolone, including its metabolites, has been described as possessing moderate functional antiestrogenic activity (that is, progestogenic activity), moderate estrogenic activity, high androgenic activity, and no clinically significant glucocorticoid, antiglucocorticoid, mineralocorticoid, or antimineralocorticoid activity. The ovulation-inhibiting dosage of tibolone is 2.5 mg/day.

Estrogenic activity
Tibolone and its two major active metabolites, 3α-hydroxytibolone and 3β-hydroxytibolone, act as potent, fully activating agonists of the estrogen receptor (ER), with a high preference for the ERα. These estrogenic metabolites of tibolone have much weaker activity as estrogens than estradiol (e.g., have 3–29% of the affinity of estradiol for the ), but occur at relatively high concentrations that are sufficient for full and marked estrogenic responses to occur.

The estrogenic effects of tibolone show tissue selectivity in their distribution, with desirable effects in bone, the brain, and the vagina, and lack of undesirable action in the uterus, breast, and liver. The observations of tissue selectivity with tibolone have been theorized to be the result of metabolism, enzyme modulation (e.g., of estrogen sulfatase and estrogen sulfotransferase), and receptor modulation that vary in different target tissues. This selectivity differs mechanistically from that of selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) such as tamoxifen, which produce their tissue selectivity via means of modulation of the ER. As such, to distinguish it from SERMs, tibolone has been variously described as a "selective tissue estrogenic activity regulator" (STEAR), "selective estrogen enzyme modulator" (SEEM), or "tissue-specific receptor and intracrine mediator" (TRIM). More encompassingly, tibolone has also been described as a "selective progestogen, estrogen, and androgen regulator" (SPEAR), which is meant to reflect the fact that it is tissue-selective and that it regulates effects not only of estrogens but of all three of the major sex hormone classes. Although indications of tissue selectivity with tibolone have been observed, the medication has paradoxically nonetheless been associated with increased risk of endometrial cancer and breast cancer in clinical studies.

It was reported in 2002 that tibolone or its metabolite δ4-tibolone is transformed by aromatase into the potent estrogen 7α-methylethinylestradiol in women, analogously to the transformation of norethisterone into ethinylestradiol. Controversy and disagreement followed when other researchers contested the findings however. By 2008, these researchers had asserted that tibolone is not aromatized in women and that the previous findings of 7α-methylethinylestradiol detection were merely a methodological artifact. In accordance, a 2009 study found that an aromatase inhibitor had no effect on the estrogenic potencies of tibolone or its metabolites in vitro, unlike the case of testosterone. In addition, another 2009 study found that the estrogenic effects of tibolone on adiposity in rats do not require aromatization (as indicated by the use of aromatase knockout mice), further in support that 3α-hydroxytibolone and 3β-hydroxytibolone are indeed responsible for such effects. These findings are also in accordance with the fact that tibolone decreases sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels by 50% in women and does not increase the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) ( = 0.92), which would not be expected if the medication formed a potent, liver metabolism-resistant estrogen similar to ethinylestradiol in important quantities. (For comparison, combined oral contraceptives containing ethinylestradiol, due mostly or completely to the estrogen component, have been found to increase SHBG levels by 200 to 400% and to increase the risk of VTE by about 4-fold ( = 4.03).)

In spite of the preceding, others have held, as recently as 2011, that tibolone is converted into 7α-methylethinylestradiol in small quantities. They have claimed that 19-nortestosterone derivatives like tibolone, due to lacking a C19 methyl group, indeed are not substrates of the classical aromatase enzyme, but instead are still transformed into the corresponding estrogens by other cytochrome P450 monooxygenases. In accordance, the closely structurally related AAS trestolone (7α-methyl-19-nortestosterone or 17α-desethynyl-δ4-tibolone) has been found to be transformed into 7α-methylestradiol by human placental microsomes in vitro. Also in accordance, considerably disproportionate formation of ethinylestradiol occurs when norethisterone is taken orally (and hence undergoes first-pass metabolism in the liver) relative to parenterally, despite the absence of aromatase in the adult human liver.

Progestogenic activity
Tibolone and δ4-tibolone act as agonists of the progesterone receptor (PR). Tibolone has low affinity of 6% of that of promegestone for the PR, while δ4-tibolone has high affinity of 90% of that of promegestone for the PR. In spite of its high affinity for the P