# Japanese destroyer Ōnami (1942)

was a  of the Imperial Japanese Navy. Her name means "Billow Wave" (Big Rough Waves).

Design and description
The Yūgumo class was a repeat of the preceding  with minor improvements that increased their anti-aircraft capabilities. Their crew numbered 228 officers and enlisted men. The ships measured  overall, with a beam of  and a draft of . They displaced  at standard load and  at deep load. The ships had two Kampon geared steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft, using steam provided by three Kampon water-tube boilers. The turbines were rated at a total of  for a designed speed of .

The main armament of the Yūgumo class consisted of six Type 3  guns in three twin-gun turrets, one superfiring pair aft and one turret forward of the superstructure. The guns were able to elevate up to 75° to increase their ability against aircraft, but their slow rate of fire, slow traversing speed, and the lack of any sort of high-angle fire-control system meant that they were virtually useless as anti-aircraft guns. They were built with four Type 96  anti-aircraft guns in two twin-gun mounts, but more of these guns were added over the course of the war. The ships were also armed with eight  torpedo tubes in a two quadruple traversing mounts; one reload was carried for each tube. Their anti-submarine weapons comprised two depth charge throwers for which 36 depth charges were carried.

Construction and career
On the night of 24–25 November 1943, Ōnami led a troop transport/evacuation run to Buka Island. In the Battle of Cape St. George, she was torpedoed by the destroyers ,  and/or ,  east-southeast of Cape St. George (). Ōnami blew up and sank with all hands, including ComDesDiv 31 (Captain Kiyoto Kagawa). Captain Kiyoto Kagawa was posthumously promoted two ranks, one of the few IJN destroyer skippers so honored.

Notes

References

External links
  CombinedFleet.com: Yūgumo-class destroyers
  CombinedFleet.com: Onami history

Yūgumo-class destroyers
World War II destroyers of Japan
Shipwrecks in the Solomon Sea
1942 ships
Warships lost in combat with all hands
Maritime incidents in November 1943
Ships built by Fujinagata Shipyards