[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

solution of cobalt-oxide, and exposed to the reduction flame, a part of it is volatilized, while the other part passes into higher oxidation, and remains, after cooling, of a dirty dark-green color. (_d._) _Tellurium_ (Te).--This is one of the rare metals. It occurs very seldom in the metallic state, but often with bismuth, lead, silver, and gold. Tellurium, in the pure state, is silver-white, very bright, of a foliated or lamellar structure, brittle, and easily triturated. It is inclined to crystallize. It is soluble in concentrated sulphuric acid without oxidation. The solution is of a fine purple color, and gives a precipitate with the addition of water. _Tellurium in the Metallic form._--By the aid of heat it is oxidized in sulphuric acid, a portion of the oxygen of the acid oxidizing the metal, while sulphurous acid gas escapes. This solution is colorless, and is tellurous acid, dissolved in sulphuric acid. It melts at a low red heat, and volatilizes at a higher temperature. If tellurium is heated with free access of air, it takes fire, and burns with a blue color, the flame being greenish at the edges, while a thick white vapor escapes, which has a feeble acidulous odor. _Tellurous Acid_ (TeO^{2}) is of a fine, granulous, crystalline or white earthy mass, which is partly soluble in water. The solution has a strong metallic taste, and an acid reaction upon litmus paper. Heated in a tube closed at one end until it begins to glow, it fuses to a yellow liquid which is colorless, crystalline, and opaque when cold. Beads of it remain usually transparent like glass. Heated upon platinum wire in the flame of oxidation, it melts, and is volatilized as a white vapor. When heated upon charcoal in the oxidation flame, it melts, and is reduced to the metallic state, but volatilizes and a sublimate of white tellurous acid is formed upon the charcoal. The edge of this deposit is usually red or dark-yellow. Heated upon charcoal in the flame of reduction, it is rapidly reduced, the external flame exhibiting a bluish-green color. Borax dissolves it in the oxidation flame upon platinum wire to a clear colorless bead which turns grey when heated upon charcoal, through the presence of reduced metallic particles. Upon charcoal, in the reduction flame, the bead is grey, caused by the reduced metal. After a continued blast, tellurium is completely volatilized, and the bead appears clear again, while a white sublimate is deposited upon the charcoal. With microcosmic salt, the same reactions are produced. With carbonate of soda, tellurous acid fuses upon platinum wire to a clear colorless bead, which is white when cold. Upon charcoal it is reduced, and forms _tellur-sodium_, which is absorbed by the charcoal, and metallic tellurium, which is volatilized, and deposits upon the charcoal a white incrustation (tellurous acid). If tellurous acid, finely powdered charcoal, and carbonate of soda are mixed together, and the mixture be well ignited in a closed tube, until fusion is effected, and a few drops of boiled water are brought into the tube, they are colored purple, indicating the presence of _tellur-sodium._ _Telluric Acid _(TeO^{3}) forms six-sided prismatic crystals. It has not an acid, but rather a metallic taste. It changes blue litmus paper to red; is slowly soluble in water, and rather sparingly. Exposed to a high temperature, but not until glowing, the crystalline acid loses its water, and acquires an orange color, but still it preserves its crystalline form, although no longer soluble in water, and is in fact so much changed in its properties as to present the instance of an isomeric modification. If telluric acid is heated gently in a closed tube, it loses water and turns yellow. Heated still more strongly, it becomes milk-white, oxygen is expelled, and it is converted into tellurous acid. The presence of oxygen can be recognized by the more lively combustion which an ignited splinter of wood undergoes when held in it. Telluric acid produces the same reactions with the blowpipe reagents as tellurous acid. SEVENTH GROUP.--LEAD, BISMUTH, TIN. The oxides of these metals are also reduced to the metallic state by fusion with soda upon charcoal in the flame of reduction, but they are volatilized only after a continued blast, and a sublimate is thrown upon the charcoal. (_a._) _Lead_ (Pb).--This metal occurs in considerable quantity in nature, chiefly as galena or lead-glance (sulphide of lead). Likewise, but more rarely, as a carbonate; also as a sulphate, and sometimes combined with other acids and metals. In the metallic state, lead is of a bluish-grey color, high lustre, and sp. gr. 11.4. It is soft, and communicates a stain to paper. It is malleable, ductile, but has very little tenacity. It melts at about 612°. Exposed to the air it soon tarnishes, being covered with a grey matter, which some regard as a suboxide (Pb^{2}O), and others as simply a mixture of lead and protoxide. At a glowing heat it is oxidized to a protoxide, and at a white heat it is volatilized. It is insoluble in most acids. It is, however, soluble in nitric acid, but without decomposing water. (_L._) _Protoxide of Lead_ (PbO).--It is an orange-colored powder, which melts at a glowing temperature, and forms a lamellar mass after cooling. Protoxide of lead absorbs oxygen from the atmosphere while melting, which is given off again by cooling. Being exposed for a longer while to the air, it absorbs carbonic acid and water, and becomes white on the surface. It is soluble in nitric acid and caustic alkalies. It forms with most acids insoluble salts. It is slightly soluble in pure water, but not in water which contains alkaline salts. This hydrate is white. ([beta].) _Red Oxide of Lead_ (PbO^{2}, PbO).--It forms a puce-colored powder. It is insoluble in caustic alkalies. Hydrochloric acid dissolves it and forms a yellow liquid, which is soon decomposed into chloride of lead and chlorine. It is reduced by ignition to the protoxide. ([gamma].) _Peroxide of Lead _(PbO^{2}).--It is a dark-brown powder. It yields with hydrochloric acid the chloride of lead and chlorine gas. When heated it liberates oxygen, and is reduced to the protoxide. Lead combinations give the following reactions before the blowpipe: Metallic lead tarnishes when heated in the oxidation flame, and is instantly covered with a grey matter, consisting of the protoxide and the metal. It fuses quickly, and is then covered with a yellowish-brown protoxide until all the lead is converted into the protoxide, which melts to a yellow liquid. In the reduction flame and upon charcoal, it is volatilized, while the charcoal becomes covered with a yellow sublimate of oxide. A little distance from the assay, this sublimate appears white (carbonate of lead). Protoxide of lead melts in the flame of oxidation to a beautiful dark yellow bead. In the flame of reduction, and upon charcoal, it is reduced with intumescence to metallic lead, which is volatilized by a continued blast, and sublimates on charcoal, as mentioned above. Red oxide of lead turns black when heated in the glass tube closed at one end, and liberates oxygen, which is easily detected by the introduction of an ignited splinter, when a more lively combustion of the wood proves the presence of uncombined oxygen. The red oxide in this case is reduced to the protoxide. Heated upon platinum foil, it first turns black, is reduced to the protoxide, and melts into a dark yellow liquid. In the reduction flame, upon charcoal, it is reduced to the metal with intumescence. After a continued blast, a yellow sublimate of protoxide is produced upon the charcoal, and at a little distance off, around this sublimate, a white one of carbonate of lead is produced. This sublimate disappears when touched by the flame of reduction, while it communicates an azure blue-tinge to the external flame. This is likewise the case with the peroxide of lead. The different oxides of lead produce with the blowpipe reagents the same reactions. _Borax_ dissolves lead compounds with the greatest readiness upon platinum wire in the oxidation flame to a transparent bead, which is yellow when hot, but colorless after being cooled. With the addition of more of the lead oxide, it becomes opalescent. When heated by the intermittent flame, and with still more of the oxide, it acquires a yellow enamel after cooling. Heated upon charcoal, in the flame of reduction, the bead spreads and becomes opaque. After a continued blast, all the oxide is reduced with effervescence to metallic lead, which melts and runs towards the edges of the bead, while the bead again becomes transparent. _Microcosmic Salt_ dissolves oxides of lead upon platinum wire in the flame of oxidation easily to a clear, colorless bead, which appears, when highly saturated, yellow while hot. A saturated bead becomes enamel-like after cooling. The bead appears in the flame of reduction, and upon charcoal, of a greyish color and dull. By the addition of more oxide, a yellow sublimate of protoxide is produced upon the charcoal. By the addition of tin, the bead appears of a darker grey, but it is never quite opaque. _Carbonate of Soda_ dissolves oxide of lead in the flame of oxidation upon platinum wire quite readily to a transparent bead, which becomes yellow when cooling, and is opaque. Upon charcoal in the flame of reduction, it is rapidly reduced to metallic lead, which yields, after a continued blast, a yellow sublimate of oxide upon the charcoal. (_b._) _Bismuth_ (Bi).--This metal occurs mostly in the metallic state, and less frequently as the sulphide. In the pure metallic state, it is of a reddish-white color and great lustre. It crystallizes in cubes. It is brittle, and may be readily pulverized. It melts at 476°, and is volatilized at a white heat. It is soluble in nitric acid, and forms the nitrate of bismuth. ([alpha].) _Oxide of Bismuth _(Bi^{2}O^{3}).--This oxide is a light yellow powder, fusible at a red heat, insoluble in caustic potash and ammonia. It is the base of the salts of bismuth. Its hydrate is white, and easily soluble in acids. The addition of water causes these solutions to become milky, because they are decomposed into a soluble acidulous and an insoluble basic salt of bismuth. ([beta].) _Peroxide of Bismuth_ (BiO^{2}) is a dark-colored powder, completely soluble in boiling nitric acid, and yielding oxygen; produces, with hydrochloric acid, chlorine gas. It can be heated up to the temperature of 620° without being decomposed; but, exposed to a temperature of 630° it yields oxygen. Mixed with combustible substances, it glows with brightness. ([gamma].) _Bismuthic Acid _(Bi^{2}O^{5}) is a brown powder similar to the peroxide, but is converted by boiling nitric acid into a green, scarcely soluble substance (Bi^{2}O^{3}, Bi^{2}O^{5}). Its hydrate is of a red color. BLOWPIPE REACTIONS.--Metallic bismuth