[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

jarring on its hinges still, The echoing clean flags--all The same, the same, and never more the same. That mound was once a hill, The old lime-tree a forest (now as small As the poor lilac by the ivied wall), And this neglected narrow greenery A wilderness, and I its king and keeper; Lying upon the grass I saw the sky And all its clouds: the garden edged the sky. The harsh gate jars upon its hinges still. UNPARDONED Gentle as the air that kisses The splendid and ignoble with one breath, Gentle as obliterating Death-- Though you be gentler yet, In days when the old, old things begin to fret The backward-looking consciousness, Will you forget? Or if remembering, will you forgive? But there is one severer. Stung by your forgivingness so great Shall I forgive you then?-- Basest of men Would rise in bitterness and sting again. Not if you should forget Could I forget: Or if remembering, myself could I forgive? Never! And yet such things have been, And ills as dark forgiven or forgot. But in those black hours when the heart burns hot And there's no nerve that's not Quick with the sense of things unheard, unseen-- A terrible voice that's mine yet not mine cries, "Can that Eternal Righteousness Remembering forgive?" SOME HURT THING I came to you quietly when you were lying In perfect midnight sleep. Your dark soft hair was all about your pillow, So black upon the white. I could not see your face except the lovely Curve of the pale cheek; Your head was bent as though your stirless slumber Was sea-like heavy and deep. The wind came gently in at the wide window, Shaking the candle-light And shadows on the wall; and there was silence, Or sound but far and weak. By the bedside your daytime toys were gathered: The bright bell-ringing wheel, Dolls clad in violent yellow and vermilion, Strings of gay-coloured beads.... But you were far and far from these beside you, Entranced with other joys In fresh fields, among other children running: Your voice, I knew, must peal Purely among their high unearthly voices Over green daisied meads, While I stood watching your scarce-heaving slumber Beside your human toys---- And heard, faint from the woods all through the night, The cry of some hurt thing that moaned for light. THE WAITS Frost in the air and music in the air, And the singing is sweet in the street. She wakes from a dream to a dream--O hark! The singing so faint in the dark. The musicians come and stand at the door, A fiddler and singers three, And one with a bright lamp thrusts at the dark, And the music comes sudden--O hark! She hears the singing as sweet as a dream And the fiddle that climbs to the sky, With head 'neath the curtain she stares out--O hark! The music so strange in the dark. She listens and looks and sees but the sky, While the fiddle is sweet in the porch, And she sings back into the singing dark Hark, herald angels, hark! IN THE LANE The birds return, The blossom brightens again the cherry bough. The hedges are green again In the airless lane, And hedge and blossom and bird call, Now, now, now! O birds, return! Who will care if the blossom die on the bough, Or the hedge be bare again In the screaming lane? For what they were these are not, are not now. The one gone makes All that remain seem strange and lonely now. She will not walk here again In the blossoming lane:-- And there's a dead bough in every blossoming bough. THE LAST TIME For the last time, The last, last time, The last ... All those last times have I lived through again, And every "last" renews itself in pain-- Yes, each returns, and each returns in vain: You return not, the last remains the last, And I remain to cast Weak anchors of my love in shifting sands Of faith:-- The anchors drag, nothing I see save death. Together we Talked and were glad. I could not see That one black gesture menaced you and me! We kissed, and parted; I left you, and was even merry-hearted.... And now my love is thwarted That reaches back to you and searches round, And dares not look on that harsh turfless mound. And that last time We walked together and the air acold Hummed shrill around; the time that you Walked heavily, And I dared not to see, Nor dared you then to speak of what must be. We knew not what the shut days would unfold-- Nay, could not know till all the days were told.... But that last time we walked together, and --And walk no more together, nor clasp hand In hand, just stiffly as we used to do. Never in dreams, O happy, never in stealing dreams We meet; never again I live by night the day's slow-dying pain ... The last, last time, The last-- That time _is_ past; yet in too-golden day My heart goes from me whispering, "Where are you--you--you--you?" And comes back easeless to an easeless breast. But at night I rest Dreamless as derelict ships ride out to sea Empty, and no bird even on the snapp'd mast Pauses: into oblivion her shadow's cast; Into the empty night goes lonely she, And into sleep go--oh, more lonely I. YOU THAT WERE You that were Half my life ere life was mine; You that on my shape the sign Set of yours; You that my young lips did kiss When your kiss summed up my bliss.... Ah, once more You to kiss were all my bliss! You whom I Could forget--strange, could forget Even for days (ah, now the fret Of my grief!); You who loved me though forgot; Welcomed still, reproaching not.... Ah, that now That forgetting were forgot! You that now On my shoulder as I go Put your hand that wounds me so; You that brush Yet my lips with that one last Kiss that bitters all things past.... How shall I Yet endure that kiss the last? You that are Where the feet of my blind grief Find you not, nor find relief; You that are Where my thought flying after you Broken falls and flies anew, Now you're gone My love accusing aches for you. _March 4, 1911._ "THE LIGHT THAT NEVER WAS ON SEA OR LAND" O gone are now those eager great glad days of days, but I remember Yet even yet the light that turned the saddest of sad hours to mirth; I remember how elate I swung upon the thrusting bowsprits, And how the sun in setting burned and made the earth all unlike earth. O gone are now those mighty ships I haunted days and days together, And gone the mighty men that sang as crawled the tall craft out to sea; And fallen ev'n the forest tips and changed the eyes that watched their burning, But still I hear that shout and clang, and still the old spell stirs in me. And as to some poor ship close locked in water dense and dark and vile The wind comes garrulous from afar and sets the idle masts a-quiver; And ev'n to her so foully docked, swift as the sun's first beam at dawn The sea-bird comes and like a star wheels by and down along the river;-- So to me the full wind blows from far strange waters echoingly, And faint forgotten longings break the fast-sealed pools within my breast; So to me when sunset glows the scream comes of the white sea-bird, And all those ancient raptures wake and wakes again the old unrest. I see again the masts that crowd and part lie trees in living wind, I hear again the shouts and cries and lip-lap of the waveless pool; I see again the smalling cloud of sail that into distance fades, I am again the boy whose eyes with tears of grief and hope are full. AT EVENING'S HUSH Now pipe no more, glad Shepherd, Your joys from this fair hill Through golden eves and still: There sounds from yon dense quarry A burden harsh and sorry. No piping now, poor Shepherd. Men strive with violent hand, And anger stirs the bland Blithe heaven that ne'er yet trembled, Save with great spirits assembled. No more, no more, sad Shepherd, Let thy bright fingers stray Idly in the old way; No more their nimble glancing Set gleeful spirits a-dancing. Put by thy pipe, O Shepherd! There needs no note of thine For men deaf, undivine.... And lest brute hands should take it, O sorrowful Shepherd, break it! HAPPY DEATH Bugle and battle-cry are still, The long strife's over; Low o'er the corpse-encumbered hill The sad stars hover. It is in vain, O stars! you look On these forsaken: Awhile with blows on blows they shook, Or struck unshaken. Needs now no pity of God or man ... Tears for the living! They have 'scaped the confines of life's plan That holds us grieving. The unperturbed soft moon, the stars, The breeze that lingers, Wake not to ineffectual wars Their hearts and fingers. Warriors o'ercoming and o'ercome, Alike contented, Have marched now to the last far drum, Praised, unlamented. Bugle and battle-cry are still, The long strife's over; Oh, that with them I had fought my fill And found like cover! WISDOM AND A MOTHER Why, mourner, do you mourn, nor see The heavenly Earth's felicity? I mourn for him, my Dearest, lost, Who lived a frail life at my cost. A grief like yours how many have known! Were that a balm to ease my own! Or rather might I not accuse The Hand that does not even choose, But, taking blindly, took my best, And as indifferently takes the rest ... Like mine? Is there denied to me Even Sorrow's singularity? THE THRUSH SINGS Singeth the Thrush, forgetting she is dead.... How could you, Thrush, forget that she is dead? Or though forgetting, sing--and she is dead? O hush, Untimely, truant Thrush! Singeth the Thrush, "I sing that she is dead!" Thou thoughtless Thrush, she loved you who is dead, Singeth the Thrush, "I sing her praise though dead." O hush, Untimely, grievous Thrush! Singeth the Thrush, "I sing your happy dead, I sing her who is living, and no more dead, I sing her joy--she is no longer dead." O hush, Enough, thou heavenly Thrush! TO MY MOTHER No foreign tribute from a stranger-hand, Mother, I bring thee, whom not Heaven's songs Would as an alien reach.... Ah, but how far From Heaven's least heavenly is the changing note And changing fancy of