# Intravascular lymphomas

Intravascular lymphomas (IVL) are rare cancers in which malignant lymphocytes proliferate and accumulate within blood vessels. Almost all other types of lymphoma involve the  proliferation and accumulation of malignant lymphocytes in lymph nodes, other parts of the lymphatic system (e.g. the spleen), and various non-lymphatic organs (e.g. bone marrow and liver) but not in blood vessels.

IVL fall into three different forms based on the type of lymphocyte causing the disease. Intravascular large B-cell lymphoma (IVBCL), which constitutes ~90% of all IVL, is a lymphoma of malignant B-cell lymphocytes as classified by the World Health Organization, 2016. The remaining IVL types, which have not yet been formally classified by the World Health Organization, are defined based mainly on case reports; these IVL are 1) intravascular NK-cell lymphoma (IVNKL) in which the malignant cells are a type of T cell lymphocyte termed natural killer cells (NK-cells) and 2) intravascular T-cell lymphoma (IVTL) in which the neoplastic cells are primarily, if not exclusively, a type of t-cell termed cytotoxic T-cells. Because of their similarities and extreme rarities, IVL lymphomas caused by NK-cells and cytotoxic T-cells are often grouped together under the term intravascular NK/T cell lymphomas (IVNK/TL). The malignant cells in IVNK/TL are typically infected with the Epstein–Barr virus suggesting that these lymphomas are examples of the Epstein-Barr virus-associated lymphoproliferative diseases. Since infection with this virus is rarely seen in IVBCL, this form of IVL is not typically regarded as one of  the Epstein-Barr virus-associated lymphoproliferative diseases.

Intravascular large B-cell and intravascular NK/T cell IVL are typically very aggressive lymphomas that afflict middle-aged and elderly adults. At the time of diagnosis, they accumulate within small-sized and medium-sized but not large-sized blood vessels of the skin, central nervous system, and, less frequently. virtually any other organ system. Unlike most lymphomas, however, they generally do not accumulate or infiltrate lymph nodes. All of the IVL are frequently associated with systemic B symptoms such as fever and weight loss, as well as symptoms related to the other organs in which they accumulate in blood vessels, constrict blood flow, and thereby cause severe damage due to infarction, i.e. damage due to the loss of blood flow.

Historically, most cases of the intravascular lymphomas responded very poorly to standard chemotherapy regimens that were used to treat other types of the B-cell lymphomas. With few exceptions, these intravascular lymphomas progressed very rapidly. More recently, however, the addition to these chemotherapy regimens of the immunotherapy agents, Rituximab, which acts to kill B-cells, has greatly improved their effectiveness and thereby the prognosis of the most common form of these diseases, the intravascular B-cell lymphomas. Unfortunately, no such agent that is directed against NK-cells or cytotoxic T-cells has yet been reported to be useful in treating these two types of the intravascular B-cell lymphomas.

History 
In 1959, Pfleger and Tappeiner first reported on a cancer in which malignant cells grew uncontrollably within the lumen of blood vessels; the authors suggested that these malignant cells were derived from the  endothelial cells lining the vasculature and therefore termed the disorder angioendotheliomatosis proliferans systemisata. Subsequent studies reported in 1982, 1985, and 1986 led to the conclusion that these malignant cells were derived from lymphocytes rather than endothelial cells. These along with other studies termed the disease angioendotheliomatosis, neoplastic angiotheliomatosis, intravascular lymphomatosis, angioendotheliotropic (intravascular) lymphoma, angiotropic large-cell lymphoma, diffuse large-cell lymphoma, intralymphatic lymphomatosis, and, less specifically, malignant angioendotheliomatosis or intravascular lymphoma. By 2001, the World Health Organization had defined the disease as a malignant B-cell lymphoma termed intravascular large B-cell lymphoma.

Santucci et al. first reported a case of IVL that involved malignant NK cells. Some 2 dozen other cases of intravascular NK cell lymphoma have been reported by 2018. In 2008, 29 case reports of purported intravascular T-cell lymphoma were reviewed; only two of these cases were associated with evidence strongly suggesting that the malignant cells were cytotoxic T-cells. Subsequently, a few more cases of cytotoxic T-cell-based have been reported. There remains a possibility that future studies will find other T-cell types may cause IVTCL.

Intravascular large B-cell lymphoma 
Intravascular large B-cell lymphomas fall into three distinct variants, all of which involve the intravascular accumulation of malignant B-cells and appear to have a similar pathophysiology. However, they differ in the distribution of their lesions, types of populations affected, prognoses, and treatments. These three variants are: 1)  intravascular large B-cell lymphoma classical, 2) intravascular large B-cell lymphoma, cutaneous variant, and 3) intravascular large B-cell lymphoma, hemophagocytic syndrome-associated variant. The following sections give the common pathophysiology of the three variants and then describes the lesions, populations affected, prognoses, and treatments of each variant in separate sections.

Pathophysiology of the intravascular B-cell lymphomas 
The gene, chromosome, and gene expression abnormalities in IVBCL have not been fully evaluated. Studies to date indicate that the malignant cells in this disease have mutations in their MYD88 (44% of cases) and CD79B (26% of cases) genes. The exact mutation seen in the MYD88 (i.e. L265P) and some or the mutations in CD79B occur in diverse types of lymphoma. Other abnormalities seen in the small numbers of cases that have been studied so far include  translocations between chromosome 14 and 18; tandem triplications of both the BCL2 gene located on the long arm of chromosome 18 at position q21 and the KMT2A gene located on the long arm of chromosome 11 between positions 22 and 25. The product protein of BCL2  viz., Bcl-2, regulates cell survival and apoptosis (i.e. programmed cell death) and the product protein of KMT2a viz., MLL regulates cell maturation. Abnormalities in BCL2 and KMT2A are associated with other types of B-cell lymphomas. It seems likely that these or other gene, chromosome, and/or gene expression abnormalities contribute to the development and/or progression of IVBCL.

The malignant B-cells in IVBCL fail to express the CD29 protein while the endothelial cells in close proximity to the intravascular accumulations of the malignant B-cells fail to express key CXC chemokine receptor proteins particularly CxcL12 but also Cxcr5, Ccr6, and/or Ccr7. The failure of the endothelial cells to express these receptor proteins may be due to the action of nearby malignant B-cells. In any event, all of the cited proteins are involved in the movement of B-cells from the intravascular space across the vascular endothelium and into tissues. The lack of these proteins may explain the accumulation of the malignant B-cells of IVLBC within blood vessels.

In about 80% of cases, the malignant B-cells in IVBCL are "non-germinal center B-cells" as defined by the Hans algorithm rather than the "germinal center B-cells" that are commonly found in less aggressive B-cell lymphomas. This factor may contribute to the aggressiveness of IVBCL.

Intravascular large B-cell lymphoma, classical variant

Presentation 
Individuals presenting with the classical variant of IVLBL are typically middle-aged or elderly (39–90 years) that have one or more of the following: systemic symptoms, particularly fever (45% of cases); cutaneous lesions (40%); central nervous system disorders (35%); and clinical and laboratory abnormalities involving the bone marrow (~18%), lung (~6%), and, rarely, endocrine glands (e.g. pituitary, thyroid, adrenal gland), liver, prostate, uterus, eye, intestine, and in individual cases almost any other organ or tissue. These findings are based primarily on studies of 740 patients conducted in Europe; a study conducted in Quebec, Canada on 29 patients gave similar results. Individuals may present with one, two, or more of these abnormalities. Systemic symptoms include not only the most commonly seen one viz., fever, but also malaise, weight loss, and other B symptoms; the cutaneous lesions include singular or multiple plaques, nodules, tumors, and ulcerations, some of which may be painful and most of which are located on the breast, lower abdomen, and/or extremities. Central nervous system defects include sensory and/or motor neuropathy, spinal nerve root pain, paresthesia, hypoesthesia, aphasia, dysarthria, hemiparesis, seizures, myoclonus, transient visual loss, vertigo, altered conscious states, and, particularly in relapsed disease,