# Zhaobao tai chi

Zhaobao tai chi () is a style of tai chi that is often considered to be a modern style, but actually has a strong documented lineage that confirms its authenticity as an ancient style of tai chi and as a true transmission from Wang Zongyue.

Form and Characteristics
The main set of Zhaobao tai chi, or Zhaobao Jia, consists of 108 movements in the big frame and 75 refined movements in the small frame progressing in difficulty. Great emphasis is placed on Yi (mind/intent) in Zhaobao training. Like many other styles, Zhaobao Jia can be practiced at three heights, each providing a different degree of complexity. Generally students begin with the Middle Frame (Renpan Jia), progress to the Low Frame (Pangong Jia) and end with the High Frame (Daili Jia).

Zhaobao tai chi's practical applications rely heavily on spiral uprooting techniques controlled through the use of Qinna, often followed with the use of sweeps or trips to bring the opponent to the ground. Flowing and coordinated techniques conform successfully to the basic tenets of the tai chi classics.

Zhaobao tai chi also has its own Neigong system based on traditional Daoist practice that enables the practitioner to develop the required physical and mental skills needed for successful mastery of the art.

History and Lineage
The Zhaobao tai chi style shares many similarities with Chen-style tai chi, and this commonality is considered by the school to be the manifestation of influences introduced by a member of the famed Chen family- Chen Qingping. 

Zhaobao tai chi is not a family style (although there exists the He Family offshoot) and has traditionally been passed down from master to a chosen disciple. The Zhaobao name is given to the style as a way of honouring the village in which the art was kept for many centuries; Zhaobao Village in Wenxian County, Henan Province, China.

According to the style's tradition, Chen Qingping was the 7th generation master from the time that the grand master Jiang Fa brought the style taught to him by Wang Zongyue to the local area in Wenxian County.

Zhaobao tai chi's lineage down to Chen Qingping is as below:

Tai chi lineage tree with Zhaobao focus

Notes

References

Bibliography
Peng, Wen. Zhao Bao Tai Chi Kung Fu, USA Tai Chi Culture Association. 
Zheng, Wuqing. Wudang Zhaobao Taijiquan Small Frame, Da Zhan Publishing Company, Taiwan.  (only available in Chinese)

External links
 USA Tai Chi Culture Association Includes history and lineage of Zhaobao tai chi
 Chenstyle.com This resource guide to Chen and related styles has a description and short video of middle frame Zhaobao Jia
 A guide to the history, lineage, contents and description of Zhaobao tai chi
(Wayback Machine copy)

Tai chi styles
Neijia