[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

a characteristic of the salt. Baryta and its compounds give, when fused with carbonate of soda upon platinum foil, a clear bead. Fused with soda upon charcoal, it is absorbed. The sulphate fuses at first to a clear bead, which soon spreads, and is absorbed and converted while boiling into a hepatic mass. If this mass is taken out, placed upon a piece of polished silver and moistened with a little water, a black spot of sulphide of silver is left after washing off the mass with water. Borax dissolves baryta and its compounds with a hissing noise, as well in the flame of oxidation as in that of reduction. There is formed a clear bead which, with a certain degree of saturation, is clear when cold, but appears milk-white when overcharged, and of an opal, enamel appearance, when heated intermittingly, or with a vacillating flame, that changes frequently from the oxidating to the reducing flame. Baryta and its compounds produce the same reactions with microcosmic salt. Baryta and its compounds fuse when exposed to ignition in the oxidizing flame. Moistened with the solution of nitrate of cobalt, and heated in the oxidation flame, it presents a bead, colored from brick-red to brown, according to the quantity used. This color disappears when cold, and the bead falls to a pale grey powder after being exposed awhile to the air. When heated again, the color does not appear until fusion is effected. If carbonate of soda is fused upon platinum wire with so much of the sesquioxide of manganese that a green bead is produced, this bead, when fused with a sufficient quantity of baryta, or its compounds, after cooling, will appear of a bluish-green, or light blue color. (_b._) _Strontia_ (SrO).--Strontia and its compounds are analogous to the respective ones of baryta. The hydrate of strontia has the same properties as the hydrate of baryta, except that it is less soluble in water. The carbonate of strontia fuses a little at a red heat, swells, and bubbles up like cauliflower. This produces, in the blowpipe flame, an intense and splendid light, and now produces an alkaline reaction upon red litmus paper. The sulphate of strontia melts in the oxidation flame upon platinum foil, or upon charcoal, to a milk-white globule. This fuses upon charcoal, spreads and is reduced to the sulphide, which is absorbed by the charcoal. It now produces the same reactions upon polished silver as the sulphate of baryta under the same conditions. By exposing strontia and its compounds upon platinum wire, or as a splinter with the platinum tongs, to the point of the blue flame, the external flame appears of an intense crimson color. The deepest red color is produced by the chloride of strontium, particularly at the first moment of applying the heat. After the salt is fused, the red color ceases to be visible in the flame, by which it is distinguished from the chloride of lithium. The carbonate of strontia swells up and produces a splendid white light, while the external flame is colored of a fine purple-red. The color produced by the sulphate of strontia is less intense. The presence of baryta destroys the reaction of the strontia, the flame presenting the light green color of the baryta. If alcohol is poured over powdered strontia and inflamed, the flame appears purple or deep crimson, particularly if the fluid is stirred with a glass rod, and when the alcohol is nearly consumed. The insoluble salts of strontia do not produce a very intense color. Baryta does not prevent the reaction of the soluble salts of strontia, unless it exists greatly in excess. In the presence of baryta, strontia can be detected by the following process: mix some of the substance under examination with some pure graphite and water, by grinding in an agate mortar. Place the mixture upon charcoal, and expose it for a while to the reduction flame. The substance becomes reduced to sulphide of barium and sulphide of strontium, when it should be dissolved in hydrochloric acid. The solution should be evaporated to dryness, redissolved in a little water, and enough alcohol added that a spirit of 80 per cent. is produced. Inflame the spirit, and if strontia is present, the flame is tinged of a red color. This color can be discerned more distinctly by moistening some cotton with this spirit and inflaming it. If strontia or its compounds are fused with a green bead of carbonate of soda and sesquioxide of manganese, as described under the head of baryta, a bead of a brown, brownish-green, or dark grey color is produced. Carbonate of soda does not dissolve pure strontia. The carbonate and sulphate of strontia melt with soda upon platinum foil to a bead, which is milk-white when cold, but fused upon charcoal they are absorbed. Strontia or its compounds produce with borax, or microcosmic salt, the same reactions as baryta. When they are moistened with nitrate of cobalt, and ignited in the oxidizing flame, a black, or grey infusible mass is produced. (_c._) _Lime, Oxide of Calcium _(CaO).--Lime does not occur free in nature, but in combination with acids, chiefly the carbonic and sulphuric. The phosphate occurs principally in bones. The hydrate and the salts of lime are in their properties similar to those of the two preceding alkaline earths. In the pure state, the oxide of calcium is white; it slakes, produces a high temperature, and falls into a white powder when sprinkled with a little water. It is now a hydrate, and has greatly increased in volume. The hydrate of lime is far less soluble in water than either those of baryta or strontia, and is less soluble in hot water than in cold. Lime, its hydrate and sulphide of calcium, have a strong alkaline reaction upon red litmus paper. Lime and its hydrate are infusible, but produce at a strong red heat a very intense and splendid white light, while the hydrate loses its water. The carbonate of lime is also infusible, but at a red heat the carbonic acid is expelled, and the residue becomes caustic, appears whiter, and produces an intenser light. The sulphate of lime melts with difficulty, and presents the appearance of an enamelled mass when cold. By heating it upon charcoal it fuses in the reducing flame, and is reduced to a sulphide. This has a strong hepatic odor, and exerts an alkaline reaction upon red litmus paper. By exposing lime, or its compounds, upon platinum wire--or as a small splinter of the mineral in the platinum tongs--to the point of the blue flame, a purple color, similar to that of lithia and strontia, is communicated to the external flame, but this color is not so intense as that produced by strontia, and appears mixed with a slight tinge of yellow. This color is most intense with the chloride of calcium, while the carbonate of lime produces at first a yellowish color, which becomes red, after the expulsion of the carbonic acid. Sulphate of lime produces the same color, but not so intense. Among the silicates of lime only the tablespar (3CaO, 2SiO^{3}) produces a red color. Fluorspar (CaFl) produces a red as intense as pure lime, and fuses into a bead. Phosphate and borate of lime produce a green flame which is only characteristic of their acids. The presence of baryta communicates a green color to the flame. The presence of soda produces only a yellow color in the external flame. If alcohol is poured over lime or its compounds and inflamed, a red color is communicated to the flame. The presence of baryta or soda prevents this reaction. Lime and its compounds do not dissolve much by fusion with carbonate of soda. If this fusion is effected on charcoal, the carbonate of soda is absorbed and the lime remains as a half-globular infusible mass on the charcoal. This is what distinguishes lime from baryta and strontia, and is a good method of separating the former from the latter. Lime and its compounds fuse with borax in the oxidizing and reducing flames to a clear bead, which remains clear when cold, but when overcharged with an excess or heated intermittingly, the bead appears, when cold, crystalline and uneven, and is not so milk-white as the bead of baryta or strontia, produced under the same circumstances. The carbonate of lime is dissolved with a peculiar hissing noise. Microcosmic salt dissolves a large quantity of lime into a clear bead, which is milky when cold. When the bead has been overcharged with lime, by a less excess, or by an intermittent flame, we will perceive in the bead, when cold, fine crystals in the form of needles. Lime and its compounds form by ignition with nitrate of cobalt, a black or greyish-black infusible mass. (_d._) _Magnesia_ (MgO).--Magnesia occurs in nature in several minerals. It exists in considerable quantity combined with carbonic, sulphuric, phosphoric, and silicic acids, etc. Magnesia and its hydrate are white and very voluminous, scarcely soluble in hot or cold water, and restores moistened red litmus paper to its original blue color. Magnesia and its hydrate are infusible, the latter losing its water by ignition. The carbonate of magnesia is infusible, loses its carbonic acid at a red heat, and shrinks a little. It now exerts upon red litmus paper an alkaline reaction. The sulphate of magnesia, at a red heat, loses its water and sulphuric acid, is entirely infusible, and gives now an alkaline reaction. The artificial Astrachanit (NaO, SO^{3} + MgO, SO^{3} + 4HO) fuses easily. When fused on charcoal, the greater part of the sulphate of soda is absorbed, and there remains an infusible mass. Magnesia and its compounds do not produce any color in the external flame, when heated in the point of the blue flame. The most of the magnesia minerals yield some water when heated in a glass tube closed at one end. Magnesia, in the pure state, or as the hydrate, does not fuse with soda. Some of its compounds are infusible likewise with soda, and swell up slightly, while others of them melt with soda to a slightly opaque mass. Some few (such as the borate of magnesia) give a clear bead with soda, though it becomes slightly turbid by cooling when saturated with magnesia, and crystallizes in large facets. Magnesia and its compounds give beads with borax and microcosmic salt similar to those of lime. By igniting magnesia or its compounds very strongly in the oxidizing flame, moistening with nitrate of cobalt, and re-igniting in the oxidation flame, they present, after a continued blowing, a pale flesh-color, which is more visible when cold. It is indispensable that the magnesia compounds should be completely white and free of colored substances, or