[The Art of Perfumery — Piesse — Gutenberg #15583]

has not lost his way?" Again it was: "I fear the Indians may have killed him." When Dave had been gone about two weeks, Buffalo Billy was startled one day from a sound nap, to see an Indian standing by his side. He was in full war-paint and feathers, which showed he was on the war-path, and Billy felt that it was all over with him. Speaking to him in Sioux, which the boy understood, he asked: "What pale-face boy do here?" "My leg is broken." "What for come here?" "To get furs." "This red-skin country?" This laconic assertion Billy could not contradict, so he wisely held his peace. "Let see leg," came next. Billy showed him the bandaged limb, which was broken between the knee and ankle. Just then another Indian entered whom Billy recognized, as having seen before, and whom he knew to be the great Sioux Chief, Rain-in-the-Face. Billy called him by name, and he kept back the warriors, who were about to end the boy's life then and there. "Boy pale-face know chief?" asked Rain-in-the-Face. "Yes, I saw you at Fort Laramie, and gave you a knife," said Billy with hope in his heart. "Ugh! chief don't forget; have knife here," and he showed a knife which he had doubtless often used upon the scalps of pale-faces. "What pale-face boy do here?" Billy told him. "Where friend?" "Gone after team." "When come back?" Billy was afraid to tell him the truth, so said: "In two moons." "Long time." "Yes; but do your young men intend to kill me?" "Me have talk and see." The Indians then held a council together, and Billy could see that the chances were against him; but old Rain-in-the-Face triumphed in the end, and said: "As pale-face boy is only pappoose, my young men not kill him." Billy had often longed to be a man; but now he was happy that he was a boy, and answered: "Yes, I am only a little pappoose." "Him heap bad pappoose, me remember," said Rain-in-the-Face, recalling some of the jokes the boy played at Fort Laramie. The Indians then unsaddled their ponies and camped at the dug-out for two days, and when they left they carried with them the sugar and coffee, Billy's rifle and one revolver, and most of the ammunition, besides what cooking utensils they needed. Then old Rain-in-the-Face bade the boy good-by, and they rode off without poor Billy's blessing following them. Hardly had they gone before a severe snow-storm sprung up, and it was hard indeed for the crippled boy to get wood enough to build a fire, for the red-skins had put it out before leaving. The wolves, seemingly understanding how helpless the boy was, scratched at the door, and ran over the roof of the dug-out, at the same time howling viciously; but Billy frightened them off with an occasional shot, and resigned himself to his lonely fate. But at last a month passed away, and with its end appeared brave Dave Harrington. He had passed through innumerable dangers, but had at last come back in safety, and brought with him an ox-team. Never in his life had Buffalo Billy felt the joy of that moment, and, though not a boy given to showing his feelings, he burst into tears of delight. As it was impossible to at once return, on account of the very great depth of the snow, Dave told Billy they would wait until spring, as he had plenty of provisions, and that fur animals were plenty. As soon as the snow began to melt Dave got his traps in, collected his pelts, which numbered a thousand, and putting them on the wagon, so as to serve as a bed for Billy, started his oxen homeward. After twelve days they reached the ranch where Dave had purchased the oxen, paid in furs for the team, and started on to Junction City. Arriving there they sold their team, wagon and furs, the latter bringing them about two hundred and fifty dollars, a handsome sum for each when divided, and which made Billy's heart glad to take home with him, for it paid off a mortgage on his mother's farm. CHAPTER XIII. BUFFALO BILLY STRIKES IT RICH. It was months before Billy obtained perfect use of his broken leg and was able to throw his crutches aside; but when he did do so it was with a glad heart, for once more he longed to be upon the plains. Hearing of a rich discovery of gold in Colorado, he joined a party of miners that were bound there, and, reaching the mining camps, staked out a claim and began work. He was the youngest person in the mines, in fact the only boy there, and with many he was a great favorite; but there were a few men there who sought to impose upon him on account of his youth. This treatment Buffalo Billy was not the person to stand, and the result was one of his foes struck him one night without the slightest cause. The result was a general row, for Billy's friends at once backed him in resenting the blow, and, though the fracas lasted but a few minutes, there were several burials next day as the result. Of course this made Billy more disliked by those who, without reason, had become his foes, and to add to their dislike, he one day struck a rich vein that promised to pan out well in ore. A few days he toiled in his lead, laying up considerable sums by his work, and one morning, as he went to his mine, he found it occupied by two rough-looking men whom he did not remember to have ever seen before. "Well, pards, I guess you're up the wrong tree," he said, pleasantly. "I guesses not; this are our lead," said one, rudely. "How do you make that out?" "We staked it months ago, and was called away, and now we has returned to it." "Well, I believe you both to be lying, and until you prove it's your claim you can't have it," was the bold reply. "Who's goin' ter say no?" "I am." "You!" "Yes." "Who is you?" "I am named William Frederick Cody." "You has handle enough." "I have more than that." "Waal." "I'm called Buffalo Billy." "We has heer'd o' you as a chap as has too much cheek fer one so young." "Then if you know me you will understand that though I am but a boy I won't let you walk away with my claim." "Get out, boy." Billy obeyed; that is he went down to the camps and consulted his friends about what was best for him to do. "We'll go up and call in their chips, Billy," was the universal decision. "No, let us find out if the claim is theirs," said Billy. "Find out nothin'; they has no right to it and 'tain't justice." So up to the mine they went, and Billy's friends recognized the two claimants of the mine as two worthless fellows who had been in the valley months before, but who had no claim upon the boy's property. "You must git!" That was the decision; but just then others came up who sided with the desperadoes and things looked very scary for awhile, for half the crowd swore that the mine had belonged to the two claimants to it and that Billy ought to give it up. But these were the men who disliked Billy and his party, as they were the honest miners, and who were willing to side with his foes. "Ef ther boy wants ther mine he will hev to fight fer it," said one. "He will fight for it and so will we!" cried one of Billy's friends. All this time Billy had remained silent; but now he saw that his friends were in deadly earnest, and to prevent a general fight and much loss of life he said: "The mine I own legally and I'll fight for it if that will settle it, but I don't want to have to fight both of you." "Oh, but you must though," said one. "If I must, I'll do it." "But you shall not, Billy. These two devils only want to murder you so they can get the mine, and they sha'n't do it." This was said by Billy's best pard and the others who liked the boy backed him up in his words, and pistols were drawn on both sides and the slightest act now all knew would cause trouble. "If they'll fight me with revolvers and separately I'll be willing," said Billy, hastily, anxious to avert the trouble. "Waal, we'll do that, so sail in," said one. "No, not this way, you accursed coward, but go off there, stand with your back to the boy, as he will to you, and twenty paces apart, and at a word wheel and fire," cried Billy's friend. This seemed fair and all agreed to it, and the man and the boy were placed in position, Billy pale but calm. The other side won the word to wheel and fire, and though the man tried to aid his friend in giving it, Buffalo Billy was too quick for him and fired a second in advance of his adversary. But that second was enough, for the bullet went straight to the heart of the one at which it was aimed, while his shot flew wild. A yell burst from Billy's friends as they rushed forward while his foes were bringing up their other man. But just then a stranger rode up, and leveling a pistol at the second claimant for the mine said sternly: "Dick Malone, my gallows-bird, I arrest you in the name of the law." The stranger was a United States detective, and the one he arrested an escaped convict. This ended the fight for the mine; but after a few days' longer work in it Billy found that the vein panned out badly, and selling out his interest in it returned to his home once more, convinced that mining was not his forte, though he certainly had dug out enough of the yellow ore to prove to his mother that he had not been idle. CHAPTER XIV. THE YOUNG GUIDE. The next time that Buffalo Billy left home it was in the capacity of assistant guide to a train of emigrants that were going to the far West to settle. In Leavenworth one night he met in a common assembling room for all classes of men, a man who was Train Boss, or captain, and who was going to the West to raise cattle and also to farm. His train, consisting of some thirty