# The Barefoot Doctor

Stephen Russell, who wrote under the pseudonym The Barefoot Doctor, was a practitioner and teacher of Taoism.

Work and teaching
Russell grew up in Hampstead, an area in London.  On leaving full-time education Russell started to travel extensively and began to deepen his study of Taoism. He returned to London in 1983 where he ran an acupuncture practice for 17 years, as well as facilitating self-help workshops. Some of his clients included celebrities such as Madonna.
 
He wrote twenty one books, including Barefoot Doctor's Handbook for the Urban Warrior, A Spiritual Survival Guide and Pure: A Path to Peace, Power and Prosperity.

Russell was a weekly columnist for The Observer for five years. 

In addition to giving talks, leading workshops and commenting on holistic and spiritual matters, he made a series for BBC UK Style named "Barefoot Doctor" which was broadcast in 2003.

Criticism 
Mainstream medical professionals have criticised the advice given in Russell's popular Observer column as being founded on traditional beliefs rather than science, and his books have been described as "health fiction".

He was accused of "sexually predatory" behaviour by several women. Jonathan Coe of medical practitioners' standards charity Witness, said that they had received five complaints about Russell relating to patients in treatment. Russell admitted to having sex with ex-patients.

Selected bibliography 

 Russell, S and Jurgen Kolb (1992) "The Tao of Sexual Massage" : Gaia Books
 Russell, S. (1998) Barefoot Doctor's Handbook for the Urban Warrior : Piatkus : London
 Russell, S. (1999) Barefoot Doctor's Guide to the Tao: A Spiritual Handbook for the Urban Warrior : Three Rivers Press : London
 Russell, S. (1999) Barefoot Doctor's Handbook For Heroes : Piatkus : London
 Russell, S. (2000) Barefoot Doctor's Handbook For Modern Lovers : A Spiritual Guide to Truly Rude and Amazing Love and Sex: Piatkus : London
 Russell, S. (2001) Barefoot Doctor's Handbook for Modern Lovers: A Spiritual Guide to Truly Rude and Amazing Love and Sex : Broadway : New York
 Russell, S. (2001) Return Of The Urban Warrior : Element Books
 Russell, S. (2002) Liberation : Element Books
 Russell, S. (2003) Twisted Fables For Twisted Minds : Element Books
 Russell, S. (2004) Instant Enlightenment : Element Books: London
 Russell, S. (2005) Manifesto London: Element Books
 Russell, S. (2005) Dear Barefoot: The Wisdom of the Barefoot Doctor Atlantic Books: London
 Russell, S. (2006) Invincibility Training : Element Books
 Russell, S. (2008) Pure : Hay House
 Russell, S. (2009) The Man Who Drove With His Eyes Closed : Hay House
 Russell, S. (2009) Jewels of Enlightenment : Nightingale Conant
 Russell, S. (2010) Supercharged Taoist: An Amazing True Story to Inspire You on Your Own Adventure " : Hay House
 Russell, S, (2012) The Message, vision for a new golden era : Imago

References

External links 
 Barefoot Doctor official website
 The Good Web Guide interview with Russell
 Prediction Magazine interview with Russell
 Russell's page on the Cyberspace Health Clinic website
  a 1990 video-short composed by Stephen Russell

British Taoists
Living people
1954 births
Music promoters
Writers from London
20th-century English writers
21st-century English writers