[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

and clay and wind, They huddle from man's pondering mind; Yet he who treads in austere ways May surely meet their ancient gaze. Man ever journeys on with them After the red-rose-bordered hem. Ah, faeries, dancing under the moon, A Druid land, a Druid tune!_ _While still I may, I write for you The love I lived, the dream I knew. From our birthday, until we die, Is but the winking of an eye; And we, our singing and our love, The mariners of night above, And all the wizard things that go About my table to and fro. Are passing on to where may be, In truth's consuming ecstasy No place for love and dream at all; For God goes by with white foot-fall. I cast my heart into my rhymes, That you, in the dim coming times, May know how my heart went with them After the red-rose-bordered hem._ THE LAND OF HEART'S DESIRE _O Rose, thou art sick._ WILLIAM BLAKE. TO FLORENCE FARR MAURTEEN BRUIN BRIDGET BRUIN SHAWN BRUIN MARY BRUIN FATHER HART A FAERY CHILD _The Scene is laid in the Barony of Kilmacowen, in the County of Sligo, and at a remote time._ SCENE.--_A room with a hearth on the floor in the middle of a deep alcove to the Right. There are benches in the alcove and a table; and a crucifix on the wall. The alcove is full of a glow of light from the fire. There is an open door facing the audience to the Left, and to the left of this a bench. Through the door one can see the forest. It is night, but the moon or a late sunset glimmers through the trees and carries the eye far off into a vague, mysterious world._ MAURTEEN BRUIN, SHAWN BRUIN, _and_ BRIDGET BRUIN _sit in the alcove at the table or about the fire. They are dressed in the costume of some remote time, and near them sits an old priest_, FATHER HART. _He may be dressed as a friar. There is food and drink upon the table_. MARY BRUIN _stands by the door reading a book. If she looks up she can see through the door into the wood._ BRIDGET Because I bid her clean the pots for supper She took that old book down out of the thatch; She has been doubled over it ever since. We should be deafened by her groans and moans Had she to work as some do, Father Hart; Get up at dawn like me and mend and scour Or ride abroad in the boisterous night like you, The pyx and blessed bread under your arm. SHAWN Mother, you are too cross. BRIDGET You've married her, And fear to vex her and so take her part. MAURTEEN (_to_ FATHER HART) It is but right that youth should side with youth; She quarrels with my wife a bit at times, And is too deep just now in the old book! But do not blame her greatly; she will grow As quiet as a puff-ball in a tree When but the moons of marriage dawn and die For half a score of times. FATHER HART Their hearts are wild, As be the hearts of birds, till children come. BRIDGET She would not mind the kettle, milk the cow, Or even lay the knives and spread the cloth. SHAWN Mother, if only---- MAURTEEN Shawn, this is half empty; Go, bring up the best bottle that we have. FATHER HART I never saw her read a book before, What can it be? MAURTEEN (_to_ SHAWN) What are you waiting for? You must not shake it when you draw the cork; It's precious wine, so take your time about it. (_To Priest._) (SHAWN _goes_.) There was a Spaniard wrecked at Ocris Head, When I was young, and I have still some bottles. He cannot bear to hear her blamed; the book Has lain up in the thatch these fifty years; My father told me my grandfather wrote it, And killed a heifer for the binding of it-- But supper's spread, and we can talk and eat It was little good he got out of the book, Because it filled his house with rambling fiddlers, And rambling ballad-makers and the like. The griddle-bread is there in front of you. Colleen, what is the wonder in that book, That you must leave the bread to cool? Had I Or had my father read or written books There were no stocking stuffed with yellow guineas To come when I am dead to Shawn and you. FATHER HART You should not fill your head with foolish dreams. What are you reading? MARY How a Princess Edane, A daughter of a King of Ireland, heard A voice singing on a May Eve like this, And followed half awake and half asleep, Until she came into the Land of Faery, Where nobody gets old and godly and grave, Where nobody gets old and crafty and wise, Where nobody gets old and bitter of tongue. And she is still there, busied with a dance Deep in the dewy shadow of a wood, Or where stars walk upon a mountain-top. MAURTEEN Persuade the colleen to put down the book; My grandfather would mutter just such things, And he was no judge of a dog or a horse, And any idle boy could blarney him; Just speak your mind. FATHER HART Put it away, my colleen; God spreads the heavens above us like great wings And gives a little round of deeds and days, And then come the wrecked angels and set snares, And bait them with light hopes and heavy dreams, Until the heart is puffed with pride and goes Half shuddering and half joyous from God's peace; And it was some wrecked angel, blind with tears, Who flattered Edane's heart with merry words. My colleen, I have seen some other girls Restless and ill at ease, but years went by And they grew like their neighbours and were glad In minding children, working at the churn, And gossiping of weddings and of wakes; For life moves out of a red flare of dreams Into a common light of common hours, Until old age bring the red flare again. MAURTEEN That's true--but she's too young to know it's true. BRIDGET She's old enough to know that it is wrong To mope and idle. MAURTEEN I've little blame for her; She's dull when my big son is in the fields, And that and maybe this good woman's tongue Have driven her to hide among her dreams Like children from the dark under the bed-clothes. BRIDGET She'd never do a turn if I were silent. MAURTEEN And maybe it is natural upon May Eve To dream of the good people. But tell me, girl, If you've the branch of blessed quicken wood That women hang upon the post of the door That they may send good luck into the house? Remember they may steal new-married brides After the fall of twilight on May Eve, Or what old women mutter at the fire Is but a pack of lies. FATHER HART It may be truth. We do not know the limit of those powers God has permitted to the evil spirits For some mysterious end. You have done right (_to_ MARY); It's well to keep old innocent customs up. (MARY BRUIN _has taken a bough of quicken wood from a seat and hung it on a nail in the door-post. A girl child strangely dressed, perhaps in faery green, comes out of the wood and takes it away_.) MARY I had no sooner hung it on the nail Before a child ran up out of the wind; She has caught it in her hand and fondled it; Her face is pale as water before dawn. FATHER HART Whose child can this be? MAURTEEN No one's child at all. She often dreams that some one has gone by, When there was nothing but a puff of wind. MARY They have taken away the blessed quicken wood, They will not bring good luck into the house; Yet I am glad that I was courteous to them, For are not they, likewise, children of God? FATHER HART Colleen, they are the children of the fiend, And they have power until the end of Time, When God shall fight with them a great pitched battle And hack them into pieces. MARY He will smile, Father, perhaps, and open His great door. FATHER HART Did but the lawless angels see that door They would fall, slain by everlasting peace; And when such angels knock upon our doors, Who goes with them must drive through the same storm. (_A thin old arm comes round the door-post and knocks and beckons. It is clearly seen in the silvery light._ MARY BRUIN _goes to door and stands in it for a moment_. MAURTEEN BRUIN _is busy filling_ FATHER HART'S _plate_. BRIDGET BRUIN _stirs the fire_.) MARY (_coming to table_) There's somebody out there that beckoned me And raised her hand as though it held a cup, And she was drinking from it, so it may be That she is thirsty. (_She takes milk from the table and carries it to the door._) FATHER HART That will be the child That you would have it was no child at all. BRIDGET And maybe, Father, what he said was true; For there is not another night in the year So wicked as to-night. MAURTEEN Nothing can harm us While the good Father's underneath our roof. MARY A little queer old woman dressed in green. BRIDGET The good people beg for milk and fire Upon May Eve--woe to the house that gives, For they have power upon it for a year. MAURTEEN Hush, woman, hush! BRIDGET She's given milk away. I knew she would bring evil on the house. MAURTEEN Who was it? MARY Both the tongue and face were strange. MAURTEEN Some strangers came last week to Clover Hill; She must be one of them. BRIDGET I am afraid. FATHER HART The Cross will keep all evil from the house While it hangs there. MAURTEEN Come, sit beside me, colleen, And put away your dreams of discontent, For I would have you light up my last days, Like the good glow of the turf; and when I die You'll be the wealthiest hereabout, for, colleen, I have a stocking full of yellow guineas Hidden away where nobody can find it. BRIDGET You are the fool of every pretty face, And I must spare and pinch that my son's wife May have all kinds of ribbons for her head. MAURTEEN Do not be cross; she is a right good girl! The butter is by your elbow, Father Hart. My colleen, have