# Institute of Medicine, Nepal

Institute of Medicine (IOM) is one of the five technical institutes under Tribhuvan University, Nepal's largest academic institution.

IOM runs undergraduate, postgraduate and Ph.D. programs. The institute has eight constituent campuses and fifteen affiliated colleges in the country. Its central campus, Mahrajgunj Medical Campus, Mahrajgunj.

Colleges and campuses

Constituent campus 
There are 8 constituent campuses:
 Mahrajgunj Medical Campus, Kathmandu
 Mahrajgunj Nursing Campus
 Ayurveda Campus|Ayurveda Campus, Kirtipur
 Nepalgunj Nursing Campus
 Birgunj Nursing Campus
 Biratnagar Nursing Campus
 Pokhara Nursing Campus
 Central Department of Public Health

Affiliated colleges 
There are 15 affiliated colleges:
 National Medical College, Birgunj
 Universal College of Medical Sciences, Bhairahawa 
 Janaki Medical College, Janakpur
 People's Dental College and Hospital, Balaju, Kathmandu
 MB Kedia Dental College, Birgunj 
 KIST Medical College
 Chitwan Medical College
 National Model College for Advanced Learning 
 Sunsari Technical College 
 Metrix College Birgunj 
 Janamaitri Foundation, Balaju 
 Nepalese Army Institute of Health Sciences, Sano Bharyang, Bhadrakhal
 Manmohan Institute of Health Sciences, Solteemode, Kathmandu, Nepal 
 Gandaki Medical College, Pokhara
 Nepal Ayurved Medical College, Birgunj

Programs 
Today the IOM has 29 programs, from proficiency certificate level to the highest postgraduate degree in medicine, public health, paramedical, nursing and traditional Ayurveda medicine through its central campus and eight constituent campuses around the country.

Challenges 
Medical education in Nepal is highly competitive as there are limited seats in medical schools. The tuition fees in private schools is very high and often unaffordable to vast majority of families. Only the best of the best students can rank high enough for full scholarships in government medical school. Recently government has opened a few more medical schools. For many years, Institute of Medicine was the only government medical school in the country 

Dr. Govinda KC is a staunch supporter of medical education reform in Nepal and has long advocated to break the education "mafia" present in the private medical education system.

See also
 Institute of Forestry
 Institute of Engineering

References

Medical colleges in Nepal
Tribhuvan University
1972 establishments in Nepal