[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

friendly trick of speech, I welcome you. Come, sit beside the fire. What matter if your head's below your arms Or you've a horse's tail to whip your flank, Feathers instead of hair, that's but a straw, Come, share what bread and meat is in the house, And stretch your heels and warm them in the ashes. And after that, let's share and share alike And curse all men and women. Come in, come in. What, is there no one there? (_Turning from door_) And yet they say They are as common as the grass, and ride Even upon the book in the priest's hand. (TEIG _lifts one arm slowly and points toward the door and begins moving backwards_. SHEMUS _turns, he also sees something and begins moving backward_. MARY _does the same. A man dressed as an Eastern merchant comes in carrying a small carpet. He unrolls it and sits cross-legged at one end of it. Another man dressed in the same way follows, and sits at the other end. This is done slowly and deliberately. When they are seated they take money out of embroidered purses at their girdles and begin arranging it on the carpet_.) TEIG You speak to them. SHEMUS No, you. TEIG 'Twas you that called them. SHEMUS (_coming nearer_) I'd make so bold, if you would pardon it, To ask if there's a thing you'd have of us. Although we are but poor people, if there is, Why, if there is---- FIRST MERCHANT We've travelled a long road, For we are merchants that must tramp the world, And now we look for supper and a fire And a safe corner to count money in. SHEMUS I thought you were ... but that's no matter now-- There had been words between my wife and me Because I said I would be master here, And ask in what I pleased or who I pleased And so.... but that is nothing to the point, Because it's certain that you are but merchants. FIRST MERCHANT We travel for the Master of all merchants. SHEMUS Yet if you were that I had thought but now I'd welcome you no less. Be what you please And you'll have supper at the market rate, That means that what was sold for but a penny Is now worth fifty. (MERCHANTS _begin putting money on carpet_.) FIRST MERCHANT Our Master bids us pay So good a price, that all who deal with us Shall eat, drink, and be merry. SHEMUS (_to_ MARY) Bestir yourself, Go kill and draw the fowl, while Teig and I Lay out the plates and make a better fire. MARY I will not cook for you. SHEMUS Not cook! not cook! Do not be angry. She wants to pay me back Because I struck her in that argument. But she'll get sense again. Since the dearth came We rattle one on another as though we were Knives thrown into a basket to be cleaned. MARY I will not cook for you, because I know In what unlucky shape you sat but now Outside this door. TEIG It's this, your honours: Because of some wild words my father said She thinks you are not of those who cast a shadow. SHEMUS I said I'd make the devils of the wood Welcome, if they'd a mind to eat and drink; But it is certain that you are men like us. FIRST MERCHANT It's strange that she should think we cast no shadow, For there is nothing on the ridge of the world That's more substantial than the merchants are That buy and sell you. MARY If you are not demons, And seeing what great wealth is spread out there, Give food or money to the starving poor. FIRST MERCHANT If we knew how to find deserving poor We'd do our share. MARY But seek them patiently. FIRST MERCHANT We know the evils of mere charity. MARY Those scruples may befit a common time. I had thought there was a pushing to and fro, At times like this, that overset the scale And trampled measure down. FIRST MERCHANT But if already We'd thought of a more prudent way than that? SECOND MERCHANT If each one brings a bit of merchandise, We'll give him such a price he never dreamt of. MARY Where shall the starving come at merchandise? FIRST MERCHANT We will ask nothing but what all men have. MARY Their swine and cattle, fields and implements Are sold and gone. FIRST MERCHANT They have not sold all yet. For there's a vaporous thing--that may be nothing, But that's the buyer's risk--a second self, They call immortal for a story's sake. SHEMUS They come to buy our souls? TEIG I'll barter mine. Why should we starve for what may be but nothing? MARY Teig and Shemus---- SHEMUS What can it be but nothing? What has God poured out of His bag but famine? Satan gives money. TEIG Yet no thunder stirs. FIRST MERCHANT There is a heap for each. (SHEMUS _goes to take money_.) But no, not yet, For there's a work I have to set you to. SHEMUS So then you're as deceitful as the rest, And all that talk of buying what's but a vapour Is fancy bread. I might have known as much, Because that's how the trick-o'-the-loop man talks. FIRST MERCHANT That's for the work, each has its separate price; But neither price is paid till the work's done. TEIG The same for me. MARY Oh, God, why are you still? FIRST MERCHANT You've but to cry aloud at every cross-road, At every house door, that we buy men's souls. And give so good a price that all may live In mirth and comfort till the famine's done, Because we are Christian men. SHEMUS Come, let's away. TEIG I shall keep running till I've earned the price. SECOND MERCHANT (_who has risen and gone towards fire_) Stop; you must have proof behind the words. So here's your entertainment on the road. (_He throws a bag of money on the ground._) Live as you please; our Master's generous. (TEIG and SHEMUS _have stopped_. TEIG _takes the money. They go out._) MARY Destroyers of souls, God will destroy you quickly. You shall at last dry like dry leaves and hang Nailed like dead vermin to the doors of God. SECOND MERCHANT Curse to your fill, for saints will have their dreams. FIRST MERCHANT Though we're but vermin that our Master sent To overrun the world, he at the end Shall pull apart the pale ribs of the moon And quench the stars in the ancestral night. MARY God is all powerful. SECOND MERCHANT Pray, you shall need Him. You shall eat dock and grass, and dandelion, Till that low threshold there becomes a wall, And when your hands can scarcely drag your body We shall be near you. (MARY _faints_.) (_The_ FIRST MERCHANT _takes up the carpet, spreads it before the fire and stands in front of it warming his hands_.) FIRST MERCHANT Our faces go unscratched, Wring the neck o' that fowl, scatter the flour And look if there is bread upon the shelves. We'll turn the fowl upon the spit and roast it, And eat the supper we were bidden to, Now that the house is quiet, praise our Master, And stretch and warm our heels among the ashes. END OF SCENE I. SCENE II FRONT SCENE.--_A wood with perhaps distant view of turreted house at one side, but all in flat colour, without light and shade and against a diapered or gold background._ COUNTESS CATHLEEN _comes in leaning upon_ ALEEL'S _arm_. OONA _follows them_. CATHLEEN (_stopping_) Surely this leafy corner, where one smells The wild bee's honey, has a story too? OONA There is the house at last. ALEEL A man, they say, Loved Maeve the Queen of all the invisible host, And died of his love nine centuries ago. And now, when the moon's riding at the full, She leaves her dancers lonely and lies there Upon that level place, and for three days Stretches and sighs and wets her long pale cheeks. CATHLEEN So she loves truly. ALEEL No, but wets her cheeks, Lady, because she has forgot his name. CATHLEEN She'd sleep that trouble away--though it must be A heavy trouble to forget his name-- If she had better sense. OONA Your own house, lady. ALEEL She sleeps high up on wintry Knock-na-rea In an old cairn of stones; while her poor women Must lie and jog in the wave if they would sleep-- Being water born--yet if she cry their names They run up on the land and dance in the moon Till they are giddy and would love as men do, And be as patient and as pitiful. But there is nothing that will stop in their heads They've such poor memories, though they weep for it. Oh, yes, they weep; that's when the moon is full. CATHLEEN Is it because they have short memories They live so long? ALEEL What's memory but the ash That chokes our fires that have begun to sink? And they've a dizzy, everlasting fire. OONA There is your own house, lady. CATHLEEN Why, that's true, And we'd have passed it without noticing. ALEEL A curse upon it for a meddlesome house! Had it but stayed away I would have known What Queen Maeve thinks on when the moon is pinched; And whether now--as in the old days--the dancers Set their brief love on men. OONA Rest on my arm. These are no thoughts for any Christian ear. ALEEL I am younger, she would be too heavy for you. (_He begins taking his lute out of the bag_, CATHLEEN, _who has turned towards_ OONA, _turns back to him_.) This hollow box remembers every foot That danced upon the level grass of the world, And will tell secrets if I whisper to it. (_Sings._) Lift up the white knee; Hear what they sing, Those young dancers That in a ring Raved but now Of the hearts that brake Long, long ago For their sake. OONA New friends are sweet. ALEEL "But the dance changes. Lift up the gown, All that sorrow Is trodden down." OONA The empty rattle-pate! Lean on this arm, That I can tell you is a christened arm, And not like some, if we are to judge by speech. But as you please. It is time I was forgot. Maybe it is not on this arm you slumbered When you were as helpless as a worm. ALEEL Stay with me till we come to your own house. CATHLEEN (_sitting down_) When I am rested I will need no help. ALEEL I thought to have kept her from remembering The evil of the times for full