# Paralyzed Veterans of America

The Paralyzed Veterans of America was established in 1946 to serve the needs of disabled veterans. The organization was created to allow its members, veterans of the armed forces living with spinal cord injuries or diseases like multiple sclerosis (MS) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), to live with independence, dignity, and as productive members of society. 

PVA is a Congressionally-chartered organization under Title 36 of the United States Code, headquartered in Washington, D.C. It has 33 chapters and 70 National Service Offices across the US and Puerto Rico. Its mission is to help paralyzed veterans and all people with disabilities live fuller, more productive lives.

Programs and services
The Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) provides integrative programs and services to severely disabled veterans. Its offerings include medical services and health policy, research and education, veterans benefits, government advocacy and legislation, architecture, Veterans Career Program, and sports and recreation. The primary focus of PVA services is veterans with spinal cord injuries and diseases; it extends support to able-bodied, ill, wounded, and injured veterans of all branches, conflicts, and eras, as well as to dependents, survivors, and caregivers in the global disability community. 

PVA services are provided free of charge to veterans and their families. The organization is primarily funded through individual donations and corporate sponsors.

Veterans benefits

PVA offers assistance with VA claims and appeals to any veteran, family member, or caregiver – not just individuals who have sustained a spinal cord injury. 

Shortly after a veteran is injured, a PVA National Service Officer comes to their bedside to assist them with filing for VA benefits, so that the veteran can focus solely on their health and recovery. NSO’s are experts in veterans’ law and VA regulations, and know how to apply that knowledge to fight for the benefits a veteran has earned. This includes claims for service-connected compensation, non-service-connected pensions, home health care, specially adapted housing, automobile grants and adaptive equipment, and more.

Medical services and health policy

PVA’s medical services team strives to ensure the Department of Veterans Affairs is implementing best practices to improve quality of care in VA Spinal Cord Injury and Disorders Centers (SCI/D) across the country. During annual site visits to VA SCI/D and long-term care centers, PVA inspects facilities, confers with staff, ensures problems have been corrected, and speaks directly to patients about their needs. PVA’s site visit team is composed of physicians, nurses, staff, architects, and a field advisory committee who are paralyzed veterans themselves. 

PVA’s medical services department also operates a SCI/D hotline and develops consumer and clinical practice guidelines widely considered to set the standard of care.

Veterans Career Program

PVA’s Veterans Career Program provides career assistance and vocational counseling to transitioning service members, veterans, military spouses, and caregivers. The program operates through eight locations nationwide: Atlanta, Long Beach, Minneapolis, Philadelphia, Richmond, San Antonio, San Diego, and Washington, D.C. 

Clients receive one-on-one engagement on their path toward meaningful employment. Support is focused on the unique needs of each client, and can range from in-depth vocational rehabilitation, to developing a resume or practicing interviewing skills. The program has strong relationships with key employers, and PVA is able to provide needed support to these employers so they can successfully integrate Veterans into their organizations. 

PAVE staff work with any Veteran who needs help, but they specialize in those with barriers to employment, such as catastrophic injury or illness. This commitment was recognized by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation’s Hiring Our Heroes program, when PVA was a finalist for their Wounded Veteran and Military Caregiver Employment Award.

Veterans Career Live

Veterans Career Live is a virtual engagement initiative that reaches Veterans who do not have the time, means, or ability to attend traditional employment or educational events. 

With Veterans Career Live, veterans can: 

        Interact with PVA employment experts through virtual meetings.
        Access an online library of timely, relevant career information — on their schedule and from any device.
        View recorded presentations and other tools and resources on demand.
        Discover a wide range of meaningful education, volunteer, and employment opportunities.
        Meet companies and organizations eager to hire from the military and veteran community.

Architecture

PVA promotes state-of-the-art healing facilities for spinal cord injured veterans at VA hospitals, as well as barrier-free environments around the country for all people with disabilities. To accomplish this, PVA employs on-staff architects who work directly the VA and design teams. 

PVA is also a strong advocate for accessible design in the building and construction industries. PVA architects are frequently asked to consult on accessibility standards and building codes, and to work with cities and municipalities to improve access to facilities and transportation systems. They help advance accessible design through teaching, public speaking, seminars, and publications that deal with accessibility issues. 

Some of PVA’s notable achievements include advising on the accessibility of:

 Washington Nationals (Nationals Park) Ballpark
 Virginia Governor’s Executive Mansion
 Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial
 Minnesota Vikings (U.S. Bank) Stadium
 REACH, a unique expansion of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

The Air Carrier Access Act of 1986 prohibits commercial airlines from discriminating against passengers with disabilities. The act was passed by the U.S. Congress in direct response to a narrow interpretation of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 by the U.S. Supreme Court in U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) v. Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) (1986). In this case, the Supreme Court held that private, commercial air carriers are not liable under Section 504 because they are not "direct recipients" of federal funding to airports.

Research and education

PVA supports research, educational programs, and other initiatives that unite people and activities toward a single mission: improved quality of life for everyone with spinal cord injury or disorders SCI/D, and diseases like MS and ALS.

The PVA Research Foundation funds scientists who conduct research to improve the lives of veterans and others living with SCI/D, as well as diseases like MS and ALS. These scientists address significant problems that impact our lives and develop new strategies to ameliorate them. Some strategies become clinical protocols and guide best practices, others are used to guide additional research efforts. All have the potential to be life changing for veterans and others living with SCI/D, their caregivers and health care partners.

Sports and recreation

From handcycling, bass fishing, bowling and billiards, to boccia, shooting sports, and an annual quad rugby tournament, PVA provides a wide variety of sports and recreation opportunities to enhance the fitness and quality of life for veterans with disabilities. It is often through participating in adaptive sports that many disabled veterans realize they can still live an active lifestyle in spite of their injuries.

Ratings
PVA received a Gold Star rating from GuideStar based on organizational mission, impact, financial data, and commitment to transparency in accordance with GAAP. PVA has also earned GuideStar's Platinum Seal of Transparency by voluntarily sharing the measures of progress and results they use to pursue their mission.  

In 2019, PVA was named one of the Top 5 Veterans Nonprofits by Impact Matters, a new charity rating system that measures the impact of contributions.

Presidents

 Gilford S. Moss: 1947
 Robert Moss: 1948
 Bernard Shufelt: 1948–1950
 Patterson Grissom: 1950-1951
 Stanley Reese: 1951-1952
 William P. Green: 1952–1954
 Robert Frost: 1954–1956
 Raymond Conley: 1956–1957
 Harry A. Schweikert, Jr.: 1958-1959
 Dwight D. Guilfold, Jr.: 1959-1960
 Robert Classon: 1960–1962
 John J. Farkas: 1962–1964
 Harold L. Stone, Jr.: 1964
 Harold W. Wagner: 1964–1966
 Leslie P. Burghoff, Jr.: 1966–1968
 Wayne L. Capson: 1968–1970
 Carlos Rodriguez: 1970–1972
 Frank R. DeGeorge: 1972–1974
 Donald H. Broderick: 1974–1976
 Edward R. Jasper: 1976–1978
 Joseph M. Romagnano: 1978–1980
 Michael F. Delaney: 1980–1982
 Paul M. Cheremeta: 1982–1984
 Richard D. Hoover: 1984–1987
 John H. Michaels: 1987–1989
 F. David Parker: 1989-1990
 Victor S. McCoy, Sr.: 1990–1992
 Richard F. Johnson: 1992–1994
 Richard Grant: 1994–1996
Kenneth C. Huber: 1996-1998
Homer S. Townsend,