[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

of light. Warm as old fire the Red House burns yet bright Beneath the unmelting snows of pine and larch, While February moves as slow, as slow As Spring might never come, never come March. Amid such snows, by generations haunted, By echoes, memories and dreams enchanted, Firm when dark winds through the night stamp and shout, Brightest when time silvers the world all about, That old house called _The Heart_ burns, burns, and still Outbraves the mortal threat of the hanging hill. THE BEAM The dead white on the fields' dead white Turned the peace to misery. Tall bony trees their wild arms thrust Into the cold breast of the night. Brightly the stars shone in their dust. The hard wind's gust Scratched like a bird the frozen snow. Against the dead light grew the gold, Lifting its beam to that high dust; The lamp within the hut's small pane Called the world to life again. Arms of the trees atremble thrust Defiance at the cold Night of narrow shrouding snow. A human beam, small spear of light, Lifting its beauty to that high Indifference of starry dust. The aching trees were comforted, And their brave arms more deeply thrust Into the sky. Earth's warm light fingered the dead snow. LAST HOURS A gray day and quiet, With slow clouds of gray, And in dull air a cloud that falls, falls All day. The naked and stiff branches Of oak, elm, thorn, In the cold light are like men aged and Forlorn. Only a gray sky, Grass, trees, grass again, And all the air a cloud that drips, drips, All day. Lovely the lonely Bare trees and green grass-- Lovelier now the last hours of slow winter Slowly pass. THE WISH That you might happier be than all the rest, Than I who have been happy loving you, Of all the innocent even the happiest-- This I beseeched for you. Until I thought of those unending skies-- Of stagnant cloud, or fleckless dull blue air, Of days and nights delightless, no surprise, No threat, no sting, no fear; And of the stirless waters of the mind, Waveless, unfurrowed, of no living hue, With dead eaves dropping slowly in no wind, And nothing flowering new. And then no more I wished you happiness, But that whatever fell of joy or woe I would not dare, O Sweet, to wish it less, Or wish you less than you. NOWHERE, EVERYWHERE Flesh and blood, bone and skin, Are the house that beauty lives in. Formed in darkness, grown in light Are they the substance of delight. Who could have dreamed the things he sees In these strong lovely presences-- In cheeks of children, thews of men, Women's bodies beloved of men? Who could have dreamed a thing so wise As that clear look of the child's eyes? Who the thin texture of her hand But with a hand's touch understand? Shaped in eternity were these Body's miracles, where the seas Their continuous rhythm learned, And the stars in their bright order burned. From stars and seas was motion caught When flesh, blood, bone and skin were wrought Into swift lovely liveliness. Oh, but beauty less and less Than beauty grows. The cheeks fall in, Colour dies from the smooth skin, And muscles slack and bones are brittle; Veins and arteries little by little Delay the tides of the blood: That is a ditch that was a flood. Then all but dry bones disappears, White bones that lie a hundred years Cheated of resurrection.... Where is that beauty gone? Escaped even while we watched it so, And none guessed the way it would go? Only it's fled, and here alone Lie blood and skin and flesh and bone. Where is the beauty that was here? --Nowhere, everywhere. TAKE CARE, TAKE CARE Bind up, bind up your dark bright hair And hide the smouldering sunken fire. Let it be held no more than fair, Nor yourself guess how rare, how rare Its movement, colour and deep fire. Your eyes they have their consciousness, Your lips their grave reflective smile, Your hands their cunning for distress: Your hair has only beauteousness And hid flame for its only guile. That glowing hair on shoulders white Is pride past sum: take care, take care! Even to dream of wish'd delight Too much perturbs the ebb of night-- Bind up, bind up your burning hair! NEARNESS Thy hand my hand, Thine eyes my eyes, All of thee Caught and confused with me: My hand thy hand My eyes thine eyes, All of me Sunken and discovered anew in thee.... No: still A foreign mind, A thought By other yet uncaught; A secret will Strange as the wind: The heart of thee Bewildering with strange fire the heart in me. Hand touches hand, Eye to eye beckons, But who shall guess Another's loneliness? Though hand grasp hand Though the eye quickens, Still lone as night Remain thy spirit and mine, past touch and sight. THE SECOND FLOOD How could I know, how could I guess That here was your great happiness-- In mine? And how could I know Your love infinite must grow? Suddenly at dawn I wake To see the cruse of colour break Over the East, and then the gray Creep up with light of common day ... No, no, no! again that bright Flashing, flushing, flooding light Leading on day, until I ache With love to see the dark world wake. O, with such second flood your love Painted my earth and heaven above, With such wild magnificence As bruised my heart in every sense, In every nerve. Was ever man Fit this renewed love to sustain? Now in these days when Autumn's leaf Is red and gold, and for a brief Day the earth flowers ere it dies, What if Spring came with new surprise, Came ere the aspen shivered bare Or the beech coins glittered in cold air, Before the rough wind the maple stripped And this bare moon on bare boughs stepped! Vain thought--O, yet not wholly vain: Even to me Love has come again, Moving from your quick breast where he Fluttered in his wondering infancy. THE GLASS Your face has lost The clearness it once wore, And your brow smooth and white Its look of light; Your eyes that were So careless, are how deep with care! O, what has done This cruelty to you? Is it only Time makes strange Your look with change, Or something more Than the worst pang Time ever bore?-- Regret, regret! So bitter that it changes Bright youth to madness, Poisoning mere sadness ... O, vain glass that shows Less than the bitterness the heart knows. BUT MOST THY LIGHT I know how fire burns, How from the wrangling fumes Rose and amber blooms, And slowly dies. Nothing's so swift as fire, There's nothing alive so fierce. The lifted lances pierce, Sink, and upspring. Like an Indian sword it leaps Out of the smoking sheath. Even the winged feet of death Learn speed from fire; And pain its cunning learns; Languor its sweet From the decaying heat That never dies. I know how fire burns Unguessed, save for tears, When the thousand-fanged flame spears The body's guard; Or when the mind, the mind Is ever-glowing wood, And fire runs in the blood Lunatic, blind; When remorse burns and burns And burns always, always-- The fire that surest slays Or surest numbs. I know how fire burns But how I cannot tell. And Heaven burns like Hell Yet the Heart endures. 'Tis the immortal Flame In mortal life that's bitter, Or than all sweet sweeter Though life burns down. Teach me, fire, but this, Nor alone destroying burn:-- Of thy warmth let me learn, But most thy light. IN THAT DARK SILENT HOUR In that dark silent hour When the wind wants power, And in the black height The sky wants light, Stirless and black In utter lack, And not a sound Escapes from that untroubled round:-- To wake then In the dark, and ache then Until the dark is gone-- Lonely, yet not alone; Hearing another's breath All the quiet beneath, Knowing one sleeps near That day held dear And dreams held dear; but now In this sharp moment--how Share the moment's sweetness, Forgo its completeness, Nor be alone Now the dark is grown Spiritual and deep More than in dreams and sleep? O, it is pain, 'tis need That so will plead For a little loneliness. If it be pain to miss Loved touch, look and lip, Companionship Yet is verier pain Then, then In that dark silent hour When the wind wants power, And you, near or far, sleep, And your released thoughts toward me creep While I, imprisoned, awake, Ache--ache To be for one Long, little moment with myself alone. ONCE THERE WAS TIME Let no tears fall If then they fell not. If eyes told nothing, Now let them tell not. Once there was time For words, looks and tears: That time is past, is past-- Heart, thou shalt tell not! Beyond any speech Is silence bitter, As between love and love Nothing is sweeter. Once there was time, time yet For words, looks and tears ... Past, past, past, past-- Nothing so bitter! Now if tears come That then fell never; If eyes such sad, sad things Look now for ever; If words, looks or tears Tremble with telling, Oh, what returning voice is it whispers _Never, never, never!_ SCATTER THE SILVER ASH LIKE SNOW O, what insect is it That burrows in the heart and frets The heart's near nerves, Leaving its unclean Stigmata in the mind serene, Making the proud how mean? It is not common hate, Anger has not such deadly cunning To annul, to chill. Wild anger is not So cunning even while so hot; Hate is too soon forgot. There is no sword so sharp With lightnings as the wanton tongue; Nothing that burns like words-- Bubbling flames that spread In the now unspiritual head, By sleepless fevers fed. O evil words that are The knives of desolating thought! And though words be still The hot eyes yet dart Burning deaths from this mad heart Into that torn heart. O Love, forget, forget, Put by that glittering edge, put by; Slay the insect with light; Smother that smoky glow, Scatter the silver ash like snow When thy spring airs blow! JUSTIFICATION From far-off it came near Deep-charactered and clear, Until I saw the features close to mine And the eyes unhappy shine. It was Sorrow's face, Wanting kindness and grace, And wanting strength of silence, and the power To abide a luckier hour. The first fear turned to hating As I saw him dumbly waiting,