[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

floating bold Down to the mill's swift guillotine. Beyond the mill each murdered queen Floats white and cold. --If I could rise up in a cloud And look down on the new earth in flight, Shadow-like cast my thought's thin shroud Back upon these fields of light; And hear the winds of day and night Meet, singing loud! THE WANDERER Over the pool of sleep The night mists creep, Then faint thin light and then clear day, Noontide, and lingering afternoon; Then that Wanderer, the Moon Wandering her old wild way. How many spirits follow Her in that dark hollow! Like a lost lamb she roams on high Through the cold and soundless sky, And stares down into her deep Reflection in the pool of sleep. How many follow Her in that lone hollow! She sees them not nor would she hear Though both shape and sound were clear, But stares, stares into the pool Of her fear and beauty full. Far in strange gay skies She pales and dies, Forgetting that bright transitory Reflection of astonished glory, Nor heeds the spirits that follow Her into day's bright hollow. MERRILL'S GARDEN There is a garden where the seeded stems of thin long grass are bowed Beneath July's slow rains and heat and tired children's trailing feet; And the trees' neglected branches droop and make a cloud beneath the cloud, And in that dark the crimson dew of raspberries shines more sweet than sweet. The flower of the tall acacia's gone, the acacia's flower is white no more, The aspen lifts his pithless arms, the aspen leaves are close and still; The wind that tossed the clouds along, gray clouds and white like feathers bore, Lets even a feather faintly fall and smoke spread hugely where it will. But though the acacia's flower is gone and raspberries bear bright fruit untasted, Beauty lives there, oh rich and rare, past the sum of eager June. The lime tree's pyramid of flower and leaf and yellow flower unwasted Rises at eve and bars the breast wild-heaving of the timid moon. Now the tall pear-trees unrebuked lift their green fingers to the sky; Their lower boughs are crossed like arms of templars in long stony sleep. Their arms are crossed as though the wind, returning from wild war on high, Had touched them with an angry breath, or whispered from his cavern deep. A foxglove lifts her bells and bells silent above the singing grass, Still the old marigold her light sprinkles like riches to the poor. Snapdragon still his changeling blossom shakes with the burden of the bees, And the strong bindweed creeps and winds and springs on high a conqueror. * * * * * Would now her eyes grieve to behold snapdragon, foxglove, marigold Daily diminish in their sweet and bindweed wreathing over all-- Weed and grass and weed and grass, friendless, melancholy, cold, Wreathing the earth like wreathing snow from bare wall to low greening wall? Old were her eyes that lingered on old trees and grass and flowers trim. She smelt the ripe pears when they drooped and fell and broke upon the path. Old were her thoughts of things of old; her present thoughts were few and dim; Her eyes saw not the things she saw; she listened, to no living breath. Her youth and prime and autumn time bloomed in her thought all light and sweet: No wallflower more of sweet could hold, of sunny light no marigold. Fruit on her mind's boughs ripened full, in summer's and calm autumn's heat: Then fell, for there came none to pick; but winter came, and she was old. Now if her sons come they will find--not her: her empty garden only, The wallflower done and snapdragon still swinging with the greedy bees, Marigold glittering in the grass, scant foxglove ringing faintly, lonely, Close red fruit beading the long boughs and bindweed wreathing where it please. A tawny lean cat _Marmalade_ slinks like a panther through the tall Thin bending grass and watches long a scholar thrush rehearsing song; Or children running in the sun hunt and hunt a well lost ball; But most the garden sleeps away the day, but still, when eves are long, When eves are long and no moon rises, and nervous, still, is all the air, That small stiff figure moves again, silent amid the hushing grass; In the firm-carven lime tree's shade she moves, and meets her old thoughts there, Then in the deepening dark is lost, or her light steps unnoted pass. Only that careless garden keeps secure her memory though it sleeps, And the bright flowers and tyrant weed and tall grass shaking its loud seed Less lovely were if wanting her who like a living thought still creeps And sees what once she saw and music hears of her living sons and dead. THE LIME TREE That lime tree on the distant rising ground (If it was a lime tree) showed her yellow leaves Above the renewed green of wet August grass-- First Autumn yellow that on first Autumn eves Too soon was found. Comfortless lime tree! Scarce an aspen leaf Like a green butterfly flitted to the ground; There was no sign of Autumn in the grass. Even the long garden beds their beauty brief-- Their mignonette, Nasturtium and sweet-william and red stocks, And clover crouching in the border grass, And blood-like fuschia, eve's primrose and white phlox And honeysuckle--waved all their smell and hue Morn and eve anew. But that far lime tree yellowing by the oak, Warning oak, elm and poplar and each fresh tree Shaking in the south wind delightedly, And clover in the closeness of the grass, Warns also me. And now when all the trees are standing still Beneath the purple and white of the west sky, And time is standing still--as stand it will-- That early yellowing lime with palsied fingers Cannot be still. DARK CHESTNUT Thou shaking thy dark shadows down, Like leaves before the first leaves fall, Pourest upon the head of night Her loveliest loveliness of all-- Dark leaves that tremble When soft airs unto softer call. O, darker, softer fall her thoughts Upon the cold fields of my mind, Weaving a quiet music there Like leaf-shapes trembling in least wind: Dark thoughts that linger When the light's gone and the night's blind. I see her there beneath your boughs. Dark chestnut, though you see her not; Her white face and white hands are clear As the moon in your stretched arms caught; But stranger, clearer, The living shadows of her thought. LONELY AIRS Ah, bird singing late in the gloam While the evening shadow thickens, And the dizzy bat-wings roam, And the faint starlight quickens; And her bud eve's primrose bares Before night's cold fingers come: Thine are such lonely airs, Bird singing late in the gloam! THE CREEPER It covered all The cold east wall, Its green, thin gold, purple, brown, And flame running up and down; Lifting its quiet bosom to every wind that crept Up the high wall and in its darkness slept. Then when the wind slept all the creeper turned To undiminishing fire that burned and burned and burned. But one black night (For not in the light May such treacheries be done) Came with dishonoured weapon one And cut the stem just where the branches thin Their million-leaf'd wild wandering begin: Cut the firm stem quite through, and so it bled, And all the million leaves shivered and hung there dead. The wall how cold, The house how old Became when that warm bright fire died, And the fond wind could no more hide. And it was strange that so much death could be From one dark night-hour's darker felony; And how the leaves being dead could not cast down Their colours in bright pools of red and gold and brown. --It did not die, But flamed on high Morn after morn, even when white snow Covered all brightness, high and low; And in the night when the snow glimmered wan Still beautiful as a fire its brightness shone: Its million quiet leaves quivering in my mind, When from no earthly meadows crept the remembered wind. SMOKE They stood like men that hear immortal speech Moving among their branches, and like trees We stood and watched them, and in our still branches Echoes of that immortal music stirred. October days had touched their breasts with light, With yellow light and red light and wan green; And the gray cloud that grew from low to high Made the warm light more warm, the green more wan. We stood and watched them and in our still branches We felt the warm light glow, though now the rain Was loud upon the leaves. And standing there You cried, "O, that sweet smell, where is the fire? Where is the fire?" For sharp upon the rain The smell came of a wood fire and clung round Hanging upon our branches, till we saw No more those lighted trees nor heard the rain-- Knew only the deep echoes and the smell Of a wood fire that breathed its smoke across From some near hearth, or undiscovered world. QUEENS The red sun stared unwinking at the East Then slept under a cloak of hodden gray; The rimy fields held the last light of day, A little tender yet. And I remember How black against the pale and wintry west Stood the confused great army of old trees, Topping that lean, enormous-shouldered hill With crossing lances shivering and then still. I looked as one that sees Queens passing by and lovelier than he dreamed, With fringe of silver light following their feet, And all those lances vail'd, and solemn Knights Watching their Queens as with eyes grave and sweet They left for the gray fields those airy heights. Nothing had lovelier seemed-- Not April's noise nor the early dew of June, Nor the calm languid cow-eyed Autumn Moon, Nor ruffling woods the greenest I remember-- Than this pale light and dark of cold December. THE RED HOUSE On the wide fields the water gleams like snow, And snow like water pale beneath pale sky, When old and burdened the white clouds are stooped low. Sudden as thought, or startled near bird's cry, The whiteness of first light on hills of snow New dropped from skiey hills of tumbling white Streams from the ridge to where the long woods lie; And tall ridge-trees lift their soft crowns of white Above slim bodies all black or flecked with snow. By the tossed foam of the not yet frozen brook Black pigs go straggling over fields of snow; The air is full of snow, and starling and rook Are blacker amid the myriad streams