[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

POEMS EVERY IRISHMAN'S LIBRARY _Cr. 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d. net each. With Frontispieces._ LIST OF VOLUMES 1. Thomas Davis. SELECTIONS FROM HIS PROSE AND POETRY. Edited by T.W. ROLLESTON, M.A. (Dublin). 2. Wild Sports of the West. By W.H. MAXWELL. Edited by the EARL OF DUNRAVEN. 3. Legends of Saints and Sinners from the Irish. Edited by DOUGLAS HYDE, LL.D. (Dublin). 4. The Book of Irish Humour. Edited by CHARLES L. GRAVES, M.A. (Oxon.). 5. Irish Orators and Oratory. With an Introduction by Professor T.M. KETTLE, M.P. 6. The Book of Irish Poetry. Edited by ALFRED PERCEVAL GRAVES, M.A. (Dublin). 7. Standish O'Grady. SELECTED ESSAYS AND PASSAGES. Edited by ERNEST A. BOYD. 8. Recollections of Jonah Barrington. Edited by GEORGE A. BIRMINGHAM. 9. Poems of Sir Samuel Ferguson. Edited by ALFRED PERCEVAL GRAVES, M.A. 10. Carleton's Stories of Irish Life. With an Introduction by DARRELL FIGGIS. 11. The Collegians. By GERALD GRIFFIN. With Introduction by PADRAIC COLUM. 12. Maria Edgeworth: SELECTIONS FROM HER WORKS. With an Introduction by MALCOLM COTTER SETON, M.A. T. FISHER UNWIN LTD., LONDON [Illustration: Signature: WB Yeats] POEMS BY W.B. YEATS LONDON T. FISHER UNWIN LTD. ADELPHI TERRACE "The Wanderings of Oisin" was published with the lyrics now collected under the title "Crossways" in 1888, "The Countess Cathleen" with the lyrics now collected under the title "The Rose" in 1892, and "The Land of Heart's Desire" by itself in 1894. They were revised and reprinted in one volume in 1895, again revised and reprinted in 1899, and again reprinted in 1901, 1904, 1908, 1912, 1913, 1919, and 1920. (_All rights reserved_) PREFACE During the last year I have spent much time altering "The Countess Cathleen" and "The Land of Heart's Desire" that they might be a part of the repertory of the Abbey Theatre. I had written them before I had any practical experience, and I knew from the performance of the one in Dublin in 1899 and of the other in London in 1894 that they were full of defects. But in their new shape--and each play has been twice played during the winter--they have given me some pleasure, and are, I think, easier to play effectively than my later plays, depending less upon the players and more upon the producer, both having been imagined more for variety of stage-picture than variety of mood in the player. It was, indeed, the first performance of "The Countess Cathleen," when our stage-pictures were made out of poor conventional scenery and hired costumes, that set me writing plays where all would depend upon the player. The first two scenes are wholly new, and though I have left the old end in the body of this book I have given in the notes an end less difficult to producer and audience, and there are slight alterations elsewhere in the poem. "The Land of Heart's Desire," besides some mending in the details, has been thrown back in time because the metrical speech would have sounded unreal if spoken in a country cottage now that we have so many dialect comedies. The shades of Mrs. Fallan and Mrs. Dillane and of Dan Bourke and the Tramp would have seemed too boisterous or too vivid for shades made cold and distant with the artifice of verse. I have not again retouched the lyric poems of my youth, fearing some stupidity in my middle years, but have changed two or three pages that I always knew to be wrong in "The Wanderings of Usheen." W.B. YEATS. _June, 1912._ PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION I have added some passages to "The Land of Heart's Desire," and a new scene of some little length, besides passages here and there, to "The Countess Cathleen." The goddess has never come to me with her hands so full that I have not found many waste places after I had planted all that she had brought me. The present version of "The Countess Cathleen" is not quite the version adopted by the Irish Literary Theatre a couple of years ago, for our stage and scenery were capable of little; and it may differ more from any stage version I make in future, for it seems that my people of the waters and my unhappy dead, in the third act, cannot keep their supernatural essence, but must put on too much of our mortality, in any ordinary theatre. I am told that I must abandon a meaning or two and make my merchants carry away the treasure themselves. The act was written long ago, when I had seen so few plays that I took pleasure in stage effects. Indeed, I am not yet certain that a wealthy theatre could not shape it to an impressive pageantry, or that a theatre without any wealth could not lift it out of pageantry into the mind, with a dim curtain, and some dimly lighted players, and the beautiful voices that should be as important in poetical as in musical drama. The Elizabethan stage was so little imprisoned in material circumstance that the Elizabethan imagination was not strained by god or spirit, nor even by Echo herself--no, not even when she answered, as in "The Duchess of Malfi," in clear, loud words which were not the words that had been spoken to her. We have made a prison-house of paint and canvas, where we have as little freedom as under our own roofs, for there is no freedom in a house that has been made with hands. All art moves in the cave of the Chimæra, or in the garden of the Hesperides, or in the more silent house of the gods, and neither cave, nor garden, nor house can show itself clearly but to the mind's eye. Besides rewriting a lyric or two, I have much enlarged the note on "The Countess Cathleen," as there has been some discussion in Ireland about the origin of the story, but the other notes are as they have always been. They are short enough, but I do not think that anybody who knows modern poetry will find obscurities in this book. In any case, I must leave my myths and symbols to explain themselves as the years go by and one poems lights up another, and the stories that friends, and one friend in particular, have gathered for me, or that I have gathered myself in many cottages, find their way into the light. I would, if I could, add to that majestic heraldry of the poets, that great and complicated inheritance of images which written literature has substituted for the greater and more complex inheritance of spoken tradition, some new heraldic images, gathered from the lips of the common people. Christianity and the old nature faith have lain down side by side in the cottages, and I would proclaim that peace as loudly as I can among the kingdoms of poetry, where there is no peace that is not joyous, no battle that does not give life instead of death; I may even try to persuade others, in more sober prose, that there can be no language more worthy of poetry and of the meditation of the soul than that which has been made, or can be made, out of a subtlety of desire, an emotion of sacrifice, a delight in order, that are perhaps Christian, and myths and images that mirror the energies of woods and streams, and of their wild creatures. Has any part of that majestic heraldry of the poets had a very different fountain? Is it not the ritual of the marriage of heaven and earth? These details may seem to many unnecessary; but after all one writes poetry for a few careful readers and for a few friends, who will not consider such details unnecessary. When Cimabue had the cry it was, it seems, worth thinking of those that run; but to-day, when they can write as well as read, one can sit with one's companions under the hedgerow contentedly. If one writes well and has the patience, somebody will come from among the runners and read what one has written quickly, and go away quickly, and write out as much as he can remember in the language of the highway. W.B. YEATS. _January, 1901._ CONTENTS PAGE THE COUNTESS CATHLEEN 1 THE ROSE-- To the Rose upon the Rood of Time 109 Fergus and the Druid 111 The Death of Cuchulain 114 The Rose of the World 119 The Rose of Peace 120 The Rose of Battle 121 A Faery Song 123 The Lake Isle of Innisfree 124 A Cradle Song 125 The Pity of Love 126 The Sorrow of Love 127 When You are Old 128 The White Birds 129 A Dream of Death 131 A Dream of a Blessed Spirit 132 Who goes with Fergus 133 The Man who Dreamed of Faeryland 134 The Dedication to a Book of Stories selected from the Irish Novelists 137 The Lamentation of the Old Pensioner 139 The Ballad of Father Gilligan 140 The Two Trees 143 To Ireland in the Coming Times 145 THE LAND OF HEART'S DESIRE 149 CROSSWAYS-- The Song of the Happy Shepherd 197 The Sad Shepherd 200 The Cloak, The Boat, and the Shoes 202 Anashuya and Vijaya 203 The Indian upon God 209 The Indian to his Love 211 The Falling of the Leaves 213 Ephemera 214 The Madness of King Goll 216 The Stolen Child 220 To an Isle in the Water 223 Down by the Salley Gardens 224 The Meditation of the Old Fisherman 225 The Ballad of Father O'Hart 226 The Ballad of Moll Magee 229 The Ballad of the Foxhunter 232 THE WANDERINGS OF USHEEN 235 GLOSSARY AND NOTES 299 _TO SOME I HAVE TALKED WITH BY THE FIRE_ _While I wrought out these fitful Danaan rhymes, My heart would brim with dreams about the times When we bent down above the fading coals; And talked of the dark folk, who live in souls Of passionate men, like bats in the dead trees; And of the wayward twilight companies, Who sigh with mingled sorrow and content, Because their blossoming dreams have never bent Under the fruit of evil and of good: And of the embattled flaming multitude Who rise, wing above wing, flame above flame, And, like a storm, cry the Ineffable Name, And with the clashing of their sword blades make A rapturous music, till the morning break, And the white hush end all, but the loud beat Of their long wings, the flash of their white feet._ THE COUNTESS CATHLEEN "The sorrowful are dumb for thee" _Lament of Morion Shehone for Miss Mary Bourke_ TO MAUD GONNE SHEMUS RUA A Peasant MARY His Wife TEIG His Son ALEEL A Poet THE COUNTESS CATHLEEN OONA Her Foster Mother Two Demons disguised