[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

is converted, when exposed upon platinum wire to the flame of oxidation, into a dark brown oxide, which turns light yellow while cooling. It is slowly volatilized when heated, and a yellow sublimate of oxide is produced upon the charcoal. Oxide of bismuth melts upon platinum foil in the flame of oxidation very easily into a dark-brown liquid, which changes to a light yellow while cooling. By too strong a heat, it is reduced and penetrates the platinum foil. Upon charcoal, in the flame of oxidation and of reduction, it is reduced to metallic bismuth, which melts into one or more globules. By a continued blast they are slowly volatilized, and produce a yellow sublimate of oxide upon the charcoal, beyond which a white sublimate of carbonate of bismuth is visible. These sublimates disappear in the flame of reduction, but without communicating any color to it. _Borax_ dissolves oxide of bismuth upon platinum wire, in the flame of oxidation, easily to a clear yellow bead, which appears colorless after cooling. By the addition of more oxide, the hot bead becomes orange. It turns more yellow while cooling, and when cool is opalescent. Upon charcoal in the flame of reduction, the bead becomes turbid and greyish colored. The oxide is reduced with intumescence to the metallic state, and the bead becomes clear again. The addition of tin promotes the reduction. _Microcosmic Salt_ dissolves oxide of bismuth upon platinum wire, in the flame of oxidation, to a yellow bead, which becomes colorless after cooling. By the addition of more oxide, the bead is yellowish-brown while hot, and colorless after cooling, but not quite transparent. This bead becomes enamelled when heated by the intermittent flame; also, by the addition of still more of the oxide, after it is cooled. Upon charcoal, in the flame of reduction, and particularly with the addition of tin, the bead is colorless and transparent while hot, but while cooling becomes of a dark-gray color and opaque. Oxide of bismuth is reduced, by fusion with carbonate of soda, as well in the oxidating as in the reducing flame, instantly to metallic bismuth. As the above mentioned higher oxides of bismuth are converted by ignition into oxide of the metal and free oxygen, they have the same behavior before the blowpipe. As bismuth occurs mostly in the metallic form, it is necessary to know how to distinguish it from metals similar to it. Its brittleness distinguishes it from lead, zinc and tin, as they are readily flattened by a stroke of the hammer, while bismuth is broken to pieces. Bismuth, in this latter respect, might perhaps be mistaken for antimony or tellurium; but, by the following examination, it is easy to separate bismuth from antimony or tellurium. 1. Neither bismuth nor antimony sublimates when heated in a glass tube closed at one end. At a temperature which is about to fuse the glass, tellurium yields a small quantity of a white vapor (some tellurium is oxidized to tellurous acid by the oxygen of the air in the tube). After that, a grey metallic sublimate settles on the sides of the tube. 2. Heated in an open tube, antimony yields a white vapor, which coats the inside of the glass tube, and can be driven by heat from one part of the tube to another without leaving a residue. The metallic globule is covered with a considerable quantity of fused oxide. Tellurium produces, under the same circumstances, an intense vapor, and deposits on the glass a white powder, which melts by heat into globules that run over the glass. The metallic globules are covered by fused, transparent, and nearly colorless oxide, which becomes white while cooling. By a high temperature, and with little access of air, metallic tellurium sublimes with the deposition of a grey powder. Bismuth produces, under similar treatment, scarcely any vapor, unless it is combined with sulphur. The metal is enveloped by fused oxide of a dark yellow color, which appears light yellow after being cooled. It acts upon the glass, and dissolves it. 3. Upon charcoal, exposed to the blowpipe flame, the three metals are volatilized, and yield a sublimate upon the charcoal. That of antimony is white, while those of bismuth and tellurium are dark yellow. By exposing them to the flame of reduction, the sublimate of tellurium disappears and communicates an intense green color to the flame. The antimony incrustation gives a feeble greenish-blue color, while the sublimate of bismuth gives no perceptible color in the light. It is, however, worthy of notice that if the operation takes place in the dark, a very pale blue flame will be seen with the bismuth. (_c._) _Tin_ (Sn).--This metal does not occur in nature in the metallic state, very seldom in the sulphide, but chiefly in the oxide (tinstone). In the metallic state it is silver-white, possesses a very high lustre, is soft (but harder than lead), ductile, but has not much tenacity, and it is very malleable. The metal when it is cast gives a peculiar creaking noise when twisted or bent, which proceeds from the crystalline structure of the metal. This crystallization is quite clearly manifested by attacking the surface of the metal, or that of tin plate, with acids. Tin is very slightly tarnished by exposure to the air. It fuses at 442°, and becomes grey, being a mixture of the oxide and the metal. At a high temperature even, tin is but little subject to pass off as vapor. It is soluble in aqua regia, and with the liberation of hydrogen, in hot sulphuric and hydrochloric acids, and in cold dilute nitric acid, without decomposing water, or the production of a gas, while nitrate of tin and nitrate of ammonia are formed. Concentrated nitric acid converts tin into insoluble tin acids. ([alpha].) _Protoxide of Tin_ (SnO) is a dark-grey powder. Its hydrate is white, and is soluble in caustic alkalies. When this solution is heated, anhydrous crystalline black protoxide is separated. The soluble neutral salts of tin-protoxide are decomposed by the addition of water, and converted into acid soluble, and basic insoluble salts. When protoxide of tin is ignited with free access of air, it takes fire and is converted with considerable intensity into the acids, producing white vapors. This is likewise the case if it is touched by a spark of fire from steel. The hydrate of the protoxide of tin can be ignited by the flame of a candle, and glows like tinder. ([beta].) _Sesquioxide of Tin_ (Sn^{2}O^{3}) is a greyish-brown powder. Its hydrate is white, with a yellow tinge. It is soluble in aqua ammonia and in hydrochloric acid; this solution forms with solution of gold the "purple of Cassius." ([gamma].) _Stannic Acid_ (peroxide, SnO^{2}).--This acid occurs in nature crystallized in quadro-octahedrons, of a brown or an intense black color, and of great hardness (tinstone). Artificially prepared, it is a white or yellowish-white powder. It exists in two distinct or isomeric modifications, one of which is insoluble in acids (natural tin-acid) while the other (tin-acid prepared in the wet way) is soluble in acids. By ignition the soluble acid is converted into the insoluble. Both modifications form hydrates. _Reactions before the Blowpipe._--Metallic tin melts easily. It is covered in the flame of oxidation into a yellowish-white oxide, which is carried off sometimes by the stream of air which propels the flame. In the reduction flame, and upon charcoal, melting tin retains its metallic lustre, while a thin sublimate is produced upon the charcoal. This sublimate is light-yellow while hot, and gives a strong light in the flame of oxidation, and turns white while cooling. This sublimate is found near to the metal, and cannot be volatilized in the oxidation flame. In the flame of reduction it is reduced to metallic tin. Sometimes this incrustation is so imperceptible that it can scarcely be distinguished from the ashes of the charcoal. If such be the case, moisten it with a solution of cobalt, and expose it to the flame of oxidation, when the sublimate will exhibit, after cooling, a bluish-green color. Protoxide of tin takes fire in the flame of oxidation, and burns with flame and some white vapor into tin acid, or stannic acid. In a strong and continued reduction flame, it may be reduced to metal, when the same sublimate above mentioned is visible. The sesquioxide of tin behaves as the above. Stannic acid, heated in the flame of oxidation, does not melt and is not volatilized, but produces a strong light, and appears yellowish while hot, but changing as it cools to a dirty-yellow white color. In a strong and continued flame of reduction, it may be reduced likewise to the metallic state, with the production of the same sublimate as the above. _Borax_ dissolves tin compounds in the flame of oxidation, and upon platinum wire, very tardily, and in small quantity, to a transparent colorless bead, which remains clear after cooling, and also when heated intermittingly. But if a saturated bead, after being completely cool, is exposed again to the flame of oxidation, at a low red heat, the bead while cooling is opaque, loses its globular form, and exhibits an indistinct crystallization. This is the case too in the flame of reduction, but if the bead is highly saturated, a part of the oxide is reduced. _Microcosmic Salt_ dissolves the oxides in the flame of reduction very tardily in a small quantity to a transparent colorless bead, which remains clear while cooling. If to this bead sesquioxide of iron is added in proper proportion, the sesquioxide loses its property of coloring the bead, but of course an excess of the iron salt will communicate to the bead its own characteristic color. In the flame of reduction no further alteration is visible. Tin-oxides combine with carbonate of soda, in the flame of oxidation upon platinum wire, with intumescence to a bulky and confused mass, which is insoluble in more soda. Upon charcoal, in the reduction flame, it is easily reduced to a metallic globule. Certain compounds of tin-oxides, particularly if they contain tantalum, are by fusion with carbonate of soda reduced with difficulty; but by the addition of some borax, the reduction to the metallic state is easily effected. Tin-oxides exposed to the oxidation flame, then moistened with a solution of cobalt, and exposed again to the flame of oxidation, will exhibit, after having completely cooled, a bluish-green color. EIGHTH GROUP.--MERCURY, ARSENIC. These two metals are volatilized at a temperature lower than that of a red heat, and produce, therefore, no reactions with borax and microcosmic salt. Their oxides are easily reduced to the metallic state. (_a._) _Mercury_ (Hg).--This metal occurs in nature chiefly combined with sulphur as a bisulphide. It occurs still more rarely in the metallic