[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

clear bead, which appears, if a considerable quantity of columbic acid be present, of a yellow color while hot, but colorless when cold, and does not become clouded if the intermittent flame be applied to it. With carbonate of soda it fuses with effervescence to a bead which spreads over the charcoal. Melted with more soda, it becomes absorbed by the charcoal. It yields, moistened with a solution of nitrate of cobalt, and exposed to the oxidation flame after continued blowing, an infusible mass, presenting while hot a light grey color, but after being cooled that of a light red, similar to the color presented by magnesia under the same circumstances. But if there be some alkali mixed with it, a fusion at the edges will be manifest, and it will yield by cooling a bluish-black mass. (_e._) _Niobium_ (Ni).--This metal occurs as niobic acid in columbite (tantalite). Niobic acid is in its properties similar to columbic acid. It is white and infusible. By heating it either in the flames of reduction or oxidation, it presents as long as it continues hot, a greenish-yellow color, but becomes white when cool. Borax dissolves it in the oxidation flame quite readily to a clear bead, which, with a considerable quantity of niobic acid, is yellow when hot, but transparent and colorless when cold. A saturated bead is clear when either hot or cold, but becomes opaque when heated intermittingly. In the flame of reduction, borax is capable of dissolving more of the niobic acid, so that a bead overcharged and opaque in the oxidation flame appears quite clear when heated in the flame of reduction. A bead overcharged in the flame of reduction, appears by cooling dim and bluish-grey. Microcosmic salt dissolves in the flame of oxidation a great quantity of it to a clear bead, which is yellow while hot, but colorless when cold. In the flame of reduction, and in presence of a considerable quantity of niobic acid, the bead appears while hot of a light dirty blue color, and when cold, of a violet hue; but by the addition of more niobic acid, the bead, when hot, is of a dirty dark blue color, and when cold, of a transparent blue. In the presence of the oxides of iron, the bead is, while hot, of a brownish-red color, but changing when cool to a dark yellow. This acid fuses with an equal quantity of carbonate of soda upon charcoal, to a bead which spreads very quickly, and is then infusible. When fused with still more soda, it is absorbed. When moistened with nitrate of cobalt, and heated in the flame of oxidation, it yields an infusible mass which appears grey when hot, and dirty green when cold; but if the heat has been too strong, it is fused a little at the edges, which present a dark bluish-grey color. _Pelopium_ (Pe).--This metal occurs as an acid in the mineral columbite (tantalite), and is very similar to the two preceding metals. (_f._) _Pelopic Acid_ (PeO^{3}).--This acid is white, and appears yellow when heated, but resumes its white color when cold. Borax dissolves it in the oxidation flame to a clear colorless bead, which appears, when overcharged and heated intermittingly, enamel-white when cold. This is likewise the case in the flame of reduction, but when overcharged the color is light grey, when the bead is cooled. Microcosmic salt dissolves it in the flame of oxidation, to a clear yellow bead, which loses its color when cold. In the reduction flame, when the bead is highly saturated, a violet-brown color is produced. In presence of the oxides of iron, the reactions are like those of niobic acid. With carbonate of soda, the reactions are similar to those of niobic acid. By heating with nitrate of cobalt, it yields a light grey infusible mass. (_g._) _Titanium_ (Ti).--This metal occurs occasionally in the slags of iron works, in the metallic state, as small cubical crystals of a red color. It is a very hard metal, and very infusible. Titanic acid occurs in nature crystallized in _anatase_, _arkansite_, _brookite_, and _rutile_. Titanium is harder than agate, entirely infusible, and loses only a little of its lustre, which can be regained by fusion with borax. It does not melt with carbonate of soda, borax, or microcosmic salt, and is insoluble in every acid except the hydrofluoric. By ignition with saltpetre it is converted into titanic acid, which combines with the potassium, forming the titanate of potassium. _Titanic Acid_ (TiO^{2}) is white, insoluble, and, when heated, it appears yellow while hot, but resumes upon cooling its white color. Borax dissolves it in the oxidation flame to a clear yellow bead, which when cool is colorless. When overcharged, or heated with the intermitting flame, it is enamel-white after being cooled. In the reduction flame, the bead appears yellow, if the acid exists in small quantity, but if more be added, then it is of an orange, or dark yellow, or even brown. The saturated bead, when heated intermittingly, appears when cold of an enamelled blue. By addition of the acid, and by heating the bead on charcoal in the reduction flame, it becomes dark yellow while hot, but dark blue, or black and opaque when cold. This bead appears, when heated intermittingly, of a light blue, and when cold, enamelled. Microcosmic salt fuses with it in the oxidation flame to a clear colorless bead, which appears yellow only in the presence of a quantity of titanic acid, though by cooling it loses its color. In the reduction flame this bead exhibits a yellow color when hot, but is red while cooling, and when cold of a beautiful bluish-violet. If the bead is overcharged, the color becomes so dark that the bead appears opaque, though not presenting an enamel appearance. By heating the bead again in the oxidation flame the color disappears. The addition of some tin promotes the reduction. If the titanic acid contains oxide of iron, or if some is added, the bead appears, when cold, brownish-yellow, or brownish-red. By fusion with carbonate of soda, titanic acid is dissolved with effervescence to a clear dark yellow bead, which crystallizes by cooling, whereby so much heat is eliminated, that the bead, at the instant of its crystallization, glows with great brightness. A reduction to a metal cannot, however, be effected. By ignition with a solution of nitrate of cobalt in the oxidation flame, it yields an infusible yellowish-green mass. (_h._) _Uranium_ (U).--This rare metal occurs in the form of protoxide along with other oxides, in the mineral _pitch-blende_; as peroxide in _uranite_ and _uran-mica_, associated with phosphoric acid and lime. In the metallic state it presents the appearance of a dark grey mass, which is infusible, and remains unchanged when under water, or when exposed to dry air, but, when heated in the oxidation flame, it becomes oxidized, with lively sparkling, to a dark green mass, composed of the protoxide and peroxide. The _protoxide of uranium_ (UO) is black, uncrystalline, or forms a brown powder. When exposed to heat it is converted partially into peroxide, when it has a dark green color. The _peroxide of uranium_ (U^{2}O^{3}) is of an orange color, while its hydrate is of a fine yellow color, and in the form of a powder. The salts are yellow. By heating it in the oxidation flame, it acquires a dark green color, and is partly reduced to protoxide. In the reduction flame it presents a black appearance, and is there completely reduced to protoxide. Borax dissolves it in the oxidation flame to a clear dark yellow bead, which is colorless when cold, if the metal is not present in great quantity. If more of the metal, or peroxide, be added, the bead changes to orange when hot, and light yellow when cold. When heated with the intermittent flame, it requires a large quantity of the peroxide to produce an enamel appearance in the cooled bead. In the flame of reduction the bead becomes of a dirty green color, being partly reduced to protoxide, and appears, with a certain degree of saturation, black, when heated intermittingly, but never enamelled. The bead appears on charcoal, and with the addition of tin, of a dark green color. It fuses with microcosmic salt in the oxidation flame to a clear yellow bead, which is greenish-yellow when cold. In the reduction flame it produces a beautiful green bead, which increases when cold. When fused upon charcoal with the addition of tin, its color is darker. Carbonate of soda does not dissolve it, although with a very small portion of soda it gives indications of fusion, but with still more of the soda it forms a yellow, or light-brown mass, which is absorbed by the charcoal, but it is not reduced to the metallic state. (_i._) _Vanadium_ (V).--This very rare mineral is found in small quantity in iron-ores, in Sweden, and as vanadic acid in a few rare minerals. The metal presents the appearance of an iron-grey powder, and sometimes that of a silver-white mass. It is not oxidized either by air or water, and is infusible. _Vanadic Acid_ (VO^{3}) fuses upon platinum foil to a deep orange liquid, which becomes crystalline after cooling. When fused upon charcoal, one part of it is absorbed, while the rest remains upon the charcoal and is reduced to protoxide similar in appearance to graphite. A small portion of it fuses with borax in the oxidation flame to a clear colorless bead, which appears, with the addition of more vanadic acid, of a yellow color, but changes to green when cold. In the reduction flame the bead is brown while hot, but changes, upon cooling, to a beautiful sapphire-green. At the moment of crystallization, and at a degree of heat by which at daylight no glowing of the heated mass is visible it begins to glow again. The glow spreads from the periphery to the centre of the mass, and is caused by the heat liberated by the sudden crystallization of the mass. It now exhibits an orange color, and is composed of needle crystals in a compact mass. Microcosmic salt and vanadic acid fuse in the oxidation flame to a dark yellow bead which, upon cooling, loses much of its color. In the reduction flame the bead is brown while hot, but, upon cooling, acquires a beautiful green color. Vanadic acid fuses with carbonate of soda upon charcoal, and is absorbed. (_k._) _Chromium_ (Cr) occurs in the metallic state only in a very small quantity in meteoric iron, but is frequently found in union with oxygen, as oxide in chrome iron ore, and as chromic acid in some lead ores. In the metallic state it is of a light grey color, with but little