[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

not Fate and Time and Change Done well for me and for old Bridget there? We have a hundred acres of good land, And sit beside each other at the fire. I have this reverend Father for my friend, I look upon your face and my son's face-- We've put his plate by yours--and here he comes, And brings with him the only thing we have lacked, Abundance of good wine. (SHAWN _comes in_.) Stir up the fire, And put new turf upon it till it blaze; To watch the turf-smoke coiling from the fire, And feel content and wisdom in your heart, This is the best of life; when we are young We long to tread a way none trod before, But find the excellent old way through love, And through the care of children, to the hour For bidding Fate and Time and Change goodbye. (MARY _takes a sod of turf from the fire and goes out through the door_. SHAWN _follows her and meets her coming in_.) SHAWN What is it draws you to the chill o' the wood? There is a light among the stems of the trees That makes one shiver. MARY A little queer old man Made me a sign to show he wanted fire To light his pipe. BRIDGET You've given milk and fire Upon the unluckiest night of the year and brought, For all you know, evil upon the house. Before you married you were idle and fine And went about with ribbons on your head; And now--no, Father, I will speak my mind-- She is not a fitting wife for any man---- SHAWN Be quiet, Mother! MAURTEEN You are much too cross. MARY What do I care if I have given this house, Where I must hear all day a bitter tongue, Into the power of faeries! BRIDGET You know well How calling the good people by that name, Or talking of them over much at all, May bring all kinds of evil on the house. MARY Come, faeries, take me out of this dull house! Let me have all the freedom I have lost; Work when I will and idle when I will! Faeries, come take me out of this dull world, For I would ride with you upon the wind. Run on the top of the dishevelled tide, And dance upon the mountains like a flame. FATHER HART You cannot know the meaning of your words. MARY Father, I am right weary of four tongues: A tongue that is too crafty and too wise, A tongue that is too godly and too grave, A tongue that is more bitter than the tide, And a kind tongue too full of drowsy love, Of drowsy love and my captivity. (SHAWN BRUIN _leads her to a seat at the left of the door_.) SHAWN Do not blame me; I often lie awake Thinking that all things trouble your bright head. How beautiful it is--your broad pale forehead Under a cloudy blossoming of hair! Sit down beside me here--these are too old, And have forgotten they were ever young. MARY O, you are the great door-post of this house, And I the branch of blessed quicken wood, And if I could I'd hang upon the post, Till I had brought good luck into the house. (_She would put her arms about him, but looks shyly at the priest and lets her arms fall._) FATHER HART My daughter, take his hand--by love alone God binds us to Himself and to the hearth, That shuts us from the waste beyond His peace, From maddening freedom and bewildering light. SHAWN Would that the world were mine to give it you, And not its quiet hearths alone, but even All that bewilderment of light and freedom, If you would have it. MARY I would take the world And break it into pieces in my hands To see you smile watching it crumble away. SHAWN Then I would mould a world of fire and dew, With no one bitter, grave or over wise, And nothing marred or old to do you wrong, And crowd the enraptured quiet of the sky With candles burning to your lonely face. MARY Your looks are all the candles that I need. SHAWN Once a fly dancing in a beam of the sun, Or the light wind blowing out of the dawn, Could fill your heart with dreams none other knew, But now the indissoluble sacrament Has mixed your heart that was most proud and cold With my warm heart for ever; the sun and moon Must fade and heaven be rolled up like a scroll; But your white spirit still walk by my spirit. (_A Voice singing in the wood._) MAURTEEN There's some one singing. Why, it's but a child. It sang, "The lonely of heart is withered away." A strange song for a child, but she sings sweetly. Listen, listen! (_Goes to door._) MARY O, cling close to me, Because I have said wicked things to-night. THE VOICE The wind blows out of the gates of the day, The wind blows over the lonely of heart, And the lonely of heart is withered away. While the faeries dance in a place apart, Shaking their milk-white feet in a ring, Tossing their milk-white arms in the air; For they hear the wind laugh and murmur and sing Of a land where even the old are fair, And even the wise are merry of tongue; But I heard a reed of Coolaney say, "When the wind has laughed and murmured and sung The lonely of heart is withered away!" MAURTEEN Being happy, I would have all others happy, So I will bring her in out of the cold. (_He brings in the faery child._) THE CHILD I tire of winds and waters and pale lights. MAURTEEN And that's no wonder, for when night has fallen The wood's a cold and a bewildering place, But you are welcome here. THE CHILD I am welcome here. For when I tire of this warm little house There is one here that must away, away. MAURTEEN O, listen to her dreamy and strange talk. Are you not cold? THE CHILD I will crouch down beside you, For I have run a long, long way this night. BRIDGET You have a comely shape. MAURTEEN Your hair is wet. BRIDGET I'll warm your chilly feet. MAURTEEN You have come indeed A long, long way--for I have never seen Your pretty face--and must be tired and hungry, Here is some bread and wine. THE CHILD The wine is bitter. Old mother, have you no sweet food for me? BRIDGET I have some honey. (_She goes into the next room._) MAURTEEN You have coaxing ways, The mother was quite cross before you came. (BRIDGET _returns with the honey and fills a porringer with milk_.) BRIDGET She is the child of gentle people; look At her white hands and at her pretty dress. I've brought you some new milk, but wait a while And I will put it to the fire to warm, For things well fitted for poor folk like us Would never please a high-born child like you. THE CHILD From dawn, when you must blow the fire ablaze, You work your fingers to the bone, old mother. The young may lie in bed and dream and hope, But you must work your fingers to the bone Because your heart is old. BRIDGET The young are idle. THE CHILD Your memories have made you wise, old father; The young must sigh through many a dream and hope, But you are wise because your heart is old. (BRIDGET _gives her more bread and honey_.) MAURTEEN O, who would think to find so young a girl Loving old age and wisdom? THE CHILD No more, mother. MAURTEEN What a small bite! The milk is ready now. (_Hands it to her._) What a small sip! THE CHILD Put on my shoes, old mother. Now I would like to dance now I have eaten, The reeds are dancing by Coolaney lake, And I would like to dance until the reeds And the white waves have danced themselves asleep. (BRIDGET _puts on the shoes, and the_ CHILD _is about to dance, but suddenly sees the crucifix and shrieks and covers her eyes_.) What is that ugly thing on the black cross? FATHER HART You cannot know how naughty your words are! That is our Blessed Lord. THE CHILD Hide it away! BRIDGET I have begun to be afraid again. THE CHILD Hide it away! MAURTEEN That would be wickedness! BRIDGET That would be sacrilege! THE CHILD The tortured thing! Hide it away! MAURTEEN Her parents are to blame. FATHER HART That is the image of the Son of God. THE CHILD (_caressing him_) Hide it away, hide it away! MAURTEEN No, no. FATHER HART Because you are so young and like a bird, That must take fright at every stir of the leaves, I will go take it down. THE CHILD Hide it away! And cover it out of sight and out of mind! (FATHER HART _takes crucifix from wall and carries it towards inner room_.) FATHER HART Since you have come into this barony, I will instruct you in our blessed faith; And being so keen witted you'll soon learn. (_To the others._) We must be tender to all budding things, Our Maker let no thought of Calvary Trouble the morning stars in their first song. (_Puts crucifix in inner room._) THE CHILD Here is level ground for dancing; I will dance. (_Sings._) "The wind blows out of the gates of the day, The wind blows over the lonely of heart, And the lonely of heart is withered away." (_She dances._) MARY (_to_ SHAWN) Just now when she came near I thought I heard Other small steps beating upon the floor, And a faint music blowing in the wind, Invisible pipes giving her feet the tune. SHAWN I heard no steps but hers. MARY I hear them now, The unholy powers are dancing in the house. MAURTEEN Come over here, and if you promise me Not to talk wickedly of holy things I will give you something. THE CHILD Bring it me, old father. MAURTEEN Here are some ribbons that I bought in the town For my son's wife--but she will let me give them To tie up that wild hair the winds have tumbled. THE CHILD Come, tell me, do you love me? MAURTEEN Yes, I love you. THE CHILD Ah, but you love this fireside. Do you love me? FATHER HART When the Almighty puts so great a share Of His own ageless youth into a creature, To look is but to love. THE CHILD But you love Him? BRIDGET She is