[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

yet not alone Since all was friendly being all unknown; To-day yesterday forgetting, And never with to-morrow's sorrow fretting; Not seeing good from ill Since but to breathe and run and sleep was well; Asking nor fearing nought Since the body's nerves and veins held all his thought.... Such a child again shall I Stray in some valley of infinity, Where infinite finite seems And nothing more immortal than my dreams? Where earthly seasons play Still with their snows and blossoms and night and day, And no unsetting sun Brightens the white cloud and awakes the moon? In such half-life's half-light To cloak with mortal an immortal sight? With uninformed desire, Shorn passion, gentle mind, contented fire, Ignorant love; to run But with the little journeys of the sun, And at evening sleep With birds and beasts, and stars rocked in the deep? But maybe this man's mind Will leave not its maturity behind, And nothing will forget Of all that teased or eased it here, while yet A mortal dress it wore; And these quick-darting thoughts and probings sore More sharply then will turn; And lonelier and yet hungrier the heart burn. O, I would not forget Earth is too rich, too dark, too sour, too sweet:-- Nor be divorcèd quite From the late tingling of the nerves' delight. Less I would never be Than the deep-graving years have made of me-- A memory, pulse, mind, Seed and harvest, a reaper and sower blind. I shall no more be I If I forget the world's joy and agony; If I forget how strong Is the assault of scarce-rebukèd wrong. I shall no more be I If my ears hear not earth's embittered cry Perpetual; and forget The unrighteous shackles on man's ankle set; If no more my heart beat Quicker because on earth is something sweet; I shall no more be I If the ancestral voices no more sigh Familiar in my brain, And leave me to cold silence and its pain, And the bewildered stare On an unhomely land in biting air: If the blood no more vex The heart with the importunities of sex, If indeed marriage bind No more body to body, mind to mind, And love be powerless, cold, That once by love's strength only was controlled, And that chief spiritual force Be dam'd back and stretch frozen to its source.... To the Heavenly Power I cry, Foiled by these dreams of immortality, "Let all be as Thou wilt, And the foundations in Thy dark mind built; Even infinity Be but imagination's dream of Thee; And let thought still, still Vainly its waves on night's cliff break and spill. "But, Heavenly Power," I'd cry, Knowing how, near or far, He still is nigh, "When this burning flesh Is burnt away to a little driven ash, What thing soever shall rise From that cold ash unseen to unseen skies, Grant that so much of me Shall rise as may remember Thy world, and Thee." SNOWS Now the long-bearded chilly-fingered winter Over the green fields sweeps his cloak and leaves Its whiteness there. It caught on the wild trees, Shook whiteness on the hedges and left bare South-sloping corners and south-fronting smooth Barks of tall beeches swaying 'neath their whiteness So gently that the whiteness does not fall. The ash copse shows all white between gray poles, The oaks spread arms to catch the wandering snow. But the yews--I wondered to see their dark all white, To see the soft flakes fallen on those grave deeps, Lying there, not burnt up by the yews' slow fire. Could Time so whiten all the trembling senses, The youth, the fairness, the all-challenging strength, And load even Love's grave deeps with his barren snows? Even so. And what remains? The hills of thought That shape Time's snows and melt them and lift up Green and unchanging to the wandering stars. THE THORN The days of these two years like busy ants Have gone, confused and happy and distressed, Rich, yet sad with aching wants, Crowded, yet lonely and unblessed. I stare back as they vanish in a swarm, Seeming how purposeless, how mean and vain, Till creeping joy and brief alarm Are gone and prick me not again. The days are gone, yet still this heart of fire Smouldering, smoulders on with ancient love; And the red embers of desire I would not, oh, nor dare remove! Where is the bosom my head rested on, The arms that caught my boy's head, the soft kiss? Where is the light of your eyes gone?-- For now I know what darkness is.... It is the loneliness, the loneliness, Since she that brought me here has left me here With the sharp need of her to press Sudden upon the nerve of fear; It is the loneliness that wounds me still, Shut from the generations that are past, That with their blood my warm veins fill And on my spirit their spirit cast; That haunt me so and yet how strangely keep Beyond communion, alone, alone, Like that huge ancient hill asleep, With to-day's noisy winds o'erblown. There from the hill is sprung a single thorn, Wind-twisted, straining from the earth to the skies, Thin branches pleading with wild morn And root that pressed in darkness lies. From the unknown of earth and heaven are brought Her strength, her weakness, death and bravest life; Shadow and light and wind have wrought Beauty from change, calm out of strife. That tree upon the unchanging hill am I, Alone upon the dark unwhispering hill:-- You in the stirless cold past lie, But I ache warm and lonely still. There's not a storm tossing among my boughs, Nor gentle air drawn under quiet skies, There's not an idle cloud that flows Across the mind, nor bird that cries, But says (if I have eyes, or ears to hear), "You in this mortal being are alone." And morn and noon and night-stars clear Repeat, "Alone, alone, alone." Yet the tree in wild storm her dark boughs shakes, Thrusting her roots in the earth, her arms to heaven, Fresh washed with dew when morning breaks; And new light back to the light is given. * * * * * Is it that I that loved have yet forgot? Is it that I that looked have yet been blind? Longing, have yet remembered not Nor heard you whispering in my mind? But at a word you are nearer now than when We sat and spoke, or merely looked and thought, Knowing all speech superfluous then, Since what we needed, silence brought;-- And your warm bosom my head rested on, The arms that caught my boy's head, the soft kiss, The brown grave eyes that gently shone-- Are here again, and brightness is. Two years have gone, but nearer now are you, Being dearer now; and this false loneliness Is but a dream that cloudlike grew, Then growing cloudlike less and less Passes away, leaving me like the tree Bright with the sun and wind and lingering dew; Homely is all the world for me Being sweeter with the sense of you. CHANGE Just as this wood, cast on the snaky fire, Crushes the curling heads till smoke is thickened And the ash sinks beneath the billet's weight, And then again the hissing heads are quickened: Just as this wood, by fretful fangs new stung, Glows angrily, then whitens in the grate And slowly smouldering smoulders away, And dies defeated every famished tongue And nothing's left but a memory of heat And the sunk crimson telling warmth was sweet: Just as this wood, once green with Spring's swift fire Dies to a pinch of ashes cold and gray.... Just as this wood---- BEYOND THE BARN I rose up with the sun And climbed the hill. I saw the white mists run And shadows run Down into hollow woods. I went with the white clouds That swept the hill. A wind struck the low hedge trees And clustering trees, And rocked in each tall elm. The long afternoon was calm When down the hill I came, and felt the air cool, The shadows cool; And I walked on footsore, Saying, "But two hours more, Then, the last hill.... Surely this road I know, These hills I know, All the unknown is known, "And that barn, black and lone, High on the hill-- There the long road ends, The long day ends, And travelling is over." ... Nor thought nor travelling's over. Here on the hill The black barn is a shivering ruin, A windy cold ruin. I must go on and on, Where often my thought has gone, Up hill, down hill, Beyond this ruin of Time; Forgetting Time I must follow my thought still. LET HONOUR SPEAK Let Honour speak, for only Honour can End nobly what in nobleness began. Nor hate nor anger may, though just their cause, This strife prolong, if Honour whisper, Pause! Let Honour speak. For Honour keeps the ashes of the dead, Accounts the anguish of all widowhead, All childlessness, all sacrifice, defeat, And all our dead have died for, though to live was sweet. Let Honour speak, Nor weariness nor weakness murmur, Stay! Nor for this _Now_ England's _To be_ betray. All else be dumb, for only Honour can End nobly what in nobleness began. TALK So many were there talking that I heard Nothing at first quite plain, as I sat down; Until from this man's gibe and that keen word, Another's chilly smile or peevish frown, I caught their talk--but added none of mine. They said how she still fumbled with her fate, How she had banished visitants divine, How long her sleep had been, her sloth how great, How others had drawn near and passed her by, While she luxuriously had dreamed, dreamed on, She, she her own eternal enemy, And wanting brain, brain, brain would be undone. The glasses tinkled as they talked and laughed, And if the door a moment hung ajar The noises of the street, remotely soft, Crept in as from a world sunken afar. And still they talked, and then well pleased were pleased To talk of other things--another's wife, Money that ministers to a mind diseased, And queer extravagant whims of death and life.... But I rose up, flushed at the careless slander, Heedless what other laughing things were said, And my bruised thoughts began to lift and wander Far off, as from that jargoning I fled. I saw the sharp green hills, the silver clouds At rest upon the hills, the silver streams Creeping between prone shoulders of dark woods. I saw wide marshlands laved with level beams Of the last light; I saw ships on the sea That foamed hard by, stinging the