# Transcranial direct-current stimulation

Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a form of neuromodulation that uses constant, low direct current delivered via electrodes on the head. It was originally developed to help patients with brain injuries or neuropsychiatric conditions such as major depressive disorder. It can be contrasted with cranial electrotherapy stimulation, which generally uses alternating current the same way, as well as transcranial magnetic stimulation.

Research shows increasing evidence for tDCS as a treatment for depression.  There is mixed evidence about whether tDCS is useful for cognitive enhancement in healthy people. There is no strong evidence that tDCS is useful for memory deficits in Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease, non-neuropathic pain, nor for improving arm or leg functioning and muscle strength in people recovering from a stroke. There is emerging supportive evidence for tDCS in the management of schizophreniaespecially for negative symptoms.

Efficacy

Depression 
In 2015, the British National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) found tDCS to be a safe and effective treatment modality for depression, though further investigation was needed. Since then, several studies and meta-analyses have demonstrated tDCS to be a safe and effective treatment for depression.

A meta-analysis published in 2020 found moderate- to high-quality evidence for tDCS as a treatment for depression with only low to
moderate clinical efficacy. Active tDCS was significantly superior to sham for response (30.9% vs. 18.9% respectively), remission (19.9% vs. 11.7%) and depression improvement. According to a 2016 meta analysis published in the British Journal of Psychiatry, 34% of tDCS-treated patients showed at least 50% symptom reduction (compared to 19% placebo) across 6 randomised controlled trials.

Other medical use 
Recent research on tDCS has shown promising results in treating other mental health conditions such as anxiety and PTSD. More research is required on the topic. There is also evidence that tDCS is useful in treating neuropathic pain after spinal cord injury.  There is evidence of very low to moderate quality that tDCS can improve activities of daily living assessment after stroke but further research is needed to evaluate how long this effect is sustained.

Transcranial direct-current stimulaiton is also used to augment speech therapy in patients with acquired language disorders like aphasia, or to help maintain language abilities in the case of primary progressive aphasia, a neurodegenerative condition.

Safety
According to the British National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), the evidence on tDCS for depression raises no major safety concerns.  

As of 2017, at stimulation up to 60 min and up to 4 mA over two weeks, adverse effects include skin irritation, a phosphene at the start of stimulation, nausea, headache, dizziness, and itching under the electrode. Typical treatment sessions lasting for about 20–30 minutes repeated daily for several weeks in the treatment of depression. Adverse effects of long term treatment were not known as of 2017. Nausea most commonly occurs when the electrodes are placed above the mastoid for stimulation of the vestibular system.  A phosphene is a brief flash of light that can occur if an electrode is placed near the eye.

People susceptible to seizures, such as people with epilepsy should not receive tDCS. Studies have been completed to determine the current density at which overt brain damage occurs in rats.  It was found that in cathodal stimulation, a current density of 142.9 A/m2 delivering a charge density of 52400 C/m2 or higher caused a brain lesion in the rat.  This is over two orders of magnitude higher than protocols that were in use as of 2009.

Mechanism of action
tDCS stimulates and activates brain cells by delivering electrical signals. The lasting modulation of cortical excitability produced by tDCS makes it an effective solution to facilitate rehabilitation and treat a range of neuropsychiatric disorders. The way that the stimulation changes brain function is either by causing the neuron’s resting membrane potential to depolarize or hyperpolarize.  When positive stimulation (anodal tDCS) is delivered, the current causes a depolarization of the resting membrane potential, which increases neuronal excitability and allows for more spontaneous cell firing.  When negative stimulation (cathodal tDCS) is delivered, the current causes a hyperpolarization of the resting membrane potential. This decreases neuron excitability due to the decreased spontaneous cell firing.

In case of treating depression, tDCS currents specifically target the left side of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) located in the frontal lobe. Left DLPFC has been shown to be associated with lower activity in the depressed population.

tDCS is able to achieve cortical changes even after the stimulation is ended.  The duration of this change depends on the length of stimulation as well as the intensity of stimulation.  The effects of stimulation increase as the duration of stimulation increases or the strength of the current increases.  tDCS has been proposed to promote both long term potentiation and long term depression, and further research is needed for validation.

Operation
Transcranial direct current stimulation works by sending constant, low direct current through the electrodes.  When these electrodes are placed in the region of interest, the current induces intracerebral current flow.  This current flow then either increases or decreases the neuronal excitability in the specific area being stimulated based on which type of stimulation is being used.  This change of neuronal excitability leads to alteration of brain function, which can be used in various therapies as well as to provide more information about the functioning of the human brain.

Parts
Transcranial direct current stimulation is a relatively simple technique requiring only a few parts.  These include two electrodes and a battery-powered device that delivers constant current.  Control software can also be used in experiments that require multiple sessions with differing stimulation types so that neither the person receiving the stimulation nor the experimenter knows which type is being administered.  Each device has an anodal, positively charged electrode and a cathodal, negative electrode.  Current is "conventionally" described as flowing from the positive anode, through the intervening conducting tissue, to the cathode, creating a circuit.  Note that in traditional electric circuits constructed from metal wires, charge drift is created by the motion of negatively charged electrons, which actually flow from cathode to anode.  However, in biological systems, such as the head, current is usually created by the flow of ions, which may be positively or negatively chargedpositive ions will flow towards the cathode; negative ions will flow toward the anode. The device may control the current as well as the duration of stimulation.

Setup
To set up the tDCS device, the electrodes and the skin need to be prepared.  This ensures a low resistance connection between the skin and the electrode. The careful placement of the electrodes is crucial to successful tDCS technique. The electrode pads come in various sizes with benefits to each size.  A smaller sized electrode achieves a more focused stimulation of a site while a larger electrode ensures that the entirety of the region of interest is being stimulated. If the electrode is placed incorrectly, a different site or more sites than intended may be stimulated resulting in faulty results. One of the electrodes is placed over the region of interest and the other electrode, the reference electrode, is placed in another location in order to complete the circuit.  This reference electrode is usually placed on the neck or shoulder of the opposite side of the body than the region of interest.  Since the region of interest may be small, it is often useful to locate this region before placing the electrode by using a brain imaging technique such as fMRI or PET. Once the electrodes are placed correctly, the stimulation can be started.  Many devices have a built-in capability that allows the current to be "ramped up" or increased gradually until the necessary current is reached.  This decreases the amount of stimulation effects felt by the person receiving the tDCS. After the stimulation has been started, the current will continue for the amount of time set on the device and then will automatically be shut off. Recently a new approach has been introduced where instead of using two large pads, multiple (more than two) smaller sized gel electrodes are used to target specific cortical structures. This new approach is called High Definition tDCS (HD-tDCS). In a pilot study, HD-tDCS was found to have greater and longer lasting motor cortex excitability changes than sponge tDCS.

Types of s