[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

form, or combined with silver, selenium, or chlorine. Mercury, in the metallic state, has a strong lustre, and is liquid at ordinary temperatures, whereby it is distinguished from any other metal. It freezes at 40° and boils at 620°, but it evaporates at common temperatures. Pure mercury is unalterable. Upon being exposed to the air, it tarnishes only by admixture with other metals, turns grey on the surface, and loses its lustre. It is soluble in cold nitric acid and in concentrated hot sulphuric acid, but not in hydrochloric acid. ([chi].) _Protoxide of Mercury_ (Hg^{2}O).--It is a black powder, which is decomposed by ignition into metallic mercury and oxygen. By digestion with certain acids, and particularly with caustic alkalies, it is converted into metallic mercury and peroxide. Some neutral salts of the protoxide are only partly soluble in water, as they are converted into basic insoluble and acid soluble salts. Protoxide of mercury is completely insoluble in hydrochloric acid. Its neutral salts change blue litmus paper to red. ([beta].) _Peroxide of Mercury_ (HgO).--This oxide exists in two allotropic modifications. One is of a brick-red color, and the other is orange. Being exposed to heat, they turn black, but regain their respective colors upon cooling. They are decomposed at a high temperature into metallic mercury and oxygen. They yield with acids their own peculiar salts. Mercury, in the metallic form, can never be mistaken for any other metal in consequence of its fluid condition at ordinary temperatures. Exposed to the blowpipe flame, it is instantly volatilized. This is also the case with it when combined with other metals. The oxides of mercury are, in the oxidation and reduction flames, instantly reduced and volatilized. They do not produce any alteration with fluxes, as they are volatilized before the bead melts. Heated with carbonate of soda in a glass tube closed at one end, they are reduced to metallic mercury, which is volatilized, and condenses upon a cool portion of the tube as a grey powder. By cautious knocking against the tube, or by rubbing with a glass rod, this sublimate can be brought together into one globule of metallic mercury. Compounds of mercury can be most completely reduced by a mixture of neutral oxalate of potassa and cyanide of potassium. If the substance under examination contains such a small quantity of mercury that it cannot be distinguished by volatilization, a strip of gold leaf may be attached to an iron wire, and introduced during the experiment in the glass tube. The smallest trace of mercury will whiten the gold leaf in spots. (_b._) _Arsenic_ (As).--This metal occurs in considerable quantity in nature, chiefly combined with sulphur or metals. Arsenic, in the metallic state, is of a whitish-grey color, high lustre, and is crystalline, of a foliated structure, and is so brittle that it can be pulverized. It does not melt, but is volatilized at 356°. Its vapor has a strong alliaceous odor. Arsenic sublimes in irregular crystals. By exposure to the air it soon tarnishes, and is coated black. Being mixed with nitrate of potassa and inflamed, it detonates with vehemence. Mixed with carbonate of potassa, it is inflamed by a stroke of the hammer, and detonates violently. Heated in oxygen gas, it is inflamed, and burns with a pale blue flame to arsenious acid. ([beta].) _Arsenious Acid_ (AsO^{3}).--This acid crystallizes in octahedrons, or, when fused, forms a colorless glass, which finally becomes opaque and enamel-like, or forms a white powder. It sublimes without change or decomposition. When heated for a longer while below the temperature of sublimation, it melts into a transparent, colorless, tough glass. The opaque acid is sparingly soluble in cold water, and still more soluble in hot water. It is converted, by continued boiling, into the transparent acid, which is much more soluble in water. Arsenious acid is easily dissolved by caustic potassa. It is also soluble in hydrochloric acid. This acid occurs associated with antimonious acid, protoxide of tin, protoxide of lead, and oxide of copper. It occurs likewise in very small quantity in ferruginous mineral springs. ([gamma].)_Arsenic Acid_ (AsO^{5}) is a white mass, which readily absorbs moisture and dissolves. It will not volatilize at a low red heat, nor will it decompose. Exposed to a strong heat, it is decomposed, yielding oxygen, and passing into arsenious acid. _Reactions before the Blowpipe._ Metallic arsenic, heated in a glass tube closed at one end, yields a black sublimate of a metallic lustre, and at the same time gives out the characteristic alliaceous odor. This is the case too with alloys of arsenic, if there is a maximum quantity of arsenic present. When heated in a glass tube open at both ends, metallic arsenic is oxidized to arsenious acid, which appears as a white crystalline sublimate on the sides of the glass tube. This deposit will occur at some distance from the assay, in consequence of the great volatility of the arsenic. The sublimate can be driven from one place upon the tube to another, by a very low heat. Alloys of arsenic are converted into basic arseniates of metal oxides, while surplus arsenic is converted into arsenious acid, which sublimes on the tube. If too much arsenic is used for this experiment, a dark-brown incrustation will sublime upon the sides of the tube which will give an alliaceous smell. If this sublimate should be deposited near the assay, then it resembles the white sublimate of arsenious acid. Heated upon charcoal, metallic arsenic is volatilized before it melts, and incrusts the charcoal in the flame of oxidation as a white deposit of arsenious acid. This sublimate appears sometimes of a greyish color, and takes place at some distance from the assay. When heated slightly with the blowpipe flame, this sublimate is instantly driven away, and being heated rapidly in the reduction flame, it disappears with a light blue tinge, while the usual alliaceous or garlic smell may be discerned. Arsenious acid sublimes in both glass tubes very readily, as a white crystalline sublimate. These crystals appear to be regular octahedrons when observed under the microscope. Upon charcoal it instantly volatilizes, and when heated, the characteristic garlic smell may be observed. Arsenic acid yields, heated strongly in a glass tube closed at one end, oxygen and arsenious acid, the latter of which sublimes in the cool portions of the tube. Compounds of arsenic produce, in consequence of their volatility, no reactions with fluxes. Being heated upon charcoal with carbonate of soda, they are reduced to metallic arsenic which may be detected by the alliaceous odor peculiar to all the arsenic compounds when volatilized. NINTH GROUP.--COPPER, SILVER, GOLD. These metals are not volatile, neither are their oxides. They are reduced to the metallic state, by fusion with carbonate of soda, when they melt to a metallic grain. The oxides of silver and gold are reduced _per se_ to the metallic state by ignition. In the reduction of the oxides of this group, no sublimate is visible upon the charcoal. (_a._) _Copper_ (Cu).--This metal occurs in the metallic state, also as the protoxide, and as oxides combined with acids in different salts (carbonate of copper as malachite, etc.) The sulphide of copper is the principal ore of copper occurring in nature. In the metallic state, copper is of a red color, has great lustre and tenacity, is ductile and malleable, and crystallizes in octahedrons and cubes. It melts at a bright red heat, is more difficult than silver to fuse, but fuses more readily than gold. It absorbs oxygen while melting. There arises from its surface a fine dust of metallic globules, which are covered with the protoxide. The surface of the metal is likewise covered with the protoxide. Copper exposed to moist air tarnishes, and is converted into hydratic carbonate of copper. When ignited in the open air, it is soon covered with the brownish-red protoxide. ([chi].) _Protoxide of Copper_ (Cu^{2}O).--This oxide occurs in nature, crystallized in octahedrons of a ruby-red color, of a lamellar structure, and transparent. Artificially prepared, it forms a powder of the same color. It is decomposed by dilute acids into salts of peroxide and metal. It is converted by ignition, with free access of air, into peroxide. ([beta].) _Oxide of Copper_ (CuO).--This oxide is a dark-brown or black powder. It is dissolved by acids, with a blue or green-colored solution. It is soluble in aqua ammonia, and the solution is of a dark blue color. _Reactions before the Blowpipe._--Oxide of copper exposed upon platinum wire to the inmost flame (the blue flame), communicates to the external flame a green color. Heated upon charcoal in the oxidation flame, it melts to a black ball, soon spreads over the charcoal, and is partially reduced. Exposed to the reduction flame, at a temperature which will not melt copper, it is reduced with a bright metallic lustre, but as soon as the blast ceases, the surface of the metal becomes oxidized, and appears dark brown or black. If the temperature is continued still higher, it melts to a metallic grain. _Borax_ dissolves the oxide of copper in the flame of oxidation to a clear green-colored bead, even if the quantity of oxide be quite small, but by cooling, the bead becomes blue. In the flame of reduction upon platinum wire, the bead soon becomes colorless, but while cooling presents a red color (protoxide of copper). This bead is opaque, but, if too much of the oxide is added, a part of it is reduced to metal, which is visible by breaking the metallic grain. Upon charcoal, the oxide is reduced to the metal, and the bead appears colorless after cooling. With the addition of some tin, the bead becomes brownish-red and opaque after cooling. _Microcosmic Salt_ dissolves oxide of copper in the flame of oxidation to a green bead, not so intensely colored as the borax bead. In the reduction flame the bead, if pretty well saturated, becomes dark-green while hot, and brownish-red when cool, opaque and enamel-like. If the oxide is so little that no reaction is visible, by the addition of some tin, the bead appears colorless while hot, and dark brownish-red and opaque when cold. _Carbonate of Soda_ dissolves oxide of copper in the oxidation flame upon platinum wire, to a clear, green bead, which loses its color when cooling, and becomes opaque. Upon charcoal, it is reduced to the metal, the soda is absorbed by the charcoal, and the metallic particles melt with sufficient heat to a grain. (_b._) _Silver_ (Ag).--This metal occurs in nature in the metallic state, and in combination with other metals, particularly with lead. It also occurs as the sulphide in several mines. It crystallizes in cubes and octahedrons; is of a pure white color, great lustre, is very malleable and ductile,