# Hulchul (2004 film)

Hulchul () is a 2004 Indian Hindi-language romantic comedy film directed by Priyadarshan. It is a remake of the 1991 Malayalam film Godfather. The film stars an ensemble cast with Akshaye Khanna , Kareena Kapoor , Sunil Shetty, Jackie Shroff, Arshad Warsi, Amrish Puri, Paresh Rawal, Arbaaz Khan, Shakti Kapoor, Farha Naaz, and Laxmi . It was a critical and commercial success.

Plot

Angar Chand has a rich lifestyle in a small Indian town with his wife and four sons. The eldest son, Balram falls for Dhamini, who reciprocates his feelings. Though her mother Laxmi opposes this, Angar wants their wedding. Dhamini's dad Sanjeev in anger accidentally kills Angar's wife Parvati. Dhamini is forcefully married off to Kashinath Pathak. Enraged, Angar kills Sanjeev and is jailed for 14 years.

14 years later
Bailed, Angar returns home to declare women won't be allowed in his property, posting a sign on the front gate and forbidding his sons to ever marry.

9 years later

Dhamini's daughter Anjali is in college with Jai, Angar's youngest son. Angar learns Anjali will marry the state's Home Minister. Still having a grudge, he breaks the wedding by political pressure. Laxmi instigates Anjali and asks her to pretend be in love with Jai, just for revenge so that they can defeat Angar. Seeing Anjali's interest in himself, Jai also pretends to be in love with her, just for revenge, so that Laxmi gets defeated. However, things take a turn when they really fall in love. It's revealed that Angar's second son, Kishan,  is married to a dance teacher named Gopi, since 7 years, and has 2 children. Angar finds out about this and kicks Kishan out as well as Jai as Jai supports Kishan. Laxmi fixes Anjali's marriage with her lawyer's son, Sattu. She asks Angaar Chand's to keep a watch on the wedding venue, so that Jai will not enter the wedding. Angaar, in a bid to defeat his son, agrees to safeguard it.

On the wedding day, Jai enters the venue with the help of Veeru (Laxmi's son). He  knocks Sattu unconscious and dresses as the groom. He goes through marriage rituals but reveals himself at end of the ceremony, finally marrying Anjali. She asks Laxmi to end the feud. Jai asks Angar to forgive him, who leaves and contemplates all his sons' actions. Anjali and Gopi are finally welcomed into the family, with the four sons.

Cast                                                                                                                                                                                  
  Akshaye Khanna  as Jai Chand
  Suniel Shetty as Veer "Veeru" Anpara, Anjali's maternal uncle

  Kareena Kapoor as Anjali Pathak 

  Amrish Puri as Angar Chand, Jai's father
 
  Paresh Rawal as Kishan "Murari" Chand, Jai's second elder brother

  Jackie Shroff as Balram "Balli" Chand, Jai's eldest brother

  Arbaaz Khan as Shakti Chand, Jai's third elder brother

  Arshad Warsi as lucky  Jai and Munna's friend

  Lakshmi (actress) as Laxmi Devi Anpara, Anjali's grandmother

  Farah Naaz as Gopi, Kishan's wife

  Shakti Kapoor as Kashinath Pathak, Anjali's father

  Manoj Joshi (actor) as Advocate Namdev Mishra 

  Asrani as Advocate Milind Sharma 

  Akhilendra Mishra as Surajbhan "Surya" Anpara

  Upasana Singh  as Ramila Anpara

  Deep Dhillon as Pratapbhan Anpara

  Ada Puri as Raakhi Anpara

  Sharad Kelkar as Dr. Satyendra "Sattu" Mishra, Namdev's son

  Mumaith Khan  in song "Lut Gayee"

  Zubein Khan in song "Lut Gayee"

  Deepali Shaw in song "Lut Gayee"

  Baburaj (actor) as Cameo appearance

Soundtrack
According to the Indian trade website Box Office India, with around 10,00,000 units sold, this film's soundtrack album was the year's fourteenth highest-selling. The song "Rafta Rafta" is a Hindi remake of the song 'Aasai Aasai' with a slight change in tune from the 2003 Tamil film Dhool, another film where the music was composed by Vidyasagar. The song 'Ishq Mein Pyaar Mein' is a remake of the Tamil song Thaamara poovukku from the 1995 Tamil film Pasumpon, which also had music by Vidyasagar.  The lyrics are penned by Sameer. The song 'Hum Dil Ke' is a remake of the Tamil song Panikaatrey from the 2002 Tamil film Run with a slight change in the background music, which was also sung by Sadhana Sargam, and had music by Vidyasagar.

Reception 
It received generally positive reviews, who appreciated the performances of cast, humor, and cinematography, but criticized for its screenplay, narration, cliched plot, and running time.

Awards 
50th Filmfare Awards:

Nominated

 Best Comedian – Arshad Warsi
 Best Comedian – Paresh Rawal

References

External links 
 
 
 

2004 films
2000s Hindi-language films
Films directed by Priyadarshan
2004 romantic comedy-drama films
Hindi remakes of Malayalam films
Films scored by Vidyasagar (composer)
Films scored by Surinder Sodhi
Films shot in Switzerland
Indian romantic comedy-drama films
Films shot in Mumbai
2004 comedy films
2004 drama films