# 1998 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1998 in the United Kingdom.

Incumbents
 Monarch – Elizabeth II
 Prime Minister – Tony Blair (Labour)
 Parliament – 52nd

Events

January
 5 January – The UK takes over the Presidency of the EC's Council of Ministers until 30 June.
 8 January – The notable composer Sir Michael Tippett dies in London following a stroke shortly after his 93rd birthday.

February
 3 February – Stamps commemorating the late Diana, Princess of Wales, go on sale across the UK.
 7–22 February – Great Britain and Northern Ireland compete at the Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, and win one bronze medal.
 8 February – Right-wing politician Enoch Powell dies in hospital in London aged 85.
 12 February – Mohamed Al Fayed, the father of Dodi Fayed, says that he is "99.9% certain" that his son's death in the car crash that also claimed the life of Diana, Princess of Wales on 31 August 1997 was a conspiracy to kill rather than an accident. He also claims that his son had purchased an engagement ring just before the crash and had been preparing to propose marriage to Diana. A lawyer in Mr Al Fayed's native Egypt was planning to sue the Queen and UK Prime Minister Tony Blair on the grounds that they had conspired to kill Diana because her love for a Muslim would embarrass the country.
 24 February – The conviction of Somali sailor Mahmood Mattan, hanged in 1952 at Cardiff Prison for the murder of pawnbroker Lily Volpert, is overturned by the Court of Appeal, with Mr Justice Rose describing the original conviction as "demonstrably flawed". The Mattan case is the first to be referred by the Criminal Cases Review Commission.
 28 February – Lancet MMR autism fraud: A study by Andrew Wakefield published in The Lancet suggests a link between MMR vaccine and autism; although subsequently discredited and retracted, it is widely influential on vaccination rates.

March
 6 March – Closure of South Crofty, the last working tin mine in Cornwall.
 31 March – The Rolls-Royce Motors brand is acquired by German car manufacturer BMW.

April
 April – Vauxhall launches its fourth generation Astra small family car range. The initial range consists of hatchbacks, saloons and estates, with coupe and cabriolet models arriving in two years.
 1 April – The historic counties of Herefordshire and Worcestershire are reestablished, 24 years after they merged to form Hereford and Worcester. Berkshire County Council is abolished and replaced by unitary authorities.
 10 April – The Good Friday Agreement, an agreement between the UK and Irish governments and the main political parties in Northern Ireland is signed.
 27 April – Kevin Lloyd, who played Tosh Lines in The Bill since 1988, is dismissed from the role by ITV due to his alcoholism. He dies, the following week, aged 49.

May
 2 May – Police in Maryland, United States, reveal that they have arrested and bailed former English footballer Justin Fashanu over an allegation of sexual assault against a seventeen-year-old male, and they believe he has now breached his bail conditions and fled the country; he commits suicide in London.
 9 May – The Eurovision Song Contest held in Birmingham at the National Indoor Arena.
 15 May – 24th G8 summit held in Birmingham.
 20 May – Nurses Deborah Parry and Lucille McLauchlan, who had been convicted in Saudi Arabia for the murder of Yvonne Gilford the previous year, have their sentences commuted by the order of King Fahd and are returned to the UK.
 23 May – Referendums on the Good Friday Agreement are held in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland with 95% and 71% support respectively.

June
 June – The DVD format is released onto the UK market for the first time. Among the first set of titles released on the new format is Jumanji. The format will sell just over 6,000 discs by the end of the year.
 15 June – First general-circulation issue of a two pound coin, with a bi-metallic design (dated 1997).
 23 June – The Heathrow Express rail link begins operation.
 27 June – The Diana, Princess of Wales Tribute Concert is held at Althorp Park in Northamptonshire, and attended by 15,000 people.

July
 12 July – Drumcree conflict: Three young children are killed in a loyalist Ulster Volunteer Force arson attack in Ballymoney, Northern Ireland.
 31 July
 Crime and Disorder Act receives Royal Assent. It introduces Anti-Social Behaviour Orders, Sex Offender Orders, Parenting Orders, and 'racially aggravated' offences. It makes it possible for a young person between ten and fourteen to be presumed capable of committing an offence and formally abolishes capital punishment for treason and piracy, the last civilian offences for which the death penalty remained theoretically available.
 The Government of Wales Act 1998, which will establish a devolved Welsh Assembly, receives Royal Assent.
 The government announces a total ban on the use of landmines by the British military.

August
 10 August – Manchester United TV begins broadcasting, making Manchester United F.C. the world's second football team to have its own television channel, the first being Middlesbrough (Boro TV) in 1997.
 15 August – Omagh bombing: A car bomb explodes in the Northern Irish market town of Omagh, County Tyrone, killing 29 people – the worst terrorist atrocity in the history of The Troubles in Northern Ireland. It has been planted by the Real Irish Republican Army.
 18 August – Mathematicians Richard Borcherds and Timothy Gowers are awarded Fields Medals.
 22 August – Reading F.C. move into their new Madejski Stadium, named after chairman John Madejski, near junction 11 of the M4 motorway in the south of Reading. It seats more than 24,000 spectators.
 24 August
 The Netherlands is selected as the venue for the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial of two Libyans who are charged with causing the explosion of an aircraft at Lockerbie that killed 270 people in December 1988.
 First RFID human implantation tested in the United Kingdom by Kevin Warwick at the University of Reading.

September
 8 September – The Real IRA announces a ceasefire.
 10 September – In Northern Ireland, David Trimble of the Ulster Unionist Party meets Gerry Adams of Sinn Féin – the first such meeting between Republicans and Loyalists since 1922.
 16 September – The Union Jack dress worn by the Spice Girl Geri Halliwell is sold at Sotheby's for £41,320

October
 October – Ford launches its new Focus range of small family hatchbacks, saloons and estates which will eventually replace the long-running Escort although that model would continue until the year 2000 and the van model lasting until 2002.
 16 October – Indictment and arrest of Augusto Pinochet: Police place General Augusto Pinochet, the 83-year-old former dictator of Chile, into house arrest during his medical treatment in Britain at the request of Spain.
 17 October – Actress Joan Hickson dies aged 92 of a stroke in a hospital at Colchester, Essex, six years after her final television appearance as Miss Marple.
 27 October – Ron Davies resigns as Secretary of State for Wales, citing "an error of judgement" in agreeing to go for what he said was a meal with a man he had met while walking on Clapham Common in London, which is a well known gay meeting place, and subsequently being mugged.
 28 October – The Poet Laureate Ted Hughes dies of cancer in a hospital in London, aged 68.

November
 November – Peugeot launches the 206 supermini which is being built at the Ryton plant near Coventry.
 9 November – Human Rights Act receives Royal Assent.
 24 November – The Queen's Speech announces the government plan to abolish the rights of 700 hereditary peers to sit and vote in the House of Lords; unprecedentedly this is met with audible "hear hears".
 25 November – Appointed Regional development agencies and Regional chambers ("Regional assemblies") in England are created under the Regional Development Agencies Act.
 26 November – Tony Blair becomes the first Prime Minister of the United Kingdom to address the Oireachtas (Irish parliament).

December
 December – The Ford Focus is voted European Car of the Year.
 10 December
 John Hume and David Trimble win the Nobel Peace Prize.
 John Pople wins the Nobel Prize in Chemistry "for his development of computational methods in quantum chemistry".
 26 December – Great Boxing Day Storm: severe gale-force winds hits Ireland, southern Scotland and northern England. Roads, railways and electricity are disrupted.
 29 December – Three British tourists are among those shot during a gun battle to free them from kidnappers in Yemen.

Date unknown
 The Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Systems Association is created.

Publications
 Beryl Bainbridge's novel Master Georgie.
 Iain M. Banks' novel Inversions.
 Julian Barnes's novel :England, England.
 Ted Hughes's poetry collection Birthday Letters.
 Nigella Lawson's guide How to Eat: the pleasures and principles of good food.
 Ian McEwan's novel Amsterdam.
 John O'Farrell's political memoir Things Can Only Get Better.
 Terry Pratchett