[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

growing bold. _They will not hush, the leaves a-flutter round me, the beech leaves old._ I came upon a little town, That slumbered in the harvest moon, And passed a-tiptoe up and down, Murmuring, to a fitful tune, How I have followed, night and day, A tramping of tremendous feet, And saw where this old tympan lay, Deserted on a doorway seat, And bore it to the woods with me; Of some unhuman misery Our married voiced wildly trolled. _They will not hush, the leaves a-flutter round me, the beech leaves old._ I sang how, when day's toil is done, Orchil shakes out her long dark hair That hides away the dying sun And sheds faint odours through the air: When my hand passed from wire to wire It quenched, with sound like falling dew, The whirling and the wandering fire; But lift a mournful ulalu, For the kind wires are torn and still, And I must wander wood and hill Through summer's heat and winter's cold. _They will not hush, the leaves a-flutter round me, the beech leaves old._ THE STOLEN CHILD Where dips the rocky highland Of Sleuth Wood in the lake, There lies a leafy island Where flapping herons wake The drowsy water rats; There we've hid our faery vats, Full of berries, And of reddest stolen cherries. _Come away, O human child! To the waters and the wild With a faery, hand in hand, For the world's more full of weeping than you can understand._ Where the wave of moonlight glosses The dim gray sands with light, Far off by furthest Rosses We foot it all the night, Weaving olden dances, Mingling hands and mingling glances Till the moon has taken flight; To and fro we leap And chase the frothy bubbles, While the world is full of troubles And is anxious in its sleep. _Come away, O human child! To the waters and the wild With a faery, hand in hand, For the world's more full of weeping than you can understand._ Where the wandering water gushes From the hills above Glen-Car, In pools among the rushes That scarce could bathe a star, We seek for slumbering trout And whispering in their ears Give them unquiet dreams; Leaning softly out From ferns that drop their tears Over the young streams, _Come away, O human child! To the waters and the wild With a faery, hand in hand, For the world's more full of weeping than you can understand._ Away with us he's going, The solemn-eyed: He'll hear no more the lowing Of the calves on the warm hillside Or the kettle on the hob Sing peace into his breast, Or see the brown mice bob Round and round the oatmeal-chest. _For he comes, the human child, To the waters and the wild With a faery, hand in hand, From a world more full of weeping than he can understand._ TO AN ISLE IN THE WATER Shy one, shy one, Shy one of my heart, She moves in the firelight Pensively apart. She carries in the dishes, And lays them in a row. To an isle in the water With her would I go. She carries in the candles, And lights the curtained room, Shy in the doorway And shy in the gloom; And shy as a rabbit, Helpful and shy. To an isle in the water With her would I fly. DOWN BY THE SALLEY GARDENS Down by the salley gardens my love and I did meet; She passed the salley gardens with little snow-white feet. She bid me take love easy, as the leaves grow on the tree; But I, being young and foolish, with her would not agree. In a field by the river my love and I did stand, And on my leaning shoulder she laid her snow-white hand. She bid me take life easy, as the grass grows on the weirs; But I was young and foolish, and now am full of tears. THE MEDITATION OF THE OLD FISHERMAN You waves, though you dance by my feet like children at play, Though you glow and you glance, though you purr and you dart; In the Junes that were warmer than these are, the waves were more gay, _When I was a boy with never a crack in my heart_. The herring are not in the tides as they were of old; My sorrow! for many a creak gave the creel in the cart That carried the take to Sligo town to be sold, _When I was a boy with never a crack in my heart_. And ah, you proud maiden, you are not so fair when his oar Is heard on the water, as they were, the proud and apart, Who paced in the eve by the nets on the pebbly shore, _When I was a boy with never a crack in my heart_. THE BALLAD OF FATHER O'HART Good Father John O'Hart In penal days rode out To a shoneen who had free lands And his own snipe and trout. In trust took he John's lands; Sleiveens were all his race; And he gave them as dowers to his daughters, And they married beyond their place. But Father John went up, And Father John went down; And he wore small holes in his shoes, And he wore large holes in his gown. All loved him, only the shoneen, Whom the devils have by the hair, From the wives, and the cats, and the children, To the birds in the white of the air. The birds, for he opened their cages As he went up and down; And he said with a smile, "Have peace now"; And he went his way with a frown. But if when any one died Came keeners hoarser than rooks, He bade them give over their keening; For he was a man of books. And these were the works of John, When weeping score by score, People came into Coloony; For he'd died at ninety-four. There was no human keening; The birds from Knocknarea And the world round Knocknashee Came keening in that day. The young birds and old birds Came flying, heavy and sad; Keening in from Tiraragh, Keening from Ballinafad; Keening from Inishmurray, Nor stayed for bite or sup; This way were all reproved Who dig old customs up. THE BALLAD OF MOLL MAGEE Come round me, little childer; There, don't fling stones at me Because I mutter as I go; But pity Moll Magee. My man was a poor fisher With shore lines in the say; My work was saltin' herrings The whole of the long day. And sometimes from the saltin' shed, I scarce could drag my feet Under the blessed moonlight, Along the pebbly street. I'd always been but weakly, And my baby was just born; A neighbour minded her by day I minded her till morn. I lay upon my baby; Ye little childer dear, I looked on my cold baby When the morn grew frosty and clear. A weary woman sleeps so hard! My man grew red and pale, And gave me money, and bade me go To my own place, Kinsale. He drove me out and shut the door, And gave his curse to me; I went away in silence, No neighbour could I see. The windows and the doors were shut, One star shone faint and green The little straws were turnin' round Across the bare boreen. I went away in silence: Beyond old Martin's byre I saw a kindly neighbour Blowin' her mornin' fire. She drew from me my story-- My money's all used up, And still, with pityin', scornin' eye, She gives me bite and sup. She says my man will surely come, And fetch me home agin; But always, as I'm movin' round, Without doors or within, Pilin' the wood or pilin' the turf, Or goin' to the well, I'm thinkin' of my baby And keenin' to mysel'. And sometimes I am sure she knows When, openin' wide His door, God lights the stars, His candles, And looks upon the poor. So now, ye little childer, Ye won't fling stones at me; But gather with your shinin' looks And pity Moll Magee. THE BALLAD OF THE FOXHUNTER "Now lay me in a cushioned chair "And carry me, you four, "With cushions here and cushions there, "To see the world once more. "And some one from the stables bring "My Dermot dear and brown, "And lead him gently in a ring, "And gently up and down. "Now leave the chair upon the grass: "Bring hound and huntsman here, "And I on this strange road will pass, "Filled full of ancient cheer." His eyelids droop, his head falls low, His old eyes cloud with dreams; The sun upon all things that grow Pours round in sleepy streams. Brown Dermot treads upon the lawn, And to the armchair goes, And now the old man's dreams are gone, He smooths the long brown nose. And now moves many a pleasant tongue Upon his wasted hands, For leading aged hounds and young The huntsman near him stands. "My huntsman, Rody, blow the horn, "And make the hills reply." The huntsman loosens on the morn A gay and wandering cry. A fire is in the old man's eyes, His fingers move and sway, And when the wandering music dies They hear him feebly say, "My huntsman, Rody, blow the horn, "And make the hills reply." "I cannot blow upon my horn, "I can but weep and sigh." The servants round his cushioned place Are with new sorrow wrung; And hounds are gazing on his face, Both aged hounds and young. One blind hound only lies apart On the sun-smitten grass; He holds deep commune with his heart: The moments pass and pass; The blind hound with a mournful din Lifts slow his wintry head; The servants bear the body in; The hounds wail for the dead. THE WANDERINGS OF USHEEN "_Give me the world if Thou wilt, but grant me an asylum for my affections._" TULKA. TO EDWIN J. ELLIS BOOK I S. PATRIC You who are bent, and bald, and blind, With a heavy heart and a wandering mind, Have known three centuries, poets sing, Of dalliance with a demon thing. USHEEN Sad to remember, sick with years, The swift innumerable spears, The horsemen with their floating hair, And bowls of barley, honey, and wine, And feet of maidens dancing in tune, And the white body that lay by mine; But the tale, though words be lighter than air, Must live to be old like the wandering moon. Caolte, and Conan, and Finn were there, When we followed a deer with our baying hounds, With Bran, Sgeolan, and Lomair, And passing the Firbolgs' burial mounds, Came to the cairn-heaped