[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

us, And they are rising through the hollow world. Demons are out, old heron. OONA God guard her soul. ALEEL She's bartered it away this very hour, As though we two were never in the world. (_He points downward._) First, Orchill, her pale, beautiful head Her body shadowy as vapour drifting Under the dawn, for she who awoke desire Has but a heart of blood when others die; About her is a vapoury multitude Of women alluring devils with soft laughter; Behind her a host heat of the blood made sin, But all the little pink-white nails have grown To be great talons. (_He seizes_ OONA _and drags her into the middle of the room and points downward with vehement gestures_. _The wind roars._) They begin a song And there is still some music on their tongues. OONA (_casting herself face downwards on the floor_) O, Maker of all, protect her from the demons, And if a soul must need be lost, take mine. (ALEEL _kneels beside her, but does not seem to hear her words_. _The_ PEASANTS _return_. _They carry the_ COUNTESS CATHLEEN _and lay her upon the ground before_ OONA _and_ ALEEL. _She lies there as if dead._) OONA O, that so many pitchers of rough clay Should prosper and the porcelain break in two! (_She kisses the hands of_ CATHLEEN.) A PEASANT We were under the tree where the path turns, When she grew pale as death and fainted away. And while we bore her hither cloudy gusts Blackened the world and shook us on our feet; Draw the great bolt, for no man has beheld So black, bitter, blinding, and sudden a storm. (_One who is near the door draws the bolt._) CATHLEEN O, hold me, and hold me tightly, for the storm Is dragging me away. (OONA _takes her in her arms_. A WOMAN _begins to wail_.) PEASANT Hush! PEASANTS Hush! PEASANT WOMEN Hush! OTHER PEASANT WOMEN Hush! CATHLEEN (_half rising_) Lay all the bags of money in a heap, And when I am gone, old Oona, share them out To every man and woman: judge, and give According to their needs. A PEASANT WOMAN And will she give Enough to keep my children through the dearth? ANOTHER PEASANT WOMAN O, Queen of Heaven, and all you blessed saints, Let us and ours be lost so she be shriven. CATHLEEN Bend down your faces, Oona and Aleel; I gaze upon them as the swallow gazes Upon the nest under the eave, before She wander the loud waters. Do not weep Too great a while, for there is many a candle On the High Altar though one fall. Aleel, Who sang about the dancers of the woods, That know not the hard burden of the world, Having but breath in their kind bodies, farewell! And farewell, Oona, you who played with me, And bore me in your arms about the house When I was but a child and therefore happy, Therefore happy, even like those that dance. The storm is in my hair and I must go. (_She dies._) OONA Bring me the looking-glass. (A WOMAN _brings it to her out of the inner room_. OONA _holds it over the lips of_ CATHLEEN. _All is silent for a moment. And then she speaks in a half scream_:) O, she is dead! A PEASANT She was the great white lily of the world. A PEASANT She was more beautiful than the pale stars. AN OLD PEASANT WOMAN The little plant I love is broken in two. (ALEEL _takes looking-glass from_ OONA _and flings it upon the floor so that it is broken in many pieces_.) ALEEL I shatter you in fragments, for the face That brimmed you up with beauty is no more: And die, dull heart, for she whose mournful words Made you a living spirit has passed away And left you but a ball of passionate dust. And you, proud earth and plumy sea, fade out! For you may hear no more her faltering feet, But are left lonely amid the clamorous war Of angels upon devils. (_He stands up; almost every one is kneeling, but it has grown so dark that only confused forms can be seen._) And I who weep Call curses on you, Time and Fate and Change, And have no excellent hope but the great hour When you shall plunge headlong through bottomless space. (_A flash of lightning followed immediately by thunder._) A PEASANT WOMAN Pull him upon his knees before his curses Have plucked thunder and lightning on our heads. ALEEL Angels and devils clash in the middle air, And brazen swords clang upon brazen helms. (_A flash of lightning followed immediately by thunder._) Yonder a bright spear, cast out of a sling, Has torn through Balor's eye, and the dark clans Fly screaming as they fled Moytura of old. (_Everything is lost in darkness._) AN OLD MAN The Almighty wrath at our great weakness and sin Has blotted out the world and we must die. (_The darkness is broken by a visionary light. The_ PEASANTS _seem to be kneeling upon the_ _rocky slope of a mountain, and vapour full of storm and ever-changing light is sweeping above them and behind them. Half in the light, half in the shadow, stand armed angels. Their armour is old and worn, and their drawn swords dim and dinted. They stand as if upon the air in formation of battle and look downward with stern faces. The_ PEASANTS _cast themselves on the ground_.) ALEEL Look no more on the half-closed gates of Hell, But speak to me, whose mind is smitten of God, That it may be no more with mortal things, And tell of her who lies there. (_He seizes one of the angels._) Till you speak You shall not drift into eternity. THE ANGEL The light beats down; the gates of pearl are wide And she is passing to the floor of peace, And Mary of the seven times wounded heart Has kissed her lips, and the long blessed hair Has fallen on her face; The Light of Lights Looks always on the motive, not the deed, The Shadow of Shadows on the deed alone. (ALEEL _releases the_ ANGEL _and kneels_.) OONA Tell them who walk upon the floor of peace That I would die and go to her I love; The years like great black oxen tread the world, And God the herdsman goads them on behind And I am broken by their passing feet. (_A sound of far-off horns seems to come from the heart of the Light. The vision melts away, and the forms of the kneeling_ PEASANTS _appear faintly in the darkness_.) THE ROSE "_Sero te amavi, Pulchritudo tam antiqua et tam nova! Sero te amavi._" S. AUGUSTINE. TO LIONEL JOHNSON TO THE ROSE UPON THE ROOD OF TIME _Red Rose, proud Rose, sad Rose of all my days! Come near me, while I sing the ancient ways: Cuchulain battling with the bitter tide; The Druid, gray, wood-nurtured, quiet-eyed, Who cast round Fergus dreams, and ruin untold; And thine own sadness, whereof stars, grown old In dancing silver sandalled on the sea, Sing in their high and lonely melody. Come near, that no more blinded by man's fate, I find under the boughs of love and hate, In all poor foolish things that live a day, Eternal beauty wandering on her way._ _Come near, come near, come near--Ah, leave me still A little space for the rose-breath to fill! Lest I no more hear common things that crave; The weak worm hiding down in its small cave,_ _The field mouse running by me in the grass, And heavy mortal hopes that toil and pass; But seek alone to hear the strange things said By God to the bright hearts of those long dead, And learn to chaunt a tongue men do not know. Come near; I would, before my time to go, Sing of old Eire and the ancient ways: Red Rose, proud Rose, sad Rose of all my days._ FERGUS AND THE DRUID FERGUS The whole day have I followed in the rocks, And you have changed and flowed from shape to shape. First as a raven on whose ancient wings Scarcely a feather lingered, then you seemed A weasel moving on from stone to stone, And now at last you wear a human shape, A thin gray man half lost in gathering night. DRUID What would you, king of the proud Red Branch kings? FERGUS This would I say, most wise of living souls: Young subtle Concobar sat close by me When I gave judgment, and his words were wise, And what to me was burden without end, To him seemed easy, so I laid the crown Upon his head to cast away my care. DRUID What would you, king of the proud Red Branch kings? FERGUS I feast amid my people on the hill, And pace the woods, and drive my chariot wheels In the white border of the murmuring sea; And still I feel the crown upon my head. DRUID What would you? FERGUS I would be no more a king But learn the dreaming wisdom that is yours. DRUID Look on my thin gray hair and hollow cheeks And on these hands that may not lift the sword This body trembling like a wind-blown reed. No woman loves me, no man seeks my help, Because I be not of the things I dream. FERGUS A wild and foolish labourer is a king, To do and do and do, and never dream. DRUID Take, if you must, this little bag of dreams; Unloose the cord, and they will wrap you round. FERGUS I see my life go dripping like a stream From change to change; I have been many things, A green drop in the surge, a gleam of light Upon a sword, a fir-tree on a hill, An old slave grinding at a heavy quern, A king sitting upon a chair of gold, And all these things were wonderful and great; But now I have grown nothing, being all, And the whole world weighs down upon my heart: Ah! Druid, Druid, how great webs of sorrow Lay hidden in the small slate-coloured bag! THE DEATH OF CUCHULAIN A man came slowly from the setting sun, To Forgail's daughter, Emer, in her dun, And found her dyeing cloth with subtle care, And said, casting aside his draggled hair: "I am Aleel, the swineherd, whom you bid "Go dwell upon the sea cliffs, vapour hid; "But now my years of watching are no more." Then Emer cast the web upon the floor, And stretching out her arms, red with the dye, Parted her lips with a loud sudden cry. Looking on her, Aleel, the