[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

as Merchants Peasants, Servants, Angelical Beings _The Scene is laid in Ireland and in old times_ SCENE I SCENE.--_A room with lighted fire, and a door into the open air, through which one sees, perhaps, the trees of a wood, and these trees should be painted in flat colour upon a gold or diapered sky. The walls are of one colour. The scent should have the effect of missal painting._ MARY, a_ woman of forty years or so, is grinding a quern_. MARY What can have made the grey hen flutter so? (TEIG, _a boy of fourteen, is coming in with turf, which he lays beside the hearth_.) TEIG They say that now the land is famine struck The graves are walking. MARY There is something that the hen hears. TEIG And that is not the worst; at Tubber-vanach A woman met a man with ears spread out, And they moved up and down like a bat's wing. MARY What can have kept your father all this while? TEIG Two nights ago, at Carrick-orus churchyard, A herdsman met a man who had no mouth, Nor eyes, nor ears; his face a wall of flesh; He saw him plainly by the light of the moon. MARY Look out, and tell me if your father's coming. (TEIG _goes to door_.) TEIG Mother! MARY What is it? TEIG In the bush beyond, There are two birds--if you can call them birds-- I could not see them rightly for the leaves. But they've the shape and colour of horned owls And I'm half certain they've a human face. MARY Mother of God, defend us! TEIG They're looking at me. What is the good of praying? father says. God and the Mother of God have dropped asleep. What do they care, he says, though the whole land Squeal like a rabbit under a weasel's tooth? MARY You'll bring misfortune with your blasphemies Upon your father, or yourself, or me. I would to God he were home--ah, there he is. (SHEMUS _comes in_.) What was it kept you in the wood? You know I cannot get all sorts of accidents Out of my mind till you are home again. SHEMUS I'm in no mood to listen to your clatter. Although I tramped the woods for half a day, I've taken nothing, for the very rats, Badgers, and hedgehogs seem to have died of drought, And there was scarce a wind in the parched leaves. TEIG Then you have brought no dinner. SHEMUS After that I sat among the beggars at the cross-roads, And held a hollow hand among the others. MARY What, did you beg? SHEMUS I had no chance to beg, For when the beggars saw me they cried out They would not have another share their alms, And hunted me away with sticks and stones. TEIG You said that you would bring us food or money. SHEMUS What's in the house? TEIG A bit of mouldy bread. MARY There's flour enough to make another loaf. TEIG And when that's gone? MARY There is the hen in the coop. SHEMUS My curse upon the beggars, my curse upon them! TEIG And the last penny gone. SHEMUS When the hen's gone, What can we do but live on sorrel and dock, And dandelion, till our mouths are green? MARY God, that to this hour's found bit and sup, Will cater for us still. SHEMUS His kitchen's bare. There were five doors that I looked through this day And saw the dead and not a soul to wake them. MARY Maybe He'd have us die because He knows, When the ear is stopped and when the eye is stopped, That every wicked sight is hid from the eye, And all fool talk from the ear. SHEMUS Who's passing there? And mocking us with music? (_A stringed instrument without._) TEIG A young man plays it, There's an old woman and a lady with him. SHEMUS What is the trouble of the poor to her? Nothing at all or a harsh radishy sauce For the day's meat. MARY God's pity on the rich. Had we been through as many doors, and seen The dishes standing on the polished wood In the wax candle light, we'd be as hard, And there's the needle's eye at the end of all. SHEMUS My curse upon the rich. TEIG They're coming here. SHEMUS Then down upon that stool, down quick, I say, And call up a whey face and a whining voice, And let your head be bowed upon your knees. MARY Had I but time to put the place to rights. (CATHLEEN, OONA, _and_ ALEEL _enter_.) CATHLEEN God save all here. There is a certain house, An old grey castle with a kitchen garden, A cider orchard and a plot for flowers, Somewhere among these woods. MARY We know it, lady. A place that's set among impassable walls As though world's trouble could not find it out. CATHLEEN It may be that we are that trouble, for we-- Although we've wandered in the wood this hour-- Have lost it too, yet I should know my way, For I lived all my childhood in that house. MARY Then you are Countess Cathleen? CATHLEEN And this woman, Oona, my nurse, should have remembered it, For we were happy for a long time there. OONA The paths are overgrown with thickets now, Or else some change has come upon my sight. CATHLEEN And this young man, that should have known the woods-- Because we met him on their border but now, Wandering and singing like a wave of the sea-- Is so wrapped up in dreams of terrors to come That he can give no help. MARY You have still some way, But I can put you on the trodden path Your servants take when they are marketing. But first sit down and rest yourself awhile, For my old fathers served your fathers, lady, Longer than books can tell--and it were strange If you and yours should not be welcome here. CATHLEEN And it were stranger still were I ungrateful For such kind welcome--but I must be gone, For the night's gathering in. SHEMUS It is a long while Since I've set eyes on bread or on what buys it. CATHLEEN So you are starving even in this wood, Where I had thought I would find nothing changed. But that's a dream, for the old worm o' the world Can eat its way into what place it pleases. (_She gives money._) TEIG Beautiful lady, give me something too; I fell but now, being weak with hunger and thirst And lay upon the threshold like a log. CATHLEEN I gave for all and that was all I had. Look, my purse is empty. I have passed By starving men and women all this day, And they have had the rest; but take the purse, The silver clasps on't may be worth a trifle. But if you'll come to-morrow to my house You shall have twice the sum. (ALEEL _begins to play_.) SHEMUS (_muttering_) What, music, music! CATHLEEN Ah, do not blame the finger on the string; The doctors bid me fly the unlucky times And find distraction for my thoughts, or else Pine to my grave. SHEMUS I have said nothing, lady. Why should the like of us complain? OONA Have done. Sorrows that she's but read of in a book Weigh on her mind as if they had been her own. (OONA, MARY, and CATHLEEN _go out_. ALEEL _looks defiantly at_ SHEMUS.) ALEEL (_singing_) Were I but crazy for love's sake I know who'd measure out his length, I know the heads that I should break, For crazy men have double strength. There! all's out now to leave or take, And who mocks music mocks at love; And when I'm crazy for love's sake I'll not go far to choose. (_Snapping his fingers in_ SHEMUS' _face_.) Enough! I know the heads that I shall break. (_He takes a step towards the door and then turns again._) Shut to the door before the night has fallen, For who can say what walks, or in what shape Some devilish creature flies in the air, but now Two grey-horned owls hooted above our heads. (_He goes out, his singing dies away._ MARY _comes in_. SHEMUS _has been counting the money._) SHEMUS So that fool's gone. TEIG He's seen the horned owls too. There's no good luck in owls, but it may be That the ill luck's to fall upon his head. MARY You never thanked her ladyship. SHEMUS Thank her, For seven halfpence and a silver bit? TEIG But for this empty purse? SHEMUS What's that for thanks, Or what's the double of it that she promised? With bread and flesh and every sort of food Up to a price no man has heard the like of And rising every day. MARY We have all she had; She emptied out the purse before our eyes. SHEMUS (_to_ MARY, _who has gone to close the door_) Leave that door open. MARY When those that have read books, And seen the seven wonders of the world, Fear what's above or what's below the ground, It's time that poverty should bolt the door. SHEMUS I'll have no bolts, for there is not a thing That walks above the ground or under it I had not rather welcome to this house Than any more of mankind, rich or poor. TEIG So that they brought us money. SHEMUS I heard say There's something that appears like a white bird, A pigeon or a seagull or the like, But if you hit it with a stone or a stick It clangs as though it had been made of brass, And that if you dig down where it was scratching You'll find a crock of gold. TEIG But dream of gold For three nights running, and there's always gold. SHEMUS You might be starved before you've dug it out. TEIG But maybe if you called, something would come, They have been seen of late. MARY Is it call devils? Call devils from the wood, call them in here? SHEMUS So you'd stand up against me, and you'd say Who or what I am to welcome here. (_He hits her._) That is to show who's master. TEIG Call them in. MARY God help us all! SHEMUS Pray, if you have a mind to. It's little that the sleepy ears above Care for your words; but I'll call what I please. TEIG There is many a one, they say, had money from them. SHEMUS (_at door_) Whatever you are that walk the woods at night, So be it that you have not shouldered up Out of a grave--for I'll have nothing human-- And have free hands, a