[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

fears, Shake from the linden branches Upon them sitting With hardly a sigh or a whisper Or quiver of tears. STRIFE The wind fought with the angry trees. All morning in immense unease They wrestled, and ruin strawed the ground, And the north sky frowned. The oak and aspen arms were held Defiant, but the death was knelled Of slender saplings, snappy boughs, Twigs brittle as men's vows. How moaned the trees the struggle through! Anger almost to madness grew. The aspen screamed, and came a roar Of the great wind locked in anguish sore, Desolate with defeat ... and then Quiet fell again: The trees slept quiet as great cows That lie at noon under broad boughs. How pure, how strange the calm; but hist!... Was it the trees by the wind kissed? Or from afar, where the wind's hid, A throb, a sob? FOREBODING O linger late, poor yellow whispering leaves! As yet the eves Are golden and the simple moon looks through The clouds and you. O linger yet although the night be blind, And in the wind You wake and lisp and shiver at the stir And sigh of her Whose rimy fingers chill you each and all: And so you fall As dead as hopes or dreams or whispered vows.... O _then_ the boughs That bore your busy multitude shall feel The cold light steal Between them, and the timorous child shall start, Hearing his heart Drubbing affrighted at the frail gates, for lo, The ghostly glow Of the wild moon, caught in the barren arms Of leafless branches loud with night's alarms! DISCOVERY Beauty walked over the hills and made them bright. She in the long fresh grass scattered her rains Sparkling and glittering like a host of stars, But not like stars cold, severe, terrible. Hers was the laughter of the wind that leaped Arm-full of shadows, flinging them far and wide. Hers the bright light within the quick green Of every new leaf on the oldest tree. It was her swimming made the river run Shining as the sun; Her voice, escaped from winter's chill and dark, Singing in the incessant lark.... All this was hers--yet all this had not been Except 'twas seen. It was my eyes, Beauty, that made thee bright; My ears that heard, the blood leaping in my veins, The vehemence of transfiguring thought-- Not lights and shadows, birds, grasses and rains-- That made thy wonders wonderful. For it has been, Beauty, that I have seen thee, Tedious as a painted cloth at a bad play, Empty of meaning and so of all delight. Now thou hast blessed me with a great pure bliss, Shaking thy rainy light all over the earth, And I have paid thee with my thankfulness. MORE THAN SWEET The noisy fire, The drumming wind, The creaking trees, And all that hum Of summer air And all the long inquietude Of breaking seas---- Sweet and delightful are In loneliness. But more than these The quiet light From the morn's sun And night's astonished moon, Falling gently upon breaking seas. Such quietness Another beauty is-- Ah, and those stars So gravely still More than light, than beauty pour Upon the strangeness Of the heart's breaking seas. THE BRIGHTNESS Away, away-- Through that strange void and vast Brimmed with dying day; Away, So that I feel Only the wind Of the world's swift-rolling wheel. See what a maze Of whirling rays! The sharp wind Weakens; the air Is but thin air, Not fume and flying fire.... O, heart's desire, Now thou art still And the air chill. And but a stem Of clear cold light Shines in this stony dark. Farewell, world of sense, Too fair, too fair To be so false! Hence, hence Rosy memories, Delight of ears, hands, eyes. Rise When I bid, O thou Tide of the dark, Whelming the pale last, Reflection of that vast Too-fair deceit. Ah, sweet To miss the vexing heat Of the heart's desire: Only to know All's lost, lost.... Sweet To know the lack of sweet. --Thou fool! See how the steady dark Is filled with eyes-- Eyes that smile, Hot, then how cool! Eyes that were stars till thou Mad'st them eyes. O, the tormenting Look, the unrelenting Passionate kiss Of their wild light on thine-- Light of thine eyes! As if one could Loathe the world for too much sweetness! All the air's a flame, Wonderful--yet the same Thou'st hated, Being briefly sated With sweet of sweetness. Forgive a heart whose madness Was not of madness born, But of mere wild Waste of desire.... Who does not know One speaks so, or so, Out of mere passion That sees not love From hate, nor life from death, Nor hell from heaven? In the East--oh, that flashed Brightness, past The loveliness even Of sunset's flush! THE HOLY MOUNTAINS The holy mountains, The gay streams, Heavy shadows, And tall, trembling trees; The light that sleeps Between the heavy shadows, Wind that creeps Faintly, from far-off seas---- The mountains' light, Waters' noise, Trees' shadows, Clear, slow, calm air, Are dreams, dreams, And far, far-fallen echoes Of secret worlds And inconceivable dark seas. RAPTURE If thou hast grief And passion vex the spirit that is in thee-- There was a stony beach Where the heat flickered and the little waves Whispered each to each. Dove-coloured was that stony beach, And white birds hungering hovered over The shining waves; And men had kindled there A great fierce heap of golden flame-- Spoiled grasses with dead buttercups and pale clover. The agonising flame Yearned in its vitals towards the quiet air And died in a little smoke. And on the coloured beach the black warm ash Remained. Then on that warm ash Another heap of grasses was outpoured, And instant came Another knot of struggling yellow smoke That burst into new agonies of flame, Dying into a drift of smoke; And on the coloured beach the black cold ash Remained. Or is thy grief too deep, Passion too dear, the spirit in thee asleep?-- Twelve deep and sombre, still, Expectant, hushed, The miles-long crowd stood--and then listening. The nervous drums, The unendurable, low reeds: Silence--and then the nearing drums Again, again the thrilling reeds, And then (The deep crowd hushed) Following an almightier King That rode unseen, Drew near the tributary magnificence.... Hushed, hushed, The deep crowd stood, devouring, listening; But a child on his father's shoulder cried, "Hurrah, hurrah!"-- Only have thou no fear Pride, but no fear. MUSIC COMES Music comes Sweetly from the trembling string When wizard fingers sweep Dreamily, half asleep; When through remembering reeds Ancient airs and murmurs creep, Oboe oboe following, Flute answering clear high flute, Voices, voices--falling mute, And the jarring drums. At night I heard First a waking bird Out of the quiet darkness sing.... Music comes Strangely to the brain asleep! And I heard Soft, wizard fingers sweep Music from the trembling string, And through remembering reeds Ancient airs and murmurs creep; Oboe oboe following, Flute calling clear high flute, Voices faint, falling mute, And low jarring drums; Then all those airs Sweetly jangled--newly strange, Rich with change.... Was it the wind in the reeds? Did the wind range Over the trembling string; Into flute and oboe pouring Solemn music; sinking, soaring Low to high, Up and down the sky? Was it the wind jarring Drowsy far-off drums? Strangely to the brain asleep Music comes. THE IDIOT He stands on the kerb Watching the street. He's always watching there, Listening to the beat Of time in the street, Listening to the thronging feet, Laughing at the world that goes Scowling or laughing by. He sees Time go by, An old lonely man, Crooked and furtive and slow. He laughs as he sees Time shambling by While he stands at his ease, Until Time smiles wanly back At his laughing eye. Greed's great paunch, Lean Envy's ill looks, Fond forgetful Love, He reads them like books: Whatever their tongue He reads them like children's books, Stands staring and laughing there As all they go by. O, he laughs as he sees The fat and the thin, The simple, the solemn and wise Nod-nodding by. He stares in their eyes, Till they're angry and murmur, _Poor fool!_ And he hears and he laughs again From the depth of his folly. Even when with heavy Plume and pall The sleeky coaches roll by, Coffin, flowers and all, He laughs, for he sees Crouched on the coffin a small Yellowy shape go by-- Death, uneasy and melancholy. THE MOUSE Standing close by you In the cold light Of two tall candles That measure the dark of night, I hear the mouse, The only thing that's moving In the quiet house. Don't you hear it, That furious mouse? How can you sleep so deep And that noise in the house? Won't you stir At the furious scratching In the cupboard there? No! a sharper sound Would wake you not; Not the sweetest fluting Tease you back to thought. Yet the scratching mouse Makes all my flesh a nervous Haunted house. O, the dream, the dream Must be sweet and deep If life's scratching's heard not On your cold sleep. Yet if you should hear it, So furious and fretful-- How could you bear it? HAPPINESS I have found happiness who looked not for it. There was a green fresh hedge, And willows by the river side, And whistling sedge. The heaviness I felt was all around. No joy sang in the wind. Only dull slow life everywhere, And in my mind. Then from the sedge a bird cried; and all changed. Heaviness turned to mirth: The willows the stream's cheek caressed, The sun the earth. What was it in the bird's song worked such change? The grass was wonderful. I did not dream such beauty was In things so dull. What was it in the bird's song gave the water That living, sentient look? Lent the rare brightness to the hedge? That sweetness shook Down on the green path by the running water? Or the small daisies lit With light of the white northern stars In dark skies set? What was it made the whole world marvellous? Mere common things were joys. The cloud running upon the grass, Children's faint noise, The trees that grow straight up and stretch wide arms, The snow heaped in the skies, The light falling so simply on all; My lifted eyes That all this startling aching beauty saw? I felt the sharp excess Of joy like the strong sun at noon-- Insupportable bliss! COMFORTABLE LIGHT Most comfortable Light, Light of the small lamp burning up the night, With dawn enleagued against the beaten dark; Pure golden perfect spark; Or sudden wind-bright