# List of Arthur characters

This is a list of characters featured in the PBS Kids television show Arthur, it is based on the book series by Marc Brown.

Arthur, the title character, He is also the chief protagonist in the anthropomorphism series. Other major characters include Buster, Muffy, Francine, Binky, the Brain, Sue Ellen, Mr. Ratburn, D.W., Kate, and Arthur's parents. Minor characters—such as Fern, George, Prunella, The Tibble Twins, Emily, and Jenna—have been gradually expanded upon throughout the series. Over the years, character roles and relationships have changed and expanded as episodes have developed the secondary and supporting characters.

Children
Arthur Timothy Read (voiced by Michael Yarmush 1996–2000, 2022; Justin Bradley 2001; Mark Rendall 2002–2003, 2001 redub;  Cameron Ansell 2004–2007; Dallas Jokic 2008–2012; Drew Adkins 2012–2014; William Healy 2014–2016; Jacob Ursomarzo 2016–2018; Roman Lutterotti 2019–2022) is an eight-year-old aardvark who attends third grade at Lakewood Elementary in Elwood City. He has two younger sisters, D.W. and Kate, and a dog named Pal. He plays the piano as a hobby. He predominately wears a yellow sweater with a white collared shirt underneath, blue jeans and round brown glasses.
 (voiced by Michael Caloz 1996–1999; Oliver Grainger 1999–2001; Jason Szwimer 2002–2006; Luciano Rauso 2006; Ryan Ehrenworth 2007; Robert Naylor 2007–2012; Jake Beale 2012–2014; Andrew Dayton 2014–2016; Christian Distefano 2016–2018; Ethan Pugiotto 2019–2022; Nissae Isen 2022) is a four (later five)-year-old, brown-haired, middle child of the Read family who usually wears a long-sleeve white blouse underneath a sleeveless, knee-length, pink jumper dress. She attends preschool and enjoys watching the TV show "Mary Moo Cow" and listening to the song "Crazy Bus", much to Arthur's annoyance. Unlike most children her age, D.W. is fully literate and reads complex material in several episodes. In the special episode "The Rhythm and Roots of Arthur", it is revealed that D.W. was named after Grandpa Theo's older sister Dora Winifred Read, who passed away before D.W. was born. She can be bossy, selfish, arrogant, spiteful, and often downright wrathful, especially towards her brother. Despite this, she has a good heart. According to Marc Brown, D.W. is inspired by his own experiences with his own three little sisters (especially Kim Brown). When she is introduced as an adult in the series finale "All Grown Up", it is confirmed that she has taken up the profession of law enforcement. It is also confirmed in the episode "Arthur's First Day" that she hates the name Dora Winifred.
Kate Read (voiced by Tracy Braunstein) is Arthur's and D.W.'s baby sister. She can communicate with animals such as Pal, Killer, Toady, Mr. Toad, Amigo, Nemo, and Pepe the Flea. As she grows up, she loses communication with some of these characters. However, she comes to understand her family's speech better.
 (voiced by Daniel Brochu; under-credited as Conway Bruce) is Arthur's best friend. He is a white rabbit who wears a turquoise long-sleeve polo shirt and jeans. He loves eating and keeps expired food in his room and school desk. He has asthma, is obsessed with aliens, loves telling jokes, is an amateur detective, practices gardening, and plays the tuba. He is an only child whose parents divorced when he was young. He created and celebrates a no-frills holiday called "Baxter Day" with his mother. His father travels the world as a pilot; Buster features his travels with his Dad on the spin-off series Postcards from Buster. Buster is a procrastinator, often preferring to have fun rather than study; one such instance nearly led to him flunking third grade before cramming at the last minute. Buster's character is based on Marc Brown's best friend when he was young.
 (voiced by Melissa Altro) is a monkey who usually has long red hair, which she usually wears in two braids adorned with purple bows that usually match her purple and white dress. She and her older brother, Chip, are the two children of Ed Crosswire, the owner of the used car dealership Crosswire Motors, and his wife, Millicent. Muffy is the quintessential daddy's girl, with Ed believing that his daughter can do no wrong and constantly buying expensive, trendy items such as cell phones and designer clothing. Because of her upbringing, Muffy is sometimes rude and arrogant; having lived in a mansion and waited on by servants her entire life, she has no sense of what it means to be lower or middle class. She is best friends with Francine Frensky, despite the two having similar strong-willed personalities. Often, Francine will rein Muffy in when her rudeness becomes unacceptable. She is seen with buck teeth in early episodes, though this was soon changed.
Francine Alice Frensky (voiced by Jodie Lynn Resther) is a monkey who has short brown hair clipped with two yellow barrettes on both sides and usually wears blue jeans and a maroon sweater. She is a tomboy, and enjoys playing sports, horseback riding, playing the drums, and singing. Her family is Jewish and in some episodes is seen observing Yom Kippur, Hanukkah, and attending a cousin's Bar Mitzvah. Francine's best friend is Muffy, with both sharing the same middle name. In earlier seasons, Francine picked on Arthur—such as when he got glasses, and when his baby tooth would not come out—but later they became good friends. She has an older sister named Catherine.
Alan "The Brain" Powers (voiced by Luke Reid 1996–1999; Steven Crowder 2000–2001; Alex Hood 2002–2005; Paul-Stuart Brown 2004–2007; James Buckholder 2006; Lyle O'Donohue 2008–2012; Siam Yu 2012–2014; Max Friedman Cole 2014–2018; Evan Blaylock 2019–2022) is a bear of Senegalese descent who usually wears a grey sweater. He is highly academic and well-educated in many subjects, especially science and math, and has an "A" grade average. His classmates call him "Brain" or, when referring to him in third-person, "The Brain". His family celebrates Kwanzaa and owns an ice cream parlor, where his classmates frequently visit after school and on weekends. He was held back in kindergarten for crying and being afraid of swimming, but can be seen swimming in some episodes.
Shelley "Binky" Barnes (voiced by Bruce Dinsmore) is a yellow bulldog boy who usually wears an orange shirt, blue jeans, and brown shoes. He is in the third grade for a second time after failing and having to retake it. He plays the clarinet, catches butterflies, loves art, and enjoys ballet. In "Binky Goes Nuts", it is revealed that he has a severe allergy to peanuts. Binky has an adopted baby sister from China named Mei-Lin. He is a member of the Tough Customers, a group of bullies, but has a soft side and is close with Arthur and his friends. In the episode "Binky Barnes, Art Expert", he tries to help Arthur and Buster. In the episode "Big Horns George", he compliments George's guitar by saying, "Woah, nice guitar! Can I see?" and after returning the guitar, says he likes the chord George plays. Despite not being good at school, in "Binky's A Game", he reads his assigned book and receives an A on the test.
Sue Ellen Armstrong (voiced by Patricia Rodriguez, or "Rodrigues" in early credits, 1996–2003; Jessica Kardos, 2004–2022) is a third-grader cat girl and one of Arthur's classmates at Lakewood Elementary. She is usually depicted wearing a teal "T-shirt dress", a cream vest with red buttons, red high-top shoes with a lime green "slouch" socks, and curly orange hair bound up in "messy-buns" by lime green scrunchies. She officially moved to Elwood City in the winter of her third-grade school year (but has appeared in Mr. Marco's second-grade class). Her father is a diplomat, so her family has lived in various spots around the world. Unlike Emily, Tommy, and Timmy, she traveled with her parents. She is also deeply interested in world culture and is skilled in martial arts. She practices karate (taekwondo in earlier seasons) and plays the saxophone. Sue Ellen was born as an only child and kept in touch with her brother-like pen pal, Tenzin Wangdu, in Tibet. She is very close to nature and becomes a vegetarian in Season 16.
Fern Walters (voiced by Holly Gauthier-Frankel) is a light brown dog girl and one of Arthur's classmates. She usually wears a purple long-sleeved blouse with yellow collars and cuffs, yellow pants, and a red ribbon on her head. Fern is usually a timid and nervous girl. She enjoys reading poetry and novels (especially "Sherlock Holmes" and "Frankenstein's Monster") and is particularly interested in gothic and horror themes. She writes poems and stories, holds group poetry readings at the library, and is an amateur detective. Her close friend is George, as they both have similar personalities and sometimes act like detectives.
George Lundgren (George "Nordgren" before season 11) (voiced by Mitchell Rothpan 1996–2002; Evan Smirnow 2003; Samantha Reynolds 2008–2010; Eleanor Noble 2004–2007, 2010–2022) is a moose boy of Norwegian a