Medical Research Paper

Title: Knowledge, attitude and practice of complementary and alternative medicine: A patient′s perspective

Abstract:
International Journal of Medicine and Public Health,2015,5,1,19-23.DOI:10.4103/2230-8598.151243Published:January 2015Type:Original ArticleKnowledge, attitude and practice of complementary and alternative medicine: A patient’s perspectiveKavita Jaiswal, Chaitali Bajait, Sonali Pimpalkhute, Smita Sontakke, Ganesh Dakhale, and Ayudh Magdum Kavita Jaiswal, Chaitali Bajait, Sonali Pimpalkhute, Smita Sontakke, Ganesh Dakhale, Ayudh Magdum Department of Pharmacology, Government Medical College, Nagpur, Maharashtra, India Abstract:Background: Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM), includes a wide range of approaches such as herbal medicine, traditional therapies, mind-body intervention, etc. Although CAM is a common practice in India, it is not being integrated into the conventional medical system. There is a paucity of data regarding the usage and acceptance of CAM by patients. Objective: The aim was to determine the knowledge, attitudes, and practice toward CAM among patients and to correlate these findings with their demographic and professional characteristics. Materials and Methods: A cross-sectional, questionnairebased survey conducted in 100 patients attending out-patient department of a tertiary care teaching hospital. Results: Among the respondents, 79.0% were aware of CAM and 46.0 used it. Most common system used was Ayurveda (71.73%), and most common ailment for which it is used was arthritis (30.43%). Majority consulted quacks (43.47%); physicians (23.91%), friends and relatives (19.56%), and 15.21% took CAM as a self-medication. Thirty percent felt that CAM was based on scientific evidence, 25% felt it was safer than modern medicine that is significantly more in women when compared to men. Twenty-five percentage opined that CAM is more efficacious than modern medicine that is significantly more in respondents >40 years age. The most common advantages reported were complete cure, easy availability and no side-effects, whereas disadvantages include food restriction, expensive medication, symptomatic relief and effective for limited diseases. Conclusion: Majority of patients use CAM along with modern medicine without physician’s advice. Hence, healthcare professionals should be aware of this while taking clinical history and treating patients that may reduce drug interactions due to use of CAM particularly in the elderly population. Keywords:Ayurveda, conventional therapies, traditional complementary and alternative medicineView:PDF (542.26 KB)