[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

bromine in solution; after being withdrawn, this ether is mixed with potassa, by which the bromide and bromate of potassa are formed. The solution is evaporated to dryness, the residue is fused in a platinum vessel, the bromate is decomposed, while the bromide remains; this must be distilled with sulphuric acid and the binoxide of manganese. A red or brown vapor will then appear, indicating the presence of bromine; this vapor will color starch paste--which may be put in the receiver on purpose--of a deep orange color. If, to a solution containing a bromide, concentrated sulphuric or nitric acid be added, the bromine is liberated and colors the solution yellow or red. The hypochlorites act in the same manner. The bromine salts are coming into use extensively in photography, in consequence of their greater sensitiveness to the action of light than the chlorides alone. (10.) _Iodine_ (I).--This element occurs in salt-springs, generally combined with sodium; it also exists in rock-salt; it has likewise been found in sea-water, also in a mineral from Mexico, in combination with silver, and in one from Silesia, in combination with zinc. As sea-water contains iodine, we would consequently expect to find it existing in the sea-weeds, and it is generally from the ashes of these that it is obtained in commerce. When the metallic iodides are fused with the microcosmic salt and copper, as previously indicated, they impart a green color to the flame. This color cannot be mistaken for the color imparted to the flame by copper alone. When the metallic iodides are fused in a glass tube, closed at one end, with the bisulphate of potassa, the vapor of iodine is liberated, and may be recognized by its characteristic color. Those mineral waters containing iodine can be treated the same as for bromine, as previously indicated, while the violet-colored vapor of the iodine can be easily discerned. The nitrate of silver is the best test for iodine, the yellow color of the iodide of silver being not easily mistaken, while its almost insolubility in ammonia will confirm its identity. The chloride of silver, on the contrary, dissolves in ammonia with the greatest facility. The reactions of iodine are similar to those of bromine with concentrated sulphuric acid and binoxide of manganese, and with nitric acid: The iodine is released and, if the quantity be not too great, colors the liquid brown. If there be a considerable quantity of iodine present, it is precipitated as a dark colored powder. Either of these, when heated, gives out the violet-color of the iodine. With starch paste free iodine combines, producing a deep blue compound. If, however, the iodine be in very minute quantity, the color, instead of being blue, will be light violet or rose color. If to a solution of the sulphate of copper, to which a small portion of sulphurous acid has been added, a liquid containing iodine and bromine is poured in, a dirty, white precipitate of the subiodide of copper is produced, and the bromine remains in the solution. The latter may then be tested for the bromine by strong sulphuric acid. (11.) _Fluorine_ (Fl).--This element exists combined with sodium, calcium, lithium, aluminium, magnesium, yttrium, and cerium. Fluorine also exists in the enamel of the teeth, and in the bones of some animals. This element has a strong affinity for hydrogen, and, therefore, we find it frequently in the form of hydrofluoric acid. Brazil-wood paper is the most delicate test for hydrofluoric acid, which it tinges of a light yellow color. Phosphoric acid likewise colors Brazil paper yellow, but as this acid is not volatile at a heat sufficient to examine hydrofluoric acid, there can be no mistake. If the substance is supposed to contain this acid, it should be placed on a slip of glass, and moistened with hydrochloric acid, when the test paper may be applied, and the characteristic yellow color will indicate the presence of the fluorine. As hydrofluoric acid acts upon glass, this property may be used for its detection. The substance may be put into a glass tube, and sulphuric acid poured upon it in sufficient quantity to moisten it; a slight heat applied to the tube will develop the acid, which will act upon the glass of the tube. If the acid is retained in the mineral by a feeble affinity, and water be present, a piece of it may be put in the tube and heated, when the acid gas will be eliminated. The test paper will indicate its presence, even before it has time to act upon the glass. If the temperature be too high, fluosilicic acid is generated, and will form a silicious incrustation upon the cool portion of the tube. If the fluorine is too minute to produce either of the above reactions, then the following process, recommended by Plattner, should be followed: the assay should be mixed with metaphosphate of soda, formed by heating the microcosmic salt to dull redness. The mass must then be placed in an open glass tube, in such a position that there will be an access of hot air from the flame. Thus aqueous hydrofluoric acid is formed, which can be recognized by its smell being more suffocating than chlorine, and also by the etching produced by the condensation of vapor in the tube. Moist Brazil paper, applied to the extremity of the tube, will be instantly colored yellow. Merlet's method for the detection of this acid is the following:[3] Pulverize the substance for examination, then triturate it to an impalpable powder, and mix it with an equal part of bisulphate of potassa. Heat the mass gradually in a moderately wide test-tube. The judicious application of heat must be strictly observed, for if the operator first heats the part of the tube where the assay rests, the whole may be lost on account of the glass being shattered. The spirit-flame must be first applied to the fore part of the tube, and then made to recede slowly until it fuses the assay. After the mixture has been for some time kept in a molten state, the lamp must be withdrawn, and the part containing the assay severed with a file. The fore part of the tube must then be well washed, and afterwards dried with bibulous paper. Should the fluorine contained in the substance be appreciable, the glass tube, when held up to the light, will be found to have lost its transparency, and to be very rough to the touch. [3] Quoted by Plattner. Great care should be observed not to allow this very corrosive acid to come into contact with the skin, as an ulcer will be the consequence that will be extremely difficult to heal. When hydrofluoric acid comes in contact with any silicious substance, hydrofluosilicic acid gas is always formed. (12.) _Selenium_ (Se).--This element occurs in combination with lead as the selenide, and with copper as the selenide of copper. It exists also combined with cobalt and lead, as the selenide of these metals; also as the selenide of lead and mercury. The smallest trace of selenium may be detected by igniting a small piece of charcoal in the flame of oxidation, when the peculiar and unmistakable odor of decayed horse-radish will indicate the presence of that element. An orange vapor is eliminated if the selenium be present in any quantity, while there is an incrustation around the assay of a grey color, with a metallic lustre. This incrustation frequently presents a reddish-violet color at its exterior edges, often running into a deep blue. If a substance containing selenium be placed in a glass tube, closed at one end, and submitted to heat, the selenium is sublimed, with an orange-colored vapor, and with the characteristic odor of that substance. Upon the cool portions of the tube a steel-grey sublimate is deposited, and, beyond that, can be discerned small crystals of selenic acid. If the mineral be the seleniferous lead glance, sulphurous acid gas will be given off, and may be detected by the smell, or by a strip of moistened litmus paper. If arsenic is present, heating upon charcoal will quickly lead to the determination of the one from the other. * * * * * TABULAR STATEMENT OF THE REACTIONS OF MINERALS BEFORE THE BLOWPIPE. In PART THIRD of this work, commencing at page 109, the student will find a sufficiently explicit description of the blowpipe reactions of those principal substances that would be likely to come beneath his attention. The following tabular statement of those reactions--which we take from Scheerer and Blanford's excellent little work upon the blowpipe--will be of great benefit, as a vehicle for consultation, when the want of time--or during the hurry of an examination--precludes the attentive perusal of the more lengthy descriptions in the text. In the examination of minerals, before the student avails himself of the aid of the blowpipe, he should not neglect to examine the specimen rigidly in relation to its physical characters, such as its hardness, lustre, color, and peculiar crystallization. It is where the difference of two minerals cannot be distinguished by their physical appearance, that the aid of the blowpipe comes in most significantly as an auxiliary. For instance, the two minerals molybdenite and graphite resemble each other very closely, when examined in regard to their physical appearance, but the blowpipe will quickly discriminate them, for if a small piece of the former mineral be placed in the flame of oxidation, a bright green color will be communicated to the flame beyond it, while in the latter there will be no color. Thus, in a very short time, these two minerals can be distinguished from each other by aid of the blowpipe, while no amount of physical examination could determine that point. The blowpipe is equally an indispensable instrument in the determination of certain minerals which may exist in others as essential or non-essential constituents of them. For instance, should a minute quantity of manganese be present in a mineral, it must be fused with twice its bulk of a mixture of two parts of carbonate of soda, and one part of the nitrate of potassa, in the flame of oxidation upon platinum foil. The manganate of soda thus formed will color the fused mass of a bluish-green tint. Or a slight quantity of arsenic may be discerned by the following process recommended by Plattner:[4] one grain of the finely pulverized metal is mixed with six grains of citrate of potassa, and slowly heated on the platinum spoon. By this means the metals are oxidized, while the arseniate of potassa is obtained. Then boil the fused mass in a small quantity of water in a porcelain vessel till all tho arseniate is dissolved. The metallic oxides are allowed to subside,