# Music in Leeds

The Music in Leeds ecompasses a variety of styles and genres, including rock, pop and electronic. While groups like Soft Cell, the Kaiser Chiefs, the Wedding Present, Utah Saints and the Bridewell Taxis have gained success in the mainstream, Gang of Four, the Sisters of Mercy, Chumbawamba and the Mission have helped to define genres like punk rock, gothic rock and post-punk.

In a 2018 article for the Independent, Leeds was described as "one of the best UK cities for live music", due to both major venues like the O2 Academy Leeds and First Direct Arena and grassroots venues like the Brudenell Social Club, Wharf Chambers and the Hyde Park Book Club. The city also plays host to festivals like Leeds Festival, Slam Dunk Festival, Live at Leeds and Damnation Festival.

Electronic music and the clubbing scene
Chapeltown's large Afro-Caribbean population gave way to a dub scene in the 1980s. Foundational groups, Ital Rockers and Iration Steppas, began performing at Shebeens at local venues like the Leeds West Indian Community Centre using their own DIY sound systems, before influencing the opening of rave clubs and organisations like Tribe and SubDub.

Age of Chance formed in Leeds in 1983, their single "Don't Get Mad… Get Even" reached number 8 on the US Billboard Hot Dance/Club Play chart.

Although formed in Harrogate in 1991, Utah Saints were based in Leeds, heavily influenced by the sound of the Prodigy. Throughout the 1990s they had three top ten singles and another five in the top 40 on the UK Singles Chart.

International DJs and producers like Paul Woolford, Ralph Lawson and Riley & Durrant have their studios in the city, alongside less well known DJs such as Bragguar and DJ Tango.

The earlier underground house scene developed into the Leeds club scene of the 1990s, when for a while Leeds held the title of Britain's clubbing capital. Both Back to Basics and mixed gay night Vague enjoyed the title of best club in Britain at different points in the decade, whilst The Orbit club in Morley was an internationally recognised techno mecca (Orbit closed in 2003 and was replaced by a restaurant).

In the 2000s, the city's University students began making music influenced by Ital Rockers and Iration Steppas, forming groups like Submotion Orchestra and Gentleman's Dub Club. The groups would often perform by putting on parties in their student houses in Woodhouse, Hyde Park and Burley, with sofas and beds place upright against the walls for soundproofing. Performances in fields and squats were also commonplace.

Punk rock

In the late-1970s, Leeds was home to influential punk rock groups such as The Mekons, Gang of Four and Delta 5, who helped to shape the sound of post-punk. The scene's genesis began when Andy Gill and Jon King received a funded trip to New York City in 1976. As art students, the trip happened so that the pair could study in the city's art galleries. However, while there, they became aware of the punk rock scene that had manifested itself around CBGB. After returning to Leeds, the Sex Pistols performed at Leeds Polytechnic in December. Soon after the pair formed Gang of Four. The formation of many other groups by local art students followed, for example the Mekons, Scritti Politti, the Three Johns, Girls at Our Best! and Delta 5. Pop act Soft Cell also emerged from this cohort. The members of these bands often frequented the Fenton on Blenheim Terrace, with the most frequent venue being the F Club founded by John Keenan. Groups such as the Mekons rejected being labelled as "bands", instead likening themselves to an art project espousing Marxism–Leninist politics. These groups also subverted many gender norms within the British punk scene, by attempting to include women as much as possible. Former Mekons and Delta 5 member Julz Sale said in Music in Leeds vol.2 that no woman "ever felt unequal" in the scene. During this period, members of the scene often found themselves in physical altercations against fascists, neo-Nazis and members of the National Front, leading to Leeds playing host to many Rock Against Racism concerts. In the '70s, Leeds also housed the two first openly Nazi punk bands the Dentists and the Ventz.

As the aforementioned groups pushed punk rock into more experimental directions, the likes of Abrasive Wheels, The Underdogs, The Expelled and Icon A.D. pursued more aggressive and confrontational punk styles like anarcho punk, street punk and hardcore punk. Chumbawamba, who lived in a squat in Armley, emerged from this scene soon after and transformed it by bringing vegetarianism, animal rights and anti-violence values into the anarchist scene. Along with A State of Mind, Chumbawamba brought about the emergence of the term "peace punk".

In the early–2000s, Leeds punk groups became increasingly interested in the sound of U.S. bands like Fugazi, Hot Water Music and Small Brown Bike, leading to the emergence of a more U.S.–centric sound seen through the likes of And None of Them Knew They were Robots, Fig.4.0, Dugong and Joe Ninety. Send More Paramedics formed in Leeds in 2001 by members of And None of Them Knew They were Robots. They won Zane Lowe's the 'fresh meat' competition on BBC Radio 1 show, leading to a "Guerilla Gig Live" performance on BBC Three.

In the late–2000s, a scene of hardcore punk bands manifested in the city with groups such as Mob Rules, Rot in Hell and Broken Arm. In an article for The Guardian, Mob Rules drummer Conor Rickford described the scene's nihilistic tendencies as being due to how "If you're living in Leeds you're not going to make music that says that the world is a wonderful place and the sun is always shining"

In 2010, Eagulls formed in the city, influenced by the sound of earlier Leeds post-punk band, namely Gang of Four and the Mekons.

Liverpool hardcore punk Violent Reaction's relocation to Leeds in the early-2010s, led to the city becoming one of the main locations for the then-emerging New Wave of British Hardcore (NWOBHC) scene. Merging elements of UK82 and oi! into the sound of hardcore, the NWOBHC continued to grow in the city, where groups like the Flex, Regiment, True Vision and Shrapnel became prominent practitioners. The Temple of Boom (now called simply Boom) on Millwright Street quickly became the most prominent venue within this scene. Opened in 2011 by Voorhees members Ian "Lecky" Leck and Sean Walker, the venue began as a rehearsal studio, before beginning to put on performances after being pushed to by the members of the Flex. Former Violent Reaction and Shrapnel member Jimmy Wizard formed Higher Power in 2014, with his brother Alex, which eventually grew to include additional members Louis Hardy, Max Harper and Ethan Wilkinson. Metal Hammer hailed the band as "the band redefining hardcore for a new generation", and are the second UK hardcore band to have signed to a major label, in the form of Roadrunner Records. In 2016, Vice described Leeds bands like Rapture, Shrapnel, True Vision and Regiment as "the Second Coming of UK Straight Edge Hardcore". Higher Power members Alex Wizard and Louis Hardy, Violent Reaction guitarist Tom "Razor" Hardwick and Rapture guitarist Maegan Brooks formed Big Cheese, who gained prominence in the late-2010s, along with groups like Scorned and Greed. Outbreak Festival, which for much of its existence has been held at Canal Mills in Armley, is a key location for the hardcore scene, and most features local groups like Higher Power, as well as international groups like Code Orange, Turnstile and Vein.

Gothic rock

Organiser John Keenan started Futurama Festival in 1979, which quickly became the festival for gothic rock and post-punk acts, featuring acts such as Echo & the Bunnymen, Joy Division, Cabaret Voltaire and Bauhaus. According to Dazed, the use of the word "goth" to describe the genre was coined by the Yorkshire Evening Post, in a 1983 article describing the fifth Futurama festival.

From the city's post-punk scene emerged a number of darker groups, who would come to define the sound of gothic rock, beginning in the 1980s. The scene was primarily based around the F Club, which on Karl and Beverley Spracklen's book The Evolution of Goth Culture was described as the space "where gothic rock was born in the form it is now". The founding members of the Sisters of Mercy first met at the venue in 1980, playing their debut performance there. Through the decade, the band proved massively influential to the development of the genre, eventually becoming, as described by Metal Hammer writer Dave Everley, one of the closest things to a godfather of the gothic rock genre. Bradford goth band the March Violets, relocated to Leeds early on, due to its members' fascinations with groups like Gang of Four and the Mekons. While attending the University of Leeds, the band's vocalist Simon Denbigh, founded the Music for the Masses Society, beginning to book concerts and club nights throughout the city. Other groups like Southern Death C