[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

turn in narrow caves; "But here there is nor law nor rule, "Nor have hands held a weary tool; "And here there is nor Change nor Death, "But only kind and merry breath, "For joy is God and God is joy." With one long glance on maid and boy And the pale blossom of the moon, He fell into a Druid swoon. And in a wild and sudden dance We mocked at Time and Fate and Chance And swept out of the wattled hall And came to where the dewdrops fall Among the foamdrops of the sea, And there we hushed the revelry; And, gathering on our brows a frown, Bent all our swaying bodies down, And to the waves that glimmer by That sloping green De Danaan sod Sang "God is joy and joy is God. "And things that have grown sad are wicked, "And things that fear the dawn of the morrow "Or the gray wandering osprey Sorrow." We danced to where in the winding thicket The damask roses, bloom on bloom, Like crimson meteors hang in the gloom, And bending over them softly said, Bending over them in the dance, With a swift and friendly glance From dewy eyes: "Upon the dead "Fall the leaves of other roses, "On the dead dim earth encloses: "But never, never on our graves, "Heaped beside the glimmering waves, "Shall fall the leaves of damask roses. "For neither Death nor Change comes near us, "And all listless hours fear us, "And we fear no dawning morrow, "Nor the gray wandering osprey Sorrow." The dance wound through the windless woods; The ever-summered solitudes; Until the tossing arms grew still Upon the woody central hill; And, gathered in a panting band, We flung on high each waving hand, And sang unto the starry broods: In our raised eyes there flashed a glow Of milky brightness to and fro As thus our song arose: "You stars, "Across your wandering ruby cars "Shake the loose reins: you slaves of God "He rules you with an iron rod, "He holds you with an iron bond, "Each one woven to the other, "Each one woven to his brother "Like bubbles in a frozen pond; "But we in a lonely land abide "Unchainable as the dim tide, "With hearts that know nor law nor rule, "And hands that hold no wearisome tool "Folded in love that fears no morrow, "Nor the gray wandering osprey Sorrow." O Patric! for a hundred years I chased upon that woody shore The deer, the badger, and the boar. O Patric! for a hundred years At evening on the glimmering sands, Beside the piled-up hunting spears, These now outworn and withered hands Wrestled among the island bands. O Patric! for a hundred years We went a-fishing in long boats With bending sterns and bending bows, And carven figures on their prows Of bitterns and fish-eating stoats. O Patric! for a hundred years The gentle Niam was my wife; But now two things devour my life; The things that most of all I hate; Fasting and prayers. S. PATRIC Tell on. USHEEN Yes, yes, For these were ancient Usheen's fate Loosed long ago from heaven's gate, For his last days to lie in wait. When one day by the tide I stood, I found in that forgetfulness Of dreamy foam a staff of wood From some dead warrior's broken lance: I turned it in my hands; the stains Of war were on it, and I wept, Remembering how the Fenians stept Along the blood-bedabbled plains, Equal to good or grievous chance: Thereon young Niam softly came And caught my hands, but spake no word Save only many times my name, In murmurs, like a frighted bird. We passed by woods, and lawns of clover, And found the horse and bridled him, For we knew well the old was over. I heard one say "His eyes grow dim "With all the ancient sorrow of men"; And wrapped in dreams rode out again With hoofs of the pale findrinny Over the glimmering purple sea: Under the golden evening light. The immortals moved among the fountains By rivers and the woods' old night; Some danced like shadows on the mountains, Some wandered ever hand in hand, Or sat in dreams on the pale strand; Each forehead like an obscure star Bent down above each hooked knee: And sang, and with a dreamy gaze Watched where the sun in a saffron blaze Was slumbering half in the sea ways; And, as they sang, the painted birds Kept time with their bright wings and feet; Like drops of honey came their words, But fainter than a young lamb's bleat. "An old man stirs the fire to a blaze, "In the house of a child, of a friend, of a brother "He has over-lingered his welcome; the days, "Grown desolate, whisper and sigh to each other; "He hears the storm in the chimney above, "And bends to the fire and shakes with the cold, "While his heart still dreams of battle and love, "And the cry of the hounds on the hills of old. "But we are apart in the grassy places, "Where care cannot trouble the least of our days, "Or the softness of youth be gone from our faces, "Or love's first tenderness die in our gaze. "The hare grows old as she plays in the sun "And gazes around her with eyes of brightness; "Before the swift things that she dreamed of were done "She limps along in an aged whiteness; "A storm of birds in the Asian trees "Like tulips in the air a-winging, "And the gentle waves of the summer seas, "That raise their heads and wander singing. "Must murmur at last 'Unjust, unjust'; "And 'My speed is a weariness,' falters the mouse "And the kingfisher turns to a ball of dust, "And the roof falls in of his tunnelled house. "But the love-dew dims our eyes till the day "When God shall come from the sea with a sigh "And bid the stars drop down from the sky, "And the moon like a pale rose wither away." BOOK II Now, man of croziers, shadows called our names And then away, away, like whirling flames; And now fled by, mist-covered, without sound, The youth and lady and the deer and hound; "Gaze no more on the phantoms," Niam said, And kissed my eyes, and, swaying her bright head And her bright body, sang of faery and man Before God was or my old line began; Wars shadowy, vast, exultant; faeries of old Who wedded men with rings of Druid gold; And how those lovers never turn their eyes Upon the life that fades and flickers and dies, But love and kiss on dim shores far away Rolled round with music of the sighing spray: But sang no more, as when, like a brown bee That has drunk full, she crossed the misty sea With me in her white arms a hundred years Before this day; for now the fall of tears Troubled her song. I do not know if days Or hours passed by, yet hold the morning rays Shone many times among the glimmering flowers Woven into her hair, before dark towers Rose in the darkness, and the white surf gleamed About them; and the horse of faery screamed And shivered, knowing the Isle of many Fears, Nor ceased until white Niam stroked his ears And named him by sweet names. A foaming tide Whitened afar with surge, fan-formed and wide, Burst from a great door marred by many a blow From mace and sword and pole-axe, long ago When gods and giants warred. We rode between The seaweed-covered pillars, and the green And surging phosphorus alone gave light On our dark pathway, till a countless flight Of moonlit steps glimmered; and left and right Dark statues glimmered over the pale tide Upon dark thrones. Between the lids of one The imaged meteors had flashed and run And had disported in the stilly jet, And the fixed stars had dawned and shone and set, Since God made Time and Death and Sleep: the other Stretched his long arm to where, a misty smother, The stream churned, churned, and churned--his lips apart, As though he told his never slumbering heart Of every foamdrop on its misty way: Tying the horse to his vast foot that lay Half in the unvesselled sea, we climbed the stairs And climbed so long, I thought the last steps were Hung from the morning star; when these mild words Fanned the delighted air like wings of birds: "My brothers spring out of their beds at morn, "A-murmur like young partridge: with loud horn "They chase the noontide deer; "And when the dew-drowned stars hang in the air "Look to long fishing-lines, or point and pare "An ash-wood hunting spear. "O sigh, O fluttering sigh, be kind to me; "Flutter along the froth lips of the sea, "And shores, the froth lips wet: "And stay a little while, and bid them weep: "Ah, touch their blue-veined eyelids if they sleep, "And shake their coverlet. "When you have told how I weep endlessly, "Flutter along the froth lips of the sea "And home to me again, "And in the shadow of my hair lie hid, "And tell me how you came to one unbid, "The saddest of all men." A maiden with soft eyes like funeral tapers, And face that seemed wrought out of moonlit vapours, And a sad mouth, that fear made tremulous As any ruddy moth, looked down on us; And she with a wave-rusted chain was tied To two old eagles, full of ancient pride, That with dim eyeballs stood on either side. Few feathers were on their dishevelled wings, For their dim minds were with the ancient things. "I bring deliverance," pearl-pale Niam said. "Neither the living, nor the unlabouring dead, "Nor the high gods who never lived, may fight "My enemy and hope; demons for fright "Jabber and scream about him in the night; "For he is strong and crafty as the seas "That sprang under the Seven Hazel Trees, "And I must needs endure and hate and weep, "Until the gods and demons drop asleep, "Hearing Aed touch the mournful strings of gold." "Is he so dreadful?" "Be not over bold, "But flee while you may flee from him." Then I: "This demon shall be pierced and drop and die, "And his loose bulk be thrown in the loud tide." "Flee from him," pearl-pale Niam weeping cried, "For all men flee the demons"; but moved not My angry, king remembering soul one jot; There was no mightier soul of Heber's line; Now it is old and mouse-like: for a sign I burst the chain: still earless,