# Nayak: The Real Hero

Nayak: The Real Hero () is a 2001 Indian Hindi-language political action film directed by S. Shankar and produced by A. M. Rathnam under the Sri Surya Movies banner. The film stars Anil Kapoor, with Rani Mukerji, Amrish Puri, Paresh Rawal, and Johnny Lever playing supporting roles. A remake of Shankar's 1999 Tamil-language film Mudhalvan, it focuses on Shivaji Rao Gaekwad (Kapoor), a television cameraman and, later, television presenter, who accidentally hears and records the conversation between the police with the Chief Minister of Maharashtra Balraj Chauhan (Puri) to take an indifferent stand during riots triggered by a fight between college students and a bus driver. While interviewing Chauhan about the issues, Shivaji is challenged to take over his job for a day.

Nayak was announced in June 2000 and marked the first Hindi-language directorial venture of Shankar. The soundtrack was composed by A. R. Rahman, with lyrics that were written by Anand Bakshi. Filming was done by K. V. Anand, taking place in more than 100 locations across India. The film was released on 7 September 2001. A commercial failure, it grossed  at the box office against the total production and marketing cost of . It was opened to mixed reviews from critics, some of whom applauded the storyline, the performances (particularly Kapoor, Puri and Rawal), Shankar's direction and the movie's themes and social message but criticised its lengthy duration, editing, pace and special effects. Through repeated television airings, Nayak has since become a cult classic.

Plot
Shivaji Rao Gaekwad is an ambitious television cameraman, working for QTV along with his friend Topi. While on his job, Rao is assigned to record riots triggered by a fight between college students and a bus driver and accidentally records a conversation in which the Chief Minister of Maharashtra Balraj Chauhan takes an indifferent stand, so as not to lose his voter base. In the riots, Shivaji saves the life of one of the college students there, and it is recorded by Topi. Because of his actions, Shivaji is promoted as the senior television presenter.

Meanwhile, due to police inaction, there is loss of life and damage to property. Explaining his actions, Chauhan later agrees to do a live interview with Shivaji, during which Rao raises these issues and broadcasts the conversation he has recorded. In response to Shivaji's allegations about the mismanagement by his government, Balraj redirects the question by saying that his job is not easy. He challenges Shivaji to be the Chief Minister for a day to experience those problems himself. Shivaji reluctantly accepts the challenge.

Assisted by Bansal, Shivaji handles issues that affect the populace every day. He manages affordable housing and employment for the needy, and he suspends inefficient and corrupt government officials. As the last act of the day, Rao has Chauhan arrested, as the latter is the root cause of all the corruption. Later, Chauhan posts bail and leaves jail, then passes an ordinance to nullify all orders passed by Shivaji. Insulted by Shivaji's success as well, Chauhan sends assassins after him, but they only destroy his house.

Shivaji falls in love with Manjari, a naïve, carefree villager whom he met when he was a cameraman. He asks her father to marry her, but her father refuses on the grounds that Shivaji is not employed by the government. As a result, Shivaji begins preparing for the Civil Services Examination. However, Bansal arrives and informs Rao that Shivaji's popularity has skyrocketed and that people want him to become the next Chief Minister. He is reluctant at first, but when Chauhan's henchmen vandalise QTV premises to intimidate him, and the people show their support by thronging to his place in huge numbers, he agrees to do so.

In the ensuing state elections, Shivaji wins by a vast majority. Chauhan's political allies desert him, causing his defeat. Manjari's father, angered by Shivaji's decision because he believes that it will make Shivaji careless of Manjari, refuses to let his daughter marry him. On becoming the Chief Minister, Shivaji effects many improvements and quickly becomes an idol in the people's eyes. However, his growing popularity is threatened continuously by Chauhan who uses his henchmen to try to kill him or tarnish his image as a public hero. After a failed attempt on Shivaji's life by hiring an assassin, a bomb is detonated at his home, killing his parents.

In a final attempt, Chauhan orders Pandurang to cause bomb explosions in various parts of the city. Accidentally, a priest hears that a few men are planning to detonate bombs and notifies Shivaji's office via the "complaint box", which was created by Shivaji to collect letters from the public about their complaints. Pandurang is arrested and, under tactical inquiry by Shivaji and his secretary, discloses the location of the four bombs. A squad is able to defuse three bombs, but the fourth explodes—without injuring anyone—before they could reach it.

Chauhan uses this success against Shivaji by blaming him for the bomb. Seeing no way out, Shivaji summons Chauhan to the secretariat and creates a situation such that it would seem as if Chauhan was there to shoot Shivaji but failed. To do so, Shivaji takes up a gun, points it to his arm, shoots himself on purpose, and then hands over the gun to Chauhan. The enraged Chauhan attempts to shoot Shivaji, but his shot misses. The security guards shoot down Chauhan and kill him. Apart from that, Manjari's father also comes to realise that Shivaji is a great man who sees duty before everything else and allows Manjari to marry him. The film ends with the state developing under the governance of Shivaji.

Cast
 Anil Kapoor as Shivaji Rao Gaekwad
 Amrish Puri as CM Balraj Chauhan
 Paresh Rawal as Bansal Shroff
 Rani Mukerji as Manjari Ghatge
 Johnny Lever as Topi
 Pooja Batra as Laila
 Saurabh Shukla as Pandurang
 Shivaji Satam as Mr. Ghatge
 Raja Krishnamoorthy as Bhim Rao Gaekwad
 Neena Kulkarni as Mrs. Gaekwad
 Rana Jung Bahadur as Kumar Vishal
 Anupam Shyam as Hemant Mishra
Ahmed Khan and Sushmita Sen made special appearances in the song "Shakalaka Baby".

Production

Nayak: The Real Hero serves as a remake of S. Shankar's 1999 Tamil-language film Mudhalvan, and was the director's first venture in Bollywood. The debut, announced in June 2000, was produced by A. M. Rathnam under the banner of Sri Surya Movies (his second Hindi film after that of Tejasvini, released in 1994), and addressed the issue of corruption in India. According to Shankar, he was motivated to remake Mudhalvan in Hindi because of its subject and did several changes to the original story. In an interview with Filmfare in August 2001, he said that he believed that the topic is well known among Indian people. Anurag Kashyap wrote the dialogue.

The role of Shivaji was originally going to be played by Aamir Khan, but Shankar did not cast him, explaining, "... the two of us faced a huge communication gap. His views about [Mudhalvan] didn't match mine." The next actor suggested was Shah Rukh Khan. However, he did not want to play the role after portraying a television presenter in his home production, Phir Bhi Dil Hai Hindustani (2000). Shankar's final choice was Anil Kapoor, although he was initially reluctant to choose him for the part but changed his mind after finding him more suitable than the previous actors, noting his discipline. When asked by the Deccan Herald about his character as well as his experience during the production of the film, Kapoor said that it was one of his career's finest roles and called it an honour to work with Shankar. To prepare for the role, Kapoor underwent physical training for six or seven months, and watched many talk shows hosted by Larry King, Prannoy Roy, Rajat Sharma, and Karan Thapar—later adopting their way of speaking. Nayak's character name was Rajinikanth's real life name—Shivaji Rao Gaekwad—because Shankar made the script for Mudhalvan with Rajinikanth in his mind.

Shankar chose Rani Mukerji to fulfill the part of Manjari, a village girl who becomes the love interest of Kapoor's character. He cast Mukerji over Manisha Koirala, who played the role in the original version, as he thought that Mukerji has the bubbly image he needed for the character. Playing the type of role for the first time, the actress admitted that she saw resemblances between Manjari and herself, noting their vibrant along with uninhibited character, and described her collaboration with Kapoor as a "growing-up experience". Talking to a journalist from Rediff.com, Mukerji revealed that she immediately agreed to star in the film after hearing the story from Kapoor, which she felt was "mindblowing". Shankar wanted her to portray the role in her own way, not copying what Koirala had done before. Ahmed Khan and Sushmita Sen made special appearances in the film.

Principal photography was handled by K. V. Anand and took place in