Medical Research Paper

Title: Effectiveness of Artificial Intelligence for Personalized Medicine in Neoplasms: A Systematic Review

Abstract:
Purpose: Artificial intelligence (AI) techniques are used in precision medicine to explore novel genotypes and phenotypes data. The main aims of precision medicine include early diagnosis, screening, and personalized treatment regime for a patient based on genetic-oriented features and characteristics. The main objective of this study was to review AI techniques and their effectiveness in neoplasm precision medicine. Materials and Methods: A comprehensive search was performed in Medline (through PubMed), Scopus, ISI Web of Science, IEEE Xplore, Embase, and Cochrane databases from inception to December 29, 2021, in order to identify the studies that used AI methods for cancer precision medicine and evaluate outcomes of the models. Results: Sixty-three studies were included in this systematic review. The main AI approaches in 17 papers (26.9%) were linear and nonlinear categories (random forest or decision trees), and in 21 citations, rule-based systems and deep learning models were used. Notably, 62% of the articles were done in the United States and China. R package was the most frequent software, and breast and lung cancer were the most selected neoplasms in the papers. Out of 63 papers, in 34 articles, genomic data like gene expression, somatic mutation data, phenotype data, and proteomics with drug-response which is functional data was used as input in AI methods; in 16 papers' (25.3%) drug response, functional data was utilized in personalization of treatment. The maximum values of the assessment indicators such as accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, precision, recall, and area under the curve (AUC) in included studies were 0.99, 1.00, 0.96, 0.98, 0.99, and 0.9929, respectively. Conclusion: The findings showed that in many cases, the use of artificial intelligence methods had effective application in personalized medicine.