[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

soda. The presence of lithia changes the violet color of the potash into red. The silicates of potassa must exist in pretty large proportion before they can be detected by the violet color of the flame, and those minerals must melt easily at the edges. The presence of a little soda in these instances conceals the reaction in the potassa entirely. If alcohol is poured over potassa compounds which are powdered, and then set on fire, the external flame appears violet-colored, particularly when stirred with a glass rod, and when the alcohol is really consumed. The presence of soda in lithia will, in this case likewise, hide by their own characteristic color, that of the potassa. The salts of potassa are absorbed when fused upon charcoal. The sulphur, bromine, chlorine, and iodine compounds of potassa give a white, but easily volatile sublimate upon the charcoal, around the place where the fused substance reposed. This white sublimate manifests itself only when the substance is melted and absorbed within the charcoal, and ceases to be visible as soon as it is submitted to the reducing flame, while the external flame is colored violet; sulphate of potassa, for instance, is reduced by the glowing charcoal into the sulphide. This latter is somewhat volatile, but by passing through the oxidation flame, it is again oxidized into the sulphate. This, being less volatile, sublimes upon the charcoal, but by exposing it again to the flame of reduction, it is reduced and carried off to be again oxidized by its passage through the oxidation flame. Potassa and its compounds give, with soda, borax or microcosmic salt, as well when hot as cold, colorless beads, unless the acid associated with the alkali should itself produce a color. When borax is fused with some pure boracic acid, and sufficient of the oxide of nickel is added, so that the beads appear of a brown color after being cooled, and then the bead thus produced fused with the substance suspected to contain potassa, in the oxidation flame, the brown color is changed to blue. The presence of the other alkalies does not prevent this reaction. As it is not possible to detect potassa compounds with unerring certainty by the blowpipe flame, the the wet method should be resorted to for the purpose of confirming it. The _silicates of potassa_ must be prepared as follows, for analytical purposes by the wet way. Mix one part of the finely powdered substance with two parts of soda (free from potassa), and one part of borax. Fuse the mixture upon charcoal in the oxidation flame to a clear, transparent bead. This is to be exposed again with the pincers to the oxidation flame, to burn off the adhering coal particles. Then pulverize and dissolve in hydrochloric acid to separate the silica; evaporate to dryness, dissolve the residue in water, with the admixture of a little alcohol, and test the filtrate with chloride of platinum for potassa. (_b._) _Soda_ (NaO).--This is one of the most abundant substances, although seldom found free, but combined with chlorine or some other less abundant compound. Soda, its hydrate and salts manifest in general the same properties as their respective potash compounds; but the salts of soda mostly contain crystal water, which leaves the salts if they are exposed to the air, and the salts effervesce. By exposing soda or its compounds upon a platinum wire to the blue flame, a reddish-yellow color is communicated to the external flame, which appears as a long brilliant stream and considerably increased in volume. The presence of potash does not prevent this reaction of soda. If there is too large a quantity of potash, the flame near to the substance is violet-colored, but the edge of the flame exhibits the characteristic tint of the soda. The presence of lithia changes the yellow color to a shade of red. When alcohol is poured over powdered soda compounds and lighted, the flame exhibits a reddish-yellow color, particularly if the alcohol is stirred up with a glass rod, or if the alcohol is nearly consumed. Fused upon charcoal, soda compounds are absorbed by the coal. The sulphide, chloride, iodide, and bromide of soda yield a white sublimate around the spot where the substance is laid, but this sublimate is not so copious as that of the potash compounds, and disappears when touched with the reduction flame, communicating a yellow color to the external flame. The presence of soda in compounds must likewise be confined by reactions in the wet way. (_c._) _Ammonia_ (NH^{4}O).--In the fused state, and at the usual temperature, ammonia is a pungent gas, and exerts a reaction upon litmus paper similar to potash and soda. Ammonium is considered by chemists as a metal, from the nature of its behavior with other substances. It has not been isolated, but its existence is now generally conceded by all chemists. The ammonia salts are volatile, and many of them sublimate without being decomposed. The salts of ammonia, on being heated in the point of the blue flame, produce a feeble green color in the external flame, just previous to their being converted into vapor. But this color is scarcely visible, and presents nothing characteristic. When the ammonia salts are mixed with the carbonate of soda, and heated in a glass tube closed at one end, carbonate of ammonia is sublimed, which can be readily recognized by its penetrating smell of spirits of hartshorn. This sublimate will render blue a slip of red litmus paper. This can be easily done by moistening the litmus paper, and then inserting the end of it in the tube. By holding a glass rod, moistened with dilute hydrochloric acid, over the mouth of the tube, a white vapor is instantly rendered visible (sal ammoniac). (_d._) _Lithia_ (LiO).--In the pure state, lithia is white and crystalline, not easily soluble in water, and does not absorb moisture. It changes red litmus to blue, and at a low red heat it melts. Lithia or its salts, exposed to the point of the blue flame, communicates a red color to the external or oxidation flame, in consequence of a reduction, sublimation, and re-oxidation of the lithia. An admixture of potash communicates to this flame a reddish-violet color, and the presence of soda that of a yellowish-red or orange. If the soda, however, is in too great proportion, then its intense yellow hides the red of the lithia. In the latter case the substance under test must be only imperfectly fused in the oxidation flame, and then dipped in wax or tallow. By exposing it now to the reduction flame, the red color imparted to the external flame by the lithia becomes visible, even if a considerable quantity of soda be present. A particular phenomenon appears with the phosphate of lithia, viz., the phosphoric acid itself possesses the property of communicating to the flame a bluish-green color. By its combination with lithia it still exhibits its characteristic color, while the latter presents likewise its peculiar tint. Then we perceive a green flame in the centre of the flame, while the red color of lithia surrounds it. The _silicates_, which contain only a little lithia, produce only a slight hue in the flame, and often none at all. We have to mix one part of the silicate with two parts of a mixture composed of one part of fluorspar and one and a half parts of bisulphate of potassa. Moisten the mass with water so that the mass will adhere, and then melt it upon a platinum wire in the reduction flame, when that of oxidation will present the red color of lithia. The _Borates of lithia_ produce at first a green color, but it soon yields to the red of lithia. When alcohol is poured over lithia or its compounds, and inflamed, it burns with a deep red color, particularly if the fluid is stirred up with a glass rod, or when the alcohol is nearly consumed. This color presents the same modifications as the corresponding ones communicated to the blowpipe as mentioned above. The salts of lithia are absorbed by charcoal when fused upon it. The sulphide, bromide, iodide, and chloride of lithia produce upon the charcoal a greyish-white sublimate, although not so copiously as the corresponding compounds of potash and soda. This sublimate disappears when touched by the reduction flame, while the oxidation flame gives the characteristic color of lithia. SECOND GROUP.--THE ALKALINE EARTHS, BARYTA, STRONTIA, LIME, AND MAGNESIA. In the pure state, the alkaline earths are caustic, cause red litmus paper to become blue, and are more or less soluble in water. Their sulphides are also soluble. The carbonates and phosphates of the alkaline earths are insoluble in water. By igniting the carbonates, their carbonic acid is expelled, and the alkaline earths are left in the caustic state. The alkaline earths are not volatile, and their organic salts are converted, by ignition, into carbonates. (_a._) _Baryta._ (BaO).--This alkaline earth does not occur free in nature, but combined with acids, particularly with carbonic and sulphuric acids. In the pure state, baryta is of a greyish-white color, presents an earthy appearance, and is easily powdered. When sparingly moistened with water, it slakes, becomes heated, and forms a dry, white powder. With still more water it forms a crystalline mass, the hydrate of baryta, which is completely soluble in hot water. Pure baryta is infusible; the hydrate fuses at a red heat, without the loss of its hydratic water; if caustic baryta is exposed for too great a length of time to the flame, it absorbs water, originated by the combustion, and becomes a hydrate, when it will melt. Salts of baryta, formed with most acids, are insoluble in water; for instance, the salts with sulphuric, carbonic, arsenic, phosphoric, and boracic acids. The salts of baryta, soluble in water, are decomposed by ignition, except the chloride. Carbonate of baryta loses its carbonic acid at a red heat, becomes caustic, and colors red litmus paper blue. By exposing baryta or its compounds upon a platinum wire, or a splinter of the substance held with the platinum tongs, to the point of the blue flame, a pale apple-green color is communicated to the external flame. This color appears at first very pale, but soon becomes more intense. This color is most visible if the substance is operated with in small quantities. The chloride of barium produces the deepest color. This color is less intense if the carbonate or sulphate is used. The presence of strontia, lime, or magnesia, does not suppress the reaction of the baryta, unless they greatly predominate. When alcohol is poured over baryta or its salts, and inflamed, a feeble green color is communicated to the flame, but this color should not be considered