[The Art of Perfumery — Piesse — Gutenberg #15583]

on several occasions visited his home with the intention of hanging him. On one occasion, when in town, Billy learned of an attack to be made upon his father, and mounting Sable Satan rode with all speed out to the farm. He was recognized and hotly pursued; but he got home in time to warn his father who took Little Grey and made his escape. The horsemen, a score in number, came to the farm, and finding Mr. Cody gone, the leader struck Billy a severe blow and when he departed carried with him Sable Satan. This almost broke the boy's heart; but he declared he would some day regain his horse, and for weeks he tried to do so, but without success. One night two horsemen came to the Cody farm and again asked for the farmer, but were told by Mrs. Cody that he was away. They would not take her word for it; but thoroughly searched the house, after which they forced Billy's sisters to get them some supper. While they were eating Billy and his father returned, and warned by one of the girls, Mr. Cody went up-stairs to bed, for he was quite ill, and suffering from the wound he had received. But Billy went into the kitchen and saw there the very man who had struck him the severe blow; and who had taken Sable Satan on his last visit. "Well, boy, that's a good horse I got from you," he said, with a rude laugh. "Yes, he's too good for such a wretch as you are," was the fearless reply. "No lip, boy, or I'll give you a licking you'll remember. By the way, where's that old father of yours?" said the man. Billy made no reply but walked out of the kitchen, to be soon after followed by his sister Mary who said anxiously: "Oh, Will, they say father must have come with you, and they intend to search the house again." "Then I'll go up and tell father," whispered Billy, and up-stairs he went. He found his father asleep, and his mother was seated near him and told Billy he had a high fever. "Then don't wake him, and I'll not let them come up here," said Billy, and he went out of the room and took his place at the stairs. A moment after the two men, both with pistols in their hands, came out of the kitchen and started to come up-stairs. "Stop, Luke Craig, for you can't come up here," said the boy. With a hoarse laugh the man sprung up the steps to fall back as a pistol flashed in his face and roll back to the bottom, knocking his companion down too. But the latter quickly sprung to his feet and dashed out of the house to where their horses were hitched. His horse was a white one, and his comrade's was Sable Satan, and to the latter he ran. But up went the window and in a loud voice Billy cried: "I've got my rifle on you, and I'll fire if you take my horse." The man evidently believed that he would, from what he had seen, and mounting his own horse dashed swiftly away in the darkness while Billy returned to the one he had shot. He found him badly wounded, but not fatally, and putting him in his father's buggy drove him to the nearest doctor, at whose house he remained for months before he was well again. CHAPTER VII. LOVE AND RIVALRY. Finding that Billy was becoming far more accomplished as a rider and shot, than in his books, Mrs. Cody determined to send him to a small school that was only a few miles away. Billy, though feeling himself quite a man, yielded to his mother's wishes and attended the school, which was presided over by a cross-grained Dominie that used the birch with right good earnest and seeming delight. Of course Billy's love of mischief got him many a whipping; but for these he did not seem to care until there suddenly appeared in the school another pupil in the shape of a young miss just entering her teens. The name of this young lady was Mollie Hyatt, and she was the daughter of a well-to-do settler who had lately arrived, and was as pretty as a picture. Billy's handsome face and dark eyes won her young heart, and the love-match was going smoothly along until a rival appeared in the field in the shape of a youth two years the junior of young Cody, and larger and stronger. These virtues on the part of Master Steve Gobel, with his growing love of Mollie, made him very assuming, and he forced his company upon the little maid, and had things pretty much his own way, as all the boys seemed afraid of him. As for Billy he let him have his own way for awhile, and then determined not to stand it any longer he sought Steve Gobel for a settlement of the affair, the result of which was, the teacher hearing them quarreling and coming out took the word of young Cody's rival about it, and gave my hero a severe whipping before the whole school. Since his meeting Mollie Hyatt, Billy had been a most exemplary youth, never having had a single whipping, and this cut him to the heart so deeply that he did not seem to feel the pain of the rod. And it made him treasure up revenge against Steve Gobel, who was laughing at him during the castigation. The next day Billy built for Mollie a pretty little arbor on the bank of the creek, and all admired it greatly excepting Steve Gobel, who, as soon as it was finished pulled it down. Poor Mollie began to cry over her loss, and infuriated at beholding her sorrow, Billy rushed upon his rival and a fierce fight at once began between them. Finding that he was no match for the bully in brute strength, and suffering under his severe blows, Billy drew from his pocket his knife, opened the blade with his teeth, and drove it into the side of his foe, who cried out in wild alarm. Springing to his feet, amid the frightened cries of the children, Billy rushed to his pony, drew up the lariat pin, and springing upon his back, rode away across the prairie like the wind. Coming in sight of a wagon-train bound for the West, he rode up to it and recognizing the wagon-master as an old friend of his father, he told him what had occurred, and that he feared he had killed Steve Gobel. "Served him right, Billy, and we'll just go into camp, take the boys along, and go over and clean out the house o' l'arnin'," was the blunt reply of the wagon-master. But this Billy would not bear to, and the wagon-master said: "Well, my boy, I'm bound with the train to Fort Kearney, so come along with me, and I'll make a man of you." "But what will my mother think of me?" "Oh! I'll send a man back with word to her, while you stay, for I won't give you up to that boy's friends." And thus it was settled; a man rode back to the Cody farm, and the following day he overtook the train again, and Billy's heart was made glad by a letter from his mother telling him that Steve Gobel was not badly wounded, but that under the circumstances he had better go on with the wagon-master and remain away until the anger of the Gobel family cooled down. Thus, as a Boy Bullwhacker, Billy made his first trip across the plains, and months after, upon his return home, found that the Gobels had forgiven the past, and that Mary Hyatt had, little coquette that she was, found another beau. But shortly after his return his father died, and having to aid in the support of his mother and sisters, Billy accepted a position as herder for a drove of Government cattle to be driven to the Army of General Albert Sydney Johnson, that was marching against the Mormons at Salt Lake. CHAPTER VIII. KILLING HIS FIRST INDIAN. When the train and beef-herd, with which Billy Cody had gone, arrived in the vicinity of old Fort Kearney their first serious adventure occurred, and for a while the boy thought of his mother's prediction, that he "would be killed or captured by Indians." Not expecting an attack from red-skins in that vicinity, the party had camped for dinner, and most of them were enjoying a _siesta_ under the wagons, Billy being among the latter number, while but three men were on duty as herders. But suddenly they were aroused by shots, wild yells, and rapid hoof-falls, and down upon them dashed a band of mounted warriors, while others had killed the three guards and the cattle were stampeding in every direction. But the train hands quickly sprung to their feet, rallied promptly for the fight, and met the advancing red-skins with a volley from their Mississippi yagers, which were loaded with ball and buck-shot, and checked their advance. Knowing that they could not hold out there the train-master called out: "Boys, make a run for the river, and the banks will protect us." All started, when Billy called out: "Don't let us leave these wounded boys." They turned at his word, to find that two of their number had been wounded, one seriously in the side and the other in the leg. Raising them in their arms they started at a run for the bank, ere the Indians had rallied from the fire that met them, and reached it in safety, though the man who had been shot in the side was dead ere they got there. A short consultation was then held, and it was decided to make their way back to Fort Kearney, by wading in the river and keeping the bank as a breast work. A raft of poles was constructed for the wounded man, and the party started down the stream, protected by the bank, and keeping the Indians at bay with their guns, for they followed them up closely. As night came on, utterly worn out with wading and walking, Billy dropped behind the others; but trudged manfully along until he was suddenly startled by a dark object coming down over the bank. It was moonlight, and he saw the plumed head and buckskin-clad form of an Indian, who, in peering over the bank to reconnoiter had lost his balance, or the earth had given way, and sent him down into the stream. He caught sight of Billy as he was sliding down,