# Neuroendocrine tumor

Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) are neoplasms that arise from cells of the endocrine (hormonal) and nervous systems. They most commonly occur in the intestine, where they are often called carcinoid tumors, but they are also found in the pancreas, lung, and the rest of the body.

Although there are many kinds of NETs, they are treated as a group of tissue because the cells of these neoplasms share common features, including a similar histological appearance, having special secretory granules, and often producing biogenic amines and polypeptide hormones.

The term "neuro" refers to the dense core granules (DCGs), similar to the DCGs in the serotonergic neurons storing monoamines. The term "endocrine" refers to the synthesis and secretion of these monoamines. The neuroendocrine system includes endocrine glands such as the pituitary, the parathyroids and the neuroendocrine adrenals, as well as endocrine islet tissue embedded within glandular tissue such as in the pancreas, and scattered cells in the exocrine parenchyma. The latter is known as the diffuse endocrine system.

Classification

WHO
The World Health Organization (WHO) classification scheme places neuroendocrine tumors into three main categories, which emphasize the tumor grade rather than the anatomical origin:
 well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumors, further subdivided into tumors with benign and those with uncertain behavior
 well-differentiated (low grade) neuroendocrine carcinomas with low-grade malignant behavior
 poorly differentiated (high grade) neuroendocrine carcinomas, which are the large cell neuroendocrine and small cell carcinomas.

Additionally, the WHO scheme recognizes mixed tumors with both neuroendocrine and epithelial carcinoma features, such as goblet cell cancer, a rare gastrointestinal tract tumor.

Placing a given tumor into one of these categories depends on well-defined histological features: size, lymphovascular invasion, mitotic count, Ki-67 labelling index, invasion of adjacent organs, presence of metastases and whether they produce hormones.

The WHO grading from 2022 endorses a three-tiered grading system for most NETs, in particular NETs of the gastrointestinal or pancreaticobiliary tract, as well as NETs of the upper aerodigestive tract and the salivary glands. The grading system is based on proliferation assessed by mitotic rate and Ki-67 index and stratifies NETs into grade 1 (G1, low-grade), grade 2 (G2, intermediate-grade) and grade 3 (G3, high-grade). Tumor necrosis, although recognized as a factor associated with a potentially worse prognosis, is not included in the grading of NETs of the gastrointestinal or pancreaticobiliary tract. However, the absence or presence of tumor necrosis is a component of the grading of NETs of many other origins, such as the upper aerodigestive tract, the lung and the thymus.

Neuroendocrine carcinomas are poorly differentiated high-grade neuroendocrine neoplasms and a designation of tumor grade is therefore redundant. Lung and thymic neuroendocrine neoplasms are classified in a similar manner, including typical and atypical carcinoids, small cell and large cell neuroendocrine carincomas.

Furthermore, the 2022 WHO classification introduces a two-tiered grading system for medullary thyroid carcinomas based on mitotic count, Ki-67 index and the absence or presence of tumor necrosis. Here, it may be noted that different cut-offs than with tumors of gastrointestinal, aerodigestive and lung origin are applied.

Anatomic distribution
Traditionally, neuroendocrine tumors have been classified by their anatomic site of origin. NETs can arise in many different areas of the body, and are most often located in the intestine, pancreas or the lungs. The various kinds of cells that can give rise to NETs are present in endocrine glands and are also diffusely distributed throughout the body, most commonly Kulchitsky cells or similar enterochromaffin-like cells, that are relatively more common in the gastrointestinal and pulmonary systems.

NETs include certain tumors of the gastrointestinal tract and of the pancreatic islet cells, certain thymus and lung tumors, and medullary carcinoma of the parafollicular cells of the thyroid. Tumors with similar cellular characteristics in the pituitary, parathyroid, and adrenomedullary glands are sometimes included or excluded.

Within the broad category of neuroendocrine tumors there are many different tumor types, representing only a small proportion of the tumors or cancers in most of these tissues:
 Pituitary gland: Neuroendocrine tumor of the anterior pituitary
 Thyroid gland: Neuroendocrine thyroid tumors, particularly medullary carcinoma
 Parathyroid tumors
 Thymus and mediastinal carcinoid tumors
 Pulmonary neuroendocrine tumors
 bronchus
 pulmonary carcinoid tumors: typical carcinoid (TC; low-grade); atypical carcinoid (AC; intermediate-grade)
 small-cell lung cancer (SCLC)
 large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the lung (LCNEC)
 Extrapulmonary small cell carcinomas (ESCC or EPSCC)
 Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NET)
 Foregut GEP-NET (foregut tumors can conceptually encompasses not only NETs of the stomach and proximal duodenum, but also the pancreas, and even thymus, lung and bronchus)
 Pancreatic endocrine tumors (if considered separately from foregut GEP-NET)
 Midgut GEP-NET (from distal half of 2nd part of the duodenum to the proximal two-thirds of the transverse colon)
 appendix, including well differentiated NETs (benign); well differentiated NETs (uncertain malignant potential); well differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma (with low malignant potential); mixed exocrine-neuroendocrine carcinoma (goblet cell carcinoma, also called adenocarcinoid and mucous adenocarcinoid)
 Hindgut GEP-NET
 Liver and gallbladder
 Adrenal tumors, particularly adrenomedullary tumors
 Pheochromocytoma
 Peripheral nervous system tumors, such as:
 Schwannoma
 paraganglioma
 neuroblastoma
 Breast
 Genitourinary tract
 urinary tract carcinoid tumor and neuroendocrine carcinoma
 ovary
 neuroendocrine tumor of the cervix
 Prostate tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation
 testes
 Merkel cell carcinoma of skin (trabecular cancer)
 Inherited conditions:
 multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1)
 multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN2)
 von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease
 neurofibromatosis type 1
 tuberous sclerosis
 Carney complex

Grading
Neuroendocrine lesions are graded histologically according to markers of cellular proliferation, rather than cellular polymorphism. The following grading scheme is currently recommended for all gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms by the World Health Organization:

If mitotic count and Ki-67 are discordant, the figure which gives the highest grade is used.

G1 and G2 neuroendocrine neoplasms are called neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) – formerly called carcinoid tumours. G3 neoplasms are called neuroendocrine carcinomas (NECs).

It has been proposed that the current G3 category be further separated into histologically well-differentiated and poorly-differentiated neoplasms to better reflect prognosis.

Staging

Currently there is no one staging system for all neuroendocrine neoplasms. Well-differentiated lesions generally have their own staging system based on anatomical location, whereas poorly differentiated and mixed lesions are staged as carcinomas of that location. For example, gastric NEC and mixed adenoneuroendocrine cancers are staged as primary carcinoma of the stomach.

TNM staging of gastroenteropancreatic Grade 1 and Grade 2 neuroendocrine tumors are as follows:

Signs and symptoms

Gastroenteropancreatic
Conceptually, there are two main types of NET within the gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NET) category: those which arise from the gastrointestinal (GI) system and those that arise from the pancreas. In usage, the term "carcinoid" has often been applied to both, although sometimes it is restrictively applied to NETs of GI origin (as herein), or alternatively to those tumors which secrete functional hormones or polypeptides associated with clinical symptoms, as discussed.

Carcinoid tumors

Carcinoids most commonly affect the small bowel, particularly the ileum, and are the most common malignancy of the appendix. Many carcinoids are asymptomatic and are discovered only upon surgery for unrelated causes. These coincidental carcinoids are common; one study found that one person in ten has them. Many tumors do not cause symptoms even when they have metastasized. Other tumors even if very small can produce adverse effects by secreting hormones.

Ten per cent (10%) or less of carcinoids, primarily some midgut carcinoids, secrete excessive levels of a range of hormones, most notably serotonin (5-HT) or substance P, causing a constellation of symptoms called carcinoid syndrome:
 flushing
 diarrhea
 asthma or wheezing
 congestive heart failure (CHF)
 abdominal cramping
 peripheral edema
 heart palpitations

A