[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

blossom, bud and grass Something that's neither sorrow nor joy, Something that sighs like autumn sighing, And in each living thing is dying. It is myself that whispers and stares Down from the hill and in the wood, And in the untended orchard's shining Sees the light through thin leaves declining. Let me forget what I have been What I can never be again. Let me forget my winter's meanness In this fond, flushing world of greenness. Let me forget the world that is The changing image of my thought, Nor see in thicket and hedge and meadow Myself, a grave perplexèd shadow; And O, forget that gloomy shade That breathes his cloud 'twixt earth and light ... All, all forget but sun and blossom, And the bird that bears heaven in his bosom. TIME FROM HIS GRAVE When the south-west wind came The air grew bright and sweet, as though a flame Had cleansed the world of winter. The low sky As the wind lifted it rose trembling vast and high, And white clouds sallied by As children in their pleasure go Chasing the sun beneath the orchard's shadow and snow. Nothing, nothing was the same! Not the dull brick, not the stained London stone, Not the delighted trees that lost their moan-- Their moan that daily vexed me with such pain Until I hated to see trees again; Nor man nor woman was the same Nor could be stones again, Such light and colour with the south-west came. As I drank all that brightness up I saw A dark globe lapt in fold on fold of gloom, With all her hosts asleep in that cold tomb, Sealed by an iron law. And there amid the hills, Locked in an icy hollow lay the bones Of one that ghostly and enormous slept Obscure 'neath wrinkled ice and bedded stones. But as spring water the old dry channel fills, Came the south-west wind filling all the air. Then Time rose up, ghostly, enormous, stark, With cold gray light in cold gray eyes, and dark Dark clouds caught round him, feet to rigid chin. The wind ran flushed and glorious in, Godlike from hill to frozen hill-top stepp'd, And swiftly upon that bony stature swept. Then a long breath and then quick breaths I heard, In those black caves of stillness music stirred, Those icy heights were riven: From crown to clearing hollow grass was green; And godlike from flushed hill to hill-top leapt Time, youthful, quick, serene, Dew flashing from his limbs, light from his eyes To the sheeny skies. A lark's song climbed from earth and dropped from heaven, Far off the tide clung to the shore Now silent nevermore. ... Into what vision'd wonder was I swept, Upon what unimaginable joyance had I leapt! WILDER MUSIC Came the same cuckoo's cry All day across the mead. Flitted the butterfly All day dittering over my head. Came a bleak crawk-caw Between tall broad trees. Came shadows, floating, drifting slowly down Large leaves from darker trees. Rose the lark with the rising sun, Rose the mist after the lark, O wild and sweet the clamour begun Round the heels of the limping dark. Rose after white cloud white cloud, Nodded green cloud to green; The stiff and dark earth stirred, breathing aloud, And dew shook from the green. Remained the eyes that stared, Ears that ached to hear; Remained the nerve of being, bared, Stung with delight and fear. Beauty flushed, ran and returned, Like a music rose and fell; Staring and blind and deaf I listened and burned-- A wilder music fell. GRASSES O cover me, long gentle grasses, Cover me with your seeding heads, Cover me with your shaking limbs, Cover me with your light soft hands, Cover me as the delicious long wind passes Over you and me, green grasses. 'Tis of your blood I would be drinking, To your soft shrilling listening now, And your thin fingers peering through At the deep forests of the sky. O satisfy my peevish thought past thinking, My sense with your sense linking. Already are your brown roots creeping Around the roots of my mind's mind, Into the darkness hidden within The rayed dark of unconsciousness; And your long stems in a bright wind are leaping Over me uneasily sleeping. O cover me, long gentle grasses, As one day over a quiet flesh You will shake, shake and dance and sing; And body too still and spirit astir Will hear you in every firm bright wind that passes Over you, loved green grasses. FAIR AND BRIEF So fair, that all the morning aches With such monotony! So brief, that sadness breaks The brittle spell. Nothing so fair, nothing so brief: The sun leaps up and falls. The wind tosses every leaf: Every leaf dies. Blossom, a white cloud in the air, Is blown like a cloud away. Must all be brief, being fair? Nothing remain? Yes, night and that high regiment Of stars that wheel and march, Ever their bright lines bent To a secret thought; Moving immutable, bright and grave, Fair beyond all things fair; Though all else vanish, save Imagination's dream. NIGHTFALL I Eve goes slowly Dancing lightly Clad with shadow up the hills; Birds their singing Cease at last, and silence Falling like fine rain the valley fills. Not a bat's cry Stirs the stillness Perfect as broad water sleeping, Not a moth's wings Flit in the gathering darkness, Not a mouselike moonray ev'n comes creeping. Then a light shines From the casement, Wreathed with jasmine boughs and stars, Palely golden As the late eve's primrose, Glimmers through green leafy prison bars. II Only joy now Come in silence, Come before your look's forgot; Come and hearken While the lonely shadow Broadens on the hill and then is not. Now the hour is, Here the place is, Here am I who saw thee here. Evening darkens All is still and marvellous, Now the sharp stars in the deep sky peer. Come and fill me As the wind fills Leafy wide boughs of a tree; Come and windlike Cleanse my slumbrous branches, Come and moonlike bathe the leaves of me. III Eve has gone and Night follows, Every bush is now a ghost; Every tree looms Lofty large and sombre; All day's simple friendliness is lost. See the poplars Black in blackness, In all their leaves there is no sigh. 'Neath that darkling Cedar who dare wander Now, or under the vast oak would lie!... Till that tingling Silence broken Every clod renews its breath; Birds, leaves, grasses Heave as one, then sleep on Full of sweeter sleep and unlike death. IV Only joy now Come like music Falling clear from strings of light; Come like shadow Drinking up late sunrays, Come like moonrays sweeping the round night. See how night is Opening flowerlike: Open so thy bosom to me. See how earth falls Easeful into silence: Let my moth-wing'd thought so fall on thee. While the lamp's beam Primrose golden Now is like a shifting spear Borne in battle, Seen awhile then hidden, Bold then beaten--now long lost, and here! THE SLAVES The tall slaves bow if that capricious King But glances as he passes; Their dark hoods drawing over abashed faces They bow humbly, unappealingly. The dark robes round their shuddering bodies cling, They bow and but whisper as he passes. They have not learned to look into his eyes, If he insults to answer, To stand with head erect and angry arching bosom: They bow humbly, unappealingly, As though he mastered earth and the violet inky skies, And whisper piteously for only answer. So they stand, tall slaves, ashamed of their great height, And if he comes raving, Shouting from the west, furious and moody, They bow more humbly, unappealingly, Ashamed to remember how they lived in that calm light; They droop until he passes, tired of raving. Only when he's gone they lift their darkened brows, Light comes back to their eyes, Their leaves caress the light, the light laves their branches, They move loverlike, appealingly; Slaves now no more the poplars lift and shake their boughs, And there's a heaven of evening in their eyes. THE FUGITIVE In the hush of early even The clouds came flocking over, Till the last wind fell from heaven And no bird cried. Darkly the clouds were flocking, Shadows moved and deepened, Then paused; the poplar's rocking Ceased; the light hung still Like a painted thing, and deadly. Then from the cloud's side flickered Sharp lightning, thrusting madly At the cowering fields. Thrice the fierce cloud lighten'd, Down the hill slow thunder trembled; Day in her cave grew frightened, Crept away, and died. THE UNTHRIFT Here in the shade of the tree The hours go by Silent and swift, Lightly as birds fly. Then the deep clouds broaden and drift, Or the cloudless darkness and the worn moon. Waking, the dreamer knows he is old, And the day that he dreamed was gone Is gone. THE WREN Within the greenhouse dim and damp The heat floats like a cloud. Pale rose-leaves droop from the rust roof With rust-edged roses bowed. As I go in Out flies the startled wren. By the tall dark fir tree he sings Morn after morn still, Shy and bold he flits and sings Tinily sweet and shrill. As I go out His song follows me about ... About the orchard under trees Beaded with cherries bright, Past the rat-haunted Honeybourne And up those hills of light: As up I go His notes more sweetly flow. Or down those dark hills when night's there Full of dark thoughts and deep, A thin clear soundless music comes Like stars in broken sleep. When I come down All those dark thoughts are flown. And now that sweetness is more sweet, Here where the aeroplanes Labouring and groaning in the height Lift their lifeless vans:-- Sweet, sweet to hear The far off wren singing clear. THE WINDS In these green fields, in this green spring, In this green world of burning sweet That drives its sour from everything And burns the Arctic with new heat, That seems so slow and flies so fleet On half-seen wing; In this green world the birds are all With motion mad, are wild with song; The grass leaps like a sudden wall Flung up against a foe that long Strode round and wrought his frosty wrong. The bright winds call, The bright winds answer; the clouds rise White from the grave, shaking their head, Strewing the grave-clothes through the skies, In languid drifting shadow shed Upon the fields where, slowly spread, Each shadow dies. In every wood is green and gold, The unbridged river runs all green With queenly swan-clouds