[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

meadow and stream And ancient roads and homes of men long dead, And all the beauty a familiar dream. On the green hills a cloud of silver grey Gave gentle light stranger than light of day. And clear between the hills, past the near crest And many hills, the hungry cities crept, Noble and mean, oppressive and oppressed, Where dreams unrealized of England slept: And they too England, packed in dusty street With men that half forgot England was sweet. Now men were far, but like a living brain Quick with their thought, the earth, hills, air and light Were quivering as though a shining rain Falling all round made even the light more bright; And trees and water and heath and hedge-flowers fair With more than natural sweetness washed the air. From hill to hill a sparkling web it swung, A snare for happiness, lit with lovely dews. The very smoke of cities now was hung But like a grave girl's dress of tranquil hues: And how (I thought) can England, seen thus bright, Lifting her clear frank head, but love the light?-- No, not her brain! that bright web was the shadow Of the high spirit in their spirit shining Who on scarred foreign hill and trenchèd meadow Kept the faith yet, unfearful, unrepining;-- Her faith that with the dark world's liberty Mingles as earth's great rivers with the sea. O with what gilding ray was the land agleam! It was not sun and dew, bush, bough and leaf, But human spirits visible as in a dream That turns from glad to aching, being too brief: Courage and beauty shining in such brightness That all the thoughtful woods were no more lightless. But most the hills a splendour had put on Of golden honour, bright and high and calm And like old heroes young men dream upon When midnight stirs with magic sword and palm;-- With the fled mist all meanness put away And the air clear and keen as salt sea-spray.... And yet no dream; no dream! I saw the whole, The reap'd fields, idle kine and wandering sheep. A weak wind through the near tall hedge-tree stole, And died where Dover's Hill rose bare and steep; I saw yet what I saw an hour ago, But knew what save by dreams I did not know-- _Sweet England!_--wild proud heart of things unspoken Spirit that men bear shyly and love purely; That dies to live anew a life unbroken As spring from every winter rising surely: _Sweet England_ unto generations sped, Now bitter-sweetest for her daily dead. _September, 1916._ PRESAGE OF VICTORY I Then first I knew, seeing that bent grey head, How England honours all her thousand dead. Then first I knew how faith through black grief burns, Until the ruined heart glows while it yearns For one that never more returns-- Glows in the spent embers of its pride For one that careless lived and fearless died. And then I knew, then first, How everywhere Hope from her prison had burst-- On every hill, wide dale, soft valley's lap, In lonely cottage clutch'd between huge downs, And streets confused with streets in clanging towns-- Like spring from winter's jail pouring her sap Into the idle wood of last year's trees. Then first I knew how the vast world-disease Would die away, and England upon her seas Shake every scab of sickness; toward new skies Lifting a little holier her head, With honesty the brighter in her eyes, And all that urgent horror well forgot, The dark remembered not; Only remembered then, with bosom yet hot, The blood that on how many a far field lies, The bones enriching not our English earth That brought them to such splendid birth And the last sacrifice. II Then first I knew, seeing that head bent low, How gravely all her days she needs must go, Bearing an image in her faded breast.... O, the dark unrest Of thoughts that never cease their flight, Never vanishing, yet never still, Like birds that wail round the bewildering nest! But other nestlings never shall be hers, Only a painful image his place fill, Only a memory remain for her thin bosom to nurse In all that dark unrest Of sleepless and tormented night. III Yet from _her_ eyes presage of victory Looked steadfast out at mine. It is not to be thought of (said her eyes) That only a foul blotch the sun may shine On England, through low poisonous thick skies! Never, O never again This pain, this pain! Else from that foreign earth his bones would rise And thrust in anger at the bitter skies. It is not to be thought of that such prayer Should fall unheeded back through heavy air. But I have heard, in the night I have heard, When not a leaf in all the orchard stirred, And even the water of the bourne hung still, And the old twitching, creaking house was still, And all was still, What was it I heard? It could not be his voice, come from so far; I know 'twas not a bird. It _was_ his voice, or that lone watchful star Creeping above the casement bar, Saying: Fear thou no ill, No ill! Then all the silence was an echoing round, The water and dumb trees their antique murmur found, And clear as music came the repeated Sound: Fear thou no ill, no ill! Was it her eyes or her tongue told me this? IV Yet but sad comfort from such pain is caught.... I went out from the house and climbed the coombe, And where the first light of sweet morning hung I found the light I sought. From somewhere south a bugle's note was flung, From somewhere north a sombre boom; On the opposing hills white flecks and grey Spotted the misty green, And blue smoke wraiths around the tall trees clung. Presently rose thick dust clouds from the green: Came up, or seemed to come, the instant beat Of marching feet; Then with the clouds the beating died away, And nothing was seen But broken hills and the new flush of day. V All round the folding hills were like green waves, Tossing awhile together ere they fall And fling their salt on the steep stony beach. The sound I heard was sound of Roman feet-- I saw the sparkling light on Roman glaives, I heard the Roman speech Answering the wild Iberian battle-call: They passed from sight on the long street. And I saw then the Mercian Kings that strode Proudly from the small city of grey stone And climbed the folding hills, Past the full springs that bubbled and flowed Through the soft valley and on to Avon stream. They passed--as all things pass and seem No other than a dream, All but the shining and the echo gone. But still I listened and looked. Their voice it was Blown through the valley grass; Their dust it was that sprang from the hard road Where now these English legions flowed, Waking the quiet like a steady wind. That ancient soldiery before me passed With all that followed them, and these the last Of my own generation, my own mind; Their strength and courage rooted deep in the earth That brings men to such splendid birth And no vain sacrifice ... It was as when the land all darkness lies, And shades, nor only shades, move freely out And through the trees are heard and all about Their ancient ways, 'neath the old stars and skies. So now in morning's light I knew them there Leading the men that marched and marched away, And mounted up the hill, and down the hill Passed from my eyes and ears, and left the air Trembling everywhere, And then how still! VI Then first I knew the joy that yet should be Ringing from camped hill and guarded sea With England's victory. The dust had stirred, the infinite dust had stirred, It was the courage of the past I heard, The virtue of those buried bones again Animate in these marching Englishmen; And nothing wanted if the dead but nerved The living hands that the same England served. With new-washed eyes I saw as I went down On the hill crest the oak-grove's crown, With new delighted ear heard the lark sing-- That mad delighted thing; The very smoke that rose was strangely blue, But most the orchard brightened wonderfully new, Where the wild spring, ere winter snow well gone, Scattered her whiter, briefer snow-cloud down. And England lovelier looked than when Her dead roused not her living men. _May, 1916._ THE RETURN I heard the rumbling guns. I saw the smoke, The unintelligible shock of hosts that still, Far off, unseeing, strove and strove again: And Beauty flying naked down the hill. From morn to eve: and then stern night cried Peace! And shut the strife in darkness; all was still. Then slowly crept a triumph on the dark-- And I heard Beauty singing up the hill. ENGLISH HILLS O that I were Where breaks the pure cold light On English hills, And peewits rising cry, And gray is all the sky. Or at evening there When the faint slow light stays, And far below Sleeps the last lingering sound, And night leans all round. O then, O there 'Tis English haunted ground. The diligent stars Creep out, watch, and smile; The wise moon lingers awhile. For surely there Heroic shapes are moving, Visible thoughts, Passions, things divine, Clear beneath clear star-shine. O that I were Again on English hills, Seeing between Laborious villages Her cool dark loveliness. HOMECOMING When I came home from wanderings In a tall chattering ship, I thought a hundred happy things, Of people, places, and such things As I came sailing home. The tall ship moved how slowly on With me and hundreds more, That thought not then of wanderings, But of unwhispered, longed-for things, Familiar things of home. For not in miles seemed other lands Far off, but in long years As we came near to England then; Even the tall ship heard secret things As she moved trembling home. It was at dawn. The chattering ship Was strangely hushed; faint mist Crept everywhere, and we crept on, And every eye was creeping on The mist, as we moved home.... Until we saw, far, very far, Or dreamed we saw, her cliffs, And thought of sweet, intolerable things, Of England--dark, unwhispered things, Such things, as we crept home. ENGLAND'S ENEMY She stands like one with mazy cares distraught. Around her sudden angry storm-clouds rise, Dark, dark! and comes the look into her eyes Of eld. All that herself herself hath taught She cons anew, that courage new be caught Of