# Veterinary dentistry

Veterinary dentistry is the field of dentistry applied to the care of animals. It is the art and science of prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of conditions, diseases, and disorders of the oral cavity, the maxillofacial region, and its associated structures as it relates to animals.

In the United States, veterinary dentistry is one of 20 veterinary specialties recognized by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA). Veterinary dentists offer services in the fields of endodontics, oral and maxillofacial radiology and surgery, oral medicine, orthodontics, pedodontics, periodontics, and prosthodontics. Similar to human dentists, they treat conditions such as jaw fractures, malocclusions, oral cancer, periodontal disease, stomatitis, and other conditions unique to veterinary medicine (e.g. feline odontoclastic resorptive lesions).

Some animals have specialized dental workers, such as equine dental technicians, who conduct routine work on horses.

Overview
The practice of veterinary dentistry and oral medicine and surgery is performed by veterinarians in accordance with their state veterinary practice acts. Veterinary health-care workers may be allowed to perform certain non-invasive, non-surgical oral and dental procedures under the direct supervision of a licensed veterinarian in accordance with state regulations. As with other areas of veterinary practice, veterinary dentistry requires a veterinarian-client-patient relationship to protect the health, safety, and welfare of animals.

One of the most vital areas of veterinary dentistry is that it addresses periodontal disease, the most common dental condition in dogs and cats. Pets as young as three years old can show early evidence of periodontal disease, which will worsen if effective preventive measures are not taken. Early detection and treatment are critical, because advanced periodontal disease can cause severe problems and pain.

Pain originating from dental problems is very rarely recognized by owners or professionals. Seldom will an animal become anorexic due to a dental problem. The exception to this is in the case of severe soft tissue injury, for example chronic gingivostomatitis. In general, dental pain is a chronic pain, and it is only after treatment that an owner reports how much better their pet is doing. Pain is often mistaken for a pet just getting old. Very few clients examine their pets’ teeth unless they are carrying out daily home care, so actual dental problems often go unnoticed.

Recognizing symptoms that may have a link to dental diseases, such as a nasal discharge or external facial swellings, is often a priority. In some cases, dental patients may present with what appear to be neurological symptoms.

In horses, continuous grazing leads to dental attrition. Also, due to the continuous development of a horse’s hypsodont teeth, there will be dental crown wear which can create jagged and sharp edges and attribute to uneven wear. Dental care for horses is designed to prevent "quidding,” or dropping food out of the mouth while eating, ulcerations on the cheek or tongue, resistance or unusual sensitivity to the bit, root abscessation, development of mandibular fistulas from infections in the lower cheek teeth, and difficulty flexing at the poll.

Oral disease

Periodontal disease 

The most common and significant oral disease is the inflammation of the deeper supporting structures of the tooth and surrounding tissues of the periodontium; it is also called periodontal disease or periodontitis. It begins with the formation of plaque, specifically subgingival plaque within the gingival sulcus or periodontal pocket. This allows a proliferation of bacteria; the subsequent inflammation and the animal's own immune response starts the progression of periodontal disease. The hallmark feature of periodontitis is attachment loss of the tooth from the alveolar bone. Periodontitis is an irreversible process unless the animal is treated with advanced periodontal surgery techniques.

Consequences of periodontal disease 
Periodontal disease eventually culminates in tooth loss; however, significant health problems can precede this. Local consequences include the development of an oronasal fistula or periodontal-endodontic lesion, infections or abscesses in the eye, a fractured jaw, osteomyelitis, and oral cancer.

Systemic consequences affect multiple organs. For example, bacteremia from periodontal disease can cause inflammation of the hepatic tissue, portal vein fibrosis, and cholestasis. Chronic stimulation of the immune system can lead to immune complexes in the kidney, causing glomerulonephritis, chronic kidney inflammation and secondary scarring, decreased kidney function and ability to filtrate, and chronic kidney disease. Bacteremia also affects the heart, because circulating bacteria attach to the heart valves, putting the heart at increased risk of endocarditis, hypertension, and roughening of the epithelium of the heart tissue. There may be metabolic changes such as insulin resistance due to the increased inflammatory proteins.

Gingivitis 

Gingivitis is the earliest stage of periodontal disease. It is the inflammation of the gingiva and is caused by bacterial plaque, but it is reversible and preventable.

Gingivitis appears as a thin red line along the margin of the gums and may be accompanied by swollen gum margins, bad breath, plaque and tartar. The earliest clinical sign of gingivitis is bleeding on probing, chewing, or brushing.

Signs and symptoms of oral disease 
The most common signs of oral disease include:
Halitosis - odor from the mouth
Broken or discoloured teeth
Changes in eating behaviour
Rubbing or pawing at the face
Ptyalism - excessive salivation
Bleeding from the mouth
Inability or unwillingness to open or close the mouth
Change in temperament - sudden change in energy level, often attributed to old age but can be result of oral pain
Morbidity
Weight loss

Diagnosis 
Most pet owners are not aware that their pet has an oral problem, so an examination of the oral cavity should form part of every physical examination given by the veterinarian. The current Canine Preventive Healthcare Guidelines and Feline Preventive Healthcare Guidelines from the American Animal Hospital Association (AAHA) and AVMA both include dental care as part of the assessment during annual veterinary examinations. Oral examination in a conscious animal can only give limited information and a definitive oral examination can only be performed under general anesthesia. Examinations are supposed to occur at least once a year to identify any problems and ensure optimal oral health.

Examining the whole animal, even when the primary complaint is the mouth, is routine. Some dental diseases may be the result of a systemic problem and some may result in systemic complications, including kidney, liver, and heart valve and muscle changes. In all cases, dental procedures require a general anesthetic, so it is important to establish the cardiovascular and respiratory status and the physiological values of the patient to avoid risks or complications.

Radiography 
Radiographs (x-rays) may be needed to evaluate the health of the jaw and the tooth roots below the gum line. Most dental disease occurs below the gum line and is not visible. Some of the indications for dental radiography include:

 Assessment of bone levels and type of bone loss caused by periodontal disease.
 Assessment of endodontic disease including apical pathology, pulp exposures, and draining fistulae.
 Pathology of the oral soft and hard tissues, including tumors and fractures.
 Evaluation of temporomandibular joint dysfunction.
 Crown/root pathology including tooth resorptive lesions, crown or root fractures, extra roots, or dilacerated roots.
 Comparison of pre/post tooth extraction sites.
 Root canal therapy.
 Oligodontia (absence of most teeth) or extra teeth.
 Assessment of tooth development and chronological dental age of the animal.

Oral abnormalities, anomalies, and defects 
Abnormal, anomalous, or defective pet teeth are sometimes encountered in veterinary practice. One or several teeth may be involved and the concern may be for esthetics, function, patient comfort, or a combination of these issues. Causes may be congenital, developmental, or due to lifestyle factors.

Malocclusions 
Malocclusion is the imperfect positioning of the teeth when the jaw is closed. In dogs and cats with normal occlusion, the upper incisors rest in front of the lower incisors, the lower canines fit in the diastema between the upper canine and third incisor, the upper first premolars fit behind the lower first premolars, and the upper fourth premolars overlap the lower first molars. Any deviations are known as malocclusions, and they are separated by class.

Class I malocclusion (MAL/1) 
Also known as neutrocclusion, MAL/1 occurs when the maxilla and mandible are correctly proportioned, but one or more teeth are misaligned.