Medical Research Paper

Title: Precision Medicine and the future of Cardiovascular Diseases: A Clinically Oriented Comprehensive Review

Abstract:
Cardiac diseases form the lion's share of the global disease burden, owing to the paradigm shift to non-infectious diseases from infectious ones. The prevalence of CVDs has nearly doubled, increasing from 271 million in 1990 to 523 million in 2019. Additionally, the global trend for the years lived with disability has doubled, increasing from 17.7 million to 34.4 million over the same period. The advent of precision medicine in cardiology has ignited new possibilities for individually personalized, integrative, and patient-centric approaches to disease prevention and treatment, incorporating the standard clinical data with advanced "omics". These data help with the phenotypically adjudicated individualization of treatment. The major objective of this review was to compile the evolving clinically relevant tools of precision medicine that can help with the evidence-based precise individualized management of cardiac diseases with the highest DALY. The field of cardiology is evolving to provide targeted therapy, which is crafted as per the "omics", involving genomics, transcriptomics, epigenomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and microbiomics, for deep phenotyping. Research for individualizing therapy in heart diseases with the highest DALY has helped identify novel genes, biomarkers, proteins, and technologies to aid early diagnosis and treatment. Precision medicine has helped in targeted management, allowing early diagnosis, timely precise intervention, and exposure to minimal side effects. Despite these great impacts, overcoming the barriers to implementing precision medicine requires addressing the economic, cultural, technical, and socio-political issues. Precision medicine is proposed to be the future of cardiovascular medicine and holds the potential for a more efficient and personalized approach to the management of cardiovascular diseases, contrary to the standardized blanket approach.