# Japanese destroyer Maikaze

was one of 19 s built for the Imperial Japanese Navy during the 1930s.

Design and description
The Kagerō class was an enlarged and improved version of the preceding . Their crew numbered 240 officers and enlisted men. The ships measured  overall, with a beam of  and a draft of . They displaced  at standard load and  at deep load. The ships had two Kampon geared steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft, using steam provided by three Kampon water-tube boilers. The turbines were rated at a total of  for a designed speed of . The ships had a range of  at a speed of .

The main armament of the Kagerō class consisted of six Type 3  guns in three twin-gun turrets, one superfiring pair aft and one turret forward of the superstructure. They were built with four Type 96  anti-aircraft guns in two twin-gun mounts, but more of these guns were added over the course of the war. The ships were also armed with eight  torpedo tubes for the oxygen-fueled Type 93 "Long Lance" torpedo in two quadruple traversing mounts; one reload was carried for each tube. Their anti-submarine weapons comprised 16 depth charges.

Construction and career
Maikaze saw various escorting duties in the throughout the Indian Ocean early parts of 1942 and served as a carrier escort during the Battle of Midway, where she helped to scuttle the Japanese aircraft carrier Akagi. After surviving a bombing raid during convoy escorting that sank the troop ships  Nichiryu Maru and Myoko Maru on the 7th of January 1943, Maikaze saw more convoy escorting until the start of 1944.

On 17 February 1944, while evacuating convoys to Yokosuka from Truk following the Allied attack on Truk, Maikaze, the cruiser , and the auxiliary cruiser Akagi Maru were sunk by gunfire from the cruisers , , and the battleship   northwest of Truk (). Maikaze herself was sunk with all hands, including Commander Destroyer Division 4 (Captain Kenma Isohisa).

Notes

References

External links
 CombinedFleet.com: Kagero-class destroyers
 CombinedFleet.com: Maikaze history

Kagerō-class destroyers
World War II destroyers of Japan
World War II shipwrecks in the Pacific Ocean
1941 ships
Warships lost with all hands
Maritime incidents in February 1944
Shipwrecks of the Caroline Islands
Ships built by Fujinagata Shipyards