# Yin Yang Yo!

Yin Yang Yo! is a Flash animated television series created by Bob Boyle for Jetix. Produced by Walt Disney Television Animation as the third Jetix original series, it first aired on August 26, 2006, as a sneak peek and premiered on September 4, 2006, in the United States. The show debuted on Jetix in the United Kingdom on February 5, 2007, after a sneak peek preview on January 27, 2007, while making its Canadian television premiere on Family Channel on March 25, 2007. The series is supplied with writers and animators' staff associated with The Fairly OddParents, 6teen, Clone High, Wow! Wow! Wubbzy! and Danny Phantom. Head writer Steve Marmel, an anime fan, took an inspiration from various anime like FLCL and anime-influenced shows such as Teen Titans. The series centers on two anthropomorphic twin rabbits named Yin and Yang, and their sensei-like panda figure named Yo, a master of fictional mystical martial arts called Woo Foo.

During 2007, this show was nominated for British Academy Children's Award by the BAFTA in the International category, but lost to Nickelodeon's SpongeBob SquarePants.

Premise
The show is about two 12-year-old rabbits named Yin and Yang who train under Master Yo, a grumpy old panda. They learn the sacred art of Woo Foo, a special type of martial arts that involves both might and magic. They must work together to defeat evil villains and forces movitivated on destroying, corrupt or dominate society.

During the first season, the primary goal was to defeat the Night Master, a powerful enemy. During the second season, there are three primary storylines. The first one sees Yin and Yang trying to prevent other villains from being crowned the new Night Master. The second is Yang's own quest to find powerful mystic artifacts by some later-revealed-to-be villains: four evil heads who he thinks are the masters of Woo Foo. The third sees Yin and Yang against the original and reborn Night Master Eradicus — ultimately trying to build a Woo Foo army to fight against his army.

Setting
The setting is in a town where its buildings have an Asian style. The residents are monsters, humanoids, robots and animals with human-like qualities and behaviors. The residents keep unusual pets like puppygriffs (creatures that are half puppy and half eagle) and two-ni-corns (a race of two-horned unicorns), as well as real animals like dogs, cats, opossums or armadillos. Magic and martial arts still exist since ancient times when the Night Masters were around. It is revealed in "Yin Yang You!", that the series takes place in another dimension.

Episodes

Yin Yang Yo! premiered on Jetix on September 4, 2006, and the first season has been completed with 26 episodes, including the three parts to "Woofoogeddon". In January 2007, Jetix ordered a second season of Yin Yang Yo! with 26 episodes planned. The second season premiered on New Year's Day 2008, with 13 additional episodes.

Characters

Main
 Yin (voiced by Stephanie Morgenstern) - Master Yo's student and the younger twin sister of Yang. Yin is pictured as intelligent, cute, feminine and sassy. She mostly uses the Mystic side of Woo Foo, but she is also able to use the Martial Arts side of Woo Foo. She is often quite stubborn, and shows that she loves a tidy house and clean environment. Yin generally has a good sense of right and wrong, and usually does the right thing. It has been shown, mostly in season two, that she favors "bad boys", but she has said it was just a phase. Yin's favorite color is pink (just like she is), and her favorite animal is a "two-nicorn" (a unicorn with two horns instead of one). Yin loves to sing, and is apparently very good at it. She is also a shopaholic. Unlike Yang, she always makes sure to let her twin and master Yo know that she cares for them a lot. In the episode "Night Fall", upon discovering Coop was working for the Night Master, gained an attraction to him. It was because of this personality trait that she temporarily became evil through Coop's influence in "Gone-A-Fowl", and went on a rampage across town with him to prove that she was evil enough to be the Night Mistress (with him as the Night Master). Before she and her brother Yang were adopted by Master Yo, they were street urchins and waifs.
 Yang (voiced by Scott McCord) - Master Yo's student and the older twin brother of Yin. He mostly uses the Martial Arts side of Woo Foo, but is able to use the Mystic side of Woo Foo as well. Yang is a very lucky, courageous yet negligent and hasty character, and has a liking for clowns, fights, video games and often seeks attention as a hero. Despite not showing emotions towards his sister, he really cares about his sister and Master Yo's well-being, and it is shown in the episode "My Stupid Sword" that Yang pushed Yin out of the way so Yin would not get in trouble by Master Yo when Yang's negligence caused looting of Woo Foo Armory by Chung Pow Kitties. Yang owns a bamboo-based sword which can temporally transform into various objects, using Woo Foo. He has a crush on Yin's friend Lina and frequently tries to impress her. He also unintentionally helped Eradicus to return from eternal slumber, using magical and spiritual items collected by Yang on a quest added by Eradicus minions posing as Woo Foo elders' spirits. However, Yin, Yang and Yo were able to defeat him. In the episode "A Toy's Story" it is revealed that he is 12 years old.
 Master Yo (voiced by Martin Roach) - A bachelor panda with a hundred years of age but with zero parenting skills and the skillful master of ancient martial arts known as Woo Foo. He was talked into training Yin and Yang, as he is the last Woo Foo warrior (and perhaps the last panda) in the world. He is often portrayed as arrogant, stubborn, indifferent yet bears great sage wisdom and is often quick with a saying from sacred scrolls. He's able to use both might and magic and has moves that Yin and Yang are unaware of. He once was able to defeat the Night Master. He is shown to be on a quest for a younger spouse of sorts as he is often seen trying to pick up women, especially single mothers, though he is unsuccessful. He also became romantically involved with Carl the Evil Cockroach Wizard's mother Edna, and three unnamed ex-girlfriends who later kidnapped him because he stopped seeing them. In "Slumber Party of Doom", it is shown that he lives a double-life as the crime-fighting vigilante Possum Panda (a parody of Batman), used as a pretext to avoid his parenting duties. His alter-ego returns in "The Secret Life of Possum Panda", however due to having forgotten he is Possum Panda, he starts fighting crime in his sleep as Possum Panda. It is revealed later in the series that he is the biological father of Yin and Yang, thus making them half-Panda. Yin and Yang's biological mother is never seen or mentioned and no explanation is given for her absence.

Villains
 The Night Master (voiced by David Hemblen) – Billed as a "Dark Overlord in an Evil Class All By Himself", the Night Master is a very powerful and dangerous foe who was responsible for the near extinction of Woo Foo by eliminating all of the Woo Foo knights except for Master Yo. He tricked the world into thinking Woo Foo is dumb and giving it a bad reputation to prevent anyone from learning it to be use against him. The Sensei managed to turn Night Master's army to stone and sent him into hiding for a hundred years until he tricked Yin and Yang into using Woo Foo in order to free his army. The Night Master appears to be a demonic sorcerer bat (as such, he hates light) of some description and has a liking for "gothically" ostentatious outfits. The Night Master is very intelligent, though his plans typically fail because of the stupidity of his minions and his own ego gets the better of him causing him to underestimate his enemies. Another reason of his downfall was because if he had killed Yin and Yang at the start, he feared that Yo would train another group of Woo Foo warriors that would be more competent than the two and he was waiting for the right moment to kill them and Yo at the same time. He is considered to be the actual main villain throughout the series, even though Carl appeared in most of the episodes, while Carl was the main villain since the first season. As revealed in "The Pecking Order", he is one of an eternal line of Night Masters alongside Eradicus and an unnamed cobra-like woman. His real name (since "Night Master" is a title) has not yet been revealed. Ever since his defeat, the other villains have been developing their evil in an attempt to become the new Night Master. Also since his defeat, the reputation of Woo Foo is slowly recovering. It is stated that if the series had a season 3, Woo Foo would have many Woo Foo students and thus completely undid the Night Master's years of planning. Night Master's appearance is similar to Aku of Samurai Jack fame and Hades from Hercules.
 Grizzleflavin (voiced by Jonathan Wilson) - The gargoyle head that