# Nee Varuvai Ena

Nee Varuvai Ena () is a 1999 Indian Tamil-language romantic drama film written and directed by Rajakumaran. The film stars Parthiban, Ajith Kumar and Devayani. Ramesh Khanna, Vijayakumar, Fathima Babu, Jai Ganesh, and Sathyapriya also play important roles. The film released on 14 August 1999 with high positive  reviews  and successful  at box office. It was later remade in Telugu as Ninne Premistha (2000), in Kannada Ninne Preethisuve (2002) and in Malayalam as Pranayamanithooval (2002).

Plot 
Ganesh, is the only son of Mudaliar-Gounder inter-caste parents in Chennai. He loses several prospective brides due to this and spends his time dreaming of marriage, despite being an Assistant Bank manager in a Govt bank. On a bus ride to Chengalpattu to take up a promotion as a bank manager in Chengalpattu, he gets involved in an accident. The scene shifts to 4 months later when he finally shows up at Vendanthangal. Nandini, the only daughter of Village president, who lives in the house opposite to his, showers affection on him, gives him coffee, provides him with hot water, etc. Ganesh falls in love with Nandini and weeks later visits her family with his parents to talk about marriage. she rejects the proposal without telling the reason.

Nandini is met by Ganesh in a hilltop and cornered for the reason behind rejection. She tells him about her ill-fated love affair with army officer Subramani. Subramani and Nandini's wedding was planned, with their courtship being very sweet. A week before the wedding, Subramani was recalled back to the forces, due to an unknown clerical error. While going to the station, their car meets with a freak accident which results in death of Subramani, Subramani's both parents, while Nandini suffers a broken leg. Coincidentally, this was the same accident in which the bus Ganesh was travelling met with. Ganesh lost his vision in the accident, and Subramani's eyes had been donated to Ganesh. Nandini came to know this in the hospital which made her fall in love with his eyes. This was the reason for her attachment to Ganesh. 

Eager to send him on his way, Nandini sends a letter in Ganesh's name to Ganesh's home, accepting the latest girl whom they picked for him. Ganesh returns home to find arrangements for his wedding in full swing. Coincidentally, the girl turns out to be Subalakshmi, someone he had dreamed of marrying during his pre-Nandini days. However, Ganesh cancels the wedding plans, and his friend marries Subalakshmi. Ganesh returns to Vendanthangal. In the end, it is shown that Ganesh and Nandini remain good friends without getting married.

Cast 

 Parthiban as Ganesh
 Ajith Kumar as captain Subramani (guest role)
 Devayani as Nandini
 Vijayakumar as Subramani's father
 Fathima Babu as Subramani's mother
 Jai Ganesh as Ganesh's father
 Sathyapriya as Ganesh's mother
 Crane Manohar as Maarisamy
 Ramesh Khanna as Ganesh's friend
 Vadivukkarasi as Nandini's mother
 Vaiyapuri
 Madhan Bob as Banker
 Shanmugasundaram as Nandini's father
 Singamuthu
 T. S. Raghavendra
 Gowthami Vembunathan
 Master Mahendran
 Saranya Nag (child artiste)
 Suvalakshmi as Subalakshmi (guest appearance)
 Kanal Kannan as bus passenger (guest appearance)

Production 
The film marked the directorial debut of Rajakumaran, who had earlier assisted director Vikraman. Initially Vijay was offered the role of Parthiban, he liked the story but wished to act in the role offered to Ajith but as Ajith refused to change the role, Vijay left the film and the role went to Parthiban.

Soundtrack 
The music was composed by S. A. Rajkumar.

Release and reception 
The film was released on 14 August 1999. Kala Krishnan Ramesh of Deccan Herald wrote, "Parthiban is not bad at all, Devayani, if you can overlook the aura of sickening sweetness about her is alright too. Ajith doesn`t have much to do, but is pleasant while he`s there. Ramesh Khanna fills in the comedy, which you can manage to overlook". The New Indian Express wrote "The plot is almost always predictable, and at times, even degenerates into blatant stupidity. But the director presents all this with such a straight face, that you find yourself lapping it all up". Kalki wrote that though the director managed the first half, he successfully made them fail in examination by testing their patience in the second half. Rajakumaran went on to win the Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Story Writer.

References

External links 
 

1990s Tamil-language films
1999 directorial debut films
1999 films
1999 romantic drama films
Films scored by S. A. Rajkumar
Films set in Chennai
Indian romantic drama films
Super Good Films films
Tamil films remade in other languages