# 45×90 points

The 45×90 points are the four points on Earth which are both halfway between one of the geographical poles and the equator, and halfway between the Prime Meridian and the 180th meridian. Both northern 45×90 points are located on land, while both southern 45×90 points are in remote open ocean locations.

45°N, 90°W

The best-known and most frequently visited such point is , which is  above sea level in the town of Rietbrock, Wisconsin near the unincorporated community of Poniatowski.  A grand board and precise metal ground marker was placed by the Marathon County Park Commission, only to be relocated slightly and restored to visitor access since September 12, 2017.

The former marker has been replaced by a small parking lot with a trail that leads to a long, rectangular park. The Geographical Marker is at the southern end of the park along with informational displays.

The point has become something of a pop culture phenomenon thanks to Gesicki's Tavern in the tiny cluster of establishments in Poniatowski. They sold 45×90 T-shirts and registered visitors as members of the "45×90 Club". Since 2006, the Wausau/Central Wisconsin Convention & Visitors Bureau has been the holder of the official "45×90 Club" registration book. The book is on loan from the family. On becoming a member of the club, the Bureau gives a commemorative coin.

45°N, 90°E
The only other 45×90 point located on land is , which is at an elevation of  above sea level. This point is located in a desolate region of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of China, near the Mongolian border, approximately  northeast of Ürümqi. Administratively, it is on the border of Qitai and Qinggil counties. Greg Michaels, an American, and Ru Rong Zhao, a taxi driver from the closest town of Qitai, which is 110 km to the south-southwest, visited this point on April 13, 2004 and documented the visit on the Degree Confluence Project. Their visit found no monument or any physical recognition of the status and documented that the nearest community to the site documented on maps, Jiangjunmiao, had long since been abandoned.

45°S, 90°E

In the southern Indian Ocean,  has an ocean floor depth of  below sea level and is:  southeast of the nearest (uninhabited) island of Île Saint-Paul;  northeast of Elephant Spit, Heard Island;  east northeast of the small village-like capital Port aux Français of the Kerguelen Islands;  north of Antarctica;  southwest of Augusta, Western Australia,  southeast of Réunion Island, and  southeast of Benguerra Island, Mozambique, and  southeast of Mossel Bay, South Africa.

In March 2014, the point was in one of a few strips in a search for the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, after potential debris were spotted by satellite about there.

45°S, 90°W
Located in the southern Pacific Ocean,  west south west of Guaitecas in Chile, and  north of Antarctica,  has an ocean floor depth of  below sea level.

Antipodes 

Each 45×90 point is the antipodethe point on the opposite side of Earthof another 45×90 point.

The southern Indian Ocean location and the point in Wisconsin are antipodes of each other. The southern Pacific Ocean location and the point in China are antipodes of each other.

See also
Degree Confluence Project (DCP)
45th parallel north
45th parallel south
90th meridian east
90th meridian west

References

External links
The 45th Parallel, Poniatowski, Wisconsin
Visit to the 45X90 point in Wisconsin (DCP)
Visit to the 45X90 point in northwestern China (DCP)

Cartography
Geography of Marathon County, Wisconsin
Geography of Wisconsin
Geography of Xinjiang
Indian Ocean
Lists of coordinates
Navigation
Pacific Ocean
Tourist attractions in Marathon County, Wisconsin