# WTCM (AM)

WTCM (580 kHz) is an AM radio station broadcasting in Traverse City, Michigan with a News/Talk radio format.  It is owned by the Biederman family and their company, Midwestern Broadcasting. WTCM's studios on East Front Street in Downtown Traverse City.

WTCM is powered at 50,000 watts during the day, the maximum allowed for AM stations.  To protect other stations on 580 AM from interference, it must lower power at night to 1,100 watts. The station also uses a directional antenna with a four-tower array.  The signal covers much of Northern Michigan and the Upper Peninsula during the day.  The transmitter is on Secor Road in Long Lake Township, near Long Lake.

Programming
Weekdays on WTCM begin with the Steve Gruber Show, a statewide conservative talk show originating from WJIM in Lansing, Michgian. Two local programs, The Ron Jolly Show and The Vic McCarty Show, air weekday mornings. The rest of the station's lineup consists of syndicated talk shows hosted by Dan Bongino, Sean Hannity, Mark Levin, Dave Ramsey, and Red Eye Radio.

Weekends feature shows on real estate, technology, law, finance and the outdoors.  Weekend local shows include Ask the Real Estate Guy, The Big Beer Show, The History Show, and Fun Time Polka Party. Syndicated programs include Outdoor Magazine with Mike Avery, Bill Handel on the Law, The Kim Kommando Show, and The Ben Ferguson Show.  Most hours begin with an update from FOX News Radio. 

WTCM is also the radio home of the University of Michigan football and is a member of the Michigan IMG Sports Network.

History

Founding
In 1939, WTCM founder Les Biederman and several of his friends - engineer Bill Kiker and financier Drew McClay among others - wanted to start a radio station, but in an undeveloped radio market. They decided that Traverse City, Michigan was a city destined for growth and had no local radio station, so Biederman and Kiker moved to the city and built the 250-watt transmitter that would be Traverse City's first radio station.

Traverse City "looked like three main streets with false front stores crowded against each other, all built around 1890 and hardly updated since," according to Les.

WTCM initially broadcast from a small studio at the base of the tower on Morgan ("Radio") Hill, west of town.  The WTCM control console was hand built by Biederman and Kiker, and served the station from 1940 until its replacement around 1980.

When WTCM signed on in 1941, it was a local channel station at 1370 kc. briefly before moving to 1400 kc on March 29, 1941, due to NARBA. The station was licensed to broadcast 24 hours at 250 watts, but only broadcast from 6 AM to 11 PM.  WTCM was an NBC affiliate and like most radio stations at the time, aired block programming - some local shows, network shows, music programs, etc.

They soon outgrew the tiny studio and moved to the Anderson Building in the 100 block of downtown Traverse City in the mid-1940s. Long-time Midwestern employees Kenn Haven  and Merlin Dumbrille began working there in the 1940s.

Because WTCM had a limited reach, Biederman wanted to start other small stations aimed exclusively towards the towns they broadcast in. After fighting in World War II, Biederman started WATT 1240 Cadillac, Michigan in 1945, WATZ 1450 Alpena, Michigan in 1946, WMBN 1340 Petoskey, Michigan in 1947 and WATC 900 Gaylord, Michigan in 1950, all collectively known as the Paul Bunyan Network. All but WATC and WATZ are still on the air today, WATT and WMBN were sold to MacDonald Broadcasting, with Midwestern holding on to WTCM.

1950s and 1960s
In 1954, Biederman signed on NBC WPBN-TV 7 in Traverse City, just months after the Traverse City market got its first TV station, Sparton's CBS/ABC/DuMont WWTV 13 in Cadillac, now known as 9 & 10. In 1959, WPBN increased its reach to WTOM 4 in Cheboygan, bringing NBC shows to the eastern upper peninsula.

Big changes came to WTCM and the rest of the Paul Bunyan Network in the 1960s as the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) allowed local channel stations to increase their daytime power to 1,000 watts. All of the local channel stations complied, and boosted their power.

In 1964, long time WTCM air staffer Merlin Dumbrille started hosting the popular "Farm and Orchard Time" program, a WTCM staple since 1941. He retired as host of the show on October 30, 2009.

Long time Midwestern employee Bill Gravelin also started working for the station in the 1960s and was the "late night" host of Traverse Citys first "top 40" music in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Daytime at WTCM in this period was mostly "middle of the road" or "MOR" music featuring artists such as Frank Sinatra, Mario Lanza and others.

It is a local legend (urban myth?) that the Beatles and other "early rock" was seldom played in the market at this time other than late at night.

1970s
WTCM became contemporary (as "14-T") in 1975 under the supervision of long-time Traverse City broadcaster Jerry Meyer who came from WCCW by the hand of General Manager Jack Walkmeyer, and who soon hired Flint, MI talent Jon McRae as the first program director of the fledgling contemporary radio effort.

A difficult but necessary task was moving "old school" morning show host Kenn Haven to a role as news director.

Havens’ now-dated morning news and music show featured bits such as "first call" and "last call" to breakfast, and use of the NBC "Chime" and a hand bell.

McRae lasted but a short time, finding frustration in many aspects of bringing a 1960s MOR station into the 1970s. Meyer soon also departed, to purchase "Murray Boat & Motor" on the Boardman River (then moving it), then become news anchor for WWTV 9&10 news (a position he held for many years), and finally run for a state legislative seat in the 1990s before retiring.

In 1977 former WCCW afternoon host Lin McNett ("Michael O'Shea") replaced McRae and Meyer as WTCM's program director and morning personality.

Many out of town talents were brought to the market in this short (2-3 year) period for the first time in the stations history as it attempted a metamorphasis from "old school" to "modern" in the face of the growing potential Fm band competition.

Other air staff during this period included Jon McRae, and "Downtown" Ed Brown from WTAC in Flint, Michigan (Brown is now with "All Access", a national broadcasting trade publication as its contemporary radio editor); Delbert "Tim" Nixon (now with MacDonald-Garber Broadcasting in Petoskey); Don Schuster (who came from Detroit free-form radio legends WWWW/W-4 and WABX and is now back there 40 years later in sales capacities); local talent Marty Spaulding (later with WRKR in Kalamazoo for 10 year hosting an  internationally recognized blues format "netcast" in the early days of internet broadcasting); Jon "Patrick" Rekeweg from Am radio in Fort Wayne; Bob Greenwood (from the legendary free-form rock station WHNN in Bay City); Dave "Leighton" Elliott; and Alan "White" Vasquez, a former host of the avant-garde "Pen Ultimate" late night alternative rock show on competitor WCCW) who went on to numerous roles in broadcast programming where he still resides in Colorado.

Rekeweg is now the longest serving member of the Midwest air/management staff.

The contemporary format was initially successful, but the 1977 format change of WJML, and the 1980 entry of WKHQ, both from north of Traverse City but with strong regional signals into the market caused the predictable result, and listeners gravitated over a period of a couple years to the clear, static-free stereo FM contemporary format signals. It was the fading days of AM radio as a competitor just about everywhere.

WTCM became simulcast to the FM signal not long after that.

WTCM-FM became country in the early 1970s, at the urging of WTCM salesman Leon Purchase, a local country musician, who was convinced that a country format would work in rural northern Michigan. Purchase convinced Biederman of this the old fashioned way, by making WTCM-FM - even though automated other than the morning simulcast period - a highly salable and accepted product in the market.  Today that opinion is a well proven fact, as WTCM-FM maintains market dominance as the #1 rated station.

Les Biederman was not a fan of contemporary music or even less so country music, preferring to listen to classical music in his "pad", a private office in the rear of the adjacent co-owned Midwestern Cablevision building (where their "Radio Center" complex now stands). The "pad" was a regular stop for notable politicians like Governor William Milliken and Senator Robert Griffin, among others. It was a short stroll for Les from "the pad" to the trunk of his car where he typically stored a case of his favored Velvo brand cigars. "They stay fresh out there in the trunk" he was known to say.

Biederman traditionally came to the WTCM studio (almost nightly) after the conclusion of the TV 7&4 newscast and recorded an editorial on topics of the day, and these editorials and his