# Lalamusa

Lala Musa (; ; ), is a city located in the Gujrat District of the Punjab province of Pakistan with a population of 91,500 in 2018.

History

Toponymy
According to local legends, the city was inhabited by people of the Arain tribe, and the city was named after two brothers from the same tribe, named Lālah () and Mūsá () who settled in the old city.

Geography
Lalamusa is situated on the Grand Trunk Road (National Highway 5).  It is geographically located at latitude (32.7 degrees) 32° 42' 0" North of the Equator and longitude (73.96 degrees) 73° 57' 35" East of the Prime Meridian on the Map of the world and lies at an altitude of about 250 meters.

It also has major neighbouring cities such as Kharian  (16 km) and Gujrat (22 km).

Transport
This city is connected through the Grand Trunk Road (National Highway 5) which allows it to be linked to major cities like Islamabad (96.313 miles/155km to the west) and Lahore (92 miles/148km to the east).

A railway station (Lala Musa Junction Station) also serves the city for longer journeys operated by Pakistan Railways with around 20 trains travelling throughout the country.

Public Services
The Local Government Training Academy is also in Lalamusa.

Cultural and leisure

Public Parks 
Lala Musa has a number of public parks and nature reserves like Fatima Jinnah park, Haji Asgar park, etc.

Notable people
 
 
 Javed Chaudhry is a journalist from Lala Musa, who is known for his infamous column “Zero Point”.
 Qamar Zaman Kaira is the senior leader of the political party, Pakistan Peoples Party and was the former Information Minister and Governor of Gilgit-Baltistan.
 Alam Lohar, a Punjabi folk singer, died in a road accident on the outskirts of Lala Musa and was buried in the city.
 Arif Lohar is a famous folk singer who is also from Lalamusa. 
 Suri Sehgal, an Indian-American scientist and philanthropist, grew up in Lala Musa city before the partition of Punjab between India and Pakistan.

See also
Punjab, Pakistan
Gujrat Division
Gujrat District

References

External links 
 Fallinggrain: Lalamusa - Pakistan page

Populated places in Gujrat District
Cities in Punjab (Pakistan)