# 1993 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1993 in the United Kingdom.

Incumbents
Monarch – Elizabeth II 
Prime Minister –  John Major (Conservative)
Parliament – 51st

Events

January
 1 January
 Carlton Television, Meridian, Westcountry and GMTV begin broadcasting. Teletext Ltd. launches a new Teletext service on ITV and Channel 4, replacing the 14-year-old ORACLE teletext service.
 Ben Silcock, an inadequately treated schizophrenic patient, enters the lion enclosure in London Zoo.
 5 January – Oil tanker  runs aground on the South Mainland of Shetland, spilling 84,700 tonnes of crude oil into the sea.
 6 January – The first episode of the children's series The Animals of Farthing Wood begins on BBC One.
 8 January – Ford unveils its new Mondeo, a range of large family hatchbacks, saloons and estates which will reach showrooms on 22 March as a replacement for the long-running Sierra.
 10 January
 British newspapers carry reports that The Princess of Wales wants a divorce from The Prince of Wales, despite the announcement of their separation (issued the previous month) stating that there were no plans for a divorce.
 Braer Storm at peak intensity across the British Isles, breaking up the wrecked tanker Braer.
 11 January – British Airways admits liability and apologises "unreservedly" for a "dirty tricks" campaign against Virgin Atlantic.
 13 January – Wayne Edwards, a 26-year-old Lance corporal, becomes the first British fatality in the conflict in Bosnia, former Yugoslavia.
 17 January – Bookmakers cut their odds on the monarchy being abolished by the year 2000 from 100 to 1 to 50 to 1.
 21 January – Unemployment has increased for the 31st month running, but is still just short of the 3,000,000 total that was last seen nearly six years ago. Economists warn that it could hit a new high of more than 3,500,000 by the end of this year. However, the Conservatives have still managed to cut Labour's lead in the opinion polls from 13 points to eight points, according to the latest MORI poll.
 26 January – The Bank of England lowers interest rates to 6% – the lowest since 1978.

February
 1 February – Economists warn that unemployment could reach a new high of 3,400,000 this year.
 12 February – Murder of James Bulger: a 2-year-old is murdered by two ten-year-old boys on Merseyside.
 14 February – Unemployment is reported to be rising faster in Conservative seats than in Labour ones.
 15 February – The number of unfit homes in Britain is reported to have increased from 900,000 to more than 1,300,000 between 1986 and 1991.
 17 February – Shadow Chancellor Gordon Brown claims that a Labour government could reduce taxation – a dramatic turn for a party known for high taxation.
 18 February – Unemployment has reached 3,000,000 (and a rate of 10.6%) for the first time in six years.
 19 February – Judith Chaplin, Conservative MP for Newbury in Berkshire, dies suddenly at the age of 53 after less than a year in parliament.
 20 February – Economists are now warning that unemployment could rise as high at 3,500,000 within the next year.
 25 February – A MORI poll shows that 80% of Britons are dissatisfied with the way that John Major is running the country, and nearly 50% believe that the economy will get worse during this year.
 25–26 February – Warrington bomb attacks: Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) bombs are planted and explode at gas holders in Warrington, Cheshire.

March
 4 March – Former Cabinet minister Nicholas Ridley dies from lung cancer less than a year after retiring from the House of Commons, aged 64.
 16 March – Chancellor Norman Lamont unveils a budget plan which is centred on economic recovery, together with phased introduction of Value Added Tax on domestic fuel bills (8% for 1994). This will be the last Spring budget.
 19 March – Unemployment has fallen for the first time since May 1990, now standing at 2,970,000, sparking hopes that the recession is nearly over.
 20 March – Warrington bomb attacks: IRA bombs in the town centre of Warrington claim the life of 3-year-old Jonathan Ball and injure more than 50 other people. On 25 March the blasts claim a second fatality when 12-year-old Timothy Parry dies in hospital from his injuries.
 22 March – The Ford Mondeo goes on sale.

April
 April – Staples, an American office superstore chain, opens its first store in Britain in Swansea.
 2 April – Vauxhall launches its all-new Corsa supermini, the replacement for the long-running Nova which like its predecessor is built at the Zaragoza plant in Spain.
 3 April – A false start forces the Grand National to be cancelled. The race results are made void for the first time in history.
 5 April
 Child Support Agency begins operation.
 Royal Logistic Corps formed within the British Army by union of five former corps: the Royal Engineers Postal and Courier Service, Royal Corps of Transport, Royal Army Ordnance Corps, Royal Pioneer Corps and Army Catering Corps.
 22 April – Black London teenager Stephen Lawrence is stabbed to death at Eltham in south London while waiting for a bus.
 24 April – Bishopsgate bombing. A massive IRA truck bomb explodes at Bishopsgate in the City of London. The blast destroys the medieval St Ethelburga's church, and badly damages the NatWest Tower and Liverpool Street tube station. A newspaper photographer is killed.
 26 April – Government declares official end of the recession after revealing that the economy grew by 0.6% in the first three months of this year. The recession began nearly three years ago and lasted much longer than most economists expected.
 29 April – The Queen announces that Buckingham Palace will open to the public for the first time.

May
 2 May - Manchester United become the first champions of the new FA Premier League after their last remaining title contenders, Aston Villa, lose 1–0 at home to Oldham Athletic. It is the first time in 26 years that Manchester United have been champions of the top division of English football.
 7 May
 The Conservatives lose a 12,357 majority in the Newbury by-election, with the Liberal Democrats gaining the seat by 22,055 votes under new MP David Rendel. The Conservative majority now stands at 19 seats.
 Grimethorpe Colliery in South Yorkshire is closed.
 13 May – Robert Adley, Conservative MP for Christchurch in Dorset, dies from a heart attack aged 58.
 14 May – The economic recovery continues as business failures are reported to have fallen for the second quarter running.
 20 May – The latest MORI poll shows that the Conservative government has yet to benefit from bringing the economy out of recession, as they trail Labour (who have 44% of the vote) by 16 points.
 22 May – Inflation reaches a 29-year low of 1.3%.
 27 May – Kenneth Clarke succeeds Norman Lamont as Chancellor of the Exchequer.

June
 Sunday newspaper The Observer is acquired by Guardian Media Group.
 3–5 June – Hollbeck Hall Hotel in Scarborough collapses into the sea following a landslide.
 10 June – Comedian and TV presenter Les Dawson dies suddenly from a heart attack during a medical check-up in Greater Manchester hospital at the age of 62.
 11 June – Actor and comedian Bernard Bresslaw dies suddenly from a heart attack following a collapse in his dressing room at London's Open Air Theatre at the age of 59.
 17 June – Unemployment now stands at less than 2,900,000 after the fourth successive monthly fall.
 20 June – A high speed train makes the first journey from France to England via the Channel Tunnel, which will open to the public next year.
 21 June – Andrew Wiles announces a proof to Fermat's Last Theorem at the Isaac Newton Institute. The proof is slightly flawed, but Wiles announces a revised proof the following year.
 24 June 
 Northern Ireland Minister Michael Mates resigns over links with fugitive tycoon Asil Nadir.
 Despite the recent end of the recession, support for the Conservative government has failed to recover, with the latest MORI poll showing that Labour has an 18-point lead over them with 46% of the vote.
 30 June – Michael Hunt, former deputy chairman of Nissan UK, is jailed for eight years for his involvement in Britain's worst case of tax fraud.

July
 July – The public sector trade union UNISON is formed by merger of the National and Local Government Officers Association (NALGO), the National Union of Public Employees (NUPE) and the Confederation of Health Service Employees (COHSE).
 12 July – The British-Kenyan journalist Dan Eldon, 22, is attacked and killed by the natives in Somalia following the Abdi House raid, during the Somali Civil War.
 16 July – MI5 publishes a booklet, The Security Service, revealing publicly for the first time its activities, operations and duties, as well as the identity and photographs of Stella Rimington as Director General.
 22 July – Government almost defeated by "Maastricht Rebels", however a vote of no confidence does not succeed.
 29 July – Conservative Party loses the Christchurch by-election to the Liberal Democrats – a seat they have he