[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

in fragments, for the face That brimmed you up with beauty is no more; And die, dull heart, for you that were a mirror Are but a ball of passionate dust again! And level earth and plumy sea, rise up! And haughty sky, fall down! A PEASANT WOMAN Pull him upon his knees, His curses will pluck lightning on our heads. ALEEL Angels and devils clash in the middle air, And brazen swords clang upon brazen helms. Look, look, a spear has gone through Belial's eye! (_A winged_ ANGEL, _carrying a torch and a sword, enters from the_ R. _with eyes fixed upon some distant thing. The_ ANGEL _is about to pass out to the_ L. _when_ ALEEL _speaks. The_ ANGEL _stops a moment and turns_.) Look no more on the half-closed gates of Hell, But speak to me whose mind is smitten of God, That it may be no more with mortal things: And tell of her who lies there. (_The_ ANGEL _turns again and is about to go, but is seized by_ ALEEL.) Till you speak You shall not drift into eternity. THE ANGEL The light beats down; the gates of pearl are wide. And she is passing to the floor of peace, And Mary of the seven times wounded heart Has kissed her lips, and the long blessed hair Has fallen on her face; the Light of Lights Looks always on the motive, not the deed, The Shadow of Shadows on the deed alone. (ALEEL _releases the_ ANGEL _and kneels_.) OONA Tell them to walk upon the floor of peace, That I would die and go to her I love; The years like great black oxen tread the world, And God the herdsman goads them on behind, And I am broken by their passing feet. _Down by the Salley Gardens._--An extension of three lines sung to me by an old woman at Ballisodare. _Findrinny (Findruine)._--A kind of white bronze. _Finvarra (Finbar)._--The king of the faeries of Connaught. _Hell._--In the older Irish books Hell is always cold, and it may be because the Fomoroh, or evil powers, ruled over the north and the winter. Christianity adopted as far as possible the Pagan symbolism in Ireland as elsewhere, and Irish poets, when they spoke of "the cold flagstone of Hell," may have repeated Pagan symbolism. The folk-tales, and Keating in his description of Hell, make use, however, of the ordinary symbolism of fire. _The Lamentation of the Pensioner._--This poem is little more than a translation into verse of the very words of an old Wicklow peasant. Fret means doom or destiny. _The Land of Heart's Desire._--This little play was produced at the Avenue Theatre in the spring of 1894, with the following cast:--Maurteen Bruin, Mr. James Welch; Shawn Bruin, Mr. A.E.W. Mason; Father Hart, Mr. G.R. Foss; Bridget Bruin, Miss Charlotte Morland; Maire Bruin, Miss Winifred Fraser; A Faery Child, Miss Dorothy Paget. It ran for a little over six weeks. It was revived in America in 1901, when it was taken on tour by Mrs. Lemoyne. It has been played two or three times professionally since then in America and a great many times in England and America by amateurs. Till lately it was not part of the repertory of the Abbey Theatre, for I had grown to dislike it without knowing what I disliked in it. This winter, however, I have made many revisions and now it plays well enough to give me pleasure. It is printed in this book in the new form, which was acted for the first time on February 22, 1912, at the Abbey Theatre, Dublin. At the Abbey Theatre, where the platform of the stage comes out in front of the curtain, the curtain falls before the priest's last words. He remains outside the curtain and the words are spoken to the audience like an epilogue. _The Meditation of the Old Fisherman._--This poem is founded upon some things a fisherman said to me when out fishing in Sligo Bay. _Northern Cold._--The Fomor, the powers of death and darkness and cold and evil, came from the north. _Nuala._--The wife of Finvarra. _Rose._--The rose is a favourite symbol with the Irish poets, and has given a name to several poems both Gaelic and English, and is used in love poems, in addresses to Ireland like Mr. Aubrey de Vere's poem telling how "The little black rose shall be red at last," and in religious poems, like the old Gaelic one which speaks of "the Rose of Friday," meaning the Rose of Austerity. _Salley._--Willow. _Seven Hazel-trees._--There was once a well overshadowed by seven sacred hazel-trees, in the midst of Ireland. A certain woman plucked their fruit, and seven rivers arose out of the well and swept her away. In my poems this well is the source of all the waters of this world, which are therefore seven-fold. _The Wanderings of Usheen._--The poem is founded upon the middle Irish dialogues of S. Patric and Usheen and a certain Gaelic poem of the last century. The events it describes, like the events in most of the poems in this volume, are supposed to have taken place rather in the indefinite period, made up of many periods, described by the folk-tales, than in any particular century; it therefore, like the later Fenian stories themselves, mixes much that is mediæval with much that is ancient. The Gaelic poems do not make Usheen go to more than one island, but a story in _Silva Gadelica_ describes "four paradises," an island to the north, an island to the west, an island to the south, and Adam's paradise in the east. _Printed in Great Britain by_ UNWIN BROTHERS, LIMITED WOKING AND LONDON Transcriber's Notes: Page 16: 'thictkes' changed to 'thickets' Page 172: 'He brings in' could be 'She brings in' Page 263: 'Before this duy' changed to 'Before this day' Page 290: 'Far from the hazel and oak.' changed to 'Far from the hazel and oak,' Page 295: 'move far off' could be 'move far oft'