# Nisser

Nisser is a lake in Vestfold og Telemark county, Norway. It is located in Nissedal and Kviteseid municipalities, and is Telemark's largest lake. The lake is the 10th-largest lake in the nation by area with a surface area of  (when artificial lakes are excluded). The 8th largest by volume at . The 16th deepest at . Nisser has the greatest average depth of the norwegian lakes; who isn't a cryptodepression. It's whole lakebasin is over the sealevel. As part of the Arendal watershed, water enters this lake from the discharge from the nearby lake Vråvatn, and its outlet is the Nisserelva river which later becomes part of the river Nidelva.

Fish species in the lake include the Brown trout, European whitefish, European perch, Stickleback, and Arctic char.

History
In 1914, a canal was constructed between Nisser, which is  above sea level, and the nearby lake Vråvatn, which is  above sea level. This makes it possible to travel the  long stretch from Tveitsund to Vråliosen by boat.

The lake is named Nisser or sometimes Nisservatnet ( or ). The first element is the name of the local river , the old name for the river Nidelva. The last element is  which means "inland sea" or "large lake". Thus it is "the inland sea that feeds the river Nidelva".

Geography
The  long lake has several villages located along its shores including Treungen at the southern end, Kyrkjebygda about mid-way along the lake on the eastern shore, and the village of Eidstod (in Kviteseid at the northern tip of the lake. The Norwegian National Road 41 runs along the whole eastern side of the lake. The Fjone ferry (M/F Nissen), which connects the west and east sides of the lake, is the last operating cable ferry in Norway.

The widest part of the lake is found immediately south of Lauvlunduten, which is situated on the border between Nissedal and Kviteseid municipalities. This is also a location where the lake resembles the sea as one can not see across the lake to the other side at this location. The largest island in the lake is Trontveitøya. Several vacation homes are located on the island.

Media gallery

See also
List of lakes in Norway

References

Nissedal
Kviteseid
Lakes of Vestfold og Telemark