[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

And now he is gone. (_She looks out._) I cannot see him, for all is dark outside. Would my imagination and my heart Were as little shaken as this holy flame! (_She goes slowly into the chapel. The distant sound of an alarm bell._ _The two_ MERCHANTS _enter hurriedly_.) SECOND MERCHANT They are ringing the alarm, and in a moment They'll be upon us. FIRST MERCHANT (_going to a door at the side_) Here is the Treasury, You'd my commands to put them all to sleep. SECOND MERCHANT Some angel or else her prayers protected them. (_Goes into the Treasury and returns with bags of treasure._ FIRST MERCHANT _has been listening at the oratory door_.) FIRST MERCHANT She has fallen asleep. (SECOND MERCHANT _goes out through one of the arches at the back and stands listening. The bags are at his feet._) SECOND MERCHANT We've all the treasure now, So let's away before they've tracked us out. FIRST MERCHANT I have a plan to win her. SECOND MERCHANT You have time enough If you would kill her and bear off her soul Before they are upon us with their prayers; They search the Western Tower. FIRST MERCHANT That may not be. We cannot face the heavenly host in arms. Her soul must come to us of its own will, But being of the ninth and mightiest Hell Where all are kings, I have a plan to win it. Lady, we've news that's crying out for speech. (CATHLEEN _wakes and comes to door of chapel_.) CATHLEEN Who calls? FIRST MERCHANT We have brought news. CATHLEEN What are you? FIRST MERCHANT We are merchants, and we know the book of the world Because we have walked upon its leaves; and there Have read of late matters that much concern you; And noticing the castle door stand open, Came in to find an ear. CATHLEEN The door stands open, That no one who is famished or afraid, Despair of help or of a welcome with it. But you have news, you say. FIRST MERCHANT We saw a man, Heavy with sickness in the bog of Allen, Whom you had bid buy cattle. Near Fair Head We saw your grain ships lying all becalmed In the dark night; and not less still than they, Burned all their mirrored lanthorns in the sea. CATHLEEN My thanks to God, to Mary and the angels, That I have money in my treasury, And can buy grain from those who have stored it up To prosper on the hunger of the poor. But you've been far and know the signs of things, When will this famine end? FIRST MERCHANT Day copies day, And there's no sign of change, nor can it change, With the wheat withered and the cattle dead. CATHLEEN And heard you of the demons who buy souls? FIRST MERCHANT There are some men who hold they have wolves' heads, And say their limbs--dried by the infinite flame-- Have all the speed of storms; others, again, Say they are gross and little; while a few Will have it they seem much as mortals are, But tall and brown and travelled--like us, lady-- Yet all agree a power is in their looks That makes men bow, and flings a casting-net About their souls, and that all men would go And barter those poor vapours, were it not You bribe them with the safety of your gold. CATHLEEN Praise be to God, to Mary, and the angels That I am wealthy! Wherefore do they sell? FIRST MERCHANT As we came in at the great door we saw Your porter sleeping in his niche--a soul Too little to be worth a hundred pence, And yet they buy it for a hundred crowns. But for a soul like yours, I heard them say, They would give five hundred thousand crowns and more. CATHLEEN How can a heap of crowns pay for a soul? Is the green grave so terrible a thing? FIRST MERCHANT Some sell because the money gleams, and some Because they are in terror of the grave, And some because their neighbours sold before, And some because there is a kind of joy In casting hope away, in losing joy, In ceasing all resistance, in at last Opening one's arms to the eternal flames, In casting all sails out upon the wind; To this--full of the gaiety of the lost-- Would all folk hurry if your gold were gone. CATHLEEN There is a something, Merchant, in your voice That makes me fear. When you were telling how A man may lose his soul and lose his God Your eyes were lighted up, and when you told How my poor money serves the people, both-- Merchants forgive me--seemed to smile. FIRST MERCHANT I laugh To think that all these people should be swung As on a lady's shoe-string,--under them The glowing leagues of never-ending flame. CATHLEEN There is a something in you that I fear; A something not of us; were you not born In some most distant corner of the world? (_The_ SECOND MERCHANT, _who has been listening at the door, comes forward, and as he comes a sound of voices and feet is heard_.) SECOND MERCHANT Away now--they are in the passage--hurry, For they will know us, and freeze up our hearts With Ave Marys, and burn all our skin With holy water. FIRST MERCHANT Farewell; for we must ride Many a mile before the morning come; Our horses beat the ground impatiently. (_They go out._ _A number of_ PEASANTS _enter by other door_.) FIRST PEASANT Forgive us, lady, but we heard a noise. SECOND PEASANT We sat by the fireside telling vanities. FIRST PEASANT We heard a noise, but though we have searched the house We have found nobody. CATHLEEN You are too timid, For now you are safe from all the evil times, There is no evil that can find you here. OONA (_entering hurriedly_) Ochone! Ochone! The treasure room is broken in. The door stands open, and the gold is gone. (PEASANTS _raise a lamentable cry_.) CATHLEEN Be silent. (_The cry ceases._) Have you seen nobody? OONA Ochone! That my good mistress should lose all this money. CATHLEEN Let those among you--not too old to ride-- Get horses and search all the country round, I'll give a farm to him who finds the thieves. (_A man with keys at his girdle has come in while she speaks. There is a general murmur of "The porter! the porter!"_) PORTER Demons were here. I sat beside the door In my stone niche, and two owls passed me by, Whispering with human voices. OLD PEASANT God forsakes us. CATHLEEN Old man, old man, He never closed a door Unless one opened. I am desolate, Because of a strange thought that's in my heart; But I have still my faith; therefore be silent; For surely He does not forsake the world, But stands before it modelling in the clay And moulding there His image. Age by age The clay wars with His fingers and pleads hard For its old, heavy, dull and shapeless ease; But sometimes--though His hand is on it still-- It moves awry and demon hordes are born. (PEASANTS _cross themselves_.) Yet leave me now, for I am desolate, I hear a whisper from beyond the thunder. (_She comes from the oratory door._) Yet stay an instant. When we meet again I may have grown forgetful. Oona, take These two--the larder and the dairy keys. (_To the_ PORTER.) But take you this. It opens the small room Of herbs for medicine, of hellebore, Of vervain, monkshood, plantain, and self-heal. The book of cures is on the upper shelf. PORTER Why do you do this, lady; did you see Your coffin in a dream? CATHLEEN Ah, no, not that. But I have come to a strange thought. I have heard A sound of wailing in unnumbered hovels, And I must go down, down--I know not where-- Pray for all men and women mad from famine; Pray, you good neighbours. (_The_ PEASANTS _all kneel_. COUNTESS CATHLEEN _ascends the steps to the door of the oratory, and turning round stands there motionless for a little, and then cries in a loud voice_:) Mary, Queen of angels, And all you clouds on clouds of saints, farewell! END OF SCENE III. SCENE IV SCENE.--_A wood near the Castle, as in Scene II. A group of_ PEASANTS _pass_. FIRST PEASANT I have seen silver and copper, but not gold. SECOND PEASANT It's yellow and it shines. FIRST PEASANT It's beautiful. The most beautiful thing under the sun, That's what I've heard. THIRD PEASANT I have seen gold enough. FOURTH PEASANT I would not say that it's so beautiful. FIRST PEASANT But doesn't a gold piece glitter like the sun? That's what my father, who'd seen better days, Told me when I was but a little boy-- So high--so high, it's shining like the sun, Round and shining, that is what he said. SECOND PEASANT There's nothing in the world it cannot buy. FIRST PEASANT They've bags and bags of it. (_They go out._ _The two_ MERCHANTS _follow silently_. _Then_ ALEEL _passes over the stage singing_.) ALEEL Impetuous heart be still, be still, Your sorrowful love can never be told, Cover it up with a lonely tune. He who could bend all things to His will Has covered the door of the infinite fold With the pale stars and the wandering moon. END OF SCENE IV. SCENE V SCENE.--_The house of_ SHEMUS RUA. _There is an alcove at the back with curtains; in it a bed, and on the bed is the body of_ MARY _with candles round it_. _The two_ MERCHANTS _while they speak put a large book upon a table, arrange money, and so on_. FIRST MERCHANT Thanks to that lie I told about her ships And that about the herdsman lying sick, We shall be too much thronged with souls to-morrow. SECOND MERCHANT What has she in her coffers now but mice? FIRST MERCHANT When the night fell and I had shaped myself Into the image of the man-headed owl, I hurried to the cliffs of Donegal, And saw with all their canvas full of wind And rushing through the parti-coloured sea Those ships that bring the woman grain and meal. They're but three days from us. SECOND MERCHANT When the dew rose I hurried in like feathers to the east, And saw nine hundred oxen driven through Meath With goads of iron. They're but three days from us. FIRST MERCHANT Three days for traffic. (PEASANTS _crowd in with_ TEIG _and_ SHEMUS.) SHEMUS Come in, come in, you are welcome. That is my wife. She mocked at my great masters, And would not deal with them. Now there she is;