# Proportional hazards model

Proportional hazards models are a class of survival models in statistics.  Survival models relate the time that passes, before some event occurs, to one or more covariates that may be associated with that quantity of time.  In a proportional hazards model, the unique effect of a unit increase in a covariate is multiplicative with respect to the hazard rate. For example, taking a drug may halve one's hazard rate for a stroke occurring, or, changing the material from which a manufactured component is constructed may double its hazard rate for failure.  Other types of survival models such as accelerated failure time models do not exhibit proportional hazards.  The accelerated failure time model describes a situation where the biological or mechanical life history of an event is accelerated (or decelerated).

Background

Survival models can be viewed as consisting of two parts: the underlying baseline hazard function, often denoted , describing how the risk of event per time unit changes over time at baseline levels of covariates; and the effect parameters, describing how the hazard varies in response to explanatory covariates. A typical medical example would include covariates such as treatment assignment, as well as patient characteristics such as age at start of study, gender, and the presence of other diseases at start of study, in order to reduce variability and/or control for confounding.

The proportional hazards condition states that covariates are multiplicatively related to the hazard. In the simplest case of stationary coefficients, for example, a treatment with a drug may, say, halve a subject's hazard at any given time , while the baseline hazard may vary. Note however, that this does not double the lifetime of the subject; the precise effect of the covariates on the lifetime depends on the type of . The covariate is not restricted to binary predictors; in the case of a continuous covariate , it is typically assumed that the hazard responds exponentially; each unit increase in  results in proportional scaling of the hazard.

The Cox model

Introduction 

Sir David Cox observed that if the proportional hazards assumption holds (or, is assumed to hold) then it is possible to estimate the effect parameter(s), denoted  below, without any consideration of the full hazard function.  This approach to survival data is called application of the Cox proportional hazards model, sometimes abbreviated to Cox model or to proportional hazards model. However, Cox also noted that biological interpretation of the proportional hazards assumption can be quite tricky.

Let  be the realized values of the p covariates for subject i.  The hazard function for the Cox proportional hazards model has the form

This expression gives the hazard function at time t for subject i with covariate vector (explanatory variables) Xi. Note that between subjects, the baseline hazard  is identical (has no dependency on i). The only difference between subjects' hazards comes from the baseline scaling factor .

Why it is called "proportional" 

To start, suppose we only have a single covariate, , and therefore a single coefficient, . Consider the effect of increasing  by 1:

We can see that increasing a covariate by 1 scales the original hazard by the constant . Rearranging things slightly, we see that:

The right-hand-side is constant over time (no term has a  in it). This relationship, , is called a proportional relationship.

More generally, consider two subjects, i and j, with covariates  and  respectively. Consider the ratio of their hazards:

The right-hand-side isn't dependent on time, as the only time-dependent factor, , was cancelled out. Thus the ratio of hazards of two subjects is a constant, i.e. the hazards are proportional.

Absence of an intercept term 
Often there is an intercept term (also called a constant term or bias term) used in regression models. The Cox model lacks one because the baseline hazard, , takes the place of it. Let's see what would happen if we did include an intercept term anyways, denoted :

where we've redefined  to be a new baseline hazard, . Thus, the baseline hazard incorporates all parts of the hazard that are not dependent on the subjects' covariates, which includes any intercept term (which is constant for all subjects, by definition).

Likelihood for unique times 

The Cox partial likelihood, shown below, is obtained by using Breslow's estimate of the baseline hazard function, plugging it into the full likelihood and then observing that the result is a product of two factors. The first factor is the partial likelihood shown below, in which the baseline hazard has "canceled out". The second factor is free of the regression coefficients and depends on the data only through the censoring pattern. The effect of covariates estimated by any proportional hazards model can thus be reported as hazard ratios.

The likelihood of the event to be observed occurring for subject i at time Yi can be written as:

where ) and the summation is over the set of subjects j where the event has not occurred before time Yi (including subject i itself). Obviously 0 < Li(β) ≤ 1. This is a partial likelihood: the effect of the covariates can be estimated without the need to model the change of the hazard over time.

Treating the subjects as if they were statistically independent of each other, the joint probability of all realized events is the following partial likelihood, where the occurrence of the event is indicated by Ci = 1:

The corresponding log partial likelihood is

This function can be maximized over β to produce maximum partial likelihood estimates of the model parameters.

The partial score function is

and the Hessian matrix of the partial log likelihood is

Using this score function and Hessian matrix, the partial likelihood can be maximized using the Newton-Raphson algorithm. The inverse of the Hessian matrix, evaluated at the estimate of β, can be used as an approximate variance-covariance matrix for the estimate, and used to produce approximate standard errors for the regression coefficients.

Likelihood when there exist tied times

Several approaches have been proposed to handle situations in which there are ties in the time data. Breslow's method describes the approach in which the procedure described above is used unmodified, even when ties are present. An alternative approach that is considered to give better results is Efron's method. Let tj denote the unique times, let Hj denote the set of indices i such that Yi = tj and Ci = 1, and let mj = |Hj|.  Efron's approach maximizes the following partial likelihood.

The corresponding log partial likelihood is

the score function is

and the Hessian matrix is

where

Note that when Hj is empty (all observations with time tj are censored), the summands in these expressions are treated as zero.

Examples

Below are some worked examples of the Cox model in practice.

A single binary covariate

Suppose the endpoint we are interested in is patient survival during a 5-year observation period after a surgery. Patients can die within the 5-year period, and we record when they died, or patients can live past 5 years, and we only record that they lived past 5 years. The surgery was performed at one of two hospitals, A or B, and we would like to know if the hospital location is associated with 5-year survival. Specifically, we would like to know the relative increase (or decrease) in hazard from a surgery performed at hospital A compared to hospital B. Provided is some (fake) data, where each row represents a patient: T is how long the patient was observed for before death or 5 years (measured in months), and C denotes if the patient died in the 5-year period. We have encoded the hospital as a binary variable denoted X: 1 if from hospital A, 0 from hospital B.

Our single-covariate Cox proportional model looks like the following, with  representing the hospital's effect, and i indexing each patient:

Using statistical software, we can estimate  to be 2.12. The hazard ratio is the exponential of this value, . To see why, consider the ratio of hazards, specifically:

Thus, the hazard ratio of hospital A to hospital B is . Putting aside statistical significance for a moment, we can make a statement saying that patients in hospital A are associated with a 8.3x higher risk of death occurring in any short period of time compared to hospital B.

There are important caveats to mention about the interpretation:

 a 8.3x higher risk of death does not mean that 8.3x more patients will die in hospital B: survival analysis examines how quickly events occur, not simply whether they occur. 
 More specifically, "risk of death" is a measure of a rate. A rate has units, like meters per second. However, a relative rate does not: a bicycle can go two times faster than another bicycle (the reference bicycle), without specifying any units. Likewise, the risk of death (rate of death) in hospital A is 8.3 times hi