[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

Produced by Curtis Weyant, Victoria Woosley and the PG Online Distributed Proofreading Team at www.pgdp.net. A SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION IN THE PRACTICAL USE OF THE BLOWPIPE. BEING A GRADUATED COURSE OF ANALYSIS FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS AND ALL THOSE ENGAGED IN THE EXAMINATION OF METALLIC COMBINATIONS. NEW YORK: H. BAILLIÈRE, 290 BROADWAY, AND 219 REGENT STREET, LONDON. PARIS: J.B. BAILLIÈRE ET FILS, RUE HAUTEFEUILLE. MADRID: C. BAILLY-BAILLIÈRE, CALLE DEL PRINCIPE. 1858. * * * * * ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1858, by C.E. BAILLIÈRE, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York. W.H. TINSON, Printer and Stereotyper, 43 Centre Street. * * * * * TABLE OF CONTENTS. PART I. Preface, 7 The Use of the Blowpipe, 9 Utensils--The Blowpipe, 12 The Oil Lamp, 22 The Spirit Lamp, 23 Charcoal Support, 24 Platinum Supports, 26 Iron Spoons, 28 Glass Tubes, 28 Other Apparatus necessary, 31 THE REAGENTS, 34 Reagents of General Use, 34 Carbonate of Soda, 34 Hydrate of Baryta, 35 Bi-sulphate of Potassa, 35 Oxalate of Potassa, 36 Cyanide of Potassium, 36 Nitrate of Potassa, 37 Borax, 38 Microcosmic Salt, 39 Nitrate of Cobalt, 40 Tin, 41 Silica, 42 Test Papers, 42 ESPECIAL REAGENTS, 43 Boracic Acid, 43 Fluorspar, 43 Oxalate of Nickel, 43 Oxide of Copper, 43 Antimoniate of Potassa, 44 Silver Foil, 44 Nitroprusside of Sodium, 44 PART II. Initiatory Analysis, 47 Examination with the Glass Bulb, 47 " in the Open Tube, 52 " upon Charcoal, 55 " in the Platinum Forceps, 61 " in the Borax Bead, 69 " in Microcosmic Salt, 72 Table I.--Colors of Beads of Borax and Microcosmic Salt, 75 Table II.--Behavior of Metallic Oxydes with Borax and Microcosmic Salt, 85 Examinations with Carbonate of Soda, 103 PART III. Special Reactions, 109 A.--METALLIC OXIDES: First Group.--The Alkalies: Potassa, Soda, Ammonia, and Lithia, 110 Second Group.--The Alkaline Earths: Baryta, Strontia, Lime, and Magnesia, 115 Third Group.--The Earths: Alumina, Glucina, Yttria, Thorina, and Zirconia, 121 Fourth Group.--Cerium, Lanthanium, Didymium, Columbium, Niobium, Pelopium, Titanium, Uranium, Vanadium, Chromium, Manganese, 124 Fifth Group.--Iron, Cobalt, Nickel, 135 Sixth Group.--Zinc, Cadmium, Antimony, Tellurium, 140 Seventh Group.--Lead, Bismuth, Tin, 149 Eighth Group.--Mercury, Arsenic, 157 Ninth Group.--Copper, Silver, Gold, 161 Tenth Group.--Molybdenum, Osmium, 165 Eleventh Group.--Platinum, Palladium, Iridium, Rhodium, Ruthenium, 167 Non-Metallic Substances, 168 Tabular Statement of the Reactions of Minerals before the Blowpipe, 178 Carbon and Organic Minerals, 181 Potassa, 184 Soda, 186 Baryta and Strontia, 190 Lime, 192 Magnesia, 196 Alumina, 200 Silicates, 204 Uranium, 212 Iron, 214 Manganese, 222 Nickel and Cobalt, 226 Zinc, 232 Bismuth, 234 Lead, 238 Copper, 248 Antimony, 256 Arsenic, 260 Mercury, 262 Silver, 264 * * * * * PREFACE. It is believed the arrangement of the present work is superior to that of many of its predecessors, as a vehicle for the facilitation of the student's progress. While it does not pretend to any other rank than as an introduction to the larger works, it is hoped that the arrangement of its matter is such that the beginner may more readily comprehend the entire subject of Blowpipe Analysis than if he were to begin his studies by the perusal of the more copious works of Berzelius and Plattner. When the student shall have gone through these pages, and repeated the various reactions described, then he will be fully prepared to enter upon the study of the larger works. To progress through them will then be but a comparatively easy task. The arrangement of this little work has been such as the author and his friends have considered the best that could be devised for the purpose of facilitating the progress of the student. Whether we have succeeded is left for the public to decide. The author is indebted to several of his friends for valuable contributions and suggestions. S. CINCINNATI, _June, 1857_. * * * * * THE BLOWPIPE. * * * * * Part First. THE USE OF THE BLOWPIPE. Perhaps during the last fifty years, no department of chemistry has been so enriched as that relating to analysis by means of the Blowpipe. Through the unwearied exertions of men of science, the use of this instrument has arrived to such a degree of perfection, that we have a right to term its use, "Analysis in the _dry_ way," in contradistinction to analysis "in the _wet_ way." The manipulations are so simple and expeditious, and the results so clear and characteristic, that the Blowpipe analysis not only verifies and completes the results of analysis in the wet way, but it gives in many cases direct evidences of the presence or absence of many substances, which would not be otherwise detected, but through a troublesome and tedious process, involving both prolixity and time; for instance, the detection of manganese in minerals. Many substances have to go through Blowpipe manipulations before they can be submitted to an analysis in the wet way. The apparatus and reagents employed are compendious and small in number, so that they can be carried easily while on scientific excursions, a considerable advantage for mineralogists and metallurgists. The principal operations with the Blowpipe may be explained briefly as follows: (_a._) By _Ignition_ is meant the exposure of a substance to such a degree of heat, that it glows or emits light, or becomes red-hot. Its greatest value is in the separation of a volatile substance from one less volatile, or one which is entirely fixed at the temperature of the flame. In this case we only take cognizance of the latter or fixed substance, although in many instances we make use of ignition for the purpose of changing the conditions of a substance, for example, the sesquioxide of chromium (Cr^{2}O^{3}) in its insoluble modification; and as a preliminary examination for the purpose of ascertaining whether the subject of inquiry be a combination of an organic or inorganic nature. The apparatus used for this purpose are crucibles of platinum or silver, platinum foil, a platinum spoon, platinum wire or tongs, charcoal, glass tubes, and iron spoons. (_b._) _Sublimation_ is that process by which we convert a solid substance into vapor by means of a strong heat. These vapors are condensed by refrigeration into the solid form. It may be termed a distillation of a solid substance. Sublimation is of great consequence in the detection of many substances; for instance, arsenic, antimony, mercury, etc. The apparatus used for the purposes of sublimation consist of glass tubes closed at one end. (_c._) _Fusion._--Many substances when exposed to a certain degree of heat lose their solid form, and are converted into a liquid. Those substances which do not become converted into the liquid state by heat, are said to be infusible. It is a convenient classification to arrange substances into those which are fusible with difficulty, and those which are easily fusible. Very often we resort to fusion for the purpose of decomposing a substance, or to cause it to enter into other combinations, by which means it is the more readily detected. If insoluble substances are fused with others more fusible (reagents) for the purpose of causing a combination which is soluble in water and acids, the operation is termed _unclosing_. These substances are particularly the silicates and the sulphates of the alkaline earths. The usual reagents resorted to for this purpose are carbonate of soda (NaO, CO^{2}), carbonate of potash (KO, CO^{2}), or still better, a mixture of the two in equal parts. In some cases we use the hydrate of barytes (BaO, HO) and the bisulphate of potash (KO, 2SO^{3}). The platinum spoon is generally used for this manipulation. Substances are exposed to fusion for the purpose of getting a new combination which has such distinctive characteristics that we can class it under a certain group; or for the purpose of ascertaining at once what the substance may be. The reagents used for this purpose are borax (NaO, 2BrO^{3}) and the microcosmic salt (NaO, NH^{4}O, PO^{5}, HO). Charcoal and the platinum wire are used as supports for this kind of operation. (_d._) _Oxidation._--The chemical combination of any substance with oxygen is termed _oxidation_, and the products are termed _oxides_. As these oxides have qualities differing from those which are non-oxidized, it therefore frequently becomes necessary to convert substances into oxides; or, if they are such, of a lower degree, to convert them into a higher degree of oxidation. These different states of oxidation frequently present characteristic marks of identity sufficient to enable us to draw conclusions in relation to the substance under examination. For instance, the oxidation of manganese, of arsenic, etc. The conditions necessary for oxidation, are high temperature and the free admission of air to the substance. If the oxidation is effected through the addition of a substance containing oxygen (for instance, the nitrate or chlorate of potash) and the heating is accompanied by a lively deflagration and crackling noise, it is termed _detonation_. By this process we frequently effect the oxidation of a substance, and thus we prove the presence or the absence of a certain class of substances. For instance, if we detonate (as it is termed by the German chemists) the sulphide of antimony, or the sulphide of arsenic with nitrate of potash, we get the nitrate of antimony, or the nitrate of arsenic. The salts of nitric or chloric acid are determined by fusing them with the cyanide of potassium, because the salts of these acids detonate. (_e._) _Reduction._--If we deprive an oxidized substance of its oxygen, we term the process _reduction_. This is effected by fusing the substance under examination with another which possesses a greater affinity for oxygen. The agents used for reduction are hydrogen, charcoal, soda, cyanide of potassium, etc. Substances generally, when in the unoxidized state, have such characteristic qualities, that they cannot very readily be mistaken for others. For this reason, reduction is a very excellent expedient for the purpose of discerning and classifying many substances. B. UTENSILS. We shall give here a brief description of the most necessary apparatus used for analysis in the dry way, and of their use. _The Blowpipe_ is a small instrument, made generally out of brass, silver, or German silver, and was principally used in earlier times for the purpose of soldering small pieces of metals together. It is generally made in the form of a tube, bent at a right angle, but without a sharp corner. The largest one is about seven inches long, and the smallest about two inches. The latter one terminates with a small point, with a small orifice. The first use of the blowpipe that we have recorded is that of a Swedish mining officer, who used it in the year 1738 for chemical purposes, but we have the most meagre