[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

floor Crept between shadows magical.... In the black east a pallid ray Rose high; and sweeping o'er the down The slow increase of stormless day Lit the wet roofs of Lambourn town. THE LAMP The lamp shone golden where she slept, Shining against deep-folded shadows. There was no stir but her slow breathing Save when a long sigh crept Between her lips. Her hair spread dark in that faint light, Her shut eyes showed the long dark lashes-- Still now, that with her laughter quivered. On the white sheet lay white And limp her hands. Golden against the shadow shone The lamp's small flame, till dawn was brightening, And on the flame a gold beam slanted. The shadows lingering on Grew faint and thin. Sleeping she murmured, stirred and sighed, A dream from her sleep-vision faded. Her earthly eyes 'neath languid eyelids Wakened: her bosom cried, "Come back, come back, "Come back, my dream!" Rising she drest Her beauty's lamp with cunning fingers. She had the look of birds a-flutter Round dewy trees with breast Throbbing with song. WHO IS IT THAT ANSWERS? The clouds no more are flocking After the flushing sun; Bees end their long droning, The bat's hunt is begun; And the tired wind that went flittering Up and down the hill Lies like a shadow still, Like a shadow still. Who is it that's calling Out of the deepening dark, Calling, calling, calling?-- No!--yet hark! The sleepy wind wakes, carrying Up and down the hill A voice how small and still, How sweet and still! Who is it that answers Out of a quiet cloud-- "Stay, oh stay! I come, I come!" Cried at last aloud? My voice, my heart went answering Up and down the hill-- Mine so strange and still, Mine grave and still. WAITING Rich in the waning light she sat While the fierce rain on the window spat. The yellow lamp-glow lit her face, Shadows cloaked the narrow place She sat adream in. Then she'd look Idly upon an idle book; Anon would rise and musing peer Out at the misty street and drear; Or with her loosened dark hair play, Hiding her fingers' snow away; And, singing softly, would sing on When the desire of song had gone. "O lingering day!" her bosom sighed, "O laggard Time!" each motion cried. Last she took the lamp and stood Rich in its flood, And looked and looked again at what Her longing fingers' zeal had wrought; And turning then did nothing say, Hiding her thoughts away. ABSENCE Distance no grace can lend you, but for me Distance yet magnifies your mystery. With you, and soon content, I ask how should In your two eyes be hid my heaven of good? How should your own mere voice the strange words speak That tease me with the sense of what's to seek In all the world beside? How your brown hair, That simply and neglectfully you wear, Bind my wild thoughts in its abundant snare? With you, I wonder how you're stranger than Another woman to another man; But parted--and you're as a ship unknown That to poor castaways at dawn is shown As strange as dawn, so strange they fear a trick Of eyes long-vexed and hope with falseness sick. Parted, and like the riddle of a dream, Dark with rich promise, does your beauty seem. I wonder at your patience, stirless peace, Your subtle pride, mute pity's quick release. Then are you strange to me and sweet as light Or dew; as strange and dark as starless night. Then let this restless parting be forgiven: I go from you to find in you strange heaven. SLEEP Not a dream brush your sleep, Not a thought wake and creep In upon your spirit's slumber; Not a memory encumber, Nor a thievish care unbar Sleep's portcullis that no star Nor sentry hath. I'll not speak With my soul even: no, nor seek Other happiness for you When you this happy sleep sleep through. Let no least desire waver Between us, nor impatience quaver; No sudden nearness of me flush Your veins with welcome.... Hush, hush! Be still, my thoughts, lest you creep Unawares into her sleep. YOUR SHADOW From Swindon out to White Horse Hill I walked, in morning rain, And saw your shadow lying there. As clear and plain As lies the White Horse on the Hill I saw your shadow lying there. Over the wide green downs and bleak, Unthinking, free I walked, And saw your shadow fluttering by. Almost it talked, Answering what I dared not speak While thoughts of you ran fluttering by.... So on to Baydon sauntered, teased With that pure native air. Sometimes the sweetness of wild thyme The strings of care Did pluck; sometimes my soul was eased With more than sweetness of wild thyme. Sometimes within a pool I caught Your face, upturned to mine. And where sits Chilton by the waters Your look did shine Wildly in the mill foam that sought To hide you in those angry waters. And yet, O Sweet, you never knew Those downs, the thymy air That with your spirit haunted is-- Yes, everywhere! Ah, but my heart is full of you, And with your shadow haunted is. THE FULL TIDE Now speaks the wave, whispering me of you; In all his murmur your music murmurs too. O 'tis your voice, my love, whispering in The wave's voice, even your voice so far and thin; And mine to yours answering clear is heard In the high lonely voice of the last bird. And when, my love, the full tide runneth again, Shall yet the seabird call, call, call in vain? Will not the tide wake in my heart and stir The old rich happiness that's sunken there? Thou moon of love, bid the retreated tide Return, for which the wandering bird has cried. HANDS Your hands, your hands, Fall upon mine as waves upon the sands. O, soft as moonlight on the evening rose, That but to moonlight will its sweet unclose, Your hands, your hands, Fall upon mine, and my hands open as That evening primrose opens when the hot hours pass. Your hands, your hands, They are like towers that in far southern lands Look at pale dawn over gloom-valley'd miles, White temple towers that gleam through mist at whiles. Your hands, your hands, With the south wind fall kissing on my brow, And all past joy and future is summed in this great "Now!" THE NIGHT WATCH Beneath the trees with heedful step and slow At night I go, Fearful upon their whispering to break Lest they awake Out of those dreams of heavenly light that fill Their branches still With a soft murmur of memoried ecstasy. There 'neath each tree Nightlong a spirit watches, and I feel His breath unseal The fast-shut thoughts and longings of tired day, That flutter away Mothlike on luminous soft wings and frail And moonlike pale. There in the flowering chestnuts' bowering gloom And limes' perfume Wandering wavelike through the moondrawn night That heaves toward light, There hang I my dark thoughts and deeper prayers; And as the airs Of star-kissed dawn come stirring and o'er-creep The ford of sleep, Thy shape, great Love, grows shadowy in the East, Thine accents least Of all those warring voices of false morn: And oh, forlorn Thy hope, thy courage vanishing, thine eyes Sad with surprise. Oh, with the dawn I know, I know how vain Is love that's fain To beat and beat against her obstinate door. For as once more It groans, she passes out not heeding me, Nay, will not see:-- As when a man, rich and of high estate, Sees at his gate (Or will not see) a famishing poor wretch, Whose longings fetch Old anger from his pain-imprisoning breast, Till sad despair his anger puts to rest. THE HAUNTED SHADOW Fair Trees, O keep from chattering so When I with my more fair do go Beneath your branches; For if I laugh with her your sigh Her rare and sudden mirth puts by, Or your too noisy glee will take Persuasion from my lips and make Her deaf as winter. O be not as the pines--that keep The shadow-charmèd light asleep-- Perverse and sombre! For when we in the pinewood walked And of young love and far age talked, Their solemn haunted shadow broke Her peace--ah, how the sharp sob shook Her shadowed bosom! ALONE AND COLD Do not, O do not use me As you have used others. Better you did refuse me: You have refused others. Better, far better hope to banish A small child than, grown old, Hope should decay, his vigour vanish, And I be left alone and Cold, cold. Ah, use no guile nor cunning If you should even yet love me. Hark, Time with Love is running, Death cloud-like floats above me. Love me with such simplicity As children, frankly bold, Do love with; oh, never pity me, Though I be left alone and Cold, cold. INEVITABLE CHANGE Young as the Spring seemed life when she Came from her silent East to me; Unquiet as Autumn was my breast When she declined into her West. Such tender, such untroubling things She taught me, daughter of all Springs; Such dusty deathly lore I learned When her last embers redly burned. How should it hap (Love, canst thou say?) Such end should be to so pure day? Such shining chastity give place To this annulling grave's disgrace? Such hopes be quenched in this despair, Grace chilled to granite everywhere? How should--in vain I cry--how should That be, alas, which _only_ could! LONELINESS How green and strange the light is, Creeping through the window. Lying alone in bed, How strange the night is! How still and chill the air is. It seems no sound could live Here in my room That now so bare is. All bright and still the room is, But easeless here am I. Deep in my heart Cold lonely gloom is! I HEARD A VOICE UPON THE WINDOW BEAT I heard a voice upon the window beat And then grow dim, grow still. Opening I saw the snowy sill Marked with the robin's feet. Chill was the air and chill The thoughts that in my bosom beat. I thought of all that wide and hopeless snow Crusting the frozen lands. Of small birds that in famished bands A-chill and silent grow. And how Earth's myriad hands Clutched only hills of frosted snow. And then I thought of Love that beat and cried Famishing at my breast; How I, by chilling care distrest, Denied him, and Love died.... O, with what sore unrest Love's ghost woke with the bird that cried! FIRST LOVE I