[Handbook of Medical Entomology — Gutenberg #25163]

I remembered seeing her doing more or less close-harmony work with the other midnight-oil consumers--and the upshot was I went over to Browning Hall that night and called on her. She came down in due time--kept me waiting as long as if she had been the belle of the prom--and she shook hands all over me. "My dear boy," she said, sitting down on the sofa with me, "I'm so delighted to renew our old friendship." Now, I don't like to be "my dear boyed" by a Sophomore, and there never had been any old friendship. I started to stiffen up--and then didn't. I didn't because I didn't know what she would do if I did. "How are all the other good old chaps?" she said as cordially as could be. "My, but those were grand days." [Illustration: "How are all the other good old chaps?" she said _Page 270_] I didn't see any terminus in that conversation. Besides, she looked like one of those most uncomfortable girls who can guy you in such an innocent and friendly manner that you don't know what to say back. So I brushed the preliminaries aside and jumped right into the middle of things. "Miss Hicks," says I, "why are you doing all this?" "Singular or plural you?" she asked. "And why am I or are we doing what, and why shouldn't we?" "Help," said I, feeling that way. "Do you deny that you haven't been instrumental in upsetting the whole college with those fool elections?" "I am a modest young lady," said she, "so, of course, I deny it. Besides, this college isn't upset at all. I went over this morning and every professor was right side up with care where he belonged. And, moreover, you must not call an election a fool because it doesn't do what you want it to. It can't help itself." "Miss Hicks," says I, feeling like a fly in an acre of web, "I am a plain and simple man and not handy with my tongue. What I mean is this, and I hope you'll excuse me for living--do you admit that you had a hand in those class elections?" Miss Hicks looked at me in the friendliest way possible. "It is more modest to admit it than to declare it, isn't it?" she asked. "Certainly," says I; "and this leads right back to question Number One--Why did you do it?" "And this leads back to answer Number One--Why shouldn't I?" she asked again. "Why, don't you see, Miss Hicks," says I, "that you've elected a lot of girls that never have been active in college work, and that don't represent the student body, and--" "Don't go to the proms?" she suggested. "I didn't say it and I'd die before I did," said I virtuously. "But what's your object?" "Education," said Miss Hicks mildly. "I'm paying full tuition and I want to get all there is out of college. I think politics is a fascinating study. I didn't get a chance to do much at it last year, but I'm learning something about it every day now." "But what's the good of it all?" I protested. "You'll just get the college affairs hopelessly mixed up--" "Like the Oratorical Association was last year?" she inquired gently. "Oh, pshaw!" said I, getting entirely red. "Let's not get personal. What can we do to satisfy you?" "You've been satisfying us beautifully so far," said Miss Hicks. "Who's us?" I asked. "I don't in the least mind telling you," said Miss Hicks. "It's the Blanks." "The Blanks!" I repeated fretfully. "Never heard of 'em." "I know it," said Miss Hicks, "but you named them yourselves. What do you say you've drawn when you draw a homely girl's name out of the hat as a partner for a class party?" "Oh!" said I. "We're the Blanks," said Miss Hicks, "and we feel that we haven't been getting our full share of college atmosphere. So we're going into politics. In this way we can mingle with the students and help run things and have a very enjoyable time. It's most fascinating. All of us are dippy over it." "Oh," said I again. "You mean you're going to ruin things for your own selfish interests?" "My dear boy," said Miss Hicks--my, but that grated--"we're not going to ruin anything. And we may build up the Oratorical Association." That was too much. I got up and stood as nearly ten feet as I could. "Very well," said I. "If there's no use of arguing on a reasonable basis we may as well terminate this interview. But I'll just tell you there's no use of your going any further. Now we know what we have to fight, we'll take precious good care that you do not do any more mischief." "Oh, very well," said Miss Hicks--she was infuriatingly good-natured--"but I might as well tell you that we're going to get the Athletic offices, the prom committee, the Oratorical offices and the Athletic election next spring." "Ha, ha!" said I loudly and rudely. Then I took my hat and went away. Miss Hicks asked me very eagerly to drop in again. Me? I'd as soon have dropped on a Mexican cactus. It couldn't be any more uncomfortable. I went away and called our gang together and we seethed over the situation most all night. They voted me campaign leader on the strength of my service, and the next day we got the rest of the frats together, buried the hatchet and doped out the campaign. It was the pride and strength of Siwash against a red-headed Missouri girl, weight about ninety-five pounds; and we couldn't help feeling sorry for her. But she had brought it on herself. Insurgency, Miss Allstairs, is a very wicked thing. It's a despicable attempt on the part of the minority to become the majority, and no true patriot will desert the majority in his time of need. I'm not going to linger over the next month. I'll get it over in a few words. We started out to exterminate Miss Hicks. We put up our candidate for the Oratorical Association presidency. The hall was jammed when the time came, and before anything could be done Miss Hicks demanded that no one be allowed to vote who hadn't paid his or her dues. Half the fellows we had there never had any intention of getting that far into Oratorical work, and backed out; but the rest of us paid up. There had never been so much money in the treasury since the association began. Then the Blanks nominated a candidate and skinned us by three votes. When we thought of all that money gone to waste we almost went crazy. But that was just a starter. We were determined to have our own way about the Junior prom. What do wall-flowers know about running a prom? We worked up an absolute majority in the Junior class, only to have a snap meeting called on us over in Browning Hall, in which three middle-aged young ladies who had never danced a step were named. The roar we raised was terrific, but the president sweetly informed us that they had only followed precedent--we'd had to do the same thing the year before to keep out the Mu Kow Moos. We appealed to the Faculty, and it laughed at us. Unfortunately, we didn't stand any too well there anyway, while most of the Blanks were the pride and joy of the professors. Anyway, they told us to fight our own battles and they'd see that there was fair play. Oh, yes. They saw it. They passed a rule that no student who was conditioned in any study could vote in any college election. That disenfranchised about half of us right on the spot. If ever anarchy breaks out in this country, Miss Allstairs, it will be because of college Faculties. We made a last stand on the Athletic Association treasurership. It looked for a while as if it was going to be easy. We threw all the rules away and gave a magnificent party for all the girls we thought we could count on. It was the most gorgeous affair on record, and half the dress suits in college went into hock afterward for the whole semester. The result was most encouraging. The girls were delighted. They pledged their votes and support and we counted up that we had a clear majority. We went to bed that night happy and woke up to find that Miss Hicks had entertained the non-fraternity men in the gymnasium that night and had served lemonade and wafers. She had alluded to them playfully as slaves, and they had broken up about fifty chairs demonstrating that they were not. When the election came off she had the unattached vote solid, and we lost out by a comfortable majority. An estimable lady, who didn't know athletics from croquet, was elected. And when the reception committee of the prom was announced the next day it was composed exclusively of men who would have had to be led through the grand march on wheels. After that we gave up. I tried to resign as campaign manager, but the boys wouldn't let me. They admitted that no one else could have done any better, and, besides, they wanted me to go over and see Miss Hicks again. They wanted me to ask her what her crowd wanted. When I thought of her pleasant conversational hatpin work I felt like resigning from college; but there always have to be martyrs, and in the end I went. Miss Hicks received me rapturously. You would have thought we had been boy and girl friends. She insisted on asking how all the folks were at home, and how my health had been, and hadn't it been a gay winter, and was I going to the prom, and how did I like her new gown? While I was at it I thought I might as well amuse myself, too, so I asked her to marry me. That was the only time I ever got ahead of her. She refused indignantly, and I laughed at her for getting so fussed up over a little thing. "Marriage is a sacred subject," she said very soberly. "So was politics," said I, "until you came along. If you won't talk marriage let's talk politics. What do you girls want?" "Oh, I told you a while ago," she said. "But, Great Scott!" said I. "Aren't you going to leave a thing for us fellows who have done our best for the college?" "Now you put it that way," she said quite kindly, "I'll think it over. We might find something for you to do.