# Empty nose syndrome

Empty nose syndrome (ENS) is a clinical syndrome, the hallmark symptom of which is a sensation of suffocation despite a clear airway. This syndrome is often referred to as a form of secondary atrophic rhinitis. ENS is a potential complication of nasal turbinate surgery or injury. Patients have usually undergone a turbinectomy (removal or reduction of structures inside the nose called turbinates) or other surgical procedures that injure the nasal turbinates. 

ENS patients may experience a range of symptoms. Commonly reported are feelings of nasal obstruction, nasal dryness and crusting, and a sensation of being unable to breathe.

The overall incidence of ENS is unknown due to the small body of epidemiological study and the lack of a dedicated International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) code, which would allow incidence reporting of the syndrome. In a 2019 study in the Facial Plastic Surgery Clinics of North America journal, study lead Jason Talmadge, MD posited that "many cases likely go unrecognized or underdiagnosed, and therefore unreported."

The condition is caused by injury to the nasal turbinates,  particularly with nasal procedures. This includes both minor procedures as well as total turbinate resection. It is usually observed in patients with unobstructed nasal passages following surgical intervention who report sensations of suffocation or obstruction following recovery. Early literature attributed ENS to complete turbinate resection, but later research demonstrated the syndrome in patients who had undergone a range of procedures that involved nasal turbinates.

The syndrome's existence as a distinct medical condition is controversial, with adoption by a growing body of ear, nose and throat (ENT) practitioners and plastic surgeons. ENS is not fully understood and practitioner knowledge about altered nasal breathing in turbinate surgeries varies. Understanding why some patients exhibit ENS symptoms while others do not and incorrectly attributing symptoms to psychological causes such as anxiety are common reasons ENS patients do not receive care. ENS as a distinct condition is subject to debate, including whether it should be considered solely rhinologic or whether it may have neurological or psychosomatic aspects. Growing awareness of the syndrome and an increasing body of research has led to more acceptance by ENT practitioners.

Signs and symptoms
The major symptoms of ENS include a sensation of suffocation, nasal dryness, nasal burning, nasal crusting, and an impaired sense of airflow through the nose in patients who have had surgery or injury to nasal turbinates. ENS can greatly reduce a patient's quality of life and many patients struggle to complete activities of daily living. While ENS is physical in its origin, many ENS patients also struggle with depression, anxiety, and sleep disturbances. Individuals with ENS may experience all or some of these symptoms.

A limited study of ENS patients found that ENS is associated with hyperventilation syndrome (HVS) in 77.3% of the study population. The study suggests that there could be an epidemiological link between ENS and HVS. Further studies are required to confirm these results. The authors hypothesize that the link between ENS and HVS could be explained by the nasal injury that occurs to the turbinates that alters the respiratory control system.

A 2023 study found that ENS patients scored significantly higher on the Epworth Sleepiness Scale than control groups, and that severity of ENS symptoms correlated with severity of sleepiness. Sleep apnea was found to correlate with severity of ENS symptoms and high BMI in a 2022 study.

Cause
The cause of ENS is due to the body not accepting the new airflow in the nasal passages following surgical procedures. The nose is an incredibly complex area of the body and one that has been very poorly researched in terms of the effects on aerodynamics from surgical procedures. In many patients with ENS, the airflow is modeled as being more turbulent with less laminar flow across the mucosa. This change in airflow leads to an imbalance of / levels in the body, which will show hyperventilation-like symptoms in patients. This reduced amount of mucus in the nose can also be attributed to the change in airflow often resulting in dry cool air hitting the back of the patient's throat. 

One possible cause may be changes to the nasal mucous membrane and to the nerve endings in the mucosa resulting from chronic changes to the temperature and humidity of the air flowing inside the nose, caused in turn by removal or reduction of the turbinates. Direct damage to the nerves may be a result of surgical intervention; however, as of 2015, there is no technology that allows the mapping of the sensory nerves within the nose, so it is difficult to determine whether this is causative of ENS. Investigators have been unable to identify consistent diagnostic or precipitating features, psychological causes leading to a psychosomatic condition have been proposed.

There seems to be a relation between reduced levels of nasal nitric oxide and depression/anxiety symptoms in ENS patients. Both have been shown to be reversible via implantation surgery.

It has been proposed, that the airflow in ENS patients is changed so that most of the air flows through the middle meatus, compared to most of the air flowing through the inferior meatus in healthy individuals. This can be corrected via inferior meatus augmentation (IMAP surgery).

Diagnosis

No consensus criteria exist for the diagnosis of ENS and many ENTs will wait a year before diagnosing in hopes the patient accepts the new airflow; it is typically diagnosed by ruling out other conditions, with ENS remaining the likely diagnosis if the signs and symptoms are present. A "cotton test" has been proposed, in which moist cotton is held where a turbinate should be or in various locations in the nasal passages, to see if it provides relief and an airflow pattern that allows for natural breathing; while this has not been validated nor is it widely accepted, it may be useful to identify which people may benefit from surgery.

As of 2015, protocols for using rhinomanometry to diagnose ENS and measure response to surgery were under development, as was a standardized clinical instrument (a well defined and validated questionnaire) to obtain more useful reporting of symptoms.

A validated ENS-specific, 6-item questionnaire called the Empty Nose Syndrome 6-item Questionnaire (ENS6Q) was developed as an adjunct to the standard Sino-Nasal Outcome Test 22 (SNOT-22). The ENS6Q is the first validated, specific, adjunct questionnaire to the SNOT-22. It can more reliably identify patients suspected of ENS. The ENS6Q is gaining usage in studies on ENS.

Classification

Four types have been proposed:
 ENS-IT: Inferior turbinate (IT) was fully or partially resected 
 ENS-MT: Middle turbinate (MT) was fully or partially resected 
 ENS-both: Both the IT and MT were both at least partially resected 
 ENS-type: Patient appears to have adequate turbinate tissue but suffers ENS symptoms due to damage to the mucosal surface of the turbinates.

Prevention
Attempt non surgical methods for an extended period of time prior to surgical intervention. Avoid any unnecessary nasal surgery, avoid any surgical treatment to the turbinates and septum, seek multiple consults for any nasal surgery, conduct imagery on the nasal passages prior to any surgical treatment, seek opinions from surgeons familiar with ENS. Many surgeons will tell patients that ENS is only seen in patients that have excessive turbinate reduction, but studies have shown that any surgery/procedure involving the nasal turbinates can potentially lead to ENS. For this reason it is critical that anyone planning any surgery to the nose for function or appearance should be aware of the high risk of ENS developing if the body does not accept the new airflow and exchange of gasses.

Treatment
Treatment of ENS by many ENTs is extremely limited with very marginal success rates once diagnosed. Initial treatment is similar to atrophic rhinitis, namely keeping the nasal mucosa moist with saline or oil-based lubricants and treating pain and infection as they arise; adding menthol to lubricants may be helpful in ENS, as may be use of a cool mist humidifier at home but has limited success and many ENT patients seek treatment from the few ENTs well educated in ENS surgical techniques. For people with anxiety, depression, or who are obsessed with the feeling that they can't breathe, psychiatric or psychological care may be helpful.

In some people, surgery to restore missing or reduced turbinates or various fillers that correct the airflow in the nose may be beneficial. Corrective surgical methods are experimental and limited to a few ENT practitioners worldwide.

A 2015 meta-analysis identified 128 people treated with surgery from eight studies that were useful to pool, with an age range of