# Alström syndrome

Alström syndrome (AS), also called Alström–Hallgren syndrome, is a very rare autosomal recessive genetic disorder characterised by childhood obesity and multiple organ dysfunction. Symptoms include early-onset type 2 diabetes, cone-rod dystrophy resulting in blindness, sensorineural hearing loss and dilated cardiomyopathy. Endocrine disorders typically also occur, such as hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism and hypothyroidism, as well as acanthosis nigricans resulting from hyperinsulinemia. Developmental delay is seen in almost half of people with Alström syndrome.

It is caused by mutations in the gene ALMS1, which is involved in the formation of cellular cilia, making Alström syndrome a ciliopathy. At least 239 disease-causing mutations in ALMS1 have been described . Alström syndrome is sometimes confused with Bardet–Biedl syndrome, another ciliopathy which has similar symptoms, but Bardet–Biedl syndrome tends to have later onset in its symptoms, includes polydactyly and is caused by mutations in BBS genes.

There is no cure for Alström syndrome. Treatments target the individual symptoms and can include diet, corrective lenses, hearing aids, medications for diabetes and heart issues and dialysis and transplantation in the case of kidney or liver failure. Prognosis varies depending on the specific combination of symptoms, but individuals with Alström syndrome rarely live beyond 50.

At least 900 cases have been reported. Prevalence is fewer than 1 in 1,000,000 individuals in the general population, but the disorder is much more common in Acadians, both in Nova Scotia and Louisiana. It was first described by Swedish psychiatrist Carl-Henry Alström and his three associates, B. Hallgren, I. B. Nilsson and H. Asander, in 1959.

Signs and symptoms
Symptoms for Alström syndrome generally appear during infancy with great variability in age. Some of the symptoms include:
 Heart failure (dilated cardiomyopathy) in over 60% of cases, usually within the first few weeks after birth, but sometimes the onset is in adolescence or adulthood.
 Light sensitivity and vision problems (cone-rod dystrophy) in all cases, usually within 15 months of birth and progressively worsening until about 20 years of age
 Delays in early, developmental milestones in 50% of cases, learning disabilities in about 30% of cases
 Obesity in 100% of cases, apparent by 5 years of age but often apparent in infancy (Alström infants usually have normal birth weights, and by adolescence, weights tend to be in the high-normal to normal range.)
 Nystagmus (usually affects the children), one of the first symptoms to occur which causes involuntary rapid eye movement.
 Mild to moderate bilateral sensorineural hearing loss.
 Type 2 diabetes usually occurs in early childhood.
 Hyperinsulinemia/insulin resistance—development of high level of insulin in blood.
 Hypertriglyceridemia
 Steatosis (fatty liver) and elevated transaminases (liver enzymes) often develop in childhood and can progress in some patients to cirrhosis and liver failure.
 Endocrine dysfunctions may occur where the patient may experience an under or over active thyroid gland, weak growth hormone, increased androgen in females and low testosterone in males.
 Slowly progressive kidney failure can occur in the second to fourth decade of life.

Cause

Alström syndrome is caused by a mutation in the ALMS1 gene, located on the short arm of chromosome 2 (2p13.2). The gene mutation is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. This means both parents have to pass a defective copy of the ALMS1 gene in order for their child to have the syndrome, even though the parents may not show signs or symptoms of the condition.

The ALMS1 gene contains instructions to encode a specific protein known as ALMS1. The protein then is involved in ciliary function, cell cycle control and intracellular transport. In addition, the protein is expressed in all organ tissues of the body. It has a role in the proper function, maintenance and formation of cilia, which are found in all types of cells in the body. At least 239 disease-causing mutations in ALMS1 have been described . Most of these mutations have led to the production of a dysfunctional version of the ALSM1 protein which are present in tissues, but at low levels.

Diagnosis
It is possible to clinically detect Alström syndrome in infancy, but more frequently, it is detected much later, as doctors tend to detect symptoms as separate problems. Currently, Alström syndrome is often diagnosed clinically, since genetic testing is costly and only available on a limited basis.

A physical examination would be needed to properly diagnose the patient. Certain physical characteristics can determine if the patient has some type of genetic disorder. Usually, a geneticist would perform the physical examination by measuring the distance around the head, distance between the eyes and the length of arms and legs. In addition, examinations for the nervous system or the eyes may be performed. Various imaging studies like computerized tomography scans (CT), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) or X-rays are used to see the structures within the body.

Family and personal medical history are required. Information about the health of an individual is crucial because it provides traces to a genetic diagnosis.

Laboratory tests, particularly genetic testing, are performed to diagnose genetic disorders. Some of the types of genetic testing are molecular, biochemical and chromosomal. Other laboratory tests performed may measure levels of certain substances in urine and blood that can also help suggest a diagnosis.

Related disorders

Recent findings in genetic research have suggested that a large number of genetic disorders, both genetic syndromes and genetic diseases, that were not previously identified in the medical literature as related, may be, in fact, highly related in the genetypical root cause of the widely varying, phenotypically-observed disorders. Thus, Alstrom syndrome is a ciliopathy. Other known ciliopathies include primary ciliary dyskinesia, Bardet–Biedl syndrome, polycystic kidney and liver disease, nephronophthisis, Meckel–Gruber syndrome and some forms of retinal degeneration.

Diagnostic criteria

Marshall JD et al. provided a comprehensive guidance for diagnostic criteria in their 2007 publication.

Birth – 2 years:

Minimum diagnosis requires 2 major criteria or 1 major and 2 minor criteria.

Major criteria are:
 ALMS1 mutation in 1 allele and/or family history of Alström syndrome
 Vision pathology (nystagmus, photophobia).

Minor criteria are:
 Obesity
 Dilated cardiomyopathy with congestive heart failure.

Other variable supportive evidence:
Recurrent pulmonary infections, normal digits, delayed developmental milestones.

At 3–14 years of age:

2 major criteria or 1 major and 3 minor criteria.

Major criteria are:
 ALMS1 mutation in 1 allele and/or family history of Alström syndrome,
 Vision pathology (nystagmus, photophobia, diminished acuity). If old enough for testing: cone dystrophy by ERG.

Minor criteria:
 Obesity and/or insulin resistance and/or Type 2 Diabetes
 History of dilated cardiomyopathy with congestive heart failure
 Hearing loss
 Liver dysfunction
 Kidney failure
 Advanced bone age

Variable supportive evidence:
Recurrent pulmonary infections, normal digits, delayed developmental milestones, hyperlipidemia, scoliosis, flat wide feet
hypothyroidism, hypertension, recurrent urinary tract infection, growth hormone deficiency.

Presentation 15 years – adulthood:

2 major and 2 minor criteria or 1 major and 4 minor criteria.

Major criteria are:
 ALMS1 mutation in 1 allele and/or family history of Alström syndrome.
 Vision pathology (history of nystagmus in infancy/childhood, legal blindness, cone and rod dystrophy by ERG).

Minor criteria:
 Obesity and/or insulin resistance and/or Type 2 Diabetes
 History of dilated cardiomyopathy with congestive heart failure.
 Hearing loss
 Hepatic dysfunction
 Renal failure
 Short stature
 Males: hypogonadism, Females: irregular menses and/or hyperandrogenism

Other supportive features:

Recurrent pulmonary infections, normal digits, history of developmental delay, hyperlipidemia, scoliosis, flat wide feet,
hypothyroidism, hypertension, recurrent urinary tract infections/urinary dysfunction, growth hormone deficiency, alopecia.

Prevention
Prevention for Alström syndrome is considered to be harder compared to other diseases/syndromes because it is an inherited condition. However, there are other options that are available for parents with a family history of Alström syndrome. Genetic testing and counseling are available where individuals are able to meet with a genetic counselor to discuss risks of having the children with the disease. The genetic counselor may also help determine whether individuals carry the defective ALSM1 gene before the individuals conceive a child. Some of the tests the genetic counselors perform include chorionic villus sam