[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

_greenockite_, and in some ores of zinc. It was detected first in the year 1818, and presents itself as a tin-white metal of great lustre, and susceptible of a fine polish. It has a fibrous structure, crystallizes easily in regular octahedrons, presenting often the peculiar arborescent appearance of the fern. It is soft, but harder and more tenacious than tin; it can be bent, filed, and easily cut: it imparts to paper a color like that of lead. It is very malleable and ductile, and can be hammered into thin leaves. It is easily fused, and melts before it glows (450°). At a temperature not much over the boiling point of mercury, it begins to boil, and distills, the vapor of the metal possessing no peculiar odor. It is unalterable in the air for a long time, but at length it tarnishes and presents a greyish-white, half metallic color. This metal easily takes fire when heated in the air, and burns with a brownish-yellow vapor, while it deposits a yellow sublimate upon surrounding bodies. It is easily soluble in acids with the escape of hydrogen, the solutions being colorless. Its salts, soluble in water, are decomposed by ignition in free air. Its soluble neutral salts change blue litmus paper to red. The salts, insoluble in water, are readily dissolved in acids. _Oxide of Cadmium_ (CdO).--This oxide is of a dark orange color. It does not melt, and is not volatile, not even at a very high temperature. Its hydrate is white, loses in the heat its hydratic water, and absorbs carbonic acid from the air when it is kept in open vessels. Cadmium oxide is unaltered when exposed upon platinum wire in the flame of oxidation. When heated upon charcoal in the flame of reduction it disappears in a very short time, while the charcoal is coated with a dark orange or yellow powder, the color of which is more visible after it is cooled. The portions of this sublimate furthest from the assay present a visible iridescent appearance. This reaction of cadmium is so characteristic and sensitive that minerals (for instance, calamine, carbonate of zinc) which contains from one to five per cent. of carbonate of cadmium, will give a dark yellowish ring of cadmium oxide, a little distance from the assay, after being exposed for a few moments to the flame of reduction. This sublimate is more visible when cold, and is produced some time previous to the reduction of the zinc oxide. If a vapor of the latter should appear, it indicates that it has been exposed too great a length of time to the flame. Borax dissolves a considerable quantity of cadmium oxide upon a platinum wire to a clear yellow bead, which, when cold, is almost colorless. If the bead is nearly saturated with the cadmium oxide, it appears milk-white when intermittingly heated. If the bead is completely saturated, it retains its opalescent appearance. Upon charcoal, and in the flame of reduction, the bead intumesces, the cadmium oxide becomes reduced to metal; this becomes volatilized and re-oxidized, and sublimes upon the charcoal as the yellow cadmium oxide. In the oxidation flame, microcosmic salt dissolves a large quantity of it to a clear bead, which, when highly saturated and while hot, is yellowish colored, but colorless when cold. By complete saturation, the bead is enamel-white when cold. Upon charcoal, in the flame of reduction, the bead is slowly and only partially reduced, a scanty sublimate being produced on the charcoal. The addition of tin promotes the reduction. Carbonate of soda does not dissolve cadmium oxide in the oxidation flame. In the reduction flame, upon charcoal, it is reduced to metal, and is volatilized to a red-brown or dark, red sublimate of cadmium oxide upon the charcoal, at a little distance from the assay the charcoal presenting the characteristic iridescent appearance. This reaction is still more sensitive if the cadmium oxide is heated _per se_ in the reduction flame. _Antimony_ (Sb).--This metal is found in almost every country. It principally occurs as the tersulphide (SbS^{3}), either pure or combined with other sulphides, particularly with basic sulphides. Sometimes it occurs as the pure metal, and rarer in a state of oxidation as an antimonious acid and as the oxysulphide. In the pure state, antimony has a silver-white color, with much lustre, and presents a crystalline structure. The commercial and impure metal is of a tin-white color, and may frequently be split in parallel strata. It is brittle and easily pulverized. It melts at a low red heat (810°), is volatilized at a white heat, and can be distilled. At common temperatures it is not affected by the air. At a glowing heat it takes fire, and burns with a white flame, and with white fumes, forming volatile antimonious acid. Common acids oxidize antimony, but dissolve it slightly. It is soluble in aqua regia (nitro-hydrochloric acid). _Sesquioxide of Antimony_ (Sb^{2}O^{3}).--In the pure state this oxide is a white powder, is fusible at a dull red heat to a yellow liquid, which, after cooling, is greyish-white and crystalline. If it is heated excluded from the air, it can be volatilized completely; it sublimes in bright crystals having the form of needles. It occurs sometimes in nature as white and very bright crystals. It takes fire when heated in the open air, and burns with a white vapor to antimonious acid. It fuses with the ter-sulphide of antimony to a red bead. It is distinguished from the other oxides of antimony by the readiness with which it is reduced to the metallic state upon charcoal, and by its easy fusibility and volatility. The sesquioxide is the base of some salts--for instance, the tartar emetic. It is not soluble in nitric acid, but is soluble in hydrochloric acid. This solution becomes milky by the addition of water. A part of the salts of the sesquioxide of antimony are decomposed by ignition. The haloid salts are easily volatilized, without decomposition. Its soluble neutral salts change blue litmus paper to red, and are converted, by admixture of water, into insoluble basic and soluble acid salts. Antimonious acid (antimoniate of sesquioxide of antimony, Sb^{2}O^{3} + Sb^{2}O^{5}) is of a white color, but, when heated, of a light yellow color, but changes to white again when cold. It is infusible and unaltered by heat. It forms a white hydrate, and both are insoluble in water and nitric acid. It is partly soluble in hydrochloric acid, with the application of heat. The addition of water causes a precipitate in this solution. _Antimonic Acid _(Sb^{2}O^{5}).--In the pure state this acid is a light yellow-colored powder. Its hydrate is white, and is insoluble in water and nitric acid. It is sparingly soluble in hot concentrated hydrochloric acid. It forms salts with every base, some of which are insoluble, and others sparingly so. Notwithstanding that antimonic acid is insoluble in water, it expels the carbonic acid from the solutions of the carbonates of the alkalies. Antimonic acid and its hydrate changes moistened blue litmus paper to red. _Behavior of Antimony and its Oxides before the Blowpipe._ _Metallic Antimony_ fuses easily upon charcoal. When heated to glowing, and then removed from the flame, it continues to glow for awhile, and produces a thick white smoke. The vapor crystallizes gradually, and coats the assay with small crystals which iridesce like mother of pearl (sesquioxide of antimony). It is not volatile at the temperature of melted glass. Ignited in an open glass tube, it burns slowly with a white vapor, which condenses upon the cool part of the tube, and exhibits some indications of crystallization. This vapor consists of the sesquioxide, and can be driven by heat from one place to another, without leaving a residue. If the metallic antimony contains sulphide of antimony, there is a corresponding portion of antimonious acid produced, which remains as a white sublimate after the sesquioxide is removed. _Sesquioxide of antimony_ melts easily, and sublimes as a white vapor. It may be prepared by precipitating and drying. When heated, it takes fire previous to melting, glows like tinder, and is converted into antimonious acid, which is now infusible. When heated upon charcoal in the flame of reduction, it is reduced to the metallic state, and partly volatilized. A white vapor sublimates upon the charcoal, while the external flame exhibits a greenish-blue color. Antimonious acid is infusible, produces a strong light, and is diminished in volume when heated in the external flame, during which time a dense white vapor sublimes upon the charcoal. It is not, however, in this manner reduced to the metallic state like the sesquioxide. _Antimonic acid_, when first heated, becomes white, and is converted into antimonious acid. Hydrated antimonic acid, which is originally white, appears at first yellow while giving off water, and then becomes white again, while oxygen is expelled, and it is converted into antimonious acid. The oxides of antimony produce, with blowpipe reagents, the following reactions: borax dissolves oxides of antimony in the oxidation flame in considerable quantity to a clear bead, which is yellow while hot, but colorless when cold. If the bead is saturated, a part of the oxide is volatilized as a white vapor. Upon charcoal, in the oxidation flame, it is completely volatilized, and the charcoal is covered with a white sublimate. Heated upon charcoal in the reducing flame, the bead is of a greyish color, and partially, if not wholly opaque, from the presence of reduced metallic particles. A continued heat will volatilize them, and the bead becomes clear. The addition of tin promotes the reduction. Microcosmic salt dissolves the compounds of antimony in the flame of oxidation with intumescence, to a clear light-yellow colored bead, which when cold is colorless. Heated upon charcoal in the reduction flame, the bead is first turbid, but soon becomes transparent. The addition of tin renders the bead greyish while cooling, but a continued blast renders it transparent. Soda dissolves the compounds of antimony upon platinum wire in the oxidation flame, to a clear colorless bead, which is white when cold. Upon charcoal, both in the oxidation and reduction flames, the antimony compounds are readily reduced to the metal, which is immediately volatilized, and produces a white incrustation of oxide of antimony upon the charcoal. If the antimony compounds are heated upon charcoal in the flame of reduction, with a mixture of carbonate of soda and cyanide of potassium (KCy), there are produced small globules of metallic antimony. At the same time, a part of the reduced metal is volatilized (this continues after the assay is removed from the flame) and re-oxidized. A white incrustation appears upon the charcoal, and the metallic globules are covered with small white crystals. If this white sublimate upon the charcoal is moistened with a