[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

"No, no! Leave me not in this dark hour," She cried. And I, "Thou foolish dear, but call not dark this hour; What night doth lour?" And nought did she reply, But in her eye The clamorous trouble spoke, and then was still. O that I heard her once more speak, Or even with troubled eye Teach me her fear, that I might seek Poppies for misery. The hour was dark, although I knew it not, But when the livid dawn broke then I knew, How while I slept the dense night through Treachery's worm her fainting fealty slew. O that I heard her once more speak As then--so weak-- "No, no! Leave me not in this dark hour." That I might answer her, "Love, be at rest, for nothing now shall stir Thy heart, but my heart beating there." II Come back, come back--ah, never more to leave me! Come back, even though your constant longing grieve me, Longing for other looks and hands than mine. By all that's most divine In your frank human beauty, come and cover With that deceiving smile the love your lover Has taught you, and the light that in your eyes Tells of the painful joys that make your ruinous Paradise. Come back, that so, upon the shining meadow When the sun draws the magic of your shadow, Or when the red fire's gradual sinking light Yields up the room to night; Seeing you thus or thus I may recapture The very sharpness of remembered rapture:-- So it may seem, by exquisite deceit, You are yet mine, I yours, and life yet rare and sweet. Come back--no, come not back now, come back never; That day you went I knew it was for ever. I know you, how the spectre of cold shame Would chill you if you came. Lo, here first love's first memory abideth; Here in my heart the image of you yet hideth. But though you should come back and hope thrilled me anew, First love would yet be dead--oh, it would not be you! III O but what grace if I could but forget you! You have made league with all familiar things-- The thrush that still, evening and morning, sings, The aspen leaves that sigh "My dear!" with your true voice when I pass by.... O, and that too-long-dying flush of tender sky That minds me, and with sense too grave for tears, Of those forever dead too-blissful years. Yet 'twere a miracle could I forget you, Since even dead things, once sensible of you, Yield up your ghost; as all the garden through Murmurs the rose, "'Twas she Shook in her palm the dew that shone in me;" And on the stairs your recent footstep echoingly Sounds yet again, and each dark doorway speaks Of you toward whom my sharpened longing seeks. O that I could forget or not regret you! Could I but see you as I have seen a fair Child under apple-burdened boughs that bear Morn's autumn beauty, and Seeing her saw all heaven at my hand, And all day long that happy child before me stand.... Not thus I see you, but as one drowning sees Home, friends--and loves his very enemies! THE CALL Is it the wind that stirs the trees, Is it the trees that scratch the wall, Is it the wall that shakes and mutters, Is it a dumb ghost's call? The wind steals in and twirls the candle, The branches heave and brush the wall, But more than tree or wild wind mutters This night, this night of all. "Open!" a cry sounds, and I gasp. "Open!" and hands beat door and wall. "Open!" and each dark echo mutters. I rise, a shape and shadow tall. "Open!" Across the room I falter, And near the door crouch by the wall; Thrice bolt the door as the voice mutters "Open!" and frail strokes fall. "Open!" The light's out, and I shrink Quaking and blind against the wall; "Open!" no sound is, yet it mutters Within me now, this night of all. Was it the wind that stirred the trees, Was it the trees that scratched the wall, Was it the wall that shook and muttered. Or Love's last, ghostly call? THE SHADE I saw him as he went With merry voice and eye. I met him when he came Back, tired but the same-- The same clear voice, bright eye, Merry laugh, quick reply. And now, if I but look Unnoting at a book, Or from the window stare At dark woods newly bare, I see that shining eye, The same as when he went: --But whose is the low sigh, The cold shade o'er me bent? HAPPY IS ENGLAND NOW There is not anything more wonderful Than a great people moving towards the deep Of an unguessed and unfeared future; nor Is aught so dear of all held dear before As the new passion stirring in their veins When the destroying Dragon wakes from sleep. Happy is England now, as never yet! And though the sorrows of the slow days fret Her faithfullest children, grief itself is proud. Ev'n the warm beauty of this spring and summer That turns to bitterness turns then to gladness Since for this England the beloved ones died. Happy is England in the brave that die For wrongs not hers and wrongs so sternly hers; Happy in those that give, give, and endure The pain that never the new years may cure; Happy in all her dark woods, green fields, towns, Her hills and rivers and her chafing sea. Whate'er was dear before is dearer now. There's not a bird singing upon his bough But sings the sweeter in our English ears: There's not a nobleness of heart, hand, brain But shines the purer; happiest is England now In those that fight, and watch with pride and tears. THE STARS IN THEIR COURSES And now, while the dark vast earth shakes and rocks In this wild dream-like snare of mortal shocks, How look (I muse) those cold and solitary stars On these magnificent, cruel wars?-- Venus, that brushes with her shining lips (Surely!) the wakeful edge of the world and mocks With hers its all ungentle wantonness?-- Or the large moon (pricked by the spars of ships Creeping and creeping in their restlessness), The moon pouring strange light on things more strange, Looks she unheedfully on seas and lands Trembling with change and fear of counterchange? O, not earth trembles, but the stars, the stars! The sky is shaken and the cool air is quivering. I cannot look up to the crowded height And see the fair stars trembling in their light, For thinking of the starlike spirits of men Crowding the earth and with great passion quivering:-- Stars quenched in anger and hate, stars sick with pity. I cannot look up to the naked skies Because a sorrow on dark midnight lies, Death, on the living world of sense; Because on my own land a shadow lies That may not rise; Because from bare grey hillside and rich city Streams of uncomprehending sadness pour, Thwarting the eager spirit's pure intelligence ... How look (I muse) those cold and solitary stars On these magnificent, cruel wars? Stars trembled in broad heaven, faint with pity. An hour to dawn I looked. Beside the trees Wet mist shaped other trees that branching rose, Covering the woods and putting out the stars. There was no murmur on the seas, No wind blew--only the wandering air that grows With dawn, then murmurs, sighs, And dies. The mist climbed slowly, putting out the stars, And the earth trembled when the stars were gone; And moving strangely everywhere upon The trembling earth, thickened the watery mist. And for a time the holy things are veiled. England's wise thoughts are swords; her quiet hours Are trodden underfoot like wayside flowers, And every English heart is England's wholly. In starless night A serious passion streams the heaven with light. A common beating is in the air-- The heart of England throbbing everywhere. And all her roads are nerves of noble thought, And all her people's brain is but her brain; And all her history, less her shame, Is part of her requickened consciousness. Her courage rises clean again. Even in victory there hides defeat; The spirit's murdered though the body survives, Except the cause for which, a people strives Burn with no covetous, foul heat. Fights she against herself who infamously draws The sword against man's secret spiritual laws. But thou, England, because a bitter heel Hath sought to bruise the brain, the sensitive will, The conscience of the world, For this, England, art risen, and shalt fight Purely through long profoundest night, Making their quarrel thine who are grieved like thee; And (if to thee the stars yield victory) Tempering their hate of the great foe that hurled Vainly her strength against the conscience of the world. I looked again, or dreamed I looked, and saw The stars again and all their peace again. The moving mist had gone, and shining still The moon went high and pale above the hill. Not now those lights were trembling in the vast Ways of the nervy heaven, nor trembled earth: Profound and calm they gazed as the soft-shod hours passed. And with less fear (not with less awe, Remembering, England, all the blood and pain) How look, I cried, you stern and solitary stars On these disastrous wars! _August, 1914._ SWEET ENGLAND I heard a boy that climbed up Dover's Hill Singing _Sweet England_, sweeter for his song. The notes crept muffled through the copse, but still Sharply recalled the things forgotten long, The music that my own boy's lips had known, Singing, and old airs on a wild flute blown; And other hills, more grim and lonely far, And valleys empty of these orchard trees; A sheep-pond filled with the moon, a single star I had watched by night searching the wreckful seas; And all the streets and streets that childhood knew In years when London streets were all my view. And I remembered how that song I heard, _Sweet England_, sung by children on May-day, Nor any song was sweeter of a bird Than that half-grievous air from children gay-- For then, as now, youth made the sadness bright, Till the words, _Sweet, Sweet England_, shone with light. Now, listening, I forgot how men yet fought For this same England, till the song was done And no sound lingered but the lark's, that brought New music down from fields of cloud and sun, Or the sad lapwing's over fields of green Crying beneath the copse, near but unseen. Then I remembered. All wide England spread Before me, hill and wood and