# Hurricane Chantal (1989)

Hurricane Chantal was one of three tropical cyclones to make landfall in Texas during the 1989 Atlantic hurricane season. The third named storm and the first hurricane of the season, Chantal slowly developed on July 30 in the southern Gulf of Mexico from a tropical disturbance that was previously within Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) while near Trinidad and Tobago. While heading north-northwestward, the depression steadily intensified and was upgraded to Tropical Storm Chantal on the following day. Thereafter, Chantal quickly strengthen and became a hurricane on August 1. After intensifying slightly further, Chantal made landfall near High Island, Texas later that day. The storm quickly weakened upon moving inland and fell to tropical storm intensity a few hours after landfall. Early on August 2, Chantal weakened to a tropical depression and dissipated over Oklahoma by August 4.

While making landfall in Texas, the storm produced relatively small tides, with most locations reporting waves less than  in height. However, some locations experienced extensive beach erosion. In addition, there were numerous rescues made by the U.S. Coast Guard. Due to both rainfall and high winds at least 3,000 homes were damaged, and numerous trees and sign were knocked down. Two tornadoes were reported, with one causing the destruction of a shed in Crystal Beach, Texas, and the other knocking over several trees and mobile homes in Iota, Louisiana. Elsewhere, Chantal and its remnants brought light to moderate rainfall to several other states, although affects were minor in other states. Overall, 13 fatalities occurred, all of which due to drowning, and at least $100 million (1989 USD) in damage was reported.

Meteorological history

The origins of Hurricane Chantal can be tracked back to a tropical disturbance within the Intertropical Convergence Zone near Trinidad and Tobago on July 24. The system crossed westward over the Caribbean Sea, and there were no signs of organization until July 27 near the coast of Honduras. Despite the predictions for slow development from the tropical weather outlooks, it was possible that the system developed a surface low center near Belize City, Belize late on July 28. After the system moved inland over the Yucatán Peninsula, it became disorganized, although the National Hurricane Center indicated in the tropical weather outlook that once it moved into the Gulf of Mexico there was potential for development. Although the outflow of the system had appeared impressive on satellite images, the potential for development seemed uncertain, mostly due to the close proximity to land. The storm quickly became better organized based on satellite data and ship reports. 

Almost immediately after emerging into the Gulf of Mexico on July 30, the cloud pattern of system quickly became better organized. Later after emerging into the Gulf of Mexico, ships and satellite images confirmed that Tropical Depression Four had formed offshore of the north coast of the Yucatán Peninsula; although it was likely that the depression formed  north of the Yucatán Peninsula several hours earlier than confirmed. The following morning after development occurred, the depression had intensified into a tropical storm  southeast of Texas; the National Hurricane Center assigned it to the name Chantal. Although it became a tropical storm early that morning, the system was not upgraded to a tropical storm until a reconnaissance flight confirmed tropical storm force winds about six hours later, when sustained winds were already . Tropical Storm Chantal rapidly strengthened thereafter, with weather satellites indicating t–numbers increasing from 2.5 to 3.5 within twelve hours using the Dvorak technique. Chantal continued to intensify, and headed northwestward at  due to weak ridging over Florida.

Later on July 31, satellite imagery revealed better organization, and another reconnaissance flight found winds at  while flying at . Based on these observations, it was estimated that Chantal had intensified into a hurricane early on August 1. Hurricane Chantal continued to intensify, slightly, and attained its peak intensity on August 1 at 1000 UTC, reaching maximum sustained winds of  and a minimum barometric pressure of . Only three hours thereafter, Hurricane Chantal made landfall near High Island, Texas with winds still at . Chantal rapidly weakened to a tropical storm at 1800 UTC on August 2, just five hours after landfall, and quickly degenerated to a tropical depression early on August 2. Tropical Depression continued its course and eventually dissipated over western Oklahoma on August 3. The remnants of Chantal then moved northward over the Great Plains and was tracked northward over New York, eventually reaching New England and Newfoundland just before Hurricane Dean approached.

Preparations
At 0000 UTC on July 31, a tropical storm watch – indicating tropical storm force winds were possible within 48 hours – was issued from Port O'Connor, Texas to the mouth of the Mississippi River. Three hours thereafter, a hurricane warning – signifying that hurricane-force winds were likely in 24 hours or less – was issued from Freeport, Texas to Morgan City, Louisiana. A tropical storm warning was simultaneously put into effect from Port O'Connor, Texas to Mobile, Alabama, significantly overlapping the existing hurricane warning. The tropical storm warning was discontinued at 1000 UTC on August 1. Six hours later, the hurricane warning issued at 0300 UTC on July 31 was downgraded to a tropical storm warning, before the portion from Port Arthur, Texas to Morgan City, Louisiana was canceled. The remaining portion from Freeport to Port O'Connor, Texas was discontinued at 0100 UTC on August 2.

In addition to the tropical cyclone watches and warnings, several other actions were taken as Chantal approached. More than 600 oil workers were moved inland, though a man drowned while attempting to evacuate a rig south of New Orleans, Louisiana. Mayor of Port Arthur Malcolm Grant asked 800 residents to evacuate Sabine Pass, due to potential coastal flooding isolating the area. Shelters were opened at various schools in Port Arthur and Beaumont. In nearby Orange, crews at emergency centers distributed sand bags. About 8,500 residents of Cameron Parish, Louisiana evacuated, with at least 67 people taking shelter at a school in Lake Charles. An additional 2,500 people fled Grand Isle, as the threat of the only road to the island flooding loomed.

Impact
Texas bore the brunt of the storm, where strong winds and heavy rainfall damaged about 3,000 homes and knocked downed numerous trees and signs. Chantal also spawned two tornadoes, one in Crystal Beach, Texas and the other in Acadia Parish, Louisiana; both of which caused minor damage. Additionally, 13 fatalities occurred, all of them due to drowning; 11 deaths occurred offshore in the Gulf of Mexico, while the remaining two were reported in east-central Texas. Overall, the storm resulted in at least $100 million (1989 USD) in damage.

Mexico
Prior to becoming a tropical cyclone, the precursor tropical disturbance dropped rainfall on the Yucatán Peninsula of Mexico. The precipitation put out fires burning in the region, which had destroyed up to  of jungle in the two months prior to the tropical disturbance, according to the Agriculture Department of Mexico.

Texas

Galveston County
The worst effects from the storm occurred in Galveston County. Waves of  in height were reported on High Island during Chantal, while Kemah measured tides of , and the Galveston Flagship pier reported  seas. The high tides eroded more than  of Texas State Highway 87, while at least another  of that highway was covered in sand and debris. As a result, the highway was expected to be closed for at least five weeks, though in October 1989, storm surge from Hurricane Jerry caused more erosion, and no repairs have been made since. In the northern portions of Galveston County, rainfall was generally at least , which a peak of  in Friendswood. Numerous streets in League City, Dickinson, and Friendswood were flooded for more than 24 hours. At least 100 homes in Friendswood were flooded, while water entered 70% of houses in Dickinson. Severe street flooding and ponding occurred in Galveston, especially in the low-lying areas; some homes and businesses were damaged, as a result. Overall, 500 homes in the county were flooded.

Strong winds also effected the county, with the highest recorded sustained wind speed being  in Galveston; the highest gust of  was reported at the same location. At the National Weather Service Office in Downtown Galveston, sustained winds were  and gusts reached . Although winds were strong, associated losses was confined to roof damage at beach homes in Gilchrist and High Island. In addition to strong winds, heavy rainfall, and high tides, the storm also produced one tornado in the county. Rated as an F0 on the Fujita scale, the torna