[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

these fitful cries! Mother, forgive them, as the best of me Has ever pleaded only for thy pardon, Not for thy praise. Mother, there is a love Men give to wives and children, lovers, friends; There is a love which some men give to God. Ah! between this, I think, and that last love, Last and too-late-discovered love of God, There shines--and nearer to the love of God-- The love a man gives only to his mother, Whose travail of dear thought has never end Until the End. Oh that my mouth had words Comfortable as thy kisses to the boy Who loved while he forgot thee! Now I love, Sundered and far, with daily heart's remembrance The face the wind brings to me, the sun lights, The birds and waters sing; the face of thee Whom I love with a love like love of God. THE UNUTTERED For so long and so long had I forgot, Serenely busied With thousand things; at whiles desire grew hot And my soul dizzied With hapless and insatiable salt thirst. Nor was I humbled Saving with shame that, running with the worst My feet yet stumbled. Pride and delight of life enchained my heart, My heart enchanted, And oh, soft subtle fingers had their part, And eyes love-haunted. But while my busy mind was thus intent, Or thus surrendered, What was it, oh what strange thing was it sent Through all that hindered A thrill that woke the buried soul in me?-- It seemed there fluttered A thought--or was it a sudden fear?--of Thee, Remote, unuttered. FAIR EVE Fair Eve, as fair and still As fairest thought, climbs the high sheltering hill; As still and fair As the white cloud asleep in the deep air. As cool, as fair and cool, As starlight swimming in a lonely pool; Subtle and mild As through her eyes the soul looks of a child. A linnet sings and sings, A shrill swift cleaves the air with blackest wings; White twinkletails Run frankly in their meadow as day fails. On such a night, a night That seems but the full sleep of tired light, I look and wait For what I know not, looking long and late. Is it for a dream I look, A vision from the Tree of Heaven shook, As sweetness shaken From the fresh limes on lonely ways forsaken? A dream of one, maybe, Who comes like sudden wind from oversea? Or most loved swallow Whom all fair days and golden musics follow?-- More sudden yet, more strange Than magic airs on magic hills that range:-- Of one who'll steep The soul in soft forgetfulness ere it sleep. Yes, down the hillside road, Where Eve's unhasty feet so gently trod, Follow His feet Whose leaf-like echoes make even spring more sweet. THE SNARE Loose me and let me go! I am not yours. I do not know Your dark name ev'n, O Powers That out of the deep rise And wave your arms To weave strange charms. Though the snare of eyes You weave for me, As a pool lies In wait for the moon when she Out of the deep will rise; And though you set Like mist your net; And though my feet you catch, O dark, strange Powers, You may not snatch My soul, or call it yours. Out of your snare I rise And pass your charms, Nor feel your harms. You loose me and I go: O see the arms Spread for me! lo, His lips break your charms. From the deep did He rise And round me set His Love for net. O HIDE ME IN THY LOVE O hide me in Thy love, secure From this earth-clinging meanness. Lave my uncleanness In Thy compassionating love! Bury this treachery as deep As mercy is enrooted. My days ill-fruited Shake till the shrivelled burden fall. Put by those righteous arrows, Lord, Put even Thy justice by Thee; So I come nigh Thee As came the Magdalen to Thy feet. And like a heavy stone that's cast In a pool, on Thee I throw me, And feel o'erflow me Ripples of pity, deep waves of love. PRAYER TO MY LORD If ever Thou didst love me, love me now, When round me beat the flattering vans of life, Kissing with rapid breath my lifted brow. Love me, if ever, when the murmur of strife, In each dark byway of my being creeps, When pity and pride, passion and passion's loss Wash wavelike round the world's eternal cross, Till 'mid my fears a new-born love indignant leaps. If ever Thou canst love me, love me yet, When sweet, impetuous loves within me stir And the frail portals of my spirit fret-- The love of love, that makes Heaven heavenlier, The love of earth, of birds, children and light, Love of this bitter, lovely native land.... O, love me when sick with all these I stand And Death's far-rumoured wings beat on the lonely night. THE TREE Oh, like a tree Let me grow up to Thee! And like a Tree Send down my roots to Thee. Let my leaves stir In each sigh of the air, My branches be Lively and glad in Thee; Each leaf a prayer, And green fire everywhere ... And all from Thee The sap within the Tree. And let Thy rain Fall--or as joy or pain So that I be Yet unforgot of Thee. Then shall I sing The new song of Thy Spring, Every leaf of me Whispering Love in Thee! EARTH TO EARTH What is the soul? Is it the wind Among the branches of the mind? Is it the sea against Time's shore Breaking and broken evermore? Is it the shore that breaks Time's sea, The verge of vast Eternity? And in the night is it the soul Sleep needs must hush, must needs kiss whole? Or does the soul, secure from sleep, Safe its bright sanctities yet keep? And oh, before the body's death Shall the confined soul ne'er gain breath, But ever to this serpent flesh Subdue its alien self afresh? Is it a bird that shuns earth's night, Or makes with song earth's darkness bright? Is it indeed a thought of God, Or merest clod-fellow to clod? A thought of God, and yet subdued To any passion's apish mood? Itself a God--and yet, O God, As like to earth as clod to clod? ON A PIECE OF SILVER So! the fierce acid licks the silver clean, Unwonted plain the superscription's seen Round the cleared head; the metal, virgin-bright, Shines a mild Moon to the Sun candle-light. And in these floating stains, this evil murk, All your change-crowded, moment-histories lurk, Voluble Silverling! Dost yield me now Your chance-illumined record, and allow Prying of idle eyes?... you came a boon To men as weary as any the weak moon Shines on but cheers not; you were life in death; Almost a God to give the prize of breath, Almost a God to give the prize of joy, Almost a God--but God! the veriest toy Child's fingers break, from death to buy back life, Turn the keen trouble of grief's eager knife, Or sense-confounded hearts heal of the ancient strife. O Coin that men have toiled for, lacked and mourned, Sold life for and sold honour, won and scorned; O Coin that oft hast been a spinning Fate, Yet impotent _her_ bitterness to abate; O Coin that Love contemns, reckoning nought (But with you, ah, Love's best is sold and bought)-- Heart of the harlot, you; the Judas blood Hell's devils leech on; you the Price of God! THE ESCAPE Like one who runs Fearful at night, he knows not why, Dreading the loneliness, yet shuns The highway's casual company; Wherefore he hastes, The friendly gloom of ancient trees Unheeding, and the shining wastes Lying broad and quiet as the seas; The beauty of night Hating for very fear, until Beyond the bend a lowly light Beams single from a lowly sill; And the poor fool, Flying the sacred, solemn dark, Leaves gladly the large, cool Night for that serviceable spark; And thankful then To have 'scaped the peril of the way, Turns not his timid steps again That night, but waits the common day;-- So I, as weak, Have fled the great hills of Thy love, Too faint to hear what Thou dost speak, Too feeble with fear to look above, And hasten to win Some flickering, brief security, In sinful sleep or waking sin, From the enfolding thought of Thee! WONDER Following upon the faint wind's fickle courses A feather drifts and strays. My thought after her thought Floated--how many ways and days! She swayed me as the wind swayeth a feather. I was a leaf upon Her breath, a dream within Her dream. The dream how soon was done! For now all's changed, not Time's change more wondrous, I am her sun, and she (Herself doth swear) the moon; Or she the ship upon my sea. How should this be? I know not; I so grossly Mastering her spirit pure. O, how can her bird's breast My nervous and harsh hand endure? Tell me if this be love indeed, fond lovers, That high stoop to low, Soul be to flesh subdued; That the sun around the earth should go? I know not: I but know that love is misery, O'erfilled with delight. Day follows night: her love Is gay as day, yet strange as night. LAMBOURN TOWN The rain beat on me as I walked, In the roadside it ran and muttered. It seemed the rain to the wind talked Of storm: in the wind the wild cloud fluttered. Across the down, now bleak and loud, I went and the rain ran with me. How swift the rain, how low the cloud! No heavenly comfort could I see, Nor comfort of low beaming light From any casement creeping out. The swift rain on the patient night Swept, and anon would great winds shout. Rain, rain, nought else, until I turned The thrusting shoulder of the down, And through the mist of rain there burned The few green lanterns of the town. And in the rain the night was lit With my love's eyes burning for me; Her white face in the dark was sweet, Her hands like moonflowers quiveringly Fell upon mine, and each was dashed With rain blown in from streaming eaves, While overhead the broad flood plashed Noisily on the broad plane leaves. Within we heard the gurgle-glock In the pipe, the tip-tap on the sill Like the same ticking of the clock; We heard the water-butt o'erspill, The wind come blustering at the door, The whipped white lilac thrash the wall; The candle flame upon the