# Rajanpur District

Rajanpur () is a district of the Pakistani province of Punjab, with its administrative headquarters the city of Rajanpur. Lying west of the Indus River, its inhabitants are mostly Saraikis and Baloch. According to the 1998 census, the district had a population of , and 14.27% of these were inhabitants of urban areas.

Administrative subdivisions
The district of Rajanpur comprises three administrative subdivisions (Tehsil) and 44 Union Councils.

Etymology and geography
The anatomy of Rajanpur district is associated with its town Rajanpur, which was founded by Makhdoom Sheikh Rajan Shah in 1770. It was merged with Dera Ghazi Khan district in 1982. Rajanpur is situated in the west side of River Indus. Its north side is bounded by Dera Ghazi Khan district, and west by Dera Bugti district of Balochistan. The east side is bounded by Muzaffargarh and Rahim Yar Khan districts, while its south part is covered by Kashmore district of Sindh province. The Sulaiman Mountains rise to the west of the district.

Demographics
At the time of the 2017 census the district had a population of 1,996,039, of which 1,028,164 were males and 967,668 females. Rural population is 1,658,743 while the urban population is 337,296. The literacy rate was 33.75%. Muslims made up almost the entire population with 99.89%.

At the time of the 2017 census, 74.61% of the population spoke Saraiki, 18.75% Balochi, 2.93% Urdu and 2.74% Punjabi as their first language.

The major tribes in this district are Jat, Arain, Rajput and Baloch.

History
The Vedic period is characterized by Indo-Aryan culture that flourished in Punjab region. The Kambojas, Daradas, Kaikayas, Madras, Pauravas, Yaudheyas, Malavas and Kurus invaded, settled and ruled ancient Punjab region. After overrunning the Achaemenid Empire in 331 BCE, Alexander marched into present-day Punjab region with an army of 50,000. The Rajanpur was ruled by Maurya Empire, Indo-Greek kingdom, Kushan Empire, Gupta Empire, White Huns, Kushano-Hephthalites and the Turk and Hindu Shahi kingdoms.

In 997 CE, Sultan Mahmud Ghaznavi, took over the Ghaznavid dynasty empire established by his father, Sultan Sebuktegin. In 1005, he conquered the Shahis in Kabul in 1005, and followed it by the conquests of Punjab region. The Delhi Sultanate and later Mughal Empire ruled the region. The Punjab region became predominantly Muslim due to missionary Sufi saints whose dargahs dot the landscape of Punjab region.

After the decline of the Mughal Empire, the Sikh Empire invaded and occupied Rajanpur district. The Muslims faced restrictions during the Sikh rule. During the period of British rule, Rajanpur district increased in population and importance.

The predominantly Muslim population supported Muslim League and Pakistan Movement. After the independence of Pakistan in 1947, the minority Hindus and Sikhs migrated to India while the Muslim refugees from India settled in the Rajanpur district.

Education
Rajanpur has a total of 1,160 government schools out of which 41% (479 schools) are for female students. The district's public schools have 148,746 enrollments.

Agriculture
Agriculture in Rajanpur depends solely upon canal irrigation since rainfall is negligible in the region. The five rivers of Punjab meet at the locality of Wang near Mithankot; hence these rivers provide water for irrigation as well as for domestic usage.  Rainfall occurs during the monsoon season (July–September). Occasional heavy rainfall causes flooding in this region, but such floods are rare. In Rajanpur, floodwaters come from the Koh Sultan and Shacher torrents (rivulets), as well as the Indus.

Rajanpur district is famous for cotton and sugarcane crops, although they are cultivating wheat and rice as well and tobacco to a minimal extent too.

Business 
Rajanpur is also famous for its cotton business. There are many cotton industries in this district that play an essential role in fulfilling the needs of cotton for textile mills. However, some of the people also do agricultural work, which is a leading business of Rajanpur.

Irrigation system

Canal irrigation 
The agriculture of Rajanpur depends upon canal irrigation in some areas of Rajanpur peoples drinking canal water in these areas Pachad include:

Rod-Kohi (Hill Torrents) 
Major Rod-Kohi areas traversed by hill torrents constitute nearly 65 percent of the total area of Pakistan and encompass entire Balochistan, i.e. (Makran coastal Basin and Kharan closed Desert Basin). The other major hill torrent areas include D.G.Khan and D.I.Khan, FATA, and Azad Jammu and Kashmir. In Sindh province, the systems are spread in the Dadu district (Kirthar range). There are around  as the potential area underhill torrent / Rod-Kohi / Sailaba fanning excluding riverine areas.
Indigenous Spate Irrigation/ hill torrent-irrigation systems traditionally called Rod-Kohi. Rod means water channel, and Kohi pertains to mountains. In these areas, the major constraint is the use of flood flow, which is highly variable in quantity and distribution, both in time and space. Annual rainfall is low, uncertain, and patchy. Flow is laden with high silt in each flood. It is unfortunate that in spite of the scarcity of water, the major part of flood flows is lost due to mismanagement. Spate irrigation often takes place in environments that are arid and remote. Poverty in these areas is a significant issue. There are very few options for generating income and improvement of livelihood. Abject poverty in the areas affected by the Rod-Kohi water calls for rational and scientific management of flood flows.

Rod-Kohi or hill torrent cultivation is a unique system of agriculture being practiced in all the four provinces. In NWFP, D.I.Khan tract represents the major part of the system fed by five large tributaries locally named as "Zams." In Punjab, a significant portion of the system falls in the districts of D.G.Khan, Rajanpur, and Jampur. In Balochistan, this system falls in the areas of Barkhan, Musakhail, Loralai, Zhob, Bolan, and Lasbella. In Sindh province, the system is spread in Dadu & Larkana district (Kirthar range). The largest area under the regime of agriculture lies in Balochistan.

Spate Irrigation is a traditionally used system for diverting hill torrents into cultivable command areas for growing seasonal crops. Extreme events of floods and droughts characterize the farming system. It usually entails the construction of an earthen diversion weir across the torrent with an extensive channel on one or both sides of the river to convey floodwater across vast distances. These earthen diversion structures and water conveyance system has traditionally been constructed by the beneficiaries/communities themselves, making use of traditional technology. Farmers construct field by making embankments from 3 to  high to store the water depending upon the soil type, share in water, and various other factors. Upon drying, crops are sown, which thrive on the moisture stored in the soil. There is no further irrigation except rains if any occurs. The economic significance of Rod-Kohi Irrigation agriculture is centered on subsistence agriculture and livestock raising, which are the primary sources of income.
Another aspect of the Spate Irrigation System of Rod-Kohi areas is the occurrence of the perennial water (known as Kalapani), which is available throughout the year in the upper reaches. It contributes significantly to sustainable farming in the area and used for high-value crops like fodder, fruits, and vegetables. The development potential in Rod-Kohi Hill torrent areas is listed below.

Floods
In July 2015, due to the heavy rains caused floods in the town. Rajanpur district was badly affected by these flash floods. In Rajanpur, flood water came from Koh Sultan and Shacher torrent (rivulet). This floodwater hit the different union councils of Rajanpur. Hundreds of houses were damaged fully and partially, and inhabitants had to spend time under the open sky. The displaced people have sought shelter in streets and other public buildings and around their chaks (villages).

Table of affected union councils (UCs) with current population and damage caused by the 2015 flood.

Analysis
In assessment and initial findings from the flood-affected district Rajan Pur show that 04 union councils were destroyed U/C Jahan Pur, U/C Fatih Pur, U/C Hajji Pur, and Umer Kot U/C. There was an urgent need for non-food items (NFIs), including mattresses, mosquito nets, kitchen utensils, fuel for daily cooking, and hygiene kits. Yearly food stock was almost washed away, while livestock suffered considerable loss. Affected people faced critical conditions and had suffered economically for at least one whole year as their crops were damaged on a large scale. According to the effects, flood was more massive than the one, some 40 years ago.

Places
Mithankot is the shrine of the great Sufi Saraiki poet Khawaja Ghulam Farid. It is the historical place in Kot Mithan. Thousand