# Japanese destroyer Takanami (1942)

was a  of the Imperial Japanese Navy. Her name means "Tall Wave".

Design and description
The Yūgumo class was a repeat of the preceding  with minor improvements that increased their anti-aircraft capabilities. Their crew numbered 228 officers and enlisted men. The ships measured  overall, with a beam of  and a draft of . They displaced  at standard load and  at deep load. The ships had two Kampon geared steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft, using steam provided by three Kampon water-tube boilers. The turbines were rated at a total of  for a designed speed of .

The main armament of the Yūgumo class consisted of six Type 3  guns in three twin-gun turrets, one superfiring pair aft and one turret forward of the superstructure. The guns were able to elevate up to 75° to increase their ability against aircraft, but their slow rate of fire, slow traversing speed, and the lack of any sort of high-angle fire-control system meant that they were virtually useless as anti-aircraft guns. They were built with four Type 96  anti-aircraft guns in two twin-gun mounts, but more of these guns were added over the course of the war. The ships were also armed with eight  torpedo tubes in a two quadruple traversing mounts; one reload was carried for each tube. Their anti-submarine weapons comprised two depth charge throwers for which 36 depth charges were carried.

Construction and career
On the night of October 13–14, she escorted battleships  and  during the bombardment of Henderson Field, Guadalcanal. On the night of October 15–16, she escorted cruisers  and  during the bombardment of Henderson Field.  On 30 November 1942, Takanami was on a supply transport run to Guadalcanal, when her task group engaged a United States Navy task group in the Battle of Tassafaronga. Takanami torpedoed the heavy cruisers  and . She was sunk by enemy gunfire — largely from Minneapolis — several miles south-southwest of Savo Island (), with 197 killed; 48 survivors reached Guadalcanal, 19 were later captured by US troops.

Notes

References

External links
CombinedFleet.com: Yūgumo-class destroyers
CombinedFleet.com: Takanami history

Yūgumo-class destroyers
World War II destroyers of Japan
Shipwrecks in the Solomon Sea
1942 ships
Maritime incidents in November 1942
Ships built by Uraga Dock Company