# Tornado outbreak sequence of March 9–13, 2006

The Tornado outbreak sequence of March 9–13, 2006 was an early season and long lasting tornado outbreak sequence in the central United States that started on the morning of March 9 and continued for over four days until the evening of March 13. The outbreak produced 99 confirmed tornadoes, which killed a total of 10 people. The Storm Prediction Center (SPC) issued multiple elavated outlook throughout the sequence, including a rare high risk for March 12, which would end up being the most intense day of the outbreak, producing 62 in total. 11 F3 tornadoes were tallied, and a violent F4 tornado touched down in Monroe County, Missouri, becoming the strongest of the outbreak. Multiple tornado emergencies were issued for tornadoes throughout the outbreak as well. An intense F3 tornado that affected the towns of Renick and Maddison in Missouri killed 4 people and injured dozens others, becoming the deadliest of the sequence. Multiple of the tornadoes were long-tracked in nature, with 6 of them having paths exceeding . One particular supercell thunderstorm during the outbreak persisted for many hours and progressed in excess of  through Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, and extreme southern Michigan.

The onslaught of supercells responsible for the sequence also produced hundreds of damaging wind gust and hail accompanied the storms. These additional elements caused millions in damage and multiple injuries, in addition to two fatalities which were as a result of a weather-related automobile accident and a fire started by lightning. In addition to the tornadic fatalities, this sequence was responsible for 182 tornadic injuries, most of them concentrating in Missouri and Illinois, the hardest hit states by the oubreak. The total damage by the severe weather caused by this outbreak was in excess of $1 billion.

Meteorological synopsis

March 9–11

Beginning on March 9, the Storm Prediction Center (SPC) issued a moderate risk, spanning across northern and central portions of Dixie Alley, reaching into western Tennessee and western Kentucky. A slight risk was given to the surrounding area, reaching into the Ohio Valley, and to the east, including sections of north-central Georgia and the Florida Panhandle. While wind shear patterns and instability were conductive for the development of supercells and possibly strong tornadoes, the event was forecast to materialize as a major derecho event. Still, the elevated helicity values reaching 300 m2/s2, and elevated dew points reaching into the 60s, aided the issuance of a large 15%, hatched risk for strong/EF2+ tornadoes throughout the moderate risk area. However, an even larger 45% hatched risk for damaging winds was placed throughout many of the same areas, forecasting the risk for the serial derecho to materialize. As the event unfolded, multiple tornadoes were reported, including a damaging EF2 that caused significant damage in the Morton and Fair Oaks towns of Arkansas. However, the main event was a widespread derecho that prompted hundreds of severe damaging wind gusts throughout the main risk area. Tens of thousands of people also lost electricity throughout the region. Two non-tornadic deaths happened on March 9, one by damaging wind, and another that was killed after a lightning bolt ignited a house fire.

A slight risk was issued for many of the same areas on March 10, though only a 2% risk for tornadoes was issues, mostly in two corridors in the Ark-La-Tex region extending into Missouri, and another one mostly in Mississippi and west-central Alabama. The main risk was expected to be hail, and as the evening advanced, dozens of large hails reports came in from the aforementioned areas. However, no tornadoes touched down in this area, though one F0 did occur all the way in California, causing damage near the town of Encinitas in San Diego County.

A much more substantial tornado event materialized on March 11. The SPC again issued a moderate risk for severe weather, primarily driven by a 45% hatched risk for large, destructive hail, centered in Missouri and Arkansas, though it extended into extreme eastern Oklahoma and southwestern Illinois. However, elevated wind shear valued ranging from 50 to 70kt, and steep mid-level lapse rates meant the environment was favorable for supercells, so a 10%, hatched risk for strong tornadoes was introduced for the area, as any supercell that could remain discrete would be capable of sustaining and producing strong tornadoes. The most favorable window for severe weather was expected to be overnight in the 00z to 06z timeframe, meaning that any tornadoes that could develop would end up being difficult to see. As the night progressed, multiple supercells popped up in Oklahoma, eventually advancing throughout the risk area. Hundreds of damaging hail reports occurred on this area. However, as the supercells entered the more favorable environment for tornadoes, multiple of them became tornadic, resulting in multiple strong to intense tornadoes. One particular long-tracked supercell produced a tornado family in southeastern Missouri, which included a deadly F3 that killed two people in Perry County during its  path, which crossed into Illinois, before dissipating near the town of Tamaroa. The supercell had produced a long-tracked, damaging F2 previous to this one, as it travelled through Reynolds, Iron, and Madison counties. Another supercell near this one produced another intense F3 in the town of Festus, Missouri, before crossing into Illinois. The tornadoes were accompanied by very large hail, some as large as softballs, before the day came to a close.

March 12–13

The next day, on March 12, conditions became even more favorable for the development of severe weather. The SPC, in its 1630 UTC outlook, introduced an incredibly rare high risk for many of the same areas from the day prior, with the main corridor being placed in eastern Kansas, most of Missouri, southeastern Iowa, and central Illinois. The high risk was driven by the elevated probabilities of long-tracked, strong to intense tornadoes, all along the main high risk corridor. A 30% hatched risk for EF2+ tornadoes was given to this corridor as a result. A 45% hatched risk for large hail was also placed throughout the risk area, as any supercells capable of tornadoes would also produce large hail on their track. A potent upper-level trough, progressing along a strong 100-120 kt jet stream, in an area deepened by a progressing surface low in Oklahoma and Kansas, was the driving factor for the intense convective activity later in the evening/overnight hours. Additionally, sufficient moisture aided by dew points in the 60s, convective available potential energy (CAPE) values in the 1,500–3000 J/kg range, and very favorable low-level wind shear further destabilized the atmosphere, making it even more favorable for sustained supercells, capable of all hazards. However, a capping inversion in place for most of the day limited convective initiation at first, keeping all the necessary ingredients at bay. However, after the cap moved in the evening, multiple lines of powerful supercells began to form, soon entering the primed environment for tornadoes. As such, two PDS tornado watches were issued for most of the risk area, highlighting the elevated probabilities for intense tornadoes to develop in these areas. As the morning advanced, severe weather, spearheaded by severe wind, affected the Kansas City Metropolitan Area, with significant wind and hail damage to many homes and businesses, but only two tornadoes in the far northwestern part of the area. Significant damage was also reported at the University of Kansas in Lawrence and at the Great Wolf Lodge Indoor Water Park. Numerous airplanes also flipped over at the Kansas City Downtown Airport.

As the evening advanced, the main line of supercells began to take shape, eventually becoming a widespread line, being responsible for many of the tornadoes throughout the remainder of the day. One exceptionally long-lived supercell thunderstorm was responsible for many of the tornadoes on March 12. This storm began in the morning over northern Oklahoma before embarking on a nearly  journey northeast across southeastern Kansas, Missouri during the afternoon and early evening, into Illinois during the mid-to-late evening, through Indiana by the late evening, and into lower Michigan where it lost severe characteristics more than 17.5 hours after inception. This supercell lasted the longest and travelled the furthest than any other in history. The city of Springfield, Illinois saw two strong tornadoes track directly through the city from this storm. It also did damage near Sedalia, Columbia, and Mexico, Missouri. The deadliest tornado from this outbreak sequence came from another supercell; an F3 which killed 4 people near the town of Renick, Missouri. The strongest tornado, spawned by this same supercell, was a rare double tornado rated F4, but fortunately