[Manual of Surgery — Thomson — Gutenberg #16522]

as a drawing lesson.] THE CHILDREN'S VISIT TO THE LIGHTHOUSE. Charlie and Georgie were staying at Appledore, one of the Isles of Shoals, and, with two other little children, had many nice times fishing and sailing. The lighthouse is on White Island, which, as you see in the picture, is a lonely and rocky place. It would be very dangerous for any ship to come in from sea on that part of the coast, if it were not for the friendly warning of the brilliant light. One warm, sunny morning, Charlie and Georgie, with their papa and mamma, and their two little friends, rowed across from Appledore, and landed on the pebbly beach of White Island. Here the children ran about, and picked up stones until they were tired; and then the whole party seated themselves on some shaded rocks, and ate their lunch of crackers and bananas. While they were eating, an old white dog, belonging to the lighthouse keeper, came up and made their acquaintance. Georgie shared his cake with him; and it was amusing to see the old dog watching with eager eyes every piece that went into any mouth but his own. When lunch was over, the two older children, Charlie and Anna, led the way; and all were soon climbing the winding stairs in the lighthouse tower. When they reached the top, they found themselves in a small room with windows on every side, and the great lamp in the centre. The lantern is made of red-and-white glass, and turns around, so that first a red, and then a white, light may be seen far out at sea. The keeper explained how, after lighting the lamp, he wound up the machinery which caused the lamp to revolve; and told them of the lonely hours he had spent in the little room below the lamp, while the waves dashed, and the storm beat outside. [Illustration] For many weeks in the winter he lives there all by himself, and sees no one; but, in the summer time, there is hardly a day when he does not have a boat full of visitors. He always gives them a hearty welcome, and makes himself very agreeable. I suppose he feels as though he must make the most of society while he can get it. The children listened to his talk with great interest. With many thanks for his kind attentions, they bade him "Good-by," and, intent on collecting shells on another island near, stepped into their boat, and were rowed away, leaving the man and his friendly dog to enjoy each other's company. CHARLIE'S MAMMA. GOING AFTER COWS. When Edward was eight years old, his mother told him he might go with John, the hired man, to drive the cows from the pasture. How happy the little boy was! Every day he would be ready as soon as John gave the word; and off they would go, through the woods, over hills and rocks, and gurgling brooks, wherever the ding-dong of the distant cow-bells pointed the way. Sometimes they had a long search before they could find all the cows; for the pasture was very large, and the cows would wander about in every part of it, to find the best feeding-places. [Illustration] On the way home, Edward would run ahead of the cows, and open the bars; and sometimes he would sit on the wall, and pat each cow as she came through. When the cows reached the barnyard, Edward would help milk. There was one old cow which he called his own, and which he named Carrie. She always stood very still while being milked, and that was one reason why he liked her better than any of the rest. After milking, he helped John to carry in the milk, and his mother often gave him a mug full. Oh, how nice it was! W.T.O. [Illustration] ROLY-POLY. Roly-Poly is three years old, Three years old, and a trifle over: Roly-Poly is round as a ball, Jolly as larks, and sweet as clover. Roly-Poly has stars for eyes, A heavenly chin with a dimple in it, Peaches for cheeks, the bud of a nose, And a tongue that is never still a minute. Roly-Poly gets up in the morning,-- Morning, quoth I? it's the crack of the dawn!-- Dresses himself in a boot and a stocking, Flies to his sister as swift as a fawn. Pulls at her eyes with his fat little fingers,-- Crazy for stories, that's all the matter!-- "Oh! I am sleepy and cross," she cries; "You, Roly-Poly, disperse and scatter!" But Roly-Poly's a resolute tyrant; Father and mother are captives wholly: So what can a poor big sister do But yield to a king like Roly-Poly. Roly-Poly's a man of business: He canters to market on grandpa's cane, Orders a breakfast of peppermint-candy, And gallops his pony home again. Roly-Poly's a man of pleasure: Sorrow and care are for grown-up stupids: Pictures and kisses, toys and caresses, Fondling and fun, for dimpled Cupids. After the sun has gone out of the south, The night comes down on his eyelids slowly; He topples asleep with his thumb in his mouth,-- What an iniquity, Roly-Poly! OLIVE A. WADSWORTH. ELSIE'S DUCKS. Elsie was the daughter of poor parents, who lived on the borders of a lake. Once, when she was very ill with a fever, a good neighbor made her a present of three young ducks. Elsie was much pleased, and she soon began to get well. Her mother would bring a large tub of water into the room where the little invalid lay; and the three ducks would swim about, and swallow the crumbs which Elsie threw to them. As soon as she got well, she would drive the ducks down to the lake, and let them swim. They were so tame, that they would come out of the water at her call. Sometimes her father and the rest of the family would get into a boat, and he would row across the lake to the opposite side, where some families lived who employed Elsie's mother to wash clothes for them. [Illustration] At these times, the three ducks would follow the boat. Perhaps they did not like to trust their dear Elsie on the water, unless they were by to help her in case of need. Sometimes old and young would join in a song; and then far over the lake would be heard the words: "Come to the sunset tree, the day is past and gone, The woodman's axe lies free, and the reaper's task is done." It was a very pretty sight, on a summer evening, when the bright clouds over the setting sun threw their tints on the water, to see the ducks swimming by the side of the little boat which contained Elsie and the rest of the family. It was so pretty a sight, that a good artist made a picture of the scene. We give you a copy of it here. IDA FAY. [Illustration] FISHING FOR TROUT. The trout belongs to the salmon family. Its flesh is generally of a pale pink or yellow color. It is one of the handsomest fish to be found in our waters. The variations of its tints are very beautiful; and the red spots on its skin distinguish it from common fish. I never had much luck in catching trout. One summer I went from the city to try the trout-streams in Northern New York. I had a handsome rod, and a line nicely baited with an artificial fly; but, though I was very persevering, my success was small. I remember sitting for hours on the slender bridge just below the Upper Cascades of Buttermilk Fall, represented in the picture; but my patience was not rewarded by the capture of a single trout. I was sorry for this; for I had depended on getting one for my dinner. As I was about retiring, a little barefoot fellow, about twelve years old, came along with a common fishing-pole, and hook baited with a worm, and said, "Mister, I'll catch a trout for you."--"Do it, then," said I. He threw his line over a smooth spot in the pool below; and, before he had been at it five minutes, he pulled up a noble trout, large enough for a good dinner. Another and another were pulled up in quick succession. I did not know what to make of it; for I thought I had fished in a very scientific way. "Teach me the knack," said I. "Oh, it can't be taught," replied the boy. "Well, here is a dime for your trouble," said I, putting the fish into my pail. "Do you suppose I take pay for what I do for sport, mister?" said little barefoot, waving back my hand with the air of a prince. After that we became good friends, and met often at the bridge; but I never could learn his knack of catching trout. ALFRED SELWYN. [Illustration] [Illustration] WE THREE. What fine times we have together!--Carlo, John, and Bella; by which last I mean myself. Carlo has the advantage of the other two of us sometimes; for he has four legs, and can run faster than either John or I. But then we can do a great many things that Carlo cannot do. For example, John and I sometimes take our books, and sit down on the rocks in the wood, under the thick trees, and read stories. And then Carlo will lie down at our feet, and go to sleep; for he cannot understand the nice stories which the other two friends enjoy so much. But wait till we go into the swamps after berries, or into the wood-borders after hazel-nuts. Then Carlo is wide awake, you may be sure. If he sees a snake, what a noise he makes! We can always tell by the tone of his bark when he has found a snake. And, when John climbs a tree after nuts, how anxiously Carlo will stand underneath and watch him, so afraid is he that the little boy will get a fall! And how the good dog will jump and show his pleasure when he sees John once more safe on the firm ground! Oh! we have fine times together, we three, both in summer and winter; for Carlo likes to see us skate on ice, and is fond of a snowballing frolic. In all our sleigh-rides he goes with us, and takes great care of us. We are dear friends, we three, and I should no more think of striking Carlo than of striking John. BELLA. PET, THE CANARY. A little girl by the name of Agnes, who lives in Maine, and who much enjoys "The Nursery,"