[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

copper, tellurium, zinc, lead, bismuth, tin, cadmium, iron, nickel, and cobalt. Mercury and arsenic, as soon as they are reduced, are dissipated, while tellurium, bismuth, lead, antimony, cadmium, and zinc, are only partially volatilized, and, therefore, form sublimates on the charcoal. Those metals which are difficult of reduction should be fused with oxalate of potassa, instead of the carbonate of soda. The carbonic oxide formed from the combustion of the acid of this salt is very efficient in the reduction of these metals. Carbonate of soda is very efficient for the detection of minute quantities of manganese. The mixture of the carbonate of soda with a small addition of nitrate of potassa, and the mineral containing manganese, must be fused on platinum foil. The fused mass, when cooled, presents a fine blue color. * * * * * 1. The following minerals, according to Griffin, produce beads with soda, but do not fuse when heated alone: quartz, agalmatolyte, dioptase, hisingerite, sideroschilosite, leucite, rutile, pyrophyllite, wolckonskoite. 2. The following minerals produce only slags with soda: allophane, cymophane, polymignite, æschynite, oerstedtite, titaniferous iron, tantalite, oxides of iron, yttro-tantalite, oxides of manganese, peroxide of tin (is reduced), hydrate of alumina, hydrate of magnesia, spinel, gahnite, worthite, carbonate of zinc, pechuran, zircon, thorite, andalusite, staurolite, gehlenite, chlorite spar, chrome ochre, uwarowite, chromate of iron, carbonates of the earths, carbonates of the metallic oxides, basic phosphate of yttria, do. of alumina, do. of lime, persulphate of iron, sulphate of alumina, aluminite, alumstone, fluoride of cerium, yttrocerite, topaz, corundum, pleonaste, chondrodite. 3. The following minerals produce beads with a small quantity of soda, but produce slags if too much soda is added: phenakite, pierosmine, olivine, cerite, cyanite, talc, gadolinite, lithium-tourmaline. * * * * * 1. The following minerals, when fused alone, produce beads. Of these minerals the following produce beads with soda: the zeolites, spodumene, soda-spodumene, labrador, scapolite, sodalite (Greenland), elæolite, mica from primitive lime-stone, black talc, acmite, krokidolite, lievrite, cronstedtite, garnet, cerine, helvine, gadolinite, boracic acid, hydroboracite, tincal, boracite, datholite, botryolite, axinite, lapis lazuli, eudialyte, pyrosmalite, cryolite. 2. The following minerals produce beads with a small quantity of soda, but if too much is added they produce slags: okenite, pectolite, red silicate of manganese, black hydro-silicate of manganese, idocrase, manganesian garnets, orthite, pyrorthite, sordawalite, sodalite, fluorspar. 3. The following minerals produce a slag with soda: brevicite, amphodelite, chlorite, fahlunite, pyrope, soap-stone (Cornish) red dichroite, pyrargillite, black potash tourmaline, wolfram, pharmacolite, scorodite, arseniate of iron, tetraphyline, hetepozite, uranite, phosphate of iron, do. of strontia, do. of magnesia, polyhalite, hauyne. 4. The following metals are reduced by soda: tungstate of lead, molybdate of lead, vanadate of lead, chromate of lead, vauquelinite, cobalt bloom, nickel ochre, phosphate of copper, sulphate of lead, chloride of lead, and chloride of silver. * * * * * The following minerals fuse on the edges alone, when heated in the blowpipe flame: 1. The following produce beads with soda: steatite, meerschaum, felspar, albite, petalite, nepheline, anorthite, emerald, euclase, turquois, sodalite (Vesuvius). 2. The following minerals produce beads with a small quantity of soda, but with the addition of more produce slags: tabular spar, diallage, hypersthene, epidote, zoisite. 3. The following minerals produce slags only with soda: stilpnosiderite, plombgomme, serpentine, silicate of manganese (from Piedmont), mica from granite, pimelite, pinite, blue dichroite, sphenc, karpholite, pyrochlore, tungstate of lime, green soda tourmaline, lazulite, heavy spar, gypsum. * * * * * The reactions of substances, when fused with soda in the flame of oxidation may be of use to the student. A few of them are therefore given. Silica gives a clear glass. The oxide of tellurium and telluric acid gives a clear bead when it is hot, but white after it is cooled. Titanic acid gives a yellow bead when hot. The oxide of chromium gives also a clear yellow glass when hot, but is opaque when cold. Molybdic acid gives a clear bead when hot, but is turbid and white after cooling. The oxides and acids of antimony give a clear and colorless bead while hot, and white after cooling. Vanadic acid is absorbed by the charcoal, although it is not reduced. Tungstic acid gives a dark yellow clear bead while hot, but is opaque and yellow when cold. The oxides of manganese give to the soda bead a fine characteristic green color. This is the case with a very small quantity. This reaction is best exhibited on platinum foil. Oxide of cobalt gives to the bead while hot a red color, which, upon being cooled, becomes grey. The oxide of copper gives a clear green bead while hot. The oxide of lead gives a clear colorless bead while hot, which becomes, upon cooling, of a dirty yellow color and opaque. * * * * * The following metals, when they are fused with soda on charcoal, in the flame of reduction, produce volatile oxides, and leave an incrustation around the assay, viz. bismuth, zinc, lead, cadmium, antimony, selenium, tellurium, and arsenic. _Bismuth_, under the reduction flame, yields small particles of metal, which are brittle and easily crushed. The incrustation is of a flesh color, or orange, when hot, but gets lighter as it cools. The sublimate may be driven about the charcoal from place to place, by either flame, but is finally dissipated. While antimony and tellurium, in the act of dissipation, give color to the flame, bismuth does not, and may thus be distinguished from them. _Zinc_ deposits an incrustation about the assay, which is yellow while hot, but fades to white when cold. The reduction flame dissipates this deposit, but not that of oxidation. All the zinc minerals deposit the oxide incrustation about the assay, which, when moistened with a solution of cobalt and heated, changes to green. _Lead_ is very easily reduced, in small particles, and may be easily distinguished by its flattening under the hammer, unlike bismuth. It leaves an incrustation around the assay resembling that of bismuth, in the color of it, and in the peculiar manner in which it lies around the assay. _Cadmium_ deposits a dull reddish incrustation around the assay. Either of the flames dissipate the sublimate with the greatest readiness. _Antimony_ reduces with readiness. At the same time it yields considerable vapor, and deposits an incrustation around the assay. This deposit can be driven about on the charcoal by either of the flames. The flame of reduction, however, produces the light blue color of the antimony. _Selenium_ is deposited on the charcoal as a grey metallic-looking sublimate, but sometimes appearing purple or blue. If the reduction flame is directed on this deposit, it is dissipated with a blue light. _Tellurium_ is deposited on the charcoal as a white sublimate, sometimes changing at the margin to an orange or red color. The oxidation flame drives the deposit over the charcoal, while the reduction-flame dissipates it with a greenish color. _Arsenic_ is vaporized rapidly, while there is deposited around the assay a white incrustation of arsenious acid. This deposit will extend to some distance from the assay, and is readily volatilized, the reducing flame producing the characteristic alliaceous color. * * * * * The following metals, or their compounds, are reduced when fused with soda on charcoal, in the flame of reduction. They are reduced to metallic particles, but give no incrustation, viz. nickel, cobalt, iron, tin, copper, gold, silver, platinum, tungsten, and molybdenum. The particles of iron, nickel, and cobalt, it should be borne in mind, are attracted by the magnet. The following substances are neither fused nor reduced in soda, viz. alumina, magnesia, lime, baryta, strontia, the oxide of uranium, the oxides of cerium, zirconia, tantalic acid, thorina, glucina, and yttria. Neither are the alkalies, as they sink into the charcoal. The carbonates of the earths, strontia, and baryta fuse. * * * * * Part III SPECIAL REACTIONS; OR, THE BEHAVIOR OF SUBSTANCES BEFORE THE BLOWPIPE. Analytical chemistry may be termed the art of converting the unknown constituents of substances, by means of certain operations, into new combinations which we recognize through the physical and chemical properties which they manifest. It is, therefore, indispensably necessary, not only to be cognizant of the peculiar conditions by which these operations can be effected, but it is absolutely necessary to be acquainted with the forms and combinations of the resulting product, and with every modification which may be produced by altering the conditions of the analysis. We shall first give the behavior of simple substances before the blowpipe; and the student should study this part thoroughly, by repeating each reaction, so that he can acquire a knowledge of the color, form, and physical properties in general, of the resulting combination. There is nothing, perhaps, which will contribute more readily to the progress of the pupil, than thorough practice with the reactions recommended in this part of the work, for when once the student shall have acquired a practical eye in the discernment of the peculiar appearances of substances after they have undergone the decompositions produced by the strong heat of the blowpipe flame, together with the reactions incident to these changes, then he will have greatly progressed in his study, and the rest will be comparatively simple. A. METALLIC OXIDES. GROUP FIRST.--THE ALKALIES: POTASSA, SODA, AMMONIA, AND LITHIA. The alkalies, in their pure, or carbonated state, render reddened litmus paper blue. This is likewise the case with the sulphides of the alkalies. The neutral salts of the alkalies, formed with the strong acids, do not change litmus paper, but the salts formed with the weak acids, render the red litmus paper blue; for instance, the alkaline salts with boracic acid. Fused with borax, soda, or microcosmic salt, they give a clear bead. The alkalies and their salts melt at a low red heat. The alkalies cannot be reduced to the metallic state before the blowpipe. They are not volatile when red hot, except the alkali ammonia, but they are volatile at a white heat. (_a._) _Potassa._(KO).--It is not found free, but in combination with inorganic and organic acids, as well in the animal as in the vegetable organism, as in the mineral kingdom. In the pure, or anhydrous state, or as the carbonate, potassa absorbs moisture, and becomes fluid, or is deliquescent, as it is termed. By exposing potassa, or its easily fusible salts (except the phosphate or borate), upon platinum wire, to the point of the blue flame, there is communicated to the external flame a violet color, in consequence of a reduction and reoxidation. This color, though characteristic of all the potassa compounds, is scarcely visible with the phosphate or borate salts of that alkali. The admixture of a very little soda (1/300th) destroys the color imparted by the potassa, while the flame assumes a yellow color, characteristic of the