# Advanced Light Source

The Advanced Light Source (ALS) is a research facility at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in Berkeley, California. One of the world's brightest sources of ultraviolet and soft x-ray light, the ALS is the first "third-generation" synchrotron light source in its energy range, providing multiple extremely bright sources of intense and coherent short-wavelength light for use in scientific experiments by researchers from around the world. It is funded by the US Department of Energy (DOE) and operated by the University of California. In June 2018, Stephen Kevan became the director of the ALS.

Users
The ALS serves about 2,000 researchers ("users") every year from academic, industrial, and government laboratories worldwide. Experiments at the ALS are performed at nearly 40 beamlines that can operate simultaneously over 5,000 hours per year, resulting in nearly 1,000 scientific publications annually in a wide variety of fields. Any qualified researcher can propose to use an ALS beamline. Peer review is used to select from among the most important proposals received from researchers who apply for beam time at the ALS. No charge is made for beam time if a user's research is nonproprietary (i.e., the user plans to publish the results in the open literature). About 16% of users come from outside the US.

How it works

Electron bunches traveling near the speed of light are forced into a nearly circular path by magnets in the ALS storage ring. Between these magnets there are straight sections where the electrons are forced into a slalom-like path by dozens of magnets of alternating polarity in devices called "undulators." Under the influence of these magnets, electrons emit beams of electromagnetic radiation, from the infrared through the visible, ultraviolet, and x-ray regimes. The resulting beams, collimated along the direction of the electrons' path, shine down beamlines to instruments at experiment endstations.

Research areas
Lower-energy soft x-ray light is the ALS' specialty, filling an important niche and complementing other DOE light source facilities. Higher-energy x-rays are also available from locations where superconducting magnets create "superbends" in the electrons' path. Soft x-rays are used to characterize the electronic structure of matter and to reveal microscopic structures with elemental and chemical specificity. Research in materials science, biology, chemistry, physics, and the environmental sciences make use of these capabilities.

Ongoing research topics and techniques 

 Probing the electronic structure of matter
 Testing optics and photoresists for next generation photolithography
 Understanding magnetic materials
 3D biological imaging
 Protein crystallography
 Ozone photochemistry
 X-ray microscopy of cells
 Chemical reaction dynamics
 Atomic and molecular physics
 Extreme ultraviolet lithography
 Synchrotron infrared nano-spectroscopy (SINS)

Scientific and technological innovations and advancements 

 Longer-lasting lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles and mobile electronics
 Nanoscale magnetic imaging for compact data storage
 Plastic solar cells that are flexible and easy to produce
 Harnessing "artificial photosynthesis" for clean, renewable energy
 Fine-tuning combustion for cleaner-burning fuels
 More effective chemical reactions for fuel cells, pollution control, or fuel refinement
 Using microbes to clean up toxins in the environment
 Cheaper biofuels from abundant, renewable plants
 Solving protein structures for rational drug design
 Producing ever-smaller transistors for more powerful computers

History
When the ALS was first proposed in the early 1980s by former LBNL director David Shirley, skeptics doubted the use of a synchrotron optimized for soft x-rays and ultraviolet light. According to former ALS director Daniel Chemla, "The scientific case for a third-generation soft x-ray facility such as the ALS had always been fundamentally sound. However, getting the larger scientific community to believe it was an uphill battle."

The 1987 Reagan administration budget allocated $1.5 million for the construction of the ALS.  The planning and design process began in 1987, ground was broken in 1988, and construction was completed in 1993.  The new building incorporated a 1930s-era domed structure designed by Arthur Brown, Jr. (designer of the Coit Tower in San Francisco) to house E. O. Lawrence's 184-inch cyclotron, an advanced version of his first cyclotron for which he received the 1939 Nobel Prize in Physics.

The ALS was commissioned in March 1993, and the official dedication took place on the morning of October 22, 1993.

In the pursuit of outstanding science, the ALS has developed a strategic plan to ensure facility upgrades that will keep the ALS at the frontiers of science.

ALS-U 

A new project called ALS-U is working to upgrade the ALS. Recent accelerator physics breakthroughs now enable the production of highly focused beams of soft x-ray light that are at least 100 times brighter than those of the existing ALS.

The storage ring will receive a number of new upgrades, as well as a new accumulator ring. The new ring will use powerful, compact magnets arranged in a dense, circular array called a multibend achromat (MBA) lattice. In combination with other improvements to the accelerator complex, the upgraded machine will produce bright, steady beams of high-energy light to probe matter with unprecedented detail.

References

External links

Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
Synchrotron radiation facilities
Laboratories in California
Berkeley Hills
Buildings and structures in Berkeley, California
University and college laboratories in the United States
1993 establishments in California
Buildings and structures completed in 1993