Medical Research Paper

Title: Acupuncture and other traditional Chinese medicine therapies in the treatment of children’s tic syndrome: A network meta-analysis

Abstract:
Background: Tic disorders (TD) are a kind of neuropsychiatric disease that frequently occur among preschool and school-age children, mainly characterized by motor tics or sometimes accompanied by vocal tics, and its pathogenesis is still unclear. The clinical manifestations are mainly characterized by chronic multiple movements, rapid muscle twitching, involuntary occurrence, and language disorder. Acupuncture, tuina, traditional Chinese medicine, and other methods are commonly used in clinical treatments, which have unique therapeutic advantages but have not been recognized and accepted by the international community. This study conducted a quality evaluation and meta-analysis of the currently published randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of acupuncture for TD in children in order to provide reliable evidence-based medical evidence for acupuncture for TD. Methods: All the randomized controlled trials (RCTs) using the intervention methods acupuncture + traditional Chinese medical herbs, acupuncture + tuina, and acupuncture, and the control group using Western medicine were included in the analysis. The main outcomes were obtained by using the Yale Global Tic Severity Scale (YGTSS), the Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) syndrome score scale, and clinical treatment efficiency. Secondary outcomes included adverse events. The risk of bias in the included studies was assessed according to the tool recommended by Cochrane 5.3. The risk of bias assessment chart, risk of bias summary chart, and evidence chart in this study will be produced using R and Stata software. Results: There were 39 studies that met the inclusion criteria, including 3,038 patients. In terms of YGTSS, the TCM syndrome score scale changes and shows a clinically effective rate, and we found that acupuncture combined with Chinese medicine is the best treatment. Conclusion: Acupuncture + traditional Chinese medical herbs may be the best therapy to improve TD in children. At the same time, compared with Western medicine commonly used in clinical practice, acupuncture and acupuncture combined with tuina therapy have better effects on improving TD in children.