[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

the color referred to cannot be discerned. In general the reactions of magnesia before the blowpipe are not sufficient, and it will be necessary to confirm its presence or absence by aid of reagents applied in the wet way. THIRD GROUP.--THE EARTHS, ALUMINA, GLUCINA, YTTRIA, THORINA, AND ZIRCONIA. The substances of this group are distinguished from the preceding by their insolubility in water, in their pure or hydrated state--that they have no alkaline reaction upon litmus paper, nor form salts with carbonic acid. The earths are not volatile, and, in the pure state, are infusible. They cannot be reduced to the metallic state before the blowpipe. The organic salts are destroyed by ignition, while the earths are left in the pure state, mixed with charcoal, from the organic acids. The most of their neutral salts are insoluble in water; the soluble neutral salts change blue litmus paper to red, and lose their acids when ignited. (_a._) _Alumina_ (Al^{2}O^{3}).--This earth is one of our most common minerals. It occurs free in nature in many minerals, as sapphire, etc.; or in combination with sulphuric acid, phosphoric acid, and fluorine, and chiefly silicates. Pure alumina is a white crystalline powder, or yellowish-white, and amorphous when produced by drying the hydrate, separated chemically from its salts. Alumina is quite unalterable in the fire; the hydrate, however, losing its water at a low red heat. The neutral salts of alumina, with most acids, are insoluble in water. Those soluble in it have an acid reaction upon litmus paper, changing the blue into red. The sulphates of alumina eliminate water when heated in a glass tube closed at one end. By ignition, sulphurous acid (SO^{2}) is given off, which can be recognized by its smell, and by its acid reaction upon blue litmus paper, when a small strip of it moistened is brought within the orifice of the tube; an infusible residue is left in the tube. The greater part of the alumina compounds give off water with heat; the most of them are also infusible, except a few phosphates and silicates. Pure alumina does not fuse with carbonate of soda. The sulphates, when exposed upon charcoal with soda to the reducing flame, leave a hepatic residue. The phosphates melt with a little soda, with a hissing noise, to a semi-transparent mass, but they are infusible with the addition of soda, and give only a tough mass. This is the case, likewise, with the silicates of alumina. Fluoride of aluminium melts with carbonate of soda to a clear bead, spreads by cooling, and appears then milk-white. Borax dissolves the alumina compounds slowly in the oxidizing and reducing flames to a clear bead, which is also clear when cold, or heated intermittingly with a vacillating flame. The bead is turbid, as well in the heat as the cold, when an excess of alumina is present. When the alumina compound is added to excess in the powdered form, the bead appears crystalline upon cooling, and melts again with great difficulty. Alumina and its compounds are slowly dissolved in the microcosmic salt to a bead, clear in both flames, and when hot or cold. When alumina is added to excess, the undissolved portion appears semi-transparent. Alumina melts with bisulphate of potash into a mass soluble in water. When the powdered alumina compounds are strongly ignited in the oxidizing flame, then moistened with nitrate of cobalt, and re-ignited in the oxidizing flame, an infusible mass is left, which appears, when cooled, of an intense blue color. The presence of colored metallic oxides, in considerable quantity, will alter or suppress this reaction. The silicates of the alkalies produce, in a very strong heat, or continued heat, with nitrate of cobalt, a pale blue color. The blue color produced by alumina is only distinctly visible by daylight; by candle-light it appears of a dirty violet color. (_b._) _Glucina._ (G^{2}O^{3}).--Glucina only occurs in a few rare minerals, in combination with silica and alumina. It is white and insoluble in the pure state, and its properties generally are similar to those of alumina. The most of its compounds are infusible, and yield water by distillation. Carbonate of soda does not dissolve glucina by ignition. Silicate of glucina melts with carbonate of soda to a colorless globule. Borax and microcosmic salt dissolve glucina and its compounds to a colorless bead which, when overcharged with glucina, or heated with the intermittent flame appears, after cooling, turbid or milk-white. Glucina yields, by ignition with nitrate of cobalt, a black, or dark grey infusible mass. (_c._) _Yttria_ (YO) occurs only in a few rare minerals, and usually in company with terbium and erbium. Its reactions before the blowpipe are similar to the preceding, but for its detection in compounds it will be necessary to resort to analysis in the wet way. (_d._) _Zirconia_ (Zr^{2}O^{3}).--This substance resembles alumina in appearance, though it occurs only in a few rare minerals. It is in the pure state infusible, and at a red heat produces such a splendid and vivid white light that the eyes can scarcely endure it. Its other reactions before the blowpipe are analogous to glucina. Microcosmic salt does not dissolve so much zirconia as glucina, and is more prone to give a turbid bead. Zirconia yields with nitrate of cobalt, when ignited, an infusible black mass. To recognize zirconia in compounds we must resort to fluid analysis. (_e._) _Thorina_ (ThO).--This is the rarest among the rare minerals. In the pure state it is white and infusible, and will not melt with the carbonate of soda. Borax dissolves thorina slowly to a colorless, transparent bead, which will remain so when heated with the intermittent flame. If overcharged with the thorina, the bead presents, on cooling, a milky hue. Microcosmic salt dissolves the thorina very tardily. By ignition with nitrate of cobalt, thorina is converted into an infusible black mass, CLASS II. FOURTH GROUP. CERIUM, LANTHANIUM, DIDYMIUM, COLUMBIUM, NIOBIUM, PELOPIUM, TITANIUM, URANIUM, VANADIUM, CHROMIUM, MANGANESE. The substances of this group cannot be reduced to the metallic state, neither by heating them _per se_, nor by fusing them with reagents. They give by fusion with borax or microcosmic salt, colored beads, while the preceding groups give colorless beads. (_a._) _Cerium_ (Ce).--This metal occurs in the oxidated state in a few rare minerals, and is associated with lanthanium and didymium, combined with fluorine, phosphoric acid, carbonic acid, silica, etc. When reduced artificially, it forms a grey metallic powder. (_a._) _Protoxide of Cerium_ (CeO).--It exists in the pure state as the hydrate, and is of a white color. It soon oxidizes and becomes yellow, when placed in contact with the air. When heated in the oxidation flame, it is converted into the sesquioxide, and then is changed into light brick-red color. In the oxidation flame it is dissolved by borax into a clear bead, which appears of an orange or red while hot, but becomes yellow upon cooling. When highly saturated with the metal, or when heated with a fluctuating flame, the bead appears enamelled as when cold. In the reduction flame it is dissolved by borax to a clear yellow bead, which is colorless when cold. If too much of the metal exists in the bead, it then appears enamelled when cooled. Microcosmic salt dissolves it, in the oxidation flame, to a clear bead, which is colored dark yellow or orange, but loses its color when cold. In the reduction flame the bead is colorless when either hot or cold. Even if highly saturated with the metal, the bead remains colorless when cold. By fusing it with carbonate of soda upon charcoal in the reduction flame, the soda is absorbed by the charcoal, while the protoxide of the metal remains as a light grey powder. (_B._) _Sesquioxide of Cerium_ (Ce^{2}O^{3}).--This oxide, in the pure state, is a red powder. When heated with hydrochloric acid, it produces chlorine gas, and is dissolved to a salt of the protoxide. It is not affected by either the flame of oxidation or of reduction; when fused with borax or microcosmic salt, it acts like the protoxide. It does not fuse with soda upon charcoal. In the reduction flame it is reduced to the protoxide, which remains of a light grey color, while the soda is absorbed by the charcoal. (_b._) _Lanthanium_ (La.)--This metal is invariably associated with cerium. It presents, in its metallic state, a dark grey powder, which by compression acquires the metallic lustre. The _oxide of lanthanium_ (LaO) is white, and its salts are colorless. Heated upon charcoal, it does not change either in the oxidation flame or that of reduction. With borax, in the flame of oxidation or reduction, it gives a clear colorless bead. This bead, if saturated, and when hot, presents a yellow appearance, but is clouded or enamelled when cold. With microcosmic salt the same appearance is indicated. It does not fuse with carbonate of soda, but the soda is absorbed by the charcoal, while the oxide remains of a grey color. (_c._) _Didymium_ (D).--This metal occurs only in combination with the preceding ones, and it is therefore, like them, a rare one. _Oxide of Didymium_ (DO).--This oxide is of a brown color, while its salts present a reddish-violet or amethyst color. The oxide is infusible in the oxidation flame, and in that of reduction it loses its brown color and changes to grey. With borax in the oxidation flame, it fuses to a clear dark red or violet bead, which retains its clearness when highly saturated with the oxide, or if heated with a fluctuating flame. The reactions with microcosmic salt are the same as with borax. It does not melt with carbonate of soda upon charcoal, but the oxide remains with a grey color, while the soda is absorbed by the charcoal. (_d._) _Columbium,_ (_Tantalum_--Ta).--This rare metal occurs quite sparingly in the minerals _tantalite_, _yttrotantalite_, etc., as columbic acid. In the metallic state, it presents the appearance of a black powder, which, when compressed, exhibits the metallic lustre. When heated in the air it is oxidized into columbic acid, and is only soluble in hydrofluoric acid, yielding hydrogen. It is oxidized by fusion with carbonate of soda or potash. _Columbic Acid_ (Ta^{2}O^{3}) is a white powder, and is infusible. When heated in the flame of oxidation or reduction, it appears of a light yellow while hot, but becomes colorless when cold. With borax, in the flames of oxidation and reduction, it fuses to a clear bead, which appears by a certain degree of saturation, of a yellow color so long as it continues hot, but becomes colorless when cold. If overcharged, or heated with an intermittent flame, it presents an enamel white when cool. It melts with microcosmic salt quite readily in both of the flames, to a