# List of Canadian tornadoes and tornado outbreaks (before 2001)

This page lists tornadoes and tornado outbreaks which have touched down in Canada prior to the 21st century. On average, there are around 80 confirmed and unconfirmed tornadoes that touch down in Canada each year, with most occurring in the southern Canadian Prairies, Southern Ontario and southern Quebec. Canada ranks as the country with the second most tornadoes per year, after the US. The most common types are F0 to F2 in damage intensity level and usually result in minor structural damage to barns, wood fences, roof shingles, chimneys, uprooted or snapped tree limbs and downed power lines. Fewer than 5% of tornadoes in Canada are rated F3 or higher in intensity, where wind speeds are in excess of . Prior to April 1, 2013, Canada used a slightly modified Fujita scale, and as of that date the Enhanced Fujita scale, again slightly modified, was put into use to rate tornado intensity, based on the damage to buildings and vegetation.

Each year on average, about 43 tornadoes occur across the Canadian Prairies and about 17 occur across Ontario and Quebec. New Brunswick and the British Columbia Interior are also recognized tornado zones. All other provinces and territories have significantly less threat from tornadoes. The peak season in Canada is through the summer months, (June to August), when clashing air masses move north, as opposed to the spring season in the United States southern-central plains, although tornadoes in Canada have occurred in spring, fall and very rarely winter.

The reported increase in numbers of tornadoes in recent years may reflect more reporting by citizens and media involvement rather than an actual increase in tornado occurrence (although some natural increase has not been ruled out), in addition to better detection technology i.e. Doppler weather radar and satellite imagery. The upswing could also be attributed to other factors, such as improved aerial and ground damage assessment after the fact in sparsely populated areas (particularly the case in remote parts of the Canadian Prairies and Northern Ontario, for example), better trained spotter capabilities and increased use of digital recording devices by citizens. Tornadoes in Canada are enough of a threat for a public warning system to be in place, overseen by the national weather agency, Environment Canada (EC).

For a variety of reasons, such as Canada's lower population density and generally stronger housing construction due to the colder climate, Canadian tornadoes have historically caused fewer fatalities than tornadoes in the United States. The deadliest tornado in Canadian history, the Regina Cyclone of June 30, 1912, killed 28 and injured 300. Urban centres are not immune from the threat of severe tornadoes. Twelve medium to large size Canadian cities have been hit by significant strength tornadoes (F3 or higher), which caused large-scale damage and fatalities: Toronto (1868); Regina (1912); Windsor (1946 and 1974); Sarnia (1953); LaSalle (1956); Sudbury (1970); Woodstock (1979); Lloydminster (1983); Barrie (1985); Edmonton (1987); Aylmer (1994); and Ottawa-Gatineau (1888 and 2018).

All figures for damages are in Canadian dollars.

Before 1850 
1792

 June 30 or July 1 - the first recorded tornado in Canadian history, an F2, affected the Niagara Peninsula between Fonthill and Port Robinson, Ontario. It levelled houses and uprooted many trees. The tornado cut a path of trees in a west to east line from both communities that became known as "Hurricane Road", which still exists today.
1795 or 1798

 ??? - an unrated probable tornado touched down near Port Credit, Ontario.

1823

 August 21 - an unrated tornado touched down near Cornwall, Ontario, and moved southeast into New York before striking Constable, New York.

1826

 August 1 - an unrated tornado crossed Lake St. Clair, moving through Chatham, Ontario, where extensive damage was done.

1828

 June 27 - an unrated tornado struck Eastern Ontario in the area of Drummond Centre, Ontario. The tornado destroyed barns and houses, carrying some far distances. An unroofed brick house was carried off its foundation. A strong stone house was partly destroyed. Trees on the third and fourth concession of Drummond Township were uprooted and damaged.

1829

 Late May - an F0 tornado struck and destroyed the early settlement of Guelph, Ontario. Development on the settlement was slow to begin afterwards with some recalling little progress in the next three years following the tornado.

1831

 June 26 - an unrated tornado struck Montreal, Quebec, carrying the roof off the western tower of the New Catholic Parish Church and depositing on Notre Dame Street. Construction material was tossed around and various houses were destroyed. Damage was also done on Guy Street.

1844

June 12 - an F2 passed through the community of Holland Landing, Ontario.
August 7 - an F1 tornado struck Galt, Ontario. The first tornado-related recorded death occurred here when a tree fell onto a man.
1847

June 12 - an F0 tornado touched down north of Guelph, Ontario.
September 5 - an F2 tornado and a probable tornado struck Ontario and Quebec. The F2 tornado struck Cornwall, Ontario, and near Lancaster, Ontario. The tornado started near Massena, New York, before crossing the St. Lawrence River. The tornado was spotted crossing the river from Long Sault, Ontario. In Cornwall, Ontario, the tornado did significant damage to structures with the tornado destroying 3 houses, unroofing 8, and damaging another 9 or so. As for out-houses, the tornado destroyed 11, unroofed 13, and damaged many more. Debris was carried up to the three miles away. A young girl was thrown into the Cornwall Canal and drown while here brother and another man escaped without injury. The tornado approached the St. Lawrence River near Lancaster, Ontario, where it destroyed several other buildings and injured two. The probable tornado struck Saint-Édouard, Quebec, two hours after the first tornado. The storm lasted 50 minutes which is far longer than a normal tornado, however, the damage caused was the destruction of 57 buildings of various kinds. This tornado is listed as probable as the description is not fully clear on the event but the significant damage caused seems far greater than a downburst.

1848

 June 19 - an F2 tornado struck Ingersoll, Ontario.

1850s 
1850

 July 5 - an F3 tornado touched down over Lake Scugog, spending nearly 12 minutes over the water, before moving south into Cartwright Township, Ontario. Trees were snapped and twisted off while fences were blown down. Hail the size of hen's eggs occurred on the outskirts of the tornado. Into eastern Darlington Township, Ontario, an entire forest was destroyed with hail larger than the previous size. A vast majority of livestock in the area were killed. Significant damage was done to homes and barns, alongside crops. The tornado was half a mile wide and tracked for 14 miles in length. Various people were injured with a range of severity. The towns of Manchester, Ontario, Enniskillen, Ontario, and Haydon, Ontario, suffered greatly.

1851

 July 18 - an F1 tornado touched down north of Wheatley, Ontario, striking the hamlet of Windfall, Ontario.

1854

 April 25 - an F0 tornado passed along Dundas Street in Toronto, Ontario.
 August 1 - an F2 tornado struck Dunnville, Ontario.

1855

 April 18 - four F2 tornadoes touched down in Southern Ontario. The first tornado touched down in Grey County, Ontario, near Meaford, Ontario. The tornado moved eastward through The Blue Mountains, Ontario, before causing extensive damage in Collingwood, Ontario. A second tornado touched down in Port Dalhousie, Ontario. This tornado lifted before dropping again and causing F2-strength damage through Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario. Finally, a fourth tornado touched down in Whitby, Ontario, moving through Oshawa, Ontario.

1856

 June 29 - an F3 tornado touched down near Embro, Ontario, around the community of Golspie, Ontario, crossing Highway 59 (Ontario) just north of the northern edge of Woodstock, Ontario, in East Zorra-Tavistock Township, Ontario. The tornado destroyed various trees and chimneys while unroofing, damaging, and destroying numerous houses. The tornado continued to the Paris, Ontario, and Brantford, Ontario, road junction where additional damage was caused. The most severe damage was done in Eastwood, Ontario, which sits just east of the Ontario Highway 401 near Woodstock, Ontario. Two children and adult were killed with eight to ten additional injuries. The track of the tornado was roughly 10 miles long.
July 21 - an unrated tornado touched down near Brighton, Ontario.
September 10 - an F1 tornado touched down near Kemptville, Ontario, resulting in some minor tree damage. The tornado continued eastward before striking Mountain, Ontario, and Winchester, Ontario, where trees were damaged, homes were unroofed, and fences were destroyed.
1857

 July 31 - an F0 tornado struck Toronto, Ontario.

1859

 August 5