[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

a greenish hue, and gradually becoming lighter, till, when cold, it is colorless. If the iron is increased, the hot bead presents a dark red color, but while cooling a brownish-red, which changes to a dirty-green, and, when cold, to a brownish-red color. The decrease of the color during the transition from the hot to the cold state is still greater in the bead formed by the microcosmic salt. In the reduction flame no change is visible if the quantity of iron be small. By the addition of more iron, the hot bead appears red, and while cooling, changes to yellow, then green, and, when cold, is of a dull red. By fusing the bead on charcoal with a small addition of tin, it exhibits, while cooling, a bluish-green color, but, when cold, is colorless. The oxides of iron are not dissolved in the oxidation flame by fusion with carbonate of soda. By ignition with soda upon charcoal in the reduction flame, they are absorbed and reduced to the metallic state. Cut out this portion of the charcoal; grind it with the addition of some water in an agate mortar, for the purpose of washing off the carbon particles, when the iron will remain as a grey magnetic powder. (_b._) _Cobalt_ (Co) occurs in combination with arsenic and sulphur, and associated with nickel and iron. It is found occasionally in combination with selenium, and there are a traces of it in meteoric iron. In the metallic state it is of a light, reddish-grey color, rather brittle, and only fusible at a strong white heat; at common temperatures it is unalterable by air or water. At a red heat, it oxidizes slowly and decomposes water; at a white heat it burns with a red flame. Cobalt is soluble in dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid by the aid of heat, whereby hydrogen is eliminated. These solutions have a fine red color. _Protoxide of Cobalt_ (CoO).--It is an olive-green powder, but, by exposure to the air, it becomes gradually brown. Its hydrate is a rich red powder. The solution of its salts is red, but the aqueous solution is often blue. When heated in the oxidation flame, the protoxide is converted into the black proto-sesquioxide (CoO + Co^{2}O^{3}). In the reduction flame it shrinks and is reduced without fusion to the metallic state. It is now attracted by the magnet and acquires lustre by compression. Borax dissolves it in the oxidation flame, and produces a clear, intensely colored blue bead, which remains transparent and of the same beautiful blue when cold. This blue is likewise manifest even if the bead be heated intermittingly. If the cobalt exists in considerable quantity, the color of the bead is so intense as to appear almost black. This reaction of cobalt is so characteristic and sensitive that it can detect a minute trace. With microcosmic salt the same reaction is exhibited, but not so sensitive, nor is the bead so intensely colored when cold as that with borax. By fusion with carbonate of soda upon a platinum wire, with a very small portion of cobalt, a bright red colored mass is produced which appears grey, or slightly green when cold. By fusion upon platinum foil the fused portion floats down from the sides, and the foil is coated around the undissolved part, with a thin, dark-red sublimate. When fused upon charcoal, and in the reduction flame, it is reduced with soda to a grey powder, which is attracted by the magnet, and exhibits the metallic lustre by compression. _Sesquioxide of Cobalt_ (Co^{2}O^{3}).--It is a dark brown powder. Its hydrate (2HO + Co^{2}O^{3}) is a brown powder. It is soluble only in acetic acid as the acetate of the sesquioxide. All other acids dissolve its salts to protoxide, the hydrochloric acid producing chloric gas. By ignition in the oxidation flame, it is converted into the proto-sesquioxide (CoO + Co^{2}O^{3}) and produces with reagents before the blowpipe the same reactions as the protoxide. (_c._) _Nickel_ (Ni).--This metal occurs invariably associated with cobalt, and in analogous combinations, chiefly as the arsenical nickel. In the metallic state it is greyish, silver-white, has a high lustre, is hard, and malleable both cold and hot. At common temperatures, it is unalterable either in dry or moist air. When ignited, it tarnishes. It is easily dissolved by nitric acid, but very slowly by dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, producing hydrogen. _Protoxide of Nickel _(NiO).--It is in the form of small greyish-black octahedrons, or a dark, greenish-grey powder. Its hydrate is a green powder. Both are unalterable in the air, and are soluble in nitric, sulphuric, and hydrochloric acids, to a green liquid. The protoxide is the base of the salts of nickel, which in the anhydrous state are yellow, and when hydrated are green. The soluble neutral salts change blue litmus paper to red. By ignition in the oxidation flame, protoxide of nickel is unaltered. In the reduction flame and upon charcoal, it becomes reduced, and forms a grey adherent powder, which is infusible, and presents the metallic lustre by compression, and is magnetic. Borax dissolves it in the oxidation flame very readily to a clear bead, of a reddish-violet or dark yellow color, but yellow or light red when cold. If there is but a small quantity of the oxide present, it is colorless. If more of the oxide be present, the bead is opaque and dark brown, and appears, while cooling, transparent and dark red. By the addition of a salt of potassa (the nitrate or carbonate) a blue or a dark purple colored bead is produced. The borax bead, in the reduction flame, is grey, turbid, or completely opaque from the reduced metallic particles. After a continued blast, the bead becomes colorless, although the particles are not fused. If the nickel contains cobalt, it will now be visible with its peculiar blue color. Upon charcoal, and by the addition of some tin, the reduction of the oxide of nickel is easily effected, while the reduced nickel fuses with the tin. The oxide of nickel is dissolved by microcosmic salt in the oxidation flame to a clear bead, which appears reddish while hot, but yellow and sometimes colorless when cooling. If a considerable quantity of nickel be present the heated bead is of a brown color, but orange when cooled. In the reduction flame, and upon platinum wire, the color of the bead is orange when cold; but upon charcoal, and with the addition of a little tin, the bead appears grey and opaque. After being submitted to the blowpipe flame all the nickel is reduced, and the bead becomes colorless. Carbonate of soda does not affect it in the oxidation flame, but in the reduction flame and upon charcoal, it is absorbed and reduced, and remains, after washing off the carbon, as a white metallic powder, which is infusible, and has a greater attraction for the magnet than iron. _Sesquioxide of Nickel_ (Ni^{2}O^{3}).--It is in the form of a black powder, and does not combine with other substances, unless it is reduced to the protoxide. It exhibits before the blowpipe the same behavior as the protoxide. GROUP SIXTH.--ZINC, CADMIUM, ANTIMONY, TELLURIUM. The substances of this group can be reduced upon charcoal by fusion with carbonate of soda, but the reduced metals are volatilized, and cover the charcoal with sublimates. (_a._) _Zinc_ (Zn).--This metal is found in considerable abundance, but never occurs in the pure metallic state, but in combination with other substances, chiefly as sulphide in zinc blende, as carbonate in calamine, and as the silicate in the kieselzinc ore; also, with sulphuric acid, the "vitriol of zinc." Zinc is of a bluish-white color and metallic lustre, is crystalline and brittle when heated 400°F., but malleable and ductile between 200° and 300°. It will not oxidize in dry air, but tarnishes if exposed to air containing moisture, first becomes grey, and then passes into the white carbonate. It decomposes in water at a glowing heat. It is dissolved by diluted acids, while hydrogen is eliminated. It melts at about 775°, and distills when exposed to a white heat in a close vessel. When heated over 1000° in the open air, it takes fire, and burns with a bluish-white light, and with a thick white smoke of oxide of zinc. _Oxide of Zinc_ (ZnO).--In the pure state, oxide of zinc is a white powder, infusible, and not volatile. It is readily soluble in acids after being heated strongly. Its soluble neutral salts, when dissolved in water, change blue litmus paper to red. Its salts, with organic acids, are decomposed by ignition, and the carbonate of zinc remains. The oxide of zinc turns yellow by being ignited in the oxidation flame, but it is only visible by daylight; this color changes to white when cold. It does not melt, but produces a strong light, and it is not volatile. It disappears gradually in the flame of reduction, while a white smoke sublimates upon the charcoal. This sublimate is yellow while hot, but changes to white when cold. The cause of this is, that the oxide is reduced, is volatilized, and re-oxidized, by going through the external flame in the form of a metallic vapor. Borax dissolves oxide of zinc in the flame of oxidation easily to a clear bead, which is yellow while hot, and colorless when cold. The bead becomes, by the addition of more oxide, enamelled, while cooling. If the bead is heated with the intermittent flame, it is milk-white when cold. When heated in the flame of reduction upon platinum wire, the bead at first appears opaque, and of a greyish color, but becomes clear again after a continued blast. When heated upon charcoal in the reduction flame, it is reduced to a metal; but, at the same moment, is volatilized, and sublimes as oxide of zinc upon the charcoal, about one line's distance from the assay. This is likewise the case with the microcosmic salt, except that it is more easily volatilized in the reduction flame. Carbonate of soda does not dissolve the oxide of zinc in the flame of oxidation. In the reduction flame and upon charcoal, the oxide of zinc is reduced to the metallic state, and is volatilized with a white vapor of the zinc oxide, which sublimes on the charcoal and exhibits a yellow color while hot, and which changes to white when cold. By a strong heat the reduced zinc burns with a white flame. Moistened with a solution of cobalt oxide, and heated strongly in the flame of oxidation, zinc oxide becomes of a yellowish-green color while hot, and changes to a beautiful green color when cold. (_b._) _Cadmium_ (Cd).--This is one of the rare metals. It occurs in combination with sulphur in