Medical Research Paper

Title: Acupuncture and moxibustion for chronic fatigue syndrome: A systematic review and network meta-analysis

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Research into acupuncture and moxibustion and their application for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) has been growing, but the findings have been inconsistent. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the existing randomized clinical trials (RCTs), compare the efficacy of acupuncture, moxibustion and other traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) treatments. DATA SOURCES: Three English-language databases (PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and The Cochrane Library) and 4 Chinese-language biomedical databases (Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, VIP Database for Chinese Technical Periodicals, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, and Wanfang) were searched for RCTs published from database inception through August 2021. STUDY SELECTION: RCTs include acupuncture, moxibustion, traditional Chinese herbal medicine, western medicine and no control. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Data were screened and extracted independently using predesigned forms. The quality of RCTs was appraised with the Cochrane Collaboration risk of bias tool. We conducted a random-effects network meta-analysis within a frequentist framework. We assessed the certainty of evidence contributing to network estimates of the main outcomes with the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) framework. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcomes were the overall response rate and FS-14 scale. RESULTS: A total of 51 randomized controlled trials involving 3473 patients with CFS were included in this review. Forty one studies indicate low risk or unknown risk, and the GRADE scores of the combined results show low levels. Among the main indicators, traditional Chinese medicine therapies have excellent performance. However, the overall response rate is slightly different from the results obtained from the Fatigue Scale-14 total score. Moxibustion and traditional Chinese medicine (Odds ratios 48, 95% CrI 15-150) perform better in the total effective rate, while moxibustion plus acupuncture (MD 4.5, 95% CrI 3.0-5.9) is better in the FS-14 total score. CONCLUSIONS: The effect of acupuncture and moxibustion in the treatment of CFS was significantly higher than that of other treatments. Traditional Chinese medicine should be used more widely in the treatment of CFS.