[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

courage old. Yet comfortless still lies Snake-like in her warm bosom (vexed with sighs) Fear of the greatness that herself hath wrought. No glory but her memory teems with it, No beauty that's not hers; more nobly none Of all her sisters runs with her; but she For her old destiny dreams herself unfit, And fumbling at the future doubtfully Muses how Rome of Romans was undone. FROM PICCADILLY IN AUGUST Now the trees rest: the moon has taught them sleep, Like drowsy wings of bats are all their leaves, Clinging together. Girls at ease who fold Fair hands upon white necks and through dusk fields Walk all content,--of them the trees have taken Their way of evening rest; the yellow moon With her pale gold has lit their dreams that lisp On the wind's murmuring lips. And low beyond Burn those bright lamps beneath the moon more bright, Lamps that but flash and sparkle and light not The inward eye and musing thought, nor reach Where, poplar-like, that tall-built campanile Lifts to the neighbouring moon her head and feels The pale gold like an ocean laving her. EVENING BEAUTY: BLACKFRIARS Nought is but beauty weareth, near and far, Under the pale, blue sky and lonely star. This is that quick hour when the city turns Her troubled harsh distortion and blind care Into brief loveliness seen everywhere, While in the fuming west the low sun smouldering burns. Not brick nor marble the rich beauty owns, Not this is held in starward-pointing stones. Sun, wind and smoke the threefold magic stir, Kissing each favourless poor ruin with kiss Like that when lovers lovers lure to bliss, And earth than towered heaven awhile is heavenlier. Tall shafts that show the sky how far away! The thousand-window'd house gilded with day That fades to night; the arches low, the streamer Everywhere of the ruddy'd smoke.... Is aught Of loveliness so rich e'er sold and bought? Look visions fairer in the eyes of any dreamer? Needs must so rare a beauty be so brief! Night comes, of this delight the subtle thief. Thou canst not, Night, this same rich thievery keep; Seize it and look! 'tis gone, ere seized is gone-- Only in our warm bosoms lingering on, A nest of precious dreams when our lids droop in sleep. So in her darkening loveliness is she seen Like an autumnal passion-haunted queen, Who hears, "A captain-king is at the gate"-- "'Tis Antony, Antony!" Then hastens she, Beauty to beauty adding yet, till--see, A queen within the queen perilous with love and fate! SAILING OF THE _GLORY_ Merrily shouted all the sailors As they left the town behind; Merrily shouted they and gladdened At the slip-slap of the wind. But envious were those faint home-keepers, Faint land-lovers, as they saw How the _Glory_ dipped and staggered-- Envying saw Pass the ship while all her sailors Merrily shouted. Far and far on eastern waters Sailed the ship and yet sailed on, While the townsmen, faint land-lovers, Thought, "How long is't now she's gone? Now, maybe, Bombay she touches, Now strange craft about her throng"; Till she grew but half-remembered, Gone so long: Quite forgot how all her sailors Merrily shouted. Far in unfamiliar waters Ship and shipmen harbourage found, Where the rocks creep out like robbers After travellers tempest-bound. Then those faint land-lovers murmured Doleful thanks not dead were they:-- Ah, yet envious, though the _Glory_ Sunken lay, Hearing again those farewell voices Merrily shouting. AT THE DOCK They loiter round the Dock that holds yon Ship Shuddering at the dark pool's defiled lip From springing bows to foam-deriding stern; They have left her, and await her call "Return!" Like any human mistress she has cast Careless her ancient lovers, till at last Perforce she calls them, and perforce they come Like any human lovers.... Ah, what home Know these, save in the Ship, the Ship! She groans Day and night with travail of their strenuous bones. They know her for their mother, sister, spouse, Heart of their passion, idol of their vows; They ward her, and she is their sure defence 'Gainst the sad waters' leagued malevolence. The Ship, the Ship: they are her slaves, and she Their Liege, their Faith, their Fate, their History. Lo! they have bought her buoyancy with their blood And their ribs cling the keel that cleaves the flood. Their watches in the night, their loneliness, Their toil, hunger and thirst, their heart's distress, Their hands, their feet, far eye and smitten head Whereon the Sea's upgathered weight is shed; With these the Ship, the Ship is laid and rigged, Launched and steered out; with these her living grave is digged, They lean close over her--and long, perhaps, For the broad seas and the loud wind that claps Boisterous hands on the Ship's course; and wait Her call who calls them with the voice of Fate. "THE MEN WHO LOVED THE CAUSE THAT NEVER DIES" O come you down from the far hills Whereon you fought, triumphed and died, Men at whose names the quick blood thrills And the heart's troubled in our side. Your shadows o'er our fields ere night Draw from the shadow of old trees; Ghost-hallowed run the streams, and light Hangs halo-wise in the great peace. Warriors of England whom we praise (Ah, vain all praise!), your spirit is not Lost in the meanness of these days, Not wholly is your charge forgot. And this perplexity of strife Not all estrangèd leaves our heart; England is ours yet, and her life Has yet in ours the purest part. But come you down and stand you yet A little closer to our side, Or in the darkness we forget The cause for which Earth's noblest died. _Printed at The Chapel River Press, Kingston, Surrey._