[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

Hector, but the moment-splendour's gone: Shadow fast deepens into night, Night spreads--cold, wide, bare. LISTENING There is a place of grass With daisies like white pools, Or shining islands in a sea Of brightening waves. Swallows, darting, brush The waves of gentle green, As though a wide still lake it were, Not living grass. Evening draws over all, Grass and flowers and sky, And one rich bird prolongs the sweet Of day on the edge of dark. The grass is dim, the stars Lean down the height of heaven; And the trees, listening in all their leaves, Scarce-breathing stand. Nothing is as it was: The bird on the bough sings on; The night, pure from the cloud of day, Is listening. STONES Small yellow stones That, lifted, through my idle fingers fall Leaving a score-- And these I toss between the parted lips Of the lapping sea, And the sea tosses again with millions more-- Yellow and white stones; Then drawing back her snaky long waves all, Leaves the stones Yellow and white upon the sandy shore.... As they were bones Yellow and white left on the silent shore Of an unfoaming far unvisioned Sea. THE ENEMIES The angry wind That cursed at me Was nothing but an evil sprite Vexed with any man's delight. And strange it seemed That a dark wind Should run down from a mountain steep And shout as though the world were asleep. But when he ceased And silence was-- Who could but fear what evil sprite Crept through the tunnels of the night? THE SILVERY ONE Clear from the deep sky pours the moon Her silver on the heavy dark; The small stars blink. Against the moon the maple bough Flutters distinct her leafy spears; All sound falls weak.... Weak the train's whistle, the dog's bark, Slow steps; and rustling into her nest At last, the thrush. All's still; only earth turns and breathes. Then that amazing trembling note Cleaves the deep wave Of silence. Shivers even that silvery one; Sigh all the trees, even the cedar dark ----O joy, and I. THE FLUTE It was a night of smell and dew When very old things seemed how new; When speech was softest in the still Air that loitered down the hill; When the lime's sweetness could but creep Like music to slow ears of sleep; When far below the lapping sea Lisped but of tired tranquillity.... No, 'twas a night that seemed almost Of real night the little ghost, As though a painter painted it Out of the shallows of his wit-- The easy air, the whispered trees, Faint prattle of strait distant seas, Pettiness all: but hark, hark! Large and rich in the narrow dark Music rose. Was music never Braver in her pure endeavour Against the meanness of the world. Her purple banner she unfurled Of stars and suns upon the night Amazed with the strange living light. The notes rose where the dark trees knelt; Their fiery joy made stillness melt As flame in woods the low boughs burns, Sere leaves, dry bushes, flame-shaped ferns. The notes rose as great birds that rise Majestically in lofty skies, And in white clouds are lost; and then Briefly they hushed, and woke again Renewed. Slowly silence came As smoke after sinking flame That spreads and thins across the sky When day pales before it die. STARS The naked stars, deep beyond deep, Burn purely through the nervèd night. Over the narrow sleep Of men tired of light; Deep within deep, as clouds behind Huge grey clouds hidden gleaming rise, Untroubled by sharp wind In cold desert skies. Cold deserts now with infinite host Of gathered spears at watch o'er small Armies of men lost In glooms funereal. O bitter light, all-threatening stars, O tired ghosts of men that sleep After stern mortal wars 'Neath skies chill and steep. These mortal hills, this flickering sea, This shadowy and thoughtful night, Throb with infinity, Burn with immortal light. TEN O'CLOCK AND FOUR O'CLOCK It stands there Tall and solitary on the edge Of the last hill, green on the green hill. Ten o'clock the tree's called, no one knows why. Perhaps it was planted there at ten o'clock Or someone was hanged there at ten o'clock-- A hundred such good reasons might be found, But no one knows. It vexed me that none knew, Seeing it miles and miles off and then nearer And nearer yet until, beneath the hill, I looked up, up, and saw it nodding there, A single tree upon the sharp-edged hill, Holding its leaves though in the orchard all Leaves and fruit were stripped or hung but few Red and yellow over the littered grass. --It vexed me, the brave tree and senseless name, As I went through the valley looking up And then looked round on elm and beech and chestnut And all that lingering flame amid the hedge That marked the miles and miles. Then I forgot: For through the apple-orchard's shadow I saw Between the dark boughs of the cherry-orchard A great slow fire which Time had lit to burn The mortal seasons up, and leave bare black Unchanging Winter. _Weston-sub-Edge._ THE YEW The moon gave no light. The clouds rode slowly over, broad and white, From the soft south west. The wind, that cannot rest, Soothed and then waked the darkness of the yew Until the tree was restless too. Of all the winds I knew I thought, and how they muttered in the yew, Or raved under the eaves, Or nosed the fallen dry leaves, Or with harsh voice holloa'd the orchard round, With snapped limbs littering the ground. And I thought how the yew Between the window and the west his shadow threw, Grave and immense, Darkening the dark past thought and sense, And how the moon would make the darkness heavenly bright: But the moon gave no light. NOVEMBER SKIES Than these November skies Is no sky lovelier. The clouds are deep; Into their gray the subtle spies Of colour creep, Changing that high austerity to delight, Till even the leaden interfolds are bright. And, where the cloud breaks, faint far azure peers Ere a thin flushing cloud again Shuts up that loveliness, or shares. The huge great clouds move slowly, gently, as Reluctant the quick sun should shine in vain, Holding in bright caprice their rain. And when of colours none, Not rose, nor amber, nor the scarce late green, Is truly seen,-- In all the myriad gray, In silver height and dusky deep, remain The loveliest, Faint purple flushes of the unvanquished sun. DELIGHT Winter is fallen On the wretched grass, Dark winds have stolen All the colour that was. No leaf shivers: The bare boughs bend and creak as the wind moans by Fled is the fitful gleam of brightness From the stooping sky. A robin scatters Like bright rain his song, Of merry matters The sparrows gossip long. Snow in the sky Lingers, soon to cover the world with white, And hush the slender enchanting music And chill the delight. But snow new fallen On the stiffened grass Gives back beauty stolen By the winds as they pass:-- Turns the climbing hedge Into a gleaming ladder of frozen light: And hark, in the cold enchanted silence A cry of delight! CHANGE A late and lonely figure stains the snow, Into the thickening darkness dims and dies. Heavily homeward now the last rooks go, And dull-eyed stars stare from the skies. A whimpering wind Sounds, then's still and whimpers again. Yet 'twas a morn of oh, such air and light! The early sun ran laughing over the snow, The laden trees held out their arms all white And whiteness shook on the white below. Lovely the shadows were, Deep purple niches, 'neath a dome of light. And now night's fall'n, the west wind begins to creep Among the stiff trees, over the frozen snow; An hour--and the world stirs that was asleep, A trickle of water's heard, stealthy and slow, First faintly here and there, And then continual everywhere. And morn will look astonished for the snow, And the warm, wind will laugh, "It's gone, gone, gone!"-- And will, when the immortal soft airs blow, This mortal face of things change and be gone So--and with none to hear How in the night the wind crept near? SLEEPING SEA The sea Was even as a little child that sleeps And keeps All night its great unconsciousness of day. No spray Flashed when the wave rose, drooped, and slowly drew away. No sound From all that slumbering, full-bosomed water came; The sea Lay mute in childlike sleep, the moon was a gold candle-flame. No sound Save when a faint and mothlike air fluttered around. No sound: But as a child that dreams and in his full sleep cries, So turned the sleeping sea and heaved her bosom of slow sighs. THE WEAVER OF MAGIC Weave cunningly the web Of twilight, O thou subtle-fingered Eve! And at the slow day's ebb With small blue stars the purple curtain weave. If any wind there be, Bid it but breathe lightly as woodland violets o'er the sea; If any moon, be it no more than a white fluttering feather. Call the last birds together. O Eve, and let no wisp Of day's distraction thine enchantment mar; Thy soft spell lisp And lure the sweetness down of each blue star. Then let that low moan be A while more easeful, trembling remote and strange, far oversea; So shall the easeless heart of love rest then, or only sigh, Hearing the swallows cry! THE DARKSOME NIGHTINGALE Why dost thou, darksome Nightingale, Sing so distractingly--and here? Dawn's preludings prick my ear, Faint light is creeping up the vale, While on these dead thy rarer Song falls, dark night-farer. Were it not better thou shouldst sing Where the drenched lilac droops her plume, Spreading frail banners of perfume? Or where the easeless pines enring The river-lullèd village Whose lads the lilac pillage? Oh, if aught songful these hid bones Might reach, like the slow subtle rain, Surely the dead had risen again And listened, white by the white stones; Back to rich life song-charmed, By ghostly joys alarmed. This may not be. And yet, oh still Pour like night dew thy richer speech Some late-lost youth perchance to reach, Or unloved girl; and stir and fill Their passionless cold bosoms Under red wallflower blossoms! UNDER THE LINDEN BRANCHES Under the linden branches They sit and whisper; Hardly a quiver Of leaves, hardly a lisp or Sigh in the air. Under the linden branches They sit, and shiver At the slow air's fingers Drawn through the linden branches Where the year's sweet lingers; And sudden avalanches Of memories,