[Handbook of Medical Entomology — Gutenberg #25163]

Produced by Janet Keller, D. Alexander and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net AT GOOD OLD SIWASH BY GEORGE FITCH ILLUSTRATED BOSTON LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 1916 _Copyright, 1910, 1911,_ BY THE CURTIS PUBLISHING COMPANY. _Copyright, 1911,_ BY LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY. _All rights reserved_ Printers S. J. PARKHILL & CO., BOSTON, U.S.A. [Illustration: Twenty-five yards with four Muggledorfer men hanging on his legs FRONTISPIECE. _Page 19_] AT GOOD OLD SIWASH PREFACE Little did I think, during the countless occasions on which I have skipped blithely over the preface of a book in order to plunge into the plot, that I should be called upon to write a preface myself some day. And little have I realized until just now the extreme importance to the author of having his preface read. I want this preface to be read, though I have an uneasy premonition that it is going to be skipped as joyously as ever I skipped a preface myself. I want the reader to toil through my preface in order to save him the task of trying to follow a plot through this book. For if he attempts to do this he will most certainly dislocate something about himself very seriously. I have found it impossible, in writing of college days which are just one deep-laid scheme after another, to confine myself to one plot. How could I describe in one plot the life of the student who carries out an average of three plots a day? It is unreasonable. So I have done the next best thing. There is a plot in every chapter. This requires the use of upwards of a dozen villains, an almost equal number of heroes, and a whole bouquet of heroines. But I do not begrudge this extravagance. It is necessary, and that settles it. Then, again, I want to answer in this preface a number of questions by readers who kindly consented to become interested in the stories when they appeared in the _Saturday Evening Post_. Siwash isn't Michigan in disguise. It isn't Kansas. It isn't Knox. It isn't Minnesota. It isn't Tuskegee, Texas, or Tufts. It is just Siwash College. I built it myself with a typewriter out of memories, legends, and contributed tales from a score of colleges. I have tried to locate it myself a dozen times, but I can't. I have tried to place my thumb on it firmly and say, "There, darn you, stay put." But no halfback was ever so elusive as this infernal college. Just as I have it definitely located on the Knox College campus, which I myself once infested, I look up to find it on the Kansas prairies. I surround it with infinite caution and attempt to nail it down there. Instead, I find it in Minnesota with a strong Norwegian accent running through the course of study. Worse than that, I often find it in two or three places at once. It is harder to corner than a flea. I never saw such a peripatetic school. That is only the least of my troubles, too. The college itself is never twice the same. Sometimes I am amazed at its size and perfection, by the grandeur of its gymnasium and the colossal lines of its stadium. But at other times I cannot find the stadium at all, and the gymnasium has shrunk until it looks amazingly like the old wooden barn in which we once built up Sandow biceps at Knox. I never saw such a college to get lost in, either. I know as well as anything that to get to the Eta Bita Pie house, you go north from the old bricks, past the new science hall and past Browning Hall. But often when I start north from the campus, I find my way blocked by the stadium, and when I try to dodge it, I run into the Alfalfa Delt House, and the Eatemalive boarding club, and other places which belong properly to the south. And when I go south I frequently lose sight of the college altogether, and can't for the life of me remember what the library tower looks like or whether the theological school is just falling down, or is to be built next year; or whether I ought to turn to my right, and ask for directions at Prexie's house, or turn to my left and crawl under a freight train which blocks a crossing on the Hither, Yonder and Elsewhere Railroad. If you think it is an easy task to carry a whole college in your head without getting it jumbled, just try it a while. Then, again, the Siwash people puzzle me. Professor Grubb is always a trial. That man alternates a smooth-shaven face with a full beard in the most startling manner. Petey Simmons is short and flaxen-haired, long and black-haired, and wide and hatchet-faced in turns, depending on the illustrator. I never know Ole Skjarsen when I see him for the same reason. As for Prince Hogboom, Allie Bangs, Keg Rearick and the rest of them, nobody knows how they look but the artists who illustrated the stories; and as I read each number and viewed the smiling faces of these students, I murmured, "Goodness, how you have changed!" So I have struggled along as best I could to administer the affairs of a college which is located nowhere, has no student body, has no endowment, never looks the same twice, and cannot be reached by any reliable route. The situation is impossible. I must locate it somewhere. If you are interested in the college when you have read these few stories, suppose you hunt for it wherever college boys are full of applied deviltry and college girls are distractingly fair; where it is necessary to win football games in order to be half-way contented with the universe; where the spring weather is too wonderful to be wasted on College Algebra or History of Art; and where, whatever you do, or whoever you like, or however you live, you can't forget it, no matter how long you work or worry afterward. There! I can't mark it on the map, but if you have ever worried a college faculty you'll know the way. GEORGE FITCH. July, 1911. CONTENTS CHAPTER PAGE I OLE SKJARSEN'S FIRST TOUCHDOWN 1 II INITIATING OLE 28 III WHEN GREEK MEETS GROUCH 50 IV A FUNERAL THAT FLASHED IN THE PAN 78 V COLLEGES WHILE YOU WAIT 105 VI THE GREEK DOUBLE CROSS 135 VII TAKING PACE FROM FATHER TIME 169 VIII FRAPPÉD FOOTBALL 196 IX CUPID--THAT OLD COLLEGE CHUM 223 X VOTES FROM WOMEN 253 XI SIC TRANSIT GLORIA ALL-AMERICA 284 ILLUSTRATIONS Twenty-five yards with four Muggledorfer men hanging on his legs _Frontispiece_ PAGE "Aye ent care to stop," he said. "Aye kent suit you, Master Bost" 20 He pulled himself together and touched Ole gently 26 There wasn't a college anywhere around us that didn't have Ole's hoofmarks all over its pride 33 Martha caused some mild sensation 63 My, but that girl was a wonder! 74 "Har's das spy!" he yelled. "Kill him, fallers; he ban a spy!" 120 We spent another five minutes hoisting him aboard a prehistoric plug 125 He may have been fat, but how he could run! 132 Naturally I was somewhat dazzled 147 He was so bashful that his voice blushed when he used it 151 With our colors on and four particularly wicked-looking chair legs in our hands 167 Our peculiar style of pushing a football right through the thorax of the whole middle west 205 "If you don't like that beanbag, eat it" 220 He invited Miss Spencer to go street-car riding with him 246 You can always spot these family friends 252 It was a blow between the eyes 264 "How are all the other good old chaps?" she said 270 Why, they even made us cut chapel to go walking with them 280 AT GOOD OLD SIWASH CHAPTER I OLE SKJARSEN'S FIRST TOUCHDOWN Am I going to the game Saturday? Am I? Me? Am I going to eat some more food this year? Am I going to draw my pay this month? Am I going to do any more breathing after I get this lungful used up? All foolish questions, pal. Very silly conversation. Pshaw! Am I going to the game, you ask me? Is the sun going to get up to-morrow? You couldn't keep me away from that game if you put a protective tariff of seventy-eight per cent ad valorem, whatever that means, on the front gate. I came out to this town on business, and I'll have to take an extra fare train home to make up the time; but what of that? I'm going to the game, and when the Siwash team comes out I'm going to get up and give as near a correct imitation of a Roman mob and a Polish riot as my throat will stand; and if we put a crimp in the large-footed, humpy-shouldered behemoths we're going up against this afternoon, I'm going out to-night and burn the City Hall. Any Siwash man who is a gentleman would do it. I'll probably have to run like thunder to beat some of them to it. You know how it is, old man. Or maybe you don't, because you made all your end runs on the Glee Club. But I played football all through my college course and the microbe is still there. In the fall I think football, talk football, dream football, even though I haven't had a suit on for six years. And when I go out to the field and see little old Siwash lining up against a bunch of overgrown hippos from a university with a catalogue as thick as a city directory, the old mud-and-perspiration smell gets in my nostrils, and the desire to get under the bunch and feel the feet jabbing into my ribs boils up so strong that I have to hold on to myself with both hands. If you've never sat on a hard board and wanted to be between two halfbacks with your hands on their shoulders, and the quarter ready to sock a ball into your solar plexus, and eleven men daring you to dodge 'em, and nine thousand friends and enemies raising Cain and keeping him well propped up in the grandstands--if you haven't had that want you wouldn't know a healthy, able-bodied want if you ran into it on the street. Of course, I never got any further along than a scrub. But what's the odds? A broken bone feels just as grand to a scrub as to a star. I sometimes think a scrub gets more real football knowledge than a varsity man, because he