# Forensic biology

Forensic biology is the use of biological principles and techniques in the context of law enforcement investigations. 

Forensic biology  mainly focuses on DNA sequencing of biological matter found at crime scenes. This assists investigators in identifying potential suspects or unidentified bodies.

Forensic biology has many sub-branches, such as forensic anthropology, forensic entomology, forensic odontology, forensic pathology, and forensic toxicology.

Disciplines

History 
The first known briefings of forensic procedures still used today are recorded as far back as the 7th century through the concept of utilizing fingerprints as a means of identification.

By the 7th century, forensic procedures were used to account criminals of guilt charges among other things.

Nowadays, the practice of autopsies and forensic investigations has seen a significant surge in both public interest and technological advancements. One of the early pioneers in employing these methods, which would later evolve into the field of forensics, was Alphonse Bertillon, who is also known as the "father of criminal identification". In 1879, he introduced a scientific approach to personal identification by developing the science of anthropometry. This method involved a series of body measurements for distinguishing one human individual from another.

Karl Landsteiner later made further significant discoveries in forensics. In 1901, he found out that blood could be categorized into different groups: A, B, AB, and O, and thus blood typing was introduced to the world of crime-solving. This development led to further studies and eventually, a whole new spectrum of criminology was added in the fields of medicine and forensics.

Dr Leone Lattes, a professor at the Institute of Forensic Medicine in Turin, Italy, has made significant additions into forensics as well. In 1915, he discovered a method to determine the blood group of dried bloodstains, which marked a significant advancement from prior techniques limited to analyzing liquid blood. This technique was adopted for criminal investigation.

In 1928, Albrecht. H.O, a German chemist, developed a chemical solution luminol, which can be used to detect trace amounts of blood stains at crime scenes.

Among others, Sir Alec Jeffreys further shaped forensics into what we know now. In 1984, he developed the DNA fingerprinting technique to examine the variations in the genetic code. This can be used to distinguish one individual from another. This method has become important in forensic science to assist police detective work, and it has also proved useful in resolving paternity and immigration disputes.

In 1983, Kary B. Mullis made a significant contribution to the fields of medicine and criminology  by developing the PCR (polymerase chain reaction) technique, which can amplify even trace amount of DNA segments in-vitro. Such DNA samples, often found in crime scenes in minute amounts, degraded states and sometimes mixed with various body fluids from multiple individuals, can be effectively amplified using PCR. Beyond forensics, PCR has been applied to a wide range of fields, including disease diagnosis and virus detection.

DNA analysis

DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is one of the most popular pieces of evidence to recover at a crime scene. More often than not, evidence containing DNA is regarded as biological evidence. With all of the substantial advances that have been made regarding DNA, biological evidence is recognized to be the "golden standard" in forensic science.

At the scene, biological evidence must be initially visibly recognized. Sometimes this is not always possible and the aid of an alternative light source, or Advanced Light Source (ALS), is required. Once identified as a potential source, presumptive tests are conducted to establish the possibility of the specified biological presence (semen, saliva, blood, urine, etc.). If positive, samples are collected and submitted for analysis in the laboratory, where confirmatory tests and further tests are performed.

DNA analysis has numerous applications such as paternity testing, identifications of unknown human remains, cold case breakthroughs, as well as connecting suspects and/or victims to a piece(s) of evidence, a scene, or to another person (victim or suspect, respectively).Nuclear DNA evidence can be recovered from blood, semen, saliva, epithelial cells and hair (if the root is still intact). Furthermore, Mitochondrial DNA (mt DNA) can be recovered from the shaft of hair, bone and the roots of teeth.

For most forensic DNA samples, STR analysis of autosomal short tandem repeats (STR) is performed in an attempt to individualize the sample to one person with a high degree of statistical confidence. Here, STR markers for autosomal STR are used in forensic DNA typing to track down the missing, verify family connections, and potentially connect suspects to crime sites.

Laboratory analysis of DNA evidence involves the sample DNA being extracted, quantified, amplified, and visualized. There are several methods of DNA extraction possible including organic (phenol-chloroform) extraction, Chelex extraction, and differential extraction.

Quantitation is commonly conducted using a form of the polymerase chain reaction, known as real-time PCR, quantitative PCR (qPCR). qPCR is the preferred method of DNA quantitation for forensic cases because it is very precise, human-specific, qualitative, and quantitative. This technique analyses changes in fluorescence signals of amplified DNA fragments between each PCR cycle without needing to pause the reaction or open the temperature-sensitive PCR tubes. In addition to the components necessary for standard a PCR reaction (i.e. template DNA, carefully designed forward and reverse primers, DNA polymerase [usually Taq], dNTPs, and a buffer solution containing Mg2+), qPCR reactions involve fluorescent dye-labelled probes that complement and anneal to the DNA sequence of interest that lies between the two primers. A "reporter" (R) dye is attached at the 5’ end of the fluorescent probe, while a "quencher" (Q) dye is attached at the 3’ end. Before the DNA strands are extended by the polymerase, the reporter and quencher are close enough in space that no fluorescence is detected by the instrument (the quencher completely absorbs/masks the fluorescence of the reporter). As the polymerase begins to extend the strand, the 5' end of the probe is degraded by the polymerase due to its exonuclease activity. The reporter dye is released from the 5’ end. It is no longer quenched, thus enabling fluorescence detection. A graph is constructed for the sample DNA comparing the presence of fluorescence (y-axis) to cycle number (x-axis) of the qPCR process. This is then compared to a standard curve of the cycle fluorescence threshold (y-axis) versus the log of known DNA concentrations (x-axis). By comparing the sample data to the standard curve, one may extrapolate the DNA concentration in the sample, which is essential to move forward with PCR amplification and capillary electrophoresis to obtain a DNA profile. DNA profiles are produced as an electropherogram. The obtained profile can be compared to known samples in CODIS to identify a possible suspect. Based on known frequencies of the genotype found in the DNA profile, the DNA analyst may place a statistical measure of confidence on DNA match.

Mitochondrial DNA analysis 
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is used instead of nuclear DNA when forensic samples have been degraded, are damaged, or are in very small quantities. In many cases, there may be older human remains, sometimes ancient, and the only options for DNA collection are the body's bone, teeth, or hair.

mtDNA can be extracted from such degraded samples since its presence in cells is much higher than nuclear DNA. There can be more than 1,000 copies of mtDNA in a cell, while there are only two copies of nuclear DNA. Nuclear DNA is inherited from both the mother and the father but mtDNA is passed down from only the mother to all of her offspring. Due to this type of inheritance, mtDNA is useful for identification purposes in forensic work but can also be used for mass disasters, missing persons cases, complex kinship, and genetic genealogy.

The main advantage of using mtDNA is its high copy number. However, there are a few disadvantages of using mtDNA as opposed to nuclear DNA. Since mtDNA is inherited maternally and passed to each offspring, all members of the maternal familial line will share a haplotype. A haplotype "is a group of alleles in an organism that are inherited together from a single parent". Sharing this haplotype among family members can cause an issue in forensic samples because these samples are often mixtures that contain more than one DNA contributor. De convolution and interpretation of mtDNA mixtures is more difficult than that of nuclear DNA, and some laboratories choose not to attempt the process Since mtDNA does no