# 1991 All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship

The 1991 All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship was the 105th staging of the All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship, the Gaelic Athletic Association's premier inter-county hurling tournament. The championship began on 19 May 1991 and ended on 1 September 1991.

Cork were the defending champions but were defeated by Tipperary in the Munster final replay. Westmeath qualified for the All-Ireland quarter-final as winners of the B championship.

On 1 September 1991, Tipperary won the championship following a 1–16 to 0–15 defeat of Kilkenny in the All-Ireland final. This was their 24th All-Ireland title, their second in three championship seasons.

Tipperary's Michael Cleary was the championship's top scorer with 3-35. Tipperary's Pat Fox was the choice for Texaco Hurler of the Year.

Team changes

To Championship 
Promoted from the All-Ireland Senior B Hurling Championship

 Derry
 Westmeath (qualified)

From Championship 
Regraded to the All-Ireland Senior B Hurling Championship

 London

Teams

General information 
Sixteen counties will compete in the All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship: one team from the Connacht Senior Hurling Championship, five teams in the Leinster Senior Hurling Championship, six teams in the Munster Senior Hurling Championship, three teams from the Ulster Senior Hurling Championship and one team from the All-Ireland Senior B Hurling Championship.

Provincial championships

Munster Senior Hurling Championship

Leinster Senior Hurling Championship

Ulster Senior Hurling Championship

All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship

Top scorers

Season

Single game

Clean sheets

Broadcasting

The following matches were broadcast live on television in Ireland on RTÉ. In the United Kingdom Channel 4 broadcast live coverage of the All-Ireland final. Highlights of a number of other games were shown on The Sunday Game.

External links
1991 All-Ireland final on YouTube

References

All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship