# Gedung Kuning

Gedung Kuning (Jawi: ڬيدوڠ كونيڠ ; English for "Yellow Mansion") is a Malay historical residence in Singapore. Located at 73 Sultan Gate, Gedung Kuning stands just outside the Malay Heritage Centre, near Masjid Sultan in the historic district of Kampong Glam in Singapore. However, from 1919 to 1925, the Gedung Kuning's address was 33 Sultan Gate. Once forming an annexe to the adjacent palace of Singapore's Malay rulers, Istana Kampong Glam, it became the private residence of Haji Yusoff, a prominent Malayo-Javanese merchant and four generations of his family. Together with the Istana, the compound was refurbished as part of the development of the Malay Heritage Centre in 2004.

History
Circa 1850s:
Even though Singapore never had a Bendahara (Prime Minister), a Rumah Bendahara (House of the Prime Minister) was built for Tengku Mahmud, the younger son of Sultan Ali of Johor. It was built around the 1840s – 1850s, after Istana Kampong Glam was rebuilt by Sultan Ali of Johor. In 1864, Tengku Mahmud named the mansion Gedung Kuning (the Yellow Mansion) after its yellow walls. It is probably painted yellow as a signifier of a royal house.

1897:
Due to a succession dispute, on 23 December 1897, the Court of Appeal of the Colony decided that no one could claim the estate and now, it belonged to the Crown.

1907:
A Statutory Land Grant was issued when one of Sultan Ali's sons, Tungku Mohamed mortgaged the house to R.M.P.S Annamalay Chitty on 25 January 1907.

30 July 1912:
Haji Yusoff bin Haji Mohamed Noor (also known as Hadjee Eusope Bin Hadjee Mohamed Noor) bought Gedung Kuning from R.M.P.C Mootiah Chitty.*

2 May 1919:
During the period of 6 years, a series of Chinese families took turns having ownership of the house starting with Choo Saw San in 1919 and ended with Majoor Oei Tiong Ham after his death in 1924.

28 July 1925:
Haji Yusoff bought Gedung Kuning back from Oei Tjong Swan, the son of Oei Tiong Ham in 1925. Rumour had it that the Chinese families were often plagued with personal misfortune during their stint in Gedung Kuning  as well as after they sold the house

1925 - 1999:
Four generations of Haji Yusoff's family stayed in Gedung Kuning from 1925 to 1999.

12 March 1999:
Government announced plans to convert the Istana Kampong Glam and Gedung Kuning into a part of the Malay Heritage Centre. Istana Kampung Gelam will be turned into a museum whereas Gedung Kuning will be turned into a gallery cafe.

11 September 1999:
Gedung Kuning was acquired under the Land Acquisition Act and now belonged to the Singapore Government. Haji Yusoff's descendants who were staying in Gedung Kuning had to leave the mansion.

1999 - 2003:
Gedung Kuning underwent restoration.

27 Dec 2003:
Restoran Tepak Sireh at Gedung Kuning was officially opened by Associate Professor Yaacob Ibrahim, Minister in-charge of Muslim Affairs.

2008:
The Malay Heritage Centre came under the charge of the National Heritage Board.

August 2011:
The Malay Heritage Centre closed for extensive renovation and is scheduled to open in June 2012.

1 January 2012:
Restoran Tepak Sireh's lease ended. The National Heritage Board evaluated tenders for new business at Gedung Kuning.

September 2012:
A new semi-fine dining Malay restaurant Mamanda was opened at Gedung Kuning in September 2012.

April 2019:
The Mamanda restaurant closed in April 2019 after its lease was terminated by the Malay Heritage Foundation (MHF).

October 2019:
The escape rooms operator Amazing Chambers Singapura, with themes based on Singapore's histories and legends, was opened in October 2019.

23 April 2021:
A new halal buffet restaurant Permata specialised in progressive Nusantara cuisine was opened on 23 April 2021. The restaurant's name, Permata means "jewel" in Malay, inspired by the gemstone trade that took place in the area in the 1920s. Led by a local celebrity Chef, Mel Dean, Permata offers a modern take on Nusantara cuisine, showcasing the diverse and indigenous flavours of the region from Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, Brunei, Thailand and Beyond.

30 April 2022:
Gedung Kuning with more than 10,000 square feet and various private rooms hosts many different types of events such as weddings, catering orders, and private events in the VIP room. Permata's Singapore halal buffet menu is also available for private events. This beautiful royal yellow mansion at Kampong Glam has hosted many delegates and diplomatic events, company dinners and weddings.

Architectural Features of Gedung Kuning 
Gedung Kuning was built in the 1850s with similar elements as the shophouse. The main key elements of a shophouse, which the Urban Redevelopment Authority sees as the most important  are roofs, foundation, party walls, timber beams & joist, airwells, rear court, windows, doors, staircase, façade and the forecourts’ wall and gate. Gedung Kuning's main structure consist a mixture of timber framing for the  roof and load-bearing walls.

Foundations 
Gedung Kuning is presumably built on pad foundations made of mass masonry. If it was built on a strip foundation, it will run underneath and support the load-bearing walls. Pad foundation made of mass masonry typically consists of several layers of bricks where the lowest layer is usually twice the breadth of the wall above and the total height of the footings is about twoIthirds of the breadth of the wall. Masonry foundations were usually made from 75 x 215 x 100 mm burnt clay bricks bonded together with lime mortar, which makes it porous and less rigid, giving the foundation  more tolerance to differential settlement as compared to cement mortar. As a result, the building will not have much cracks or fissures over the years, as the case of Gedung Kuning. However, the columns along Kandahar Street were built out of pad foundations made out of reinforced concrete.

Load-bearing walls 
Gedung Kuning is built primarily on a load-bearing wall. The wall bears the weight of the house and transfers the load to the foundation structure. This is similar to the party walls in a shophouse. The load-bearing walls demarcate each room of Gedung Kuning as how party walls demarcate each shophouse. As party walls are also known as firewalls, the load-bearing walls of Gedung Kuning serve similar functions by creating a barrier and preventing the spread of fire between or through each rooms. A party wall is usually extended above the roof level to ensure its effectiveness but this does not exist in Gedung Kuning as it is a standalone house. However, this idea is evident on the Gedung Kuning's walkway on Kandahar Street when the boundary wall is extended onto the walkway. This is probably erected to prevent the spread of fire between Gedung Kuning and the former Kota Raja Club. The walls of Gedung Kuning are constructed using brickwork construction method and plastered for a smooth finish and painted over. The wall has a uniform thickness throughout the two levels. The load-bearing walls are supported on the foundation. There are several non-structural wall used to partition room. Usually, the load-bearing walls are supported on a continuous strip foundation while a column rests on brick footings, which were in turn supported on bakau (mangrove) timber piles. Lime mortar is usually used in the construction of the brickwork in early buildings and due to the damp evaporation ability, which slows down the proliferation of the spalling of surface finishes, such as plaster and paintwork, caused by accumulated damp inside the structural element as compared to cement mortar used in later construction.

Columns & Arches 
There are several columns in Gedung Kuning especially on the side of the house facing Kandahar Street. In the context of a shophouse, columns are usually found on the front of the building forming the fiveI footway. The columns in Gedung Kuning placed along Kandahar Street formed the fiveIfootway colonnade while supporting the upper floor verandah. The columns of early shophouse are made out of brick piers but for Gedung Kuning, it is made out of concrete. Columns also appear on the second storey façade of the verandah and the Corinthian pilaster accentuated the columns. In addition to that, there are two Ionic columns that exist on the side of the house facing Sultan Gate. The Ionic columns are not load-bearing as it does not align with the grid of the load-bearing wall. The application of Classical order is correct in terms of the accordance with Roman preferences but it is missing the Doric order. Arches exist on Gedung Kuning on Kandahar Street between two columns. However, arches are not a common feature in the neighboring shophouses. Arches contribute to the streetscape by accentuating the rhythmic progression of the five-footway. The arches also exist on the carport of the house.

Five-Footway 
Five-footways are continuous colonnade covered walkways running the length of the fronts or sides of shophouse blocks and integral to the shophouse structure. Five-footways exist