# Nuvve Nuvve

Nuvve.. Nuvve...  () is a 2002 Indian Telugu-language romance film written and directed by Trivikram Srinivas. The film starred Tarun, Shriya Saran, and Prakash Raj in the lead roles. Upon release, the film and the soundtrack received rave reviews, and has garnered two state Nandi Awards, and a Filmfare Award South. The film was subsequently dubbed into Marathi as Shahane Saasarebuva by B4U Marathi and in Malayalam as  Pranayamay.

Plot
Anjali (Shriya Saran) is the daughter of a millionaire Vishwanath (Prakash Raj) who loves his daughter very much. So much that he even buys her an Icecream Parlor when his daughter asks him for an ice cream. What Vishwanath expects is a son-in-law who will never oppose him in any matter. Rishi (Tarun) hails from a middle-class family. His father, played by Chandramohan, owns a department store. He is a good-hearted but happy-go-lucky guy. Anjali happens to join the college in which Rishi is a senior. Soon, they fall in love with each other. On one occasion, Rishi takes Anjali to Mumbai for dinner. Anjali tries to shake off the issue with her father, saying that she was with one of her friends. But unfortunately, Vishwanath calls that friend up when Anjali was missing. He tells him that Anjali went to Mumbai with someone called Rishi. This is enough for Vishwanath's suspicion to rise that Anjali has fallen in love. He asks Rishi to prove his worth and asks him in some way to earn any money so that he can support Anjali, who he has brought up in riches. When Rishi refuses to comply, he gives Rishi one crore rupees to forget his daughter. Rishi takes it and then later gives it back, insulting Viswanath, and tries to prove that his love is greater than everything and money can't buy his love. To retaliate, Vishwanath insults Rishi's family by getting a beggar for marriage with Rishi's sister to try to convey to them the pain he must feel. Rishi then creates a scene in Viswanath's office beating up security guy and destroying computers in the office, Rishi clarifies that in the proposal that beggar be married to Rishi's sister there is no love between the two, but Rishi and Anjali love each other. Anjali starts to show more feelings for Rishi. Worried, Vishwanath tries to set Anjali's marriage with another guy. Anjali meets Rishi at his home and requests him to marry her right at the moment, but Rishi convinces Anjali that this is not the right way. Rishi takes her back to her home, there Rishi challenges Vishwanath that if getting Anjali married to someone else is right then that marriage can't be stopped, but if it is wrong then that marriage cannot happen. Consequent incidents make Vishwanath realize his mistakes and the arranged marriage fails while Viswanath marries Anjali to Rishi.

Cast

Soundtrack 

The music was composed by Koti. All lyrics were written by Sirivennela Seetharama Sastry.

Reception 
A critic from Idlebrain.com wrote that "First half of the film is fun and has youth-orientation. But it's the second half that holds the life for Nuvve Nuvve". A critic from The Hindu wrote that "Perhaps, by their very nature, most love stories are similar with identical situations especially woven around teenagers. The 'Nuvvu' sentiment is still working wonders or at least the filmmakers think so. And Nuvve Nuvve is no exception to the rule". A critic from Full Hyderabad wrote that "The film is definitely worth watching, thanks to its tight script, decent music, decent performances, novel treatment and brilliantly written dialogues". Deccan Herald wrote "Those who enjoyed the first half of the movie will find the second half a bit boring. But still, the movie is watchable".

Awards
Filmfare Awards South
 Best Supporting Actor - Prakash Raj

Nandi Awards
 Second Best Feature Film - Silver - Sravanthi Ravi Kishore
 Best Dialogue Writer - Trivikram Srinivas

References

External links
 

2002 films
Films directed by Trivikram Srinivas
Films with screenplays by Trivikram Srinivas
2000s Telugu-language films
Indian romantic drama films
Films scored by Koti
2002 directorial debut films
2002 romantic drama films