# Desmond Fitzgerald (professor)

Desmond Fitzgerald (born 30 October 1953) is an Irish medical doctor and academic leader. On 6 October 2016, Fitzgerald was announced as the President-elect of the University of Limerick. He took up this role in early 2017, becoming the fifth President. He resigned in May 2020 for "personal health concerns" citing the COVID-19 pandemic. Prior to this, Fitzgerald held the positions of Vice President for Health Affairs with University College Dublin and Chief Academic Officer at Ireland East Hospital Group from 2015 to 2016.

Early life and education
Fitzgerald was born on 30 October 1953 to Maureen O’Donovan from Limerick and Thomas Joseph Fitzgerald from Belfast.

Fitzgerald attended Oatlands College, Stillorgan, Dublin. He studied medicine at University College Dublin (UCD), National University of Ireland and graduated with a MB, BAO, BCH (Honours), in 1977, and a Diploma in Mathematical Statistics from Trinity College Dublin in 1982.   He was awarded an MD from the National University of Ireland in 1994.

Career

Early career
Following his graduation from medical school at UCD and medical residency in the Mater Misericordiae University Hospital, the Charitable Infirmary Jervis Street Hospital and the Richmond Hospital in Dublin, Fitzgerald completed a Fellowship in the Royal College of Surgeons in Dublin. In 1983, he moved to Vanderbilt University in Nashville in the US to train in clinical pharmacology and cardiology. He remained in the US to head a large coronary care facility and a research programme into the causes of cardiovascular disease.

UCD and RCSI
In 1991, Fitzgerald returned to University College Dublin and shortly after this he established a research laboratory and held attending physician positions at several Dublin hospitals.  In 1994, he was appointed Professor and Head of Department of Clinical Pharmacology at the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland.

Research interests
Over the next 10 years, he built a research programme that bridged basic research and the clinical sciences. These included the RCSI Clinical Research Centre; the Institute for Biopharmaceutical Sciences; SurGen, a pharmacogenomics company; the RCSI Centre for Human Proteomics; Java Clinical Research, a spin-out CRO; the RCSI biobanking facility; and a bioinformatics programme that in partnership with Siemens designed the innovative ‘proteomics pipeline’.

He led the development of the College's translational medicine research programme, which culminated in the Programme for Human Genomics, a €42m research partnership between the three medical schools in Dublin that has since grown into the national programme for translational medicine (Molecular Medicine Ireland). From 2002, he was appointed as Director of Research and a member of the senior management team at RCSI.

Vice-President for Research, UCD
In 2004, Fitzgerald was appointed Vice President for Research and Professor of Molecular Medicine in UCD. Fitzgerald developed the research strategy and oversaw its implementation through a new organisation, UCD Research. In five years, the university soared in global rankings to enter the top 100, trebled its research funding and increased its rate of academic publication by 250%.

Central to the research strategy in UCD was the development of a series of multi-disciplinary programmes with a strong translational focus. These have included six research institutes spanning humanities, social sciences, engineering, science and business; two Centres for Science Engineering and Technology; and seven Strategic Research Clusters. He developed a series of programmes in the humanities targeting major societal challenges in areas that included education and child development. Fitzgerald established 7 structured PhD programmes and a Researcher Career Framework and led the strategic recruitment of a large group of academics (the Stokes Lectureships and Professorships).

Fitzgerald was criticised for his high salary on joining UCD from RCSI. UCD consistently defended the salary on the basis that he achieved a major turnaround in research funding, amounting to €1bn during his time in the role.

UCD – Science District
Fitzgerald led the development of the UCD Science Centre, a €300m development that was funded through philanthropy and successive bids to the national investment fund in higher education, the Programme for Research in Third Level Institutions. Phase I opened in September 2011, with Phase II completed in September 2013, and as of October 2016, Phase III was in the planning stage. From the outset, it was envisaged that computational science and informatics would be central to the development. This ambition has been realised with an €80m national data analytics centre award to UCD and its partners in 2013.

The UCD Science District included several major programmes, including The Earth Institute and INSIGHT, the national data analytics programme. It was also home to Ireland's largest and most comprehensive campus for education and research in the Health Sciences, spanning biomedical research, population science and health services research. Fitzgerald also developed a science outreach programme, including the UCD Imagine Science Film Festival and Science Expression.

Biomedical and Health Research
During his tenure at UCD, Fitzgerald played a central role in the development of biomedical and health research, and building links to the hospital campuses. Central to these efforts was  the UCD Conway Institute for Biomolecular and Biomedical Research. The Institute opened in 2002, then a  facility that was home to 400+ biomedical researchers. Several state-of-the-art technology platforms were developed in the Institute to support the biomedical research community, including comprehensive proteomics facilities, gene sequencing and bioinformatics. Based on these capabilities, the Institute was well positioned in 2009 to establish the €20m national programme in Systems Biology funded by Science Foundation Ireland.

Allied to the UCD Conway Institute were facilities for translational medicine, with the core goal of improving patient care. The facilities included the Clinical Research Centres on the hospital campuses and the €18m Charles Institute for dermatology research and training. Extensive resources were built for drug development. These included the €50m Centre for Molecular Innovation and Drug Discovery and the €58m National Institute for Bioprocessing Research and Training.

Other facilities included the Centre for Nanomedicine, which is developing technologies for stem cell therapy, drug delivery and human imaging. Strong links were forged in nutrition between the biomedical programme and food science through the UCD Institute of Food and Health, which opened in 2011. Several programs were initiated to develop novel technologies for healthcare. These included Technology Research for Independent Living, a unique partnership with Intel and GE Healthcare that developed health technologies for deployment in the home and the Enterprise Ireland-funded centre, Applied Research for Connected Health.

Vice-President for Health Affairs, UCD, and Chief Academic Officer of the Ireland East Hospital Group
In 2013, Fitzgerald was appointed Principal of the College of Health Sciences, Vice-President for Health Affairs at UCD, and Chief Academic Officer of the Ireland East Hospital Group to drive the development of health sciences at UCD and their integration with the affiliated hospitals. The initiative was central to the development of the emerging Academic Health Sciences Centre, a partnership between UCD and 11 hospitals, including two major teaching hospitals, the Mater Misericordiae University Hospital and St. Vincent's University Hospital.

Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Industry Engagement
Fitzgerald developed extensive partnerships with industry centred on UCD's key research themes. These industry partnerships were pivotal to two Centres for Science Engineering and Technology and the seven Strategic Research Clusters on campus and involved upwards of 350 companies. Fitzgerald was also one of the founders of the National Digital Research Centre, a hub for support of new technology companies established in 2007.  In addition, during his tenure UCD was awarded three industry-led Enterprise Ireland Technology Centres, including Food Health Ireland, Applied Research for Connected Health and the Centre for Advanced Research in Data Analytics.

Fitzgerald also developed the Knowledge Centre within the new UCD Science District to foster innovation and entrepreneurship. The Knowledge Centre is home to the Innovation Academy, which was established in 2011 to provide a unique programme in innovation and entrepreneurship to PhD students, and was extended to support the Irish government's Springboard initiative established to support the economic recovery during the recession of 2008.

Other works
Fitzgerald established the Office for EU Research to drive the univer