# Mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 3

Mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 3 also known as SMAD family member 3 or SMAD3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SMAD3 gene.

SMAD3 is a member of the SMAD family of proteins. It acts as a mediator of the signals initiated by the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) superfamily of cytokines, which regulate cell proliferation, differentiation and death. Based on its essential role in TGF beta signaling pathway, SMAD3 has been related with tumor growth in cancer development.

Gene 

The human SMAD3 gene is located on chromosome 15 on the cytogenic band at 15q22.33. The gene is composed of 9 exons over 129,339 base pairs. It is one of several human homologues of a gene that was originally discovered in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster.

The expression of SMAD3 has been related to the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK/ERK pathway), particularly to the activity of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase-1 (MEK1). Studies have demonstrated that inhibition of MEK1 activity also inhibits SMAD3 expression in epithelial cells and smooth muscle cells, two cell types highly responsive to TGF-β1.

Protein 

SMAD3 is a polypeptide with a molecular weight of 48,080 Da. It belongs to the SMAD family of proteins. SMAD3 is recruited by SARA (SMAD Anchor for Receptor Activation) to the membrane, where the TGF-β receptor is located. The receptors for TGF-β, (including nodal, activin, myostatin and other family members) are membrane serine/threonine kinases that preferentially phosphorylate and activate SMAD2 and SMAD3.

Once SMAD3 is phosphorylated at the C-terminus, it dissociates from SARA and forms a heterodimeric complex with SMAD4, which is required for the transcriptional regulation of many target genes.
The complex of two SMAD3 (or of two SMAD2) and one SMAD4 binds directly to DNA though interactions of the MH1 domain. These complexes are recruited to sites throughout the genome by cell lineage-defining transcription factors (LDTFs) that determine the context-dependent nature of TGF-β action. The DNA binding sites in promoters and enhancers are known as the SMAD-binding elements (SBEs). These sites contain the CAG(AC)|(CC) and GGC(GC)|(CG) consensus sequences, the latter also known as 5GC sites. The 5GC-motifs are highly represented as clusters of sites, in SMAD-bound regions genome-wide. These clusters can also contain CAG(AC)|(CC) sites.
SMAD3/SMAD4 complex also binds to the TPA-responsive gene promoter elements, which have the sequence motif TGAGTCAG.

Transcriptional coregulators, such as WWTR1 (TAZ), interact with SMAD3 to promote their function.

Structure

MH1 domain
The X-ray structures of the SMAD3 MH1 domain bound to the GTCT DNA reveal characteristic features of the fold. The MH1 structure consists of four-helices and three sets of antiparallel β-hairpins, one of which is used to interact with DNA. It also revealed the presence of a bound Zn2+, coordinated by His126, Cys64, Cys109 and Cys121 residues. The main DNA binding region of the MH1 domain comprises the loop following the β1 strand, and the β2-β3 hairpin. In the complex with a member of the 5GC DNAs, the GGCGC motif, the convex face of the DNA-binding hairpin dives into the concave major groove of the duplex DNA containing five base pairs (GGCGC /'GCGCC'). In addition, the three residues strictly conserved in all R-SMADS and in SMAD4 (Arg74 and Gln76 located in β2 and Lys81 in β3 in SMAD3) participate in a network of specific hydrogen bonds with the dsDNA. Several tightly bound water molecules at the protein-DNA interface that contribute to the stabilization of the interactions have also been detected. The SMAD3 complex with the GGCGC site reveals that the protein-DNA interface is highly complementary and that one MH1 protein covers a DNA binding site of six base pairs.

MH2 domain
The MH2 domain mediates the interaction of R-SMADS with activated TGF-β receptors, and with SMAD4 after receptor-mediated phosphorylation of the Ser-X-Ser motif present in R-SMADS. The MH2 domain is also a binding platform for cytoplasmic anchors, DNA-binding cofactors, histone modifiers, chromatin readers, and nucleosome- positioning factors. 
The structure of the complex of SMAD3 and SMAD4 MH2 domains has been determined. The MH2 fold is defined by two sets of antiparallel β-strands (six and five strands respectively) arranged as a β-sandwich flanked by a triple-helical bundle on one side and by a set of large loops and a helix on the other.

Functions and interactions

TGF-β/SMAD signaling pathway 

SMAD3 functions as a transcriptional modulator, binding the TRE (TPA responsive element) in the promoter region of many genes that are regulated by TGF-β. SMAD3 and SMAD4 can also form a complex with c-Fos and c-jun at the AP-1/SMAD site to regulate TGF-β-inducible transcription.  The genes regulated by SMAD3-mediated TGFβ signaling affect differentiation, growth and death. 
TGF-β/SMAD signaling pathway has been shown to have a critical role in the expression of genes controlling differentiation of embryonic stem cells.  Some of the developmental genes regulated by this pathway include FGF1, NGF, and WNT11 as well as stem/progenitor cell associated genes CD34 and CXCR4.  The activity of this pathway as a regulator of pluripotent cell states requires the TRIM33-SMAD2/3 chromatin reading complex.

TGF-β/SMAD3-induced repression 

Besides the activity of TGF-β in the up-regulation of genes, this signaling molecule also induces the repression of target genes containing the TGF-β inhibitory element (TIE).  SMAD3 plays also a critical role in TGF-β-induced repression of target genes, specifically it is required for the repression of c-myc. The transcriptional repression of c-myc is dependent on direct SMAD3 binding to a repressive SMAD binding element (RSBE), within TIE of the c-myc promoter. The c-myc TIE is a composite element, composed of an overlapping RSBE and a consensus E2F site, which is capable of binding at least SMAD3, SMAD4, E2F4, and p107.

Clinical significance

Diseases 

Increased SMAD3 activity has, however, been implicated in the pathogenesis of scleroderma.

SMAD3 is also a multifaceted regulator in adipose physiology and the pathogenesis of obesity and type 2 diabetes. SMAD3-knockout mice have diminished adiposity, with improved glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. Despite their reduced physical activity arising from muscle atrophy, these SMAD3-knockout mice are resistant to high-fat-diet induced obesity. SMAD3-knockout mouse is a legitimate animal model of human aneurysms‐osteoarthritis syndrome (AOS), also named Loeys-Dietz Syndrome (type 3). SMAD3 deficiency promotes inflammatory aortic aneurysms in angiotensin II-infused mice via the activation of iNOS. Macrophage depletion and inhibition of iNOS activity prevent aortic aneurysms related to SMAD3 gene mutation

Role in cancer 

The role of SMAD3 in the regulation of genes important for cell fate, such as differentiation, growth and death, implies that an alteration in its activity or repressing of its activity can lead to the formation or development of cancer. Also several studies have proven the bifunctional tumor suppressor/oncogene role of TGF beta signaling pathway in carcinogenesis.

One way in which SMAD3 transcriptional activator function is repressed, is by the activity of EVI-1. EVI-1 encodes a zinc-finger protein that may be involved in leukaemic transformation of haematopoietic cells. The zinc-finger domain of EVI-1 interacts with SMAD3, thereby suppressing the transcriptional activity of SMAD3. EVI-1 is thought to be able to promote growth and to block differentiation in some cell types by repressing TGF-β signalling and antagonizing the growth-inhibitory effects of TGF-β.

Prostate 

The activity of SMAD3 in prostate cancer is related with the regulation of angiogenic molecules expression in tumor vascularization and cell-cycle inhibitor in tumor growth.  The progressive growth of primary tumors and metastases in prostate cancer depends on an adequate blood supply provided by tumor angiogenesis. Studies analyzing SMAD3 levels of expression in prostate cancer cell lines found that the two androgen-independent and androgen receptor-negative cell lines (PC-3MM2 and DU145) have high expression levels of SMAD3. Analysis of the relation between SMAD3 and the regulation of angiogenic molecules suggest that SMAD3 may be one of key components as a repressor of the critical angiogenesis switch in prostate cancer.  
The pituitary tumor-transforming gene 1 (PTTG1) has also an impact in SMAD3-mediated TGFβ signaling. PTTG1 has been associated with various cancer cells including prostate cancer cells. Studies showed that the overexpression of PTTG1 induces a decrease in SMAD3 expression, promoting the proliferation of prostate cancer cells via the inhibition of SMAD3.

Colorectal 

In mice, mutation of SMAD3 has been linked to colorectal adenocarcinoma,[3] increased systemic inflammation, and