# The Desperate Hours (play)

The Desperate Hours is a 1955 play by Joseph Hayes, adapted from his 1954 novel of the same title. It is a three-act melodrama, with a medium sized cast and tense pacing. The story concerns a family of four, living in a suburb of Indianapolis, whose quiet home is invaded by three convicts recently escaped from prison. 

The play was produced by the author and Howard Erskine, staged by Robert Montgomery, and starred Karl Malden and Nancy Coleman as the parents, with Paul Newman as the convict leader. Besides an excellent cast, taut writing and staging, the production had an extraordinary set design by Howard Bay. It was the recipient of several drama awards, including two Tonys, but has never had a Broadway revival.

Characters
Listed in order of appearance within their scope.

Leads
 Jesse Bard is a deputy sheriff; he had previously broken Glen Griffin's jaw, who now seeks revenge.
 Eleanor Hillard is a fortyish housewife, mother of Cindy and Ralphie, and wife to Dan.
 Dan Hillard is a fortyish white collar worker, husband to Eleanor and father to Cindy and Ralphie.
 Glenn Griffin: is the 24 year-old leader of the escaped convicts; smart, but prone to rages.

Supporting
 Tom Winston is a deputy sheriff, who initially lets the FBI and state police handle the case.
 Harry Carson is a young FBI special agent who liaises with the county sheriff's office.
 Ralphie Hillard is the nine-year-old son of Eleanor and Dan, intelligent and a bit precocious.
 Cindy Hillard is the twenty-year-old daughter of Eleanor and Dan, employed by lawyer Chuck Wright.
 Hank Griffin is an escaped convict, younger brother of Glenn, still capable of empathy.
 Samuel Robish is an escaped convict; a lifer, brutish, stupid, stubborn and wilfull.  

Featured
 Chuck Wright is a young attorney, Cindy's boss and the target of her affection.
 Lt. Carl Fredericks is an Indiana State Police officer. Heard over intercom then appears later.
 Claude Patterson is the trashman for the Hillard's neighborhood.
 Miss Swift is Ralph's teacher, who drops by unexpectedly when he misses school.

Voice only
 Dutch is a deputy sheriff, heard over an intercom at the sheriff's station.

Off stage
 Sheriff Masters is the county sheriff, superior officer to Tom, Jesse, and Dutch.
 Helen Laski is Glenn's girlfriend, supposedly en route from Pittsburgh with getaway money.
 Katie Bard is Jesse's wife, with whom he speaks on the phone several times during the action.

Synopsis
Deputy Sheriff Jesse Bard relieves his night-shift colleague Tom Winston, only to discover three convicts have escaped overnight from the federal penitentiary at Terre Haute, and Tom has left it up to the FBI and state police. Jesse had arrested convict Glenn Griffin, and figures he'll head to Indianapolis to meet up with his girl friend Helen Laski and to get revenge on Jesse. While Jesse co-ordinates the search with Lt. Carl Fredericks of the state police and FBI special agent Harry Carson, the Hillard family is just starting their day at home. Dan Hillard drives himself and his daughter Cindy to work, while his wife Eleanor sends son Ralphie off to school on his bike. Alone now, Eleanor answers a doorbell to find a stranger asking for directions. Its Glenn Griffin, who produces a gun when Eleanor is distracted by Hank Griffin coming in through an unlocked back entrance. Robish also now appears, and the three hold Eleanor hostage in her own house all day.  One by one the other Hillards are captured as they return home.

The FBI has located Helen Laski in Pittsburgh and informs Jesse Bard she is driving towards Indianapolis. Glenn Griffin is expecting her to arrive at midnight with the getaway money, but she doesn't show up. Law enforcement has also lost track of her. The next morning Glenn makes a decision: he'll let Cindy and Dan go to work as usual, while holding Eleanor and the outspoken Ralphie at home as hostages. The Hillard family's battle of wits with the convicts seesaws back and forth, while unexpected visitors and phone calls threaten to upset the delicate equilibrium between captors and hostages. The local trash collector, Claude Patterson, who notices the convicts' stolen car in the Hillards garage, is taken away by Robish, who murders him. Meanwhile, attorney Chuck Wright has become suspicious of Cindy's evasive replies and contacts the police.

Alert at last to the convicts hideout, law officers try to eavesdrop on what's going on in the Hillard house from a neighbor's attic. Eventually, a combination of the family's efforts and the police vigil pay off, with Hank Griffin deciding to bolt. His departure lets Dan Hillard get the drop on Glen Griffin with an empty gun, tricking him into leaving the house to go outside where the police are waiting.

Original production

Background
The spark for Hayes' novel was a real home invasion that happened to the Hill family in Philadelphia during 1952. However, Hayes' storyline was invented and not based on the Hill family's experience. After reading Hayes' novel, producer Howard Erskine was convinced it would make a good play. He flew to Florida where Hayes was living on Anna Maria Island, and persuaded him to write a stage adaption. Hayes later wrote a screenplay which was sold to Paramount under condition that the film version could not be released before December 23, 1955.

Staging and set
Robert Montgomery was impressed with Hayes' dramatic treatment of the story, and in June 1954 agreed to direct the production. Montgomery and his daughter, actress Elisabeth Montgomery, also invested money in the play. One of Montgomery's first concerns was how to provide breaks in the tense pacing of the story. Hayes wanted to use humor, while Montgomery thought pauses in the action might work. He told interviewer Barbara L. Wilson "What both of us failed to realize was that the set would solve our dilemma". Howard Bay's unique scenic and lighting design allowed for this approach by presenting a two-level set showing the interior of the Hillard house and the local sheriff's station interior simultaneously. A traveling curtain above the latter hid a further set representing the attic of the Hillard's next door neighbor. Lighting was used to focus the audience attention on the current action, while actors on the other sets remained still in semi-darkness.

Actors and venue
Karl Malden was the first actor signed for the play, after he obtained a release from Warner Brothers to appear in it. Rehearsals started on December 13, 1954 with the principals Nancy Coleman, Karl Malden, Paul Newman, James Gregory, and George Mathews present. The Ethel Barrymore Theatre was booked and Patricia Peardon, Malcolm Broderick, and Fred Eisley hired by December 24, while George Grizzard, Kendall Clark, Judson Pratt, and Rusty Lane were signed the next day. Casting was complete on December 28, 1955, after Mary Orr and Wyrley Birch were hired.

Cast

Tryouts
The play had its first tryout at the Shubert Theater in New Haven, Connecticut on January 6, 1955. Reviewer Fred Russell credited the sets by Howard Bay with garnering applause from the opening night audience even before the actors appeared. He especially praised Montgomery's staging and Malden's acting, but gave the rest of the cast their due. Another reviewer singled out the acting of Patricia Peardon and young Malcolm Brodrick, and judged George Grizzard as "particularly adept". They reported "The opening night audience displayed unprecedented enthusiasm by refusing to depart even when lights came on after many curtain calls.... Here is a 'try out' that is at its inception a polished gem of extraordinary size and depth". A local columnist predicted "This one will be the dramatic sensation of the Broadway season".  

The production then went to Philadelphia's Locust Street Theatre on January 12, 1955, for a highly-praised three-week run. Henry T. Murdock from The Philadelphia Inquirer said: "It is tremendously effective theater, marked by complete cooperation among its elements--- writer, director, actors and set designer. In fact, the play had to be on the stalwart side to draw attention from Howard Bay's remarkable 'breakfront' set".

Reception
The play opened on February 10, 1955 at the Ethel Barrymore Theatre on Broadway. Perhaps the most enthusiastic reviewer was John Chapman of the Daily News, who said "I cannot remember any melodrama which has been as steadily and intensely exciting as is The Desperate Hours-- or one which has been better acted or better staged." The demanding critic Walter F. Kerr praised the "slambang" action and tense pacing: "The Desperate Hours is straight popcorn, but it makes a lovely racket." Brooks Atkinson said "Mr. Hayes has written a graphic crime play that makes sense" and "...it does show more interest in the characters than most thrillers do". He praised all the actors and especially Paul Newman who he said "plays the boss thug with a wildness that one is inclined to respect". Charles K. Freeman, not