[The Art of Perfumery — Piesse — Gutenberg #15583]

story to send on the Indians. Presently Buntline sung out: 'The Indians are upon us.' Now this was 'pie' for Jack and I, and we went at those bogus Indians red hot until we had killed the last one and the curtain went down amid a most tremendous applause, while the audience went wild. The other actors never got a chance to appear in the first act. Buntline said, 'Go ahead with the second act, it's going splendid.' I think that during the entire performance, neither Jack nor myself spoke a line of our original parts. But the next morning the press said it was the best show ever given in Chicago, as it was so bad it was good, and they could not see what Buntline was doing all the time if it took him four hours to write that drama. "Our business was immense all that season, and if we had been managed properly we would have each made a small fortune. As it was I came out $10,000 ahead. In June, 1873, I returned to the plains, came East again in the fall, this time my own manager. I got a company, took the noted 'Wild Bill' with me, but could not do much with him as he was not an easy man to handle, and would insist on shooting the supers in the legs with powder, just to see them jump. He left a few months later and returned to the plains. He was killed in August, 1876, in Deadwood. "In the summer of 1876 I was Chief of Scouts under General Carr, afterward with General Crook and General Terry. "On the 17th of July I killed Yellow Hand, a noted Cheyenne chief, and took the first scalp for Custer. I returned to the stage in October, 1876, and during the season of 1876 and 1879 I cleared $38,000. I have generally been successful financially on the stage. I am now in the cattle business in Nebraska, to which place I will return as soon as the season is over, providing nothing serious occurs to call me home earlier." CHAPTER XXX. THE YELLOW HAND DUEL. As Buffalo Bill, in the foregoing chapter speaks of his killing Yellow Hand, the celebrated Cheyenne chief, who was greatly feared by his own people, and a terror to the whites, I will give an account of that tragic duel between a white man and two Indians, for another chief also rode down and attacked the noted scout, after his red comrade had fallen. When the Indian war of 1876 broke out Buffalo Bill at 01:00 closed his dramatic season, and started post haste for the West, having received a telegram from General E.A. Carr asking for his services as scout in the coming campaign. He joined the command at Fort D.A. Russell, where the famous Fifth Cavalry Regiment was then in camp, and arriving received a boisterous welcome from his old comrades, who felt that, with Buffalo Bill as Chief of Scouts, they would surely have warm work with the Indians. The Fifth Cavalry was at once ordered to operate in scouting the country on the South Fork of the Cheyenne and to the foot of the Black Hills, and it was while driving the Indians before them that the news came of Custer's fatal fight with Sitting Bull on the Little Big Horn. General Merritt, who had superseded Carr in command marched at once to the Big Horn country, and while _en route_ there came news of a large force of warriors moving down to join Sitting Bull. Instantly five hundred picked men of the Fifth started back by forced marches, and Buffalo Bill, splendidly mounted, kept on ahead of the command a couple of miles. Discovering the Indians, he at the same time beheld two horsemen whom he saw to be whites, riding along unconscious of the presence of foes. He knew that they must be scouts bearing dispatches, and at once determined to save them for they were riding in a direction down one valley that would bring them directly upon the red-skins, who had already seen them, and had sent a force of thirty warriors out to intercept them. Instantly Buffalo Bill dashed over the ridge of the hill that concealed him from the view of the Cheyennes, and rode directly toward the band going to attack the two white horsemen. They halted suddenly at sight of him, but, seeing that he was alone, they started for him with wild yells. But still he kept on directly toward them, until within range, when he opened upon them with his matchless Evans rifle, a thirty-four-shot repeater, and a hot fight began, for they returned the fire. This was just what Buffalo Bill wanted, for the firing alarmed the horsemen and placed them on their guard, and he knew that the Indian volleys would be heard at the command and hasten them forward. Having dropped a couple of red-skins and several ponies, Buffalo Bill wheeled to the rightabout, dashed up to the top of a hill, and, signaling to the two whites to follow him, headed for the command at full speed. As he had anticipated, the two men were scouts with important dispatches for General Merritt, and Bill's bold act had not only saved their lives, but also the dispatches, and the result of it was that the Fifth Cavalry went at once into line of battle, while the Cheyennes also formed for battle, though evidently surprised at being headed off at that point. But they saw that they were double the force of the whites, and were determined upon a fight, and their chiefs reconnoitered carefully their foes' strength and position. Buffalo Bill also volunteered to go out and get a closer look at them, to see what they were up to, and General Merritt told him to do so, but not to venture too near and expose himself. As he left the line two Indian horsemen also rode out from among their comrades, and one was some lengths in front of the other. At a glance Buffalo Bill saw that the two were full chiefs, and they had not advanced far toward each other when he discovered that he was the especial object of their attention. But though one halted, the other came on, and the scout and the chief came within a hundred yards of each other. Then the Indian cried out in his own tongue: "I know Pa-e-has-ka the Great White Hunter and want to fight him." "Then come on, you red devil, and have it out," shouted back Buffalo Bill, and forgetting General Merritt's orders not to expose himself, and to the horror of the regiment, every man of whom saw him, as well as did the Indians, he dashed at full speed toward the chief, who likewise, with a wild yell rode toward him. Together both fired, the chief with his rifle, and Buffalo Bill with his revolver, and down dropped both horses. Buffalo Bill nimbly caught on his feet, while the Indian was pinned by one leg under his horse, and with his war-cry the scout rushed upon him. As he advanced the chief succeeded in releasing his leg from beneath his horse and again fired, as did Buffalo Bill, and both of them with revolvers. The Indian's bullet cut a slight gash in Bill's arm, while he struck the red-skin in the leg, and the next instant sprung upon him with his knife, which both had drawn. The hand-to-hand fight was hardly five seconds in duration, and Buffalo Bill had driven his knife into the broad red breast, and then tore from his head the scalp and feather war-bonnet, and waving it over his head, shouted in ringing tones: "_Bravo! the first scalp to avenge Custer!_" A shout of warning from the cavalry caused him to turn quickly and he beheld the second chief riding down upon him at full speed. But Bill turned upon him, and a shot from his revolver got him another scalp. But hardly had he stooped to tear it from the skull, when the Indians, with wildest yells, charged upon him. They were nearer to him than was the regiment, and it looked bad for Buffalo Bill; but the gallant Fifth charged in splendid style, met the Indians in a savage fight, and then began to drive them in wild confusion, and pushed them back into the Agency a sorely whipped body of Cheyennes, and grieving over heavy losses. Upon reaching the Agency Buffalo Bill learned that the two Indians he had killed in the duel were Yellow Hand and Red Knife, and Cut Nose, the father of the former swore some day to have the scout's scalp. But Buffalo Bill laughed lightly at this threat, evidently believing the old adage that "A threatened man is long lived." CHAPTER XXXI. CONCLUSION. Having gone over many of the thrilling scenes in the life of W.F. Cody, Buffalo Bill, from boyhood to manhood, and shown what indomitable pluck he possesses, and the pinnacle of fame he has reached unaided, and by his own exertions and will, I can only now say that much remains to be told of his riper years, from the time he stepped across the threshold from youth to man's estate, for since then his life has been one long series of perilous adventures which, though tinged with romance, and seeming fiction, will go down to posterity as true border history of this most remarkable man, the truly called King of Prairiemen. THE END. * * * * * Half-Dime Singer's Library 1 WHOA, EMMA! and 59 other Songs. 2 CAPTAIN CUFF and 57 other Songs. 3 THE GAINSBORO' HAT and 62 other Songs. 4 JOHNNY MORGAN and 60 other Songs. 5 I'LL STRIKE YOU WITH A FEATHER and 62 others, 6 GEORGE THE CHARMER and 56 other Songs. 7 THE BELLE OF ROCKAWAY and 52 other Songs. 8 YOUNG FELLAH, YOU'RE TOO FRESH and 60 others. 9 SHY YOUNG GIRL and 65 other Songs. 10 I'M THE GOVERNOR'S ONLY SON and 58 other Songs. 11 MY FAN and 65 other Songs. 12 COMIN' THRO' THE RYE and 55 other Songs. 13 THE ROLLICKING IRISHMAN and 59 other Songs. 14 OLD DOG TRAY and 62 other Songs. 15 WHOA, CHARLIE and 59 other Songs. 16 IN THIS WHEAT BY AND BY and 62 other Songs. 17 NANCY LEE and 58 other Songs. 18 I'M THE BOY THAT'S BOUND TO BLAZE and 57 others. 19 THE TWO ORPHANS and 59 other Songs. 20 WHAT ARE THE WILD WAVES SAYING, SISTER? and 59 other Songs. 21 INDIGNANT POLLY WOG and 59 other Songs. 22 THE OLD ARM-CHAIR and 58 other Songs. 23 ON CONEY ISLAND