[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

blaspheming. THE CHILD And do you love me too? MARY I do not know. THE CHILD You love that young man there, Yet I could make you ride upon the winds, Run on the top of the dishevelled tide, And dance upon the mountains like a flame. MARY Queen of Angels and kind saints defend us! Some dreadful thing will happen. A while ago She took away the blessed quicken wood. FATHER HART You fear because of her unmeasured prattle; She knows no better. Child, how old are you? THE CHILD When winter sleep is abroad my hair grows thin, My feet unsteady. When the leaves awaken My mother carries me in her golden arms; I'll soon put on my womanhood and marry The spirits of wood and water, but who can tell When I was born for the first time? I think I am much older than the eagle cock That blinks and blinks on Ballygawley Hill, And he is the oldest thing under the moon. FATHER HART O she is of the faery people. THE CHILD One called, I sent my messengers for milk and fire, She called again and after that I came. (_All except_ SHAWN _and_ MARY BRUIN _gather behind the priest for protection_.) SHAWN (_rising_) Though you have made all these obedient, You have not charmed my sight and won from me A wish or gift to make you powerful; I'll turn you from the house. FATHER HART No, I will face her. THE CHILD Because you took away the crucifix I am so mighty that there's none can pass, Unless I will it, where my feet have danced Or where I've whirled my finger-tops. (SHAWN _tries to approach her and cannot_.) MAURTEEN Look, look! There something stops him--look how he moves his hands As though he rubbed them on a wall of glass! FATHER HART I will confront this mighty spirit alone; Be not afraid, the Father is with us, The Holy Martyrs and the Innocents, The adoring Magi in their coats of mail, And He who died and rose on the third day, And all the nine angelic hierarchies. (_The_ CHILD _kneels upon the settle beside_ MARY _and puts her arms about her_.) Cry, daughter, to the Angels and the Saints. THE CHILD You shall go with me, newly-married bride, And gaze upon a merrier multitude. White-armed Nuala, Aengus of the Birds, Feacra of the hurtling foam, and him Who is the ruler of the Western Host, Finvarra, and their Land of Heart's Desire, Where beauty has no ebb, decay no flood, But joy is wisdom, Time an endless song. I kiss you and the world begins to fade. SHAWN Awake out of that trance--and cover up Your eyes and ears. FATHER HART She must both look and listen, For only the soul's choice can save her now. Come over to me, daughter; stand beside me; Think of this house and of your duties in it. THE CHILD Stay and come with me, newly-married bride, For if you hear him you grow like the rest; Bear children, cook, and bend above the churn, And wrangle over butter, fowl, and eggs, Until at last, grown old and bitter of tongue, You're crouching there and shivering at the grave. FATHER HART Daughter, I point you out the way to Heaven. THE CHILD But I can lead you, newly-married bride, Where nobody gets old and crafty and wise, Where nobody gets old and godly and grave, Where nobody gets old and bitter of tongue, And where kind tongues bring no captivity; For we are but obedient to the thoughts That drift into the mind at a wink of the eye. FATHER HART By the dear Name of the One crucified, I bid you, Mary Bruin, come to me. THE CHILD I keep you in the name of your own heart. FATHER HART It is because I put away the crucifix That I am nothing, and my power is nothing. I'll bring it here again. MAURTEEN (_clinging to him_) No. BRIDGET Do not leave us. FATHER HART O, let me go before it is too late; It is my sin alone that brought it all. (_Singing outside._) THE CHILD I hear them sing, "Come, newly-married bride, Come, to the woods and waters and pale lights." MARY I will go with you. FATHER HART She is lost, alas! THE CHILD (_standing by the door_) But clinging mortal hope must fall from you, For we who ride the winds, run on the waves, And dance upon the mountains are more light Than dewdrops on the banner of the dawn. MARY O, take me with you. SHAWN Beloved, I will keep you. I've more than words, I have these arms to hold you, Nor all the faery host, do what they please, Shall ever make me loosen you from these arms. MARY Dear face! Dear voice! THE CHILD Come, newly-married bride. MARY I always loved her world--and yet--and yet---- THE CHILD White bird, white bird, come with me, little bird. MARY She calls me! THE CHILD Come with me, little bird. (_Distant dancing figures appear in the wood._) MARY I can hear songs and dancing. SHAWN Stay with me. MARY I think that I would stay--and yet--and yet---- THE CHILD Come, little bird, with crest of gold. MARY (_very softly_) And yet---- THE CHILD Come, little bird with silver feet! (MARY BRUIN _dies, and the_ CHILD _goes_.) SHAWN She is dead! BRIDGET Come from that image; body and soul are gone. You have thrown your arms about a drift of leaves, Or bole of an ash-tree changed into her image. FATHER HART Thus do the spirits of evil snatch their prey, Almost out of the very hand of God; And day by day their power is more and more, And men and women leave old paths, for pride Comes knocking with thin knuckles on the heart. (_Outside there are dancing figures, and it may be a white bird, and many voices singing_:) "The wind blows out of the gates of the day, The wind blows over the lonely of heart, And the lonely of heart is withered away; While the faeries dance in a place apart, Shaking their milk-white feet in a ring, Tossing their milk-white arms in the air; For they hear the wind laugh and murmur and sing Of a land where even the old are fair, And even the wise are merry of tongue; But I heard a reed of Coolaney say-- 'When the wind has laughed and murmured and sung, The lonely of heart is withered away.'" CROSSWAYS _"The stars are threshed, and the souls are threshed from their husks."_ WILLIAM BLAKE. To A.E. THE SONG OF THE HAPPY SHEPHERD The woods of Arcady are dead, And over is their antique joy; Of old the world on dreaming fed; Gray Truth is now her painted toy; Yet still she turns her restless head: But O, sick children of the world, Of all the many changing things In dreary dancing past us whirled, To the cracked tune that Chronos sings, Words alone are certain good. Where are now the warring kings, Word be-mockers?--By the Rood Where are now the warring kings? An idle word is now their glory, By the stammering schoolboy said, Reading some entangled story: The kings of the old time are fled The wandering earth herself may be Only a sudden flaming word, In clanging space a moment heard, Troubling the endless reverie. Then nowise worship dusty deeds, Nor seek; for this is also sooth; To hunger fiercely after truth, Lest all thy toiling only breeds New dreams, new dreams; there is no truth Saving in thine own heart. Seek, then, No learning from the starry men, Who follow with the optic glass The whirling ways of stars that pass-- Seek, then, for this is also sooth, No word of theirs--the cold star-bane Has cloven and rent their hearts in twain, And dead is all their human truth. Go gather by the humming-sea Some twisted, echo-harbouring shell, And to its lips thy story tell, And they thy comforters will be, Rewarding in melodious guile, Thy fretful words a little while, Till they shall singing fade in ruth, And die a pearly brotherhood; For words alone are certain good: Sing, then, for this is also sooth. I must be gone: there is a grave Where daffodil and lily wave, And I would please the hapless faun, Buried under the sleepy ground, With mirthful songs before the dawn. His shouting days with mirth were crowned; And still I dream he treads the lawn, Walking ghostly in the dew, Pierced by my glad singing through, My songs of old earth's dreamy youth: But ah! she dreams not now; dream thou! For fair are poppies on the brow: Dream, dream, for this is also sooth. THE SAD SHEPHERD There was a man whom Sorrow named his friend, And he, of his high comrade Sorrow dreaming, Went walking with slow steps along the gleaming And humming sands, where windy surges wend: And he called loudly to the stars to bend From their pale thrones and comfort him, but they Among themselves laugh on and sing alway: And then the man whom Sorrow named his friend Cried out, _Dim sea, hear my most piteous story!_ The sea swept on and cried her old cry still, Rolling along in dreams from hill to hill; He fled the persecution of her glory And, in a far-off, gentle valley stopping, Cried all his story to the dewdrops glistening, But naught they heard, for they are always listening, The dewdrops, for the sound of their own dropping. And then the man whom Sorrow named his friend, Sought once again the shore, and found a shell, And thought, _I will my heavy story tell Till my own words, re-echoing, shall send Their sadness through a hollow, pearly heart; And my own tale again for me shall sing, And my own whispering words be comforting, And lo! my ancient burden may depart_. Then he sang softly nigh the pearly rim; But the sad dweller by the sea-ways lone Changed all he sang to inarticulate moan Among her wildering whirls, forgetting him. THE CLOAK, THE BOAT, AND THE SHOES "What do you make so fair and bright?" "I make the cloak of Sorrow: "O, lovely to see in all men's sight "Shall be the cloak of Sorrow, "In all men's sight." "What do you build with sails for flight?" "I build a boat for Sorrow, "O, swift on the seas all day and night "Saileth the rover Sorrow, "All day and night." "What do you weave with wool so white? "I weave the shoes of Sorrow, "Soundless shall be the footfall light "In all men's ears of