[The Art of Perfumery — Piesse — Gutenberg #15583]

and gave a wild war-whoop, which was answered by a shot from the boy's rifle, for though taken wholly by surprise he did not lose his presence of mind. Hearing the war-whoop and the shot, and at the same time missing Billy, the men came running back and found him dragging the red-skin along in the stream after him. "It's my Injun, boys," he cried exultantly. "It are fer a fact, an' I'll show yer how ter take his scalp," replied Frank McCarthy the train-master, and he skillfully cut off the scalp-lock and handed it to Billy, adding: "Thar, thet is yer first scalp, boy, an' I'm willin' ter swear it won't be yer last, for Billy, you is ther boss boy I ever see." Billy thanked McCarthy for the gory trophy, gave a slight shudder as he took it, and said significantly: "I ain't so tired as I was, and I guess I'll keep up with you all now, for if the bank hadn't caved in that Injun would have had me." At daylight they came in sight of Kearney, and after a volley or two at the Indians still dogging their steps, made for the fort and reached it in safety. The commanding officer at once sent out a force in pursuit of the red-skins; but they neither found them or the cattle they had driven off. After a short stay at Fort Kearney Billy returned with a train to Leavenworth, where the papers dubbed him the "Boy Indian-Killer," and made a hero of him for his exploit on the South Platte. CHAPTER IX. WINNING A NAME. When Billy returned home, after his first Indian-killing expedition, he carried with him the pay of a bullwhacker, and all of it he placed in his mother's hands, for the death of Mr. Cody had left the family in indigent circumstances. Finding that she could not keep Billy at home when he had found out that by his exertions, boy though he was, he could support the family, Mrs. Cody gave a reluctant consent for him to make another trip to the far West under an old and experienced wagon-master named Lew Simpson, and who had taken a great fancy to the youthful Indian-fighter. Bill was accordingly enlisted as an "extra," which meant that he was to receive full pay and be on hand ready to take the place of any one of the train that was killed, wounded, or got sick. The wagon train pulled out of Leavenworth, all heavily freighted, each one carrying about six thousand pounds weight, and each also drawn by four yoke of oxen under charge of a driver, or "bullwhacker." The train consisted of twenty-five wagons, under Lew Simpson, then an assistant wagon-master, next Billy, the "extra," a night herder, a cavallard driver, whose duty was driving the loose and lame cattle, and the bullwhacker for each team. All were armed with _yagers_ and Colt's revolvers, and each man had a horse along, Billy's being Sable Satan, still as good as the day he captured him, and a piece of equine property all envied the boy the possession of; in fact there were several of the men who swore they would yet have the horse. "I guess not, pards; the boy caught that horse wild on the prairies, and the man that lays hands on him settles with me." The speaker was J.B. Hickok, known to the world as "Wild Bill," and upon that trail he and William F. Cody for the first time met. Wild Bill was assistant wagon-master on that trip, and all knew him so well that the idea of possessing Sable Satan by unfair means was at once given up and Billy felt secure in his treasure, for such the horse was, as his equal for speed and bottom had not been found on the plains. As an "extra hand" Billy had nothing to do while the bullwhackers kept in good health, and no Indians were met with, so became the hunter of the train, keeping it well supplied with fresh meats and wild fowl. It was upon one of these hunts that Billy won the name of Buffalo Billy, though afterward it was shortened by dropping the _y_ after proving himself the champion buffalo-killer on the plains. Dismounting from Sable Satan to cut up an antelope he had shot, he was suddenly startled by seeing his horse bound away over the prairie. Springing to his feet he at once discovered the cause, for over a distant roll of the prairie a herd of thousands of buffaloes were coming at terrific speed. One chance of escape alone presented itself and that was a lone cottonwood tree standing some few hundred yards distant. In all the prairie around not another tree was visible, and Billy had noticed this lone sentinel as he was creeping up for a shot at the antelope. At full speed he rushed for the tree and hastily climbed it, securing a safe seat amid its branches, while yet the herd was some distance away. But glancing back over the huge drove to his horse he beheld a band of mounted warriors in full chase. The center of the herd was headed directly for the tree, and the Indians were so following that they must come directly under it. If discovered Billy knew well what his fate would be. The Indians would give up buffalo meat for a human scalp. These thoughts flashed through the boy's mind, and he at once decided what he would do. To remain, was certain death at the hands of the red-skins. To leave, as he intended, by the means of a buffalo was a fearful risk. But he would take it; and accordingly strapped his rifle upon his back, picked out his buffalo, a huge bull, and swinging quickly from a limb, watched his chance and dropped down upon the back of his choice. Clutching the long, shaggy mane he clung for dear life, at the same time holding himself on with his spurs. Maddened with fright the bull bounded into the air, snorted wildly, gored those in the advance and soon led the herd. Billy kept his seat nobly, a grim smile upon his face, and occasionally glanced backward at the herd and the pursuing Indians. And straight for camp went the herd, until discovered by the train men, who started out in force to head them off. But pell-mell into camp they went, stampeding the oxen and horses and frightening the men, and Billy began to feel that he must keep on his racer clear to the hills. But the animal was tired out now and had dropped to the rear of the herd, and Wild Bill, seeing his young friend, raised his rifle and dropped the buffalo bull just as he was running out of camp. From that day the boy was known as Buffalo Billy. CHAPTER X. CAPTURED BY DANITES. With the usual adventures incident to a trip across the plains, an occasional fight with Indians, and several grand hunts, the train at last arrived near Green River in the Rocky Mountains. Billy, Lew Simpson and another of the train had dropped back during the afternoon for a hunt, and upon drawing near the place where they were to encamp, were surprised to discover a band of horsemen coming toward them, whom they observed, however, to be white men. Suspecting no harm from those of their own race, they rode forward, and, as they met, were startled to hear: "Up with your hands! You are dead men if you resist!" "Who are you?" asked Lew Simpson, angrily. "Joe Smith, the Danite," was the calm reply of that leader. "If I had known you were that accursed scoundrel I'd have shot you," growled Lew Simpson. "Am awful glad you did not know it; but come, you are my prisoners, and your train is in my power," was the reply, and upon arriving at camp they found that it was but too true, for the boys had not suspected danger from men they had believed a party of United States cavalry. The Danite leader, Joe Smith, then ordered all that could be packed on horses to be taken and the wagons set on fire, and told the train men to set out on foot for Fort Bridger, saying: "You can reach there, but I guess Albert Sydney Johnson and his troops will never get the supplies." The train was burned, all but one wagon, which carried supplies for the men, and armed only with their revolvers, they were ordered away by the Danites. But Buffalo Billy was not one to see his splendid horse go without remonstrance, and, as begging did no good, offered to take him upon any terms he could get him on. "Boy, ain't you the one who killed Hugh Hall in Kansas some time ago?" asked the man who had Billy's horse. "I am." "Well, I owe you one, for he was my pard, and you got me run out of the country by your work, so I'm willing to be even by keeping your horse." "I'll fight you for him," said Billy, fiercely. "What with, boy, fists or knives?" "You are a fool to talk that way, for you weigh double what I do; but I'll fight you for the horse with rifle or pistol." The train men tried to dissuade Billy from this determination, for they saw the Danite was anxious to take him at his word, and to kill him; but he had made the offer and the Mormon urged it on, and the arrangements were made to fight with pistols at fifty paces, walking on each other and firing until one fell. They at once took their stands and Joe Smith gave the word, saying in a low tone before doing so: "He's a boy in years; but he must be got rid of." At the word the Danite advanced at a rapid walk firing; but Buffalo Billy stood still, and waited until he had received four shots, all coming dangerously near, when he suddenly threw his revolver to a level and drew trigger. At the flash the man fell, shot in the leg, and the duel ended. But the Danites would not give up the horse, saying that a wounded man could not continue the fight, and as Billy had not killed his foe, the animal could not be claimed by them. Wild Bill and Lew Simpson roundly cursed Joe Smith and his Danites for a set of thieves, while Billy said sadly: "Good-by, Sable, old fellow, good-by." As he spoke he went up to his splendid horse, that stood saddled near, and throwing himself upon his back, with a defiant yell,