[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

For it was my true likeness that he wore And would wear evermore:-- My face that was to be When his years' misery With here a little and there a little had made My strong spirit afraid. I saw his face and hated, Seeing mine so sad-fated. And then I struck and killed him, knowing that he Had else slain me. I HAVE NEVER LOVED YOU YET I have never loved you yet, if now I love. If Love was born in that bright April sky And ran unheeding when the sun was high, And slept as the moon sleeps through Autumn nights While those dear steady stars burn in their heights: If Love so lived and ran and slept and woke And ran in beauty when each morning broke, Love yet was boylike, fervid and unstable, Teased with romance, not knowing truth from fable. But Winter after Autumn comes and stills The petulant waters and the wild mind fills With silence; and the dark and cold are bitter, O, bitter to remember past days sweeter. Then Spring with one warm cloudy finger breaks The frost and the heart's airless black soil shakes; Love grown a man uprises, serious, bright With mind remembering now things dark and light. O, if young Love was beautiful, Love grown old Experienced and grave is not grown cold. Life's faithful fire in Love's heart burns the clearer With all that was, is and draws darkling nearer. I have never loved you yet, if now I love. THE PIGEONS The pigeons, following the faint warm light, Stayed at last on the roof till warmth was gone, Then in the mist that's hastier than night Disappeared all behind the carved dark stone, Huddling from the black cruelty of the frost. With the new sparkling sun they swooped and came Like a cloud between the sun and street, and then Like a cloud blown from the blue north were lost, Vanishing and returning ever again, Small cloud following cloud across the flame That clear and meagre burned and burned away And left the ice unmelting day by day. ... Nor could the sun through the roof's purple slate (Though his gold magic played with shadow there And drew the pigeons from the streaming air) With any fiery magic penetrate. Under the roof the air and water froze, And no smoke from the gaping chimney rose. The silver frost upon the window-pane Flowered and branched each starving night anew, And stranger, lovelier and crueller grew; Pouring her silver that cold silver through, The moon made all the dim flower bright again. ... Pouring her silver through that barren flower Of silver frost, until it filled and whitened A room where two small children waited, frightened At the pale ghost of light that hour by hour Stared at them till though fear slept not they slept. And when that white ghost from the window crept, And day came and they woke and saw all plain, Though still the frost-flower blinded the window-pane, And touched their mother and touched her hand in vain, And wondered why she woke not when they woke; And wondered what it was their sleep that broke When hand in hand they stared and stared, so frightened; They feared and waited, and waited all day long While all the shadows went and the day brightened, All the ill shadows but one shadow strong. Outside were busy feet and human speech And daily cries and horns. Maybe they heard, Painfully wondering still, and each to each Leaning, and listening if their mother stirred-- Cold, cold, Hungering as the long slow hours grew old, Though food within the cupboard idle lay Beyond their thought, or but beyond their reach. The soft blue pigeons all the afternoon Sunned themselves on the roof or rose at play, Then with the shrinking light fluttered away; And once more came the icy hearted moon, Staring down at the frightened children there That could but shiver and stare. ... How many hours, how many days, who knows? Neighbours there were who thought they had gone away To return some luckier or luckless day. No sound came from the room: the cold air froze The very echo of the children's sighs. And what they saw within each other's eyes, Or heard each other's heart say as they peered At the dead mother lying there, and feared That she might wake, and then might never wake, Who knows, who knows? None heard a living sound their silence break. In those cold days and nights how many birds Flittering above the fields and streams all frozen Watched hungrily the tended flocks and herds-- Earth's chosen nourished by earth's wise self-chosen! How many birds suddenly stiffened and died With no plaint cried, The starved heart ceasing when the pale sun ceased! And when the new day stepped from the same cold East The dead birds lay in the light on the snow-flecked field, Their song and beautiful free winging stilled. I walked under snow-sprinkled hills at night, And starry sprinkled, skies deep blue and bright. The keen wind thrust with his knife against the thin Breast of the wood as I went tingling by And heard a weak cheep-cheep--no more--the cry Of a bird that crouched the smitten wood within.... But no one heeded that sharp spiritual cry Of the two children in their misery, When in the cold and famished night death's shade More terrible the moon's cold shadows made. How was it none could hear That bodiless crying, birdlike, sharp and clear? I cannot think what they, unanswered, thought When the night came again and shadows moved As the moon through the ice-flower stared and roved, And that unyielding Shadow came again. That Shadow came again unseen and caught The children as they sat listening in vain, Their starved hearts failing ere the Shadow removed. And when the new morn stepped from the same cold East They lay unawakening in the barren light, Their song and their imaginations bright, Their pains and fears and all bewilderment ceased.... While the brief sun gave New beauty to the death-flower of the frost, And pigeons in the frore air swooped and tossed, And glad eyes were more glad and grave less grave. There is not pity enough in heaven or earth, There is not love enough, if children die Like famished birds--oh, less mercifully. A great wrong's done when such as these go forth Into the starless dark, broken and bruised, With mind and sweet affection all confused, And horror closing round them as they go. There is not pity enough! And I have made, children, these verses for you, Lasting a little longer than your breath, Because I have been haunted with your death; So men are driven to things they hate to do. Jesus, forgive us all our happiness, As Thou dost blot out all our miseries. AND THESE FOR YOU I NOT WITH THESE EYES Let me not see your grief! O, let not any see That grief, Nor how your heart still rocks Like a temple with long earthquake shocks. Let me not see Your grief. These eyes have seen such wrong, Yet remained cold: Ills grown strong, Corruption's many-headed worm Destroying feet that moved so firm-- Shall these eyes see Your grief? And that black worm has crawled Into the brain Where thought had walked Nobly, and love and honour moved as one, And brave things bravely were begun.... Now, can thought see Unabashed your grief? Into that brain your grief Has run like cleansing fire: Your grief Through these unfaithful eyes has leapt And touched honour where it lightly slept. Now when I see In memory your grief There is no thought that's not Yours, yours, No love that sleeps, No spiritual door that opens not In the green quiet village of thought Shining with light, And silent to your silence. II ASKING FORGIVENESS I did not say, "Yes, we had better part Since love is over or must be suppressed." I did not say, "I'll hold you in my heart Saint-like, and in the thought of your thought rest, And pray for you and wish you happiness In a better love than mine." I was another man to another woman, Tears falling or burnt dry were nothing then. I struck your heart, I struck your mind; inhuman, Future and past I stabbed and stabbed again, Cursing the very thought of your happiness In another love than mine: --Then left you sick to death, and I like death. It was a broken body bore me away-- A broken mind--poisoned by my own breath, And love self-poisoned.... Was it but yesterday? --Forgive, forgive, forgive, forgive, forgive, Forgive! JUDGMENT DAY When through our bodies our two spirits burn Escaping, and no more our true eyes turn Outwards, and no more hands to fond hands yearn; Then over those poor grassy heaps we'll meet One morning, tasting still the morning's sweet, Sensible still of light, dark, rain, cold, heat; And see 'neath the green dust that dust of gray Which was our useless bodies laid away, Mocked still with menace of a Judgment Day. We then that waiting dust at last will call, Each to the other's,--"Rise up at last, O small Ashes that first-love held loveliest of all! "'Tis Judgment Day, arise!" And they will arise, The dust will lift, and spine, ribs, neck, head, knees At the sound remember their old unities, And stand there, yours with mine, as once they stood Beloved, obeyed, despised, with that swift blood, Those looks and trembling lips, heart's pause and thud. * * * * * "And was it these that love-galled thought pursued And with his immortality indued, Nor was by their mortality quite subdued? "This was the bony hand that held my hand, The shoulders whereon all my world might stand: They fell, but in their fall was I unmanned? "This was the breast my eyes delighted in, The ribs were faint as now under the skin: They mouldered, but not my love mouldered within. "Away, away! This was not truly thee-- A mortal bravery, Time's delinquency, A dream that held me from thee, thee from me. "It was not in these bodies that we drew Near, nearer: never, never by these we knew Transfusion past all sense of 'I' and 'You.' "It was youth's blindness held the body so dear: Slowly, slowly, year after bewildered year, The dark thinned and the eyes of love grew clear, "And thought following thought, enlinking each, Ran where the delighting body could not reach, And had speech when there was no voice for speech; "So that we scarce grieved when those bodies died, And our eyes more than our true spirits cried; But as when trees fall,