[The Practice of Medicine — Osler — Gutenberg #38877]

ten minutes; But now when seven are out you come between. OONA Talk on; what does it matter what you say, For you have not been christened? ALEEL Old woman, old woman, You robbed her of three minutes peace of mind, And though you live unto a hundred years, And wash the feet of beggars and give alms, And climb Croaghpatrick, you shall not be pardoned. OONA How does a man who never was baptized Know what Heaven pardons? ALEEL You are a sinful woman. OONA I care no more than if a pig had grunted. (_Enter_ CATHLEEN'S _Steward_.) STEWARD I am not to blame, for I had locked the gate, The forester's to blame. The men climbed in At the east corner where the elm-tree is. CATHLEEN I do not understand you, who has climbed? STEWARD Then God be thanked, I am the first to tell you. I was afraid some other of the servants-- Though I've been on the watch--had been the first, And mixed up truth and lies, your ladyship. CATHLEEN (_rising_) Has some misfortune happened? STEWARD Yes, indeed. The forester that let the branches lie Against the wall's to blame for everything, For that is how the rogues got into the garden. CATHLEEN I thought to have escaped misfortune here. Has any one been killed? STEWARD Oh, no, not killed. They have stolen half a cart-load of green cabbage. CATHLEEN But maybe they were starving. STEWARD That is certain. To rob or starve, that was the choice they had. CATHLEEN A learned theologian has laid down That starving men may take what's necessary, And yet be sinless. OONA Sinless and a thief! There should be broken bottles on the wall. CATHLEEN And if it be a sin, while faith's unbroken God cannot help but pardon. There is no soul But it's unlike all others in the world, Nor one but lifts a strangeness to God's love Till that's grown infinite, and therefore none Whose loss were less than irremediable Although it were the wickedest in the world. (_Enter_ TEIG _and_ SHEMUS.) STEWARD What are you running for? Pull off your cap, Do you not see who's there? SHEMUS I cannot wait. I am running to the world with the best news That has been brought it for a thousand years. STEWARD Then get your breath and speak. SHEMUS If you'd my news You'd run as fast and be as out of breath. TEIG Such news, we shall be carried on men's shoulders. SHEMUS There's something every man has carried with him And thought no more about than if it were A mouthful of the wind; and now it's grown A marketable thing! TEIG And yet it seemed As useless as the paring of one's nails. SHEMUS What sets me laughing when I think of it, Is that a rogue who's lain in lousy straw, If he but sell it, may set up his coach. TEIG (_laughing_) There are two gentlemen who buy men's souls. CATHLEEN O God! TEIG And maybe there's no soul at all. STEWARD They're drunk or mad. TEIG Look at the price they give. (_Showing money._) SHEMUS (_tossing up money_) "Go cry it all about the world," they said. "Money for souls, good money for a soul." CATHLEEN Give twice and thrice and twenty times their money, And get your souls again. I will pay all. SHEMUS Not we! not we! For souls--if there are souls-- But keep the flesh out of its merriment. I shall be drunk and merry. TEIG Come, let's away. (_He goes._) CATHLEEN But there's a world to come. SHEMUS And if there is, I'd rather trust myself into the hands That can pay money down than to the hands That have but shaken famine from the bag. (_He goes out_ R.) (_Lilting_) "There's money for a soul, sweet yellow money. There's money for men's souls, good money, money." CATHLEEN (_to_ ALEEL) Go call them here again, bring them by force, Beseech them, bribe, do anything you like; (ALEEL _goes_.) And you too follow, add your prayers to his. (OONA, _who has been praying, goes out_.) Steward, you know the secrets of my house. How much have I? STEWARD A hundred kegs of gold. CATHLEEN How much have I in castles? STEWARD As much more. CATHLEEN How much have I in pasture? STEWARD As much more. CATHLEEN How much have I in forests? STEWARD As much more. CATHLEEN Keeping this house alone, sell all I have, Go barter where you please, but come again With herds of cattle and with ships of meal. STEWARD God's blessing light upon your ladyship. You will have saved the land. CATHLEEN Make no delay. (_He goes_ L.) (ALEEL _and_ OONA _return_) CATHLEEN They have not come; speak quickly. ALEEL One drew his knife And said that he would kill the man or woman That stopped his way; and when I would have stopped him He made this stroke at me; but it is nothing. CATHLEEN You shall be tended. From this day for ever I'll have no joy or sorrow of my own. OONA Their eyes shone like the eyes of birds of prey. CATHLEEN Come, follow me, for the earth burns my feet Till I have changed my house to such a refuge That the old and ailing, and all weak of heart, May escape from beak and claw; all, all, shall come Till the walls burst and the roof fall on us. From this day out I have nothing of my own. (_She goes._) OONA (_taking_ ALEEL _by the arm and as she speaks bandaging his wound_) She has found something now to put her hand to, And you and I are of no more account Than flies upon a window-pane in the winter. (_They go out._) END OF SCENE II. SCENE III SCENE.--_Hall in the house of_ COUNTESS CATHLEEN. _At the Left an oratory with steps leading up to it. At the Right a tapestried wall, more or less repeating the form of the oratory, and a great chair with its back against the wall. In the Centre are two or more arches through which one can see dimly the trees of the garden._ CATHLEEN _is kneeling in front of the altar in the oratory; there is a hanging lighted lamp over the altar_. ALEEL _enters_. ALEEL I have come to bid you leave this castle and fly Out of these woods. CATHLEEN What evil is there here That is not everywhere from this to the sea? ALEEL They who have sent me walk invisible. CATHLEEN So it is true what I have heard men say, That you have seen and heard what others cannot. ALEEL I was asleep in my bed, and while I slept My dream became a fire; and in the fire One walked and he had birds about his head. CATHLEEN I have heard that one of the old gods walked so. ALEEL It may be that he is angelical; And, lady, he bids me call you from these woods. And you must bring but your old foster-mother, And some few serving men, and live in the hills, Among the sounds of music and the light Of waters, till the evil days are done. For here some terrible death is waiting you, Some unimagined evil, some great darkness That fable has not dreamt of, nor sun nor moon Scattered. CATHLEEN No, not angelical. ALEEL This house You are to leave with some old trusty man, And bid him shelter all that starve or wander While there is food and house room. CATHLEEN He bids me go Where none of mortal creatures but the swan Dabbles, and there you would pluck the harp, when the trees Had made a heavy shadow about our door, And talk among the rustling of the reeds, When night hunted the foolish sun away With stillness and pale tapers. No--no--no! I cannot. Although I weep, I do not weep Because that life would be most happy, and here I find no way, no end. Nor do I weep Because I had longed to look upon your face, But that a night of prayer has made me weary. ALEEL (_prostrating himself before her_) Let Him that made mankind, the angels and devils And dearth and plenty, mend what He has made, For when we labour in vain and eye still sees Heart breaks in vain. CATHLEEN How would that quiet end? ALEEL How but in healing? CATHLEEN You have seen my tears And I can see your hand shake on the floor. ALEEL (_faltering_) I thought but of healing. He was angelical. CATHLEEN (_turning away from him_) No, not angelical, but of the old gods, Who wander about the world to waken the heart-- The passionate, proud heart--that all the angels, Leaving nine heavens empty, would rock to sleep. (_She goes to chapel door;_ ALEEL _holds his clasped hands towards her for a moment hesitatingly, and then lets them fall beside him_.) CATHLEEN Do not hold out to me beseeching hands. This heart shall never waken on earth. I have sworn, By her whose heart the seven sorrows have pierced, To pray before this altar until my heart Has grown to Heaven like a tree, and there Rustled its leaves, till Heaven has saved my people. ALEEL (_who has risen_) When one so great has spoken of love to one So little as I, though to deny him love, What can he but hold out beseeching hands, Then let them fall beside him, knowing how greatly They have overdared? (_He goes towards the door of the hall._ _The_ COUNTESS CATHLEEN _takes a few steps towards him_.) CATHLEEN If the old tales are true, Queens have wed shepherds and kings beggar-maids; God's procreant waters flowing about your mind Have made you more than kings or queens; and not you But I am the empty pitcher. ALEEL Being silent, I have said all, yet let me stay beside you. CATHLEEN No, no, not while my heart is shaken. No, But you shall hear wind cry and water cry, And curlew cry, and have the peace I longed for. ALEEL Give me your hand to kiss. CATHLEEN I kiss your forehead. And yet I send you from me. Do not speak; There have been women that bid men to rob Crowns from the Country-under-Wave or apples Upon a dragon-guarded hill, and all That they might sift men's hearts and wills, And trembled as they bid it, as I tremble That lay a hard task on you, that you go, And silently, and do not turn your head; Goodbye; but do not turn your head and look; Above all else, I would not have you look. (ALEEL _goes_.) I never spoke to him of his wounded hand,