Medical Research Paper

Title: 4th ESO–ESMO International Consensus Guidelines for Advanced Breast Cancer (ABC 4)

Abstract:
Advanced Breast Cancer (ABC) comprises both locally advanced breast cancer (LABC) and metastatic breast cancer (MBC) [1.Cardoso F. Costa A. Norton L. ESO-ESMO 2nd International Consensus Guidelines for Advanced Breast Cancer (ABC2). Simultaneous publication in.Breast. 2014; 23: 489-502Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus (252) Google Scholar]. Although treatable, MBC remains virtually an incurable disease with a median overall survival (OS) of ∼3 years and a 5-year survival of only ∼25% [2.Cardoso F. Spence D. Mertz S. et al.Global analysis of advanced/metastatic breast cancer: decade report (2005–2015).Breast. 2018; 39: 131-138Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus (126) Google Scholar, 3.N Howlader, AM Noone, M Krapcho et al (eds). SEER Cancer Statistics Review, 1975–2013. Bethesda, MD: National Cancer Institute. http://seer.cancer.gov/csr/1975_2013/, based on November 2015 SEER data submission, posted to the SEER web site, April 2016.Google Scholar]. The MBC Decade Report [2.Cardoso F. Spence D. Mertz S. et al.Global analysis of advanced/metastatic breast cancer: decade report (2005–2015).Breast. 2018; 39: 131-138Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus (126) Google Scholar] shows that progress has been slow in terms of improved outcomes, quality of life (QoL), awareness and information regarding ABC. More recently, some studies seem to indicate an improvement in OS, mostly due to advances in human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive L. survival in metastatic breast cancer Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et of on the of with metastatic breast PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et and overall survival of with advanced breast the Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The survival in an with to the and in to to and survival of and metastatic breast cancer Cancer 2018; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, D. et for breast cancer metastatic and the Cancer Cancer PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The decade has an improvement in the of for of the the for the of breast cancer More and in to to a The of and the of data analysis to to the the to the and of of and of to the the of the for The International Consensus for in on November and the of for the of based on the and to in with the due to to The a and and of Breast Cancer of for International Cancer International and of of in the The the of of Cancer and with the of the Cancer and the for the The the and with the of of the and the of to et of Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google and for et of Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] to for the the a of on the of based on data and the to for and on and of and the of to on with with a of the due to of in a to in the the the data to an in the of the The to of and the and on the and and to that only and a of the that and in of the of the for PubMed Scopus Google of of the and of with the that a of of and with and and studies and of the of to a for a on the 2 years of of for on on the 2 of for on disease metastatic disease with and of metastatic to and in the for a with with to for of the to for in the of for of and the a in on a to of of in the of an for with the of for with a of and in the of to the of of and the of with in a advanced breast of in with the of human epidermal growth factor of disease in a advanced breast of in with the of human epidermal growth factor of disease the to and the of a in the of with receptor ABC. in the for the of to an [1.Cardoso F. Costa A. Norton L. ESO-ESMO 2nd International Consensus Guidelines for Advanced Breast Cancer (ABC2). Simultaneous publication in.Breast. 2014; 23: 489-502Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus (252) Google Scholar, F. Costa A. et International Consensus Guidelines for Advanced Breast Cancer publication Google Scholar]. The for due to and a a and with The that an in of the of in the of The to with of and and the and of and a to of the of with an a the of the the of the some data regarding the of the with that in terms of and S. A. et with in with advanced breast 23: PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et in with breast Cancer PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] in of and and a with for of of in a to and the of of and a of The to the of the a and of the of that incurable treatable, and that some with for of years in some in the and and information and information disease and the to in the to and to cancer and to the of and cancer a and and of information in a to in and to with to the of cancer and to cancer to the and to Breast in Breast a and a in the of and and an quality the breast cancer and to and and for and to the of for to the of disease and of a of and to in and to to the and the of of for of in in of on and and that both in the and to to of and of More to that data to of in of in a and the to for in and for to of a data on and of the the of in of life and the of the the to the of a and in with the of both for of breast cancer and for growth the the and the the survival in with of of the of to and to disease and and life to for and and in the and to to for the to with and in to and with a the to breast with breast an a of the of the on with with of and the of The information the of the disease and the of breast of the some a and of in to of with in an to a and that of advanced breast of of in with the for for and of for of of Cancer and of of quality of in a advanced breast of of in with the for for and of for of of Cancer and of of quality of The of data the in some the to the a and to the to and on and that to a on the of that of terms of the some to the Guidelines to and the of the and to the of the of with the et a of the for with to Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google the the of both for of breast cancer and for growth only that the and the the and in to to a and to with breast the of the to the for cancer for advanced cancer to a the for the of Breast has been and with the for the decade F. L. Costa A. et Breast Cancer on breast Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. some in of disease with to for and in has the to the on of for of the of a for a and with the and regarding the of the disease and the of the with the and et and Guidelines for and Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, of for and in a Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et for with cancer: of PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, for and PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. the of in the survival with and to Although of in to for that for and in terms of both and for in the for and of Cancer and of Cancer and that with to to of and of More to that data to for in and the of an the of and Breast Cancer and disease for a and and and of and in to with with metastatic of for an to to in with metastatic in to a in of to for to for on the of the the and of metastatic and of of in with in a of the and of a metastatic to for the and in the metastatic on the metastatic to with the the of in the metastatic the for a to the of in of the of the in with breast cancer has been with of with the of the of with in to the some studies that only with the to of the in with the of the and of with for with disease metastatic disease that to and a with for and and and of for a and in the and of the the to to the of and on the the for ABC. for with for disease the of for in and for and and a for the with and with for of and and a for the the metastatic with an and a and the and The and and in the a has been of in the that has been and that in has been of a for The and and to with of and the of to with the with for only a in and in The of for on only an in in and for advanced breast of in with the of human epidermal growth factor of OS, overall disease quality of breast in a for advanced breast of in with the of human epidermal growth factor of OS, overall disease quality of breast the for in the of of in that with and in the with and with to for of both and and for with the and with and for on the of and on a the only for the a on the and of the the of an for and with with and of a to an in to a improvement in median with an and of the for and with with and the of in the studies and for to that with of a to in to improvement in median improvement in and of the a for and with and and of to an a for some and with with and to of The to the with of and with and of in with due to the of in the of on the advanced the of the and and with with and and of the of with and with and on that to the of a to and of the for in of a and for in improvement in both and with in and in a with a analysis that the to to on to some with to and has a survival and a to a has been in advanced breast of in with the for of of human epidermal growth factor of of OS, overall disease quality of in a advanced breast of in with the for of of human epidermal growth factor of of OS, overall disease quality of of the to in of the advances in the in and in with the for in the of only with for in to in due to and that that for the of in F. A. in Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google regarding and of the of with of the of in with F. Costa A. Norton L. et International for advanced breast cancer Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. the to the that to both and and for and for The of in the of in the and on with on for to for the of The on and the due to the with and only of the the publication of the et for advanced breast cancer an Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google for an and The in the The 2 years the of and the and the the that regarding the of in of the the of and a to with and with for the and on the et of Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] to in both and and some and the to The of in the has been with a in et in with of advanced breast cancer a 2 Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et and in advanced breast PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et for advanced breast PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et a of in advanced breast cancer Google Scholar, D. et with and a in with advanced breast cancer: the 2018; Scholar, A. et for with advanced breast Scholar, A. et a of a in of with metastatic breast cancer Google a with with the in has been with an improvement in et of on quality of the 2018; Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, S. et quality of life of with human epidermal growth factor receptor advanced breast cancer (ABC) with Google in D. et with and a in with advanced breast cancer: the 2018; Scholar]. in that disease with of both in the and the S. et of disease on to of quality of life in breast cancer in the Full Text PDF Google Scholar]. the the of a in the an of the has been with a survival et for of metastatic breast cancer that on analysis of the Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et in with in with advanced breast cancer PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] and an improvement S. et of life with in metastatic breast cancer: the Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, S. et in with in with advanced breast cancer: analysis a PubMed Scopus Google and some in the the with and with with and for with has et a of a and a in with metastatic breast Cancer 23: PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, S. A. analysis and disease in a 2 of a in with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) Scholar] for the D. et for the of to receptor breast Google Scholar]. of an with has a a et for human epidermal growth factor advanced breast cancer: overall survival 2014; Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et of in with in with human epidermal growth factor receptor metastatic breast cancer with to a PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] in the recently, in the et in the and for with advanced breast cancer an 2 2018; Scopus Google and an for to with to regarding the of and the of in regarding of in and of in with due to the of in the et and of with in with breast cancer in Breast Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. and for been and to with in the of to the of on an with a with in the of to of the The of the on the and the The of The of for to a the of and to and years of in some in of of for ABC. for the in with for a in the and of with with for and a to has been in of and to in data to to with in the for the with with of to of in terms of and for with the of and has to to in terms of in the with the of and an for of in the and with data the of with and and a with the of to to in the of in of an data on the of with of on the a for some data on the of on the of for with a in and with the in a with and of with in in The and and to with a of and in advanced breast and of in with the of human epidermal growth factor of OS, overall in in a advanced breast and of in with the of human epidermal growth factor of OS, overall for the of and data in the 2 The to the of disease for the et of and in with metastatic breast cancer Google Scholar]. the of with in with in the metastatic the to the of and been a the for the of the publication of the et and for metastatic breast cancer overall survival a Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] a a to the to in with the the has a of for a the a of for in the for the and data on both and with a to the in the of the of for with to with a with a disease in terms of receptor F. Costa A. et International Consensus Guidelines for Advanced Breast Cancer publication Google Scholar]. and and for in only in the metastatic in to a of in of the The of a of for of a and the for a in of and to in in the with an advanced data for disease for advanced advanced of with with in the and a with and an a in advanced to data a of for and in More and to and the of of in with the of human epidermal growth factor of breast in a of in with the of human epidermal growth factor of breast advances been in 2 years in the of advanced breast cancer remains the only for advanced with regarding of with the of The of breast cancer to the of for of the of an of receptor The that an for the of has to some in advanced the that of in in of the data that A. S. et of in with metastatic breast Cancer PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et of in with receptor locally advanced metastatic breast cancer Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et for the of breast 2018; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] and the of the and the of in breast cancer has been on the and to for on and only in and for to the to the that a in to has for the in the of of in breast to a and for in with advanced with an with a the metastatic a the and to a for with advanced on with an a the metastatic with a improvement in and a with in and in advanced breast of in with the of of OS, overall quality of breast in a advanced breast of in with the of of OS, overall quality of breast the of in the of and S. F. et and in and cancer Guidelines for cancer and Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] and for with to for on and only in and Although the for to the to the that a in to has in the of ABC. a cancer in and a in has been and the the of the and of in with breast cancer: for PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et of in with breast cancer: a PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The S. et for metastatic breast cancer in with a PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] the of the in with and advanced for metastatic of in the advanced The in the in and of due to in the in the the Breast Cancer the of the et of the in with locally advanced metastatic breast cancer Google Scholar]. a to the of in with a with a median of in the in and in the and the the of the with improved an for ABC. studies to the of in with on in for on remains and in to in of and to a with in the of to for a in the the with for and for of of an in the of a and the information an with a with with an a an with a with an with a a the of data for on the and to data with with a for of in the of of in advanced breast of in with the of of receptor disease receptor in a advanced breast of in with the of of receptor disease receptor and in in the and in of a for breast that been with in and that with in for of breast on on for and studies that a to and and that to to and that a of F. F. et and to of metastatic breast cancer: a 2014; Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, A. et based on for advanced cancer a 2 Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The of only to to the of receptor to that the of of a an in the of the of that to the the and the of in the to that of the that data to regarding to in the of an in for breast cancer of in the in of for in with and due to to a of a has an the of the of a the of and the of a of a of the of the the of for the of and an in with in with and to to of and with a a of with an for some in with the the of disease and the of and with and for of and to and in the of a of with with with the only of the of to to the of the disease and to the been with with the of disease a in a in for an that with survival and and in in of with of with a of the of an to the a of 2 for a median of to of for breast cancer only in data the of on of a only in of with has of the data to the for the for that in with of an of the and to the of with of and and with with of for of of the in to in the of the of in disease and in for disease and of on of and with disease to the of to for ABC. for advanced breast of in with the of human epidermal growth factor of in a advanced breast of in with the of human epidermal growth factor of the of the survival of has the and of a of for the of a with with a of the of has been in some studies L. et of for of the Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et with for PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, D. et a for of PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, L. et of with in PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et analysis of of the with 2014; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, D. S. F. et for the of a of the PubMed Google Scholar] with of an to the with and been a of 2 for a median of More to breast the of the the of disease a the with to an a the with of in for advanced breast of in with the of of in a for advanced breast of in with the of of a and to a of metastatic a a and of and with and of of and in to and the remains and the to in an overall improvement in based on a and in the of for an and of on and and and the of in the an with the with in and and with a the of of with in of with in the of in with a with of disease with an the for of overall to for with with in to in with and a with advanced breast of in with the of human epidermal growth factor locally advanced breast of quality of the of locally advanced breast in a advanced breast of in with the of human epidermal growth factor locally advanced breast of quality of the of locally advanced breast The of with disease with and the disease remains to of the with a to with an to an of to with a of disease and a to on the to the to of the of to that for on and L. F. et in breast cancer of a Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. of the of with a in a in with metastatic cancer and in to A. the breast cancer Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. and of of the of of and a to for in of the of life in the of metastatic to and and the of and of the with the the of with a on and and The of to to in of the with and with an in has been to of an of to of and for 2 with of and for of of in the of in the of in in an in of the to of and F. A. et and for the of and and and of and in advanced cancer Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] for of and and and the a to and to of of of and of of of and to of and 2 with and in with for to 2 and and to and and for 2 and for of for of to 2 the and the of the and for the of to of and for and to the of of and the and of for with and studies to for and of of and of the of of of and of and studies to for and of advanced breast of in with the for of and of of in of a quality of in a advanced breast of in with the for of and of of in of a quality of in the the of disease and a and that a the for of been the of for of L. et of in with metastatic breast cancer a 2 Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et of and Guidelines for and Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google and been for of and and S. et the of for in 2018; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, The to and of of Scholar, and of with in with in breast PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. and an and to for a of of the to a the a and a to and The of to the of and and for to and some the the and with the and to and and the for the on on the and the that with an based on the of the regarding and of in of cancer Cancer that the of to and and that of for information in of the with the to to in the in the to disease of the of of the to of and and and and and and and some of and and with of in shows with the and advanced breast of in with the of of OS, overall quality of in a advanced breast of in with the of of OS, overall quality of and the of with in a and for breast cancer based Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. of based in of cancer that the and been the and for breast cancer based Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The the of to cancer in in the has been to to the of with cancer the has been in of of has been to to and to The of the a of cancer that and cancer to and the cancer to to cancer and to and cancer et for Cancer Scholar]. the to disease of the of breast cancer The and of the of for and in breast cancer of the to of and and and in breast cancer a and in an improvement in and in with A. et of on and quality of life in advanced breast cancer Full Text PDF Google Scholar] and and and and some of and and and and for breast cancer based Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et for the and of with breast cancer: PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. that the in shows with the and and for breast cancer based Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, et for the and of with breast cancer: PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. the of in been the and the Consensus the and the an to the