# Kacchera

Kachera () are an undergarment for the lower body that is specially tailored for shalwar with a tie-knot naala or naada  (drawstring) worn by fully initiated Sikhs.  They are similar to European boxer shorts in appearance. It is one of the five Sikh articles of faith called the Five Ks (), and was given from Guru Gobind Singh at the Baisakhi Amrit Sanskar in 1699. Kachera have been worn by initiated Sikhs (Khalsa) since a mandatory religious commandment given by Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Guru of Sikhism, in 1699. Both male and female Sikhs wear similar undergarments. This is one of five articles of faith—collectively called "Kakkars"—that form the external, visible symbols clearly and outwardly displaying one's commitment and dedication to the order (Hukam) of the tenth master.
 
The Sikh Code of Conduct states "For a Sikh, there is no restriction or requirement as to dress except that he must wear Kachera and turban." Kachera is a drawer type fastened by a fitted string round the waist, very often worn as an underwear. This Kakkar was commanded to be worn by Gobind Singh so that the Sikh warrior would be ready to fight at any time (Tyar Bar Tyar). The Kachhera allowed the Sikh warrior to operate in combat freely and without any hindrance or restriction. Sikhs fought many battles only wearing this undergarment.The kachera is above-the-knee underwear meant to give a feeling of dignity, modesty, and honour to the person who wears it. The garment is usually made from white, lightweight-cotton material. The Kachhera maintains one’s “chastity” whatever the position of the legs. One can carry the legs high and yet be completely chaste. The many folds in the front also help in this chaste appearance and the "nara" keeps it tightly in place. The kacchera is secured and tied with a "nara" (drawstring).

It serves its purpose efficiently and effectively and is easy to fabricate, maintain, wash, and carry compared to other conventional undergarments, such as the dhoti, etc.

See also
 Similar Indian clothes
 Kaupinam
 Langot
 Related Indian clothes
 Clothing in India
 Dhoti
 Lungi
 Similar foreign clothes
 Breechcloth
 Fundoshi
 Mawashi
 Perizoma
 Subligaculum
 Related foreign clothes
 Tallit katan
 Temple garment: religious undergarments worn by many members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

References

Non-clerical religious clothing
Punjabi words and phrases
Sikh religious clothing
Sikh terminology
Undergarments