# List of coups and coup attempts

A coup d'état, often abbreviated to coup, is the overthrow of a lawful government through illegal means. If force or violence are not involved, such an event is sometimes called a soft or bloodless coup. In another variation, a ruler who came to power through legal means may try to stay in power through illegal means, thus preventing the next legal ruler from taking power. These events  are called self coups. This is a chronological list of such coups and coup attempts, from ancient times to the present.

BC

876, Kingdom of Israel: Zimri, a military commander of Israel, killed King Elah and became king himself. Soon after, he committed suicide to avoid being overthrown by his own commander, Omri.
860, Qi coup d'état of 860 BC in Qi: Duke Hu of Qi was overthrown by his half-brother Shan.
841, Kingdom of Israel: Jehu killed Jehoram of Israel and Ahaziah of Judah, and became king of Israel.
730, Kingdom of Judah: There was a failed coup attempt by Rezin of Aram-Damascus and Pekah of Israel to try to overthrow Ahaz of Judah and the House of David and to replace him with Ben Tav'el.
716, Lydia: King Candaules of Lydia was killed by his bodyguard, Gyges, who then assumed the throne, having conspired with Candaules's wife.
632, Athens: A coup attempt failed in Athens, by Cylon who attempted to establish himself as a tyrant.
522, Murder of the Magi in the Achaemenid Empire: Bardiya was assassinated in a conspiracy led by Otanes, leading to the accession of Darius the Great of the Achaemenid Dynasty.
509, Rome: Members of the Tarquin dynasty led by Lucius Junius Brutus overthrew King of Rome Lucius Tarquinius Superbus and established the Roman Republic.
411, Athens: A coup at Athens, led by Antiphon, established a short-lived oligarchy known as The Four Hundred.
404, Athens: A coup at Athens, led by Critias, established the short-lived pro-Spartan oligarchy known as the Thirty Tyrants.
209, Xiongnu Empire: The Xiongnu Emperor Modu Chanyu overthrew his father Touman and killed his rival half-brother.
185, Maurya Empire: There was a coup in the Maurya Empire, which controlled much of present Indian territory, by Mauryan General Pushyamitra Shunga.
88, Rome: Lucius Cornelius Sulla occupied Rome and outlawed his enemy, Gaius Marius.
82, Rome: In Sulla's civil war, Sulla again marched on Rome, removed Gaius Marius the Younger, and proclaimed himself as Roman dictator.
63, Rome: In the Catiline conspiracy, Lucius Sergius Catilina plotted to overthrow the consulship of Marcus Tullius Cicero and Gaius Antonius Hybrida, but the plan was discovered.
49, Rome: Julius Caesar, heading part of the Roman army, illegally crossed the Rubicon and marched on Rome. After assuming control of government, he was proclaimed "dictator in perpetuity".
44, Rome: On the Ides of March, Julius Caesar was assassinated by members of the Roman Senate. The conspirators did not gain control of the Roman Republic, instead, power eventually passed to the Second Triumvirate of Caesar supporters.

1–999

41, Rome: Roman Emperor Caligula was assassinated as a result of a conspiracy by officers of the Praetorian Guard, senators, and courtiers, though the conspirators' attempt to use the opportunity to restore the Roman Republic was thwarted.
65, Pisonian conspiracy in Rome: Gaius Calpurnius Piso plotted to have Roman Emperor Nero assassinated, but the plan was discovered.
69, Rome: Following Roman Emperor Nero's death, several complots lead to the year of the Four Emperors.
189, Eastern Han dynasty (China): The Ten Eunuchs of Later Han Dynasty were murdered by troops led by Yuan Shao and Yuan Shu; Dong Zhuo took over the government by force.
249, Incident at Gaoping Tombs in Cao Wei (China): Cao Shuang was captured and executed by the Sima house (Sima Yi, Sima Zhao, and Sima Shi).
378, Tikal: King Chak Tok Ich'aak of Tikal was assassinated in a Teotihuacan-backed coup.
498, Yamato Province: Ōomi Heguri no Matori usurped Yamato Japan's government upon the death of the  (Great Chieftain, now known as Emperor) Ninken. Matori was killed by Otomo no Kanamura. 
552, Rouran Khaganate: Bumin Qaghan overthrew the Rouran Khaganate and declared the Turkic Khaganate.
602, Byzantine Empire: Maurice, Emperor of the Byzantine Empire, was deposed by a conspiracy of the Balkan army, which was led by a Thracian junior officer named Flavius Phocas and Maurice's seven sons. Most of the pro-Maurice government officials and generals were executed along with him (excepting Priscus and Philippicus), and Phocas was acclaimed emperor in the church of St. John the Baptist.
610, Heraclian revolt in the Byzantine Empire: The same Phocas who had deposed Maurice eight years earlier was deposed by a conspiracy led by the generals Priscus, his son-in-law, and Heraclius the Elder, the governor of north Africa. The exarch's son, Heraclius the Younger, deposed Phocas with the help of his cousin Niketas.
626, Xuanwu Gate Incident in the Tang Empire (China): On 2 July, Prince Li Shimin and his close followers killed Crown Prince Li Jiancheng and Prince Li Yuanji before taking complete control of the Tang government from Emperor Gaozu.
642, Goguryeo: Yeon Gaesomun of Goguryeo led a military coup that killed King Yeongryu and installed King Bojang as a puppet under military rule.
680, Visigothic Kingdom: King Wamba of the Visigoths was drugged, tonsured, and dressed in a monk's cloak, so he would be considered an ordained man and hence he could not reign.
717, Second Turkic Khaganate: Inel Qaghan of Second Turkic Khaganate was dethroned and later killed by Bilge Kaghan's brother Kül Tigin.
742, Second Turkic Khaganate: Ashina Shi usurped the Second Turkic Khaganate throne after killing three of his rivals.
751, Umayyad Caliphate: Abu Muslim Khorasani stormed Damascus and massacred the ruling Banu Umayyad family. As-Saffah became the first ruler of the Abbasid Caliphate.
839, Silla: Jang Bogo of Silla overthrew King Minae and installed King Sinmu on the throne.

1000–1699

1010, Goryeo: General Gang Jo of Goryeo staged a coup that overthrew King Mokjong.
1126, Goryeo: Yi Ja-gyeom of Goryeo made a failed attempt to overthrow King Injong.
1170, Goryeo: General Jeong Jung-bu of Goryeo led a military coup that deposed King Uijong and installed puppet king Myeongjong under military regime.
1197, Goryeo: Choe Chung-heon of Goryeo staged a military coup that ousted and killed military dictator Yi Ui-Min, and deposed King Myeongjong.
1258, Goryeo: General Kim Jun of Goryeo overthrew and killed then-military dictator Choe Ui.
1284, Ilkhanate: The Ilkhanate ruler Tekuder was overthrown by Arghun.
1327, England: Isabella of France overthrew her husband, Edward II, and became regent for their son, Edward III, with her lover and co-regent, Roger Mortimer.
1330, England: Edward III assumed royal power, arrested Isabella of France and executed Roger Mortimer.
1388, Goryeo: General Yi Seong-gye of Goryeo led a military coup that deposed King U, murdered General Choe Young, and installed puppet ruler King Chang and eventually King Gongyang. Yi later crowned himself, starting the Joseon Dynasty.
1452, Aq Qoyunlu: Uzun Hasan seized Diyarbakir in a coup while sultan Jahangir was away on a military expedition.
1398, Joseon dynasty (Korea): Prince Yi Bangwon of Joseon led a coup that murdered Prime Minister Jeong Dojeon and two other princes.
1455, Joseon dynasty (Korea): Prince Suyang of Joseon led a coup that ousted the government of Prime Minister Hwangbo In and Kim Jong Seo, who were killed during the coup.
1459, Đại Việt: Prince Lê Nghi Dân led a coup that killed Emperor Lê Nhân Tông. Lê Nghi Dân later crowned himself.
1459, Đại Việt: Đỗ Bí and Lê Thụ led a coup that overthrew Emperor Lê Nghi Dân.
1506, Joseon dynasty (Korea): A coup d'état in Joseon overthrew Prince Yeonsan and placed King Jungjong on the throne.
1512, Ottoman Empire: Selim I rebelled against his father Bayezid II and took the throne of Ottoman Empire.
1541, Peru: Juan de Rada led a coup that ousted and killed Spanish conquistador and governor of Peru, Francisco Pizarro, and installed Diego de Almagro II as governor.
1567, Scotland: Protestant rebels arrested Mary Queen of Scots and forced her to sign the Abdicate on 24 July 1567 in favour of the infant James VI and to appoint her illegitimate half-brother, James Stewart, Earl of Moray, as regent.
1569, 1569 Plot in Sweden: Courtiers of the imprisoned Eric XIV attempted to free and reinstate him, deposing John III of Sweden. The plot was exposed and prevented, and the conspirators were executed.
 1574, Mornay Plot in Sweden: A plot to depose John III of Sweden and reinstate Eric XIV was discovered in Sweden.
1605, Gunpowder Plot in England: On 5 November, a group of provincial English Catholics led by Guy Fawkes attempted to kill King James I and much of the Protestant aristocracy by blowing up the Houses of Parliament during the State Opening of Parliament.
1622, Janissaries' Revolt in the Ottoman Empire: Janissari