# Drug-eluting stent

Drug-eluting stents (DES) are a type of stent and a medical drug delivery device used in the treatment of various medical conditions, with its primary application being the treatment of coronary artery disease (CAD).

Such  stents are inserted into narrowed coronary arteries, primarily caused by atherosclerosis.These stents gradually release a drug compound that inhibits cellular growth, preventing the re-blocking of the stent area itself (termed 'In Stent Restenosis - ISR) after being placed in the diseased coronary artery. This in-stent blockage is most often caused by excessive cell proliferation or thrombi (blood clots).Anticoagulation therapy post stenting has become an established practice.

In a modern medical setting the use of DES medical devices is currently (2023) associated with a Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI procedures, formerly known as angioplasty with stent).

PCI is thought of as a 'non-surgical procedure' by medical practitioners though it relies on arterial access using a specialized catheter - a thin tube. Arteries are under pressure and penetration of an artery wall is not a trivial event due to the potential for rapid blood loss due to this pressure.

The catheter/stent system is introduced into the body by penetrating an artery and the catheter is (on/part of the end structure of such catheters) used to place the stent through the arterial system to dilate blocked or narrowed coronary arteries (narrowed by plaque buildup), a condition known as atherosclerosis. Arterial access is usually via the femoral (upper leg) or the radial artery (arm/wrist) and less commonly performed via the brachial or ulnar artery (wrist/arm).

Historically, controlling bleeding at the point of arterial access after the procedure was an issue, modern arterial pressure bands and arterial closure system now exists which have helped control post procedure bleeding, but bleeding after the procedure is still a matter of concern.

The stent is placed within the peripheral or coronary artery by an Interventional Cardiologist using a specialized catheter placement system during a PCI procedure. The stent is initially 'collapsed' so it can be threaded though relatively narrow arteries and then inflated (consider an umbrella metaphor) and compressed against the diseased artery wall, often by air pressure introduced via the catheter.

Drug-eluting stents in current clinical use were approved by the FDA after clinical trials demonstrated they were superior to non-drug eluting systems generally referred to as bare-metal stents.

There is significant clinical data relating to the use and outcomes of DES, general stents, Percutaneous Coronary Intervention and CABG surgery.

Design considerations for Drug-Eluting Stents 
Four primary elements factor into the design of DES medical devices:

 The device as a structural scaffold - keeping an artery open by physical means.
 Drug-delivery mechanism, this medical device is a de factor 'drug delivery' system.
 Therapeutic agent - the choice of chemical agents the stent will deliver.
 The stent delivery system, catheter design, placement visualization and assessment of artery reperfusion (is the treated artery actually supplying cardiac muscle with sufficient oxygenated blood.

Drugs commonly utilized in Drug-Eluting Stents 

 Everolimus
 Sirolimus
 Paclitaxel
 Biolimus - also known as umirolimus is a semisynthetic version of sirolimus
Though these compounds have broader usage often associated with suppressing the immune system and in cancer treatments, they all function to inhibit cell growth and are used in DES systems in very localized areas and in low dosages for relatively short time periods.

Indications

Considerations for use 
It is crucial to identify patients who are good candidates for procedural intervention. Generally, patients without symptoms of coronary blockage or without evidence of ischemia (oxygen deprivation) on labs and imaging are not subjected to stent procedures, as the complications and risks of such a procedure would outweigh any potential benefit.

Procedural intervention, such as angioplasty or stent placement, is reserved for patients with clinical symptoms of coronary artery flow reduction or observable coronary artery obstruction on imaging. This is otherwise known as a myocardial infarction (heart attack). These symptoms can include, but are not limited to:

 Severe, pressure-like chest pain unrelieved by rest
 Shortness of breath, fatigue, lightheadedness
 Palpitations
 Atypical symptoms: nausea, vomiting, indigestion, confusion, back pain

There are two major classifications of myocardial infarction (MI): ST-elevation MI vs. non-ST elevation. The criteria for diagnosis are beyond the scope of this article, but it is important to note that stenting is considered first-line therapy for patients diagnosed with a STEMI.

Contraindications 
The only absolute contraindication to stent placement is significant active bleeding. This is due primarily to the need for in-procedure anticoagulation and dual antiplatelet therapy during the recovery period. Other considerations that could prevent the use of stents include a history of in-stent restenosis, bleeding diathesis (high susceptibility to bleed), complex or unsuitable coronary anatomy, and/or a short life expectancy due to other medical conditions.

Off-label use 
Drug-eluting stents also have been shown to be superior to bare-metal stents in reducing short-term complications of stenting in saphenous vein grafts; however, use in these bypass grafts is an example of "off-label" use of drug-eluting stents.  That is, this application has not been sufficiently examined by the Food and Drug Administration for that agency to recommend the use.  For "on-label" applications, the FDA "believes that coronary drug-eluting stents remain safe and effective when used for the FDA-approved indications. These devices have significantly reduced the need for a second surgery to treat restenosis for thousands of patients each year."

Some concern has been expressed about the overzealous use of stents in general. Two studies found about half of patients received stents for unapproved reasons, with worse outcomes for the patients in both studies.  More recent data suggest off-label use of both bare-metal stents and drug-eluting stents brings increased risks.  However, drug-eluting stents seemed to have similar or improved rates of death or myocardial infarction compared with bare-metal stents, and consistently reduced the need for target vessel revascularization.  Overall, the data support the use of drug-eluting stents for off-label indications.

Efficacy

Benefits 
Drug-eluting stents (DES) have been extensively studied, and are generally superior to bare-metal stents concerning the occurrence of major adverse cardiac events (generally defined as death, myocardial infarction, or the need for a repeat revascularization procedure).  In a 2019 meta-analysis comparing new generation DES to BMS, 26,616 patients spanning 20 randomized clinical trials were evaluated for primary outcomes of myocardial infarction and cardiac death. Those who received DES had a significantly reduced risk of myocardial infarction and cardiac mortality at 1 year. The superiority of newer generation polymer stents, particularly the cobalt chromium everolimus-eluting stents have been well-studied.

One of the major benefits of drug-eluting stents (DES) to bare-metal stents (BMS) is the prevention of in-stent restenosis (ISR). Restenosis is a gradual re-narrowing of the stented segment that occurs most commonly between 3–12 months after stent placement. High rates of restenosis associated with BMS prompted the development of DES, which resulted in a reduction of ISR incidence to around 5-10%. Continued development of newer generation DES have resulted in the near-elimination of BMS from clinical practice.

Long term outcomes 
Data on long term effects of DES is limited. This is primarily because the technology has only been around for the last two decades, so many studies investigating long-term outcomes have yet to be concluded. However, there are a number of studies investigating intermediate-term outcomes. One particular meta-analysis looked at 52,158 patients across 51 trials. At a median 3.8 years follow up, all DES demonstrated superior efficacy compared to BMS, resulting in lower rates of revascularization procedures. Among DES, newer-generation devices had substantially improved safety outcomes, specifically in regards to stent thrombosis, recurrent MIs, or death. In another 2016 trial, 9,013 patients who received either DES or BMS to treat coronary artery disease were followed at 6 years in order to determine differences in rates of all-cause mortality (death from any cause) as well as frequency of repeat revascularization, stent thrombosis, and quality of life measures. At 6 years, there were no significant differences in all-cause mortality or quality of