Medical Research Paper

Title: Diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease utilizing amyloid and tau as fluid biomarkers

Abstract:
Current technological advancements in clinical and research settings have permitted a more intensive and comprehensive understanding of Alzheimer’s disease (AD). This development in knowledge regarding AD pathogenesis has been implemented to produce disease-modifying drugs. The potential for accessible and effective therapeutic methods has generated a need for detecting this neurodegenerative disorder during early stages of progression because such remedial effects are more profound when implemented during the initial, prolonged prodromal stages of pathogenesis. The aggregation of amyloid-β (Aβ) and tau isoforms are characteristic of AD; thus, they are considered core candidate biomarkers. However, research attempting to establish the reliability of Aβ and tau as biomarkers has culminated in an amalgamation of contradictory results and theories regarding the biomarker concentrations necessary for an accurate diagnosis. In this review, we consider the capabilities and limitations of fluid biomarkers collected from cerebrospinal fluid, blood, and oral, ocular, and olfactory secretions as diagnostic tools for AD, along with the impact of the integration of these biomarkers in clinical settings. Furthermore, the evolution of diagnostic criteria and novel research findings are discussed. This review is a summary and reflection of the ongoing concerted efforts to establish fluid biomarkers as a diagnostic tool and implement them in diagnostic procedures. Markers from body fluids could help clinicians diagnose Alzheimer’s disease before cognitive decline appears. After numerous setbacks in treating advanced Alzheimer’s, researchers are eager to identify biological indicators that facilitate earlier disease detection and interception. A review by YoungSoo Kim and colleagues at Yonsei University in South Korea, explores the promise of ‘fluid biomarkers,’ which enables diagnosis using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), blood, oral, ocular, and olfactory fluid samples. Shifts in CSF levels of amyloid beta and tau, two proteins central to Alzheimer’s pathology, can reliably monitor at-risk individuals. Although CSF collection is unpleasant for patients, it remains more promising than blood, where current data for candidate fluid biomarkers are relatively inconclusive. In this review, investigations to discover safer, cheaper, and more reliable diagnostic tools to shift treatment from alleviation to prevention are introduced.