# Banjani

Banjani () was a tribe of Old Herzegovina, and historical region in western Montenegro. Its territory comprises , west of Nikšić, in the centre between Nikšić and Bileća, from the top of Njegoš mountain to the Trebišnjica river, and on to the Bileća Lake. All Banjani families have Jovanjdan (St. John's feast day, January 20) as their slava (a Serbian Orthodox tradition).

Geography
The Banjani is located between 42 degrees, 45 minutes and 43 degrees north latitude, and lies 18 degrees east of the Greenwich meridian, between 30 and 46 minutes.  Petrovići village with its direct surroundings (coastal Trebišnjica) is called the Lower Banjani.  This is the lowest section of the tribe and descends below 400 meters above sea level.

The rest of the tribe is called the Upper Banjani, the villages of which range from 800 to 1,100 meters above sea level. The Jelovica peaks rise between 1,100 and 1,280 meters above sea level. The peaks of Mt. Somina and Mt. Bratogošt both exceed this height. The highest peak of Njegoš is Ravna Glavica (flat head), which rises 1,721 meters above sea level.

In the central part of the tribal territory is a small town named Velimlje, at the very edge of Velimlje field, a karst field of three to four square kilometers, with its lowest section just under 800 meters above sea level, ending in a funnel-like recess, where it once flowed into the distant sea. This territory is of heavy karst, with lower and higher elevations covered with layers of limestone and dolomite rocks. A small area of arable land is located in depressions and on terraced surfaces. This land base provides scant vegetation, with rain falling in the vegetative period from May to September, and surface water is almost nonexistent.

Thin springs Jama Matovića, and Tupanjska river and springs flow to Mt. Njegoš. Through the neighborhoods of Upper Banjani flow Kruška (Pear), Crni Kuk (Black Hip), and Sopot flows through the Lower Banjani. Weak springs, called pištet or bučalina, named Zaboj, flow through Mokri Do, in a village Dubočke, providing a small, relatively insignificant seasonal water flow. Another weak spring (pištet) named Hercegove Luke flows to Mt. Somina.  The people of this region make pools where rainwater can collect.

Karst terrains, especially heavy karst area such as the Banjani, are affected by accelerated erosion processes that also adversely affect the wildlife, as well as the population itself.  In ancient times, this area received scarce water, which affected the soil complexes, flora and fauna.  Below Mt. Njegos, the Tupanjska river flows through the village of Riječani. The current Velimlje field was likely under water in ancient times and, during modern times, this area has been flooded by autumn rains. The Banjani coastal area around the river of Trebišnjica (today Bileca Lake) has a mild climate due to the influence of the Mediterranean sun. The main part of the tribe's territory has a temperate continental climate, while the only mountain of this region has a mountain climate. The tribal territory experiences fairly uniform annual distributions and amounts of rainfall.

History

The first written mention of the Banjani is in 1319. Some scholars argued that the name could derive from balnea (sr. banja), which means "bath" or "spa". According to oral tradition, the tribal name comes from Banjska in Kosovo from where they migrated.

Sir Arthur Evans noted that the Banjani were mentioned as Serbs in Herzegovina and Montenegro of the Middle Ages in Ragusan reports and Serbian chrysobulls. In Herzegovina were situated on the territory of Jezera and Piva. At the end of 14th century katunar (head of the tribe) was Jurek Junaković, later Herak Draženović of Radovan (1412), a certain Nenad (1432), and so on. Initially vassals of Pavlović (1430), in 1444 and 1463 they were recorded as vassals of Stjepan Vukčić Kosača. They are mentioned in mid-15th century documents from the Bay of Kotor.

At the time of the Ottoman occupation in 1466, the Banjani became part of southeastern Sanjak of Herzegovina. During occupation many Vlachs, including from Banjani, collaborated with the Ottomans as slave agents.

In Jovan Radonjić's letter from 1789. to Queen Catherine II. in asking for support from Empress of Russia for the Serbs from different tribes and regions, Banjani were also included.

Geography
The Banjani are central to the area between Nikšić and Bileća, from the top of Njegoš mountain, where the ancestors of the Petrović-Njegoš lived in the Muževice village (and who, as a merchant family, came from Zenica in Bosnia), to the Trebišnjica and Bileća Lake area. The surface area of the Banjani's territory is about 380 square kilometers, contiguous with other Montenegrin tribes: Golija to the north, Trepačke Rudine to the east, Grahovo to the south, and west to the state border of the Republika Srpska in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Oputne Rudine region).

In the past, the tribal borders to the south and east were different. The tribe bordering on Riđani was another Vlach tribe-clan that assimilated or migrated at the end of the 17th century, then formed two new clans: Grahovo and Trepačke Rudine. The newly formed tribes extended to the territory of the Banjani. Mountain ranges, Mt. Njegoš and Mt. Somina form a natural border to the north. Brekovac, Bratogošt, and Tisovac extend down to Trebišnjica and Bilećko Lake from the northwest to the southwest border.  he southern and eastern boundaries of Banjani travel over hilly terrain, with no major natural barriers.

Banjani society

Banjani is a little-explored area of significant prehistoric and turbulent history. A Neanderthal tooth and millstone were found at the Crvena stijena (red rock), archaeological site in the Lower Banjani, dating the earliest inhabitants of this territory to the Paleolithic, Neolithic and bronze periods. A number of ruins and piles (or barrows) testify to the end of the people of the territory prior to their taking on some of the urban characteristics of the Bronze and Iron Ages.

The history of this territory began with the Romans whose routes took them through the current Banjani territory. The important Roman roads passed by the Banjani village of Riječani on their way to Duklja and Skadar, where the Romans built forts. The Slavs in this region, and its wider environment, settled in the first half of the seventh century, pushing the sparse Roman and Illyrian populations of the mountain crags. The Slavs quickly built a state system, and appointed local leaders. In the early Middle Ages (around the eighth or ninth century), the government system became a banovina (principality) and belonged to the parish Onogošt. The various parishes joined to form an Onogošt Podgorje area (called Submontana in Latin), which belonged to the Kingdom of Duklja.

Duklja (Zeta) became part of Raska (Serbia) around the 1180s. Banjani became a part of Raska (therefore Nemanjic state) and, less than two centuries later, became part of Bosnia, which fell to the Turks in 1466.

This territory was probably composed of smaller administrative units (banovina) in the early Slavic period. One micro-location in the Banjani territory was called Banova stolica ("the ban throne"), still recognized by the stone seat on which it is believed that a ban convened meetings at the time.  Later, in the time of the Turks and their administration, the area became a nahija (Turkish administrative unit), probably because it had attained a certain autonomy, which even during the Turkish administration became organized as a tribe with tribal representatives.

According to ethnologists, the basic cell for the development of the tribe was the katun. The semi-nomadic people bred cattle in the summer on the mountain in the summer pasture and in the winter in the rural village on the bay. These cattle were inherited from Vlachs, Romans, Illyrians and other Balkan natives. One pasture would serve about 20 houses, and families were headed by katunar. From the 16th century, a community of more neighboring pastures, often allied and linked together, made up the tribe led by the duke. An important role in the survival of the tribe at the time of the Turks was played by the priesthood, trying to maintain the people fully into Orthodoxy. This was facilitated by the proximity to Old Montenegro, organized tribal communities, and Cetinje, Kotor, Dubrovnik and Venice, cities that have had economic and political ties with this region.

The first Banjani duke came from the Petrovic. They were related to the later Montenegrin dynasty Petrovic-Njegoš. Duke Ivan Petrovic was a contemporary of Duke Grdan Niksic. Petrovići lived in the Lower Banjani, in a village named Petrovići, from whom are descended some of today's Banjani clans: Kneževići, Popovici and Pejovići. Of these, the Popović clan lived in the village Trepcha, near of the Nikšić. From the mid-17th to mid-18th century, the Matovic clan from the Banjani village Prigradi