[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

when hot and after cooling. There are many other metallic sulphides, which, when heated by the blowpipe flame, cover the charcoal with a white incrustation, as sulphide of antimony, sulphide of zinc, and sulphide of tin. In all these cases, however, the incrustation consists of the metallic oxide alone, and either volatilizes or remains unchanged, when submitted to the oxidizing flame. Of the metallic chlorides there are many which, when heated on charcoal with the blowpipe flame, are volatilized and redeposited as a white incrustation. Among these are the chlorides of potassium, sodium, and lithium, which volatilize and cover the charcoal immediately around the assay with a thin white film, after they have been fused and absorbed into the charcoal, chloride of potassium forms the thickest deposit, and chloride of lithium the thinnest, the latter being moreover of a greyish-white color. The chlorides of ammonium, mercury, and antimony volatilize without fusing. The chlorides of zinc, cadmium, lead, bismuth, and tin first fuse and then cover the charcoal with two different incrustations, one of which is a white volatile chloride, and the other a less volatile oxide of the metal. Some of the incrustations formed by metallic chlorides disappear with a colored flame when heated with the reducing flame; thus chloride of potassium affords a violet flame, chloride of sodium an orange one, chloride of lithium a crimson flame, and chloride of lead a blue one. The other metals mentioned above volatilize without coloring the flame. The chloride of copper fuses and colors the flame of a beautiful blue. Moreover, if a continuous blast be directed upon the salt, a part of it is driven off in the form of white fumes which smell strongly of chlorine, and the charcoal is covered with incrustations of three different colors. That which is formed nearest to the assay is of a dark grey color, the next, a dark yellow passing into brown, and the most distant of a bluish white color. If this incrustation be heated under the reducing flame, it disappears with a blue flame. Metallic iodides and bromides behave upon charcoal in a similar manner to the chlorides. Those principally deserving of mention are the bromides and iodides of potassium and sodium. These fuse upon charcoal, are absorbed into its pores, and volatilize in the form of white fumes, which are deposited upon the charcoal at some distance from the assay. When the saline films so formed are submitted to the reducing flame, they disappear, coloring the flame in the same manner as the corresponding chlorides. 4. EXAMINATIONS IN THE PLATINUM FORCEPS. Before the student attempts to make an examination in the platinum forceps or tongs, he should first ascertain whether or not it will act upon the platinum. If the substance to be examined shall act chemically upon the platinum, then it should be examined on the charcoal, and the color of the flame ascertained as rigidly as possible. The following list of substances produce the color attached to them. A. VIOLET. Potash, and all its compounds, with the exception of the phosphate and the borate, tinge the color of the flame violet. B. BLUE. Chloride of copper, Intense blue. Lead, Pale clear blue. Bromide of copper, Bluish green. Antimony, Bluish green. Selenium, Blue. Arsenic, English green. C. GREEN. Ammonia, Dark green. Boracic acid, Dark green. Copper, Dark green. Tellurium, Dark green. Zinc, Light green. Baryta Apple green. Phosphoric acid, Pale green. Molybdic acid, Apple green. Telluric acid, Light green. D. YELLOW. Soda, Intense yellow. Water, Feeble yellow. E. RED. Strontia, Intense crimson. Lithia, Purplish red. Potash, Violet red. Lime, Purplish red. The student may often be deceived in regard to the colors: for instance, if a small splinter of almost any mineral be held at the point of the flame of oxidation, it will impart a very slight yellow to the flame. This is caused, doubtless, by the water contained in the mineral. If the piece of platinum wire is used, and it should be wet with the saliva, as is frequently done by the student, then the small quantity of soda existing in that fluid will color the flame of a light yellow hue. A. THE VIOLET COLOR. The salts of potash, with the exception of the borate and the phosphate, color the flame of a rich violet hue. This color is best discovered in the outer flame of the blowpipe, as is the case with all the other colors. The flame should be a small one, with a lamp having a small wick, while the orifice of the blowpipe must be quite small. These experiments should likewise be made in a dark room, so that the colors may be discerned with the greatest ease. In investigating with potash for the discernment of color, it should be borne in mind that the least quantity of soda will entirely destroy the violet color of the potash, by the substitution of its own strong yellow color. If there be not more than the two hundredth part of soda, the violet reaction of the potash will be destroyed. This is likewise the case with the presence of lithia, for its peculiar red color will destroy the violet of the potash. Therefore in making investigations with the silicates which contain potash, the violet color of the latter can only be discerned when they are free from soda and lithia. B. THE BLUE COLOR. (_a._) _The Chloride of Copper._--Any of the chlorides produce a blue color in the blowpipe flame, or any salt which contains chlorine will show the blue tint, as the color in this case is referable to the chlorine itself. There are, however, some chlorides which, in consequence of the peculiar reactions of their bases, will not produce the blue color, although in these cases the blue of the chlorine will be very likely to blend itself with the color produced by the base. The chloride of copper communicates an intense blue to the flame, when fused on the platinum wire. If the heat be continued until the chlorine is driven off, then the greenish hue of the oxide of copper will be discerned. (_b._) _Lead._--Metallic lead communicates to the flame a pale blue color. The oxide reacts in the same manner. The lead-salts, whose acids do not interfere with the color, impart also a fine blue to the flame, either in the platina forceps, or the crooked wire. (_c._) _Bromide of Copper._--This salt colors the flame of a bluish-green color, but when the bromine is driven off, then we have the green of the oxide of copper. (_d._) _Antimony._--This metal imparts a blue color to the blowpipe flame, but if the metal is in too small a quantity, then the color is a brilliant white. If antimony is fused on charcoal, the fused metal gives a blue color. The white sublimate which surrounds the fused metal, being subjected to the flame of oxidation, disappears from the charcoal with a bluish-green color. (_e._) _Selenium._--If fused in the flame of oxidation, it imparts to the flame a deep blue color. The incrustation upon charcoal gives to the flame the same rich color. (_f._) _Arsenic._--The arseniates and metallic arsenic itself impart to the blowpipe flame a fine blue color, provided that there is no other body present which may have a tendency to color the flame with its characteristic hue. The sublimate of arsenious acid which surrounds the assay, will give the same blue flame, when dissipated by the oxidation flame. The platinum forceps will answer for the exhibition of the color of arsenic, even though the salts be arseniates, whose bases possess the property of imparting their peculiar color to the flame, such as the arseniate of lime. C. THE GREEN COLOR. (_a._) _Ammonia._--The salts of ammonia, when heated before the blowpipe, and just upon the point of disappearing, impart to the flame a feeble though dark green color. This color, however, can only be discerned in a dark room. (_b._) _Boracic Acid._--If any one of the borates is mixed with two parts of a flux composed of one part of pulverized fluorspar, and four and a half parts of bisulphate of potash, and after being melted, is put upon the coil of a platinum wire, and held at the point of the blue flame, soon after fusion takes place a dark green color is discerned, but it is not of long duration. The above process is that recommended by Dr. Turner. The green color of the borates may be readily seen by dipping them, previously moistened with sulphuric acid, into the upper part of the blue flame, when the color can be readily discerned. If soda be present, then the rich green of the boracic acid is marred by the yellow of the soda. Borax, or the biborate of soda (NaO, 2BO_{3}) may be used for this latter reaction, but if it be moistened with sulphuric acid, the green of the boracic acid can then be seen. If the borates, or minerals which contain boracic acid, are fused on charcoal with carbonate of potash, then moistened with sulphuric acid and alcohol, then the bright green of the boracic acid is produced, even if the mineral contains but a minute portion of the boracic acid. (_c._) _Copper_. Nearly all the ores of copper and its salts, give a bright green color to the blowpipe flame. Metallic copper likewise colors the flame green, being first oxidized. If iodine, chlorine, and bromine are present, the flame is considerably modified, but the former at least intensifies the color. Many ores containing copper also color the flame green, but the internal portion is of a bright blue color if the compound contains lead, the latter color being due to the lead. The native sulphide and carbonate of copper should be moistened with sulphuric acid, while the former should be previously roasted. If hydrochloric acid is used for moistening the salts, then the rich green given by that moistened with the sulphuric acid is changed to a blue, being thus modified by the chlorine of the acid. Silicates containing copper, if heated in the flame in the platinum forceps, impart a rich green color to the outer flame. In fact, if any substance containing copper be submitted to the blowpipe flame, it will tinge it green, provided there be no other substance present to impart its own color to the flame, and thus modify or mar that of the copper. (_d._) _Tellurium._--If the flame of reduction is directed upon the oxide of tellurium placed upon charcoal, a green color is imparted to it. If the telluric acid be placed upon platinum wire in the reduction flame, the oxidation flame is colored green. Or if the sublimate be dissipated by the flame of oxidation, it gives a