[Gray's Anatomy — Gray — Gutenberg #12026]

flame, That but the strong-handed wind can urge or tame; Chill loveliest light the kneeling clouds between, Silverly serene; Comfort of happy light, That mouse-like leaps amid brown leaves, cheating sight; Clear naked stars, burning with swift intense Earthward intelligence;-- Sensitive, single Points in the dark inane that purely tingle With eager fire, pouring night's circles through Their living blue; Dark light still waters hold; Broad silver moonpath trodden into gold: Candle-flame glittering through the traveller's night-- Most comfortable light.... And lovelier, the eye Where light from darkness shines unfathomably, Light secret, clear, shallow, profound, known, strange, Constant alone in change:-- Not that wild light that turns Hunted from dying eyes when the last fire burns; O, not that bitter light of wounded things, When bony anguish springs Sudden, intolerable; Nor light of mad eyes gleaming up from hell.... Come not again, wild light! Shine not again, Hill-flare of pain! But thou, most holy light.... Not the noon blaze that stings, too fiercely bright, Not that unwinking stare of shameless day; But thou, the gray, Nun-like and silent, still, Fine-breathed on many an eastern bare green hill; Keen light of gray eyes, cool rain, and stern spears; Sad light, but not to tears:-- --O, comfort thou of eyes Watching expectant from chill northern skies, Excellent joy for lids heavy with night-- Strange with delight! HALLO! "Hallo, hallo!" impatiently he cried, And I replied, Sleepily, "Hallo--hallo!" No sound then; and I stretched My hand for the receiver, all my nerves Tingling and listening. My hand clutched nothing, and I lit The candle--strange! I could have sworn it was the shouting wire.... But no! Besides, a bare and unfamiliar room And he, why, long-forgotten, maybe dead. Yet all around, Filling the silence up with tiny sound, A million tremulous thin echoings, "Hallo--hallo-- Hallo!" FEAR There was a child that screamed, And if it was the gathering tingling dark, Or if it was the tingling silences Between few words, Or if the water's drip and quivering drip-- Who knows? Or if the child half sleeping suddenly dreamed-- Who knows? for she knew not, but was afraid, And then angry with fear, And then it seemed afraid of all the voices Echoing hers. And then afraid again of that drip, drip Of water somewhere near. Yet a man dying would not with such fear Scream out at hell. Easier it were to die than to endure, Unless death brought the instant consciousness Of all the wrongs of all lost years Falling like water, drip after trembling drip Upon the naked anguish of the soul. But death's stupidity Is gentle to the lunatic last wits. Little of terror, little of consciousness, But stupor, a great ease, Narrowing silences, And silence; And then no more the drip, drip of the years, No more the strangeness, agonies and fears; No more the noise, but one imponderable unhaunted Hush.... I heard the child that cried Chattering a moment after in the light, And singing out of such contentment as Lamps and familiar voices bring. She needs must sing Now that sharp, spiny agony thrust no more, Nor water fell, drip, drip by quivering drip; Her face was bright, Unapprehensive as a day in spring. WAKING Lying beneath a hundred seas of sleep With all those heavy waves flowing over me, And I unconscious of the rolling night Until, slowly, from deep to lesser deep Risen, I felt the wandering seas no longer cover me But only air and light.... It was a sleep So dark and so bewilderingly deep That only death's were deeper or completer, And none when I awoke stranger or sweeter. Awake, the strangeness still hung over me As I with far-strayed senses stared at the light. I--and who was I? Saw--oh, with what unaccustomed eye! The room was strange and everything was strange Like a strange room entered by wild moonlight; And yet familiar as the light swept over me And I rose from the night. Strange--yet stranger I. And as one climbs from water up to land Fumbling for weedy steps with foot and hand, So I for yesterdays whereon to climb To this remote and new-struck isle of time. But I found not myself nor yesterday-- Until, slowly, from deep to lesser deep Risen, I felt the seas no longer over me But only air and light. Yes, like one clutching at a ring I heard The household noises as they stirred, And holding fast I wondered. What were they? I felt a strange hand lying at my side, Limp and cool. I touched it and knew it mine. A murmur, and I remembered how the wind died In the near aspens. Then Strange things were no more strange. I travelled among common thoughts again; And felt the new forged links of that strong chain That binds me to myself, and this to-day To yesterday. I heard it rattling near With a no more astonished ear. And I had lost the strangeness of that sleep, No more the long night rolled its great seas over me. --O, too anxious I! For in this press of things familiar I have lost all that clung Round me awaking of strangeness and such sweetness Nothing now is strange Except the man that woke and then was I. THE FALL From that warm height and pure, The peak undreamed of out of heavy air Rising to heaven more strange and rare; From that amazed brief sojourn, exquisite, insecure; Fallen from thence to this, From all immortal sunk to mortal sweet, To slow gross joys from joy so fleet, Fallen to mere remembrance of unsustainable bliss.... O harsh, O heavy air, Difficult endurance, pain of common things! The slow sun east to westward swings, The flat-faced moon climbs labouring with a senseless stare. From that inconceivable height---- O inward eyes that saw and ears that heard, Spiritual swift wings that stirred In that warm-flushing air and unendurable light; When I was as mere down On a swift-running youthful wind uptaken Over tall trees, white mountains, shaken, Into the uttermost azure lifted, lifted alone. From that peak can it be That I am fallen, fallen that was so high? Or was that truly, surely I? Who is it crawls here now, sad, uncontentedly? Fallen from that high content, --Fool, thou that wast content merely with bliss! Happy those lovers that will not kiss; Never to be fulfilled was the heart's endless passion meant. Never on joys attainable To linger, never on easy near delight-- O bitter, unreached infinite, Merciful defeat, availless anguish, hunger unendurable! O who shall be in longing wise, Skilled in refusal, in embracing free, Glad with earth's innocent ecstasy, Yet all the uncomprehended heaven in his eyes! STAY Stay, thou desired one, stay! Brighten the curious darkness of the world. Cold through the chill dark swings the sleeping world, Sense-heavy, dreaming dully of clear day. No moon, no stars, no sound of wind or seas: Wearily sleeping in immense unease, Dreams, dreams the world of day. Stay, thou adored one, stay, Who on the dark hang'st lamps of gold delight, Gold flames amid the purple pit of night. Stay, stay, Who the cool dawn's most lovely gray Mak'st lovelier with rose of far away. Stay, thou, who buildest wonder of things mean (More truly so they're seen). Stay--nay, fly not, nay--stay; Youth gone, remain thou yet and yet. Though the world spin in darkness and forget The light, Stay thou, whose coming's joy and flight despair. Thou unimaginably more than fair, Brief unsustainable strange dream, stay yet! Lamping the world's close unsustainable dark With golden unimaginable day. SHADOWS The shadow of the lantern on the wall, The lantern hanging from the twisted beam, The eye that sees the lantern, shadow and all. The crackle of the sinking fire in the grate, The far train, the slow echo in the coombe, The ear that hears fire, train and echo and all. The loveliness that is the secret shape Of once-seen, sweet and oft-dreamed loveliness, The brain that builds shape, memory, dream and all.... A white moon stares Time's thinning fabric through, And makes substantial insubstantial seem, And shapes immortal mortal as a dream; And eye and brain flicker as shadows do Restlessly dancing on a cloudy wall. WALKING AT EVE Walking at eve I met a little child Running beside a tragic-featured dame, Who checked his blitheness with a quick "For shame!" And seemed by sharp caprice froward and mild. Scarce heeding her the sweet one ran, beguiled By the lit street, and his eyes too aflame; Only, at whiles, into his eyes there came Bewilderment and grief with terror wild. So, Beauty, dost thou run with tragic life; So, with the curious world's caress enchanted, Even of ill things thine ecstasy dost make; Yet at the touch of fear and vital strife The splendours thy young innocency forsake, And with thy foster-mother's woe thou art haunted. THE PHYSICIAN She comes when I am grieving and doth say, "Child, here is that shall drive your grief away." When I am hopeless, kisses me and stirs My breast with the strong lively courage of hers. Proud--she will humble me with but a word, Or with mild mockery at my folly gird; Fickle--she holds me with her loyal eyes; Remorseful--tells of neighbouring Paradise; Envious--"Be not so mad, so mad," she saith, "Envied and envier both race with Death" She my good Angel is: and who is she?-- The soul's divine Physician, Memory. VISION AND ECHO I have seen that which sweeter is Than happy dreams come true. I have heard that which echo is Of speech past all I ever knew. Vision and echo, come again, Nor let me grieve in easeless pain! It was a hill I saw, that rose Like smoke over the street, Whose greening rampires were upreared Suddenly almost at my feet; And tall trees nodded tremblingly Making the plain day visionary. But ah, the song, the song I heard And grieve to hear no more! It was not angel-voice, nor child's Singing alone and happy, nor Note of the wise prophetic thrush As lonely in the leafless bush. It was not these, and yet I knew That song; but now, alas, My unpurged ears prove all too gross To keep the nameless air that was And is not; and my eyes forget The vision that I follow yet. Yet though forgetful I did see. And heard, but cannot tell, And on my forehead felt an air Unearthly, on my heart a spell. I have seen that which deathless is, And heard--what I for ever miss! REVISITATION It is here--the lime-tree in the garden path, The lilac by the wall, the ivied wall That was so high, the heavy, close-leaved creeper, The harsh gate