# Fall prevention

Fall prevention includes any action taken to help reduce the number of accidental falls suffered by susceptible individuals, such as the elderly (idiopathic) and people with neurological (Parkinson's, Multiple sclerosis, stroke survivors, Guillain-Barre, traumatic brain injury, incomplete spinal cord injury) or orthopedic (lower limb or spinal column fractures or arthritis, post-surgery, joint replacement, lower limb amputation, soft tissue injuries) indications. 

Current approaches to fall prevention are problematic because even though awareness is high among professionals that work with seniors and fall prevention activities are pervasive among community living establishments, fall death rates among older adults have more than doubled. The challenges are believed to be three-fold. First, insufficient evidence exists that any fall risk screening instrument is adequate for predicting falls. While the strongest predictors of fall risk tend to include a history of falls during the past year, gait, and balance abnormalities, existing models show a strong bias and therefore mostly fail to differentiate between adults that are at low risk and high risk of falling.

Second, current fall prevention interventions in the United States are limited between short-term individualized therapy provided by a high-cost physical therapist or longer-term wellness activity provided in a low-cost group setting. Neither arrangement is optimum in preventing falls over a large population, especially as these evidence-based physical exercise programs have limited effectiveness (approximately 25%). Even multifactorial interventions, which include extensive physical exercise, medication adjustment, and environmental modification only lower fall risk by 31% after 12 months. Questions around effectiveness of current approaches (physical exercise and multifactorial interventions) have been found in multiple settings, including long-term care facilities and hospitals.

The final challenge is adherence. Average adherence in group-based fall prevention exercise programs is around 66%, mostly due to the highly repetitive nature of the programs and the extremely long duration required for noticeable benefits accrue. Adherence to physical therapy can be even lower. When adherence is below 70%, effectiveness of fall prevention physical exercise programs can drop to less than 10%.

Practitioners are aware that the most successful approach to fall prevention utilizes a multimodal, motor-cognitive training approach that could be introduced to all adults over 65. The scientific basis of this approach is an understanding of how the dual-task paradigm induces neuroplasticity in the brain, especially in aging populations. This is driving a growing body of research that specifically links the cognitive sub-domains of attention and executive function (EF) to gait alterations and fall risk.

Cost of falls 
Falls and fall-related injuries are among the most common but serious medical problems experienced by older adults. Nearly one-third of older people fall each year, half of which fall more than once per year. Over 3 million Americans over the age of 65 visited hospital emergency departments in 2015 due to fall-related injuries, with over 1.6 million being admitted. Because of decreased bone density due to osteoporosis, mobility, and reflexes, falls often result in hip fractures and other fractures, head injuries, and death in older adults. Accidental injuries are the fifth most common cause of death in older adults. 75% of hip fracture patients do not recover completely and show signs of overall health deterioration.

Strategies and interventions 
Motor-cognitive training is increasingly viewed as the gold standard for healthy aging and fall prevention. One approach that has been researched is the introduction of semi-immersive virtual reality simulation during treadmill training. Initially conceptualized by the Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center with funding from the Michael J Fox Foundation and the European Commission, V-TIME projects a real-time image of participants' feet onto a large screen at eye-level while the participants are walking on a treadmill. The virtual environment introduces multiple physical and cognitive challenges while the participant is in dynamic motion. This one approach to motor-cognitive training was found to repeatedly reduce falls by 50% after 5 weeks of 15 sessions across multiple clinical trials and multiple indications (idiopathic, Parkinson's, Multiple sclerosis). The biological manifestations of this improvement were identified through functional MRI, which showed changes in brain activity patterns for patients that were exposed to combined motor-cognitive training, as opposed to exclusively physical training.

Other preventative measures with positive effects include strength and balance training, home risk assessment, the withdrawal of psychotropic medication, cardiac pacing for those with carotid sinus hypersensitivity, and tai chi. Resistance exercise two or three times a week with ankle weights or elastic bands has been proven in tests to rebuild lost muscle mass and reduce falls in adults of all ages: it was first tested in New Zealand by the Otago Medical School in four controlled trials, in which about 1,000 older adults with an average age 84 participated. Falls among a test group that did the Otago routines three times a week for 12 months was 35% fewer than a control group that did not use the routines. Two similar 12-month tests were conducted in the US using residents in assisted and skilled nursing facilities with one group showing a 54% reduction in falls. After the age of 50, adults experience a decrease in muscle mass (sarcopenia) by approximately 2% every year. A systematic review concluded that resistance training can slow down the rate of loss in muscle mass and strength. It has been recommended that older adults participate in resistance training two to three times a week to weaken the effects of sarcopenia. Assistive technology can also be applied, although it is mostly reactive in case of a fall. Exercise as a single intervention has been shown to prevent falls in community-dwelling older adults. A systematic review suggests that having an exercise regimen that includes challenging balance workouts for three or more hours per week results in a lesser chance of falling.  Resistance training has been shown to be beneficial beyond fall prevention, as it also helps improve functional mobility and activities of daily living such as walking endurance, gait speed, and stair climbing. Research explains that this significant increase in performance can be accomplished after the age of 90. For older adults to gain confidence in resistance training, which may ultimately lead to falling prevention effects, they must obtain the recommended amount of daily activity.

The aim of medical management is to identify factors that can contribute to falls and fracture risk such as osteoporosis, multiple medications, balance and gait problems, loss of vision and a history of falls. Beers Criteria is a list of medications that are potentially inappropriate for use in the elderly and some of them increase the risk of falls.

Falls are well known amongst community-dwelling individuals ages 65 and older. The risk of fall-related incidents nearly doubles when individuals are institutionalized. The impact on different falls in certain situation of fall prevention programs on the rate differences of falls in elderly population has not been reported. As well as cognitive impairment, functional impairment, gait, and balance disorders, certain medications can increase fall risk factors for patients. At an advanced age, these risk factors are double and more likely to occur. It's important to identify the risk factors that increase the likelihood of injurious falls. State-level fall prevention strategies can also mitigate fall risk for community-dwelling older adults.

Risk factors of falls

Older adults 
Studies have shown that adults over the age of 65 are more prone to falls than younger, healthy adults. Most falls in older adults are due to:
 Gait deviations – These are the main changes that occur in the gait patterns of older adults, which may contribute to the incidence of falls. Older adults may experience a 10–20% reduction in gait velocity and reduction in stride length, an increase in stance width and double support phase, or a bent posture. Studies show that a wider stride does not necessarily increase stability, and may instead increase the likelihood of experiencing falls.
Limitations in mobility – Loss of mobility increases the risk of falls in situations which, under normal circumstances, would pose a low risk of falling (such as walking up/down stairs).
Reduced muscle strength, especially in the lower body, which leads to difficulties standing up.
Poor reaction time – Aging is associated with the gradual slowing of an individual's reac