[The Human Body — Hutchinson — Gutenberg #15576]

the oxidizing flame undergoes no change, nor does it, according to _H. Rose_, alter by the addition of sulphate of iron. * * * * * 26. Niobic Acid, Ni^{2}O{3} Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Behaves in a similar manner to tantalic acid, but the glass requires a very large dose of the acid to render it opaque under an intermittent flame. With an increased amount of the acid, the glass is clear and yellow, while warm, but becomes on cooling turbid, and when quite cold is white. in the reducing flame. The glass obtained in the oxidizing flame and which has become opalescent on cooling, is rendered clear in the reducing flame. With a larger addition of the acid, it becomes dull, and of a bluish-grey color on cooling, and a still larger amount of renders it opaque and bluish grey. Behavior with Mic. Salt on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves in large quantities to a clear colorless glass. in the reducing flame. If the acid be not present in too large a proportion, the glass remains unchanged. An additional amount of the acid renders it violet, and a still larger quantity affords a beautiful pure blue color, similar to that produced by tungstic acid. If to such a bead some sulphate of iron be added, the glass becomes blood-red. The addition of peroxide of iron renders the glass deep yellow while warm, the color becomes paler on cooling. * * * * * 27. Pelopic Acid, Pp^{2}O^{3}. Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Behaves similarly to the preceding. in the reducing flame. A bead containing sufficient of the acid to render it spontaneously opaque on cooling, has a greyish color. Behavior with Mic. Salt on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves even in large quantity to a colorless glass. in the reducing flame. With sufficient dose of the acid, the bead becomes brown with a violet tinge. This reaction is readily obtained upon charcoal. Sulphate of iron renders the bead blood-red. * * * * * 28. Oxide of Antimony, SbO^{3}. Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Even when in large proportion, dissolves to a clear glass, which is yellow when warm, but almost entirely loses its color on cooling. On charcoal, the antimonious acid may be almost expelled, so that tin produces no further change. in the reducing flame. A bead, that has only been treated for a short time in the oxidizing flame, when submitted to the reducing flame becomes grey and turbid from the reduced antimony. This soon volatizes and the glass again becomes clear. The addition of tin renders the glass ash-grey or black, according to the amount of oxide it contains. Behavior with Mic. Salt on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves with ebullition to a glass of a pale yellow color while warm. in the reducing flame. On charcoal, the saturated glass becomes at first dull, but as soon as the reduced antimony is volatilized, it again becomes clear. With tin, the glass is at first rendered grey by the reduced antimony, but by continued blowing is restored to clearness. Even when the glass contains but little oxide, tin produces this reaction. * * * * * 29. Tungstic Acid, WO^{3}. Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves readily to a clear colorless glass. In large proportion it renders the borax yellow, while warm, and with a still greater addition the bead may be made opaque with an intermittent flame. If more be then added, this reaction takes place spontaneously. in the reducing flame. When the oxide is present in small quantity, the glass undergoes no change. With a larger proportion, the glass is deep yellow while warm, and yellowish-brown when cold. This reaction takes place upon charcoal, with a small quantity of the acid. Tin produces a dark coloration, when the acid is not present in too great a quantity. Behavior with Mic. Salt on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves to a clear glass, which, when saturated, is yellow in the hot state. in the reducing flame. The glass is of a pure blue. If the tungstic acid contain iron, the glass becomes blood-red on cooling, similar to titanic acid. In this case, tin restores the blue color, or, if iron be in considerable quantity, renders it green. * * * * * 30. Molydbic Acid, MO^{3}. Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves readily and in large quantity. When but little is dissolved, the glass is yellow while hot and colorless when cold. When in larger quantity yellow while warm and opaline when cold, and a further addition of acid renders it yellow when warm, the color, on cooling, changing first to a pale enamel blue, and then to an enamel white. in the reducing flame. The glass, which has been treated in the oxidizing flame, becomes, when the acid is not present in too large a quantity, brown, and when in large quantity, perfectly opaque. In a strong flame, oxide of molybdenum is formed which is visible in the yellow glass in the form of black flakes. If the glass appear opaque, it should be flattened with the forceps. Behavior with Mic. Salt on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves to a clear glass, which, when sufficient acid is present, is of a yellowish-green color when warm, and becomes nearly colorless on cooling. On charcoal, the glass becomes dark, and when cool has a beautiful green color. in the reducing flame. The glass becomes of a bottle-green color, which on cooling, changes to a brilliant green, similar to that produced by oxide of chromium. The reaction on charcoal is precisely similar. Tin renders the color somewhat darker. * * * * * 31. Vanadic Acid, VaO^{8}. Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves to a clear glass, which is colorless when only a small quantity of acid is present, and yellow when containing a larger proportion. in the reducing flame. The yellow color of the glass changes to a brown when warm and a chrome-green on cooling. Behavior with Mic. Salt on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. As with borax. in the reducing flame. As with borax. * * * * * 32. Oxide of Chromium, Cr^{2}O^{3}. Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Affords an intense color, but dissolves slowly. A small proportion colors the glass yellow when warm, and yellowish green when cold; a larger addition produces a dark red color when warm, which, on cooling, becomes yellow and finally a brilliant green with a tinge of yellow. in the reducing flame. A small quantity of the oxide renders the glass beautifully green both when warm and when cold. A larger addition changes it to a darker emerald green. Tin produces no change in the color. Behavior with Mic. Salt on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves to a clear glass which has a pink tinge while warm, but on cooling becomes dusky green, and finally brilliantly green. in the reducing flame. As in the oxidizing flame, except that the colors are somewhat darker. Tin produces no further change. * * * * * 33. Arsenious Acid, AsO^{3}. Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. No reaction. in the reducing flame. No reaction. Behavior with Mic. Salt on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. No reaction. in the reducing flame. No reaction. * * * * * 34. Tellurous Acid, TeO^{2}. Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves to a clear colorless glass which, when treated on charcoal, becomes grey and dull from particles of reduced tellurium. in the reducing flame. As in the oxidizing flame. Behavior with Mic. Salt on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. As with borax. in the reducing flame. As with borax. * * * * * 7. EXAMINATIONS WITH CARBONATE OF SODA. The carbonate of soda is pulverized and then kneaded to a paste with water; the substance to be examined, in fine powder, is also mixed with it. A small portion of this paste is placed on the charcoal, and gradually heated until the moisture is expelled, when the heat is brought to the fusion of the bead, or as high as it can be raised. Several phenomena will take place, which must be closely observed. Notice whether the substance fuses with the bead, and if so, whether there is intumescence or not. Or, whether the substance undergoes reduction; or, whether neither of these reactions takes place, and, on the contrary, the soda sinks into the charcoal, leaving the substance intact upon its surface. If intumescence takes place, the presence of either tartaric acid, molybdic acid, silicic, or tungstic acid, is indicated. The silicic acid will fuse into a bead, which becomes clear when it is cold. Titanic acid will fuse into the bead, but may be easily distinguished from the silicic acid by the bead remaining opaque when cold. Strontia and baryta will flow into the charcoal, but lime will not. The molybdic and tungstic acids combine with the soda, forming the respective salts. These salts are absorbed by the charcoal. If too great a quantity of soda is used, the bead will be quite likely to become opaque upon cooling, while, if too small a quantity of soda is used, a portion of the substance will remain undissolved. These can be equally avoided by either the addition of soda, or the substance experimented upon, as may be required. As silica and titanic acid are the only two substances that produce a clear bead, the student, if he gets a clear bead, may almost conclude that he is experimenting with silica, titanic acid being a rare substance. When soda is heated with silica, a slight effervescence will be the first phenomenon noticed. This is the escape of the carbonic acid of the carbonate of soda, while the silicic acid takes its place, forming a glass with the soda. As titanic acid will not act in the same manner as silica, it can be easily distinguished by its bead not being perfectly pellucid. If the bead with which silica is fused should be tinted of a hyacinth or yellow color, this may be attributed to the presence of a small quantity of sulphur or a sulphate, and this sometimes happens from the fact of the flux containing sulphate of soda. The following metals, when exposed with carbonate of soda to the reducing flame, are wholly or partially reduced, viz. the oxides of all the noble metals, the oxides and acids of tungsten, molybdenum, arsenic, antimony, mercury,