[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Refugees in Hong Kong

Refugees in Hong Kong have formed historic waves arriving in the city due to wars in the region and Hong Kong's historical role as a trading and transit entrepôt. More recently those seeking asylum or protection based on torture claims are a fast growing part of the city's population, increasing since 2004 due to changes in the legal system for considering asylum and torture claims mandated by local courts.

As of September 2017, there were about 14,000 pending or failed asylum seekers or torture claimants awaiting processing, adjudication, appeals, or deportation after failure to gain refugee status. With roughly 60% from South Asia, 30% from Southeast Asia, and nearly 10% from Africa.

Almost none of the asylum seekers or torture claimants are ultimately sustained by immigration authorities and judicial review to have a bona fide claim and granted refugee status or protection in Hong Kong. A public debate surrounds the asylum system with criticism voiced from some sectors of the press and political spectrum about the high cost of supporting the living expenses of the asylum seekers and torture claimants, process abuse by those seeking asylum and protection who are without a bona fide claim to fear of torture or persecution, and the crime committed by applicants who typically wait for years to have claims adjudicated.

Definitions
A refugee is a person holding refugee status based on the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. An asylum seeker is a person claiming to be a refugee but who has not had his or her status determined in the prospective country. A torture claimant is a person claiming protection in the prospective country from being returned to another state where there are "substantial grounds for believing that he or she would be in danger of being subjected to torture" according to the United Nations Convention against Torture.

History

From Maoist China

During the Maoist era, the leading reason for Chinese refugees in Hong Kong was fleeing persecution, hunger and political turnmoil. The end of the Chinese Civil War in 1949 resulted in the population growing from 600,000 to 2.1 million between 1945 and 1951, meaning a large proportion of the Hong Kong population are descended from refugees. The total of Chinese refugees entering British Hong Kong from 1950 through 1963 is about 1,160,000.

From Russia

Included amongst this wave were also thousands of Russian refugees who had migrated from mainland China through Hong Kong during the 1950s and 1960s. These were White Russians who had fled the Soviet Union after the Communist Revolution in 1917 and settled in Manchuria and Sinkiang, but had to flee again after the Communists assumed control of China in 1949. For more than two decades they were stranded, billeted in hotels with their expenses shared by the UNHCR and the World Council of Churches waiting for resettlement by UNHCR in countries including the United States, Brazil, Argentina, Australia and New Zealand. It is estimated that by 1980 a total of twenty thousand White Russians from mainland China had passed through Hong Kong on their way to resettlement in overseas destinations.

From Vietnam

In the next wave, the end of the Vietnam War brought hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese refugees. Ultimately, of the refugee claims, 143,700 Vietnamese refugees were resettled in third countries while about 67,000 Vietnamese migrants were deported back to Vietnam. Only about 1,000 Vietnamese refugees were granted permission to reside and assimilate in Hong Kong.

Court rulings
Since 2004 after a series of rulings by Hong Kong courts prohibited the immigration authority in Hong Kong from removal of any illegal immigrants as long as those individuals claimed persecution or risk of torture and awaited adjudication of their claims. There was a dramatic increase in the number of asylum seekers and torture claimants after 2004.

A March 2013 holding by the Court of Final Appeal held that determination of refugee claims is subject to judicial review. This landmark holding prompted Hong Kong to restructure the system for considering claims into a Unified Screening Mechanism in 2014.

In the period from 2014–15, the number of asylum seeker claims has soared, rising by 70% from early 2014 to mid-2015 due to consolidation of claims for both persecution and torture under the Unified Screening Mechanism.