[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 172]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

t
to myself, 'What if I could make her return my love? Where would the
vengeance be _then_?'"

Hadria had remained, for a second, perfectly still, and then turned
abruptly away.

"I knew it would be a shock to you. I did not dare to tell you before.
Think what depended on it for me. Had I told you at that moment, I knew
all hope for me would be at an end. But now, it seems to me my duty to
tell you. If you wish for vengeance still, here I am at your mercy--take
it." He stretched out his arms and stood waiting before her. But she was
silent. He was not surprised. Such a revelation, at such a moment, must,
of necessity, stun her.

"Hadria, pronounce my fate. Do you wish for vengeance still? You have
only to take it, if you do. Only for heaven's sake, don't keep me in
suspense. Tell me your decision."

Still silence.

"Do you want to take revenge on me now?" he repeated.

"No;" she said abruptly, "of what use would it be? No, no, wait, wait a
moment. I want no vengeance. It is useless for women to try to fight
against men; they can only _hate_ them!"

The Professor started, as if he had been struck.

They stood looking at one another.

"In heaven's name, what is the meaning of this? Am I to be hated for a
sin committed years ago, and long since repented? Have you no breadth of
sympathy, no tolerance for erring humanity? Am I never to be forgiven?
Oh, Hadria, Hadria, this is more than I can bear!"

She was standing very still and very calm. Her tones were clear and
deliberate.

"If vengeance is futile, so is forgiveness. It undoes no wrong. It is
not a question of forgiveness or of vengeance. I think, after all, if I
were to attempt the impossible by trying to avenge women whom men have
injured, I should begin with the wives. In this case" (she turned to the
grave), "the tragedy is more obvious, but I believe the everyday tragedy
of the docile wife and mother is even more profound."

"You speak as coldly, as bitterly, as if you regarded me as your worst
enemy--I who love you." He came forward a step, and she drew back
hurriedly.

"All that is over. I too have a confession to make."

"Good heavens, what is it? Are you not what I thought you? Have you some
history, some stain--? Don't for pity's sake tell me that!"

Hadria looked at him, with a cold miserable smile. "That is really
amusing!" she cried; "I should not hold myself responsible to you, for
my past, in any case. My confession relates to the present. I came up
here with this pencil and paper, half resolved to write to you--I wanted
to tell you that--that I find--I find my feelings towards you have
changed----"

He gave a hoarse, inarticulate cry, and turned sharply round. His hands
went up to his head. Then he veered suddenly, and went fiercely up to
her.

"Then you _are_ in earnest? You _do_ hate me! for a sin dead and buried?
Good God! could one have believed it? Because I was honest with you,
where another man would have kept the matter dark, I am to be thrown
over without a word, without a chance. Lord, and this is what a woman
calls love!"

He broke into a laugh that sounded ghastly and cruel, in the serene calm
of the churchyard. The laugh seemed to get the better of him. He had
lost self-control. He put his hands on his hips and went on laughing
harshly, yet sometimes with a real mirth, as if by that means only could
he express the fierce emotions that had been roused in him. Mortified
and furious as he was, he derived genuine and cynical amusement from the
incident.

"And the devotion that we have professed--think of it! and the union of
souls--ha, ha, ha! and the common interests and the deep sympathy--it is
screaming! Almost worth the price I pay, for the sake of the rattling
good joke! And by this grave! Great heavens, how humourous is destiny!"
He leant his arms on the tomb-stone and laughed on softly, his big form
shaking, his strange sinister face appearing over the stone, irradiated
with merriment. In the dusk, among the graves, the grinning face looked
like that of some mocking demon, some gargoyle come to life, to cast a
spell of evil over the place.

"Ah, me, life has its comic moments!" His eyes were streaming. "I fear I
must seem to you flippant, but you will admit the ludicrous side of the
situation. I am none the less ready to cut my throat--ha, ha, ha! Admit,
my dear Hadria--Mrs. Temperley--that it appeals also to _your_ sense of
humour. A common sense of humour, you know, was one of our bonds of
union. What more appropriate than that we should part with shaking
sides? Oh, Lord! oh, Lord! what am I to do? One can't live on a good
joke for ever."

He grasped his head in his hands; then suddenly, he broke out into
another paroxysm. "The feminine nature always the same, always, always;
infinitely charming and infinitely volatile. Delicious, and oh how
instructive!"

He slowly recovered calmness, and remained leaning on the gravesto