[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# 2007 New Year Honours

Cell and Thalassaemia Service. For services to Healthcare.
Syed Kifayat Hussain Kazmi. For services to the community in Derby.
Richard Alan Keeves, Senior Valuer, Valuation Office Agency, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Kenneth Kelley, Bandmaster, Burghclere Primary School Brass Band, Berkshire. For services to Music Education.
Ms Millie Kendall, Co-Founder, Ruby and Millie Cosmetics. For services to the Cosmetic Industry.
Lewis Thomas Kent, Honorary Treasurer, Oakley Holidays for Young People. For services to Young People.
Alexander John King, Deputy Leader, Kent County Council. For services to Local Government.
Ernest Charles King, Member, London Travelwatch. For services to Public Transport.
Margaret Susanna, Mrs. Knott. For services to the community in Northern Ireland and to Children Overseas.
Dr. Bernard Knowles. For services to the community in West Yorkshire.
Kim Robert Knowles, Executive Director, Midlands Fashion Showcase. For services to the Fashion Industry.
John Hugh Knox. For public service.
Anil Krishnarao Koshti, Nuclear Regulator, Environment Agency. For services to the Environment. 
Julia, Mrs. Kury, Executive Officer, Jobcentre Plus, Department for Work and Pensions.
Ronald Lamb. For services to the community in Durham. 
Peter William Lambley, lately Conservation Officer, English Nature. For services to Conservation in Norfolk.
John Henry Lander, Senior Leading Hand Air Frame Fitter, Marshall Aerospace. For services to the Aerospace Industry.
Joseph Charles Lansdell, Foster Carer, West Sussex. For services to Children and Families.
Rita Eileen, Mrs. Lansdell, Foster Carer, West Sussex. For services to Children and Families.
Ivor Lask, lately Optometrist, Bromley Hospitals NHS Trust. For services to the NHS.
Ronald Anthony Lass, Chair, Cocoa Research Committee. For services to the Food Industry.
Susan, Mrs. Law, Head of Library Service. For services to Local Government in East Lancashire.
Carl Rex Owen Lawrence. For services to Victim Support in Leicestershire and Rutland.
Derek Charles Lawson. For public service and to the community in Higham Ferrers, Northamptonshire. 
Sarah Elizabeth, Mrs. Lee, J.P., D.L., lately High Sheriff of South Yorkshire. For services to the Administration of Justice.
John Leese. For services to the Douglas Macmillan Hospice, Stoke-on-Trent.
John Eugene Lenney (Junior). For services to Music and to Young People in Cardiff.
Ann Elizabeth, Mrs. Lewis, Councillor, Holyhead Town Council. For services to the community in Holyhead, Anglesey.
Heather, Mrs. Lewis, Food, Health and Safety Manager, Rhondda Cynon Taff. For services to Local Government.
Dr. Alan William Lillington, D.L. For services to the community in Sunderland, Tyne and Wear.
William Arthur Lindop. For services to the community in The Gambia.
John Joseph Linehan. For charitable services in Northern Ireland.
John William Littlechild, J.P. For services to the community in South Wales.
Jane Helen Violet, Lady Lloyd of Berwick, D.L., Chair, Family Welfare Association. For charitable services.
Sallie Loretta, Mrs. Lockwood. For services to the community in Carlton, North Yorkshire.
Rajyasree, Mrs. Lodh, lately Administrative Officer, Child Support Agency, Department for Work and Pensions.
Dr. Iftikhar Ahmed Lone, J.P., General Medical Practitioner, Middlesbrough. For services to Healthcare.
Ms Jeanette Anne Longfield. For services to Food Policy Issues.
Miss Mary Grace Longsdon. For services to the Fell Pony Society.
Gillian Lesley, Mrs. Lowndes. For services to the Duke of Edinburgh Award Scheme, Ysgol Bryn Elian, Colwyn Bay, Conwy.
Peter Gradwell Lund. For services to the community in Oxfordshire.
Lynn Avis, Mrs. Lynch, Consultant Midwife, North Glamorgan NHS Trust. For services to Healthcare. 
Thomas Lynch. For services to Bicycle Moto Cross (BMX) Racing and to Ambulance Service Cycling. 
Ms Mary Geraldine Lyons, Chief Executive and Director, Springvale Training Ltd. For services to the community in Northern Ireland.
Ronald John MacAuley. For public service.
James William Ian Macdonald, J.P. For services to the Administration of Justice in Salford.
William Keith MacGillivray, Assistant Chief Officer, Strathclyde Fire and Rescue. For services to the Fire Service National Benevolent Fund.
Norma Ann, Mrs. MacLellan, lately Clerical Assistant and Typist, Caol Primary School, Fort William. For services to Education and to the community in Inverness-shire. 
Ruby Irene Dorothy, Mrs. Mallinson. For services to the Women's Auxiliary Air Force Association.
Patricia, Mrs. Mancini. For charitable services in Blackpool, Lancashire.
Angelo Manorajah, Financial Director, Fairbridge. For services to Disadvantaged Young People.
Neale Charles Marney, Supervisor, Newbury Ambulance Station. For services to the NHS.
Robert Norwood Marris. For services to the RAF Association in Hertfordshire.
Harry Marsh, Board Member, Children and Families Court Advisory and Support Service and Vice-Chair, National Children's Bureau. For services to