[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vitla

omba Heggade built a new palace within the premises of the old one between 1790 and 1800. He along with his son-in-law won back the Vittal kingdom and ruled to the end of his life.
The palace today is in a state of decay, requiring considerable renovation if this heritage building is not to be lost.

Geography 
The soil is very fertile as Vitla is located on the foothills of Western Ghats, and rivers flow carrying along the rich minerals from the inland, thus making it a perfect place for agriculture. Vitla is surrounded by hills covered in native vegetation, rocks & hills, the geography also includes flat lands used for agriculture of Areca, rubber, coconut & rice fields. The prominent hills are found via Mangaluru road in a place called Kelinja and Kodapadav. Kalenjimale Forest is spread across the region from Vitla Town to Kanyana & from Ukkuda to Salethur. There is a river beside Kalenjimale that finally flows into the Arabian Sea, the river is seasonal, will be dry during the summer and will be overflowing during peak monsoon season. The best of views of Kalenjimale can be found on the left side beside Vitla-Salethur road. And there are few flat lands between the forests which has the clearest of night skies in Bantwal Taluk, it can be best visible after pre-monsoon showers when the air is clean and fresh. On a clear day, the Kundremukh peak can also be visible from the hills of Kanyana.

Proposal for Vitla Taluk 
Even though Vitla qualifies all the criteria to be a separate Taluk, Vitla is still a part of Bantwal Taluk. Constant effort has been made from the people of Vitla since 30 years for Vitla to gain Taluk status. People of Vitla are hopeful that somewhere in the near future, Vitla will be granted Taluk status.

Agriculture

Agriculture plays a major role in the life and economy of Vitla, the prominent crops grown here are Arecanut, Paddy, cocoa, Cashew, Coconut, pepper & Rubber. It is normal to see cattle in most of the houses who grow crops. Cow, goats, rooster & hens are domesticated. Even though cock fighting is prohibited, during certain ceremony in the temple, it is allowed under prior permission. Abundant water from rain & ground, fertile soil & climate is responsible for agriculture to thrive here.

Flora and fauna 
The place is surrounded by Kalenjimale forest with an abundant supply of water from the rivers, which makes it a breeding ground for life with rich flora and fauna surrounding the town. Agriculture plays a prominent role in the life of the people living in Vitla, thus the area is surrounded by vast Areca plantations, making it a perfect habitat for various fauna life to flourish. Even though the population has been increasing, the forests and natural habitats are intact due to the strict government rule against deforestation. The wild animals found include Indian wild Dog (Dhole), Wroughton's, Wild Boar, Bonnet macaque, Indian rock python, Russell's viper, Asian palm civet, Bengal fox and few others. The Kalenjimale forest is known for Sandalwood plantations, which are presently growing and are protected by the Karnataka Forest Department. The flora found is very diverse and rich, the notable trees are Indian Mahogany, Polyalthia longifolia, Banyan Tree, Sandlewood tree, Ficus religiosa & many more.

Kalenjimale 
Adjacent to the town, there is a coastal moist forest known as Kalenjimale. This forest has prominence in ancient Hindu mythology. The forest stretches from Ukkuda to Anekallu, covered in the dense canopy and few flatlands in the center & top. There are roads leading into the heart of the forest used by the forest officials, but these roads not accessible as it used rarely. The river flows beside the forest, thus keeping the nutrient cycle going. The forest is accessible with various roads connecting towns nearby. Since the forest status is reserved and protected under law, this pristine wilderness is still intact. Even though the trees are cut down and replaced by Earleaf Acacia, Acacia auriculiformis, lot of work is being done on reversing the damage done to this ecosystem. The diverse bird activities during the seasons attract photographers and nature enthusiasts.

Climate 
As this place is in between the coast and the Western ghats, this place is known to humid summer and heavy rainfalls, the temperature varies from 21 degree Celsius to 33 degrees Celsius. The summer starts from mid of February and lasts until June. Pre-monsoon showers or mango showers are seen from mid-May, and the rainy season usually lasts until September. The area revives an average annual rainfall of 500mm. From November to February is the winter, when temperatures are usually between 21 and 26 degrees Celsius.