[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari

inst the government.
 Cynamon's clients were picked up in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region in the period after the 2001 U.S invasion of Afghanistan.  Asked whether he had observed a shift of any kind in the government's approach since the Obama administration came into office, Cynamon flatly replied 

In even more Habeas Corpus news, a Federal Judge in Washington is on a tear against alleged bad lawyering by the Justice Department.
In a stinging order issued today, Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly refused to reconsider an earlier and similarly scathing order requiring the Justice Department to replace the government's attorney responding to challenges several Kuwaiti men have brought to their imprisonment at Guantanamo Bay. How mad was the judge? Her salvo Monday uses the words "shockingly revisionist," "flippant" and "disingenuous" to describe the government's handling of the litigation. Attorney Matthew Maclean said.

US v. Al Kandari 

On 22 October 2008, the Office of Military Commissions filed charges against him.

Joint Review Task Force
On 21 January 2009, the day he was inaugurated, United States President Barack Obama issued three Executive orders related to the detention of individuals in Guantanamo.
That new review system was composed of officials from six departments, where the OARDEC reviews were conducted entirely by the Department of Defense. When it reported back, a year later, the Joint Review Task Force classified some individuals as too dangerous to be transferred from Guantanamo, even though there was no evidence to justify laying charges against them. On 9 April 2013, that document was made public after a Freedom of Information Act request.
Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari was one of the 71 individuals deemed too innocent to charge, but too dangerous to release.
Obama said those deemed too innocent to charge, but too dangerous to release would start to receive reviews from a Periodic Review Board.

Periodic Review Board
The first review was not convened until November 20, 2013. The review was convened on 12 June 2014. Its recommendation that he should be released was made public on 14 July 2014.

Renewed repatriation negotiations
In July 2013, Cynammon said the Obama administration was renewing repatriation negotiations after "years of radio silence".

In May 2015, Sheikh Mohammad Al-Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah, Kuwaiti Minister of Interior, and Deputy Prime Minister traveled to Washington DC to renew Kuwait's interest in release.

References

External links 
 Resisting Injustice In Guantánamo: The Story Of Fayiz Al-Kandari Andy Worthington, 17 October 2009
 US Military Lawyer: Kuwait Needs to Speak Up on Guantánamo Andy Worthington, 26 February 2010
 Judge OK's indefinite detention of alleged bin Laden advisor.
 Kuwaiti Family Committee website
 Political Carnival-Part 3 website
 Political Carnival-Part 4 website

1977 births
Bagram Theater Internment Facility detainees
Kuwaiti extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
Living people
Detainees of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp