[Source: PubMed]

24. Policy Sci. 2022 Aug 17:1-24. doi: 10.1007/s11077-022-09473-3. Online ahead
of  print.

Agenda to adoption: understanding the mechanisms driving fee-free policy 
development in Sub-Saharan Africa through policy change frameworks.

Asante G(1), Gajduschek G(2), Bartha A(2).

Author information:
(1)Doctoral School of International Relations and Political Science, Corvinus 
University of Budapest, Budapest, Hungary.
(2)Institute of Economic and Public Policy, ELKH Centre for Social Sciences, 
Corvinus University of Budapest, Budapest, Hungary.

Policy change frameworks are commonly used to understand policy development 
processes. However, few studies have attempted to apply these frameworks to the 
recent popular fee-free policy education at the high school level in Sub-Saharan 
Africa. Investigating fee-free policy development through policy change 
frameworks can assist both in identifying the genesis of past policies, 
including who the important actors are, how issues are framed and problematised, 
and how specific solutions are designed, as well as how to interpret unfolding 
policies. In this article, we review three prominent policy change frameworks: 
Baumgartner and Jones' "punctuated equilibrium framework," Sabatier and 
Jenkins-Smith's "advocacy coalition framework," and Kingdon's "multiple streams 
framework." After reviewing the frameworks, we apply them to two fee-free 
policies in Ghana which are Progressive Free Senior High School and Free Senior 
High School policies to understand the drivers of fee-free policy change. From 
the socio-political background, three main concepts were derived from these 
policy change frameworks deducing from the basic assumptions of these theories. 
They are domestic politics, political and policy entrepreneurs, and 
socio-economic dynamics. The results show that fee-free policies are largely 
driven by domestic politics and political and policy entrepreneurs in political 
executive positions. Factors under socio-economic dynamics are only scope 
conditions that are not significant to trigger the adoption of a fee-free 
policy.

© The Author(s) 2022.

DOI: 10.1007/s11077-022-09473-3
PMCID: PMC9382618
PMID: 35989882

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors have no 
competing interests to declare that are relevant to the content of this article.