[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Passing (gender)

when wearing more revealing clothing such as leggings or swimwear. For those who have not undergone or do not want to undergo genital reconstruction surgery, the penile crotch protrusion (sometimes known by the slang terms moose knuckle or bulge) can be among the most conspicuous signs of birth sex.

Cosmetic surgery procedures often used by transgender people living full-time as women include breast augmentation, liposuction and buttock augmentation, in addition to facial feminization surgery (FFS). Though the name would imply otherwise, FFS is not necessarily one individual procedure, but often many different procedures performed at the same time. An FFS patient may also elect to undergo blepharoplasty, rhinoplasty, or a tracheal shave, where others may opt for browbone or jaw reduction, hairline lowering, or injection of filler into the cheekbones. The use of female hormones also alters the body, including changing the distribution of body fat, though these changes are less permanent and will reverse if transgender hormone replacement therapy is discontinued.

Passing also typically involves changes in the person’s voice as well.  Cisgender females typically speak with an average fundamental frequency (f0) of 165-255hz (E3-C4), while cisgender males typically speak in a fundamental frequency range of 85-155hz (F2-D#3).  In addition, the timbre of a male voice is typically different than that of a female one.  This is due to male puberty typically enlarging the vocal cords, larynx, pharynx, and sinuses, which all together make up the vocal tract.  These changes are typically not reversible without voice feminization surgery, such as Feminization laryngoplasty or Wendler Glottoplasty, as the changes of male puberty on the vocal tract cannot be undone with feminizing hormone therapy.  However, many transgender women are successful at feminizing their voice through self-training or transgender voice therapy.

Passing as male
For transgender men, drag kings, or any person born female trying to pass as male, this may include binding the breasts to create a flat-chested appearance, taking on a more masculine demeanor, and wearing masculine clothing. Baggy or loose clothing is usually preferred because it hides characteristics like breasts and rounded hips.

Packing is generally done on a daily basis for transgender men, sometimes for their entire lives, especially if they do not undergo sex reassignment surgery. For other transgender men or cross-dressing women, packing is done on an as-needed basis for reasons including personal comfort and for drag performances.

The vast majority of packers are made to look and feel like flaccid penises, but recently companies have released medical-quality prosthetics that can be used for both general packing and for sexual activity. This appearance is sometimes sought out in order to accommodate the wearing of varied clothing styles, particularly more revealing clothing, to achieve the appearance of a crotch protrusion, sometimes called a bulge.

Medical-quality prosthetics that can be attached with medical adhesive exist. Prosthetics may also be held in place with clothes, or more rarely by harnesses.

A flat chest is commonly achieved through breast binding, which can be done in many ways. Commercially-made specialty binders are available worldwide, as are binders designed for the treatment of gynecomastia. Both are safe and effective for the compression of breast tissue and allow for normal breathing in most people. Binders should still not be worn for more than eight hours per day, or when exercising/sleeping, even if they are made by a reputable brand.

Safe binders should not flatten the breasts completely, instead shaping them to create the look of pectoral muscles instead of breasts.

Other methods of binding include compression bandages, back braces, tape, modified clothing, very firm sports bras and tight-fitting shirts. These methods are more popular with young people who have not yet come out as trans, or those who have limited financial means.

Binding with duct tape or elastic/compression bandages can cause serious injury. Bandages can compress the rib cage so greatly as to make normal breathing impossible, as they are meant to wrap tightly around injuries and are not designed to be used for binding. Tape is also ill-advised due to potentially permanent damage to the skin caused by adhesives and the inflexibility of the material, which exposes the wearer to risks similar to those posed by bandages.

Transgender men are usually successful at achieving a passable voice through masculinizing hormone therapy, which enlarges the vocal tract, reducing their fundamental frequency when speaking.  However, if this does not bring the voice into a passable speaking range, transgender voice therapy and surgery are available.

History