[Source: PubMed]

54. Lung. 2019 Aug;197(4):517-522. doi: 10.1007/s00408-019-00246-z. Epub 2019 Jun
 28.

Association of Obesity with Quantitative Chest CT Measured Airway Wall Thickness 
in WTC Workers with Lower Airway Disease.

de la Hoz RE(1)(2)(3), Liu X(4), Celedón JC(5), Doucette JT(6), Jeon Y(6), 
Reeves AP(7), San José Estépar R(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Medicine and Public Health, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. Rafael.delaHoz@mssm.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA. Rafael.delaHoz@mssm.edu.
(3)Division of Occupational Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine At Mount Sinai, 
One Gustave L. Levy Place, WTC HP CCE Box 1059, New York, NY, 10029, USA. 
Rafael.delaHoz@mssm.edu.
(4)Population Health Science and Policy, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Division of Pediatric Pulmonary Medicine, UPMC Children's Hospital of 
Pittsburgh, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(6)Department of Environmental Medicine and Public Health, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(7)School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, 
NY, USA.
(8)Department of Radiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: We previously reported that wall area percent (WAP), a quantitative 
CT (QCT) indicator of airway wall thickness and, presumably, inflammation, is 
associated with adverse longitudinal expiratory flow trajectories in WTC 
workers, but that obesity and weight gain also seemed to be independently 
predictive of the latter. Previous studies have reported no association between 
WAP and obesity, so we investigated that association in nonsmoking WTC-exposed 
individuals and healthy unexposed controls.
METHODS: We assessed WAP using the Chest Imaging Platform QCT system in a 
segmental bronchus in 118 former WTC workers, and 89 COPDGene® WTC-unexposed and 
asymptomatic subjects. We used multiple regression to model WAP vs. body mass 
index (BMI) in the two groups, adjusting for important subject and CT image 
characteristics.
RESULTS: Unadjusted analyses revealed significant differences between the two 
groups with regards to WAP, age, gender, scan pixel spacing and slice interval, 
but not BMI or total lung capacity. In adjusted analysis, there was a 
significant interaction between BMI and WTC exposure on WAP. BMI was 
significantly and positively associated with WAP in the WTC group, but not in 
the COPDGene® group, but stratified analyses revealed that the effect was 
significant in WTC subjects with clinical evidence of lower airway disease 
(LAD).
DISCUSSION: Unlike non-diseased subjects, BMI was significantly associated with 
WAP in WTC workers and, in stratified analyses, the association was significant 
only among those with LAD. Our findings suggest that this adverse effect of 
obesity on airway structure and inflammation may be confined to already diseased 
individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s00408-019-00246-z
PMCID: PMC7209578
PMID: 31254057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declared that 
they have no conflict of interest.