[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Barter

rter), founded in 1985. P2P bartering has seen a renaissance in major Canadian cities through Bunz - built as a network of Facebook groups that went on to become a stand-alone bartering based app in January 2016. Within the first year, Bunz accumulated over 75,000 users in over 200 cities worldwide.

Corporate barter focuses on larger transactions, which is different from a traditional, retail oriented barter exchange.  Corporate barter exchanges typically use media and advertising as leverage for their larger transactions.  It entails the use of a currency unit called a "trade-credit".  The trade-credit must not only be known and guaranteed but also be valued in an amount the media and advertising could have been purchased for had the "client" bought it themselves (contract to eliminate ambiguity and risk).

Soviet bilateral trade is occasionally called "barter trade", because although the purchases were denominated in U.S. dollars, the transactions were credited to an international clearing account, avoiding the use of hard cash.

Tax implications
In the United States, Karl Hess used bartering to make it harder for the IRS to seize his wages and as a form of tax resistance. Hess explained how he turned to barter in an op-ed for The New York Times in 1975. However the IRS now requires barter exchanges to be reported as per the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982. Barter exchanges are considered taxable revenue by the IRS and must be reported on a 1099-B form. According to the IRS, "The fair market value of goods and services exchanged must be included in the income of both parties."

Other countries, though, do not have the reporting requirement that the U.S. does concerning proceeds from barter transactions, but taxation is handled the same way as a cash transaction. If one barters for a profit, one pays the appropriate tax; if one generates a loss in the transaction, they have a loss. Bartering for business is also taxed accordingly as business income or business expense.  Many barter exchanges require that one register as a business.

In countries like Australia and New Zealand, barter transactions require the appropriate tax invoices declaring the value of the transaction and its reciprocal GST component. All records of barter transactions must also be kept for a minimum of five years after the transaction is made.

Recent developments
In Spain (particularly the Catalonia region) there is a growing number of exchange markets. These barter markets or swap meets work without money. Participants bring things they do not need and exchange them for the unwanted goods of another participant. Swapping among three parties often helps satisfy tastes when trying to get around the rule that money is not allowed.

Other examples are El Cambalache in San Cristobal de las Casas, Chiapas, Mexico and post-Soviet societies.

The recent blockchain technologies are making it possible to implement decentralized and autonomous barter exchanges that can be used by crowds on a massive scale. BarterMachine is an Ethereum smart contract  based system that allows direct exchange of multiple types and quantities of tokens with others.  It also provides a solution miner that allows users to compute direct bartering solutions in their browsers.  Bartering solutions can be submitted to BarterMachine which will perform collective transfer of tokens among the blockchain addresses that belong to the users.  If there are excess tokens left after the requirements of the users are satisfied, the leftover tokens will be given as reward to the solution miner.

See also

 Collaborative consumption
 Complementary currencies
 Gift economy
 International trade
 List of international trade topics
 Local exchange trading system
 Natural economy
 Private currency
 Property caretaker
 Quid pro quo
 Simple living
 Trading cards
 Time banking

References

External links

Business terms
Cashless society
Economic systems
Pricing
Simple living
Tax avoidance
Trade