[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Economic results of migration

lic services in Mexico, surpassing government spending in some localities.

Research finds that emigration and low migration barriers has net positive effects on human capital formation in the sending countries. There was found to be a "brain gain", instead of a "brain drain", because of emigration.

One study finds that sending countries benefit indirectly in the long run on the emigration of skilled workers because those skilled workers are able to innovate more in developed countries, which the sending countries are able to benefit on as a positive externality. Greater emigration of skilled workers consequently leads to greater economic growth and welfare improvements in the long-run. The negative effects of high-skill emigration remain largely unfounded. According to economist Michael Clemens, it has not been shown that restrictions on high-skill emigration reduce shortages in the countries of origin.

Research also suggests that emigration, remittances and return migration can have a positive impact on political institutions and democratization in the country of origin. Research also shows that remittances can lower the risk of civil war in the country of origin. Return migration from countries with liberal gender norms has been associated with the transfer of liberal gender norms to the home country.

Research suggests that emigration causes an increase in the wages of those who remain in the country of origin. A 2014 survey of the existing literature on emigration finds that a 10 percent emigrant supply shock would increase wages in the sending country by 2–5.5%. A study of emigration from Poland shows that it led to a slight increase in wages for high- and medium-skilled workers for remaining Poles. A 2013 study finds that emigration from Eastern Europe after the 2004 EU enlargement increased the wages of remaining young workers in the country of origin by 6%, while it had no effect on the wages of old workers. The wages of Lithuanian men increased as a result of emigration after the Lithuanian accession to the European Union in 2004. Return migration is associated with greater household firm revenues.

Some research shows that the remittance effect is not strong enough to make the remaining natives in countries with high emigration flows better off.

It has been argued that high-skill emigration causes labour shortages in the country of origin. This remains unsupported in the academic literature though.

Political philosopher Adam James Tebble argues that more open borders aid both the economic and institutional development of poorer migrant sending countries, contrary to proponents of "brain-drain" critiques of migration.

Push factors and pull factors

Push factors 
Push factors are reasons that push people away from their countries. Examples of push factors are:

 political fears 
 not enough jobs 
 few opportunities 
 natural disasters 
 wars 
 unhappy life 
 shortage of food 
 Insecurity 
 scarcity of land etc.

Pull factors 
Pull factors are reasons that pull people to other countries. Examples of pull factors are:

 A better way of life
 Chances of a job
 Improved living conditions
 Education
 Better housing
 Medical care
 Family links
 Religious freedom 
 Fertile land

See also
 Economic impact of immigration to Australia
 Economic impact of immigration to Canada
 Economic impact of immigration to Denmark
 Immigration to the United States
 Economic impact of illegal immigration to the United States

References

Human migration
Demographic economics