[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# Va'etchanan

ield  (5:18 in NJPS) mentions servants, who Abrabanel valued of lesser importance than one's field. Next come the neighbor's animals, who do not have the faculty of speech, and lastly, to include the neighbor's inanimate moveable property,  (5:18 in NJPS) says "and anything that is your neighbor's."

Deuteronomy chapter 6
Baḥya ibn Paquda argued that  encompasses 10 matters, corresponding to the Ten Commandments. Five of these matters concern the spiritual (mind/heart): (1) That the Creator exists. (2) God is our God. (3) God is the true Unity. (4) That we love God with all our heart. (5) That we serve God wholeheartedly. And five of these matters concern the physical (the body): (1) You shall teach them to your children. (2) You shall speak in them. (3) You shall bind them as a sign on your hand. (4) They shall be as frontlet between your eyes. (5) You shall write them upon the doorposts of your house and upon your gates. Baḥya interpreted the words of , "Hear O Israel the Lord," as a command to believe in the Creator. Baḥya read the word "hear" not to call for hearing of the ear, but for belief and acceptance of the heart, as in , "we will do and we will hear," and , "Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it." Citing , Baḥya taught that love for God is a leading example of an affirmative duty of the heart. Baḥya interpreted the words of , "And these words, which I command you this day, shall be on your heart," to mean that one should always keep them in one's heart and believe them in one's inner being. And Baḥya interpreted the words of , "and you shall speak in them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up," to teach that these duties of the heart are a constant duty. By keeping these words continually on one's lips, they will always be in one's consciousness, and one's thoughts will never be empty of God.

Maimonides cited the words of , "And you shall love God, your Lord, with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might," for the proposition that even when one's life is threatened, one should not commit one of the three sins of the worship of false gods, forbidden sexual relations, and murder. The words "with all your soul" in  imply: even if it takes one's soul.

Reading the words of , "You shall not try the Lord, your God," Baḥya ibn Paquda taught that people should thus not put themselves in danger while trusting on God's decree that they will live a set time, drinking poisonous drink or going to battle lions or other dangerous animals without necessity, or casting themselves into the sea or into fire, or other similar things that put their lives in danger.

Naḥmanides read , "Do what is right and good in the sight of the Eternal," to reflect the intent that whereas previously, Moses stated that one is to keep the particular statutes that God commanded, here Moses is saying that even where God has not commanded, one should give thought to doing what is good and right in God's eyes, for God loves the good and the right. Naḥmanides considered this is a great principle, for it was impossible for the Torah to mention all aspects of people's conduct with their neighbors and friends, and all their various transactions, and the ordinances of all societies and countries. But since God mentioned many of them, Moses here stated in a general way that, in all matters, one should do what is good and right, including even compromise and going beyond the requirements of the law. Thus, Naḥmanides taught, people should seek to refine their behavior in every form of activity, until they are worthy of being called "good and upright."

Deuteronomy chapter 7
Baḥya ibn Paquda taught that whenever God singles out a person for special favor, that person is under an obligation of increased service as an expression of gratitude for that favor. Baḥya reasoned that because of this, when some good fortune happened to the righteous of ancient times, they were troubled for two reasons: First, that they should not fall short in the fulfillment of the service and gratitude that they owed for this good fortune and that it should not turn into misfortune for them, as Jacob said in , "I have diminished from all the mercies, and truth which You have shown to Your servant." And secondly, that this should not be God's reward for their service, at the expense of their reward in the World To Come, as the Sages explained , "And repays them that hate Him to their face (during this life) to destroy them (in the hereafter)." Similarly, Baḥya cited the words of , "And He repays those He hates to their face, to destroy them," to help explain why sometimes God sends good to the wicked because of previous good deed that they did, to pay them in this world.

In modern interpretation
The parashah is discussed in these modern sources: