[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort de La Présentation

s Frenchmen in the attack on Fort Bull in 1756, and Lorimier's garrison was used to watch the British at Fort Oswego. In November 1757, a raid was launched from Fort de La Présentation on the British settlement of German Flatts in the Mohawk Valley, which saw the settlement destroyed on 12 November.

In February 1758, after Picquet had withdrawn to his abbey in Lac-des-Deux-Montagnes, the Indians petitioned for his return. The fall of Fort Frontenac in August 1758 increased the threat to the fort and Lorimier was recalled, replaced by Captain Antoine-Gabriel-François Benoist. With Lorimier's dismissal, Picquet returned to Fort de La Présentation. Furthermore, on 30 August, 1,500 soldiers were stationed at Fort de La Présentation to block any British push down the St. Lawrence, making the fort the center of the French defences. Benoist was replaced by Captain Pierre Pouchot in March 1759.

Pointe-au-Baril
With the fall of Fort Frontenac in August 1758, New France lacked a shipbuilding facility between the upper Great Lakes and Montréal. A site was chosen on the north shore of the St. Lawrence River  west of Fort de La Présentation. Pointe-au-Baril, located in present-day Maitland, Ontario, was established in 1759. Pointe-au-Baril was a fortified shipbuilding site with inner earthworks and an outer palisade  high. On 4 April 1759, Captain Pierre Pouchot was given temporary command of both Pointe-au-Baril and Fort de La Présentation until the two corvettes under construction there were completed.

Battle of the Thousand Islands

By August 1760, only Pointe-au-Baril, Fort de La Présentation, and Montréal were left in French control along the upper St. Lawrence River. Pouchot, who had been captured at Fort Niagara and returned in a prisoner exchange, was sent to establish a new fort, Fort Lévis on an island in the St. Lawrence River, downstream from Fort de La Présentation. Due to Fort de La Présentation's location on low ground, the fort was susceptible to bombardment by British guns and Pouchot ordered its evacuation. Picquet moved his mission to Île Picquet, but lacked the support of the French and his Indian allies began to starve and depart. In March 1760, Picquet abandoned the mission and departed for Montréal. In July, the French sent a party to Fort de La Présentation to begin the fort's demolition, removing the roofs of the buildings. However, some Iroquois remained in the villages, sending war parties on occasion to scout.

On 16 August 1760, the British under General Jeffery Amherst captured the abandoned Pointe-au-Baril and established an artillery battery. From 19 to 24 August in the Battle of the Thousand Islands, Fort Lévis was assaulted by the British before surrendering. French control over the area was broken. During the battle, Fort de La Présentation was occupied by the British, with a garrison composed of three provincial regiments from Connecticut under the command of Colonel Nathan Whiting. They established a supply base at the fort during the siege of Fort Lévis.

Fort de La Présentation site

The Fort de La Présentation Site is an archaeological site located on Lighthouse Point, near Ogdensburg, St. Lawrence County, New York.  It encompasses the remains of at least eight different and discrete  potential components, as identified in 1987–88.  These include four contributing components: remains from French and Native American occupation during the period 1749 to 1760; remains from English and Native American occupation during the period 1760 to 1796; remains from American settlers in Ogdensburg during the period 1796 to 1812; and remains from American military occupation during the War of 1812.

The site was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2010.

References

Sources

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Archaeological sites on the National Register of Historic Places in New York (state)
French and Indian War
La Presentation
Archaeological sites in New York (state)
La Presentation
La Presentation
St. Lawrence County, New York
Native American history of New York (state)
La Presentation
La Presentation
1749 establishments in the French colonial empire
National Register of Historic Places in St. Lawrence County, New York