[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nikolai Gusev

served as head of a subunit of the 4th Staff Department. From November 1937 he was secretary of a party bureau, and from September 1939 he was acting military commissar of the Red Army General Staff. Gusev entered the Military Academy of the General Staff in July 1940 and graduated from it in 1941.

World War II 
After the beginning of Operation Barbarossa, the German invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941, Gusev was tasked with the formation of the 25th Cavalry Division in July. The formation of the division was completed by 25 July and on 2 August it concentrated in the area of Demyansk and Molvotitsy, joining the 34th Army of the Northwestern Front. He was promoted to major general on 9 November. From January 1942, Gusev, now a major general, commanded the 13th Cavalry Corps, fighting in the Lyuban Offensive. Despite making a deep advance into the German rear, the corps' attack and that of other units involved was contained. Encircled by a German counterattack, Gusev's corps escaped the Lyuban pocket on 16 May. He became commander of the 4th Army of the Volkhov Front on 26 June, and was promoted to lieutenant general on 25 September. He commanded these units in defensive battles on the approaches to Leningrad, and in attempts to break the siege. From 30 October 1943 he was acting commander of the 20th Army, and commanded the 47th Army from 28 April 1944. He led the army in Operation Bagration as part of the 1st Belorussian Front. During the latter, it captured Kovel, crossed the Western Bug and at the end of the month reached the Vistula in the Warsaw area. On 14 September, after four days of fighting, the army captured Praga, a suburb of Warsaw.

Transferred to command the 48th Army on 15 December, Gusev led it as part of the 2nd Belorussian Front and then the 3rd Belorussian Front from 11 February, which it fought in the East Prussian Offensive. During the offensive, the army reached the Frisches Haff on 25 March, fighting in heavy defensive and offensive battles against the German troops on the Baltic coast. On 5 May 1945, Gusev was promoted to colonel general.

Postwar 
After the end of the war, Gusev continued to command the 48th Army, withdrawn to the Kazan Military District. After the army headquarters was disbanded, he became district commander in July. A year later, Gusev was sent to the Belorussian Military District to take command of the 3rd Army at Slutsk, then became commander of the 28th Army at Grodno in March 1947. From April 1949 he temporarily served as commander of the Special Mechanized Army in Romania.

Gusev became the chief military advisor to the Ministry of National Defense of Czechoslovakia in July 1950, simultaneously serving as the Soviet military attaché in Czechoslovakia. He transferred to become deputy head of the 10th Directorate of the General Staff in July 1954, and from May 1956 simultaneously served as deputy chief of staff of the Unified Armed Forces of the Warsaw Pact. In October 1958 both positions were combined in title, and in December 1960 Gusev became head of the 10th Directorate. He died in Moscow on 6 May 1962, and was buried at the Novodevichy Cemetery.

Awards and honors 
Gusev received the following decorations:

 Order of Lenin (2)
 Order of the Red Banner (4)
 Order of Suvorov, 1st class (2)
 Order of the Red Star
 Order of the Badge of Honor
 Medals
 Foreign orders and medals

He was a delegate to the second and third convocations of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union.

Notes

Citations 

1897 births
1962 deaths
Soviet colonel generals
Recipients of the Order of Lenin
Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner
Recipients of the Order of Suvorov, 1st class
Soviet military personnel of World War II
Russian military personnel of World War I
People from Tver Governorate
Soviet military personnel of the Russian Civil War
People from Torzhoksky District

Bibliography 

Burials at Novodevichy Cemetery
Frunze Military Academy alumni
Military Academy of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Soviet Union alumni