[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joe McKelvey

ed over the following year. McKelvey wrote to GHQ at this time that his command was very short of both arms and money. In March 1922, many of his papers, detailing the names and units of the roughly 1,000 IRA members in Belfast, were captured by the B-Specials in a raid on St Mary's Hall in Belfast.

Civil War
McKelvey was alone among the leadership of the Belfast IRA in going against the acceptance of the Anglo-Irish Treaty. Most of his comrades supported Michael Collins' assurances that, although the Treaty accepted the partition of Northern Ireland from the rest of the country, this was only a temporary concession which would be dealt with later. McKelvey did not accept this. As a result, he left his command as head of the IRA Third Northern Division and joined the republican side in Dublin. McKelvey was replaced by Seamus Woods as O/C of the Third Northern Division. Seamus Woods would go on to senior positions within the Free State Army.

McKelvey participated in the Anti-Treaty IRA's repudiation of the authority of the Dáil (civil government of the Irish Republic declared in 1919) in March 1922 and was elected to the IRA Executive. In April 1922, he helped command the occupation of the Four Courts in defiance of the new Irish Free State. This action helped to spark the Irish Civil War, between pro and anti Treaty factions. McKelvey was among the most truculent opponents of the treaty. For a period, he was IRA Chief of Staff (Four Courts).

On 28 June 1922, the new Irish Free State government shelled the Four Courts to assert its authority over the militants defending it. The Republicans in the Four Courts surrendered after two days of fighting and McKelvey was captured. He was held for the following five months in Mountjoy Prison in Dublin, McKelvey was never tried or convicted of any offence.

Execution
On 8 December 1922, Joe McKelvey was executed by firing squad along with three other Anti-Treaty militants, Rory O'Connor, Liam Mellows and Richard Barrett. The executions had been ordered in reprisal for the Anti-Treaty IRA's murder of Sean Hales, a Pro-Treaty member of the Third Dáil. In 2011, the Irish government acknowledged that the executions that took place without trial were murder: "People who were murdered or executed without trial by the Cumann na nGaedheal Government were murdered. It was an atrocity and those people killed without a trial by the first government were murdered."    

On the morning of his execution, he wrote this letter to Mrs Isabella Sullivan (née Letson) of Walmer, Andersonstown, Belfast: Letter written by McKelvey to Mrs Sullivan, 8 December 1922. McKelvey was a well respected Irish Republican leader and many Pro-Treaty Officers and men took his execution very badly.

See also
Executions during the Irish Civil War,

References

External links
 Irish Independent, 17 February 2002, The truth behind the murder of Sean Hales.

1898 births
1922 deaths
People from County Tyrone
Irish republicans
Members of the Irish Republican Brotherhood
Irish Republican Army (1919–1922) members
Irish Republican Army (1922–1969) members
People of the Irish Civil War (Anti-Treaty side)
People executed by Ireland by firing squad
Executed people from County Tyrone
People executed by the Irish Free State