[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Noëlle Lenoir

Noëlle Lenoir (born 27 April 1948) is a French lawyer, former judge, and politician.

Career

Noëlle Lenoir was born in Neuilly-sur-Seine. She is a graduate of Sciences Po and the Paris Law Faculty. She has been a professor in each of these institutions.  After qualifying as a lawyer and the achievement of the Senate administrator competition, she was appointed, from 1972 to 1982, at the law Committee of the French Senate. During her time at the Senate, she was in charge of not only the Justice budget, but also the follow-up and review of criminal law, immigration law, and human rights law. Following 10 years at the High Assembly, Noelle Lenoir joined the regulation management of the newly formed national data protection authority Commission for Information Technology and Civil Liberties (Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL) as Chief Legal Officer, from 1982 until 1984. She followed the implementation of the French Data Processing and Liberty Law and she particularly focused on marketing, health data and the applicability of the law in the Scientific and Statistics domains as well as transborder on transfers of data in addition to enquiries by the CNIL.

In 1984, she joined the Council of State (the Conseil d'État is the French administrative Supreme Court) where she was appointed 'Rapporteur Public" (Advocate general). In 1988, she was appointed as Chief of Staff for the Ministry of Justice, where she served until 1990. In 1990, the French government appointed Lenoir to review French bioethics law.  Her report to the Prime Minister, Michel Rocard, titled "Aux Frontières de la Vie:  Pour une éthique biomedicale à la Française" provided the foundation and adoption of the first French bioethics law.

She was appointed as the first woman and youngest person to the French Constitutional Council, where she served the Court's nine-year term from 1992 to 2001.

Aside from being a constitutional Justice, Noelle Lenoir chaired the UNESCO International Bioethics Committee and drafted the Human Genome and Human Rights Declaration, which the United Nations endorsed in 1998 on the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  In 1991, she is also appointed by the European Commission presided by Jacques Delors as a member of the European Ethics and Science & Technology Group (GEE).  Then, in 1994, she is elected as President of this group and reelected by its members twice.

She left her position at the GEE in 2000 to travel to the United States where she was, an adjunct law professor at the Law university of Columbia, New York City before joining the Paris Bar in 2001, Noëlle Lenoir was appointed in 2002 Junior Minister for European Affairs by Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin. During her tenure she was involved in a number of negotiations with central and oriental European countries on their way to join the European Union and the follow-up of the constitutional treaty. In addition, she defended France's positions on various European proposals and legislation.
Finally, she is the first woman appointed, with her counterpart the German minister of European affairs, to the position of General Secretary for France-German Cooperation (SGFA).

Noëlle Lenoir joined Debevoise & Plimpton LLP's the Paris office as Of-Counsel in 2004.
In 2006–2007 she was appointed by the French Minister of Justice to conduct an evaluation of the status of the European Company (SE) (report delivered on 19 March 2007).

Noëlle Lenoir joined JeantetAssociés in 2009 as a partner where she headed the European department (competition law, litigation and regulatory).

In January 2012, she joined the Paris office of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP as a partner where she currently heads the Compliance department, dealing with regulatory and public affairs law at the national level and European level.  She also specializes in competition law, and data protection and cyber security law, covering a wide scope of areas in this respect such as data breach prevention and incident response, government and internal investigations, cross-border data transfer and e-discovery, controllers' and processors' liability, global compliance and risk management, privacy policies and EU data counseling, consumer protection and class action litigation defense as well as advertising and internet marketing.  She also advises on confidential business information and misappropriation of trade secrets as well as on matters in relation with the blocking statute.
Between 22 May 2017 and 30 April 2020, she was a member of the panel of independent experts or ICRP (along with Theo Waigel, former Finance Minister of Germany, and Lord Gold) designated by Airbus to examine the compliance within the company and monitor the improvements needed.