[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Addison Montgomery

kes Addison realize that Derek is in love with Meredith and that he (Mark) does love her. Derek sleeps with Addison after he sees that Meredith has moved on. When Addison finds out that Derek had sex with Meredith, she gets drunk and sleeps with Mark. He asks for a relationship, but she rejects him.

During season two, Addison punishes Alex Karev, by putting him on her service, because he almost got her arrested. However, by season three, she begins to feel an attraction towards Alex and eventually sleeps with him, only to discover that he is not interested in a relationship with her. Feeling alone, Addison decides to have a baby and visits Naomi, who is a fertility specialist. This storyline introduces Addison's transition from Grey's Anatomy to its spin-off, as it serves as the backdoor pilot for Private Practice. Soon after, Addison decides to leave Seattle and move to Los Angeles, joining Oceanside Wellness, led by Sam and Naomi. This marks Addison's departure from Grey's Anatomy as a regular, although she makes at least one guest appearance per season until the eighth season.  

On September 2, 2021, it was announced on social media that Kate Walsh would return to play Dr. Montgomery for the show's eighteenth season. She reprised her role for three episodes: "Hotter than Hell", "With a Little Help From My Friends" and "Should I Stay or Should I Go?".

On season 19 episode 11, "Training Day", she is hit by a car.

Private Practice 
In the series' first episode, Addison is made to feel unwelcome by the other doctors but chooses to stay. Addison is attracted to Pete Wilder, the practice's alternative medicine specialist. When Pete stands her up on a date, Addison decides they should be friends and nothing more and instead accepts a date with Kevin, a police officer she met through work. In a crossover episode, Addison briefly returns to Seattle Grace to help with a patient. Before she leaves, Addison advises Meredith not to let Derek get away.

In season two, Addison learns from Naomi that the practice is failing financially. She tells Sam against Naomi's wishes, and, feeling betrayed, Naomi breaks off her friendship with Addison. Addison inadvertently prompts the staff to vote between Sam and Naomi and is surprised when instead, she is elected to lead the practice as its director.

Addison's relationship with Kevin is tested when her brother Archer tells Kevin he is not good enough for her. Addison reassures him, but it causes them to break up later. Addison is surprised when Archer begins working for Pacific Wellcare Center, a rival practice. When he experiences multiple seizures and believes he has a brain tumor, Addison asks Derek to treat Archer in another crossover episode with Grey's Anatomy. Derek discovers he has parasites in his brain, and successfully removes them. Naomi and Archer begin dating, which puts some strain on the friendship between Addison and Naomi. Addison also dates a man who is later revealed to be married. Also during this time, it is shown that Addison's mother Bizzy is a lesbian who has been in a long-term affair with her best friend. Addison is angry because she always blamed her father for his numerous extra-marital affairs and was angry at how he treated Bizzy, not realizing that her mother was the one in a serious extramarital relationship. Addison's father is aware of her mother's affair, but they decided a long time ago that they would stay married to one another because Bizzy is not comfortable with others knowing about her sexuality. Although the relationship with her parents is strained from this, in the end, they make peace.