[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fort Dupont Park

Fort Dupont Park is a  wooded park under the management of the National Park Service located in Washington, DC. The name of the park comes from the old Civil War earthwork fort that lies within the park. 
The fort was one of several designed to defend Washington from a Confederate attack during the Civil War. There are few remains of the actual fortifications.

It is one of Washington's largest parks and protects an important sub-watershed of the Anacostia River. The park is a popular place for picnics, nature walks, indoor ice skating, mountain bike riding, gardening, environmental education, music, skating, sports, and ranger-led Civil War programs.

The park was purchased by the National Capital Park and Planning Commission (predecessor of the National Capital Planning Commission) authorized by the Capper-Cramton Act provided along with the other circle parks in the 1930s and 40's.

Adjacent parks
Fort Dupont Park is adjacent to a series of other national and DC parks. Commonly people refer to all of them together as Fort Dupont. These are the adjacent parks:
 US government:
 Fort Chaplin Park
 Fort Davis Park
 Fort Stanton Park
 Smithsonian Anacostia Community Museum
 DC government:
 Benning Stoddert Recreation Center
 Alger Park
 Fort Battery Ricketts
 Avalon Playground

Facilities

Concert venue
Fort Dupont has a 40-year history of offering a summer concert series. Many famous musicians and bands in the Washington, D.C., area have played this venue.

Fort Circle Trail
The unpaved Fort Circle Hiker-Biker Trail is the primary trail in the park, but there are various side spur trails throughout the parks, totaling about  . 

The Fort Circle is a 7 mile trail that runs north from the Anacostia Community Museum through the six adjacent Fort Circle Parks (Fort Ricketts Park, Fort Stanton Park, Fort Davis Park, Fort Dupont Park, Fort Chaplin Park and Fort Mahan Park) and several smaller sections of parkland that belong to NPS as part of the Fort Circle Parks, and ends at the north end of Marvin Gaye Park at Hunt Place NE. On the north end it connects to the Marvin Gaye Trail.

The 1902 McMillan Plan envisioned connecting the circle forts with a road called Fort Circle Drive. The New Deal's Civilian Conservation Corps completed a section of the Fort Circle Drive at Fort Dupont, south toward Good Hope Road. Another section was completed near Fort Reno by the Works Progress Administration. Military Drive through Rock Creek - considered a part of the Fort Circle Drive at the time - was completed in the 1950's. No further progress on the Drive was completed, which began to be seen as expensive and impractical and in the 1960's the idea was abandoned. 

In 1965 the National Capital Planning Commission (NCPC) released a study that proposed that the Fort Drive be renamed the Fort Park System and the scenic drive concept be abandoned in favor of a Greenway trail connecting the forts. In 1968, the National Park Service (NPS) which had taken jurisdiction over the parks in 1933, issued a master plan for the parks that included the Fort Circle Trail. The Fort Circle Trail was originally envisioned as a 32 mile long network of trails around the Fort Circle but only three sections of the trail were built and two of them are no longer labeled as such. The first section was a four mile section of the C&O Canal towpath from the Foundry Tunnel to Chain Bridge built in 1967 that was to connect Fort Marcy in Virginia with Battery Kemble Park in DC. The second section was a short section in Rock Creek Park along the north side of Military Road - and past Fort DeRussy -  that opened in 1968. The Park service first sought funding for  of the Fort Circle Trails in the Fort Dupont area in 1967 as part of its 1968 budget. The first  of trail, from Pennsylvania Ave to Ridge Road, was opened on November 10, 1968. The complete east of the river section, from the Fort Rickets area to north of Fort Mahan was dedicated, along with the Fort DeRussy section, by Interior Secretary Rogers C. B. Morton in 1971. At that point the trail had already been descoped to 23 miles.

In 2004, NPS updated its management plan for the parks and chose to replace the completed trail with a guided walking route between them. A 2010 report by the NCPC, NPS and DC called for a similar greenway connection between the forts. None of those plan been implemented.

Picnic Areas
The park has three picnic areas that are able to reserved for group use. Otherwise, the picnic tables are available through a first come first use bases.