[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maiti Nepal

Hospices
The hospices provide treatment to those suffering from psychological disorders, and anti-retro-viral treatment for HIV/AIDS patients.

Halfway houses
These types of houses provide shelter and protection to underage girls who are working in places like dance restaurants and massage parlors.

Medical clinic
The medical clinic was built to provide treatment to diseased women and children. There is a full-time doctor with a team of girls to look after the suffering women and children.

Activities
Maiti Nepal organizes several activities including awareness campaigns regarding sex trafficking, rescue operations for the trafficked women and girls, apprehending traffickers, providing legal support to the needy, women empowerment programmes, and providing anti-retroviral therapy (ART) to HIV-infected children and women.

The organization provides halfway homes for the survivors of trafficking. It provides educational support to children and women who have a desire for learning. 
It also provides psychological counseling, support, and life skills to girls/women who are at risk of being trafficked. The main activity includes rescuing other girls by setting up a team of survivors of trafficking. This team of girls talks to the girls who they suspect are being traded by the traffickers.

Awards
As the founder and director of Maiti Nepal, Anuradha Koirala won the CNN Hero of the Year award in 2010. She had previously received the Courage of Conscience Award from The Peace Abbey in Sherborn, Massachusetts on August 25, 2006.

The United States government has given a two-year grant of $500,000 to Maiti Nepal in April 2010.

Until now, Anuradha Koirala has received 30 national and international awards for her courageous acts and lifetime achievement furthering the cause of children's and women's rights.

Criticism

Though Maiti Nepal has successfully rescued thousands of girls from trafficking, the "critics of Maiti Nepal were of the view that Maiti Nepal did not always respect the will of the women concerned and refused drastic measures to deal with the problem".

One of the major drawbacks of Maiti Nepal's work has been in rehabilitating former prostitutes. The other criticism raised against this organization's work is with its affiliation with an Indian Organization named STOP. STOP has been accused of raiding brothels at midnight and then taking away the girls forcefully and later subjecting them to various kinds of threats. Since Maiti Nepal is affiliated with STOP so when this organization is accused of any issue then it ultimately becomes a concern for Maiti Nepal as STOP hands over all its rescued girls to Maiti Nepal.

In May 2013 the Nepalese Supreme Court ordered Maiti Nepal to release a woman the court determined was being held against her will for the purpose of counseling her for being a lesbian.

References

External links

Feminism in Nepal
Forced prostitution
Human trafficking in Nepal
Women's organisations based in Nepal
Non-profit organisations based in Nepal
1993 establishments in Nepal
Women's rights in Nepal