[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Farcaster

giving their cruciform symbiotes to the body that would become the Pax and offering immortality to anyone who accepted the Pax. Aenea carried a virus in her body, which when she infected someone, would destroy the cruciform (which was revealed by Aenea to be another misuse of the Void Which Binds).

Notable Farcasters
The Grand Concourse
The Grand Concourse was a series of shopping streets on many worlds connected by Farcaster into the appearance of a single street.
The River Tethys
The River Tethys was gifted to the Hegemony of Man by the TechnoCore.  Every planet in the WorldWeb (and some who weren't, as was discovered by Aenea) had a section of a river connected by Farcaster to rivers on other worlds.  The Tethys was used for sightseeing and tourism mainly with some trade.  
Martin Silenus' House
Martin Silenus' House was a house that physically resided on multiple worlds of the WorldWeb, much as the houses of many famous or rich personalities of the Hegemony of Man used to do.  It was a huge expense and illustrated his rise to fame and fortune and, eventually his fall back to obscurity.  The notable features included windows to most of the best views of the web and a bathroom that consisted of an open raft in the middle of a waterworld.

Freecasting
Aenea's teachings about the Void Which Binds included four steps:
 Learning the Language of the Dead
 Learning the Language of the Living
 Listening to the Music of the Spheres
 Taking the First Step

Aenea's teachings related to the Void which binds: She taught that human memory resided in the Void Which Binds, that love was the force which held people's souls. The Music of the Spheres was the 'song' of a planet, each person living on that planet adding to its symphony. The final stage, taking the First Step, was to Freecast: travelling between the stars without needing a Farcaster device. The TechnoCore had constructed vast machinery to accomplish what any individual could do with some training.

References
Simmons, Dan. Hyperion. Random House, 1990. 
Simmons, Dan. The Fall of Hyperion. Random House, 1991. 
Simmons, Dan. Endymion. Random House, 1996. 
Simmons, Dan. The Rise of Endymion. Random House, 1998. 
Broderick, Damien. Earth is but a star: excursions through science fiction to the far future. UWA Publishing, 2001. 
Westfahl, Gary. The Greenwood encyclopedia of science fiction and fantasy, Vol. 3. Greenwood Publishing Group, 2005. 
Westfahl, Gary. Space and beyond: the frontier theme in science fiction. Greenwood Publishing Group, 2000. 
Hartwell, David G. and Cramer, Kathryn. The Space Opera Renaissance. Macmillan, 2007. 
Langford, David. Up Through An Empty House of Stars. Wildside Press, 2003. 
Morse, Donald E. Anatomy of Science Fiction. Cambridge Scholars Press, 2006. 

Faster-than-light travel in fiction
Hyperion Cantos