[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Benny Gantz

of the Labor Party, and Derekh Eretz, formed by Hauser and Hendel. Gantz resigned as speaker of the Knesset on 12 May as part of the coalition agreement, and the new government was sworn in on 17 May, with Gantz being sworn in as Alternate Prime Minister and Minister of Defense.

Minister of Defense

Alternate Prime Minister 
In November 2020, Gantz formed a military committee to investigate Case 3000, a corruption case involving the purchase of submarines. the committee's members resigned in late December due to restrictions placed on the investigation by Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit, who was running a parallel investigation. Gantz established a second committee in May 2021 to investigate the treatment of Veterans, after a former soldier of the IDF lit himself on fire in an act of protest.

Despite agreeing to take part in a Netanyahu-led coalition government in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, Gantz would again express opposition to Netanyahu's annexation plans. On 29 June 2020, Gantz said the Israeli Prime Minister should instead put the COVID-19 pandemic first. on 23 December, shortly after the expiration of a budgetary deadline, Gantz and Netanyahu's unity government collapsed, triggering new elections in March 2021.

Following the resignation of Avi Nissenkorn as the Minister of Justice on 30 December, Gantz became the acting Minister of Justice until 1 April 2021, at which point the position became vacant. Netanyahu nominated Member of the Knesset Ofir Akunis for the position in a cabinet meeting on 27 April 2021. Akunis won a majority in a vote held by the cabinet, but was not confirmed to the position as the vote was ruled illegal by Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit and the Israeli Supreme Court as it was not part of the meeting's pre-written agenda. Gantz was subsequently approved as Minister of Justice by the cabinet in a legal vote on 28 April.

In May 2021, as Defense Minister, Gantz presided over Operation Guardian of the Walls, a military operation conducted in the Gaza Strip. During the operation, Israel conducted around 1,500 aerial, land, and sea strikes within the territory. The operation began on 10 May, and ended on 21 May due to a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas, mediated by the Egyptian government.

2021 election campaign and government formation 

Following the collapse of the Blue and White's alliance with Telem and Yesh Atid, the party often polled at a single digit number of seats, narrowly surpassing, or falling beneath, the electoral threshold. in addition, several members of the party, including Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabi Ashkenazi, Minister of Justice Avi Nissenkorn, Minister of Science, Technology and Space, Yizhar Shai, and Members of the Knesset Ram Shefa, Einav Kabla, and Hila Vazan either retired from politics or defected to another party, while Members of the Knesset Miki Haimovich and Asaf Zamir were removed from the party list by Gantz after voting against a bill meant to delay the dissolution of the Knesset. in the last days of the election, Gantz ran a Gevald campaign, arguing that Blue and White falling beneath the electoral threshold would harm Israeli democracy.

Blue and White won 8 seats in the 2021 election, exceeding the number of seats the party was projected to win in most polls. on 5 April, Rivlin met with representatives of all elected parties. Blue and White recommended Lapid for Prime Minister, but Netanyahu received a larger number of recommendations, and was given a mandate by Rivlin. Netanyahu failed to form a government, and his mandate expired on 4 May. the next day, Rivlin gave Lapid the mandate to form a government, who entered negotiations with Naftali Bennett to form a unity government, in which Lapid and Bennett would rotate the position of Prime Minister. Lapid and Bennett formed a government with Ra'am, Meretz, the Labor Party, New Hope, Yisrael Beiteinu and Blue and White. Lapid became the Alternate Prime Minister, and Gideon Sa'ar replaced Gantz as Justice Minister. Gantz remained the Defense Minister and became a Deputy Prime Minister. the new government was sworn in on 13 June.

Deputy Prime Minister 
In October 2021, Gantz announced that six Palestinian human rights organizations would be designated as terrorist organizations. The Ministry of Defense claimed that the groups are connected to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) and that funding is being funneled from the groups to the PFLP. As of April 2022, Israel has not publicly released any evidence of such a link.

In November 2021, Gantz became the first Israeli Minister of Defense to visit Morocco, where he signed an agreement for security cooperation with the Moroccan government. he similarly signed a defense memorandum with the Government of Bahrain.

On 30 May 2022, following violence and racist remarks against Palestinians in the annual Dance of Flags, Gantz called for La Familia and Lehava to be designated as terrorist organizations.