[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Five-star rank

k was granted 26-years after his retirement.
Soeharto (second president of Indonesia), his rank was granted during his own rule.
 (grand admiral) – never awarded
 (grand marshal) – never awarded

The five-star ranks above are honorary rank and does not provide additional authority or responsibility.

However, Government Regulation No. 32/1997 has been revoked and replaced by Government Regulation No. 39/2010, and the latest regulation does not mention a five-star rank. Therefore, it is unlikely that there will be any Indonesian military personnel awarded five-star rank in the future.

Italy

These ranks are used by the Italian chief of the general staff only.

Myanmar

Senior general () is the highest rank in Myanmar Armed Forces. It is the single rank for all three branches, and held by the commander-in-chief of Defence Services (CinCDS). It was created during the expansion of Armed Forces structure in 1990, and the first person to hold is Saw Maung promoted by himself directly from general to senior general on 18 March 1990.

Netherlands

Admiral () is theoretically the highest possible military rank in the Royal Netherlands Navy, although this five-star rank is no longer awarded.

Pakistan
Field marshal, held by Ayub Khan
Marshal of the air force, never been held
Admiral of the fleet, never been held

Philippines
Under Article VII, Section 18 of the constitution, the president holds the position of commander-in-chief, which is not considered and recognized to be a five-star rank. Emilio Aguinaldo, the first president of the Philippines, held the title generalissimo and  and is considered as the first commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.

Historically, five-star ranks were held by field marshals. US Army General Douglas MacArthur was the first and only field marshal in the history of the Philippine Army, a position he held while also acting as the military advisor to the commonwealth government of the Philippines with a rank of major general. President Quezon conferred the rank of field marshal on 24 August 1936 and MacArthur's duty included the supervision of the creation of the Philippines nation-state.

Poland
Marshal of Poland () is a Polish Army five-star rank. There are today no living marshals of Poland, since this rank is bestowed only on military commanders who have achieved victory in war. The last appointment was in 1963 to Marian Spychalski.

Portugal
Different from most other countries, the marshals (Army and Air Force) and admirals of the fleet (Navy) of Portugal are not identified by five stars, but by four golden stars, in comparison with generals and admirals who are also identified by four stars, but in silver.

Five-star appointments—and not ranks—were however foreseen in the armed forces of Portugal, at different times in the past, for the officers exercising the several government posts related with defense (minister of national defense, minister for the army, secretary of state for the army, etc.).

Romania
 (marshal of the Romanian Army) is the highest military rank in the Romanian military forces. This rank can be bestowed to persons from the royal family or to four-star generals or admirals during wartime only. After World War II, the latest surviving marshal of Romania was King Michael I, who was bestowed this rank on May 10, 1941 (the national day of Romania). He died in December 2017.

South Vietnam
 General of the army (), Army-held by one officer
 Admiral of the fleet (), Navy
 General of the air force (), Air Force
Five-star ranks were used by the former Republic of Vietnam Military Forces during the Vietnam War, from 1955 to 1975. The ranks were changed in 1964 to resemble US ranks more closely. The rank only bestowed to Lê Văn Tỵ

Spain
Captain general (Army)
Captain general of the Navy
Air captain general (Air Force)

Since 1922 it is not properly a rank but a "military dignity". The only full capitán general is currently His Majesty the King of Spain, the last not-royal appointment (honorary) was in 1994 to Manuel Gutiérrez Mellado. The rank of capitán general is currently bestowed also to several images of the Virgin Mary, among them la Virgen de Butarque, la Virgen del Pilar, la Virgen de Guadalupe, Nuestra Señora de los Reyes, la Virgen de los Desamparados (this one properly capitana generalísima), la Virgen de la Serra, la Virgen del Canto y la Virgen de los Remedios. The latest appointment was to Nuestra Señora de los Dolores, April 2011.

Sri Lanka

Field marshal (Sri Lanka Army five-star rank)
Admiral of the fleet (Sri Lanka Navy five-star rank)
Marshal of the Sri Lanka Air Force (Sri Lanka Air Force five-star rank)

Thailand
 (), Royal Thai Army
 (), Royal Thai Navy
 (), Royal Thai Air Force

The monarch of Thailand is appointed to the three ranks automatically upon accession as he is the constitutional head of the Royal Thai Armed Forces. Since 1973 the three ranks have been reserved for members of the royal family.