[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Security Through Regularized Immigration and a Vibrant Economy Act of 2007

The Security Through Regularized Immigration and a Vibrant Economy Act of 2007 or STRIVE Act of 2007 is proposed United States legislation designed to address the problem of illegal immigration, introduced into the United States House of Representatives (H.R. 1645). Its supporters claim it would toughen border security, increase enforcement of and criminal penalties for illegal immigration, and establish an employment verification system to identify illegal aliens working in the United States. It would also establish new programs for both illegal aliens and new immigrant workers to achieve legal citizenship. Critics allege that the bill would turn law enforcement agencies into social welfare agencies as it would not allow CBP to detain illegal immigrants that are eligible for Z-visas and would grant amnesty to millions of illegal aliens with very few restrictions.

At the same time, the Secure Borders, Economic Opportunity and Immigration Reform Act of 2007 was being considered in the United States Senate, to much more public attention.

 The INS is no longer in existence. With the passage of public law 107-296 in 2002 the INS was brought under Department of Homeland Security and divided into three factions assuming previously INS responsibilities: USCIS, US Customs and Border Protection, and Immigration and Citizenship Enforcement (ICE). This law would affect these three agencies.

Description

The STRIVE Act mirrors previous attempts to reach bipartisan support for immigration legislation by combining harsher enforcement policies with new programs for aliens to attain citizenship. For example, the unsuccessful 2005 Secure America Act (also known as the McCain-Kennedy Bill) struck a similar compromise.

Title I - Border Enforcement

Title I of the STRIVE Act:

 Increases border security personnel
 Mandates the Department of Defense share surveillance equipment with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to better track immigrants entering the United States illegally
 Requires the DHS acquire and utilize unmanned aerial vehicles for border surveillance purposes
 Creates new criminal penalties for the evasion of border inspection personnel
 Requires the DHS submit a comprehensive national border security strategy to Congress within 6 months of the enactment of the act.
 Mandates the US government to cooperate with Mexico to address border security, human trafficking, drug trafficking, and gang activity.
 Reduces fraud by enhancing travel documents to include biometric data
 Awards grants to local law enforcement agencies that assist border-related prosecution

Title II - Interior Enforcement

Tougher criminal penalties

Title II of the STRIVE Act increases criminal penalties for crimes associated with:

 gang-related activities
 failure to depart after removal
 willful failure to comply with terms of release under supervision
 illegal reentry
 drunk driving
 people smuggling
 employing illegal aliens
 selling firearms to an illegal alien (would make this a federal crime)
 possessing firearms as an illegal alien (would make this a federal crime)
 travel document fraud
 money laundering

Other provisions

Title II would also:

 authorize the DHS to construct facilities to detain a combined total of 20,000 or more aliens while they await decisions on removal
 increase Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents
 grants broader authority to subject aliens to expedited removal
 establishes criminal assistance program that reimburses state and local governments for pre-conviction costs for aliens charged with or convicted of crimes
 requires a determination of immigration status for all individuals charged with a federal crime

Title III Employment Verification

Title III of the STRIVE Act mandates that the Social Security Administration create a verification system for employers to authenticate employees' authorization to work. The system would be implemented in phases and must include safeguards to protect privacy and prevent employers from racial profiling. Title III also creates significant new civil and criminal penalties for hiring unauthorized employees.

Title IV – New Worker Program

Title IV of the STRIVE Act creates two programs for foreign workers to achieve temporary and permanent citizenship.

H-2C Worker Visa Program

The Worker Visa Program would establish a new H-2C visa for future immigrant workers and their families. The temporary visa would be valid for three years and renewable one-time for an additional three years. Employers may hire these new immigrant workers only if they are unable to find a qualified American worker and only if they are located in an area with an unemployment rate lower than 10 percent for workers whose education level is at or below a high school diploma.

The visa program has an initial cap of 400,000, which adjusts up or down yearly based on market fluctuations.

Applicants for a H-2C visa must meet the following requirements: