[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Cuba

ba from Spanish cordophone instruments models (the instrument is actually a fusion of elements from the Spanish guitar and lute). Other traditional Cuban instruments are of African origin, Taíno origin, or both, such as the maracas, güiro, marímbula and various wooden drums including the mayohuacán.

Popular Cuban music of all styles has been enjoyed and praised widely across the world. Cuban classical music, which includes music with strong African and European influences, and features symphonic works as well as music for soloists, has received international acclaim thanks to composers like Ernesto Lecuona. Havana was the heart of the rap scene in Cuba when it began in the 1990s. In December 2012, the director of the Cuban Music Institute, Orlando Vistel, threatened to bar sexually explicit songs and music videos from public radio and television.

Recognized Cuban artists include Los Van Van orchestra, known as "the music machinery of Cuba", pianists Chucho Valdés and Frank Fernández (the latter won the Golden title at the Tchaikovsky Conservatory), and Omara Portuondo, member of the Buena Vista Social Club. Some U.S.-based singers such as Camila Cabello were born in Cuba. Many Cuban artists have won Grammy Awards. Between the youth, Buena Fe is a popular group.

Dance

Cuban culture encompasses a wide range of dance forms. Danzón was the official musical genre and dance of Cuba. Mambo music and dance developed originally in Cuba, with further significant developments by Cuban musicians in Mexico and the US. The cha-cha-cha is another dance of Cuban origin, while the Cuban bolero originated in Santiago de Cuba in the last quarter of the 19th century. Concert dance is supported by the government and includes internationally renowned companies such as the Ballet Nacional de Cuba.

Salsa dancing originated in Cuba and Cuban salsa is danced around the world.

Sports

Due to historical associations with the United States, many Cubans participate in sports that are popular in North America, rather than sports traditionally played in other Latin American nations. Baseball is the most popular. Other popular sports include volleyball, boxing, athletics, wrestling, basketball and water sports. Cuba is a dominant force in amateur boxing, consistently achieving high medal tallies in major international competitions. Boxers Rances Barthelemy and Erislandy Lara defected to the U.S. and Mexico respectively. Cuba also provides a national team that competes in the Olympic Games. Jose R. Capablanca was a Cuban world chess champion from 1921 to 1927.

See also

Index of Cuba-related articles
Outline of Cuba
List of islands of Cuba
 The Cuba Libre Story
List of Caribbean islands

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links

Official site of the Government of Cuba 
Cuba from University of Colorado Boulder Libraries
Cuba. The World Factbook. Central Intelligence Agency.
Key Development Forecasts for Cuba from International Futures

 
1515 establishments in the Spanish West Indies
1898 disestablishments in the Spanish West Indies
1898 establishments in the United States
1902 disestablishments in the United States
1902 establishments in North America
Communist states
Countries in North America
Countries in the Caribbean
Eastern Bloc
Former colonies in North America
Former Spanish colonies
Greater Antilles
Island countries
Member states of the United Nations
New Spain
One-party states
Republics
Small Island Developing States
Spanish-speaking countries and territories
Spanish Caribbean
Spanish colonization of the Americas
Spanish West Indies
States and territories established in 1902