[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

stina, she maintains a friendly and professional relationship. During the battle at Lagrange point 1, the bridge of Ptolemaios is attacked by a GN-X, Lichty is fatally wounded while shielding Christina from the explosion. He soon dies in Christina's arms after she realizes her own feelings for him. 

 
 Initially, Lasse served as the gunner for the Celestial Being mothership Ptolemaios. He also piloted the GNR-001 GN Arms, a transformable weapon docking system for the four Gundams. In the final battle with the UN forces, Lasse helps Setsuna fight Alejandro Corner in the Alvatore/Alvaaron; though he survives the battle, his health suffers from overexposure to Fake GN particles. In the second season, he serves as the Ptolemaios II's main helmsman but during the season's final battle he briefly pilots the 0 Gundam until it runs out of power. At the end of the season, Lasse remains part of Celestial Being. At the Gundam 00 Movie he has fully recovered from the overexposure thanks to Setsuna's Trans Am burst made at the end of the second season. 

 
 Joyce Moreno is the Ptolemaios doctor and longtime friend of crewmate Ian Vashti from before both joined Celestial Being. Fifteen years earlier, he was a member of Doctors without Borders and began referring to himself as "JB Moreno." He is killed when the Alvatore fires upon the Ptolemaios and destroys the medical bay. 

 
 Ian Vashti is the head of Celestial Being's mobile suit development along with his wife and daughter. On the Ptolemaios, Ian works as the ship's main engineer. He is a kind hearted man but gets angry when his machines are damaged. Later on the series he also becomes one of the main Gunners of the Ptolemaios II. 

 
 Mileina Vashti is Ian's and Linda's daughter who joins the crew of the Ptolemaios II before the beginning of the second season. Despite her young age, she is a gifted technician, learning much about engineering, GN Technology, and programming from both her parents. Mileina normally staffs the tactical operations station, but she also helps her father as a mechanic, and even temporarily takes over his role when he heads to Celestial Being's L3 base ahead of the Ptolemaios II. In the movie, she openly declares love to Tieria just prior to the latter leaving for the final battle and subsequently the ELS homeworld; it's unknown if they develop a relationship or not. 

 
 Linda Vashti is Ian's wife, and mother to Mileina. She appears in the background of episode 2 in the second season, but does not make a proper appearance until Ian later travels to space in episode 9 to retrieve the 0 Raiser. Linda later delivers supplies, new equipment for the Gundams and the 0 Gundam to Ptolemaios II and joins Ian in the weapons control room. Linda is noticeably younger than her husband.

Other members of Celestial Being 
 
 Living over 200 years before the beginning of the series, Aeolia Schenberg establishes the theoretical basis of the combined orbital elevator and photovoltaic energy system, the construction and defense of which he foresaw to employ humanoid machines not unlike mobile suits. In a long-term plan to rid the world of armed conflict and ready humanity for the next phase of its evolution, Aeolia founds the private paramilitary organization Celestial Being and develops the technology behind the GN Drives. It is this plan that becomes the driving force for both the first and second series. Schenberg's body is held in cryogenic stasis within Veda, intending to awaken when the world is rid of conflict. However, soon after this discovery near the end of the first series, Alejandro Corner kills Schenberg in order to take over the plan, however Schenberg's death triggers a system trap that activates the Trans-Am System in the four Gundams Original Solar Furnances' Black Boxes, completely purges the personal data of the four Gundam Meisters and unlocks the secrets behind the Twin Drive System. 

Wang Liu Mei (;  Wan Ryūmin)
 A celebrity of Chinese descent, whose name is well known in the high society of the world, and is one of the secret agents of Celestial Being. She uses her wide social connections to conduct espionage activities and fundraising, passing mission details to the Gundam Meisters supporting Ptolemaios from the shadows. She wishes for the world to change so she can reinvent herself, begrudging her role as her family's head, a position she inherited when she was fifteen. Willing to sacrifice anyone to achieve that goal, she would rather the world be destroyed if it cannot change. In the second season, Liu Mei is shown to be supporting both Celestial Being and the Innovators, effectively playing both sides until Ribbons has no more need of her. Forming an alliance with Regene, Liu Mei hands Setsuna the coordinates that reveal Veda's location, only to be later killed by Nena Trinity as she attempts to leave the battlefield.