[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Operation Midford

Operation Midford was New Zealand's contribution to the Commonwealth Monitoring Force in Rhodesia in late 1979 and early 1980 that eventually led to the Lancaster House Agreement and the independence of Zimbabwe.

Background

By 1979, the Rhodesian Bush War had been in progress for 14 years, largely overshadowed by the television-driven Vietnam War and ignored internationally, until the guerrillas committed atrocities on various Missionary stations. There were three belligerent parties, including the predominantly white-led Rhodesian Security Forces, and two rival black nationalist guerrilla factions: the Zimbabwe People's Revolutionary Army (ZIPRA), armed wing of Joshua Nkomo's Zimbabwe African People's Union, and the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army (ZANLA), armed wing of Robert Mugabe's Zimbabwe African National Union.

Lancaster House talks

In April 1979 an election was held in Zimbabwe Rhodesia in which 63% of the black population voted, and on 1 June 1979, Bishop Abel Muzorewa was sworn in as the first black Prime Minister of Rhodesia. Meanwhile, the Peace Talks at Lancaster House continued sporadically. By October 1979, a resolution to the conflict appeared possible, and the UK government made contact with various Commonwealth nations to discuss the provision of troops for a special operation.

In New Zealand, selection and training began immediately and a force of 75 officers and men were selected and moved to Papakura Military Camp for specialist training. None of the soldiers were told officially where they would be sent, but initially the 75-strong contingent was called "R Force", similar to the Korean War's "K Force" and the Vietnam War's "V Force". They were also instructed to listen to BBC World Service at 7am every morning, so the possibility of a tour of duty to Rhodesia was an open secret. Originally, both Mugabe and Nkomo did not want any New Zealanders in the Peacekeeping – Monitoring Force as they were thought to be American puppets, due to New Zealand troops serving in Vietnam. However, their opinions changed when they learned that one quarter of the New Zealand contingent was "coloured" (Māori/native New Zealanders). The Commanding Officer for the Kiwi Contingent was the professional soldier Colonel David W. S. Moloney RNZIR (later OBE).

The Operation patch worn as a brassard by the New Zealand members of the New Zealand Truce Monitoring Contingent (NZATMC) was a red, white, and blue diamond with a golden sunburst in the centre and a pangolin with its claws extended centred in the sun. This was to be worn on a white brassard. The uniform to be worn by all members of the MF was to be "Jungle Green" fatigues, and "Jungle Hats" would be worn by all members serving in the operational areas, to distinguish them from the Rhodesian Army, whose camouflage fatigues were extremely distinctive.

Deployment

On 20 December 1979, the New Zealand contingent flew out from RNZAF Base Whenuapai, and between 22 and 24 December 1979 the various elements of the Commonwealth Monitoring Force began to arrive at Salisbury Airport. Upon arrival each plane load of troops was processed through a reception tent, given an initial briefing and issued anti-malaria tablets (Maloprim) which were known locally as the "Tuesday Pill". The entire nation was reminded on both radio and television to take their pill each Tuesday. Troops were also given the opportunity to exchange money and were given the location of their billets.

The Rhodesian Army built a tented transit camp which accommodated the majority of the troops with the exception of the Fijians, Kenyans, and New Zealanders who were accommodated at Morgan High School, which was to become NZATMC's headquarters. During this five-day phase of the operation, more than 60 aircraft sorties landed at Salisbury Airport, delivering more than 1,500 men and a large amount of stores and equipment.

Preparation and planning

The next several days were packed with detailed briefings, O Groups, and the issuing of stores, ammunition, and equipment. Due to the height of Rhodesia above sea level, every Kiwi soldier was also required to attend a range shoot and re-zero his personal weapon, as the altitude made a difference to sight settings. During this time the CMF, Major General John Acland personally introduced himself to every member of the Monitoring Force during his initial briefings, usually held at the RLI Barracks at Cranborne.

Other briefings included:

The CMF's lecture on the responsibility of the Monitoring Force
An overview on the background of the war and the politics involved
The background to the operational situation
The CMF's concept of how the operation was to be conducted
The allocation of troops to task
The in-theatre deployment plan
The rules of engagement
A crash course for the Kiwis on the Clansman radio

The operational areas during the Rhodesian War were: