[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election

7 – Barack Obama and former candidate John Edwards meet at Edwards's home in North Carolina to discuss the possibility of Edwards endorsing Obama.
 February 19 – The Washington and Wisconsin Republican primaries are won by John McCain. The Wisconsin Democratic primary, Hawaii caucuses and Washington primary are won by Obama. No delegates are at stake in the Washington Democratic primary.
 February 21 – The New York Times and The Washington Post publish articles suggesting that John McCain may have had an improper relationship with lobbyist Vicki Iseman during his 2000 presidential campaign. (See John McCain lobbyist controversy, February 2008.) The Democrats Abroad primary is officially announced as having been won by Barack Obama. Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama debate in Austin, Texas.
 February 23 – The American Samoa and Northern Mariana Islands Republican caucuses are won by John McCain.
 February 24 – Ralph Nader announces his independent candidacy. John McCain wins the Puerto Rico Republican caucuses.
 February 26 – Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama debate in Ohio. Former Democratic candidate Christopher Dodd endorses Obama.
 February 28 – Independent candidate Ralph Nader announces that Matt Gonzalez, a former member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors and 2003 mayoral candidate, will be his running mate.

March 2008

 March 4 – The Ohio, Texas and Rhode Island Democratic primaries are won by Hillary Clinton. The Vermont primary and Texas caucuses are won by Barack Obama. John McCain wins the Ohio, Rhode Island, Vermont and Texas Republican primaries, passing the 1,191-delegate threshold and becoming the Republican presumptive nominee. Mike Huckabee withdraws from the Republican race.
 March 5 – President George W. Bush endorses John McCain.
 March 8 – The Wyoming Democratic caucuses are won by Barack Obama. The Guam Republican caucuses are won by Mike Huckabee.
 March 11 – The Mississippi Democratic primary is won by Barack Obama. The Republican primary is won by John McCain. Democratic candidate Mike Gravel endorses Green Party candidate Jesse Johnson for president.
March 12 – 1984 Democratic vice presidential nominee Geraldine Ferraro resigns from the Hillary Clinton campaign.
March 14 – The controversy over Barack Obama's pastor Jeremiah Wright's past remarks on race and patriotism begins. Wright leaves the Obama campaign's spiritual advisory committee.
March 18 – John McCain embarks on a trip to Europe and the Middle East. Barack Obama gives his "A More Perfect Union" address in Philadelphia.
March 21 – Former Democratic candidate Bill Richardson endorses Barack Obama.
March 25 – Hillary Clinton admits that she "misspoke" in campaign comments about a 1996 visit to Bosnia-Herzegovina, in which she claimed to have been under hostile sniper fire. Former First Lady Nancy Reagan endorses John McCain.
March 26 – Mike Gravel withdraws from the Democratic race and announces that he will seek the Libertarian Party's presidential nomination.

April 2008

 April 5 – The United States Virgin Islands Republican caucuses are won by "uncommitted".
 April 6 – Democratic candidate Barack Obama makes a controversial comment referring to inhabitants of "small towns in Pennsylvania" as "bitter."
 April 10 – Pastor and 2004 vice presidential nominee Chuck Baldwin declares his candidacy for the Constitution Party's presidential nomination.
 April 13 – Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama appear at "The Compassion Forum" at Messiah College in Grantham, Pennsylvania.
 April 15 – Republican candidate Alan Keyes officially announces that he has left the Republican Party and is considering joining the Constitution Party.
 April 16 – Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama appear at a debate at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia.
 April 22 – The Pennsylvania Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by John McCain.
 April 24–27 – The Constitution Party's National Convention is held in Kansas City, Missouri. Chuck Baldwin and Darrell Castle are nominated for the offices of president and vice president respectively.