[Source: PubMed]

6. Front Sports Act Living. 2024 Oct 21;6:1334230. doi:
10.3389/fspor.2024.1334230.  eCollection 2024.

Does cardiorespiratory fitness moderate the relationship between overweight, 
cardiovascular risk markers and mental health among forcibly displaced 
individuals living in a Greek refugee camp?

Gerber M(1), Filippou K(2), Knappe F(1), Morres ID(3), Tzormpatzakis E(2), Havas 
E(2), Seelig H(1), Colledge F(4), Ludyga S(1), Meier M(5), Theodorakis Y(2), von 
Känel R(6), Pühse U(1), Hatzigeorgiadis A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sport, Exercise and Health, University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(2)Department of Physical Education and Sport Sciences, University of Thessaly, 
Trikala, Greece.
(3)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, University of Thessaly, Trikala, 
Greece.
(4)Department of Health Sciences and Medicine, University of Lucerne, Lucerne, 
Switzerland.
(5)Interdisciplinary Center for Gender Studies, University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(6)Department of Consultation-Liaison Psychiatry and Psychosomatic Medicine, 
University Hospital Zurich, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: Refugees may have an increased risk of developing overweight/obesity 
as they often experience a nutritional transition. Because maintaining good 
cardiorespiratory fitness can help reduce the negative impact of excess weight 
on overall health, the objective of this study was to examine whether fitness 
moderates the relationship between weight status and cardiovascular and mental 
health outcomes in forcibly displaced individuals living in a Greek refugee 
camp.
METHODS: A sample of 142 forcibly displaced individuals were recruited. 
Cardiorespiratory fitness was assessed with the submaximal Åstrand-Rhyming 
bicycle ergometer test. Blood pressure, blood lipids, blood glucose, and hs-CRP 
were assessed as physical health outcomes, whereas post-traumatic stress 
disorder, depression and anxiety symptoms, pain, and quality of life were 
assessed as mental health outcomes. Main and interaction effects were tested via 
analyses of covariance (ANCOVAs).
RESULTS: Almost 50% of the participants were overweight/obese, more than 60% 
presented with very poor fitness levels, and the percentage of participants with 
very poor fitness levels was particularly high among overweight/obese 
participants. Whereas overweight/obesity was associated with a less favorable 
body composition and cardiovascular risk profile, poor fitness was associated 
with a higher percentage of body fat and a lower percentage of muscle mass. 
Cardiorespiratory fitness did not moderate the relationship between 
overweight/obesity and most of the assessed health outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Only limited support was found for the applicability of the 
fit-but-fat concept to our population of forcibly displaced individuals. Public 
health services should prioritize measures to prevent overweight/obesity and 
associated diseases in refugee camps. Moreover, efforts are needed to improve 
the fitness of camp residents via exercise/sport interventions.

© 2024 Gerber, Filippou, Knappe, Morres, Tzormpatzakis, Havas, Seelig, Colledge, 
Ludyga, Meier, Theodorakis, von Känel, Pühse and Hatzigeorgiadis.

DOI: 10.3389/fspor.2024.1334230
PMCID: PMC11532074
PMID: 39498167

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.