[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 2007 New Year Honours

rvices to Business.
Larry Hirst, Country General Manager, IBM UK. For services to the IT Industry.
Professor Andrew Hopper, Professor of Computer Technology, University of Cambridge. For services to the Computer Industry.
Ms Margaret Howell, Fashion Designer. For services to the Retail Industry.
Ms Patricia Geraldine Howse, Assistant Director, Serious Fraud Office.
Ms Carole Hudson, Chief Executive, Metropolitan Borough of St Helens. For services to Local Government.
Professor Donald James Jeffries, Professor of Virology and Head, Department of Medical Microbiology, St. Bartholomew's and Royal London Hospitals. For services to Medicine.
Ms Penelope Anne Constance Keith, O.B.E. D.L., Actress. For charitable services.
Professor Christine Elizabeth King, D.L., Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive, Staffordshire University. For services to Higher Education.
Ms Angela Ann Knight, Chief Executive Officer, Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers. For services to the Financial Services Industry.
Professor Harry Andre Lee, Consultant Physician and Head of the Gulf Veterans' Medical Assessment Programme.
Professor David Peter Lock, Founder, David Lock Associates and Chair, Town and Country Planning Association. For services to Urban Design.
Christopher Logue, Writer and Poet. For services to Literature.
John David Mackie, lately Chief Executive, British Venture Capital Association. For services to Business.
Roger Madelin, Joint Chief Executive, Argent Group plc. For services to Sustainable Development.
Donald Makepeace, director, Workforce Change Team, HM Revenue & Customs.
Simon Jeffrey Maxwell, director, Overseas Development Institute. For services to International Development.
Professor Doreen McBarnet, Professor of Socio-Legal Studies, University of Oxford. For services to Social Science.
Mary, Mrs. McLaughlin, Headteacher, Notre Dame High School and Principal, Notre Dame New Learning Community, Glasgow. For services to Education.
Professor Anne Mills, Head, Department of Public Health and Policy, Health Economics and Financing Programme, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. For services to Medicine.
Ioan Morgan, Principal, Warwickshire College. For services to Further Education.
Peter William Mount, Chair, NHS Confederation and Chair, Central Manchester and Manchester Children's University Hospitals NHS Trust. For services to the NHS.
Gavin Ellis Neath, National Manager, Unilever UK. For services to the Food Industry.
Professor Stephen John Nickell, lately Member, Monetary Policy Committee and Warden, Nuffield College, University of Oxford. For services to Economics.
Dr. Farhan Ahmad Nizami, Founder Director, Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies. For services to Islamic Studies.
Richard Paniguian, co-Chair, Egyptian-British Business Council. For services to Business.
Professor Barbara Ann Parfitt, Dean, School of Nursing, Glasgow Caledonian University. For services to International Healthcare.
Professor Michael Henry Parkinson, director, European Institute for Urban Affairs, Liverpool John Moores University. For services to Urban Regeneration.
David Humphrey Gavin Penney, Vice-President, BT Global Business Markets. For services to the Communications Industry.
Professor John Douglas Perkins, Vice-President and Dean, Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences, University of Manchester. For services to Science and Engineering.
Professor David Garel Rhys, O.B.E., Chair, Welsh Government's Economic Research Advisory Panel. For services to Economic Research in Wales.
Professor Genevra Richardson, Professor of Law, King's College London, University of London. For services to Public Law.
Stephen Blakeney Ridgway, Chief Executive, Virgin Atlantic. For services to Civil Aviation.
Peter William Rogers, director, Stanhope. For services to the Construction Industry.
Paul Rogerson, Chief Executive, Leeds City Council. For services to Local Government.
Ian Simon MacGregor Russell. For services to Young People and to Volunteering.
Dr. John Milford Rutter, Composer and Conductor. For services to Music.
David Simons. For services to the Retail Industry.
Professor Alexander McCall Smith, Writer. For services to Literature.
Michael John Snell, lately Principal and Chief Executive, Brockenhurst College, Hampshire. For services to Further Education.
Ramniklal Chhaganlal Solanki, O.B.E. For services to Publishing and to Community Relations.
Ms Sarah Ann Spencer, Chair, Equality and Diversity Forum and Associate Director, COMPAS, University of Oxford. For services to Equal Opportunities and Human Rights.
Ms Hilary Susan Spurling, Writer. For services to Literature.
Roderick David Stewart, Singer and Songwriter. For services to Music.
Jonathan Symonds, chief finance officer, AstraZeneca. For services to the Pharmaceutical Industry.
Professor Malcolm Stuart Tanner, Emeritus Professor of Paediatrics, Sheffield Children's Hospital. For services to Medicine.
Dr. Martyn Charles Thomas. For services to Soft