[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund

and Constitutional Rights about the rise in anti-Asian violence. AALDEF participated in the formation of the Coalition Against Anti-Asian Violence (now called CAAAV: Organizing Asian Communities), which organized the first educational forum in New York City on hate violence against Asian Americans.

As to housing and environmental justice, AALDEF launched a fight against gentrification and the displacement of low-income immigrant tenants in Manhattan's Chinatown. AALDEF organized the first Chinatown housing fair in New York City, designed to educate residents about rent control and other rent regulation laws and the prohibitions against tenant harassment. In Jin v. Board of Estimate, AALDEF filed an amicus brief in NY state court, arguing that English-language notices of zoning changes violated the due process rights of Chinese-speaking tenants. This favorable decision was later reversed on appeal. AALDEF then litigated Chinese Staff and Workers' Association v. City of New York, and won a landmark New York Court of Appeals case. The state's high court ruled for the first time that new residential developments that may displace low-income tenants and small businesses are subject to environmental review. This decision blocked the construction of a proposed high-rise luxury condominium tower in Chinatown until an environmental assessment statement was prepared.

In 1985, the North Star Fund presented AALDEF with the Frederick Douglass Award for "outstanding contributions to the struggle for political, social and economic justice."

The 1990s

In 1993, when the Golden Venture freighter ran aground in Far Rockaway, Queens, AALDEF was among the first legal groups to gain access to the Varick Street detention center where hundreds of Chinese nationals were being held. AALDEF later represented Chinese immigrants seeking political asylum.

In 1990, AALDEF supported the Actors' Equity Association to protest the casting of a white British actor in a lead Asian role in the Broadway musical Miss Saigon. AALDEF worked with the New York City Human Rights Commission to organize hearings on the discriminatory hiring practices of Broadway theater producers.

In 1992, AALDEF was the only Asian American group invited to testify before the U.S. House Judiciary Committee on expanding minority language assistance under the Voting Rights Act, affecting 200,000 Asian Americans nationwide.

AALDEF led the advocacy efforts to secure the first fully translated Chinese-language voting machine ballots in New York City under the Voting Rights Act in 1994. Despite initial opposition by the NYC Board of Elections, the Board changed its position after receiving a letter from the U.S. Department of Justice denying preclearance of its language assistance program under the Voting Rights Act.

The 2000s

After September 11, 2001, AALDEF, located just eight blocks from the World Trade Center, convened a series of emergency meetings with Chinatown and Lower Manhattan advocates to begin the rebuilding process and address the environmental health, housing, and employment problems of displaced residents and workers. As part of the Beyond Ground Zero Network, AALDEF helped to establish a free clinic at Bellevue Hospital to provide treatment for residents and workers with 9/11-related health problems. AALDEF also defended the rights of South Asians, Arabs, Jews, Iranians, and Muslims who were detained without any criminal charges or evidence of wrongdoing. AALDEF challenged the unfair enforcement of post-9/11 immigration laws and counseled hundreds of immigrants facing deportation at legal clinics.

In 2005, AALDEF launched its Anti-Trafficking Initiative to provide legal assistance to Asian women and girls who are survivors of human trafficking. In a 2009 case, AALDEF represented a Filipino woman who sued her employer, a consular official, when she was forced to work as a domestic worker for $100 per month and prevented from leaving the residence. She overcame her employer's defense of diplomatic immunity to her claims of human trafficking, involuntary servitude, and forced labor, and the case was resolved.

With respect to educational equity, AALDEF filed several civil rights complaints on behalf of Asian immigrant students subjected to racial violence and harassment at Lafayette High School and at South Philadelphia High School.

The 2010s

In 2012, AALDEF intervened in a challenge to New York's congressional redistricting plan. Through collaborative efforts with other civil rights groups, AALDEF developed a Unity Map that was adopted by the federal court to enable fair representation of the growing Asian American population in Queens. This redistricting plan led to the election of Grace Meng, the first Asian American elected to the U.S. House of Representatives from New York.