[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Demographic dividend

experience, and technology of other countries that had already passed through the demographic transition. It has been argued that the demographic dividend played a role in the "economic miracles" of the East Asian Tigers  and accounts for between one fourth and two fifths of the “miracle”.

Ireland

Ireland also provides a recent example of the demographic dividend and transition. Faced with a high birth rate, the Irish government legalized contraception in 1979. This policy led to a decline in the fertility rate and a decrease in the dependency ratio. It has been linked as a contributing factor to the economic boom of the 1990s that was called the Celtic Tiger. During this time the dependency ratio also improved as a result of increased female labor market participation and a reversal from outward migration of working age population to a net inflow.

Africa

Africa, on the other hand has been unique demographically because fertility rates have remained relatively high, even as significant progress has been made decreasing the mortality rates. This has led to a continuing population explosion rather than a population boom and has contributed to the economic stagnation in much of Sub-Saharan Africa. The magnitude of the demographic dividend appears to be dependent on the ability of the economy to absorb and productively employ the extra workers, rather than be a pure demographic gift. According to the UN Population Fund, “If sub-Saharan African countries are able to repeat the East Asian experience, the region could realize a demographic dividend amounting to as much as $500 billion a year for 30 years. For countries like Uganda in the Eastern Africa which is currently (2019) one of the least developed countries in the world may take quite a long period of time if there are no consistent efforts towards achieving the demographic dividend.

India

In near future India will be the largest individual contributor to the global demographic transition. A 2011 International Monetary Fund Working Paper found that substantial portion of the growth experienced by India since the 1980s is attributable to the country's age structure and changing demographics.
By 2026 India's average age would be 29 which is least among the global average.  The U.S. Census Bureau predicts that India will surpass China as the world's largest country by 2025, with a large proportion of those in the working age category. Over the next two decades the continuing demographic dividend in India could add about two percentage points per annum to India's per capita GDP growth. Extreme actions are needed to take care of future basic minimum living standards including food, water and energy. As per Population Reference Bureau India's population in 2050 is predicted to be 1.692 billion people.

West Asia
The West Asia and North Africa recently experienced a youth bulge in which 15- to 29-year-olds comprise around 30% of the total population. It is believed that, through educational and employment, the current youth population in the West Asia could fuel economic growth and developments as young East Asians were able to for the Asian Tigers.

Four mechanisms for growth in the demographic dividend

During the course of the demographic dividend there are four mechanisms through which the benefits are delivered. 
 The first is the increased labor supply. However, the magnitude of this benefit appears to be dependent on the ability of the economy to absorb and productively employ the extra workers rather than be a pure demographic gift. There is an accompanying indirect effect, as fewer children (and more schooling, see below) allow higher levels of female labor force participation.
 The second mechanism is the increase in savings. As the number of dependents decreases individuals can save more. This increase in national savings rates increases the stock of capital in developing countries already facing shortages of capital and leads to higher productivity as the accumulated capital is invested. 
 The third mechanism is human capital. Decreases in fertility rates result in healthier women and fewer economic pressures at home. This also allows parents to invest more resources per child, leading to better health and educational outcomes. 
 The fourth mechanism for growth is the increasing domestic demand brought about by the increasing GDP per capita and the decreasing dependency ratio. This includes a possible second-order effect as household production falls, to be replaced by external provision, such as meals away from home and the purchase of ready-made clothing.