[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Burmese invasions of Assam

ati, leaving Tilwa at Guwahati with only 1,000 troops.  At this juncture, the Chandrakanta Singha was invited by the Burmese to come back and rule.  Chandrakanta abandoned his Baruas and Phukan's and surrendered to Tilwa at Assam Chokey.  When he reached Jorhat, he was seized and imprisoned instead.

Alternative Burmese account
This account differs a little from the Burmese account in which the expedition that started in February 1821 with the 20,000 (including 10,000 kamti Shan and Kachin levies) Burmese Army is said to have taken one and a half years to reach Assam when it defeated Chandrakanta Singha in July 1822 and made Assam a Burmese province under a military governor-general, extinguishing the 600-year-old Ahom court once and for all.  Chandrakanta Singha fled to British territory of Bengal. The British ignored Bandula's demands to surrender the fugitive king, and instead sent reinforcement units to frontier forts. Maha Bandula left a military garrison of 2000 men commanded by Maha Thilawa, and returned to Ava.

This period is remembered in Assam as very difficult, with the garrison soldiers and native marauders committing atrocities on the common people leading to thousands leaving Assam for Bengal. Much of the neighboring State of Manipur was also laid waste by the marauding armies.

By 1825, the Meiteis under the leadership of Meitei king Gambhir Singh  had repulsed the Burmese and drove them past the Chindwin river. The occupation led to frequent contacts between the Burmese and the British and finally to the First Burmese war and the Treaty of Yandaboo in 1826.  This treaty marked the end of Burmese rule and the beginning of British rule in Assam.

Atrocities during Burmese rule

Reign of terror
In Buranji-vivek-ratna, Maniram Dewan, an eyewitness writes:
...in attacking the house of a rich man, would tie him with ropes and then set fire to his body.  Some they flayed alive, others they burnt in oil and others again they drove in crowds to village Naamghars or prayer-houses, which they then set on fire...  It was dangerous for a beautiful woman to meet a Burmese even on the public road.  Brahmans were made to carry loads of beef, pork and wine.  The Gosains were robbed of all their possessions.  Fathers of damsels whom the Burmese took as wives rose speedily to affluence and power.

The atrocities committed by the Burmese in Assam have passed into the common traditions of the people, and have been confirmed by the recorded versions of sufferers and eye witnesses, and of those who had come in contact with them. Gangs of local marauders and some of the neighboring hill tribes like the Jingpo/Singphos and Khamtis, having identified their interests with the invaders, committed the same atrocities on the people and carried off numerous inhabitants into slavery. Those who afford fled to the neighboring countries like Bengal, Bhutan and Cachar. It is impossible to estimate the number of person who fled, were killed or deported to Burma. The wholesale depopulation and widespread misery and agony. Consequently, this excellent valley, in the words of M'Cosh, who surveyed it a few years after the Burmese invasion Though some centuries ago richly cultivated...is now throughout six-eight or seven-eight of its extent covered  with jungle and gigantic reeds, traversed only by the wild elephant or the buffalo, where human step in unknown and the atmosphere even to the natives themselves is pregnant with febrile miasmata and death. The sort of fighting and bloody killings that took place between 1812 and 1819 when the Burmese kings of Mandalay tried to conquer and subdue the Shan Ahom kingdom in Assam, where the Burmese garrison commander Maha Thilawa's troops committed atrocities. However, the native marauders and hilly tribes, taking advantage of the unstable situation, disguised themselves as Burmese, looted the cities and probably killed more people than the invaders did. The population of Assam was greatly reduced by 2/3 and 1/3 of the men and boys were killed during this period. 

Major John Butler who came to Assam in 1837 and met many survivors of the Burmese rule recorded the story of a massacre committed in 1819-20 on the bank of the Kalang river.