[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# National communism

ilitation of Romanian historical figures who had previously been denounced by the communist regime. Examples include the nationalist historian Nicolae Iorga and Ion Antonescu, a fascist Conducător. These figures were deemed as Romanian patriots despite their strong anti-communist views.

In Vietnam 

Since the 1930s, when the Vietnamese Communist Party was founded, many nationalists decided to join the party. This is remarkable because it marks the fact that nationalism has been recrystallized into an organized system rather than as individual struggle movements as before. On the other hand, nationalism in Vietnam has existed for a long time, even clinging to many different types of political institutions, from feudal states to one-party states. Thus, unlike communist parties or other left-wing parties, the Communist Party of Vietnam is a nationalist party in nature, with Ho Chi Minh Thought often regarded as the main ideology of the party. This may have enabled the party to attract the support of the Vietnamese people.

See also 
 Left-wing nationalism
 Socialist patriotism
 World communism

References

Bibliography 
 Bennigsen, A., Muslim national communism in the Soviet Union : a revolutionary strategy for the colonial world (1979).
 
 Gizzatullin H. G., D.R., Sharafutdinov D.R., eds., Mirsaid Sultan-Galiev. Izbrannye trudy (Moscow, 1998).
 Mace, J., Communism and the dilemmas of national liberation : national communism in Soviet Ukraine, 1918-1933 (1983).
 
 Rosdolsky,R., 'The Workers and the Fatherland: A Note on a Passage in the "Communist Manifesto"', International (London) 4.2 (Winter 1977)
 Velychenko S., "Ukrainian anticolonialist Thought in Comparative Perspective," AB IMPERIO no. 4 (2012)
 idem, Painting Imperialism and Nationalism Red. The Ukrainian Marxist Critique of Russian Communist Rule in Ukraine (1918-1925) (Toronto, 2015)

External links 
 "Documentary examines failure of the 'national Communists'". 26 July 2020. Public Broadcasting of Latvia.

 
Communism
Far-left politics
Left-wing nationalism
Soviet Central Asia
Soviet internal politics
Types of socialism