[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Telecommunications in Brazil

rage through roaming agreements with the three major telcos. In 1Q2023, Algar Telecom served 4.5 million mobile subscribers.

Statistics
Number of devices: 251.203.715
Percentage of prepaid lines: 43.62%
Density: 98.7 phones/100 hab

Technology distribution

International backbones

Submarine cables

Several submarine cables link Brazil to the world:
Americas II cable entered operations in September 2000, connecting Brazil (Fortaleza) to United States.
ATLANTIS-2, with around 12 thousand kilometers in extension, operating since 2000, it connects Brazil (Rio de Janeiro and Natal) to Europe, Africa and South America. This is the only cable that connects South America to Africa and Europe.
EMERGIA – SAM 1 cable connects all three Americas, surrounding it with a total extension of more than 25 thousand kilometers.
GLOBAL CROSSING - SAC Connects all Americas, surrounding them with a total extension of more than 15 thousand kilometers.
GLOBENET/360 NETWORK Another link from North America to South America.
UNISUR Interconnects Brazil, Uruguay and Argentina.

All these cables have a bandwidth from 20 Gbit/s to 80 Gbit/s, and some have a projected final capacity of more than 1 Tbit/s.

Satellite connections

List of business and satellites they operate (Brazilian Geostationary Satellites)

Television and radio

Under the Brazilian constitution, television and radio are not treated as forms of telecommunication, in order to avoid creating problems with a series of regulations that reduce and control how international businesses and individuals can participate. Brazil has the second largest media conglomerate in the world in terms of revenue, Grupo Globo.

Internet

The Internet has become quite popular in Brazil, with steadily growing numbers of users as well as increased availability. Brazil holds the  6th spot in number of users worldwide. Many technologies are used to bring broadband Internet to consumers, with DSL and cable being the most common (respectively, about 13 million and 9 million connections), and 3G technologies. 4G technologies were introduced in April 2013 and presently are available in over 90% of the country.

See also
 List of telecommunications companies in Brazil

References

External links 
 Brazilian National Telecommunications Agency
 Brazilian Ministry of Communications
 Brazil, SubmarineCableMap.com

 
 
Brazil