[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# List of South African slang words

" in chat.)
 tjorts – defecation, can also refer to the sound droplets of liquid make, often referring to a very minimal amount of a liquid ingredient, similar to "kat spoegie".
 toppie, ou toppie – father – see ouballie
 tos – lit. to masturbate
 trek – to move or pull. (The word has become international with the meaning of "making a pioneering journey"; the slang usage more closely resembles the standard Afrikaans meaning.)
 trekker – lit. "mover". Also refers to a tractor, as it can be used to tow (pull) trailers and/or cars.
 tannie – lit. "aunt/mother". Derived from the Dutch word tante (aunt), it refers to any older female authority figure. The female counterpart of "oom" (uncle). Though the original English meaning stays intact, the term has come to indicate a sign of tremendous respect towards a much older woman. Rules in using the term correctly are: The woman must be at least 10 years older than oneself, otherwise they might consider it offensive towards their age if they are young; unless she is one's real-life aunt, referring to a woman as "tannie" is purely permission-based, i.e. if she doesn't accept the term (and she'll tell you), then you should refrain from using it when addressing her.
 tiekie/tie-kie/ticky – taken from the word "tiekieboks/ticky box", is the popular name of the now outdated streetside payphone. Though ticky boxes are still in use, they have been largely replaced by cellphones. The ticky box takes its name from the limited time-period per call, based on the ticking of a timer. Also the name given to the old 2 and a half cent piece and later the 5 cent piece.
 tok-tok-tokkie – refers to a woodpecker, with "tok-tok" being the onomatopoeia of the sound the bird makes while pecking. Also refers to the woodpecker-style birds used in some cuckoo clocks.
 toktokkie – a children's game where you knock on someones door and run away before they answer.
trek deur jou hol – lit. "pulling something through your arse" refers to someone who has a tendency to ruin any property that was given to them whether they do it intentionally or not. Contrasts with the expression "kan dit deur 'n ring trek" (can pull it through a ring), which refers to something or someone that is extremely well polished, clean and organized.
 TVP (tiener velprobleem) – acne problems
 vaalie – mildly derogatory term used by people on the coast for a tourist from inland (Root: Old Transvaal province)
 vark – lit. "pig". Identical meaning to the English word in all of its interpretations, i.e.: pig, pork (varkvleis), arsehole (vulgar).
 van die os op die wa af – lit. "from the ox onto the wagon and off". Similar to "speaking of which" and "while we're on the subject"
 van toeka se dae af – lit. "since the olden days". Derived from the acronym "toeka", which is defined as the foundation of God's Word, which means it has been used since biblical times.
 veë jou gat aan dit af - lit. "wiping your arse on it". Refers to blatant ignorance against any person or object, no matter the consequences. Closest English equivalent is: "You don't give a shit."
 vellies – veldskoene, traditional Afrikaans outdoors shoes made from hide
 verkramp – politically conservative or pessimistic, the opposite of verlig, or enlightened
 vetkoek –  a deep-fried pastry that can either have a sweet filling of jam, honey, and syrup, or a savory filling of beef, chicken, pork, etc. Though the name literally translates as "fat cake", that name was already reserved by an English dessert, so in order to distinguish between the two very different dishes, vetkoek remains the universal name across all languages.
 viswyf – lit. "fish female", refers to a woman that throws a "bitch-fit" when she doesn't get her way. "Jy gaan soos 'n viswyf tekere!" (You're being really bitchy now!).
 voertsek, voetsek – get lost, buzz off, go away, run, scram, stuff off, bugger off (it can be considered rude, depending on the context) – usually used when referring to an animal. From the Dutch "vort, zeg ik" – used with animals, meaning "Go away!" or "Get moving". Voetsek is considered to be far more assertive than its English counterparts.
 voetjie-voetjie – lit. a game of footsie
 voël – lit. "bird". While the original meaning remains intact, it also refers to a penis (vulgar), due to "eiers" (eggs) being another nickname for testicles.
 voshaarnooi – lit. "a red-headed girl". Derived from the song of the same name, by Afrikaans singer Louis Van Rensburg, the song describes the beauty of a young fiery red-headed girl (voshare = red hair). The original Afrikaans term for a "red-head" is a rooikop.
 Volksie –  (pronounced as "folk-see") Is the local name of the Volkswagen Type 1 "Beetle" (based on the German/Afrikaans pronunciation – "folks-vach-en"). It essentially translates to "little Volkswagen". Also known as a "Volla".
 vrek – Afrikaans, meaning an animal dying. Possibly from Dutch verrekken to dislocate? Is considered extremely rude when used to refer to a person that