[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Krišjānis Kariņš

government approved additional restrictions on the entry of Russian citizens into Latvia via the external border of the European Union, with Kariņš saying that Russian citizens freely moving around the EU while Russia invaded Ukraine was " unacceptable both from a moral and security considerations".

Ukraine 
Under the Kariņš government, Latvia has supported Ukraine in its conflict with Russia. On 23 February 2022, one day before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Latvia delivered FIM-92 Stinger surface-to-air missiles to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. On the 24 February, immediately following the invasion, Kariņš announced that Latvia was ready to take in 10,000 refugees. By August, over 36,000 Ukrainian refugees were registered in Latvia. Kariņš supported the June 2022 decision by the European Council to grant Ukraine and Moldova candidate status, saying that the decision would, "play an important role in implementing the necessary reforms in both new candidate countries".

COVID-19 pandemic 

On 12 March 2020, Kariņš announced a state of emergency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, declaring that schools would be closed as of the next day and begin distance learning in addition to large gatherings being banned. After being extended in April, the state of emergency came to an end on 10 June. A second state of emergency was announced on 9 November 2020, which was extended on 1 December, 30 December and 5 February 2021, and came to an end on 7 April. In January 2021, Kariņš requested that Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele resign after criticizing her vaccination plan as inadequate. Daniels Pavļuts was confirmed as her replacement on 7 January.

A third state of emergency was proclaimed on 8 October 2021, which came into effect on 11 October. On October 20, the Kariņš government implemented a month-long "lockdown" in response to requests from the medical sector and Minister of Health Daniels Pavļuts. The same day, the government approved amendments that would allow employers to terminate contracts with employees who do not have a valid certificate of vaccination or recovery from COVID-19.

Initially, Kariņš was praised by international media for his government's handling of the early phases of the pandemic in Spring 2021. However, as the situation continued and new, more serious outbreaks occurred in Latvia throughout late 2020 and 2021, Kariņš's government became widely criticized for its management of the pandemic. On 11 October 2021, a group of experts that had been established by the Kariņš government earlier in the year ceased their cooperation with the government, with spokesman Klāvs Sedlenieks explaining that the group did not feel their work was resulting in informed decision making and that their recommendations were being used as part of the political process.

Personal life 
Kariņš is married to general practitioner doctor Anda Kariņa, and has four children: Otomārs Krišjānis, Kārlis Vilhelms, Māra Aleksandra, and Anna. 

In March 2019, Saeima Deputy Aldis Gobzems asked law enforcement officials to investigate a Skolas iela 2 property transaction between Kariņš and wife Kariņa from one side and Russian citizens, who are associated with Gazprom International and Government of Moscow from another, that he alleged could be related to money laundering and tax avoidance. On 18 May 2019, state police announced that they would not be initiating criminal proceedings after finding no signs of illegal wrongdoing.

Aside from his native Latvian and English, he speaks fluent German, French, and some Russian. During a visit to Minsk in January 2020, Kariņš stated in a meeting with President Alexander Lukashenko that it is easier for him to comprehend Russian than speak, which forces him to speak to Russian speakers through a translator "so as not to say anything wrong".

References

External links 

 Official website of Krišjānis Kariņš
 Official website of the Prime Minister of Latvia
 Official website of Member of Parliament Krišjānis Kariņš
 Biography of Krišjānis Kariņš  on New Unity's official website.
 News archive on Latvian Public Media

|-

|-

1964 births
Living people
Politicians from Wilmington, Delaware
Christians from Delaware
American people of Latvian descent
New Era Party politicians
New Unity politicians
Prime Ministers of Latvia
Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Latvia
Deputies of the 8th Saeima
Deputies of the 9th Saeima
Deputies of the 14th Saeima
New Era Party MEPs
MEPs for Latvia 2009–2014
MEPs for Latvia 2014–2019
University of Pennsylvania alumni
Recipients of the Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana, 2nd Class