[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# China Hands

unists, to portray them as democratic socialist reformers.

U.S. Ambassador to China Clarence Gauss recommended the United States "pull up the plug and let the whole Chinese Government go down the drain". The US strove to send aid to the Chinese Communists during the war.

Beginning of the Cold War 

After the sudden surrender of Japan in 1945 and the onset of the Cold War, the Communists and the Nationalists were locked in a Civil War. The China Hand view was propounded by Harvard professor John Fairbank in his The United States and China (1948) and in the bestselling book Thunder Out of China, published in 1946 by Theodore White and Annalee Jacobee. They hoped that American policy could encourage Chinese nationalism and prevent alignment with Soviet communism. Patrick Hurley testified to Congress that the China Hands had subverted his mission and General Albert Wedemeyer blamed the State Department for failing to act. When the Chinese Communists declared victory in 1949, an immediate outcry by anti-communists asked "Who lost China?" John T. Flynn, Louis F. Budenz, Freda Utley, none of whom had any professional expertise in Chinese history or politics, were among the many who charged that China Hands had undermined Chiang Kai-shek, misled the American public and lost China either through naive ignorance of the true nature of Marxism or even allegiance to the Soviet Union. John Service, they pointed out, had admitted that before he went to Yan'an he had not read the basic texts of Marxism, and the other China Hands were no better informed. Senator Joseph McCarthy expanded these accusations to include Owen Lattimore, who had served as personal adviser to Chiang at the beginning of the war. These charges were developed in a series of congressional hearings, including those into the Institute of Pacific Relations. Foreign Service Officers O. Edmund Clubb, John Paton Davies, Jr., John S. Service, and John Carter Vincent were forced out of the Foreign Service, while journalists such as Edgar Snow and Theodore White could not continue their careers in magazine journalism. Career trajectories slowed down for the remaining State Department China Hands, but a few eventually attained ambassadorships: James K. Penfield (Iceland), Philip D. Sprouse (Cambodia), and Fulton Freeman (Colombia and Mexico).

Nixon era 
Not until the opening of relations between the People's Republic of China and the United States under the initiative of President Richard M. Nixon in the 1970s did public opinion change towards the China Hands.  Notable was the invitation to the surviving China Hands to testify to the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations in 1971.  The chairman, Senator J. William Fulbright, remarked to John Paton Davies on how the China Hands who had "reported honestly about conditions were so persecuted because [they] were honest. This is a strange thing to occur in what is called a civilized country."

Archival collections
Dozens of archival collections related to foreigners who lived and worked in China before 1950, known as the ‘’Old China Hands’’, are preserved in Special Collections and Archives in the University Library at California State University, Northridge.  These collections include correspondence, diaries, photographs, unpublished memoirs, official documents, artifacts, and oral histories, and reflect the lives of refugees, foreign entrepreneurs, missionaries, diplomats, and members of the military (including the China Marines) who lived and worked in China during the first half of the 20th century.

World War II China Hands

References

Further reading
 

 Fine, Gary Alan, and Bin Xu. "Honest Brokers: The Politics of Expertise in the 'Who Lost China?' Debate." Social problems 58.4 (2011): 593–614. online
 Flynn, John T. While You Slept: Our Tragedy in Asia and Who Made It (New York,: Devin-Adair Co.,  1951); attack on China Hands.
 
 Gurman, Hannah. "‘Learn to Write Well’: The China Hands and the Communist-Ification of Diplomatic Reporting." Journal of Contemporary History 45.2 (2010): 430-453.
 Gurman, Hannah. The dissent papers: The voices of diplomats in the cold war and beyond (Columbia UP, 2012).

 Kubek, Anthony. How the Far East Was Lost: American Policy and the Creation of Communist China, 1941-1949 (Chicago: Regnery,  1963).
 Lauren, Paul Gordon. The China Hands' Legacy: Ethics and Diplomacy (Boulder, CO: Westview, 1987 . online

 MacKinnon, Stephen. "The “Romantic” Generation: The old China hands left a legacy that helps and hurts American journalism." in Covering China (Routledge, 2018) pp. 9-16.
 Qian, Suoqiao. "Representing China: Lin Yutang vs. American 'China Hands' in the 1940s." Journal of American-East Asian Relations 17.2 (2010): 99–117.

 Schaller, Michael. "Consul General O. Edmund Clubb, John P. Davies, and the 'Inevitability' of Conflict Between the United States and China, 1949-50: A Comment and New Documentation." Diplomatic History 9.2 (1985): 149–160. online