[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cincinnati in the American Civil War

born in Point Pleasant, about 25 miles (40 km) east of Cincinnati. He maintained Cincinnati ties.  For much of the Civil War, his favorite mount was a large horse named "Cincinnati".

See "Philander P. Lane; Colonel of Volunteers in the Civil War, Eleventh Ohio Regiment; by William Forse Scott, 1920

Civil War memorialization and tourism
 The National Steamboat Monument on Mehring Way (near its intersection with Broadway) in Cincinnati commemorates the hundreds of Ohio soldiers who were liberated from Southern prison camps but perished in the Sultana tragedy. An Ohio Historical Society marker at Sawyer Point also recounts the Sultana tragedy, as an estimated fifty Cincinnatians died in the disaster. The ill-fated ship had been constructed in 1862 by the John Lithoberry Shipyard on Front Street in Cincinnati.
 Other markers and monuments are scattered throughout the town. Cincinnati has busts for Robert L. McCook and Friedrich Hecker and statues of Civil War-era composer Stephen Foster and Union general / President James A. Garfield. There are two statues of President Lincoln. 
 The Cincinnati Civil War Memorial Hall was erected in 1908.
 Cincinnati's sprawling and well-landscaped Spring Grove Cemetery is the final resting place for 40 former Civil War generals.  A prominent member of Lincoln's cabinet, Salmon P. Chase, who became Chief Justice of the US Supreme Court, was also interred in the cemetery.  Sculptor Randolph Rogers' statue of a Union infantryman on guard, "The Sentinel", was installed in Spring Grove Cemetery in 1865; it was one of the state's first formal Civil War monuments. 
 The city's importance as a stop along the Underground Railroad is memorialized at the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center on the Ohio River.  The placement of the museum on the riverfront is symbolic.  Crossing the river from Kentucky to Ohio meant the fugitives were escaping slavery and entering free territory.
 A number of Civil War reenactor encampments are held each year in the greater Cincinnati area, including "Civil War Days" the first weekend of May in Sharon Woods Park.

See also
 Ohio in the American Civil War

Notes

References
 Geaslen, Chester F., Our Moment of Glory in the Civil War. Newport, Kentucky: Otto Printing Co., 1972.
 Harper, Robert S., Ohio Handbook of the Civil War. Columbus, Ohio: The Ohio Historical Society, 1961.
 Mowery, David L., Cincinnati in the Civil War: The Union's Queen City. Charleston, South Carolina: The History Press, 2021.
 Riesenberg, Michael. "Cincinnati's Civil War Resources: Preparing for the Sesquicentennial Anniversary of the Civil War." Ohio Valley History 10#4 (2010): 46–65.
 Simms, Henry Harrison. Ohio Politics on the Eve of Conflict. Columbus: Ohio State University Press for the Ohio Historical Society, 1961.
 Stephens, Gail. "'This City Must Not Be Taken,'" Traces of Indiana & Midwestern History, Spring 2010, Vol. 22 Issue 2, pp 4–17, pn the defense of the city by Gen. Wallace in 1862
 Tafel, Gustav. "The Cincinnati Germans in the Civil War." Translated and edited with Supplements on Germans from Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana in the Civil War by Don Heinrich Tolzmann. Milford, Ohio: Little Miami Publishing Co., 2010. 
 Tucker, Louis Leonard, Cincinnati during the Civil War. Columbus: Ohio State University Press for the Ohio Historical Society, 1962.
 Reid, Whitelaw, Ohio in the War: Her Statesmen, Her Generals, and Soldiers. 2 vol. (1868). online * U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, 70 volumes in 4 series. Washington, D.C.: United States Government Printing Office, 1880–1901.

External links
 Cincinnati Civil War Round Table
 SUVCW Camp Gen. Wm. H. Lytle #10
Harper's Weekly, "Defense of Cincinnati"
Lee Foundation - Preparations for the Defense of Cincinnati
Civil War burials in Spring Grove Cemetery
History of Cincinnati and Hamilton County

 
Ohio in the American Civil War
U.S. cities in the American Civil War