[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Ministry of Environment (South Korea)

f "green growth" was first adopted at the "Ministerial Conference on Environment and Development" jointly hosted by the Ministry of Environment and UNESCAP in 2005. It was initiated by Korea, the host country, and included in the outcome of the Conference, "Seoul Initiative Network on Green Growth".

Green growth is developed to introduce sustainable economic growth model for the future based on Korea's experience in implementing environmental protection with economic growth.
Green Growth is a concept developed to complement the existing concept of sustainable development (integration of economic, social development and environmental conservation) since 'sustainable development' is too abstract and broad. Green Growth aims to shift the pattern of economic growth into an environment friendly one.

The project to develop the concept of green growth was supported by many research institutes including the Korea Environment Institute, the Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade, the Korea Institute of Public Finance, and scholars from the fields of economics and the environment.

The concept of environmentally sustainable green growth links 'Environmental Performance' and 'Environmental Sustainability'. Policy measures to pursue green growth are eco-tax reform, and disclosure of company's environmental information.

Green growth is the concept that embodies the harmony of environment (Green) and economy (Growth). Green growth 2 has two implication in term of the relationship of economy and environment. Green growth 1 (Economy→Environment) means that economic growth does not harm but improves the environment. Green growth 2 (Environment → Economy) means that environment conservation can be the new growth driver of the economy.

Green living

Eco-labeling system
Environmental Education
Environmental Industry
Environmental Technology
Environmental-friendly Products
Environmentally-friendly Company Designation System

Nature

Eco-Village
Ecosystem and Landscape Conservation Areas
Endangered Species Protection
Environmental Impact Assessment System
LMOs (Living Modified Organisms)
National Long-term Ecological Research Project
National Trust System for the Natural Environment
Nature Park
Prior Environmental Review System
Wetland Protection Areas
Wildlife Protection and Management

Human health & chemicals

Asbestos
Chemical Terrorism and Accidents
Dioxin aka "Agent Orange" was used in South Korea during the Vietnam War era, to defoliate areas along the DMZ. The South Korean Army also used Agent Orange to spray areas around NIKE Missile sites in the 1960s and 1970s at such bases as Camp Humphreys.
Endocrine Disruptors
Hazardous Chemicals Control
Health Impact Assessment System
Nano Materials
POPs (Persistent Organic Pollutants)
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)
Response to REACH
Restricted or Prohibited Chemicals Designation System
Risk Assessment
Toxics Release Inventory(TRI)

International cooperation

CBD (Convention on Biological Diversity)
Cooperation with America
Cooperation with OECD
Cooperation with UNEP
Korea-China-Japan Cooperation
Cooperation with Africa
Cooperation with ESCAP
Cooperation with Southeast Asia
FTA-related Environmental Agreement
Ramsar Convention
Cooperation with Europe
Cooperation with UNCSD
International Climate Change Negotiations
CITES

Climate change

CDM Projects
Greenhouse Gas Labeling System
Smart ways to reduce 
Support for Local Governments In Responding to Climate Change

Offices 
Previously the ministry had its headquarters in Gwacheon, Gyeonggi Province.

Regulatory reform 

The Ministry of Environment has made significant success in improving water and air quality and conserving ecosystems by introducing various environmental regulations. However, in order to overcome the recent economic downturn and strengthen national competitiveness, it is necessary to conduct regulatory reforms, without undermining environmental quality, to create a better business environment, reduce public inconvenience and to raise the effectiveness of regulations.

To this end, Ministry of Environment will consider the life cycle and characteristics of companies in carrying out regulatory reforms, and ensure that such reforms contribute to improvements in the daily lives of the general public.

A more prudent approach is needed for environmental regulations as environmental issues often involve conflicts of interests and lack of scientific evidence. Therefore, the ministry plans to prevent social conflicts and environmental degradation by promoting communication among various stakeholders and securing environmental expertise.

Environmental impact assessment 

The Korean government introduced systems to examine the environmental impacts of land development projects such as environmental impact assessment (EIA) and prior environmental review system (PERS). The government came up with measures to improve the systems to shorten time and avoid overlapping each other.