[Source: PubMed]

41. Wellcome Open Res. 2020 Nov 11;5:268. doi: 10.12688/wellcomeopenres.16348.1. 
eCollection 2020.

Health on the Move (HOME) Study: Using a smartphone app to explore the health 
and wellbeing of migrants in the United Kingdom.

Aldridge RW(1), Burns R(1), Kirkby V(1), Elsay N(1), Murray E(2), Perski O(3), 
Navaratnam AM(1), Williamson EJ(4), Nieto-Martínez R(5), Miranda JJ(4)(6)(7), 
Hugenholtz GCG(1).

Author information:
(1)UCL Public Health Data Science Research Group, Institute of Health 
Informatics, University College London, London, Camden, NW1 2DA, UK.
(2)Primary Care & Population Health, Institute of Epidemiology & Health Care, 
University College London, London, NW3 2PF, UK.
(3)Behavioural Science and Health, Faculty of Population Health Sciences, 
Institute of Epidemiology & Health Care, University College London, London, WC1E 
6BT, UK.
(4)Faculty of Epidemiology & Population Health, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, WC1E 7HT, UK.
(5)LifeDoc Health, Memphis, TN, 38119, USA.
(6)CRONICAS Center of Excellence in Chronic Diseases, Universidad Peruana 
Cayetano Heredia, Lima, Peru.
(7)The George Institute for Global Health, UNSW, Sydney, Australia.

Background/Aim: We have a limited understanding of the broader determinants of 
health of international migrants and how these change over time since migration 
to the United Kingdom (UK). To address this knowledge gap, we aim to conduct a 
prospective cohort study with data acquisition via a smartphone application 
(app). In this pilot study, we aim to 1) determine the feasibility of the use of 
an app for data collection in international migrants, 2) optimise app engagement 
by quantifying the impact of specific design features on the completion rates of 
survey questionnaires and on study retention, 3) gather preliminary profile 
health status data, to begin to examine how risk factors for health are 
distributed among migrants. Methods: We will recruit 275 participants through a 
social media campaign and through third sector organisations that work with or 
support migrants in the UK. Following consent and registration, data will be 
collected via surveys. To optimise app engagement and study retention, we will 
quantify the impact of specific design features (i.e. the frequency of survey 
requests, the time of day for app notifications, the frequency of notifications, 
and the wording of notifications) via micro-randomised process evaluations. The 
primary outcome for this study is survey completion rates with numerator as the 
number of surveys completed and denominator as the total number of available 
surveys. Secondary outcomes are study retention rates and ratings of interest 
after app usage. Ethics and dissemination: We have obtained approval to use 
consented patient identifiable data from the University College London Ethics 
Committee. Improving engagement with the app and gathering preliminary health 
profile data will help us identify accessibility and usability issues and other 
barriers to app and study engagement prior to moving to a larger study.

Copyright: © 2020 Aldridge RW et al.

DOI: 10.12688/wellcomeopenres.16348.1
PMCID: PMC8008349
PMID: 33842695

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.