[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Northern campaign (Irish Republican Army)

ssued for information leading to the apprehension of O'Brien's killers along with a list of men wanted in connection with the incident.  Michael Quill was later apprehended by the RUC and turned over to Irish Special Branch in connection with the incident. This led to his internment in January 1943.

Following the initial raid in September, the RUC and Irish Special Branch stepped up their efforts against the IRA.  A series of arms finds and arrests were made.
 10 September – Belfast IRA lost two members when they were surrounded in a house and captured.
 30 September – Patrick Dermody was killed by Irish Special Branch following a gun battle in County Cavan.  A member of Garda Síochána (Irish Police) also died due to friendly fire from his colleagues.
 12 October – McAteer and his Director of Intelligence, O'Reilly, were arrested in Northern Ireland by the RUC Criminal Investigation Department (CID).  McAteer was later sentenced to 15 years imprisonment for treason, and his position taken over by Charlie Kerins, who was later relieved by Harry White in late October.
 19 October – Maurice O'Neill, was captured by Garda Síochána during a raid on a safe house in Holly Road, Donnycarney, County Dublin.  A detective died during the raid. Harry White escaped and travelled to Belfast to take over as OC for Northern Command.  During his trial by Military Tribunal in Éire, O'Neill was represented by Seán MacBride.  MacBride failed however, to win O'Neill a reprieve and he was executed by the Irish Government on 12 November 1942.
 October – An RUC member was killed in an IRA attack on Donegall Pass, RUC station in Belfast.

1943
 15 January – IRA northern command commander, Hugh McAteer, along with another IRA member escaped over the wall of Crumlin Road gaol, Belfast.
 14 February – IRA Army Council despite losing the ability to carry out their campaign resolved that "A political arm be formed representative of the whole country, whose constitution shall be based on the Constitution of the Republic proclaimed in arms in 1916 and ratified by the free vote of the Irish people in 1918."
 21 March – 21 IRA prisoners escape from Magilligan prison in Derry.
 24 April 1943– The IRA, including McAteer, took over the Falls Road Broadway cinema in Belfast, and whilst holding its staff at gunpoint, forced the cinema audience to take part in a commemoration of the Easter Rising. A Proclamation of the 1916 Easter Rising was read out to the audience along with the IRA Army Council's annual statement, which included a denouncement of the American military presence in Northern Ireland as an "..invasion of our rights..." and warned that US troops could expect to be targeted in any "..resumption of hostilities between the Irish Republic [as invested in the IRA] and Great Britain."
 May – IRA members who had escaped from Derry gaol were re-arrested.
 October – McAteer rearrested. Kerins assumed command again.
 4 July – Jackie Griffith shot dead in Dublin by Garda Síochána detectives.
 Unknown date – RUC constable shot dead during an attempted robbery at Ross's Mill, Belfast.

1944
 11 February – Seamus "Rocky" Burns was mortally wounded during a gun battle with RUC in Derry city.
 15 June – Kerins was arrested at 50 Rathmines Road in Dublin. He was tried by military tribunal by the Irish Free State and found guilty on 9 October 1944 of involvement in the death of detective O'Brien on 9 September 1942, and subsequently hanged on 1 December 1944.

Footnotes

Further information
The Secret Army – The IRA J Bowyer Bell 1997 3rd Edition,

External links
 Short biography of Brendan Behan and details on who he was interned with at Mountjoy includes the hunger strikers and executed.
 No.1 Internment camp "K-Lines" in the Curragh housed IRA

See also
 Irish Republican Army – Abwehr collaboration in World War II

History of Northern Ireland
Conflicts in 1942
Conflicts in 1943
Conflicts in 1944
Irish Republican Army campaigns
Guerrilla warfare
Irish Republican Army (1922–1969)