[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Bruno Senna

ng series Airspeeder confirmed Senna as a development pilot and global ambassador.   Senna will play a major role in developing the sport as it moves towards the first crewed Airspeeder Grand Prix's in 2023 working with the company’s leading team of engineers on developing onboard safety technology.

Television punditry
On 7 March 2014, Senna was added to Sky Sports F1's line-up for seven races: Malaysia, China, Hungary, Singapore, Russia, USA and Brazil. Senna also commentated during practice sessions alongside David Croft as well as providing race analysis with the presentation day throughout the seven Grand Prix weekends.

Senna also made guest appearances on The F1 Show and operated the Skypad.

On 8 March 2016, Senna was announced as part of Channel 4's Formula One coverage, appearing in special features throughout the season.

Awards
On 15 July 2012, Senna collected the Lorenzo Bandini Trophy in Brisighella, Italy he was the 19th driver to collect the award.

Helmet design
Bruno Senna's helmet is a modified version of his uncle's helmet design: a yellow helmet with a green and blue S shaped stripe. The green stripe has a blue and white outline, while the blue stripe has a green and white outline. There is a green stripe under the chin area and a blue rounded rectangle in the top area.

Personal life
Senna dated Ramóna Kiss, a Hungarian TV presenter and actress, in 2011.

Racing record

Career summary

† As Senna was a guest driver, he was ineligible to score points.

Complete GP2 Series results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap)

Complete GP2 Asia Series results
(key) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

Complete Formula One results
(key) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

 Did not finish, but was classified as he had completed more than 90% of the race distance.

Complete European Le Mans Series results

Complete 24 Hours of Le Mans results

Complete FIA World Endurance Championship results

Complete WeatherTech SportsCar Championship results

Complete Stock Car Brasil results

† Ineligible for championship points.

Complete Formula E results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap)

† Driver did not finish the race, but was classified as he completed over 75% of the race distance.

Notes and references

External links

 
 
 
 BBC Sport 'Meet the New Senna' 16 July 2008

1983 births
Living people
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in the United Kingdom
Brazilian Formula One drivers
Brazilian people of Italian descent
Asian Formula Renault Challenge drivers
British Formula Three Championship drivers
European Le Mans Series drivers
Formula BMW UK drivers
GP2 Series drivers
Brazilian GP2 Series drivers
GP2 Asia Series drivers
HRT Formula One drivers
Racing drivers from São Paulo
Porsche Supercup drivers
Renault Formula One drivers
Williams Formula One drivers
24 Hours of Le Mans drivers
American Le Mans Series drivers
FIA World Endurance Championship drivers
Blancpain Endurance Series drivers
Stock Car Brasil drivers
24 Hours of Spa drivers
Brazilian Formula E drivers
Brazilian WeatherTech SportsCar Championship drivers
24 Hours of Daytona drivers
Carlin racing drivers
Double R Racing drivers
Arden International drivers
ISport International drivers
Oreca drivers
Aston Martin Racing drivers
Mahindra Racing drivers
Morand Racing drivers
Rebellion Racing drivers
Extreme Speed Motorsports drivers
United Autosports drivers
Campos Racing drivers
McLaren Racing drivers
Porsche Carrera Cup Germany drivers
Brazilian racing drivers
Ferrari Challenge drivers