[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Postage stamps and postal history of the Canal Zone

covered the new air mail rates to the rest of the world. Each denomination in this series of twelve-stamp stamps represents a specific postal rate with the exception of the 80-cent, used to cover general and larger postage costs, usually used in conjunction with one or more of the lower rate stamps.

Postage due
For several years after the United States assumed authority of the Canal Zone and its post offices no postage due stamps had yet been issued. Letters that were lacking in sufficient postage when received at the office of delivery were simply hand stamped "postage due", with the appropriate amount due indicated. Prior to its delivery, any such letter was affixed with a postage stamp in the amount of the postage due and then cancelled in the standard fashion. Then in 1908, Gerald D. Bliss, the postmaster at Pedro Miguel post office conceived the idea of precancelling entire sheets of stamps with the Postage Due cancelling stamp. This was not official method and was done simply to save time. To save time it soon became necessary to print and use specific Postage Due stamps without having to stop and treat every such letter lacking in sufficient postage. The ten cents stamp was the one most used but all of the denominations of the 1906, 1909 and 1910 issues were precancelled in such a manner. By 1914, Postage Due stamps were finally issued. These were the current Postage Due stamps of the United States, consisting of the denominations of one, two and ten cents overprinted with the words "canal zone" in one line, diagonal fashion along the bottom area of the stamps. The regular issue of U.S. Postage Due stamps were overprinted again in 1925, with a variation in the overprint, with CANAL over the word ZONE. Postmasters in the Canal Zone received strict orders not to sell any of these stamps to the public in unused condition. These orders were apparently followed as none of the unused Postage Due stamps had surfaced.

In April, 1915, these stamps were replaced by a set of Postage Dues supplied by the Panama Government, and those remaining in
the Post Offices were called in and destroyed. The new stamps had a pleasing appearance, consisting of three values: one, two, and ten centesimos de balboa; Printed by the American Bank Note Company all three of these stamps were of the same color, olive brown.

Final years

The final years of the Canal Zone saw few stamps issued—those that were issued were mainly for new first-class postal rates (the first-class rates paralleled those of the United States)  The last stamp (fifteen cents) of the Zone was issued on October 25, 1978, and depicted one of the towing locomotives and a ship in a lock. Thereafter Panama took over the administration of postal service and, after a brief transition period, Canal Zone stamps became invalid.

1975 reprints
In 1975 three stamps originally issued in 1928—1929, and one issued in 1946, were reprinted  on the rotary press as coil stamps.

4-cent Thatcher Ferry Bridge

A 4-cent Thatcher Ferry Bridge commemorative stamp (Scott 157) was issued on Columbus Day, October 12, 1962, commemorating the opening of the new bridge over the Panama Canal at Balboa.   (See below image, left)
Famous error
One pane of fifty stamps was released without the silver ink used to depict the Bridge. This error is likely to have made this issue the most famous Canal Zone stamp. Three additional sheets of this error were discovered in the Philatelic Agency at Balboa, which attempted to print an additional 100,000 copies in an effort to reduce its value to collectors. The sheet was unknowingly sold in a group of 5,000 to a Boston stamp dealer, H.E. Harris, who successfully sued in federal court to stop the additional printing. Today, examples of this famous error are still owned by collectors and are valued at many thousands of dollars. The National Postal Museum is in possession of  two of these fifty-stamp sheets.  (See below image, right)

See also
 Postage stamps and postal history of the United States
 Revenue stamps of the United States
 Presidents of the United States on U.S. postage stamps
 Postage stamps and postal history of Panama
 History of Panama
 U.S. Postage stamp locator

Notes

References

Bibliography
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Stanley Gibbons Ltd: various catalogues
 AskPhil – Glossary of Stamp Collecting Terms
 Encyclopaedia of Postal History

External links 

 The first stamps of the Canal Zone.
 Canal Zone Study Group

Panama Canal Zone
Philately of Panama
Canal Zone