[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2003 United States–British–Spanish Draft Resolution on Iraq

The 2003 United States–British–Spanish Draft Resolution on Iraq was, according to Ambassador John Negroponte, "a resolution to have the Council decide that Iraq is not complying, is out of compliance, with Resolution 1441". Initially introduced on February 24, 2003, and amended on March 7, 2003, the draft set a March 17 deadline for Iraq to demonstrate "full, unconditional, immediate and active cooperation in accordance with its disarmament obligations." The draft was based on information from the Iraqi defector "Curveball," who claimed Saddam Hussein was in possession of weapons of mass destruction, which Curveball later admitted was untrue. The widely discussed UN resolution was not brought up for formal vote after it became clear that it would not have passed due to opposition from France, Russia, and China. The United States invaded Iraq without UN support on March 20, 2003, initiating the Iraq War.

Background

Timeline

2001 
 September 11: 19 militants of the Islamic extremist group al-Qaeda hijacked four planes in the United States and carried out suicide attacks. Two of the hijacked planes were flown into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City, a third plane hit the Pentagon just outside Washington, D.C., and the fourth plane crashed in a field in Pennsylvania. Almost 3,000 people were killed during the 9/11 terrorist attacks
November 21: According to Bob Woodward in Plan of Attack, the US president, George Bush, says to the secretary of defense, Donald Rumsfeld: "Let’s get started on this."

 November 21: US president, George Bush, says to the Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld "Let’s get started on this."

2002 

 April 6: British Prime Minister Tony Blair visits former President Bush where they discuss getting rid of Saddam Hussein.
 September 12: In a speech to the United Nations, then President Bush says world leaders must get tough with Iraq or stand aside as the United States acts.
 September 16:The Iraqi government announces weapons inspectors are welcome to return unconditionally after nearly four years.
 September 24: Britain publishes a report claiming Iraq could produce a nuclear weapon within one or two years, if it obtains fissile material and other necessary materials.
 November 8: The UN security council unanimously approves US-drafted resolution aimed at getting Saddam Hussein to disarm his country. The resolution says Saddam will face "serious consequences" if he does not comply with weapons inspectors.
 November 13: Iraq accepts the UN resolution, while denying that it has any banned weapons programs.
 November 18: First UN weapons inspectors arrive in Baghdad.
 December 7: Iraq hands a 12,000-page declaration of its arms programs to UN inspectors.
 December 18: The British government say the first assessment of Iraq's weapons declaration shows it is not the "full and complete declaration" requested by the security council.
 December 19: The chief UN weapons inspector, Hans Blix, says gaps remain in Iraq's declaration, but they continue to cooperate with UN inspectors. Then US ambassador John Negroponte says the omissions mean Iraq is in "material breach" of the resolution and has "spurned its last opportunity to comply with its disarmament obligations".

2003