[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pavel Postyshev

courses were closed down in January 1933, and in June Postyshev accused the Ukraine People's Commissar for Education Mykola Skrypnyk of "wrecking" the schools and universities by allowing "Petliurite swine" to gain control - "and you often defended them". Skrypnyk committed suicide soon afterwards. 

This was the start of a purge of such "nests of nationalist counter-revolutionaries" as the commissariats of education, agriculture, and justice, newspapers, journals, encyclopedias and film studios, during which over 15,000 officials were eliminated on charges of "nationalism", and thousands of authors, scholars, philosophers, artists, musicians and editors were exiled to labour camps, executed, or simply disappeared. The writer Mykhailo Yalovy and the "national communist" Oleksandr Shumsky were among those arrested, while the writer Mykola Khvylovy avoided arrest by committing suicide. Many others avoided being denounced by working according to Moscow dictates.

The Ukrainian Communist Party was also targeted. In a prelude to the Great Purge, Postyshev forced the sacking of 237 secretaries of district party committees and 249 chairmen of district executive committees. Almost 100,000 members were expelled during his first year in Ukraine and a further 168,000 through 1938. Postyshev wrote in his report that the majority were exiled or shot. The highest ranking were paraded through elaborate show trials. 

As the purges progressed after 1933, affecting millions throughout the Soviet Union, Postyshev's crackdown spread beyond perceived "Ukrainianizers," "nationalists," and opponents of collectivization. Eventually it came to include the liquidation of entire classes, such as kulaks, priests, people who had been members of anti-Bolshevik armies, and even ethnic Ukrainians who had travelled abroad or immigrated from Galicia.

In February 1934, Postyshev was elected a candidate member of the Politburo. In 1934-37, after the Ukrainian capital had been moved from Kharkov to Kyiv, he was First Secretary of the Kyiv Party Committee. In this role, he oversaw the "socialist reconstruction" of the city, which involved the destruction of churches, monuments, and Orthodox and Jewish cemeteries.

Postyshev is known for reviving the New Year tree tradition in the Soviet Union. A letter from Postyshev published in Pravda on December 28, 1935 called for the installation of New Year trees in schools, children's homes, Young Pioneer Palaces, children's clubs, children's theaters and cinemas.

Downfall
At the start of the Great Purge, Postyshev appeared to be well placed to survive and benefit from it. Defendants at the first of the Moscow Show Trials in August 1936 were made to confess to having planned to assassinate eight leading communists, including Stalin, the late Sergei Kirov, and Postyshev.

But in January 1937 he was removed from his post as First Secretary of the Kyiv party organisation, while retaining his other positions. He had purged the party organisation with his normal ruthlessness, but had acquired powerful enemies who accused him of purging good communists while leaving suspected oppositionists in position. During a Central Committee plenum in June 1936, Nikolay Yezhov, whose name would become synonymous with the Great Purge, or 'Yezhovschina', accused him of persecuting innocent Communist Party members in Kyiv, without giving details. In November, Stalin took up the case of a woman named Nikolayenko, whom Postyshev had had expelled from the Kyiv party for making a series of malicious denunciations. She was reinstated, though she was denounced years later, after Stalin's death, as "one of the worst slanderers."
  
At the critical plenum of the Central Committee in February 1937, which decided the fate of Nikolai Bukharin and Alexei Rykov, who had led the opposition to collectivisation, Postyshev continually jeered at them as they tried to defend themselves and voted for both men to be arrested and shot. But when Nikita Khrushchev delivered his 'Secret Speech' to the 20th Party congress in 1956, he said that during the same plenum, Postyshev protested about the recent arrest of a Ukraine-based Communist official named Karpov, whom he said had been wrongly accused of being a Trotskyite. In a sharp exchange, Stalin demanded "What are you, actually?" and 
Postyshev replied: "I am a Bolshevik, comrade Stalin, a Bolshevik".