[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bibliothèques Sans Frontières

ector of LWB US.

Belgium 
The Belgian association, BSF Belge, was founded in 2018 has its seat in Brussels.  Its focus is on strengthening educational activities, using among others the Khan Academy videos in French and its own Digital Travellers program. Dimitri Verboomen is Director of BSF Belge.

Finances 
Bibliothèques Sans Frontières has grown significantly in recent years, with an average budge of 7.8M euros over the three year period from 2016 to 2018, of which 6.4M euros come from private sources. Eight-three percent of funds are used for  social missions.  In 2018, 57% of these funds were for international cooperation (18% of these in multi-country missions, 11% in Europe outside of France, 5% in West Africa, 2% in Central Africa, 26% in North Africa and the Middle East, 9% in South America and Asia).  34% of funds allocated are for French programs, 5% for the BSF collections program, and 4% for research and public awareness.

Advocacy Campaigns

Book Donation 
Since 2007, BSF Depuis 2007, BSF partners with the retailer FNAC in France to collect donated books and makes them available those resources. The collected books are distributed to libraries in France or internationally or resold.

"Libraries: The Challenge for France" - 2017 
In the spring of 2017 BSF and the Association of French Libraries (Association de bibliothèquaires en France, ABF) called on candidates for the legislative elections to commit to supporting libraries.  Adhering to this charter, they promised to take measures to maintain and develop libraries if elected in their districts, to increase access and opening hours, to support the construction of libraries in zones where they were lacking, and to increase the allocated budgets of libraries including the hiring of qualified librarians. This communiqué included a petition signed by thousands of people including Éliette Abecassis, Christophe Deloire, Sara Yalda, Abd Al Malik, Geneviève Brisac, Laure Kermen-Lecuir, Valérie Lasserre Kiesow, Pierre Vesperini, Gérard Grunberg, Yerri Urban, Romain Dambre, Paul Egre, Nicole Caligaris, Vincent Chabault, Arnaud Delalande, Thomas Perroud, Laurent Joly, Ghislaine Hudson, Frédéric Barbier, Evelyne Bloch-Dano, Emmanuelle Saulnier-Cassia and Thomas Hochmann.

Open + the Libraries - 2014

In a campaign leading up to the 2014 municipal elections, BSF advocated for increased opening hours of libraries deemed ill-adapted for students, workers, teachers, and others. Bsf proposed to extend opening hours to Sunday afternoon and evening. Among the signatories of the proposition were Éliette Abecassis, Pierre Assouline, Olivier Barrot, Evelyne Bloch-Dano, Geneviève Brisac, Catherine Cusset, Dany Laferrière, Erik Orsenna, Bernard Pivot, Lilian Thuram, Emmanuel Todd, and Benjamin Stora.

"The Urgency of Reading"  - 2012 
The Urgency of Reading campaign sought to raise awareness, promote research, and change practices. This international appeal was opened to the public on 29 November 2012 and called for international organizations and states to consider a priority of humanitarian assistance the intellectual dimension of the human being in danger.  The appeal was notably addressed to the General Secretary of the United Nations, the General Director of UNESCO, and the European Commission.  The campaign opened an intense period of development and partnerships for BSF, and led to the development of new tools to diffuse learning and information in emergencies, including the Ideas Box.

Awards and honors
Bibliothèques Sans Frontières/Libraries Without Borders has received the following awards and honors:

 The Google Impact Challenge 2015
 WISE Accelerator 2015
Ashoka Prize 2015
La France s'engage prize 2015
IDEAS Prize 2015
Grand Prize for Culture, Louis D. Foundation (2015)
 The Library of Congress Literacy Award 2016
Clinton Global Initiative 2016
 Open Education Consortium's Creative Innovation Award 2017 
 UNHCR's Humanitarian Education Accelerator 2017 
Rodenberry Prize Fellowship 2019

References

External links
 

Charities based in France
Library-related organizations