[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Behaalotecha

nd the middle reader if that reader reads four verses, Rava taught that Numbers 8:2 says that the lights were made to face the western lamp—the middle lamp of the Menorah—and the western lamp faced the Divine Presence; and Rabbi Joḥanan taught that this shows that the middle one is specially prized.

The Sifre taught that Numbers 8:3 reports, "And Aaron did so," to tell of Aaron's virtue, for he did exactly what Moses told him to do.

The Mishnah taught that there was a stone in front of the Menorah with three steps on which the priest stood to trim the lights. The priest left the oil jar on the second step. Reading Numbers 8:3 to say, "he set up the lamps," the Sifre taught that Aaron made these steps.

A Baraita interpreted the expression "beaten work of gold" in Numbers 8:4 to require that if the craftsmen made the Menorah out of gold, then they had to beat it out of one single piece of gold. The Gemara then reasoned that Numbers 8:4 used the expression "beaten work" a second time to differentiate the requirements for crafting the Menorah from the requirements for crafting the trumpets in Numbers 10:2, which used the expression "beaten work" only once. The Gemara concluded that the verse required the craftsmen to beat the Menorah from a single piece of metal, but not so the trumpets.

A Midrash deduced from the use of the word "this" in Numbers 8:4 that the work of the Menorah was one of four things that God had to show Moses with God's finger because Moses was puzzled by them. Similarly, Rabbi Hiyya bar Abba said in the name of Rabbi Joḥanan that the angel Gabriel girded himself with a worker's apron and showed Moses the work of the Menorah, for Numbers 8:4 says, "And this was the work of the Menorah." (The word "this" implying that something was held up to illustrate the instructions given.)

A Midrash explained why the consecration of the Levites in Numbers 8:5–26 followed soon after the presentation of the twelve tribes' offerings in Numbers 7:10–88 The Midrash noted that while the twelve tribes presented offerings at the dedication of the altar, the tribe of Levi did not offer anything. The Levites thus complained that they had been held back from bringing an offering for the dedication of the altar. The Midrash compared this to the case of a king who held a feast and invited various craftsmen, but did not invite a friend of whom the king was quite fond. The friend was distressed, thinking that perhaps the king harbored some grievance against him. But when the feast was over, the king called the friend and told him that while the king had made a feast for all the citizens of the province, the king would make a special feast with the friend alone, because of his friendship. So it was with God, who accepted the offerings of the twelve tribes in Numbers 7:5, and then turned to the tribe of Levi, addressing Aaron in Numbers 8:2 and directing the consecration of the Levites in Numbers 8:6–19.