[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human Rights Act 2004

litical Rights: Freedom of expression

This title facilitates the right to express oneself irrespective of boarders, media, art, or action. Additionally, the individual's right to an opinion in the absence of intercession is outlined.

Part 3 – Civil and political Rights: Retrospective criminal laws

This section mandates that no individual can be found guilty of transgression, if such a transgression was not enshrined as an offence in law when undertaken. Additionally, harsher punishment cannot be appointed retrospectively. That is, criminal offences cannot exact punitive retribution greater than the damages that would be awarded at the time of the offence.

Part 3 – Children in the Criminal Process 

There are four pillars to children in the criminal process. Firstly, incriminated persons should be segregated from all implicated children. Secondly, the handling of the child must be congruent to a non-implicated child of the similar age. Thirdly, a trial must be produced in timely fashion. To concluded, should a child be convicted, the behaviour toward this child must be conducted analogously to a non-implicated child of similar age.

Part 3A – Economic, social and Culture Rights: Right to an education

The following section details the three core components of the right to education. Firstly, all children will have access to a suitable education based on the needs of the child for free. Secondly, vocational, continuing training, and further education are the right of all Australians. Thirdly, the previously described rights are subject to actualisation without discrimination and compliance with a parent or guardians religious and/or moral obligations, so long as, these convictions adhere to the minimal standards enacted by law.

Case Law

The Human Rights Act of 2004 has provided the basis for numerous judicial rulings within the Australian court system. The following section outlines courts cases where the Human Rights Act of 2004 influenced judicial rulings.

Imran Hakimi v Legal Aid Commission (A.C.T)Hakimi sought Romano's representation in a criminal defence matter. Hakimi did not possess the necessary resources required for his defence. As such, Hakimi applied for legal aid and it was granted, however, in place of monetary assistance, the Legal Aid Commission (A.C.T) approved the services of a lawyer. Mr. Hakimi found this disagreeable, he wanted to obtain the services of Mr. Romano. Consequently, Romano argued that the Human Rights Act of 2004 granted Hakimi the power to contract his services and the that Legal Aid Commission (A.C.T) was solely responsible for the remuneration of those services under the Human Right Act 2004 section 22.

Accordingly, the Legal Aid Commission (A.C.T) claimed, that Romano's interpretation of section 22 was not the intention of the provision and that there were reasonable limitations on this provision.

In conclusion, Justice Refshauge of the Supreme Court found that "common sense and international jurisprudence" dictated the Human Rights Act does not pronounce an unconditional right to be represented by a lawyer of the accused's choosing, citing R v Williams 2006. As a result, Mr Hakimi's application was unsuccessful.R v Kalachoff

Kalachoff was facing trail for the offence of "recklessly inflicting grievous bodily harm". For this trial, Kalachoff applied to the Legal Aid Commission (A.C.T) in order to acquire remuneration for the presiding counsel.

In response, the Legal Aid Office (A.C.T) refused to provide the required funding.  As such, Kalachoff's presiding counsel argued that under the Human Rights Act 2004, Kalachoff's right to a fair trial had been violated.

Justice Burns of the Supreme Court found this argument to be "misguided".  Justice Burns pointed out, that the Human Rights Act grants individual legal assistance before the law and should justice depend upon it, this assistance will be appointed at no cost.  In making these points Justice Burns explained, that these rights should not be conflated into a compelled "hybrid guarantee" of funding for a defendant's chosen legal defence. The Justice maintains, that such a position violates the Legal Aid Act 1977 (A.C.T). This resulted in the rejection of Kalachoff's appeal.

Dennis Michael Nova V The Queen (2012)

The case of Dennis Michael Nova v The Queen (2012) was heard in the Supreme Court by Justice Richard Refshauge who evaluated the halt in legal proceedings pertaining to Nova's charges being brought to trial. The decision of the court utilised common law and the Human Rights Act 2004 (ACT) to reach a verdict.