[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Serena Deeb

0, Serena was released from her WWE contract, reportedly for not "living out" her straight edge persona in public. Because SmackDown was pre-recorded, her release was not revealed immediately, which gave her one last appearance, airing on August 27 as a valet to Punk and Gallows in separate matches.

Return to Shimmer (2010–2011; 2013) 
On September 11, 2010, at the Volume 33 taping for Shimmer, Serena made a surprise return to the promotion, answering Kellie Skater's open challenge and defeating her in a singles match. She then had a verbal confrontation with former partner Portia Perez who accused her of selling out by going to WWE which led to a match at Volume 35 where Serena submitted to a crossface after the referee was distracted from seeing Serena reaching the ropes. She then rekindled her rivalry with Sara Del Rey, who made a speech criticizing her, leading to Serena main eventing Volume 36 in a Four-on-Four Tag Team Elimination match where Serena was eliminated second after Tomoka Nakagawa. In March 2011, Serena defeated Daizee Haze on Volume 37 and was victorious in a tag team match on Volume 38. Serena continued her rivalry with Portia Perez on Volume 39, defeating her via DQ. On Volume 40, Serena defeated Portia Perez, Cheerleader Melissa, and LuFisto in a four-corner survival match to earn a shot at the Shimmer Championship. She got her shot on Volume 41 in October but was defeated by Madison Eagles. Serena lost to Nicole Matthews on Volume 42 after interference from Portia Perez. Serena finished her rivalry with Portia on Volume 43 by defeating her in a no holds barred match.

After 18 months off due to injury, Serena made her return for Shimmer Women Athletes as part of WrestleCon on April 6, 2013. In her return match at the Volume 53 internet pay-per-view, Serena teamed with Allison Danger and Leva Bates to defeat The Midwest Militia (Jessicka Havok, Nevaeh and Sassy Stephie) in a six-woman tag team match, pinning Nevaeh for the win. Afterwards, Serena was attacked by Havok.

Independent circuit (2007–2015) 
Due to Shimmer's working relationship with Ring of Honor (ROH), Serena began to make occasional appearances for ROH in 2007 as part of February's Fifth Year Festival, she teamed up with MsChif in a losing effort to the Dangerous Angels (Danger and Del Rey). In the middle of the year she was similarly unsuccessful against Lacey at United We Stand and afterwards received a beating from her Age of The Fall partners Rain and Jimmy Jacobs until Haze saved her. She also came out on the losing end of a Shimmer guest match at 2008's Southern Hostility in a four corner survival match. She returned to ROH for their year-end internet pay-per-view Final Battle 2010 teaming with long-term rival Del Rey against Daizee Haze and Amazing Kong, winning the match after taking out Kong with a spear to let Del Rey pin Haze.

Serena appeared at Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's pay-per-view Slammiversary in June 2008, where she took part in Awesome Kong's $25,000 Fan Challenge in a three-minute squash match, as did fellow OVW and Shimmer wrestler Josie, who signed a contract with the company.

In November 2008 at a Pro Wrestling Syndicate show, Serena wrestled Daffney for the vacant NWA France Women's Championship, which she won. After winning the title, Serena travelled to France to defend the title under the International Catch Wrestling Alliance the following month. At Revolution V in Lille, she defended the title against three-time champion Bella Punk. Despite landing her Spear finisher, Punk's accomplice Gangrel turned the lights out in the arena from which Punk took advantage and pinned Serena after a spike DDT. Serena accompanied Joe E. Legend in the main event against Gangrel, which the latter won.

Serena found herself back in France during March 2009 for American Wrestling Rampage's nine-day tour of France. For most of the events, Serena wrestled fellow Shimmer wrestler Portia Perez, who was the only other woman on the tour. After two losses, Serena managed to pick up a victory but would only gain one more from their eight singles matches. On the final night, she teamed up with Scotty The Hotty to gain a third victory over Perez and Chris Masters in a tag team match.