[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 Samoan general election

aiali'i criticised the HRPP government for its focus on roads when exports had decreased, which he said had the potential to undermine the benefits of road development. The party campaigned on prioritising education and catering to the needs of citizens, particularly mental and physical development.

The Samoa Party (SP) was founded and led by former auditor-general Su'a Rimoni Ah Chong. He gained international attention as auditor-general after exposing widespread corruption within the HRPP government during the tenure of former prime minister Tofilau Eti Alesana. The party focused on government reform and anti-corruption and intended to establish free education, which Su'a said would fulfil compulsory education. The SP promised to combat corruption by implementing a two-term limit for the premiership and restoring the autonomy of watchdog institutions as part of a "good governance" agenda.

Opinion polling

Voting intention

Preferred prime minister

Conduct

In December 2005, Tuila'epa announced that the election would take place on 24 February 2006. However, Tuilaepa later delayed the election and changed the date several times before settling on 31 March 2006. SDUP leader Le Mamea Ropati criticised the government for the date modifications and questioned if they intended to have an election at all.

Prime minister Tuilaepa proposed in January 2006 the introduction of a residency requirement of at least three years to be eligible to vote, which only applied to candidates at the time. Le Mamea dismissed the proposal as a "ploy" to undermine Samoan voters in other countries, which he said primarily backed the SDUP. Tanuvasa Isitolo Lemisio, the electoral commissioner, later confirmed that the current law, which permitted citizens and dual citizens residing overseas to vote as long as they were registered, would remain intact.

Campaigning ceased at 6:30 pm on 30 March, and polling stations opened the following day at 9 am local time.

Results
The HRPP secured 33 seats, while the SDUP won ten and independent candidates won six. However, results in the Fa'asalele'aga 3 constituency produced a tie between the top two candidates, incumbent member Unasa Mesi Galo of the HRPP and the SDUP's Tofa Eteuati Si'itia, both with 356 votes each. Unasa prevailed following a subsequent recount.

Results by constituency
Source:

Aftermath

Three independents decided to join the HRPP upon their electoral triumph, increasing the ruling party's seat share to 36.

Following the HRPP's victory, prime minister Tuilaepa promised to focus on the "well-being of the people". He expressed, "We have very little natural resources, so the yeoman asset is so important to us. We will concentrate on improving the education of our people as well as [their] health." Tuilaepa and deputy prime minister Misa Telefoni Retzlaff, were comfortably re-elected as leader and deputy leader of the HRPP respectively by the party caucus.

The results took the opposition SDUP by surprise, as polling earlier in 2006 predicted a comfortable victory for the party. Opposition leader Le Mamea announced that the party would assess how to proceed; the number of seats the party won was similar to that before the dissolution of the 13th Parliament. Le Mamea stated, "several weeks before the election we were right up at the top of the polls. Even myself as the preferred prime minister and the party as the ruling party. People needed a change. That is what I meant when I said we were very surprised. We did not anticipate this result."

The leader of the Samoa Progressive Party, Toalepaiali'i, blamed the opposition parties' losses on bribery on the part of the HRPP and claimed that prime minister Tuilaepa was knowledgeable about the matter. Tuilaepa denied these assertions and attributed his party's landslide victory to economic growth, as well as an alleged flawless record of improving the standard of living. He also stated that the opposition parties "had themselves to blame" for failing to attain more seats and said that the SDUP's attack strategy did not bode well for voters. Tuilaepa encouraged them to hold party conferences to analyse errors made in the election.