[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Campeonato Brasileiro Série A

lling states of Brazil. The first champion was Villa Nova, from the town of Nova Lima, Minas Gerais. There wasn't, however, a system of promotion and relegation. The clubs were instead selected to participate in either division according to their performances at their respective state championships.

In the next few years, due the influence of the military regime, the number of clubs that participated in the competition steadily incresed. The inaugural edition, inspired in the European leagues, had 20 teams. The second edition in 1972 expanded to 26 clubs and the second division was also extinct and its clubs were now participating in an unified national championship. The 1973 edition had 40 clubs. By the 1979 edition, the number of clubs participating peaked, with a total of 92 teams. From 1975 onwards, the competition was offically named "Copa Brasil" (Brazil Cup).

Creation of the CBF, new reformulations and crises 

In 1980, the CBD was dissolved and on its place was created the Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF). This coincided with the 1980s financial crisis in Brazil, which together with the previous decade's oil crisis and the gradual end of the military dictatorship, led to major reorganization of Brazilian football. The Championship was downsized and a new format was introduced. The 1980 edition was named "Taça de Ouro" (Gold Cup). The second division was also reintroduced, now with the name "Taça de Prata" (Silver Cup). A mechanism of promotion also first appeared in this edition: the four best-ranked teams in the first phase of the "Taça Prata" would go on to compete in the second phase of the "Taça Ouro". The Taça de Bronze (Bronze Cup) was also created as a third division in 1981, with the inaugural champion being Olaria, a club from the neighbourhood of Olaria in the city of Rio de Janeiro. But citing financial issues, the CBF announced, shortly after the end of the first edition, that the tournament would be discontinued. The third division would later return in one-off editions in 1988, 1990, 1992 until it became regularly competed from 1994 onwards.

In 1987, CBF announced it was not financially able to organize the Brazilian football championship, a mere few weeks before it was scheduled to begin. As a result, the thirteen most popular football clubs in Brazil created an association, called Clube dos 13, to organize a championship of their own. This tournament was called Copa União and was run by the 16 clubs that eventually took part in it (Santa Cruz, Coritiba and Goiás were invited to join). CBF initially stood by the Club of the 13 decision. However, weeks later, with the competition already underway, and under pressure from football clubs excluded from the Copa União, CBF adopted a new set of rules, which considered the Copa União part of a larger tournament, comprising another 16 teams. According to that new set of rules, the Copa União would be dubbed the Green Module of the CBF championship, whereas the other 16 teams would play the Yellow Module. In the end, the first two teams of each Module would play each other to define the national champions and the two teams that would represent Brazil in the Copa Libertadores in 1988. However, that new set of rules was never recognized by the Club of the 13 and largely ignored by most of the Brazilian media, who concentrated their attention in the independent league, eventually won by Clube de Regatas do Flamengo. The eventual final tourney was set to have Sport and Guarani, from the yellow module, and Flamengo and Internacional from the green one. It never materialized, however, as Flamengo and Internacional refused to partake in it. As a result, Sport and Guarani played each other, with the first one winning the Championship for 1987 and both going on to represent Brazil in the 1988 Copa Libertadores. Although Flamengo has attempted to gain ownership of the championship multiple times through the justice system, Sport remains recognized by both CBF and FIFA as 1987 Champions. Part of the football fans in Brazil still consider Flamengo as the Brazilian Champion of 1987, or at least co-champions.

After the chaos caused by the 1987 edition, the CBF and Club of the 13 reached an agreement on how to organize the next year's edition of the Copa União. The 1988 Campeonato Brasileiro reduced the number of participants, to hold a more competitive championship with just 24 teams. Furthermore, for the first time, the competition had a true promotion and relegation system, as required by FIFA. The last four placed in the first division (Bangu, Santa Cruz, Criciúma and America) fell to the second division in 1989, being replaced by Inter de Limeira and Náutico, respectively champion and runner-up of the 1988 Special Division. The 1989 edition was the first to use the terminology "Série A", inspired by the Italian league system.