[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta leadership election

e polling station was placed in each of Alberta's 83 electoral divisions - larger rural districts had multiple polling stations.  In 1992, third-place candidate Rick Orman dropped out, leaving two candidates in the race:Klein and future Liberal leader Nancy Betkowski.  Klein then defeated Betkowski.

Compared to Canadian political parties in general, and especially governing parties, there were very few restrictions regarding membership and regarding eligibility to vote in a leadership election in Alberta's PC Party.  First, Alberta PC party rules did not forbid members from holding membership in rival parties.  Some other Alberta parties, notably the Liberals and New Democrats do forbid their members from being members of other parties although the Alberta Alliance removed a similar restriction, possibly in response to Ted Morton's PC leadership candidacy.  Second and perhaps more significantly, the Progressive Conservatives, as in 1992, allowed anyone who wished to vote in the leadership election to purchase a five-dollar membership right up to the polling day—memberships were even available for purchase at the polling stations.  This was very unusual in Canada—in fact no other major federal or provincial party is known to allow leadership voters to buy memberships on polling day.  Even those parties that do not employ delegated leadership conventions and allow the general membership to vote for the leader usually have a deadline for purchasing memberships of no later than seven days prior to the vote.

The timing of the potential second ballot coincided with the start of the federal Liberal Party's leadership election.

Declared candidates
In order to be a declared candidate, the candidate had to have their nomination papers filled out and returned to the party by October 16, 2006. Eight candidates were declared. Of the nine initial candidates, six were former members of the Alberta Cabinet. Three of the candidates were not current MLAs; however, Premier Klein announced he will resign as the MLA for Calgary Elbow when he resigns as Premier, thus the new leader will have a vacant seat to contest in a by-election should he need one.
In the order they filed their nomination papers, the candidates were:

Ed Stelmach
Ed Stelmach, the former Intergovernmental Affairs minister, announced his resignation from cabinet in accordance with Klein's directive. He was the first declared candidate. 
Website: 
Supporters in caucus: 13  Pearl Calahasen, Ray Danyluk, Iris Evans, Hector Goudreau, George Groeneveld, LeRoy Johnson, Phil Klein, Mel Knight, Fred Lindsay, Luke Ouellette, Lloyd Snelgrove, Ed Stelmach, Ivan Strang.
Additional supporters in caucus after first ballot: 6 Guy Boutilier, Carol Haley, David Hancock, Doug Horner, Lyle Oberg, Mark Norris.

Lyle Oberg
Lyle Oberg, the former Transportation minister, had said he intended to resign from Cabinet by the June 1 deadline.  However, as noted above Oberg was fired from Cabinet and suspended from Caucus on March 22, 2006.  He pursued the leadership despite these events, and was re-admitted to caucus on July 25.
Website: http://www.lyleoberg.com
Supporters in caucus: 3  Guy Boutilier, Hung Pham, Lyle Oberg.

Mark Norris
Mark Norris, a former MLA who became celebrated within the party when he defeated former Tory leadership candidate-turned-Liberal leader Nancy MacBeth in Edmonton McClung in 2001. However, Norris lost his seat in the 2004 election to Liberal candidate Mo Elsalhy.
Website: https://web.archive.org/web/20060613190856/http://marknorris.ca/
Supporters in caucus: 2  Carol Haley, Doug Horner.