[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Leonas Bistras

t his cabinet approved by the Seimas and Stulginskis dissolved the First Seimas on 12 March 1923. However, the Seimas did play a role in the history of interwar Lithuania, authorizing the Klaipėda Revolt that would see the Klaipėda Region become an autonomous part of Lithuania between 1923 and 1939.

Bistras was reelected to the Second Seimas in 1923. Between June 1923 and January 1925, he served as the minister of education in the successive cabinets headed by Galvanauskas and Antanas Tumėnas. As a minister, he took a hard line insisting on religious instruction in public schools, drawing criticism from political opponents. Between January and September 1925, Bistras again served as the speaker of the Seimas.

Prime Minister
In September 1925, the government of Vytautas Petrulis opened negotiations with Poland over the navigation of the Neman as required by the Klaipėda Convention. Successive Lithuanian governments bitterly contested the Polish possession of the Vilnius region and refused to open diplomatic relations. Although Petrulis' government saw negotiations as technical and not constituting a diplomatic recognition, the public and military discontent was widespread. An ultimatum from military offices forced Petrulis to resign and Bistras was appointed as the Prime Minister of the 12th cabinet on 25 September 1925. He also served as the minister of defense and, after the resignation of Mečislovas Reinys, as the minister of foreign affairs. His government was in power for less than a year, until the Seimas elections the following spring.

Bistras' cabinet withdrew from the negotiations with Poland. Feeling isolated in the international arena, Bistras started negotiations with the Soviet Union on the Soviet–Lithuanian Non-Aggression Pact that would eventually be signed by the government of Mykolas Sleževičius in 1926. Bistras later regretted this shift in political direction. Seeing the growing power of the Soviet Union and Germany in mid-1930s, he advocated for stronger ties with Latvia, Estonia and, above else, Poland, even if it meant accepting the Polish possession of Vilnius.

A major challenge for the Bistras' government was managing relations with the Holy See in the Vatican. While Christian Democrats were naturally aligned with the Church in their views on a number of matters, organization of the Catholic Church presented the Lithuanian government with a headache. Even after the declaration of independence in 1918, Catholic churches in Lithuania continued to be organized under ecclesiastical provinces based in foreign countries. The issue escalated in 1925, when the Holy See signed the Concordat of 1925 with Poland and assigned the contested Archdiocese of Vilnius to the Polish ecclesiastical province. While this did not confer a diplomatic recognition of the Polish possession of Vilnius, public opinion in Lithuania turned against Vatican and the Christian Democrats, who were perceived as their allies. Despite protests, Bistras accepted the establishment of the Lithuanian ecclesiastical province without Vilnius in 1926.

Bistras was elected to the Third Seimas in 1926, this time in Marijampolė, but Christian Democrats and their allies did not fare well in the elections. For the first time in six years, the party was in opposition to a left-leaning coalition that attempted to normalize the life in Lithuania by lifting the martial law and introducing far-reaching reforms. Christian Democrats proved to be an active opposition in the parliament, with multiple interpellations to the government, many of them co-authored or signed by Bistras. Christian Democrats voted against the treaty with the Soviet Union that was originally conceived under Bistras' government and criticized other government decisions, as support for the government waned, especially among the military officers and the clergy.

Coup d'état and Smetona's rule
In December 1926, military officers executed a coup d'état, removing Mykolas Sleževičius as the Prime Minister and Kazys Grinius as the President. Although Bistras and the Christian Democrats were not directly involved in the coup, they participated in implementing its outcome. Christian Democrats voted to elect Antanas Smetona as the President, thus giving him constitutional legitimacy, and initially joined the government, with Bistras appointed as the minister of education. Bistras, ever trying to reach a compromise, initially hoped that a new election would be called, allowing the Christian Democrats to return to power. As the prospect of new elections waned and the Third Seimas was dissolved, Bistras, together with the other Christian Democrats, resigned from the government, leaving Smetona's Nationalists Union of Lithuania as the sole governing party.