[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# USS McKean (DD-784)

isit Melbourne since the end of World War II.

1960s
In February 1964 the McKean was refitted at the Long Beach Naval Shipyard in California. This was the Fleet Rehabilitation and Modernization (commonly known as FRAM) conversion which, all told, modernized 80 of the original 98 Gearing class ships.

In July 1965 the McKean joined the Seventh Fleet in the Western Pacific. She did four months of operations beginning in August with the aircraft carrier  as part of the South China Sea Attack Carrier Strike Group. Regarding this tour off the Vietnam coast, Commanding officer J. E. Mitchell wrote in a 29 December 1965 letter to the state-side families of the McKean sailors: "...If you are interested in vital statistics, here are some. Figured through our arrival at Long Beach on 13 January, McKean will have steamed a total of 57,014 miles – more than twice the distance around the world at the Equator. The total hours underway – 3,502, represents almost five of the six months deployed. Our average steaming speed was about 17 knots, or approximately 20 miles per hour, during which the ship consumed 3,748,420 gallons of fuel oil. Over 1,000 rounds of five inch projectiles were fired, weighing approximately 25 tons..."

After this tour she returned to Long Beach and attended two fleet exercises, "Eager Angler" and Baseline II." For her work in these two exercises the McKean won "Best Gunnery Ship" while competing against other destroyers and cruisers.

In November 1966 the McKean returned to the Western Pacific for Search and Rescue operations at the Gulf of Tonkin off the north coast of Vietnam. During this operation the McKean set a record with 100 inflight helicopter refuelings over a single 30-day period. Until April, 1967, on this tour of duty the McKean worked on gun line deployments, firing over 4,000 rounds during ground support work in South Vietnam.

The McKean then traveled again to Australia and then on to New Zealand as part of ceremonies commemorating the Battle of the Coral Sea. She then returned to her home port of Long Beach, arriving on 8 June 1967. In the latter half of the year the McKean was overhauled at Mare Island in California.

In March 1968 the McKean returned to Long Beach and returned to the Western Pacific via stops in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii; Yokosuka, Japan; and Sasebo, the southernmost island of mainland Japan. From Sasebo, as part of Operation Formation Star, the McKean was sent to the coast of Korea to join United States naval pressure on the North Korean government to win the release the crew of the , which had been seized 23 January 1968. After this the McKean conducted patrols in the Sea of Japan, the South China Sea and Tonkin Gulf. During this time she also visited Hong Kong and Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

At the end of 1968 the McKean returned to Long Beach, only returning to the Western Pacific in 1970 after training cruises along the American West Coast. Back on tour, the ship visited Japan again, Bangkok, Guam, Hong Kong, and the Philippines. During this time she also returned to gunnery duty along Vietnam. In June 1970 she went back to Long Beach to take on more crew and to continue training and to take part in numerous U.S. Navy exercises.

1970s
In November 1971 the McKean accompanied the British carrier  to the Indian Ocean, and then joined the U.S. Seventh Fleet. In December, 1971 the McKean was sent to the Bay of Bengal as part of Task Force 74 to safeguard United States interests there while the Indo-Pakistani War was waged. After rejoining the fleet, the McKean saw port calls at Singapore, Hong Kong, New Guinea and again Australia and New Zealand. She returned to Long Beach in November 1971 via stops in American Samoa and Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.

In May 1972 the McKean joined the reserve naval forces operating between California and Hawaii. In the late 1970s her home port was in Seattle, Washington. In 1976, she appears in the background in the movie "Midway." The McKean was struck from the navy list on 30 September 1980.

1980s
The McKean was decommissioned in October 1981. In 1982 the ship was given to the country of Turkey to be cannibalized for spare parts. She was sunk by Harpoon missile in July 1987 and now lies at the bottom of Antalya Bay off the Mediterranean coast.

References
 
 Text is also based upon the "Welcome Aboard" pamphlet published by the U.S. Navy and distributed to visitors aboard the McKean in the late 1960s.

Citations

External links

 USS McKean Images, line diagram and history of the DD-784 Destroyer
 History, photos, reunion information
 

Gearing-class destroyers of the United States Navy
Ships built in Seattle
1945 ships
World War II destroyers of the United States
Cold War destroyers of the United States
Korean War destroyers of the United States
Vietnam War destroyers of the United States
Ships transferred from the United States Navy to the Turkish Navy
Ships sunk as targets
Shipwrecks in the Mediterranean Sea
Maritime incidents in 1987