[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lip reconstruction

s less complex.   The considerations include maintaining a non-distorted vermillion border, hiding incisions in the horizontal crease of the chin, and not distorting the commissure.

Vermilion only
A-T closure
Single or double advancement

Below the vermilion
Single or double advancement
A-T closure

Deep/full thickness lip reconstruction
Deeper and larger defects of the lip introduce greater reconstruction challenges, as they compromise the integrity of the orbicularis oris, its nerve and blood supply.  Accordingly, there is a shift in emphasis toward the functional outcome of the reconstruction, and less focus on the appearance of the lip.  All of the flaps described below can be used on the upper or lower lip.

Primary closure
Small defects of the upper and lower lip can be closed primarily.  For the upper lip, defects of up to 1/4 (25%) of the lip may be closed primarily.  For the lower lip, defects of up to 1/3 of the lip may be closed primarily.  This means the edges of the defect are simply sutured together in three layers:  oral mucosa, muscle, and skin.  This closure has the best outcome because it re-establishes continuity of the orbicularis oris, which allows for oral competence, maximal preservation of sensation of the lip, continuity of vermilion border, and adequate size of the opening.

Abbe lip switch
If the defect is between 1/3 and 2/3 the length of the lip it can be closed by an Abbe flap.  The flap was developed by the American plastic surgeon Robert Abbe.  It is based on a main artery of the orbicularis oris, the labial artery.  A portion of the uninvolved lip (either upper or lower) is rotated across the mouth and into the defect of the involved lip while maintaining the blood supply from the labial artery.  After 10–14 days, the blood supply of the flap has been established to the point where the artery can be divided.  The Abbe flap has an excellent cosmetic result when it is used to replace the entire philtrum of the upper lip.  The technique can also be used when the defect involves the commissure.  This is called an Abbe-Estlander flap.  This repair takes two surgeries and requires good planning to assure continuity of the vermilion border.

Gillies fan flap
This flap borrows tissue from the cheek and lip of the uninvolved side of lip with the defect.  It restores lip continuity in a one-stage procedure, but has some disadvantages, including an adverse effect on sensation, small size of mouth, and difficulty matching up the vermilion border of the central lip with the lateral lip.

Karapandzic flap
This flap borrows tissue from the sides of the defect, like the Gilles flap.   The difference is that it maintains the nerve and blood supply of the orbicularis oris.  The flap comes from both directions to meet in the middle of the defect.  This is a one-stage procedure that preserves sensation and oral competence.  The main problem with this reconstruction is that it can create a very small mouth opening.

Total lip reconstruction
Whole lip reconstructed is a challenge.  Tissue can be rotated in from the nasolabial or the cheek region bilaterally, but the results are limited by lack of sensation, small size, poor oral competency, and less than optimal appearance.

For Large  Postoperartive Lip  defects  deltopectoral  flap may be useful   :its tube pedicle flap to cover bare mandible. After 6 weeks lip reconstruction done

Complications of reconstruction
Poor cosmetic result
Lack of oral competence
Small size of mouth
Decreased sensation of lips or mouth
Recurrent disease

See also
 Plastic Surgery

References

External links
 Emedicine Lip Reconstruction article
 Lip reconstruction

Lip surgery