[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 49]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

e quantity of corn that grows in it, which is
naturally watered in the following extraordinary manner:--There is a
great river called the Nile, which flows through the whole extent of the
country; the river, at a particular time of the year, begins to overflow
its banks, and, as the whole country is flat, it very soon covers it all
with its waters. These waters remain in this situation several weeks,
before they have entirely drained off; and when that happens, they leave
the soil so rich that everything that is planted in it flourishes and
produces with the greatest abundance."

"Is not that the country, sir," said Harry, "where that cruel animal the
crocodile is found?" "Yes," answered Mr Barlow. "What is that, sir?"
said Tommy. "It is an animal," answered Mr Barlow, "that lives sometimes
upon the land, sometimes in the water. It comes originally from an egg,
which the old one lays and buries in the sand. The heat of the sun then
warms it during several days, and at last a young crocodile is hatched.
This animal is at first very small; it has a long body and four short
legs, which serve it both to walk with upon the land and to swim with in
the waters. It has, besides, a long tail, or rather the body is
extremely long, and gradually grows thinner till it ends in a point. Its
shape is exactly like that of a lizard; or, if you have never seen a
lizard, did you never observe a small animal, of some inches long, which
lives at the bottom of ditches and ponds?" "Yes, sir, I have," answered
Tommy, "and I once caught one with my hand, taking it for a fish; but
when I had it near me, I saw it had four little legs, so I threw it into
the water again for fear the animal should be hurt." "This animal,"
answered Mr Barlow, "may give you an exact idea of a young crocodile;
but as it grows older it gradually becomes bigger, till at last, as I
have been informed, it reaches the length of twenty or thirty feet."
"That is very large," said Tommy; "and does it do any harm?" "Yes," said
Mr Barlow, "it is a very voracious animal, and devours everything it can
seize. It frequently comes out of the water and lives upon the shore,
where it resembles a large log of wood; and if any animal unguardedly
comes near, it snaps at it on a sudden, and if it can catch the poor
creature, devours it." _T._--And does it never devour men? _Mr
B._--Sometimes, if it surprises them; but those who are accustomed to
meet with them frequently easily escape. They run round in a circle, or
turn short on a sudden, by which means the animal is left far behind;
because, although he can run tolerably fast in a straight line, the
great length of his body prevents him from turning with ease. _T._--This
must be a dreadful animal to meet with; is it possible for a man to
defend himself against it? _Mr B._--Everything is possible to those that
have courage and coolness; therefore many of the inhabitants of those
countries carry long spears in their hands, in order to defend
themselves from those animals. The crocodile opens his wide voracious
jaws in order to devour the man; but the man takes this opportunity and
thrusts the point of his spear into the creature's mouth, by which means
he is generally killed upon the spot. Nay, I have even heard that some
will carry their hardiness so far as to go into the water in order to
fight the crocodile there. They take a large splinter of wood about a
foot in length, strong in the middle, and sharpened at both ends; to
this they tie a long and tough cord. The man who intends to fight the
crocodile takes this piece of wood in his right hand, and goes into the
river, where he wades till one of these creatures perceives him. As soon
as that happens the animal comes up to him to seize him, extending his
wide and horrid jaws, which are armed with several rows of pointed
teeth; but the man, with the greatest intrepidity, waits for his enemy,
and the instant he approaches thrusts his hand, armed with the splinter
of wood, into his terrible mouth, which the creature closes directly,
and by these means forces the sharp points into each of his jaws, where
they stick fast. He is then incapable of doing hurt, and they pull him
to the shore by the cord. "Pray, sir," said Tommy, "is this dreadful
animal capable of being tamed?" "Yes," answered Mr Barlow; "I believe,
as I have before told you, there is no animal that may not be rendered
mild and inoffensive by good usage. There are several parts of Egypt
where tame crocodiles are kept; these animals, though of the largest
size, never do hurt to anything, but suffer every one to approach them,
and even little children to play about them and ride securely upon their
enormous backs."

This account diverted Tommy very much. He thanked Mr Barlow for giving
him this description of the crocodile, and said he should like to see
every animal in the world. "That," answered Mr Barlow, "would be
extremely difficult, as alm