[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Italian language in the United States

n Brooklyn, which (according to ItalianAware) cannot supply the large Italian/Italian American community in Brooklyn, New York. ItalianAware aims to donate 100 various books on the Italian/ Italian American experience, written in Italian or English, to the Brooklyn Public Library by the end of 2010.

Other Italo-Dalmatian languages spoken 
Early waves of Italian American immigrants typically did not speak Italian (which originated from the Tuscan language), or spoke it as a second language acquired in school. Instead they typically spoke other Italo-Dalmatian languages, particularly from Southern Italy, such as Sicilian and Neapolitan. Additionally many villages may have spoken other non Romance minority languages such as Greek or Albanian dialects. Today, the Italian language (Tuscan) is widely taught in Italian schools. Although many other minority languages have official status in Italy neither Sicilian nor Neapolitan are recognized by the Italian Republic. Although Italy is a signatory to the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, it has not ratified the treaty. This limits Italy's responsibility in the preservation of regional languages that it has not chosen to protect by domestic law.

Media
Although the Italian language in the United States is much less used today than it has been previously, there are still several Italian-only media outlets, among which are the St. Louis newspaper Il Pensiero and the New Jersey daily paper America Oggi and ICN Radio.

Il Progresso Italo Americano was edited by Carlo Barsotti (1850–1927).

Arba Sicula (Sicilian Dawn) is a semiannual publication of the society of the same name, dedicated to preserving the Sicilian language.  The magazine and a periodic newsletter offer prose, poetry and comment in Sicilian, with adjacent English translations.

See also

 Italian American internment
 Languages of the United States

References

Further reading
 
 1884 ed., 1921 ed.