[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Europatriotism

s. 'European teams' are rare, one example being the Ryder Cup, a Europe vs. United States golf tournament. There is a proposal to create a European Olympic Team. According to Eurobarometer surveys, only 5% of respondents think this would make them feel more of a 'European citizen'.

European symbols

The European continent does not have any universally recognised pan-European symbols, yet the European Union and the Council of Europe provides Europe as such with the basic symbols that most nation-states bear.
Such symbols are:
A flag, the European flag – a symbol for most of Europe, being sponsored by the Council of Europe (and subsequently adopted by the EU),
An anthem, Ode to Joy – as for the flag, this is a symbol for all Council of Europe members and also all EU member states,
A "national day", Europe day (9 May) – as for the flag and the anthem,
A single currency, the euro – the euro, if indeed it is a symbol of unity for all who use it as opposed to being adopted by practical or economic considerations, has been adopted by some countries outside of the EU, but not by all EU member states in the bloc, albeit those who have not adopted it are in the minority.

.EU domain name
The .eu domain name extension was introduced in 2005 as a new symbol of European Union identity on the World Wide Web. The .eu domain's introduction campaign specifically uses the tagline "Your European Identity" . Registrants must be located within the European Union.

A European Army and Police?
In nation-states the national armed forces serve both as a unifying factor in themselves, and as a focus of patriotism. This factor is absent in the EU: most member states are members of a military alliance, the NATO, which is not 'European' but Atlantic in character. The European Union Force was founded in 2003. The goal is to have a permanent 60,000 person rapid reaction force by 2008. However, because of concerns about national sovereignty, there is no pan-European army, no EU policy to create one, and no prospect of one in the immediate or medium-term future.

For similar reasons, the European criminal intelligence agency Europol (established July 1999) is not a European Police and is not intended to become one. Although it is sometimes described as the 'European FBI', it has no investigatory powers of its own, and works through national police forces. (The FBI investigates federal crimes in the United States, and since there is no 'European criminal law' there is no comparable investigatory role).

Pan-European Projects

In some cases identification with the EU might be promoted by pan-European projects. Nation-states did use infrastructural and scientific projects as a means of promoting national unity, notably the construction of national railway networks in the 19th century. There are some 'pan-European' projects, most limited to the EU, others involving other Council of Europe member states.

Trans-European Networks
The infrastructure projects of the Trans-European Networks (TEN) have the greatest similarity to the national infrastructure programmes of the 19th and 20th centuries. They are intended to improve European infrastructure.

European Space Agency

The European Space Agency's headquarters are in Paris, France. The ESA is not an EU agency, and not all EU member states are ESA members. ESA's spaceport is on EU territory, even though it is located at the South-American continent. Guiana Space Centre in Kourou, French Guiana was chosen as launch site because it is close to the equator from which commercially important orbits are easier to access. During the era of Ariane 4 ESA gained the position of market leader in commercial space launches.

European GPS: Galileo
The ESA has launched the first set of satellites required for the Galileo GPS network. This is mainly a political decision by the EU to reduce dependence on American military technology and can thus be seen as a political statement. The Galileo system is operated under civilian control, as opposed to GPS which is operated under American military control. It provides more precise navigation and coverage at higher altitudes.

Airbus and Eurofighter
Many argue that the success of Airbus has proved that European joint-projects can compete successfully with the United States, although there are still outstanding issues with the WTO over allegations of hidden and/or illegal subsidised financing of aircraft projects both for Airbus and Boeing. Although often described as 'European' in the sense of not being American, Airbus is not itself an EU project.

Like Airbus, Eurofighter is European in the sense of not being American: it has four European nations as co-sponsors, and other European nations are likely to purchase aircraft. France, Sweden and Russia all manufacture competitor aircraft.