[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Prairie College

pus: Prairie Elementary, Prairie Junior High, and Prairie High School. In 2004 these schools were amalgamated as Prairie Christian Academy (PCA) and began to operate independently from the Bible Institute. PCA now exists as one of Alberta's alternative schools under the local public school division.

Another outgrowth of the school was its own campus church, The Prairie Tabernacle Congregation. This fellowship met for more than fifty years in a cavernous auditorium seating 4,300. Remodeled and renamed in 1985, the Maxwell Memorial Tabernacle was Canada's largest religious auditorium. In 2005, the building was demolished so that a new multipurpose facility, The Maxwell Centre, could be built to house administrative offices and classrooms for Prairie College. As for Prairie Tabernacle Congregation, the fellowship initially moved its meeting place to the local Christian Academy and subsequently migrated to other facilities on the college campus. In January 2020, a new Prairie Tabernacle was officially opened for the congregation. This modern facility contains 17,000 square feet and is located on Highway 583 adjacent to the Prairie Christian Academy. It stands about 5 blocks east of the Prairie College campus.

Prairie was one of the first Bible training institutes in Western Canada. Alumni were influential in the promotion of evangelical churches, especially congregations of the Christian and Missionary Alliance and the Evangelical Free Church. These, along with other evangelical churches, employed graduates of Prairie and other rural Bible schools until they were able to establish their own denominational colleges and seminaries with campuses in urban and metropolitan areas of western Canada. Since its academic arrangements with Taylor Seminary were finalized in 2019 Prairie College has been endorsed as a partner school of the Alberta Baptist Association, a regional district of the North American Baptist Conference.

Prairie College now represents one of the most denominationally diversified theological faculties in the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities CCCU, with an Anglican priest, a graduate from Westminster Theological Seminary, a Wesleyan, an Anabaptist former pastor, and several nondenominational professors.

Programs

Today, on its Three Hills campus in Alberta, Prairie Bible Institute operates Prairie College, a post-secondary undergraduate ministry and vocational centre of higher education; further Prairie College maintains active academic arrangements with Bow Valley College of Calgary and Carey Theological College of Vancouver:

Prairie College offers resident, commuter and distance education ministry programs with major concentrations in Biblical Studies, Theology, Church Ministries or Intercultural Studies culminating in an A.A.R.S., B.Min., B.Th., B.A., and a concurrent B.A.-M.Div. degree program with Carey Theological College of Vancouver, British Columbia, so that all students in Prairie's four-year bachelor's degree programs have one year's access to and/or advanced standing in an accredited M.A. or M.Div. seminary degree program from Carey Theological College.    
As well, in each of the four-year bachelor's degree programs of Prairie College the students study the whole Biblical canon in seven courses (three New Testament segments and four Old Testament segments). 
Applied vocational programs of Prairie College include Aviation (based at Three Hills Airport) culminating in an Associate of Arts in Mission Aviation degree. Other Applied Arts and Technology programs are offered by Prairie College which lead to vocational diplomas or Associate of Arts degrees with incorporated provincially recognized diplomas in Digital Media, Emergency Medical Technology, Practical Nursing, Sports Management and other applied disciplines under consideration or development from partnering colleges, most notably Red Deer Polytechnic Institute and Olds College. Prairie College also confers a four-year Bachelor of Marketplace Ministry which is an interdisciplinary ministry and vocational program of studies.

The school teaches creation as represented in the Book of Genesis, including the view of Adam and Eve as historical figures.  In order to foster Christian development, most single first- and second-year students, as well as students in full-time flight training live in residence.

Athletics

The Prairie College Pilots are a member of both the Alberta Colleges Athletic Conference and Prairie Athletic Conference. The school currently competes in men's and women's basketball, futsal, and volleyball, as well as cross country running and indoor track.

Prairie is a former member of the Alberta Colleges Athletic League.

Notable alumni