[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Herbert Ihlefeld

h I. Gruppe in Jürgenfelde, present-day Judino in Kaliningrad Oblast, and II. Gruppe in Insterburg, present-day Chernyakhovsk in Russia, while III. Gruppe was sent to Schröttersburg, present-day Płock, located on the Vistula river approximately  northwest of Warsaw.

Flying the He 162 and end of war

As Geschwaderkommodore, Ihlefeld was ordered to Berlin on 22 January 1945 and attended the meeting with Reichsmarschall Hermann Göring which was later dubbed the Fighter Pilots' Mutiny. This was an attempt to reinstate Generalleutnant Adolf Galland as General der Jagdflieger who had been dismissed for outspokenness regarding the Oberkommando der Luftwaffe (Luftwaffe high command), and had been replaced by Oberst Gordon Gollob. The meeting was held at the Haus der Flieger in Berlin and was attended by a number of high-ranking fighter pilot leaders which included Ihlefeld, Günther Lützow, Hannes Trautloft, Hermann Graf, Gerhard Michalski, Helmut Bennemann, Kurt Bühligen and Erich Leie, and their antagonist Göring supported by his staff Bernd von Brauchitsch and Karl Koller. The fighter pilots, with Lützow taking the lead as spokesman, criticized Göring and made him personally responsible for the decisions taken which effectively had led to the lost air war over Europe.

Ihlefeld was promoted to Oberst (colonel) on 30 January 1945. On 7 February, I. Gruppe of JG 1 was withdrawn from combat operation and ordered to Parchim Airfield. There, I. Gruppe was equipped with the He 162 Volksjäger, a single-engine, jet-powered fighter aircraft, the first unit to receive this aircraft type. Originally the Luftwaffe had planed to create a new formed unit, Jagdgeschwader 80 (JG 80—80th Fighter Wing), staffed with pilots of the National Socialist Flyers Corps (NSFK—Nationalsozialistisches Fliegerkorps) and the Flieger-HJ, the flying members of the Hitler Youth. The deteriorating war situation, the loss of Fw 190 manufacturing locations, changed this plan and units previously equipped with Fw 190 were selected for conversion to the He 162. By mid April, the Geschwaderstab and I. Gruppe were based at Ludwigslust while II. Gruppe was stationed at Warnemünde and were equipped with the He 162 while III, Gruppe were at Lüneburg Airfield but had no aircraft to fly. He 162 A-2 (Werknummer 120230), Ihlefeld flew this aircraft during the war, is currently in possession of the National Air and Space Museum collection. At the time of the German surrender at Lüneburg Heath on 4 May, JG 1 was based at Leck Airfield. The first British soldiers began arriving at Leck the following day. On 6 May, the British began disarming the German soldiers at Leck, taking them as prisoner of war.

Later life
Following World War II, Ihlefeld did not rejoin the military service of the German Air Force, at the time referred to as the Bundesluftwaffe, of the Federal Republic of Germany. However, he did continue flying as civilian pilot. In 1984, Winston Ramsey, the editor of After the Battle magazine, contacted both Ihlefeld and Squire, who Ihlefeld had shot down on 26 February 1941, and arranged a meeting. Subsequently, Ihlefeld and Squire met at Calais. Ihlefeld died on 8 August 1995 in Wennigsen, Lower Saxony. His ashes were buried on the urn field near the chapel on the old cemetery in Kirchheim unter Teck, Baden-Württemberg.

Summary of career

Aerial victory claims

According to US historian David T. Zabecki, Ihlefeld was credited with 123 World War II aerial victories. Spick lists him with 130 aerial victories, including seven claims in Spain, claimed in over 1,000 combat missions. Mathews and Foreman, authors of Luftwaffe Aces — Biographies and Victory Claims, researched the German Federal Archives and found documentation for 122 aerial victory claims, plus five further unconfirmed claims. This number includes nine claims during the Spanish Civil War, 48 on the Western Front, including three four-engined bombers, and 65 on the Eastern Front.

Awards
 Spanish Medalla Militar
 Spanish Cross in Gold with Swords
 Wound Badge in Black
 Front Flying Clasp of the Luftwaffe in Gold with Pennant "1000"
 Combined Pilots-Observation Badge
 Iron Cross (1939)
 2nd Class (26 September 1939)
 1st Class (4 July 1940)
 Honor Goblet of the Luftwaffe (12 June 1941)
 German Cross in Gold on 9 April 1942 as Hauptmann in the I./Jagdgeschwader 77
 Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves and Swords
 Knight's Cross on 13 September 1940 as Oberleutnant and pilot in the I./Jagdgeschwader 77
 16th Oak Leaves on 27 June 1941 as Hauptmann and Gruppenkommandeur of the I./Jagdgeschwader 77
 9th Swords on 24 April 1942 as Hauptmann and Gruppenkommandeur of the I./Jagdgeschwader'' 77

Promotions

Notes

References

Citations

Bibliography