[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Moscow Music Peace Festival

The Moscow Music Peace Festival was a rock concert that took place in the USSR on 12 and 13 August 1989 at Central Lenin Stadium (now called Luzhniki Stadium) in Moscow. Occurring during the glasnost era, it marked the first time hard rock and heavy metal acts from abroad were granted permission to perform in the capital city. Over 100,000 people attended and it was broadcast live to 59 nations including MTV in the United States. The event promoted understanding between the Western Bloc and the Eastern Bloc during the Cold War and also raised money to help those addicted to drugs and alcohol. The concert featured six bands from abroad and three Russian bands. The concert ended with the various band members participating in jam session. An album and documentary were released.

It inspired the 1990 song "Wind of Change" by Scorpions, one of the bands that performed at the concert. The song became one of the best selling singles of all time.

Modeled as a "Russian Woodstock" the concert was a joint production by Russian musician Stas Namin and American music manager Doc McGhee.

Artists

Cinderella: Tom Keifer, Fred Coury, Jeff LaBar, Eric Brittingham
Gorky Park: Alexei Belov, Nikolai Noskov, Sasha Minkov, Jan Ianenkov, Sasha Lvov
Nuance: Nikolai Gorenko, Serg Titovets, Pavel Titovets, Andrei Shmigov
Brigada S: Garik Sukachov & the company
Scorpions: Klaus Meine, Matthias Jabs, Francis Buchholz, Herman Rarebell, Rudolf Schenker
Skid Row: Sebastian Bach, Dave Sabo, Rob Affuso, Rachel Bolan, Scotti Hill
Mötley Crüe: Vince Neil, Nikki Sixx, Tommy Lee, Mick Mars
Ozzy Osbourne: Ozzy Osbourne, Zakk Wylde, Randy Castillo, Geezer Butler, John Sinclair
Bon Jovi: Jon Bon Jovi, Richie Sambora, Alec John Such, Tico Torres, David Bryan
Special Guest (for finale): Jason Bonham

Setlist

Skid Row 
 "Holidays in the Sun" (Sex Pistols cover)
 "Makin' a Mess"
 "Piece of Me"
 "Big Guns"
 "18 and Life"
 "Youth Gone Wild"

Gorky Park 
 "Action"
 "Hit Me with the News"
 "Within Your Eyes"
 "Danger"
 "Try to Find Me"
 "Bang"
 "Child of the Wind"
 "My Generation" (The Who cover)

Cinderella 
 "Bad Seamstress Blues"
 "Somebody Save Me"
 "If You Don't Like It"
 "Push Push"
 "The Last Mile"
 "Coming Home"
 "Gypsy Road"
 "Nobody's Fool"
 "Shake Me"

Mötley Crüe 
 "All in the Name of..."
 "Live Wire"
 "Shout at the Devil"
 "Looks That Kill"
 "Wild Side"
 "Smokin' in the Boys Room" (Brownsville Station cover)
 "Girls, Girls, Girls"
 "Jailhouse Rock" (Elvis Presley cover)

Ozzy Osbourne 
 "I Don't Know"
 "Flying High Again"
 "Shot in the Dark"
 "Miracle Man"
 "Sweet Leaf" *
 "War Pigs" *
 "Tattooed Dancer"
 "Suicide Solution"
 "Crazy Train"
 "Paranoid" *
 = Black Sabbath songs

Scorpions 
 "Blackout"
 "Big City Nights"
 "Bad Boys Running Wild"
 "Rhythm of Love"
 "The Zoo"
 "No One Like You"
 "The Song of the Volga Boatmen" (Russian folk song)
 "Holiday"
 "Still Loving You"
 "Dynamite"
 "Rock You Like a Hurricane"

Bon Jovi 
 "Lay Your Hands on Me"
 "I'd Die for You"
 "Wild in the Streets"
 "You Give Love a Bad Name"
 "Let It Rock"
 "Living in Sin"
 "Blood on Blood"
 "Runaway"
 "Wanted Dead or Alive"
 "Livin’ on a Prayer"
 "Bad Medicine"

Jam session 
 "Hound Dog" (Elvis Presley cover) - Bon Jovi, Cinderella, Scorpions
 "Long Tall Sally"/"Blue Suede Shoes" - Scorpions, Gorky Park, David Bryan
 "Rock and Roll" (Led Zeppelin cover) - Skid Row, Mötley Crüe, Zakk Wylde, Jason Bonham
 "Give Peace a Chance" (Plastic Ono Band cover)

Album

Stairway to Heaven/Highway to Hell was a 1989 compilation album featuring bands that performed at the Moscow Music Peace Festival. It was released by the Make a Difference Foundation. Each song is a cover of a famous solo artist or rock band who had suffered a drug- or alcohol-related death.

Controversies

The concert was put together by the Make a Difference Foundation, its founder, rock producer and manager Doc McGhee, Stas Namin and other major players in the Soviet Union and the United States. It is often stated that McGhee agreed to bring his artists to Moscow after becoming involved in a drug scandal himself and wishing to avoid a jail sentence, but he explicitly denied that in 2011. "We always wanted to go over to Moscow and do the first rock show in the Soviet Union. I wanted to do their Woodstock." Since it had also been part of that plan that the proceeds would go to Make a Difference and doctors would be brought to the USSR to teach methods of treating addiction (Soviet doctors at the time primarily used electroshock therapy for that purpose), he did not expect the sentencing judge would have denied him the opportunity.