[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# National Museum of India

r Development of Smart Computing has also developed "Darshak", a mobile-based application aimed at improving the museum visit experience among the differently abled. It allows real-time museum visitors gather all details about objects or artefacts simply by scanning a QR code placed near the object.

National Museum collections on the Google Art Project 
National Museum has volunteered objects from its collection on the Google Art Project which is a non-commercial initiative of Google through the Google Cultural Institute. More than hundred objects have been photographed and their descriptions are available on the Google Art Project website under the name of National Museum, New Delhi, which has given a high reach to online visitors for the collection. The Google page of National Museum will be populated further by adding other pertinent collections from National Museum on it.

Controversy 
In 2010, in the first study of its kind, UNESCO presented a report which rated the National Museum along with other seven museums, as badly maintained, poorly lit and having incorrect signs. In a response by the then Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment and Tourism, Selja Kumari in a written reply to Parliament said that the ratings and findings of the report were invalid since the no. of surveyors was inadequate.

Future 
Although in its early stages, another project for which the site proposed for redevelopment constitutes the most iconic part of India's capital city, Central Vista Redevelopment Project, the National Museum is one of the buildings listed in the tender as some of these buildings approaching the end of their "structural lives" while those that are around a 100 years old, like North and South Blocks, are not "earthquake safe".

Exhibition: The Indo-Siam Connect 
An exhibition titled "Indo-Siam Connect: Tracing The Indian Heritage in Thai Art and Living Traditions", was organised by the Museum, in association with the Royal Thai Embassy, at the erstwhile Buddhist Gallery of the Museum, from 28th February to 31st May. It was organised to celebrate the 75th Anniversary of Diplomatic Relations between India and Thailand. The exhibition, presented transcultural notions reflected by the Indo-Siam connections as seen in the multifaceted aspects of religion, texts, visual art, architecture, textiles and performances, highlighted how both the countries share a glorious longstanding historical, cultural, and religious milieu since ancient times, which continue to flourish till the present day. 

This exhibition presented thematic variations by showcasing the chronological progression, and the diverse visual elements, which show the continuing and dynamic cultural and artistic relationships shared by the two countries. The connection between the two nations was traced through the idea of navigation, orientation and mobility of people, goods, and belief patterns, which facilitated in the processes of cultural transmission and localization of icons, texts and artistic activities. Consequently, it led to the formation of sanctified cities as a representation of powerful statecraft and kingship. These were based on the concepts of the unified cosmological symbolism, divine patronage and spiritualism, marked by the creation of prominent architectural edifices, including temples and stupas. This proliferation of cultural exchanges, evident in the quest for spiritual awakening and learning, led to the dissemination of symbols, rituals, yogic practices oral traditions and belief systems. This visual journey highlighted all these various strands through the wealth of the different varieties of exhibits on display. 

A special focus was on the Tai ethic groups residing in Northeast India, who are also are scattered through much of mainland Southeast Asia and parts of China, as their lifestyles and traditions help in tracing the contemporary dynamic paths of cultural exchanges in the modern times. Among the various ethnic groups inhabiting the expansive region of Assam, and Arunachal Pradesh, particularly, the Tai Ahom, Tai Phai, Tai Aiton, and the Tai Khampti tribes played a seminal role in the spread of Buddhism in Thailand via Burma and they show similarities in cultural and material life with the indigenous communities of Thailand. The exhibition also had a section devoted to the concept of celebration of life as seen in the oral and visual performances of these indigenous groups.