[Source: PubMed]

86. Front Psychiatry. 2020 Feb 25;11:20. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2020.00020.
eCollection  2020.

Long-Term Impact of War, Civil War, and Persecution in Civilian 
Populations-Conflict and Post-Traumatic Stress in African Communities.

Musisi S(1), Kinyanda E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, College of Health Sciences, Makerere University, 
Kampala, Uganda.
(2)College of Health Sciences, Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda.

This chapter describes how chronic conflict, warfare, and persecution, as lived 
experiences, have created significant mental distress in communities on the 
African continent. There is a growing body of research that highlights 
increasing mental distress in Africa e.g., about sexuality, health, disease, 
modernity, climate, politics, culture, religion, ethnicities, race, economies 
etc. Many of these stresses and uncertainties are driven by political 
persecution, war, and conflict. This has shaped many African people's attitudes 
and government policies and an increasing scholarly interest in exploring these 
"uncertainties and mental distresses in Africa." The chapter will show how 
trauma, as seen in conflict/post-conflict settings in Africa, causes significant 
mental stress and associated social problems as well as medically-defined PTSD 
syndromes, anxiety, and depression which cause much morbidity and retard 
development in many African communities. Taking a classical look at 
post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, the chapter explores the presentation of 
the various physical and mental clinical syndromes related to war-trauma on the 
African continent and the consequent health-seeking behaviors of the African 
peoples in this regard. The term "culture-bound PTSD syndromes" will be 
introduced and discussed in the broader context of treatment, rehabilitation, 
and prevention on the continent and worldwide. It will also discuss the dilemma 
of the vicious cycles of trauma driven by appetitive aggression in today's 
Africa which portends to further retard socio-economic development and drives 
the trans-generational perpetuation of ethnic-based conflicts including 
genocides. Despite this mass traumatization, the chapter points to the virtual 
absence of post-conflict mental health policies in almost all African countries, 
hence leading to discussions of "best-practices" recommendations.

Copyright © 2020 Musisi and Kinyanda.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2020.00020
PMCID: PMC7051938
PMID: 32158407