[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2004 United States Senate election in Illinois

The 2004 United States Senate election in Illinois was held on November 2, 2004. Incumbent Republican U.S. Senator Peter Fitzgerald decided to retire after one term. The Democratic and Republican primary elections were held in March, which included a total of 15 candidates who combined to spend a record total of over $60 million seeking the open seat.

On March 16, 2004, State Senator Barack Obama won the Democratic primary, and businessman Jack Ryan won the Republican primary. Three months later, Ryan announced his withdrawal from the race four days after the Chicago Tribune persuaded a California court to release records from Ryan's custody case, which included allegations that Ryan had pressured his then-wife actress Jeri Ryan to perform sexual acts in public.

Six weeks later, the Illinois Republican State Central Committee chose former Diplomat Alan Keyes to replace Ryan as the Republican candidate. Keyes had previously lost two races for the U.S. Senate in Maryland in 1988 and 1992, both by large margins. The election was the first in U.S. Senate history in which both major-party candidates were Black. According to Obama's 2020 memoir A Promised Land, he had promised his wife Michelle that if he lost the race, he would retire from politics.

Obama won the election with 70% of the vote and a margin of 43% over Keyes, the largest margin of victory for a U.S. Senate candidate in Illinois history and significantly larger than Democrat John Kerry's 10.3% margin in the concurrent presidential election. Obama carried 92 of the state's 102 counties, including several where Democrats had traditionally not done well. The inequality in the candidates spending for the fall elections – $14,244,768 by Obama and $2,545,325 by Keyes – is also among the largest in history in both absolute and relative terms. Obama served in the U.S. Senate for three years as he had resigned after he was elected president in 2008.

Election information
The primaries and general elections coincided with those for federal offices (president and House), as well as those for state offices.

Turnout

For the primary elections, turnout was 26.69%, with 1,904,800 votes cast. For the general election, turnout was 68.56%, with 5,141,520 votes cast.

Republican primary

Candidates 
 John L. Borling, Air Force veteran
 Norm Hill, Army veteran
 Chirinjeev Kathuria, businessman
 Andrew McKenna, businessman
 Jim Oberweis, businessman
 Steve Rauschenberger, State Senator
 Jack Ryan, businessman
 Jonathan C. Wright, former State Representative

Campaign 
In this campaign, Chirinjeev Kathuria became the first Indian-American and first person of the Sikh religion to run for a United States Senate seat.

GOP frontrunner Jack Ryan had divorced actress Jeri Ryan in 1999, and the records of the divorce were sealed at their mutual request. Five years later, when Ryan's Senate campaign began, the Chicago Tribune newspaper and WLS-TV, the local ABC affiliate, sought to have the records released.  On March 3, 2004, several of Ryan's GOP primary opponents urged Ryan to release the records.  Both Ryan and his wife agreed to make their divorce records public, but not make the child custody records public, claiming that the custody records could be harmful to their son if released.  Ryan went on to win the GOP primary on March 16, 2004 defeating his nearest competitor, Jim Oberweis, by twelve percentage points.

Ryan was a proponent of across-the-board tax cuts and tort reform, an effort to limit payout in medical malpractice lawsuits. He was also a proponent of school choice and supported vouchers for private school students.

Oberweis's 2004 campaign was notable for a television commercial where he flew in a helicopter over Chicago's Soldier Field, and claimed enough illegal immigrants came into America in a week (10,000 a day) to fill the stadium's 61,500 seats. Oberweis was also fined $21,000 by the Federal Election Commission for a commercial for his dairy that ran during his 2004 Senate campaign. The FEC ruled that the commercial wrongly benefited his campaign and constituted a corporate contribution, thus violating campaign law.

Results

Democratic primary

Candidates

Declared 
 Gery Chico, former President of the Chicago Board of Education
 Blair Hull, businessman
 Daniel Hynes, State Comptroller
 Barack Obama, State Senator and candidate for IL-01 in 2000
 Maria Pappas, Cook County Treasurer
 Nancy Skinner, radio personality
 Joyce Washington, health care executive
 Estella Johnson Hunt (write-in)

Withdrew 
 Matt O'Shea, Mayor of Metamora, Illinois. He withdrew December 1, 2003 due to poor polling numbers. He endorsed Gery Chico.

Source:

Campaign