[Source: PubMed]

20. Risk Manag Healthc Policy. 2020 Mar 18;13:191-203. doi: 10.2147/RMHP.S237256.
 eCollection 2020.

Understanding and Preventing Attacks on Health Facilities During Armed Conflict 
in Syria.

Omar A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Global Health, University College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Despite healthcare facilities being deemed untouchable in times of 
conflict, the war in Syria has seen its government as well as opposition forces, 
target their people and infrastructure as a strategy of war. Violations of 
medical neutrality and International Humanitarian Law has led to the loss of 
countless medical personnel, civilians and health care facilities; setting the 
country back to health levels last seen thirty years ago. It is evident through 
the strategy of the Syrian and Russian government that healthcare facilities are 
being deliberately targeted with humanitarian organisations condemning all 
parties involved for violating the Geneva Conventions. The report examines the 
impact of the conflict in Syria on its health facilities and looks at the 
reasons why these services are under attack and the international response to 
the conflict. The report concludes by looking into plans currently implemented 
to protect our healthcare infrastructure during times of war whilst comparing it 
to past strategies.
METHODS: A literature review was conducted for the study with information and 
data collected through several search engines including Google Scholar, PubMed, 
MEDLINE, OVID and searches through Google. The keywords mapped to find relevant 
literature includes "Syria", "healthcare", "health care worker", "humanitarian 
aid", and "volunteer", "International Humanitarian Law", "Geneva Convention". 
The majority of the data used was adapted from Physicians for Human Rights (PHR) 
and the World Health Organisation (WHO). Limitations included using sources 
written in English due to limited resources to translate literature in Arabic.
RESULTS: The conflict in Syria and deliberate targeting of healthcare facilities 
has left services decimated with an estimated 782 medical personnel killed 
during this time; doctors accounting for 32% of total deaths in the five years. 
Several facilities are also operating at 1% or less functionality.
CONCLUSION: The results and review highlight the need for protection of health 
facilities from humanitarian violations as health care continues to be targeted 
as a strategy of war. The number of attacks has steadily remained constant 
throughout the years and nothing seems to be done in bringing perpetrators to 
justice for violations of International Humanitarian Law. The paper calls for 
more public attention to shed light on the atrocities being committed and 
further inquiries like the preliminary carried out by The Lancet - American 
University of Beirut.

© 2020 Omar.

DOI: 10.2147/RMHP.S237256
PMCID: PMC7098166
PMID: 32256132

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that there are no competing 
interests.