[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public and International Affairs

ation, and training projects that focus on extreme events. Its goal  is to develop a coherent approach for research and analysis on policy issues related to disaster risk reduction and management that cross interorganizational, interdisciplinary, and interjurisdictional boundaries.

Special programs

 The Philanthropy Forum provides a university-based platform for national dialogue with thinkers and practitioners in the field of philanthropy and engages in research on the history and contemporary contributions of philanthropy to local, national, and global communities.
 The Roscoe Robinson Jr. Memorial Lecture Series promotes discussion and understanding of key issues related to diversity in public service. The series features annual lectures in honor of the late Roscoe Robinson Jr., the first African American U.S. Army four-star general who earned his degree at GSPIA in 1964.
The International Political Economy Colloquium  provides a forum for IPE scholars to present their works in progress.
The Symposium on Political Violence is a joint undertaking co-sponsored with the Department of Political Science, and the Ridgway Center. The Symposium provides a forum both for external scholars and for faculty and graduate students in GSPIA and the Department of Political Science at Pitt to present their research on political violence.

GSPIA student organizations
GSPIA Student Cabinet
Purposeful Penny - a student charity organization benefiting Bright Kids Uganda and Urban Impact
NABU - represents the interests of the PhD student community
AGORA - Professional & Academic Development
EU and the World
Pitt Political Review (GSPIA issue)
International Student Initiative - bridges the gap between international and domestic students at GSPIA with social and professional events.
RIGHT HERE: A Forum for Volunteer Activities
GSPIA Public Speaking Group
Out in Policy - GSPIA student society for LGBT rights

References

External links
Graduate School of Public & International Affairs (GSPIA)
Ford Institute for Human Security
Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security
University Center for International Studies
Global Studies Program
Asian Studies Center
Center for Latin American Studies
Center for Russian & Eastern European Studies
European Studies Center

University of Pittsburgh
Public administration schools in the United States
Schools of international relations in the United States
Public policy schools
Universities and colleges in Pittsburgh
1957 establishments in Pennsylvania