[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Renen Schorr

Renen Schorr (Hebrew: רנן שור; born Jerusalem, Israel, July 6th 1952) is a film director, screenwriter, film producer and Israeli film activist. In 1989, he founded Israel's first independent, national school for film and television, the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School – Jerusalem, and has served as its director since that time. During the last 40 years he founded or co-founded the infrastructure of Israeli film funds and cinematheques. In December 2016 he was awarded the Chevalier des arts et lettres by the French government.

Accomplishments 
In 1978, Schorr founded the Israel Film Fund together with Judd Ne'eman and Yeud Levanon. The Fund revolutionized the industry by shifting public support from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to the Ministry of Education and Culture, an act that recognized the cultural value of a film over its mere commercial worth. In addition, the Fund gave unprecedented power to the director over the producer.

Schorr was the co-director of the Beit Zvi Film School from 1982 to 1985, and in July 1989, was chosen to found a new film school in Jerusalem, now the Jerusalem Sam Spiegel Film and Television School. He remains its director to this day.

Schorr saw to it that Israeli film schools, Steve Tisch School of Film and Television at Tel Aviv University and the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School, became members of GEECT, the European Union of film schools. In 2000, he was chosen by 70 of his fellow school directors to serve as president of CILECT/GEECT. During his four-year term, he initiated and organized numerous conferences about European cinema, aiming to define and characterize European cinema as opposed to American films, and to advance the standing of the entrepreneurial producer. Schorr worked with the European Film Academy under the presidency of German director Wim Wenders and championed the inclusion of Israel as a member of the Academy.

In 1992, Schorr devised the creation of another fund, the New Fund for Film and Television, which spearheaded a revolution in independent documentary filmmaking in Israel. The establishment of such a fund resulted in the flourishing of the documentary, which had previously been an underserved and underdeveloped product of public television.

In 2001, Renen Schorr initiated and edited the prize-winning dramatic series Voices from the Heartland for Israeli commercial TV. The enterprise served as an incubator for select young talents, graduates of various Israeli film schools. At a point where opportunities to work in the creative dramatic field were few and far between, Schorr created a supportive platform for these individuals to create their first dramatic efforts, paving the way for their entrance to the foreground of Israeli television and cinema. Voices From the Heartland went on to win six prizes in the Jerusalem Film Festival, 2001 and 2002. Two of the films from the series, James' Journey to Jerusalem, directed by Ra'anan Alexandrowicz, and Slaves of the Lord by Hadar Friedlich were screened at Cannes Director's Fortnight 2001.

In 2008, Schorr led the formation of Israel's first municipal film fund, the Jerusalem Film and Television Fund. Among the 60 films and television shows that the Fund has supported are A Tale of Love and Darkness by Natalie Portman, “The Policeman” by Nadav Lapid and “Dig” by Gideon Raff. Renen Schorr serves as chairperson of the board of directors at the Fund.

In 2008, he set up the Herzeliya Cinematheque and the Holon Cinematheque. This was part of his vision to expand the audience for both Israeli and independent films as an alternative to commercial chains.

Schorr has served as a juror for numerous international competitions and festivals including Berlinale (2011), the Sarajevo Film Festival (2016), DocAviv (2009) and the Israel Prize (2004). He has conducted masterclasses about the methodology of the Sam Spiegel Film School at various film schools such as Sarajevo, Istanbul, Berlin, New York and San Jose, Costa Rica.

The Jerusalem Sam Spiegel Film School 
The school works on a triangular model and offers three tracks: the Full Track – Training students in directing, screenwriting, cinematography, editing and production. In 1999, the school began a two-year track for screenwriters, with the aim of creating a model for cooperation between screenwriters and directors, and with a specialization in writing for television. In 2004, the school inaugurated a four-year track for entrepreneur producers, the first of its kind in Israel.