[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Working Group on Arbitrary Detention

unresolved cases. Having a record of resolved cases could help the Group to keep track of the status of detainees and any correlation between the action of the Working Group. Information and statistics drawn from this can be publicised, and help to increase outreach.

Development of draft principles

In 2012, the Human Rights Council requested the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention to develop draft basic principles. These were to provide guidelines on remedies and procedures for anyone deprived of his or her liberty by arrest or detention to bring proceedings before court, in order that the court may decide without delay on the lawfulness of his or her detention and order his or her release if the detention is not lawful. The intention behind these were to assist states in fulfilling their obligation to avoid arbitrary deprivation of liberty. States, treaty bodies, human rights institutions and non-governmental organisations were invited to submit details on the treatment of the right to bring such proceedings before a court, in their respective legal frameworks. The text was adopted in April 2015.

Notable cases

Julian Assange
On 5 February 2016, the group released a report stating that Assange had been subject to arbitrary detention by the UK and Swedish Governments since 7 December 2010, including his time in prison in Britain and Sweden, on conditional bail, and in the Ecuadorian embassy. According to the report, Assange should be allowed to walk free and be given compensation.

The UK and Swedish governments rejected the report. Then-UK Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Philip Hammond, said the claim was "ridiculous" and that the group was "made up of lay people", and called Assange a "fugitive from justice" who "can come out any time he chooses". UK and Swedish prosecutors called the group's claims irrelevant. The UK said it would arrest Assange should he leave the Ecuadorian embassy. Mark Ellis, executive director of the International Bar Association, stated that the finding is "not binding on British law". United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein has claimed that the finding is based on international law.

On 13 February 2018, the Westminster Magistrates’ Court, while considering whether the arrest warrant issued against Assange should be upheld, rejected the findings of the Working Group, stating in part that "The group appears to have based its conclusions on some misunderstandings of what occurred after Mr Assange’s arrest." Senior District Judge (Chief Magistrate) Emma Arbuthnot did not find that Mr Assange's stay in the Embassy was "inappropriate, unjust, unpredictable, unreasonable, unnecessary or disproportionate."

Steven R. Donziger 
In September 2021, shortly after Donziger was sentenced in a New York for petty contempt of court, the group determined that Donzinger's arrest was arbitrary and a violation of international law and called for his release. In reviewing the case, WGAD found a “staggering display of lack of objectivity and impartiality” on the part of the judges involved, particularly Federal District Court Judges Lewis A. Kaplan and Loretta Preska. The report stated that his sentencing was done in retaliation for Donziger’s work as a legal representative of indigenous communities in Ecuador. The group called on the US government to conduct a thorough investigation of the circumstances of Donziger’s prosecution and imprisonment and to “take appropriate measures against those responsible for the violation of his rights.”

Donziger’s lawyer, Martin Garbus, stated that he would be using the group's report to demand Donziger’s release from house arrest.

References

External links
 

Working groups
Human rights
Imprisonment and detention
Organizations established by the United Nations