[Source: PubMed]

32. Lancet Planet Health. 2025 Aug;9(8):101293. doi:
10.1016/j.lanplh.2025.101293.  Epub 2025 Aug 20.

Climate-smart public health for global health resilience.

Golden CD(1), Childs ML(2), Mudele OE(3), Andriamizarasoa FA(4), Bouley TA(5), 
De Nicola G(3), Fontaine MA(6), Huybers PJ(7), Mahatante PT(8), Rabemananjara 
R(4), Rakotoarison N(9), Ramambason HR(10), Ramihantaniarivo H(11), Randriamady 
HJ(12), Randriatsara H(13), Ravelomanantsoa MA(14), Razafinimanana AKS(4), 
Rigden AJ(15), Shumake-Guillemot J(16), Yasmine LL(13), Dominici F(17).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, 
USA; Department of Environmental Health, Harvard TH Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA, USA; Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment, 
Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA; Madagascar Health and 
Environmental Research (MAHERY), Maroantsetra, Madagascar. Electronic address: 
golden@hsph.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Nutrition, Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, 
USA; Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Department of Nutrition, Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(4)Direction des Études et de la Planification et du Système d'Information 
(DEPSI), Ministry of Public Health, Antananarivo, Madagascar.
(5)Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, 
USA.
(6)Ministry of the Environment and Sustainable Development, Antananarivo, 
Madagascar.
(7)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 
USA.
(8)Ministry of Fisheries and the Blue Economy, Antananarivo, Madagascar.
(9)Service de Santé et Environnement, Ministry of Public Health, Antananarivo, 
Madagascar.
(10)Climate and Health Unit, Department of Health Promotion, Ministry of Public 
Health, Antananarivo, Madagascar.
(11)Association Zahana, Antananarivo, Madagascar.
(12)Department of Nutrition, Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA; Madagascar Health and Environmental Research (MAHERY), Maroantsetra, 
Madagascar.
(13)Ministry of Public Health, Antananarivo, Madagascar.
(14)Malagasy Institute of Veterinary Vaccines (IMVAVET), Antananarivo, 
Madagascar.
(15)Department of Earth System Science, University of California, Irvine, CA, 
USA.
(16)Joint Office for Climate and Health, WHO and World Meteorological 
Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(17)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.

Climate change poses urgent public health risks from rising global temperatures 
and extreme weather events, including heatwaves, droughts, and floods, which 
disproportionately affect vulnerable populations. To address the current silos 
embedded in climate, environmental, and public health monitoring and 
surveillance systems, climate-smart public health (CSPH) creates an integrated 
platform for action across these sectors, enabling more rapid and efficient 
responses to climate-related public health challenges. In this Personal View, we 
introduce the concept of CSPH, a data-driven framework designed to monitor, 
assess, and adapt to climate-related health impacts. CSPH incorporates 
surveillance, risk assessment, early warning systems, and resilient health-care 
infrastructure to address the evolving challenges of climate change. The 
framework adopts an iterative, community-centred model that responds to local 
needs and incorporates feedback from health-care providers and policy makers. 
CSPH also leverages data science and artificial intelligence to address a wide 
range of health concerns, including infectious diseases, non-communicable 
diseases, nutrition, and mental health. We applied this framework in Madagascar, 
a region highly vulnerable to climate impacts, where poverty, malnutrition, and 
frequent extreme weather events make climate adaptation particularly urgent. 
Early data analysis has shown strong climate sensitivity in important diseases 
such as malaria and diarrhoea, which could enable preparedness efforts to target 
some regions more efficiently. CSPH provides a pathway to enhance resilience in 
such settings by improving the capacity of public health systems to withstand 
and respond to climate-related stressors.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lanplh.2025.101293
PMCID: PMC12412889
PMID: 40848733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.