[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1958 in poetry

Nationality words link to articles with information on the nation's poetry or literature (for instance, Irish or France).

Events
 April 18 — American poet Ezra Pound's indictment for treason is dismissed. He is released from St. Elizabeths Hospital, an insane asylum in Maryland, after spending 12 years there (starting in 1946) and returns to Italy.
 June 29 — A monument to Vladimir Mayakovsky is unveiled in the centre of Moscow and becomes a focus for informal poetry readings.
 Brazilian manifesto for concrete poetry, which focuses on visual and other sensory qualities.
 Writers Workshop, a Calcutta, India-based literary publisher, is founded this year by the poet P. Lal with several other writers.

Works published in English
Listed by nation where the work was first published and again by the poet's native land, if different; substantially revised works listed separately:

 Donald Hall et al., editors, New Poets of England and America
 David Cecil and Allen Tate, Modern Verse in English (anthology)

Canada
 Earle Birney, Selected Poems
 Louis Dudek:
 Laughing Stalks
 En Mexico
 John Glassco, The Deficit Made Flesh
 Ralph Gustafson, The Penguin Book of Canadian Verse
 Irving Layton, A Laughter in the Mind.
 E. J. Pratt, The Collected Poems of E. J. Pratt. Toronto: Macmillan. (introduction by Northrop Frye)
 James Reaney, A Suit of Nettles. Governor General's Award 1958.
 F. R. Scott and A.J.M. Smith, The Blasted Pine, a satirical miscellany
 A. J. M. Smith and F. R. Scott, editors, The Oxford Book of Canadian Verse (see also the edition of 1966)
 Raymond Souster, Crepe-Hanger's Carnival: Selected Poems 1955-58 Toronto: Contact Press.
 Miriam Waddington, The Season's Lovers

Criticism, scholarship and biography in Canada
 L.M. Lande, Old Lamps Aglow
 R.E. Rashley, Poetry in Canada

Ireland
 Thomas Kinsella, Another September, Dublin, Dolmen Press
 Patrick MacDonogh, One Landscape Still
 Donagh MacDonagh and Lennox Robinson editors, The Oxford Book of Irish Verse, XVIIth century-XXth century (anthology)

India, in English
 Sarojini Naidu, The Sceptred Flute—Songs of India ( Poetry in English ), Allahabad: Kitabistan, published posthumously (died 1949)
 Dilip Kumar Roy, The Immortals of the Bhagvat ( Poetry in English ),

United Kingdom
 A. Alvarez, The End of It
 John Betjeman, Collected Poems, London: John Murray; Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1959
 Michael Hamburger, The Dual Site, London: Routledge and Kegan Paul
 John Heath-Stubbs, Helen in Egypt, and Other Plays
 Elizabeth Jennings, A Sense of the World
 George Rostrevor Hamilton, Collected Poems
 John Heath-Stubbs, The Triumph of the Muse
 Elizabeth Jennings, A Sense of the World, London: André Deutsch
 Thomas Kinsella, Another September Irish poet published in the United Kingdom
 Dom Moraes, A Beginning, his first book of poems (winner of the Hawthornden Prize), Indian at this time living in the United Kingdom
 James Reeves, The Talking Skull
 Michael Roberts, Collected Poems
 Alan Ross, To Whom It May Concern
 John Silkin, The Two Freedoms
 Sir Osbert Sitwell, On the Continent (see also England Reclaimed 1927 and Wrack at Tidesend 1952)
 John Smith, Excursus in Autumn, including "Two Men Meet, Each Believing the Other to be of a Higher Rank"
 A.S.J. Tessimond, Selection
 R.S. Thomas, Poetry for Supper
 C.A. Trypanis, a book of poetry
 David Wright, Monologue of a Deaf Man, London: André Deutsch
 Andrew Young, Out of the World and Back: into Hades, & A Travller in Time: two poems