[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# JTG

restling 10th Anniversary Show on October 27, 2007. Wrestling as Crime Time, they defeated The Dirty Rotten Scoundrelz. Paul appeared in Derby City Wrestling (DCW) at their end of year show. He was then involved in a feud with The Mobile Homers in DCW.

Return to WWE

Cryme Tyme reunion (2008–2010) 

Cryme Tyme returned to WWE on the March 31, 2008 episode of Raw, where they defeated Lance Cade and Trevor Murdoch in their first televised match in nearly six months. Cryme Tyme began working with John Cena on the June 30 episode of Raw when they helped him interfere during John "Bradshaw" Layfield's match. The following week, they again appeared together in a backstage segment when they vandalised JBL's limo. After a house show match, Cena announced they had created a faction called CTC, "Cryme Tyme Cenation". Separately, Cryme Tyme started a feud with then World Tag Team Champions Ted DiBiase and Cody Rhodes, stealing their championship belts for a time, then losing a title match to them at Unforgiven. JTG entered early into the Royal Rumble match at the 2009 Royal Rumble pay-per-view in January, after cheating to get a spot instead of Shad. JTG lasted nearly 12 minutes before he was eliminated by The Undertaker. On the January 26 episode of Raw, JTG and Shad attempted to win the World Tag Team Championship from John Morrison and the Miz, but were unsuccessful.

On April 15, 2009, Cryme Tyme were drafted to the SmackDown brand as part of the 2009 supplemental draft. They earned a Unified WWE Tag Team Championship match against Jeri-Show (Chris Jericho and Big Show) for SummerSlam after defeating The Hart Dynasty on the July 31 episode of SmackDown. On the August 7 episode of SmackDown, JTG pinned Jericho in a major upset, however at SummerSlam they lost the match after Show hit JTG in the face and Jericho pinned him. At the Royal Rumble, JTG entered his second royal rumble match but only lasted 25 seconds getting eliminated by CM Punk. At WrestleMania XXVI, Cryme Tyme competed in the dark match battle royal, but neither won the match.

On the April 2, 2010 episode of SmackDown, Cryme Tyme was quickly defeated by John Morrison and R-Truth. The loss of the match prompted Gaspard to attack JTG, breaking up the team. Their feud culminated with a strap match at Extreme Rules which JTG won. After JTG won against Caylen Croft, Gaspard immediately attacked him unsuccessfully. Shad won a rematch on the May 6 episode of Superstars, but their feud came to an end when Gaspard was sent to Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW).

Singles competition (2010–2014) 

Also after the split up of Cryme Tyme in 2010 JTG went on to compete in singles and in tag team action strictly on the SmackDown roster wrestling against talent such as Mike Knox, Chavo Guerrero, Jack Swagger, CM Punk, Vance Archer, and even teaming with other talent such as MVP, Chris Masters, and Trent Barreta in tag team action and in six man tag team action since the team split up.

JTG was announced to be one of the Pros for NXT Redemption, mentoring Jacob Novak. On the May 3, 2011 episode of NXT, he started his feud with William Regal when Regal called him a "muppet" while Novak was calling Regal out to a match, turning him heel. Two weeks later, Novak was eliminated, being the first to no longer be part of the show. In the 2011 WWE draft, JTG was drafted to the Raw brand in the supplemental draft via WWE.com on April 26, 2011.

On the May 24 episode of NXT, JTG had a feud with Vladimir Kozlov's rookie Conor O'Brian after he was pinned by O'Brian in a singles match. Afterwards JTG attacked O'Brian until Kozlov made a save and attacked JTG. He wrestled on the May 26 episode of Superstars as a face in a losing effort against Curt Hawkins. He officially cemented his status as a heel on the June 7 episode of NXT Redemption when he attacked Yoshi Tatsu on JTG's in ring segment "Straight Outta Brooklyn". As he was going backstage, Matt Striker came out and announced JTG would face Tatsu in a match, which JTG lost. On the July 19 and August 2 episodes of NXT Redemption, Kozlov started a feud with JTG beating him two times in a row with Kozlov also dressed like JTG in the second match. The feud ended when Kozlov was released by WWE on August 5, 2011. JTG scored his first win in months on the August 5 episode of SmackDown teaming with David Otunga and Michael McGillicutty to defeat The Usos and Trent Barreta. JTG gained a girlfriend and manager in Tamina in November 2011, leading to a feud with The Usos, whom Tamina had formerly managed; JTG continually found himself losing to The Usos.