[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Allosauroidea

{{Automatic taxobox
| name = Allosauroids
| fossil_range = Middle Jurassic–Late Cretaceous,  (Possible Late Toarcian and Late Maastrichtian records)
| image = Allosaurus skull SDNHM.jpg
| image_caption = Allosaurus fragilis skull, San Diego Natural History Museum
| taxon = Allosauroidea
| authority = Marsh, 1878
| type_species = Allosaurus fragilis
| type_species_authority = Marsh, 1877
| subdivision_ranks = Subgroups
| subdivision = *Asfaltovenator
Xuanhanosaurus
Erectopus
Unquillosaurus?
Scipionyx?
Metriacanthosauridae
Piatnitzkysauridae?Allosauria 
Allosauridae
CarcharodontosauriaDatanglong?LusovenatorSiamraptorUlughbegsaurus?
Carcharodontosauridae
Neovenatoridae
Megaraptora?
}}

Allosauroidea is a superfamily or clade of theropod dinosaurs which contains four families — the Metriacanthosauridae, Allosauridae, Carcharodontosauridae, and Neovenatoridae. Allosauroids, alongside the family Megalosauroidea, were among the apex predators that were active during the Middle Jurassic to Late Cretaceous periods. The most famous and best understood allosauroid is the North American genus Allosaurus.

The oldest-known allosauroid, Shidaisaurus jinae, appeared in the early Middle Jurassic about 174 million years ago (Earliest Aalenian stage) of China. The last known definitive surviving members of the group died out around 89 million years ago in Asia (Shaochilong) and South America (Mapusaurus), though the megaraptorans, which survived until the end of Maastrichtian, may belong to the group as well. A frontal assigned to an allosauroid found to be most closely related to Sinraptor has also been found in the Coniacian (89-86.3 Ma) of Argentina, however this has been reinterpreted to belong to a megaraptoran, which may or may not be allosauroids. Additional, but highly fragmentary, remains were suggested to belong to carcharodontosaurids are known from the Late Maastrichtian (70-66 Ma ago) in Brazil, but were later interpreted as those of abelisaurids. Furthermore, an indeterminate toe bone from the Campanian of New Zealand has also been noted to share features with allosauroids, but until more material of this taxon is unearthed, its taxonomy is uncertain. The enigmatic Unquillosaurus from the Campanian or Maastrichtian Los Blanquitos Formation in Argentina has been found to likely be a carcharodontosaurid by Carrano et al. (2012).

Allosauroids had long, narrow skulls, large orbits, three-fingered hands, and usually had "horns" or ornamental crests on their heads. Although allosauroids vary in size, the group maintains a similar center of mass and hip position on their bodies. Allosauroids also exhibit reptilian-style immune systems, secreting fibrin at injured sites to prevent infections from spreading through the bloodstream. This characteristic has been observed by examining injuries and infections on allosauroid bones. It is possible that allosauroids were social animals, as many remains of allosauroids have been found in close proximity to each other. Allosauroids were likely active predators, and from studying endocasts, probably best responded to odors and loud low-frequency noises.

 Description 

Allosauroids share certain distinctive features, one of which is a triangular-shaped pubic boot. Allosauroids have 3 fingers per hand, with the second and third digit being approximately equal in length. The femur is larger than the tibia. Another defining feature of allosauroids is that the chevron bases on their tails have anterior and posterior bone growth. The body of allosauroids can reach up to 10 meters in length; the length of the body from the tail to the hip is between 54% and 62% of the total body length, and the length of the body from the head to the hip is between 38% and 46% of the total body length. Allosauroids scaled their limbs relative to their body in a way similar to how other large theropods, like the tyrannosaurids, did. During the Cretaceous, some allosauroids grew to sizes similar to those of the largest tyrannosaurids. These large allosauroids lived in the same time period as the other large theropods found in the upper Morrison and Tendaguru formations.

Allosauroids maintained a similar center of mass across all sizes, which is found to be between 37% and 58% of the femoral length anterior to the hip. Other similarities across all allosauroids include the structure of their hind limb and pelvis. The pelvis in particular is thought to be designed to reduce stress regardless of body size. In particular, the way the femur is inclined reduces the bending and torsion stress. Furthermore, like other animals with tails, allosauroids possess a caudofemoralis longus (CFL) muscle that allowed them to flex theirs. Larger allosauroids are found to have a lower CFL muscle-to-body-mass proportion that smaller allosauroids.