[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Bratton

urt House in April 1865 and was paroled on April 9.

Postbellum career
In the years following the war, Bratton concentrated on farming cotton and raising imported livestock. He entered politics during Reconstruction as a supporter of the conservative Democratic regime dominated by Gen. Wade Hampton.

Bratton served as member of the State constitutional convention in 1865. He represented Fairfield in the South Carolina Senate in 1866. He served as chairman of the South Carolina delegation in the 1876 Democratic National Convention. He served as delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1880. Bratton was elected comptroller general of South Carolina by the legislature, to fill a vacancy, in 1881. Bratton was elected to the Forty-eighth Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the death of John H. Evins and served from December 8, 1884, to March 3, 1885. He was not a candidate for renomination in 1884.

He retired from active politics and again engaged in planting at "Farmington" near Winnsboro. He died in Winnsboro, South Carolina. He was interred in St. John's Episcopal Church Cemetery.

Honors
The General John Bratton Camp #1816 of the Sons of Confederate Veterans was named in his honor.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

Notes

References
 Austin, J. Luke, General John Bratton: Sumter to Appomattox, in Letters to His Wife, New York: Proctor's Hall Press, 2003, .
 Coker, James L. "History of Company G, Ninth S.C. Regiment Infantry, S. C. Army and of Company E. Sixth S.C. Regiment Infantry, S.C. Army, Charleston SC: Walker, Evans & Cogswell, 1899.
 Eicher, John H., and Eicher, David J., Civil War High Commands, Stanford University Press, 2001, .
 Hewitt, Lawrence L., "John Bratton", The Confederate General, Vol. 1, Davis, William C., and Julie Hoffman (eds.), National Historical Society, 1991, .
 Meyers, Christopher C., "John Bratton", Encyclopedia of the American Civil War: A Political, Social, and Military History, Heidler, David S., and Heidler, Jeanne T., eds., W. W. Norton & Company, 2000, .
 U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, U.S. Government Printing Office, 1880–1901.
 Warner, Ezra J., Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders, Louisiana State University Press, 1959, .
 Welsh, Jack D., Medical Histories of Confederate Generals, Kent State University Press, 1999, .
 Retrieved on 2008-02-13

External links
 204 North Zion Street - Wynn Dee Plantation in Winnsboro, S.C.
John Bratton Letters at Stuart A. Rose Manuscript, Archives, and Rare Book Library 

1831 births
1898 deaths
19th-century American politicians
American Civil War prisoners of war held by the United States
American planters
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from South Carolina
People of South Carolina in the American Civil War
People from Winnsboro, South Carolina
Democratic Party South Carolina state senators
Bratton
Members of the United States House of Representatives who owned slaves