[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of University of Cincinnati people

ment
Al Hirt, trumpeter and bandleader
Ronald Howes, inventor of Easy-Bake Oven
Sarah Hutchings, composer
Bruce Edwards Ivins, microbiologist; key suspect in 2001 anthrax terror attacks, leaving five people dead
Ali Jarbawi, Palestinian politician and academic
James Kaiser, electrical engineer who developed Kaiser window for digital signal processing, winner of IEEE Jack S. Kilby Signal Processing Medal
Jerry Kathman, President and CEO of LPK
Charles Keating, criminal (Keating Five scandal); virulent anti-pornography activist
Robert Kistner, gynecologist
Bradley M. Kuhn, M.S. 2001, software freedom activist
James Michael Lafferty, division CEO in Procter and Gamble, Coca-Cola, and British American Tobacco; current CEO of Fine Hygienic Holding. Olympic Track and Field Coach. 
Sean Lahman, historian and sports writer
Kenesaw Mountain Landis, federal judge and first Commissioner of Major League Baseball
William Lawrence, Congressman, first vice president of American Red Cross
Christopher W. Lentz, U.S. Air Force Brigadier General
Liang Sili, academician of Chinese Academy of Sciences
Emil W. Leipziger, rabbi
Abraham Lubin, hazzan
Charlie Luken, law graduate, politician and former Mayor of Cincinnati
 Judah Leon Magnes, rabbi, Chancellor/President of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem 1925-1948
Michael Malatin, entrepreneur in field of hospital valet parking
Beverly Malone, nurse and president of American Nurses Association
Steven L. Mandel, anesthesiologist
Jack Manning, actor, stage director, acting teacher
Marco Marsan, author
Kevin McCollum, graduate, Tony-winning Broadway producer (Rent, Avenue Q, The Drowsy Chaperone)
Guy McElroy (M.A. 1972), art historian and curator
Martin A. Meyer, rabbi
Gregory Mixon, (Ph.D. 1989), American historian
Julian Morgenstern, rabbi, Hebrew Union College professor and president
Lena Beatrice Morton, literary scholar
Pamela Myers, musical theater graduate, Tony-nominated stage and screen actor
Morris Newfield, rabbi
Sandra Novack, author
Michele Pawk, musical theater graduate, Tony-winning Broadway actress (Hollywood Arms, Cabaret)
Archimedes Plutonium, (B.A. as Ludwig Hansen, 1972), notable Usenet personality
Paul Polman, CEO of Unilever
Jennie Porter, first black person to receive a Ph.D. from the University of Cincinnati and became the first black female public school principal in Cincinnati
James B. Preston, neurophysiologist
Faith Prince, musical theater graduate, Tony-winning Broadway actress (Guys and Dolls)
Lee Roy Reams, musical theater graduate, Tony-nominated actor, dancer
Michael E. Reynolds, champion of the "earthship" sustainable construction movement
Dennis L. Riley (born 1945), politician in New Jersey General Assembly, represented 4th Legislative District 1980-90
Diana Maria Riva, drama graduate, screen actor
Anne Mason Roberts (1910-1971), HUD official in the 1960s
Michael Robinson, activist for civil right and human rights
Mitch Rowland - Grammy award-winning songwriter & lead guitarist in Harry Styles' band
Jerry Rubin, activist
Nipsey Russell, actor, comedian, game show panelist, Tin Man in film version of The Wiz
Rajiv Satyal, comedian, host and speaker; named the university's radio-station-turned-media group "BearCast"
Linda Schele, art and education major, expert on Mayan inscriptions and hieroglyphics
Robert P. Schumaker, creator of AZFinText, a news-aware high-frequency stock prediction system
Jean Schmidt, Congresswoman from Ohio, 2005–13
Teddi Siddall, drama graduate, screen actor 
Abram Simon, rabbi 
Yvette Simpson, law graduate, 2011-2017 Cincinnati City Councilwoman
George Speri Sperti, inventor 
Joseph B. Strauss, engineering graduate, designed Golden Gate Bridge
Thomas Szasz, psychiatrist and author of The Myth of Mental Illness
Bob Taft, law graduate, 1999-2007 Governor of Ohio
William Howard Taft, law graduate, 27th President of the United States, Supreme Court Chief Justice
Christian Tetzlaff, professional violinist
Paul Tibbets, pilot of B-29 plane that dropped atom bomb over Hiroshima
Dwight Tillery, politician, former Mayor of Cincinnati
Tom Tsuchiya, sculptor, most notable for the bronze plaques for the National Baseball Hall of Fame
Tom Uttech, painter 
Anne Valente, novelist and short-story writer
David Bell, author
Rodney Van Johnson, education graduate, actor (soap opera Passions)
Sigismund von Braun, German diplomat, older brother of Wernher von Braun
David J. Williams, Director of Architecture, musician
Clarence A. Winder, civic leader, Mayor of Pasadena, California in 1950s
Chris Wanstrath, co-founder and former CEO of GitHub
Louis Wolsey, rabbi
George Zepin, rabbi
Martin Zielonka, rabbi
Dylan Mulvaney, actress and social media personality

Athletics