[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United Kingdom and the United Nations

permanent members of the Security Council—the U.S., the U.K., France, the Soviet Union and the Republic of China—and by a majority of the other 46 signatories. Gladwyn Jebb served as Acting Secretary-General from 24 October 1945 to 2 February 1946 until the election of the first Secretary-General. 

The first meetings of the United Nations General Assembly and the Security Council took place in London beginning in January 1946. The General Assembly met in Westminster Central Hall, and the Security Council met at Church House, Westminster. 

The United Kingdom also worked closely with the United States to establish the IMF, World Bank and NATO.

Veto power in the UN Security Council

The United Kingdom has used its Security Council veto power on 32 occasions. The first occurrence was in October 1956 when the United Kingdom and France vetoed a letter from the US to the president of the Security Council concerning Palestine. The most recent was in December 1989 when the United Kingdom, France and the United States vetoed a draft resolution condemning the United States invasion of Panama.

Along with France, the United Kingdom used its power to veto a draft resolution aimed at resolving the Suez Canal crisis in 1956. The UK and France eventually withdrew after the US instigated an 'emergency special session' of the General Assembly, under the terms of the "Uniting for Peace" resolution, which led to the establishment of the United Nations Emergency Force I (UNEF I), by the adoption of Assembly resolution 1001. The UK also used its veto seven times in relation to Rhodesia from 1963 to 1973, five of these occasions were unilateral which are the only occasions on which the UK has used its veto power unilaterally.

Modernisation and reform

The United Kingdom has stated its support for modernisation of the United Nations and reform the Security Council. According to a formal statement made jointly by the United Kingdom and France in 2008:
Reform of the UNSC, both its enlargement and the improvement of its working methods, must therefore succeed. We reaffirm the support of our two countries for the candidacies of Germany, Brazil, India and Japan for permanent membership, as well as for permanent representation for Africa on the Council. ...
We will work with all our partners to define the parameters of such a reform.
UNSC reform requires a political commitment from the member states at the highest level. We will work in this direction in the coming months with a view to achieving effective reform.

Military operations and peacekeeping

Under the United Nations Command, the United Kingdom participated in the Korean War from 1950 to 1953. 

In more recent times, the UK contributed to a number of United Nations peacekeeping missions. In the 1990s, British Armed Forces were part of the United Nations Protection Force from 1992 to 1995, which intervened in the Bosnian War. United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 authorised the NATO-led Kosovo Force beginning in 1999 in which the UK played a leading role at the outset. The British military intervention in the Sierra Leone Civil War in 2000 supported the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone. Acting under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973 in 2011, the UK and other NATO countries intervened in the Libyan Civil War.

As the fifth largest provider of financial contributions to United Nations peacekeeping, the UK provided 6.7 percent of the budget in 2013–15. In September 2015, the UK was contributing 286 troops and five police officers to United Nations peacekeeping missions. In November 1990, it was contributing 769.

The Strategic Defence and Security Review 2015 included a commitment to double the number of UK military personnel contributed to UN peacekeeping operations as well as increasing the number of UK law enforcement and civilian experts on UN peace operations and
in UN headquarters.

See also

 European Union and the United Nations
 Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations
 United Nations Association – UK

References

External links
 UK Mission to the United Nations New York, Geneva, Vienna
 United Nations Association - UK
 UK's world role BBC