[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Frank R. Gooding

Frank Robert Gooding (September 16, 1859June 24, 1928) was a Republican United States Senator and the seventh governor of Idaho. The city of Gooding and Gooding County, both in southern Idaho, are named for him.

Life and career
Born in the county of Devon, England, Gooding emigrated to the United States as a child with his family in 1867. The family settled on a farm in Michigan near Paw Paw. He attended the common schools there, and moved to Mount Shasta, California, in 1877, and engaged in farming and mining. Gooding moved to the Idaho Territory in 1881 and was one of the largest sheep owners in Idaho. He settled in Ketchum (adjacent to Sun Valley since 1936), where he worked as a mail carrier and subsequently engaged in the firewood and charcoal business. In 1888, he moved south and settled near present-day Gooding.

After Idaho became a state in 1890, Gooding emerged as a leader of the conservative faction of the Idaho Republican Party. Gooding was a powerful figure in Idaho in the early 20th century, as the city and county of Gooding were both named for him during his lifetime.

Gooding was named chairman of the Idaho Lincoln County Republicans in 1896. Gooding was state chairman of the Idaho Republican Party from 1900-1904. He was elected to the Idaho Legislature in 1898, and elected Governor of Idaho in 1904, before he became a U.S. citizen.

Gooding had a reputation for having an off-putting and abrasive personality, and often clashed with others in the Republican Party, notably progressive Senator William Borah.

Governor
From 1905 to 1909, Gooding served two 2-year terms as Governor of Idaho. During his administration the Idaho State Capitol building in Boise was constructed.

The Steunenberg assassination
Gooding came to national attention during the trial phase of the conspiracy prosecution of three leaders of the Western Federation of Miners (WFM), charged with the assassination of former Idaho Governor Frank Steunenberg. In 1899, Steunenberg had crushed a rebellion of miners during a labor dispute in Coeur d'Alene. Nearly five years out of office, Steunenberg was murdered by a bomb outside his Caldwell home in December 1905, and Harry Orchard was arrested for the crime.

Idaho's Chief Justice Stockslager drafted a telegram which invited the Pinkerton Agency to investigate. Governor Gooding was persuaded to approve the request, and Pinkerton agent James McParland soon arrived to lead the investigation. McParland announced his suspicion that Orchard was "the tool of others."

McParland's first order was to have Orchard transferred from the relatively comfortable Caldwell jail to death row in the Boise penitentiary, before any trial had occurred. The move was initially resisted by Judge Smith, who would be responsible for trying the case. The local judge anticipated a successful habeas corpus lawsuit against the tactic. McParland gave him "thirty precedents for the move." However, the sheriff in Caldwell also opposed the move.

Governor Gooding arranged a meeting between McParland and Chief Justice Stockslager, and then with Judge Smith. Before Smith arrived, McParland declared the county jail insecure, a potential target for dynamite. He also stated the purpose of the move to death row: "After three days I will attempt to get a confession." Chief Justice Stockslager approved of the move. In a pre-arranged plan, the Governor was called out of the room as soon as Judge Smith arrived, leaving McParland and the two judges alone. With the Chief Justice supporting the move to death row, Judge Smith also agreed.

McParland later threatened Orchard with immediate hanging, and said that he could avoid that fate only if he testified against leaders of the WFM. Orchard confessed, and was transferred from death row to a private bungalow in the prison yard. Governor Gooding stopped by to shake his hand and congratulate him on cooperating.

McParland then had WFM leaders Bill Haywood, Charles Moyer, and George Pettibone arrested in Colorado, using extradition papers which falsely claimed that the three men had been present at Steunenberg's murder.

The investigation and trial were financed with "deficiency certificates." In his book Big Trouble, J. Anthony Lukas recorded that with the use of these certificates,

In effect, the bank acted as a mere conduit for the passage of money from the mining industry to the state for use in the Haywood prosecution.

Thousands of dollars were also provided directly from the mine owners to the prosecuting attorneys in the case. Thus, mine owners were deliberately financing the state's prosecution of leaders of the union which had been organizing their mines. Upon hearing of this circumstance, President Theodore Roosevelt issued a particularly stern rebuke to Governor Gooding, describing such a state of affairs as the "grossest impropriety." President Roosevelt wrote: