[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aalavandhan

path due to his Jayanthi's cruel antics. His mother gives him the mission of killing Jayanthi, granting him a military knife. Nandu stabs Jayanthi with the knife, but before dying, she vows that she will return. Nandu stays with Jayanthi's corpse in the house before being incarcerated at the asylum.

In the present, Vijay learns from his old friend Tenoosh Kooth that Nandu has reached Ooty. Vijay reaches on time to save Teju from Nandu, who entered their hotel room and leaves with her. Nandu, after getting a serpent styled tattoo all over his body which resembles the bond between the brothers by Tenoosh Kooth, decides to exact revenge on Teju. He chases the couple wreaking havoc across the road. After a while, they escape from the clutches of Nandu, Vijay manages to push Nandu's car into an abyss and assumes he is dead. However, Nandu escapes and continues his trail. Vijay plans to leave the city and notices Nandu coming to the hotel secretly.

Vijay and his commandos try to nab him, but he takes on everyone and kills many. Finally, the brothers have a fight where Nandu overpowers Vijay. He corners Teju, who starts whacking him with a belt in self-defense, reminding Nandu of Jayanthi's manner of punishing him. Vijay reaches by then, and there is another fight between the brothers. Nandu visualises his mother asking him to join her as Jayanthi is torturing her up there. He realises his mistake and apologises to Vijay for chasing Teju. To kill Jayanthi, he lights up some gas cylinders which explodes and kills Nandu.

Some months later, Teju is revealed to be pregnant with twins. She fears they will have the same traumatic childhood Vijay and Nandu had, but Vijay comforts her by telling her that they shall provide good parental care and such thing will not happen.

Cast

Tamil version

 Kamal Haasan in dual role as:
 Major Vijay Kumar (Protagonist)
 Nanda Kumar (Nandu) (Antagonist)
 Raveena Tandon as Tejaswini 'Teju', News reporter for Star News channel; Vijay's wife
 Manisha Koirala as Sharmilee, the socialite and Nandu's girlfriend who gets killed by him
 Madhurai G.S.Mani as the Psychiatrist doctor
 Milind Gunaji as Colonel Santhosh Kumar, Nandu's and Vijay's father; Priya's widower; Jayanthi's late husband. (voice dubbed by Nassar)
 Sarath Babu as Tejaswini's father
 Fathima Babu as Tejaswini's mother
 Anu Haasan as Priya Kumar, Nandu's and Vijay's late mother, Santosh's late wife (cameo appearance)
 Kitu Gidwani as Jayanthi Kumar, Nandu's and Vijay's cruel stepmother, Santhosh's second wife
 Riyaz Khan as Sulthan
 Vikram Gokhale as Nandu's and Vijay's maternal uncle Ranganath
Poovilangu Mohan as Nandu's and Vijay's headmaster
 Yashpal Sharma as the Kashmiri militant
 Major Ravi as Menon, Vijay's buddy in Black cat
 Vikram Dharma as a Drug peddler
 Nissar Khan as Sonu, Vijay's buddy in Black cat
 Raji Iyer as Malathi, Teju's coworker in Star News channel
 Krishna Bhatt as Tenoosh Kooth, a mentally unstable Kota tribesman
 Mirchi Shiva in "Siri Siri" song (uncredited role)

Hindi version
All characters mentioned above in the Tamil version are the same in the Hindi version except Nandu's name, the doctor's character, and Tejaswini's parent's characters have been played by different actors.
 Kamal Haasan in dual role as:
 Abhay Kumar (Antagonist) 
 Major Vijay Kumar (Protagonist)
 Naveen Nischol as Ravinder, Tejaswini's father
 Smita Jaykar as Geeta, Tejaswini's mother
 Vallabh Vyas as  Srinivasa Rao, Psychiatrist doctor

Production 

In the early 1980s, Kamal Haasan wrote a story titled Dhayam for the journal, "Idhayam Pesugiradhu". He had discussed making the story into a film with K. Balachander during the period, but felt that the story was ahead of its time. In 2000, he picked up the story again and agreed to make the film with director Suresh Krissna, a former assistant of Balachander, and producer S. Thanu. When Thanu had agreed to produce a film for Haasan, he had initially rejected the storylines of Pammal K. Sambandam and Nala Damayanthi. This prompted the pair to begin work on Dhayam instead, and the film was revealed to be called Aalavandhan in Tamil and Abhay in Hindi. Abhay was distributed by reputed Shringar Films. Mahesh Mahadevan was signed on to compose the background music, Tirru was selected to be the cinematographer and Sameer Chanda was picked to be the art director. Actor Jayam Ravi also worked on the film as an assistant director.

The film was first announced with Haasan and Simran  and Bollywood actress Rani Mukerji in a special appearance. Both actresses left the project for its delay in start, being replaced by Raveena Tandon and Manisha Koirala. Producer Dhanu had initially tried to cast Aishwarya Rai in the film, but the actress did not sign the project.