[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charlie Summers

ur awards), U.S. Army Combat Action Badge, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal and various other service awards.

Maine Secretary of State
On December 1, 2010, Summers was elected Maine's Secretary of State by the state legislature in Augusta.  His two-year term began on January 6, 2011.

On June 26, 2012, Summers faced criticism from the Maine Democratic Party over a shortage of voter registration cards for candidates to distribute.  A spokesperson for the Party claimed it was another example of Summers attempting to make it harder to vote, along with his support of a failed effort to eliminate same-day voter registration in Maine the prior year, as well as his investigation of college students for alleged voter fraud.  Summers noted that potential voters can print a card from the Internet at any time, and that updated registration cards will be available in a few weeks.

2012 U.S. Senate election

In 2012, Summers announced that he would be a candidate for the United States Senate to succeed incumbent Olympia Snowe, who decided to retire.  On June 12, Summers won a multi-candidate primary with 30% of the vote and faced former Independent Governor Angus King, and Democratic State Senator Cynthia Dill in the general election. Despite the support of Senator Snowe and the other Senator from Maine Susan Collins, Summers lost the election to King.

The Maine People's Alliance called on Summers to resign his position as Secretary of State of Maine, stating that it was a conflict of interest for the Secretary of State to oversee their own election to another office.  They also had concerns over past actions in sending letters to college students about voter registration requirements.  A spokesperson for Summers stated that he had turned over all election oversight to a deputy Secretary of State.  No Secretary of State or Maine Attorney General who was seeking higher office in the last 30 years has resigned. Summers has stated that his critics "want me to resign and I'm not going to do it."

Personal life

Summers married his wife Ruth (Rayburn) in 2002. He has three children.

References

External links

Charlie Summers for Senate official campaign website
 
 
Campaign contributions at OpenSecrets.org
"Recalled to active duty, ex-business agency chief eyes Congress," Boston Globe – June 18, 2007
"Maine Republican Enters House Race — Then Reports for Iraq Duty," New York Times – July 6, 2007
"The Virtue of Valor:  The Virtues of Charlie Summers' Absentee Campaign," Kennebec Journal – August 2007

|-

1959 births
United States Navy personnel of the Iraq War
United States Navy personnel of the War in Afghanistan (2001–2021)
Living people
Republican Party Maine state senators
People from Scarborough, Maine
People from Kewanee, Illinois
Secretaries of State of Maine
Small Business Administration personnel
Trump administration personnel
United States Navy captains
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign alumni