[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Anatolia College in Merzifon

The Anatolia College in Merzifon or American College of Mersovan () was a 4-year college, high school, theological seminary, orphanage and hospital located in the town of Merzifon in the Sivas Vilayet of the Ottoman Empire (in modern-day Amasya Province, Turkey).  Classes were offered to both male and female students.  Established by American missionaries, the college existed from 1886 to 1924.  The college was essentially destroyed by the Armenian genocide in 1915.  Closed until 1919, it was subsequently relocated to Thessaloniki, Greece, and still operates as Anatolia College.

Theological seminary
The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions established the school in 1864 as a theological seminary after the American college in Bebek, İstanbul, the later Robert College, abandoned its theological training and concentrated in only general education due to growing number of young people interested in English language. The school in Merzifon served in the beginning to educate the children of the Greek and Armenian community in Anatolia, who wanted to become pastors or preachers.

College
 
In 1886, as more and more young people wanted a general education, the program at the theological seminary in Merzifon was expanded to include a four-year liberal arts college. The institution was named Anatolia College, and Charles Tracy became the first president, serving until 1912. By 1911 six languages were regularly taught and used in the college, and that year 282 students attended from 16 provinces of Turkey, as well as Greece, Crete, Cyprus, Egypt, and Russia.  The faculty, in which Americans formed a minority, exercised substantial direction over the academic program. The college's motto was "The Morning Cometh" referring to the ancient Greek word for dawn, as well as the region "Anatolia". The college seal showed the sun rising over lofty Akdağ at the eastern end of the Merzifon Plain. Students, principally Greek and Armenian, came most from outside of Merzifon and boarded at the school. The faculty was Greek, Armenian, and American. The half-German J. J. Manissadijan was Professor of Botany and also founded a college museum.  During 1911 - 15 multiple new buildings were added, including North College in 1912; the Alumni Library-Museum in 1914; and the Kennedy Home and Superintendent's House in 1915.  A deep well and water system, including a Turkish bath used by hundreds every week, and a large flour mill and granaries, along with residential units, were also in place by 1915.  Foundations were built for the Union Hall and George Hills White Hall, but never finished.  The library grew to include 10,000 books and 40 periodicals.

During 1913–14, the faculty listed 32 names, including 11 Armenians, 10 Americans, 9 Greeks, 1 Russian, and 1 Swiss.  That year there were 425 students, of whom 300 were boarders, including 200 Greeks, 160 Armenians, 40 Russians, and 25 Turks. The evolving curriculum, originally intended to prepare graduates for further instruction, preferably at the Marsovan Seminary, was progressively redesigned to meet student demand for occupational training, emphasizing three areas: languages, the major arts and sciences taught in American colleges, and subjects relating to business and public administration as practiced in Turkey.  The Anatolia Girls School evolved as a self-contained institution with its own premises covering over four-and-a-half acres on the southern section of the mission compound, including classrooms, dormitory, gymnasium, teachers' quarters, athletic courts, and surrounding gardens.  The Girls School aspired to develop self-respect and strong character among its charges, while providing education formerly restricted to males.  Over half the students came from Marsovan as day students, accounting for the high proportion of Armenians to Greeks.         
When Armenian activists posted broadsides in 1893, Ottoman troops jailed many Armenians and damaged some college buildings; accusing Armenian students and teachers of being in contact with the rebels. The damage was rebuilt later with compensation paid by the Ottoman Government.