[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mobile Brigade Corps

pass
 Intelligence
 Anti-terror (counter-terrorism)
 Riot control
 Guerrilla war, Close / Urban war tactics
 Bomb disposal
 Handle high intensity crimes where the use of firearms is present
 Search and rescue
 Surveillance, disguise and prosecution.
 Other individual and unit capabilities.

Function

The function of the Police's Mobile Brigade Corps as the Polri's Principal  Operating Unit which has specific capabilities (Riot control, Combat Countermeasures, Mobile Detective, Counter-terrorism, Bomb Disposal, and Search and Rescue) in the framework of High-level domestic security and community-supported search and rescue personnel who are well trained and have solid leadership, equipment and supplies with modern technology.

Role
The role of Brimob is together with other police functions is to act against high-level criminals, mainly mass riots, organized crime of firearms, bombs, chemicals, biology and radio active threats in order to realize the legal order and peace of society in all juridical areas of Indonesia. Roles undertaken include:

Role to help other police functions,
Role to complement in territorial police operations carried out in conjunction with other police functions,
Role to protect members of other police units as well civilians who are under threat,
Role to strengthen other police functions in the implementation of regional operational tasks,
Serve to replace and handle territorial police duties if the situation or task objective has already led to a high-grade crime.

Organisation

In 1992 the Mobile Brigade was essentially a paramilitary organisation trained and organised along military lines. It had a strength of about 12,000. The brigade was used primarily as an elite unit for emergencies and supporting police operations as a rapid response unit.
The unit was mainly deployed for domestic security and defense operations, but now has gained and achieved many specialties in the scope of policing duties such as implementing SWAT operations, Search and Rescue operations, Riot control and CBR (Chemical, biological and radiological) defense. Brimob also are usually sent to do domestic security operations with the TNI.

Since the May 1998 upheaval, PHH (Pasukan Anti Huru-Hara, Anti Riot Unit) have received special anti-riot training. Elements of the unit are cross trained for airborne and Search and Rescue operations. In each Police HQ that represents a province (which is known as POLDA) in Indonesia each has an organized BRIMOB force which consists of a command headquarters, several Detachments of Pelopor police personnel organized into a regiment and usually 1 or 2 detachments of GEGANA.

The Chief of the Indonesian National Police, known as KAPOLRI, has the highest command in each police operation including BRIMOB, orders are delivered by the police chief and then executed by his Operational Assistant Agent with then further notification to the Corps Commandant and then to the concerned regional commanders.

Units
 Corps HQ and HQ Services
 Brimob Corps Training School
 Gegana Unit
 Pelopor Brigade
 Brigade HQ 
 II (2nd) Pelopor Regiment
 III (3rd) Pelopor Regiment
 IV (4th) Pelopor Regiment
 Training Command

Pelopor

Pelopor (lit."Pioneer") is the main reaction force of the Mobile Brigade Corps, it acts as a troop formation and has the roles of mainly riot control and conducting paramilitary operations assigned to the corps to cope with high-level threat of society disturbance. It also specializes in the field of Guerrilla, and Search and Rescue (SAR) operations. There are three national regiments of Pelopor in the Brimob corps which are:
II Pelopor Regiment
III Pelopor Regiment
IV Pelopor Regiment

In a historical view, this unit was called as "Brimob Rangers" during the Post Independence era. In 1959, during its first formation, Brimob Rangers troops conducted a test mission in the area of Cibeber, Ciawi and Cikatomas which borders Tasikmalaya-Garut in West Java. It was the baptism of fire of the Rangers, in which the newly acquired skills of guerrilla warfare and counter-insurgency operations were applied against remnants of Darul Islam in these communities. The actions against the Islamic Army of Indonesia (TII) units in the province weakened the DI even further, leading the total collapse of the local DI provincial chapter in 1962, ending a decade-long war of violence there.

The official first forward deployment of the Brimob Rangers was the Fourth Military Operations Movement in South Sumatra, West Sumatra and North Sumatra (in response to the Permesta rebellion of 1958). It was the Brimob Rangers troops became part of the Bangka Belitung Infantry Battalion led by Lieutenant Colonel (Inf) Dani Effendi. Rangers were tasked to capture the remains of the PRRI prison in Sumatra's forests led by Major Malik, which was then under rebel hands.