[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Alexi Giannoulias

dway, and, in 2006 Broadway was the first bank to foreclose on one of Rezko's delinquent loans, forcing him to declare bankruptcy. Broadway Bank also refused to cover nine bad checks written by Rezko for a total of $450,000 in early 2008

Giannoulias never accepted campaign contributions from Rezko.

Broadway Bank also loaned money for real estate developments to Michael Giorango, who has been convicted for prostitution and bookmaking.  Giannoulias has stated that he was not part of the loan committee that approved the loans to Giorango.

2010 U.S. Senate campaign 

Giannoulias ran against Republican nominee Mark Kirk, Green Party nominee LeAlan Jones, and Libertarian nominee Mike Labno. As a candidate, Giannoulias pledged to create a "Senate Progressive Caucus", akin to the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) in the House of Representatives.

On March 2, 2009, Giannoulias stated on CNBC that he was forming an exploratory committee in order to assess a potential candidacy for the US Senate in 2010. On July 26, 2009, he officially announced his candidacy for the United States Senate at the Hilton Chicago, the same place then-Senator Barack Obama endorsed Giannoulias for State Treasurer in 2006. He was introduced to the crowd by Congressman Bill Foster. He lost to Republican Congressman Mark Kirk.

Even though Giannoulias was not endorsed by President Obama in the primary and the Obama White House attempted to recruit a different candidated for the race, he was elected the Democratic nominee for US Senate in Illinois in the February 2, 2010, primary, with 38.9% of the vote. David H. Hoffman received 33.7% and Cheryle Jackson received 19.8%.

Endorsements
Giannoulias was endorsed by Planned Parenthood, the Service Employees International Union (SEIU), AFSCME, the AFL–CIO, the League of Conservation Voters, the Human Rights Campaign, the Chicago Sun-Times, and the Sierra Club (Planned Parenthood, the League of Conservation Voters, and the Human Rights Campaign had all supported Congressman Kirk in previous races).

On May 28, 2010, the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) endorsed Giannoulias, calling him "a strident supporter of LGBT equality – including supporting marriage equality, repeal of the Defense of Marriage Act, repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" and supporting an inclusive Employment Non-Discrimination Act."

Among his early endorsers were James Houlihan and Manny Flores. U.S. Senator Dick Durbin, the Assistant Majority Leader and second-highest ranking Democrat in the Senate, endorsed Giannoulias and served as the chairman of the Giannoulias campaign. President Obama expressed his support of Giannoulias' Senate bid and joined him on the campaign trail.

Controversies
During Giannoulias' bid for the senate he faced attacks on his credibility, mostly stemming from his connection to his family owned bank. Broadway bank was shuttered and seized by the federal government and was alleged to have ties to the mafia. However, Giannoulias opponent, Congressman Mark Kirk, faced his own slew of controversies regarding his military service.

Defeat
On November 2, 2010, Congressman Mark Kirk beat Alexi Giannoulias for Illinois' open United States Senate seat with 48% of the vote, beating former Treasurer Giannoulias by a margin of 2%

Illinois Secretary of State

Giannoulias announced he would run for Illinois Secretary of State to succeed retiring incumbent Jesse White. During the Democratic primary, his opponent, Chicago City Clerk Anna Valencia, criticized Giannoulias for his past support of a Republican candidate who supported anti-abortion legislation.  On June 28, 2022, he won the Democratic primary. On November 8, 2022, Giannoulias won the general election, defeating Republican Dan Brady.

Personal life
He is married to Jo Terlato. Giannoulias is Greek Orthodox.

References

External links
Illinois Secretary of State – official website
 Campaign website
 Alexi for Senate
 
 Campaign contributions at OpenSecrets.org

|-

|-

|-

|-

 

 

1976 births
American bankers
American men's basketball players
American people of Greek descent
Basketball players from Illinois
Boston University Terriers men's basketball players
Candidates in the 2010 United States elections
Illinois Democrats
Illinois lawyers
Latin School of Chicago alumni
Living people
Schools of the Sacred Heart alumni
Panionios B.C. players
Politicians from Chicago
Secretaries of State of Illinois
State treasurers of Illinois
Tulane University Law School alumni