[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lee Holmes

ur games in a 3–0 victory over Swindon Town. Holmes played a total of 19 games for Walsall during his loan but was unable to add to his four early goals.

Holmes returned to Derby at the end of the season, but the club decided not to renew his contract, and he was one of four players to be released.

Southampton 
On 6 June 2008, Holmes turned down Leeds United and Nottingham Forest to instead sign for Championship side Southampton as their first summer signing. He was attracted by the promising youth set up under new coach Jan Poortvliet, chairman Michael Wilde and the size of the club. Holmes made his debut for Southampton in the opening game of the 2008–09 season against Cardiff City. Holmes was substituted in the second half, replaced by Bradley Wright-Phillips, as Southampton lost 2–1. Holmes scored in his second game with Southampton, as they defeated League Two side Exeter City 3–1 in the first round of the League Cup. Holmes started Southampton's opening seven games of the season, and scored a second goal, once again in the League Cup, but was injured in a 4–1 defeat to Queens Park Rangers in September. Holmes left Rangers' ground on crutches after suffering medial ligament damage in his right knee. The injury forced him to spend six weeks in a leg brace, and kept him out of action for three months. Although it did not require surgery, Holmes also suffered some cartilage damage, which had to be treated by a minor operation.

Southampton struggled without Holmes, who returned to action in a 2–0 defeat to another team fighting against relegation Nottingham Forest on 20 December 2008. As a result of the club's form Poortvliet resigned as manager and was replaced by his assistant Mark Wotte, in whose first game in charge, Holmes again went off injured. The injury was diagnosed as a recurrence of his previous injury and was expected to keep him out for another four weeks.

He was named on the bench for the first game of the 2009–10 Season against Millwall, but never featured. After being named on the bench for some cup games, he started against Millwall on 16 January.

On 1 October 2011, he came on as a substitute to score Southampton's fourth goal against Watford. This was his first league goal for the club.

On 14 February 2012, Holmes signed a one-month loan deal at League Two side Oxford United, which made him available for their match against Dagenham and Redbridge at the Kassam Stadium. He set up both goals in a victory over rivals Swindon, and then scored twice in a 2–2 draw with Shrewsbury. On 14 March 2012, Holmes returned to his former club, Swindon Town, on loan for the remainder of the season.

On 19 May, it was announced that he was to be released by Southampton at the end of the season.

Preston North End 
On 28 May 2012, he agreed to join Preston North End with effect from 1 July. On 17 December 2013, Holmes extended his contract with Preston for a further twelve months, thus keeping him at the club until the summer of 2015. On 24 November 2014, Holmes signed on loan to Portsmouth until January 2015. On 16 March 2015, Holmes joined Exeter on loan until the end of the season.

Exeter City 
On 28 May 2015, Holmes joined Exeter City on a permanent basis following his loan spell from Preston. On 8 January Exeter played the first leg of their FA Cup match against Liverpool and on the stroke of half time, Holmes scored directly from a corner kick. After a consistent performance throughout the 2015–16 campaign, Holmes was voted player of the season by Exeter city fans. On 3 January 2017, Holmes was ruled out for the rest of the campaign with an ankle injury after a collision in a match against Yeovil Town. Holmes was released by Exeter at the end of his contract in July 2020.

Non-league
He signed for Northern Premier League Premier League side Mickleover on a free transfer in September 2021.

Personal life
Holmes is a Christian.

Career statistics

Honours

Club 
Derby County
 Championship Play-off Winners: 2007

Swindon Town
 League Two Champions: 2011–12
 Football League Trophy Finalists: 2011–12

Preston North End
 League One Play-off Winners: 2015

Country 
England Under-16
 Victory Shield: 2002

Individual 
Swindon Town
 Young Player of the Season: 2004–05

References

External links 

1987 births
Living people
Footballers from Mansfield
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Derby County F.C. players
Swindon Town F.C. players
Bradford City A.F.C. players
Walsall F.C. players
Southampton F.C. players
Oxford United F.C. players
Preston North End F.C. players
Portsmouth F.C. players
Exeter City F.C. players
English Football League players
Mickleover F.C. players
England men's youth international footballers
English Christians