[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andrew Hunter (lawyer)

condemning South Carolina's course.

Hunter was Virginia governor Henry A. Wise's personal attorney.

It has been said that it was the John Brown affair that made Hunter a national figure, but even before John Brown's raid, he was mentioned as a possible presidential candidate:

The John Brown trial

Charles Town, where Hunter lived, was only  from Harpers Ferry, where John Brown's 1859 raid produced a huge uproar, drawing national attention. By decision of Virginia Governor Henry A. Wise, whose personal attorney Hunter was, Hunter was given the politically explosive task of prosecuting abolitionist John Brown and the others of his party who were captured; the county prosecutor, Charles B. Harding, by general agreement was not capable of handling such a high-profile case, and he was happy to be "assisted". Thus, Hunter, who signed himself "Assistant Prosecuting Attorney", quickly drafted the indictment and prosecuted John Brown and his associates for murder, inciting a negro insurrection, and treason against the Commonwealth of Virginia. "Mr. Hunter had against him some of the finest legal talent of the North. He conducted the trial with great ability and made a national reputation as a lawyer." The defendants were convicted of all charges, except that since according to the Dred Scott decision Blacks were not citizens, the two Black defendants, Shields Green and John Anthony Copeland, could not commit treason, so that charge was dropped for those two defendants. All were sentenced to death and all were executed by hanging.

The circuit judge and the out-of-town attorneys having left, it was Hunter who was in charge of everything local relating to Brown during his final month. He was "the first man in Charlestown". Only he could have written the "Proclamation" of November 28, announcing the arrest of those in Jefferson County who could not  explain their business there. It was Hunter who opened and read every letter addressed to Brown, retaining 70 to 80 that "he could not get, never would get, as I thought they were improper"; they were shipped to Richmond along with the other documents. Hunter told the jailor Captain Avis to treat Brown well.

Hunter was already "the recognized leader of the bar of this [Jefferson] county". The John Brown trials gave him a national reputation. He was at that time "one of the leading attorneys of the United States".

In 1881 Hunter went to Storer College to hear Frederick Douglass talk on Brown, and congratulated him when he was done. A visitor in 1883 wrote that "it seems to renew the youth of this venerable octogenarian to talk of John Brown". According to Hunter, Brown "was the bravest man I ever saw."

Confederate politician
Hunter was, during the war, "the trusted friend and advisor of General  Robert E. Lee".

After Virginia voted for secession and the American Civil War began, Hunter and fellow lawyer Thomas C. Green (Charles Town's mayor, a Confederate tax assessor and later a justice of the West Virginia Supreme Court) represented Jefferson County under the Confederate regime in the Virginia House of Delegates during the sessions of 1861/62 and 1862/63, but neither won re-election in 1863. Another local B&O attorney, Thomas Jefferson McKaig (the railroad's counsel in Cumberland, Maryland, for nearly four decades and who served in both houses of the Maryland legislature), would also side with the Confederacy. After the resignation of banker and Confederate officer Edwin L. Moore (of the 2nd Virginia Infantry, in which his lawyer son Henry Clay Hunter fought as a private before receiving a lieutenant's commission in July 1861), Hunter then became State Senator for his district, by then occupied by Federal troops (and the U.S. Congress having recognized West Virginia as the 35th State). His youngest brother, Rev. Moses Hoge Hunter (1814-1899), served as chaplain of the 3rd Pennsylvania cavalry during that war, and would later edit the memoirs of their cousin, Union General David Hunter (particularly despised by Confederate sympathizers in western Virginia because of his raids, including that which destroyed the pro-Confederate Virginia Military Institute). General Hunter in July 1864 ordered subordinates to burn Andrew Hunter's home, and Hunter was then imprisoned for a month without explanation nor charges.