[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 69th Pennsylvania Infantry Regiment

The 69th Pennsylvania Infantry (originally raised as the 2nd California) was an infantry regiment in the Union army during the American Civil War. 

Part of the famed Philadelphia Brigade, this all-volunteer regiment played a key role defending against Pickett's Charge during the Battle of Gettysburg. According to the Pennsylvania Capitol Preservation Committee, "The 69th regiment was the only regiment to maintain its position throughout the repulse of Pickett's Charge, though every field officer was shot down."

This regiment was nicknamed "Paddy Owen's Regulars" in recognition of the regiment's first commanding officer and of the regiment's large contingent of men of Irish heritage.

History

1861
The 69th Pennsylvania was recruited from Philadelphia Irish militia companies of the 2nd Regiment, Pennsylvania Militia, which had been composed of members of the Emmett Guards, Hibernian Greens, Irish Volunteers, Jackson Guards, Meagher Guards, Patterson Light Guards, Shields Guards, and the United Guards."

The regiment was mustered into service on August 19, 1861, with Joshua T. Owen as its first colonel. Dennis O'Kane was second in command of the regiment. A native of Derry, Ireland who was operating a saloon in Philadelphia at the start of the American Civil War, he had a reputation as a stern disciplinarian.

 Many of the 69th Pennsylvania's members had served in the 24th Pennsylvania, a three-month volunteer regiment. After departing for Washington, D.C., on September 17, the members of the regiment were ordered to the vicinity of the Chain Bridge, where they made camp on the south side of the Potomac River, and were assigned to the Army of the Potomac. While stationed here, the regiment was assigned to assist with the construction of Fort Ethan Allen and in the building of roads to improve Union Army access to the series of forts that had been erected to protect the Capitol building and the city of Washington.

It was also here, in October 1861, that the unit was first designated as the 2nd California and became part of Colonel Edwin Baker's California Brigade.

On September 24, the regiment served as part of the Union force commanded by General William Farrar Smith during reconnoissance activities at Lewinsville, which resulted in one member of the 69th being wounded during a brief fight with Confederate troops.

Ordered to Conrad's Ferry on October 20, members of the 69th then engaged in their first major combat experience during the Battle of Balls Bluff the next day.

After this battle, its name was changed to the 68th Penna. for a short time and then the 69th. They made an attempt with the 69th New York to form an Irish Brigade, but Governor Andrew Gregg Curtin of Pennsylvania opposed the idea, which led to the proposal being dropped. The 68th had their regimental designation changed to the 69th in honor of the 69th New York Infantry.

1862
The 69th served in the Peninsula Campaign, during which it was complimented by Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker for making “the first successful bayonet charge of the war.” On June 30, the 69th Pennsylvania found itself in the heat of battle when Confederate troops attacked the rear of the combined Union forces "on the heights east of the White Oak Swamp." Sustaining only minor casualties, the regiment ultimately helped to drive off the enemy.

Its next major action was at the Battle of Antietam, where it lost eighty-eight in killed, wounded or missing in action. Following the battle, O'Kane was recommissioned as a colonel and awarded command of the 69th Pennsylvania.

 On November 4, 1862, Harrisburg's Pennsylvania Telegraph carried the front-page news that court martial proceedings overseen by Brigadier General W. S. Hancock had found the 69th Pennsylvania's commanding officer, Colonel Owen, "guilty of charge of 'conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline, and unbecoming an officer and a gentleman.'" The sentence directed the Owen be "dismissed from the service of the United States." The court martial hearing, which had been convened on October 7, 1862 was held at Harper's Ferry, Virginia. The charges against Owen and subsequent ruling of dismissal were outlined as follows in General Orders No. 168, issued from the Headquarters of the Army of the Potomac on October 24:

"Charge 1st. 'Violation of the 50th article of war.'

Specification. 'In this—Col. J. T. Owen, 69th Pennsylvania volunteers, at or near Bolivar Heights, Virginia, on or about the 4th of October, 1862, left his regiment, which had been detailed for the picket guard, so that the regiment proceeded to its post and performed its tour of duty without him.'

Charge 2d. 'Conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline.'