[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of Pickett's Mill

ean and Howard. Historian Albert Castel asserted, "Of all the brigade commanders in Sherman's army, a worse one to assist in Howard's attack could not have been found." Howard blamed McLean among others for the disaster to XI Corps at the Battle of Chancellorsville and McLean detested Howard for it.

Earlier, Johnston transferred Cleburne's division from Hardee's corps to the extreme right flank. On Cleburne's left was Hindman's division of Hood's corps. Cleburne's division was entrenched with the brigades of Brigadier Generals Mark Perrin Lowrey and Daniel Govan in the front line and the brigades of Brigadier Generals Lucius E. Polk and Hiram B. Granbury in reserve. Govan's scouts reported Howard's movement to Johnston, who ordered probes of the Federal lines, believing that Sherman was making a general retreat to the railroad. These probes captured some Union skirmishers but quickly discovered that Sherman's defenses were well-manned. With this information, Johnston realized that Sherman was trying to turn his right flank. He directed Hindman's troops to shift to their right and ordered Stewart's division to help Cleburne. At this time, McPherson notified Sherman that the Confederate troops in front of him were strongly entrenched. Sherman finally understood that Johnston blocked his plan to sweep around the Confederate western flank. Sherman quickly discarded his original strategy and replaced it with a plan to move northeast to the railroad.

The attack

After marching an additional , Wood's and Johnson's troops reached a north-flowing stream called Pickett's Mill Creek. This tributary of Pumpkinvine Creek was named after a nearby grist mill, owned by Malachi Pickett. Howard and Wood conducted another reconnaissance and discovered Confederates digging trenches, but the entrenchments did not extend to the left. Howard ordered Wood and Johnson to swing their divisions to the right, and directed McLean to make a false attack which was designed to draw fire away from Wood's real attack. Wood rapidly formed his division for assault, but both Johnson and McLean moved their commands very slowly. At 3:35 pm, Howard sent a courier notifying his superior Thomas that he was, "turning the enemy's right flank, I think". Thomas' reply arrived at 4 pm to go ahead with the attack. Even so, Howard hesitated until Wood asked, "Are the orders still to attack?" Howard gave the order to attack.

Wood's division consisted of the brigades of Colonel William Harvey Gibson (1st), Brigadier General William Babcock Hazen (2nd), and Colonel Frederick Knefler (3rd). At 4:30 pm, Wood ordered Hazen's brigade, which was in front, to advance. Wood remarked to Howard, "We will put in Hazen, and see what success he has," and Howard agreed. Previously, Hazen believed that Wood's entire division would attack, but he realized that his 1,500-man brigade was going to assault unsupported. Hazen glanced at his staff officer Ambrose Bierce who instantly knew that a "criminal blunder" was about to happen. All mounted officers sent their horses to the rear and went forward on foot, with Hazen guiding his brigade with a compass because the woods and underbrush were so dense. Hazen's men soon encountered about 1,000 dismounted cavalrymen from the divisions of Brigadier Generals John H. Kelly and William Y. C. Humes.

The Confederate cavalrymen gamely fought back, but they were deployed in a long skirmish line and Hazen's infantry forced them to give way. Hazen's troops reached a ravine and saw a ridgeline ahead of them about  away. As Hazen's soldiers surged forward to seize the ridge, Granbury's Texas brigade reached the spot ahead of them. Warned that Federals were about to turn his right flank, Cleburne sent Granbury's brigade to help the outmatched cavalrymen. The Texans took cover and opened fire on the approaching Union troops, inflicting many casualties. Some of Hazen's men called out, "Ah, damn you, we have caught you without your logs", as they rushed forward. Hazen's men got within  of Granbury's line before they were forced to take cover and return fire. Blocked in front, Hazen swung his second line regiments toward a cornfield on the left. Seeing the cavalrymen on his right getting overpowered, Granbury asked for help from Govan's brigade. Govan sent the consolidated 8th and 19th Arkansas Infantry Regiment, and it drove back some of the Federals who were pressing the cavalry. Next, Cleburne deployed Lowrey's brigade on Granbury's right flank where it repelled more of Hazen's troops. Unfortunately for Hazen and his men, no units from Johnson's division appeared to support his attack.