[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Polish State Railroads in summer 1939

r rail connections between the Soviet Union and Western Europe required a change of trains due to the difference in gauge. If one traveled towards Moscow, it was necessary to change at the Soviet border station Niegoreloje. Travelling from Moscow, the change took place at the Polish station Stolpce.

Altogether there were 48 rail border crossings in operation in the summer of 1939.

Curiosities
 Rail lines of Wolne Miasto Gdańsk (Free City of Danzig) were controlled by the Toruń region of the Polish State Railways, therefore were included in the Polish timetable.
 In the summer of 1939,  three pairs of German transit trains crossed the Polish Corridor daily en route to East Prussia: two  between Berlin and Eydtkau  (now Chernyshevskoye) and one between Berlin  and Tilsit (now Sovetsk). They travelled through the  Polish territory between Chojnice and  Tczew-Liessau (Lisewo), the distance of 97 km.
 Apart from long-distance fast trains, there were also ordinary and accelerated trains, that ran on very long routes in interwar Poland. The best example is the  train Wejherowo – Toruń – Kutno – Łódź Kaliska – Rozwadów – Lwów, which  crossed virtually the whole Poland, from southeast to the coast (930 km). Other interesting examples are: Warszawa Wilenska – Brzesc n/B Centralny – Pinsk – Mikaszewicze (490 km), Warszawa Wilenska – Siedlce – Wolkowysk – Lida – Molodeczno (530 km), Warszawa Glowna – Lublin – Kowel – Zdolbunow (480 km), Warsaw Gdanska – Lublin – Rejowiec – Zawada – Rawa Ruska – Lwów (438 km).

See also
 Timetable of Polish Railways and LOT Polish Airlines in 1947(in English and French also), online
 Timetable of Polish Railways –  oriented for Greater Poland from 17 may 1938 as appendix to Kurier Poznański

References

 Urzędowy rozkład jazdy i lotów Lato 1939. Ważny od 15 maja do 7 października 1939. Wydawnictwo Ministerstwa Komunikacji Warszawa (Official Time-Table of the Polish State Railways, Summer 1939)

History of rail transport in Poland
1939 in Poland
Poland in World War II