[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dongshan Island Campaign

he problem caused, the Nationalists were not able to take the highest point of the island from the Communists and although most of the PLA heavy mortars were knocked out with air support, the surviving ones did not stop shelling the Nationalists until the last round of ammunition had been exhausted.

The other Communist stronghold left on the island was in the region of Eight Feet Gate (Ba Chi Men, 八尺门), which faced the mainland, defended by a single company of Communist naval infantry.  The strongly fortified position included a pier and thus was the critical steppingstone for Communist reinforcement from the mainland.  The Nationalists had correctly identified this serious threat and had also correctly decided to eliminate this threat early on, so the entire American trained paratroop division which reached the island first was devoted to the mission.  However, the lightly armed paratroopers proved to be no match for the enemy in heavily fortified positions on the terrain that strongly favored the defenders.  Despite repeated assaults, the elite paratroopers not only failed to achieve their original objective but suffered heavy losses, with several hundred killed and wounded.  The lack of heavy weaponry was the main cause of the Nationalist failure to take this very important position, which paved the way for the eventual Nationalist defeat in the campaign.  Unable to take either of the two remaining Communist strongholds on the island, the Nationalist advance halted.

Second stage
Communist units on the mainland reacted rapidly by mobilizing all available vehicles to transport troops to the front.  The Communist 272nd Regiment of the 31st Army at Zhangpu County was first to respond: by 5:50 AM, less than an hour after the first shot of the campaign was fired, the advance guard of the regiment was already on its way to the front in the few military vehicles available, while the rest of the regiment commandeered every civilian vehicle on the road.  By 9:00 AM, the entire regiment had reached the Eight Feet Gate (Ba Chi Men, 八尺门) pier of the Eastern Mountain (Dongshan, 东山) Island.  With the help of the newly arrived reinforcements, the Communist naval infantry company at Eight Feet Gate managed to force the attacking Nationalist paratroopers into retreat.  Two regiments of the Communist 28th Army and 41st Army arrived soon afterward. The Communist commander You Meiyao, building on his initial success in repelling the attacking Nationalist paratroopers, successfully counterattacked before the Nationalists had time to regroup.  As the Nationalists were forced back by the counterattack, the Communist 91st Division of the 31st Army landed on the island under the commander of the 31st Army, Zhou Zhijian (周志坚).

The Nationalist commander of the operation, Hu Lien, initially did not believe that the Communists could reinforce the island on such a large scale and in such short time, since the vital Nine Dragons Bridge (Jiulong Jiang Daqiao, 九龙江大桥) was already destroyed by the Nationalist air force.  Realizing that his force was now outnumbered and outgunned, Hu Lien chose to withdraw before any more enemy reinforcements arrived. The Communists, in turn, seeing that they were successfully forcing the Nationalists off the island, did not pursue and stopped sending reinforcements.  The campaign came to an end on July 18, 1953, after the island was secured by the defenders.

Outcome
The Dongshan Island Campaign was the last large scale Nationalist counterattack against the mainland. Nationalist dead recovered by the Communists on land and in the coastal waters totaled 2,664, and another 715 were captured, while the number of wounded was uncertain because most of them were successfully evacuated by the Nationalists themselves.  In addition, two tanks were destroyed, three landing ships sunk and two aircraft were also lost.

The Kuomintang went too far to maintain the secrecy of the mission. Even their own troops were not informed about the mission until they were already on their way to the island.  Many captured Nationalist officers felt that they had been handicapped by inadequate briefing. Had they been better informed, they would have postponed the attack to better train their troops.

The poor Nationalist inter-service communication caused by the excessive secrecy also resulted in the Nationalist landing ships unloading in the largest port on the island, which was within range of the PLA heavy mortar positions.  The slow landing ships loaded with heavy weaponry became sitting ducks as they were being unloaded, and in addition to three being sunk, the pier was also badly damaged by the accurate mortar fire.