[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Berlin border crossings

Bürgerablage Beach, for access to the exclaves Erlengrund and Fichtewiese, two allotment clubs, only for use by allotmenteers there.  The crossing was abolished after the 1988 territorial exchange, when East Germany ceded two tracts of interjacent land to West Berlin.

Crossings for transit traffic

Road crossings
These crossings could be used for passage on the prescribed  transit highways and for travel within the SOZ/GDR:
 Dreilinden (Allied Checkpoint Bravo)/Drewitz: The Autobahn Crossing Checkpoint Dreilinden and Border Crossing Station (GÜSt) Drewitz was for travel and freight traffic.  Even after this portion of the autobahn was rebuilt and the crossing station was relocated on 15 October 1969, the names were retained. Berlin-Zehlendorf/Kleinmachnow would have been more correct.
to the Federal Republic, in the following directions:
Marienborn / Helmstedt (Lower Saxony, Hannover; Allied Checkpoint Alpha)
Hirschberg / Rudolphstein (Bavaria, Hof, Nürnberg, München)
Wartha / Herleshausen (toward Hesse, Frankfurt am Main)
into Czechoslovakia:
Zinnwald / Cinovec
to Poland:
Pomellen / Kołbaskowo (Kolbitzow) (in the direction of Szczecin, Gdańsk)
Frankfurt (Oder) / Slubice (toward central Poland, Warsaw)
Forst (toward southern Poland, (in the direction of Wrocław, Katowice, Kraków)
toward Scandinavia:
Sassnitz by Baltic sea passage to Sweden (Trelleborg), Denmark (Rønne)
 Rostock / Warnemünde by Baltic sea passage to Denmark (Gedser), passengers and crews of passenger ships.
In addition the only trans-border bus line of the BVG, bus line 99, passed through this crossing from the Wannsee streetcar station to Potsdam-Babelsberg (autobahn exit) and back.  Until 9 November 1989 only buses without an upper deck or advertising were allowed; afterwards, conventional double-decker buses with advertising would pass as well, due to increased traffic and the freedom of passage after the Berlin Wall fell. 
Heerstraße in Berlin-Staaken / Staaken-West (1951 – 1982, previously in Dallgow):
Horst / Lauenburg (B 5 / F 5: to northern Germany, Hamburg)
This crossing offered the only option for driving to the Federal Republic with vehicles not permitted on the autobahn (e.g., bicycles, mopeds, tractors, and other specialized vehicles), on condition that one make the trip without interruption (overnight stays, lengthy breaks).
This crossing was later closed and replaced by an autobahn connection through Tegel. With this change, the possibility of going through the GDR with other vehicles ended.
Berlin-Heiligensee/Stolpe: Autobahn Crossing Checkpoint Berlin-Heiligensee and Stolpe in Hohen Neuendorf
to the Federal Republic, in the direction of:
Zarrentin / Gudow (northern Germany, Hamburg)
to Poland
Pomellen / Kołbaskowo (Kolbitzow) (toward Szczecin, Gdańsk)
to Scandinavia
Sassnitz by Baltic sea passage to Sweden (Trelleborg), Denmark (Rønne)
 Rostock / Warnemünde by Baltic sea passage to Denmark (Gedser), passengers and crews of passenger ships.
Lichtenrade / Großbeeren: This crossing planned but never realised. Intended to be developed as an autobahn border control station for  transit travelers.

Rail crossings

 Berlin-Wannsee/Griebnitzsee (for passenger traffic) and Steinstücken/Drewitz Station (for freight traffic) 
Marienborn/Helmstedt (Hannover, western Germany)
Schwanheide/Büchen (Hamburg, northern Germany, 1961 – 1976)
Gerstungen/Bebra (western Germany, Hesse, Frankfurt am Main)
Probstzella/Ludwigsstadt (southern Germany, Hof, Nürnberg, München)
Berlin-Spandau/Staaken (SOZ / 'GDR') (restricted to freight only from 1961 to 1976; during those years, passenger traffic was diverted via Berlin-Wannsee/Griebnitzsee)
Schwanheide/Büchen (Hamburg, northern Germany)
Zoologischer Garten Station/Friedrichstraße Station
ČSSR, Poland, Scandinavia
Furthermore, many train connections ended at the Ostbahnhof (east station). Very few passenger coaches passed through (e.g. Paris – Moscow), and in general one had to change trains at the Ostbahnhof (then the Berlin main station) or in the Berlin-Lichtenberg station.

Waterways

The numerous border crossings on waterways (e.g., 
Spree, Havel, Teltow Canal) were only open to commercial freight traffic.  Recreational boats had to be loaded onto ships or towed overland.
 Tiefer See / Glienicke Lake (1954–1961) This crossing was not relevant for traffic to and from West Berlin.
 Dreilinden / Kleinmachnow, Teltow Canal (from 1981 on)
 Teufelssee Canal / Hennigsdorf (only traffic to and from GDR destinations and transit traffic (Poland), not to the Federal Republic)
 Potsdam-Nedlitz / Jungfernsee
 Crossings within the Berlin city limits

Air travel

To and from Berlin-Schönefeld Airport for air travel:
Waltersdorfer Chaussee/Rudower Chaussee (transfer bus to and from West Berlin) 
also, within East Berlin territory (access via streetcar, U-bahn or rail):
Friedrichstraße Station (starting in 1961)