[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zichyújfalu

Zichyújfalu (IPA: ) is a village in Fejér county, Hungary, about 10 km from Lake Velencei, which is more or less easy to reach on road and on railway (Pusztaszabolcs-Székesfehérvár line). The settlement used to be a part of Gárdony but declared its independence in December 1997.

The settlement is first mentioned in writing in 1239, when villa Nowa (Nova) belonged to the Vértes estates of the Csák clan. In 1447 it is mentioned as a noble name as Wyfalw (Újfalu).

The Family Zichy appeared as the landlord in Újfalu during Turkish occupation. After the Turkish rule the serfs of Seregélyes rented the land for some time. In 1784 the owner of the estate, János Zichy, the son of Ferenc Zichy had a castle built in Újfalu and established a deer-park.

The phrase Zichy in the name of the settlement refers to these earlier landlords, the members of the Zichy family. The hunting residence of de count is also in the village; currently the Mayor's Office functions in this building, therefore the building can only be observed from outside. The park and the forest of the castle offer active relaxation.

Demographics

History 

The name Újfalu denotes a newly founded settlement. The distinctive anterior constituent of the settlement's name, the word 'Zichy' is a reference to the one-time landowners of the area, the members of the Zichy family. The first written mention of the settlement's name goes back to 1239, when Villa Nowa (Nova) was part of the Vértes estate of the Csák clan. In 1447 the name of the settlement appeared as Wyfalw (Újfalu), a nobiliary forename.

The members of the Zichy family became the local landowners as early as the period of the Turkish Conquest. The Hungarian landowners in this period lived in Győr and the Turkish ones in Székesfehérvár. After the expulsion of the Turks the area was leased to the villeins of Seregélyes, who, in 1717 requested the renewal of the leasing contract because they could not make a living from their lands The boundaries of Újfalupuszta and the neighbouring estates were fixed in 1745.

In 1784 Ferenc Zichy became the landowner of the farmstead. In this period it consisted of six houses, in which 18 families, a total of 91 people lived. Újfalupuszta was affiliated to the chapter of Seregélyes. The census of 1786/87 mentioned 61 local inhabitants.

In the middle of the 19th century Újfalupuszta (called Zichyújfalu from 1898 onward) was characterised by feudal backwardness. Development was blocked by the existence of the feudal estate and no improvement occurred until capitalism began to develop. Progress was dependent on the development of the estate and due to this fact it was very slow. The inhabitants of Újfalu were also dependent on the estate for their living and they were mostly household servants and daily workers. There were no villeins in the settlement, which meant that there were no peasant movements either.

The number of inhabitants depended on the demand of the labour market. Újfalu in this period was administered from Seregélyes. The landowner also lived at Seregélyes, and he was also the owner of several other farmsteads in the vicinity of the market town. The area of the Újfalu farmstead was 2721 acres, out of which 2100 acres were ploughland, 417 acres meadow and 204 acres pasture. The Újfalu estate had no swamps, orchards, vineyards or large wooded areas.

It was the members of the Zichy family who launched the capitalistic development of their estate in the middle of the 1870s. They recognised the outstanding potentials of their land and utilised these qualities. The land was extremely fertile and yielded good crop. Corn production and animal husbandry were the most significant occupations in the area. Payment at Újfalu did not differ from payments labourers received elsewhere for agricultural work. Agricultural workers were most often paid in kind. The members of the Zichy family achieved outstanding economic results at the end of the 19th century. Their income on the other hand did not contribute to the social and economic rise of the estate workers. The majority of agricultural workers in this period was from Seregélyes and because of this their revolts always coincided with those ones at Seregélyes. The agrarian movements were common in the area from 1897-1906.

The landowners spent their income on their own good. János Zichy had a mansion built at Újfalu and established a menagerie. As a shareholder he took part in the construction works of the Székesfehérvár-Pusztaszabolcs railway line. He also planned to build a post office at Újfalu.