[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alessio Sakara

Alessio Sakara (born September 2, 1981) is an Italian professional mixed martial artist, former professional boxer and Sanshou kickboxer, currently competing in the Light Heavyweight division. A professional competitor since 2002, Sakara has also formerly competed for the UFC, Bellator MMA, Jungle Fight, Cage Warriors, and M-1 Global.

Background
Born in Rome, Sakara began to compete in soccer at the age of five and was talented, playing the midfielder position. He began training in boxing at the age of 11. At the age of 18 Sakara began training with Roberto Almeida
in Brazilian jiu-jitsu, later earning a black belt under former UFC veteran Marcus "Conan" Silveira. Sakara turned to mixed martial arts after competing in amateur boxing matches because he did not think he would be able to support himself with the little money that boxers in Italy receive, and also did not prefer the tactical approach of the sport. Sakara was also attracted to the rising sport of mixed martial arts after his uncle showed him a VHS tape of UFC 5, which featured a bout between future UFC Hall of Famers Ken Shamrock and Royce Gracie, when Sakara was 19 years old. Shortly afterwards in 2000, Sakara relocated to Brazil in order to train with names like Ricardo De La Riva, Antônio Rodrigo Nogueira and Antônio Rogério Nogueira.

Mixed martial arts career

Early career
Sakara made his professional mixed martial arts debut in 2002, and compiled a record of 13–3 before being signed by the UFC.

Ultimate Fighting Championship
Sakara made his UFC debut at UFC 55, fighting against Ron Faircloth. The bout was ruled a no contest due to an inside leg kick to Sakara's groin.

Sakara next fought Elvis Sinosic at UFC 57 on February 4, 2006. He won the bout via a unanimous decision despite having a point deducted due to an illegal elbow.

Sakara was submitted in his next bout at UFC 60 by decorated grappling specialist and former King of the Cage Middleweight Champion Dean Lister.

Sakara was next expected to face Wilson Gouveia at UFC 65 on November 18, 2006. However, Gouveia withdrew  from the bout due to an injury and was replaced by Drew McFedries. Sakara lost the bout via first-round TKO.

Sakara rebounded from these losses when he fought Victor Valimaki at UFC 70 on April 21, 2007. He won via TKO at 1:44 of the first round.

At UFC 75 on September 8, 2007, Sakara lost for the third time in four fights, losing via first round TKO to Houston Alexander.

Sakara was part of UFC 80 on January 19, 2008, where he won via TKO in the first round against veteran James Lee.

Move down to middleweight
Following his victory over Lee, Sakara announced that he would be moving down to the Middleweight division. He made his middleweight debut against former WEC Middleweight Champion Chris Leben at UFC 82 on March 1, 2008. He lost the fight via first-round knockout.

At UFC Fight Night 15, Sakara defeated Joe Vedepo via KO in the first round with a head kick, which earned him Knockout of the Night honors.

Sakara was then expected to face Jake Rosholt at UFC Fight Night 17 on February 7, 2009, but the bout was cancelled when Sakara had to pull out due to a shoulder injury and was replaced by Dan Miller.

Sakara was then scheduled to face Rousimar Palhares at UFC 99 on June 13, 2009. However, for unknown reasons the bout was moved to take place at UFC 101 on August 8, 2009. Eventually, Palhares ended up withdrawing from the bout due to an injury and was replaced by former title challenger Thales Leites. Sakara won the bout via split decision.

The bout with Palhares was re-booked to take place on December 5, 2009, at The Ultimate Fighter 10 Finale, but Sakara had to withdraw after suffering an undisclosed injury while training. He was replaced by Lucio Linhares.

Sakara defeated James Irvin via first-round TKO on March 21, 2010, at UFC LIVE: Vera vs. Jones.

Sakara was forced to pull out of his fight with Nate Marquardt on July 3, 2010 at UFC 116 due to the death of his father.

Sakara was then scheduled to face Jorge Rivera on August 28, 2010 at UFC 118,  but Rivera pulled out of the bout with an injury and was replaced by Gerald Harris In turn, Sakara was forced off the card with an injury and replaced by Joe Vedepo.

His bout with Rivera was then rescheduled and was expected to take place on November 13, 2010, at UFC 122, but the fight was cancelled, Sakara intended on competing despite experiencing flu-like symptoms, but the bout was terminated due to Sakara vomiting backstage.

Sakara was expected to face Maiquel Falcão on March 3, 2011 at the UFC Live: Sanchez vs. Kampmann event. However, Falcão was injured while training and replaced by Rafael Natal.  Then in early February, Natal pulled out of the bout due to a knee injury, and was replaced by promotional newcomer Chris Weidman. Sakara lost a unanimous decision after getting repeatedly taken down and controlled by Weidman's wrestling.