[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# José Coronel Urtecho

n of political parties and of all forms of popular election, and advocating one president for life".

In 1935 he was elected Congressman, appointed Sub Secretary of Education (Instrucción Pública) in 1938, and Cultural Attache in New York and Spain, in 1948, by president Roman Reyes, Somoza's uncle.

In Spain, he contacted and become close friend to Spanish writer Luis Rosales, and part of Rosales′ Vanguardists circle of friends. Among these friends and through his sons and daughter expressed political opposition to Somoza and a growing political opposition to Somoza in Nicaragua, changed Coronel initial affiliation and beliefs.

In 1959 he retired from politics and diplomacy and move back to live in the tropical forests of the San Juan River, in the border of Nicaragua and Costa Rica, where his wife grew up and where they both lived for the rest of their lives and were buried. That same year Coronel Urtecho started to write about the history of Nicaragua,[2] and became a strong critic of the Somoza administrations, which had ruled Nicaragua since 1934 with his own, and his Vanguardists friends´ support.

He remained retired and writing, only linked to intellectual activities with sporadic visits to the capital cities of Managua, Nicaragua, and San Jose, Costa Rica.

In July 1960, he was part of the intellectuals and notables who supported the Society of Jesus in founding the Universidad Centroamericana (UCA), as the first private catholic university in Central America. Years later, after his death, the University named its new library after him. Most of the books of Coronel's personal library, manuscripts and other related personal belongings were donated to the library and exhibited in there.

“Las Brisas”, his wife's farm (as he used to point out remarking he had no material wealth), was located out of a smaller stream of San Juan River, and become a popular place for intellectuals and journalists meetings and visits. The area”s popularity increased when his nephew, catholic priest Ernesto Cardenal, himself an influential poet and figure of the liberation theology founded in 1965 a religious and cultural community in the nearby Solentiname archipelago. Cardenal was also key in Coronel Urtecho new political beliefs. In 1976 many intellectuals met in Las Brisas for Coronel's 70th birthday, among them Argentinian writer Julio Cortazar, who was visiting Cardenal in Solentiname. After the 1979 Nicaraguan Revolution, Cortazar visited Nicaragua many times.

In 1974, during one of Coronel's sporadic stays in Managua, preparing by the time his lectures "Three conferences to the Private Sector", he was kidnapped by the founder and leader of the Sandinista movement, Carlos Fonseca Amador. For about 12 hours he stayed in a secret house where Fonseca spoke about Nicaragua's political crisis and reminded him of his responsibility for the intellectual validation and support to Somoza's political regime, and the need to now support the end of Somoza's era. That conversation had a deep impact on him and kept in secret until later published in 1986.

After the Sandinista National Liberation Front led Nicaragua's 1979 Revolution, which ended more than 40 years of Somoza's family control over Nicaragua, Coronel Urtecho become a passionate supporter of the new revolutionary government and its political agenda.

Marriage and family

He married Nicaraguan German descendant María Kautz Gross (Groß) to whom he dedicated many of his best poems such as “The Hunter”, “Short biography of my wife”, “Love song for the autumn” and “Lumber moon” among others.

She was the daughter of Nicaraguan German lady Elisa Gross Barberena and her German husband and cousin Richard Kautz Groß. Maria grew up with her four sisters Juana, Elisa, Julia and Mina in his parents 14,000 ha farm “San Francisco del Rio”, along the San Juan River.

Red hair, deep blue eyes and athletic figure, Maria had a strong character and a surprising physical strength for a girl. At the age of 14 she was in charge of the farm, knew how to handle a machete, drove a Caterpillar and was a skilled mechanical and carpenter who built her own ships, and ruled workers in the farm being as good or better as any of them. The Kautz Gross sisters frequently traveled on sailing boats crossing Lake Nicaragua from the small town of San Carlos to the city of Granada, where they bought food and cloth, and sailed back to the farm.

After Coronel returned from California, one day of 1930 he saw Maria for the first time. She was in Granada building a boat on the lake coast. Then 22, she was —as usual— wearing pants, a white blouse and a straw hat; smoking and walking on the logs selecting lumber for her new ship. He asked who the “estrange” girl was and said it would be fun to date her. His friends laughed at him because all young men in the city were afraid of asking her out, and those who did were rejected. He bet his hat on succeeding at dating her.