[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# St Mary's Island, Kent

s. More than 2,000 incendiary devices were dropped on the dockyard during the war. In December 1940, a bomb hit a factory and caused the death of 8 workers and injured 63 others.

In 1944, an abandoned German submarine was towed by Royal Navy vessels and repaired in No.3 Basin.

Re-development phase

In 1984, the dockyard was closed. Its huge site was then broken up into three large zones. The largest zone was for the historic section of the dockyard, now the Chatham Historic Dockyard. The next zone (including St Mary's Island, and No 1 and No 2 Basins) was to be re-developed as residential and commercial accommodation. 
The final zone, of No.3 Basin and the lock gates, was taken over by the Medway Ports authority and is now a commercial port. It includes Papersafe UK and Nordic Recycling Ltd.

In the late 1990s, government agency English Partnerships and housing developer Countryside, came together to build homes on the island, under the development name Countryside Maritime. In due course, some parcels of land were allowed to be developed by other builders, including Redrow.

The first people to live on the Island following the redevelopment were Alan, Deborah and Michael Searles, who moved there in 1996. There is a plaque dedicated to them on the Island-side of the bridge with a Time Capsule buried underneath.

As well as several hundred new homes, there is a primary school and community church, a community centre, a doctor's surgery and a late-night pharmacy.  There is extensive open space between housing parcels, as well as sports fields and play areas.

There are riverside walks and cycle paths on the island, and many of the paths in the middle of the island give views of the surrounding area.

There are no retail facilities on the island: those, and cafes and restaurants, are off the island.  The Dockside Outlet Centre shopping precinct is within a twenty-minute walk. This includes a Co-Operative supermarket and The Ship and Trades public house (a Shepherd Neame outlet), while a short drive at Gillingham Pier is a large Asda. The western lock basin (Basin 1) now houses a marina.

Since 2008, with the growth of island community, Youth Club "The Island's Castaways" has been established, providing many activities for children. Also, for retired members of the community, there is St Mary's Island Active Retirement Association (SAINTARA) that is also successfully running since 2008. There is a thriving and influential residents' association (SMIRA) lobbying local authorities to ensure that the island remains an extraordinary place to live, work, study and play.

Recent developments include two large apartment blocks situated on the Marina. These will also house a gym and bar/restaurant.

There is permanent road access onto the island, with good local security, making the island safer than the average new housing development .

The island is served Monday-Saturday by the Arriva Southern Counties route 100 which provides links to Chatham Town Centre, the bus station and the railway station. On Sundays, the island is served by route 151 operated by Nu-Venture.

Wildlife
Many species of birds have been recorded on St Mary's Island, including European green woodpecker, greater spotted woodpecker and sparrowhawk. Redwings and cormorants are common visitors to the island in winter. Skylarks have been spotted in the summer in the meadows and heathland where there are plans to build more houses.

References

External links
 http://www.stmarysisland.uk.com

Places in Medway