[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pierre Krähenbühl

cting the ICRC's traditionally discreet diplomacy, Krähenbühl spoke publicly about civilians affected by war in Afghanistan, Iraq, Colombia, Sri Lanka, and elsewhere. More controversially, he broke with ICRC tradition by making public comments about the Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse in 2004.

Running UNRWA 
On 29 July 2019, Al Jazeera reported that an internal UNRWA report details alleged abuses of authority among the organization's senior management, including Krähenbühl. According to Al Jazeera, the internal report says that Krähenbühl and other UNRWA leaders pose "an enormous risk to the reputation of the UN" and that "their immediate removal should be carefully considered." Krähenbühl "unreservedly" rejected the characterization of UNRWA and its senior leadership and cited the ongoing investigation by the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services as preventing him from publicly responding to any allegations. On 6 November 2019, the UNRWA released a statement announcing that the UN's Office of Internal Oversight Services (OIOS) completed a part of its ongoing inquiry into UNRWA management-related matters, that its findings revealed management issues which related specifically to Krähenbühl, and that Krähenbühl 'has stepped aside until the completion of the process'. Krähenbühl then resigned.
According to the report from the Swiss radio television program Temps Present, the report of the UN internal investigation does only point to "few elements to charge" Krähenbühl who is appointed the high representative of the President of the ICRC in China in May 2021.

Personal life
Pierre Krähenbühl is married to Taiba Rahim, who is the President of the Nai-Qala Association, an organisation dedicated to health and education projects in Afghanistan. They have three sons, Bilal, Elias and Ilham.

References

External links
 Pierre Krähenbühl: Conflict, violence and delivering aid  on SlowTV

1966 births
Living people
Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies alumni
Red Cross personnel
Non-profit executives
UNRWA officials
Swiss officials of the United Nations
United Nations High Commissioners for Refugees
People from Geneva