[Source: Gutenberg#2814 | Part 29]
# Utopia — Thomas More

ght open the way for him.

A volume of Byron’s poems lay before him on the table. He opened it
cautiously with his left hand lest he should waken the child and began
to read the first poem in the book:

     _Hushed are the winds and still the evening gloom,
         Not e’en a Zephyr wanders through the grove,
     Whilst I return to view my Margaret’s tomb
         And scatter flowers on the dust I love._

He paused. He felt the rhythm of the verse about him in the room. How
melancholy it was! Could he, too, write like that, express the
melancholy of his soul in verse? There were so many things he wanted to
describe: his sensation of a few hours before on Grattan Bridge, for
example. If he could get back again into that mood....

The child awoke and began to cry. He turned from the page and tried to
hush it: but it would not be hushed. He began to rock it to and fro in
his arms but its wailing cry grew keener. He rocked it faster while his
eyes began to read the second stanza:

     _Within this narrow cell reclines her clay,
         That clay where once...._

It was useless. He couldn’t read. He couldn’t do anything. The wailing
of the child pierced the drum of his ear. It was useless, useless! He
was a prisoner for life. His arms trembled with anger and suddenly
bending to the child’s face he shouted:

“Stop!”

The child stopped for an instant, had a spasm of fright and began to
scream. He jumped up from his chair and walked hastily up and down the
room with the child in his arms. It began to sob piteously, losing its
breath for four or five seconds, and then bursting out anew. The thin
walls of the room echoed the sound. He tried to soothe it but it sobbed
more convulsively. He looked at the contracted and quivering face of
the child and began to be alarmed. He counted seven sobs without a
break between them and caught the child to his breast in fright. If it
died!...

The door was burst open and a young woman ran in, panting.

“What is it? What is it?” she cried.

The child, hearing its mother’s voice, broke out into a paroxysm of
sobbing.

“It’s nothing, Annie ... it’s nothing.... He began to cry....”

She flung her parcels on the floor and snatched the child from him.

“What have you done to him?” she cried, glaring into his face.

Little Chandler sustained for one moment the gaze of her eyes and his
heart closed together as he met the hatred in them. He began to
stammer:

“It’s nothing.... He ... he began to cry.... I couldn’t ... I didn’t do
anything.... What?”

Giving no heed to him she began to walk up and down the room, clasping
the child tightly in her arms and murmuring:

“My little man! My little mannie! Was ’ou frightened, love?... There
now, love! There now!... Lambabaun! Mamma’s little lamb of the
world!... There now!”

Little Chandler felt his cheeks suffused with shame and he stood back
out of the lamplight. He listened while the paroxysm of the child’s
sobbing grew less and less; and tears of remorse started to his eyes.




COUNTERPARTS


The bell rang furiously and, when Miss Parker went to the tube, a
furious voice called out in a piercing North of Ireland accent:

“Send Farrington here!”

Miss Parker returned to her machine, saying to a man who was writing at
a desk:

“Mr Alleyne wants you upstairs.”

The man muttered “_Blast_ him!” under his breath and pushed back his
chair to stand up. When he stood up he was tall and of great bulk. He
had a hanging face, dark wine-coloured, with fair eyebrows and
moustache: his eyes bulged forward slightly and the whites of them were
dirty. He lifted up the counter and, passing by the clients, went out
of the office with a heavy step.

He went heavily upstairs until he came to the second landing, where a
door bore a brass plate with the inscription _Mr Alleyne_. Here he
halted, puffing with labour and vexation, and knocked. The shrill voice
cried:

“Come in!”

The man entered Mr Alleyne’s room. Simultaneously Mr Alleyne, a little
man wearing gold-rimmed glasses on a clean-shaven face, shot his head
up over a pile of documents. The head itself was so pink and hairless
it seemed like a large egg reposing on the papers. Mr Alleyne did not
lose a moment:

“Farrington? What is the meaning of this? Why have I always to complain
of you? May I ask you why you haven’t made a copy of that contract
between Bodley and Kirwan? I told you it must be ready by four
o’clock.”

“But Mr Shelley said, sir——”

“_Mr Shelley said, sir...._ Kindly attend to what I say and not to what
_Mr Shelley says, sir_. You have always some excuse or another for
shirking work. Let me tell you that if the contract is not copied
before this evening I’ll lay the matter before Mr Crosbie.... Do you
hear me now?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Do you hear me now?... Ay and another little matter! I might as well
be talking to the wall as talking to you. Understand once for all th