[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Lithuanian Territorial Defense Force

achment units in the Vilnius Region to recognize his direct authority. All other units of LTDF were to become subordinates of the regional German commanders. Jeckeln demanded that the troops take an oath to Hitler. Furthermore, the detachment was to wear SS uniforms and use the Heil Hitler greeting.

Upon hearing this order, and being informed that it was signed by Jeckeln as early as April 15, Plechavičius opposed this challenge to his authority and rejected the demands. On May 9, he immediately ordered cadets training in Marijampolė, to return home. He also ordered LTDF battalions in the Vilnius Region to stop hostilities with AK forces and return to their assigned garrisons. Plechavičius issued an order for his men to disband and disappear into the forests with their weapons and uniforms. The Lithuanian headquarters directed the detachment units in the field to obey only the orders of the Lithuanian chain of command. On May 12, Plechavičius refused to meet with newly appointed Kurt Hintze and sent his chief of staff, Colonel Oskaras Urbonas, who told Hintze that Plechavičius never meant to be an SS officer, nor ever wanted to serve in that structure. Jeckeln suggested that LTDF fight on the Western Front, but Plechavičius refused. The failures of the operation against the Polish Home Army resistance, culminating in the LTDF defeat in the Battle of Murowana Oszmianka on May 13–14, gave the Germans another excuse to assert their control over the formation.

Persecutions
Plechavičius and Urbonas were arrested on May 15. Jeckeln and Hintze delivered a speech before the remaining LTDF officers accusing them of banditry, sabotage, and political agenda and threatening them with executions and transfer to concentration camps. Jeckeln announced that LTDF would be disbanded and disarmed. Soldiers of the LTDF would be transferred to the German air defence forces in the Luftwaffe. Anyone who deserted would be shot on sight, and trigger repressions against their families. 

Together with other members of the LTDF staff Plechavičius was deported to the Salaspils concentration camp in Latvia. Altogether, 52 LTDF officers ended up in Salaspils. To make an example Germans publicly executed 12 randomly selected soldiers in a Vilnius line-up of some 800 men. 84 or 86 members of LTDF were shot in Paneriai. While transporting some of the arrested men to Kaunas, one of the NCOs was executed on the spot. Germans sent 106 cadets to Stutthof, and 983 soldiers to Oldenburg concentration camp.

Most of the soldiers were to be disarmed and arrested by the Germans, but they succeeded in disarming only four out of 14 battalions. On May 16, German units arrived to liquidate the Marijampolė officers' school, but found only a dozen soldiers. A firefight began when they tried to disarm them and four or five soldiers were killed. 

About 3,500 members of the LTDF were drafted by force into other Nazi formations: several infantry battalions under Colonel  were sent to the Eastern Front, some became guards at Luftwaffe installations outside Lithuania and others were sent to Germany as forced laborers. 

Many soldiers managed to evade the Germans and disappeared with their weapons. They formed the core of the armed anti-Soviet resistance, which waged a guerrilla war for the next eight years. Covert Soviet plans for the destruction of the remnants of Plechavičius' army had already been created in 1944 and the Soviets executed or imprisoned LTDF soldiers they captured. LTDF was the last large mobilization attempt by the Nazis.