[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Curtis Woodhouse

eld manager David Holdsworth hoped Woodhouse would stay at the club, but on 18 June, he joined Conference North team Harrogate Town. On 27 November, he defeated Dean Hickman by TKO in round 6. This was Woodhouse's first fight in the light-welterweight division, having dropped down from welterweight.

On 13 January 2010, in an interview to the Grimsby Telegraph, Woodhouse commented he would definitely consider a move back to former club Grimsby Town after expressing his dismay at The Mariners languishing near the bottom of the League Two, within danger of being relegated from the Football League. He commented "If they are looking for a central midfielder, though, they are welcome to give me a call". Harrogate released him by mutual consent on 25 February. Three days later he avenged his defeat by Jay Morris by beating him with a TKO in round 3. This gave Woodhouse the first title of his boxing career, the International Masters light-welterweight title. On 25 April, Woodhouse defended the title with a 4th-round knockout of Maurycy Gojko, who stepped in as a late replacement for Steve Saville. Next, on 2 July, Woodhouse knocked out veteran Stefy Bull in round 9. His next fight was due to be against 2006 Commonwealth Games gold medallist and former world amateur champion Frankie Gavin on 18 September, but Woodhouse pulled out days after the bout was announced in July. He moved up the non-League football ladder in June 2011, after signing for Conference North side Eastwood Town.

Managerial career
It was announced on 2 May 2012, that Woodhouse was the new manager of Northern Premier League Division One South club Sheffield. He also made one cup appearance for the club as a substitute, adding to the 14 appearances he had made in all competitions during his first spell. Woodhouse resigned in December 2012 after admitting having difficulty to managing a football team as well as being a professional boxer.

On 14 October 2013, Woodhouse was announced as the assistant manager at Northern Premier League Division One South club Goole, with former teammate David Holdsworth being appointed manager. In January 2014 Woodhouse replaced Holdsworth as manager following Holdsworth's resignation. Woodhouse then left Goole after some issues with the board, and took over at Hull United in January 2015. On 29 September 2016 Woodhouse was appointed as manager at Bridlington Town.

On 2 June 2019, Woodhouse was appointed manager of Tadcaster Albion. In October 2019 he left Tadcaster to join Gainsborough Trinity as manager. On 26 February 2021, Woodhouse parted from Gainsborough Trinity by mutual consent.

On 2 November 2022, Woodhouse was appointed manager of Marske United. On 23 February 2023, Marske United parted company with Woodhouse after three wins from thirteen matches.

Personal life
Woodhouse was born in Beverley and raised in Driffield. His father, Bernard Woodhouse, died at the age of 51 after he had a fatal stroke. Unlike other boys who idolised footballers, Woodhouse stated his heroes were Nigel Benn and Mike Tyson. He admits to fighting at school and in the streets after being racially abused: "I went from scrapping in the street and at school to fighting in the boxing ring from the age of 12. I was called a few names due to the colour of my skin, but with a quick smack in the mouth they soon backed off." He used to visit Boothferry Park to support Hull City before pursuing his career in professional football. He and his wife, Charlotte, have three children: two sons, Kyle and Caleb, and a daughter, Isla.
He published an autobiography, Box to Box: From the Premier League to British Boxing Champion, in 2016.

He was awarded the British Empire Medal in the 2021 New Year Honours.

Career statistics

Club

International
Source:

Professional boxing record