[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Newcastle town wall

ess their property outside the walls. Even before the walls were complete, they were supplemented by an outer ditch, known as the King's Dyke. The ditch was over 11 metres (36 ft) wide and 4.5 metres (15 ft) deep in front of the Herber and Morden Towers. It was completed by 1317.

Subsequent history

The town wall was kept in good repair whilst there was a threat of invasion from the Scots. In 1342, David II of Scotland invaded Northumberland and laid siege to Newcastle, without success. In 1388, another Scottish army under the Earl of Douglas assaulted the town, but was repulsed. As the border wars between England and Scotland became less frequent, and in particular following the union of the two crowns in 1603, the wall was allowed to deteriorate.

In 1640, during the Bishops' Wars and in 1644, during the English Civil War, Scottish armies were able to invade Newcastle despite the presence of the town wall. In 1648 the Parliamentarian governor had the wall repaired. Further repairs were carried out in 1667.  During the Jacobite rebellions of 1715 and 1745, it was substantially strengthened in preparation for an invading Jacobite army, but there were no attacks on those occasions. A long decline then began, during which the wall was demolished piecemeal to make way for new developments and to create better access to the town centre.  The last repairs to the wall were made in the early 19th century, during the Napoleonic Wars. After this it was thought that the town no longer needed a defensive barrier.

The first part of the wall to be demolished was the stretch on the quayside, as it was regarded as "a very great obstacle to carriages and a hindrance to the despatch of business". The quayside section was pulled down in 1763 and the Sand Gate followed in 1798.

Gates 
There were six main gateways through the wall, they were (clockwise from western end):

Close Gate – This gate was situated at the end of Close, the street that ran west from Sandhill, parallel with the river. In early times, Close was the principal residence of the wealthy traders of the town, and was lined with merchants’ houses backing on to the river, with their own wharves. It is believed that the town wall ran only a short distance  eastwards along the river from the Close Gate.  On the north side of the Close Gate was the Whitefriars Tower, and it was the section of wall near there that the Scottish forces under General Leven broke through in the siege of 1644, after breaching the wall by use of mines and artillery fire.  Close Gate was demolished in 1797.

West Gate – This gate led to the West Road which followed the line of the old Roman Wall. It had large oak gates and iron doors, and was described by the antiquary, John Leland, as "a mightye strong thinge."  It was, at one time, used as a prison, and later became the hall of the incorporated company of House Carpenters.  17 prisoners were held there during the Civil War, but they managed to escape.  It was demolished in 1811.

New Gate – This gate had heavy fortifications, and from 1399, these were used as the town gaol.  Condemned prisoners would be taken from there along Gallowgate to the gallows on the Town Moor.  East and west wings were constructed in 1702 and 1706, respectively; a north gate was later added.  By 1820, the gaol was considered to be in a poor state of repair and insecure.  A new gaol was built in Carliol Square, and the demolition of New Gate began in June 1823.  The east wing was pulled down first, followed by the west wing and the north gate; the oldest part of the structure remained standing but, despite opposition, it was removed the following September.  New Gate is believed to have replaced an earlier gateway known as Berwick Gate.

Pilgrim Gate or Pilgrim Street Gate – This gate, at the north end of Pilgrim Street, led out towards Jesmond. Pilgrims would use this gate when travelling to St Mary's Chapel, which was situated overlooking what is now Jesmond Dene; the chapel's ruins survive.  A room above the Gate was used by the Joiners' Company.  It was demolished in 1802.

Pandon Gate – This gate led northeast from the village of Pandon and had folding iron gates, but no portcullis.  Until 1648, it was used as a hall for the Barber Chirurgeons.  It was demolished in 1795.

Sand Gate – This gate led to the riverbank to the east of the town.  It was demolished in 1798.

Until 1695 the Gates were closed at night.

The walls today