[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Qods Mohajer

ut can compress on landing to reduce shock. Apart from the skids, it is essentially a refinement of the Mohajer-1 design. Its airframe is composed substantially of composite materials. The Mohajer-2 is 2.91m long and has a wingspan of 3.8 meters. It is powered by a 25 hp WAE-342 two-cylinder engine.

The Mohajer-2 has an autopilot system, which is able to maintain airspeed, altitude, and stability in flight. The autopilot system can control the aircraft's course via waypoints, or it can be controlled in real time from a ground control station. Like other Iranian drones, the Mohajer-2 lacks over-the-horizon guidance. The Mohajer-2 has a still or video (color or monochrome) camera, either fixed downwards for aerial surveying or mounted on a gimbal for surveillance. In addition, it has a fixed forwards-facing camera for navigation. There is no evidence the Mohajer-2 has been fitted with an infrared camera. It has an onboard digital processor and can downlink sensor imagery. The Mohajer-2 has two stub antenna in the under 10 GHz range, one on each wing, for real-time control. Prototype Mohajer-2s were fitted with two rocket pods for 12 RPG-7 rockets, similar to the Mohajer-1's, but this model did not enter production. The Mohajer-2 has a GPS guidance system.

The Mohajer-2 is launched from a PL3 pneumatic catapult, which can be truck-mounted, wheeled, or ship-mounted. It can also be launched from a JATO platform, though this is uncommon. It is recovered by skid landing or parachute.

Performance 
Has an endurance of 1.5 hours and range of 50 km. The Mohajer-2 is about ten feet long and has a wingspan of about 12 feet. The tail wingspan is exactly 3 ft.

Operational history 
During the 1990s Afghan civil war, Mohajer drones reportedly monitored the situation. A Mohajer (unknown variant) may have been shot down over Iraq on 19 April 2001. The Mohajer-2 is also known to be operated by Hezbollah. There are also inconclusive reports Mohajer-2s have been used over Syria.

In addition to its military use, the Mohajer-2 can also be used for weather reporting.

It is possible, but unconfirmed, that the Raad-85 is a variant of the Mohajer-2.

Arpia 

In 2007, Venezuela signed an agreement with Iran to assemble 12 Mohajer-2 UAVs from knock-down kits supplied by Quds. Venezuelan state-owned defense contractor CAVIM began assembling the drones by 2009. US satellite imagery revealed the facility manufacturing the drones in 2010, and they were unveiled to the public as the CAVIM Arpia in 2012. Venezuela signed a $28 million contract to manufacture the UAVs, though it is unclear why, because this far exceeds the drones' value.

Mohajer-2N 

In 2014, Iran introduced the Mohajer-2N, which shares the same design as the Mohajer-2 but has far improved performance. The Mohajer-2N replaces the electronics of the Mohajer-2 with more modern versions and has also has improved flight characteristics. The Mohajer-2N has a range of 150 km and flight endurance of 6 hours. It is believed this is accomplished through fuel tanks in the wings combined with weight savings elsewhere. Cruise speed is 180 km/h. Body material is composite. The Mohajer-2N is also capable of transmitting imagery in real time. Like most Mohajer-2s, the Mohajer-2N has two cameras; one under the nose for navigation, and a second on a gimbal under the body for surveillance.

Visually, the Mohajer-2N is nearly identical to the Mohajer-2. It is mainly "distinguished" by being 1 cm longer, having a wingspan 2 cm wider, and being five kg heavier. It can be fitted with the Mohajer-2's landing skids or with wheeled landing gear. The Mohajer-2N is recovered by skid landing or parachute.

Mohajer-3 
The Mohajer-3, also known as the Dorna, was designed with a new airframe for better performance. It had a square body and featured a low-mounted horizontal stabilizer flush with the main wing, the only member of the Mohajer family configured this way. The Mohajer-3 could be fitted with fixed landing gear, for a runway takeoff, or with skids for a JATO launch. It was recovered by parachute or skid landing. It was powered by an unidentified 25 hp (18.6 kW) piston engine. The Mohajer-3 was announced in 1999.

The Mohajer-3 had a color/monochrome still or video camera, and was able to send images in real time. and  It had a range of 100 km, an endurance of 2–3 hours, and a cruise speed of 180 km/h. It did not have GPS guidance.

It was developed contemporaneously with the Mohajer-4 and did not enter service.

Mohajer-4 
 
The Mohajer-4 was designed for both the Iranian Army and the IRGC and entered service in late 1997. It may have entered mass production in 1999. It was first documented in 2003. Sources differ slightly on how many have been built; one sources says that 40 have been built as of 2006, while another says that as of the mid-2000s, 34 had been built.