[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# King of Wales

Latin versions of King of Wales () were titles used on a handful of occasions in the Middle Ages. They were very seldom claimed or applied by contemporaries, because Wales, much like Ireland, usually did not have either the political unity or sovereignty of other contemporary European kingdoms such as England or Scotland. While many early rulers of areas within Wales used the title of "King", they were not, and did not claim to be, rulers of all Wales. 

Geoffrey of Monmouth's History of the Kings of Britain achieved wide circulation from 1136. It has little historical value, but it popularized a list of legendary kings of Britain that remains influential.

Gruffydd ap Llywelyn 

The modern territory of Wales was united under the rule of Gruffydd ap Llywelyn from 1055 to 1063. John of Worcester referred to him as Rex Walensium, King of the Welsh. There is no evidence that Gruffydd ap Llywelyn himself ever claimed the title of King of Wales, or that it was recognized by other states. 

Some modern authors have applied the title of King of Wales to Gruffudd ap Llywelyn. "In 1055 he conquered Deheubarth as well, thus becoming in effect King of Wales". John Davies states that Gruffydd was "the only Welsh king ever to rule over the entire territory of Wales... Thus, from about 1057 until his death in 1063, the whole of Wales recognised the kingship of... Gruffudd ap Llywelyn". 

After his betrayal and death at the hands of his own men, Wales again became disunited, and was reunited only by the Conquest of Wales by Edward I.

Use by regional rulers
The title King of Wales was later used by at least one other Welsh ruler, Owain Gwynedd (c. 1100–1170). His direct rule was, however, limited to Gwynedd. In his first two letters to Louis VII of France, Owain described himself as "king of Wales" and "king of the Welsh". Nevertheless, his last letter to Louis used the title Prince; Owain was also the first Welsh ruler to claim the title of Prince of Wales. 

After the death of Owain Gwynedd in 1170, Rhys ap Gruffydd (c. 1132–1197), was called "Head of all Wales" by the Brut y Tywysogion on his death in 1197. His direct rule was limited to Deheubarth.

Prince of Wales 

Since the death of Owain Glyndŵr in 1415, the title of Prince of Wales has only been held by non-native heirs to the English (and later British) monarchy.

See also
 List of rulers of Wales
 King of the Britons
 Prince of Wales

References

 King of Wales