[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Moana Jackson

he was appointed a visiting fellow in the faculty of law at Victoria University of Wellington. In the early 2010s he chaired a board appointed by the Minister of Education to ensure the survival of Te Aute College, a school with a strong Māori character which was experiencing financial difficulties.

Views on criminal justice 
Jackson challenged the role of prisons in the criminal justice system and argued that they should never be the only answer, particularly for indigenous people. He noted that indigenous people traditionally have justice systems that seek to restore "the balance between the wrongdoer and the victim through mediation processes involving sanction and recompense". At a conference in 2018, Jackson said the New Zealand criminal justice system isolates both the perpetrator and the victim from their communities and history. He challenged the notion of one law for all and the Eurocentric approach to crime with the offender viewed as separate from the culture and society they grow up in.

Jackson highlighted the importance of showing positive portrayals of Māori in the media, as the negative portrayal of Māori may damage their self-worth.

Awards 

In 2017 Jackson was awarded an honorary doctorate from Victoria University of Wellington for his outstanding contribution to legal scholarship around the Treaty and to public debates about how Māori are treated by the justice system and their place in New Zealand society more broadly. He refused any formal honours from the New Zealand government, saying he would not accept them unless the Treaty of Waitangi was fully incorporated into New Zealand governance.

In 2021 he was made a Companion of the Royal Society Te Apārangi, recognising his leadership in New Zealand. In May 2021, he was presented with the inaugural Te Whare Pukenga award by the National Iwi Chairs forum, to recognise his "outstanding contributions as an advocate, facilitator and educator" in relation to the Treaty of Waitangi, human rights and social justice.

Selected publications

References

External links
 "The Art of Having Faith in Ourselves", excerpt from Jackson's foreword to Toi Tū Toi Ora: Contemporary Māori Art (2022)
 "Covid and the Pandemic of Colonisation", article by Jackson for E-Tangata, 12 December 2021

1945 births
2022 deaths
20th-century New Zealand lawyers
21st-century New Zealand lawyers
Companions of the Royal Society of New Zealand
Moana
Māori activists
Māori studies academics
New Zealand Māori academics
New Zealand Māori lawyers
Ngāti Kahungunu people
Ngāti Porou people
People educated at Hastings Boys' High School
Academic staff of Te Wānanga o-Raukawa
Treaty of Waitangi
Victoria University of Wellington alumni