[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eon (novel)

Eon is a science fiction novel by American author Greg Bear published by Bluejay Books in 1985. Eon was nominated for an Arthur C. Clarke Award in 1987. It is the first novel in The Way series; followed by Eternity.

Plot 
In the early 21st century, NATO and the Soviet Union are on the verge of a second nuclear war. Incidentally, a 290 km prolate spheroid has been detected following an anomalous energy burst just outside the solar system. It is an asteroid: Juno.  It moves into an eccentric near-Earth orbit where the rival polities of Earth each try to claim this mysterious object.

Juno has been hollowed out along its long axis, subdivided into seven cylindrical chambers, and rotates to provide artificial gravity. The chambers are terraformed, with the second and third containing cities that have been maintained by automatic systems for centuries. This small world is dubbed "the Stone" by the Americans, "the Potato" by the Soviets, “the Whale” (鲸) by the Chinese and “the Thistledown” by its absent makers. Explorers of its interior discover that the end of the Stone's seventh chamber opens into “the Way”, a corridor that extends beyond the size of the asteroid. The Stone’s original inhabitants have been evacuated into the Way at some time in its past, which is the explorers’ future.

At the opening of the novel, in 2005, Judith Hoffmann, head of the commission that coordinates the exploration of the Stone, recruits a theoretical physicist. The physicist, Patricia Vasquez, arrives at the Stone and receives clearance for all the information discovered by the existing science teams, including libraries that describe a nuclear holocaust—“the Death”—taking place in 2005. Only some NATO science teams are privy to this information. Chinese and Russian science teams are present, but politically restricted.

Since the Stone appears prior to the recorded date of the Death, and there is no record of the Stone’s appearance in its libraries, the scientists reason that the Stone may come from an alternate future, but it turns out the Death is indeed imminent even with the Stone. The USSR, while protesting restrictions placed upon its scientists, trains space assault teams. A Soviet attack on the Stone coincides with the Death, which triggers a nuclear winter on Earth and isolates survivors from all factions on the Stone.

The descendants of the Stone's creators live a million kilometers into the Way and 1,200 years into Vasquez’s future, in a civilization called the Hexamon. They have been secretly observing the explorers. Olmy, a humanoid agent of the Hexamon, and his nameless Frant (alien) colleague, kidnap Vasquez because they understand that she is close to discovering secrets of the Stone and the Way. They take her to Axis City, their main settlement. Four of her colleagues search for her using a specially-modified V/STOL craft connected to a "tuberider", a device that allows the craft to be hitched to the tubular singularity that runs through the center of the Way.

The rescuers are intercepted when they near Axis City and reunited with Vasquez, who is caught up in the politics of the Hexamon. It is presided over by a governing body, the Nexus, loosely divided into two social groups: Progressive Geshels, who embrace body-swapping and life-extending technologies, and conservative Naderites. The latter are named after Ralph Nader, who has become identified with empathy and opposition to nuclear war in the centuries since his death. The Hexamon is threatened by alien invaders called the Jart, who are more adapted to the physics of the Way and live beyond its 2x10^9 kilometer (2 billion kilometer) point.

The Jart attempt to destroy the Hexamon by opening a gate into the heart of a star, allowing superheated plasma to enter. To counter the threat, a coalition within the Hexamon seizes control of the Nexus. The first part of their plan involves accelerating some tuberiding human habitats to near light-speed. Scientists theorize that the shockwave thus generated will protect them from the blast of stellar plasma, while simultaneously sealing open gates along the Way and destroying their enemies, the Jart. The second half of their plan requires the separation of the Stone from the Way. When this is done, two more Hexamon habitats join the Stone in Earth orbit, at the time just after the Death.

Major themes