[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Environmental dumping

) during a multi-year grace period consistent with the principal of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, there are advantages to earlier implementation when superior alternatives are already available at reasonable costs, as is the case for many uses of HFCs today.

Decision of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol addresses dumping of cooling appliances (2022) 
To strengthen the Montreal Protocol, Ghana on behalf of all African States parties to the Montreal Protocol proposed a Decision that the Montreal Protocol Parties negotiated and adopted as Decision XXXIV/4 at the Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in November 2022. Decision XXXIV/4 invites parties that have restricted the manufacture and/or import of certain refrigeration, air-conditioning and heat pump products and equipment containing or relying on controlled substances, including with respect to energy efficiency, and that do not want to receive such products and equipment from other parties against payment or free of charge, to submit specific information to the Secretariat of the Montreal Protocol for discussion and consideration at the Forty-Fifth Open-Ended Working Group (OEWG) and Thirty-Fifth Meeting of the Parties (MOP) in 2023.

In parallel, the Montreal Protocol Parties reached Decision XXXIV/3 that requests the Montreal Protocol Technology and Economic Assessment Panel (TEAP) further investigate claims of environmentally harmful dumping of cooling equipment.

These decisions set the stage for further deliberation of and future decisions on the topic of preventing environmental dumping of inefficient cooling equipment containing or using high-GWP refrigerants with the ambition  is to open markets to superior cooling appliances with savings in electricity cost spent locally.

See also 

 Chemical Waste Management, Inc. v. Hunt
 City of Philadelphia v. New Jersey
 Environmental justice
 Environmental protection
 Environmental racism
 Global environmental inequality
 Global waste trade
 NIMBY
 Pollution haven hypothesis
 Pollution in China
 Pollution is Colonialism
 Sacrifice zone
 Toxic colonialism
 Toxic waste dumping by the 'Ndrangheta

References

Further reading
 Canneman, Willem. "Riding the waves Shipping waste from Europe to China." Waste-Management-World.com  Dec. 2008. 6 Feb. 2009
 Commission of the European Communities. "Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, The Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions" 19 Nov. 2008. Web. 10 Feb. 2009 
 Environment Directorate-General of the European Commission. "Waste Shipments." EUROPA.com 30 Aug. 2007. Web. 4 Feb. 2009. 
 "EU waste-shipment rules tightened." EurActive.com. 12 July 2007. Web. 6 Feb 2009. 
 ec.europa.eu/environment/impel
 "Ocean Dumping Grounds." MarineBio.org. 5 Feb. 2009 
 Tibbets, John. "Hazardous Waste. Constructing Rules for Dismantling Ships", Environmental Health Perspectives. 109.11 (2001): A522.
 "Transfrontier shipment of waste." Environmental Protection Agency. 2006. Web. 4 Feb. 2009. 
 "Notes on ship recycling convention for maritime students." maritime education - kaizad.tk 
 "Transport of non-hazardous waste." 2008. Web. 8 Feb 2009.

Protectionism
Waste management