[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Nuclear power in France

an electric car from the French electricity grid are 12 g per km traveled. 
This compares favourably to the direct emissions of one of the most successful hybrid electric vehicles, the Toyota Prius, which produces carbon dioxide emissions at the higher rate of 105 g per km traveled.

Fusion research

The nuclear fusion project ITER is constructing the world's largest and most advanced experimental tokamak nuclear fusion reactor in the south of France. A collaboration between the European Union (EU), India, Japan, China, Russia, South Korea and the United States, the project aims to make a transition from experimental studies of plasma physics to electricity-producing fusion power plants. In 2005, Greenpeace International issued a press statement criticizing government funding of the ITER, believing the money should have been diverted to renewable energy sources and claiming that fusion energy would result in nuclear waste and nuclear weapons proliferation issues. A French association including about 700 anti-nuclear groups, Sortir du nucléaire (Get Out of Nuclear Energy), claimed that ITER was a hazard because scientists did not yet know how to manipulate the high-energy deuterium and tritium hydrogen isotopes used in the fusion process. According to most anti-nuclear groups, nuclear fusion power "remains a distant dream". The World Nuclear Association says that fusion "presents so far insurmountable scientific and engineering challenges". Construction of the ITER facility began in 2007, but the project has run into many delays and budget overruns. The facility is now not expected to begin operations until the year 2027 – 11 years after initially anticipated.

See also

 List of nuclear reactors – France
 Politics of France
 Nuclear energy policy
 Anti-nuclear movement in France
 Death of Sebastien Briat
 World Nuclear Industry Status Report
 History of France's military nuclear program

Companies
 Électricité de France (EdF)
 Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique (CEA)

References

Further reading
 Gabrielle Hecht, includes afterword by Hecht, foreword by Michel Callon, The Radiance of France: Nuclear Power and National Identity after World War II (Inside Technology series), The MIT Press, New Edition (31 July 2009), trade paperback, 496 pages, .
 Hardcover (lacks both the foreword and afterword that are in the trade paperback New Edition), The MIT Press; 1st edition (29 September 1998), .

External links

 French Nuclear Power Program by the World Nuclear Association
 The reality of France's aggressive nuclear power push in Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists
 Interview with 1984 U.S. Ambassador to France from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives
 The World Nuclear Industry Status Reports website
 Radioactivity.eu.com – Nuclear Energie in France

 
Nuclear history of France