[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Armageddon

etely the wicked would be destroyed at Armageddon, dwelling at great length on prophecies of destruction. He stated that towards the close of his ministry, Rutherford allocated about half the space that was available in The Watchtower magazines to discussions about Armageddon.

Seventh-day Adventist

The teachings of the Seventh-day Adventist Church state that the terms "Armageddon", "Day of the Lord" and "The Second Coming of Christ" all describe the same event. Seventh-day Adventists further teach that the current religious movements taking place in the world are setting the stage for Armageddon, and they are concerned by an anticipated unity between spiritualism, American Protestantism and Roman Catholicism. A further teaching in Seventh-day Adventist theology is that the events of Armageddon will leave the earth desolate for the duration of the millennium. They teach that the righteous will be taken to heaven while the rest of humanity will be destroyed, leaving Satan with no one to tempt and effectively "bound". The final re-creation of a "new heaven and a new earth"; then follows the millennium.

Christadelphians
For Christadelphians, Armageddon marks the "great climax of history when the nations would be gathered together 'into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon', and the judgment on them would herald the setting up of the Kingdom of God."

Baháʼí Faith

From Baháʼí literature, a number of interpretations of the expectations surrounding the Battle of Armageddon may be inferred, three of them being associated with events surrounding the World Wars.

The first interpretation deals with a series of tablets written by Bahá'u'lláh, founder of the Baháʼí Faith, to be sent to various kings and rulers. The second, and best-known one, relates to events near the end of World War I involving General Allenby and the Battle of Megiddo (1918) wherein World Powers are said to have drawn soldiers from many parts of the world to engage in battle at Megiddo. In winning this battle Allenby also prevented the Ottomans from killing 'Abdu'l-Baha, then head of the Baháʼí Faith, whom they had intended to crucify. A third interpretation reviews the overall progress of the World Wars, and the situation in the world before and after.

See also

 1 Maccabees
 Al-Malhama Al-Kubra
 Amik Valley
 Antiochus Epiphanes
 Apocalyptic literature
 Armageddon (novel)
 Futurist view of the Book of Revelation
 Historicist interpretations of the Book of Revelation
 List of dates predicted for apocalyptic events
 Megiddo: The Omega Code 2
 Millenarianism
 Millennialism
 Preterist interpretation of the Book of Revelation
 Ragnarök
 Siege of Jerusalem (70)
 Waiting for Armageddon
 World War III

References

External links
 
 
 
 Armageddon." In James Crossley and Alastair Lockhart (eds.) Critical Dictionary of Apocalyptic and Millenarian Movements. 2021

Apocalypticism
Battlefields
Beliefs and practices of Jehovah's Witnesses
Book of Revelation
Christian terminology
New Testament Hebrew words and phrases
Prophecy in Christianity
Seventh-day Adventist theology