[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ecuadorian–Colombian War

The Ecuadorian–Colombian War (Spanish: Guerra ecuatoriano-colombiana),It was a series of armed conflicts waged between the current republics of Colombia and Ecuador between 1862, 1863.

Background 
In Colombia, the government of the conservative Mariano Ospina Rodríguez was faced with a liberal uprising led by the governor of Cauca Tomás Cipriano de Mosquera in 1860, which quickly turned into a civil war throughout the country. Numerous battles were fought before the liberal forces took the city of Bogotá in 1861, seized the president and proclaimed General Mosquera dictator. However the war continued with numerous Conservative leaders eager to regain the government. One of the conservatives confronted against Mosquera was the poet Julio Arboleda Pombo, who had also been elected president by the conservatives in the midst of the conflagration.

Meanwhile, in Ecuador, President Gabriel García Moreno imposed a strong centralist government desirous of greatness. On the causes of the war, Colombian and Ecuadorian historians differ; For the former it was an invasion led by President García Moreno in order to modify the borders, for the latter the conservative forces entered Ecuadorian territory in pursuit of some liberals. As General Vicente Fierro, Chief of the Rumichaca Reservation, tried to prevent the invasion, he was attacked by the Colombian commander Matías Rosero, to which García Moreno responded with an army of 1,200 men, while Arboleda mobilized 900 soldiers, led by his First Column by Colonel José Antonio Eraso and the Second Column by the Mayor of Pasto, Colonel José Francisco Zarama.

War

Battle of Tulcan 
On July 31, 1862, in the city of Tulcan, a confrontation occurred between the troops of Pombo and Moreno, resulting in a victory for the Granada Confederation. Garcia Moreno was taken prisoner but later released.

Later events 
these events left the situation tense between ecuador and the nascent united states of colombia.

Mosquera went to Antioquia and assumed the government of that State by convening a convention, which was installed on February 4, 1863 in Rionegro and in it the country was given the name of the United States of Colombia (1863-1886).

Ecuador sent the diplomat Antonio Flores Jijón, who made an agreement with the Mosquerista government, but the Ecuadorian president ignored the treaty and went to war. García Moreno sent General Juan José Flores,Mosquera had to go out to fight General Juan José Flores, head of the Ecuadorian armed forces, who had seized Tumaco and Túquerres with 5,000 infantry, 1,000 horsemen and some artillery pieces. being in charge of the government colombian Juan José Uricoechea.On August 15, Mosquera arrived in the territory of what is now the department of Nariño, beginning skirmishes and small battles in which the enemies recognized each other. The strength of the Ecuadorians rested on their cavalry, but it was not until December that the army was risked in battle.The Ecuadorians had crossed the border on November 21 of that year.The intention of the Ecuadorians, apart from the political quarrels between the two governments, was the annexation of the Pasto region, which they considered as their own.

Mosquera left 2,000 of his men in San Juan de Pasto and advanced with 1,000 vanguard soldiers to confront the enemy, awaiting him in the town of Guachucal, near Túquerres, but seeing the numerical superiority of the enemy, he decided to retreat and ordered the rest of his troops leaving Pasto to join forces, the city was immediately occupied by the Ecuadorians while several battalions of Colombian conservative soldiers deserted and went on to support the invading forces.

On November 26 Mosquera advanced with his troops to Sapuyes, near Túquerres, and then Chaitán where he divided his forces into two, one attacked the Malavar bridge and the other the San Guillermo bridge, positions defended by the Ecuadorian general Manuel Tomás Maldonado, being Rejected both times. At that time Mosquera was in the Chupadero plain and Maldonado advised Flores to attack the enemy in retreat with the cavalry, which was rejected by the latter.

The Colombian army then opted to continuously move around avoiding a battle until they had fully regrouped after their defeat and finally entered enemy territory,Mosquera finally entrenched himself in Cuaspud on December 3.

Battle of Cuaspud 

García Moreno orders General Flores to mobilize towards the north of Ecuador almost all of the existing battalions in the territory, around 8,200 infantrymen and 1,150 Horsemen distributed in 4 divisions: Draquea, Salvador, Maldonado and Dávalos.