[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Musès

-will deteriorate again into self-will.”

Muses had no success in attaining a tenured position as a faculty member at an institution of higher education. Forced to give lectures to earn a living, he wrote books and began traveling the world. He continued these pursuits for the remainder of his life.

In 1985, Kluwer-Nijhoff first published Muses' book entitled Destiny and Control in Human Systems.  In it he proposes a method called ‘chronotopology,’ which he claims can measure the qualitative multidimensional structure of time.  In chapter 5, entitled “Fonts Et Origo: Some Traditions Uniquely Illuminating the Structure and Meaning of Time Systems,” Muses provides historical sources for his claim, “That the nature of time is inextricably bound up with the origins of evil. . .” (p. 128).  On page 138, he states, “Thus our world of waiting, disease, aging, suffering, and death stems from the nature of time itself and was part and parcel of the set of implied consequences of the Demuiurge’s Dream – that very brief nightmare that had spawned a reality of evil on awakening.”  And Muses states on page 139 that “. . . the God of our universe is a wounded God in heart although Himself recovered.  His domain, which before was a universally symbiotic cosmos, had now become the frenetically struggling, predominantly predatory one we all know, with Nature trying still to smile through her travail.  There is a mysterious tradition both in Iran and Egypt of the female aspect of this Divinity (Daena in Iran and Isis in Egypt) who did not share the death-dream of her spouse and who in fact helped him revive as the renewed and victorious Horus.”  

Muses also envisioned a mathematical number concept, Musean hypernumbers, that includes hypercomplex number algebras such as complex numbers and split-complex numbers as primitive types. He assigned them levels based on certain arithmetical properties they may possess. While many open questions remain, in particular about defining the relations of these levels, Muses pictured a wide range of applicability for this concept. Some of these are based on properties of magic squares, and even related to religious belief. He believed that these hypernumbers were central to issues of consciousness. 

Some research work about hypernumbers was done by the mathematicians Jens Koeplinger and John Shuster.

Muses was arrested in Egypt in March 1957 when he tried to remove a number of very valuable artifacts from the country on the argument that he did not realize that a license was required. He was finally convicted in August 1957, but was later allowed to return to the United States.

Selected writings 

 1951: Illumination on Jacob Boehme. The work of Dionysius Andreas Freher, King's Crown Press, New York
 1953: An Evaluation of Relativity Theory after a Half-century, S. Weiser, New York
 1955: East-West fire. Schopenhauer's optimism and the Lankavatara sutra. An excursion toward the common ground between Oriental and Western religion, Watkins, London
 1962: (editor) The Logic of Biosimulation: Aspects of the Theory of Artificial Intelligence: Proceedings of the First International Symposium on Biosimulation, Locarno, June 27 to July 5. 1960, Plenum, New York pages 115–163.
 1965: "Systematic stability and cybernetic control. An introduction to the cybernetics of higher integrated behavior", Rome
 1965: "Aspects of Some Crucial Problems in Biological and Medical Bio-Cybernetics", Band II, Elsevier, Norbert Wiener & J. P. Schade editors, Amsterdam
 1966: "The First Nondistributive Algebra, with Relations to Optimization and Control Theory", in: E. R. Caianiello: Functional Analysis and Optimization, Academic Press, New York/ London, pages 171–212.
 1967: "Hypernumber", Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 138, New York, pages 660, 901.
 1972: (with Arthur M. Young) Consciousness and Reality. The human pivot point, Outerbridge & Lazard, New Cork
 1985: Destiny and control in human systems, Studies in the interactive connectedness of time (chronotopology) (= Frontiers in systems research.). Kluwer-Nijhoff, Dordrecht/ Boston, .
 1991: "The Ageless Way of Goddess: Divine Pregnancy and Higher Birth in Ancient Egypt and China", in: Joseph Campbell, Charles Musès (editors) In All Her Names. Explorations of the feminine in divinity, Harper, San Francisco  , pages 131–164.
 1996: The Lionpath - The Big Picture: A Short Path to Regeneration for our time, Musaios. fifth printing, House of Horus, Sardis (B.C. Canada)
 1999: The Shamanic Lionpath, House of Horus, Musaios, Sardis (B.C. Canada)

See also
Pyramid of Ameny Qemau:pyramid he discovered in 1957

Notes

External links

Biography
An interview with Musès on chronotopology on You Tube
Hypernumbers: Real or imaginary
Lion Path website

1919 births
2000 deaths
20th-century mystics
People from Jersey City, New Jersey
Writers from New Jersey
20th-century American mathematicians