[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2006 United States immigration reform protests

teman Project increased due in part to backlash from the protests. On May 3, responding to the May 1 boycotts, the Minutemen embarked on a caravan across the United States in an effort to bring attention to a need for border enforcement. The caravan was expected to reach Washington, D.C., on May 12.

Regarding the Tucson-based anti-immigration movement: In 2006, the Southern Poverty Law Center wrote: "Roy Warden, 59, emerged this spring as one of the country's most controversial, volatile, and, many believe, dangerous characters of the anti-immigration movement."

Consequences of the 2006 immigration protests 
Although HR-4437 failed to pass through the Senate, it left a trail of consequences that affected the immigrant community. One of those consequences was intensive Immigration Customs Enforcement (ICE) raids during the final years of the Bush administration which continued throughout the Obama presidency. In the next couple of years, more than 300,000 undocumented immigrant were deported to their home countries, that is 100,000 more than the number of deported immigrants in 2005, a year before the protests. The increase in deportations caused fear of retaliation within the undocumented community and resulted in rapid demobilization.

Although HR-4437 did not become a law at the federal level, it did not prevent individual states from passing similar laws. In 2006, Pennsylvania passed the Illegal Immigration Relief Act, which fined landlords who rented housing to undocumented immigrants and also fined business owners who hired them. The State of Arizona passed S.B. 1070, which led to racial profiling and required police officers to request legal documentation from anyone they suspected was undocumented. Both laws, along with similar others, were deemed unconstitutional in part because the U.S. Constitution assigns control over immigration to the federal government, not individual states.

Social policy attitudes 
The effects of the protests were not limited to governmental and policy changes, either. Public opinion in the Latino community showed clear development based on both temporal and spacial exposure to the protests. The Latino National Survey (LNS) took place during the course of the protests, with approximately 37% of respondents being surveyed before the protests began. Using the  data from respondents before and after the advent of the protests, a study from The American Journal of Political Science compared immigration sentiments from before and after exposure to the 2006 protests. The table divided sentiments into three categories: amnesty, supporting immediate legalization; citizenship after time as a guest worker; or allowing guest workers temporary residence. Support for immediate legalization showed a 10% increase postprotest, while support for the temporary residence of guest workers dropped by 4%. 

The LNS also showed that 75% of Latino citizens believed the passing of the bill through the House and resulting discourse would prompt more Latinos to vote. The portion of Latinos who said they thought neither political party had acceptable immigration policy also increased from the 9% reported in 2004 to 20% in the 2006 report. The effects of the immigration reform protests were felt across the United States, both in policy and public opinion.

Latino political contributions and civic engagement 
Since undocumented immigrant communities were unable to vote, lobby, or influence politicians in more traditional ways, Latino leaders mobilized immigrants through non-voting activities, such as protests. Many Latinos indicated that the marches were the beginning of a new social and political movement that sought to gain civic empowerment. A report released by the Pew Hispanic Center indicated that Latinos would most likely vote in subsequent elections and The National Immigration Forum found that Latino voters were more enthusiastic to vote in 2006 due to the immigration debate, and the need to prevent legislation like HR-4437 from being approved by Congress. "Today we march, tomorrow we vote," was one of the most popular slogans during the 2006 immigrant protests. Such slogan indicated the value and need for Latino/a political contribution and recognition.

Timeline