[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Adam Smith

nother injury ourselves, not only to those classes, but to almost all the other classes of them".

Economic historians such as Jacob Viner regard Smith as a strong advocate of free markets and limited government (what Smith called "natural liberty"), but not as a dogmatic supporter of laissez-faire.

Economist Daniel Klein believes using the term "free-market economics" or "free-market economist" to identify the ideas of Smith is too general and slightly misleading. Klein offers six characteristics central to the identity of Smith's economic thought and argues that a new name is needed to give a more accurate depiction of the "Smithian" identity. Economist David Ricardo set straight some of the misunderstandings about Smith's thoughts on free market. Many continue to fall victim to the thinking that Smith was a free-market economist without exception, though he was not. Ricardo pointed out that Smith was in support of helping infant industries. Smith believed that the government should subsidise newly formed industry, but he did fear that when the infant industry grew into adulthood, it would be unwilling to surrender the government help. Smith also supported tariffs on imported goods to counteract an internal tax on the same good. Smith also fell to pressure in supporting some tariffs in support for national defence.

Some have also claimed, Emma Rothschild among them, that Smith would have supported a minimum wage, although no direct textual evidence supports the claim. Indeed, Smith wrote:

The price of labour, it must be observed, cannot be ascertained very accurately anywhere, different prices being often paid at the same place and for the same sort of labour, not only according to the different abilities of the workmen, but according to the easiness or hardness of the masters. Where wages are not regulated by law, all that we can pretend to determine is what are the most usual; and experience seems to show that law can never regulate them properly, though it has often pretended to do so. (The Wealth of Nations, Book 1, Chapter 8)

However, Smith also noted, to the contrary, the existence of an imbalanced, inequality of bargaining power:
A landlord, a farmer, a master manufacturer, a merchant, though they did not employ a single workman, could generally live a year or two upon the stocks which they have already acquired. Many workmen could not subsist a week, few could subsist a month, and scarce any a year without employment. In the long run, the workman may be as necessary to his master as his master is to him, but the necessity is not so immediate.

See also 

 Critique of political economy
 Organizational capital
 List of abolitionist forerunners
 List of Fellows of the Royal Society of Arts
 People on Scottish banknotes
 Adam Smith's America

References

Informational notes

Citations

Bibliography
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Helbroner, Robert L. The Essential Adam Smith. 
 
 Otteson, James R. (2002). Adam Smith's Marketplace of Life. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Further reading

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hardwick, D. and Marsh, L. (2014). Propriety and Prosperity: New Studies on the Philosophy of Adam Smith. Palgrave Macmillan
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Phillipson, Nicholas (2010). Adam Smith: An Enlightened Life, Yale University Press, , 352 pages; scholarly biography
 Pichet, Éric (2004). Adam Smith, je connais !, French biography. 
 Vianello, F. (1999). "Social accounting in Adam Smith", in: Mongiovi, G. and Petri F. (eds.), Value, Distribution and capital. Essays in honour of Pierangelo Garegnani, London: Routledge, .
 
 Wolloch, N. (2015). "Symposium on Jack Russell Weinstein's Adam Smith's Pluralism: Rationality, Education and the Moral Sentiments". Cosmos + Taxis
 "Adam Smith and Empire: A New Talking Empire Podcast," Imperial & Global Forum, 12 March 2014.

External links

 
 
 
 
 
 References to Adam Smith in historic European newspapers
  at the Adam Smith Institute

 
1723 births
1790 deaths
18th-century Scottish writers
18th-century British philosophers
Academics of the University of Glasgow
Age of Enlightenment
Alumni of Balliol College, Oxford
Alumni of the University of Glasgow
British classical liberal economists
British male non-fiction writers
Burials at the Canongate Kirkyard
Capitalism
Classical economists
Critics of work and the work ethic
Enlightenment philosophers
Fellows of the Royal Society
Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
Founder Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
Members of the Philosophical Society of Edinburgh
Political realists
People of the Scottish Enlightenment
People from Kirkcaldy
Philosophers of economics
Philosophers of logic
Rectors of the University of Glasgow
Scottish business theorists
Scottish economists
Scottish logicians
Scottish philosophers
Scottish scholars and academics
Social philosophers
Virtue ethicists
British liberal theorists