[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Japanese cruiser Natori

was a  light cruiser in the Imperial Japanese Navy. The ship was named after the Natori River in Miyagi prefecture, Japan. Natori was the third vessel completed in the Nagara class of light cruisers. Like other vessels of her class, she was intended for use as the flagship of a destroyer flotilla.

Construction and career

Early career
Natori was completed at Mitsubishi's Nagasaki shipyard on 15 September 1922. Soon after commissioning, Natori was assigned to patrols off the China coast. From 1938, the cruiser was based in Taiwan, and helped cover the landings of Japanese troops in southern China.

In 1940, a border dispute between Siam and French Indochina erupted into armed conflict. A Japanese-sponsored "Conference for the Cessation of Hostilities" was held at Saigon and preliminary documents for a cease-fire between the governments of General Philippe Pétain's Vichy France and the Kingdom of Siam were signed aboard Natori on January 31, 1941.

Early stages of the Pacific War
On 26 November 1941, Natori became flagship of Rear Admiral Kenzaburo Hara's Destroyer Squadron 5 under Vice Admiral Ibo Takahashi's Third Fleet and was assigned to the No.1 Surprise Attack Unit of the Philippine Seizure Force. At the time of the attack on Pearl Harbor, Natori was escorting six transports carrying elements of the IJA's 48th Infantry Division from Mako, Pescadores to Aparri, northern Luzon. The landing force was attacked by three USAAF B-17 Flying Fortress bombers of the 14th Squadron on 10 December 1941, which damaged Natori and the escorting destroyer  with near misses. After repairs at Mako, Natori ferried 27 transports with the 47th Infantry Regiment of the 48th Infantry Division and the 4th Tank Regiment to Lingayen Gulf in late December.

On 26 December 1941, Natori was reassigned to the No. 2 Escort Unit with the light cruiser , and tasked with escorting 43 transports of the Third Malaya Convoy to Singora.

Battle of the Sunda Strait
Natori was later assigned escort duties to cover the invasion force for the Dutch East Indies, and participated in the Battle of Sunda Strait on 28 February 1942.

Natori with Destroyer Division 5's , Destroyer Division 11's , , Destroyer Division 12's  and  and Destroyer Division 27's  with Cruiser Division 7's  and  deployed north and west of the landing areas. The heavy cruiser  and the light cruiser  sortied for Tjilatjap via the Sunda Strait and attacked Japanese troop transports screened only by ,  and . The destroyers made smoke to mask the transports. Fubuki charged Houston and Perth and launched torpedoes.

At 2300, the Third Escort Force's Natori and her destroyers arrived with the Western Support Force's Mogami, Mikuma and . Shiratsuyu opened fire on the Allies. Natori, with Hatsuyuki and Shirayuki, then opened fire and rapidly closed the range. At 2308, the Allied cruisers turned northeast and Natori and her destroyers headed southeast in three columns. Between 2310 and 2319 they launched 28 torpedoes at the Allies. Perths gunfire damaged Harukazes rudder and Shirayukis bridge.

At 2319, Mikuma and Mogami each fired six Type 93 "Long Lance" torpedoes at Perth from about  and opened main battery fire from about , assisted by searchlights on their destroyers. At 2327, Mogami fired six Long Lances at Houston. They missed, but hit the Army transports Sakura Maru, Horai Maru, Tatsuno Maru and the Commander-in-Chief of the invading Japanese 16th Army, Lieutenant General Hitoshi Imamura's transport Ryujo Maru.

At 2326, Harukaze and Hatakaze launched torpedoes. At 2330, Shirakumo and Murakumo also launched torpedoes. Altogether, the Japanese launched about 90 torpedoes in the engagement. Perth, low on ammunition, was making  when the first torpedo hit her forward engine room. Two more torpedoes hit her forward magazine and aft under "X" turret, and she sank  east-northeast of St. Nicholas Point at  after a fourth torpedo hit. At 0045, Houston sank at .

On 10 March 1942, Natori was assigned to Cruiser Division 16 with the light cruiser . After the occupation of Java, Natori participated in the Battle of Christmas Island. At Christmas Island on 1 April 1942 the submarine  fired three torpedoes at Natori, but all missed. The cruiser  which was hit starboard near her No. 1 boiler was not so lucky, and had to be towed back to Bantam Bay by Natori.

In April, Natori was assigned to patrols of the Java Sea, which continued into June. After a refit back at Maizuru, Natori returned to the Java Sea and Timor Sea until December, with occasional calls at Mergui in Burma, Penang, Singapore and Davao.

On 21 December 1942, Natori embarked a Special Naval Landing Force, which it disembarked at Hollandia, New Guinea.