[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Typhoons in the Philippines

The Philippines is a typhoon-prone country, with approximately 20 typhoons entering its area of responsibility each year. Locally known generally as ,  typhoons regularly form in the Philippine Sea and less regularly, in the South China Sea, with the months of June to September being the most active, August being the month with the most activity. Each year, at least ten typhoons are expected to hit the island nation, with five expected to be destructive and powerful. In 2013, Time declared the country as the "most exposed country in the world to tropical storms".

Typhoons typically make an east-to-west route in the country, heading north or west due to Coriolis effect. As a result, landfalls occur in the regions of the country that faces the Pacific Ocean, especially Eastern Visayas, Bicol Region, and northern Luzon, whereas Mindanao is largely free of typhoons. Climate change is likely to worsen the situation, with extreme weather events including typhoons posing various risks and threats to the Philippines.

The 1881 Haiphong typhoon is believed to be the deadliest typhoon to have affected the country in history, killing an estimated 20,000 people in its path. However, in modern meteorological records, the record goes to Typhoon Yolanda, internationally known as Haiyan, which became the strongest typhoon to landfall in the entire meteorological history at that time, killing no less than 6,000 people as it crossed the Visayas in November 2013. The wettest known tropical cyclone to impact the archipelago was the July 14–18, 1911 cyclone which dropped over  of rainfall within a 3-day, 15-hour period in the northern city of Baguio. Tropical cyclones usually account for at least 30 percent of the annual rainfall in the northern Philippines while being responsible for less than 10 percent of the annual rainfall in the southern islands. According to the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical, and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) in 2016, the number of destructive typhoons the country experienced annually have increased, but notes that it is too early to call it a trend.

PAGASA is the state weather agency of the Philippines. Yearly, the agency gives a local name to the typhoons that enter its area of responsibility in addition to the international name given by the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA), the designated Regional Specialized Meteorological Center (RSMC) by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO). The state agency also regularly issues weather bulletins and advisories to the public especially during typhoons. It uses a five-point warning scale that are issued to the entirety or parts of the provinces and localities affected by a typhoon.

The National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) is the country's top agency for preparation and response to calamities and natural disasters, including typhoons. Additionally, each province and local government units has their own  Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (DRRMO). Each provincial and local government is required to set aside 5% of its annual budget for disaster risk reduction, preparations, and response.

The frequency of typhoons in the Philippines have made typhoons a significant part of everyday ancient and modern Filipino culture.

Etymology
 (sometimes spelled  or ) is the word for 'typhoon' or 'storm' in most Philippine languages, including Tagalog, Visayan, Ilocano, Bicolano, Hanunó'o, Aklanon, Pangasinan and Kapampangan. It is derived from Proto-Austronesian *, meaning 'typhoon'. Cognates in other Austronesian languages include Sama baliw ('wind'), Amis  or  ('typhoon'); Saisiyat  ('typhoon'), Babuza  ('storm'), Puyuma , Bintulu  ('wind'), Kelabit  ('storm wind'), and Chamorro  ('typhoon').

Storm naming conventions

The Joint Typhoon Warning Center in Honolulu started monitoring and naming storms in the Western Pacific region in 1945, originally using female names in English alphabetical order. That list was revised in 1979 by introducing male names to be used in alternation with the female names. The Philippine Weather Bureau started naming storms within their area of responsibility in 1963, using female Filipino names ending in the former native alphabetical order. The Bureau continued to monitor typhoons until the agency's abolition in 1972, after which its duties were transferred to the newly established PAGASA. This often resulted in a Western Pacific cyclone carrying two names: an international name and a local name used within the Philippines. This two-name scheme is still followed today.