[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Objective, Burma!

and was scheduled for 60 days, but shooting required more than 40 extra days due to bad weather and constant script changes.

The movie also contains a large amount of actual combat footage filmed by U.S. Army Signal Corps cameramen in the China-Burma-India theatre as well as New Guinea.

Reception

Critical
The New York Times wrote: "This is without question one of the best war films yet made in Hollywood. There are no phony heroics by Errol Flynn or any of the other members of a uniformly excellent cast. These boys conduct themselves like real soldiers and even the newspaper correspondent is a credit to the craft. The Warners have erred only in the film's excessive length. It runs approximately two hours and twenty minutes, or roughly thirty minutes more than appears to be absolutely necessary."

Variety noted: "The film has considerable movement, particularly in the early reels and the tactics of the paratroopers are authentic in their painstaking detail. However, while the scripters have in the main achieved their purpose of heightening the action, there are scenes in the final reels that could have been edited more closely."

Harrison's Reports wrote: "Very good! It ranks with the best of the war melodramas yet produced ... While the action holds one's interest all the way through, a cut of ten to fifteen minutes in the running time would not affect its dramatic punch." Film Daily wrote: "The picture impresses with its air of authenticity and the vivid realism that has gone into the telling of its story, and it possesses almost unremitting action crowded with the starkest of drama ... The primary fault of the film is that it is dragged out beyond all reason. There is much repetitious material that could be cut out to the improvement of the film."

Filmink called the film: "serious, hard and lacks any sort of female interest – the enemy are ruthless and clever and the soldiers still wisecrack, but they are professional, no-nonsense killers who follow orders and get along with each other (unless really stressed) i.e. there is no contrived in-fighting."

The Washington Star thought the film overlong - “It is one thing for an actual mission to be that long, quite another for a movie based upon it, a truth that has not yet occurred to Hollywood” - and too familiar, despite the novel location: “The characters...are pretty much the same ones who have fought through other cinema military missions....The dramatic incident devised to break the monotony of the jungle trek in Objective Burma has become the familiar material of a dozen such films....for the most part things happen just as they always have under the circumstances. Even the comedy exchanges, in most of which the cynical Gotham cabbie participates, have the ring of something you have heard before in exactly the same words.”

The Times (London), aware of the Allies’ very cosmopolitan forces in Burma, was displeased: “This long film has met with objections from American service men, and it is indeed a little extraordinary for it to imply that the Burma campaign was fought almost entirely without the aid of the British. There is one reference to the Fourteenth Army; during the course of the action it is rashly presumed by one of the party of American parachutists that a British outpost may be somewhere about, but this suggestion is promptly snubbed, and for the rest Mr. Flynn and the indomitable band he leads have it all their own way....the Japanese are shown as contemptibly inefficient fighters in their own kind of territory, and not all the parade of stubble chins and sweat-grimed faces can disguise the film’s lack of honesty in its account of a particular operation as well as of the general campaign.”

Box Office
According to Warner Bros records, Objective, Burma! earned $2,117,000 domestically and $1,844,000 foreign. It was the studio's sixth most popular film of the year, after Hollywood Canteen, To Have and Have Not, Arsenic and Old Lace, God Is My Co-Pilot and Christmas in Connecticut. The film was also one of the most popular movies of 1945 in France, with over 2.6 million admissions.

Controversies
Even though it was based on the exploits of Merrill's Marauders, Objective Burma was withdrawn from release in the United Kingdom after it infuriated the British public. Prime Minister Winston Churchill protested the Americanization of the huge and almost entirely British, Indian and Commonwealth conflict ('1 million men').

The Objective, Burma! London 1945 premiere was remarkable: At a line in the script, (by an American, to the effect) "We should head north, I hear there might be a few Brits somewhere over there" - The entire (English) audience walked out in outrage. It got a second release in the United Kingdom in 1952, when it was shown with an accompanying apology. The movie was also banned in Singapore although it was seen in Burma and India.