[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of Acts of the Parliament of England, 1603–1641

c. 29

1606 (4 Jas. 1)

The third session of the 1st Parliament of King James I (the 'Blessed Parliament') which met from 18 November 1606 until 4 July 1607.

Note that this session was traditionally cited as 4 Jac. 1; it is listed in the "Chronological Table of the Statutes" as 4 Ja. 1

Public Acts

 (Union of England and Scotland) c. 1 An act for the utter abolition of all memory of hostility, and the dependence thereof, between England and Scotland, and for repressing of occasions of disorders, and disorders in time to come. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (Woollen cloths) c. 2 An Act for the true making of Woollen Cloth.
 (Costs) c. 3 An Act to give Costs to the Defendant upon a Non-sute of the Playntiff or a Verdict agaynst him.
 (Sale of beer) c. 4 An Act to restraine the utterance of Beere and Ale to Alehouse Keepers and Typlers not licenced.
 (Drunkenness) c. 5 An Act for repressing the odious and loathsome sinne of Drunkennes.
 (Leather) c. 6 An Act for repealing of so much of One Branch of a Statute made in the First Year of His Majesty's Reign, intituled "An Act concerning Tanners Curriers Shoemakers and other Artificers occupying the cutting of Leather," as concerneth the sealing of Sheepskins and to avoid selling of tanned Leather by Weight.
 Northleech Grammar School Act 1606 c. 7 An Act for the founding and incorporating of a free grammar school in the town of Northleech in the county of Gloucester.
 (Land drainage (Kent Marshes, Lessness and Fantes)) c. 8 An Act touching the drowned marshes of Lesnes and Fants in the county of Kent. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1948
 (Explanation of 3 Jas. 1. c. 6) c. 9 An Act to explain a former act made in the last session of this parliament, intituled, "An Act to enable all his Majesty's loving subjects of England and Wales to trade freely into the dominions of Spain, Portugal and France." — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (Charter of Southampton) c. 10 An act for confirmation of some part of a charter granted by King Henry the Sixth to the mayor, bailiffs and burgesses of the town of Southampton, and for the relief of the said town.
 (Land inclosure, Herefordshire) c. 11 An Act for the better provision of meadow and pasture for necessary maintenance of husbandry and tillage in the manors, lordships and parishs of Marden, alias Mawarden, Bodenham, Wellington, Sutton St. Michael, Sutton St Nicholas, Murton upon Lug, and the parish of Pipe, and every of them, in the county of Hereford.
 (New River channel) c. 12 An Act for explanation a statute made the third year of the reign of King James, intituled, "An Act for the bringing in of a fresh stream of running water to the north parts of the city of London."
 (Land drainage (Waldersey Ring and Coldham)) c. 13 An Act for the draining of certain fens and low grounds in the isle of Ely, subject to hurt by surrounding, containing about six thousand acres, compelled about with certain banks commonly called and named the ring of Waldersey and Cooldham.

Private Acts

Assurance of a life interest in Theobalds House and other manors and lands to the Queen, of the same properties and other manors and lands to the King and of other manors and lands to the Earl of Salisbury. c. 1
John Good's estate: enabling him to convey a small piece of land to the King for a term of years. c. 2
Earl of Derby's estate: establishment and assurance of possessions and hereditaments. c. 3
Enabling Richard Sackville to surrender the office of Chief Butler to the King despite his minority. c. 4
Assurance of advowson of Cheshunt [Hertfordshire] to the Earl of Salisbury and of Orsett [Essex] to the Bishop of London. c. 5
William Ibgrave's estate: confirmation of an agreement between Lord Bruce and Michael Doyley and others. c. 6
Confirmation of letters patent to Robert Bathurst of the manor and borough of Lechlade (Gloucestershire). c. 7
Confirmation of letters patent to William Bourcher of the manor of Bardisley (Gloucestershire). c. 8
Confirmation of lands to All Souls' College, Oxford, and to Sir William Smith. c. 9
Confirmation of lands etc. to City of London companies and to the City. c. 10
Assurance to purchasers of lands, late the estate of Sir Jonathan Trelawney, directed to be sold for payment of debts. c. 11
Restitution in blood of Edward Windsor's children. c. 12
John Evelyn's estate: sale of lands for payment of debts. c. 13
Maintenance of John Tompson (the son of a lunatic), and assignment of a jointure for his future wife. c. 14
William Waller's estate: sale of lands for payment of a debt of £505 10s 6d. c. 15
Naturalization of John Steward. c. 16
Naturalization of Peter and Mary Baron or Baro. c. 17
Naturalization of James and Mary Desmaistres. c. 18
Naturalization of Fabian Smith. c. 19
Naturalization of John Ramsden. c. 20

1609 (7 Jas. 1)

The fourth session of the 1st Parliament of King James I (the 'Blessed Parliament'), which met from 9 February 1610 until 23 July 1610.