[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Beto O'Rourke

nate campaign and Obama's 2008 campaign for President, drawing parallels between their charismatic speaking styles, optimistic tones, and the nationwide attention their campaigns generated. Peter Hamby of Vanity Fair compared the energy at O'Rourke's rallies to the energy at Obama's rallies in 2007.

Results 
On November 6, 2018, Cruz defeated O'Rourke, 50.9%–48.3%. Despite his loss, O'Rourke was credited for the election of several down-ticket candidates of the Democratic Party, which some called the "Beto Effect". For example, Republicans lost control of the Texas Third and Fifth Courts of Appeals in the 2018 elections. Of 150 state House seats, 12 formerly Republican seats were taken by Democrats, as well as two of the state's 31 state Senate seats. O'Rourke received over four million votes, compared to Hillary Clinton, who received only 3.9 million votes in the 2016 presidential election in Texas, and David Alameel, the Democratic nominee in the 2014 Texas Senate race, who received only 1.6 million votes. O'Rourke set a record for most votes ever cast for a Democrat in Texas history.

2020 presidential campaign 

In late 2018, speculation began that O'Rourke might run in the United States presidential election in 2020. Prior to the midterm elections, The New Republic said O'Rourke's Senate campaign was the beginning of a bid for the presidency, despite calling it "journalistic hedging", or a justification for the media extensively covering a candidate who was expected to lose his race.

Democratic strategist Maria Cardona said he has "name recognition, a widely successful fundraising operation, a young fresh face with a sprinkling of woke, a cool persona, a new perspective, he speaks Spanish and would be an exciting and upbeat candidate." The possibility of an O'Rourke candidacy made some Democratic party donors hesitant to commit to other candidates.

On March 13, El Paso TV station KTSM-TV reported that O'Rourke had decided to run for President in 2020. O'Rourke confirmed speculation the following day by announcing that he was entering the presidential race. According to Politico, during his presidential race, O'Rourke presented his 2018 loss to Cruz as a prominent selling point.

O'Rourke announced the end of his campaign for president on November 1, 2019. He endorsed Joe Biden at a rally in Dallas, Texas on March 2, 2020, one day before Super Tuesday.

2019–2021 activities

In December 2019, O'Rourke founded the political action committee "Powered by People". The group is a hybrid PAC, which works like a super PAC and a traditional PAC.

After his 2020 presidential campaign ended, O'Rourke campaigned for Texas House of Representatives candidates such as Eliz Markowitz, Sima Ladjevardian, and Lorraine Birabil.

During the multiple crises that Texas faced as a result of the February 13–17, 2021 North American winter storm, O'Rourke organized virtual phone banks to perform wellness calls and offer assistance to senior citizens. He claimed that the volunteers he had organized had made 784,000 phone calls in a single day on February 18, 2021.

2022 Texas gubernatorial election

O'Rourke announced his bid for Governor of Texas in the 2022 gubernatorial election on November 15, 2021. He challenged incumbent Republican Greg Abbott. During his announcement video, O'Rourke called the 2021 Texas power crisis a "symptom of a much larger problem". With no serious primary challenge, O'Rourke won the Democratic nomination for governor in March 2022. 

Given Texas's Republican lean, polls showed O'Rourke as the underdog in the race against Abbott. In the general election, O'Rourke was defeated by Abbott, earning 43.8% of the vote to the latter's 54.9%.

The gubernatorial election marks O'Rourke's third consecutive failed run for elected office and raises questions regarding his political future.

Political positions 

Political analysts classify O'Rourke as a progressive, liberal, neoliberal, or centrist. During his time in Congress, O'Rourke was a member of the New Democrat Coalition, a Third Way, pro-business caucus. The National Journal rates him 93% liberal and 7% conservative. Describing himself, O'Rourke has said that he does not know where he falls on the political spectrum. He has sponsored bipartisan bills as well as broken with his party on issues like trade.

GovTrack placed O'Rourke near the ideological center of the Democratic Party;  American for Democratic action gave him a liberal rating of 90 percent, while the American Conservative Union gave him an 8% conservative rating. According to FiveThirtyEight, which tracks congressional voting records, O'Rourke voted in line with Donald Trump 30.1 percent of the time during the 115th Congress.