[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Peace of Vienna (1725)

The Peace of Vienna (often referred to as the First Treaty of Vienna) was a series of four treaties signed between 30 April 1725 and 5 November 1725 by the Habsburg monarchy, the Holy Roman Empire (in accordance with Austria), and Bourbon Spain; the Russian Empire later joined the newly-found alliance in 1726. The signing of this treaty marks the founding of the Austro-Spanish Alliance and led the Fourth Anglo-Spanish War (1727-1729). This new alliance thereby removed Austria from the Quadruple Alliance. In addition to a formation of the new partnership, the Habsburgs relinquished all formal claims to the Spanish throne, while the Spanish removed their claims in the Southern Netherlands, and a number of other territories.

Treaties on commerce between the two countries were also formally established. The main article of importance is the Spanish recognition of the Ostend East India Company and the permission of free docking rights which included the rights to refuel in the Spanish colonies. In addition, the treaty publicly signed certifying an alliance was only a defensive one, though later in the year, both parties signed a secret treaty which founded a general alliance between both nations.

Peace Provisions

Friendship between Spain and the Empire 

Due to recent conclusion of the War of the Quadruple Alliance (1717-1720) and the earlier War of the Spanish Succession (1700-1714), and even though both of these wars had prior states of peace written, Austria and Spain both saw it necessary to make an established bilateral peace on matters that affected both nations personally. In fact, this peace was directly modeled off the previous Treaty of London (1718) and the Treaty of The Hague (1720).

Claim to the Kingdoms of Sardinia 

Prior to the War of the Spanish Succession, the Kingdom of Sardinia had always been under personal union to the King of Spain (and previously Aragon). Though, in 1708, during the War of the Spanish Succession, the Austrians occupied Sardinia and the crown shifted to the ownership of Charles VI. In 1720, the Kingdom was parceled out to Duke Victor Amadeus II of the House of Savoy, whereupon it was joined with the Savoyard lands to create the Kingdom of Sardinia-Piedmont. Charles VI agreed to officially abandon his claim to the Kingdom.

Recognition of the Peace of Utrecht 

A principal agreement in the Peace of Utrecht was the newly seated Spanish Bourbons would be barred from ascending to the French throne; vice versa for the French Bourbons and the Spanish throne, thereby eliminating a possible personal union between France and Spain. This agreement was reaffirmed at Vienna, which denotes the seriousness of the matter.

Habsburg renunciation of the Kingdom of Spain 
Emperor Charles VI also relinquished all familial claims to the Kingdom of Spain, which allowed King Philip V to be considered the rightful claimant of the Spanish throne without dissent. Charles was following in the actions of Philippe, Duke of Orléans, who had also waived his claims to the Spanish throne during the Peace of Utrecht ten years earlier.
"By virtue of the said Renunciation, which his Imperial Majesty made for the sake of the general Safety of Europe, and in consideration that the Duke of Orleans had renounced, for himself and his Descendants, his Rights and Pretensions to the Kingdom of Spain, on Condition that neither the Emperor, nor any of his Descendants should ever succeed to the said Kingdoms; his Imperial and Catholic Majesty acknowledges King Philip V. for lawful King of Spain and the Indies; and will likewise let the said King of Spain', his Descendants, Heirs and Successors, Male and Female, peaceably enjoy all those Dominions of the Spanish Monarchy in Europe, in the Indies, and elsewhere, the Possession whereof was secured to him by the Treatys of Utrecht..."

Spanish renunciation of the Kingdom of Sicily 
The Kingdom of Sicily, similar to Sardinia, was a former Spanish possession, and was occupied by the Austrians during the War of the Spanish Succession; and in the Peace of Utrecht, the Kingdom was ceded to the Duke of Savoy. Though, in 1717, during the War of the Quadruple Alliance, the Austrians occupied Sicily once again. The only difference being that the Victor Amadeus II was an ally of the Empire, and had been invaded by the Spanish to be reacquired once again as a possession.

Therefore, the Austrian takeover of Sicily as a direct possession under Charles VI was debated as to whether the acquisition was legitimate or not. Regardless of Austrian legitimacy, Philip V renounced his personal and filial claims to the Kingdom of Sicily.