[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS Mound City

so low that the engines worked with water rather than steam, so the drums had to be moved to the top of the boilers. In their new position, they were not protected by the extra armor that was given to the engines.

As completed, Mound City displaced 512 tons. She was  in length,  in beam, and drew .

Armor
According to the original plans, Mound City would have been protected by a casemate of iron  thick. The armor would have been pierced for 20 guns of various calibers and weights. Pook did not give specific instructions for the placement of the armor, however, so that problem had to be settled by Commander Rodgers. He insisted on greater thickness on the forward face of the casemate, and also that the pilot house, wheelhouse, and main deck be given some cover. In all, his modifications increased the weight of the armor to 122 tons, half again as much as Pook had intended. To compensate for the extra weight, the number of guns had to be reduced from 20 to only 13: three firing forward, four on each side, and two facing astern.

When she was delivered, she was found to be stern-heavy. By this time, Rodgers had been replaced in command of the Western Gunboat Flotilla by Captain Andrew H. Foote, who directed the final modifications. Foote reduced the armor at the stern. As a result, she was vulnerable to enemy fire from astern, as well as to plunging fire.

Armament
Like many of the Mississippi theater ironclads, Mound City had her armament changed multiple times. To expedite the entrance of Mound City into service, she and the other City-class ships were fitted with whatever weapons were available, then had their weapons upgraded as new pieces became available. Though the  smoothbore guns were fairly modern, most of the other original armaments were antiquated, such as the 32-pounders, or modified, such as the 42-pounder "rifles" that were in fact old smoothbores that had been gouged out to give them rifling. These modified weapons were of particular concern to military commanders because they were structurally weaker and more prone to exploding than purpose-built rifled guns. Additionally, the close confines of riverine combat greatly increased the threat of boarding parties. The 12-pounder howitzer was equipped to address that concern and was not used in regular combat.

Service

Island No. 10Mound City was completed and delivered to the Western Gunboat Flotilla in early 1862, with Commander Augustus H. Kilty, USN as her captain. Although the flotilla was officially a part of the Army and their crews were enlisted in that service, their officers were supplied by the Navy.  Mound City was not used at the battles of Fort Henry and Fort Donelson, so her first action was at Island No. 10. In the siege that preceded the surrender of the island by the Confederate garrison, the gunboats bombarded the island on 18 March. Other than that, they had little to do, as most of the action consisted of bombardment by the group of mortar rafts that were a part of the flotilla. However, an army raiding party, assisted by several crew members from Mound City and four other gunboats, successfully overran a Confederate battery on the night of 1 April and spiked the guns. This was preliminary to the run by USS Carondelet and Pittsburg that was key to the Union victory. In the aftermath of the Confederate surrender, Mound City captured the Rebel steamer CSS Red Rover, which had been used for accommodating the crew of the floating battery New Orleans. A copy of the Confederate Navy signals was captured with Red Rover; these were delivered to Washington, from where they were made available to the entire US Navy.

Plum Point Bend