[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

reet running east–west, just south of the center of town.
 Yazoo City: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive is a thoroughfare forming a northern extension of Main Street.  As such it runs north from 1st Street out into the adjoining rural area, passing Yazoo City High School and ending at Gordon Avenue.

Missouri
 Kansas City: Paseo Boulevard was renamed to Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard in January 2019. After months of delay, Kansas City Council renamed The Paseo for Martin Luther King. On November 5, 2019, residents voted to remove the name and change it back to the historical Paseo.
 There was also a failed proposal to rename Kansas City International Airport to M.L.K. International Airport.
As of April 2021 Kansas City, Missouri is no longer the largest U.S. city without a street named in honor of civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.  

After a three-year battle, the city’s parks board unanimously agreed to give Blue Parkway the MLK name Tuesday. 
 Kinloch: Martin Luther King Boulevard in Kinloch runs north–south from North Hanley Road to Courtney Avenue.
 St. Louis: Dr. Martin Luther King Drive is a major east–west artery in St. Louis, running from America's Center west-northwest, becoming Missouri Route 180, St. Charles Rock Road, as it leaves the city.  There is also a segment of it east of the Convention Center, near the Martin Luther King Bridge.
 Springfield: The Martin Luther King Jr. Bridge is located at North Benton Avenue.

Nevada
 Las Vegas area: The section of Highland Drive north of Oakey Boulevard was renamed Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard in the 1990s. The roadway connects the western edge of Downtown Las Vegas to the newer and more affluent parts of North Las Vegas. Via ramps to the road at the "Spaghetti Bowl" (I-15/US 93/US 95) freeway interchange near downtown, Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard provides the most direct connection between the north-central Las Vegas Valley and the Las Vegas Strip. The road also passes through historic "West Las Vegas", an older and predominantly Black neighborhood. The city identifies the road as "Martin L. King Blvd.", omitting the Jr. and using L in place of Luther. Most residents in the Las Vegas Valley use the term MLK.
 Reno: In 1998, the stretch of US 395 passing through Reno was designated as the Martin Luther King Jr. Freeway, although, as late as 2020, there are concerns that there is inadequate signage with this name, such that the freeway is rarely referred to by it.

New Jersey
 Atlantic City: Runs from the boardwalk to US 30. It was formerly Illinois Avenue, of Monopoly fame.
 Camden:
Interstate 676 through Camden between Interstate 76 and the Benjamin Franklin Bridge is called the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Highway.
Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is located in downtown Camden. The road travels from Riverside Drive on the Delaware River waterfront, with a view of the Philadelphia skyline, east to an interchange with Interstate 676.
 Elizabeth: Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. Across from City Hall. Elizabeth High School, Jefferson House is located on Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.
 Jersey City: Martin Luther King made two speeches in Jersey City. Originally called Jackson Avenue, Martin Luther King Drive was named in his honor in 1976 and extends 26 blocks through the Jackson Hill and Greenville sections of the city. In 2000, a Martin Luther King Drive station of the Hudson–Bergen Light Rail was opened with Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial and other public art related to King's life and the Civil Rights Movement.
 Lakewood: Dr. Martin Luther King Drive runs from Pine Street north to County Route 528 (Cedar Bridge Avenue).
 Morristown: Martin Luther King Avenue is a main residential street running north–south through central Morristown.
 Newark: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard traces the western edge of downtown Newark, separating the academic buildings of Rutgers and NJIT. MLK Boulevard extends from Bloomfield Avenue in the north to Clinton Avenue in the south. The street was previously named High Street.
 Trenton: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard carries southbound U.S. Route 206 between County Route 653 (Calhoun Street) and Route 31 (Pennington Avenue).
 Willingboro: Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive runs from County Route 626 (Beverly-Rancocas Road) north to County Route 630 (Levitt Parkway).

New Mexico
 Albuquerque: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. A former section of Grand Avenue was renamed in 1994. The boulevard runs east–west between Broadway and University Boulevards (near the University of New Mexico campus).