[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Al Bangura

Green Rovers manager Dave Hockaday as under-21 manager at Coventry City, Al Bangura joined the League One side on a trial basis in February 2015. Bangura impressed new Sky Blues boss Tony Mowbray to the extent that he was rewarded with a short-term deal to join the club until the end of the season.

Bangura took time away from football after leaving Coventry City, however he returned to playing in January 2016. During his time away, he worked with the Premier League to raise awareness of the growing number of teenage players being tricked into leaving Africa for Europe. In January 2016, Bangura signed for National League South side St Albans City. A year later, Bangura joined National League North club Nuneaton Town. Following his spell with the club, Bangura settled in the area but left football, instead going onto work at a care home.

International
Bangura was called up to the Sierra Leone squad by national manager Ahmed Kanu in October 2008. However, it was also revealed that he would not be able to play home matches in Sierra Leone, as he has said he feared his life would be in danger in the country he was forced to flee.

He made his Leone Stars debut on 11 October in a 2010 FIFA World Cup and 2010 African Cup of Nations qualifier 4–1 defeat to Nigeria at the Abuja Stadium, Abuja, Nigeria. On 2 November 2009 he was called up for a friendly against Dutch Eredivisie side Willem II on 14 November, in aid of the Ibrahim Kargbo Foundation. Bangura played in the game which ended 1–1.

Personal life
In September 2009 he moved from Watford to live on the Fylde Coast.

Asylum case
In early 2007 Bangura was cleared to stay in the UK. However, the Home Office lodged an appeal on a legal technicality, claiming his status as an asylum seeker changed when he turned 18 years old. In November 2007, Bangura appeared before an Asylum and Immigration Tribunal, with Watford manager Aidy Boothroyd speaking on his behalf.

On 11 December 2007 he lost his case to stay in the UK, despite Bangura fearing a return to his homeland, where he could be under threat from the Soko tribe, formerly led by his late father. He launched an immediate appeal against the decision.

The appeal against the decision, was backed by FIFPro, the worldwide representative organisation for professional footballers, Watford MP Claire Ward, Watford manager Aidy Boothroyd, former Home Secretary David Blunkett, and the club's honorary Life President Elton John.

On 15 December 2007, Watford fans staged a half-time protest during the club's game against Plymouth Argyle, holding up posters on which Bangura's face appeared under the words "He's family", with Argyle fans in the 18,000 crowd joining in the protest.

Four days later the Home Office announced that Bangura would be allowed to remain in the UK while he applied for a work permit, a process that would take place in parallel with his appeal against deportation back to Sierra Leone.

Bangura won his appeal to stay in the UK after being awarded a work permit by a six-strong Government panel on 14 January 2008. At a Press Conference the following day Bangura said, "It's not the end of my career if I went back, It's the end of my life. It's going to make a big difference to my life. And, of course, I can concentrate more on my football now.".

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours

Club
Watford
Championship play-offs (1): 2005–06

Blackpool
Championship play-offs (1): 2009–10
Individual

 Watford Young Player of the Season: 2005–06

References

External links
 
 
 Al Bangura player profile at blackpoolfc.co.uk
 
 

1988 births
Living people
Footballers from Freetown
Sierra Leonean men's footballers
Sierra Leone men's international footballers
Sierra Leonean expatriate men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Watford F.C. players
Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. players
Blackpool F.C. players
Mersin Talim Yurdu footballers
Gabala SC players
Forest Green Rovers F.C. players
Coventry City F.C. players
St Albans City F.C. players
Nuneaton Borough F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Temne people
Expatriate men's footballers in Azerbaijan
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in Turkey
Sierra Leonean expatriate sportspeople in Turkey