[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Sertorian War

with great propriety, this particular feast was vulgar, designed to offend the skillful general. Disgusted, Sertorius changed his posture on the couch, intent on ignoring them all. At this, Perperna gave the signal to his fellow conspirators, and they murdered the unsuspecting Sertorius on the spot.

Upon learning of the death of Sertorius, some of his Iberian allies sent ambassadors to Pompey or to Metellus and made peace, most simply went home. Perperna managed to retain control of some of the Roman renegades who had followed Sertorius, but he needed a quick victory to gain his people's trust. Unfortunately for Perperna and his men, Pompey had set a trap; he feigned a retreat and ambushed them. Frontinus reports:

Pompey put troops here and there, in places where they could attack from ambush. Then, pretending fear, he pulled back drawing the enemy after him. Then, when he had the enemy exposed to the ambuscade, he wheeled his army about. He attacked, slaughtering the enemy to his front and on both flanks

Pompey lured Perperna's army into his ambush using 10 cohorts as bait. He allowed these to be attacked while scattered over a wide area, perhaps foraging, and as they fled they drew Perperna's army into the hidden lines of the main army. As these attacked from ambush, the 10 cohorts turned and attacked their pursuers from the front. The ensuing massacre was decisive.

Pompey's successful ambush proved Plutarch's disparaging comment 'Perperna was as bad at command as he was at following orders'. Perperna attempted to plead for his life, offering to give Pompey all of Sertorius' correspondence, which would document contacts with the highest levels of Roman government and society. Pompey indicated he would accept the papers, and when they had all been gathered together, he burned them, averting the possibility of another civil war. He then executed Perperna and all of the men who had murdered Sertorius. After this final battle, which seems to have taken place near Sertorius's capital of Osca, the war was as good as over.

Aftermath
In the view of Scullard, Pompey's treatment of Hispania was humane, relative to the normal Roman treatment for traitors and rebels. Citizenship was given to many supporters and a group of fanatical opponents were resettled to Lugdunum Convenarum in southern Gaul.

Timeline
 80 BC Sertorius and a small army land at Baelo (near the Pillars of Hercules) 
 80 BC At the Baetis estuary Sertorius defeats the forces of Fufidius (probably the Roman governor of Hispania Ulterior) 
 80 BC Hirtuleius (Sertorius's lieutenant) defeats Domitius Calvinus (governor of Hispania Citerior) on the banks of the Anas River
 80/79 Sertorius defeats Lucius Thorius Balbus (a lieutenant of the consul Metellus Pius)
 79 BC Metellus marches into Hispania, Sertorius start wearing him down by guerrilla warfare
 79/78 Hirtuleius defeats Lucius Manlius, the governor of Gallia Transalpina, and forces him back into Gaul
 78 BC Metellus tries to take Langobriga, Sertorius thwarts his efforts
 77 BC Sertorius consolidates his power, he gains control of most of the Iberia peninsula
 77 BC The Senate sends Gnaeus Pompey Magnus with a large army to reinforce Metellus
 76 BC Pompey is outgeneraled and defeated at the Battle of Lauron (two-thirds of his army survive and he remains a force to be reckoned with)
 76 BC Gaius Memmius (Pompey's quaestor) captures New Carthage, but is blockaded by Sertorius's allies
 75 BC Pompey defeats Herennius and Perperna at the Battle Valentia
 75 BC Metellus defeats Hirtuleius at the Battle of Italica
 75 BC Pompey and Sertorius fight the indecisive Battle of Sucro, Sertorius retreats inland
 75 BC Sertorius fights Metellus and Pompey at the Battle of Saguntum, Sertorius retreats further inland
 75 BC Metellus and Pompey besiege Sertorius at Clunia, Sertorius breaks through their lines and escapes
 74 BC Pompey and Metellus campaign against Sertorius's allies
 74 BC Sertorius drives Pompey from Palentia
 74 BC Perperna takes Cale on the Hispanic west coast
 74 BC Sertorius rebuilds the walls of Palentia
 74 BC Sertorius marches into the Ebro valley and surprises the Romans besieging Calgurris (killing 3000 of the besiegers)
 74 BC Antonius, a Roman admiral, tries to break the Sertorian siege of Emporion, he failed and is recalled
 74 BC Pompey writes his famous letter to the Senate threatening to march back to Rome unless the Senate sends funds and reinforcements
 73 BC Metellus offers a reward to anyone who will kill Sertorius
 73 BC There is a growing division in the Sertorian camp
 73 BC Perperna and his fellow conspiratores assassinate Sertorius during a banquet
 72 BC Pompey ambushes Perperna's army and defeats the last remnants of the Sertorians

Notes and references

Modern Sources
 Philip Matyszak, Sertorius and the struggle for Spain, Pen & Sword Military, Barnsley (2013) 
 Philip Spann, Quintus Sertorius and the Legacy of Sulla'', University of Arkansas Press (1987)