[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John Dugard

"Israel's attempt to justify [the] illegal use of belligerent and disproportionate military force as 'self-defence' does not stand up to legal - or moral - scrutiny, as states cannot invoke self-defence for acts that serve to defend an unlawful situation which they have created in the first place".

Criticism of Dugard
The Anti-Defamation League (ADL) called on U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan and High Commissioner for Human Rights Louise Arbour in 2004 to remove Dugard from the position of U.N. Special Rapporteur for Human Rights, for his "clearly demonstrated bias against the State of Israel".  The ADL cited Dugard's report, "Question of the violation of human rights in the occupied Arab territories, including Palestine", in which, according to the ADL, he "presents personal convictions as fact, and goes well beyond reporting to an incendiary call for action by the international community against Israel". While "Dugard comprehensively presents as fact alleged Israeli human rights abuses against the Palestinians", charged the ADL, his report made "little to no mention of Palestinian involvement in terrorism against Israel, of Palestinian arms smuggling tunnels, or rocket attacks against Israeli towns".

UN Watch criticized Dugard in 2006, protesting his appointment to lead a "fact-finding mission...on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories". Dugard's reports, complained UN Watch, "stand out, even by UN standards, for their virulently anti-Israel prejudice. Not only does Dugard systematically ignore Palestinian acts of terror and their victims, but he has gone so far as to laud Palestinian 'militarized groups armed with rifles, mortars, and Kassam-2 rockets [who] confront the [Israeli army] with new determination, daring, and success.'" Also, while "many UN figures...like to lambaste Israel", Dugard is "the only appointee of the UN who regularly rails against the UN-sponsored Quartet and its Road Map for Middle East Peace". Citing Dugard's statement about the recent capture by Hamas of Israeli Corporal Gilad Shalit, in which Dugard expressed sympathy "for all Israel's young soldiers compelled to serve in the army of an occupying power", UN Watch commented that "Dugard could not bring himself to express sympathy for the captured soldier without wrapping it in a sharp stab, drenched with cynicism, at Israel's morality. We've seen nothing to suggest Corporal Shalit has felt anything other than patriotic about his service". UN Watch further noted that while Dugard had criticized the use of the death penalty by the Palestinian Authority against Palestinian convicts, he had never made reference in his reports to "the terror faced daily by Israeli civilians" and "the attempted mega-terror attacks against Israeli skyscrapers, ports and fuel depots".

Memberships
He is a member of the Institut de Droit International. Since 1997 he has been a member of the UN International Law Commission. He is a member of the Crimes Against Humanity Initiative Advisory Council, a project of the Whitney R. Harris World Law Institute at Washington University School of Law in St. Louis to establish the world's first treaty on the prevention and punishment of crimes against humanity.

Honors and awards
John Dugard has honorary doctorates of law from the University of Cape Town, University of Natal, University of Port Elizabeth, University of Pretoria, University of Stellenbosch and the University of the Witwatersrand.

In April 2012, he received one of South Africa's highest civilian honors, the Order of the Baobab: Gold, in a ceremony conducted by President Jacob Zuma.

Selected bibliography

Books
 International Law: A South African Perspective 3rd Edition (2006) 
 The Last Years of Apartheid: Civil Liberties in South Africa, with Nicholas Haysom, Gilbert Marcus (1992) 
 Recognition and the United Nations (1987) 
 Human Rights and the South African Legal Order (1978) 
 The South West Africa/Namibia Dispute (1973) 
Introduction to criminal procedure Juta and Co Ltd (1977)
Recognition and the United Nations Grotius Publications (1987)