[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bessarabian Peasants' Party

be allowed to stand in elections without renouncing their offices. On November 17, the PȚB absorbed the Bessarabian People's League (LPB), which had existed since September. On December 6, former LPB leader Vasile Bârcă was made PȚB Vice President, alongside Ciobanu, while Holban became the Cashier.

The arrival to power in Romania of a National Liberal Party (PNL) cabinet maintained PȚB leaders into the ranks of Bessarabia's administration. At a regional level, the PȚB soon found itself confronted by another nationalist group, called "Romanian League". Formed by Cazacu and Vladimir Herța in March 1919, it was explicitly dedicated to tackling the Bessarabian Peasantists' "absolutism and exclusivity". It accused Halippa of having dismantled the old network of administrative autonomy and civil liberties, in particular the zemstva. While the PȚB caucused with the PNL at a central level, the League joined up with the opposition Conservative-Democratic Party. Pelivan, who lobbied for Bessarabia at the Paris Peace Conference, wrote back to Inculeț complaining that the Romanian administration was being vilified by "the Russians and the Jews". When the Esers' Bessarabian envoy, Mark Slonim, alleged that the region actually resisted incorporation into Romania, Inculeț called him "idiotic".

The PȚB soon began organizing itself locally. Its first newspaper was Cuvânt Moldovenesc, the old PNM tribune, which it relaunched in a new edition in 1918. Other political tribunes appeared only in 1919, with the Cahul-based weekly Cuvântul Țăranului (1919). In 1918, Haralambie Vizanti had already set the Peasants' Party of Cahul County, which aimed to be recognized as a PȚB section. This recognition never arrived: in January 1919, the  PȚB informed Vizanti and his followers that a team under Ion Balbărău represented it locally. As a result, Vizanti joined the Romanian League in forming a "conservative nationalist" caucus, directly competing with the PȚB. 

There followed several months of campaigning through small-scale "peasant congresses", attended by party eminences. Pântea organized one such meeting for Cetatea Albă County on February 4, 1919. Over the following weeks and months, this section enlisted members from various cultural backgrounds. These included Dionisie Erhan, a hierarch of the Bessarabian Orthodox Metropolis, alongside Daniel Erdmann and Andreas Widmer, both of whom were leaders of the Bessarabian Germans; other affiliates were local Ukrainians and Bulgarians. Historian Ion Gumenâi also notes that most of those who declared for the PȚB in Hotin County during early 1919 were either Slavs or Bessarabian Jews.

On April 27–29, 1919, Halippa, Bârcă and Minciună organized the Peasant Congress, where 130 rural delegates from across Bessarabia were invited to weigh in on the land reform project, and also to read the PȚB program. This defined the party line to be preserved for the general election of November 1919, which were Romania's first experience of universal male suffrage. There followed an enlargement and reshuffling in April 1919. Bivol, Cazacu, Costin and Stârcea were out; new members of the CC included Buzdugan, P. Erhan, Minciună, Pântea, Pelivan, Anton Crihan, Vasile Mândrescu, Nicolae Secară, and Nicolae Suruceanu. Crihan and Ciobanu were the two Vice Presidents, while Halippa was reconfirmed as Chairman. The party also selected a political symbol and electoral logo: the scythe and rake, crossed. In the electoral precincts of Hotin County, this symbol was replaced by a sickle.

Parliamentary Bloc
The party registered major gains in the election of November 1919, the first to involve all of Greater Romania. The PȚB was effectively in alliance with the Democratic Nationalist Party (PND), which was based in Romania-proper, with the Romanian National Party (PNR) of Transylvania, and the Democratic Union Party (PDU) of Bukovina. The PND leader, Nicolae Iorga, ran for the Assembly on a PȚB list at Orhei, alongside Vasile Stroescu, who was a doyen of the PNM and the emancipation movement. The PȚB also proposed eligible positions to Ion Nistor of the PDU and Iuliu Maniu of the PNR, but they turned down the offer. Artur Văitoianu, the nominally independent Prime Minister of Romania, approached the PȚB to become their candidate in Ismail County. Although favored by Halippa, this attempt was rejected by Inculeț, and became the first of several incidents separating the two leaders.