[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Nikolay Alexeyev

ourt of Human Rights and the United Nations Human Rights Committee.

Fighting hate speech
Nikolay Alexeyev consistently supports criminal prosecution of politicians, officials and public figures for the incitement of hatred towards people on the basis of their sexual orientation and gender identity.

In 2005 he asked for the opening of a criminal case against the leader of "Prezumptsia" committee from Krasnodar Albert Gayamyan for his homophobic statements during an unsanctioned rally in the center of Krasnodar in October 2005. The request was dismissed by the prosecution department. In 2006 Nikolay Alexeyev, together with activist Nikolay Baev, unsuccessfully tried to achieve criminal prosecution of Russian mufti Talgat Tadjuddin who said in the interview to Interfax that gays, who would show up at the gay parade, should be whipped because the Islamic prophet, Muhammad, called for killings of homosexuals. In 2008 Nikolay Alexeyev and activists Nikolay Baev and Kirill Nepomnyaschiy asked for criminal prosecution of Tambov region governor Oleg Betin who said in an interview that "gays should be torn and their pieces thrown in the wind". All Russian courts, including the Supreme Court, dismissed the complaints and the activists appealed to the European Court of Human Rights.

Campaign against closing of Moscow gay club "Dusha i Telo" ("Body & Soul")
In August 2009 Prefect of Moscow's Northern Administrative District Oleg Mitvol announced his intention to get the leading Moscow gay club "Dusha i Telo" closed. Nikolay Alexeyev and his fellow activists supported the campaign against the closing of the club. In October 2009 Nikolay Alexeyev organized a press conference in the Independent Press Center where the Russian pop stars, including Lolita Milyavskaya, Shura and "Mirazh" band, talked in support of the persecuted venue. "Dusha i Telo" was closed but later the courts ruled that the termination of the contract was unlawful, though the club never reopened again. In October 2010 Oleg Mitvol was dismissed from the Prefect position.

Pride House during Sochi Winter Olympics
In August 2010, after his trip to Vancouver and Whistler, Nikolay Alexeyev announced the plans of his organization to open Pride House of LGBT during Sochi Winter Olympic Games in 2014. While in Canada, he studied similar project, for the first time in Olympics history realized by Vancouver gay activists. The letters of intention to open Pride House in Sochi were sent to the International Olympic Committee and the Organizing Committee of Sochi Olympics.

Campaign for the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia (IDAHO)
Nikolay Alexeyev's involvement with IDAHO started in April 2005 when he first met with Louis-Georges Tin, founder of the International Day Against Homophobia. He accepted to become the coordinator of the Day in Russia.

The same year he offered to organize the first World Conference of IDAHO in Moscow on 26–27 May 2006 during the "Moscow Pride’06 Festival". The closing press briefing of the conference, which took place three hours before the Moscow Pride, attracted more than 100 journalists and 18 TV crews, giving an unprecedented media tribune both to gay rights in Russia and the IDAHO.

In 2006 Nikolay Alexeyev became executive secretary of the Paris-based IDAHO Committee when the organization was officially registered in Paris by French authorities. In 2008 he was appointed vice president of IDAHO Committee.

In February 2009 he played a key role in the recognition of the IDAHO in Luxembourg, convincing Jean Huss, a local MP from the Green Party to introduce a motion in Parliament. On 23 April 2009 the motion was unanimously adopted.

Today Nikolay Alexeyev's activities with IDAHO involve the increase of the network of coordinators around the world, especially in Asia.

Court cases against Russian authorities in international institutions

As of January 2011, Nikolay Alexeyev had over ten complains against Russia filed and pending at the European Court of Human Rights (Strasbourg, France).

On 14 February 2009 he, together with other Russian, Belarusian and French activists, organized a protest in the centre of Strasbourg to denounce the inaction of the European Court in considering the legality of Moscow Pride bans.

On 21 October 2010 Nikolay Alexeyev won a case before the European Court concerning prohibition of 2006, 2007 and 2008 Moscow Pride marches and picketings. In Alekseyev v. Russia, the court ruled that Russia breached three articles of the European Convention, including the right to freedom of assembly (Article 11), the right to effective legal remedy (Article 13) and the ban on discrimination (Article 14). The court decided that Russia has to pay to the applicant almost 30,000 euros in compensation. The case marked the first ever international defeat of Russian Government on the issue of gay rights.