[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Administrative divisions of the Philippines

vince, effectively also constitutes a primary level LGU.

Provinces 

A province is composed of component cities and municipalities, over which it exercises supervisory authority. Each province is headed by a governor. Its legislative body is the Sangguniang Panlalawigan.

Cities and municipalities 

Three different legal classes of cities exist in the Philippines. Independent cities, of which there are currently 38 – classified either as highly urbanized (33) or independent component (5) cities – are cities which are not under the jurisdiction of any province. Thus, these cities are autonomously governed, do not share their tax revenues with any province, and in most cases, their residents are not eligible to elect or be elected to provincial offices. Cities that are under the political jurisdiction of a province form the third legal class of cities, called component cities. The voters in these cities are allowed to vote and run for positions in the provincial government.

Municipalities are always under the jurisdiction of a province, except for Pateros, which is self-governing.

A city or municipality is divided into barangays, over which it exercises supervisory authority. A city or municipality is headed by a mayor. The Sangguniang Panlungsod is the legislative body for cities and Sangguniang Bayan for municipalities.

Barangays 

The barangay is the smallest local government unit in the Philippines. Although "barangay" is sometimes translated into English as "village", a barangay can be: 
 an urban neighborhood, such as a city block or a gated community (e.g., Forbes Park, Makati); 
 a sizable urban district (e.g., Payatas, Quezon City); 
 a single hamlet or village (e.g., Pag-asa, Kalayaan, Palawan); 
 a small town (e.g., Mangagoy, Bislig, Surigao del Sur); or
 a rural district composed of disperse settlements (e.g., Nagacadan, Kiangan, Ifugao).

Each barangay is headed by a Barangay Captain. Its local legislative body is the Sangguniang Barangay.

Other divisions

Island groups 

The Philippines is broadly divided into three traditional island groups: Luzon, the Visayas, and Mindanao. The Philippine flag's three stars are often taken to represent each of these geographical groupings. These island groups, however, have no specific administrative bodies, either elected or appointed, although many agencies and institutions, both government and private, use island groupings for certain purposes. For example, the Palarong Pambansa rotates yearly hosting duties among the island groups, while the League of Municipalities of the Philippines organizes its members and meetings by Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao "clusters."

Local administrative districts 
Some LGUs use geographic divisions that are solely used for administrative purposes.

Geographic districts and zones 
Certain cities officially organize their constituent barangays into geographic districts:
 Baguio: 20 (Districts 1–20)
 Calbayog: 3 (Calbayog, Oquendo, Tinambac)
 Davao City: 11 (Agdao, Baguio, Buhangin, Bunawan, Calinan, Marilog, Paquibato, Poblacion, Talomo, Toril, Tugbok)
 Iloilo City: 7 (Arevalo, City Proper, Jaro, La Paz, Lapuz, Mandurriao, Molo)
 Manila: 16 (Binondo, Ermita, Intramuros, Malate, Paco, Pandacan, Port Area, Quiapo, Sampaloc, San Andres, San Miguel, San Nicolas, Santa Ana, Santa Cruz, Santa Mesa, Tondo)
 Samal: 3 (Babak, Kaputian, Peñaplata)
 Sorsogon City: 2 (Bacon, Sorsogon)
 Zamboanga City: 13 (Ayala, Baliwasan, Curuan, Islands, Labuan, Manicahan, Mercedes, Putik, Santa Barbara, Santa Maria, Tetuan, Vitali, Zamboanga Central)

Three cities also officially organize their barangays into numbered zones: Caloocan (Zones 1–16), Manila (Zones 1–100), and Pasay (Zones 1–20). The 100 zones in Manila serve as an administrative layer immediately below the geographic district level.

Many barangay names contain the words "district" (170 barangays) or "zone" (264 barangays), but they are fully functioning barangays and are not just mere administrative categories.

Sitios and puroks 
Many barangays are divided into sitios and puroks. Sitios are usually hamlets within rural barangays where human settlement is polycentric, i.e., multiple communities spread across a wide area, separated by farmland, mountains, or water. Puroks are often neighborhoods or zones in densely populated areas of barangays of more urban character. Purok and sitio boundaries are rarely defined precisely and may use natural landmarks such as roads, rivers or other natural features to unofficially delineate divisions. A single sitio or purok, or groups of these, form the basis of creating a new barangay.