[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hoist (device)

trolled travel along the mast sections, modern construction hoists use a motorized rack-and-pinion system that climbs the mast sections at various speeds.

While hoists have been predominantly produced in Europe and the United States, China is emerging as a manufacturer of hoists to be used in Asia.

In the United States and abroad, General Contractors and various other industrial markets rent or lease hoists for a specific projects.  Rental or leasing companies provide erection, dismantling, and repair services to their hoists to provide General Contractors with turnkey services. Also, the rental and leasing companies can provide parts and service for the elevators that are under contract.

Mine hoist

A mining hoist (also known simply as a hoist or winder) is used in underground mining   to raise and lower conveyances within the mine shaft.  It is similar to an elevator, used for raising humans, equipment, and assorted loads.

Human, animal and water power were used to power the mine hoists documented in Agricola's De Re Metallica, published in 1556.  Stationary steam engines were commonly used to power mine hoists through the 19th century and into the 20th, as at the Quincy Mine, where a 4-cylinder cross-compound Corliss engine was used.  Modern hoists are powered using electric motors, historically with direct current drives utilizing solid-state converters (thyristors); however, modern large hoists use alternating current drives that are variable-frequency controlled. There are three principal types of hoists used in mining applications, Drum Hoists, Friction (or Kope) hoists and Blair multi-rope hoists. Hoist can be defined as anything that is used to lift any heavy materials.

Chain hoist
Differential pulley

Gallery

See also 

 Overhead crane
 Hoist controller
 Hoist (mining)
 Hydraulic jigger
 Hydraulic hooklift hoist
 Rigging
 Winch
 Windlass
 Derrick

References

External links 

 OSHA Regs for overhead cranes

Actuators
Lifting equipment