[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ronald Atkins

, on the back of a pledge to hold a referendum on Britain's recent entry to the European Economic Community (EEC). In common with the left of his party at the time, Atkins was opposed to membership of the EEC. The 1975 referendum, however, resulted in a wide margin of victory for the 'Yes' campaign.

In 1976, Wilson stood down as prime minister, and in the resulting leadership election, Atkins helped organise left-winger Tony Benn's campaign. At the time, the leadership was voted on solely by the Parliamentary Labour Party. Benn came fourth on the first ballot with 37 votes, and withdrew from the contest, which was won by the more moderate Jim Callaghan, who thus became prime minister. According to The Guardian, "Atkins never sought high political office and it was never offered – he settled for being a constituency MP."

In 1979, following a vote of no confidence in the Labour government, another general election was held. The party lost on a decisive swing to the Conservatives, who won a comfortable majority. In a tight result which saw two recounts, Atkins was defeated by the (unrelated) Conservative candidate Robert Atkins, who won by just 29 votes (0.1%). Despite his name being mentioned in connection to winnable seats, Ronald Atkins did not stand for election to Parliament again.

Outside Parliament 
In between his two terms in Parliament, Atkins stood for election to Preston City Council's Ward No. 5 (Preston: Ribbleton) in 1973. He won a seat, serving until 1976, by which time he had returned to the House of Commons. Following the loss of his parliamentary seat in 1979, Atkins stood for the Park ward in Preston, which he won comfortably. He supported Preston Polytechnic becoming Lancashire Polytechnic, which took place in 1984.

His ward was abolished in boundary changes for the 1990 elections, and he instead stood in Avenham ward, which covered the central area of the town. The new boundaries meant that the whole council was up for election, rather than in thirds, as usually happened. In the multi-member ward, Atkins topped the poll, winning more votes than the two Labour candidates elected alongside him. In 1992, full university status was awarded to the Lancashire Polytechnic he had first lobbied for as Preston Polytechnic. That year, it became the University of Central Lancashire, which he had been "a powerful voice for".

In 2002, the next set of boundary changes saw Atkins' ward abolished again, with him instead standing in the Town Centre ward, and receiving more votes than the two Labour candidates who were also elected. In 2006, a year which saw poor performances by Labour in the local elections, Atkins fended off a strong challenge from the Respect Party to retain his seat by just seven votes. He remained a Labour councillor until 2010, when he stood down; aged 93, he was the oldest member of the council.

In August 2015, aged 99, during Jeremy Corbyn's leadership campaign, Atkins gave a speech introducing Corbyn at an event in Preston. Exclaiming "We love you!", he told the audience of several hundred people: "Jeremy Corbyn is not New Labour he is Real Labour." (Atkins' daughter, Charlotte, had in fact been elected under the New Labour era of the party.) He was made Honorary President of Momentum for Central Lancashire. Atkins voted to leave the European Union (which had succeeded the EEC) in the 2016 referendum, later declaring: "It wasn't because of immigrants. The most important thing is our sovereignty."

Personal life and death 
In 1950, Atkins married Jesse Scott; the union ended in divorce in 1979. The couple had three sons and two twin daughters, Charlotte and Liz. At the two 1974 general elections, Atkins' stepson, Michael Atkins, contested Blackpool South, and Michael's wife, Kathleen E. Knight, stood in Fylde South, both as unsuccessful Labour candidates.

His daughter, Charlotte Atkins, was the Labour MP for Staffordshire Moorlands from 1997 until 2010. Atkins married his second wife, Elizabeth Alison Wildgoose in 2012, who was more than forty years his junior, shortly after she was elected to Ashton ward on Preston council. The couple lived in Frenchwood, Preston, with a dog, Rosie. His recreations were listed in Who's Who as "jazz, dancing, walking, local and national politics, connoisseur of good coffee"; he was an active ballroom dancer to late in life.

Following the death of John Freeman on 20 December 2014, Atkins became the oldest surviving former MP. He celebrated his 100th birthday in June 2016, attributing his long life to "good genes, an active lifestyle, and wild Atlantic salmon" in his diet. Interviewed by the Lancashire Post to mark the occasion, he added there was "some luck too", noting, "I've escaped assassination as an MP."