[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Battle of Droop Mountain

te right) with the artillery, where they made sure they had the attention of Jackson's men at the top of the mountain. The Union battery was positioned on a hill that was  lower than the Confederate guns, making it difficult to achieve the same accuracy as the Confederate cannons.

Echols takes over

Brigadier General Echols arrived at Droop Mountain with reinforcements around 9:00am on November 6, bringing Colonel Ferguson from Jenkins' Brigade with him. Echols brought the 22nd Virginia Infantry Regiment, the 23rd Virginia Infantry Battalion (a.k.a. Derrick's Battalion), Chapman's Battery, and Jackson's Battery from Jenkins' Brigade. Their arrival was acknowledged by loud rebel yells and music from a band—making sure both sides knew about the reinforcement. Echols assumed command of all forces, and Colonel George S. Patton commanded Echols' Brigade. Major Robert A. "Gus" Bailey commanded the brigade's 22nd Virginia Infantry Regiment, and the 23rd Virginia Infantry Battalion was commanded by Major William Blessing. Major William L. McLaughlin commanded the two batteries. Echols placed his two batteries on his right close to Colonel Jackson's two howitzers. Blessing's Battalion (a.k.a. Derrick's Battalion) was placed on the Confederate right on the right side of the road to Lewisburg. Bailey and the 22nd Virginia were placed behind the artillery. The total Confederate force engaged in the battle, mostly dismounted cavalry, numbered 1,700. Throughout most of the battle, Echols would command the Confederate right, Jackson the center, and the left was commanded by Lieutenant Colonel William P. Thompson (not to be confused with Lieutenant Colonel Francis W. Thompson, commander of the 3rd West Virginia Mounted Infantry).

Battle begins
Although some skirmishing already happened, historians consider artillery shots fired at Droop Mountain by Schoonmaker using Keeper's Battery, which occurred around 11:00am, as the beginning of the battle. Artillery fire continued all day, but the Union cannons were not able to hit enemy artillery. Confederate artillery was accurate and eventually killed almost all the horses belonging to Ewing's Battery (Battery G). Keeper's Battery (Battery B) had two people killed and five wounded. By noon, Schoonmaker realized he could not hit enemy artillery, so he withdrew two of the three sections of Keeper's Battery to preserve the guns and ammunition.

Between noon and 1:00pm, Averell readied his men for the center and right-center dismounted assault. In the case of Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Scott's 2nd West Virginia Mounted Infantry, the men dismounted near the front and remained out of sight while waiting for orders. Scott's men were positioned on the right center, between Oley's 8th West Virginia Mounted Infantry on the left and Colonel Francis S. Thompson's 3rd West Virginia Mounted Infantry on the right. Around 1:00pm, Schoonmaker repositioned two sections of artillery while preparing to assist in the frontal attack on his right. At that time, Lieutenant Joseph W. Daniels of Keepers Battery was decapitated by artillery fire while standing next to Schoonmaker. The main body of Schoonmaker's troops did not get to the foot of the mountain in time to assist the three regiments making the frontal assault, although his advance did.

Moor finds the Confederate left

On the far right (or Confederate left) Colonel Moor encountered the Confederate left flank at about 1:45. The 28th Ohio Infantry and Lieutenant Colonel Becker led the way and met Captain Jacob W. Marshall of the 19th Virginia Cavalry, who was reinforced by a group of 50 dismounted cavalry men led by Major Joseph R. Kessler. The Confederate force, numbering about 200, surprised Becker with a charge from close by that drove the 28th Ohio Infantry back. Understanding he was outnumbered, William Thompson sent a request to Echols for more reinforcements. Echols responded by sending 300 men from the 23rd Virginia Infantry Battalion and two companies from the 14th Virginia Cavalry—CompanyB and CompanyI. Those two companies were equipped for close-quarters fighting, as they were armed with sabers, pistols, and carbines. Moor responded to the initial Confederate thrust by ordering his Ohio infantrymen to lie down and "fire by file". Colonel Thomas M. Harris and the 10th West Virginia Infantry moved to the front on Moor's right and began pushing their outnumbered enemy back.

Center attack