[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Brad Marsh

lty minutes. In 97 career playoff games, Marsh scored six goals and 24 points while accumulating 124 penalty minutes. His 23 goals is the NHL record for fewest goals scored by a player who played at least 1000 games. Marsh was also one of the last NHL players to not wear a helmet during league play.

Post-retirement
After his retirement, he moved into the Senators' front office as Director of Team and Business Development and remained there for several years. He also coached various levels of minor hockey over the years.

In the late 1990s, Marsh opened a sports bar in the Senators' arena known as Marshy's.

In 2007, Marsh was inducted into the London (Ontario) Sports Hall of Fame.

Marsh was announced as the head coach of the Canadian Women's Hockey League's Ottawa franchise on August 31, 2009. He was later hired as an assistant coach for Queen's University's hockey team, the Gaels, on August 26, 2011.

In late 2013, Marsh joined HockeyBuzz.com as one of the website's featured bloggers, writing stories that mainly touch on his playing days and providing insight to league issues and happenings.

In October 2018, Marsh helped to establish the Philadelphia Flyers Warriors, a disabled veteran hockey team, that is the first and only all veteran athletic team to be recognized by the City of Philadelphia to represent the City of Philadelphia.

Career statistics

Regular season and playoffs

International

Coaching statistics
Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, OTL = Overtime Losses, SOL = Shootout Losses, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against, Pts = Points.

See also
List of NHL players with 1000 games played

References

External links
 
 Meltzer, Bill Flyers Heroes of the Past: Brad Marsh (Part 1) at Philadelphiaflyers.com.
 Meltzer, Bill Flyers Heroes of the Past: Brad Marsh (Part 2) at Philadelphiaflyers.com.
Profile at hockeydraftcentral.com

1958 births
Living people
Atlanta Flames draft picks
Atlanta Flames players
Calgary Flames captains
Calgary Flames players
Canadian ice hockey defencemen
Detroit Red Wings players
Ice hockey people from London, Ontario
London Knights players
National Hockey League All-Stars
National Hockey League first-round draft picks
Ottawa Senators players
Philadelphia Flyers players
Toronto Maple Leafs players