[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Media system dependency theory

on
Although both U&G and MSD researchers ask similar questions of individuals, they do so for very different reasons. Those differences are reflected most clearly in (a) the logics of hypothesis formation (b) item and scale construction (c) modes of data analysis, and (d) interpretation of findings.

The MSD researcher essentially wants to know the micro and macro determinants of stability and change in micro MSD relations to learn something about their cross-level consequences for individuals and their interpersonal networks-the dynamics of their inner worlds and how they live in their social worlds. The U&G theorist wants to learn something about the individual's attraction to media texts and the interaction between text and reader to better understand the contributions of reader characteristics to text processing. The differences between micro U&G and micro MSD are, thus, in their epistemological origins, assumptions, concepts, and missions.

Theoretical applications in social media

New media dependency (NMD)
The characteristics of new media, including social media domain and the unique contents available through participatory use, as adding to the measure of individual dependency relation (IMD), are treated as the mediator. This cognitive process of mediating IMD is called new media dependency (NMD). Age and the popularity of online contents are seen as influential to NMD, in which younger people show higher NMD especially on popular content.

The cross-level

Inevitable limitations
The mass media centered framework.
Its theoretical assumption of asymmetry between mass media and individuals.
However, the communication environment has changed as social media provides more choices for people to actively select information generated by other people, instead of passively receiving from satellites and cable channels.

Cross-level analysis of social media
Three basic factors of MSD – individual characteristics, social environment, and media system activity – are derived from both micro and macro levels in a society, postulating media remained on a single level. However, the functionality of social media has been suggested as crossing those levels. Through social media, users are able to create the story (on the micro level), and the story can be either shared publicly (on the macro level) or not. Thus, social media gain the ability to move across levels.

The argument about studies in social media
Particularly, there are many MSD studies in online social networking sites ranging from MySpace to Facebook and Twitter. Yet, scholars still have concerns about whether it is appropriate or not to apply MSD for studying the use of social media.

Some believe that MSD accounts for social media, giving reasons that:
MSD provides a framework for the many relationships through which information can flow in social media environment.
In the case of social media, the power is dependent on the relationship between the provider of information and the consumer of information, rather than in specific people or positions, which is consistent with what MSD suggests.
On the contrary, others challenge that MSD does not fit well with social media studies, because:
Unlike the one-to-many aspect of traditional mass media, social media's many-to-many nature determines that it is difficult to find out who or what is the original generators producing and spreading messages.
MSD is inadequate for studying social media as it "mainly accounting for mass media and reducing interpersonal networks to effect gauges".

Criticisms
Baran and Davis identify four primary criticisms of dependency theory:
Variability in microlevel and macrolevel measurement makes between-study comparability problematic.
The theory is often difficult to empirically verify.
The meaning and power of dependency is sometimes unclear.
Dependency theory lacks power in explaining long-term effects.

References