[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ron Turner (American football)

or the postseason in three of Turner's eight seasons with the team.

Indianapolis Colts
After being fired by the Chicago Bears after the Bears poor 2009 season, Turner was hired as offensive coordinator by Stanford. However, four weeks later he became wide receivers coach for the Indianapolis Colts.

FIU
On January 3, 2013, Turner was hired as the head coach of FIU, becoming the young program's third coach and taking the reins as the program entered Conference USA. He led the team to a 1–11 record and a seventh-place finish in Conference USA's East Division.  In his second season, Turner led the team to a 4–8 record.

On September 25, 2016, Turner was relieved of his duties as head coach.

Personal life
Turner is the brother of Norv Turner, former head coach of the San Diego Chargers.  Ron and his wife, Wendy, have two sons, Morgan and Cameron, and two daughters, Cally and Madison.  "Cam" played quarterback for The Citadel and is currently in his first season as QB coach of the Indianapolis Colts. He has also coached in offensive capacities for the Arizona Cardinals prior to his stop in Indianapolis. This is after serving as the quarterbacks and wide receivers coach at FIU and working for the Carolina Panthers. Before that, he served as an assistant to Leslie Frazier for the Minnesota Vikings. Morgan is currently the tight ends coach for the Arkansas Razorbacks.

Head coaching record

References

1953 births
Living people
American football wide receivers
Arizona Wildcats football coaches
Chicago Bears coaches
Diablo Valley Vikings football players
FIU Panthers football coaches
Illinois Fighting Illini football coaches
Indianapolis Colts coaches
National Football League offensive coordinators
Northwestern Wildcats football coaches
USC Trojans football coaches
Pacific Tigers football coaches
Pacific Tigers football players
Sportspeople from Martinez, California
Players of American football from Contra Costa County, California
Pittsburgh Panthers football coaches
San Jose State Spartans football coaches
Stanford Cardinal football coaches
Tampa Bay Buccaneers coaches
Texas A&M Aggies football coaches