[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2008 Bangladeshi general election

ighbours. He said since establishment of diplomatic relations 34 years ago, the two countries always maintain mutual understanding, trust and support to each other, and developed fruitful cooperation in every field. This cooperation, he said, has brought substantial benefits to the people of both the countries and made positive contributions to regional peace and development. The Chinese premier said through the joint efforts with Prime Minister Hasina bilateral relations as well as friendship and mutual cooperation would be strengthened further. In a separate message of felicitation to Foreign Minister Dr Dipumoni, Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi said it is the unswerving policy of the Chinese government to consistently strengthen and solidify friendly cooperation between China and Bangladesh.
  The Japanese foreign minister, Hirofumi Nakasone and Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso in a statement offered felicitations on the Awami League president, Sheikh Hasina's inauguration as the country's next prime minister, said a release of the Japan embassy. He said, ‘The government of Japan congratulates on the inauguration of her Excellency, Sheikh Hasina, president of the AL, as prime minister of Bangladesh on 6 January 2009, following the general elections on 29 December 2008.’Nakasone said that this election was successfully carried out despite various challenges.‘This elucidates that the consolidation of democracy in Bangladesh is making a steady progress, marking a right start of a new democracy in Bangladesh,’ he said. The Japanese foreign minister said, ‘Japan hopes that the people of Bangladesh will be united in making efforts for further developments of their country under the new prime minister elected in a democratic process. Japan will continue to support their endeavour.’
  President of the Swiss Confederation Hans-Rudolf Merz greeted new Bangla-deshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina .In a message to Hasina, the Swiss president, on behalf of the Swiss Federal Council, expressed his sincere congratulation and wished her every success in the eminent post. The message noted that "the recent elections are an important milestone in the history of Bangladesh. On this special occasion, the Swiss government reiterates its commitment to continue its support to the democratic, social and economic development in Bangladesh."
  Australia welcomed Bangladesh's return to democracy after around two years following what it observed were 'peaceful and orderly' polls. "Australia encourages all parties to work together to ensure a smooth transition and a strong future for the people of Bangladesh", the Australian high commission said in a press statement yesterday. "The Australian government looks forward to working closely with the newly-elected government in areas of mutual interest." "These include trade and investment, development assistance, counter-terrorism, education, migration and tourism", said the statement.
  President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister of Pakistan Yousuf Raza Gilani on Thursday sent congratulations to Sheikh Hasina Wajid on her victory. President Zardari expressed confidence that the close brotherly relations between the two countries would be strengthened further under her leadership. The prime minister said: "We wish you every success and the brotherly people of Bangladesh ever greater progress and prosperity."
  Nepalese Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal "Prachanda" in a message of congratulation to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina noted that the recent elections in Bangladesh had ushered in a democratic governance and overwhelming people's support Hasina's party reflects their expectations to feel the real change. In this context, he said both Nepal and Bangladesh have similar experiences as the Nepali people have also displayed their keenness to build a new prosperous Nepal through the election of Constituent Assembly held last April. He said Nepal and Bangladesh can work together for achieving goals to consolidate bilateral relations and hoped that relations between the two countries would be further strengthened during the term of Sheikh Hasina.
  Prime Minister of Mauritius Navinchandra Ramgoolam greeted Bangladesh's Premier Sheikh Hasina on the decisive victory by the Awami League-led grand alliance in the polls."I'm confident that under your leadership, the people of Bangladesh will realise their long cherished aspirants to make progress in a secular and democratic state-- a dream personified by your illustrious father Sheikh Mujibur Rahman," the Mauritius PM said in a letter of felicitation to Hasina.
  Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-Moon, in a message on Thursday, extended his greeting to Sheikh Hasina for taking over as Bangladesh prime minister. The UN chief also hailed the people of Bangladesh for holding the national election in a peaceful manner for democratic transition. He appreciated the initiatives of Hasina for working together with all politi