[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# New Zealand Railways Department

lation by fixing prices; in 1972 it was decided that NZR could only charge for its services at no more than 1971 rates, despite rising fuel and labour costs. As a result, Railways' accounts were in a deficit for much of the decade and were topped up with a special "Vote Stabilisation" in the budget.

Following a change of Government in 1975, the Robert Muldoon led National Government decided to increase the transport licensing limited from  to 150 km. This change took effect from 1977, and greatly increased competition for NZR on key routes between larger centres within 150 km of each other—routes such as Auckland–Hamilton, Hamilton–Tauranga, Wellington–Palmerston North and Christchurch–Ashburton.

In 1978 a major rebuilding program of the ageing DA class was launched, creating the DC class. Locomotives were sent to Australia for rebuilding, with five being rebuilt at the NZR's own Hutt Workshops. Ten of the DB class were rebuilt into the DBR class at the same time. The following year the Canadian built General Motors DF class was introduced.

Despite these efforts, there was still considerable negativity about railways and the service they offered. In its 30 May 1979 issue, the National Business Review said "long-distance rail travel is likely to completely disappear in the early 1980s. This will leave the slow creaking third world narrow gauge network to bulk freight where it can be more efficient."

Traffic Monitoring System 
On 12 February 1979, NZR introduced a computerised "Traffic Monitoring System", known as TMS. A pilot scheme of TMS began in 1973 on the Palmerston North - Gisborne Line between Woodville and Gisborne. TMS resulted in an 8 per cent improvement in wagon utilisation. As a result of the introduction of TMS, all locomotives, railcars, carriages and other rolling stock were re-numbered. Class notations changed to machine-readable capital letters, rather than the previous superscript capital letter (e.g. DA became DA.) TMS was replaced in 1989 with Amicus.

"Time for Change" 
Following the increase in distance for road transport licensing in 1977, NZR General Manager Trevor Hayward published a pamphlet entitled "Time for Change". In it, he spelt out the basic challenge facing NZR at the time: providing both commercial and loss-making "social" services. While Hayward was not against road transport deregulation, he was in favour of greater investment in NZR to meet freight requirements and shutting down uneconomic services.

In 1981, parliament passed the New Zealand Railways Corporation Act, and the department was corporatised as the New Zealand Railways Corporation on 1 April 1982.

Branches
The Railways Department followed a traditional branch structure, which was carried over to the corporation.
 Commercial;
 Finance and Accounts;
 Mechanical;
 Publicity and Advertising;
 Refreshment;
 Railways Road Services;
 Stores;
 Traffic; and
 Way and Works.

Performance 
The table below records the performance of the Railways Department in terms of freight tonnage:

Workshops
The following NZR workshops were builders of locomotives:

Hutt Workshops, Lower Hutt, at Petone to 1929
Hillside Workshops, Dunedin, now Hillside Engineering
Addington Workshops, Christchurch (closed 1990)
East Town Workshops, Wanganui (closed 1986) also Aramoho
Newmarket Workshops, Auckland (opened 1875, closed 1928)
Otahuhu Workshops, Auckland (opened 1928, closed 1992)

Minor workshops
None of these minor workshops manufactured locomotives, although major overhauls were carried out:

Greymouth (Elmer Lane)
Invercargill
Kaiwharawhara (signals)
Napier
Nelson
New Plymouth (Sentry Hill) from 1880
Westport
Whanganui (East Town)

Locomotives
Steam locomotives built and rebuilt at NZR workshops:

Nine of the ED electric locomotives were constructed (assembled) at the Hutt (7) and Addington (2) workshops. Various diesel locomotives have been rebuilt at NZR workshops, for example, five of the DA as DC, though most rebuilding has been contracted out. Hillside built 9 NZR TR class diesel shunters.

The Auckland workshops (Newmarket, then Otahuhu) specialised in car and wagon work, and in repairs and maintenance.

Private firms that built steam locomotives for NZR
British companies, e.g.:
Avonside Engine Company (Fairlie and Fell locomotives)
Beyer, Peacock and Company
Clayton Carriage and Wagon
Dübs and Company
Henry Hughes's Locomotive & Tramway Engine Works
Hunslet Engine Company
Nasmyth, Wilson and Company
Neilson and Company
North British Locomotive Company (built a quarter (141) of NZR steam locomotives; the NZR J class (1939))
Robert Stephenson and Hawthorns
Sharp, Stewart and Company
Vulcan Foundry
Yorkshire Engine Co