[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Melkite Greek Catholic Eparchy of Newton

Melkite Greek Catholic Eparchy of Newton () is a Melkite Greek Catholic Church ecclesiastical territory of the Catholic Church. The eparchy is named for Newton, Massachusetts, and encompasses the entire United States.  There are, however, currently about fifty Melkite parishes, missions, and "outreaches," in about two dozen states.

History

Early immigration
The first large wave of Melkite immigration from the Middle East to the United States took place in the late 19th century, and the first American Melkite Catholic church was established in the 1890s.  Because there was no diocesan structure for Melkite Catholic faithful in the United States at the time, Melkite parishes were individually under the jurisdiction of the local Latin Church diocesan bishop.

Apostolic exarchate
As the Melkite Catholic presence in the United States reached 70 years, to serve the faithful the Holy See erected an apostolic exarchate on January 10, 1966, with the title Apostolic Exarchate of United States of America, Faithful of the Oriental Rite (Melkite).<ref>vatican.va, AAS 58 (1966), n. 8, S. 563f.</ref>  Archmandrite Justin Najmy (1898–1968), pastor of St. Basil the Great Church then in Central Falls, Rhode Island, (the parish is now in Lincoln, Rhode Island), was appointed as the first Exarch by Pope Paul VI on January 27, 1966.

After Bishop Najmy's death in 1968, Archbishop Joseph Tawil, the Patriarchal Vicar of Damascus, was appointed Najmy's successor in October 1969, in a procedure the Patriarch described as a compromise.

Eparchy
On June 28, 1976, the Exarchate was elevated to the status of an eparchy.vatican.va with the title Eparchy of Newton, and Archbishop Tawil became the first Eparch.

Later immigration
While the descendants of the earlier waves of Melkite immigrants to the U.S. became increasingly assimilated into American culture, the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries saw, for a variety of reasons (e.g., economic, sectarian), new waves of Melkite immigrants hailing from traditional Middle-eastern homelands.  Additionally, within the U.S., many older generations of Melkites began to retire and moving to Sun Belt states.  These two phenomena help account for the growth of new Melkite missions and "outreaches."  In some well established Melkite parishes new waves of immigrants saw a resurgence in Arabic, over English, as the primary liturgical language.

Structure

The seat of the Eparchy is Our Lady of the Annunciation Cathedral in the West Roxbury section of Boston. The main offices of the eparchial curia (e.g, protosyncellus, chancellor) are located adjacent to the cathedral.

The Eparchy is named for the Boston suburb of Newton, where its offices and the bishop's residence had been located until Bishop John Elya sold to private developers two of the three major eparchial properties in the Boston area. In 2015, Pope Francis designated Saint Anne Church in Los Angeles as a co-cathedral.  It is often home to Bishop Samra for several months of the year as he visits the Melkite churches in the western portion of the United States.

The eparchy has jurisdiction over all the Melkite faithful in the United States, and there are parishes, missions, "outreaches," and the like, in twenty-one states, none outside of the continental U.S.  Most Melkite communities are concentrated in a handful of states or geographic regions (e.g., California, New England, Michigan, Ohio, Greater New York City metropolis).  While the eparchy lists the number of parishes as 43, the additional missions and "outreaches" bring the total of Melkite communities in the U.S. to almost 50, each varying in size and level of vitality.