[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Hogle Zoo

ter for Biological Research for a quarantine period in preparation to be released into the wild. On February 4, 1994, Bagel was introduced into the Poço das Antas Biological Reserve in southeastern Brazil, one of three small areas left in the wild that are home to the critically endangered species. 

On May 1, 1991, twin female black-and-white ruffed lemurs, a critically endangered species from Madagascar, were born at Hogle Zoo's former Primate Building. Born through a recommendation made by the Species Survival Plan, the twins were well-represented genetically in the North American population and therefore were considered good candidates for release into the wild. After seven years of being raised by their parents at Hogle Zoo, the two females began their journey to rewilding. On June 2, 1998, they arrived at the Duke Lemur Center in North Carolina where they joined four more lemurs that planned to be released to the wild. They spent around four months at the Duke Lemur Center where they had little contact with humans to help prepare for life in the wild. After completing the necessary training at the center, the twins, who had been named Dawn and Jupiter, were flown to the Betampona Reserve in the Atsinanana Region of Madagascar on October 27, 1998. After completing a standard quarantine, they were released alongside the four other lemurs into the natural reserve on November 25, 1998, helping to boost the critically endangered species' numbers.

The boreal toad is an endangered subspecies of western toad found in alpine wetlands of the western United States. The species has suffered a decline over the last twenty years due to habitat loss and a fatal fungal disease. Hogle Zoo opened their Boreal Toad Conservation Center in 2015. The center housed eggs from the subspecies that were collected from the wild. The plan was to raise the eggs to adulthood, breed them, then release their offspring into restored habitats. In August 2021, Hogle Zoo released 21 boreal toads onto the Paunsaugunt Plateau in southern Utah from those that had been bred at the zoo's center.

Closed exhibits

West End
In 2014, Hogle Zoo's northwest end was transformed into Rocky Shores (see above). This three acre site was once home to exhibits like Bear Grotto, Penguin Cove, and the African Savannah, as well as habitats for Chacoan peccary, mountain lion, red panda, and llama.

Cougar Grotto (1957)
In the late 1950s, the zoo constructed an exhibit for cougars. Large red cement rocks were made to mimic their natural habitat in southern Utah. The zoo's two cougars were orphaned brothers. Snow leopards were held in the exhibit while construction was being completed on Asian Highlands.

Bear Grotto (1958)

Bear Grotto opened in 1958. The exhibit, reminiscent of Carl Hagenbeck's designs of the late 1900s, was intended for the zoo's polar bears and Kodiak bears. The two habitats, each 40 by 60 feet, had 15 foot deep moats separating guests from the bears and extensive rockwork. Bear Grotto's first inhabitants were a male and female polar bear pair. The two were born in the wild in Canada's Northwest Territories. The polar bears moved to Hogle Zoo on March 28, 1957, in preparation for the exhibit's opening. The male and female cubs were named Klondike and Kate via a contest in which a seven year old boy won a trip to Disneyland with his parents. 

Klondike died in 1978 and the Kate in 1985. The zoo was hopeful for cubs and brought in Bubba, a male from the Oregon Zoo in 1978 and Chinook in 1979 from the Memphis Zoo where they were born respectively. The two proved to be a successful mated pair. Chinook welcomed her first cub, a female, on November 4, 1985. With Bubba, Chinook gave birth to a male in 1987, twins Aurora and Bubba in 1989, and a male Denali in 1993. Chinook's mate Bubba died on December 22, 1993, due to pancreatitis.

 
Due to Chinook's success as a mother, the zoo was looking to find a new mate for her. On June 23, 1995, the zoo welcomed Andy from the Buffalo Zoo where he was born in 1989. The next year, Chinook gave birth to male twins Koluk and Kiska on November 19, 1996. Two years later she had another set of male twins named Alcor and Mizar. Chinook's last cub, a female named Anana, was born on December 12, 2000. It was decided to not allow Chinook to become pregnant again due to her age. Chinook was described as a protective defender and gentle, nurturing caregiver. The zoo's special bear mother was euthanized on December 18, 2002, after keepers had been monitoring escalating health problems. Chinook was one of the most prolific polar bears in North American zoo history giving birth to a total of ten cubs. Currently she is survived by Denali who lives at the Sapparo Zoo in Japan and Kiska at the ABQ BioPark. However, many of her grandchildren still populate U.S. Zoos.