[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2007 Micronesian presidential election

Indirect presidential elections were held in the Federated States of Micronesia on May 11, 2007.

Incumbent President Joseph Urusemal, was defeated for re-election by challenger Manny Mori at the opening session of the newly elected 15th Congress of Micronesia.

The Congress also elected Alik L. Alik to serve as the new Vice-President.

Background 
Micronesia is an electoral democracy and has a population of about 550,000 people, not including the Marshall Islands. Micronesia is made up of 607 islands that are grouped into four individual states. Because there are only four states, each state has its own constitution, elected legislature, and governor. State governments in Micronesia have a great deal of power, especially in budgetary matters. Traditional leaders and institutions also hold significant influence in society, especially at the village level.

The Federated States of Micronesia is governed by the 1979 constitution, which guarantees fundamental human rights and establishes a separation of governmental powers. The unicameral Congress has fourteen members elected by popular vote. Four senators—one from each state—serve four-year terms; the remaining ten senators represent single-member districts based on population, and serve two-year terms. The President and Vice President are then elected by Congress from among the four state-based senators to serve four-year terms in the executive branch. Their congressional seats are then filled by special elections. The president and vice president are supported by an appointed cabinet. There are no formal political parties.

Candidates 
The candidate list for the 2007 Presidential election was as follows: Resio Moses of Pohnpei State, Manny Mori of Chuuk State, Alik Alik of Kosrae State and Joseph Urusemal of Yap State who was the sitting President.

Essentially, the election held one representative from each state. In this election however, many of the candidates were running conditionally in terms of which position (President or Vice President) they win. Resio Moses was not interested in the President or Vice President positions while Manny Mori publicly stated that he is only interested in the Presidency and would not accept the lesser Vice President position under any circumstance. Alik Alik would have accepted the Vice Presidency but only if Joseph Urusemal was re-elected as President for a second term.

Resio Moses was one of the founding fathers of the Federated States of Micronesia and was the first Governor of the state of Pohnpei. He later became the Secretary of the Department of External Affairs. He also became Micronesia's Ambassador in the United Nations where he was a key player in the establishment of diplomatic and relations with multiple countries and global organizations. Moses became a member of the 10th Micronesian Congress in 1997 and has been a member ever since. He had held multiple other positions over the years, including Chairman, vice chairman, and member of a number of Congressional Committees prior to his running for the Presidency.

Manny Mori received an Bachelor of Arts degree in Business Management from the University of Guam and spent a year working for the Guam Citicorp Credit Union. Shortly after, he became the Assistant Manager for the Saipan Branch of Citicorp Credit Union and a few years later moved on to be the Assistant Administrator for the Trust Territory Social Security Administration. When Micronesia became a sovereign state in 1979, Mori became the first National Revenue Officer for the State of Chuuk. After two years of working for the Chuuk State Government, Mori was hired as the comptroller of the Micronesia Development Bank. Three years after joining the bank, Mori was promoted President and Chief Executive Officer of the Development Bank. In 1997, Six years later, Mori moved to the Bank of the Federated States. Mori became involved in politics in 1999 when he became Chuuk's representative to the 11th FSM Congress where he held two positions; Vice Chairmanship on the committee of Judiciary and Governmental Operations (J&GO) and the committee on Health Education and Social Affairs (HESA). Three years later, Mori took on the Chairmanship of the committee on Ways and Means while still maintaining his membership on the committees mentioned above. In 2003, Mori took a break from politics and became the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer for the Chuuk Public Utilities Corporation. Under his management, the Corporation successfully executed progressive reform measures that include the restoration of 24-hour electricity to Weno, the capital island of Chuuk State. The next year, Mori re-entered the field of politics as Chuuk's four year representative to the Micronesian Congress. In that Congress, he served as the Vice Chairman of the Committee on External Affairs and held membership in a handful of other committees.