[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Europa Universalis III

lished for Mac OS X by Virtual Programming on September 28, 2011.

Mods
Most of EU3's settings are in plain text files that are easily changed to modify the map, historical events, etc. Some popular mods extensively change the game, adding historical flavor, fantasy scenarios, or new game mechanics.

Magna Mundi spin-off
One mod for EU3 is Magna Mundi, which aims to add detail to the game's map and to steer the course of the alternate history portrayed by the game more towards real-world history by means of scripted events. A standalone version of Magna Mundi was planned as a spin-off game, to be developed by the mod's authors, operating as the development studio Universo Virtual, and to be published by Paradox. In 2012, MM was cancelled by Paradox, who cited lack of progress as well as a lack of trust in the developers as the reasons for this decision: according to a Paradox spokesman, "members within the MM team [...] report to us that the project lacks active leadership".

Universo Virtual, claiming to have had a game ready for release, announced legal action against Paradox.
Its leader, Portuguese developer Carlos Gustavo, accused Paradox of having come up with new requirements several times during development of Magna Mundi. He also claimed that Paradox did not own the source code licensed to him, and announced a release of what was to be Magna Mundi the game, now re-titled World Stage. No release date was put and the project's status is unclear.

Sequel
The game's sequel, Europa Universalis IV, was released on August 13, 2013.

Reception 

Europa Universalis III received an 83% rating on Metacritic, indicating generally positive reviews. In a review for Eurogamer, Alec Meer gave the game a 7 out of 10, stating that it had "near unparalleled flexibility" and that it was "capable of inspiring immense self-satisfaction", while also criticising the game for its obtuse mechanics, especially the ideas system. Nicholas Bale of Game Revolution also gave a positive review, calling it "rich strategic title with a bevy of options available".

See also

List of grand strategy video games 
List of Paradox Interactive games 
Wargame (video games)

References

External links
 
 Official wiki

2007 video games
Age of Discovery video games
Government simulation video games
Grand strategy video games
MacOS games
Action-adventure games
Paradox Interactive games
Real-time strategy video games
Video game sequels
Video games set in the 15th century
Video games set in the 16th century
Video games set in the 17th century
Video games set in the 18th century
Video games set in the Russian Empire
Video games with expansion packs
Windows games
Video games developed in Sweden
Multiplayer and single-player video games