[Source: Semantic Scholar | Fields:  | Year: 2023 | Citations: 1]

Title: COOPERATION BETWEEN UKRAINE AND NATO IN COUNTERING DESTRUCTIVE IINFORMATIONAL INFLUENCES OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION (2022–2023)

Abstract:
The research analyses NATO's experience in countering information threats, since the current level of development requires a collective fight against the spread of information, using it as a form of warfare. The spread of information is becoming increasingly complex due to the development of technology and the evolution of communication channels. It is show that NATO has recognized the need to adapt its strategies and capabilities to effectively counter the challenges posed by disinformation, propaganda and cyber operations and to expand its tools to counter hybrid threats. The article analyses the potential of the NATO-Ukraine partnership in the fight against Russian propaganda, their cooperation in the field of information security: common interests and trends. It also describes the main challenges and threats to NATO-Ukraine cooperation and defines the framework for NATO-Ukraine cooperation in cyber defense. The flow of Russian disinformation has increased significantly since the start of Russia's full-scale war in Ukraine. However, Ukraine began strengthening its information and media environment as early as 2014, and began working on mechanisms to combat information threats. Russia's disinformation campaigns are aimed at causing divisions within Ukraine and between other governments. It is important to note that the North Atlantic Alliance is also subject to Russian propaganda. For example, the Russian mass media spread the following information: 1) the purpose of the Maidan is to create NATO bases in Crimea; 2) NATO placed a biological weapons laboratory in Ukraine; 3) NATO special services worked on the hijacking of Russian planes by Ukraine; 4) NATO considers Ukraine a disposable tool for war with Russia and others. That is, it should be noted that information and its dissemination play an important role for states and international organizations to spread their own interests and achieve goals. The authors provide key recommendations for strengthening the counteraction to disinformation that can be used by any actor in international relations. As a result, it is argued that states should work to create a new autonomous institution that can conduct the data analysis necessary to ensure the independent control required by the new policy framework; media literacy should be developed; and technology companies such as Meta, YouTube and Twitter should adhere to their policies on prohibiting disinformation funded by advertising.