[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Marius Žaliūkas

Marius Žaliūkas (10 November 198331 October 2020) was a Lithuanian professional footballer who played primarily as a centre back, but also played as a defensive midfielder. 

Žaliūkas played in his homeland for Inkaras Kaunas, FBK Kaunas and  FK Šilutė before joining Hearts of the Scottish Premier League in 2006, initially on loan. He spent seven years there, playing 193 games and scoring 13 goals, and captaining the team to win the Scottish Cup in 2012. He then had spells in the Football League Championship with Leeds United and the Scottish Championship with Rangers, before retiring back in Lithuania with Žalgiris in 2016.

At international level,  Žaliūkas played 25 times for the Lithuania national team between 2005 and 2016, scoring once. He died at the age of 36 from motor neurone disease.

Club career

Early career
Žaliūkas started his career with Inkaras Kaunas before joining city rivals FBK Kaunas in 2004. He spent the 2004/05 season on loan to FK Šilutė before returning to Kaunas.

Heart of Midlothian
Žaliūkas was loaned to Hearts from FBK Kaunas in August 2006. He was one of many Lithuanians signed by owner Vladimir Romanov, who also owned Kaunas. Žaliūkas made his competitive debut on 26 August in a 4–1 victory over Inverness Caledonian Thistle, and scored his first goal for the Tynecastle club to secure a 2–2 draw at St Mirren on 2 December. His only other goal of the season came on 1 April 2007, the only goal in the 81st minute of an Edinburgh Derby win at Hibernian.

Further to his impressive start to the 2008–09 season, it was reported by BBC Sport that major clubs in Moscow were willing to sign the defender. Žaliūkas was sent off four times during the 2008–09 season, although one red card was later rescinded. The third of these dismissals came in a Scottish Cup tie against Falkirk, when he punched Falkirk's Carl Finnigan twice in the face. Manager Csaba László reacted angrily to Žaliūkas, and told him that he needs to change his attitude. Two of the red cards came at Pittodrie against Aberdeen in separate matches. He ended speculation about his future by signing a new contract with Hearts, which ran until December 2010.

In July 2009, following the departures of captain Robbie Neilson and vice-captain Christos Karipidis to Leicester City and AC Omonia respectively, László named Žaliūkas as one of the candidates to take the club captaincy, along with midfielders Michael Stewart and Laryea Kingston. László stated that despite Žaliūkas' poor disciplinary record, he would be willing to trust the defender with the responsibility of being a leader. On 13 August 2009, Stewart was named club captain with Žaliūkas as vice-captain, although László stressed that they would share many of the responsibilities that come with the captaincy and said "I really have two captains".

After Stewart left the club to join Gençlerbirliği, Žaliūkas was appointed club captain by new manager Jim Jefferies. Soon afterwards, however, Žaliūkas' future at Hearts was put in doubt due to failed contract negotiations, which resulted in him being left out of the team. However, in November 2010 he signed a permanent contract, ending his previous loan agreement from Kaunas, which committed him to the club until the end of the 2013 season. Towards the end of the 2010–11 season he was once again left out of the team on the orders of club owner Vladimir Romanov. On 19 May 2012, Zaliukas lifted the Scottish Cup with Hearts after a 5–1 win over Edinburgh rivals Hibernian.

Žaliukas was released by Hearts during the 2013 summer transfer window, after the club had entered administration. After leaving Hearts, Zaliukas joined Rangers on trial. He was offered a contract there, but he rejected it to pursue other options. After turning down a deal at Rangers, Žaliūkas joined Queens Park Rangers (QPR) on trial in the hope of earning a permanent contract. However, when the club delayed a possible contract offer, Žaliūkas joined Leeds United on trial and QPR instead signed Oguchi Onyewu.

Leeds United
In October 2013, Žaliūkas began training with Leeds United for a trial spell, the club picking him for a development squad match, amid rumours that they would offer a contract. On 26 October it was announced by the club that the defender had signed a permanent contract until the end of the season. Žaliūkas made his Leeds debut against Yeovil Town on 1 November 2013, Žaliūkas rescued a point for Leeds in a 3–3 draw against Watford on 7 December by blocking a goal bound effort in the last minute of the game. Žaliūkas' impressive performances during the absence of injured defender Scott Wootton meant Žaliūkas became one of the first names on the teamsheet under Leeds manager Brian McDermott as part of three centre backs with Tom Lees and Jason Pearce in Leeds' 3–5–2 formation.