[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Prostitution in Nepal

dies—they are running the risk of being punished within the community and even the law. This is another controversial issue, in that the suppliers are always the ones being punished, while the demand sector of this industry seems to get away with their equally incriminating actions.

Sex trafficking

Nepal is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Nepali women and girls are subjected to sex trafficking in Nepal, India, the Middle East, Asia, and Sub-Saharan Africa. Unregistered migrants, including the large number of Nepalis who travel through India or rely on unregistered recruiting agents, are particularly vulnerable to sex trafficking. Some migrants from Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and possibly other countries transit Nepal en route to employment in the Middle East, using potentially falsified Nepali travel documents, and may be subjected to human trafficking. Some government officials reportedly accept bribes to include false information in Nepali identity documents or provide fraudulent documents to prospective labor migrants, a tactic used by unscrupulous recruiters to evade recruitment regulations.  Many Nepalis, including children, whose home or livelihood was destroyed by the 2015 earthquakes continue to be vulnerable to trafficking. Traffickers increasingly utilize social media and mobile technologies to lure and deceive their victims.

The United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Nepal as a 'Tier 2' country.

See also
 HIV/AIDS in Nepal
 Sex Trafficking
 Sex workers
 Pir

References

Further reading
 Gomare et al. (2002) Adopting strategic approach for reaching out to inaccessible population viz Abstract WePeF6707F abstract, The XIV International AIDS Conference.

External links
 Rape For Profit -- Human Rights Watch Report
 India - Facts on Trafficking and Prostitution from the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women (CATW)
 Lost Daughters - An Ongoing Tragedy in Nepal, Women News Network - WNN, Dec 05, 2008

 
Society of Nepal
Crime in Nepal by type