[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Education in the State of Palestine

tbooks for Grade 2 and Grade 7 in 2001. By the beginning of the 2006–2007, all students in all grades were using the Palestinian national textbooks
Schools
	American School of Palestine
	Al-Arkam school
	Rafah Elementary Co-Ed "B" School
	Ramallah Friends Schools

Education for Palestinian Refugees 

UNRWA has been the main provider of basic education to Palestinian refugee children since 1950. Basic education is available to all registered refugee children free of charge up to around the age of 15. By 31 December 2009, there were close to 482,000 students enrolled in 691 schools. UNRWA schools follow the curriculum of their host countries. This allows UNRWA pupils to progress to further education or employment holding locally recognised qualifications and fits with the sovereignty requirements of countries hosting refugees.

In the 1960s, UNRWA schools became the first in the region to achieve full gender equality. Overcrowded classrooms containing 40 or even 50 pupils are common. Almost all of UNRWA's schools operate on a double shift – where two separate groups of pupils and teachers share the same buildings. Not all refugee children attend UNRWA schools. In Jordan and Syria children have full access to government schools and many attend those because they are close to where they live. UNRWA also operates eight vocational and technical training centres and three teacher training colleges that have places for around 6,200 students.

Criticism 

In 2017, Sabri Saidam, PA’s Minister of Education, said that the removal of Israel from maps and the glorification of the so-called martyrs are a product of “the ripple effects” of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

In 2022, the European Parliament's Budgetary Control Committee condemned the Palestinian Authority (PA) for using EU funds to create school books containing violent and hateful content. The committee based its decisions on a 2021 report by IMPACT-SE, which listed troubling references throughout all grades and subjects to anti-Semitic content and imagery, hate speech, and incitement to violence, martyrdom, and jihad. According to the EU-commissioned Georg Eckert Institute, Palestinian textbooks display anti-Semitic narratives and glorify violence.

See also
 Textbooks in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict
 United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East

References

External links
Palestinian Ministry of Education
Medea’s information files: Palestinian Universities
UNESCO Palestinian education
Webdossier on Education in Palestine, provided by the German Education Server
TVET in Palestine, UNESCO-UNEVOC(2012) – Overview of the technical and vocational education system in Palestine