[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peter Kellman

he Maine AFL-CIO getting union members involved in legislative races.
  
In early 1987, the Maine AFL-CIO had Kellman work on the lockout of workers at the Simplex Wire and Cable Plant in Newington, New Hampshire, which employed many workers who lived in Maine.

1987–1988 International Paper strike 

Following the Simplex Lockout Kellman was assigned to work with the unions at the International Paper Company in Jay, Maine who were instructed by their national union, the United Paperworkers International Union (UPIU), to prepare their 1250 members to strike when their contract ran out on June 16, 1987.  At that time the Jay workers joined the locals locked out in Mobile, Alabama and struck with workers at IP mills in Lockhaven, Pennsylvania and De Pere, Wisconsin. Kellman's instinct for building solidarity and his organizational skills "turned a routine strike into a crusade marked by rallies, marches, and emotional meetings." in that strike. Local 14 of the UPIU faced demands which, on the face of it, seemed unbelievable. Among IP's demands were the elimination of overtime pay on Sunday, no more Christmas Day holiday, the elimination of 156 jobs, the contracting out of all maintenance work which would have eliminated 350 jobs and what amounted to the elimination of the grievance procedure. The local union, however, had little history of member activism outside of their executive board. However, the summer prior the start of the strike, Kellman had begun the process of educating and organizing the mill workers into a successful "class-based social movement." Kellman brought to the labor movement in Jay what he learned from the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s what the Civil Rights Movement got from the Labor Movement of the 1930s.

Every week for 16 months the strikers held a mass meeting attended by over 1,000 people. During the first two months of the strike, International Paper Company permanently replaced the entire union workforce.  However the strikers continued and the strike by IP's workers in Jay generated international attention and they had a bill introduced in Congress to ban striker replacement. President Bill Clinton promised to sign the legislation if it passed Congress. The bill passed the House but the two Democrats in the Senate from Arkansas voted against it and the bill was defeated by two votes never making its way to the President. Many in the labor movement, including Kellman, argued that UPIU had "sold out" Local 14. The strikers held out for 16 months until October 1988 when the UPIU’s International President, Wayne Glen, reversed his position and agreed to sign contracts at other IP locations, thus isolating the striking locals. To help explain the context in which the strike was lost, Kellman wrote a history of the unions in the paper mills called "Divide We Fall," published in 2004. After the strike Kellman became director of the newly formed New Hampshire Coalition for Occupational Safety and Health. While working in New Hampshire, Kellman was involved in a bad car accident after which he returned to college and received a BA in Labor Studies from the University of Massachusetts.

Program on Corporations Law and Democracy 

As a researcher for the Program on Corporations, Law, and Democracy,(POCLAD), Kellman researched and wrote about the history of the labor movement and the legal, political, economic, cultural and democracy killing effect of corporate power from a working class perspective. While at POCLAD he wrote a number of insightful articles which were published in their journal, "By What Authority", and their book "Defying Corporations, Defining Democracy".

Other 

Kellman initiated the "Jay-Livermore Falls Working Class History Project" out of which came the book "Pain on their Faces," a series of essays by participants in the Jay Strike of 1987/88.

He taught several Labor History courses at Heartwood College of Art in Kennebunk, Maine and the University of Southern Maine in Portland, Maine.

Kellman served as President of the Southern Maine Labor Council and was given the title of President Emeritus when he retired as President. Kellman represented the Council on the Executive Board of the Maine AFL-CIO. He is presently on the Executive Board of the Southern Maine Labor Council.

Kellman helped develop the Workers Rights Platform of the Labor Party and his booklet, Building Unions was a product of his work with the Labor Party.

Agriculture in the 21st century 

Kellman and his wife Rebekah Yonan are currently engaged in trying to grow all their nutritional and caloric needs using primarily human labor. He is also studying and beginning to organizing around the cultural side of agriculture. In a way he has come full circle from 1964 when he worked for Helen and Scott Nearing, many consider the parents of the 1960s back-to-the-land movement.

Memberships and awards