[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Rodgers Meigs

im he was an aide-de-camp to Colonel Richardson. However, others note that he was formally assigned to Major Hunt's Light Company M. Among these are the Meigs' family, and Meigs himself. It is clear, however, that he carried orders and acted as an observer for Hunt and carried orders for Richardson.

On July 21, 1861, John participated in the First Battle of Bull Run, a disastrous Union defeat just a few miles from the national capital. Most of the Union Army panicked and fled in a disorderly retreat. For a time during the tumultuous battle, Meigs directed the fire and movement of troops in the absence of commanding officers. Meigs' unit fell back on Fairfax, Virginia. Without orders to do so, John left the unit and returned to the capital. He reached his parents' home at about 8 A.M., and let them know he was uninjured. He said he left Company M to report to Lieutenant General Winfield Scott, commander-in-chief of all Union armed forces. Although John wished to return to his unit, his father ordered him to depart for West Point after reporting to General Scott.

Cadet Meigs received high praise from his superiors.  Major Hunt later wrote: On the death of Lieutenant Craig, Cadet Meigs performed his duties until the close of action with spirit and intelligence, and was very useful, after the affair was over, in conveying orders, observing the enemy, and rallying our troops. Colonel Richardson, too, lauded him. He wrote in his after-action report, "Meigs carried my orders promptly, and a braver and more gallant young man was never in service." He also praised John in a letter to General Meigs, saying, the "gallant conduct of your son, and his exertions in carrying orders for me in the field" "recommended him to be immediately made a Lieut. in the regular Army." Secretary of War Simon Cameron offered to give John a commission as a Second lieutenant, but General Meigs prevailed on the Secretary to send his son back to school.  Instead, Cameron wrote a glowing letter of commendation to Cadet Meigs on December 15, 1861.

Remainder of West Point education
Meigs was appointed sergeant in the Battalion of Cadets on August 29, 1861. Two days later, he was detailed to the mathematics department under the supervision of Professor Albert E. Church.

But on August 19, Meigs became a participant in a court-martial proceeding against Colonel Dixon S. Miles. Miles and Richardson covered the retreat of McDowell's forces at Bull Run. They argued during the retreat, and Richardson accused Miles of drunkenness. In his defense, Miles claimed that Cadet Meigs had issued orders which he was not authorized to give, and that this was part of the cause of the disagreement between himself and Richardson on July 21. Miles produced at least three witnesses who testified that Meigs had given orders. Meigs admitted to suggesting courses of action, but denied absolutely giving any orders.

John Rodgers Meigs' remaining education at West Point went far more smoothly than his first year. His parents continued to urge him to attain the highest honors in academics, deportment, and military glory. He became sensitive to the slightest attack on his honor, and engaged in a brawl with another cadet on May 17, 1862, after receiving a mild insult on the parade ground. Both men beat each other so brutally they both required hospitalization, although Meigs was much worse off (he lost the fight and could not continue). A military tribunal found Meigs guilty of fighting, court-martialed him, and sentenced him to a year's suspension. But the tribunal itself asked for the sentence to be dismissed. Secretary of War Cameron reviewed the sentence and ordered it reduced to confinement to camp for the duration of the summer.

By early 1863, John was an acting assistant professor at West Point, teaching courses in calculus and surveying. He graduated first in his class from West Point on June 11, 1863, and was immediately commissioned a First Lieutenant of Engineers.

War service and death

Meigs' first assignment after entering military service was as Assistant Engineer working to improve the western and southwestern defenses of Baltimore, Maryland; Harpers Ferry, West Virginia; and Cumberland, Maryland. His efforts begin on June 15, 1863. During this time, Meigs often operated in active theaters of war. Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton called his service improving these defenses "meritorious and dangerous".

During General Robert E. Lee retreat from the Battle of Gettysburg (July 4 to July 23), Meigs assisted in keeping the telegraph and roads open along the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) line between Washington and Harpers Ferry. His small unit of engineers skirmished with pickets of Lee's retreating forces near Harpers Ferry about July 13.