[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abraham Serfaty

ter attacks on the independent newspapers and magazines and restrictions of their rights and freedom of speech. Serfaty died in Marrakech, Morocco in November 2010.

Abraham Serfaty was the co-author, with his wife Christine, of the book The Other's Memory (La Mémoire de l'Autre), published in 1993.

Views on Zionism 
Abraham Serfaty was a fervent anti-Zionist, to the extent that he declared that Zionism had nothing to do with Judaism. He moreover stated that the Jews had no right to Palestine, especially Jerusalem and the Western Wall. He led several demonstrations supporting the Palestinian people, especially during Israeli air raids on Gaza, stating that Jerusalem was the capital of Palestine and that Israelis had no right to it.

In "Prison Writings on Palestine", he writes:“Zionism is above all a racist ideology. She is the Jewish reverse of Hitlerism [...]It proclaims the State of Israel "a Jewish state above all," just as Hitler proclaimed an Aryan Germany."

Death 
Abraham Serfaty died on November 18, 2010, at the age of 84 in a clinic in Marrakech.

Only two official representatives of the Moroccan Jewish community were present at his burial. His funeral at the Jewish cemetery in Rabat was solely attended by Moroccan Muslims, on account of his political stance regarding the Palestinian issue.

Awards and honors
1991 PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write Award

See also
 Morocco
 Hassan II
 Tazmamart
 Abdellatif Laabi

References

 "The unsubdued, Jews, Moroccans and Rebels" (L'Insoumis, Juifs, marocains et rebelles), with Mikhaël Elbaz, Éditions Desclée de Brouwer, 2001, 
 "Morocco, from black to grey" (Le Maroc du noir au gris), Éditions Syllepse, 1998, 
 "The Other's Memory (La Mémoire de l'Autre), Éditions Stock, 1993, 
 "In the King's Jails – Kenitra's writings on Morocco" (Dans les Prisons du Roi – Écrits de Kénitra sur le Maroc), Editions Messidor, Paris, 1992, 
 "From jail, writings on Palestine" (Écrits de prison sur la Palestine), Éditions Arcantère, 1992, 
 "The anti-zionist struggle and the Arab Revolution (Essay on Moroccan Judaism and Zionism)" (Lutte anti-sioniste et Révolution Arabe – Essai sur le judaïsme marocain et le sionisme), Éditions Quatre-Vents, 1977, ISBN

1926 births
2010 deaths
Jewish Moroccan politicians
Jewish anti-Zionism in the Arab world
Jewish socialists
Jewish atheists
20th-century Moroccan Jews
Human rights abuses in Morocco
People from Casablanca
Moroccan democracy activists
Ila al-Amam (Morocco) politicians
Moroccan prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment
Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment by Morocco
Moroccan torture victims
Moroccan communists
Moroccan dissidents
Moroccan atheists
Advisors of Mohammed VI of Morocco
Moroccan exiles
Republicanism in Morocco
Jewish communists
Anti-revisionists
Hoxhaists