[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 26]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

der to procure some seed for you.

The next morning Tommy was up almost as soon as it was light, and went
to work in a corner of the garden, where he dug with great perseverance
till breakfast; when he came in, he could not help telling Mr Barlow
what he had done, and asking him, whether he was not a very good boy for
working so hard to raise corn? "That," said Mr Barlow, "depends upon the
use you intend to make of it when you have raised it; what is it you
intend doing with it?" "Why, sir," said Tommy, "I intend to send it to
the mill that we saw, and have it ground into flour; and then I will get
you to show me how to make bread of it, and then I will eat it, that I
may tell my father that I have eaten bread out of corn of my own
sowing." "That will be very well done," said Mr Barlow; "but where will
be the great goodness that you sow corn for your own eating? That is no
more than all the people round continually do; and if they did not do it
they would be obliged to fast." "But then," said Tommy, "they are not
gentlemen, as I am."

"What then," answered Mr Barlow; "must not gentlemen eat as well as
others, and therefore is it not for their interest to know how to
procure food as well as other people?" "Yes, sir," answered Tommy, "but
they can have other people to raise it for them, so that they are not
obliged to work for themselves." "How does that happen?" said Mr Barlow.
_Tommy._--Why, sir, they pay other people to work for them, or buy bread
when it is made, as much as they want. _Mr B._--Then they pay for it
with money? _T._--Yes, sir. _Mr B._--Then they must have money before
they can buy corn? _T._--Certainly, sir. _Mr B._--But have all gentlemen
money? Tommy hesitated some time at this question; at last he said, "I
believe not always, sir." _Mr B._--Why, then, if they have not money
they will find it difficult to procure corn, unless they raise it for
themselves. "Indeed," said Tommy, "I believe they will; for perhaps they
may not find anybody good-natured enough to give it them." "But," said
Mr Barlow, "as we are talking upon this subject, I will tell you a story
that I read a little time past, if you choose to hear it." Tommy said he
should be very glad if Mr Barlow would take the trouble of telling it to
him, and Mr Barlow told him the following history of


"THE TWO BROTHERS."

"About the time that many people went over to South America, with the
hopes of finding gold and silver, there was a Spaniard, whose name was
Pizarro, who had a great inclination to try his fortune like the rest;
but as he had an elder brother, for whom he had a very great affection,
he went to him, told him his design, and solicited him very much to go
along with him, promising him that he should have an equal share of all
the riches they found. The brother, whose name was Alonzo, was a man of
a contented temper, and a good understanding; he did not therefore much
approve of the project, and endeavoured to dissuade Pizarro from it, by
setting before him the danger to which he exposed himself, and the
uncertainty of his succeeding; but finding all that he said was vain, he
agreed to go with him, but told him at the same time that he wanted no
part of the riches which he might find, and would ask no other favour
than to have his baggage and a few servants taken on board the vessel
with him. Pizarro then sold all that he had, bought a vessel, and
embarked with several other adventurers, who had all great expectations,
like himself, of soon becoming rich. As to Alonzo, he took nothing with
him but a few ploughs, harrows, and other tools, and some corn, together
with a large quantity of potatoes, and some seeds of different
vegetables. Pizarro thought these very odd preparations for a voyage;
but as he did not think proper to expostulate with his brother he said
nothing.

"After sailing some time with prosperous winds, they put into the last
port where they were to stop, before they came to the country where they
were to search for gold. Here Pizarro bought a great number more of
pickaxes, shovels, and various other tools for digging, melting, and
refining the gold he expected to find, besides hiring an additional
number of labourers to assist him in the work. Alonzo, on the contrary,
bought only a few sheep, and four stout oxen, with their harness, and
food enough to subsist them till they should arrive at land.

"As it happened, they met with a favourable voyage, and all landed in
perfect health in America. Alonzo then told his brother that, as he had
only come to accompany and serve him, he would stay near the shore with
his servants and cattle, while he went to search for gold, and when he
had acquired as much as he desired, should be always ready to embark for
Spain with him.

"Pizarro accordingly set out not without feeling so great a contempt for
his brother, that he could not help expressing it to his companions. 'I
always thought,' sai