[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Day the World Gets 'Round

ll those involved with the concerts and post-production on the live album had given their services for free, in keeping with Harrison's hope that, in Tillery's words: "Every penny of income – from the gate receipts to the profits from an album and a film – would go toward alleviating the suffering."

By early October 1971, bootleg recordings of the concerts were available in New York, potentially denying funds to the refugees. On 23 November, Harrison's exasperation with the situation saw him raging against Capitol president Bhaskar Menon during a late-night television interview with Dick Cavett, and threatening to take the album to a rival label. Menon then backed down, ceding much of the distribution rights to Columbia/CBS, whose artist Bob Dylan had made a successful comeback at the Concert for Bangladesh. Further delaying the release until well into December, wholesalers objected to Apple's financial terms, which ensured that wholesalers and retailers could make little profit on each copy shipped. Ignoring the spirit behind the release, author Peter Lavezzoli writes, some US retailers "engaged in shameless price gouging".

Legal and taxation issues

Of greater detriment to the project in the long term, Harrison's business manager, Allen Klein, had neglected to register the concerts as UNICEF fundraising benefits before they had taken place. As a result, the American and British tax departments were demanding a share of the proceeds from the live album and Saul Swimmer's concert film, ignoring Harrison's appeals that an exception be made in the case of this humanitarian disaster. Until India's defeat of Pakistan on 16 December, America continued to supply arms and financial aid to the Pakistani army, led by General Yahya Khan, despite reports of genocide being committed against the Bangladeshis. In reply to a New Yorker's offer to start a petition to make the US Treasury scrap its tax on the Concert for Bangladesh album, Harrison wrote: "Until the [politicians] become human, we must do our service to others without their help."

Although Rolling Stone and other countercultural publications lauded the Bangladesh concerts as proof that "the Utopian spirit of the Sixties was still flickering", in the words of author Nicholas Schaffner, Harrison addressed, in "The Day the World Gets 'Round", the corporate greed and governmental apathy he had encountered. While staging the concerts Harrison had made a point of distancing himself from the politics behind the war in what was formerly known as East Pakistan, and he similarly advocated peace activist Swami Vishnudevananda's proposal for Planet Earth passports – whereby "[one truth] underlies all nations, all cultures, all colours, all races, all religions". Referring to the song and the moral responsibility of wealthy Western nations, he says in I, Me, Mine: "If everyone would wake-up and do even a little, there could be no misery in the world."

Composition

Author Robert Rodriguez describes "The Day the World Gets 'Round" as both "an expression of gratitude to all the good hearts that had contributed to the success [of the Bangladesh benefits]", and a "stinging indictment" of governments who had the power to help but instead "turned their backs when it suited their ends to do so". Harrison musical biographer Simon Leng notes also Harrison's dismay at how the 1960s countercultural revolution had failed to influence the motivations of the music business – to the extent that the altruism behind the Concert for Bangladesh "was almost torpedoed by boardroom balance sheets".

A slow-paced ballad, the song's opening verse reflects Harrison's optimism and idealism, on the one hand:

His frustration is evident from verse two, where, in what Leng terms a "knee-jerk reaction" to the politics behind the Bangladesh crisis, Harrison sings of a world "Losing so much ground / Killing each other, hand in hand".

In the song's middle eight, Leng suggests, Harrison identifies the absence of humility as the root of humankind's problems, and concludes:

These lines have led to conflicting interpretations among Harrison biographers regarding a supposedly superior attitude on the singer's part. Ian Inglis writes of "an increasingly familiar elitism in his apparent perception of himself", adding: "When [Harrison] sings of 'the pure of heart' and tells the Lord that 'there are just a few who bow before you,' the implied conclusion is that he counts himself among their number." While acknowledging the ambiguity of this message, Leng writes: "This could be taken as Harrison's statement of his own spiritual superiority, or it might be his metaphor for a rejection of conceit. If ego-driven politicians and self-serving military leaders were able to bow before anything, even a 'concept' like God, the world would be a better place. 'The Day the World Gets 'Round' laments human nature and calls for a little humility."