[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# LGBT rights in Argentina

ss, a new project (3550-D-2018) was taken to Congress with aims similar to those of the previous one. This represented a second attempt at updating the 1990 HIV/AIDS National Law, and it did not succeed either. Furthermore, the 2018 Law project was rejected again in the year 2019.

Living conditions

Since the end of the dictatorship in 1983 and the subsequent transition to a free democracy, Argentina has seen a significant shift in public attitudes towards LGBT people. During the dictatorship, LGBT people were actively persecuted; many were murdered, beaten, raped or disappeared. Homosexuality, transgender people and same-sex relationships were viewed as "disordered", "decadent" and "sub-human" by society, the military regime and the Catholic Church. In the decades following the dictatorship, Argentina has made "big strides" in recognising the legal rights of LGBT people. Multiple LGBT organisations were formed in the late 1980s and early 1990s, campaigning for the rights of LGBT people and raising public awareness of their cause. In 2010, the country became the tenth worldwide to legalise same-sex marriage, despite opposition from the influential Catholic Church. Other legal reforms include enacting a hate crime law to cover sexual orientation and gender identity, the legalisation of civil unions, allowing same-sex couples to adopt, allowing gay and bisexual men to donate blood, banning conversion therapy, and the passage of a transgender recognition law, which led the BBC Mundo to state that "Argentina leads the trans revolution in the world." Societal attitudes have also evolved significantly, going from public hostility and antipathy to acceptance and tolerance. A 2013 poll showed that 74% of Argentinians believed homosexuality should be accepted by society. This number was 81% among younger respondents. According to a 2009 survey, two-thirds of Argentinians were in favour of same-sex marriage. This increase in societal acceptance has led and encouraged members of the LGBT community to enter the public eye and come out.

Argentina is frequently referred to as one of the most LGBT-friendly South American countries. There is a visible LGBT scene in Buenos Aires, the capital, with many gay bars, nightclubs, cafés, restaurants and other venues and events. Nickname "South America's gay capital", Buenos Aires has become an important recipient of LGBT tourism. Due to same-sex marriage bans there, many couples from neighbouring come to Buenos Aires to marry, as Argentina does not have any residency requirements for marriage. Outside Buenos Aires, there are visible LGBT scenes in Córdoba, Rosario, Mendoza, Puerto Madryn, Ushuaia, and Mar del Plata.

In May 2015, PlanetRomeo, an LGBT social network, ranked Argentina as the second happiest South American country for gay men, after Uruguay.

Pride parades
Buenos Aires Pride (Marcha del Orgullo LGBT de Buenos Aires) is an annual pride parade held in the city. First held in 1992, it was attended by about 300 participants, and since then has been growing each year. In 2018, an estimated 100,000 people took part in the festivities. Other cities including Córdoba and Mendoza have held pride parades since 2008 and 2011, respectively; both with good attendance.

Public opinion
A 2020 Pew Center Research opinion poll ranked Argentina the most positive South American country in regards to societal attitudes towards homosexuality, with about three-quarters (76%) of those surveyed saying it should be accepted. The acceptance is further higher among young people (82%). A majority of Argentinians support the legalisation of same-sex marriage.

Summary table

See also
 Human rights in Argentina
 National Institute Against Discrimination, Xenophobia and Racism
 Ministry of Women, Genders and Diversity
 Same-sex marriage in Argentina
 LGBT rights in the Americas
 Transgender rights in Argentina
 Intersex rights in Argentina
LGBT culture in Argentina

References

External links

Official website of the Argentine Homosexual Community (CHA). (in Spanish)
Official website of La Fulana—organization for lesbians and bisexual women
Official website of the Argentina LGBT Federation (FALGBT) . (in Spanish)
Buenos Aires: A Gay Mecca—video by GlobalPost