[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Left communism in China

can only be restricted. Therefore, if people like Lin Biao come to power, it will be quite easy for them to rig up the capitalist system. That is why we should do more reading of Marxist-Leninist works". Zhang Chunqiao took some measures on the direct management of workers and peasants in Shanghai.

When in late 1966 over a million workers in Shanghai extended their activism into a general strike calling for improved salaries and democratic control over workplace management and city governance, Maoist worker representatives such as Wang Hongwen criticized some demands as "economistic" violation (which referred to another strategy of capitalist-roader Cao Diqiu to bribe workers and cause crisis) of point 14 of the 16 Points: "embrace the revolution while stimulating production (抓革命，促生产)". With some police assistance, these representatives managed to silence the more radical rank-and-file demands (called "far-rightist under a leftist form") and absorb their energy into the nominal January Storm, which replaced the city government and party committee with a Shanghai People's Commune ruled by Wang and Zhang Chunqiao. Some intransigent rebels called for democratic control over the Commune and even the abolition of all "heads". When Mao heard of this, he told Zhang to transform the Commune into a revolutionary committee in which mass representatives would share power with army and party representatives and recommended that this model of "power seizure" be propagated throughout China lest people get the wrong idea from Shanghai's invocation of the Paris Commune.

It was out of this momentary radicalization of GPCR mass politics and its sudden suppression and redirection that the ultra-left currents were born under the direct order from Zhou Enlai, first independently within rebel groups scattered throughout China, then by late 1967 in increasing dialogue until their suppression during the following years. The earliest record GPCR scholar Wang Shaoguang has found of something resembling an ultra-left position is an open letter from two high school students to Lin Biao, published under the pseudonym Yilin-Dixi in November 1966.

The Shengwulian was a self-styled ultraleft group, and was the GPCR's most famous such group. It sought to emulate the Paris Commune as the historical example of popular power and argued that China's "new bureaucratic bourgeoisie" would have to be destroyed to establish a genuinely egalitarian society. The group's significant political writings include its Program and Yang Xiguang's "Whither China?"  Whither China? argued that the central conflict in China during the Cultural Revolution was not between Mao Zedong's proponents and opponents, or between the proletariat and the former wealthy, but instead between the masses and a "Red capitalist class" that was "decadent" and impeding historical progress.

See also 
 Anarchism in China
 Mao-Spontex
 Maoism

Notes

Further reading 
 The 70s Collective, ed. 1996. China: The Revolution is Dead, Long Live the Revolution. Montreal: Black Rose Books. 
 Chen Erjin. 1984. Crossroads Socialism: An Unofficial Manifesto for Proletarian Democracy. Trans. Robin Munro. London: Verso.
 Mehnert, Klaus, ed. 1969. Peking and the New Left: At Home and Abroad. Berkeley: University of California Press.
 Meisner, Maurice. 1999. Mao's China and After: A History of the People's Republic, Third Edition. New York: The Free Press. 
 Wang Shaoguang. 1995. The Failure of Charisma: The Cultural Revolution in Wuhan. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

External links 
 Communist Left on China
 "The rise and suppression of the 'ultra-left' in the Chinese cultural revolution" by Pete Brown
 "'New Trends of Thought' on the Cultural Revolution" by Wang Shaoguang
 "Rethinking 'Capitalist Restoration' in China" by Yiching Wu
 宋永毅、孙大进编. 1997. 《文化大革命中的异端思潮》. 香港:田园书屋.
 《论新思潮》，四三派（ ?）著
 《中国向何处去？》，省无联（杨曦光）著
 《无产阶级文化大革命中各种派别的分析》，北决扬（ 杨 Xiulin）著
 《特权论》（《论无产阶级民主革命》），陈泱潮（陈尔晋）著
 《从阶级关系反思中国的“资本主义复辟”》，吴一庆著
 《“文革”为什么结束？》，韩少功 (陈益南《一个工人的"文革"》的序言)

Communism in China
Cultural Revolution
Cold War history of China
Left communism
Politics of China
Maoism in China