[Source: PubMed]

1. Int J Health Policy Manag. 2018 May 1;7(5):374-393. doi: 
10.15171/ijhpm.2017.147.

Assessment of the Effects of Economic Sanctions on Iranians' Right to Health by 
Using Human Rights Impact Assessment Tool: A Systematic Review.

Kokabisaghi F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Healthcare and Law Department, School of Health Policy and Management, 
Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Management Sciences and Health Economics, School of Health, 
Mashhad University of Medical Science, Mashhad, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Over the years, economic sanctions have contributed to violation of 
right to health in target countries. Iran has been under comprehensive 
unilateral economic sanctions by groups of countries (not United Nations [UN]) 
in recent years. They have been intensified from 2012 because of international 
community's uncertainty about peaceful purpose of Iran's nuclear program and 
inadequacy of trust-building actions of this country. This review aimed to 
identify the humanitarian effects of the sanctions on the right of Iranians to 
health and the obligations of Iran and international community about it.
METHODS: To assess economic sanction policies and identify violated rights and 
the obligations of states according to international human rights laws, in this 
study, Human Rights Impact Assessments (HRIA) tool is used. Applying this tool 
requires collection of evidences regarding the situation of rights. To provide 
such evidence, a systematic review of literature which involved 55 papers 
retrieved from the web-based databases and official webpages of Iran's 
government and UN' health and human rights committees and organizations was 
done. All articles about the consequences of economic sanctions related to 
nuclear activities of Iran on welfare and health of Iranians published from 
January 2012 till February 2017 in English and Persian languages were included. 
Search terms were economic sanctions, embargoes, Iran, welfare, health and 
medicine. Additional studies were identified by cross checking the reference 
lists of accessed articles. All selected papers were abstracted and entered into 
a matrix describing study design and findings, and categorized into a framework 
of themes reflecting the areas covered (health and its determinants). According 
to HRIA framework, related obligations of Iran and other states about adverse 
effects of the sanctions on Iranians' right to health were extracted.
RESULTS: The sanctions on Iran caused a fall of country's revenues, devaluation 
of national currency, and increase of inflation and unemployment. These all 
resulted in deterioration of people's overall welfare and lowering their ability 
to access the necessities of a standard life such as nutritious food, healthcare 
and medicine. Also, the sanctions on banking, financial system and shipment led 
to scarcity of quality lifesaving medicines. The impacts of sanctions were more 
immense on the lives of the poor, patients, women and children. Humanitarian 
exemptions did not protect Iranians from the adverse effects of sanctions.
CONCLUSION: Countries which imposed economic sanctions against Iran have 
violated Iranians' right to health. International community should have 
predicted any probable humanitarian effects of sanctions and used any necessary 
means to prevent it. Furthermore, Iran should have used any essential means to 
protect people from the adverse effects of sanctions. Now, they should work on 
alleviation of the negative effects of sanctions. Even though, some of the 
effects such as disability and death cannot be compensated. In future, before 
imposition of sanctions, decisions makers should advice an international order 
to prevent such impacts on targeted countries' populations.

© 2018 The Author(s); Published by Kerman University of Medical Sciences. This 
is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons 
Attribution License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0), which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original work is properly cited.

DOI: 10.15171/ijhpm.2017.147
PMCID: PMC5953521
PMID: 29764102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]