[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# MPC&A

lear to nuclear weapons storage sites, securing 4,000 nuclear warheads located in 42 storage sites. In 1999, the Material Security Task Force evolved into a permanent organisation, the Office of International Material Protection and Emergency Cooperation (NN-50).

Other Department of Energy programs

The Department of Energy also implemented two programs to discourage Russian nuclear weapons scientists from selling their knowledge to other others. The Initiatives for Proliferation Prevention (IPP) program funded non-military applications that could have had commercial value in the United States and former Soviet republics. Lab-to-lab contacts identified technologies within former Soviet weapons facilities that could have commercial applications. The program also matched U.S. government funds with funds from U.S. companies that sought to commercialize these technologies. The United States Congress authorized approximately $20-30 million for this program each year since FY 1994.

The Nuclear Cities Initiative (NCI) was designed to bring commercial enterprises to Russia's closed cities so that "scientists and engineers would not be tempted to sell their knowledge to nations seeking nuclear weapons." It helped finance a computing center in Sarov to produce software for sale around the world. The Clinton Administration had requested and received $30 million for NCI in FY 2001. However, the Bush Administration cut funding for the NCI program, requesting only $6.6 million for FY 2002. The NCI program ended in late 2003 because the United States and Russia were unable to complete a new implementing agreement due to differences in liability protections.

References

Sources 
 International Atomic Energy Agency
 Nuclear proliferation
 Radiation protection
 "Materials Protection, Control, and Accounting (MPC&A) | The Stimson Center | Pragmatic Steps for Global Security." Materials     Protection, Control, and Accounting (MPC&A) | The Stimson Center | Pragmatic Steps for Global Security. Stimson.org, 30 May 2007. Web. 29 Oct. 2014. 
 Woolf, Amy F. "Nuclear Weapons in Russia: Safety, Security, and Control Issues." LIBRARY OF CONGRESS WASHINGTON DC CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE, 2003.
 Doyle, Jim. "Improving Nuclear Materials Security in the Former Soviet Union: Next Steps for the MPC&A Program. (Nuclear Material Protection, Control and Accounting)." Arms Control Today 2 (1998): 12. Print.
 Medeiros, Evan S. "Gore-Chermomyrdin Commission Expands Nuclear Security Cooperation.(Russia-US Cooperation on Nuclear Materials Security)." Arms Control Today 5 (1996): 25. Print.

External links 
 Material Protection, Control and Accounting Program: NNSA
 Russian-American MPC&A: Nuclear Materials Protection, Control, and Accounting in the Russian Federation
 Russia: DOE MPC&A Program

Nuclear proliferation
Arms control
Defense Threat Reduction Agency
Military disbanding and disarmament
Nuclear history of the United States
Nuclear history of Russia
Soviet Union–United States relations
Russia–United States relations
Nuclear weapons programme of Russia
Nuclear weapons program of the United States
Nuclear power in Russia
Nuclear power in the United States
Los Alamos National Laboratory personnel