[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Operation Musketeer (1956)

rymple (survey vessel)
 Submarine depot ships: HMS Forth, HMS Rampura
  (Minelayer)
 HMS Tyne (Headquarters ship)
  (Depot ship)
 HMMRC1097 (Landing craft repair ship)
 Submarines: HMS Sea Devil, HMS Sentinel, HMS Totem,  (Believed to be in area at the time)
 Submarine (search and rescue): HMS Tudor

Fleet Air Arm
 800 Naval Air Squadron with Hawker Sea Hawks.
 802 Naval Air Squadron with Hawker Sea Hawks.
 804 Naval Air Squadron with Hawker Sea Hawks.
 809 Naval Air Squadron with de Havilland Sea Venoms.
 810 Naval Air Squadron with Hawker Sea Hawks.
 830 Naval Air Squadron with Westland Wyverns.
 831 Naval Air Squadron with Westland Wyverns.
 845 Naval Air Squadron with Westland Whirlwinds.
 'A' Flight of 849 Naval Air Squadron with Douglas Skyraiders.
 'B' Flight of 849 Naval Air Squadron with Douglas Skyraiders.
 891 Naval Air Squadron with de Havilland Sea Venoms.
 893 Naval Air Squadron with de Havilland Sea Venoms.
 894 Naval Air Squadron with de Havilland Sea Venoms.
 895 Naval Air Squadron with de Havilland Sea Venoms.
 897 Naval Air Squadron with Hawker Sea Hawks.
 899 Naval Air Squadron with Hawker Sea Hawks.
 Joint Experimental Helicopter Unit with Westland Whirlwinds and Bristol Sycamores.

Royal Fleet Auxiliary
 RFA Blue Ranger (tanker)
 RFA Brown Ranger (tanker)
 RFA Fort Sandusky (stores ship)
 RFA Kinbrace (A281) (coastal salvage vessel)
 RFA Spapool (water carrier)
 RFA Tideflow (tanker)
 RFA Tidereach (tanker)
 RFA Tiderace (tanker)
 RFA Wave Knight (tanker)
 RFA Wave Master (tanker)
 RFA Wave Sovereign (tanker)
 RFA Swin (salvage vessel)
 RFA Uplifter  (salvage vessel)
 RFA   Retainer (A329) (ammunition and stores)

Civilian auxiliary ships
 Ascania (troopship)
 Asturias (troopship)
 Ausdauer (chartered heavy-lifting vessel)
 M/V Dispenser (salvage lifting vessel)
 Dilwara (troopship)
 Dunera (troopship)
 Empire Fowey (troopship)
 Empire Gaelic (troopship)
 Empire Ken (troopship)
 Empire Parkeston (troopship)
 Energie (chartered heavy-lifting vessel)
 SS Kingsbury (troopship)
 New Australia (troopship)
 MV Salinas'' (cargo ship)

Royal New Zealand Navy
 HMNZS Royalist (cruiser), with the carrier group as a radar picket until 2 November, "but was ordered not to take part in any operations".

See also
 Protocol of Sèvres
 Suez Crisis
 Closure of the Suez Canal (1956-1957)

References

Citations

Bibliography
 
 Carter, Geoffrey [2006] - Crises Do Happen: The Royal Navy And Operation Musketeer, Suez 1956. Maritime Books, Cornwall.

External links
 Britain's Small Wars - Suez

Suez Crisis
Amphibious operations