[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Fenton (hurler)

ssful era, winning three successive All-Ireland championships, however, Fenton found it difficult to break onto the team. He was an unused substitute in 1978 as Cork defeated Kilkenny by 1-15 to 2-8 in the All-Ireland decider. It was O'Leary's third successive All-Ireland medal.

Difficult few years

Fenton was back on the starting fifteen in 1979 as Cork had the opportunity of capturing a record-equalling fourth successive All-Ireland. All went to plan as the Rebels secured a fifth consecutive provincial title following a 2–14 to 0–9 defeat of Limerick. It was Fenton's second Munster medal. Age and the exertions of the three previous campaigns finally caught up with Cork in the All-Ireland semi-final and a 2–14 to 1–13 defeat by Galway brought the four-in-a-row dream to an end.

Fenton added a National Hurling League medal to his collection in 1980, as Limerick were defeated after a thrilling draw and a replay. A record-breaking sixth successive provincial championship eluded Cork that year, however, Fenton won a second successive league medal in 1981 as Offaly were defeated by 3–11 to 2–8.

In 1982 Fenton endured a tough championship campaign as he was dropped from the starting fifteen for some key games. He won a third Munster medal that year when he came on as a substitute in Cork's 5-31 to 3-6 trouncing of Waterford. Fenton was dropped from the match day panel for Cork's subsequent All-Ireland defeat by Kilkenny.

Fenton's time as a substitute came to an end in 1983 as he secured a fourth Munster medal following a 3–22 to 0–12 rout of Waterford. The All-Ireland final on 4 September 1983 was a repeat of the previous year with Kilkenny providing the opposition once again. The Cats built up a healthy interval advantage of six points. Shortly after the restart the Noresiders advantage was nine points, however, they failed to score for the last seventeen minutes of the game. Cork rallied with goals from Tomás Mulcahy and Seánie O'Leary but were ultimately defeated by 2–14 to 2–12. In spite of this defeat Fenton was later presented with his first All-Star.

All-Ireland success

Midleton's club success in 1983 paved the way for Fenton to be appointed captain of the Cork team for 1984, the centenary year of the Gaelic Athletic Association. The year began well with Fenton guiding his team to victory in the special Centenary Cup competition. Cork were the dominant force in Munster once again in 1984, with Fenton winning a fifth Munster medal following a memorable 4–15 to 3–14 defeat of Tipperary in the provincial showpiece. The subsequent All-Ireland final on 2 September 1984, played at Semple Stadium in Thurles, saw Cork take on Offaly for the first time ever in championship history. The centenary-year final failed to live up to expectations and Cork recorded a relatively easy 3–16 to 1–12 victory. It was Fenton's first All-Ireland medal on the field of play while he also had the honour of lifting the Liam MacCarthy Cup. He was later honoured with a second successive All-Star as well as a Texaco Hurler of the Year award.

In 1985 Fenton added a sixth Munster medal to his collection as Cork defeated Tipperary by 4–17 to 4–11 in the provincial decider once again. He later won a third All-Star.

Cork made it five-in-a-row in Munster in 1986 as they defeated Clare by 2–18 to 3–12 to take the provincial title. It was Fenton's sixth Munster medal. This victory paved the way for an All-Ireland final meeting with Galway on 7 September 1986. The men from the west were the red-hot favourites against a Cork team in decline, however, on the day a different story unfolded. Four Cork goals, one from Fenton, two from Tomás Mulcahy and one from Kevin Hennessy, stymied the Galway attack and helped the Rebels to a 4–13 to 2–15 victory. It was Fenton's second All-Ireland medal while a fourth successive All-Star quickly followed.

Decline

In 1987 Fenton lined out in his last championship campaign. In the Munster semi-final replay against Limerick he scored, what is often regarded as, one of the greatest hurling goals of all-time. Playing in his usual midfield position he struck the sliotar on the ground and scored a goal from forty-five yards out. Cork's championship campaign eventually ended at the hands of Tipperary in the provincial decider, however, Fenton ended the year with a fifth successive All-Star award.

Inter-provincial

Fenton was chosen for duty with the Munster inter-provincial team for the first time in 1981. That year Munster faced arch rivals Leinster in the championship decider. A 2-16 to 2-6 trouncing gave Fenton his first Railway Cup medal.

After failing to make the team over the next few years, Fenton was back on the starting fifteen as captain in 1984. Leinster were the opponents once again, however, a 1-18 to 2-9 victory gave Munster the title and gave Fenton a second winners' medal as well as the honour of lifting the Railway Cup as captain.