[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Forum on China–Africa Cooperation

r of agricultural technology demonstration centers built by China in Africa will be increased to 20. 50 agricultural technology teams would be sent to Africa and 2,000 agricultural technology personnel would be trained for Africa, in order to help strengthen Africa's ability to ensure food security.

China also will provide medical equipment and antimalarial materials worth 500 million yuan to the 30 hospitals and 30 malaria prevention and treatment centers built by China and train 3,000 doctors and nurses for Africa. Wen further stated that China will build 50 China–Africa friendship schools and train 1,500 school principals and teachers for African countries and increase the number of Chinese government scholarships to Africa to 5,500 by 2012. China will also train a total of 20,000 professionals of various fields for Africa over the next three years.

The head of the United Nations food agency, World Food Programme, Executive Director Josette Sheeran praised the forum's role in food security, agriculture, and infrastructure in Africa.

Discussions at the summit also highlighted the importance of climate change issues, poverty reduction, and exchanges between African and Chinese think tanks.

2012, Beijing, China 
The fifth Ministerial Conference of the FOCAC was held on 19 to 20 July 2012, in Beijing, China. Announcements were made by China for support in investment and lending, including a credit line of $20 billion for African countries to build infrastructure, agriculture, and manufacturing to support small and medium-sized enterprises in Africa. Also, the China-Africa Development Fund, which had been announced during the 2006 FOCAC and established with capital of $1 billion, would be scaled up to $5 billion.

The 2012 summit placed significant emphasis on security cooperation and peace. As of at least the 2021 summit, those continue to be regular themes for FOCAC. During the 2012 summit, China announced the Initiative on China-Africa Partnership for Peace and Security, through which it provides financial and technical support to peacekeeping missions conducted by the African Union.

Particularly since the 2012 FOCAC, China has focused more on the quality, effectiveness, and sustainability of the aid it provides to African countries.

2015, Johannesburg, South Africa 
The second FOCAC Summit and sixth Ministerial Conference was held on 4 to 5 December 2015, in Johannesburg, South Africa. The 2015 summit emphasized China's commitment to assist in the industrialization of Africa. FOCAC started to stress the Belt and Road Initiative beginning with this summit, the declaration of which committed China and African states to "actively explore the linkages between China's initiatives of building the Silk Road Economic Belt and 21st Century Maritime Silk Road and Africa's economic integration and sustainable development agenda, and to seek opportunities to promote common development and realize our common dreams."

A $60 billion package of aid, subsidized lending, and state-backed investment was announced by China. The individual elements of the package were "5 billion dollars of free aid and interest-free loans, 35 billion dollars of preferential loans and export credit on more favorable terms, 5 billion dollars of additional capital for the China-Africa Development Fund and the Special Loan for the Development of African SMEs each, and a China-Africa production capacity cooperation fund with the initial capital of 10 billion dollars."

One of the outcomes of the 2015 forum was the Access to Satellite TV for 10,000 African Villages programme.

2018, Beijing, China 
The 2018 summit took place in Beijing in early September 2018. By May 2018, all African UN member states recognised the People's Republic of China as the sole legitimate representative of China, with the exception of Eswatini (Swaziland), which maintains relations with Taiwan. Before the summit, China declared it did “hope that by the time the China-Africa cooperation forum Beijing summit happens, we can have a happy picture of the whole family”, i.e. it hopes to establish diplomatic relations with Swaziland before the summit begins. The government of Eswatini has rejected these overtures from the PRC. It was also reported that more African leaders went to the 2018 summit than to the similarly timed UN General Assembly meeting.

The 2018 FOCAC declaration states explicitly that China and the African states view FOCAC as a major platform for coordination as part of the Belt and Road Initiative.

Agricultural development was a focus of the 2018 summit.

2021, Dakar, Senegal and Beijing, China 
Due the COVID-19 pandemic, the 2021 meeting was held online via videolink, with participants located in Dakar and Beijing. It emphasized health diplomacy, although it continued to also emphasize political and security cooperation especially n cybersecurity and support for African police.