[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Friends of South Asia

tioning California's Curriculum Commission to reject allegedly revisionist edits to California's textbook curriculum on Hinduism and India, as suggested by two American Hindu organizations. In 2006, during the textbook controversy, then-graduate student Anupama Mandavilli was a primary spokesperson.

Condemnation of Indo-U.S. civil nuclear deal
The group advocates against what they term "militarism in India, Pakistan, and the United States." According to a 2006 statement, "We express our deepest disappointment with the recently concluded visit of George Bush to India and Pakistan, and unequivocally condemn the Indo-US nuke deal...The United States' imperial designs in its war on Afghanistan and Iraq and the submission of the Indian and Pakistani governments to go along, is not lost on their people who came out in thousands in both countries to protest against Bush and his agenda."

Condemnation of Israel
Friends of South Asia endorsed and sponsored speeches and signed letters denouncing Israel as a colonial occupier of Palestine. In 2010, it criticized novelist Amitav Ghosh for accepting the Dan David Prize from the President of Israel. In 2011, it endorsed a letter declaring Israel as a colonial occupier of Palestine.

Condemnation of United States policy in Cuba and Venezuela
Friends of South Asia has endorsed letters, protests and rally calling United States' policy in Venezuela and Cuba as hostile, the current governments in Venezuela and Cuba as progressive.

Literary events
The group holds an annual literary event in August, celebrating the Indian and Pakistani Independence days with readings in Hindi, Urdu, Punjabi, Kannada, Gujarati, and English. Topics have included "South Asian Writings on War and Terrorism," "Revisiting Changing Homelands," and "The Language of Food."

Criticism

Corruption allegations against Benazir Bhutto
Former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto spoke at Stanford University in October 2001. According to the Stanford Report, "a handful of protesters who called themselves 'concerned Pakistani students' and 'friends of South Asia' held signs promoting peace and passed out fliers detailing corruption charges against Bhutto -- charges she disputed during her talk."

Cosponsorship of event with PAA
On May 15, 2005, FOSA organized a San Francisco march for peace in support of the 2005 India-Pakistan peace march, with the help of seven local co-sponsors, including the Pakistan American Alliance (PAA). About a week after the event, an anonymous online critic of the Association for India's Development pointed out that the Pakistan American Alliance's website included an image of a man holding a placard reading "Allah will destroy the terrorist state of India" at an October 2004 rally in New York City co-organized by the New York chapter of PAA. FOSA responded by deleting references to the Pakistan American Alliance from their website, and issuing an update stating that they were disturbed by the photo and had been unaware of PAA's politics, which were contrary to their own.

Ties to Communist Party of India
In 2006, Mihir Meghani, president of the Hindu American Foundation, itself strongly linked to the Hindutva Bharatiya Janata Party, was quoted in Silicon Valley newspaper Metroactive saying that "It's pretty well known that they're [FOSA] tied with the Communist Party in India...It's really a ploy to break down and dissemble [sic] Hinduism." In 2006, The Stanford Daily had to retract an article accusing FOSA of having communist ties, saying "FOSA does not have any ties to Communist or terrorist groups".

Controversy about speakers
Speakers hosted by Friends of South Asia have been the subject of controversy.
Biju Mathew and Stanford University
In 2006, FOSA invited Professor Biju Mathew (Rider University) to speak at Stanford University about labor organizing among New York City taxi drivers, globalization, and the anti-war movement. The Stanford Daily student newspaper ran an article critical of the planned event, based on an anonymous email claiming that there were simultaneous "Islamist and Communist sympathies within the organization." The anonymous correspondent also claimed that Mathew, a co-founder of the Forum of Indian Leftists (later renamed the Forum of Inquilabi [revolutionary] Leftists to be inclusive of non-Indian  members), supported the Unabomber and other terrorist groups. The article received significant public criticism, and the Stanford Daily retracted the story. and printed apologies in the two subsequent issues, concluding that "FOSA does not have any ties to Communist or terrorist groups...We also apologize to Prof. Biju Mathew for associating him in any way with the Unabomber and other extremist elements."