[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Jacobs (activist)

ilm as "one-sided" and has further suggested that the documentary and similar "critics of the university ... tend to blur the distinction between speech and action" by "accus[ing] professors of inappropriate action and intimidation when they are actually trying to attack the content of their ideas."

Under Jacobs's leadership, the David Project in 2004 campaigned to create a competitor to Mosaic: World News from the Middle East, a public affairs program, on Newton public television. Mosaic featured reports from an array of news organizations based in the Middle East.

The David Project was instrumental in publicizing allegations that the Islamic Society of Boston (ISB), an organization building a mosque in Roxbury, a Boston neighborhood, was linked to individuals the Project characterized as extremists. On behalf of the Project, Jacobs alleged that the ISB had connections to at least two individuals whose views Jacobs took to be problematic. The David Project, and Jacobs's new organization Citizens for Peace and Tolerance, was sued for defamation by the Islamic Society of Boston (ISB) in October 2005. The ISB's suit alleged that the Project had conspired with other groups to defame the Society by claiming it was associated with extremists, thereby impeding ISB's construction of its Roxbury mosque. The Project, for its part, sued Boston's Redevelopment Authority (BRA) in October 2006 to obtain information relevant to the city's sale of land to the ISB. In 2007, the David Project's suit against the BRA was dismissed, and the ISB dropped its defamation action soon afterward.

Jacobs left the David Project in July 2008.

Americans for Peace and Tolerance
Along with several other local figures including Ahmed Subhy Mansour, Steven A. Cohen, and Dennis Hale, Jacobs founded Americans for Peace and Tolerance (APT) (originally Citizens for Peace and Tolerance), in response to the ongoing construction of the Roxbury mosque. The Forward describes APT as "a group focused on radical Islam". Jacobs describes APT as "an organization of Christians, Jews and Muslims promoting authentic interfaith dialogue and opposing Radical Islam [sic]." Jacobs has been described as a counter-jihad activist.

The Boston Globe has characterized Jacobs as "[t]he primary critic of the [Roxbury] mosque." Jacobs has claimed, on behalf of APT, that "[w]e think the [Islamic Society of Boston] leadership are hiding behind the general Muslim population" and asserted that those funding the project were associated with extremists. United States Attorney Carmen Ortiz characterized APT's view in this connection as "incredibly racist and unfair." Jacobs has noted that his group held a rally at the mosque's opening attended by Frank Gaffney, director of the Center for Security Policy. (According to public IRS filings, APT received over $121,457 from Gaffney's organization in 2009.) As late as 2014, Jacobs and another APT official claimed that the Islamic Society of Boston "constitutes a vast infiltration tunnel beneath our feet."

Under Jacobs's leadership, Americans for Peace and Tolerance has conducted several subsequent advocacy campaigns in the Boston area. The Boston Globe has described it as "a group that has accused many local Muslim leaders of being secret radicals." In 2012, for example, APT launched an effort to dismiss Abdullah Faaruq, a volunteer Muslim chaplain at Northeastern University, alleging, among other complaints, that the chaplain had made statements in support of Tarek Mehanna. In 2013, Jacobs alleged that an imam of the Islamic Society of Boston Cultural Center was an extremist. This claim was rejected by Todd Helmus, a counterterrorism researcher at the RAND Corporation; and Diana L. Eck, a professor of comparative religion at Harvard University. In 2015, Jacobs and other APT officials alleged that a member of the Cambridge, Massachusetts City Council was a "secret radical" because he had been involved in a local chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations.

In 2010, Jacobs was involved in publicizing an incident in the Wellesley, Massachusetts public schools during which non-Muslim students visited the Islamic Society of Boston Cultural Center and were permitted to participate in prayers. The mosque's leadership group, the Muslim American Society of Boston responded to Jacobs's allegations, arguing that APT had misrepresented the situation by suggesting that students had been directed to pray when in fact they had not.