[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dov Lior

ted that Jewish women should not use sperm donated by a non-Jewish man, and that a baby born through such an insemination will have the "negative genetic traits that characterize non-Jews", and that, "If the father is not Jewish, what character traits could he have? Traits of cruelty, of barbarism."

In 2007, commenting on the situation of African refugees in Israel, Lior said that a much more important issue was the situation of Jewish settlers - whom he termed "refugees" - expelled from Gaza in 2005.

Leading rabbis have testified that Lior was the source of rulings labeling the late Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin a rodef and a moser (traitor who endangers Jewish lives). Rabin's assassin, Yigal Amir, is known to have visited Lior. Baruch Goldstein also met with Lior. After Goldstein murdered 29 Palestinian worshipers at the Cave of the Patriarchs, Lior declared him "as holy as the martyrs of the Holocaust".

In June 2011, Lior was arrested by Israeli police and questioned on suspicion of inciting violence for endorsing a religious book, the King's Torah'', that gives Jews permission to kill innocent non-Jews, including children. Lior had been summoned for questioning by authorities, but refused to appear. Spontaneous demonstrations erupted in and around Jerusalem as outraged supporters assembled in various parts of the city and on Route 1 to protest Lior's arrest. Israeli chief rabbis Yona Metzger and Shlomo Amar condemned the arrest as a "grave offense to an important rabbi's honor", and 25 members of the Knesset signed a petition denouncing it as "shameful" and as having been orchestrated by Deputy State Prosecutor Shai Nitzan. Lior was released after an hour of questioning.

Both opposition leader Tzipi Livni and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called for a full judicial investigation of Lior's remarks, and said that rabbis were not above the law.

In September 2011, Lior stated that Arabs are "evil camel riders".

In 2012, Lior referred to US President Barack Obama with what was possibly a racial slur, "kushi of the West"—which is akin to the modern pejorative use of the word negro in certain contexts—and likened him to the genocidal enemy of the Jews, Haman. He also compared Western European leaders to Nazi collaborators.

In July 2014, he said it was acceptable to kill Palestinian civilians and destroy the entire Gaza Strip in order to protect Jewish people in the South.

In November 2015, during a eulogy at a funeral in Jerusalem for a father and son killed in West Bank, Lior said of the Paris attacks: "The wicked ones in blood-soaked Europe deserve it for what they did to our people 70 years ago."

References

1933 births
Living people
Date of birth missing (living people)
Israeli Orthodox Jews
Israeli Orthodox rabbis
Israeli soldiers
Mercaz HaRav alumni
Religious Zionist Orthodox rabbis
Religious Zionist rosh yeshivas
Rabbis in Hebron
Rabbis in Jerusalem
Israeli Rosh yeshivas
Chardal
People from Kiryat Arba
People from Jarosław
Rabbis in Beersheba
Anti-Arabism in Israel