[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William T. H. Brooks

as deployed to the south of town, where Federal troops had achieved their most significant successes during the December battle. Marye's Heights was defended by Barksdale's Mississippi brigade and Early ordered the Louisiana brigade of Brig. Gen. Harry T. Hays from the far right to Barksdale's left.

May 3, 1863: Battle of Salem Church
At first Sedgwick believed that he faced a single brigade of infantry, so about 3:30 p.m. he attacked the Confederate positions with only William T. H. Brooks division. Brooks succeeded in driving back McLaws's right flank but a counterattack stopped the Union attack and forced Brooks to retreat back to his original position; sunset ended the combat before any further units were involved. During the night, Lee ordered Early to attack Sedgwick's left flank in the morning, while McLaws attacked the Union right. Also during the night, Sedgwick received no further orders from Hooker other than authorization to retreat across the river if Sedgwick thought the move was necessary.

Retirement and death
After the war, Brooks retired to Alabama and established a farm. He died in Huntsville, Alabama, and is buried there in Maple Hill Cemetery.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher. Civil War High Commands. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
Aztec Club biography
Military biography of Brooks from the Cullum biographies
Second Battle of Fredericksburg Second Battle of Fredericksburg
Fredericksburg Union order of battle Fredericksburg Union order of battle, VI Corps
Battle of Salem Church Battle of Salem Church

1821 births
1870 deaths
People from Lisbon, Ohio
United States Military Academy alumni
American people of the Seminole Wars
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Members of the Aztec Club of 1847
Union Army generals
People of Ohio in the American Civil War
Vermont Brigade