[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Noise regulation

old.  Railroad caused vibration is preempted by federal law (CFR 201). Chicago, IL (Section 11-4-2910) uses the perception threshold method.   Dallas, TX requires measurement of low frequency vibration.  Maryland uses the definition of noise to include sound and vibration at sub-audible frequencies.

Wind turbines
The sound created by wind turbines is caused by the blade rotation similar to aircraft propellers.  Because the rotation rate is low, the frequency is also low, but the large size of many can result in disturbing sound levels, particularly in high wind areas.  Most local control is done by advantageous site planning.  New Hampshire (Title LXIV, Section 674:63) sets a sound level limit of 55 dB when measured at the site property line, allowing for exceptional events, such as storms. Studies have declared that wind noise can have a negative effect on health.

Ordinance provisions for moving vehicles in the United States
Stationary sources have fixed positions, so it is possible to define the listeners and therefore immission controls are appropriate.  Motor vehicles are moving sources so it is not possible to define any specific listeners so emission controls are appropriate.  There are exceptions to this distinction. Construction equipment, and some recreation vehicles, move within a bounded area and can be considered to be time varying fixed sources. Standing motor vehicles can radiate sufficient sound to create noise disturbance.  These must be treated by specific provisions.

Adequate mufflers or sound dissipation devices
This provision is an objective emission control.  Unlike the Tampering provision, this is specific to motor vehicles.  It requires that a vehicle muffler not create more sound than the original equipment which has been measured.  It prohibits any modification or replacement that increases the sound emission beyond that of the original equipment. It prohibits the sale of mufflers that do not meet original equipment standards.  Many states have requirements that a muffler shall be in good working order which is not specific enough.  California (Section 27150.1)) requires that a retail seller that sells a product in violation of the muffler regulation  must install a replacement muffler that meets the regulation and must reimburse the purchaser for the expense of replacement.

Airboats and hovercraft
This provision is both an "objective emission control and a subjective immission control.  It can set a maximum sound level at a specified distance (typically 50 feet). It can have a curfew.  It can be based on noise disturbance in the community.  It can also require the use of ear protectors on passengers. Unlike motorboats, the sound generators on these vehicles are airborne, resulting in more noise impact.  Florida (Section 327.65) requires a maximum level of 90 DB(A).  Maine (Title 12 Section 13068-A)has three levels: operating, operating test and stationary test

Engine braking devices
This provision is an emission control. It can restrict brake use for only safety purposes and by defining restricted areas.  It can require that mufflers be maintained to keep emitted sound to that of the original equipment.  Common terminology is Jake brakes after the Jacobs Company. Milwaukee, Wi (Section 80-69) prohibits use within city limits.  Portland, OR (Section 18.10.020.B.3) prohibits use within 200 feet of a residence.  Albuquerque, NM posts signs requiring proper mufflers.

Motorboats
This provision is both an objective emission control and a subjective immission control.
Because they are moving sources, objective controls are appropriate for measurements on open waterways.  Many motorboats operate in bounding areas, such as small lakes or canals, with adjacent residential areas.  In this case, immission controls are appropriate. California (Section 654.05), Portland OR (Section 18.10.040), and Seattle, WA (Section 25.08.485) require immission measurements to be made at the shoreline. Many states require emission measurements to be made at 50 feet.

Motor vehicle horns or signaling devices
This provision is both a prohibition and an emission control. it limits to use for safety warning only..  It limits the sound level to a specific level at a prescribed distance.  This provision is intended to limit horn use to safety and to limit the use of excessively loud air horns or Rumbler or Howler horns. California prohibits a person operating a motor vehicle to wear a headset or earplugs on both ears. Oregon (Section 820.370) prohibits signaling sound when an emergency vehicle is stationary or returning from an emergency