[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# UNOY Peacebuilders

first time and sent their Youth Advocacy Team to visit UN in New York.

2006 and 2007 marked a great deal of organizational changes at UNOY, and the network developed from a loose network into a Membership-based one. The International Steering Group also held its first meeting in the Hague in 2007.

In 2008, UNOY started developing their Gender Programme, and the following year they participated in the COE Study Session on Gender Equality in Youth Peacebuilding Projects as well as held two gender trainings in the Netherlands. Aside from that, UNOY published “Youth Advocacy for Culture of Peace” in 2008 and “Partners for Peace” in 2009.

In 2010, UNOY marked the end of Decade for a Culture of Peace and non-violence for Children of the World, which they had been participating in since 2001. Throughout the year, UNOY took part in coordinating the Civil Society Report on the International Decade for a Culture of Peace. The report was presented in December at the End of Decade conference in Spain.

In 2015 UNOY's advocacy efforts culminated in the adoption of the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2250 on youth, peace and security. The UNOY advocacy work is mainly coordinated and run by the Youth Advocacy Team. The team consists of representatives of member organisations, young peacebuilders active in their own local communities making their voice heard globally through the Youth Advocacy Team. Additionally, UNOY has permanent advocacy representatives based in New York and Geneva who work on a voluntary basis to represent young peacebuilders towards different United Nations bodies.

See also 
 Conflict Resolution
 Peacebuilding
 Culture of Peace
 NGOs

NGOs working in peacebuilding
 Search for Common Ground
 Global Youth Action Network
 International Crisis Group
 International Alert

References 

 Website of UNOY Peacebuilders

External links 
 Website of UNOY Peacebuilders

International nongovernmental organizations
International organisations based in the Netherlands