[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians

The Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians in the United States is a federally recognized confederation of more than 27 Native American tribes and bands who once inhabited an extensive homeland of more than 20 million acres from northern California to southwest Washington and between the summit of the Cascades and the Pacific Ocean. After the Rogue River Wars, these tribes were removed to the Coast Indian Reservation, now known as the Siletz Reservation. The tribes spoke at least 11 distinct languages, including Tillamook, Shasta, Lower Chinook, Kalapuya, Takelma, Alsea-Yaquina, Siuslaw/Lower Umpqua, Coos, the Plateau Penutian languages Molala and Klickitat, and several related Oregon Athabaskan languages.

Name
The confederation takes its name from the Siletz River, which surrounds the original headquarters of the reservation. The word siletz translates to a description of something that is coiled like a rope or a snake, describing the route of the river winding through the mountains circuitously to the ocean. The confederation includes remnants of the Siletz, a Coast Salish people who also became incorporated into the larger confederation.

Tribes
The confederation is made up of the following tribes and bands.

 Tillamook
Siletz
Salmon River/Neachesna
Nestucca
Nehalem
Tillamook Bay
Alsea, including Yaquina
Chinook, including Wakhiakum, Multnomah, and Clatsop
Coos, including Hanis and Miluk
Kalapuya, including Santiam, Tualatin, Yamhill, Yoncalla, Marys River band, and others
Lower Umpqua (also known as Kuitsh) and Siuslaw
 Molalla
 Shasta, including Klamath River people
 Rogue River peoples, including Shasta, Upper Rogue River Athapaskan peoples: Applegate and Galice Creek, or any of the tribes of Lower Rogue River Athapaskan (or Tututni) people
 Klickitat
 Takelma, including Dagelma, Latgawa, and Cow Creek
 Oregon Athabaskans, including all Athabaskan bands from southwestern Oregon (bands of Rogue River Athabaskan peoples, Chetco people, Tolowa people and Upper Umpqua (Etnemitane) people), such as the following:
Lower Rogue River Athabaskan (also known as Tututni) peoples
Upper Coquille (also known as Mishikwutinetunne)
Chasta Costa
Tututni
Euchre Creek (also known as Yukichetunne)
Flores Creek
Mikonotunne
Naltunnetunne
Pistol River (also known as Chetleshin)
Port Orford band of Kwatami (also known as Kaltsergheatunne)
Sixes (also known as Kwatami)
Yashute (also known as Chemetunne) and others
Upper Rogue River Athabaskan (also known as Galice/Applegate) peoples
Applegate River (also known as Dakubetede)
Galice Creek (also known as Taltushtuntede)
Chetco-Tolowa
Tolowa
Chetco
Upper Umpqua (also known as Etnemitane)

History 
The Confederated Tribes emerged from the remnants of around 28 different tribes of coastal and other Western Oregon Indians.

Interim-reservations
Table Rock Indian Reservation

After the war of 1855–1856
After the Rogue River Wars of 1855–56, most of the peoples were forced onto the Coast Indian Reservation, which later became known as the Siletz Reservation, where they were to form a single unified tribe. The Coast Reservation originally comprised 1.1 million acres, which was established by the executive order of President Franklin Pierce on November 9, 1855, only weeks after the start of the last phase of the Rogue River Wars. The Siletz Reservation was reduced by around 3/4 its area (approximately 900,000 acres) in 1865 and 1875 in violation of treaties. In 1894, 551 individuals received federal allotments from the remaining reservation, and tribal members were forced to cede the "surplus" for 74 cents an acre. By 1912, restrictions on inheriting lands within families led to more than one half of the Siletz allotments being owned by non-Indians.

Termination act of 1954
The Western Oregon Indian Termination Act of 1954, Public Law 588, was passed into law on August 13, 1954. This new law severed Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) supervision of trust lands and BIA regulation of services to the Indian peoples.

All of the remaining Siletz lands were sold except for the 39 acres called Government Hill.  The proceeds of the sale of the timberland property were distributed to enrolled tribal members in two installments: $250 per person in December 1954, and a final payment of $542.50 per person in August 1956. Other inherited allotments were held in trusts but were also sold off at the request of the owners.

Restoration bills
During the 1960s, several members of the Siletz tribe began to organize and restore common bonds. Their initiatives included the restoration of the tribal cemetery on Government Hill and aggressive lobbying of Congress and the office of the President to again recognize Siletz as a federal Native American tribe.

In June 1974, Rep. Wendell Wyatt introduced a first restoration bill, but it did not pass.