[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Human rights in Muslim-majority countries

ss which aims to end terrorism and violence in the Southeast of the country and pave the way for a solution to the Kurdish issue; the September 2013 democratisation package which sets out further reform, covering important issues such as the use of languages other than Turkish, and minority rights."

Further progress was also recorded on the women's rights front where Turkey was the first country to ratify the Council of Europe Convention against Domestic Violence.  Also, in 2009, the Turkish government established a Parliamentary Committee on Equal Opportunities for Men and Women to look at reducing the inequality between the sexes.

Despite all these advancements, there are still many significant human rights issues troubling the country. In a 2013-human rights report by the United States Department of State, amongst the problems to receive significant criticism were government interference with freedom of expression and assembly, lack of transparency and independence of the judiciary and inadequate protection of vulnerable populations. Human Rights Watch has even gone as far as to declare that there has been a "human rights rollback" in the country. According to the report, this has taken place amidst the mass anti-government protests which took place in 2013. Under the current leadership of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, the ruling party has become increasingly intolerant of "political opposition, public protest, and critical media".

The recent rise in religious intolerance and Islamization under Recep Tayyip Erdoğan regime was exemplified when in early July 2020, the Council of State annulled the Cabinet's 1934 decision to establish the museum, revoking the monument's status, and a subsequent decree by Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan ordered the reclassification of Hagia Sophia as a mosque.

Iran

The Islamic Republic of Iran has one of the worst human rights records of any country in the world. Amongst the most serious human rights issues plaguing the republic are "the government’s manipulation of the electoral process, which severely limited citizens’ right to change their government peacefully through free and fair elections; restrictions on civil liberties, including the freedoms of assembly, speech, and press; and disregard for the physical integrity of persons whom it arbitrarily and unlawfully detained, tortured, or killed."

In 2014, Human Rights Watch reported that despite changes to the penal code, the death penalty was still liberally meted resulting in one of the highest rates of executions in the world. On top of that, security authorities have been repressing free speech and dissent. Many opposition parties, labour unions and student groups were banned and scores of political prisoners were still locked up.

The country has generally closed itself off to outside interference. The government has refused the request of the United Nations to have Special Rapporteur-Ahmed Shaheed report on the human rights situation in the country though they did, however, announce that two UN experts would be allowed to visit in 2015.

See also
 Women in Islam
 Arab Charter on Human Rights
History of human rights in the early Islamic Caliphate
Human rights in the Middle East
Human rights in the Qur'anic texts

References

Further reading
 Maimul Ahsan Khan (2003), Human Rights in the Muslim World: Fundamentalism, Constitutionalism, and International Politics. Durham, N.C.: Carolina Academic Press.

External links
 Islam Challenges to Universal Human Rights, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty

Human rights in Islam