[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Dark Knight

le targets involved in the trial, including the judge and police commissioner. Although Gordon saves the mayor, the Joker threatens that his attacks will continue until the Batman reveals his identity. He targets Dent at a fundraising dinner and throws Rachel out of a window, but Batman rescues her.

Wayne struggles to understand the Joker's motives, but his butler Alfred Pennyworth says "some men just want to watch the world burn." Dent claims he is the Batman to lure out the Joker, who attacks the police convoy transporting him. The Batman and Gordon apprehend the Joker, and Gordon is promoted to commissioner. At the police station, the Batman interrogates the Joker, who says he finds the Batman entertaining and has no intention of killing him. Having deduced the Batman's feelings for Rachel, the Joker reveals she and Dent are being held separately in buildings rigged to explode. The Batman races to save Rachel while Gordon and the other officers go after Dent, but they discover the Joker gave their positions in reverse. Rachel is killed in the explosion, while Dent's face is severely burned on one side. The Joker escapes custody, extracts the fortune's location from Lau, and burns all of it, killing Lau in the process.

Wayne Enterprises accountant Coleman Reese deduces the Batman's identity and attempts to expose it, but the Joker threatens to blow up a hospital unless Reese is killed. While the police evacuate hospitals and Gordon struggles to keep Reese alive, the Joker meets with a disillusioned Dent, persuading him to take the law into his own hands and avenge Rachel. Dent defers his decision-making to his half-scarred, two-headed coin, killing the corrupt officers and the mafia involved in Rachel's death. As panic grips the city, the Joker reveals two evacuation ferries, one carrying civilians and the other prisoners, are rigged to explode at midnight unless one group sacrifices the other. To the Joker's disbelief, the passengers refuse to kill one another. The Batman subdues the Joker but refuses to kill him. Before the police arrest the Joker, he says although the Batman proved incorruptible, his plan to corrupt Dent has succeeded.

Dent takes Gordon's family hostage, blaming his negligence for Rachel's death. He flips his coin to decide their fates, but the Batman tackles him to save Gordon's son, and Dent falls to his death. Believing Dent is the hero the city needs and the truth of his corruption will harm Gotham, the Batman takes the blame for his death and actions and persuades Gordon to conceal the truth. Pennyworth burns an undelivered message to Wayne from Rachel, who said she chose Dent, and Fox destroys the invasive surveillance network that helped the Batman find the Joker. The city mourns Dent as a hero, and the police launch a manhunt for the Batman.

Cast

 Christian Bale as Bruce Wayne / Batman: A wealthy socialite who as a child was traumatized by his parents' murder. Wayne secretly operates as the heroic vigilante Batman.
 Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth: Wayne's father-figure, trusted butler, and confidant
 Heath Ledger as the Joker: A criminal mastermind and anarchist who is determined to sow chaos and corruption throughout Gotham
 Gary Oldman as James Gordon: One of the few honest officers in the Gotham City Police Department (GCPD) who assists the Batman's war on crime
 Aaron Eckhart as Harvey Dent / Two-Face: Gotham's noble district attorney-turned-violent vigilante 
 Maggie Gyllenhaal as Rachel Dawes: Gotham's assistant district attorney and Wayne's childhood friend, who is divided between her feelings for him and for Dent. 
 Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox: Wayne Enterprises' CEO who supplies technology and equipment for the Batman's campaign

Additionally, Eric Roberts, Michael Jai White, and Ritchie Coster appear as crime bosses Sal Maroni, Gambol, and the Chechen, respectively; while Chin Han portrays Lau, a Chinese criminal banker. The GCPD cast includes Colin McFarlane as commissioner Gillian B. Loeb, Keith Szarabajka and Ron Dean as detectives Stephens and Wuertz, Monique Gabriela Curnen as rookie detective Anna Ramirez and Philip Bulcock as Murphy.