[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kumar Rupesinghe

Kumar Rupesinghe (1943 – 20 February 2022) was a Sri Lankan academic and activist involved in social issues, particularly human rights, development issues, processes of globalisation, conflict prevention/resolution, and conflict transformation in the light of peacekeeping and peacebuilding for a harmonious coexistence among all peoples in the world.

He was a secretary general of International Alert and an advisor to the Reconciliation programme of the Triple R. Rupesinghe had experience in mediation and conflict resolution work.

Biography
Rupesinghe was born in the British Raj in 1943. He obtained his first degree from the London School of Economics and his Ph.D. from the City University London. He contributed towards building new organizations and networks on human rights and peace.

At sixteen he went to London to study philosophy for eight years. His guide and mentor in those formative years was the Hungarian philosopher Alfred Reynolds (Reinhold Alfré), whose insightful and enlightening discussions on philosophy ensured that the young Rupesinghe earned a solid grounding in Western and Indian Philosophy. This exposure to Western culture at an early age armed him with subjectivity for his own Sri Lankan culture. 
	
In the meantime, he continued his academic growth by obtaining a degree at London School of Economics and a doctorate from City University London. Over time, he became a research fellow at the Agrarian Research and Training Institute in Colombo (1971–1973) and was appointed director of the National Youth Service Council.

One of Rupesinghe's core concerns was the brutality he witnessed during the ethnic riots of 1958 in Sri Lanka, where a close Tamil friend and his family were killed.

Revolutionary years
During 1973–1977, under the patronage of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party, Rupesinghe formed two major weekly newspapers, Janavegaya and Janavegam (both meaning 'people's power'), which embodied a social movement for change. The Janavegaya social movement had wide popularity and a presence throughout the island. One of his unique achievements was to visit the 20,000 political prisoners held as a result of the abortive 1971 JVP Insurrection. Eventually, through the efforts of Janavegaya, the prime minister was persuaded to release all prisoners held in connection to the insurrection except for the key figures of the insurgency.
	
Through the newspaper Janavegam, a Tamil weekly, he learned of the deep-rooted grievances of Tamil youth. Janavegam agitated for their rights and called for a power sharing arrangement for the Northern and East provinces. One positive outcome of this agitation was the establishment of the University of Jaffna. The weekly newspaper predicted that unless there was a clear policy to alleviate suffering and address the grievances of the youth, civil war would be inevitable.

University of Peradeniya
After the 1977 defeat of the SLFP-led United Front government, Rupesinghe served as a lecturer at the Department of Sociology of the University of Peradeniya (1977-1981). He was also a member of the Social Scientists Association, a Sri Lankan research body.

International Peace Research Institute
Rupesinghe was invited to join the International Peace Research Institute Oslo (PRIO) in Norway, as a research fellow in 1982. At this time ethnic polarisation in Sri Lanka had increased and after 1977, relations between the Tamils and the government had deteriorated. Against this backdrop, he dedicated himself to finding solutions to the ethnic conflict, leading to his advocacy for an early warning system. He was later appointed research director and led PRIO's programme on ethnic conflict and conflict resolution.

During his tenure, Rupesinghe was appointed a coordinator to the Programme on Governance and Conflict Resolution at the United Nations University, Tokyo, where he edited two volumes and commissioned several monographs on identity conflict. He was also chair of the Commission on Internal Conflicts of the International Peace Research Association (IPRA), where he published four volumes on early warning and conflict resolution.

International Alert
From 1992 to 1998 Rupesinghe was secretary general of International Alert (IA), an international non-governmental organisation (NGO) dedicated to the prevention and mitigation of internal conflict. The organisation continued the work of the human rights advocate and first secretary general of Amnesty International, Martin Ennals, who received the Nobel Prize. During his tenure, Rupesinghe was in the august company of IA Board members like Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Nobel Laureates and other distinguished citizens of the global human rights community.