[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 55]
# The Republic — Plato

d time he sent forward Pagolo by way of Pisa, and went himself
direct to Pistoia; at midnight both of them met outside the city, and
both were admitted as friends. Thus the two leaders entered, and at a
signal given by Castruccio, one killed Jacopo da Gia, and the other
Bastiano di Possente, and both took prisoners or killed the partisans
of either faction. Without further opposition Pistoia passed into the
hands of Castruccio, who, having forced the Signoria to leave the
palace, compelled the people to yield obedience to him, making them
many promises and remitting their old debts. The countryside flocked to
the city to see the new prince, and all were filled with hope and
quickly settled down, influenced in a great measure by his great
valour.

About this time great disturbances arose in Rome, owing to the dearness
of living which was caused by the absence of the pontiff at Avignon.
The German governor, Enrico, was much blamed for what happened—murders
and tumults following each other daily, without his being able to put
an end to them. This caused Enrico much anxiety lest the Romans should
call in Ruberto, the King of Naples, who would drive the Germans out of
the city, and bring back the Pope. Having no nearer friend to whom he
could apply for help than Castruccio, he sent to him, begging him not
only to give him assistance, but also to come in person to Rome.
Castruccio considered that he ought not to hesitate to render the
emperor this service, because he believed that he himself would not be
safe if at any time the emperor ceased to hold Rome. Leaving Pagolo
Guinigi in command at Lucca, Castruccio set out for Rome with six
hundred horsemen, where he was received by Enrico with the greatest
distinction. In a short time the presence of Castruccio obtained such
respect for the emperor that, without bloodshed or violence, good order
was restored, chiefly by reason of Castruccio having sent by sea from
the country round Pisa large quantities of corn, and thus removed the
source of the trouble. When he had chastised some of the Roman leaders,
and admonished others, voluntary obedience was rendered to Enrico.
Castruccio received many honours, and was made a Roman senator. This
dignity was assumed with the greatest pomp, Castruccio being clothed in
a brocaded toga, which had the following words embroidered on its
front: “I am what God wills.” Whilst on the back was: “What God desires
shall be.”

During this time the Florentines, who were much enraged that Castruccio
should have seized Pistoia during the truce, considered how they could
tempt the city to rebel, to do which they thought would not be
difficult in his absence. Among the exiled Pistoians in Florence were
Baldo Cecchi and Jacopo Baldini, both men of leading and ready to face
danger. These men kept up communications with their friends in Pistoia,
and with the aid of the Florentines entered the city by night, and
after driving out some of Castruccio’s officials and partisans, and
killing others, they restored the city to its freedom. The news of this
greatly angered Castruccio, and taking leave of Enrico, he pressed on
in great haste to Pistoia. When the Florentines heard of his return,
knowing that he would lose no time, they decided to intercept him with
their forces in the Val di Nievole, under the belief that by doing so
they would cut off his road to Pistoia. Assembling a great army of the
supporters of the Guelph cause, the Florentines entered the Pistoian
territories. On the other hand, Castruccio reached Montecarlo with his
army; and having heard where the Florentines’ lay, he decided not to
encounter it in the plains of Pistoia, nor to await it in the plains of
Pescia, but, as far as he possibly could, to attack it boldly in the
Pass of Serravalle. He believed that if he succeeded in this design,
victory was assured, although he was informed that the Florentines had
thirty thousand men, whilst he had only twelve thousand. Although he
had every confidence in his own abilities and the valour of his troops,
yet he hesitated to attack his enemy in the open lest he should be
overwhelmed by numbers. Serravalle is a castle between Pescia and
Pistoia, situated on a hill which blocks the Val di Nievole, not in the
exact pass, but about a bowshot beyond; the pass itself is in places
narrow and steep, whilst in general it ascends gently, but is still
narrow, especially at the summit where the waters divide, so that
twenty men side by side could hold it. The lord of Serravalle was
Manfred, a German, who, before Castruccio became lord of Pistoia, had
been allowed to remain in possession of the castle, it being common to
the Lucchese and the Pistoians, and unclaimed by either—neither of them
wishing to displace Manfred as long as he kept his promise of
neutrality, and came under obligations to no one. For these reasons,
and also because the castle was well fortified, he had always