[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Via Giulia

the Marini Clarelli family. In the 19th century it was used as barracks before being sold to the city of Rome in 1870. The façade (richly historiated at the time of Cresci) and the portal are lined with rusticated ashlars. On the sides of the portal there are badly rebuilt large windows on consoles.

25 Casa di Raffaello (Via Giulia 85)
This palace, erroneously called the House of Raphael, was built after 1525 for the Vatican Chapter according to a design by the architect Bartolomeo de Ramponibus. Raphael originally acquired several plots of land here. However, he died before the building's construction began. The original and the definitive design – known through three plans discovered in the Uffizi – are respectively by Raphael and Antonio da Sangallo the Younger. An inscription above the windows of the first floor is dedicated to Raphael: "POSSEDEVA RAF SANZIO NEL MDXX" ().

26 Quarter of the Florentines
In 1448 Florentine merchants who resided in Rome (many of them settled in the Tiber bend, today's Ponte rione), founded the Compagnia della Pietà, akin to the Florentine "Misericordia". Both popes from the Medici family, Leo X and Clement VII (), promoted the influx of Florentines. Since 1515 the Republic of Florence had its own consulate in a palace on Via del Consolato that was erected in 1541 and demolished in 1888 to open the Corso Vittorio Emanuele avenue. It had its own court and its own prison. Some of the buildings erected towards the end of the 15th century that once belonged to Florentines are still preserved across from the church of San Giovanni dei Fiorentini:

27 San Giovanni dei Fiorentini (Via Acciaioli 2)

In 1519 the "nation" of the Florentines received from Leo X the privilege to build a parish church in honour of John the Baptist. The church stands at the northern end of Via Giulia in the Florentine quarter. The church reflects the grandeur and the political self-image of the Medici family, whose portraits adorned the facade of a palazzo'' right next to the church. It is the largest church on Via Giulia and its construction, started at the beginning of the 16th century, lasted more than 200 years. It combined the efforts of three of Rome's master builders: Giacomo della Porta, Carlo Maderno, and Francesco Borromini. The last two artists were interred in the same tomb at the church. The altarpiece, started by Pietro da Cortona, was continued by Borromini and finished by Ciro Ferri.

References

Footnotes

Citation Notes

Sources

External links

Vincenzo Morelli, Omaggio a Via Giulia
La storia di Via Giulia

1508 establishments in the Papal States
Renaissance architecture in Rome
Giulia
Giulia
Baroque architecture in Rome