[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Non-citizen suffrage

ed to extend the voting franchise for local and Scottish Parliament elections to include any other foreign nationals holding leave under the Immigration Act 1971. Thus, Scotland immediately followed Wales in allowing non-EU and non-Commonwealth citizens to join the electoral register.

United States

As of 2018, nearly 10% of people living in the U.S. weren't citizens. , no non-citizen was allowed vote in the United States for federal or statewide elections, though some local governments allowed non-citizens limited suffrage. Before 1926, 40 states had at one point encouraged voting regardless of citizenship status. Voting rights at the local level have also more recently been granted to non-citizens by some town governments, either for school boards or for municipal councils. Examples include: Barnesville (already since 1918), Martin's Additions and Somerset (since 1976), Takoma Park (since 1991) and Garrett Park (since 1999), Chevy Chase Section 3, Hyattsville, Mount Rainier, Riverdale Park, Glen Echo, Montpelier and Winooski (2021).

Uruguay
Since 1952, 15-year residents have had national voting rights.

Venezuela
In Venezuela, the right to vote in municipal, parish (county), and state elections extends to foreigners over the age of eighteen who have ten years’ residency or more in the country. The provision for non-citizen voting appears in Article 64 of the Venezuelan Constitution of 1999, and has its constitutional roots in a 1983 Amendment to the previous Constitution of 1961.

Arguments for 
Democracies are widely believed to function better when more people vote so the wisdom of the crowd can help make more fully-informed choices. Examples in New York, Chicago and Maryland all have shown positive results after immigrants received the franchise in local elections, such as school boards.

Universal suffrage means one person, one vote and no taxation without representation, so without voting rights for non-citizens, the ethics and the legitimacy of the democratic process is called into question.

Sharing democracy can help non-citizens to learn about and export the democratic best-practices to all the places they've lived and become more active and engaged citizens if they decide to stay.

Arguments against 
Some fear a conflict of interest with someone's home country, in particular if that country is an adversary.

See also 
Democratization
One person, one vote
Suffrage
Voting age
Women's suffrage
Youth suffrage

References

Literature
 D. C. Earnest Noncitizen Voting Rights: A Survey of an Emerging Democratic Norm George Washington University, 2003
 K. Groenendijk Local Voting Rights for Non-Nationals in Europe: What We Know and What We Need to Learn Migration Policy Institute, 2008
 F. Geyer Trends in the EU-27 Regarding Participation of Third-Country Nationals in the Host Country’s Political Life Directorate-General for Internal Policies, European Parliament, 2007