[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War

military bases and we didn't attack any settlement, Hizbullah militants had destroyed military bases, while the Israelis killed civilians and targeted Lebanon's infrastructure." He added that Hezbollah's arsenal had yet to take a direct hit "and so far we have used a small portion of our weaponry."

On July 17, 2006, three rounds of Hezbollah rockets struck the port city of Haifa, wounding two people and partially destroying a three-story residential building. Rockets were also reported to have hit the town of Atlit, 56 km south of the border and 8 km south of Haifa. No injuries were reported.
Hezbollah reportedly struck a hospital in the Northern Israel town of Safed.
The Israeli army says that 15 cities were hit by rockets in a late night raid injuring 5 people when a rocket hit a synagogue.

Some Israeli ground troops briefly advanced approximately 1 km into Lebanon and leveled Hezbollah border outposts with bulldozers in an effort to make it difficult for Hezbollah to reestablish its border presence.

Tuesday, July 18
On July 18, 13 civilians from two families were killed in an air raid on the southern town of Aytaroun, reports indicates that the dead included nine children, taking the death toll to more than 200. The UAE Red Crescent Society condemned Israel's attack on medical and relief convoy in Lebanon.

Wednesday, July 19
On July 19, the Israeli military said aircraft dropped 23 tons of explosives on what it believed was a bunker for senior Hezbollah leaders in the Bourj al-Barajneh neighborhood of Beirut between 8 pm and 9 pm. Hezbollah said none of its members were hurt and denied a leadership bunker was in the area, saying a mosque under construction was hit.

According to CNN, Israel made an incursion into Southern Lebanon to destroy outposts of the militant group Hezbollah. An IDF spokesman said the troops are "close to the border" however no further details were given as to the success of the operation. Israeli leadership denies these claims.

Fighting with Hezbollah fighters took place. 2 Israeli soldiers and at least 4 Hezbollah fighters were killed and 9 Israeli soldiers were wounded. One Israeli Merkava Mark II tank was damaged by a mortar round.

Two Israeli Arab children were killed in Nazareth as a result of a Hezbollah rocket attack.

By July 19, heavy damage to Lebanon's infrastructure had been reported, with a total of 42 bridges destroyed and 38 roads damaged. and extensive damage to telecommunications, electricity, ports, airports, and even private sector facilities, including a milk factory and food warehouses.
Damage to fuel containers in Jiyye and 12 service stations in Bir Abed, Khiam, Ain Ibl, Moseileh, Rmeileh, Houla, Hesbe, Tyre, Kfar Kila, and Douris
raised the likelihood of fuel shortages.

July 20–31

Thursday, July 20
On July 20, there was further fighting inside the Lebanese border between IDF soldiers and Hezbollah militants. According to Captain Eric Scheider from the IDF, there had been heavy fighting in two places inside the Lebanese border. At least, 5 Israeli soldiers and 2 Hezbollah militants were killed and 11 Israeli soldiers were wounded in the fighting. In one clash, just across the border from the Israeli town of Avivim, guerrillas fired an anti-tank missile at an Israeli tank, destroying it and seriously wounding one soldier. Hezbollah claims to have shot down an Israeli helicopter and destroyed two tanks during the encounter. It was also reported that an Israeli army armored bulldozer was destroyed by an anti-tank missile.  Separately, two Israeli Apache helicopters crashed into each other over northern Israel, leaving one soldier dead and three wounded.  This comes as Israel claims it has carried out 80 air strikes in Lebanon early on Thursday.

Friday, July 21
On July 21, Israel continued airstrikes against Lebanon while massing troops on the border and calling up five battalions of army reservists (3000 reserves) for a possible ground invasion.  Between 300 and 500 Israeli soldiers backed by 30 tanks were already believed to be over the border.  Roughly 70 percent of Lebanese civilians living in south Lebanon fled north, and the Lebanese defense minister stated that in the event of an Israeli ground invasion that the Lebanese army would fight alongside Hezbollah.  Hezbollah continued firing rockets at the Israeli town of Haifa injuring 20 Israelis while Israeli jets hit Shiite districts in Beirut's southern suburbs, the eastern Bekaa Valley and southern Lebanon around sunrise, killing 12 Lebanese.  German and Russian intelligence were reportedly seeking the release of the captured IDF soldiers.