[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bill Schuette

ical issue into [the] lawsuit" and it suggested "superficial posturing" on behalf of Schuette.

Schuette chose not to challenge incumbent Dan Kildee for his congressional seat in the redrawn district which includes Schuette's home of Midland in the 2022 midterm election.

2018 gubernatorial campaign

Schuette was widely believed to be planning to run for governor of Michigan. In July 2016, before speaking on the opening day of the 2016 Republican National Convention Schuette changed the name of his fundraising committee from "Bill Schuette for Attorney General" to "Bill Schuette for Michigan." Despite being ineligible for a further term as Attorney General due to term-limits, Schuette had continued to raise funds since his November 2014 re-election.

In December 2016, Schuette said he had not made up his mind on running for governor but would make a decision sometime in 2017. This is backed up by reports of a falling out between the Attorney General and Governor Rick Snyder.

On September 12, 2017, Schuette announced his campaign for governor in Midland, Michigan. On August 7, 2018, Schuette won the Republican nomination for Michigan governor by defeating Lieutenant Governor Brian Calley and state Senator Patrick Colbeck. His candidacy was supported by President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence. On November 6, 2018, he lost the general election to Democrat Gretchen Whitmer, a former Michigan senate leader, by a nine-point margin.

Personal life
Schuette lives in Midland, Michigan with his wife Cynthia. They have two children. One of Schuette's children, Bill G. Schuette was elected to the Michigan House of Representatives in 2022.

Controversy
On July 3, 2018, Ingham County prosecutor Carol Siemon requested a grand jury investigation (which was never conducted) to probe the sale of multimillion-dollar property inherited by Schuette in the Virgin Islands, to determine if any laws were violated. Schuette's spokesperson stated that the accusation was a "baseless attack on an attorney general with a strong ethical record".

Schuette was working to strike down a ballot initiative to eliminate partisan gerrymandering, which has gained enough signatures to be on the Michigan ballot in the November 2018 election. The issue went on to the state supreme court, where "Five of the seven justices were nominated or appointed by Republicans, and two of those have received financial backing from the Michigan Chamber of Commerce, which also happens to be one of the main funders of the opposition campaign. Both justices have refused to recuse themselves from the case." The court upheld the inclusion of the initiative on the ballot, which was approved by voters.

Electoral history

References

General

The Political Graveyard
Fourth District Judges

Citations

External links

Campaign website
Project Vote Smart – Bill Schuette profile
Our Campaigns – Bill Schuette profile

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1953 births
20th-century American politicians
21st-century American politicians
American people of Dutch descent
Walsh School of Foreign Service alumni
Georgetown University alumni
Living people
Michigan Attorneys General
Michigan Court of Appeals judges
Michigan lawyers
Republican Party Michigan state senators
People from Midland, Michigan
Midland Dow High School alumni
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Michigan
State cabinet secretaries of Michigan
University of San Francisco School of Law alumni
Candidates in the 2018 United States elections