[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Angular velocity tensor

The angular velocity tensor is a skew-symmetric matrix defined by:
 

The scalar elements above correspond to the angular velocity vector components .

This is an infinitesimal rotation matrix.
The linear mapping Ω acts as a cross product :

 

where  is a position vector.

When multiplied by a time difference, it results in the angular displacement tensor.

Calculation of angular velocity tensor of a rotating frame 

A vector  undergoing uniform circular motion around a fixed axis satisfies:

Let   be the orientation matrix of a frame, whose columns , , and  are the moving orthonormal coordinate vectors of the frame. We can obtain the angular velocity tensor Ω(t) of A(t) as follows:

The angular velocity  must be the same for each  of the column vectors , so we have:

which holds even if A(t) does not rotate uniformly. Therefore, the angular velocity tensor is:

 

since the inverse of an orthogonal matrix  is its transpose .

Properties 

In general, the angular velocity in an n-dimensional space is the time derivative of the angular displacement tensor, which is a second rank skew-symmetric tensor.

This tensor Ω will have  independent components, which is the dimension of the Lie algebra of the Lie group of rotations of an n-dimensional inner product space.

Duality with respect to the velocity vector 

In three dimensions, angular velocity can be represented by a pseudovector because second rank tensors are dual to pseudovectors in three dimensions. Since the angular velocity tensor Ω = Ω(t) is a skew-symmetric matrix:

 

its Hodge dual is a vector, which is precisely the previous angular velocity vector .

Exponential of Ω 

If we know an initial frame A(0) and we are given a constant angular velocity tensor Ω, we can obtain A(t) for any given t. Recall the matrix differential equation:

 

This equation can be integrated to give:

 

which shows a connection with the Lie group of rotations.

Ω is skew-symmetric 
We prove that angular velocity tensor is skew symmetric, i.e.  satisfies .

A rotation matrix A is orthogonal, inverse to its transpose, so we have . For  a frame matrix, taking the time derivative of the equation gives:

 

Applying the formula ,

 

Thus, Ω is the negative of its transpose, which implies it is skew symmetric.

Coordinate-free description 
At any instant , the angular velocity tensor represents a linear map between the position vector  and the velocity vectors  of a point on a rigid body rotating around the origin:

 

The relation between this linear map and the angular velocity pseudovector  is the following.

Because Ω is the derivative of an orthogonal transformation, the bilinear form

 

is skew-symmetric. Thus we can apply the fact of exterior algebra that there is a unique linear form  on  that

 

where  is the exterior product of  and .

Taking the sharp L of L we get

 

Introducing , as the Hodge dual of L, and applying the definition of the Hodge dual twice supposing that the preferred unit 3-vector is 

 

where

 

by definition.

Because  is an arbitrary vector, from nondegeneracy of scalar product follows

Angular velocity as a vector field 
Since the spin angular velocity tensor of a rigid body (in its rest frame) is a linear transformation that maps positions to velocities (within the rigid body), it can be regarded as a constant vector field. In particular, the spin angular velocity is a Killing vector field belonging to an element of the Lie algebra SO(3) of the 3-dimensional rotation group SO(3).

Also, it can be shown that the spin angular velocity vector field is exactly half of the curl of the linear velocity vector field v(r) of the rigid body. In symbols,

Rigid body considerations 

The same equations for the angular speed can be obtained reasoning over a rotating rigid body. Here is not assumed that the rigid body rotates around the origin. Instead, it can be supposed rotating around an arbitrary point that is moving with a linear velocity V(t) in each instant.

To obtain the equations, it is convenient to imagine a rigid body attached to the frames and consider a coordinate system that is fixed with respect to the rigid body. Then we will study the coordinate transformations between this coordinate and the fixed laboratory frame.

As shown in the figure on the right, the lab system's origin is at point O, the rigid body system origin is at  and the vector from O to  is R. A particle (i) in the rigid body is located at point P and the vector position of this particle is Ri in the lab frame, and at position ri in the body frame. It is seen that the position of the particle can be written: