[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of St. Charles

the obstruction incomplete and no other troops available to reinforce the St. Charles position, 35 sailors and naval officers from Pontchartrain, including Lieutenant John W. Dunnington, the vessel's commander, volunteered and were sent down to help man the defenses. They arrived at 18:00 that day.

On the night of June 16/17, Williams informed Hindman that the Union force had reached the area, and that the obstruction still was not complete. Hindman ordered two civilian steamboats at St. Charles scuttled to block the river. The commander of Maurepas, Captain Joseph Fry, also had his ship, which would have been mismatched against the Union ironclads, scuttled, although a 12-pounder howitzer, a rifled cannon made of brass, and a third artillery piece were removed first. The lower battery of 3-inch rifles was strengthened with the brass piece from Maurepas and 34 of Williams's men of the 29th Arkansas Infantry Regiment. The other members of the Arkansas regiment did not have weapons and were sent back to Little Rock. The Confederate sailors were largely armed with single-shot pistols, which would be of dubious value in a land battle. Overall, the Confederates had seven cannons and 114 men at St. Charles.

Battle

Before daybreak on June 17, the Confederates made dispositions to defend against the attack. Dunnington and his men were in the upper battery manning the two 32-pounders, while men from Maurepas manned the lower position, which contained three guns. The infantrymen were sent downstream under Williams to serve as sharpshooters, and were supported by the 12-pounder howitzer taken off of Maurepas. Fry was in overall command. Around 06:00, Kilty's ships began moving upriver again. Mound City led the approach, with St. Louis, Lexington, and Conestoga following; the other vessels were not armed and were in the rear. Within  of St. Charles, Confederates were sighted on the river bank. Mound City opened fire and scattered them, after which the Indiana infantry disembarked from Jacob Musselman and New National. Sources disagree as to when the firing began. Historian Ed Bearss states that the firing started at 07:36, while historian Mark Hubbs provides 09:00, and Dunnington stated that the fighting began at around 08:30. Conestoga and Lexington began contributing fire later. Once Fitch's men were ashore, two companies were thrown out as a skirmish line, and the men began advancing towards the Confederate defenses. It was planned for Fitch's men on shore and the ships in the river to move at about the same rate.

Mound City kept steaming forward, and the lower Confederate battery opened fire when the ship was almost upon it, without effect. Kilty was unsure of the exact locations of the Confederate batteries, and had the two timberclads hold back while the ironclads moved forward. For fifteen minutes the two ships dueled with the lower battery, before Mound City moved ahead. And she neared point-blank range of Dunnington's battery, the Confederates opened fire, but at first were unable to damage the Union vessel. Meanwhile, Fitch's men had advanced and were about to attack the lower Confederate position when a solid shot, the third fired from Dunnington's position, struck Mound City at 10:03. The shot hit the ironclad's casemate near a gun port and penetrated the armor, killing three or four sailors outright. The shot then punctured one of the ship's poorly protected steam drums, which connected to the ship's engines and fed them pressurized steam. Steam filled the ship, scalding many of the ship's men. Many of those not near escape points were killed. Of the roughly 175 men onboard Mound City, 105 or 125 were killed and a further 25 or 44 wounded; only 25 or 26 escaped unhurt. This shot has been described as the deadliest shot of the war.