[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 82nd Group Army

ltural Revolution, the 38th was relocated to the Hebei area to replace the 65th Corps. In 1968 the 38th was involved in clashes with elements of the Hebei Military District over differences in revolutionary fervor.
The 38th Corps reformed into 38th Combined Corps in 1985.

Tiananmen Square protests 

In 1989 during the students' protest, the 38th Combined Corps was one of the main units ordered to crush the protests and impose martial law on Beijing.  However, because of its close connections with the population of the nearby capital, and the fact that many students had served in the unit before attending university and that some students had performed summer training with the 38th as members of the army reserve, the unit was reluctant to comply.  The 38th, under the command of General Xu Qinxian (), refused to use force against the students when martial law was declared, and was reported to have been in a tense stand-off with the 27th Combined Corps and other units which held the city in the days immediately following the bloody crackdown.

21st century
The 82nd is currently one of the three group armies in active service belonging to the Central Theater Command. It is one of the best equipped and trained group armies in China today, and is given the task of guarding the national capital of Beijing. It also serves as a testbed for the latest equipment and doctrines developed by the PLA.

An unidentified mechanized division (probably from the 38th Group Army) conducted an opposed force exercise in mid-August 2002. It is believed that the exercise may have taken place at the MR CAT Base near the Great Wall. The unit used more than ten new systems including new mine clearing vehicles, infantry fighting vehicles and tanks. The unit is reported to be one of the first mechanized infantry divisions in the PLA.

According to the December 2002 PLA Activities Report, the Mechanized Air Defense Brigade (Unit 66440) assigned to the 38th Combined Corps recently improved its tactics and methods of defending against cruise missile attacks. This consisted of improving the units fire-control systems and detection capabilities.

The Mechanized Air-Defense Brigade, Unit 66440, has reportedly retrofitted its field command modules to provide command platforms with geographic information, air service information, battlefield monitoring and digital transmission, enhancing the units command and control capability and ability to conduct accurate air defense. The unit conducted several exercises in 2002 including a live-fire exercise.

Over the course of the 2003 reductions cycle, Dennis Blasko estimates that the 114th Mechanised Infantry Division was dropped from the force.

Organization 
Before the 2017 reform, the formation consists of:
112th Mechanized Infantry Division ()
113th Mechanized Infantry Division ()
6th Armored Division ()
8th Army Aviation Brigade ()
Special Operation Brigade ()
Artillery Brigade ()
Mechanized Air-Defense Brigade ()
Chemical Regiment ()
Engineer Regiment ()

After 2017 reforming, the formation consists of:
6th Heavy Combined Arms Brigade ()
80th Light Combined Arms Brigade ()
112th Heavy Combined Arms Brigade()
127th Medium Combined Arms Brigade ()
151st Heavy Combined Arms Brigade ()
196th Light Combined Arms Brigade ()
82nd Special Operation Brigade ()
82nd Army Aviation Brigade ()
82nd Artillery Brigade ()
82nd Air-Defense Brigade ()
82nd Engineering Brigade ()
82nd Chemical Defense Brigade ()
82nd Service Support Brigade ()

References 

Field armies of the People's Volunteer Army
Field armies of the People's Liberation Army
Military units and formations established in 1949
Military of Baoding
Beijing Military Region