[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Firefly (G.I. Joe)

nake Eyes' mountain lodge. The Cobra agents were surprised that Snake Eyes wasn't alone and fled. When Firefly arrived in Springfield, he took part in the trial of Billy, Cobra Commander's estranged son, who had tried to kill the Commander. Storm Shadow freed Billy before a verdict could be reached.

The Soft Master arrived in Springfield, tracking down his brother's killer. Firefly and Scrap-Iron chased down the Soft Master launching two missiles at him. They killed not only the Soft Master but also Candy, G.I. Joe agent Ripcord's girlfriend. Billy lost an eye and a leg. Ripcord was captured soon afterwards, but not before he transmitted the location of Springfield back to G.I. Joe HQ. Firefly was one of the last Cobra agents to leave Springfield. Firefly took more jobs from Cobra, fighting the October Guard in Afghanistan and fighting the G.I. Joe Team in the Baltic Sea and atop a glacier. He also tried to steal the Vector Jet from the Joes, but was stopped by Maverick. He also fought to secure a man made island near Cobra Island, but the unstable island soon sank just before the G.I. Joe Team could force the Cobra forces off the island. Dr. Mindbender took the blame for the failure in exchange for Firefly saving him. Firefly then attempted to steal top secret computer disks from the U.S. Government. He was stopped by the original G.I. Joe, General Joseph Colton.

Soon after Cobra Commander returned, and locked most of his enemies, including Firefly, in a freighter and buried it underneath a volcano. Firefly was later revealed to have escaped, using Battle Android Troopers to dig out of the freighter, and putting his uniform on the dead body of Serpentor. Firefly then brain-washed the Red Ninja, former Arashikage ninja, into following him. Snake Eyes broke the ninja free of the mind control, and they chased down Firefly, looking for vengeance. Firefly was again thought to be dead, and was not heard from for years.

Later, it is learned Firefly had been operating out of Cobra Island for some time. He has kept Road Pig and Zarana prisoners there, until the Cobra ninjas Slice and Dice found and free them.

Devil's Due
Firefly appears several times in the Devil's Due series. He steals a heavily modified Battle Android Trooper from a squad of Joes and Dreadnoks. To do this, he risks killing himself and hundreds of innocent people.

After Cobra was defeated Firefly reappears, working for the "Nowhere Man" and recruiting soldiers for a new army. Snake Eyes, his student Ophelia and the elite Hammer Team try to stop him. Ophelia and all but one of the Hammer members are killed. The survivor, Sean Collins, becomes Snake Eyes' new apprentice.

Later, in Tokyo, the two ninja face Firefly. He reveals that Derenko, a Hammer Team member long thought dead, is the Nowhere Man.

Serpentor, revived after his death in the Marvel series, launches a global attack from Cobra Island. It is revealed that Firefly and Derenko were recruiting for the Coil, Serpentor's new army. The combined might of a newly reformed Cobra and a newly reinstated G.I. Joe Team crushes the Coil, though not without fatalities for both organizations. Serpentor also dies. After a fight with Zartan, Firefly escapes one more time.

America's Elite
In America's Elite, a satellite crashes into Chicago, killing thousands. Snake Eyes finds Firefly there, but he escapes capture.

Later on the Phoenix Guard is created by Secretary of State Garrett Freedlowe, as an alternative force to replace G.I. Joe. It turns out that Freedlowe is really Cobra Commander in disguise, and that the Phoenix Guard, with the exception of their commanding officer General Rey, are all Cobra operatives. Firefly is involved as the member called "Snake-Eater". The Phoenix Guard attacks The Rock, G.I. Joe's secret base of operations. While the rest of the Phoenix Guard is captured following the G.I. Joe counterattack, Firefly manages to escape yet again. Firefly is later captured by Scarlett and Snake Eyes in Japan, and incarcerated in "The Coffin", a maximum security prison in Greenland. He later escapes imprisonment during Tomax's raid on the facility. Firefly fights Snake Eyes one on one during a battle in the Appalachian Mountains, and holds Snake Eyes at bay, until Storm Shadow throws a sword in Snake Eyes' direction. Snake Eyes grabs the sword and swiftly cuts Firefly across the chest, leaving him lying on the ground shaking.

Reloaded
G.I. Joe Reloaded, is a reboot of the G.I. Joe continuity. Firefly destroyed the Golden Gate Bridge, tried to assassinate Hawk, was part of a plot to steal the U.S. Constitution, and attempted to destroy Saudi oil facilities. During the last mission he was captured by Rock 'n Roll, whose girlfriend had been killed during the Golden Gate attack.

IDW
In 2010, Firefly reappears in the IDW reboot of the series. He now shows his face, and is black.

Animated series