[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mehmet Özdilek

Mehmet "Şifo" Özdilek (born 1 April 1966, in Samsun) is a Turkish football manager and former player. He is nicknamed "Şifo" after Belgian star Enzo Scifo with whom he shared a similar playing style.

Having spent most of his professional career with Beşiktaş, he is regarded as one of the idols of the İstanbul side. Özdilek is one of the most prolific scorers of Turkish football despite playing mainly in midfield. During his Beşiktaş days he has managed to score 130 goals which was a record for most goals scored by a midfield player in Turkish top-flight.

For 13 years, Beşiktaş has worn his form. In 1991, he won the Footballer of the Year award in Turkey. He took part in the squad which was the "Undefeated Champion" in 1992. With 130 goals It is the domestic midfielder who scored the most points of the Süper Lig in all time. He also scored 100 goals and entered the 100s club. He was captain of Beşiktaş for 4 years. On behalf of Mehmet Özdilek, who won the appreciation of everyone who is impartial with the personality of the example, the Special Jubilee Match was organized by Besiktas with AC Milan on 4 August 2001. Beşiktaş's Milan defeat at the BJK İnönü Stadium led to one of the most spectacular jubilees of the Turkish Football History. The match donated all of its income to the Education Volunteers Foundation of Turkey (TEGV) itself. He never saw any red cards in official matches in his career.

Club career

Early years
Born in Samsun, Özdilek started to play at the amateur level with his hometown outfit Samsun Ladikspor. While he was only 16, he was scouted and picked up by Kahramanmaraşspor, a team which has freshly promoted to the second-tier of Turkish football. Özdilek managed to make an immediate impact on his new team and became a regular of the starting line-up while Kahramanmaraşspor's record in the league improved every season. In the 1986–87 campaign, Özdilek had an outstanding season and became the topscorer of the Turkish 1. League with 29 goals while his team narrowly missed promotion. The following season proved to be an even more successful one for Kahramanmaraşspor. With Özdilek's contribution the team finished at the top of the league and promoted to the first-tier of Turkish football for the first time in their short history. His consistently high performance did not go unnoticed and at the end of the 1987–88 season he was transferred to Beşiktaş, the team which he spent the remainder of his career with.

Beşiktaş
In Özdilek's first year Beşiktaş have won the Turkish Cup and came second in the league. The following years proved to be even more successful for the team. Under Gordon Milne's helm, Beşiktaş's young outfit started to dominate Turkish football in a way which was unprecedented before. In the 1988–89 season Beşiktaş claimed the double, winning both the league and the Turkish Cup and broke the record for the highest scoring game of Turkish football history, beating Adana Demirspor 10–0. Özdilek contributed to this glorius season by scoring a goal in the Cup final against Trabzonspor.
In the following year, Beşiktaş became the league champion again without breaking much sweat. The team has lost only one game throughout the campaign but the team managed to improve even more on the next season. In the 1991–92 football season, Beşiktaş became the only undefeated champion of the Turkish top-flight while Özdilek netted 12 goals. This record-breaking string of results came to an end only in the following season when Beşiktaş was finally beaten by Galatasaray after 48 weeks. 1992–93 season ended bitterly for Beşiktaş when the team did not just lost the Turkish Cup to Galatasaray in the Cup final, but also lost the championship to after 3 years to the same team on goal difference while Özdilek scored 13 goals in the campaign.