[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Battle of Pakchon

granted the battle honour "Pakchon". The PVA and KPA were temporarily forced to withdraw north, while Walker successfully reinforced the UN positions, holding on the Chongchon Line. The PVA had failed to exploit their initial success, and instead now seemed to adopt a deliberately cautious strategy.

Subsequent operations
On 7 November, the US 24th Infantry Division and 27th British Commonwealth Brigade followed up the PVA withdrawal with a limited probing advance. That morning Australian clearing patrols killed seven PVA soldiers, before 3 RAR prepared to advance with the remainder of the brigade. C Company occupied Hill 74  to the north-east without opposition, only to discover a KPA company on the reverse slope. The Australians engaged the KPA with machine-gun fire, inflicting heavy losses on the defenders and capturing five before forcing them to withdraw towards Tang-dong harried by artillery and airstrikes. The remainder of the battalion deployed on the right, while the Argylls occupied two hills further north. The brigade's advance had forestalled a planned KPA attack on the night of 7/8 November, while large numbers of PVA dead from the previous fighting were also discovered. On 9 November the advance wheeled to the north-west around Pakchon, with 3 RAR moving forward another  to the east, encountering little resistance and taking a number of prisoners in the process. From 11 November the 27th British Commonwealth Brigade advanced slowly north. On 16 November 3 RAR occupied Hill 117, on a bend in the Taeryong River  north of Pakchon. Over the following weeks they remained in the Pakchon area, conducting extensive patrolling up to company-size, and clashing with small groups of PVA/KPA. As winter approached the weather became bitterly cold amid snow and strong winds. Unprepared for the extreme conditions the Australians increasingly suffered health problems, particularly among the older members of the battalion. Lacking the training and equipment for operations in ice and snow, maintenance also proved burdensome before additional US cold weather clothing and equipment was issued.

Ferguson ultimately proved to be an able commander. He remained with the battalion after that time. The change of command was confirmed by the Commander-in-Chief BCOF, Lieutenant General Sir Horace Robertson, and Ferguson was promoted to lieutenant colonel on 10 November. He developed a good working relationship with Coad, who held him in high regard, and went on to command 3 RAR during its most demanding period in Korea.

The UN resumed the offensive on 24 November, shortly before the PVA began their own Second Phase Offensive. The PVA 13th Army Group launched a series of surprise attacks on the night of 25 November, pushing the US Eighth Army back to the Chongchon River. The PVA inflicted heavy losses on the ROK and decimated the US 2nd Infantry Division on the right flank, as the US Eighth Army began a long retreat south. At the same time, the PVA 9th Army Group ambushed US X Corps near the Chosin Reservoir as the freezing winter weather set in. Although the US Eighth Army succeeded in avoiding encirclement, US X Corps had to be evacuated by sea from Hungnam during December 1950. MacArthur's forces were expelled from North Korea and withdrew to the 38th Parallel, where they sought to once again establish defensive positions. In reserve at the start of the renewed PVA offensive, the 27th British Commonwealth Brigade was spared the initial brunt. Yet the offensive soon forced the UN forces into a disorganised withdrawal. 3 RAR withdrew  in nine days, arriving at Uijeongbu,  north-east of Seoul, on 11 December 1950. There the British and Australians occupied defensive positions in an attempt to secure the northern approaches to the South Korean capital during the Battle of Uijeongbu.

Notes

Footnotes

Citations

References

Further reading

External links
 Out in the Cold: Australia's involvement in the Korean War – Pakchon – 5 November 1950

Battles of the Korean War
Battles of the Korean War involving the United Kingdom
Battles of the Korean War involving the United States
Battles of the Korean War involving Australia
Battles of the Korean War involving China
Battles of the Korean War involving North Korea
Battles and operations of the Korean War in 1950
History of North Pyongan Province