[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anthony Grant (footballer, born 1987)

hree players to be sent-off for Luton in a game that saw them draw 1–1, despite Bristol Rovers' numerical advantage. Grant was given an immediate three-game ban, which put an abrupt end to his loan spell; the club were in administration and under a transfer embargo, so were unable to renew the loan.

Southend United
In January 2008, Grant went out on loan for a fourth time, joining Southend United of League One on loan for the remainder of the 2007–08 season. He made his debut as a 78th-minute substitute in Southend's 2–1 home win over AFC Bournemouth on 16 February 2008. He went on to make ten appearances for the club during the campaign, all of which as a substitute. In July 2008, Southend manager Steve Tilson stated he was interested in signing Grant on a permanent basis after he was made available for transfer by Chelsea. He subsequently trained with the club during pre-season and played in a number of the club's pre-season friendlies. Two days before the start of the 2008–09 season, on 7 August 2008, Grant signed for Southend on a free transfer. He featured in the club's first game of the new season, coming on as a late substitute as Southend got off to winning start after beating Peterborough United. Grant started his first game for the club three days later in a 1–0 extra time defeat to Cheltenham Town in the League Cup. He scored his first ever professional goal in September 2008, coming off the bench to score an 88th-minute winner as Southend beat Crewe Alexandra 4–3. Grant made 42 appearances during his first full season with the Essex club, scoring once, as Southend finished five points short of a play-off place in League One.

Grant was offered a new contract by Southend in October 2009, and shortly after signed a -year contract extension, keeping him at the club until 2012. He suffered an ankle injury following Southend's 2–2 draw against Swindon Town in February 2010, and subsequently missed two months of the season. He made 41 appearances during the 2009–10 campaign, in a season that witnessed Southend suffer relegation back to League Two following financial difficulties. Despite the club's relegation, he remained at Southend for the 2010–11 season, with Southend under new management in the form of Paul Sturrock. Grant ended his 79-game goal drought shortly into the new campaign when he scored a  strike in a 2–0 away victory against Bradford City. A week later, he doubled his goal tally for the season when he "stroked home" Ryan Hall's inswinging corner in a 2–1 home victory over Torquay United, thus ending Torquay's winning start to the season. He went on to score in the club's next two matches; a 2–1 defeat to Northampton Town, and a  strike in the club's 3–2 home loss to Morecambe, consequently taking his tally to four goals in as many matches. Grant soon scored his fifth of the campaign, scoring a low driven effort in an away defeat to Chesterfield on 9 October 2010. He also netted in a 1–1 draw with Shrewsbury Town at the New Meadow a month later, scoring a "stunning volley" late-on to rescue a point for Southend. As a result of Grant's impressive form during the first half of the season, he attracted interest from a number of Championship clubs, but later issued a statement stating his intention to see out the remainder of his contract at Southend. He scored two further goals during the season; finishing "calmly" from inside the area in a 2–0 win against Barnet in January 2011, as well as netting against Wycombe Wanderers on the last day of the season. He ended the season having scored eight goals in 51 appearances, with Southend finishing in mid-table.

Ahead of the 2011–12 season, it was again reported that Grant would be leaving Southend in favour of a move to a Championship club, although ultimately no move materialised. He made 41 appearances during the season, scoring once, a long range volley in a 2–0 home win over AFC Wimbledon in April 2012, as Southend narrowly lost in the League Two play-off semi-final. During his four years at Southend, Grant made 184 appearances and scored ten goals.

Stevenage
In June 2012, Grant rejected the offer of a contract extension at Southend, and opted to sign for League One side Stevenage on a free transfer. He made his debut for the club in a 3–1 win over AFC Wimbledon in the League Cup on 14 August 2012, in Stevenage's first game of the 2012–13 season. Grant made 45 appearances in all competitions during his first season with Stevenage, as the club finished the season in 18th place in League One. He was placed on the transfer list in May 2013. With Grant entering the final year of his contract at Stevenage, new manager Graham Westley felt he would not play as much as he would have liked, and therefore it was "better for all" that Grant "move on to develop his career".