[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Foreign policy analysis

making rational decisions based on preference ranking and value maximization.

According to the rational actor model, a rational decision making process is used by a state. This process includes:
 Goal setting and ranking.
 Consideration of options.
 Assessment of consequences.
 Profit maximization.

In other words, it provides models for answering the question: with that information what would be the best decision for reaching one's goal? In this theory, the underlying assumption is that governments are unified and rational, in this manner, they would seek for carefully planned and well-defined foreign policy goals. In this sense, rational choice model is primarily a realist perspective of foreign policy level of analysis.
The rational actor model has been subject to criticism. The model tends to neglect a range of political variables, of which Michael Clarke includes: "political decisions, non-political decisions, bureaucratic procedures, continuations of previous policy, and sheer accident."  It also ignores emotions, emotional flooding, selective attention, and groupthink.

Governmental Bargaining Model
In this model the state is not seen as a monolithic unitary actor. Instead it is a collection of different bureaucracies vying for increasing their funding and size. Individual decision makers try to bargain and compete for influence with their own particular goal in mind. Things are often viewed as a zero-sum game where one bureaucracy's "win" or increasing their level of funding is seen as a loss for another bureaucracy. Here decisions are made by bureaucracies competing against each other and suggesting solutions to problems that would involve using their resources so as to increase their level of importance. Bureaucratic politics model, in keeping with its pluralistic connotation, can also refer to that inner state processes including no institutional actors, who with their informal channels would affect policy results.

Organizational Process Model
Organizational Processes model emerges from clusters of governmental organizations that look after their own best interests and follow 'standard operating procedures'. In this model different bureaucracies have different standard operating procedures. These procedures are made in order to allow day-to-day operations to be carried out. Often an order or decision will have to work around these standard procedures. It is often exceedingly difficult for a bureaucracy to do something "out of character" or contrary to their standard procedures.

Other models
 Inter-branch politics model
 Self-aggrandizement model - In this model one leader acts on behalf of his or her interests. (also known as cognitive processes and psychology approach)
 Political process model - In this model the decision making body is affected by many non-governmental actors such as NGOs or the media.
 Multilevel and Multidimensional approach - In this model, scholars study particular aspects of foreign policy making by using various major theories.
 Social constructivist approach - In this model, scholars focus on the role of ideas, discourse, and identity to make FPA.

Institutions
 Council on Foreign Relations
 Chatham House
 American Enterprise Institute
 Brookings Institution
 Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

Notes and references

Further reading 
 Chris Alden and Amnon Aran, Foreign Policy Analysis: New Approaches, Abingdon: Routledge, 2012.
 Rainer Baumann and Frank A. Stengel, 'Foreign Policy Analysis, Globalisation and Non-State Actors: State-Centric After All?', Journal of International Relations and Development, Vol. 17, No. 4 (Oct., 2014), pp. 489–521, doi: 10.1057/jird.2013.12.
 Christopher Hill, The Changing Politics of Foreign Policy, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, 2003.
 Morin, Jean-Frédéric and Jonathan Paquin, Foreign Policy Analysis: A Toolbox, Palgrave MacMillan, 2018.
 Valerie M. Hudson, Foreign Policy Analysis: Classic and Contemporary Theory, Lanham: Rowman & Littlefield, 2007.
 Richard C. Snyder, H. W. Bruck and Burton Sapin, Decision-Making as an Approach to the Study of International Politics, Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1954.
 Steve Smith, Amelia Hadfield and Tim Dunne (eds), Foreign Policy: Theories, Actors, Cases, 1st ed., Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2008.
 Laura Neack, The New Foreign Policy: Complex Interactions, Competing Interests, 3rd edition. Lanham: Rowman & Littlefield, 2014.

External links 
 Teaching Foreign Policy in the Post-Cold War Era

Foreign policy
Public policy research