[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mariano Marcos

zadon by a huge margin.

Death

Documents at the Philippine Archives Collection at the U.S. National Archives in Washington D.C. state that Marcos was tried and executed by the Luzon Guerrilla Armed Forces (LGAF), a guerrilla force fighting the Japanese under the command of U.S. Major Robert Lapham.

In Lapham's account, Mariano Marcos was tried, and having "readily confessed," was executed on March 8, 1945, for being a Japanese collaborator by the Luzon Guerrilla Armed Forces. 
Mariano Marcos was drawn and quartered - his hands were tied to two carabaos, which were then whipped to run in opposite directions. His body parts were then hung by ropes on the branches of a large tree in what is now the Don Mariano Marcos Memorial State University's Bacnotan campus, as a demonstration of what would happen to those who collaborated with the Japanese.

In a book written by Lapham later, he adds that some of the guerrillas who were allowed to participate in the execution were related to Julio Nalundasan.

Members of the Marcos family dispute these accounts, saying that Mariano Marcos was executed by the Japanese. However, it is known that Marcos also gave propaganda speeches on behalf of the KAMISHIBAI or medical treatment squad of the Japanese. Furthermore, Lapham's surviving relative who acted as guard in Lapham's unit reiterated the same story years later, that Marcos was drawn and quartered in Sapilang, Bacnotan, La Union.

Legacy

Namesake places and institutions 
A number of streets and schools in Manila and in the Ilocos Region were named after Mariano Marcos, including the Mariano Marcos State University in Ilocos Norte, the Don Mariano Marcos Memorial State University in La Union, and the former Don Mariano Marcos Avenue in Quezon City. The National Historical Institute installing a historical marker concerning his life at the Mariano Marcos State University campus in Batac, Ilocos Norte on October 24, 1982.

The town of Marcos, Ilocos Norte, was named after Mariano Marcos in 1963 when it was created as a separate town from Dingras, Ilocos Norte through Republic Act No. 3753.

The Marcos dynasty 
Because the Nalundasan murder trial resulting drew wide public attention in the years immediately prior to the war, Mariano's son Ferdinand was in an ideal political position to enter politics in the postwar years.  Ferdinand Marcos's rise to power was dramatic.  He served three terms in Mariano's own former position as the Philippine House of Representatives as the Congressman for the second district of Ilocos Norte, from 1949 to 1959.  Between 1959 and 1965, he served in the Philippine Senate, where he became Senate President until he won the Philippine Presidential Election of 1965 to become the tenth president of the Philippines, staying in the position for 21 years despite the eight year (two four-year terms) limitation set by the 1935 Constitution of the Philippines by placing the country under Martial Law in 1972.

This would pave the way for other members of the Marcos family to be appointed or elected to various national elections - what would eventually become known as the Marcos dynasty. Ferdinand's wife Imelda became the Governor of Metro Manila as appointed head of the Metro Manila Commission from 1975 to 1986 and Assemblywoman in the Batasan Pambansa for Region IV-A from 1978 to 1984. Ferdinand's sister Elizabeth Marcos-Keon became the Governor of Ilocos Norte from 1971 to 1983. Son Bongbong Marcos became the Vice Governor of Ilocos Norte from 1980 to 1983 and later Governor of that same province from 1983 to 1986. First-born daughter Imee Marcos became the chairman of the Kabataang Barangay from 1975 to 1986.

Although the Marcos family was removed from power by civilian protests during the 1986 People Power Revolution, President Corazon Aquino eventually allowed the members of the Marcos family to return to the Philippines after the death of Ferdinand Marcos, supposedly so that they could face various corruption charges. Within a year of arriving, Imelda Marcos ran president in the 1992 Philippine presidential election, finishing 5th out of 7 candidates.  In that same year, Marcos Jr. ran in a much smaller local election rather than a national race, easily regaining the family's traditional post of Congressman for the second district of Ilocos Norte. Since then, Imelda, Ferdinand Jr., and Imee Marcos have run for numerous posts, winning posts alternately, including the house seat for the second district of Ilocos Norte and the governorship of Ilocos Norte. Ferdinand Jr. became a Senator from 2010 to 2016, and ran for the post of Vice President during the 2016 Philippine National election, but narrowly lost to Leni Robredo.

In the May 13, 2019 National and Local Election, Imee was elected as a senator. She is serving a 6-year term starting on June 30, 2019.