[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Adwa

the Cacciatori d'Africa; units permanently serving in Africa and in part recruited from Italian settlers.

According to historian Chris Prouty:

The Italian operational corps in Eritrea was under the command of General Oreste Baratieri. The chief of staff was Lieutenant Colonel Giacchino Valenzano.

Right column: (4,833 rifles / 18 cannons) 2nd Infantry Brigade (Gen. Vittorio Dabormida);
 3rd Africa Infantry Regiment, (Col. Ottavio Ragni)
 5th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Luigi Giordano)
 6th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Leopoldo Prato)
 10th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Gennaro De Fonseca)
 6th Africa Infantry Regiment (Col. Cesare Airaghi)
 3rd Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Luigi Branchi)
 13th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Alberto Rayneri)
 14th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Secondo Solaro)
 Native Mobile Militia Battalion (Maj. Lodovico De Vito)
 Native Company from the Asmara Chitet (Cpt. Alberto Sermasi)
 2nd Artillery Brigade (Maj. Alberto Zola)
 5th Mountain Artillery Battery (Cpt. Giuseppe Mottino)
 6th Mountain Artillery Battery (Cpt. Giuseppe Regazzi)
 7th Mountain Artillery Battery (Cpt. Vittorio Gisla)
Central column: (3,324 rifles / 12 cannons) 1st Infantry Brigade (Gen. Giuseppe Arimondi);
 1st Africa Bersaglieri Regiment (Col. Francesco Stevani)
 1st Africa Bersaglieri Battalion (Maj. Matteo De Stefano)
 2nd Africa Bersaglieri Battalion (Maj. Lorenzo Compiano)
 1st Africa Infantry Regiment (Col. Ugo Brusati)
 2nd Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Flaciano Viancini)
 4th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Luigi De Amicis)
 9th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Giuseppe Baudoin)
 1st Company of the 5th Native Battalion (Cpt. Pietro Pavesi)
 8th Mountain Artillery Battery (Cpt. Vincenzo Loffredo)
 11th Mountain Artillery Battery (Cpt. Giocanni Franzini)
Left column: (4,339 rifles / 14 cannons) Native Brigade (Gen. Matteo Albertone);
 1st Native Battalion (Maj. Domenico Turitto)
 6th Native Battalion (Maj. Giuseppe Cossu)
 5th Native Battalion (Maj. Rodolfo Valli)
 8th Native Battalion (Maj. Giocanni Gamerra)
 "Okulè Kusai" Native Irregular Company (Lt. Alessandro Sapelli)
 1st Artillery Brigade (Maj. Francesco De Rosa)
 1st Native Mountain Artillery Battery (Cpt. Clemente Henry)
 2nd Section of the 2nd Native Mountain Artillery Battery (Lt. Arnaldo Vibi)
 3rd Mountain Artillery Battery (Cpt. Edoardo Bianchini)
 4th Mountain Artillery Battery (Cpt. Umberto Masotto)
Reserve column: (3,032 rifles /12 cannons) 3rd Infantry Brigade (Gen. Giuseppe Ellena);
 4th Africa Infantry Regiment (Col. Giovanni Romero)
 7th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Alberto Montecchi)
 8th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Achille Violante)
 11th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Sebastiano Manfredi)
 12th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Rinaldo Amatucci)
 5th Africa Infantry Regiment (Col. Luigi Nava)
 15th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Achille Ferraro)
 16th Africa Infantry Battalion (Maj. Bugenio Vandiol)
 1st Africa Alpini Battalion (Lt. Col. Davide Menini)
 3rd Native Battalion (Lt. Col. Giuseppe Galliano)
 1st Quick Fire Artillery Battery (Cpt. Giovanni Aragno)
 2nd Quick Fire Artillery Battery (Cpt. Domencio Mangia)
Sappers company

Budget restrictions and supply shortages meant that many of the rifles and artillery pieces issued to the Italian reinforcements sent to Africa were obsolete models, while clothing and other equipment was often substandard. The logistics and training of the recently arrived conscript contingents from Italy were inferior to the experienced colonial troops based in Eritrea.

Battle
On the night of 29 February and the early morning of 1 March,  three Italian brigades advanced separately towards Adwa over narrow mountain tracks, while a fourth remained camped. David Levering Lewis states that the Italian battle plan called for three columns to march in parallel formation to the crests of three mountains – Dabormida commanding on the right, Albertone on the left, and Arimondi in the center – with a reserve under Ellena following behind Arimondi. The supporting crossfire each column could give the others made the 'soldiers as deadly as razored shears'. Albertone's brigade was to set the pace for the others. He was to position himself on the summit known as Kidane Mehret, which would give the Italians the high ground from which to meet the Ethiopians. However, the three leading Italian brigades had become separated during their overnight march and by dawn were spread across several miles of very difficult terrain. Their sketchy maps caused Albertone to mistake one mountain for Kidane Meret, and when a scout pointed out his mistake, Albertone advanced directly into the Ethiopian positions.