[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Peruvians

ureate Mario Vargas Llosa, a leading member of the Latin American Boom. María Jesús Alvarado Rivera was a Peruvian rebel feminist, educator, journalist, writer and social activist who was noted by the National Council of Women of Peru in 1969 as the "first modern champion of women's rights in Peru".

Architecture 
 Machu Picchu, one of the seven wonders of the world, Sacsayhuaman, Chan chan, the architecture was constructed to congregate hundreds if not thousands of people for ceremonies and to cohabit in harmony with others and with nature. Some of the highlights were the development in acoustics, aqueducts, silos to preserve grains, the terraces, the perfection of fitting the giant's boulders of 20 tons, astronomical observatories, the perfection with the solstice, the construction of entrances for the sunlight denoting meaning for every season, some of these constructions until today do not have a logical human explanation, on how they were constructed.

Cuisine
Peruvian cuisine shows influences from Andean, Spanish, Chinese, Italian, Arab, African, and Japanese cooking. Common dishes include anticuchos, ceviche and pachamanca. Because of the variety of climates within Peru, a wide range of plants and animals are available for cooking. Peruvian cuisine has a special ingredient that gives the flavor to the majority of dishes "aji seco". If the same dish is prepared in another part of the world it might look the same, but the raw vegetables, potatoes, ingredients have a different taste in other parts of the world. Examples of these are eggs, quinoa, Lima beans, fish, lime which is more acidic, they taste totally different in other countries. 
Peru gave to the world potatoes with more than 3000 species, introduced to Europe by the Spaniards in 1532 after the Conquista the Quinoa, both from the highlands.
Ancient Peruvians were harvesting potatoes between 8000 and 5000 years according to scientific research.

Traditional dishes 

 Adobo de chancho: Pork, turmeric, ground garlic, vinegar, and salt.
 Aguadito de mariscos: Rice stew with vegetables with shellfish and some shrimps.
 Ají de gallina: A chicken stew made with cream, cheese, aji (hot pepper), and peanuts.
 Anticuchos: Grilled brochettes of beef heart, macerated in vinegar and aji panca (hot pepper).
 Aji de langostinos: Prawns in a bread crumb and aji amarillo (hot pepper) sauce, green pepper too.
 Arroz con pato a la Chiclayana: Tender duck meat cooked in black beer and cilantro.
 Aguadito de pollo: a traditional chicken soup in Peruvian cuisine consisting of chicken, cilantro, vegetables and spices.
 Carapulcra: Boiled dehydrated potatoes made into a stew with pork and chicken, aji panca and mirasol (hot peppers), garlic, and other spices.
 Cau-cau: Cow stomach stew with potatoes, turmeric, and parsley. Sometimes served with peas.
 Causa rellena: Mashed yellow potatoes seasoned with lime and aji (hot pepper), and filled with tuna or chicken.
 Ceviche: Raw fish filet cut into pieces and marinated in key lime juice, onions, and aji limo.
 Pachamanca: Variety of meats, potatoes, lima beans and humitas cooked in the pre-Hispanic style (on hot stones buried into the ground) and seasoned with aromatic herbs.
 Papa a la Huancaína: Yellow potatoes with a spicy, creamy sauce
 Rocoto Relleno: Rocoto (hot pepper) without veins stuffed with chopped beef, eggs, peas, carrots, cheese, milk, and potatoes.

Music

Peruvian music has Andean, Spanish, and African roots. In pre-Hispanic times, musical expressions varied widely from region to region; the quena and the tinya were two common instruments. Spanish conquest brought the introduction of new instruments such as the guitar and the harp, as well as the development of crossbred instruments like the charango. African contributions to Peruvian music include its rhythms and the cajón, a percussion instrument. Peruvian folk dances include marinera, tondero and huayno.

See also

 Demographics of Peru
 Peruvian Americans
 Peruvian migration to the United Kingdom
 Peruvians in France
 Peruvian Mexicans
 Peruvians in Spain
 Inca Empire
 Hispanics

Gallery

References

Bibliography

 
 

 
South American people by nationality