[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Borough

new entities, the 'metropolitan boroughs'. These were reorganised further when Greater London was formed out of Middlesex, parts of Surrey, Kent, Essex, Hertfordshire and the County of London in 1965.  These council areas are now referred to as "London boroughs" rather than "metropolitan boroughs".

When the new metropolitan counties (Greater Manchester, Merseyside, South Yorkshire, Tyne and Wear, West Midlands, and West Yorkshire) were created in 1974, their sub-divisions also became metropolitan boroughs in many, but not all, cases; in many cases these metropolitan boroughs recapitulated abolished county boroughs (for example, Stockport). The metropolitan boroughs possessed slightly more autonomy from the metropolitan county councils than the shire county districts did from their county councils.

With the abolition of the metropolitan county councils in 1986, these metropolitan boroughs became independent, and continue to be so at present.

Other current uses
Elsewhere in England a number of districts and unitary authority areas are called "borough". Until 1974, this was a status that denoted towns with a certain type of local government (a municipal corporation, or a self-governing body). Since 1974, it has been a purely ceremonial style granted by royal charter to districts which may consist of a single town or may include a number of towns or rural areas. Borough status entitles the council chairman to bear the title of mayor. Districts may apply to the British Crown for the grant of borough status upon advice of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom.

Northern Ireland
In Northern Ireland, local government was reorganised in 1973. Under the legislation that created the 26 districts of Northern Ireland, a district council whose area included an existing municipal borough could resolve to adopt the charter of the old municipality and thus continue to enjoy borough status. Districts that do not contain a former borough can apply for a charter in a similar manner to English districts.

Scotland

United States

In the United States, a borough is a unit of local government or other administrative division below the level of the state. The term is currently used in seven states.

The following states use, or have used, the word with the following meanings:
Alaska, as a county-equivalent — List of boroughs and census areas in Alaska
Connecticut, as an incorporated municipality within, or consolidated with, a town — see Borough (Connecticut)
Michigan, formerly applied to a village in the midst of forming a city. Also in Michigan is Mackinac Island, which was a borough from 1817 to 1847, when it became a village; it has been a city since 1899.
New Jersey, as a type of independent incorporated municipality — see Borough (New Jersey)
New York, as one of the five divisions of New York City, each coextensive with a county — see Boroughs of New York City
Pennsylvania, as a type of municipality comparable to a town — see Borough (Pennsylvania) — though two of the state's largest cities, Pittsburgh and Harrisburg, have retained their names despite clearly being cities, as well as smaller communities that are officially cities in the Commonwealth such as Gettysburg
Virginia, as a division of a city under certain circumstances — see 
Wisconsin in the 19th century occasionally used the term "borough" for the type of civil township normally known as a town.

See also

 History of local government in England
 Borough status in the United Kingdom
 Boroughs incorporated in England and Wales 1835–1882 and 1882–1974
 Burgh and List of burghs in Scotland
 County borough
 Ancient borough
 Metropolitan borough
 Municipal borough
 Boroughs in New York City
 Borough-English, a form of inheritance associated with the English boroughs

References

Citations

Sources

External links 
 

 
Local government in Canada
Types of subdivision in the United Kingdom
Types of populated places
Types of administrative division
English words