[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Loyalsock Creek

Loyalsock Creek is a  tributary of the West Branch Susquehanna River located chiefly in Sullivan and Lycoming counties in Pennsylvania in the United States. As the crow flies, Lycoming County is about  northwest of Philadelphia and  east-northeast of Pittsburgh.

Name
The name is a corruption of a word in the language of the local indigenous peoples meaning "middle creek" (the original was something like Lawi-sahquick). This refers to Loyalsock Creek's location between Lycoming Creek and Muncy Creek, with the mouths of each about  up- and downstream of the mouth of the Loyalsock. Several important trails used by the local indigenous peoples ran along parts of the Loyalsock or crossed it. Two important villages of the local indigenous peoples were located on its banks, one of which, Ots-ton-wak-in, was the home to Madame Montour and her son Andrew Montour, and later became Montoursville.

Description
Loyalsock Creek is  long. The source is in western Wyoming County near the Sullivan County line, and its confluence with the West Branch Susquehanna River is at Montoursville.  The area surrounding the confluence with the Susquehanna River has been flooded numerous times over the past decade, devastating many local homes and businesses.

Its main tributary is Little Loyalsock Creek, which has its confluence at Forksville in Sullivan County. The names of Forksville and the surrounding Forks Township come from the fork of the creek there.

Pennsylvania receives the most acid rain of any state in the United States. Because Loyalsock Creek is in a sandstone, shale, conglomerate, and coal mountain region, it has a relatively low capacity to neutralize added acid. This makes it especially vulnerable to increased acidification from acid rain, which poses a long-term threat to the health of the plants and animals in the creek.

Loyalsock Creek is used for trout fishing and whitewater kayaking, and the Loyalsock Trail which runs along it is an opportunity for hiking. Worlds End State Park is located on the Loyalsock in Sullivan County, near Forksville. Pennsylvania Route 87 runs the length of the valley, following the north fork after Forksville.

Floods
The Loyalsock has flooded many times, including major floods in 1866, 1889, 1894 and 1936.  The floods of 1972, 1975, 1996 and 2011 each set the record for discharge (flow of water) and stage/gauge (height of the river’s surface). Hurricanes/tropical storms are the primary cause of floods, including Lee (2011)), Ivan (2004), Agnes (1972), and Eloise (1975).  The second biggest flood in January 1996 was due to high rain and major snow melt.

The record flood of September 8, 2011 was due to a convergence of rare events, which included moisture from three tropical cyclones:

The unusually heavy rains during the first four weeks of August.
Three to five inches of rain from Hurricane Irene on August 28.
The extreme rains far upstream (7+ inches) from remnants of Tropical Storm Lee.
The enhanced rainfall on September 7–8 due to a moisture plume from Hurricane Katia.

The Loyalsock valley is deep and narrow, and the 435 sq. miles of drainage funnel water into the narrow valley, resulting in catastrophic level rise.  Six people died in the 1996 and 2011 floods. Millions of dollars in damage was caused by the 1996 and 2011 floods.

Haystacks

The Haystacks are mounds of sandstone that outcrop in Loyalsock Creek south of Dushore in Sullivan County.  Geologically, they are a bed of quartz sandstone with an undulating upper surface, and are part of the Mississippian-Devonian Upper Huntley Mountain Formation.

History

Village of Otstonwakin
Madame Montour's village of Otstonwakin or Ostuagy was a vitally important location during the settlement of what is now Lycoming County. She operated a trading post and supply depot, partly funded by the Pennsylvania Assembly. Her village at the mouth of Loyalsock Creek on the West Branch Susquehanna River, now part of Montoursville, was an important stopping point for the Moravian missionaries who were spreading the gospel throughout the wilderness of Pennsylvania during the 1740s. Count Zinzendorf, a missionary being guided by Conrad Weiser with the permission of Shikellamy, came to Otstonwakin in 1742.

Madame Montour was known to be a friend of the British. She welcomed the white men who were beginning to migrate into the West Branch Susquehanna Valley. She also had a great amount of influence with the various Indian tribes that were feeling the pressure of colonial expansion. Madame Montour remained loyal to the British despite several attempts by the French to bring her over to their side. This was remarkable because the British colonial government sometimes went as long as a year without paying her for her services.

Rail transportation