[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys

The Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS) are household surveys implemented by countries under the programme developed by the United Nations Children's Fund to provide internationally comparable, statistically rigorous data on the situation of children and women. The first round of surveys (MICS1) was carried out in over 60 countries in mainly 1995 and 1996 in response to the World Summit for Children and measurement of the mid-decade progress. A second round (MICS2) in 2000 increased the depth of the survey, allowing monitoring of a larger number of globally agreed indicators. A third round (MICS3) started in 2006 and aimed at producing data measuring progress also toward the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), A World Fit for Children, and other major relevant international commitments. The fourth round, launched in 2009, aimed at most data collection conducted in 2010, but in reality most MICS4s were implemented in 2011 and even into 2012 and 2013. This represented a scale-up of frequency of MICS from UNICEF, now offering the survey programme on a three-year cycle. The fifth round, launched in 2012, was aimed at offering countries the tools to do the final MDG data collection.

In 2016, the sixth round was launched with an effort towards collecting baseline data for the new set of global goals and targets - the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As of mid-2022, a total of more than 350 surveys have been completed in 119 countries and territories.

The MICS is highly comparable to the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) and the technical teams developing and supporting the surveys are in close collaboration.

Survey tools

At the core of MICS is the list of indicators. In MICS6 this is a compilation of now 200 distinct indicators (237 counting those requiring sex disaggregate). The list is not inclusive of all standard tabulations produced in a full survey, but forms those that are central to global monitoring by UNICEF and others. The list is a central message in MICS, as no question is asked in the questionnaires without directly contributing to an indicator algorithm or a background variable. Thus, survey-specific additional questions are always suggested to follow the same guidelines: No question should be asked without a clear plan for tabulation of results.

Questionnaires 

The MICS questionnaires are:

 Household, administered to any knowledgeable adult member of the household (in MICS1–MICS3 this was to the head of household).
 Women, administered to all eligible women (age 15–49) of the household.
 Children under age five, administered to their mothers. If the mother is not listed as a member of the household, a primary caregiver is identified as the respondent to this questionnaire.
 As of 2011, a questionnaire for men (age 15–49) has also been developed and is included in the generic set of questionnaires.
 As of MICS6, a questionnaire for children age 5–17, administered to the mother of a randomly selected child per household.

In MICS, the generic questionnaires include all modules, such that implementers only should remove non-applicable or non-desired modules and questions, e.g. the ITN module in non-malarious countries.

The full set of generic modules include:
Household Questionnaire
 Household Information Panel
 List of Household Members
 Education
 Household Characteristics
 Social Transfers
 Household Energy Use
 Insecticide Treated Nets
 Water and Sanitation
 Handwashing
 Salt Iodisation
 Water Quality (a module, but designed as a separate questionnaire, due to sub-sample selection)

Individual Questionnaire for Women
 Woman's Information Panel
 Woman's Background
 Mass Media and ICT
 Fertility/Birth History (Mortality)
 Desire for Last Birth
 Maternal and Newborn Health
 Post-Natal Health Checks
 Contraception
 Unmet Need
 Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting
 Attitudes Toward Domestic Violence
 Victimization
 Marriage/Union
 Adult Functioning
 Sexual Behaviour
 HIV/AIDS
 Maternal Mortality
 Tobacco and Alcohol Use
 Life Satisfaction

Questionnaire for Children Under Five
 Under-five Child Information Panel
 Under-Five's Background
 Birth Registration
 Early Childhood Development
 Child Discipline
 Child Functioning
 Breastfeeding and Dietary Intake
 Immunisation
 Anthropometry

Individual Questionnaire for Men
 Man's Information Panel
 Man's Background
 Access to Mass Media and Use of ICT
 Fertility
 Attitudes Toward Domestic Violence
 Marriage/Union
 Sexual Behaviour
 HIV/AIDS
 Circumcision
 Tobacco and Alcohol Use
 Life Satisfaction

Questionnaire for Children Age 5-17
 Child's Information Panel
 Child's Background
 Child Labour
 Child Discipline
 Child Functioning
 Parental Involvement
 Foundational Learning Skills

Other tools