[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sue Black, Baroness Black of Strome

the UK by BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour and in 2014 was also subject of The Life Scientific on the same station. In 2014, she appeared in the documentary "After the Wave: Ten years since the Boxing Day Tsunami" examining the forensic response in Thailand to the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami.

In October 2015, Black was the guest for BBC Radio 4's Desert Island Discs. Her choices included The Corries, Glenn Miller, Gerry Rafferty, Dire Straits and Cher. Her favourite was "Highland Cathedral" by Lathallan School. In July 2018 Black was the guest on BBC's Hard Talk.

Black delivered the 2022 series of Royal Institution Christmas Lectures, with the title "Secrets of Forensic Science".

Awards and honours
Black was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (FRSE) in 2005, a Fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute, a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians and an Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow. In 2008 she was awarded the Lucy Mair Medal from the Royal Anthropological Institute. and a police commendation for DVI training. In 2009 she was awarded the University of Aberdeen's Brian Cox Award for Public Engagement.

Black and her team at the Centre for Anatomy and Human Identification were awarded the University of Dundee's Stephen Fry Award for Public Engagement with Research in 2012 and the Queen's Anniversary Award for Higher Education in 2013 and in May 2014, she was awarded a prestigious Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award for her research into identification from the hand.

In 2001 Black was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) for her services to forensic anthropology in Kosovo. She was promoted to Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) in the 2016 Birthday Honours for services to forensic anthropology.

In 2017 Black was presented with an honorary degree of Doctor of Medicine by University of St Andrews for her contribution to science and humanity. She received an honorary Doctorate of Science (DSc) from the University of Aberdeen in 2019, at a ceremony in which her daughter graduated in law. In 2018 her book All That Remains: A Life in Death won the Saltire Book of the Year award.

In 2021 she entered the House of Lords as a crossbencher peer, after she was created a Life Peer on 26 April 2021 and taking the title of The Baroness Black of Strome. Strome is in the County of Ross-shire.

In 2023, Black was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS).

References

 

1961 births
Living people
Academics of the University of Dundee
Alumni of the University of Aberdeen
Presidents of St John's College, Oxford
Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
Fellows of the Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland
Fellows of the Royal College of Physicians
Fellows of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow
Fellows of the British Academy
Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire
Forensic anthropologists
Presidents of the Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland
People educated at Inverness Royal Academy
People from Inverness
Place of birth missing (living people)
Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award holders
Scottish scholars and academics
Scottish anthropologists
Scottish women anthropologists
Scottish women scientists
Scottish women academics
People's peers
Life peeresses created by Elizabeth II