[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hesperosuchus

aken to a museum for Otto Falkenbach to carefully and precisely put together. Many different illustrations of the bones were done by Sydney Prentice from the Carnegie Museum of Pittsburgh. In addition, models and figures were also made by John LeGrand Lois Darling from the Museum Illustrators Corps.

Hesperis in ancient Greek means “Evening Star”; the reason this was chosen is unknown. Suchos (σοῦχος) on the other hand is ancient Greek for the Egyptian crocodile god, as Hesperosuchus is related to crocodilians. Agilis means agile for the hypothesis that Hesperosuchus was a very agile animal, based on its hindlimb structures.
The exact location where the specimen was found is an area 6 miles southeast of Cameron, Arizona, close to the old Tanner Crossing of the Little Colorado River. This area, in particular, is a very prevalent for finding many Triassic vertebrates. This area is about 160 miles on top of the Moen kopi formation, in the portion of the Chinle formation where the Little Colorado River flows through a canyon.

Along with Hesperosuchus, many other specimens were found in the same general area. There were many ganoid scales believed to have belonged to Triassic freshwater holostean fish, several phytosaur teeth, and many small stereospondyl vertebrae. In addition, a large number of small teeth were found, some which definitely belonged to Hesperosuchus, and some belonging to amphibian related animals. It is hypothesized that these other teeth may have belonged to animals that Hesperosuchus may have preyed upon.

Hesperosuchus was a contemporary of Coelophysis, a primitive predatory theropod dinosaur. Coelophysis was long thought to have been a cannibal, based on the presence of putative juvenile Coelophysis bones in the gut regions of a few adults. However, in some of these cases, it was later found that the "juvenile Coelophysis" bones were actually those of a Hesperosuchus (or something very similar) instead.

Paleoecology 

Hesperosuchus was a terrestrial animal, where its speed and ability to run fast is the most advantageous as a fitness trait. Northern Arizona's landscape during the Triassic period was surrounded by numerous bodies of water like lakes and streams. This supports that Hesperosuchus likely lived close to water although being a full on land-dwelling animal. The ganoid scales found in the general area where Hesperosuchus was found belong to freshwater fish of the Triassic period, belonging to the genus Semionolus or Lepidolus, which lived in shallow lakes and streams. The phytosaur teeth and small stereospondyl vertebrae found near Hesperosuchus support the presence of lakes or streams crossing a flood plain. Also the many small teeth found, which some, belong to amphibians of the Triassic period supports the occupying of near water habitats.

See also 

 Pseudosuchia
 Ornithosuchia
 Crocodilia
 Archosauria
 Triassic
 Sphenosuchia
 Euparkeria

References

Terrestrial crocodylomorphs
Triassic crocodylomorpha
Monotypic prehistoric reptile genera
Late Triassic archosaurs of North America
Chinle fauna
Prehistoric pseudosuchian genera