[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Saad el-Shazly

med Ismail Ali as Minister of War and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, who had been referred for retirement in the late days of President Gamal Abdel Nasser, who showed him  Al-Shazly has old differences, but they committed themselves to working with each other to prepare for the October war.

Dispute with Ahmed Ismail Ali 
Colonel Al-Shazly and Colonel Ahmed Ismail Ali coincided with the presence in the Congo in 1960, during which Ahmed Ismail attempted to impose his administrative and military domination on Al-Shazly by virtue of his higher military rank, despite their different tasks and two references. Al-Shazly rejected this logic, and both exchanged rough words until they almost reached the hands clash.  After the leadership in Cairo learned about this, the committee called up and the conflict ended, but its effects remained in the depths of both of them. After the return of Al-Shazly from the Congo, there was no direct contact between them as Ahmed Ismail was in the infantry while Al-Shazly was in the parachute corps.

On March 10, 1969, Al-Shazly was surprised by the appointment of Ahmed Ismail as the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces after the killing of Lieutenant-General Abdel Moniem Riad on March 9, 1969). Al-Shazly submitted his resignation to the office of the Minister of War, Muhammad Fawzi.  Ahmed Ismail would have contacted him again through the new position, but President Gamal Abdel Nasser intervened and sent his son-in-law, Ashraf Marwan, to El-Shazly, where he persuaded him to return to work after he confirmed to him President Gamal Abdel Nasser’s promise not to contact Ahmed Ismail with him.  Indeed, Ahmed Ismail did not set foot during the six months he spent as chief of staff at the Inshas base, in which Al-Shazly worked as commander of the Special Forces (Thunderbolts and Paratroopers) until Ahmed Ismail was referred to retirement by order of President Gamal Abdel Nasser on September 9, 1969, following the incident of the Israeli raid on Zafarana in the Gulf of Suez.

On October 26, 1972, President Anwar Sadat dismissed Lieutenant General Mohamed Ahmed Sadiq for their disagreement over the transit plan. He appointed Ahmed Ismail as the Minister of War and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces who before that had been recalled from retirement and appointed by President Anwar Sadat as Director of General Intelligence on May 15, 1971. President Anwar Sadat came to Al-Shazly, and it was a bad surprise for him. He told the president the long history of their differences, which made cooperation between them almost impossible. But President Anwar Sadat assured him that the relationship between them would be good and much better than the previous relationship between him and LT General, Muhammad Sadiq.  Al-Shazly then considered resignation, but two factors prevented him, the first of which was that his resignation would be interpreted as solidarity with  Muhammad Sadiq after the president's sacking, and the second being that some may explain his resignation as that he does not want to enter the war when the truth was the opposite.

Dispute with President Sadat 
In 1978, President Anwar Sadat issued his memoirs "In Search of Identity", in which he accused Lieutenant General Shazly of inaction and held him responsible for causing the breach. He described him as having returned collapsed from the front on the 19th of October and recommended the withdrawal of all forces in the east. This is what prompted Al-Shazly to respond to Sadat by publishing his own memoirs of the War.

In his memoirs, Lieutenant General Shazly accused President Anwar Sadat of making wrong decisions despite all the advice from the generals around him, and his continuous interference in military plans during the course of operations on the front, which led to causing the breach and misleading the people by concealing the truth of the breach, The destruction of the missile wall, and besieging the Third Army for a period exceeding three months.

In those memoirs, he also accused Sadat of giving up the victory and agreeing to withdraw most of the Egyptian forces to the west of the canal in the first disengagement negotiations. He ended his book with a report to the Attorney General accusing President Sadat of abusing his powers. This book led to his trial in absentia during the era of Hosni Mubarak. In 1983, he was charged with divulging military secrets. He was sentenced to three years in prison with hard labor, and his property was placed under supervision. He was also deprived of legal representation and stripped of his political rights. Shazly denied those allegation stating that what he published was government information, not military.