[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Steward Machine Co. v. Davis

the nation if the people were not to starve. It is too late today for the argument to be heard with tolerance that, in a crisis so extreme, the use of the moneys of the nation to relieve the unemployed and their dependents is a use for any purpose narrower than the promotion of the general welfare.

Although it was not quoted specifically in Steward, the relevant aspect of Butler addressed the constitutional powers of Congress and established that Congress has a "separate and distinct" power to tax and spend that is "not limited by the direct grants of legislative power found in the Constitution."

Directly addressing the contention that the tax is coercive, Justice Cardozo wrote:

The difficulty with the petitioner's contention is that it confuses motive with coercion. "Every tax is in some measure regulatory. To some extent it interposes an economic impediment to the activity taxed as compared with others not taxed." Sonzinsky v. United States. In like manner every rebate from a tax when conditioned upon conduct is in some measure a temptation. But to hold that motive or temptation is equivalent to coercion is to plunge the law in endless difficulties.... Nothing in the case suggests the exertion of a power akin to undue influence... the location of the point at which pressure turns into compulsion, and ceases to be inducement, would be a question of degree.

An important issue in a tax not being coercive, which was satisfied in Steward, was for the conduct to be both encouraged or induced accomplish a national end (general welfare) and related to the tax itself:

It is one thing to impose a tax dependent upon the conduct of the taxpayers, or of the state in which they live, where the conduct to be stimulated or discouraged is unrelated to the fiscal need subserved by the tax in its normal operation, or to any other end legitimately national.... It is quite another thing to say that a tax will be abated upon the doing of an act that will satisfy the fiscal need, the tax and the alternative being approximate equivalents. In such circumstances, if in no others, inducement or persuasion does not go beyond the bounds of power.

Finally, Cardozo explicitly noted the liberty of the states to make agreements with Congress:

The states are at liberty, upon obtaining the consent of Congress, to make agreements with one another.... We find no room for doubt that they may do the like with Congress if the essence of their statehood is maintained without impairment.

Based on all the foregoing arguments, the final judgment was to affirm the lower court's decision upholding the constitutionality of the Act. The ruling upholding the Act was one of the two Social Security Cases that upheld elements of New Deal legislation in 1937.

Dissenting opinions
The essence of the dissenting opinions was that the Social Security Act of 1935 went beyond the powers that were granted to the federal government in the Constitution. Imposing a tax that could be avoided only by contributing to a state unemployment compensation fund effectively coerced each state to make law creating such a fund.

The dissenters are sometimes known collectively as the Four Horsemen, the conservative members of the Court who opposed the New Deal agenda of President Franklin Roosevelt.

Justice McReynolds
"That portion of the Social Security legislation here under consideration, I think, exceeds the power granted to Congress. It unduly interferes with the orderly government of the state by her own people and otherwise offends the Federal Constitution.... [Article 1, Section 8] is not a substantive general power to provide for the welfare of the United States, but is a limitation on the grant of power to raise money by taxes, duties, and imposts. If it were otherwise, all the rest of the Constitution, consisting of carefully enumerated and cautiously guarded grants of specific powers, would have been useless, if not delusive.... I can not find any authority in the Constitution for making the Federal Government the great almoner of public charity throughout the United States" (p. 603).

Justice Sutherland, joined by Justice Van Devanter
"The threat implicit in the present encroachment upon the administrative functions of the states is that greater encroachments, and encroachments upon other functions, will follow."