[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Agriculturist

ate science degree directly related to agrology.  If accepted by their provincial institute, the applicant is known as an articling agrologist (AAg) or agrologist-in-training (AIT) and must complete a two year educational and mentorship program before being considered for a professional designation.

An alternative certification called "registered technical agrologist" (RTag), or (PTag) is also available, requiring a two-year college or university education in the agricultural sciences instead of a four-year degree. These technologists designations require a two-year mentorship and education program, and participate in the same mentorship processes as a professional agrologist.

United States 

In the United States, the professional designation is Certified Professional Agronomist (abbreviated C.PAg), the American Society of Agronomy is the regulatory organization responsible for certification. The American Society of Agronomy uses a sliding scale of education and experience to determine certification - it is required to have either a bachelor's degree in science and 5 years work experience, a master's degree related to agrology and 3 years work experience, or a Doctorate related to agrology and a single year of work experience. CPAgs are required to complete at least 50 hours of continuing education through the American Society of Agronomy every two years in order to retain their certification.

The American Society of Agronomy also provides certifications for Certified Crop Advisors (CCA).  To become a Certified Crop Adviser an applicant must pass two exams that may both be written on the same day at the same location.  The International exam is written by CCAs in North America. The Prairie region exam is written by individuals wishing to work as advisers in the three Prairie provinces of Canada or in the heartland states of the US.

See also 

 Agriculture
 Agronomy
 Agricultural science
 Agricultural engineering
 Horticulture
 Animal science
 Botany
 Forestry
 Aquaculture

References 

 
Professional titles and certifications
Agricultural occupations
Agriculture