[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Latitude Festival

Latitude Festival is an annual music and arts festival set within the grounds of Henham Park, near Southwold, Suffolk, England.

The first edition of the festival took place in 2006 and has continued annually (apart from 2020 when it was cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic).

The festival is run by Festival Republic (formerly the Mean Fiddler Group).

Latitude Festival 2006

Latitude Festival 2007

Other acts
Other acts appearing over the three days included the following:

Au Revoir Simone
Bill Bailey
Bat for Lashes
Lenny Beige
The Book Club (with Robin Ince)
Camera Obscura
Alan Carr
Cold War Kids
Fancy Spaniels
Halloween Film Society
Arnab Chanda
Russell Howard
Phill Jupitus
The Light Surgeons
Lee Mack
Scott Matthews
Dylan Moran
Carol Morley
Kate Nash
Seasick Steve
Cherry Ghost
Chris Shepherd
Two Gallants

Latitude Festival 2008 
The 2008 line up was announced on 19 March 2008 with Franz Ferdinand headlining on the Friday, Sigur Rós on the Saturday, and Interpol on the Sunday.

Other music acts due to appear
The Exploits of Elaine (soundtracking Sarah Wood's film Book of Love)
M.I.A. was scheduled to headline the Sunrise Arena on the Sunday but pulled out due to ill health.
Ida Maria was scheduled to play on the main stage on Sunday but withdrew due to ill health.

Other artists
Comedy Arena acts included:

Friday - Andy Robinson, Robin Ince, Adam Bloom, Simon Day, Ben Norris, Marcus Brigstocke (standing in for Dave Fulton), Russell Howard, Daniel Rigby, Arnab Chanda, Ross Noble, Simon Evans, Lucy Porter, Phil Kay & Guilty Pleasures

Saturday - Stephen Grant, Dan Atkinson, Carey Marx, Tim Minchin, Scott Capurro, Jon Richardson, Bill Bailey, Jason Wood, Michael Fabbri, Jeremy Hardy, Miles Jupp, Rich Hall & Guilty Pleasures

Sunday - Rufus Hound, Russell Kane, Phill Jupitus, Steve Weiner, Andrew Lawrence, Frankie Boyle, Milton Jones, Lee Mack, Otis Lee Crenshaw, Stewart Lee, Hans Teeuwen, Omid Djalili & Swap-a-Rama

Film Arena appearances included:

Barry Adamson, George Pringle, Halloween Film Festival, Chris Shepherd, Their Hearts Were Full of Spring and Grind A Go-Go from 'Oh My God! I Miss You...'

In the Woods appearances:

Dirty Protest Theatre

Latitude Festival 2009
The fourth edition took place on 16–19 July 2009. Acts that played include Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, Thom Yorke, Grace Jones and Pet Shop Boys as the main headliners, alongside Editors, Doves, and Bat for Lashes. The headliners and ticket details were announced on the Latitude Festival official site on 23 March 2009, at 7pm and sold out near to the event. More acts were confirmed at around 12:00 pm on the following day. These acts had already been previously reported on BBC Radio 1, but denied by festival organisers. Also announced in the press were The Gossip. On 3 April 2009 the official Latitude website confirmed Magazine, Spiritualized and Newton Faulkner to be playing. In June, it was announced that Thom Yorke would play an exclusive solo set as the festival's special guest (a role taken by Joanna Newsom in 2008).

BBC Radio covered the four day event with live music, comedy, sessions and interviews featured in shows across Radio 2, Radio 4, 6 Music and BBC Suffolk.

The total attendance for the weekend was 25,000.

The poetry arena included performances from Andrew Motion, Brian Patten, Roger Lloyd-Pack (performing T. S. Eliot's The Waste Land), Jackie Kay, Simon Armitage and Jeffrey Lewis; The Comedy Arena featured Jo Brand, Ed Byrne, Mark Thomas, Sean Lock, Adam Hills, Sean Hughes and Dave Gorman; The Theatre Arena showcased Royal Shakespeare Company, National Theatre, Bush Theatre and Paines Plough; The Literary Arena presented Blake Morrison, Jonathan Coe, Mark Steel, Vivienne Westwood, Sir Peter Blake, Frank Skinner and Luke Haines.

Latitude Festival 2010
Latitude 2010 (the fifth edition) took place on 15, 16, 17 and 18 July 2010. Initial lineup announcements were made at 7pm on Tuesday 9 March 2010. Capacity for the event was increased substantially to 35,000.

Security at Latitude 2010 
There was a reported gang rape on the first night of the festival which resulted in a heavy police presence for the remainder of the festival, including posters and flyers being handed out. Crystal Castles criticised the rapists during their performance on the Main Stage, calling the perpetrators "disgusting". A second rape was reported to have occurred on the second night though it attracted much less publicity than the first. Women were advised against going anywhere on site unaccompanied.

Latitude Festival 2011
Latitude 2011 (the sixth edition) took place on 14–17 July 2011. The first line up announcements were revealed on 14 March 2011. The three Obelisk headliners were revealed as well as a number of other artists and acts appearing across all stages.