[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Igal Roodenko

first time, Mrs. Irene Morgan Kirkaldy, whose courage was the impetus for their Journey. Additionally, the program looks at the contributions of the participants beyond the Journey, including the March on Washington and scores of nonviolent actions that have changed the racial landscape of America.

Roodenko was arrested numerous other times throughout his life: in 1962 for leading a peace rally in Times Square (his sentence was suspended, as the judge was sympathetic with the aims of the protestors). At other times for protesting against mistreatment of Soviet dissidents, against Cornell University's investments in South Africa, and, in Poland in 1987, along with four other members of the WRL, for trying to strengthen organizational connections with Polish dissidents. In 1983, discussing the difficulties of political activism with a reporter from the New York Times, Roodenko memorably stated that "if it were easy, any schmo could be a pacifist." 

Roodenko was a gay man. At the time of his death, he was a member of Men of all Colors Together.

Roodenko died on April 28, 1991, in Beekman Downtown Hospital in New York of a heart attack. He is survived by his niece, Amy Zowniriw.

Awards 
Roodenko was awarded the War Resisters League Peace Award in 1979.

References

Further reading
 "Igal Roodenko Papers, 1935-1991", Document Group: DG 161, Swarthmore College Peace Collection. 
 Oral History Interview with Igal Roodenko (listen) or Oral History (read) at Oral Histories of the American South
 Remembering the only Jew on the first Freedom Ride – 75 years ago April 21, 2022 The Forward
 Early freedom riders, including pioneering Jewish activist, get justice after 75 years - The Forward June 2022 
 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill - Carolina Public Humanities - 75th Anniversary of the Journey of Reconciliation

1917 births
1991 deaths
20th-century American Jews
American pacifists
American conscientious objectors
Jewish American activists
Gay Jews
LGBT people from New York (state)
American gay men
Cornell University alumni
Townsend Harris High School alumni
Members of the Civilian Public Service
War Resisters League activists
Freedom Riders
American tax resisters
20th-century American LGBT people