[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 33]
# List of Shaman King characters

heir fur reminded him of Imari porcelain and Shigaraki ware. The duo is both high-class spirits who cannot be compared to Conchi and Ponchi and hate any sort of comparison made. Imari & Shigaraki aid Yoh when he confronts the X-Laws after he is coerced by Hao into returning to the Shaman Tournament.

 
 The Guardian Ghost of Lycan Usui, the father of Horohoro and Pirika. Gororo is a Koropukuru, but unlike the others, he is about the size of a human. Because of his unnatural size, he had been shunned by other Koropokkur. However, he is kindhearted and strong and possesses a great deal of Reiyoku. He is first seen when Horohoro is protecting the Team Icemen from Hao's followers. Gororo is also responsible for training Damuko's spirit to become a Koropokuru when she refuses the Koropokuru's request for them to lead her into the afterlife.

 
 Jeanne's god-class spirit, the Babylonian god of law who established ancient laws regarding justice, war, and the seasons. Its reiryoku is 520,000. The spirit was found in a sacred place within an old church during one of the X-Laws' pilgrimages and became Jeanne's spirit when she broke the spell that sealed him there. Due to his apathy for the human world, he rarely acts and his presence around Jeanne is sufficient to instill respect. In combat his incredible power allows him to manifest different torture tools depending on the medium used, which includes parts of Jeanne's armor and her iron maiden. Jeanne also has the means to resurrect others by having Shamash kiss them.  In the 2001 anime, Jeanne is able to open the Gate of Babylon in an attempt to seal away Hao using Shamash's power. The attempt ends in failure as Shamash was devoured by the Spirit of Fire. In the manga, Shamash and Bason eventually become the guardian spirits of Men.

 
 The Golem is a machine that functions like Spirit of Fire in that it ingests spirits to get stronger and the spirits are contained in a battery of sorts with a reiryoku level of at 550 000. It belongs to Redseb and Seyram, and it was built by their deceased father, Dr. Camel Munzer. Primarily operated by Seyram, the Golem can be summoned remotely by a special command and is part of Team Kabbalahers, though primarily so that Mikihisa can keep the machine from falling into the wrong hands after he learned of its powerful destructive capabilities. Though it's a machine, Camel Munzer used the spirit of Redseb and Seyram's mother to empower the golem as a machine OS. After Dr. Munzer's spirit regains his senses and is sent to the Great Spirit, Anna modifies the Golem so that she and the Munzer children can use it against Hao.  Golem may be based on the Golem from Jewish mythology. In the 2001 anime series, he belongs to a family of shamans.

 
 
 Originally a human, Ohachiyo is a demonic spirit who roamed around for 200 years before meeting Hao when he went by the name  in his first life. He became Asaha's first friend after the death of his mother, Asanoha Douji, and nicknames him "" based on an alternate reading for the characters of his given name. A carefree and cheerful creature, he teaches the young Asaha many things and tries to quell the child's hatred of humans. But when a corrupt priest tries to kill Asaha as a scapegoat and appease the local people, Ohachiyo integrates his spirit with Asaha to give the boy the means to fight back. When Asaha exhausts his furyoku while still integrated with Ohachiyo, the demon's spirit is absorbed into Asaha, leaving Asaha with his reishi mindreading ability forever. As Yoh draws closer to his goal of defeating Hao and understanding his brother, he sees Ohachiyo in a vision; not knowing the spirit's name, he mistakenly refers to the spirit as "Z" after seeing the similar-looking kanji "乙" on the demon's garment. Ohachiyo would later manifest within the Great Spirit after Hao merged with it, helping Yoh's group give Hao closure.

 
 
 Hao Asakura's mother in his first life who possessed the ability to see spirits, possessing a strong will and gentle heart. She was killed by the local villages when accused of being a kitsune, her death being the reason for Hao's strong hatred for ordinary humans. Since becoming a shaman, he has hoped to find his mother's spirit again but his mind-set prevented him from realizing she was at his side the entire time. Asanoha is brought before Hao by Anna within the Great Spirit, convincing her son to let go of his hatred for humanity.

 Daikyoh Oboro
 

 Namaha