[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Terrorism in New Zealand

New Zealand has experienced few terrorist incidents in its short history and the threat is generally regarded as very low. However, the Security Intelligence Service (SIS) has warned against complacency. This article serves as a list and compilation of past acts of terrorism, attempts of terrorism, and other such items pertaining to terrorist activities within New Zealand. Significant acts of terrorism include the bombing of the Rainbow Warrior in 1985 (an act of state-sponsored terrorism by France), and the Christchurch mosque shootings in 2019, which killed 51 people and injured 40 others.

Definition

A common definition of terrorism is the "systematic use of violence to create a general climate of fear in a population and thereby to bring about a particular political objective." There is no single definition that commands full international approval, but unlike many other jurisdictions, New Zealand has actually defined terrorism in an Act of Parliament.

The major piece of terrorist-related legislation in New Zealand is the Terrorism Suppression Act 2002. The Act was introduced by the Government to strengthen its counter-terrorism powers, in response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States.
The Terrorism Suppression Act defines terrorism, in New Zealand or elsewhere, as an act that "is carried out for the purpose of advancing an ideological, political, or religious cause" and with the following intention:

 to induce terror in a civilian population; or
 to unduly compel or to force a government or an international organisation to do or abstain from doing any act.

And if it results in one or more of the following outcomes:
 the death of, or other serious bodily injury to, one or more persons (other than a person carrying out the act):
 a serious risk to the health or safety of a population:
 destruction of, or serious damage to, property of great value or importance, or major economic loss, or major environmental damage, if likely to result in one or more outcomes specified in points 1, 2 and 4:
 serious interference with, or serious disruption to, an infrastructure facility, if likely to endanger human life:
 introduction or release of a disease-bearing organism, if likely to devastate the national economy of a country.

Alternatively, instead of the listed outcomes, "it occurs in a situation of armed conflict and is, at the time and in the place that it occurs, in accordance with rules of international law applicable to the conflict".

Level of threat
The Security Intelligence Service (SIS) stated in its 2006 report that "the risk of a terrorist attack on New Zealand or New Zealand interests is low", but also warned against complacency. It has stated that there are individuals in New Zealand linked to international terrorism, although the Green Party and others have dismissed these claims. Once identified as a threat to New Zealand, Ahmed Zaoui became a citizen. In another case, a man named Rayed Mohammed Abdullah Ali was deported from New Zealand after being linked to the hijacker of American Airlines Flight 77 which hit the Pentagon on 11 September 2001.

In response to the Christchurch terrorist attacks of 15 March 2019, the country's threat level was temporarily raised from "low" to "high" and was later lowered to "medium" on 17 April 2019.

List of notable incidents
Most attacks, or attempted acts, of terrorism in New Zealand have been bombings as a form of protest.

Huntly rail bridge bombing

On 30 April 1951, during an industrial dispute, a rail bridge three miles from Huntly, on the Glen Afton branch line, was dynamited. Although the morning passenger train ran over the damaged bridge, it did not collapse. After regular railway line patrols were commenced, trains ran normally again the next day. Sidney Holland, the Prime Minister of the time, called it an "infamous act of terrorism". Academic Lance Beath writes that the bombing might not be considered a "terrorist" incident because there was no intent to kill or injure people and the only objective was blocking supplies. Though author Len Richardson accepts the police assessment that the explosion was intended to intimidate open-cast mineworkers.

Ward bomb killing

Dunedin lawyer James Patrick Ward was killed by a parcel bomb sent to his office on 5 February 1962. Ward suffered heavy injuries to his chest and right arm, with his left hand being blown off, after several operations at Dunedin hospital Ward failed to recover from his injuries. The explosion also destroyed his desk and the exterior facing window of his office. The police never solved the crime and described it as "one of the most callous murders in the history of New Zealand crime."

Vietnam War protests