[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

al community to intervene. Other political parties have also condemned the Israelis, and announced their support for the Palestinian and Lebanese people "in their fight for their right of survival and defeating occupier." They also called for the closing of Israeli embassies in Arab countries.

Asia

Armenia 
Foreign minister Vardan Oskanyan issued a statement:Armenia is extremely concerned about the military actions in Lebanon and their escalation, as well as the great loss of civilian life.… Armenia condemns any violence whether it be abduction or use of force.… We particularly denounce the use of such disproportionate force intended solely to collectively punish civilians and damage infrastructure. This kind of reaction by Israel is particularly difficult to understand given the fact that the Lebanese government has clearly distanced itself from the abduction incident. We hope that there will be restraint in the region and also hope there will be an immediate ceasefire so that the issues can be addressed by peaceful means.Armenia Extremely Concerned About Military Actions In Lebanon, PanArmenian. Net

China 
Foreign minister Li Zhaoxing urged all parties concerned to keep restraint to avoid further deterioration of the situation, expressing his close attention to and deep concern over the conflict. After a Chinese U.N. observer was killed when a U.N. observation post in Lebanon was hit during an Israeli airstrike, China called for an Israeli apology and demanded that Israel stop bombing U.N. positions. China asked the U.N. Security Council to strongly condemn the Israeli bombing and the permanent representative of China in U.N. implied that U.S. resistance in allowing such condemnation would affect China's position in the nuclear program of Iran.

The Security Bureau of Hong Kong reminded Hong Kong residents in Lebanon and Israel to keep abreast of latest developments and pay attention to personal safety.

India 

The Ministry of External Affairs expressed concern over the growing tensions in Lebanon and urged all parties to end the violence in favor of peaceful negotiation, issuing the following statement: "We are seriously concerned about the escalating tension in West Asia as a result of developments on the Israel-Lebanese border since yesterday which have the potential to inflame the region further and widen the conflict."

On 27 July 2006, India made a statement condemning Israel’s "disproportionate and excessive use of force" in Lebanon, but simultaneously criticized Hezbollah for kidnapping two Israeli soldiers. In a statement to Parliament, Junior Foreign Minister Anand Sharma demanded an immediate cessation to hostilities, saying Lebanon had become a "victim by default."

Indonesia 
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono stated that "Indonesia has repeatedly called on Israel to stop its military action.... [T]he United Nations has to take action to prevent the conflict from escalating." Earlier, Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda said, "We condemn the military actions that have killed many innocent civilians." Indonesia also warned the United States that supporting Israel in the conflict may lead to a rise in Islamic fundamentalism, making it more difficult for Muslim states to fight radical Islam. Indonesian foreign minister Hassan Wirajuda likewise expressed fears that even moderate muslims may become radical.

Japan 
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi urged restraint, stating: "I understand the anger of the Israelis, but I hope you will not seek an eye for an eye and keep in mind the importance of peace." On 31 July, as Japan condemned the Israeli air strike in Qana and called for a ceasefire, Koizumi went on to say that "it is truly deplorable that innocent people are falling victim day after day."

Likewise, Chief Cabinet secretary Shinzo Abe said:It is extremely regrettable that this kind of incident occurred amid international calls on Israel to exercise self-restraint. We call on the parties concerned to make a cease-fire, while seeking sincere and utmost efforts by all countries concerned to resolve the problem in order to prevent civilian casualties and not to further worsen the situation.