[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Death flights

xtraordinary rendition 
Scholars have compared the practicalities of the Argentine death flights to the US-led procedure of extraordinary rendition during the War on Terror, noting in particular how the two practices converge in many of their material and technological resources.

In popular culture

In The Gods Must Be Crazy (1980), soldiers threaten to throw two captured guerrillas out of a helicopter if they do not reveal information. The first guerrilla is pushed out blindfolded and quickly confesses in panic, not realizing the helicopter had already landed and that he has been tricked.
The 1991 film Toy Soldiers shows a drug cartel kidnapping a judge, whom they promptly kill by throwing him from a helicopter in flight.
In the opening scene of The Dark Knight Rises (2012) by director Christopher Nolan, CIA agent Bill Wilson threatens to execute and dispose of a captive by throwing him out of a plane.
The 2009 video game Grand Theft Auto: The Ballad of Gay Tony contains a mission where the player are required to intimidate a blogger from high above the Statue of Happiness (the in-game version of Statue of Liberty) and throw him out from the flying helicopter.
In the TV series Narcos (2015–2017), Search Bloc agent Colonel Carillo throws two of Pablo Escobar's sicarios out of a military helicopter when they withhold information that could lead to the capture of the infamous drug kingpin.
The 2003 film Imagining Argentina depicts the murder of a dissident by Argentine soldiers who toss him from a helicopter while over the Atlantic Ocean, based on the real murders which were committed during the country's Dirty War.
In the 2006 film The Good Shepherd, a protagonist's wife, in reality a Soviet spy, is thrown out of a plane en route to her wedding.
Some alt-right commenters use the phrase "free helicopter rides" to euphemistically refer to murdering political opponents (usually socialists, liberals, and progressives), particularly opponents of President Donald Trump, notably in reference to Pinochet's death squads.

See also
 Forced disappearance
 Operation Condor

References

External links
Argentina holds 'death flights' trial . – video report by Al Jazeera America. November 29, 2012.
Final destination: the legacy of Argentina's death flights – in pictures. Photo essay on the Argentinean death flights. April 2017

Operation Condor
War crimes by type
War crimes in Algeria
Dirty War
Extrajudicial killings by type
Execution methods
South African Border War
Indonesian occupation of East Timor
Military aviation
Augusto Pinochet
French Madagascar
Apartheid in South Africa
Apartheid in South West Africa