[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Culblean

les, had 3,000 men at his disposal. Murray's tactics were risky: he was marching into battle, which all Scots leaders had carefully avoided since the disaster at Halidon Hill.  But the situation was critical: the fall of Kildrummy would have been a serious setback to the national cause in the north.

Strathbogie was warned of Murray's approach. He raised the siege of Kildrummy, moving south to intercept his enemy in the forest of Culblean.  Murray was joined a few miles north of the River Dee, to the east of Strathbogie's position near Culblean Hill, by a party of three 300 men from Kildrummy, led by one John of the Craig. John's knowledge of the local countryside was invaluable. On the night of 29/30 November, he guided Murray's force on a wide-sweeping movement to the south and west, designed to take Strathbogie from the rear. As Murray approached at dawn on St. Andrew's Day, the element of surprise was lost when he was spotted by enemy scouts. The camp was warned and Strathbogie made ready.  But his troops were largely recruited from the local area, probably by impressment, and he appears to have had no archers.

Murrays force was divided in two, the forward unit being commanded by William Douglas. When he saw Strathbogie arrayed for battle Douglas halted, as if hesitating in the face of the enemy's preparedness. This had the desired effect and Strathbogie led his men in a downhill charge; but their ranks began to break on reaching a burn, and Douglas ordered a counter-charge. Sir Andrew with the rearguard immediately launched an assault on the enemy's exposed flank. The charge was so fierce that the bushes in the way were all flattened down. Pinned down in front and attacked from the side, Strathbogie's army broke. Unable to escape, and refusing to surrender, Strathbogie stood with his back to an oak tree and was killed in a last stand with a small group of followers, including Walter and Thomas Comyn. Some of the survivors took refuge in the nearby island castle of Loch Kinord, but were forced to surrender the following day.

Culblean in history

Compared with the other battles of the Wars of Independence, Culblean was a relatively small affair, and is now largely forgotten.
Nevertheless, its size was greatly outweighed by its importance on the road to Scottish national recovery. W. Douglas Simpson passed what might be said to be the final verdict on the battle when he wrote; Culblean was the turning point in the second war of Scottish Independence, and therefore an event of great national importance. Small as it was, it effectively nullified the effects of Edward's summer invasion, ending Balliol's hope of gaining the Scottish throne forever. Its effects were almost immediately felt. Edward Balliol spent the winter of 1335–6, so says the Lanercost Chronicle; ...with his people at Elande, in England, because he does not yet possess in Scotland any castle or town where he could dwell in safety.

References

Primary
 Anonimalle Chronicle, 1333–81, ed V. H. Galbraith, 1927.
 Fordun, John of, Chronicles of the Scottish Nation, ed. W. F. Skene, 1872.
 Gray, Thomas, Scalacronica, ed. and trans. H. Maxwell, 1913.
 The Lanercost Chronicle, ed. and trans H. Maxwell, 1913.

Secondary
 Balfour-Melville, E. W. M., Edward III and David II, 1954.
 Brown, C., "The Second Scottish War of Independence" 2001.
 Campbell, T., "England, Scotland and the Hundred Years War", in Europe in the Late Middle Ages, ed. J. Hale et al., 1970.
 Hailes, Lord (David Dalrymple), The Annals of Scotland, 1776.
 Nicholson R., Edward III and the Scots, 1965.
 Ramsay, J. H. The Genesis of Lancaster, 1307–99, 1913.
 Reid, R. C. "Edward de Balliol", in Transactions of the Dumfriesshire and Galloway Antiquarian and Natural History Society, 3rd series, vol. 35, 1956–7.
 Simpson, W. Douglas, "Campaign and Battle of Culblean", in Proceedings of the Society of Antiquarians of Scotland, vol 64 1929–30.
 Webster, B., "Scotland without a King: 1329-1341", in Medieval Scotland: Crown, Lordship and Community, ed. A Grant and K. J. Stringer, 1993.

1335 in Scotland
Battles of the Wars of Scottish Independence
Battles involving Scotland
Conflicts in 1335