[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Oregon State University College of Engineering

re-foot building features an entryway plaza, modern offices, laboratory classrooms and open spaces for the school's faculty and students. Johnson invented a device and process used to manufacture longer-lasting lead-acid car batteries in 1980. He went on to found Tekmax Inc. in 1981.

Notable alumni

Thomas J. Autzen, electrical engineer, co-inventor of plywood manufacturing glue-spreader 
Richard D. Braatz, acclaimed researcher in control theory and its applications, current Edwin R. Gilliland professor in chemical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
George Bruns, an American composer of music for film and television, four Academy Award nominations, and three Grammy Award nominations.
Randy Conrads, Classmates.com founder
Marion Eugene Carl, American military officer, World War II fighter ace, record-setting test pilot, and naval aviator
Holly Cornell, co-founder of international environmental engineering company CH2M
Douglas Engelbart, inventor of the computer mouse
Paul Hugh Emmett, Chemical engineer who pioneered in catalysis, co-namesake of BET theory and member of the Manhattan Project
Dick Fosbury, best known for inventing the Fosbury flop, gold medalist in 1968 Olympics, co-owner of Galena Engineering, Inc. in Ketchum, Idaho.
Peter Gassner, co-founder of Veeva Systems
Elmer E. Hall, US Marine Corps. commander of 8th Marine Regiment during the Battle of Tarawa.
Milton Harris, founder of Harris Research Laboratories (known as Gillette today) 
Thomas Burke Hayes, co-founder of international environmental engineering company CH2M
James Howland, co-founder of international environmental engineering company CH2M
Jen-Hsun Huang, founder of nVIDIA Corp
Glenn Jackson, former Oregon Transportation Commission chair, namesake Glenn L. Jackson Memorial Bridge 
Timothy S. Leatherman of Leatherman Tool Group, Inc.
Conde McCullough, known for designing many of Oregon's coastal bridges on U.S. Route 101
Roger Nichols, eight-time Grammy Award-winning recording engineer for many major musical artists of the 1970s-80s.
William Oefelein, NASA Astronaut
Glenn Odekirk, Hughes Aircraft Aerospace Engineer, helped design the H-4 Hercules, portrayed in the 2004 movie The Aviator as "Odie"
Hüsnü Özyeğin, founder of Finansbank in 1987, one of Turkey's most successful bankers. 
Linus Pauling, 1954 Nobel Prize in Chemistry & 1962 Nobel Peace Prize recipient; the only person ever to win two unshared Nobel Prizes
Donald Pettit, NASA astronaut
Stephen O. Rice, pioneer in the related fields of information theory, communications theory, and telecommunications
Ada-Rhodes Short, mechatronic design engineer and transgender rights activist
Bert Sperling, acclaimed author and researcher of cities, owner of BestPlaces.net
Frederick Steiwer, Oregon state senator. district attorney and 1936 Republican presidential candidate
William Tebeau, first African-American male graduate, chemical engineering, 1948, namesake of William Tebeau Residence Hall
Lee Arden Thomas, acclaimed early Oregon architect, known for designing landmark downtown buildings 
Earl A. Thompson, American engineer and inventor, credited with the invention of the  synchromesh manual transmission in 1918. 
James K. Weatherford, Oregon attorney, judge, and state politician 
John A. Young, former CEO of Hewlett-Packard
Peter C. Zimmerman, Oregon state senator and advocate of independently owned farms

Notable faculty
 Octave Levenspiel, emeritus professor of chemical engineering at Oregon State University, author of five books, and member of the National Academy of Engineering

References

External links 
 

1889 establishments in Oregon
Educational institutions established in 1889
Engineering schools and colleges in the United States
Engineering universities and colleges in Oregon
Oregon State University