[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# The Pit and the Pendulum (1961 film)

retrospective reviews with the critical consensus reading "A chilling visual treat, Pit and the Pendulum unites genre masters Roger Corman and Vincent Price with delightfully dark results".

The film was selected for screening as part of the Cannes Classics section at the 2016 Cannes Film Festival.

Influence
The critical and popular success of The Pit and the Pendulum persuaded AIP's Arkoff and Nicholson to produce more Edgar Allan Poe-based horror films on a regular basis. The films that followed, all directed by Corman, were Premature Burial (1962), Tales of Terror (1962), The Raven (1963), The Haunted Palace (1963, actually based on the novella The Case of Charles Dexter Ward by H. P. Lovecraft), The Masque of the Red Death (1964), and The Tomb of Ligeia (1964).

Tim Lucas has argued that the film had a large impact on many Italian horror films that followed. Lucas noted, "It takes Corman's Freudian theories even further with a nightmarish flashback sequence that plants the seeds of Nicholas's breakdown, and would prove particularly influential on the future course of Italian horror — an influence that can be seen even in productions of the 1970s (Deep Red) and 1980s (A Blade in the Dark)." 
Writer K. Lindbergs has noted an "obvious influence" on Antonio Margheriti's Castle of Blood (1964) and its remake, Web of the Spider (1970).

Screenwriter Ernesto Gastaldi acknowledged that Ugo Guerra and Elio Scardamaglia, the producers of Mario Bava's The Whip and the Body (1963), had "shown me an Italian print of The Pit and the Pendulum before I started writing it: 'Give us something like this', they said." When asked if another of his films, The Long Hair of Death (1964), was inspired by Corman's film, Gastaldi replied, "Yes, of course! The Pit and the Pendulum had a big influence on Italian horror films. Everybody borrowed from it."

Stephen King felt that one of the film's most powerful shocks—the discovery of Elizabeth's hideously decayed corpse—had a major impact on the genre and served as one of the most significant horror sequences of the decade. In fact, shortly after seeing the film in eighth grade, a young King took inspiration from Monarch Books's film tie-ins and wrote an eight-page novelization of The Pit and the Pendulum, "blissfully unaware that [he] was in violation of every plagiarism and copyright statute in the history of the world", and managed to sell over thirty copies for 25¢ each at his school before one of his teachers forced him to return the profits. King later wrote, "Following the Hammer films, this becomes, I think, the most important moment in the post-1960 horror film, signaling a return to an all-out effort to terrify the audience... and a willingness to use any means at hand to do it."

Padded television version
In 1968, when the film was sold to ABC-TV for television airings, the network noted that the film was too short to fill the desired two-hour time slot. They requested that AIP extend the film's runtime. Approximately five minutes of additional footage was subsequently shot by Corman's production assistant Tamara Asseyev.

Of the original cast members, only Luana Anders was available at the time, and the new sequence featured her character, Catherine Medina, confined to a lunatic asylum. After much screaming and hair pulling, Catherine reveals the details of her horrific story to her fellow inmates, at which point the film itself follows as a flashback.

See also
 List of American films of 1961
 Gothic film – Notable films
 Phantom of Morrisville, a 1966 Czech comedy film.

References

External links

 
 
 
 
 

—

1960s American films
1960s English-language films
1961 films
1961 horror films
American historical horror films
American International Pictures films
Films based on short fiction
Films based on The Pit and the Pendulum
Films directed by Roger Corman
Films produced by Roger Corman
Films scored by Les Baxter
Films set in castles
Films set in country houses
Films set in Spain
Films set in the 16th century
Films with screenplays by Richard Matheson
Fratricide in fiction
Gothic horror films
Torture in films
Uxoricide in fiction