[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Race, Evolution, and Behavior

the book came from Gottfredson, who wrote in Politics and the Life Sciences that the book "confronts us as few books have with the dilemmas wrought in a democratic society by individual and group differences in key human traits". Another favorable review of the book appeared in the National Review.

Richard Lewontin (1996) argued that in claiming the existence of "major races", and that these categories reflected large biological differences, "Rushton moves in the opposite direction from the entire development of physical anthropology and human genetics for the last thirty years. Anthropologists no longer regard "race" as a useful concept in understanding human evolution and variation." The anthropologist C. Loring Brace (1996) concurred, stating that the book was an amalgamation of bad biology and inexcusable anthropology. It is not science but advocacy, and advocacy of 'racialism'". Similarly, anthropologist John Relethford (1995) criticized Rushton's model as "faulty at many points."

Mailing controversy 
The first special abridged edition published under the Transaction Press name in 1999 caused considerable controversy when 40,000 copies were "mailed, unsolicited, to psychologists, anthropologists, and sociologists, many of whom were angered when they discovered that their identities and addresses had been obtained from their respective professional associations' mailing lists." The director of Transaction Press Irving Louis Horowitz, although he had defended the original edition of the book, "condemned the abridged edition as a 'pamphlet' that he had never seen or approved prior to its publication." A subsequent 2nd special abridged edition was published in 2000 with a rejoinder to Horowitz's criticisms under a new entity called The Charles Darwin Research Institute.

According to Tucker, many academics who received the book unsolicited were outraged at its content, calling it "racial pornography" and a "vile piece of work"; at least one insisting on returning it to the publisher. Hermann Helmuth, a professor of anthropology at Trent University, said, "It is in a way personal and political propaganda. There is no basis to his scientific research."

As an example of Pioneer Fund activity 
Race, Evolution, and Behavior has been cited as an example of the Pioneer Fund's activities in promoting scientific racism. Valencia notes that many of the supportive comments for the book come from Pioneer grantees like Rushton himself, and that a 100,000 copy print-run of the third edition was financed by Pioneer. The book is cited by psychologist William H. Tucker as an example of the Pioneer Fund's continued role "to subsidize the creation and distribution of literature to support racial superiority and racial purity." The mass distribution of the abridged third edition he described as part of a "public relations effort", and "the latest attempt to convince the nation of 'the completely different nature' of blacks and whites." He notes that bulk rates were offered "for distribution to media figures, especially columnists who write on race issues".

Reviews 
 What is Intelligence and Who has it?, The New York Times''' review of Race, Evolution, and Behavior, The Decline of Intelligence in America, and The Bell Curve.
 The Return of Racial Science, by Glayde Whitney, published in Contemporary Psychology, December 1996, pp. 1189–1191.
 Review of Race, Evolution and Behavior, by Henry Harpending, published in Evolutionary Anthropology, 1995.
 The Race-Research Funder, discussing the links of the Pioneer Fund to the distribution and positive reviews for Race, Evolution and Behavior''.
 Review of Race, Evolution and Behavior, by Irving Louis Horowitz in Society, Jan-Feb 1995 v32 n2.

See also 
 Behavioural genetics
 Behaviorism
 Evolutionary psychology
 Race and intelligence
 Scientific racism

References

External links 
 Race, Evolution, and Behavior: A Life History Perspective - Copy of the 2nd Special Abridged Edition that the author put on his personal website

1995 non-fiction books
American non-fiction books
Books about evolutionary psychology
Books about human intelligence
Books about race and ethnicity
English-language books
Forensic psychology
Human evolution books
Pseudoscience literature
Race and intelligence controversy
Scientific racism