[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Craig Bryson

for a good save from QPR keeper Robert Green. Derby went on to lose the game 1–0.

Bryson's performances throughout the campaign earned him the Derby County Player of the Year award and a place in the PFA Championship Team of the Season, alongside fellow Derby midfielder Will Hughes.

2014–15 season

In June 2014, Derby rejected an offer from Burnley for Bryson. Bryson was however given permission to speak to Burnley, later saying that "it doesn't matter what team it is, when someone puts an offer in for you I think you owe them the respect to sit down and speak to them... but just because I did that didn't mean I was going to sign for them." Soon afterwards, he agreed a new five-year contract with Derby, saying that his bond with the fans was part of the reason that he chose to stay: "I've got a good bond with the fans as well and that was a big part in my decision to stay here. The fans have been excellent ever since I walked through the door. When you come to a new club it can take time to win over the fans, but they have been fantastic with me... they helped me make the biggest decision of my career, if not my life. I took a while to think about it and I knew it would be a massive decision. I went through stages where one minute I thought I was leaving and then the next minute I think I'm staying. But in the end it turned out to be an easy decision for me because Derby are such a great club to be part of."

Bryson played 38 league matches in the 2014–15 season, but it was an inconsistent one for him: only 25 of them were starts and he only scored five goals: the second in a 5–1 win against Fulham on 23 August 2014, an 84th-minute equaliser in a 2–2 draw against Cardiff City on 20 September, an 81st-minute winner in a 2–1 victory at Watford, the consolation in a 3–1 League Cup defeat to Chelsea on 16 December and a 3rd-minute opener in a 4–0 win at home to Blackpool on 14 April 2015.

After starting 14 of the first 15 league matches, he picked up an injury in a 2–1 defeat to Brentford on 1 November and was out for three weeks. He came off the bench in the game against Watford to score a "stunning" winner but found himself on the bench for the next game, a 2–0 defeat to Leeds, before starting five of the next six matches: a 3–0 win against Brighton and Hove Albion, a 2–0 defeat to Middlesbrough, the 3–1 defeat to Chelsea, a 2–2 draw against Norwich City on 20 December and a 2–0 win against Leeds on 30 December. He missed the 4–0 win against Birmingham City on Boxing Day with a calf problem, having come off in the 74th minute against Norwich. He played 90 minutes of the following match, a 1–0 FA Cup win against Southport on 3 January 2015, but then found himself on the sidelines for the rest of the season, behind Will Hughes, Jeff Hendrick and Omar Mascarell in the pecking order for the three central midfield places. Of his next 11 League appearances, 9 of them came from the bench and the two that he did start ended in 2–1 defeats for The Rams: against Nottingham Forest on 17 January and against Reading on 14 February. Bryson finally returned to the starting XI on 17 March in a 1–0 defeat to Middlesbrough and started five of the next six matches, missing only the 2–0 win against Wigan on 6 April with a calf problem. However, his fifth start from those six matches would prove to be his last of the season. He was taken off in the 9th minute of the 4–4 draw against Huddersfield Town on 18 April with a thigh injury and missed the final two matches of the season. Having been top of the table in late February, a run of two wins from the last thirteen matches saw Derby finish eighth, a single point off the playoffs, and manager Steve McClaren sacked.