[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zonta International

Zonta International is an international service organization with the mission of Building a Better World for Women and Girls, in support of Sustainable Development Goal 5.

History
The first Zonta Club was founded in Buffalo, New York, the United States, in 1919 by a group of businesswomen under the leadership of Marian de Forest. It was organized along the lines of the Rotary Club, with one woman from each business classification admitted to the local club and all members required to give 60% of their time to the "work under which they are classified". Membership into Zonta International was a process, had strict membership regulations, and was considered a privilege. To become a member of Zonta International, one must have been a woman of high standing in her career field.   By 1923 clubs had been established in New York City, Washington, D.C., Detroit, Cleveland, and Toledo, Ohio. The National President was Miss Harriet A. Ackroyd of Utica, New York.  In 1926, famed Aviator, Amelia Earhart became a member of the Boston chapter. Earhart later transferred to the New York City Zonta chapter. Her sister, Muriel Morrissey, was also a Zonta member.

The Confederation of Zonta Clubs was formed in 1930, and expanded internationally, changing the name to Zonta International, with the founding of the Vienna club in 1930. Currently, Zonta International and the Zonta Foundation for Women is headquartered in Oak Brook, Illinois.   Notable Zonta International leaders have served in significant positions  in the U.N.   Member Helvi Sipila of Finland served as International President of Zonta prior to her service as Assistant Secretary General of the UN, and Zonta member Leticia Ramos Shahani of the Philippines also served as Assistant Secretary General of the UN.

Zonta International today: The organization has more than 29,000 members in 62 countries.   Zonta International has consultative status with the Council of Europe, the United Nations (UN), ILO, and several UN agencies.

The organization's name derives from the Lakota zónta meaning "honest" or "trustworthy".

Working as a NGO to Build a Better World for Women and Girls 
Zonta International was granted General Consultative Status at the UN in 1969. As an NGO with General Consultative Status, Zonta International is invited to participate in the annual Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) in New York, and partners to help achieve SDG 5.  Zonta International is accredited as a NGO at the UN office at Geneva. Zonta member Simone Ovart served as NGO CSW Geneva president 2105-2018, and held many roles in UN Geneva NGO events.  Zonta International hosts and collaborates at CSW to sponsor events and parallel events highlighting relevant topics, including, with  UNICEF USA organized two CSW 2019 parallel events, Achieving Sustainable Impact: Gender Equity Through Social Protections Is Imperative and Making It Stick: Sustainable Impact for Girls Through Innovation, Social Protection and Capacity-Building, respectively.

Zonta International joined the global campaign for Women's Rights in 1993, supporting the petition After Vienna and on to Beijing,.

International Service Projects 
Over the last century, Zonta has contributed more than US$45.9 million to empower women and girls and expand their access to education, health care, economic opportunities, and safe living conditions. The 2020-2022 grant cycle will provide US$5,280,000 for programs that address the root causes of gender discrimination and have the potential to bring about positive and sustainable societal changes. Through its long standing partnership with UNICEF, Zonta International and the Zonta Foundation for Women have been supporting UNICEF to advance the status of women and girls worldwide through education, health and protection services. Since its creation, Zonta International has provided more than US$13 million to UNICEF to empower women and girls and expand their access to education, health care, economic opportunities and safe living conditions.

Video on 50 years of Partnership Zonta International and UNICEF USA https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qsqFOqpWCxc

Zonta International Focus Areas

Ending Child Marriage 
Zonta International began a commitment to work through its branches throughout the world to End Child Marriage. It has been a committed supporter to the UNFPA-UNICEF Global Program to End Child Marriage. Zonta USA and UNICEF USA have a Public Service program. Stopchildmarriages.org to educate citizens the USA about the prevalence of child marriage, in collaboration with the non profit Unchained at Last. In addition, Zonta USA sits on the Steering committee of the National Coalition to End Child Marriage in the United States.