[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Foreign policy of the Stephen Harper government

the leading hawk among G7 nations and the most zealous ally of a new Ukraine government considered wholly illegitimate by Putin. In Berlin on 27 March Harper said that "Notwithstanding all of our efforts to make Mr. Putin a partner, he has not desired to be a partner. He has desired to be a rival."

Harper said he believes that Russians, and in particular the younger generation of Russians, share the values of the West and want to be partners. He said the view of most Western powers is that they will some day have "common interests and the projection of common values on the international scene."

On 20 March, the Ukrainian government called for all guns to be turned in. French Ambassador Alain Remy said that this was a central requirement for the European Union to begin disbursing financial aid. Ukrainian Prime Minister pro-tem Arseniy Yatseniuk suggested that gun owners might join the National Guard. Dmitri Yarosh, the Right Sector leader said that "It's not normal to ask people to hand in their weapons in the situation we have now." Canadians have had their own debate over the federal gun registry, which had been cancelled by the Harper government a few years earlier.
High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Catherine Ashton stressed the need to "hand over any unauthorised arms to the authorities immediately," in the wake of a protest on 26 March at the parliament building, to pressure lawmakers to sack the newly appointed Interior Minister Arsen Avakov because the Right Sector group believes that Avakov is personally responsible for ordering what they call a political assassination of one of their leader, Aleksandr Muzychko, who was killed in a special operation in a city of Rovno the previous evening.

On 28 April, the Harper government announced further economic sanctions on nine additional Russians and two Russian banks amid escalating tensions over Ukraine. Travel bans are also being imposed on the nine individuals. This was done in concert with the US, which imposed escalating sanctions of its own, including export licence applications for any high-technology items that could contribute to Russian military capabilities. The US Commerce and State Departments revoked any existing export licences that meet these conditions. Tit-for-tat economic sanctions had begun in March 2014.

On 30 April, a frigate was sent to the Baltic sea, in support of NATO allies there. The combined involvement on this day of the Canadian Armed Forces stood at the frigate , and in Romania six CF-18 fighter jets, one C-17 heavy lift plane, one Airbus troop transporter, one Airbus airborne refueler, and an estimated 250 military personnel, as well as three military personnel on the ground in the Ukraine as part of the ill-fated OSCE mission, while the German press reported the next Sunday that CIA and FBI personnel were in Kiev to advise the Ukrainians on their security structure. RCAF Lieutenant-General Yvan Blondin was in charge of the mission.

An expert in conflict studies at the University of Ottawa, Professor Philippe Lagasse, remarked that the opposition parties in Parliament had been silent on the gradual deployment to the area of military forces, and was perplexed at the lack of a take-note debate: "I'm a little baffled by the fact that this is occurring and the opposition seems to have no real inclination to debate the issue."

On 4 May, the Harper government extended the sanctions regime to 16 more Russian "entities", while the same weekend saw more than 50 people killed in Odessa and Donetsk. Odessa is approximately 100 km from the frontier with Romania, site of the Royal Canadian Air Force mission. Sergei Lavrov warned of "fratricidal conflict", while Putin was "extremely concerned" about phone calls asking for help.

On 19 June, Defence Minister Rob Nicholson stated, in reply to a Parliamentary question, that, over the previous two weeks, Canadian fighter jets had been scrambled twice to ward off Russian bombers. A Russian spokesman in Ottawa, Andrey Grebenshchikov bemoaned the state of communications between the two nations, which occurred when the Harper government unilaterally ceased all contact between them. This occurred in light of the revelations of a similar incident over California.

See also
 Stephen Harper
 Premiership of Stephen Harper
 Harper Ministry
 Domestic policy of the Stephen Harper government

References