[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# HIV/AIDS in South Africa

ncluding a number of AIDS denialists, to report back on the issue. The report suggested alternative treatments for HIV/AIDS, but the South African government responded that unless alternative scientific proof is obtained, it will continue to base its policy on the idea that the cause of AIDS is HIV.

2003
Despite international drug companies offering free or cheap anti-retroviral drugs, the Health Ministry remained hesitant about providing treatment for people living with HIV. Only in November 2003 did the government approve a plan to make anti-retroviral treatment publicly available. Prior to 2003, South Africans with HIV who used the public sector health system could get treatment for opportunistic infections but could not get anti-retrovirals.

2006 
The effort to improve treatment of HIV/AIDS was damaged by the attitude of many figures in the government, including President Mbeki. The then health minister, Manto Tshabalala-Msimang, advocated a diet of garlic, olive oil and lemon to cure the disease. Although many scientists and political figures called for her removal, she was not removed from office until Mbeki himself was removed from office. These policies led to the deaths of over 300,000 South Africans.

2007 
In August 2007, President Mbeki and Health Minister Tshabalala-Msimang dismissed Deputy Health Minister Nozizwe Madlala-Routledge. Madlala-Routledge has been widely credited by medical professionals and AIDS activists. Although she was officially dismissed for corruption, it was widely held that she was dismissed for her more mainstream beliefs about AIDS and its relation with HIV.

Role of the media in South Africa's epidemic 
The South African press took a strong advocacy position during the denialism era under Thabo Mbeki. There are numerous examples of journalists taking the government to task for policy positions and public statements that were seen as irresponsible. Some of these examples include: attacks on Health Minister Manto Tshabalala-Msimang's "garlic and potato" approach to treatment, outrage at Mbeki's statement that he never knew anyone who had died of AIDS, and coverage of the humiliating 2006 International AIDS Conference.

It could be claimed that the news media have taken a less aggressive stance since the end of Mbeki's presidency and the death of Tshabalala Msimang. The emergence of Jacob Zuma as party and state leader heralded what the press saw as a new era of AIDS treatment. However, this also means that HIV is afforded less news coverage. A recent study by the HIV/AIDS and the Media Project has shown that the quantity of HIV-related news coverage has declined dramatically from 2002/3 (what could be considered the pinnacle of government denialism) to the more recent "conflict resolution" phase under Zuma. Perhaps HIV has fallen into the traditional categories of being impersonal, undramatic, "old" news. The number of health journalists has also declined considerably.

See also 
 Bigshoes Foundation
 HIV/AIDS in South African townships
 Positive Heroes
 Sexual violence in South Africa
 46664 (concerts)

General:
 HIV/AIDS in Lesotho
 Health care in South Africa
 HIV/AIDS in Africa

References

Further reading
 Pieter Fourie "The Political Management of HIV and AIDS in South Africa: One burden too many?" Palgrave Macmillan, 2006, 
 Fassin, Didier "When Bodies Remember:  Experiences and Politics of AIDS in South Africa" University of California Press, 2007,

External links

 AIDSPortal South Africa page – latest research, guidelines and case studies 
 NewsHour: HIV/AIDS and TB in South Africa 
 JournAIDS: A resource on HIV for South African media practitioners
 HIV and Aids in South Africa – South Africa Gateway