[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Police Coast Guard

rk as part of the Nexus Youth Hub.

Patrol Craft (2nd Generation, PT Class)
The second generation of Patrol Craft were built between 1987 and 1989, including the two Command Boats. Another four boats are operated by the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority. Odd-numbered craft are based in Gul base.

Interceptor Craft (1st Generation PK Class)
There were two types of the 1st generation PK interceptor craft, with the first delivered in 1995 by North shipyard. The first type was a high speed design that featured Mercury inboard motors while the second type (six boats) had a taller profile with outboard motors and was ordered in 1999 and delivered by 2001. and officially launched on 29 January 2000. The second type was originally intended to be the second generation interceptor craft but were not considered a success and was relegated to normal patrol duties and renamed into the PC class. A single vessel, PK/PC 23 was rebadged and operates as a Marine Command Vessel (MCV) under the Singapore Civil Defence Force's Marine Command for a shortwhile.

Coastal Patrol Craft (PH Class)
The PCG operated a fleet of 12 former Swift-class Coastal Patrol Craft (CPC). The craft were upgraded and handed over by the Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN), with the first four officially handed over on 7 May 1993 another four on 3 June 1994, and the last four on 22 January 1997 as part of the formation of the Police Coast Guard Coastal Patrol Squadron. The CPCs were built between 1979 and 1980, but continued service for over two decades while a proper replacement was being sourced. Five of the decommissioned vessels were transferred to the Indonesian Marine Police (POLAIR) on 9 February 2012.

Rigid-hulled Inflatable Boats (PJ Class)
The PJ Class was a class of rigid-hulled inflatable boat for cruising upriver and large drains and introduced in 1997. These were retired in favor of the Marina Reservoir Patrol Boats (MRPB).

Collaborations
The PCG has engaged in joint operations with the Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN) since the 1990s and is still ongoing with strong mutual ties, such as the joint actions of the RSN's 180 Squadron (comprising personnel of the Navy's Accompanying Sea Security Team, better known as ASSeT) and the PCG (with several officers trained and selected to do joint boarding operations with their Navy ASSeT counterparts) in boarding key vital and important cargo vessels (such as LNG/LPG carrier ships or oil tankers) in Singapore's territorial waters to protect them from any terrorist activity, such as hijacking actions or bombing attacks, and to ensure vessels have safe passage, as well as with foreign agencies. Alliances were forged with the Royal Malaysian Police Marine Operations Force and the TNI-AL (Indonesian Navy). It is involved in the annual Cooperation Afloat Readiness and Training (CARAT) programme with the United States Coast Guard, the RSN, and five other Southeast Asian countries. In 2001, it was involved in a joint anti-illegal migrant operation with the Japan Coast Guard in Kanazawa. The PCG also has collaborations with the Republic of Korea Coast Guard and makes regular contacts with the Hong Kong Police Force's Marine Region through a reciprocal attachment programme.

The PCG has collaborated with the National Police Cadet Corps to establish sea units in secondary schools. The first two units were set up in Anglo-Chinese School (Independent) and Springfield Secondary School in 2002, with the PCG's pool of reservists and Volunteer Special Constabulary officers providing training for the cadets. The first all-girls sea unit was set up in Raffles Girls' School (Secondary) in 2006. The PCG also supports the Special Tactics and Rescue Unit’s maritime assault capability, which was launched on 2 February 2005.

References

General
"Policing Singapore in the 19th & 20th centuries", Peer M. Akbur, Singapore Police Force, 2002 
English News - Five more illegals caught at sea trying to enter Singapore, Justyn Olby, Television Corporation of Singapore, 17 March 1998
English News - Coast Guard steps up fight against illegal immigrants, Justyn Olby, Television Corporation of Singapore, 18 February 1998

Specific

External links

Singapore Police Force, Police Coast Guard

Coast guards
 
Border guards
Maritime law enforcement agencies