[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (New Zealand)

The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) () is the central public service department of New Zealand charged with providing support and advice to the governor-general, the prime minister and members of the Cabinet of New Zealand.  The department is also charged with centrally leading New Zealand's "national security planning, which includes civil defence."

The department's overall area of responsibility is in helping to provide, at an administrative level, the "constitutional and institutional glue" within New Zealand's parliamentary democracy.

The department along with the Public Service Commission, and the Treasury constitute the central agencies or public service departments leading the state sector of New Zealand.

Role
The department serves the Executive branch of government (the governor-general, the prime minister and the Cabinet) through the provision of impartial advice and support services.

In addition to serving the Executive, a major role of the department is to help co-ordinate the work of the core public service departments and ministries.

Supporting the prime minister and Cabinet
The department supports the prime minister's twin roles as leader of the government and chair of Cabinet, and provides three kinds of direct support to the prime minister:
 Support for constitutional issues, including those associated with the formation of governments; and issues associated with the operation of the Cabinet system.
 Overview of government activity and access to information on any and all issues that arise.
 Administrative support to the prime minister (and also to the governor-general). This includes services to the Prime Minister – such as preparing replies to Parliamentary questions, and dealing with Official Information Act 1982 requests and other correspondence.

Supporting the Governor-General
 
The Governor-General of New Zealand is the representative of the monarch of New Zealand, currently, King Charles III. The Governor-General performs various ceremonial, constitutional, and diplomatic duties on behalf of the monarch, and is considered the highest-ranking public official in the country. The Governor-General is appointed by the monarch on the advice of Prime Minister of New Zealand and serves a term of five years. The position is largely ceremonial, with the Governor-General performing various duties such as opening and closing parliamentary sessions, signing bills into law, and granting royal assent. 

Additionally, the Governor-General also has a number of other ceremonial and diplomatic functions, such as hosting visiting dignitaries and representing New Zealand at international events. 

The DPMC supports the Governor-General of New Zealand in carrying out his or her functions to represent the Sovereign. In this support framework, the department is expected to provide advice, administrative and support services so the Governor-General can perform her roles and duties effectively, ensuring consistent, lawful, and reliable professionalism.

The current Governor-General of New Zealand is Dame Cindy Kiro, who was appointed on 26 March 2021.

Background
The department formally came into existence on 1 January 1990, as a result of a report which recommended establishing structures to provide two separate streams of advice to the prime minister; one, a new Government department to supply impartial advice and support to the prime minister and Cabinet (DPMC), and another, a Prime Minister's Private Office (which is not part of DPMC), to provide personal support and media services, and advice of a party political nature.

The DPMC website describes its primary objective as “helping to provide, at an administrative level, the 'constitutional and institutional glue' that underlies our system of parliamentary democracy.” New Zealand has an ‘unwritten’ constitution which is characterised by its reliance on disparate pieces of legislation, norms, and structures that underpin the distribution of governmental power. The DPMC plays a central role in the application of these foundational aspects of government in New Zealand. and therefore, as an institution serves as a part of these constitutional arrangements itself.

Structure
Government House was added to the department in August 1990. The National Assessments Bureau (formerly known as the External Assessments Bureau) became part of the department on 1 July 1991. Responsibility for civil defence and emergency management was consolidated in the department in 2014 through a business unit called the Ministry for Civil Defence and Emergency Management (MCDEM). MCDEM was superseded by an autonomous departmental agency hosted by DPMC in 2019, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA).