[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Typhoon Chanchu

nds of , although the agency later downgraded the peak winds to . By contrast, the JMA estimated peak 10 minute winds of  at 00:00 UTC on May 15. According to the Hong Kong Observatory, the 10 minute winds reached , which made Chanchu the strongest typhoon in the South China Sea in the month of May.

By the time Chanchu attained peak winds, an eastward-moving trough over China broke up the ridge to the north, causing the typhoon to turn sharply to the north into a less favorable environment. With decreased outflow and stronger wind shear, Chanchu began slowly weakening. The eye initially remained small, but the outer eyewall deteriorated on May 16 as the convection decreased in the northern periphery. The trough that previously weakened the ridge steered Chanchu to the north-northeast and forced an extratropical transition. Late on May 17, the JMA downgraded the typhoon to a severe tropical storm. Around that time, Chanchu made landfall near Shantou, Guangdong in southeastern China, about  east of Hong Kong; the JTWC estimated landfall winds of , while the JMA estimated them at 110 km/h (70 km/h). Early on May 18, the JTWC discontinued advisories, although the JMA continued tracking Chanchu over southeastern China through eastern Fujian province. Later on May 18, the storm emerged into the East China Sea, becoming fully extratropical at 00:00 UTC on May 19. The remnants continued toward Japan before dissipating at 18:00 UTC that day off the west coast of Kyushu in southern Japan.

Preparations

Officials in southern Leyte recommended that residents evacuate to prevent a repeat of a deadly landslide in February 2006. Officials canceled several flights and ferry lines, stranding 10,000 people. In all, 2,144 people evacuated in the Philippines. PAGASA issued a storm signal number 2 for several provinces along Chanchu's path, as well as storm signal number 1 for other areas, largely forecasting for rainfall and gusty winds.

Vietnamese fishermen in the South China Sea received 24 hours of warning from the National Hydrometerological Forecast Center before Chanchu approached the area, less time than other agencies in the region. At one point, Chanchu was forecast to become a strong typhoon and make landfall near Hong Kong. In response to the threat, officials at the Hong Kong Observatory, as well as in Macau, issued a standby signal to inform the public of the approaching typhoon. The HKO issued a warning signal number 3 on May 17. In the territory, 60 flights were canceled with another 14 delayed, beaches were closed, and ferry service was disrupted. Ahead of the storm, about 1 million people evacuated from coastal Guangdong and Fujian provinces to government warehouses, schools, tents, or the houses of relatives. In the former province, 62,000 fishermen were ordered to return to port, while four flights were canceled at Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport. Residents were advised to remain indoors, and workers reinforced billboards in anticipation of the strong winds. Rail and boat transport was stopped between Guangdong and Hainan across the Qiongzhou Strait due to the typhoon. Schools were closed in Guangdong during the storm's passage, although they remained open in Fujian. In Shanghai, the speed limit of Donghai Bridge was halved because of strong winds.

Ahead of the storm, the Central Weather Bureau in Taiwan issued land and sea warnings. The Tainan City Government and three county governments closed for one day. All domestic flights to offshore islands were canceled, and rail service was interrupted. Later, airlines canceled 12 flights in Japan due to the storm.

Impact

The Philippines and Malaysia

While moving through the Philippines, Chanchu affected several islands with strong winds and heavy rainfall. In Legazpi, Albay, strong waves wrecked 100 homes and left 1,500 people homeless. High winds left widespread power outages, particularly in Mindoro, Batangas, and across the Bicol Region. The storm severely damaged the banana industry and affected various other fruit crops. Near Metro Manila, the winds damaged billboards, knocked over trees, and caused isolated power outages. Rough seas sank a ferry off Masbate, despite a warning against the operation of small craft, having left at sunrise to avoid the police. The Coast Guard rescued 18 passengers, but 28 people died in the wreck. An empty ferry sank at port in Tabaco. A ferry with 700 people aboard went missing, but the Coast Guard found it washed ashore with everyone safe on board. Similarly, an oil tanker washed ashore at Pinamalayan, Oriental Mindoro, and its crew of 13 was rescued. Throughout the country, Chanchu killed 41 people, mostly from the Masbate ferry wreck. The storm damaged 5,630 homes, and destroyed 1,013 others, forcing 53,307 people to leave their homes. Agricultural losses totaled ₱71.57 million (PHP, US$1.3 million), chiefly to the corn harvest, with an additional ₱46 million (PHP, US$850,000) in infrastructure damage.