[Source: PubMed]

30. Front Public Health. 2023 Jan 25;11:1100546. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1100546.
 eCollection 2023.

Effectiveness of a stepped-care programme of WHO psychological interventions in 
migrant populations resettled in Italy: Study protocol for the RESPOND 
randomized controlled trial.

Purgato M(1), Turrini G(1), Tedeschi F(1), Serra R(1)(2), Tarsitani L(2), Compri 
B(1), Muriago G(1), Cadorin C(1), Ostuzzi G(1), Nicaise P(3), Lorant V(3), 
Sijbrandij M(4), Witteveen AB(4), Ayuso-Mateos JL(5)(6)(7), Mediavilla 
R(5)(6)(8), Haro JM(6)(9), Felez-Nobrega M(6)(9), Figueiredo N(10), Pollice 
G(10), McDaid D(11), Park AL(11), Kalisch R(12)(13), Petri-Romão P(13), 
Underhill J(14), Bryant RA(15), Nosè M(1), Barbui C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Biomedicine, and Movement Sciences, Section of 
Psychiatry, WHO Collaborating Centre for Research and Training in Mental Health 
and Service Evaluation, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.
(2)Department of Human Neurosciences, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(3)Institute of Health and Society (IRSS) - UCLouvain, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Department of Clinical, Neuro- and Developmental Psychology, WHO 
Collaborating Center for Research and Dissemination of Psychological 
Interventions, VU University, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid (UAM), Madrid, 
Spain.
(6)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental (CIBERSAM), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, La Princesa University Hospital, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria La Princesa (IIS-Princesa), Madrid, Spain.
(8)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Hospital Universitario La Paz 
(IdiPAZ), Madrid, Spain.
(9)Research and Development Unit, Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(10)Sorbonne Université, INSERM, Institut Pierre Louis d'Epidémiologie et de 
Santé Publique, ERES, Paris, France.
(11)Care Policy and Evaluation Centre, Department of Health Policy, London 
School of Economics and Political Science, London, United Kingdom.
(12)Neuroimaging Center (NIC), Focus Program Translational Neuroscience (FTN), 
Johannes Gutenberg University Medical Center, Mainz, Germany.
(13)Leibniz Institute for Resilience Research, Mainz, Germany.
(14)Independent Research Consultant, Brighton, United Kingdom.
(15)School of Psychology, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Migrant populations, including workers, undocumented migrants, 
asylum seekers, refugees, internationally displaced persons, and other 
populations on the move, are exposed to a variety of stressors and potentially 
traumatic events before, during, and after the migration process. In recent 
years, the COVID-19 pandemic has represented an additional stressor, especially 
for migrants on the move. As a consequence, migration may increase vulnerability 
of individuals toward a worsening of subjective wellbeing, quality of life, and 
mental health, which, in turn, may increase the risk of developing mental health 
conditions. Against this background, we designed a stepped-care programme 
consisting of two scalable psychological interventions developed by the World 
Health Organization and locally adapted for migrant populations. The 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of this stepped-care programme will be 
assessed in terms of mental health outcomes, resilience, wellbeing, and costs to 
healthcare systems.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We present the study protocol for a pragmatic randomized 
study with a parallel-group design that will enroll participants with a migrant 
background and elevated level of psychological distress. Participants will be 
randomized to care as usual only or to care a usual plus a guided self-help 
stress management guide (Doing What Matters in Times of Stress, DWM) and a 
five-session cognitive behavioral intervention (Problem Management Plus, PM+). 
Participants will self-report all measures at baseline before random allocation, 
2 weeks after DWM delivery, 1 week after PM+ delivery and 2 months after PM+ 
delivery. All participants will receive a single-session of a support 
intervention, namely Psychological First Aid. We will include 212 participants. 
An intention-to-treat analysis using linear mixed models will be conducted to 
explore the programme's effect on anxiety and depression symptoms, as measured 
by the Patient Health Questionnaire-Anxiety and Depression Scale summary score 2 
months after PM+ delivery. Secondary outcomes include post-traumatic stress 
disorder symptoms, resilience, quality of life, resource utilization, cost, and 
cost-effectiveness.
DISCUSSION: This study is the first randomized controlled trial that combines 
two World Health Organization psychological interventions tailored for migrant 
populations with an elevated level of psychological distress. The present study 
will make available DWM/PM+ packages adapted for remote delivery following a 
task-shifting approach, and will generate evidence to inform policy responses 
based on a more efficient use of resources for improving resilience, wellbeing 
and mental health.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, identifier: NCT04993534.

Copyright © 2023 Purgato, Turrini, Tedeschi, Serra, Tarsitani, Compri, Muriago, 
Cadorin, Ostuzzi, Nicaise, Lorant, Sijbrandij, Witteveen, Ayuso-Mateos, 
Mediavilla, Haro, Felez-Nobrega, Figueiredo, Pollice, McDaid, Park, Kalisch, 
Petri-Romão, Underhill, Bryant, Nosè and Barbui.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1100546
PMCID: PMC9905848
PMID: 36761135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.