[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Wesley United Methodist Church (Austin, Texas)

The Wesley United Methodist Church in Austin, Texas, United States, was founded in 1865, at the end of the American Civil War.  Its original members were Austin-area freedmen, and it remains a predominantly African-American congregation. On March 4, 1865, the Reverend Joseph Welch, Presiding Elder of the Texas District of the Mississippi Mission Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, presided over the meeting at which Wesley was founded.  This historical meeting was held in the basement of the old Tenth Street M. E. Church, South in Austin, Texas.

The day following the founding of Wesley, the first Quarterly Conference of the new church was held. The first trustees were Milton Wright, Thomas Merridy, Tom King, Simon Dedrick, Grant Woods, Henry Shelly, Samuel Hamilton, and Reverend Isaac Wright.  Isaac Wright was also the first pastor of Wesley.  This tenure of service covered the formative period from March 1865 to January 1868.

The West Texas Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church was organized on January 22, 1874.  Included among the ministers present at the organizational meeting of the Conference was the first pastor of Wesley, Isaac Wright.

When the church was opened for membership at least 275 persons joined. Assisting Wright were the ministers Friend, Spencer Hardwell, and John Boyd, each of whom subsequently served as pastor of Wesley. These ministers and the Rev. B. F. Williams led the congregation during the nine years from the founding of the church until the organization of the West Texas Conference in 1874.

The first church building was erected under the leadership of Bishop Abraham Grant and the Rev. B. F. Williams, who served as pastor in 1874–75.  This church was located in what is now downtown Austin, on the corner of Fourth Street and Congress Avenue.  One historical account of the Wesley of that day includes the following  description:

"The dimensions were about 40x60 feet."  The floor was of dirt.  The steps were logwood.  The seating capacity was small.  The benches were made of slab board. There was a lamp irregularly kept, fastened to the side of the wall.  When this lamp was installed in place of the individual candles, there was great rejoicing."

As Wesley progressed, it broadened its scope and attracted new members, and in less than two decades a larger building was needed; in the spring of 1882, the cornerstone was laid for a new church at the corner of Ninth and Neches Streets.  This building, containing approximately twice the floor space of the "First Wesley," was completed at an estimated cost of US$22,000, exclusive of church furniture valued at over $2,500.

The new church had a pastor's study, a library for Sunday School books and literature, choir materials, and a six-room parsonage for the minister.  For several years Samuel Huston College (now Huston–Tillotson University) held most of its classes in the church.

By the end of the second decade of the 20th century, not only had Wesley Methodist Church grown, but also the city of Austin had become a major urban community in Central Texas.  There was a need to expand the facilities of the Austin Public Schools.  Therefore, in 1928, the Austin School Board acquired the properties of the church for $17,500.  Earlier, under the ministerial leadership of the Reverend L. H. Richardson, the church purchased a plot of ground facing Hackberry, Navasota, and San Bernard Streets for future use.

Under the pastoral administration of the Rev. W. L. Turner, a new church ("Greater Wesley") was built at this East Austin location at a cost of approximately $50,000, supported by the members of the church with the cooperation of the citizens of Austin.  

Wesley Methodist Church became Wesley United Methodist Church in 1968 at the time of the general church merge.

Wesley United Methodist Church was the founding institution for the Austin Area Urban League, incorporated in the mid 1970s under the leadership of the Rev. Freddie B. Dixon Sr., First Board Chairman, Bertrand Adam, Linda Moore Smith, and Wesley members who served on the founding committee.  A Special Task Force was set up to help alleviate the high suspension rate of African-American students in the Austin Independent School District.  The Task Force met with the Austin Independent School District Officials and offered to do a joint venture project to alleviate the suspension problem in the public schools.  Wesley obtained a private grant from the Kellogg Foundation and started the Wesley Center housed on the church grounds in co-operation with the Austin Independent School District.  Texas Legislatures passed new laws regarding suspension centers in the public schools.  The Wesley Center relocated to the Rosewood Elementary School, later renamed the F. R.Rice School.