[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# John Kennedy (Louisiana politician)

ence. 

Kennedy has criticized prosecutors for declining to prosecute some offenders. In 2023, he introduced the Prosecutors Need to Prosecute Act, which requires prosecutors to disclose when they decline to prosecute cases. It would also remove funding for prosecutors who fail to report such cases.

Net neutrality 
On March 7, 2018, Kennedy introduced a bill that would "prohibit companies like Comcast and Verizon from blocking or throttling web content." He was one of three Republican senators, with Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski, to vote with the entirety of the Democratic caucus on May 16, 2018, to overturn the FCC's repeal of net neutrality.

Foreign policy 

As Louisiana treasurer, Kennedy defended his choice to invest state money in Israeli bonds, writing, "Here’s how the U.S. Secretary of State’s Office sums up our nation's relationship with Israel: 'The United States was the first country to recognize Israel as a state in 1948. Since then, Israel has become, and remains, America's most reliable partner in the Middle East. Israel and the United States are bound closely by historic and cultural ties as well as by mutual interests.' That—along with Israel Bonds' solid track record—is good enough for me.”

In April 2018, Kennedy was one of eight Republican senators to sign a letter to United States Secretary of the Treasury Steve Mnuchin and acting Secretary of State John Sullivan expressing "deep concern" over a United Nations report exposing "North Korean sanctions evasion involving Russia and China" and asserting that the findings "demonstrate an elaborate and alarming military-venture between rogue, tyrannical states to avoid United States and international sanctions and inflict terror and death upon thousands of innocent people" while calling it "imperative that the United States provides a swift and appropriate response to the continued use of chemical weapons used by Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his forces, and works to address the shortcomings in sanctions enforcement."

In January 2019, Kennedy was one of 11 Republican senators to vote to advance legislation intended to block Trump's intent to lift sanctions against three Russian companies.

Kennedy criticized Biden for his conduct of the withdrawal from Afghanistan, saying, "President Biden chose to withdraw from Afghanistan, but there’s no reason it had to be so chaotic. We all saw it: The panic, the fear, the chaos, the abandonment of equipment, the scrambling to destroy unclassified documents and classified documents, thousands of Americans and our allies trapped behind Taliban lines, no plan for the refugees… I am so sorry that all of our American soldiers who fought so valiantly had to witness what we all saw, and what we saw was stunning incompetence."

Kennedy has been hawkish on China, especially when it comes to stopping Chinese companies from breaking American stock market rules. He passed two bills, the Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act and the Accelerating Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act, to delist any company that refuses to have its audits inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.

Kennedy supported sending aid to Ukraine, saying, "This is not just the fight for the people of Ukraine. It's a fight for the people of the United States of America. It’s a fight for our national security." He advocated for a special inspector general to monitor the aid given to Ukraine following Russia's invasion. Kennedy expressed concern that money was being misspent, saying, "Ukraine is not without flaws. We've heard several unsettling reports of bad actors exploiting our generosity… We trust that our friends in Ukraine take corruption seriously. We must verify, too."

Personal life
Kennedy and his wife, Becky, are founding members of their local Methodist church in Madisonville.

Despite sharing the first and last name of the 35th president of the United States, he is not related to the Kennedy family of Massachusetts.

Electoral history

Selected publications 
Kennedy has written and published the following books and articles: 
 "The Federal Power Commission, Job Bias, and NAACP v. FPC." Akron Law Review, vol. 10, no. 556 (January 1, 1977).
 "Assumption of the Risk, Comparative Fault and Strict Liability After Rozell." (47 Louisiana Law Review, vol. 57, no. 791 (January 1, 1987).
 "A Primer on the Louisiana Products Liability Act." Louisiana Law Review, vol. 49, no. 565 (January 1, 1989).
 The Dimension of Time in the Louisiana Products Liability Act (42 Louisiana Bar Journal (January 1, 1994)
 "Role of the Consumer Expectation Test Under Louisiana's Products Liability Tort Doctrine." Tulane Law Review, vol. 69, no. 1 (1994-1995), pp. 117–164.
 Louisiana State Constitutional Law. LSU Publications Institute (January 1, 2012)

See also
 List of American politicians who switched parties in office

References

External links