[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David Feeney

ponsibilities. As a local MP, Feeney campaigned for schools funding, healthcare and public transport. He also worked to promote the Anzac Centenary in his Batman electorate, and to secure grants for local projects to commemorate the service of Australian service-men and women in the First World War.

Feeney sought to promote causes in parliament including recognition of same-sex marriage, needs-based school funding, and various environmental concerns, particularly marine parks and fisheries protection. In 2017, Feeney was one of a small number of Labor MPs to express opposition to the Carmichael coal mine proposed by the Adani Group, saying the project didn't "stack up" and calling the cost to the environment and climate "too high".

Feeney is a regular commentator on strategic and defence matters, was a regular contributor to ADM magazine, and Deputy Chair of the Defence sub-committee of the Joint Standing Committee of Defence, Foreign Affairs and Trade (JSCDFAT). He also served as a contributing author to 'The Long Road': Australia's train, advice and assist mission and Australia's American Alliance: Towards a New Era?

David Feeney was keenly interested in the Australian Antarctic Territory, commenting on its importance to Australia's strategic outlook and travelling there in 2017.

At the 2016 federal election the Australian Greens focused their campaign effort against several inner urban electorates with sitting Labor MPs, including Feeney's seat of Batman. Feeney attracted controversy when it was revealed he had failed to disclose an investment property he owned in Northcote (valued at $2.3 million) on the Parliamentary Register of Interests. While Feeney claimed that he had gained no financial advantage from his mistake, accusations that he had "forgotten his house" caused significant damage to his re-election campaign, which had focused on Labor's policy to abolish negative gearing. His campaign in Batman was described by the Herald Sun as "tumultuous", with Feeney also leaving confidential Labor briefing notes in a TV studio after an interview on Sky News. On 2 July 2016, Feeney was narrowly re-elected with 51.03% of the two-candidate-preferred vote against the Greens.

Feeney was referred to the High Court of Australia on 6 December 2017, over concerns he was in breach of section 44 of the Australian Constitution. Feeney claimed he had taken the steps required of him to relinquish any British and Irish citizenship by descent in 2007, but was unable to produce documentation confirming the British renunciation had taken place.

On 1 February 2018, accordingly, Feeney announced his resignation as a member of Parliament, and revealed he would not stand as a candidate for the Batman by-election later that year.

Personal life

Feeney is married to Liberty Sanger, principal of law firm Maurice Blackburn. They have a son, Ned (2014), and a daughter, Matilda (2019).

Career after politics
David Feeney was appointed a Senior Fellow to the Australian Strategic Policy Institute (ASPI) in August 2018. He has served as a regular guest lecturer at the Australian War College in Canberra since 2018. In 2019, he was appointed to the Advisory Board of NIOA.

In December 2018, Feeney wrote a paper advocating for Australia's need to develop a comprehensive grand strategy for the Centre of Gravity journal of the Strategic and Defence Studies Centre of the Australian National University (ANU). In 2021, Feeney wrote a further paper for Centre of Gravity entitled "SEA 5000 Future Frigate program: continuous shipbuilding under the spotlight".

Since 2019, Feeney has been a postgraduate student at the University of Melbourne. In 2020 he completed a Graduate Diploma in Arts (Advanced). His thesis entitled Second Punic War: the contest for the central Mediterranean, Hannibal and Carthaginian grand strategy 218-210 BC won the 2020 William Culican Memorial Award. In 2021, Feeney commenced PhD studies in classical and ancient studies. In October 2021 David Feeney became a Graduate Member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors.

References

External links
 The Hon David Feeney profile at Parliament of Australia.

Living people
1970 births
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Australia
Labor Right politicians
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Batman
Members of the Australian House of Representatives
Members of the Australian Senate for Victoria
Members of the Australian Senate
Australian Roman Catholics
Australian people of Northern Ireland descent
21st-century Australian politicians
Politicians from Adelaide