[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Double Tenth incident

ss to acts of sabotage and treason. As none of the suspects had even heard of Operation Jaywick, let alone been part of it, any confessions they made were meaningless, lacking any information about the raid itself, how it had been organised, or where the explosives had been obtained.

Elizabeth Choy

Elizabeth Choy and her husband, Choy Khun Heng, were running their canteen at the Tan Tock Seng Hospital, after all the patients and doctors had been moved from the Miyako Hospital (former Woodbridge Hospital). She had been a school teacher at St Andrew's School before the war. The couple helped the Changi prisoners of war (POW) by passing on cash and parcels containing such things as fresh clothing, medicine and letters during their deliveries. An informant told the Kenpeitai that the Choys were involved in smuggling money into Changi Prison, and Khun Heng was arrested. After several days, Elizabeth went to the YMCA on Stamford Road, used by the Kenpeitai as their headquarters, known as the Kenpeitai East District Branch, to inquire about her husband. The Japanese denied all knowledge of him, but three weeks later they lured her back to the YMCA and confined her with other Chinese and Changi prisoners. There was no sign of Khun Heng. The prisoners were forbidden to speak to one another, although one of the internees, John Dunlop, secretly taught them to communicate in sign language.

At Elizabeth's first interrogation session, the Japanese told her that some ships had been sunk in the harbour and they wanted to know the location of a large amount of money. She claimed no knowledge of the matter but was repeatedly interrogated and beaten. At various times, the Kenpeitai forced Elizabeth to kneel on some angled bars of wood on the floor. They stripped her topless and tied her to the wood so she could not go either forwards or backwards. Then they applied electric shocks to her. They even brought in her husband to let him see her being tortured. After nine months in captivity, Elizabeth had lost half her body weight.

Innocent victims
Seven days after the Double Tenth, Bishop John Wilson of St Andrew's Cathedral was taken to the YMCA, and placed in the cell next to Elizabeth. He was severely beaten for three days before the Japanese accepted that he was not one of the ringleaders in their imagined conspiracy. One night, Elizabeth saw Rob Scott, by then badly disfigured as a result of the beatings and water tortures that he had been subjected to. At the end of one session, Scott was told that he had been sentenced to death, and was forced to write a farewell letter to his wife. He was later sentenced to six years' imprisonment in Outram Road Prison, the site where convicted sepoy mutineers had been detained and executed by the Singapore Volunteer Corps in 1915.

Elizabeth was held in the YMCA for nearly 200 days, during which time the Kenpeitai meticulously followed up every point in her story, cross-examining people she said she had helped. After a huge dossier of interviews had been compiled, the Japanese concluded that she was telling the truth and set her free; however, Khun Heng was sentenced to 12 years in Outram Road Prison. People avoided Elizabeth following her release, too terrified to speak to her. Fifteen internees died in the Kenpeitais cells during the Double Tenth inquisition. The suffering spread to the entire civilian population of Changi Prison; rations were cut, and games, concerts, plays and school lessons were forbidden for months.

"Double tenth" trial

After the war, on 18 March 1946, the "double tenth" war crimes trial was held in the Supreme Court Building, before a military court presided over by Lieutenant Colonel S. C. Silkin. Twenty-one Kenpeitai were accused of torturing 57 internees, resulting in the deaths of 15. On 15 April 1946, after a hearing lasting 21 days, Sumida was one of eight sentenced to death by hanging. Three others received life imprisonment, one a sentence of fifteen years, and two were given prison terms of eight years. Seven were acquitted.

In recognition of her valour and wartime effort during the Japanese Occupation, Elizabeth Choy was awarded the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in London in 1946.

See also

Selarang Barracks incident
SGH War Memorial

Notes

References

External links
The Double Tenth Incident (National Library Board, Singapore)
Double Tenth Massacre—The Elizabeth Choy Story (MINDEF Singapore)
Double tenth (RCMS 103/15/6), a report of the findings of a commission appointed to accept evidence from internees who were arrested on 10 October 1943, digitised in Cambridge Digital Library
The Double Tenth (RCMS 103/4/33/13), outline for a screenplay inspired by the Double Tenth incident, by an internee of Changi Prison, digitised in Cambridge Digital Library

Japanese occupation of Singapore
British rule in Singapore
Massacres in Singapore
Japanese war crimes
1943 in Japan
1943 in Singapore
British Malaya in World War II
October 1943 events