[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Orlando Engelaar

sion is to help talent (within the sports and entertainment) realise their dreams. SeiSei has a roster with several signings. Orlando will not disappear from football at all, since one of the company's subsidiary companies SeiSei Football Mgmt will focus on football management.

International career

Engelaar was eligible to play for Suriname, as his father was born in the country and once played as a centre-back for the national team. Engelaar declared his participation for Netherlands, having ruled out to play for Belgium and said he's capable for the Oranje. Manager Marco van Basten mentioned Engelaar and hinted that he could be in the squad. On 28 May 2007, Engelaar was called up to the Netherlands squad for the first time. He made his international debut for the Oranje in a friendly against South Korea on 2 June 2007. He later made two appearances for Netherlands later in the year, both coming on as a substitute against Thailand and Belarus.

In March 2008, Engelaar said in an interview that he determined to make it to the Netherlands squad for the UEFA Euro squad. Two months later, Engelaar was included in the Oranje's provisional squad. He made his first start for Netherlands against Ukraine on 24 May 2008 and started the whole game, as they won 3–0. Engelaar made two more starts for Oranje against Denmark and Wales. His performance prior to the tournament convinced coach Marco van Basten to include the player in the 23 men squad. He played the full match in the Netherlands' 3–0 victory over Italy in their Group C match. After the match, manager Van Basten praised Engelaar's performance, saying: "He played an excellent role in his controlling role. Engelaar was calm on the ball, controlled the game well on the right and left and was well positioned for falling balls." He made another start for Oranje's second group match of the tournament, playing the first half before being substituted, in a 4–1 win over France three days later on 14 June 2008. Engelaar made his third start for Oranje in the third group stage match and played the full 90 minutes, as Netherlands won 2–0 against Romania. With Netherland expected to be the favourite to win the UEFA Euro, the Oranje, however, lost 3–1 in quarter-final match against Russia, in which he made his fourth start of the tournament and was substituted for Ibrahim Afellay in the 61st minute.

Following the conclusion of the UEFA Euro 2008, Engelaar didn't receive another call–up from Netherlands until on 19 November 2008 against Sweden when he came on as a 75th-minute substitute, in a 3–1 win. It wasn't until on 23 September 2009 when Engelaar was called–up to the Oranje squad for the first time in ten months. He made his first appearance for Netherlands in almost a year, coming on as a 70th-minute substitute, in a 0–0 draw against Australia on 10 October 2009. A month later on 18 November 2009, Engelaar made another appearance for Oranje, coming on as a second half substitute, in a 0–0 draw against Paraguay. On 15 May 2010, he was included in the preliminary squad for the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa. Engelaar made his last appearances for Netherlands against Mexico on 26 May 2010, coming on as a second half substitute, in a 2–1 win. However, on 27 May 2010, Netherlands manager Bert van Marwijk announced that he would not be part of the final squad of 23 participating in the competition. In an interview with NuSport, Engelaar said: "I don't remember half of it, sat there numb. When I heard that I had to go for an interview, I already knew. The national coach said that he has chosen Stijn Schaars but that I was close, I believe. Well, that is of no use to you. I'm quite through it. That was a very important reason, yes. At the moment I have the feeling that everything was in vain. You are working towards something, but you are not achieving your goal. Game over. Two years ago I noticed how wonderful it is to experience such a final tournament. That makes this extra painful." Manager van Marwijk said leaving out Engelaar in favour of Schaars was the hardest decision he has done. Following this, he was never called up for the Oranje team again.

Career Statistics

Honours

Club
Melbourne Heart
A-League Goal of the Year 2014

Notes

References

External links

Orlando Engelaar Profile at NAC Breda