[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Heinrich Rau

and honoured with burial at the Memorial to the Socialists () in the Friedrichsfelde Central Cemetery, Berlin.

Aftermath and legacy
After his death, firms, schools, recreation homes, numerous streets, and a fighter squadron were named after him. The GDR issued a stamp with his picture three times.

Rau was married twice and had three sons and a daughter. Like the other members of the Politburo, he lived until 1960 in a secured area of East Berlin's district Pankow and moved in 1960 to the Waldsiedlung near Wandlitz. In Pankow he had lived in Majakowskiring no. 50. In 1963, Rau's widow Elisabeth moved to this street again.

When the prominent West German SPD politician and future President of Germany Johannes Rau visited an SPD rally in the East German city of Erfurt during the time of German reunification, he was introduced as "Prime Minister 'Heinrich Rau. Thereupon Johannes Rau ironically commented on this lapse by observing that Heinrich Rau was a "Minister of Trade, a Swabian and a communist" and he was none of the three.

See also
International Brigades order of battle
East German mark
Hallstein Doctrine
History of East Germany
Medal for Fighters Against Fascism

Notes and references

Notes

References

Bibliography

 / Summary: 
 

 

 
 
 
  (Contemporary description of the New Economic System, published in 1966. The author received the 1966's Cornelius Ryan Award for this book.)

Further reading

  (Shows an American view in 1953)

External links

Pictures
  – Picture with Rau, Richard Staimer and Kurt Frank in Spain, 1937.
  Copied from collection Museum für Deutsche Geschichte. – The children's home "Ernst Thälmann" near Madrid was established in 1937 by the XI International Brigade as a home for war orphans.
  – Picture with Rau and Guevara in East Berlin.
  – Picture of Rau's wife Elisabeth with Patrice Lumumba's children in Egypt. (Lumumba was the first Prime Minister of the Congo. His family moved into exile in Egypt after or shortly before his violent death. )

Others
 
  Collection: Stalin and the Cold War
 

1899 births
1961 deaths
Politicians from Stuttgart
People from the Kingdom of Württemberg
Independent Social Democratic Party politicians
Communist Party of Germany politicians
Members of the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany
Deputy Prime Ministers of East Germany
Government ministers of East Germany
Members of the Provisional Volkskammer
Members of the 1st Volkskammer
Members of the 2nd Volkskammer
Members of the 3rd Volkskammer
Members of the Landtag of Brandenburg
German atheists
German Army personnel of World War I
Refugees from Nazi Germany in the Soviet Union
German people of the Spanish Civil War
International Brigades personnel
Communists in the German Resistance
Mauthausen concentration camp survivors
Recipients of the Patriotic Order of Merit in gold
Recipients of the Banner of Labor