[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hugh Boyle Ewing

his chair. He was likely prostrated with illness as Commander of Louisville during Burbridge's madness in Kentucky. He was made a brevet major general on March 13, 1865. After leaving the Army, he experienced painful attacks for the rest of his life, often bedridden for periods of up to forty days.

Postbellum career
President Andrew Johnson appointed Ewing as U.S. Minister to Holland, where he served from 1866 to 1870. This appointment may have drawn the ire of the Radical Republicans, for Speaker of the House James G. Blaine urged President Ulysses S. Grant that Ewing be recalled and replaced with his brother, Charles Ewing. Blaine told the President that Hugh was 'acting badly'. Blaine himself was disingenuous, having represented to prominent politicians in Ohio including Senator John Sherman that he was doing everything possible to nominate his close personal friend, former Ohio General Roeliff Brinkerhoff, for the post. Nonetheless, Blaine's request to recall General Ewing was never acted upon, possibly due to the influence of his sister, whose husband General Sherman was a very close friend to President Grant. Ewing was related to Blaine through Blaine's mother Maria Louise Gillespie Blaine.

Upon his eventual return to the United States, Ewing retired to a farm near Lancaster, Ohio, where he died of old age.

He was the author of: The Black List; A Tale of Early California (1887); A Castle in the Air (1887); The Gold Plague, and other works.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)
Louisville in the American Civil War

Notes

References
 Allen, Felicity. Jefferson Davis, Unconquerable Heart. St. Louis, Missouri: University of Missouri Press. 1999. .
 Beach, Damian. Civil War Battles, Skirmishes, and Events in Kentucky. Louisville, Kentucky: Different Drummer Books. 1995.
 Brinkerhoff, Roliff. Recollections of a Lifetime. Whitefish, Montana: Kessinger Publishing Company. 2007.  .
 The Diary of John Beatty, Ohio State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, Vol. 59
 Brown, J.H. The Cyclopaedia of American Biography: Comprising the Men and Women of the United States. New York City, New York: Kessinger Publishing, 2006. .
 Burton, William L. Melting Pot Soldiers: The Union's Ethnic Regiments. New York City, New York: Fordham University Press. 1998. 
 Crist, Lynda Lasswel. A Bibliographical Note: Jefferson Davis's Personal Library: All Lost, Some Found. Journal of Mississippi History 45 (1983): 186–93.
 Ewing, H.B. Autobiography of a Tramp. Columbus, Ohio Historical Society
 Felt, Thomas E., Hugh Boyle Ewing Papers. Museum Echoes, XXXIII (1960), 78–79.
 Longacre, Edward. General John Buford: A Military Biography. New York City, New York: Da Capo Press, 2003. .
 Rossman, Kenneth R. Historical Essays in Honor of Kenneth R. Rossman. Ann Arbor, Michigan: University of Michigan. 1980.
 Sears, Stephen W., Neely, Mark E., Fellman, Michael, and Simon, John Y., ed. by Boritt, Gabor S. Lincoln's Generals. Oxford University Press. 1994. .
 Smith, Ronald D., Thomas Ewing Jr., Frontier Lawyer and Civil War General. Columbia:University of Missouri Press, 2008, .
 Sword, Wiley. Mountains Touched With Fire: Chattanooga Besieged, 1863. New York City, New York: St. Martin's Press. 1997. .
 The Twentieth Century Biographical Dictionary of Notable Americans Vols. I-X (4). Boston, MA: The Biographical Society, 1904.
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Blue: Lives of the Union Commanders. Baton Rouge, Louisiana: LSU Press. 1964. .
 Welsh, Jack D. Medical Histories of Union Generals. Columbus, Ohio: Kent State University Press. 1996. .

External links
Photos of General Ewing at generalsandbrevts.com
Ewing Family History Pages

1826 births
1905 deaths
People from Lancaster, Ohio
American historical novelists
American autobiographers
Novelists from Ohio
People of Ohio in the American Civil War
Union Army generals
Ambassadors of the United States to the Netherlands
19th-century American diplomats
American male novelists
19th-century American novelists
19th-century American male writers
American male non-fiction writers
Ewing family (politics and military)