[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gabriel París Gordillo

ment scenario. This mission was also to discuss and negotiate a price agreement for coffee, as the export of this commodity was essential to the trade balance of Colombia. The commission also promoted the advancement of technical educational and created the "Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje" (SENA).

Regarding international trade and commerce, the administration of General París and the Junta, implemented the "Plan Vallejo" which was designed to promote and stimulate exports and to reduce unnecessary imports. The Junta also encouraged foreign private investment and eased monetary operations and exchange rates. General París and the Junta initiated international negotiations with major world producing countries to establish what would be known as the “Pacto Mundial” (world accord). In the political front, in order to honor the agreements of the "Treaty of Sitges”, the Junta would call a general election.

The treaty, signed by former presidents Laureano Gómez and Alberto Lleras Camargo in June, 1957, prescribed for the Junta to hold a general election on December 1, of that same year, as a national plebiscite to legitimize the National Front.

End of Military Junta 
On May 4, 1958 popular elections took place to replace the Military Junta and transition once again into a democracy. Alberto Lleras resulted elected as the first president of the National Front. General París retired from active service and inaugurated Lleras as president of Colombia on August 7, 1958. París Gordillo dedicated to his private life affairs.

Recognitions 
In 1996 París was decorated by the Municipal Council of Bogotá in the 150th anniversary of the installation of the Simón Bolívar statue at the Plaza Mayor. The statue was donated by París's great grandfather don José Ignacio París Ricaurte. In 2000 was honorary promoted to three suns general by then president of Colombia, Andrés Pastrana. In 2002 París attended the inauguration of Álvaro Uribe as president of Colombia.

Personal life 
On 28 September 1936, Gabriel París married María Felisa Quevedo París (his cousin) (11 May 1911 – 17 June 1994), and had four children: Gabriel, Jaime, Gloria and Ligia Carolina París Quevedo. He lived his last days at a ranch named ‘El Recreo' in a vereda named El Topacio in Flandes. At the age of 98 years was the last survivor of the military junta and the eldest former president of Colombia.

External links 

 Rulers.org
 Luis Angel Arango Library: Gabriel París Gordillo

References 

1910 births
2008 deaths
Colombian generals
Deaths from pneumonia in Colombia
Leaders who took power by coup
Presidents of Colombia
Acting presidents of Colombia
Presidential Designates of Colombia
Non-U.S. alumni of the Command and General Staff College
París family