[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# LGBT rights in Cyprus

found that 37% of Cypriots thought that same-sex marriage should be allowed throughout Europe, 56% were against.

Human rights reports

2017 United States Department of State report
In 2017, the United States Department of State reported the following, concerning the status of LGBT rights in Cyprus:

Freedom of Expression, Including for the Press"Freedom of Expression: The law criminalizes incitement to hatred and violence based on race, color, religion, genealogical origin, national or ethnic origin, or sexual orientation. Such acts are punishable by up to five years' imprisonment, a fine of up to 10,000 euros ($12,000), or both. In 2015 police examined 11 complaints of verbal assault and/or hate speech based on ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation, and color. Authorities opened criminal prosecutions in five cases that are currently pending trial."
Acts of Violence, Discrimination, and Other Abuses Based on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity"Antidiscrimination laws exist and prohibit direct or indirect discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Antidiscrimination laws cover employment and the following activities in the public and private domain: social protection, social insurance, social benefits, health care, education, participation in unions and professional organizations, and access to goods and services. An LGBTI NGO noted in February that equality and antidiscrimination legislation remained fragmented and failed to adequately address discrimination against LGBTI persons. NGOs dealing with LGBTI matters claimed that housing benefits favored "traditional" families. Hate crime laws criminalize incitement to hatred or violence based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Despite legal protections, LGBTI individuals faced significant societal discrimination. As a result, many LGBTI persons were not open about their sexual orientation or gender identity, nor did they report homophobic violence or discrimination. There were reports of employment discrimination against LGBTI applicants."
Discrimination with Respect to Employment and Occupation"Laws and regulations prohibit direct or indirect discrimination with respect to employment or occupation on the basis of race, national origin or citizenship, sex, religion, political opinion, gender, age, disability, and sexual orientation. The government did not effectively enforce these laws or regulations. Discrimination in employment and occupation occurred with respect to race, gender, disability, sexual orientation, and HIV-positive status. Penalties provided by the law were sufficient to deter violations. A survey published in the International Journal of Manpower in 2014 suggested that LGBTI job applicants faced significant bias compared with heterosexual applicants. The survey found that gay male applicants, who made their sexual orientation clear on their job application, were 39 per cent less likely to get a job interview than equivalent male applicants who did not identify themselves as gay. Employers were 42.7 per cent less likely to grant a job interview to openly lesbian applicants than to equivalent heterosexual female applicants."

Summary table

See also

Human rights in Cyprus
 LGBT rights in Europe
 LGBT rights in Asia
 LGBT rights in the European Union
 Recognition of same-sex unions in Cyprus
 Same-sex union court cases

References

Sources and external links
 
 
 
 

 
Society of Cyprus