[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Star Fleet (video game series)

nd Kirk Lesser in "The Role of Computers" column. The reviewers gave the game 3 out of 5 stars. A May 1994 survey of strategic space games set in the year 2000 and later gave the game two-plus stars out of five, stating that it had "an unusual number of bugs and a numbing sameness to the scenarios".

Star Fleet III onwards
Star Fleet III, a sequel to Star Fleet II developed by Supernova Creations was planned to be published by Mindcraft in 1993. It was never finished or released. It should not be confused with Star Legions; as Dr. Sorensen explains:
Star Legions was never intended as Star Fleet 3. [It] was a spin-off of Star Fleet 2 and was to provide an interim product until SF3 could be completed.
Dr. Sorensen had designed outlines for games in the Star Fleet series up to Star Fleet VII.

Star Fleet Deluxe

This was attempt to create a new modern version of the classic Star Fleet I: The War Begins!. This was a grass-roots attempt online by game creator Dr. Trevor Sorensen. This would have been interactive online version of the game between players.

On his website, Star Fleet Central, he allowed free downloads of both Star Fleet I and II, with necessary patches.

However, development of the game stalled. This is because the programmer who was helping with development of the new Star Fleet Deluxe took his own life. Shortly after this, the website closed down. It was opened again on the Symbiotic Software website in 2008, which itself closed in 2011.

Star Fleet Deluxe For Android
In March 2011, Dr. Sorensen was contacted by Kevin Fightmaster about an opportunity to port the original Star Fleet I game over to the Android platform. It was decided that the Star Fleet Deluxe version of the game would make for a more exciting port to the Android. With some redesign on the UI to incorporate the touch nature and smaller display of the mobile platform, the game was initially completed in the fall of 2013. After almost a year of testing and patching, the game was ready for launch on August 1, 2014. The game included new features such as career statistics, accomplishments and the capability to share service records among other players of the game.

Star Fleet Board Game
Advertised as "coming soon!" by Interstel in their 1988 catalogue (published 1987) but never released, this "adventure game" said to feature "exploration, space combat, planetary adventures, and much more" designed by Richard Launius and Robert Jones, Jr. was based on Star Fleet I and II. Much like the original Star Fleet, players start in the Academy and compete with each other to make a fixed number of promotions, points towards this being awarded based on how well you complete each mission.

Star Fleet Headquarters BBS
This was Interstel's Star Fleet themed Bulletin Board Service, open from 8 pm – 8 am (central time). Features included multi-player games, customer support, uploading and downloading of files (including public domain software and Empire games and maps), as well as the normal BBS bulletins (including bulletins for released and upcoming software), messaging and conference services. This BBS closed in 1991, the year before Interstel went out of business.

Star Fleet II - Krellan Commander 2.0 
Development of Star Fleet 2 by Trevor Sorensen resumed in 2020,  with an official Steam page for an upcoming 2.0 update appearing in November 2020.

References

External links
 
 
 Star Fleet II review
 Star Fleet Games Central - Star Fleet Deluxe official website
 Star Fleet Deluxe For the Android

Android (operating system) games
DOS games
DOS-only games
Video game franchises
Video game franchises introduced in 1984
Space combat simulators
Unofficial works based on Star Trek
Video games developed in the United States