[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Near East Side (Columbus, Ohio)

food and grocery. The Northern boundary of the area is Clowsen Field, Capital University's baseball diamond. A revitalization plan exists with recommendations to make aesthetic improvements and utilize the area as a gateway into the Franklin Park neighborhood and Near East.

King-Lincoln Bronzeville

Just east of Downtown Columbus, this area is bordered by the Mount Vernon neighborhood and Atcheson Street on the north, North 20th Street on the east, Olde Towne East and East Broad Street on the south, and Interstate 71 on the west. The area was at one time much larger, including parts of what is now the Discovery District. The creation of I-71 significantly cut the area off from Downtown, causing socioeconomic decline and the growth of crime and violence. The neighborhood has become the focus of the city's revitalization efforts which include renovation of the historic Lincoln Theatre, construction of new condos and expansion of retail space along Mt. Vernon Avenue and East Long Street, which hosts the annual Long Street Tour cycling event.

Mount Vernon or Beatty Park

Old Oaks

Old Oaks is a historic street car neighborhood which started its growth when streetcar service became electrified in 1891. The area was designated a historic neighborhood in 1986.

Olde Towne East

Olde Towne East is a neighborhood located in the historical Near East Side. It is one of Columbus' largest and oldest neighborhoods. Nestled between Downtown, Bexley, Old Oaks and South of Main. The area has over 1,000 homes, some as old as the 1830s, and more than 50 architectural styles including Italianate, Queen Anne and Victorian.

South of Main
South of Main is a neighborhood located in the Near East Side. It is bounded by Main Street to the north, Interstate 70 to the south, the west bank of Alum Creek to the east, and Wilson Avenue to the west. Hanford Village, which was divided and decimated with the construction of I-70 in the 1950s, was once part of what is now known as the South of Main neighborhood. The most distinctive landmark at the far northeastern corner of the neighborhood is the cluster of silos that once stored grain and are now owned and used by Omni Materials.

Woodland Park

This is the area bordered by Maryland Avenue to the north, Nelson Road to the east, East Broad Street to the south, and Taylor Avenue to the west.
According to the Woodland Park Neighborhood Association website: "The neighborhood is home to an eclectic mixture of exquisite architecture including Colonial, Federal, Arts and Crafts, Victorian, Tudor, Mission, Dutch Colonial, Colonial Revival, Greek Revival, Georgian Colonial, French Eclectic, American Foursquare and Cape Cod. The neighborhood is composed of homes, town-homes and apartments ranging in size from massive mansions to bungalows and from penthouses to studio apartments. This diverse mixture of homes makes Woodland Park a comfortable, affordable and attractive neighborhood to live in."

Structures and landmarks
The Near East area features over 1,000 unique homes with at least 50 different architectural styles. The Bryden Road and Broad Street corridors were once home to some of the wealthiest citizens with the most decadent homes, influenced by Queen Ane, Italianette, French, German, and Renaissance styles.