[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Reginald R. Myers

m The George Washington University in September 1965. Colonel Myers was assigned duty at Headquarters Marine Corps with the G–L Division in August 1965. He served briefly as director, Marine Corps Personnel Research and Analysis Office, then as executive officer to the assistant chief of staff, G–L.

Colonel Myers retired from active duty in the Marine Corps on May 1, 1967. He died on October 23, 2005, and was buried in Arlington National Cemetery, Arlington, Virginia.

Awards and decorations
The colonel's medals and decorations include: the Medal of Honor; the Legion of Merit; the Bronze Star Medal with Combat "'V" and one Gold Star in lieu of second award, the Letter of Commendation With Combat "V;" the Purple Heart; the Presidential Unit Citation with three bronze stars indicative of second through fourth awards; the American Campaign Medal; the World War II Victory Medal; the Navy Occupation Service Medal with Asia clasp; the China Service Medal; the National Defense Service Medal; the Korean Service Medal with one silver star indicative of five bronze stars; the United Nations Service Medal; and the Korean Presidential Unit Citation.

Medal of Honor citation
The President of the United States takes pleasure in presenting the MEDAL OF HONOR to

for service as set forth in the following CITATION:

For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty as Executive Officer of the Third Battalion, First Marines, First Marine Division (Reinforced), in action against enemy aggressor forces in Korea on November 29, 1950. Assuming command of a composite unit of Army and Marine service and headquarters elements totalling approximately 250 men, during a critical stage in the vital defense of the strategically important military base at Hagaru-ri, Major Myers immediately initiated a determined and aggressive counterattack against a well-entrenched and clearly concealed enemy force numbering an estimated 4,000. Severely handicapped by a lack of trained personnel and experienced leaders in his valiant efforts to regain maximum ground prior to daylight, he persisted in constantly exposing himself to intense, accurate and sustained hostile fire in order to direct and supervise the employment of his men and to encourage and spur them on in pressing the attack. Inexorably moving forward up the steep, snow-covered slope with his depleted group in the face of apparently insurmountable odds, he concurrently directed artillery and mortar fire with superb skill and, although losing 170 of his men during fourteen hours of raging combat in sub-zero temperatures, continued to reorganize his unit and spearhead the attack which resulted in 600 enemy killed and 500 wounded. By his exceptional and valorous leadership throughout, Major Myers contributed directly to the success of his unit in restoring the perimeter. His resolute spirit of self sacrifice and unfaltering devotion to duty enhance and sustain the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service.

/S/ HARRY S. TRUMAN

Medal of Honor flag presentation

On August 3, 2006, in a ceremony at the Marine barracks in Washington, D.C., General Michael Hagee presented the Medal of Honor flag to Myers' widow.

See also

List of Medal of Honor recipients
List of Korean War Medal of Honor recipients
Battle of Chosin Reservoir

References

1919 births
2005 deaths
United States Marine Corps officers
United States Marine Corps personnel of World War II
United States Marine Corps personnel of the Korean War
Korean War recipients of the Medal of Honor
United States Marine Corps Medal of Honor recipients
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
George Washington University School of Business alumni
Burials at Arlington National Cemetery
People from Boise, Idaho