[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Accra Metropolitan District

Ngleshie
 Mudor
 Kinka
 Nmlitsagonno
 Amamomo
 Korle Wonkon
 Korle Dudor

Okaikoi South Constituency
The Okaikoi South constituency falls within the Okaikoi South sub-metropolitan district and includes eight (8) electoral areas:
 Awudome
 Goten
 Kaatsean
 Mukose
 Bubuashie
 Bubui
 Avenor
 Kaneshie

Demographics
At the 2010 census, there were 1,665,086 people residing in the district. Out of the total population, about 47% were migrants (born elsewhere in the Greater Accra Region or other regions in Ghana or outside Ghana), with people born in the Eastern Region but resident in the district constituting 27.8% of the migrant population.

The total number of households in the district stood at 501,903 households, out of which 450,794 households lived in the 149,789 houses within the district The average household size in the district is 3.7 persons per household and the population per house is estimated at 11.1, indicating that compound houses are the most common type of dwelling (67.7%) within the district.

38.4% of the population were under the age of 19, 12.4% between 20 and 24, 11.5% between 25 and 29, 21.5% between 30 and 44, 12.2% between 45 and 64, and 4% age 65 and over. For every 100 females, there were about 93 males.

Governance
The Accra Metropolitan district is administered by the Accra Metropolitan Assembly, which is the political and administrative authority for the City of Accra. Structurally, the Accra Metropolitan Assembly is made up of the General Assembly at the apex and six (6) sub-metropolitan district councils representing each of the six sub-metropolitan districts, which are subordinate bodies of the Assembly performing functions assigned or delegated to them by the Assembly.

The General Assembly, whose meetings are presided over by the Presiding Member, is composed of 21 elected members, 14 government appointees, 3 Members of Parliament, and the Metropolitan Chief Executive (mayor), who also chairs the Executive Committee. The General Assembly meetings are presided over by the Presiding Member.

Assembly Members

Administrative Structure
The Accra Metropolitan Assembly (AMA) has sixteen (16) statutory departments, some of which are state entities decentralized and incorporated into the Local Assembly structure, and report directly to the Metropolitan Coordinating Director (MCD) and ultimately to the Metropolitan Chief Executive. Some of these departments oversee other functional units.

Central Administration
The Central Administration department is headed by the Metropolitan Coordinating Director (MCD) and is responsible for ensuring the implementation of governmental policies, projects and programmes at the MMDAs level. The department guides policy formulation, planning and decision-making at the Assembly.

This department includes the following units: Public Relations, Human Resources, Development Planning, Procurement and Logistics, Security, Transport, Management Information Systems, Information Service, Protocol.

Finance Department
The Finance department leads in the management and use of financial resources to achieve value for money. It directs and controls financial management in line with public sector accounting principles thereby safeguarding of the Assembly's assets.

Public Health Department
The Public Health department provides strategic and administrative leadership for the management of policies and programs related to environmental sanitation. The department also promotes and protects public health and safety through collaboration innovation and strategic standard enforcement.

Physical Planning Department
The physical planning department manages the activities of the Department of Town and Country Planning and the Departments of Parks and Gardens.