[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jonathan Powell (Labour adviser)

It is believed he was questioned twice by police, the second time under caution, during the investigation into the Cash for Honours affair. While many in Blair's "kitchen cabinet" – including Alastair Campbell – departed before Blair's resignation, Powell remained in Downing Street until June 2007.

In February 2012 Peter Oborne, a Daily Telegraph journalist, criticised Powell for divulging sensitive information about the activities of MI6 in Russia. He told a BBC documentary, Putin, Russia and the West, how MI6 had in 2006 used a "fake rock filled with surveillance devices as a means of communication with their agents in Moscow". Oborne described this as a "propaganda gift for Vladimir Putin", as it soon after featured heavily in a programme screened on prime-time Russian state TV. The footage was used to attack opponents of Putin who at the time, in 2006, had doubted Kremlin reports of MI6's activity in Russia. In the view of Oborne, "Powell’s indiscretion was used to make a full-frontal attack on some of the most respected independent critics of the regime" and Powell had become a "useful idiot" for Putin.

Post Downing Street
Powell was a banker at Morgan Stanley from 2008 to 2009.  In 2011 he founded the charity Inter Mediate with Martin Griffiths to work on armed conflicts around the world. Since 2013 he has also been a member of the Board of Save the Children International.

In May 2014 British prime minister David Cameron appointed Powell as the UK special envoy to Libya to promote dialogue between rival factions in the country.

In March 2017 he was appointed Honorary Professor in the Senator George J. Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice at Queen's University Belfast.

Inquiries
Powell's role as Downing Street Chief of Staff came under close scrutiny during the Hutton Inquiry, held following the death of David Kelly in 2003. Powell gave evidence to the inquiry on 18 August, and described several crucial meetings he had attended at which Kelly had been discussed before his name appeared in the media. An email sent by Powell to the JIC chairman John Scarlett in September 2002 was also highlighted, as it appeared to suggest that a dossier on the threat posed by Iraq should be toughened. Many commentators criticised the style of government described by Powell as too informal, some dubbing it "sofa government", as many meetings were held in relaxed surroundings without proper notes being taken. The subsequent and separate Butler Report also emphasised these criticisms. Both the Hutton and Butler reports indicated Powell was very close to Blair.

On 18 January 2010 Powell gave evidence to the Iraq Inquiry.

Personal life
Powell has four children: two daughters with his partner, Sarah Helm, and two sons from a previous marriage.

Publications
Great Hatred, Little Room: Making Peace in Northern Ireland, The Bodley Head, 2008. .
The New Machiavelli: How to Wield Power in the Modern World, The Bodley Head, 2010. .
Talking to Terrorists: How to End Armed Conflicts, The Bodley Head, 2014, ; published in the United States with the title Terrorists at the Table: Why Negotiating Is the Only Way to Peace, Palgrave Macmillan, 2015, .
The Public Sector: Managing the Unmanageable, Kogan Page, 2013. .  (Contributor).

Radio
 On Machiavellian Politics Jonathan Powell speaks on BBC The Forum

See also
 Tony Blair Associates - Powell worked as a consultant

References

External links
  Profile on BBC site
 'One at a Time', review of Great Hatred, Little Room in the Oxonian Review

1956 births
Alumni of University College, Oxford
Labour Party (UK) officials
Living people
Members of HM Diplomatic Service
People educated at The King's School, Canterbury
BBC people
ITV people
People educated at St Edmund's School Canterbury
Downing Street Chiefs of Staff
20th-century British diplomats