[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Frank Cummins (Kilkenny hurler)

ster title before lining out in his eighth All-Ireland final appearance. For the second time in five years Galway provided the opposition in the championship decider, however, Cummins’ collected a fifth winners’ medal that day as victory went to Kilkenny in the worst All-Ireland final of the decade.

Offaly emerged as the new Leinster champions in 1980 and 1981, however, by 1982 Kilkenny were back with a bang. Cummins started the year by collecting his second National League medal before later winning a ninth Leinster title. Once again, the age-old rivals of Cork and Kilkenny squared up to each other in the championship decider. The game turned out to be a let-down as Cork were completely overpowered by Kilkenny on that occasion. The final score was 3-18 to 1-15, meaning that Cummins had captured a sixth All-Ireland medal. In 1983 he added a third National League medal to his collection before winning his tenth, and final, Leinster title. The subsequent All-Ireland final was a repeat of the previous year with the result remaining the same. Kilkenny defeated Cork once again, albeit in a much closer game. The victory gave Cummins a seventh All-Ireland medal, and a record eighth overall. It is a record he shares with John Doyle and Christy Ring, however, all of their medals were won on the field of play. In spite of this no other player except Cummins has won seven All-Ireland medals in one single position on the field of play. His performance in 1983 also earned him the Texaco Hurler of the Year award. Wexford put an end to Kilkenny's hopes of capturing a third All-Ireland title in-a-row in 1984, a defeat which led to Cummins’ retirement from inter-county hurling.

Province
Cummins was also a regular player with the Leinster hurling team in the Railway Cup inter-provincial competition. He first lined out with his province in 1970, however, Munster emerged as the victors in the final on St. Patricks Day. In spite of this loss Cummins went on to collect five Railway Cup titles in-a-row in 1971, 1972, 1973, 1974 and 1975. He won a sixth and final inter-provincial title in 1977.

Sources
 Corry, Eoghan, The GAA Book of Lists (2005)
 Donegan, Des, The Complete Handbook of Gaelic Games (2005)

References

1947 births
Living people
All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship winners
Blackrock National Hurling Club hurlers
Kilkenny inter-county hurlers
Knocktopher hurlers
Leinster inter-provincial hurlers