[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Twentieth-century theatre

laying, and the resonance of its mood of despondent uncertainty with the psychological disposition of the Russian intelligentsia of the time. Productions of Ibsen, Shakespeare, and Chekhov's Uncle Vanya, The Cherry Orchard and Three Sisters were also very successful in the early days of the company.

After the success of the Moscow Art Theatre, Stanislavski set out to create a unified system of acting that would train actors and actresses to create believable characterizations for their performances. Developed mainly between 1911 and 1916 and revised throughout his life, the approach was partly based on the concept of emotional memory for which an actor focuses internally to portray a character's emotions onstage. Areas of study include concentration, voice, physical skills, emotion memory, observation, and dramatic analysis. The Stanislavsky system was widely practiced in the Soviet Union and in the United States, where experiments in its use began in the 1920s and continued in many schools and professional workshops.

In the early part of the 20th century, Russia experienced a cultural Silver Age and the theatre was no exception. By 1916, the total number of producing theatres in Moscow alone totaled close to 200. These year-round and seasonal theatres produced mainly farces, comedies, vaudevilles and even melodramas, but there were also a significant number of theatres offering realistic or naturalistic theatre. These included Aleksey Suvorin's Maly Theatre and the Moscow Dramatic Theatre (1914–19). While there were a number of actress-managers in St. Petersburg and Moscow like Vera Komissarzhevskaya and Ida Rubinstein, the course of Russian theatre in the Silver Age was largely dominated by men.

After the First World War and the Russian Revolution, many theatre artists left Russia for other countries, including Georges Pitoëff to France, Theodore Komisarjevsky to Britain, and, famously, Mikhael Chekhov to the United States, exporting the Stanislavski system and contributing to the development of a 'director's theatre' in the post-war world.

United States

In the United States, William Vaughn Moody's plays The Great Divide (1906) and The Faith Healer (1909) pointed the way to a more realistic American drama in their emphasis on the emotional conflicts that lie at the heart of contemporary social conflicts. Other key playwrights signaling the move to realism in the beginning of the century include Edward Sheldon, Charles Rann Kennedy and Rachel Crothers. Onstage, the American theatre was dominated by the Barrymore family: Lionel Barrymore, Ethel Barrymore (the "First Lady of American Theater") and John Barrymore ("... the most influential and idolized actor of his day."). They were so popular that a play was even written about them: The Royal Family by George S. Kaufman and Edna Ferber, a parody of the Barrymores, with particular aim taken at John and Ethel Barrymore.

Through the early century, no American dramatist had as much influence on the development of drama as Eugene O'Neill. Born into the theatre from a young age, he spent much of his youth on trains and backstage at theatres, before developing his talent with the Provincetown Players in New York City. Between 1916 and 1920, he wrote several plays for the company before debuting his first critical hit Beyond the Horizon in 1920, which went on to win the Pulitzer Prize for Drama. He followed that with critical and commercial successes, including The Emperor Jones, Anna Christie (Pulitzer Prize 1922), Desire Under the Elms (1924), Strange Interlude (Pulitzer Prize 1928), Mourning Becomes Electra (1931), The Iceman Cometh (1939) and his only well-known comedy, Ah, Wilderness!. After his death, his magnum opus and masterwork Long Day's Journey into Night was published and is often regarded to be one of the finest American plays of the 20th century.

The economic crisis of the Great Depression led to the creation of the Federal Theatre Project (1935–39), a New Deal program which funded theatre and other live artistic performances throughout the country. National director Hallie Flanagan shaped the project into a federation of regional theatres that created relevant art, encouraged experimentation and made it possible for millions of Americans to see theatre for the first time. The project directly employed 15,000 men and women and played 1,200 productions to nearly 30 million people in 200 theatres nationwide, with 65% being presented free of charge, at a total cost of $46 million.

Key figures of the early century include George S. Kaufman, George Kelly, Langston Hughes, S. N. Behrman, Sidney Howard, Robert E. Sherwood, and a set of playwrights who followed O'Neill's path of philosophical searching, Philip Barry, Thornton Wilder and William Saroyan.