[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

possible terms, and I appeal to you [the Security Council] to do likewise.... The tragic events in Qana remind us that, ten years ago over 100 people who had taken refuge in this same village suffered a similar fate. We must deliver the region from this seemingly endless cycle of violence.

Others 

 At its Annual Ministerial Meeting in Kuala Lumpur, ASEAN delegates condemned the violence and destruction in the Middle East, urging all parties to practice utmost constrain in avoiding civilian casualties.
 The Non-Aligned Movement has condemned what they claimed to be disproportionate Israeli attacks on Gaza and Lebanon and called for an international force to be deployed to prevent the violence from spiralling into a regional conflict.
 The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation called for the convening of the U.N. General Assembly in "emergency special session," under the terms of the "Uniting for Peace" resolution, if the Security Council failed to act immediately in the crisis.

Middle East

Egypt 
President Mubarak of Egypt made a number of comments on the violence, condemning the Israeli military attack in Lebanon, while also indirectly criticizing Hezbollah for harming Arab interests. Mubarak, along with King Abdullah II of Jordan, criticized Hezbollah's actions as being harmful, saying that the actions may have "the region being dragged into 'adventurism' that does not serve Arab interests." Mubarak was criticized for his statement on a 9 July television broadcast by Al Arabiya: "Definitely Iran has influence on Shi'ites. Shi'ites are 65 percent of the Iraqis.... Most of the Shi'ites are loyal to Iran, and not to the countries they are living in."

In a newspaper interview with Egypt's Al Gomhuria on 26 July, Mubarak said:Those who urge Egypt to go to war to defend Lebanon or Hizbullah are not aware that the time of exterior adventures is over. This was possible at a time when the Egyptian population was only 24 million, but it is not possible now with 75 million citizens in need of development, services, job opportunities and residential projects.The next day, an interview with TIME magazine quoted Mubarak as saying that Israeli conduct in Lebanon "went way too far" and has "triggered an increasing rage within the Arabs, Moslems and worldwide." The President is also reported to have told TIME:Military operations will not solve Israel's problems with Hizbullah. An immediate cease-fire is the utmost priority. Cessation of hostilities would create the environment conducive to addressing such problems in a candid manner. The bloodshed and the heavy toll of Israel's operations must be brought to an end.On July 13, Foreign Minister Aboul Gheit stated: "Targeting civilians under the pretext of fighting terrorism is unacceptable and unjustified. Israeli practices violate international law. We condemn any military action that targets civilians. We consider it a terrorist act, regardless of who the civilians are or its source." Almost a week later, Gheit went on to say that "[a] cease-fire is imperative and we have to keep working to reach that objective. It is imperative. We have to bring it to an end as soon as possible."

Iran 

On 13 July, Foreign ministry spokesman Hamid-Reza Asefi condemned Israel's response: "The Zionist regime is desperate because of the resistance put up by regional Muslim nations and is now resorting to blind tactics against the innocent people of Lebanon with full US backing." Iran also added that an Israeli attack against Syria would be considered an attack against the entire Muslim world, which would bring about a "fierce response." Three days later, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was quoted as saying that the "Zionists think that they are victims of Hitler, but they act like Hitler and behave worse than Genghis Khan."

On 27 July, Ahmadinejad stated that:
Not only has the occupying regime [Israel] attacked and destroyed Lebanon under the support of certain countries, it has victimized several hundred women and children while thousands of people have been displaced escaping Israeli bombardment.

In an August 2006 speech during an emergency meeting of Muslim leaders in Malaysia, Ahmadinejad also called for an immediate cease-fire to end the fighting between Israel and the Iranian-backed group Hezbollah.

During a visit to Beirut on 2 August, Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki, referring to the 'Rome convention' of late July, said: "We consider those, who helped in preventing the Rome convention from condemning and stopping the attack, as partners to the Zionist entity in its savage crimes committed against innocent women and children in Lebanon."