[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2006 in politics

These are some of the notable events relating to politics in 2006.

Events

January
 January 3 – U.S. lobbyist Jack Abramoff pleads guilty to conspiracy, tax evasion, and mail fraud.  His investigation starts a whirlwind of investigations and reforms into U.S. lobbying policies
 January 4 – Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel suffers a massive stroke, resulting in his authority being transferred to Acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert.
 January 15
 A run-off election takes place in Chile for the office of president, resulting in a win for Michelle Bachelet.
 The first round of Finnish presidential elections take place, resulting in a run-off on January 29.
 January 16 – Ellen Johnson Sirleaf is sworn in as president of Liberia She becomes the first female elected head of state in Africa.
 January 22
 Evo Morales is inaugurated as President of Bolivia, becoming the first indigenous president in the nation's history.
 A parliamentary election takes place in Cape Verde.
 Presidential elections take place in Portugal, resulting in a win for Aníbal Cavaco Silva.
 January 23 – Stephen Harper's Conservative Party wins the most seats in the Canadian federal election.  Harper becomes the 22nd Prime Minister of Canada with a minority government.
 January 25 – Hamas wins a victory in the Palestinian legislative election, taking 76 of the 132 seats.
 January 27 – Elections for the legislative body, the Estates, take place in the Netherlands Antilles.
 January 29
 Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah is sworn in as the Emir of Kuwait.
 Tarja Halonen is elected President of Finland following a run-off election against Sauli Niinistö.

February
 February 2 – Representative John Boehner of Ohio becomes the U.S. House Majority Leader, beating out acting majority leader Roy Blunt in a house vote.
  February 3 – Dutch D66 party chairman Boris Dittrich resigns because the Dutch Government voted 'Yes' to Dutch participation in a NATO-led ISAF operation in Afghanistan.
 February 4 – Twenty-seven out of 35 countries on the IAEA's Board of Governors vote to refer the nuclear program of Iran to the United Nations Security Council out of concern over Iran's plans to enrich nuclear materials and to refuse IAEA inspection of the process.
 February 5 – Costa Rica holds a presidential election. The results are deemed too close to call, resulting in a manual count of votes that would not be completed until March 7.
 February 7 – Haiti holds a general election to replace the interim government of Gerard Latortue. The 129 member Haitian parliament is also elected at this  time.
 February 8
 Chad and Sudan sign the Tripoli Agreement, ending the Chadian-Sudanese conflict.
 Heather Wilson, a New Mexico Congresswoman with NSA oversight authority, becoming the first Republican on an intelligence committee to call for a congressional investigation into Bush's warrantless wiretap program.
 February 11 – Tokelau begins voting in a referendum to determine whether it remains a New Zealand territory, or becomes a state in free association with New Zealand.
 February 12 – Presidential elections are held in Cape Verde, resulting in Pedro Pires being elected to office.
 February 15 – In a case of apparent electoral fraud, hundreds of ballot boxes are discovered in a garbage dump in Haiti, throwing the results of the elections there in doubt.
 February 23 – General elections are held in Uganda, resulting in the election of Yoweri Museveni to a third term.
 February 24 – In an attempt to subdue a possible military coup, Philippine President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo declares Proclamation 1017, placing the country in a state of emergency.

March
 March 11 – Michelle Bachelet is sworn in as the first female President of Chile.

April
 April 9 – Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon is removed from office after 4 months in a coma.
 April 10 – Romano Prodi defeats Silvio Berlusconi in a close race in the Italian parliamentary elections.
 April 11 – President of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, confirms that Iran has successfully produced a few grams of 3.5% low-grade enriched uranium.
 April 19 – Han Myung-sook becomes South Korea's first female Prime Minister.
 April 26 – Tony Snow replaces Scott McClellan as the U.S. White House Press Secretary

May
 May 24 – East Timor's Foreign Minister Horta officially requests military assistance from the governments of Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia and Portugal.
 May 28 – President Álvaro Uribe Vélez is re-elected in Colombia for a second term. He becomes the first president in over a century to serve consecutive terms.

June
 June 10 – Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas sets July 26 as the date for a national referendum in the Palestinian National Authority.