[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry E. Cooper

imself as does this Territorial Cooper of ours.
On January 1, 1903, he sent congratulatory messages over the first submarine communications cable from San Francisco to Hawaii. Recipients included US President Theodore Roosevelt and Clarence Mackay, president  of the Commercial Pacific Cable Company.

An investigation in 1903 noted that most public works projects had ceased because of lack of funds, but government crews repaved the sidewalks in front of his house. Another scandal involved the new treasurer William H. Wright, who was allowed to escape after he was found to have been pocketing government money with checks endorsed by Cooper.
On February 23, 1903, he resigned as territorial secretary, and November 18 as superintendent of public works, after George R. Carter became governor. Carter expressed suspicion that public land deals were being rushed through, with possible conflict of interest by Cooper.

He formed a law firm Kinney, McClanahan & Cooper (with partners William Ansel Kinney and E. B. McClanahan), and often worked for owners of large sugarcane plantations in Hawaii. The plantations often leased government land, and concentrated political and economic power in a few of what were called the "Big Five" of Hawaii.  At least one of their cases, "Territory of Hawaii vs. Cotton Brothers & Company" of 1904 went to the United States Supreme Court.
On March 22, 1910, he was named again to be judge of the first circuit court, and served until March 7, 1914.

Personal life and legacy

Cooper purchased the Palmyra Atoll, located almost 1,000 miles Southwest of Hawaii at , a 2/3 share in 1911 and the rest, excepting small interests of some native Hawaiians, in 1912. In Hawaii Land Court, he petitioned for total ownership of Palmyra, but the court preserved some of the Hawaiians' interests, over his objections. He visited the island in July 1913 with scientists Charles Montague Cooke Jr. and Joseph F. Rock who wrote a description of the atoll.
He sold most of the atoll in 1922 to the Fullard-Leo family, who sold it to the Nature Conservancy in 2000. He retained ownership of the Home Islands at the southwestern tip of the atoll, and they are co-owned today by dozens of his descendants and others. His land title, passed to the Fullard-Leos and his own legatees, was confirmed by the U. S. Supreme Court in U.S. v. Fullard-Leo, 331 U.S. 256 (1947)  after it was disputed by the U. S. military. The largest island of the group is called Cooper Island, despite a proposed name change to Samarang Island in 2003. The airstrip built in World War II is often called Cooper Airport.

In his later years he was active in Freemasonry. In 1894 he joined Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, and organized Pacific Lodge No. 822, A.F. & A.M. under the Grand Lodge of Scotland through the then District Grand Lodge of Queensland, Australia. He served as its first Master in 1895 and again in 1896. Cooper also served as Deputy of the Orient of Hawaii for the Scottish Rite Bodies from 1896 to 1915.
In 1897 he commissioned architect Charles William Dickey to build a stone house on his Mānoa land in California Mission Revival Style architecture. On May 1, 1907, he became a founding member and president of the board of regents of the University of Hawaii (then known as Hawaii College), and served until 1914. He selected the site in the Mānoa valley for the main campus, the University of Hawaii at Manoa.

He moved to Long Beach, California, to live with a daughter, where he died on May 15, 1929.
Son Theodore graduated from Punahou School (then called Oahu College) in 1908, and became an Engineer constructing Fort Ruger in Honolulu. After working briefly for Bank of Hawaii, he enlisted to the United States Army Corps of Engineers and served in France during World War I. Son Alfred D. Cooper was a sugar planter in the Philippines, imprisoned by the Japanese in the Santo Tomas Internment Camp in World War II.

Daughter Alice Cooper Bailey wrote several articles and books including two Dutch folk stories and a popular Hawaiian children's book Kimo in 1928. It ends with a climactic audience before a kindly Queen Liliuokalani of Hawaii (whom Bailey's father had in fact personally deposed and overthrown). She wrote a biography of Robert Louis Stevenson in 1966. She was part of a ceremony in 1948 marking the 50th anniversary of Hawaii's annexation, and was a benefactor of the ʻIolani Palace in Honolulu where Cooper had worked during the Republic of Hawaii period. His grandson Richard Briggs Bailey headed the world's first mutual fund, the Massachusetts Investors Trust fund.
Twin daughters Irene and Ysabel married future U.S. Vice Admirals Olaf Mandt Hustvedt and James Pine.