[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# A Just Russia – For Truth

position to Russia herself". Mironov also proposed "to honestly tell voters" that there was no "worthy alternative" to Putin. RBC reported that, according to sources close to the party's leadership, Mironov's unwillingness to participate in the election was due to fatigue and financial difficulties.

2021 Duma elections 
Ahead of the 2021 legislative elections, A Just Russia merged with the parties Patriots of Russia and For Truth in January 2021, forming A Just Russia – Patriots – For Truth. Mironov remained party leader, and according to their unification manifesto, the party would run on "12 principles of truth, patriotism and justice", including "strengthening the role of the state in the economy, developing a progressive taxation scale, toughening punishments for corruption, increasing the minimum wage, pensions and social benefits, phasing out of the high school state exams and budget decentralization". The party also reportedly planned to come in second place in the election, after United Russia, but eventually came third, after United Russia and the Communist Party of the Russian Federation.

Post-election 
In February 2022, the party voted in favour of the recognition of the Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's Republic by the Russian Federation and later it supported the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine. As a result of these announcements, A Just Russia – For Truth was expelled from the Socialist International in March 2022.

In July 2022, the leader of the CPRF, Gennady Zyuganov allowed CPRF to proposed merging with A Just Russia – For Truth, but only if that party adopted the Communist program. The day before, the leader of the A Just Russia Sergey Mironov said that he "does not see any obstacles to the creation in Russia of a large coalition of left-wing patriotic forces".

Membership 
In 2012, the party claimed to have 400,000 members and claimed to be the largest left-wing party in Russia. It has regional branches in all federal subjects of Russia.

Ideology and platform 
A Just Russia calls for the creation of a welfare state with less economic inequality, but protecting individual property rights and maintaining a market economy. Under the leadership of Sergey Mironov, the party has presented itself as a socialist alternative to the Communist Party of the Russian Federation, and describes its ideology as "New Socialism of the 21st century". In the party platform, this "New Socialism" is defined as the antithesis of "barbarous, oligarchic capitalism". It represents a more individualist or liberal socialism.

Improving the socio-economic position of the average Russian is the party's primary aim. It wishes to replace Russia's 13% flat-rate income tax with progressive taxation and demands that spending on employment programmes is increased to 1% of GDP. In the State Duma, the party emphasises its role as "constructive opposition" that opposes high-level corruption and supports further democratisation of the political system. In the 2007–2011 Duma, A Just Russia declared absolute opposition to Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's government, voting against the government's budgets in 2010 and 2011 while remaining strongly supportive of President Dmitry Medvedev and his modernisation programme. Despite such position, A Just Russia endorsed Putin in the 2018 Russian presidential election.

In Russia's international relations, A Just Russia proposes moving away from the Western sphere and strengthening relations between the former Soviet states.

Two of its deputies, Gennady Nosovko and Dmitry Gorovtchov, have on multiple occasions, at least in 2014, 2015, if not in 2012 and 2018 and 2022, proposed a bill that would unfetter mercenaries, who would be able "to provide armed escort of ships; train security forces; assist with mine clearing, protection of officials and facilities; take part in alternative settlement of armed conflicts" and more besides according to the 2014 bill, which would put them under the supervision of the Federal Security Service.

Chairmen

A Just Russia

A Just Russia – For Truth

International cooperation 
A Just Russia used to be a full member of the Socialist International, but on 7 March 2022 the party was expelled for its support of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

It also maintains friendly relations with Latin American left-wing political parties. A Just Russia repeatedly sent greetings to annual meetings of São Paulo Forum.

Electoral results

Presidential

State Duma