[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mobile Brigade Corps

e Permesta rebellion of 1958). It was the Brimob Rangers troops became part of the Bangka Belitung Infantry Battalion led by Lieutenant Colonel (Inf) Dani Effendi. Rangers were tasked to capture the remains of the PRRI prison in Sumatra's forests led by Major Malik, which was then under rebel hands.

In 1961, under the express orders of then Chief of Police General Soekarno Djoyonegoro, Brimob Rangers troops were officially renamed Pelopor Troops of the Mobile Brigade. This is in accordance with the wishes of President Sukarno who wanted Indonesian names for units within both the TNI (Indonesian National Armed Forces) and POLRI (Indonesian National Police). At this time also the Pelopor constables and NCOs received many brand new weapons for police and counter-insurgency operations, including the more famous AR-15 assault rifles. The subsequent assignment of this force was to infiltrate West Irian in Fak-Fak in May 1962 and engage in combat with the servicemen of the Royal Netherlands Army. The troops were also involved in the Confrontation of Malaysia in 1964 and at that time the Brimob Rangers troops (now Pelopor) in Indonesia faced the British Special Air Service.

Pelopor Troops play a role as a troop formation unit and is still active in the Brimob's operational system. Aside from the national regiments, each Police region has a Pelopor regiment of two to four battalions.

Gegana

Gegana is a special branch detachment within the Brimob corps which have special abilities mainly in bomb disposal and counter-terrorist operations. On the other hand, it also specializes in the field of hostage rescue, intelligence and CBR (Chemical, biological and radiological) defense. The national Gegana unit is organized into a battalion headquarters and (five) detachments which are:

Intelligence Detachment
Bomb Disposal Detachment
Anti-Terror Detachment
Anti-Anarchist Detachment
CBR (Chemical, biological and radiological) Detachment

This unit was formed in 1976 as a detachment. At first, it was meant to deal with aircraft hijacking. Later in 1995, with the expansion of Brimob, the Gegana Detachment was expanded to become the 2nd BRIMOB Regiment. However, there are a select few specialists who are very skilled in these specialties. Gegana does not have battalions or companies. The regiment is broken down into several detachments. Within each detachment they are split into sub-detachments (sub-den), and within each sub-den they are further sub-divided into several units. Each unit usually consists of 10 personnel. One sub-den consists of 40 personnel, and one detachment consists of about 280 personnel.

One operation is usually assigned to one unit. Therefore, from the 10 people in that unit, six are required to have special skills: two for EOD (Explosives and Ordnance Disposal), two for search and rescue operations, and two for counter-terrorist operations. In any operation, two experts are designated Operators One and Two while the rest of the unit members become the Support Team.

For example, in counter-terrorism operations, the designated Operators must have sharp-shooting skills, ability to negotiate, and be an expert in storm-and-arrest procedures. These skills and operations are not meant to be lethal because the main goal of every Gegana operation is to arrest suspects and bring them to the court. Unless there is a situation that Gegana has to do otherwise, there will be no shooting.

In Search and Rescue operations, the personnel are required to have the basic capabilities of diving, rappelling, shooting, and first aid. In anti-bomb operation, the Operators have to be the expert in their respective fields. Each Gegana personnel has been introduced to various types of bombs in general, including the risks of handling them. There are specific procedures for handling each bomb, including the required timing.

Currently, Gegana has three Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) tactical vehicles.

Unit composition
Brimob units are present in all 34 Regional Police Headquarters (Polda) in Indonesia which represent a province. In each BRIMOB unit of a Police HQ in a province (Polda), there are about several detachments of MBC Pelopor units (organized into a regiment) and usually 1 - 2 detachment of Gegana (small battalions or companies). 

A Brimob unit of a regional police headquarters consists of the following:
Regional Mobile Brigade HQ Section (Si-yanma)
Planning and Administration Section (Subbagrenmin)
Intelligence Section (Si-intel)
Operational Section (Si-ops)
Provost (Internal affairs) Section (Si-provos)
Communications Technology Section (Si-tekkom)
Medical and Fitness Section (Si-kesjas)
Search and Rescue (SAR) Unit
Pelopor Regiment composed of:
 Regional Pelopor Regimental HQ
A Detachment (Den-A)
B Detachment (Den-B)
C Detachment (Den-C)
D Detachment (Den-D) (large departments only)
 Support units
Gegana Detachment (Den Gegana)
 Detachment HQ
 1-3 Subdetachments/Platoons