[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rhode Island School of Design Museum

toric Benefit Street entrance, continued traditional upslope access from College Hill, even as the main library, undergrad dormitories, and graduate studios of the college were relocated downslope nearer to the river or in downtown Providence. The new building also contains a small coffee shop/cafe.

In September 2008, a substantial new addition to the RISD Museum and the college was opened to the public. Designed by architect Jose Rafael Moneo of Spain, the Chace Center connects to the third floor of the Radeke Building and the other three older buildings of the museum, via a short glassed-in bridge. A long, segmented outdoor stairway cuts a perpendicular straight line from Benefit Street to the lower campus, passing directly under the bridge. The $34 million center was built on a former parking lot in one of the few remaining open spaces near RISD, and it was named in honor of the late Malcolm and Beatrice "Happy" Oenslager Chace, a preservationist who worked to save historic buildings on Benefit Street. The Chace Center serves as the main entrance to the museum, facing a revitalized riverfront and downtown.

The building initially included a retail shop, as well as an auditorium and exhibition and classroom spaces. The retail shop was later converted into a staff lounge; the RISD Store is now located on the first floor of the Design Center at 30 North Main Street, just north of the museum entrance. The second floor of the Chace Center contains temporary galleries dedicated to exhibiting artworks by RISD students.

Many of RISD Museum's traditional exhibition spaces are still threaded on a linear axis though the four older buildings, and are reportedly confusing to navigate.  Window openings have been bricked over, to better control lighting and increase display space. There are six levels of exhibition spaces, but no single building has more than four levels open to the public. A simplified schematic map is available for visitors to help them with orientation. There are multiple changes of floor level between buildings, but ramps and elevators have been installed to improve accessibility. Both museum entrances and galleries are wheelchair-accessible.

Collections

General overview 
The RISD Museum's collection of about 100,000 objects contains a broad range of works from around the world, including ancient Egypt, Asia, Africa, ancient Greece and Rome, Europe, and the Americas. Over 2,000 of these artworks are typically on display at any time. The RISD Museum has a comprehensive online catalog of almost all of its collection, and offers free access to digital images of its public domain materials. The collection is managed by seven curatorial departments.

Among the prominent international and American artists represented are Picasso, Monet, Manet, Paul Revere, Chanel, Andy Warhol, and Kara Walker. The collection also features notable works by Rhode Island artists and designers, including 18th-century Newport furniture makers Goddard and Townsend, and 19th-century Rhode Island painters such as Anglo-American impressionist John Noble Barlow and portraitist Gilbert Stuart.

Ancient art

The department of Ancient Art includes bronze figural sculpture and vessels, a notable collection of Greek coins (grown out of the collection donated by Henry A. Greene), stone sculpture, Greek vases, paintings, and mosaics, a fine collection of Roman jewelry and glass, and teaching examples of terracottas. A number of objects are excellent examples in their categories. Among these virtually unique works of art are an Etruscan bronze situla (pail), a fifth-century BCE Greek female head in marble, and a rare Hellenistic bronze Aphrodite. Among the Greek vases are works by some of the major Attic painters, including Nikosthenes; the Brygos Painter; the Providence Painter; and the Pan, Lewis, and Reed Painters.

The cornerstone of the museum's Egyptian collection is the Ptolemaic period coffin and mummy of the priest Nesmin. Among other highlights of the Egyptian collection are a rare New Kingdom ceramic paint box, a relief fragment from the temple complex at Karnak, and a first-class collection of faience.

Asian art

The RISD Museum's Asian Art collection contains ceramics, costume, prints, painting, sculpture, and textiles. One of the highlights of the collection is the peerless group of more than 700 19th-century Japanese prints which were collected by Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, considered among the finest assemblages of such work held outside Japan. The Japanese prints are shown, in rotation, in a gallery dedicated to their exhibition. A major attraction is the important 12th-century wooden Buddha Dainich Nyorai, the largest (over  tall) historic Japanese wooden sculpture in the United States. The Buddha is on permanent exhibition in its own gallery.