[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Disability Alliance

ities. These topics include changing the wording of laws to ensure persons with disabilities have the right to access social programs. In many developed countries, no citizen is barred from having access to social programs like welfare, however in under developed countries this right does not exist.

Current projects 
Through the World Federation of the Deaf the IDA is receiving funds from the Finnish government to provide resources for the deaf in Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco and Tunisia.

Member organization Down Syndrome International is working on creating an international cardiac health protocol for individuals with Down Syndrome. This would give doctors around the world a set of guidelines on how to treat people with Down syndrome.

Member organization Inclusion International has filed a third party intervention in the Romanian court case Stoian v Romania in order to advocate for more inclusion in the Romanian school system.

The IDA along with the United Kingdom have plans to host a global summit, with world leaders and businesses, in order to further the cause of rights for individuals with disabilities.

In January 2018, the IDA met with other disability advocates, and presented case studies of people with disabilities in various countries around the world. They did this both to highlight deficiencies in how countries are handling issues of inclusion, and to highlight growth in cases where good changes have taken place.

Member organizations 
Down Syndrome International (DSI)
Inclusion International (II)
International Federation of Hard of Hearing People (IFHOH)
International Federation for Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus (IF)
World Blind Union (WBU)
World Federation of the Deaf (WFD)
World Federation of Deafblind (WFDB)
World Network of Users and Survivors of Psychiatry (WNUSP)

The regional member organisations are:

African Disability Forum (ADF)
Arab Organization of Disabled People (AODP)
European Disability Forum (EDF)
The Latin American Network of Non-Governmental Organizations of Persons with Disabilities and their Families (RIADIS)
Pacific Disability Forum (PDF)

IDA works in affiliation with bodies of the United Nations in apprising DPOs on the status of the rights of people with disabilities according to most current observations and in accordance with treaty signatories.

Notes

External links
International Disability Alliance
Inclusion International

Disability rights organizations
International organisations based in Switzerland