[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cactus Hill

ndication of human occupation
An ample amount of phytoliths, which were further analyzed and determined to come from carbonized hickory wood
20 specimens of faunal remains, of those identifiable include: ten turtle shell fragments, two whitetail deer toe bone fragments, and five fossil shark's teeth

Site integrity 
A 2022 research paper suggested that Cactus Hill might have "a stratigraphically discrete occupation below Clovis". The authors then state data supporting the conclusion of separate layers of occupation had not yet been published (though research had been presented in April of 2000 supporting the pre-Clovis assessment) and geological soils have the potential to yield inconsistent stratigraphy. Tests were conducted on the Cactus Hill site that corroborate its generally-accepted era dates. James C. Baker of Virginia Tech conducted soil analysis that indicated that the formation of the site consisted of wind-blown sand deposits and further research by James Feathers of the University of Washington confirmed that the buried sand levels had been undisturbed by later deposits. Along with this, paleoethnobotanist Lucinda McWeeney of Yale University identified charred plant remains. From this, she was able to identify a correlation between the stone artifacts and plant use at the site. The correlation indicates that the human occupation levels at the site have not been mixed. Dr. Carol Mandryk of Harvard University performed tests for the area that produced the 15,000-year-old date that showed relative stratigraphic integrity. Her tests at another area of the site failed to show proof that the sediments had not been disturbed.  Research done by Richard I. Macphail of the Institute of Archaeology in London and Joseph M. McAvoy of The Nottoway River Survey contributed to the integrity discussion using a micromorphological analysis of the stratigraphy of the site.  Their micromorphological observations, along with previous analyses, confirmed a series of conclusions on the integrity of Cactus Hill.  They found that the formation of dunes may have been interspersed with the brief formation of a fine, phytolith-rich topsoil.  As humans lived on these brief topsoil layers, they deposited artifacts and charcoal.  Similarly, animals were present, which added to the dispersal and mixing of fine soil into sand dunes through their burrowing practices.  The stratified sequence that can be seen today is the result of sedimentation that was interrupted by erosional processes like deflation.  That sequence, based on the small-scale animal disturbance in a thin section of the strata, was most likely stable for millions of years.  According to Macphail and McAvoy's analysis, it appears that the site is intact with only a few minor disturbances that could affect the long-term integrity of the site's stratigraphy.

Controversy 
Many hypotheses began to arise as a result of this pre-Clovis evidence. One such hypothesis is advocated by Dennis Stanford. In what is known as the Solutrean hypothesis, he suggests that European Solutreans migrated to the Americas across the Atlantic Ocean. The supporting evidence for this hypothesis includes the discovery of artifacts at Cactus Hill dated to the time period between the Clovis and Solutrean and, perhaps just as strongly, evidence of the same technology used between the two cultures. According to Dr. Bruce Bradley, "the Cactus Hill flint was a technological midpoint between the French Solutrean style and the Clovis points dating five millennia later." The major criticism to this hypothesis is that there is simply not enough evidence to support it. In their journal article, Lawrence Guy Straus, David J. Meltzer, and Ted Goebel claim, "We believe that the many differences between Solutrean and Clovis are far more significant than the few similarities, the latter being readily explained by the well-known phenomenon of technological convergence or parallelism." The Solutrean hypothesis is generally disregarded by mainstream archeologists.

References

External links
Nottoway River Survey website

Clovis sites
Native American history of Virginia
Archaic period in North America
Archaeological sites in Virginia
Pre-Columbian archaeological sites
Geography of Sussex County, Virginia
Pre-Clovis archaeological sites in the Americas