[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jorge Valdivia

ia in Calama. However at the World Cup, he performed well despite of playing as Second striker, highlighting his 35-yard though pass that broke Switzerland's defensive and allowed Esteban Paredes cross for Mark González header goal. Then Chile was eliminated after losing again to Brazil.

2011–2014 

In January 2011, Bielsa left abruptly stepped down as coach following differences with the federation, but Valdivia continued being considered in La Roja by Claudio Borghi, his former coach when he played in Colo-Colo. In June, he was included in the 23-man list to face the Copa América. He made three starts of Chile's four games in the competition, which they were eliminated in quarterfinals by Venezuela (where Valdivia had a crossbar), rival which only one-time Chile lost in its history. However, Valdivia was included in the team of the tournament. Months later in December 2011 before a 2014 World Cup qualifying game with Uruguay in Montevideo, he was involved in another scandal alongside Jean Beausejour, Gonzalo Jara, Arturo Vidal and Carlos Carmona after arriving 45 minutes later and intoxicated to the team's concentration at Juan Pinto Durán. They subsequently received a 10-game ban and Valdivia once finished the punishment it wasn't be considered by Borghi during the qualifiers and friendlies.

On 8 March 2013, after 16 months of the incident, Valdivia was re-called by Jorge Sampaoli, including him in the call-up for the qualifying games against Peru and Uruguay. His official re-debut was on 7 September against Venezuela in a 3–0 victory at Estadio Nacional. On 15 October, following a 2–1 win over Ecuador, Chile reached its eight qualification to a World Cup and its first consecutively.

On 1 June 2014, Valdivia was selected in Chile squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil. On 13 June, Valdivia scored his first World Cup goal during Chile's opening group match against Australia, netting the team's second goal in a 3–1 victory. The following two group games he came as substitute against Spain and the Netherlands, being an unused substitute in the round of 16 game against Brazil, which eliminated Chile on the penalties after 1–1 at Estádio Mineirão. The last fact motivated Valdivia to announce his international retirement, communicated via Twitter on 17 July 2014. However, in November he backtracked his decision later on, and was called for friendly matches against Venezuela and Uruguay, selling his re-debut with a goal and a brilliant performance in 5–0 win over the Venezuelans at Talcahuano.

2015 Copa América
Participating in the most preparatory games prior the 2015 Copa América held in his country, Valdivia scored a goal against El Salvador (the game's only one score at Rancagua) and was included in the 23 man list to face the cup. On 12 June, he was a starter in the Copa América opening game with Ecuador: a 2–0 victory for Chile. The following group match with México, Valdivia was praised by the press for play the full 90 minutes, be trasendental in all Chile goals and for have scored a badly canceled goal during that 3–3 draw. After another highlighting match in a 5–0 win over Bolivia where assisted Alexis Sánchez in Chile's second goal, he was a key player in the 1–0 victory against Uruguay (defending champions) for the quarterfinals, match remembered by the incident between Gonzalo Jara and the striker Edinson Cavani. Following the semifinal's triumph over Perú (2–1) that put Chile in a Copa América final after 28 years since 1987,

Valdivia was a starter in the final against Argentina at the Estadio Nacional. However, he was replaced by Matías Fernández on 78th minute in a substitution before the extratime and the penalties, which infuriated him when he left the field. Finally, Chile won 4–1 on the penalties and reached its history's first ever continental title.

Personal life
Valdivia married to Chilean model Daniela Aránguiz, with whom he has two children. Valdivia and Aránguiz are separated.

About football, he has several relatives who have played it at different levels: His maternal grandfather, Juan Toro, who played for the Chile senior team; his uncle, Juan Toro Jr., who played for Palestino and other clubs; his older brother, Luis or Quique as he is known, who played at youth categories of Palestino; his half-brother, Hugo Bravo, who played for clubs such as Palestino and Universidad de Chile; and his younger brother, Claudio, who played for Audax Italiano and Palmeiras B.

Post retirement
On October and November 2021, Valdivia performed as a football commentator for the TV program ESPN F90 until he moved to Mexico to join Necaxa for the 2022 season. Following his definitive retirement from football, in July 2022 he returned to ESPN Chile as a panelist for the program ESPN F360.

Career statistics

Club

International

International goals
Scores and results list Chile's goal tally first.