[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 33rd Virginia Infantry Regiment

The 33rd Virginia Infantry Regiment was an infantry regiment raised in the Commonwealth of Virginia for service in the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War. It was a part of the famed "Stonewall Brigade," named for General Stonewall Jackson.

Companies and early statistics 
The regiment was organized and mustered into service soon after the secession of Virginia on 17 April 1861. It was formed of ten companies, which included men from Shenandoah County, as well as Frederick, Hampshire, Hardy, Page, and Rockingham counties along the Shenandoah Valley. Two of these counties, Hampshire and Hardy, were included in the new state of West Virginia despite having ratified Virginia's secession ordinance and very low voting for the new state. The units gathered at Winchester, and the Potomac Guards and Independent Greys were soon sent out to Romney to counter Federal forces gathered under Lew Wallace at New Creek.

By late May, the regiment was placed under the commanded of Col. Arthur C. Cummings, a graduate of the Virginia Military Institute who practiced law in Abingdon, Virginia at the far southernmost end of the Valley and would twice represent Washington County, Virginia in the Virginia House of Delegates (first beginning in 1863 and again in 1871). Due to its frequent combat, and resulting injuries, leadership would change hands many times through the war. Other colonels were future Virginia governor Frederick W. M. Holliday, Edwin G. Lee, John F. Neff (died at Second Manassas), Abraham Spengler and John R. Jones (who rose to Brigadier General, as did Ned Lee, but whose conduct became controversial after a severe concussion). John Gatewood, a publisher, had been a member of the Virginia House of Delegates representing Shenandoah County in 1857, and would win re-election during the war, but not win military promotion. The 33rd, along with the 2nd, 4th, 5th, and 27th Virginia Regiments, formed the famous 'Stonewall Brigade' under the command of VMI professor Stonewall Jackson. The average height of a soldier in the regiment was 5'8", and the average age was 25 years; these figures fluctuated greatly as the years progressed.

The 33rd Virginia remained in the Stonewall Brigade in Thomas J. Jackson's Second Corps until the restructuring of the Army of Northern Virginia after his death in the spring of 1863.  It was then put under Richard Ewell's command until the spring of 1864, when it dissolved following heavy losses at the Battle of Spotsylvania Court House.

Companies and officers

First Manassas 

When the Union and Confederate armies engaged near Manassas Junction, Virginia, on 21 July 1861, General Jackson and his brigade earned the nickname "Stonewall" when, as they retreated to reform along Henry House Hill, Gen. Barnard Bee cried out to his ailing troops: "There stands Jackson like a stone wall.  Rally behind the Virginians!"  Eight of the ten companies in the 33rd were present.

At the height of the battle, it was Jackson's first brigade, and more specifically, the undersized regiment of Colonel Cummings that turned the tide of battle with a well-timed charge against an exposed artillery battery. The successful capture of the guns is thought to be largely because, due to the lack of formality in early war uniforms, Jackson's men were dressed in blue, just like their Federal counterparts. Though the 33rd Virginia succeeded in capturing the guns, the number of men that made the charge (only about 250) were unable to maintain possession and were forced to retreat. The charge had halted the steady advance of the Union Army up to that point, and precipitated further charges by Jackson's other regiments. By day's end, the actions of the 33rd led to the complete rout of the Union Army, and played a major role in immortalizing the brigade.

The cost of immortality for Cummings' regiment was high. Of the 450 men who were present at the battle, the 33rd would suffer 43 killed and 140 wounded.

In the Valley 

Three days later, General Jackson took leave of his old brigade and returned to the Shenandoah Valley to take command of Virginia's Valley District. Finding the size of his command inadequate for the task, he petitioned Richmond for the return of the Stonewall Brigade to the Valley. On 9 November, only five days after Jackson left his command, the brigade received orders for them to pack up camp and march to Manassas Junction, where they were expected to board the train and return to the Valley.