[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ned Christie

Ned Christie (December 14, 1852 – November 3, 1892), also known as NeDe WaDe (ᏁᏕᏩᏕ), was a Cherokee statesman. Christie was a member of the executive council in the Cherokee Nation senate, and served as one of three advisers to Principal Chief Dennis Bushyhead. A member of the Keetoowah Society, Christie supported Cherokee sovereignty and tried to resist white encroachment.

In 1887, he was accused of killing a United States Marshal in ambush. Christie sought bail in order to prove his innocence, but was refused. He is notable for having evaded and held off for five years United States lawmen seeking his capture, in what was later called Ned Christie's War. He was declared an outlaw, with a reward on his head, and the case was sensationalized by newspapers. He was eventually killed by lawmen. A 1918 report by an eyewitness to the marshal's murder said that Christie had been wrongfully accused. He became a folk hero among the Cherokee.

Early life
Christie was born in 1852 at Wauhillau (located at ), Goingsnake District, Cherokee Nation, in what is the present-day state of Oklahoma. He was the son of Watt and Lydia (Thrower) Christie, who survived the Trail of Tears and removal from the American Southeast to Indian Territory. They were of the Keetowah band, one of the most traditional of Cherokee peoples.

As a child and young man, Christie was a marble champion, stick ball player, and a popular fiddle player. He became literate in both Cherokee and English, but no writings by him have been found.

Marriage and family
One source says that Christie first married Nannie Dick about 1871, but the burial registry of the Watt Christie Cemetery notes her as his father's fifth wife.  Christie is recorded as marrying Peggy Tucker in 1875. He next married Jennie Scraper (about 1877). Last, he married Nancy Greece (about 1888).

Work and political career
Christie was a big man at , and became a blacksmith and gunsmith. In 1885, he was elected to the tribal Senate and he was an advisor to the Principal Chief. Concerned about trying to protect Cherokee national sovereignty, Christie strongly opposed giving the federal government land to construct railroads through their territory. In addition, federal legislators were proposing forcing the Cherokee and other tribes to end their practice of holding communal land, and to force them to accept allotment of the tribal lands to individual households.

The Dawes Act was passed in February 1887 to begin that process of breaking up tribal communal lands. It was part of a renewed push by whites for Native Americans to assimilate and adopt European-American practices. In addition, whites were encroaching on Cherokee and other Native American lands in Indian Territory as squatters and beginning to press the federal government to establish a state in this area. Cherokee and other Indian land titles would first have to be extinguished to accomplish that, which would take place by implementation of the Dawes Act. Because the Five Civilized Tribes had their own territories rather than reservations in Indian Territory, they were excluded from the beginning implementation of allotment.

But Christie's opposition to such positions, which were supported by powerful whites in the region and in the East, became known. He began to earn some enemies, particularly as he was regarded as a leader among his people.

Christie was a member of the Keetoowah Society, which was based on traditional religion. His father, Watt, and grandfather (Lacy Christie), were chiefs of their ceremonial ground, where sacred rituals were performed, near the family home at Wauhillau (present-day Adair County, Oklahoma).

Although well-regarded by fellow Cherokee, Christie was said to have a hot temper, especially after drinking whiskey. He was charged with manslaughter in the 1885 death of William Palone, another Cherokee. Tried in the tribal court at Tahlequah, Christie was found not guilty and released. According to a 2018 biography by Devon A. Mihesuah, newspapermen and dime novel writers played up these elements of his life in Wild West lore to create sensational accounts and sell their writings, particularly in the period when he evaded federal marshals. She describes these as "libelous stories."

Ambush of Daniel Maples
On May 3, 1887, U.S. Deputy Marshal Daniel Maples led a posse into Indian Territory seeking sellers of illegal whiskey, which had been made a federal crime in that territory. A principal suspect was Bud Trainer, who had a record for selling whiskey and was known for violence. After spending the day unsuccessfully seeking Trainer, Maples and posse member George Jefferson started back to their camp near Spring Branch Creek, outside Tahlequah. Maples was shot from ambush in the territory of the Cherokee Nation and died the next day of his wounds. The shooter had escaped.