[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alex (footballer, born March 1982)

Alex Raphael Meschini (born 25 March 1982), simply known as Alex, is a Brazilian football coach and former player who played as a midfielder. He is the current assistant manager of Corinthians.

Early career 
Alex was born in Cornélio Procópio, Paraná. His family are Italian descents when his grandmother on his father side came to Brazil. By the time he was one year old, his family had relocated to Itambé, and relocated again to Santa Amélia when he was seven. He has two brothers, who work in banking and agronomy respectively.

At Santa Amélia, Alex spent much of his childhood playing football; he played for Atlético Pirassunungense at age nine. His family once again relocated to Campinas, São Paulo. When he was sixteen, he signed for Primavera (where he was signed by his cousin). He went on a trial to his future club Corinthians, only to be rejected. He was determined not to give up his football career.

Football career

Guarani 

Alex joined Guarani in 2000 and played his first match in a youth match against Capivari. Upon joining Guarani, he recalled "We did not have enough to eat and ended up at a club partner of Guarani in disrepair."

In 2003, he made his debut in the first team match against União Barbarense. At Guarani, he quickly became a team regular, spent two seasons at 54 games and scored 7 goals. He also played left wing and was the main corner taker and as well, free kicks.

Internacional 
Alex joined Internacional from Guarani on 11 March 2004 for a fee of 450,000 euro, signing a four-year deal. Shortly after his move, he said, "It is an honour to play at a club with four Brazilian bonds and the largest crowd of the Rio Grande".

However, in August, his debut was delayed after suffering an ankle injury, resulting in being out for three months. Between 2004 and 2005, he was unable to establish himself in the first team. The following season, Alex was in hospital due to injury, and by the end of the season, the club won the title of Campeonato Gaúcho. In February, he suffered an injury to his right knee, keeping him out for four months. During a match in Libertadores Cup, he suffered an injury on his pubis. While in the first team, he played in the positions of left midfielder and second striker.

After recovering from the pubis injury, Alex returned in a 1–0 win over Esporte Clube Novo Hamburgo on 18 March 2006. After the match, he was voted the man of the match by the club's official website. In the second round of Libertadores, he played as a starter in a 2–1 win over Nacional. Since then, Alex has established himself as a starter and key player under coach Abel Braga.

In the semi-final of Libertadores in the second leg after a 0–0 draw in the first leg, Alex scored and helped the club, ending a long-awaited place in the final of the Libertadores against São Paulo. The club won the title 4–3 on aggregate.

Because of the club's winning the Copa Libertadores, the club participated in the FIFA Club World Cup. Alex suffered an injury, but eventually recovered and played an important role in the final as Internacional beat Barcelona 1–0.

After the tournament, he was linked with a move to Russian club CSKA Moscow after being recommended by Paulo Paixão, but the move never happened.

The next season, Alex suffered an injury to his muscles of both hips, resulting him out for two months. He recovered from the injury and was an important member of the team as he led the club winning the Recopa Sudamericana after beating Pachuca 5–2 on aggregate, which he scored on the penalty in the second leg.

In the summer transfer of 2007, he was linked with an 8 million move to German side Wolfsburg, but it never happened. Among those interested was Barcelona, but they signed someone instead.

Once again in December, Alex suffered a pubis injury caused by an inguinal hernia.

In his final season, he chose the number 10 shirt.

Manager Braga began to put Alex at the center of the field. In the Copa Sudamericana, he become a top scorer with 13 goals, along with Nilmar, and was voted the best player in the tournament. In the final of Copa Sudamericana Finals against Estudiantes, Alex scored in the penalty, giving the only goal in the game in the first-leg. In the second-leg, the club won the Copa Sudamericana again after a 1–1 draw. On 6 July 2008, Alex scored a hat-trick in a 3–0 win over Coritiba. In the summer transfer of 2008, he was in the transfer spotlight when he was linked with a move to Spartak Moscow worth 14 million. However, the potential buyers has not been reached.

FC Spartak Moscow

He joined Spartak Moscow in February 2009 for worth 5 million and keeping him there, until 2013. After leaving Brazil for Russia, Alex explained his departure, stating the time had come for him to play in Europe and against his wishes to stay for the rest of his career at Internacional. On 2 March 2009, he was presented by the club and was given the number 12 shirt.