[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mamoru Shinozaki

nozaki got Lim Boon Keng drunk with beer and made him promise to cooperate with JMA, which was the same method that was used on Frank Gardner in 1940.
He might have been engaged in the task of checking the list of people who promoted the China Relief Fund and thus who became the target of Kempeitai.

According to his autobiography, in his working capacity at the Defence Headquarters, he deliberately stored food supplies at the Thomson Road home of the Little Sisters of the Poor so that the nuns there would have a ready supply of food.

In April 1942, he continued to support the Kempeitai by identifying "hostile" residents. E. J. H. Corner wrote that when he was working in Raffles Museum, Shinozaki came to the museum to arrest Corner, because Mrs. Arbenz, a Swiss who was mentally affected by the Japanese occupation, had reported to Shinozaki that Corner was hostile to Japan.

Supervisor of Overseas Chinese Association
As the Special Advisor of Kempeitai, Shinozaki supervised Chinese leaders who were persuaded or forced to interact with JMA by founding The Overseas Chinese Association (OCA), a Japanese-sponsored body started on 2 March 1942 as the main representative of the Chinese community. The OCA was ordered to raise $50 million through compulsory "donations" although Shinozaki denied any involvement in the process in his biography.
Shinozaki wrote that the purpose of the OCA was to rescue Chinese leaders who were confined by the 25th Army but when later Colonel  took over as the Chief Military Administrator, Shinozaki was removed from his post as the adviser to the OCA. Then, Takase and Wee Twee Kim abused the OCA to promote the $50M "donation". But Shinozaki's remark was inconsistent with many, similar associations that already existed in the Malay Peninsula through the Malayan Campaign, which was fought from December 1941 to January 1942. All of them were used to promote the "donations". He remarked that he left the OCA in early March 1942 because Colonel , the head of JMA, was moved to Borneo, but Managi remained in Singapore until 8 April 1942, when the "donations" had already been undertaken in Singapore.

He mainly managed English-speaking Chinese leaders, though Takase and Wee Twee Kim oppressed Chinese-speaking Chinese leaders during the same period. He also said that he made the list of persons who were not sustainable to the burden of the "donation" before he left the OCA.

Chief Education Officer 
Until June 1942, during the period when JMA's official staff hadn't arrived from Japan, Shinozaki was relocated to the Syonan municipal office as the Chief Education Officer. While the schools were still inactive, for the ceremony of The Emperor's Birthday scheduled to be held on 29 April 1942, Shinozaki taught children to sing Kimigayo and Aikoku Kōshinkyoku to please General Yamashita.

In June 1942, Shinozaki returned to Japan. According to his autobiography, he met with Shigenori Tōgō, Minister of Foreign Affairs, who rewarded his long imprisonment with "a thick wad of cash".

Chief Welfare Officer 
In August 1942, he went back to Singapore and became the Chief Welfare Officer of the Syonan municipal office.
According to an interview of Shinozaki which was recorded in 1981, his task was to help the unemployed, provide financing, hold events which contributed to the welfare of civilians, protect the civilians from the Japanese Army or Kempeitai, and other miscellaneous tasks.
According to his 1976 autobiography, the main task of the Welfare Office was to plan labor contributions for an assortment of Japanese defense projects.
Shinozaki also wrote that he still managed Japanese-sponsored associations which were organized by different ethnic groups, such as the OCA or the Eurasian Welfare Association(EWA) under Dr. .

In this period, the Welfare Office issued "thousands of Good Citizen's Ticket" which was necessary to travel to the suburbs of Singapore (that was not to rescue the people from the threat of Sook Ching).

In mid 1943, M.Gaus, who was from Sumatera and had been a member of Malayan Welfare Association (MWA), was called by Shinozaki, who had supervised each "Welfare Associations", and attended a meeting. There were other members of MWA and the meeting was called to criticize Gaus. During the meeting, Gaus was blamed by Shinozaki for his opinion, which was based on Melayu Raya's attempt to disturb the unity of Malayan society. Shinozaki angrily requested Gaus to cooperate to maintain the unity of Malayan society because the "Holy War" was ongoing. Gaus wrote that he was confused by Shinozaki's groundless criticism.