[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Trinity Blood

ed with the Crusnik nanomachines that were found on Mars as their enhanced bodies were the only ones capable of surviving the procedure. The exact circumstances behind the infusions of Seth, Abel, and Lilith are unknown, while Cain's infusion was done by Seth to save his life after a fatal accident.

Crusniks possess unique attributes that separate them from Methuselahs. For instance, both Abel and Cain sport angelic wings and can fly quite easily. Crusniks can transmute their blood into weapons and often possess psychokinetic powers. Abel can generate powerful bio-electric fields while Cain can use psychokinetic waves to pulverize objects and enemies and to generate barriers. Seth can reduce people and objects to dust using sound waves.

In order to activate his Crusnik powers, Abel usually issues a verbal or mental command to the nanomachines in his body. The exact wording and method of activation varies among the novels, the manga, and anime, and between the original Japanese and the English translations. For example, in the anime he says "Nanomachines: Crusnik 02 - Power Output __% Activate" while in the manga he silently activates Crusnik mode and receives a confirmation from the nanomachines of "Crusnik 02 Loading. Limitation at __%... Acknowledged". In the anime, neither Cain nor Seth demonstrated a need to do this in order to activate their powers, and there are several times when Abel activates his powers without saying his usual command, so it appears to just be a literary device; the only exception to this is in the third novel where Sister Paula Souwauski, who is in combat with him, prevents the change by not letting him finish the statement, as it would flip the playing field as Abel in his human form is ranked as having a B− fighting ability while his 40% Crusnik is described as an S+.

Media

Novels
Written by Sunao Yoshida and illustrated by Thores Shibamoto, Trinity Blood consists of two six-volume sub-series. The first series is subtitled Rage Against the Moons (RAM), while the second series, which continues where the first leaves off, is subtitled Reborn on the Mars (ROM). The novels began as a one-shot in The Sneaker in October 1999 and launched as a serialized novel in February 2000, with completed volumes published by Kadokawa Shoten from 2001. Following the novels, a book containing backstory, world information and unreleased stories entitled Canon Summa Theologica, was released May 1, 2005.

In North America, the novels have been licensed for an English language release by Tokyopop. The series were on a four-month release schedule that alternates between Rage Against the Moons and Reborn on the Mars. They were translated by Anastasia Moreno with adaptation by Jai Nitz. Seven novels total were released from 2007 to 2010. TimunMas translated and released the novels in Spanish in Spain.

Rage Against the Moons

Reborn on the Mars

Trinity Blood Canon
 was released in Japan on May 1, 2005 (-C0193) by Kadokawa Shoten and features four stories not in the original novels (Gunmetal Hound, Human Factor, ROM VII - Aurora's Fang, and Stories Untold).  A Traditional Chinese translation of the book, Trinity Blood Canon 聖魔之血 神學大全 (), was released on February 10, 2010 by Taiwan Kadokawa, and is available in Taiwan and Hong Kong.

Manga
The chapters of the Trinity Blood manga series are illustrated by Kiyo Kujō, with story assistance by Kentaro Yasui. The series premiered in the shōjo manga anthology Monthly Asuka in 2004, and finished in April 2018, after transferring to Comic Newtype website in 2016. Individual chapters are called "Acts", and the chapter titles are based on film titles, except for chapter 22, the title of which comes from "the lyrics of the theme song of a certain pioneering kendo anime". The individual chapters were collected and published in tankōbon volumes by Kadokawa Shoten, with the first released on March 17, 2004; and the twenty-first and last on June 23, 2018.

The series was licensed for English-language release in North America by Tokyopop, who released twelve volumes from 2006 to 2010. Viz Media re-licensed the manga for digital-only release in 2014, releasing the same twelve volumes. In Australia and New Zealand, both the Chuang Yi and Tokyopop volumes are being released by Madman Entertainment through an importation agreement.

Anime

The Trinity Blood anime television series premiered on the satellite network Wowow on April 28 and ran through October 6, 2005, spanning a total of 24 episodes. Directed by Tomohiro Hirata, it featured character designs by Atsuko Nakajima and music by Takahito Eguchi. The satellite channel Animax also aired the series in English across its networks in Southeast Asia, South Asia and South Africa, and in Spanish and Portuguese across its networks throughout Latin America, respectively. The series also aired in Malaysia on ntv7, in Australia on the Australian Cartoon Network's Adult Swim, and in Spain on Buzz Channel.