[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Sustainable Development Strategy in Canada

takes less energy to recharge a battery than to produce a new one. Using metal recovered from batteries consumes 75 percent less energy and 46 percent less energy than extracting it from primary sources.

Fleet management

The subject of sustainable transportation has several areas to review.

Fuels

Alternative fuel cars can save the organization significant funds, there are several different fuel types available.
Ethanol: Normally blended with conventional gasoline, ethanol reduces the amount of greenhouse gases your car emits by up to 10%.
Natural Gas: burns more cleanly, efficiently, and completely than gasoline or diesel fuel, producing far fewer toxic pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change.
Autogas (aka LPG, propane) : has extremely low sulphur content and therefore contributes very little to acid rain.

Operating a vehicle
Fuel efficient operation of vehicle.
Leave the car at home;
Use Alternative Fuels;
Keep to the speed limit;
Plan your travel; and
Stop idling.

Maintenance

Ensure proper maintenance of vehicles.
Maintaining the vehicle according to the manufacturer's recommended schedule;
Keeping records of the preventive maintenance that is done;
Having the exhaust system inspected regularly;
Having older vehicles tuned up as required;
Maintaining and reviewing fuel-consumption records; and
Inspecting regularly for leaks.

Energy conservation

Facilities that are energy efficient are important, besides being good for the environment, they keep workplaces healthy, boost productivity and save money. An energy-efficient design for a new building or an energy retrofit of an existing building can substantially reduce the building's operating costs.

Water usage

Using water wisely will extend the life of our existing water supplies and their delivery systems, ultimately lowering water costs and the environmental burden of water usage.  As a best practice, Health Canada recommends that water used for drinking and cooking be taken from the cold-water tap after the water has been 'run' until cold.

Checklist for Using Water More Efficiently

Install low flow toilets, faucets, and showerheads or retrofit old devices;
Avoid flushing the toilet unnecessarily or using the toilet as a garbage can;
Fix any leaking or dripping faucets or showerheads;
Choose to have a short shower using a low-flow showerhead instead of taking a bath;
Maintain the manufacturer's specified temperature for your hot water tank;
Keep a bottle of water in the refrigerator to avoid faucet run time;
If water faucets must be run to obtain cold or hot water, catch the residual water in a container to use for cleaning, gardening, etc.;
Use rain barrels to catch rainwater for gardening;
Water lawns and gardens at night when evaporation is low and usage is not during the utility peak demand time;
While brushing your teeth, turn the faucet off or fill a cup to rinse your mouth;
While washing dishes, turn the faucet off between rinsing dishes; and

By employing these simple suggestions and incorporating your own, will save substantial amounts of water, energy, and money.

Paper initiatives

A paper save program should be initiated.  The program should involve supplying paper recycling receptacles and side-bins to participating office buildings for the separation and collection of office paper products as well as setting up a collection system for larger corrugated cardboard boxes. The collected paper and cardboard should be picked up, separated, and weighed by the contracted recycling company and then sold on the recycled paper market. Revenues generated from the sale of the collected paper would cover the costs of the program and surplus funds are paid out to the program participants as rebates using a formula based on population information supplied by the Treasury Board Secretariat.  The information would be collected from the PWGSC website, then tabulate and summarize the collected data for all organization buildings broken down to low-grade mix, cardboard, and office ledger. At the end of the year, a calculation of how many trees have been diverted from the pulp and paper mills using a Paper to Tree calculator should be used. A 2nd Life Program should be developed in order to maximize the use of paper and decrease the organization's paper burden. This program would turn collected one-sided paper into notebooks and pads. This best practice and responsible stewardship initiative is simple, environmentally friendly and cost-effective.