[Source: PubMed]

89. Environ Health Perspect. 2017 Jun 20;125(6):065001. doi: 10.1289/EHP405.

Lessons Learned on Health Adaptation to Climate Variability and Change: 
Experiences Across Low- and Middle-Income Countries.

Ebi KL(1), Otmani Del Barrio M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Department of Environmental and Occupational 
Health Sciences, School of Public Health, University of Washington , Seattle, 
Washington, USA.
(2)Evidence and Policy on Environmental Health Unit, Department of Public 
Health, Environmental and Social Determinants of Health, World Health 
Organization , Geneva, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: There is limited published evidence of the effectiveness of 
adaptation in managing the health risks of climate variability and change in 
low- and middle-income countries.
OBJECTIVES: To document lessons learned and good practice examples from health 
adaptation pilot projects in low- and middle-income countries to facilitate 
assessing and overcoming barriers to implementation and to scaling up.
METHODS: We evaluated project reports and related materials from the first five 
years of implementation (2008-2013) of multinational health adaptation projects 
in Albania, Barbados, Bhutan, China, Fiji, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, 
Kyrgyzstan, Philippines, Russian Federation, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. We also 
collected qualitative data through a focus group consultation and 19 key 
informant interviews.
RESULTS: Our recommendations include that national health plans, policies, and 
budget processes need to explicitly incorporate the risks of current and 
projected climate variability and change. Increasing resilience is likely to be 
achieved through longer-term, multifaceted, and collaborative approaches, with 
supporting activities (and funding) for capacity building, communication, and 
institutionalized monitoring and evaluation. Projects should be encouraged to 
focus not just on shorter-term outputs to address climate variability, but also 
on establishing processes to address longer-term climate change challenges. 
Opportunities for capacity development should be created, identified, and 
reinforced.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analyses highlight that, irrespective of resource constraints, 
ministries of health and other institutions working on climate-related health 
issues in low- and middle-income countries need to continue to prepare 
themselves to prevent additional health burdens in the context of a changing 
climate and socioeconomic development patterns. https://doi.org/10.1289/EHP405.

DOI: 10.1289/EHP405
PMCID: PMC5743455
PMID: 28632491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]