[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1928 Louisiana gubernatorial election

logan, "Every man a king, but no one wears a crown," a phrase adopted from Democratic presidential candidate William Jennings Bryan. By 1928, Long had gained such momentum, that he became one of the major talking points of his opponents; opposing political conventions chanted "It won't be Long now."

Long was a fervent critic of a toll bridge being constructed across Lake Pontchartrain by incumbent Governor Oramel H. Simpson, instead promising a toll-free bridge. Long developed novel campaign techniques, including the use of sound trucks at mass meetings and radio commercials. His stance on race was unorthodox. Unlike other southern demagogues, Long was, according to T. Harry Williams, "the first Southern mass leader to leave aside race baiting and appeals to the Southern tradition and the Southern past and address himself to the social and economic problems of the present." The campaign sometimes descended into brutality. When the 60-year-old Simpson called Long a liar during a chance encounter in the lobby of the Roosevelt Hotel, Long punched him in the face.

Results 
Democratic Primary – January 17, 1928

Following the lopsided showings of the first primary, Simpson refused to support Wilson in the runoff and Wilson withdrew from the race.

Long carried 47 of 64 parishes, including the majority of rural parishes in both Anglo-Saxon Protestant northern and French Catholic southern Louisiana, a nearly unprecedented accomplishment up to that time.  Only New Orleans, still firmly controlled by the Regular Democratic Organization, spurned Long in favor of the machine's chosen candidate Wilson.  The political upheaval of Long's 1928 victory spurred a realignment in Louisiana politics based on urban-rural and class-based divisions rather than the religious and cultural divisions which had predominated up to that time.  In every state election from 1928 to 1960, the legacy of Huey Long would be the primary campaign issue.

General Election  – April 17, 1928

Long faced a Republican opponent named Etienne J. Caire, who was a sugar cane farmer and businessman from St. John the Baptist Parish. In the end, Caire polled 4 percent of the vote.

Notes

References

Works cited

Sources 
Compilation of Primary Election Returns of the Democratic Party, State of Louisiana.  1928.

Hair, William Ivy.  The Kingfish and His Realm:  The Life and Times of Huey P. Long.  LSU Press, 1991.

White, Richard.  Kingfish: The Reign of Huey P. Long.   Random House, 2006.

Williams, T. Harry.  Huey Long.  Knopf, 1970.

1928
Gubernatorial
Louisiana
January 1928 events
Huey Long