[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Dienst Speciale Interventies

l First Spear AAC). Much of the DSI's personal equipment is customised and/or tailor-made for the service's specific needs and requirements. All operators are trained to use night-vision goggles, the DSI fields PVS-31 and GPNVG-18 goggles. Pointmen have access to multiple types of ballistic shields.

Weapons 
Weapons in use include, among others:

Vehicles 
The DSI use armoured versions of civilian vehicles to perform their tasks. During on-call duties, during which operators are available for 24 hours, DSI personnel have access to a personal service car. All DSI personnel attend a multiple week specialised driving course. Operators learn to maneuver the vehicle in a quick and safe manner. In addition, the impact of the additional weight of the armour on the driving characteristics are addressed. Furthermore, car procedures are trained to subdue suspects in cars. The DSI has access to a large and diverse car fleet:

Armoured civilian cars

Armoured personnel carriers
The DSI fleet includes multiple armoured personnel carriers (APCs). Lenco BearCats and Lenco Bears are deployed during high risk interventions, certain firearm incidents, and large scale terrorist attacks. A number of vehicles are fitted with the Mobile Adjustable Ramp System or Articulating Ramp Conversion, produced by the American firm PATRIOT3. This system uses hydraulic ramps to enable raids at high altitudes. For potential aircraft hijacking, the DSI has access to multiple YPR-765 Aircraft Assault Vehicles of the Royal Marechaussee, a tracked light armored vehicle that is fitted with steps and ramps at airplane height.

Motorcycles
Multiple motorcycles are in use within the DSI. Predominantly KTM and BMW motorcycles are used.

Helicopters
Three AgustaWestland AW139 helicopters Dienst Luchtvaartpolitie are available for the Quick Reaction Air (QRA) to respond to incidents that require a larger presence of personnel.

References

Special forces of the Netherlands
Police tactical units
ATLAS Network