[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hamidullah (Guantanamo Bay detainee 1119)

st 2003, in Kabul, in one of the homes owned by Raouf.

c. Detainee Actions and Statements
In May 2003, the detainee was the commander of 30 men, with ties to the Taliban, who were planning an attack on an Afghan National Directorate of Security (NDS) unit in the vicinity of Kabul City, Afghanistan.

d. Other Relevant Data
As a known HIG member, the detainee was arrested by the Taliban and placed in jail.  He spent 23 months in jail before escaping to Pakistan.
In November 2001, while attempting to recruit and organize supporters for Shah and the Mahaz-e Melli, Afghanistan, the Northern Alliance arrested the detainee, however the detainee escaped.
|}

The following primary factors favor release or transfer 
{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|
 a. The detainee claimed he is friendly to the United States and turned to the Islamic faith as being a reason not to kill.
|}

Transcript
Hamidullah chose to participate in his Administrative Review Board hearing.

Hamidullah's statement 

Hamidullah spoke at length about the problems that had beset Afghanistan because of the armed struggle between different groups.  He decried how Afghanistan had become the world's training ground for terrorism and suicide bombers.  He decried those who used suicide bombers, and expressed suspicion over their true motives.

He described how he wanted to work for a strong, unified, popular tolerant, democratic government.  He welcomed the intercession of the United Nations and the United States.  
He said: "With this new conditions under the United States and United Nations, whoever were a true patriot...whoever was [a] supporter of humanity and human rights and he wanted to rebuild Afghanistan.  He [would] supported the new government..."

He said that after the United States intervention some of their nominal allies worked, under the table, to hurt the new regime and cause chaos.  He believed Burhanuddin Rabbani, Abdul Rasul Sayyaf and Mohammed Fahim, were among those who did not have the best interests of the new regime at heart.  He expressed his suspicions that the Russians were backing the chaos-sowers.

Second annual Administrative Review Board hearing

A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for Haji Hamidullah's second annual Administrative Review Board  on 26 March 2006.

The following primary factors favor continued detention 
The two
page memo listed eight
"primary factors favor[ing] continued detention" and two
"primary factors favor[ing] release or transfer".

{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|
a. Commitment
The detainee was a member of the Hezb-I Islami Gulbuddin for 10 years.
In November 2001, the detainee attempted to recruit and organize supporters for the Shah and the Mahaz-e Melli in Kabul.  The Northern Alliance arrested the detainee because of these efforts; however, the detainee escaped.
The detainee was arrested by the Taliban and placed in jail due to his affiliation with the Hezb-I Islami Gulbuddin. He spent 23 months in jail before escaping to Pakistan.
The detainee secretly recruited and organized members of the Mahaz-e Melli group. Consequently, rumors were spread throughout Kabul accusing the detainee of being involved with the Taliban and al Qaeda.

b. Connections/Associations
The Hezb-I Islami Gulbuddin was founded by Gulbuddin Hikmatyar as a faction of the Heab-I Islami party in 1977.  It was one of the major Mujahedin groups in the war against the Soviets and has long-established ties with Usama bin Laden.
The detainee was captured in August 2003, in Kabul, in a home owned by an al Qaida financier.
The detainee was identified as an Iranian intelligence officer.  The reliability of the source is not determined.

c. Intent
A source named the detainee as the commander of 30 men, with ties to the Taliban, planning an attack on an Afghan National Directorate of Security unit near Kabul.
|}

The following primary factors favor release or transfer 
{|
|valign="top" |a. || The detainee states that the only reason he worked for the Hezb-I Islami Gulbuddin was that they would provide food and money for the member and their families.
|-
|valign="top" |b. || The detainee claimed he is friendly to the United States and turned to the Islamic faith as being a reason not to kill.
|}

Transcript

In September 2007 the Department of Defense published a sixteen-page summarized transcript from the unclassified session of his second Administrative Review Board hearing.

Enemy Combatant election form

Hamidullah's Assisting Military Officer reported on the notes from the Enemy Combatant election form completed on 4 April 2006.
They met for sixty minutes for a pre-hearing interview.
His Assisting Military Officer described him as "very cooperative and attentive" during the interview.

HIG identification