[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Godzilla (franchise)

cost about  to produce and each grossed about  at the box office. Travis Bean estimated in 2016 that the first 13 films up until 1973 had grossed  in Japan and  overseas for a worldwide total of . By 1986, the Godzilla films had grossed  worldwide, equivalent to between  and  adjusted for inflation.

The first fifteen Godzilla films sold about  tickets in Japan up until 1984, and the first 21 Godzilla films sold  tickets in Japan up until 1995. Toho's first 28 Godzilla films (excluding the American productions) up until Final Wars (2004) had sold over  tickets in Japan. Adjusted for inflation,  Japanese ticket sales are equivalent to a gross revenue of  at an average 2014 Japanese ticket price. It was the highest-grossing film series in Japan, up until it was surpassed by the anime film series Doraemon when it exceeded  ticket sales in 2013. With the release of Shin Godzilla (2016), Toho's Godzilla film series (excluding the American productions) had sold more than  tickets at the Japanese box office.

Toho productions

American productions

TBA, To be ascertained.

Critical response

Other media

Television

Japan
In 1973, Godzilla was featured in Toho's tokusatsu series Zone Fighter, which also featured King Ghidorah and Gigan in a few episodes. Several filmmakers who had worked on previous Godzilla films participated in the series; Tomoyuki Tanaka produced the series, directors Ishirō Honda and Jun Fukuda directed a few episodes – Fukuda also wrote episode four, effects director Teruyoshi Nakano contributed to the special effects, while Kōichi Kawakita (who would direct the effects for Toho's Heisei era films) served as assistant effects director. In 1992, Toho produced a children's educational animated series titled Godzilland which featured live-action segments mixed with chibi-styled animation. In 1997, Toho produced a children's series titled Godzilla Island, centered on Godzilla toys. Toho made the series available worldwide on their official YouTube channel in November 2022. In October 2020, Toho announced Godzilla Singular Point; an anime series directed by Atsushi Takahashi, written by Toh EnJoe, and animated by Japanese studios Bones and Orange. Godzilla Singular Point aired on Japanese television in April 2021 and released worldwide on Netflix in June 2021. Chibi Godzilla Raids Again, a short anime series produced by Toho and Pie in the sky, aired in 2023.

United States
Godzilla and its likeness has appeared in various television-related media, including Robot Chicken, Roseanne, Animaniacs, South Park, Malcolm In The Middle, Chappelle's Show, Rugrats, a Nike commercial with Charles Barkley battling Godzilla, and multiple appearances on The Simpsons, including a Halloween spoof titled Homerzilla.

In 1978, Hanna-Barbera produced the animated series Godzilla and ran for two seasons on NBC. In 2022, Toho made the complete Hanna-Barbera series available worldwide on their official YouTube channel. In 1991, the English dubbed versions of Ebirah, Horror of the Deep (as Godzilla vs. the Sea Monster) and Godzilla vs. Megalon were riffed on Mystery Science Theater 3000. In 1998, Columbia TriStar Television produced Godzilla: The Series; developed by Jeff Kline and Richard Raynis, the series served as a sequel to the 1998 film Godzilla and ran for two seasons on Fox Kids. In January 2022, Legendary Television announced that Apple TV+ had ordered a live-action series set in the MonsterVerse titled Monarch: Legacy of Monsters.

Video games

A game called Gojira-kun (which was originally going to be titled Gojiraland) was released for the MSX in 1985. In 1990, Gojira-kun: Kaijū Daikōshin was released for the Game Boy. In 1993, Super Godzilla was released for the SNES. In 2007, Godzilla: Unleashed  was released for the Wii and DS. The 2014 video game Godzilla was released by Bandai Namco. In September 2021, Stern released Godzilla. In May 2022, Call of Duty: Warzone featured a cross-over event for Godzilla vs. Kong. Godzila would be confirmed to play in the Kaiju fighting game GigaBash as a guest character.

Literature