[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Koreans in Hong Kong

becoming increasingly interested in studying in the country, and Hong Kong universities have taken advantage of this trend to promote the internationalisation of their student bodies. By 2011, there were 595 South Koreans in Hong Kong on student visas, an increase of 644% since MOFAT's 2009 survey.

Among respondents to the 2011 Census who self-identified as Korean, 19.1% stated that they spoke English as their usual language, 6.8% Cantonese, 2.2% Japanese, 1.3% Mandarin, and 70.6% some other language (e.g. Korean). With regards to additional spoken languages other than their usual language, 71.5% stated that they spoke English, 14.6% Cantonese, 24.0% Mandarin, and 9.7% Japanese. (Multiple responses were permitted to the latter question, hence the responses are non-exclusive and the sum is greater than 100%.) 9.4% did not speak English either as their usual language nor an additional language, while the respective figures for Cantonese and Mandarin were 78.5% and 74.7%.

Media
Hong Kong has two Korean-language newspapers, the Wednesday Journal and the Weekly Hong Kong. Also there is online news media Daily Hong Kong which maintains a business directory page including contact information of Koreans who are engaged in various business industry in Hong Kong.

Religion
There are about 260 Korean Catholic families in Hong Kong; a parish chapel devoted to them was consecrated in mid-2005. A directory published by the Wednesday Journal lists two Korean Buddhist congregations and fourteen Korean Christian churches.

International relations
Consulate General of South Korea in Hong Kong serves South Korean citizens.

Likewise, North Korea has a consulate located on Harbour road.

Notable people

This is a list of Korean migrants in Hong Kong and Hong Kong people of Korean descent.
 (), TVB actor; born in Hong Kong to a Korean father and Chinese mother
 (宋芝齡), TVB actress; born to a Korean mother and Shanghainese father and grew up in Hong Kong
Woo Hye-lim, member of South Korean pop group Wonder Girls; lived in Hong Kong during her childhood

See also 

 Koreans in China
 Korean Christians in Hong Kong
 Hong Kong–North Korea relations

References

Further reading

External links
Weekly Hong Kong
Wednesday Journal
Daily Hong Kong

Hong Kong
Asian diaspora in Hong Kong
 
Hong Kong