[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Japanese people in Hong Kong

permitted to the latter question, hence the responses are non-exclusive and the sum is greater than 100%.) 4.1% did not speak Japanese as either their usual language nor an additional language, while the respective figures for English, Cantonese, and Mandarin were 18.4%, 77.4%, and 81.3%.

Education

The Hong Kong Japanese School, an international Japanese school, serves the city's Japanese population.

The  is a supplementary programme for Japanese children in Hong Kong.

The first Japanese primary school, operated by the Japanese Club, opened in a campus on Kennedy Road in 1911. At the time most Japanese expatriates did not bring their families and there were fewer than 100 Japanese children at any one time, so the school had a relatively low enrollment.

Media
The Hong Kong Post is the Japanese-language newspaper of Hong Kong.

Recreation
There is a social club for Japanese people in Hong Kong, The Hongkong Japanese Club (Chinese and Japanese: ), which has its building in Causeway Bay. The club, previously in the  (), initially catered only to Japanese people and a hand-picked group of non-Japanese, numbering around 200. In 1996 there were 4,228 Japanese members. It increased the number of non-Japanese members to 276 by 2002; as of that year within the membership the Japanese numbered 2,715. The number of non-Japanese members declined as the Japanese community was less wealthy than before, and because more and more Japanese involved in business in Guangdong Province lived in Shenzhen instead of Hong Kong.  the membership flat fee for Japanese was HK$200–400, and the deposit was $1,000, while the fee for non-Japanese was $9,500. The monthly rates for membership were $150–280 for Japanese and $340 for non-Japanese.

A group of Japanese business executives established the Japanese Club in 1905, and its clubhouse in Central opened in 1906. It became the centre of Hong Kong's Japanese community since the Japanese consulate lacked proper funds and staff to take that role. It became known as the Japanese Association in 1921.

Notable individuals
Scott MacKenzie, darts player, born in Brazil to mixed Japanese and Scottish parentage. Moved to the UK aged 6, then to Hong Kong in 1996, which he represents at a professional international level.
Shinichi Chan, born in Tokyo to mixed Japanese and Hongkongese parentage, member of Hong Kong National Football Team

References

Citations

Sources 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ; only abstract freely available

Further reading

External links

  Hong Kong Post, a Japanese-language newspaper
  Hong Kong Japanese School , an international school for Japanese students
 

Society of Hong Kong
 
Hong Kong–Japan relations
Asian diaspora in Hong Kong
 
Japanese diaspora by city
Japanese diaspora in Asia