[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Avrupa Yakası

Avrupa Yakası (European Side) is a Turkish sitcom, produced by Sinan Çetin and written by Gülse Birsel. The series was shot at Plato Film studios and its first episode was broadcast on ATV on 11 February 2004.

Although the cast of Avrupa Yakası changed throughout different seasons, Gülse Birsel, Gazanfer Özcan, Levent Üzümcü, Şenay Gürler, Hale Caneroğlu, Yavuz Seçkin, Veysel Diker and Yıldırım Öcek were the permanent actors who portrayed members of the Sütçüoğlu family and the employees of the fictional Avrupa Yakası magazine, located in Nişantaşı. At the end of the first five seasons of the series, the company had a turnover of 40 million and it produced 4 million dollars for Sinan Çetin, the producer of the series.

Plot 
Aslı (Gülse Birsel) works as an editor at a fashion magazine called Avrupa Yakası. Her family owns a restaurant and Aslı's brother, Volkan (Ata Demirer) runs the restaurant. The episodes mostly consist of funny events and incidents between Aslı, Volkan, Aslı's colleagues, Volkan's friends, and Aslı's parents.

Cast 

Most of the main characters on Avrupa Yakası are members of the Sütçüoğlu family. Scenarist Gülse Birsel portrayed the character of "Aslı", while Gazanfer Özcan was cast as Aslı's father, Hümeyra as her mother, and Ata Demirer as her brother Volkan. At the beginning of season 3, Ata Demirer made it known to scenarist Gülse Birsel and producer Sinan Çetin that he wanted to leave the series and so he did by the end of the season. He later returned to the series in season 6. Out of the main cast, Hümeyra left the main cast after season 5's finale. The other characters leaving at the Sütçüoğlu residence were portrayed by Hasibe Eren and Tolga Çevik who joined the cast in season 4. Tolga Çevik continued to remain in the main cast throughout seasons 4 and 5, but later as his program Komedi Dükkanı began to air TRT 1 he left the series. Following Gazanfer Özcan's death on 17 February 2009, Müşfik Kenter and Gönül Ülkü joined the cast as parents to Hasibe Eren's character Makbule.

The characters in the Avrupa Yakası magazine office, which is one of the places in the series and the namesake of the show, were portrayed by both young actors as well as the experienced actors. The magazine's boss was portrayed by Yıldırım Öcek. Its initial general manager and later one of its photographers who was also Aslı's previous husband was played by Levent Üzümcü. Şenay Gürler appeared as the magazine's editor and Hale Caneroğlu took the role of its designer. Sarp Apak played the role of the magazine's cook, while Engin Günaydın portrayed its managing director and Binnur Kaya appeared as the daughter of the magazine's financial partner. For the first three seasons, Bülent Polat played the role of the cook and Evrim Akın appeared as the boss's daughter. Both of them left the series at the end of season 3. Evrim Akın later announced that she had left the series because she was fed up with it. Sarp Apak joined the cast in season 4, followed by Binnur Kaya in season 5. Among those who left the series at the end of season 5 was Vural Çelik, who had the role of Yaprak's husband and the magazine's shareholder Kubilay and his poor brother Gülenay.

The main characters at the Sütçüoğlu Dairy Bar were portrayed by Veysel Diker and Yavuz Seçkin. Timur Acar and Ömür Arpacı later joined them in the following seasons.

Characters in the doorman's family in Sütçüoğlu apartment building, who started to be seen in the series from the 4th season, were portrayed by Peker Açıkalın, Bihter Özdemir, Ececan Gümeci, Celal Belgil and Şensel Uykal. Following Peker Açıkalın's decision to leave the series, Gürgen Öz joined the cast as Cesur. In the following episodes as Gürgen Öz felt that he could not have the performance that he had desired in the series, he left the cast after shooting the episode for the New Year.

Hakan Yılmaz, who had initially made guest appearances in the series, later became one of the regulars. Rutkay Aziz and Suna Keskin appeared as the parents of the character Cem in the series. After the end of season 5, Rutkay Aziz was cast in the TV series Gurbet Kuşları and left the series, though his named continued to appear in the main title of season 6 and he eventually returned to the series.

Production 
The script of the series was written by Gülse Birsel. She had previously prepared the program g.a.g. for the same channel, which made fun of the commercials broadcast on TV. After finding the story that would be the subject of the series, Birsel finished the scenario by writing four to five pages an hour in about four days. Birsel later stated that "while writing the characters, it felt as if sometimes they were whispering their own jokes into my ears, creating their own stories".

Music 
The music of the program was created by Cenk Durmazel and Cenk Sarkuş. The song which was the main title of the series was voiced by the most of the cast. Caneroğlu later performed the song in various places.