[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Old Treasury Building, Melbourne

V).

In the media 
The Old Treasury Building features in the climactic sequence of the film Knowing (2009). Though set in Boston, Massachusetts, the movie was shot in Melbourne (the two cities are officially recognised as being sister cities). A number of other Melbourne landmarks are also featured.

Occupants 
The Old Treasury was built to house the Treasury Department and store gold, but also provided offices for the leaders of the young colony, including the Governor, the Premier (at the time called Chief Secretary), the Treasurer and the Auditor General. Since its construction in 1862, it has also held the office of His Excellency the Governor of Victoria, who still holds weekly meetings of the Executive Council, consisting of the Governor and at least two Ministers of the Crown, that is, the leaders of the governing party.  The Governor in Council as this meeting is called, is the formal enacting of legislation when the Governor's signature and the Great Seal of Victoria is put in place on the bill.  Various other appointments and other regulations are also formally made at this weekly meeting, upon the advice of the Premier and Parliament of Victoria.

In addition to the museum, the Old Treasury Building is now home to the Office of the Victorian Government Architect, The Victorian Marriage Registry, and offices for most living former Premiers of Victoria.

See also
 Architecture of Melbourne

References

 The Treasury Reserve. Frances O'Neil. Department of Infrastructure. 2000.

External links

 Old Treasury Building
 Public Records Office Victoria
 A Submission for a Museum of Social and Political History at the Old Treasury Building to the Executive Committee of Victoria's 150th Anniversary Celebrations in July 1981 

Museums in Melbourne
History museums in Australia
Buildings and structures in Melbourne City Centre
Government buildings completed in 1862
1862 establishments in Australia
Heritage-listed buildings in Melbourne
Italian Renaissance Revival architecture
Landmarks in Melbourne
2010 establishments in Australia