[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Norwegian Canadians

ear, 14 vessels made the voyage averaging 54 days, and carrying 2,821 passengers. One of these vessels, the Orion from Stavanger, was said to carry 50 paupers all heading for the American West but, due to a lack of funds were sent to Buffalo. The passengers of the Gifion, all proceeded to Wisconsin.

There were a considerable number of deaths among the Norwegians in 1857. Of the 6,507 immigrants who arrived in that year there were 100 deaths. In 1859, however, emigration dropped off with only 16 vessels arriving from Norway carrying 1,756 passengers. Of the over 28,460 Norwegians who came to Canada in the 1850s it is estimated that only 400 remained in Canada the majority moved on into the American west. A small settlement of Norwegians was begun at Gaspe Peninsula, Lower Canada, in 1854. A report in 1859, stated that 25 families, totaling 126 persons, were settled in the Gaspe. They were joined in 1860 by another 50 persons. However, the Norwegians were not content, and after a very hard winter in 1861-2 they began to make their way to the American Midwest. About 14 families who arrived on the ship Flora from Kristiania in 1856 went to the Eastern Townships, near present-day Sherbrooke. They were following in the footsteps of two other Norwegians who settled in this area in 1853. Johan Schroder, who travelled in the United States and Canada in 1863, reported that a group of Norwegian immigrants, led by an agent, settled in Bury in the Eastern Townships in 1856. One of the first settlers in this area was Captain John Svenson who died in 1878.

Settlements

Norwegian Canadians are found throughout the entire country but with a major concentration in Western Canada. The Prairies were the hub of the Norwegian settlement in Canada.

Settlements in Canada which were primarily created by Norwegian immigrants:

 Birch Hills, Saskatchewan
 Rose Valley, Saskatchewan
 Hagensborg, British Columbia
 Tallheo, British Columbia
 Delta, British Columbia
 Quatsino, British Columbia
 Pemberton, British Columbia (originally Agerton)
 New Norway, Alberta
 Norway, Ontario (now Upper Beaches, but probably named after Norway Pines not Norwegian immigrants)

Culture and traditions

Language
Most second or third generation Norwegian Canadians today are anglophone, others are bilingual or francophone (particularly in Quebec). Older generations or recent arrivals from Norway may still be allophone (Norwegian as their mother tongue).

Today

Canada is also the home of Little Norway and Camp Norway, both Norwegian military training facilities, during the Second World War, and the port of Halifax was a refuge for the Norwegian merchant marine and Royal Norwegian Navy during the same conflict.

Norwegian population in Canada (2016)

According to Statistics Canada figures from the 2016 census, 463,275 Canadians reported themselves as being of Norwegian descent (multiple responses were allowed). The figures are also broken down by provinces and territories for Norwegians:

Norwegian language by province (2016)

List of Canadians of Norwegian descent

Actors

 Melody Anderson, social worker and public speaker specializing in the impact of addiction on families; also known as an actress
 Earl W. Bascom, actor who worked with cowboy singer Roy Rogers
 Melyssa Ford, model/actress
 Nathan Fillion, actor
 Christopher Heyerdahl, actor, plays a Norwegian on the AMC TV series Hell on Wheels
 Natassia Malthe, Norwegian model and actress who grew up in Canada
 John Qualen, actor, born Johan Mandt Kvalen in Vancouver, British Columbia in 1899, the son of Norwegian immigrants 
 Rachel Skarsten, actress
 Vlasta Vrana, actor

Artists
 Earl W. Bascom, western artist, sculptor, "Cowboy of Cowboy Artists"

Athletes