[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Architecture of Hungary

and America, sought new ways. The Rózsavölgyi business house is the first modern Hungarian building. Beside it, Móric Pogány (1878-1942), Dénes Györgyi (1886-1961) was one of the innovators. This includes the fact that the World War I is a very sharp impact in the history of Hungarian architecture.

Between the two World Wars, Eclectic aspirations have been revived for some time, but New Currents have been gaining ground. Church buildings were renewed by the works of Aladár Árkay and Bertalan Árkay, Gyula Rimanóczy, Károly Weichinger, Iván Kotsis, mainly with Italian inspiration.

The Congrès Internationaux d'Architecture Moderne (CIAM/CIRPAC group)  in Hungary (Farkas Molnár, József Fischer, Marcel Breuer and more) set the goal for the introduction of the Bauhaus ideas in Hungary. CIAM decided to form national groups at its congress in Frankfurt in 1929. Farkas Molnár with several Hungarian architects participated in the congress. After their return, CIAM's Hungarian group was formed, led by Farkas Molnár and József Fischer. The Hungarian group of CIAM called itself the CIRCAC section after the CIAM steering committee. Its operation was manifested in the propagation of modern architecture, related social criticism and the design of buildings in line with the Bauhaus principles. The periodical "space and form" (which was grouped around by contemporary advanced architects) generally published the plans of the members of the Hungarian group of CIAM in January. Meetings at the Centrál kávéház or at the home of some managers provided a regular framework for the operation of the group.

The typical activity of the group's period up to 1932 was mainly agitative.

Their first manifestation is the Hungarian Association of Engineers and Architects of 1928. it was a debate on modern architecture in November, where József Fischer (construction sites in Frankfurt) presented a picture report, and Pál Ligeti (aesthetics of modern architecture) gave a presentation.

The group's exhibitions the first exhibition was organised in the framework of the 1931 Home Furnishings and household for Autumn Fair. This is where the plan for "the dorm" was presented. The idea of the "Kolház" leaves the traditional thinking of architecture, and it also contains the content of lifestyle and sociological change, today we would call it a utopian plan (the idea of it even came up in the 1960s, and even a lively "collective house-private residence" discussion forum was organised by the new writing journal.

In the spring of 1932, the group organized its own (second) exhibition at the Tamás gallery. At this exhibition, their theoretical and propaganda activities have been presented to the public in an orderly manner. (..."in the new interest, the old methods of architecture had to be fought ..." (FJ). The material of the exhibition is pictures, drawings and statistical data processed on cardboard, which show the poor housing and social conditions in Hungary.

The third exhibition of the group was organized in 1932 in the framework of The Craft Industry Exhibition. The social-political trend in his spirit is strong, so some of their exhibition material was confiscated by the police before the opening. The exhibition entitled "House, City, Society" and calls for the creation of social architecture. This was the last exhibition of the group, and it was also the end of the first phase of its activity.

During the second phase of the group's activities, it carried out joint planning tasks. This section is characterised by the fact that they have not received community mandates because of their strong social policy orientation. Their activities were mainly localized to the designs of condominiums and private homes of financially wealthy civilian clients, representing a more modern spirit. In fact, they've moved away from their own ideological line. In addition to the given social and political framework in Hungary, this is also part of the fact that the group's unity was gradually broken down, the joint work was cancelled and even the Hungarian material could not be compiled for CIAM's 1938 Congress. The Hungarian group was thus dissolved in 1938. However, its architectural effect became fruitful only after the World War II.

The most important architectural task of the years after the World War II was the country's restoration. At first, the modern experiments continued, but during the dictatorship, social architecture already flourishing in the Soviet Union became the model to be followed, and this architecture manifested itself in an outdated Eclectic Classicism (construction in Dunaújváros, led by Tibor Weiner, party houses, blocks, housing estates). This era has its architectural values. These include: Zoltán Farkasdy's College of Applied Arts, György Jánossy's Water tower of Szent István University in Gödöllő, and Gyula Rimanóczy's "R" building of the BME of Budapest University of Technology and Economics.