[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Moses in rabbinic literature

Discussions in rabbinic literature of the biblical character Moses, who led the Israelites out of Egypt and through their wanderings in the wilderness, contain various expansions, elaborations and inferences beyond what is presented in the text of the Bible itself.

Overview 
Of all Biblical personages Moses has been chosen most frequently as the subject of later legends; and his life has been recounted in full midrashic detail in the poetic Aggadah. As liberator, lawgiver, and leader of the Children of Israel, who were transformed by him from an unorganized horde into a nation, he occupies a more important place in popular legend than the Patriarchs and all the other national heroes. His many-sided activity also offered more abundant scope for imaginative embellishment. A cycle of legends has been woven around nearly every trait of his character and every event of his life; and groups of the most different and often contradictory stories have been connected with his career.

Biography

The beginnings

Moses' influence and activity reach back to the days of the Creation. Heaven and earth were created only for his sake. The account of the creation of the water on the second day, therefore, does not close with the usual formula, "And God saw that it was good," because God foresaw that Moses would suffer through water. Although Noah was not worthy to be saved from the Flood, yet he was saved because Moses was destined to descend from him. The angels which Jacob in his nocturnal vision saw ascending to and descending from heaven were really Moses and Aaron.

The birth of Moses as the liberator of the people of Israel was foretold to Pharaoh by his soothsayers, in consequence of which he issued the cruel command to cast all the male children into the river. Later on, Miriam also foretold to her father, Amram, that a son would be born to him who would liberate Israel from the yoke of Egypt.

Moses was born on Adar 7, in the year 2377 after the creation of the world. He was born circumcised, and was able to walk immediately after his birth; but according to another story he was circumcised on the eighth day after birth. A peculiar and glorious light filled the entire house at his birth, indicating that he was worthy of the gift of prophecy. He spoke with his father and mother on the day of his birth, and prophesied at the age of three. His mother kept his birth secret for three months, when Pharaoh was informed that she had borne a son. The mother put the child into a casket, which she hid among the reeds of the sea before the king's officers came to her. For seven days his mother went to him at night to nurse him, his sister Miriam protecting him from the birds by day.

Rescue by Pharaoh's daughter

Then God sent a fierce heat upon Egypt, and Pharaoh's daughter Bithiah, who was afflicted with leprosy, went to bathe in the river. Hearing a child cry, she beheld a casket in the reeds. She caused it to be brought to her, and on touching it was cured of her leprosy. For this reason she was kindly disposed toward the child. When she opened the casket she was astonished at his beauty, and saw the Shekinah with him. Noticing that the child was circumcised, she knew that the parents must have been Hebrews.

Gabriel struck Moses, so as to make him cry and arouse the pity of the princess. She wished to save the child; but as her maids told her she must not transgress her father's commands, she set him down again. Then Gabriel threw all her maids down; and God filled Bithiah with compassion, and caused the child to find favor in her eyes. Thereupon she took the child up, saved him, and loved him much. This was on the sixth day of the month of Sivan; according to another version, on Nisan 21.

When the soothsayers told Pharaoh that the redeemer of Israel had been born and thrown into the water, the cruel edict ordering that the children be thrown into the river was repealed. Thus, the casting away of Moses saved Israel from further persecution. According to another version, 600,000 children had already been thrown into the river, but all were saved because of Moses.

His upbringing

Bithiah, Pharaoh's daughter, took up the child to nurse him; but he refused the breast. Then she gave him to other Egyptian women to nurse, but he refused to take nourishment from any of them. The mouth which was destined to speak with God might not take unclean milk. Bithiah therefore gave him to his mother to nurse.