[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# New York State Route 212

block on Market Street and east for another block on Main Street to reach US 9W (Partition Street) in the village center. NY 212 ends here while NY 32 turns south to follow US 9W southbound on Partition Street. Northbound US 9W, meanwhile, continues northeast on Main Street toward the Hudson River.

History
The modern-day alignment of NY 212 dates to 1828, when the state of New York passed a bill authorizing the construction of the Saugerties and Woodstock Turnpike Road Company. Passed on April 21, 1828, this new turnpike was to be constructed from the village of Saugerties at the store of Jeremiah Russell to Woodstock's Reformed Dutch Church. Provisions were made to extend the turnpike road to Shandaken and the house of Barnet Eighmey. This new road would be no wider than  wide with a  roadbed. If they chose to build a ditch, the roadbed would only need to be . The company would erect at least one toll gate and provisions for more, which would rate at a cost relevant to every  traveled. However, tollgates would not be allowed to be constructed within the village of Woodstock. On May 2, 1864, the state of New York approved the request of the company to construct a new toll gate on the right-of-way, located between Saugerties and the King's road (Ulster CR 31). The company would also discontinue the toll-gate located on the King's road.

Modern NY 212 was added to the New York state highway system in stages over the course of the early 20th century. The first segment was acquired by the state on July 9, 1902, and extended for  from the Woodstock–Saugerties town line to CR 35 in Saugerties. An adjacent  section was added on August 15 of that year, extending state maintenance of the road west to CR 45 in Woodstock. The portion of the highway east of CR 35 was added in two parts, the earliest of which became state-maintained on January 11, 1905, and extended from CR 35 to the Saugerties village limits. The section within the village was accepted into the state highway system 15 years later on July 30, 1920. State maintenance was extended northwest from CR 45 to Willow in the early to mid-1920s and southwest to Mount Tremper around the end of the decade. The Mount Tremper–Saugerties state highway did not have a posted route number until the 1930 renumbering of state highways in New York, when it was designated NY 212. 

In 1930, a contract was let by the state to construct a brand new state highway connecting the hamlet of Willow to Mount Tremper. This new state highway would be  wide, The contract was handed to Huie Construction Company of Saugerties, which began by clearing the right-of-way and grading through hills. Construction included the building of three new steel bridges and numerous concrete bridges and culverts. Construction of the road involved selecting from various locations, and the one selected was from an old farm in the Catskill Mountains. The new route was built with extra space on both sides for stuff such as a bridal path.

Major intersections

See also

References

External links

212
Catskills
Transportation in Ulster County, New York