[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Command responsibility

al declaration of war. In November 2006, the Federal Republic of Germany invoked universal jurisdiction and began legal proceedings against U.S. defense secretary Rumsfeld, U.S. Attorney General Gonzáles, the jurist John Yoo, and CIA chief George Tenet, for their legal liability for U.S. war crimes.

Moreover, in legal practice, the Military Commissions Act of 2006 (MCA) functions as an amnesty law for the Bush Administration to flout their superior responsibility and thus their legal liability for war crimes committed when prosecuting the War on Terror, because, by denying POWs the right of habeas corpus, the MCA retroactively rewrote the War Crimes Act of 1996, which defined war crime as any serious violation of the Geneva Convention, which left the POW no means of legal defense.Military Commissions Act of 2006
 Dorf, Michael C. "Why The Military Commissions Act is No Moderate Compromise". FindLaw. October 11, 2006.
 Mariner, Joanne. "The CIA, the MCA, and Detainee Abuse". FindLaw. 8 November 2006.
 Mariner, Joanne. "Europe's Investigations of the CIA's Crimes". FindLaw. 20 February 2007.
 
 Kuttner, Robert. "The John McCain Charade". . Boston Globe. 1 October 2006.
 Alexandrovna, Larisa. "Republican Torture Laws Will Live in History". AlterNet. 2 October 2006. In "Court 'can envisage' Blair Prosecution" (2007), the jurist Luis Moreno-Ocampo (ICC, 2003–2012) offered to begin a war-crimes enquiry for a war-crimes trial of British Prime Minister Tony Blair and U.S. President George W. Bush, for the International Criminal Court to hear.

In "History Will Not Absolve Us: Leaked Red Cross Report Sets up Bush Team for International War-crimes Trial" (2007), Nat Hentoff said that the report Leave No Marks: Enhanced Interrogation Techniques and the Risk of Criminality (2007), by Human Rights First and Physicians for Social Responsibility, would be evidence of U.S. war crimes at a war-crimes trial of the War on Terror. Moreover, by the end of the Bush Administration in 2008, the international community said that the United Nations Convention Against Torture (1985) obligated the U.S. government to prosecute the civilian and military officers who ordered and realized the torture of POWs captured during the War on Terror.

The United Nations special rapporteur on torture, Manfred Nowak (in office 2004–2010), said that, as a former president of the U.S., George W. Bush had lost his head-of-state immunity and that international law obligated the U.S. government to start criminal proceedings against the government officials and military officers who violated the U.N. Convention Against Torture. In support of Nowak's statement, the jurist Dietmar Herz explained that former president George W. Bush is criminally responsible for adopting torture-as-interrogation, per the legal doctrine of superior responsibility stipulated in of the international laws of war and the U.S. Code.

Codification
The Additional Protocol I (AP I, 1977) to the Geneva Conventions of 1949 was the first comprehensive codification of the legal doctrine of command responsibility. In the Additional Protocol No. I, the terms of Article 86(2) "explicitly address the knowledge factor of command responsibility", and stipulate that:

Therefore, in the execution of military operations, Article 86(2) obligates a commanding officer to "prevent, and, where necessary, to suppress and report to competent authorities" any violation of the Geneva Conventions and of Additional Protocol I.

Definitions
In discussions of command responsibility the term command is defined as

Moreover, Additional Protocol I to the Geneva Convention and the statutes of the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), and the International Criminal Court (ICC) stipulate that the prevention and prosecution of war crimes and of crimes against humanity are legal responsibilities of a commanding officer.

Application
Nuremberg tribunal

In the aftermath of the Second World War, the Nuremberg trials (20 November 1945 – 1 October 1946) resulted from the common opinion among jurists that the severity of Nazi war crimes and crimes against humanity (e.g. the Holocaust) required prosecution, judgement, and resolution by an International Military Tribunal authorized by the Nuremberg Charter (8 August 1945), which determined the procedures and legal bases to prosecute military officers, civil officials, and civilian people who committed:

Legally, the jurisdiction of the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg applied to all "leaders, organisers, instigators and accomplices" who participated in planning and committing crimes against humanity and war crimes.

International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia