[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Springwood railway station

the main station building and its solid well detailed construction suggests the growing importance of the village of Springwood in the 1880s.

The place has a strong or special association with a person, or group of persons, of importance of cultural or natural history of New South Wales's history.

Springwood Railway Station has historical associations with the District Engineer, Fred Avery, who was involved in the station's design and approved the architectural details. However, this association is considered to be of secondary significance.

The place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.

Springwood Railway Station is of aesthetic significance as an extant example of a railway station building in the Victorian Gothic style. The use of brickwork with sandstone detailing gives the building an elegant character, which was retained and further enhanced with the duplication of the railway line across the Blue Mountains in 1902. This character is continued in the men's lavatory block at the east end of the platform. The station group in particular the main building remains a landmark within the townscape of Springwood.

The place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.

The place has the potential to contribute to the local community's sense of place, and can provide a connection to the local community's past.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

Springwood station building is a rare extant example of a railway station building in the Victorian Gothic style with upgrade works in the 1880s. Springwood station building is the only surviving building from this style as the other two station buildings from this era at Lawson and Wentworth Falls have been demolished.

The place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.

The main 1880s station building is classified as a "type 3" second-class station building and is one of approximately 40 other similar station buildings across NSW and has representative significance for demonstrating widespread 19th Century railway customs, activities and design in NSW.

Photo gallery

See also 

List of railways stations in New South Wales

References

Bibliography

Attribution

External links

Springwood station details Transport for New South Wales

Easy Access railway stations in New South Wales
Railway stations in Australia opened in 1867
Regional railway stations in New South Wales
Short-platform railway stations in New South Wales, 6 cars
New South Wales State Heritage Register
Springwood, New South Wales
Railway bridges in New South Wales
Articles incorporating text from the New South Wales State Heritage Register
John Whitton railway stations
Victorian Carpenter Gothic architecture in New South Wales
Transport in the Blue Mountains (New South Wales)
Main Western railway line, New South Wales