[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Czech nationality law

re 1993, simply naturalizing in another country did not automatically mean loss of citizenship unless the individual who lost it was at least 21 years and naturalized in the United States or was a minor child whose US citizenship was derived from his/her parents who naturalized in the United States.

If an individual with Czech ancestry has ascendants who naturalized in a country other than the United States and is thus unable to prove loss of citizenship by naturalization due to a lack of a treaty between their country and Czechoslovakia that restricted dual citizenship, they may be eligible for Czech citizenship by proving a loss of an ancestor's citizenship by other means. One such way could be if their ancestor was a grandmother who married a non-Czechoslovak citizen before June 24th, 1947, in which case their grandmother would have automatically lost Czechoslovak citizenship ipso iure due to the Emigrant Patent of Austrian Law from 1832. The proof of loss of citizenship in this case would be the grandmother's marriage certificate.

Loss of citizenship

Voluntary (restrictions on dual citizenship) 
Czech citizenship can be renounced voluntarily if doing so wouldn't cause one to be stateless unless it is in connection with a marriage or by birth – the Czech Republic does not require children born with another nationality to renounce it upon reaching maturity.

Involuntary 
The involuntary loss of citizenship is constitutionally prohibited. However, before the 2013 Citizenship Act (effective as of 1 January 2014) it was sometimes argued by emigrants and emigrant groups that the restrictions on dual citizenship were a form of involuntary deprivation of citizenship.

During the communist era (1948–89) hundreds of thousands of Czechoslovakian citizens had emigrated into other parts of the West. The regime punished emigration by removing Czechoslovak citizenship, along with property confiscation and in absentia prison sentences. Since the Velvet Revolution in 1989, many emigrants demanded their citizenship be restored. Between 1999 and 2004, a special measure allowed them to regain the citizenship, but a few people took advantage of the wording, which "granted" citizenship rather than "restored" it and so got dual citizenship. A few people from Volhynia and Romania also got citizenship.

Proof of citizenship
Czech citizenship can be proved by 
A national identification card (občanský průkaz) (mandatory for those over 15 years of age),
A travel document; e.g. a Czech passport,
A certificate of Czech citizenship (CCC) issued by the Ministry of the Interior that is less than 12 months old since the date of issuance,
A Czech marriage certificate, but only if the citizenship details are included.

Dual citizenship
Czech Republic allows its citizens to hold foreign citizenship in addition to their Czech citizenship since 2014. The Czech government maintains a registry of those nationals who hold a concurrent nationality in addition to their Czech nationality.

Some countries, however, do not permit multiple citizenship e.g. adults who acquired Czech and Japanese citizenship by birth must declare, to the latter's Ministry of Justice, before turning 22, which citizenship they want to keep.

Citizenship of the European Union
Because Czech Republic forms part of the European Union, Czech citizens are also citizens of the European Union under European Union law and thus enjoy rights of free movement and have the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament. When in a non-EU country where there is no Czech embassy, Czech citizens have the right to get consular protection from the embassy of any other EU country present in that country. Czech citizens can live and work in any country within the EU as a result of the right of free movement and residence granted in Article 21 of the EU Treaty.

Travel freedom of Czech citizens

Visa requirements for Czech citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Czech Republic. As of May 2018, Czech citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 187 countries and territories, ranking the Czech passport 5th in terms of travel freedom (tied with Belgian, Maltese, New Zealand, Norwegian and Swiss passports) according to the Henley Passport Index.

In 2018, The Czech nationality is ranked 13th in Nationality Index (QNI). This index differs from the Visa Restrictions Index, which focuses on external factors including travel freedom. The QNI considers, in addition, to travel freedom on internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, and human development as well.

See also
 Slovak nationality law

References

External links
Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic
 Full amended text of 40/1993 Sb. as of 2005 
Ministry of Internal Affairs page on the citizenship law 
new (2013) Citizenship Act 
(PDF) new (2013) Citizenship Act 
Ministry of Interior information site