[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fallen Hero

affectionate. John Rubinstein, who plays the Mazarite Captain previously appeared in the Voyager episode "The 37's" as John Evansville. J. Michael Flynn previously appeared in Star Trek:The Next Generation "The Hunted" and would return in a recurring role in season 4 as the Romulan scientist Nijil. 

The episode featured a Vulcan spaceship, a Suurok-class combat cruiser called the Sh'Raan. The ship was based on a design by Doug Drexler, revised and updated by Pierre Drolet.
It was ranked as the 22nd most powerful spacecraft of the Star Trek franchise by CNET in 2016, and the 14th best spacecraft of Star Trek by Space.com in 2017. The Sh'Raan class starship made an appearance in the Star Trek book The Romulan War: Beneath the Raptor's Wing by Michael A. Martin.

Reception 
"Fallen Hero" first aired May 8, 2002, on UPN as a double-bill followed by "Desert Crossing". 
According to Nielsen Media Research, it received a 3.2/5 rating share among adults. It had an average of 5.34 million viewers.

Michelle Erica Green of TrekNation wrote: "despite lots of space battles and some verbal fireworks, it plods." Green praised guest star Fionnula Flanagan for her memorable performance as V'Lar, and  
said John Rubinstein was delightfully menacing as the Mazarite captain, and that they gave the episode some entertaining moments, but was critical of how the regular cast were used.  Keith DeCandido of Tor.com gave it 7 out of 10, in his 2022 rewatch.

In 2021, The Digital Fix said this was a "strong episode" that explores the Vulcans interactions with humans, centering on a Vulcan Ambassador played by guest actress Fionnula Flanagan.

Home media 
This episode was released as part of Enterprise season one, which was released in high definition on Blu-ray disc on March 26, 2013; the set has 1080p video and a DTS-HD Master Audio sound track.

References

External links
 
 
 

Star Trek: Enterprise (season 1) episodes
2002 American television episodes
Television episodes written by Rick Berman
Television episodes written by Brannon Braga