[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Dragan Primorac

ct for the return of Croatian scientists from abroad was started and since 2004 over 120 scientists have returned to Croatia. The programme Unity through Knowledge yielded approximately 40 competitive research projects with returnee and Diaspora (Croatian professionals working abroad) participation.

On June 16, 2009, weekly magazine Nacional announced that "Primorac will soon become the first minister in the history of Croatia to resign at the peak of his political career". On July 1, 2009, he resigned together with Ivo Sanader, although the media had reported him planning to resign several weeks prior to the abrupt departure of Sanader.  Primorac also gave back his Parliament seat to the party, and was replaced by Goran Marić. In the newly formed government of Jadranka Kosor, he was replaced by his former state-secretary Radovan Fuchs, who reversed the Primorac’s free schoolbook policy in his first week in office.

The award for numerous efforts made in the Croatian educational system is the survey of the famous Newsweek which rated Croatia 22nd in education ahead of 12 countries from the G20 group.

Sport activities 

While he was living in Split he was trained in soccer clubs NK Split, HNK Hajduk and NK Solin, as well as track and field in the athletic club "Split 80" (today Hajduk). On November 17. 1987 he founded the Tae kwon do club "Kocunar" and since then he is president of the club. Shortly thereafter, Robert Prusac, vice-president and Mile Mamic, second vice-president joined the club. Since 1987 more than 6000 participants have been trained in the club, and many of them won a number of medals in national and international competitions. During the General Assembly of the European Olympic Committee (December 3–4, 2004.) he was awarded silver medal for his contribution to sports.  In 2015. Primorac was inducted into the Taekwondo Hall of Fame based in United States. In 2020. he was awarded WTE Gold Medal by Mr. Sakis Pragalos, taekwondo Europe president.

Humanitarian work 

Primorac has participated in numerous humanitarian activities all around the world. Currently, he is president of Charity Foundation Cro Unum and he is member of advisory board of American International Relief Organization, Bridge Foundation

References

External links

 Dragan Primorac Homepage
 
 Dragan Primorac for President

1965 births
Living people
People from Banja Luka
Croatian pediatricians
Croatian scientists
Representatives in the modern Croatian Parliament
Croatian Democratic Union politicians
School of Medicine, University of Zagreb alumni
Education ministers of Croatia
Science ministers of Croatia
Sports ministers of Croatia
Candidates for President of Croatia
Croat politicians from Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bosnia and Herzegovina expatriates in Croatia