[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ganesh Pyne

ew from the Mahabharata but focused on the peripheral characters of that epic such as Ekalavya and Amba and these were exhibited in Kolkata in 2010.

Pyne died on 12 March 2013 at a Kolkata hospital where he was admitted following a heart attack, at the age of 76. He is survived by his wife and son.

Artistic approach 
Pyne started as a water-colourist in the Bengal school mode, and gradually shifted to gouache and finally to tempera, for his subsequent abstract and surrealist work period, in ochre, black and blue shades. According to painter Bhupen Khakhar, "his personal encounters/interactions with violence at a tender age formed his dark background.., while his language was formed while doing animation." He was also known as "painter of darkness", for using dark colours like black and blue and motifs suggesting death, and death, pain and solitude remained consistent themes in his work. The art critic Ranjit Hoskote termed him "a poet of melancholia", who "explored elements of the subconscious; the mercenary, the demons and the angels were aspects of the self split from his waking reality" while Pritish Nandy described his paintings as having "a meticulous narrative quality[...]that is taken from the dark innards of his imagination". The celebrated painter MF Hussain once told the Illustrated Weekly of India that Pyne was India's best artist. he is genius painter .Who introduced ganesh pyne jottings.

Awards and recognition
Pyne was given Raja Ravi Varma award by the Government of Kerala, and in 2011, the lifetime achievement award by the Indian Chamber of Commerce.

A 1998 documentary film on him, A Painter of Eloquent Silence: Ganesh Pyne directed by Buddhadeb Dasgupta was awarded the National Film Award for the Best Arts Film.

Exhibitions and shows 
 'World Youth Festival', Prague-1968
 Indian International Triennial, New Delhi-1968 & 71
 Paris Biennial, Paris-1970
 Exhibition in aid of Menuhin School of Music, Royal Academy of Arts, London-1970
 International Festival of Art, Cagnes-sur-Mer-1975
 'Modern Indian Painting', Hirschhorn Museum, Washington DC-1982
 'Contemporary Indian Art', Festival of India, Royal Academy of Arts, London-1982
 'Indische Kunst Heute', Darmdstadt, Germany-1982 & 86
 'Trends and Images', CIMA Gallery, Calcutta-1993
 'Chamatkar – Myth and Magic in Indian Art', curated by CIMA Gallery, Whiteleys Art Gallery, London-1996
 'Tryst with Destiny – Art from Modern India', Singapore Art Museum, Singapore-1997
 'Image beyond Image' travelling exhibition of Indian paintings from the Glenbarra Art Museum, Himeji, Japan to New Delhi, Calcutta, Bangalore and Bombay-1997.
 'Germinal', solo show of jottings, curated by Arun Ghose at India Art Fair 2014, New Delhi by Sanchit Art-2014.
 Memorialising Ganesh Pyne: Photographs & Photo Collages by Veena Bhargava at Akar Prakar Kolkata, 2020. Curatorial Advisor - Ella Dutta
 Ganesh Pyne: From the Shadows at Akar Prakar, Delhi 2022. Curated by Siddhi Shailendra

Books on Pyne 

 Thirst of a Minstrel: The Life and Times of Ganesh Pyne by Shiladitya Sarkar. Publisher: Rupa & Co. (November 2004)
 Ganesh Pyne: A Pilgrim in the Dominion of Shadows by Ranjit Hoskote. Publisher: Galerie 88, Kolkata (2005)
 Enchanted Space: The Private World of Ganesh Pyne by Sovon Som. Publisher: CIMA (2006)
 Ganesh Pyne, his life and times by Ella Datta. Publisher: Centre for International Modern Art (1998)
 
 Memorialising Ganesh Pyne: Photographs & Photo Collages by Veena Bhargava. Essay by Ella Dutta. Publisher: Akar Prakar and Mapin Publishing (2020). 
 Ganesh Pyne: A Painter of Eloquent Silence by Pranabranjan Ray. Publisher: Lalit Kala Akademi and Akar Prakar (2018)

References

External links 

 Profile on Google Arts & Culture
 Documentary by Films Division of India on YouTube

1937 births
2013 deaths
Indian male painters
Government College of Art & Craft alumni
University of Calcutta alumni
Artists from Kolkata
Bengali male artists
Abstract painters
20th-century Indian painters
Indian Expressionist painters
Painters from West Bengal
20th-century Indian male artists
21st-century Indian male artists