[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hydrophilic interaction chromatography

forms in biologic medical products.   For the detection of polar compounds with the use of electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry as a chromatographic detector, HILIC can offer a ten fold increase in sensitivity over reversed-phase chromatography because the organic solvent is much more volatile.

Choice of pH
With surface chemistries that are weakly ionic, the choice of pH can affect the ionic nature of the column chemistry. Properly adjusted, the pH can be set to reduce the selectivity toward functional groups with the same charge as the column, or enhance it for oppositely charged functional groups. Similarly,  the choice of pH affects the polarity of the solutes. However, for column surface chemistries that are strongly ionic, and thus resistant to pH values in the mid-range of the pH scale (pH 3.5-8.5), these separations will be reflective of the polarity of the analytes alone, and thus might be easier to understand when doing methods development.

ERLIC
In 2008, Alpert coined the term, ERLIC (electrostatic repulsion hydrophilic interaction chromatography), for HILIC separations where an ionic column surface chemistry is used to repel a common ionic polar group on an analyte or within a set of analytes, to facilitate separation by the remaining polar groups. Electrostatic effects have an order of magnitude stronger chemical potential than neutral polar effects. This allows one to minimize the influence of a common, ionic group within a set of analyte molecules; or to reduce the degree of retention from these more polar functional groups, even enabling isocratic separations in lieu of a gradient in some situations. His subsequent publication further described orientation effects which others have also called ion-pair normal phase or e-HILIC, reflecting retention mechanisms sensitive to a particular ionic portion of the analyte, either attractive or repulsive. ERLIC (eHILIC) separations need not be isocratic, but the net effect is the reduction of the attraction of a particularly strong polar group, which then requires less strong elution conditions, and the enhanced interaction of the remaining polar (opposite charged ionic, or non-ionic) functional groups of the analyte(s).Based on the ERLIC column invented by Andrew Alpert, a new peptide mapping methodology was developed with unique properties of separation of asparagine deamidation and isomerization. This unique properties would be very beneficial for future mass spectrometry based multi-attributes monitoring in biologics quality control.

Cationic eHILIC
For example, one could use a cation exchange (negatively charged) surface chemistry for ERLIC separations to reduce the influence on retention of anionic (negatively charged) groups (the phosphates of nucleotides or of phosphonyl antibiotic mixtures; or sialic acid groups of modified carbohydrates) to now allow separation based more on the basic and/or neutral functional groups of these molecules. Modifying the polarity of a weakly ionic group (e.g. carboxyl) on the surface is easily accomplished by adjusting the pH to be within two pH units of that group's pKa. For strongly ionic functional groups of the surface (i.e. sulfates or phosphates) one could instead use a lower amount of buffer so the residual charge is not completely ion paired. An example of this would be the use of a 12.5mM (rather than the recommended >20mM buffer), pH 9.2 mobile phase on a polymeric, zwitterionic, betaine-sulfonate surface to separate phosphonyl antibiotic mixtures (each containing a phosphate group). This enhances the influence of the column's sulfonic acid functional groups of its surface chemistry over its, slightly diminished (by pH), quaternary amine. Commensurate with this, these analytes will show a reduced retention on the column eluting earlier, and in higher amounts of organic solvent, than if a neutral polar HILIC surface were used. This also increases their detection sensitivity by negative ion mass spectrometry.

Anionic eHILIC
By analogy to the above, one can use an anion exchange (positively charged) column surface chemistry to reduce the influence on retention of cationic (positively charged) functional groups for a set of analytes, such as when selectively isolating phosphorylated peptides or sulfated polysaccharide molecules. Use of a pH between 1 and 2 pH units will reduce the polarity of two of the three ionizable oxygens of the phosphate group, and thus will allow easy desorption from the (oppositely charged) surface chemistry. It will also reduce the influence of negatively charged carboxyls in the analytes, since they will be protonated at this low a pH value, and thus contribute less overall polarity to the molecule. Any common, positively charged amino groups will be repelled from the column surface chemistry and thus these conditions enhance the role of the phosphate's polarity (as well as other neutral polar groups) in the separation.

References