[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 3]
# Politics — Aristotle

o prescribe for them, rather than one who has power to control
the forces of society. The desire of society for the statesman's
advice is taken for granted, Plato in the Republic says that a good
constitution is only possible when the ruler does not want to rule;
where men contend for power, where they have not learnt to distinguish
between the art of getting hold of the helm of state and the art of
steering, which alone is statesmanship, true politics is impossible.

With this position much that Aristotle has to say about government is in
agreement. He assumes the characteristic Platonic view that all men seek
the good, and go wrong through ignorance, not through evil will, and so
he naturally regards the state as a community which exists for the sake
of the good life. It is in the state that that common seeking after
the good which is the profoundest truth about men and nature becomes
explicit and knows itself. The state is for Aristotle prior to the
family and the village, although it succeeds them in time, for only when
the state with its conscious organisation is reached can man understand
the secret of his past struggles after something he knew not what. If
primitive society is understood in the light of the state, the state is
understood in the light of its most perfect form, when the good after
which all societies are seeking is realised in its perfection. Hence for
Aristotle as for Plato, the natural state or the state as such is the
ideal state, and the ideal state is the starting-point of political
inquiry.

In accordance with the same line of thought, imperfect states, although
called perversions, are regarded by Aristotle as the result rather of
misconception and ignorance than of perverse will. They all represent,
he says, some kind of justice. Oligarchs and democrats go wrong in
their conception of the good. They have come short of the perfect state
through misunderstanding of the end or through ignorance of the proper
means to the end. But if they are states at all, they embody some common
conception of the good, some common aspirations of all their members.

The Greek doctrine that the essence of the state consists in community
of purpose is the counterpart of the notion often held in modern times
that the essence of the state is force. The existence of force is for
Plato and Aristotle a sign not of the state but of the state's failure.
It comes from the struggle between conflicting misconceptions of the
good. In so far as men conceive the good rightly they are united. The
state represents their common agreement, force their failure to make
that agreement complete. The cure, therefore, of political ills is
knowledge of the good life, and the statesman is he who has such
knowledge, for that alone can give men what they are always seeking.

If the state is the organisation of men seeking a common good, power and
political position must be given to those who can forward this end. This
is the principle expressed in Aristotle's account of political justice,
the principle of "tools to those who can use them." As the aim of the
state is differently conceived, the qualifications for government
will vary. In the ideal state power will be given to the man with most
knowledge of the good; in other states to the men who are most truly
capable of achieving that end which the citizens have set themselves
to pursue. The justest distribution of political power is that in which
there is least waste of political ability.

Further, the belief that the constitution of a state is only the
outward expression of the common aspirations and beliefs of its members,
explains the paramount political importance which Aristotle assigns to
education. It is the great instrument by which the legislator can ensure
that the future citizens of his state will share those common beliefs
which make the state possible. The Greeks with their small states had
a far clearer apprehension than we can have of the dependence of a
constitution upon the people who have to work it.

Such is in brief the attitude in which Aristotle approaches political
problems, but in working out its application to men and institutions
as they are, Aristotle admits certain compromises which are not really
consistent with it.

1. Aristotle thinks of membership of a state as community in pursuit of
the good. He wishes to confine membership in it to those who are capable
of that pursuit in the highest and most explicit manner. His citizens,
therefore, must be men of leisure, capable of rational thought upon
the end of life. He does not recognise the significance of that less
conscious but deep-seated membership of the state which finds its
expression in loyalty and patriotism. His definition of citizen includes
only a small part of the population of any Greek city. He is forced to
admit that the state is not possible without the co-operation of men
whom he will not admit to members