[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gurusaday Dutt

ed for making patterns on sweets or mango-paste etc. Gurusaday Dutt also wrote extensively on folk culture. Rabindranath Tagore and C.F. Andrews wrote in the foreword of the biography of his wife, Saroj Nalini Dutt, which he wrote. Gurusaday Dutt also wrote a good deal about the Bratachari movement.

Controversies
His fearless independence and indomitable spirit of nationalism brought him into conflict with the British Government on more than one occasion. In 1928, at Howrah, in connection with the Bamangachi Firing case, he condemned the firing on a crowd of protesters by the police led by a British officer. The matter was raised in the British House of Lords and Lord Birkenhead, then Secretary of State for India in the British Government, had to answer angry questions. British Parliamentarians wanted Dutt, referred to as this Indian officer, punished for having the audacity to question a British officer’s action. As a punitive measure he was transferred out of Howrah to Mymensingh.

His stay in Mymensingh was also cut short when he failed to give orders as required by him by the British Indian Government to deal with protesters against The Salt Act imposed by the Government. M.K.Gandhi had called for a satyagraha against this Act. He was transferred to Birbhum by telegram (then the fastest means of communication), which was an unprecedented way of dealing with an ICS officer in those days.

Organisations founded
Mymensingh Folk Dance and Folk Music Society (1929)
Pallisampad Raksha Samiti (1931)
Bratachari Lokanritya Samiti (1932)
South India Bratachari Society (1932)
Sarbabharatiya Bratachari Society etc.
In 1941 he also set up the Bratachari village(Bratacharigram) near Calcutta, and the Bratachari Janashiksha Pratishthan. The Bratachari movement founded by Gurusaday Dutt (from vrata, vow) was a movement for spiritual and social improvement. The movement aimed at creating a sense of world citizenship as well as national awareness among people, irrespective of caste, religion, sex and age. The movement aimed to nurture the mind and the body and to encourage people to work for national and individual improvement through encouraging traditional and folk culture, especially folk dance and folk song. The bratacharis, or followers of the movement, pledged themselves to build their moral fibre and serve the country on the five principles of knowledge, labour, truth, unity and joy. They aimed at developing the mind and body through dance as well as by undertaking to perform good deeds. The Bratachari movement did not catch on all over India and slowly died away after the death of its founder. In 2011, the Mamata Banerjee Government again made Bratachari education compulsory in Primary schools in West Bengal, after the Marxist Communist Government withdrew it from the School curriculum in 1984.
Gurusaday Museum (1961).

Publications
Gurusaday Dutt wrote many books and articles, which are listed below. The latest book to be published is "Banglar Lokashilpa o Lokanritya" (in Bengali), which is a collection of his essays and articles on Folk Art and Folk Dances of Bengal in various magazines between 1928 and 1941(his death), that were painstakingly obtained from the old magazines at Bangiya Sahitya Parishad's library by his grandson Devsaday Dutt and granddaughter-in-law Priyadarshini Dutt. The book has been published by Subhromani De and Subhadra De of Chhatim Books in 2008.Bhajar Banshi (1922) (in Bengali) (A book of rhymes for children)Palli Sangskar (in Bengali) (1925)Village Reconstruction (1925)Agricultural Organisation and Rural Reconstruction in Bengal (1919)Ganer Saji (in Bengali) (1932)Indian Folk Dance and Folklore Movement (in Bengali) (1933)Bratachari Synthesis (in Bengali) (1937)Patuya Sangit (in Bengali) (1939)Bratacharir Marmakatha (in Bengali) (1940)A Woman of India] (1941)Bratachari: Its Aim and Meaning (1942)The Folk Dances of Bengal (1954)Shrihatter Lokasangit (in Bengali) (1966)Folk Arts and Crafts of Bengal (1990)Art of Kantha (1995)Banglar Lokashilpa o Lokanritya (in Bengali) (Calcutta: Chatim Books, 2008)Goraey Golod (in Bengali)Gramer Kaajer ka kha Ga (in Bengali)Saroj NaliniPalli Sanskar O Sangathan (in Bengali)Paaglamir Puthi (in Bengali)Purir Mahathwa (in Bengali)Gaaner Saaji (in Bengali)Banglar Samrik Krira (in Bengali)Chaander Buri(in Bengali)Bratachari Shakhaa (in Bengali)Bratachari Marmakatha (in Bengali)Patua Sangeet (in Bengali)Bratachari Parichoy (in Bengali)Srihotter Lokageeti (in Bengali)Banglar Bir Jodha Raebeshe (in Bengali)

Death and commemoration
He died at the age of 59 of cancer. After he died, his son, Birendrasaday Dutt, took the initiative in renaming Ballygunge Store Road, where he had built himself a house, after him.

His portrait adorns the walls of Mahajati Sadan, Calcutta.

Biographies have been written on his life and works in Bangladesh by Shankar Prasad De, Amitabha Chowdhury, Shaikat Azgar and Naresh Banerjee.