[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# MV Koolama (1937)

River Mission (later known as Kalumburu), almost 100 kilometres (80 mi) away, arrived to take the sick, wounded and women passengers to the mission, a journey of 24 hours. After enduring a week on the shore, most of the passengers and crew members began to walk to Drysdale River, guided by a priest.

By 1 March, all possible on-site repairs has been completed and the badly damaged Koolama, with Eggleston, 18 crew members, three civilian passengers and two military personnel, was refloated and set off for Wyndham. The bomb damage, including blown rivets, was worsened by the stress of movement, and as Koolama approached the port on the morning of 2 March, about 24 hours after leaving Rulhieres Bay, its pumps could no longer keep up with the inflow of water.

By 7pm, Eggleston and his party had unloaded most of the cargo, including army vehicles and other military equipment. The pumps were run throughout the night and unloading resumed at 6.00 am. However, the pumps were becoming clogged with mud and the ship was still taking water. Just after 7.00 am on 3 March, eight Japanese Zero fighters, led by Toshitada Kawazoi, made a strafing attack on Wyndham. This air raid caused no apparent damage to the Koolama, but Eggleston and his crew remained on shore for the rest of the day, in case follow-up raids occurred. By 4pm, Koolama was down at the stern and listing to starboard. At about 4.45 pm the ship rolled onto its side in the shallow water. It was written off.

Aftermath
Meanwhile, some of the crew and passengers at Rulhieres Bay were rescued by flying boat, and arrived in Broome on 3 March 1942, just after a devastating air raid on the town. A further 19 men had to wait for the return of the mission lugger.

On 5 March, Plummer was flown from Drysdale River to Darwin, for more intensive medical treatment. He underwent more than 40 operations resulting from his injuries, but lived until the early 1980s.

One man had died while walking to Drysdale River and he was buried at the mission. He was the only fatality resulting from the attacks on the Koolama.

Later in 1942, a Marine Board of Inquiry exonerated all the crew members of any wrongdoing. Both Eggleston and Reynolds had long careers, including positions as Marine Superintendents, with the State Shipping Service.

In 1947, an attempt to refloat Koolama was unsuccessful. The hull was raised the following year, only to clear Wyndham harbour. It was towed out to sea and scuttled.

Documentary
 2003 - Malice or Mutiny: The Koolama Incident (dir. Ingo Helbig)

References

Bibliography
 
Helbig, Ingo (2003). Malice or Mutiny: The Koolama Incident (documentary film; Storyteller Productions: Willetton, WA)

External links
 

1942 in Australia
Military attacks against Australia
World War II merchant ships of Australia
Ships sunk by Japanese aircraft
Ships built on the River Clyde
Shipwrecks of Western Australia
Kimberley (Western Australia)
Western Australia during World War II
Maritime incidents in February 1942
Maritime incidents in March 1942
Maritime incidents in 1948
World War II shipwrecks
Ships built by Harland and Wolff
1937 ships