[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Habitats Directive

ellevalia hackelli, Colchicum corsicum, C. cousturieri, Fritillaria conica, F. drenovskii, F. gussichiae, F. obliqua, F. rhodocanakis, Ornithogalum reverchonii, Scilla beirana and S. odorata
Narcissus longispathus and N. triandrus
Orchids: Ophrys argolica, Orchis scopulorum and Spiranthes aestivalis

Apiaceae: Bunium brevifolium
Aquilegia alpina
Asteraceae: Argyranthemum pinnatifidum subsp. succulentum, Helichrysum sibthorpii, Picris willkommii, Santolina elegans, Senecio caespitosus, S. lagascanus subsp. lusitanicus and Wagenitzia lancifolia
Berberis maderensis
Campanula morettiana and Physoplexis comosa
Euphorbia nevadensis
Gesneriads: Ramonda heldreichii (as Jankaea heldreichii) and Ramonda serbica
Lamiaceae: Rosmarinus tomentosus, Teucrium charidemi, Thymus capitellatus and T. villosus subsp. villosus
Mandragora officinarum
Moehringia fontqueri
Murbeckiella sousae
Primulaceae: Androsace cylindrica, Primula glaucescens and P. spectabilis
Saxifraga cintrana, S. portosanctana, S. presolanensis, S. valdensis and S. vayredana
Scrophulariaceae: Antirrhinum lopesianum and Lindernia procumbens
Sideroxylon marmulano
Thymelaea broterana
Viola athois, V. cazorlensis and V. delphinanth

Annex V
Annex V details the species which are of 'interest' to the European Union, of which the taking or exploitation of wild may be subject to the management decisions of the individual countries concerned. This largely concerns plants or animals in which the hunting or gathering was/is an economic activity.
Mammals
Carnivores: golden jackal (Canis aureus moreoticus), Spanish populations north of the Duera and Greek populations north of the 39th parallel of the grey wolf, Martes martes, Mustela putorius, all species of Phocidae (seals) not mentioned in Annex IV, Genetta genetta and Herpestes ichneumon
Mountain hare (Lepus timidus)
Hoofed mammals: Capra ibex, C. pyrenaica (except C. pyrenaica pyrenaica) and Rupicapra rupicapra (except R. rupicapra balcanica and R. ornata)

Amphibians
Rana esculenta, R. perezi, R. ridibunda and R. temporaria

Fish
Lampreys: Lampetra fluviatilis and Lethenteron zanandrai
All sturgeon species not mentioned in Annex IV
Salmonidae: Thymallus thymallus, Hucho hucho, Salmo salar (only when in fresh water) and all Coregonus spp. (except Coregonus oxyrhynchus - anadromous populations in certain sectors of the North Sea)
Cyprinids: all Barbus spp.
Perciformes: Gymnocephalus schraetzer and Zingel zingel
All Alosa spp.
Catfish: Silurus aristotelis

Other
Corals: Corallium rubrum
Molluscs: Helix pomatia, Margaritifera margaritifera, Microcondylaea compressa and Unio elongatulus
Hirudo medicinalis
Crabs: Astacus astacus, Austropotamobius pallipes and A. torrentium
Lobster: Scyllarides latus
Moth: Graellsia isabellae

Plants
Red algae: Lithothamnium coralloides and Phymatholithon calcareum
Lichens: Cladonia subgenus Cladina
Mosses: Leucobryum glaucum, all Sphagnum species except Sphagnum pylasii
Clubmosses: all Lycopodium spp. (see lycopodium powder)

Galanthus nivalis, Narcissus bulbocodium and N. juncifolius
Iris lusitanica
Lilium rubrum
Ruscus aculeatus

Asteraceae: Arnica montana, Artemisia eriantha, A. genipi, Doronicum plantagineum subsp. tournefortii and Leuzea rhaponticoides
Brassicaceae: Alyssum pintadasilvae, Malcolmia lacera subsp. graccilima and Murbeckiella pinnatifida subsp. herminii
Gentianaceae: Gentiana lutea
Lamiaceae: Teucrium salviastrum subsp. salviastrum
Fabaceae: Anthyllis lusitanica, Dorycnium pentaphyllum subsp. transmontana and Ulex densus
Plumbaginaceae: Armeria sampaio
Rosaceae: Rubus genevieri subsp. herminii
Scrophulariaceae: Anarrhinum longipedicelatum, Euphrasia mendonçae, Scrophularia grandiflora subsp. grandiflora, S. berminii and S. sublyrata

Annex VI
This annex compiles the types of capture and killing (i.e. hunting) which are prohibited in the European Community (and now the European Union), as well as prohibited modes of transport (while hunting). These can vary according to form of life. Birds are covered by the older Birds Directive.
Mammals, for example, may not be hunted using explosives, gassing or smoking out burrows, poisons and poisoned or anaesthetic bait, tape recorders, artificial light sources, mirrors and other dazzling devices, blind or mutilated animals used as live decoys, non-selective nets or traps, crossbows and semi-automatic or automatic machine guns with a magazine capable of holding more than two rounds of ammunition. Other prohibited hunting devices are those to illuminate targets, electrical and/or electronic devices capable of killing or stunning and sighting scopes for night shooting with an electronic image magnifier or image converter.
Fish may not be caught using poisons or explosives.

It is furthermore illegal to hunt wildlife in the European Union from an aircraft or moving motor vehicle.

See also

List of European Union directives
Conservation movement
Environmental protection
Environmentalism
Lagoon

References