[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cyber Kong

g Kong with a sleeper hold, who was then kicked out of Blood Warriors. Kong rejoined Blood Warriors on January 19, 2012, helping Akira Tozawa and BxB Hulk turn on Cima and kick him out of the group. On March 1, the new leader of Blood Warriors, Akira Tozawa, changed the stable's name to Mad Blankey.

In 2012 shortly after joining Mad Blankey, Kong was abruptly demoted to the level of jobber to the stars.  He rarely won matches, and often cost Mad Blankey matches due to inept attempts at interfering on their behalf.  After a failed challenge at the Open the Twin Gate Championship on December 23, 2012, Kong was kicked out of Mad Blankey. He returned to Mad Blankey on August 30, 2013, after Yamato had taken over as the new leader of the group. On October 6, Kong, BxB Hulk and Yamato won the vacant Open the Triangle Gate Championship by defeating Akira Tozawa, Masato Yoshino and Shingo Takagi. They lost the title to Millennials (Eita, Flamita and T-Hawk) on December 5. On August 16, 2015, Mad Blankey was forced to disband after losing to Jimmyz in a five-on-five elimination tag team match, after being betrayed by K-ness. On September 23, Kong formed a new stable named VerserK with Kotoka, Mondai Ryu, Naruki Doi, Shingo Takagi and Yamato.

On May 5, 2017, Cyber Kong was forced to unmask and reveal his real name, after losing to Open the Dream Gate Champion Yamato in a five-way steel cage match. He later became part of R.E.D stable.

Championships and accomplishments
Dragon Gate
Open the Triangle Gate Championship  (10 times) – with BxB Hulk and Shingo Takagi (2), BxB Hulk and Yamato (1), Kzy and Naruki Doi (1), T-Hawk and Shingo Takagi (1), El Lindaman and Shingo Takagi (1), Kazma Sakamoto and Yasushi Kanda (1), H.Y.O and Diamante (1), Diamante and Kazma Sakamoto (1) and SB Kento and Kazma Sakamoto (1)
Open the Twin Gate Championship (4 times) – with Yamato (2), Shingo Takagi (1) and Masaaki Mochizuki (1)
Open the Twin Gate #1 Contender's One Night Tournament (2012) – with Naoki Tanisaki
Ryukyu Dragon Pro Wrestling
Gasakae Tournament (2022)

Luchas de Apuestas record

Notes

References

External links
Cyber Kong profile on Dragon Gate USA

Japanese male professional wrestlers
Living people
1982 births
21st-century professional wrestlers
Open the Twin Gate Champions
Open the Triangle Gate Champions
Osaka Pro Wrestling Champions