[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Slavutych

persistence of the protests when confronted with flashbang grenades and warning shots, the Russian forces agreed to leave Slavutych and release the mayor on the conditions that the Ukrainian military would not be present in the town and most weapons would be handed over to the mayor.

Infrastructure

From the start, Slavutych was planned to become a "21st-century city". Compared to other cities in Ukraine, Slavutych has a modern architecture with pleasant surroundings, and the standard of living in the city is much higher than in most other Ukrainian cities. During the construction of the city, workers and architects from eight former Soviet republics became involved: Armenian SSR, Azerbaijan SSR, Estonian SSR, Georgian SSR, Latvian SSR, Lithuanian SSR, Russian SFSR and Ukrainian SSR. As a result, the city is divided into eight districts named after the capitals of the contributing republics, each with its own unique style and atmosphere. In addition, the city has a youth center, a modern community center, a town hall, an Internet cafe, numerous sports facilities, modern clinics, and a hotel. Around 80% of housing in the city is formed by apartments while the other 20% is formed by small, family houses. The city has a uniquely high birth rate as well as surprisingly low mortality. As a result, the average age in Slavutych is by far the lowest of any city in Ukraine. More than one third of its inhabitants are under 18.

The infrastructure and public facilities of the city were mostly funded by the company which operated the Chernobyl nuclear plant. Because the remaining units of the nuclear power plant were shut down in 2001, the city faces significant social problems and an uncertain future. Until 2001, approximately 9,000 people worked at the plant. Since the shutdown, this number has dropped to 3,000, most of them working on monitoring and maintenance. 85% of the city budget was funded by the operator of the plant. In order to support the settlement and establishment of new companies, Slavutych was declared a Special Economic Zone. In addition, substantial vocational retraining programs are provided by the government to improve the occupational outlook of those who lost jobs. Despite these efforts, about 1,500 people have already left the city, a trend which is predicted to continue for the foreseeable future.

Culture 

Slavutych has been the venue of numerous cultural activities since its foundation in 1989. Most recently, the 86 Film and Urbanism Festival, which ran six editions (2013–2018) and EASA/SESAM, which was due to take place in 2020, but was postponed to 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

The unique modernist architecture of the city remains one of its main attractions, as captured in the architectural guide Slavutych, by author Ievgeniia Gubkina.

Demographics

Transport
Slavutych has a railway station, and a minor stop in the locality of Poselok Lesnoi, on the Chernihiv–Ovruch line. It is served by a branch (Semenyahivka-Slavutych) of the regional highway P56 Chernihiv-Chernobyl, and by the provincial road T2506.

Notable people
Serhiy Rozhok (born 1985), football player
Ivan Dorn (born 1988), singer, actor

See also
FC Slavutych

References

External links

  Slavutych City Community Website
 Half-Life: Where are the Chernobyl workers now?  documentary by Matador Network (3 January 2012)
 "Memories of the Future: Slavutych Tomorrow" participative art-project by Krolikowski Art dedicated to Slavutych
"86 International Festival of Film and Urbanism" an annual festival taking place Slavutych, with an Urbanism Program curated by METASITU

 
Cities in Kyiv Oblast
Aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster
Populated places established in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic
Planned communities in Ukraine
New towns started in the 1980s
Populated places established in 1986
1986 establishments in Ukraine
Cities of regional significance in Ukraine
Company towns in Ukraine
Enclaves and exclaves