[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# European Landscape Convention

significant or characteristic features of a landscape and 'Landscape management' as an action ensuring the regular upkeep of a landscape, so as to guide and harmonise changes within. Finally "landscape planning" is defined as a strong forward-looking action to enhance, restore or create landscapes.

Article 2 denotes the territorial and functional scope of the treaty. It covers:
natural, rural, urban and peri-urban areas;
land, inland water and marine areas
landscapes that might be considered outstanding as well as everyday or degraded landscapes.
It also states, with the exception of Art. 15 that convention applies to the entire territory of the Parties.

Article 3 provides that the aims of the treaty are to promote landscape protection, management and planning, and to organise European co-operation on landscape issues.

Article 5 and 6 state the general and specific obligations of the Parties, such as:
establishing and implementing landscape policies aimed at landscape protection, management and planning
integrating landscape into their regional, town planning, cultural, environmental, agricultural, social and economic policies.
increasing awareness of the value of landscapes, their role and changes to them
promoting training and education in landscape policy, protection, management and planning
identifying and assessing the landscapes in their territories.

Articles 7 – 9 concern the international co-operation, assistance, exchange of the specialists and information, and encourage Parties to prepare and implement joint landscape programmes.

Article 11 denotes the Landscape Award of the Council of Europe (see below).

Article 15 allows Parties to specify the territory to which they want the Convention to apply. This article has been used by e.g. by Denmark to exclude the treaty's application to Greenland.

Article 16 gives any Party permission to denounce the convention, at any time, by a notification addressed to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.

Relation to other treaties

The European Landscape Convention of the Council of Europe is an international-level legal text that addresses the protection and management of natural and cultural heritage, and regional and spatial planning. It is complementary to other international treaties, such as:
the UNESCO Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, (Paris, 16 November 1972);
the Council of Europe Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats, (Bern, 19 September 1979);
the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe, (Granada, 3 October 1985);
the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of the Archaeological Heritage (revised) (Valletta, 16 January 1992).

The definition of 'landscape' in the European Landscape Convention is wider than that of 'cultural landscape' in the UNESCO World Heritage Convention; the former includes any kind of landscape while the latter denotes sites of outstanding universal value that have been identified as World Heritage Sites.

Landscape Award of the Council of Europe
Article 11 of the convention establishes the Landscape award of the Council of Europe. Its purpose is to promote and serve as an example the policies and measures of local and regional authorities or NGOs, which were adopted to protect, manage and/or plan their landscape, and have proven to be effective.
Until now the award was given:

in 2009 to Lille Métropole (France), for the project "Parc de la Deûle";
in 2011 to The Joint Committee of the Municipality of Carbonia (Italy) for "The Carbonia project : the landscape machine".
in 2013 to the Lower Silesian Association of Landscape Parks, Poland, for preserving ecological value in the landscape of the Szprotawa river valley.
in 2015 to the Local government authorities, the Greenways Methodological Association and the Iron Curtain Trail Association, Hungary, and all the Slovenian villages of the Hetés Region (project presented by Hungary) for the "Borderless co-operation of local communities for the landscape heritage of ‘Fabulous’ Hetés".

See also
Landscape planning
Landscape-scale conservation
Permanent European Conference for the Study of the Rural Landscape

References

Further reading

External links
European Landscape Convention of the Council of Europe
Details of Treaty No.176 European Landscape Convention
CIVILSCAPE - We are the landscape people! (CIVILSCAPE)
Landscape Europe
Landscape Character Network