[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Welfare in New Zealand

Social welfare has long been an important part of New Zealand society and a significant political issue. It is concerned with the provision by the state of benefits and services. Together with fiscal welfare and occupational welfare, it makes up the social policy of New Zealand. Social welfare is mostly funded through general taxation. Since the 1980s welfare has been provided on the basis of need; the exception is universal superannuation.

State housing 

The government provides State housing to those in need. The number of houses owned by the State has varied over the years and between different governments. Currently the level of rent paid in state housing is related to the level of income of the people living in the house (income-related rents) so that those on low incomes pay below market rents. Where a household's income is relatively high the rents are set at the market rate.

In addition to the provision of State housing the government also provides an Accommodation Supplement. This is payable as a contribution to rent, board or mortgage payments for qualifying people. The Accommodation Supplement is not paid to those paying income-related rents in a State house.

In some instances a person may also qualify for a rates rebate to help with the cost of local government rates.

Social security
Social security benefits are administered by Work and Income. As of July 2013, they include:

Child Disability Allowance – for people providing full-time care for a child or young person (under 18) with a disability
Jobseeker Support – for unemployed people aged 18 and over looking for employment. Formerly Unemployment Benefit.
New Zealand Superannuation – for people aged 65 and above.
Orphan's Benefit – for people who are raising children who can't live with their parents because they are deceased, incapacitated or can't be located.
Sole Parent Support – for single parents aged 19 and over, who are caring for children aged under 14. Formerly Domestic Purposes Benefit - Sole Parent.
Supported Living Payment – for people who cannot work due to disability, and people providing full-time care for someone 18 and over with a disability. Formerly Invalid's Benefit and Domestic Purposes Benefit - Care of the ill or infirm.
Unsupported Child's Benefit – for people who are raising children who can't live with their parents due to a family breakdown.
Veteran's Pension – for people who have served in the New Zealand Defence Force during a war or emergency and have a war-related disability.
Young Parent Payment – for young people aged 16–18 and caring for children aged under 14, who can't live with their parents and are unsupported by them.
Youth Payment – for young people aged 16–17 who can't live with their parents and are unsupported by them.

Unemployment Benefit (Jobseeker Support)

Unemployment Act 1930
In 1930, while Prime Minister George Forbes was in London for the 1930 Imperial Conference, the United Government passed the Unemployment Act, promising relief payments to those who registered as unemployed. Upon his return to New Zealand in January 1931, Forbes announced there would be no payments made without work, meaning those registered would have to participate in government 'make work' schemes such as building roads and working on farms or in forestry projects. When the register was opened in February, 23,000 people put their names down; by June the number of registered unemployed had risen to 51,000 as the Great Depression worsened. The register did not include women, Māori, or boys under 16. In 1933 (by which time the number of unemployed had reached 80,000), MP Gordon Coates introduced the Small Farms (Relief of Unemployment) Bill to help turn unemployed workers into small farmers.

Social Security Act 1938
After winning the 1935 election the newly elected Labour government immediately issued a Christmas bonus to the unemployed. However, a regular unemployment benefit was not introduced until the passing of the Social Security Act in 1938; that benefit was "payable to a person 16 years of age and over who has been in New Zealand for at least 12 months and is unemployed, is capable of and willing to undertake suitable work, and has taken reasonable steps to secure employment".

Today