[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Human rights in Colombia

lopments in the scandal: 'Investigations continued on former directors for illegal surveillance between 2005 and 2008. Statements by DAS senior personnel implicated former senior officials of the President's office as beneficiaries of the illegally obtained information'.

Economic Rights in Colombia

In its 2010 report, the UN Committee on Economic, Cultural and Social Rights expressed its concern at "the wide inequalities in the distribution of income in the State party in the context of poverty." It is particularly concerned that the taxation system is regressive and more favourable to persons from the highest income groups. The Constitutional Court was commended by the report for establishing 'criteria for determining the legal minimum wage, the right to fair remuneration and maintenance of purchasing power', but the unequal land distribution and lack of agrarian reform was a further concern mentioned by the committee. According to the UK pressure group ABColombia, 0.4% of landholders own 61% of the rural land in Colombia.

In 2015, the National Administrative Department of Statistics (DANE) reported that 27.8% of the population were living below the poverty line, of which 7.9% in "extreme poverty". In rural zones, extreme poverty is as high as 18.0%.

Vulnerable populations

LGBT rights

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights in Colombia have progressed since consensual homosexual activity was decriminalized in 1980 with amendments to the Criminal Code, making it one of Latin America's most advanced countries in regard to LGBT rights legislation. Between February 2007 and April 2008, three rulings of the Constitutional Court granted registered same-sex couples the same pension, social security and property rights as for registered heterosexual couples. In 2011, Congress passed a law banning discrimination based on sexual orientation. On 28 April 2016, the Constitutional Court legalized same-sex marriage.

Intersex rights

In 1999, the Constitutional Court of Colombia became the first court to consider the human rights implications of medical interventions to alter the sex characteristics of intersex children. The Court restricted the age at which intersex children could be the subjects of surgical interventions. Morgan Holmes states that, while children who reach the same age and circumstances will be in the same position, then they will "be permitted access to the conditions that protect their autonomies". Other intersex children will not benefit, in particular at the point they are born: "In its worst potential implications and uses, the court's decision may simply amplify the need to expedite procedures".

See also

Colombian armed conflict (1964–present)
Guerrilla movements in Colombia
Plan Colombia
Paramilitarism in Colombia
FARC
National Liberation Army (Colombia)

References

External links
Washington Office on Latin America
Amnesty International: Colombia
Human Rights Watch: Colombia
Justice for Colombia
Insight on Conflict: Colombia
Office for the High Commissioner for Human Rights: Colombia
US Department of State Human Rights Report: Colombia
Colombian Government Human Rights Program