[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

the Gundams and the Ptolemaios II, mocking Healing Care for her failure to carry out the operation, and also decrying the decision to give her and Revive licenses. His assault, however, fails due to an uprising led by Kati Mannequin aiding Celestial Being and Katharon, with Setsuna killing Goodman. 

 
 The uncle of Union member Billy Katagiri. He is the commander of the A-Laws. He also has a secret connection with the Innovators. When his nephew, Billy, is recruited into the A-Laws, he installs him as an MS Technical Chief and tells him that he has high hopes in him. When the 00 Gundam destroys the ship led by Lee Zhejiang to stop the Ptolemaios II from escaping to space, Commander Katagiri reluctantly decides to accept the aid of the Innovators in order to defeat Celestial Being and prevent further sacrifices. The Innovators soon deployed in the A-Laws as licensed officers, with new, powerful suits to combat the Gundams.

 After the Ptolemaios II destroys the superweapon Memento Mori, the Federation government grants the A-Laws direct control of the military to further increase security. However, Homer fears that public support will eventually go to the anti-government force, Katharon and tasks Brigadier General Arthur Goodman to handle Celestial Being. His fears later realized when a number of dissidents in the regular army, led by Colonel Pang Hercury, occupied the AEU's orbital elevator. Worried that Katharon activities will increase, Homer orders Commander Kim in the regular army to send Sergei Smirnov on a top secret mission to ask the dissidents to surrender. When negotiations fail, Commander Katagiri sends Goodman into space to use another Memento Mori to completely destroy the elevator. At the end of the season, failing to defeat Celestial Being and after news of the A-Laws disbanding was broadcast, Homer commits seppuku rather than facing charges. Albeit his ruthless ways he in truth seeks to achieve the world peace but he was delusional, attempting to charge himself with all the sins and sacrifices intended to achieve that goal, this is thwarted in the end when Ribbons Almark, A-Laws and the Innovators are defeated in the last battle. 

 
 A man with a slightly wrinkled face and a head of grey hair, he is shown to be arrogant and overconfident in his abilities. Kati Mannequin recognizes that he is known for search and destroy type operations. He commands the attack on the Celestial Being flagship, Ptolemaios II, but his strategy was thwarted by Celestial Being's tactical forecaster, Sumeragi Lee Noriega. He and his crew would have been killed by the 00 Gundam, if not for the timely arrival of Mr. Bushido. After his defeat and the loss of Trilobite, he is forced to give command to Kati Mannequin. When the A-Laws headquarters decide to attack the Katharon base with the automatons, he simply tells Kati that there is no need to feel sympathy for them. After Soma is declared KIA, he gives the Ahead Smultron to Louise Halevy. During the strategy planning, he prepares a squad to follow his plan, but Kati Mannequin changes part of it. He is among the A-Laws members who lead the Memento Mori operation. Lindt is killed after the ship under his command is caught in the explosion of Momento Mori station One.

Innovators 

At the start of Celestial Being's armed intervention, Ribbons Almark, from behind the scenes, leads a group consisting of six individuals known as , beings created by Aeolia Schenberg to pose as . Supposedly essential to Aeolia's plan, Ribbons claims that they are "the future of mankind" while they are actually impressions of the true Innovators that would manifest within humans. Considered to be existences that surpass normal humans, they are beings created through means of heavy gene manipulation and nanotechnology. They are characterized by their advanced ability to use quantum brainwaves and directly interface with Veda, as well as their agelessness and androgyny. Tieria Erde is also an Innovade, but has sided with Celestial Being, and a number of other Innovades were shown participating in ordinary life worldwide in the final episode of season 2.