[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Antonio José Martínez

Fort was, therefore, located at a very strategic place for international commerce.  It became a headquarters for French Canadian and American fur trappers and traders who—through the American Fur Company—successfully exported beaver pelts, in the form of top hats, to the salons of Paris and London.

In the spring or early summer of 1846, during the time of US-Mexican War, Charles Bent visited Colonel Stephen W. Kearny, leader of the Army of the West at Forth Leavenworth, Kansas.  Together with a large contingent of his army, Kearny gathered at Bent's Fort by the end of June in preparation to march on Santa Fe on behalf of the Government of the United States to take possession of New Mexico that belonged to the Republic of Mexico.  Padre Martinez, the priest of Taos, had been a Mexican nationalist.  He had been ordained a priest in Durango, Mexico a year after Mexican Independence, and considered Padre Miguel Hidalgo (Father of Mexican Independence) a hero and mentor.  At the same time, he considered George Washington as another of his hero-mentors.  Padre Martinez appreciated the ideals spelled out in the American Constitution and Bill of Rights.   Although Padre Martinez had resisted U.S. encroachment into New Mexico since the early 1840s, he eventually came to believe that New Mexico would be better off under the flag of the United States.  Before coming into Santa Fe, Kearny was aware that Padre Martinez was the main religious and political leader in northern New Mexico and throughout the whole region.  Kearny, ironically, dispatched Captain Bent with a dozen soldiers to escort Padre Martinez and his brothers from Taos to Santa Fe in order to pledge allegiance to the American Flag.  Because of their convictions, and in order to attempt avoiding bloodshed in the civil transfer of power, they willingly complied, thus becoming the first inhabitants of New Mexico to become citizens of the United States.  Moreover, Colonel Kearny asked Padre Martinez to borrow his Ramage printing press on which the Padre had published New Mexico's first book, a newspaper, as well as religious and educational materials.  The Padre lent the press to the Colonel soon-to-be promoted to Brigadier General, and Kearny used it to publish his Code of Laws.

The quote attributed to Padre Martinez about the clergyman/attorney riding the burro is from an 1877 unpublished manuscript by Santiago Valdez in Spanish belonging to the Ritch Collection housed at the Huntington Library in San Marino, California, near Los Angeles: Biografia del Presbítero Antonio José Martínez, Cura de Taos.  Padre Martinez made the statement in September 1846, a few weeks after General Stephen Watts Kearny had, on August 18 in the name of the United States of America, occupied Santa Fe and all of New Mexico.

See also 
 Death Comes for the Archbishop

Citations

References

Further reading

External links
 Cuaderno de Ortografia From the Collections at the Library of Congress

1793 births
1867 deaths
American humanitarians
American writers of Mexican descent
American people of Spanish descent
People of Santa Fe de Nuevo Mexico
People of the New Mexico Territory
Mexican Roman Catholic priests
Neomexicanos
People excommunicated by the Catholic Church
People from Taos, New Mexico
People from Abiquiú, New Mexico
Catholics from New Mexico
19th-century American Roman Catholic priests
American politicians of Mexican descent