[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Will House (cricketer)

William John House (born 16 March 1976) is an English former professional cricketer. In 1993, three years before the start of his first-class career, House won "The Cricket Society Wetherall Award for the Leading All-rounder in English Schools Cricket". He was born in Sheffield in South Yorkshire.

House started his first-class cricket career playing for Cambridge University. After making his first-class debut in April 1996 against Glamorgan in a university match he won his Blue later the same season in the University Match against Oxford. He played for the university side for three years, making a total of 22 first-class appearances for the team. He played List A cricket regularly for the British Universities side in the 1997 and 1998 Benson & Hedges cup competitions and played one first-class match for the side.

Having first played for the Second XI in 1994, he made his First XI debut for Kent County Cricket Club in the 1996 AXA Equity & Law League, playing four times for the team. In 1997 he made his County Championship debut against Essex in August before appearing for the county against the touring Australians later in the same month. A further Championship appearance followed in 1998 and in 1999 he played in one first-class match against his old University at the beginning of the season and regularly for the Kent List A team.

He was selected by MCC to go on their tour of Bangladesh in January 2000 and at the beginning of the 2000 season House moved to Sussex County Cricket Club. He was a more regular member of the Sussex team for two seasons, especially in List A competitions, playing in nine first-class and 64 List A matches for the county before he retired from professional cricket in September 2002 and took a job in the financial services industry in London.

House played a total of 37 first-class and 97 List A matches in his career, generally as an upper-middle order batsman. In club cricket he appeared for Sevenoaks Vine in Kent and Horsham Cricket Club. He has continued playing cricket for amateur sides such as MCC since his retirement from the professional game.

References

External links

1976 births
English cricketers
Living people
Kent cricketers
Cambridge University cricketers
Marylebone Cricket Club cricketers
Sussex cricketers
British Universities cricketers
Cricketers from Sheffield