[Source: PubMed]

21. Child Care Health Dev. 2026;52(3):e70279. doi: 10.1111/cch.70279.

Violence Against Children in Syrian Refugee Camps and Villages: The Need for 
Equitable Solutions to a Growing Global Health Crisis.

Bauer MEE(1), Abdelhameed J(2), Presser E(3), Pike I(1), Al-Hajj S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(2)Department of Science, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(3)Department of Surgery, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon.

BACKGROUND: Children experiencing social and material deprivation, such as those 
in refugee camps and villages displaced due to armed conflict in the global 
south, are at high risk of experiencing violence. Problematically, the lived 
experiences of refugee families are rarely accounted for in research, meaning 
causes and consequences of violence against children may be misunderstood and/or 
unidentified. This study is part of a larger research project conducted through 
international collaborative efforts in Lebanon to work with Syrian refugee 
families and identify areas for safety and injury prevention. We explore the 
question: "What are families' perspectives on violence against children in 
refugee camps and villages?"
METHODS: We used a trauma- and violence-informed prevention lens and conducted 
semi-structured interviews with 90 families in three refugee camps and four 
villages.
RESULTS: Findings from a reflexive thematic analysis were twofold: (1) 
xenophobia and exclusion; and (2) gender-based assault and vulnerability.
CONCLUSION: The findings demonstrate ways in which trauma and violence 
prevention efforts, such as addressing social inequities shaping discrimination 
and gender-based assault, can reduce the risk of Syrian refugee children 
experiencing severe injuries and loss of life. We argue these efforts are 
necessary for equity-centred violence prevention practice in Lebanon and on a 
global scale.

© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cch.70279
PMID: 42012440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]