[Source: PubMed]

71. Anesth Essays Res. 2019 Jan-Mar;13(1):13-18. doi: 10.4103/aer.AER_9_19.

A Comparison of Stress Response between Insertion of Gastro-laryngeal Tube and 
Endotracheal Intubation in Patients Undergoing Upper Gastrointestinal Endoscopic 
Procedures for Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography.

Davis J(1), Sreevastava DK(1), Dwivedi D(1), Gadgi S(1), Sud S(1), Dudeja P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia and Critical Care, Command Hospital (Southern 
Command), Pune, Maharashtra, India.
(2)Department of Community Medicine, Armed Forces Medical College, Pune, 
Maharashtra, India.

BACKGROUND: Complex gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopic procedures like endoscopic 
retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) require deep sedation or general 
anesthesia. Comorbidities with the poor physiological condition warrant 
endotracheal intubation to prevent hypoxia and aspiration. The gastro-laryngeal 
tube (GLT), a new supraglottic airway device with a separate channel for 
endoscope looks promising.
AIMS: The aim of the study is to compare the stress response during insertion of 
GLT and endotracheal intubation (ETT) in patients undergoing upper GI endoscopic 
procedures like ERCP.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: This control versus comparison study comprised two groups 
with 30 patients each who underwent ETT and GLT insertion. The standard general 
anesthesia technique was used. In GLT group, the device was inserted without 
neuromuscular blocker. In ETT group, injection atracurium 0.5 mg/kg intravenous 
was administered as muscle relaxant for aiding endotracheal intubation. 
Hemodynamic parameters and time taken for the insertion of GLT/ETT were 
recorded.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Data were analyzed using SPSS version 20. Student's t-test 
was used to compare quantitative data between the groups. ANOVA test was applied 
for intragroup comparisons between GLT and ETT groups. Categorical variables 
were analyzed using the Chi-square test.
RESULTS: Heart rate and mean arterial pressure increased from baseline in ETT 
group, following laryngoscopy and endotracheal intubation as well as with GLT 
insertion. However, the stress response caused by endotracheal intubation was 
significantly greater than that caused by GLT insertion.
CONCLUSION: GLT as an airway device is a safe alternative with decreased stress 
response compared to endotracheal intubation for upper GI endoscopy procedures.

DOI: 10.4103/aer.AER_9_19
PMCID: PMC6444943
PMID: 31031473

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.