[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Keith L. Moore

dicine in San Jose designated Dr. Moore as a  "Maestro De La Anatomia De America" 2008
Honoured Member of the Italian Society of Anatomy and Histology in recognition of his scientific and academic curriculum 2009
Vice President Honorary of the Pan American Academy of History of Medicine, since 2017.

Embryology in the Qur'an
In 1980, Moore was invited to Saudi Arabia to lecture on anatomy and embryology at King Abdulaziz University. While he was there, Moore was approached by the Embryology Committee of King Abdulaziz University for his assistance in reinterpreting certain verses in the Qur’an and some sayings in the Hadiths which referred to human reproduction and embryological development. Moore said that he was amazed at the scientific accuracy of some of the statements which were made in the 7th century.

For the past three years, I have worked with the Embryology Committee of King Abdulaziz University in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, helping them reinterpret the many statements in the Qur’an, Sunnah, Kabbalah and Talmud referring to human reproduction and prenatal development. At first, I was astonished by the accuracy of the statements that were recorded in the 7th century AD, before the science of embryology was established.

Moore worked with the Embryology Committee on a comparative study of the Qur’an, the Hadith and modern embryology. The Committee presented and published several papers with Moore and others co-authoring a number of papers.
Islam Papers writes that the electron microscope reveals that:

For instance, the Holy books claims that at one point the embryo looks like a small piece of meat which can be chewed, or mudghah, and Moore consents, "by golly, it does, sorta", agreeing and signaling to the knowledge we have about the structure and appearance of the actual embryo, which actually comes into a stage where it resembles the size of a small thing which can be chewed by teeth.

A special edition of Moore's medical school textbook, The Developing Human: Clinically Oriented Embryology, was published for the Muslim world in 1983. The Developing Human: Clinically Oriented Embryology with Islamic Additions, included "pages with embryology-related Quranic verse and hadith" by co-author Abdul Majeed al-Zindani.

In 2002, Moore declined to be interviewed by the Wall Street Journal on the subject of his work on Islam, stating that "it's been ten or eleven years since I was involved in the Qur'an."

References

Bibliography

External links
Curriculum Vitae of Keith L. Moore

Canadian anatomists
1925 births
2019 deaths
Canadian biologists
Academic staff of the University of Toronto
Medical school textbook writers
Canadian expatriates in Saudi Arabia