[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 181]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

much as his strength would allow. Valeria was shocked to notice how
very weak he was. He had a look in his face that she could not bear to
see. If he did not improve soon, she thought of trying to persuade him
to return home to see his doctor again. When one was ill, home was the
best place after all.

"You and Professor Fortescue," she said, in closing her letter, "are the
two people I love in the world. You are all that I have in life to cling
to. Write to me, dearest Hadria, for I am very anxious and wretched."

The affairs of life and death mix themselves incongruously enough, in
this confused world. The next news that stirred the repose of Craddock
Dene, was that of Algitha's engagement to Wilfrid Burton. In spite of
his socialistic views, Mrs. Fullerton was satisfied with the marriage,
because Wilfrid Burton was well-connected and had good expectations. The
mother had feared that Algitha would never marry at all, and she not
only raised no objection, but seemed relieved. Wilfrid Burton had come
down to stay at the Red House, during one of Algitha's holidays, and it
was then that the betrothal had taken place. The marriage promised to be
happy, for the couple were deeply attached and had interests in common.
They intended to continue to work on the same lines after they were
married. Both parents were favourably impressed by the son-in-law elect,
and the Cottage became the scene of exciting arguments on the subject of
socialism. Mr. Fullerton insisted on holding Wilfrid Burton responsible
for every sort of theory that had ever been attributed not merely to
socialists, but to communists, anarchists, collectivists, nihilists, and
the rest; and nothing would persuade him that the young man was not
guilty of all these contradictory enormities of thought. Wilfrid's
personality, however, overcame every prejudice against him, on this
account, after the first meeting.

Joseph Fleming, among others, congratulated Algitha heartily on her
engagement.

"I can see you are very happy," he said naïvely. She laughed and
coloured.

"Indeed I ought to be. Life is gloriously worth living, when it is lived
in the presence of good and generous souls."

"I wish _I_ had married," said Joseph pensively.

"It is not too late to mend," suggested Algitha.

"How reckless you are!" exclaimed her sister. "How can you recommend
marriage in the abstract? You happen to have met just the right person,
but Mr. Fleming hasn't, it would seem."

"If one person can be so fortunate, so can another," said Algitha.

"Why tempt Providence? Rather bear the ills you have----"

"I am surprised to hear you take a gloomy view of anything, Mrs.
Temperley," said Joseph; "I always thought you so cheerful. You say
funnier things than any lady I have ever met, except an Irish girl who
used to sing comic songs."

Both sisters laughed.

"How do you know that, in the intervals of her comic songs, that girl
has not a gloomy disposition?" asked Hadria.

"Oh no, you can see that she is without a care in the world; she is like
Miss Fullerton, always full of good cheer and kindness."

"Had she also slums to cheer her up?" asked Hadria.

"No, not at all. She never does anything in particular."

"I am surprised that she is cheerful then," said Algitha. "It won't
last."

"It is her slums that keep my sister in such good spirits," said Hadria.

"Really! Well, if you are fond of that sort of thing, Mrs. Temperley,
there are some nasty enough places at the lower end of Craddock----"

"Oh, it isn't that one clings to slums for slums' sake," cried Hadria
laughing.

"I am afraid they are already overrun with visitors," Joseph added.
"There are so many Miss Walkers."

It was not long after this conversation, that Craddock Dene was thrilled
by another piece of matrimonial news. Joseph Fleming was announced to be
engaged to the Irish girl who sang comic songs. She was staying with
Mrs. Jordan at the time. And the Irish girl, whose name was Kathleen
O'Halloran, came and sang her comic songs to Craddock Dene, while Joseph
sat and beamed in pride and happiness, and the audience rippled with
laughter.

Kathleen was very pretty and very fascinating, with her merry,
kind-hearted ways, and she became extremely popular with her future
neighbours.

Little changes had taken place in the village, through death or marriage
or departure. Dodge had laid to rest many victims of influenza, which
visited the neighbourhood with great severity. Among the slain, poor
Dodge had to number his own wife. The old man was broken down with his
loss. He loved to talk over her illness and death with Hadria, whose
presence seemed to comfort him more than anything else, as he assured
her, in his quaint dialect.

Sometimes, returning through the Craddock Woods, Hadria would pass
through the churchyard on her way home, after her walk, and there she
would come upon Dodge patiently at work upon some new g