[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 7th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

4July 2, 1865) began the war as a private in Co. A, he was commissioned a captain in February 1863 and served on the staff of General Solomon Meredith.  He distinguished himself in this role during the Battle of Gettysburg and was later made acting lieutenant colonel of the regiment.

Notable people

 David Cooper Ayres was regiment surgeon throughout the war.  After the war he served as a Wisconsin legislator.
 Joseph N. P. Bird was 1st lieutenant of Co. I and was wounded at Gainesville.  He was promoted to captain but was detailed from the regiment for most of 1863 and 1864.  After the war he became a Wisconsin legislator.
 Allen R. Bushnell was 1st lieutenant of Co. C, and later promoted to captain.  After the war became a Wisconsin legislator and U.S. congressman.
 Jefferson Coates was corporal and later sergeant in Co. H; he received a brevet to captain and the Medal of Honor for actions at Gettysburg, where he lost his eyes.
 Horace Ellis was sergeant in Co. A and received the Medal of Honor for actions at the Battle of Globe Tavern.
 Martin C. Hobart was captain of Co. B.  He was wounded at Gainesville and captured at the Wilderness.  After the war he became a Wisconsin legislator.
 Herman H. Hoffman was a corporal in Co. E.  After the war he became a Wisconsin legislator.
 Henry G. Klinefelter was enlisted in Co. D and later commissioned a 2nd lieutenant in the 51st Wisconsin Infantry Regiment.  After the war he became a Wisconsin legislator.
 John Monteith was enlisted in Co. H and rose to the rank of sergeant.  He was wounded at Gainesville and discharged due to disability.  After the war he became a Wisconsin legislator.
 Samuel Monteith, brother of John Monteith, was a sergeant in Co. H and was killed at Antietam.
 Albert O'Connor was a sergeant in Co. A, received the Medal of Honor for actions at the Battle of Five Forks.
 Henry Palmer was briefly regiment surgeon but was promoted to brigade surgeon in April 1862, and was chief surgeon at York U.S. Army Hospital.  After the war he was mayor of Janesville, Wisconsin, and Surgeon General of Wisconsin.
 Levi E. Pond was captain of Co. E.  After the war he became a Wisconsin legislator.
 John Scanlon was drafted into Co. E in December 1864.  After the war he became a Wisconsin legislator.
 Sidney Shufelt was drafted into Co. D in December 1864.  After the war he became a Wisconsin legislator.
 William Sickles was a sergeant in Co. B and received the Medal of Honor for actions at the Battle of Five Forks.
 George H. Walther was captain of Co. I and was wounded at Gainesville.  Later served as major of the 34th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment and lieutenant colonel of the 35th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment.  After the war he served as a Wisconsin legislator.

See also

 Iron Brigade
 List of Wisconsin Civil War units
 Wisconsin in the American Civil War

Further reading

References

External links
The Civil War Archive

Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865
Units and formations of the Union Army from Wisconsin
Iron Brigade
1861 establishments in Wisconsin