[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas Reade Rootes Cobb

lonel in the Confederate army on August 28, 1861. The Legion was assigned to the Army of Northern Virginia. It took heavy losses during the Maryland Campaign. He was promoted to brigadier general on November 1, 1862, but this promotion was not confirmed by the Confederate Congress.

Death and legacy

At the Battle of Fredericksburg, he was mortally wounded in the thigh by a Union artillery shell that burst inside the Stephens house near the Sunken Road on Marye's Heights. He bled to death from damage to the femoral artery on December 13, 1862. Some later accounts by veterans claim that the wounding was by rifle fire and that a Confederate soldier may have been responsible. He is buried at Oconee Hill Cemetery in Athens, Georgia.

The T. R. R. Cobb House, where Thomas Cobb and his wife Marion lived in Athens, Ga, is now a house museum.  Originally constructed across Prince Avenue from its current location, it was moved to Stone Mountain Park, Stone Mountain, Georgia, where it was partially reassembled about 1990. Stone Mountain Park had hoped to restore the house, but the project fell through. Then, it was transported back to Athens where it was reassembled and underwent an extensive restoration. The house is now an operational museum owned by the Watson-Brown Foundation.

Works
 Digest of the Statute Laws of Georgia (1851)
 Inquiry into the Law of Negro Slavery in the United States (1858)
 Historical Sketch of Slavery, from the Earliest Periods (1859)
 The Code of the State of Georgia (1861) AKA The Code of 1863 because though published in 1861, the Georgia General Assembly did not pass it till 1863.
 The Code of the State of Georgia (1873)
 The Colonel (1897)

See also
List of American Civil War generals (Acting Confederate)
List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)
List of signers of the Georgia Ordinance of Secession

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H., and Eicher, David J., Civil War High Commands, Stanford University Press, 2001, .
 McCash, William B. 1983. Thomas R.R. Cobb: The Making of a Southern Nationalist. Macon, GA: Mercer University Press.
 O'Reilly, Francis Augustín, The Fredericksburg Campaign: Winter War on the Rappahannock, Louisiana State University Press, 2003, .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .

External links

 Marion Lumpkin Cobb, Wife Of General Thomas Reade Rootes Cobb
 
 Thomas Reade Rootes Cobb at the New Georgia Encyclopedia

1823 births
1862 deaths
19th-century American politicians
American legal writers
Burials in Georgia (U.S. state)
Deputies and delegates to the Provisional Congress of the Confederate States
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
Confederate States of America military personnel killed in the American Civil War
People from Jefferson County, Georgia
People of Georgia (U.S. state) in the American Civil War
Signers of the Confederate States Constitution
Signers of the Provisional Constitution of the Confederate States
Signers of the Georgia Ordinance of Secession
University of Georgia alumni
United States politicians killed during the Civil War
Slave owners killed in the American Civil War
Proslavery activists killed in the American Civil War
Proponents of scientific racism