[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of Acton, Massachusetts

com AFB, and Natick Labs accompanied by the growth of high technology DoD contractors spurred a large increase in college-educated professionals seeking housing within commuting distance. To meet this demand and benefit financially, a lot of Acton's farmland began to turn into housing developments. 

In 1954, the Town established a Planning Board which developed regulations regarding the development of subdivisions. The first large subdivision was Indian Village (built on the southern slope of Fort Pond Hill - bisected by Route 2 in 1952 - and the adjacent flatland) in West Acton in 1955. Other notable subdivisions include Patriots Hill (located between Route 2 & the town center - which was heavily expanded upon in the late 90s), Minuteman Ridge (located off Massachusetts Avenue [Route 111], Forest Glen (located near the Stow border), and The Arbors (located off of Great Road or Route 119 / 2A). Smaller subdivisions were built as individual farmers sold their orchards, chicken farms, and dairy farms to developers.

Acton's increasing housing stock and willingness of farmers to sell their land continued to drive growth through the 1950s and into the 1970s. Alongside the Dod contract-fueled high technology innovation and development, commercial and non-DoD government contracts spurred a robust civilian high tech and information industry that was expanding in office parks along Rt 128/I 95 in the 1960s through 1980s and then along Interstate 495 in the late 1980s till present. Digital Equipment Corporation's establishment in the Maynard Mills made Acton an attractive place to live and drove development of the apartment buildings and condominiums in town. Between 1965 and 1975, all the truck farms along 2A, which were the most commercially profitable farms in town were replaced by shopping centers and apartment buildings. Nagog Office Park (1974) further hastened the development of the Rt 2A corridor as a retail and office building location. This thriving civilian sector allowed Acton to better weather the Nixon Administration's dramatic cutting of Federal Agency presence in the Commonwealth (NASA leaving Cambridge, Boston Navy Yard closing) in revenge for the 1972 election as well as the Post-Vietnam recession that hit other DoD fed areas (Tidewater Virginia, Seattle, St Louis, and San Diego, for example).

The population in the town doubled between 1950 and 1960 (from 3500 to 7000). It doubled again in the next decade. This increase made Acton look at its public schools to expand. In 1953, new schools were constructed to accommodate the growth in the student population. In 1957, Acton and Boxborough created a regional school district for grades 7 -12 (Littleton pulled out of the planned regional district halfway through the planning process). The Merriam School was constructed in 1958. Other schools quickly followed (Douglas (1966), Gates (1968), and Conant (1971)). In 1967 a building was constructed for the Junior High. In 1973 a huge addition was added to this building and it became the high school (the junior high moved to the old high school building). In the 1990, it was clear that both the Merriam and the McCarthy Towne buildings were obsolete.  In 1998, the town constructed a single replacement building, called the Parker Damon Building, to house both schools.  The school run separate programs but share gym and cafeteria space.

The Blanchard foundation gave Acton the money to construct Blanchard Auditorium for the town's High School, the building has since been converted to the R. J. Grey Jr High School.  The Auditorium, which also doubles as gym, was used to hold Town Meeting until the new (current) High School Auditorium was constructed.

In the last quarter of the 20th century, conservation also became a driving factor in the development of the town.  A desire to protect existing open-space combined with the need for additional recreation areas led the town to acquire and set aside over  for conservation purposes.  This included the development of the North Acton Recreation Area (NARA) in the late 1990s.  NARA provided the town with its first outdoor beach and swim area as well as a significant space for playing fields and an outdoor amphitheater. In 2011 NARA was renamed after Nathaniel Allen, an Acton resident who was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for his actions during the Civil War.

2000s: Continued Suburban Growth 

In the early 21st century, Acton continued its population growth including the addition of the Canterbury Hill development, located near the borders with Carlisle & Westford, that contain over 90 houses.  This was followed by the building of 153 homes on a portion of the Quail Ridge Country Club, located off Great Road (route 119 / 2A). These developments may represent a bit of a watershed in Acton's development as the availability of other open tracts is limited.