[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# F. K. Otto Dibelius

overcome, since only the most radical German Christians had been removed or had resigned from their positions. Many neutrals, forming the majority of clergy and parishioners, and many proponents of the quite doubtable compromising policy at the time of the struggle of the churches assumed positions.

 It was Dibelius' policy to gain the mainstream support of parishioners. Thus the strict opposition of the Dahlemites and Barmensians, forming the uncompromised opposition of the Confessing Church during the struggle of the churches, continued to maintain their conventions in the Old-Prussian brethren councils. On 14 January 1949 representatives of the Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union decided to reconcile the groups and founded a committee to develop a new church constitution. On 15 August 1949 the Evangelical Supreme Ecclesiastical Council, presided over by Dibelius, issued the proposal of the committee for a new constitution, which would bring together the Westphalians striving for the complete unwinding of the Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union, the Dahlemites and Barmensians as well as the Dibelians.

The bulk of the mainstream parishioners shared a strong scepticism about, if not even objection to, communism, and so did Dibelius. So after the foundation of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) in the Soviet zone of occupation on 7 October 1949, including – apart from West Berlin the bulk of the territory covered by the Evangelical Church in Berlin-Brandenburg -, its Bishop Dibelius was often defamed in the East as the propagandist of the western Konrad Adenauer government. He was declared persona non-grata by the German Democratic Republic in 1960. After the construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961 the GDR refused to allow Dibelius to enter its territory and East Berlin.

On 24 February 1950 Dibelius – heading the Evangelical Supreme Ecclesiastical Council – invited for an extraordinary Old-Prussian General Synod, which convened on 11–13 December in Berlin. The new constitution () transformed the Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union into a mere umbrella and did away with the Evangelical Supreme Ecclesiastical Council, replacing it by the Church Chancery (), as administrative body. The new governing body, replacing the Church Senate led by the Praeses of the General Synod (de facto destroyed since 1933), became the Council of the Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union.

The heads of the church body, in office for a term of two years, now bore the title President of the Council (). Until the appointment of the first head in 1952 Dibelius, the former president of the Evangelical Supreme Ecclesiastical Council, and its other members officiated per pro as the head and members of the church chancery.

Beginning in 1954 he was the president of the World Council of Churches (part-time). He died in 1967 in Berlin (West).

Works
Dibelius, Otto, Das Jahrhundert der Kirche: Geschichte, Betrachtung, Umschau und Ziele, Berlin: Furche-Verlag, 1927. No ISBN
Dibelius, Otto, In the Service of the Lord, London: Faber and Faber, 1964 [1961].