[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yemeni Air Force

ought in supplies and evacuated the wounded from the besieged capital. During the 70 days of the siege, two MiG-17s were destroyed and their pilots killed, as well as one Yak-11 that was piloted by a Soviet, who was killed too. Five more airmen were killed during the siege, in unknown circumstances.

Meanwhile, in what would then become South Yemen, the British had started to form an embryonic air force. Called the South Arabian Air Force (as an air corps of the Federation of South Arabia under British protection), it had received six de Havilland Canada DHC-2 Beavers, eight BAC Jet Provost Mk52As, six Bell 47G helicopters and four Douglas C-47s by December 1967. Four BAC Strikemaster Mk 81s were delivered in 1970. When the Federation of South Arabia was released into independence, on 30 November 1967, it was instantly renamed the People's Republic of Yemen. A day later, the new country's air force was officially established, and named the People's Republic of Yemen Air Force (PRYAF). The nationality markings on the aircraft were changed too. Roundels and fin flashes using the colors of the FSA's flag were replaced by a light blue triangle with a dark outer part and a red star in the centre, and the new national tricolor flag with a blue triangle bearing a red star, respectively. In 1968, Soviet advisors arrived in the country to help build up the air force. The first 10 MiG-17Fs arrived in January 1969, and they were reinforced by eight more in 1970: these aircraft were used by No. 5 Squadron. On 1 December of the same year, the country was renamed the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), and the air force's name was changed accordingly. It was in this period that the triangular roundel was replaced by a circular one, consisting of the three colors of the national flag, with the top quarter being a sky-blue chevron with a red star in the middle. By 1972, the PDRYAF had received eight Mil Mi-8 and four Kamov Ka-26 helicopters, four Ilyushin Il-28s, and eight Antonov An-24 and Antonov An-26 transport aircraft from the Soviet Union.

Build-up and wars between the two Yemens
The PDRYAF participated in the short Yemenite War of 1972, flying transport missions in support of the ground units, and air strikes with its MiG-17 fighters. One of these aircraft was shot down by the Northerners, with its pilot killed. The North Yemeni air force isn't known to have been involved in the conflict, even though it received five MiG-17s and four Ilyushin Il-28s donated by Egypt and flown by Egyptian pilots midway through the war. However, these pilots weren't allowed to fly any combat sorties against the South Yemeni forces.

Shortly after the end of the conflict, the PDRYAF started receiving its first MiG-21MFs. By 1974, more than 40 of them had been delivered. Training on the new aircraft was supported by a group of Cuban advisors. Around 1976, a dozen of Sukhoi Su-22s was delivered to replace the Il-28 bombers. In the frame of South Yemeni involvement in the Ogaden War, the PDRYAF sent 12 MiG-17Fs and two MiG-15UTIs to Ethiopia in 1977, together with pilots and ground personnel. Another contingent followed in early January 1978, including some MiG-21 pilots; one of them was killed when his aircraft, a MiG-21MF donated to Ethiopia by the USSR, was shot down by Somalian air defences on 15 February. The MiG-15s and MiG-17s were never returned to South Yemen, and most of their pilots converted to Su-22s.

In February 1979, a new war between the two Yemens broke out. It was preceded by skirmishes that involved both air forces: on 25 February, a YARAF MiG-17 was damaged by a 9K32 Strela-2 MANPADS. On 28 February, the Southerners launched an invasion of North Yemen, and their air force bombed the Taiz airfield, and claimed to have destroyed up to six aircraft. Northern air defences were then bolstered and they shot down two PDRYAF Su-22s. In response, a campaign against the YAR's major air defence positions started, and most of these were destroyed. Moreover, three YARAF MiG-17s were shot down by PDRYAF MiG-21s. At the end of the war, the YARAF's combat aircraft fleet was almost completely destroyed.