[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# RANKL

Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa- ligand (RANKL), also known as tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 11 (TNFSF11), TNF-related activation-induced cytokine (TRANCE), osteoprotegerin ligand (OPGL), and osteoclast differentiation factor (ODF), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFSF11 gene.

RANKL is known as a type II membrane protein and is a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily.  RANKL has been identified to affect the immune system and control bone regeneration and remodeling. RANKL is an apoptosis regulator gene, a binding partner of osteoprotegerin (OPG), a ligand for the receptor RANK and controls cell proliferation by modifying protein levels of Id4, Id2 and cyclin D1. RANKL is expressed in several tissues and organs including: skeletal muscle, thymus, liver, colon, small intestine, adrenal gland, osteoblast, mammary gland epithelial cells, prostate and pancreas. Variation in concentration levels of RANKL throughout several organs reconfirms the importance of RANKL in tissue growth (particularly bone growth) and immune functions within the body.

Tissue expression 
The level of RANKL expression does not linearly correlate to the effect of this ligand. High protein expression of RANKL is commonly detected in the lungs, thymus and lymph nodes.  Low protein expression is found in bone marrow, the stomach, peripheral blood, the spleen, the placenta, leukocytes, the heart, the thyroid, and skeletal muscle. While bone marrow expresses low levels of RANKL, RANKL plays a critical role for adequate bone metabolism. This surface-bound molecule (also known as CD254), found on osteoblasts, serves to activate osteoclasts, which are critically involved in bone resorption.  Osteoclastic activity is triggered via the osteoblasts' surface-bound RANKL activating the osteoclasts' surface-bound receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B (RANK). Recent studies suggest that in postnatal bones, the osteocyte is the major source of RANKL regulating bone remodeling. RANKL derived from other cell types contributes to bone loss in conditions involving inflammation such as rheumatoid arthritis, and in lytic lesions caused by cancer, such as in multiple myeloma.

Gene and expression 
RANKL can be expressed in three different molecular forms consisting of either a: (1) trimeric transmembrane protein, (2) primary secreted form, and (3) truncated ectodomain. RANKL is identified as a part of the TNF family; RANKL is specifically categorized under the TNFSF11, the TNF ligand superfamily member. RANKL is composed of 314 amino acids and was originally described to have a gene sequence containing 5 exons. Among the exons, Exon 1 encoded the intracellular and transmembrane protein domains and Exon 2-5 encoded the extracellular domains. RANKL’s extracellular domains are similar to other TNF family members in regards to the structural homology and are able to cleave from the cell surface. While the function and significance of A kinase anchor protein 11(AKAP11) is presently unknown, AKAP11 is immediately upstream from RANKL for all species that has a RANKL gene. The upstream of AKAP11 may suggest there is a complex regulator process that regulates the level of RANKL expression.

Function 
RANKL is a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) cytokine family. It binds to RANK on cells of the myeloid lineage and functions as a key factor for osteoclast differentiation and activation. RANKL may also bind to osteoprotegerin, a protein secreted mainly by cells of the osteoblast lineage which is a potent inhibitor of osteoclast formation by preventing binding of RANKL to RANK.  RANKL also has a function in the immune system, where it is expressed by T helper cells and is thought to be involved in dendritic cell maturation.  It is a dendritic cell survival factor and helps regulate T cell-dependent immune responses. T cell activation induces RANKL expression and can lead to an increase of osteoclastogenesis and bone loss. RANKL can also activate the antiapoptotic kinase AKT/PKB through a signaling complex involving SRC kinase and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), indicating that RANKL may have a role in the regulation of apoptosis.  A further role for RANKL in immunity was found in sinusoidal macrophages in lymph nodes that alert the immune system to lymph-borne antigens. In addition to directly signaling through RANK for macrophage differentiation, RANKL activates the adjacent lymphatic endothelial cells to create a niche environment for these specialized immune cells.