[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lou Jacobs

Johann Ludwig Jacob (January 1, 1903 – September 13, 1992), professionally known as Lou Jacobs, was a German-born American auguste clown who performed for Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus for more than 60 years.  He was inducted into the International Clown Hall of Fame in 1989. He is credited with popularizing the clown car, which has been a staple of circus clown acts ever since. He is also often cited as the originator of the red rubber ball nose, which is used by many clowns today. He was the first living person to have his portrait appear on an American postage stamp.

Career in US
In 1923, Lou Jacobs came to the U. S. on a steamship.  His older brother Karl, had already made it to the U. S. and worked in the Keith Orpheum Theater as a contortionist.  He saved up $150.00 to pay for his brother's boat fare.  When Jacobs arrived in New York, he had only two dollars and could not speak English.  Yet, he landed a part in a Belgian acrobatic act that paid $25.00 a week.  After almost two years of performing in fairs, outdoor exhibits, and winter vaudeville, Jacobs teamed up with Michael Morris, a British contortionist in late 1924.  They did a comedy act that satirized the trapeze acts, a broomstick was their “trapeze.”

Fortunately for Jacobs, Morris had a contract with Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey Circus.  Morris was able to bring him into the circus with his act for the 1925 campaign.  As the year progressed, Jacobs spent more time with the clowns.  He eventually got into costume and makeup and worked in some of the production numbers.  Starting out as a whiteface clown, he changed to an auguste (clown that has white just around the mouth and eyes) after John Ringling gave him a full-time position as a clown in the 1926 campaign.  Jacobs wasted no time in developing his costume.  It was a checkered pink and lavender suit with baggy pants and a  collar.  He wore big shoes and carried a small umbrella attached to a  handle.

Some of Jacobs's early sketches were a satire on the Dempsey-Tunney prizefight, the burning house gag, and the clown wedding.  Even though Jacobs excelled in comedy sketches and satires, he was best known for developing several mechanical contraptions.  He made himself a one-man band by mounting a bass drum on his back with a pair of sock cymbals on top which crashed on motion.  The mallet was attached to the bass drum and activated by a rope connected to Jacobs's right ankle.  He wore a special cap with about bells rigged on it.  To top it off, Jacobs played the harmonica while keeping the bass drum, cymbals and bells going.

Jacobs's most notable mechanical device was the midget car.  This act took him about four years to perfect.  The first prototypes were made in 1944.  After going through some difficulty getting the cars to run, George Wallenda, the famed wire walker, advised him to use a washing machine motor.  He also helped Jacobs tailor the small car to his folded-up contorted body by helping him build several cardboard mock-ups.  Once they began road testing the car, they discovered that Jacobs had a vision problem after he ran into a tree.  The midget car finally made its debut in 1946, only to get scrubbed from the program due to stalling problems.