[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Israel Folau

2009.

In April 2009, he was named in the preliminary 25-man squad to represent Queensland in the opening match of the 2009 State of Origin series, and was subsequently picked on the wing for the opening State of Origin match. He also played in Game 2, scoring a try, but missed Game 3 due to injury.

2010
Controversially despite signing mid-year with rival code the AFL, Folau was selected and played in all three Origin games in 2010. He continued to produce try-scoring form scoring 17 tries from 16 matches with the Brisbane Broncos but his rugby league career to date was cut shorter than anticipated as the Brisbane Broncos failed to make the finals series for the first time in over a decade. Folau was also overlooked to represent Australia in the Four Nations tournament and was subsequently dis-allowed by the Australian Rugby League to play for Tonga in a warm-up match against Samoa. In a further somewhat controversial decision he was banned from being a member of the coaching staff as he had planned to run the water as a trainer for the Tongan team.

Catalans Dragons 
In January 2020, Folau signed a one-year deal to play league for the Catalans Dragons. After playing just fifteen games for the Dragons, and scoring five tries, Folau was released. Following his release, Folau was set to join the Southport Tigers in the Gold Coast Rugby League in a small stint before playing rugby union in the Japan Rugby League One, however was disallowed from being registered just three days before playing by the Queensland Rugby League (QRL).

Rugby league statistics
 denotes National Rugby League (NRL) season champions.
 denotes played in seasons NRL finals series.
 denotes played in seasons Super League finals series.

Australian rules football career

Greater Western Sydney
As his contract with the Brisbane Broncos was set to expire at the end of the 2010 season Folau was linked to the Melbourne Rebels rugby union team in Super Rugby and had also been linked with a move to the Greater Western Sydney Giants, an Australian Football League (AFL) team. After a three-way bidding war between rugby league, rugby union and Australian rules football, Folau signed a deal with the expansion AFL team Greater Western Sydney, estimated to be worth up to $6 million over four years.

2011 season
Folau began his Australian rules football playing career in the North East Australian Football League playing for the Greater Western Sydney Giants. Initially playing in defence and struggling to make an impact, it wasn't until GWS coach Kevin Sheedy moved him into the forward line that his performances improved, including 4 goals in a game against Queanbeyan Football Club.

2012 season
Folau made his AFL debut in the Greater Western Sydney Giants first match in the competition, against the Sydney Swans in Round 1, 2012.

At the start of the season, Israel Folau was chosen to be one of 10 players announced by the AFL as that year's Multicultural Ambassadors.  The then AFL CEO Andrew Demetriou remarked, "We're genuinely excited to provide 10 players with the opportunity to become leaders in the community, promoting the benefits of inclusion and diversity."

Folau gave up on his AFL career at the end of the 2012 season, with limited success on-field. Off-field, opinions were varied on whether the publicity surrounding him was helpful for the Giants and the AFL.

Australian rules football statistics

Rugby union career

New South Wales Waratahs

2013–14

In December 2012, it was announced that Folau, changing sports again, had joined Australian rugby union team the Sydney-based New South Wales Waratahs for the 2013 Super Rugby season, also announcing his ambition to play for the Australia national rugby team. It was also the first season for new coach Michael Cheika (whom later coached Folau as Australia coach). Melbourne Rebels Coach Damien Hill said he was sceptical about how the Waratahs, or any Super Rugby club, could fit Folau under the salary cap. Folau's potential positive impact in rugby union has been likened by several players and coaches to that of fellow league-turned-rugby star Sonny Bill Williams.

Speaking in early in 2013 about his Waratahs pre-season training, Folau said he was training at both fullback and wing. Folau also said he welcomed the advice and mentorship of dual international and former Waratah Lote Tuqiri regarding the switch between league and union. Folau scored two tries in a pre-season match against Australian conference rivals, the Melbourne Rebels.