[Source: Gutenberg#2814 | Part 7]
# Utopia — Thomas More

st time of one’s life was
undoubtedly one’s schoolboy days and that he would give anything to be
young again. While he expressed these sentiments which bored us a
little we kept silent. Then he began to talk of school and of books. He
asked us whether we had read the poetry of Thomas Moore or the works of
Sir Walter Scott and Lord Lytton. I pretended that I had read every
book he mentioned so that in the end he said:

“Ah, I can see you are a bookworm like myself. Now,” he added, pointing
to Mahony who was regarding us with open eyes, “he is different; he
goes in for games.”

He said he had all Sir Walter Scott’s works and all Lord Lytton’s works
at home and never tired of reading them. “Of course,” he said, “there
were some of Lord Lytton’s works which boys couldn’t read.” Mahony
asked why couldn’t boys read them—a question which agitated and pained
me because I was afraid the man would think I was as stupid as Mahony.
The man, however, only smiled. I saw that he had great gaps in his
mouth between his yellow teeth. Then he asked us which of us had the
most sweethearts. Mahony mentioned lightly that he had three totties.
The man asked me how many had I. I answered that I had none. He did not
believe me and said he was sure I must have one. I was silent.

“Tell us,” said Mahony pertly to the man, “how many have you yourself?”

The man smiled as before and said that when he was our age he had lots
of sweethearts.

“Every boy,” he said, “has a little sweetheart.”

His attitude on this point struck me as strangely liberal in a man of
his age. In my heart I thought that what he said about boys and
sweethearts was reasonable. But I disliked the words in his mouth and I
wondered why he shivered once or twice as if he feared something or
felt a sudden chill. As he proceeded I noticed that his accent was
good. He began to speak to us about girls, saying what nice soft hair
they had and how soft their hands were and how all girls were not so
good as they seemed to be if one only knew. There was nothing he liked,
he said, so much as looking at a nice young girl, at her nice white
hands and her beautiful soft hair. He gave me the impression that he
was repeating something which he had learned by heart or that,
magnetised by some words of his own speech, his mind was slowly
circling round and round in the same orbit. At times he spoke as if he
were simply alluding to some fact that everybody knew, and at times he
lowered his voice and spoke mysteriously as if he were telling us
something secret which he did not wish others to overhear. He repeated
his phrases over and over again, varying them and surrounding them with
his monotonous voice. I continued to gaze towards the foot of the
slope, listening to him.

After a long while his monologue paused. He stood up slowly, saying
that he had to leave us for a minute or so, a few minutes, and, without
changing the direction of my gaze, I saw him walking slowly away from
us towards the near end of the field. We remained silent when he had
gone. After a silence of a few minutes I heard Mahony exclaim:

“I say! Look what he’s doing!”

As I neither answered nor raised my eyes Mahony exclaimed again:

“I say.... He’s a queer old josser!”

“In case he asks us for our names,” I said, “let you be Murphy and I’ll
be Smith.”

We said nothing further to each other. I was still considering whether
I would go away or not when the man came back and sat down beside us
again. Hardly had he sat down when Mahony, catching sight of the cat
which had escaped him, sprang up and pursued her across the field. The
man and I watched the chase. The cat escaped once more and Mahony began
to throw stones at the wall she had escaladed. Desisting from this, he
began to wander about the far end of the field, aimlessly.

After an interval the man spoke to me. He said that my friend was a
very rough boy and asked did he get whipped often at school. I was
going to reply indignantly that we were not National School boys to be
whipped, as he called it; but I remained silent. He began to speak on
the subject of chastising boys. His mind, as if magnetised again by his
speech, seemed to circle slowly round and round its new centre. He said
that when boys were that kind they ought to be whipped and well
whipped. When a boy was rough and unruly there was nothing would do him
any good but a good sound whipping. A slap on the hand or a box on the
ear was no good: what he wanted was to get a nice warm whipping. I was
surprised at this sentiment and involuntarily glanced up at his face.
As I did so I met the gaze of a pair of bottle-green eyes peering at me
from under a twitching forehead. I turned my eyes away again.

The man continued his monologue. He seemed to have forgotten his recent
liberalism. He said that if ever he found a boy talking to girls or
having a girl for a sweetheart he would whip him and whip him; and that
wou