[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# European Development Fund

ion to intra-ACP and intra-regional cooperation (12% of the ACP total),
 €1 500 million to Investment Facilities (7% of the ACP total).
 €286 million to the OCTs (1% of the total),
 €430 million to the commission as support expenditure for programming and implementation of the EDF (2% of the total).

11th EDF 2014–2020
The 11th EDF covers 2014 to 2020. This one-year extension compared to the 10th EDF allowed the end of the 11th EDF to coincide with the expiration of the Cotonou Agreement in 2020 and the EU budget period.

The EU is currently implementing its 11th European Development Fund for 2014 to 2020, with an aid budget of €30.5 billion for many of the ACP countries and Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs), covering both national and regional programmes. Effectively programming the European Development Fund (EDF) is a major political, policy and bureaucratic challenge, involving multiple stakeholders, namely the European Commission (EC), the European External Action Service (EEAS), 28 EU member states, the European Parliament, 74 governments from the Africa, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group of states and domestic accountability actors.

Understanding the magnitude of the 11th EDF programming challenge is critical for three reasons:
 The 11th EDF unfolds in a radically changed global context for development cooperation, as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were agreed in September 2015.
 The 11th EDF is the last before the Cotonou Partnership Agreement (CPA) between the EU and the countries of the ACP expires in 2020.
 Programming and implementing the 11th EDF is a critical test of EU institutions that deal with external action, and it tests the ability of EU development policy to achieve high-impact aid, at a time when showing 'value for money' is a high political priority at a time when many European governments follow a policy of fiscal austerity.

12th EDF 2021–2027
The EDF has been incorporated as part of Global Europe into the 2021–2027 multi-annual financial framework of the EU. For the European Parliament, that makes a chance for a greater say in how these funds are distributed.

Critics
Independent research by the European Centre for Development Policy Management (ECDPM), a think tank based in Maastricht (The Netherlands), shows that the EU has ensured the effective translation into practice of two key policy commitments of the 'Agenda for Change' – namely a more focused strategy for less developed countries (LDCs) and low-income countries (LICs), and the concentration of EU aid on a limited number of sectors and policy priorities. Their research found that the high degree of compliance was achieved "through top-level support and tight control from headquarters".

While the principles of the 'Agenda for Change' appear to have been followed, ECDPM showed that in many countries initial programming proposals based on in-country consultations, managed by EU Delegations, were then superseded by the choices of EU headquarters in Brussels. Although the 11th EDF is closely aligned with national development plans, there is evidence that this top-down approach to programming has led to a significant erosion of key aid and development effectiveness principles, in particular country ownership.

See also
 ACP-EU Development Cooperation
 ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly
 The Courier – a former magazine of Africa-Caribbean-Pacific and European Union cooperation and relations
 Development Cooperation Instrument
 EuropeAid Co-Operation Office

References

External links
European Commission: European Development Fund (EDF)
Europa: Summaries of EU legislation: European Development Fund
EC Aid to Africa African Voices in Europe

 
European Union foreign aid