[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kevin A. Ring

could target patterns of corruption and influence-peddling without proving an explicit quid pro quo. Legal analysts predicted the retrial of Ring would serve as a barometer of the effectiveness of tools available to prosecutors to combat corruption among congressional and executive branch officials.

Second trial
Ring's second trial began on October 18, 2010. Following the two-week trial, the jury couldn't reach a verdict and sent a note to Judge Huvelle, asking her to explain the difference between legal and illegal gifts. After four days of deliberations, the jury returned a verdict of guilty on five counts on November 15, 2010. Ring was found "guilty on one count of conspiring to corrupt congressional and executive branch officials by providing things of value to them and their staffs to induce or reward those who took official actions benefiting Ring and his clients. In addition, [he] was convicted of one count of paying a gratuity to a public official and three counts of honest-services wire fraud for engaging in a scheme to deprive U.S. citizens of their right to the honest services of certain public officials. The jury acquitted [him] on three counts of honest-services fraud".  
According to testimony, "Ring sought to further his clients' interests by lobbying public officials in the legislative and executive branches of the federal government,... identified public officials who would assist them and their clients, and then groomed them by providing things of value with the intent of making them more receptive to requests on behalf of their clients in the future. The things of value ... included all-expenses-paid travel, meals, drinks, golf outings, as well as tickets to professional sporting events, concerts and other events, and an employment opportunity for the wife of a congressman – which were often billed to Ring's and Jack Abramoff's clients... Ring's corrupt actions resulted in his clients receiving, among other actions, $14 million in congressional transportation appropriations and an additional $7 million from the Justice Department to build a jail."

Ring's attorney said Ring had only been doing his job of influencing public officials. He did not know of specific illegal acts and was not responsible for the capital's lobbying culture, stating: "The way our government works and the role lobbyists play in our government are not on trial, Kevin Ring is on trial".

The Justice Department asked for a sentence of 17 to 22 years. "One reason for the astronomical sentence, according to the government: Mr. Ring was the only lobbyist who went to trial instead of pleading guilty and cooperating with the United States."
The government backed off this assessment ... after a rebuke from Judge Huvelle" who wrote: "Defendant's position is that the government is retaliating against him for exercising his Sixth Amendment right to trial", adding "It is easy to see why such an inference might be justified". Ring was asking for five years' probation.

On October 26, 2011, Ring was sentenced by Judge Huvelle to 20 months in prison and to 30 months of supervised release following his prison term. Two more charges are still pending, and may result in a third trial if there is no plea bargaining. He is free on bail while he appeals his conviction, having "shown by clear and convincing evidence that he is not likely to flee or pose a danger to the community".

Ring appealed his conviction, but it was upheld by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit on January 25, 2013. He appealed that decision to the United States Supreme Court, which denied certiorari on October 7, 2013.

References 

Living people
American lobbyists
Syracuse University alumni
Lawyers from Washington, D.C.
Columbus School of Law alumni
People convicted of honest services fraud
Maryland Republicans
1970 births