[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Mannuthy

College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences is a veterinary college located at Mannuthy, Thrissur city of the Indian state of Kerala. The college is part of Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University.

History

The college came into existence in 1955 as Government Veterinary College. Initially, the college was affiliated to Kerala University. It switched to Calicut University in 1966. It was later renamed Kerala Veterinary College and Research Institute. When Kerala Agricultural University was formed in February 1972, the college was transferred to it and was renamed the College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences.

On 12 June 2010 a new university exclusively for veterinary science was created by ordinance on the campus of the College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Pookode, near Vythiri, in Wayanad district. According to the Ordinance, the proposed university would have the jurisdiction of the entire state.

The Mannuthy Veterinary College and its 400 acres of campus, the Pookode Veterinary College and its 90 acres of campus, the veterinary clinical complex of the Pookode Veterinary College, College of Dairy Science Technology, Mannuthy, Livestock Research Station in Palakkad and its 400 acres of campus, dairy farm at Kolahalamedu in Idukki, various farms in Mannuthy, the cattle infertility centre in Kozhikode and the Veterinary Hospital in Thrissur, cattle breeding farm at Thumboormuzhy, is handed over to the university. The Government of Kerala established India's first exclusive hospital for elephants there.

Academic Courses Offered 

 UG Courses
 PG Courses
 Doctorate Courses 
 PG Certificate Courses
 PG Diploma Courses
 Diploma

 Technology Enabled Distance Learning

 Externship

See also
 Kerala Agricultural University
 Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University

References

External links 

Veterinary schools in India
Medical colleges in Kerala
Colleges in Thrissur
Colleges affiliated with the University of Calicut
Educational institutions established in 1955
1955 establishments in India