[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Teapacks

Teapacks (also known as Tipex) () is an Israeli band that formed in 1988 as HaHotzaa La'Poal (Hebrew: , The Execution) in the southern Israeli city of Sderot. Originally the band was named after the correction fluid Tipp-Ex, but in 1995 the transliteration was changed so as not to infringe on the well-known brand, while keeping the pronunciation and spelling in Hebrew the same.

Each member of the band has a diverse background, and as a whole the band has Tunisian, Moroccan, Bulgarian, Romanian, Syrian, Polish, Russian, and Yemenite heritage. Teapacks gained popularity by bringing forward traditional Israeli-oriental music combined with light humorous hints. The band leader, Kobi Oz, is well known within Israel for his eccentric looks and style. The band has released eight albums plus a greatest hits collection, which collectively have sold over 300,000 copies. Teapacks has been chosen “Band of the Year” numerous times by Israeli radio stations.

History

Early years: 1988-1994 
HaHotzaa LaPoal began on 6 November 1988 when vocalist/keyboardist Kobi Oz and bassist Gal Peremen met at a kibbutz in southern Israel. They began playing songs written by Oz and were soon joined by guitarist Einav Cohen and drummer Tamir Yemini. The group held their first concert at Kibbutz Dorot in December 1988. They released two singles, "Silonim" (Jets) and "Lispor kvasim" (Counting Sheep), in 1988 and 1989 respectively, under Oz' name. In 1989, Yemini and Cohen left HaHotzaa LaPoal and were replaced by Yoav Nagar and Ram Yosifov. Later that year, the group changed their name to Tipex and released a five-song demo tape. According to Oz, the name symbolized "wip[ing] out differences between people". They performed the songs "Lispor kvasim" and "Im yipol gorale" (If Fate Were to Befall Us) at a festival in February 1990.

In September that year, the band, comprising Oz, Peremen, Cohen and Nagar, recorded two songs, "Haavel" (The Injustice) and "Boi Elai" (Come To Me). At the end of that year, Yosifov returned to Tipex, replacing Cohen. To this day, Oz, Peremen and Yosifov remain the sole constant members of the band since 1991 and are often identified with the band. In 1991, Nagar left the group and was replaced by Avinoam Marton. This lineup released their debut album Shvil klipot hagarinim in September 1992, featuring the hit single "Harabi Joe Capara" (Rabbi Joe Capara). They were midway through recording the followup, Haacharon baasiron hatachton (The Last of the Lower Class), when Yemini returned to the band, replacing Marton. The album was released in November 1993 featuring the hits "Betoch niyar eiton" (Rolled Up in a Newspaper), "Zmanim ktanim" (Small Times) and "Anana" (Cloud).

First success and departure of Yemini: 1995-1998 
In 1995, the group renamed themselves initially to Tea Packs (the space was later dropped), due to Oz finding out that people were using Tipp-Ex fluid as a recreational drug, and released their third album, Hachaim shelcha belafa (Your Life in a Lapha). It featured the singles "Ma asit?" (What Have You Done?), "Yesh li chavera" (I Have a Girlfriend), "Vehapam shir ahava" (Yet Another Love Song) and "Hatachana hayeshana" (The Old Station). The following year, the group recorded the soundtrack to the hit comedy film Dogs are Colour Blind. Oz also shaved his head.

Neshika ladod, the group's fifth album, was released in 1997, featuring the singles "Lama halacht mimenu" (Why Did You Leave Me?, a duet with the then-unknown Sarit Hadad), "Stam" (Simply) and "Eize olam" (What a World). Yemini left the group after the tour to support the album. He was replaced with Motti Yosef. The group also took on Dani Aberjel as second guitarist, Noam Yankelevich as keyboardist and Meir "Big M" Amar as DJ, sampler and sound engineer. This is the lineup of Teapacks most recognised outside Israel, since they performed at Eurovision 2007.

Later years: 1999-2007 
The first release with this lineup was "Disko menayak" (Disco Maniac - "Maniac" being a derogatory term for the police), with the hits "Sami veSomo" (Sami and Somo), "Shalosh balayla" (3 in the night) and "Kshani eitcha ani kemo dag" (When I'm With You I'm Like a Fish). In 2001, they released Yoshvim bebeit kafe (Sitting in a Cafe), from which the title track and "Kemo lifnei 20 shana" (Like It Was 20 Years Ago) were released as singles.

In 2002, the band released the non-album single "Avaryan tzatzua" (Petty Criminal), a tie-in song to Oz' book of the same name, which was released concurrently with the song. The following year, they released the non-album singles "Hayamim haacherim" (Other Days) and "Kol yom ani kimaat" (Every Day I Feel...).