[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Anti-Parliamentary Communist Federation

T-FAI, without criticism, comment or editorial. The feud between the APCF and USM continued when their respective delegates were sent to Spain, with the APCF's delegate Jane Patrick being expelled from the Federation before she even arrived, causing a confrontation between the two groups in Glasgow.

By April 1937, relations between the APCF and USM started to improve, following the resignation of the APCF's Frank Leech, who had frequently prevented their co-operation, going on to found the Glasgow Anarchist Federation (GAF). The following month, the two collaborated on the publication of the Barcelona Bulletin, which published their delegates' accounts of the May Days in Barcelona, providing a sympathetic view of the revolutionary faction represented by the anarchists of the CNT-FAI and the Trotskyists of the POUM. While the USM had long-since revised its position of supporting the Republican government, due to reports from its delegate Ethel MacDonald, it was only after the May Days that the APCF followed suit. The APCF took the position that the policy of the united anti-fascist front was one of collaboration with capitalism, publishing an article by MacDonald which stated that "Anti-Fascism is the new slogan by which the working class is being betrayed." When MacDonald was arrested and imprisoned by the Catalan government, the APCF organised a Defence Committee to secure her release, with MacDonald escaping Spain and returning safely to Glasgow by November 1937, leading the Defence Committee to lend its support to other prisoners and refugees of the war.

Despite the revision of their position towards the republican government, the APCF never quite diverted from its original policies, publishing some articles that supported the government and others that supported the revolutionaries, often both in the same issue of Solidarity. In the second issue of the journal, the APCF published a report from Spain which argued that the civil war could have been avoided entirely "if the workers had taken control and eliminated the government", while also publishing a call for a general strike to force an end to Britain's arms embargo on the Republican government. In a subsequent issue released after the nationalist victory in the war, they published an article by the Friends of Durruti Group which concluded that "Democracy defeated the Spanish people, not Fascism."

World War II
With the conclusion of the Spanish Civil War, it quickly became apparent that a major global conflict was on the horizon. The APCF's analysis of what became World War II was one of a military conflict between capitalist nations rivalling for supremacy, rejecting the dominant notion of it being a war of democracy against fascism. They called for workers to resist the coming war, claiming that in the making of this war British business interests would "destroy capitalist democracy and every vestige of workers' democracy to ensure the continuity of their capitalism (i.e. their profits)."

When the war broke out, the APCF adopted a revolutionary defeatist position, proclaiming: "Down with Nazism and Fascism, but also down with all imperialism, British and French included!" Pointing out that "all the Capitalists are aggressors from the workers' point of view", they called for the destruction of all states that were party to the conflict, including the Soviet Union. The APCF later elaborated that they stood for the defeat of the Axis Powers not by the Allies, but by the workers of those countries, while also standing simultaneously for the defeat of the Allies by the workers of their own countries, essentially calling for a world revolution to end the war. Given that since the outbreak of the war the trade unions had been opposing strike action, the APCF believed that the creation of new unofficial forms of organisation were necessary, proposing the formation of workers' councils as an independent and revolutionary alternative to established trade unions and political parties.