[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Nuclear power in the United States

lowed the 1979 Three Mile Island accident.

In New York City on September 23, 1979, almost 200,000 people attended a protest against nuclear power. Anti-nuclear power protests preceded the shutdown of the Shoreham, Yankee Rowe, Rancho Seco, Maine Yankee, and about a dozen other nuclear power plants.

Historical use of Native land in nuclear energy 
Nuclear Energy in the United States has greatly affected Native Americans due to the large amount of mining for uranium, and disposal of nuclear waste done on Native lands over the past century. Environmental Sociologists Chad L. Smith and Gregory Hooks have deemed these areas and tribal lands as a whole "sacrifice zones", due to the prevalence of mishandled nuclear materials. Uranium as a resource has largely been located in the southwestern USA, and large amounts have been found on Native lands, with the estimates being anywhere from 25% to 65% of Uranium being located on Native land. Due to this many mines have been placed on Native land and have been abandoned without proper closing of these mines. Some of these mines have led to large amounts of pollution on Native land which has contaminated the water and ground. This has led to a large uptick in cancer cases. On the Navajo reservation in particular, there has been three separate cleanup efforts done by the EPA, all unsuccessful.

Nuclear waste has been an issue that Native Americans have had to deal with for decades ranging from improper disposal of waste during active mining to the government trying and succeeding to place waste disposal sites on various native lands. In 1986 the US government tried to put a permanent nuclear waste repository on the White Earth Reservation, but the Anishinaabe people who lived there commissioned the Minnesota legislature to prevent it, which worked. However, because there was no permanent place found, the government placed a temporary facility on Yucca Mountain to contain the waste. Yucca Mountain is also on Native Land and is considered a sacred site that the government did not have consent to place nuclear waste on. Yucca Mountain still houses this temporary facility to this day and is being debated over if it should become a permanent facility.

Over-commitment and cancellations

By the mid-1970s, it became clear that nuclear power would not grow nearly as quickly as once believed. Cost overruns were sometimes a factor of ten above original industry estimates, and became a major problem. For the 75 nuclear power reactors built from 1966 to 1977, cost overruns averaged 207 percent. Opposition and problems were galvanized by the Three Mile Island accident in 1979.

Over-commitment to nuclear power brought about the financial collapse of the Washington Public Power Supply System, a public agency which undertook to build five large nuclear power plants in the 1970s. By 1983, cost overruns and delays, along with a slowing of electricity demand growth, led to cancellation of two WPPSS plants and a construction halt on two others. Moreover, WPPSS defaulted on $2.25 billion of municipal bonds, which is one of the largest municipal bond defaults in U.S. history. The court case that followed took nearly a decade to resolve.

Eventually, more than 120 reactor orders were canceled, and the construction of new reactors ground to a halt. Al Gore has commented on the historical record and reliability of nuclear power in the United States:
Of the 253 nuclear power reactors originally ordered in the United States from 1953 to 2008, 48 percent were canceled, 11 percent were prematurely shut down, 14 percent experienced at least a one-year-or-more outage, and 27 percent are operating without having a year-plus outage. Thus, only about one fourth of those ordered, or about half of those completed, are still operating and have proved relatively reliable.

Amory Lovins has also commented on the historical record of nuclear power in the United States:
Of all 132 U.S. nuclear plants built (52% of the 253 originally ordered), 21% were permanently and prematurely closed due to reliability or cost problems, while another 27% have completely failed for a year or more at least once. The surviving U.S. nuclear plants produce ~90% of their full-time full-load potential, but even they are not fully dependable. Even reliably operating nuclear plants must shut down, on average, for 39 days every 17 months for refueling and maintenance, and unexpected failures do occur too.