[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

he experiment was made possible when the DGSP director informed his peers that his only focus would be on "unmasking" and "reeducating" anti-communists, especially those who had been in the Iron Guard; he explicitly noted that he would spare no interest for the methods used to accomplish this goal. 

According to Demetriade, this ambiguity allowed the Guardists to revert on their own experiences of political strife: they had learned from their leaders a set of violent methods to use against "traitors" of the Guardist cause, which they now used and amplified against those who still resisted communism. Pintilie's own communist optimism had it that prisoners undergoing "reeducation" would act not only as witnesses for the prosecution, but also as active instigators of investigations, who would go out of their way to expose enemies of the regime. He allowed the atrocities to take place by not providing Nemeș and his team with any restrictive guidelines until early 1951. The set of rules that was supposedly introduced at the time does not survive in any copy. Sepeanu candidly noted that he never received written instructions from either Pintilie or Nicolschi, but also confirmed that "Mr Junior Minister Pintilie" was always his immediate supervisor.

In the power struggles
Throughout his tenure at the DGSP, Pintilie maintained a role in stifling inner-party opposition, involving himself in the resulting intrigues. As early as 1949, he and Nicolschi had reputedly wiretapped the phone lines used by PCR eminences, including Gheorghiu-Dej. In 1950, Pintilie and Ghizela Vass joined Iosif Rangheț's panel, which investigated the communist orthodoxy of Spanish Civil War veterans. As he noted later on, that project was almost immediately brought to a halt by Teohari Georgescu and Pauker, who thought that the "very suspect" Rangheț was mounting a witch-hunt. Others suggest that Pintilie himself was relatively lenient toward other party cadres, especially when his former lawyer, Ion Gheorghe Maurer, who had joined the PCR as a Gheorghiu-Dej devotee, expressed his qualms about following Soviet directives. According to Maurer's own reports, he was subsequently slated for liquidation by the MGB, and "Pantiușa" was ordered to fabricate a show trial. The project never took off: "Pantiușa Bodnarenko [...] loved me quite a lot [...]. When he got drunk, for he was one hell of a drinker, he would come by my place and cry on my shoulder. Quite a lot of time was wasted on this". 

Pintilie, alongside a team of Soviet advisors, had also been tasked with organizing the show trial of Lucrețiu Pătrășcanu and of his intimate circle of disciples. This project began in the final months of 1947, when Bodnarenko informed Pyotr Fedotov, who led the Soviets' Committee of Information, that Pătrășcanu was hampering "Romania's advance toward communism", "using his position at the Ministry of Justice to protect the leaders of opposition parties." Such allegations formed part of a report he sent to the MGB in March 1948. The Pintilie–Fedotov exchange was closely followed by Petre Pandrea's arrest in 1948. According to Pandrea himself, the matter upset other Securitate men—including Mișu Dulgheru, who wanted Pandrea, described by him as a "progressive democrat", to walk free. Dulgheru reportedly confessed that Pintilie personally ensured that such a measure would not be effected. 

As the operation unfolded, Pintilie was on hand to personally arrest Pătrășcanu, and then ensured that interrogator Ioan Șoltuț could work on his victims in a "special area" that was completely cut off from the outside world. As Pintilie himself reported, by 1949 he had secured approval from Soviet advisers, including Aleksandr Sakharovsky, to deal with Gheorghiu-Dej's enemies in an exemplary manner. According to another member of the Gheorghiu-Dej circle, Gheorghe Apostol, the affair was entirely masterminded by Drăghici and "Pantiușa, the former Soviet spy". Such claims were dismissed by Pintilie himself, who noted that "some comrades in the party leadership" had moved to tone down Dej's zeal: unlike him, they argued that there was little to connect Pătrășcanu with other PCR dissidents into a conspiracy. In a private conversation with Cristina Boico, Pintilie clarified that "some comrades" meant Pauker and her group. Once Pauker had been sidelined, the trial could grow to implicate various other former communists. As reported by Georgescu, the Securitate heads, including Pintilie and Dulgheru, were still quietly opposed to these developments, now "convinced that we had absolutely nothing" on Pătrășcanu.