[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sasson Report

the report. "It is time for the international community to say 'enough' to Israel and work with the same determination as on other matters," said Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qurei. A US embassy spokesman in Tel Aviv also repeated Washington's longstanding call for Israel to remove the outposts.

Settler leader Shaul Goldstein said Mr Sharon should be the one to face questioning over the report's findings, adding "It's obvious that the one who sent us in order to protect the roads and land is the prime minister so he should look in the mirror. Mr Sharon has to be questioned - not us." According to the Haaretz newspaper, Herzog claimed that "the main responsibility for the building of illegal outposts in recent years falls with my predecessor, Effi Eitam and his director general." He also added that when he took up the position earlier this year, he ordered that no funds be transferred to the illegal outposts, as well as the establishment of a joint Defense Ministry and Prime Minister's Office team to coordinate the budgets for the settlements. Eitam replied in reaction to the report and the associated comments, saying that all illegal outposts he had approved during his time in office were approved in coordination with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, had his full backing and were sometimes initiated by him. Eitam claimed that Talia Sasson was not an objective surveyor and that the report was politically motivated.

Peace Now report 

In November 2006, the Israeli NGO Peace Now published a report which they claimed to be mostly based on the same government data as used by Sasson. According to the report, almost 40% of the land area of West Bank settlements is privately owned by Palestinians. However, in 2007 Peace Now released partially reduced figures estimating 32.4% of the land "held" for the West Bank settlements is privately owned by Palestinians. According to Peace Now, 24% of the land on which the settlements are actually built is Palestinian property.

See also
 Israeli settlement
 Levy Report

External links
The Sasson Report - Summary
The Sasson Report - Full report (Hebrew)

References

Israeli commissions and inquiries
Israeli settlement
Unauthorized Israeli settlements
2005 works