[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006 Minato Ward elevator accident

moother ride. For the past few months, workers have been working around the clock, replacing the elevator in record time. The other elevator will be replaced by February.

Litigation: Criminal and civil lawsuits
The accident resulted in three legal proceedings: one criminal suit and two civil suits.

Criminal Case
 March 30, 2009. After almost three years of investigation, the police records of the accused persons (four (President, Senior Managing Director, ex-Maintenance Director and the junior maintenance personnel in charge of the accident site) from SEC and two (ex-Maintenance Director and Maintenance Manager) from SEKK, but none from JEPS) were sent to the Tokyo District Prosecutor's Office for its determination as to whether the accused will be criminally indicted.
 July 16, 2009. Prosecutor's Office criminally indicted five out of six persons whose records were sent to the prosecutor's office in March 2009 (SEC's junior maintenance personnel in charge of the accident site was not indicted) on the charge of criminal manslaughter resulting from professional negligence.
 March 11, 2013. More than 3.5 years after the indictment and after the pre-trial procedure where the defense and the prosecution narrowed down the issues to be tried in court, the criminal trial commenced at the Tokyo District Court.
September 29, 2015. After nearly sixty court hearing sessions, the Tokyo District Court issued its judgment as follows: as to SEKK defendant (one of the two original SEKK defendants died of illness during the trial), not guilty, since there were no indications of brake abnormalities present during SEKK's maintenance and inspection of the accident elevator (no foreseeability), so that the duty of care to take corrective actions did not arise as to the SEKK defendant; and as to SEC defendants, all three defendants were found guilty as charged, since the court deemed that SEC's existing maintenance regime to be inadequate based on a series of serious accidents at SEC-maintained sites shortly prior to the subject accident, so that it was "foreseeable" to SEC that serious personal injury or death could arise, and that it had a duty to construct an appropriate maintenance regime, which SEC failed to perform. SEC defendants immediately appealed the District Court's judgment to the Tokyo High Court, while the Prosecutor's Office appealed on October 9 the acquittal judgment in favor of the SEKK defendant.
 January 26, 2018. The Tokyo High Court affirmed the Tokyo District Court's September 2015 acquittal judgment as to the SEKK defendant, and the prosecution did not appeal the high court's judgment. Thus, the SEKK defendant's full acquittal became final.
March 14, 2018. The Tokyo High Court reversed the Tokyo District Court's guilty judgment against SEC's three defendants, stating that the lower court erred in its finding of fact that the abnormal abrasion of brake lining, which was deemed a root cause of the accident had not yet taken place at the time of SEC's last inspection prior to the accident, and that accordingly, the SEC defendants could not foresee the accident. The prosecution also did not appeal the high court's judgment as to SEC's defendants, so both SEKK's and SEC's defendants' acquittals became final.

Civil suit involving the deceased's bereaved family
 December 12, 2008. The bereaved family filed a civil suit for damages in the amount of JPY 250 million for the wrongful death of the deceased with the Tokyo District Court against the elevator manufacturer (SEKK), the maintenance companies (JEPS and SEC) and the owner (Minato Ward) and the operator (MWPHC) respectively, of the Takeshiba Complex, where the fatal accident occurred.
 November 24, 2017. More than eleven years after the June 2006 accident and after heavy negotiation among the parties, the parties reached a court brokered settlement for an undisclosed sum, and each of the defendants pledging to take various measures to prevent the re-occurrence of similar accidents, after the court issued a strongly worded recommendation for the parties to settle.

Civil suit by Minato Ward and Minato Ward Public Housing Corporation
 July 6, 2010. Minato Ward and MWPHC jointly filed a civil suit for damages in the amount of JPY 1,384,192,575 with the Tokyo District Court against SEKK, Schindler Holding AG (SEKK's Swiss parent), SEC and JEPS for the losses allegedly incurred by the plaintiffs in the aftermath of the June 3, 2006 fatal accident at the Takeshiba Complex.
 December 6, 2019. More than nine years after filing the suit, Minato Ward City Council passed a bill which approved Minato Ward to settle with the defendants for an undisclosed sum. As was the case in the bereaved family case above, each of the defendants pledged to take various preventive measures, after the court issued a recommendation for the parties to settle.