[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# History of Libya under Muammar Gaddafi

overnment in Tripoli had lost control of half of Libya by the end of February, but as of mid-September Gaddafi remained in control of several parts of Fezzan. On 21 September, the forces of NTC captured Sabha, the largest city of Fezzan, reducing the control of Gaddafi to limited and isolated areas.

Many nations condemned Gaddafi's government over its use of force against civilians. Several other nations allied with Gaddafi called the uprising and intervention a "plot" by Western powers to loot Libya's resources. The United Nations Security Council passed a resolution to enforce a no-fly zone over Libyan airspace on 17 March 2011.

The UN resolution authorised air-strikes against Libyan ground troops and warships that appeared to threaten civilians. On 19 March, the no-fly zone enforcement began, with French aircraft undertaking sorties across Libya and a naval blockade by the British Royal Navy. Eventually, the aircraft carriers  and Charles de Gaulle arrived off the coast and provided the enforcers with a rapid-response capability. U.S. forces named their part of the enforcement action Operation Odyssey Dawn, meant to "deny the Libyan regime from using force against its own people"  according to U.S. Vice Admiral William E. Gortney. More than 110 "Tomahawk" cruise missiles were fired in an initial assault by U.S. warships and a British submarine against Libyan air defences.

The last government holdouts in Sirte finally fell to anti-Gaddafi fighters on 20 October 2011, and, following the controversial death of Muammar Gaddafi, Libya was officially declared "liberated" on 23 October 2011, ending 42 years of Gaddafi's leadership in Libya.

Political scientist Riadh Sidaoui suggested in October 2011 that Gaddafi "has created a great void for his exercise of power: there is no institution, no army, no electoral tradition in the country", and as a result, the period of transition would be difficult in Libya.

Contemporary flags, symbols and insignia

See also

 Day of Revenge
 Politics of Libya under Muammar Gaddafi
 Foreign relations of Libya under Muammar Gaddafi
 Human rights in Libya
 The Green Book (Gaddafi)
 Gaddafi loyalism

Notes
1. Gadaffi's full title was "Brotherly Leader and Guide to the First of September Great Revolution of the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya".

References

External links

 http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/africa/4380360.stm
 Qaddafi, Libya, and the United States from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives
 The Road to people's authority: a collection of historical speeches and documents – Includes the initial RCC communique and the "Declaration of Peoples Authority".

1969 establishments in Libya
1970s in Libya
1980s in Libya
1990s in Libya
2000s in Libya
2011 disestablishments in Libya
20th century in Libya
21st century in Libya
Articles containing video clips
Libya
 
Islamism in Libya
Socialism in Libya