[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Donzdorf

It currently consists of 22 members. The results of the last election were as follows:

Town twinning
Donzdorf has a town partnership with the French Riorges and Neusalza-Spremberg in Saxony. In 2011 the establishment of a partnership with the Spanish city of Calasparra.

Economy and Infrastructure

Traffic
Donzdorf is connected to the national road network by the B466 and has a bypass since 2010.

In 1901 the Lautertalbahn gave Donzdorf a connection to the regional rail network. The rail network eventually shut down with public transport ending in 1980 and transportation of goods in 1995. Nowadays the former station is used as a café and ice cream shop.

On the nearby Messelberg the Donzdorf airport is located which is used for gliders, small motorized aircraft and paragliding.

Resident companies
The most important employers in Donzdorf are the Michael Hörauf Machine factory and Stahlbau Wendeler. Donzdorf is also the origin of Nuclear Blast, one of the biggest Heavy Metal record labels in the world.

Education
Donzdorf has primary schools in both Donzdorf and the former municipalities. Donzdorf also has a Gemeinschaftsschule and a Gymnasium.

In addition to that Donzdorf has a small observatory.

Sights

Buildings
 Donzdorf Castle, the old residential seat of the Lords of Rechberg which today acts as town hall. The house that stands where the first building of the castle used to stand nowadays houses a kindergarten and the volunteer fire brigade. Because the castle has been expanded and renovated several times there are parts built both in the Renaissance and the rococo style.
Ramsberg Castle, another former residence of the Rechberg family
Scharfenberg Castle, the original seat of the Lords of Rechberg, nowadays a ruin
Winzingen Castle, castle in Winzingen that a lot of local myths are about

The Park
Originally planned as a French garden for Donzdorf Castle by Maximilian von Rechberg, the park features a fountain and many bronze statues. It was redesigned at the beginning of the 19th century into an English garden, but this was never completely finished.

Natural sights
Simonsbachstausee, a dammed lake 
Lauter waterfall, 7 metres high
Messelstein, a notable rock formation on the side of the Messelberg

Notable residents

 Anton von Rechberg (1776-1837), Bavarian general and hofmeister
 Franz Anton Staudenmaier (1800-1856), a Catholic theologian
 Otto von Rechberg (1833-1918), nobleman of the kingdoms of Bavaria and Wurttemberg, 1899-1910 President of the Württemberg Chamber of lords
 Albrecht von Stotzingen (1864-1938), Baron and the deputy of the First Chamber of the State Baden
 Theodor Zeller (1900-1986), painter and graphic artist
 Gabriele Miller (1923-2010), born in the district Winzingen, Roman Catholic theologian
 Andreas Geiger (born 1969), film director
 Carolin Villforth (born 1981), PhD Astrophysicist. Expert in active galactic nuclei (AGN).

Honorary citizens
Otto Maier
Hermann Seimetz (born 1938), CDU politician and former member of the Landtag of Baden-Württemberg

References

Towns in Baden-Württemberg
Göppingen (district)