[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nevado de Longaví

ely constant considering the homogeneous structure of the lava flows. Temporary periods of dormancy however occurred, causing the formation of erosion valleys on the northern slope that were then filled by younger lava flows. These younger lava flows were themselves subject to glaciation.

Holocene 

The last activity occurred during the Holocene, and included explosive activity. It was centered in the eastern collapse scar and on the summit region. In the eastern collapse scar, possibly subglacial activity formed a  thick sequence including clasts, lava flows and silt.

6,835 ± 65  or 7,500 years before present, a large explosive eruption occurred. It deposited dacitic pumice more than  southeast from the volcano. Maximum thickness of the deposits is . It is also known as the Rio Blanco fall deposit. In the eastern collapse scar, the pumice was later buried by an andesitic lava flow, which is undated and carries the name Castillo Andesite.

The last eruption formed a lava dome within the collapse scar and the summit area. This eruption occurred about 5,700 years ago. A secondary collapse of the lava dome formed a  large block and ash flow that descended the eastern slopes and covers a surface area of about .

There is no reported historical volcanic activity, but fumarolic activity has been reported and remote sensing has found thermal anomalies on a scale of about . The volcano together with Lomas Blancas has been prospected for the potential of obtaining geothermal energy; estimated capacities are 248 megawatts.

Hazards 

The volcano is ranked 22 on Chile's national volcano hazard scale. The towns closest to the volcano are Cerro Los Castillos, La Balsa, La Orilla, Las Camelias and Rincón Valdés; renewed eruptions could result in debris flows, eruption columns, lava flows and pyroclastic flows on the volcano and surrounding valleys. The Mendoza Province in Argentina could also be potentially affected by activity at Nevado de Longaví.

The first recorded ascent occurred in 1965 by S. Kunstmann and W. Foerster, but evidence reported during that ascent implies that humans had reached the mountain earlier. Otherwise, Nevado de Longaví is one of the important tourist attractions of the commune.

References

Bibliography

Further reading 
 
  (in Spanish; also includes volcanoes of Argentina, Bolivia, and Peru)

External links
 Google map of Nevado de Longaví

Volcanoes of Maule Region
Longavi
Longavi
Pleistocene stratovolcanoes
Holocene stratovolcanoes