[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jeff Halper

ust peace become an essential component of international relations in a consistent, principled and effective way." ICAHD has observer status in the UN and regularly interacts with the UN Human Rights Council, Special Rapporteurs, the High Commissioner for Human Rights and other international bodies.

ICAHD offers a variety of "alternative" tours of Israel and Palestine, during which visitors can "meet Palestinian families suffering under Israeli policies of separation and home demolitions" as well as see "how Israel's settlement project has created irreversible ‘facts on the ground.'"

ICAHD has branches in the United Kingdom, the US, Finland, Norway, Germany and Australia. Donors to ICAHD have included Trocaire, NGO Development Center, United Nations Development Programme, World Vision, Mennonite Central Committee, the European Union, and the government of Spain.

ICAHD was awarded UN Economic and Social Council Special Consultative Status in 2010.

Activism related to Israel and the Palestinians
Halper has frequently appeared alongside Rev. Naim Ateek, the head of Sabeel, a Palestinian Liberation Theology group based in Jerusalem. "As a Jew and an Israeli," wrote Gerald M. Steinberg of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, "Halper's appearances are seen as providing 'legitimacy' for Sabeel's extremist agenda, in the form of a counter to allegations of anti-Semitic motivations."

Halper was a "member of the support committee" for the Russell Tribunal on Palestine. He has taught at universities in Israel, the US, Latin America and Africa.

Halper participated in the first Free Gaza Movement voyage in 2008 which broke the Israeli siege of Gaza. He was arrested by Israeli authorities after the trip when he tried to reenter Israel. He was one of the four Israeli citizens on the ship. He explained his reason for participating as "I cannot stand idly aside. I can no more passively witness my government’s destruction of another people than I can watch the occupation destroy the moral fabric of my own country. To do so would violate my commitment to human rights, the very essence of prophetic Jewish religion, culture and morals, without which Israel is no longer Jewish but an empty, if powerful, Sparta".

In 2007 he argued that, on the evidence of 40 years of occupation, Israel’s strategy ‘is the status quo, delay, while quietly expanding the settlements,’  which in his view 'deliberately and systematically’ aims to create apartheid 'in the strict sense' of that word. Contesting Ehud Olmert’s declaration  of willingness to withdraw from 100% of the occupied territories, Halper argued that, following Bush’s acceptance of settlements, which at the time effectively extended over 20% of the West Bank, would not leave Palestinians with a viable state but a series of sterile swatches of land whose border s would be controlled by Israel. By 2012 he argued  that in complicity with the Palestinian National Authority,  Israel appeared to be readying to annex Area C, creating a ‘viable apartheid’. 

In March 2010, Halper was a keynote speaker at Israel Apartheid Week in Glasgow.  Halper's lecture was entitled "Israeli Apartheid: The Case For BDS," during which he described the way that Palestinians are ‘warehoused' in Gaza.

Views
Halper supports the boycott, divestment, and sanctions movement, saying in a July 2013 article that BDS has "generated meaningful pressure on governments to justly resolve the Israeli–Palestinian conflict."

In the same article he set forth five criteria for a just solution to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict:
A just peace and the process leading up to it must conform to human rights, international law and UN resolutions.
Regardless of whether there should or should not have been an Israel, two peoples now reside in Palestine-Israel and a just peace must be based on that bi-national reality.
A just peace requires an acceptance of the Palestinian refugees' right of return.
A just peace must be economically viable, with all the country's inhabitants enjoying equal access to the country's resources and economic institutions. 
A just peace must be regional in scope – by itself Israel-Palestine is too small a unit to address all the issues at stake in the conflict—and it must address the security concerns of all in the region.

Halper supports the academic boycott against Israel.

Halper has often suggested that Israel is seeking to establish "facts on the ground," as he routinely puts it, that would render territorial concessions in any peace agreement inconceivable. Halper takes a critical view of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. He has stated that "during the process where you're supposed to be negotiating peace" Israel, in fact, "doubled its settlement enterprise".