[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Grand River land dispute

1:30 PM, protesters offer to remove the barricade across Argyle St. as long as the counter-barricade is removed as well. By 3:20 PM the road is fully open to traffic.
 May 24 – Power is restored to Caledonia during the morning hours.
 May 27 – Power is restored to all areas affected by the blackout.

June 
 June 5 – Six Nations protesters and Caledonia residents clash on the town's main street after a police cruiser drives through an area protesters consider "restricted" the night before.
 June 9 – Two elderly Simcoe residents driving by the occupation sight get into a verbal altercation with protesters. The couple are followed and surrounded in their car in a parking lot away from the occupation site. Protesters jump onto the vehicle attempting to get inside. According to residents, the police do not intervene. Another account from the residents recalls an OPP officer restraining a protester after attempting to grab the couples' steering wheel through the window. Following the altercation in the parking lot, more than 300 Caledonia residents gather at the Canadian Tire lot. Moving to a place near the construction site, some clash with OPP officers in full riot gear.
 June 9 – Two CH News camera operators are surrounded by Six Nations protesters and assaulted when they refuse to hand over video tape containing footage of the protesters swarming the elderly couple's car  One reporter is later hospitalized with a head injury. Caledonia residents and the cameramen say the OPP did not assist the men. However, the Hamilton Spectator reports that Lynda Powless, publisher of the Turtle Island News and reporter with the Hamilton Spectator, has produced photos which show OPP officers intervening.
 June 9 – A U.S. Border Patrol vehicle, with agents reportedly observing the OPP's management of the crisis, is swarmed by Six Nations protesters. Two occupants are immediately forced out of the vehicle and a protester climbs in. A third OPP officer is injured as he tries to escape out the back door. The car is driven directly at him and he is narrowly pulled to safety by onlookers. Protesters seized sensitive OPP documents from the vehicle, which included information collected by officers surveilling protesters, including personal information of OPP, U.S. Border Patrol, and protesters, as well as documents on an unrelated human smuggling investigation. Documents were given to Powless who stated to the Hamilton Spectator that she photocopied and returned them to protesters. The vehicle and original documents are later returned.
 June 9 – Arrest warrants are issued on charges related to this incident for Albert Douglas, 30; Skyler Williams, 22; Arnold Douglas, 61; and Ken Hill, 47, all of Ohsweken; Audra Ann Taillefer, 45, of Victoria, B.C., and Trevor Miller, 30. They face a total of 14 charges including attempted murder, assaulting a police officer, forcible confinement, theft of a motor vehicle, dangerous driving, assault and intimidation.

 June 12 – A class-action lawsuit is filed by 440 residents, 400 businesses and a handful of sub-contractors, alleging negligence and malfeasance for the failure of the provincial government and the OPP to properly protect citizens who lived near Douglas Creek Estates.
 June 12 – Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty calls off negotiations with protesters at the Douglas Creek Estates site, saying that public safety has been compromised by the violence on June 9. He says the province will return to the table only when the barricades come down and native leaders assist police in finding seven suspects in connection with earlier incidents.
 June 15 – Negotiations with the provincial government resume after one of the blockades is removed.
 June 16 – The Ontario provincial government announces that it has bought the disputed site from Henco Industries, the company which had sought to develop the land. It simultaneously announces $1 million in additional compensation for businesses in the Caledonia area adversely affected by the protest. The provincial government is holding the land in trust until an agreement can be reached.
 June 16 – Audra Ann Taillefer, 45, of Victoria, B.C. is taken into custody on charges of robbery and intimidation, stemming from the June 9 incident involving a Simcoe couple.

August