[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Angie Paccione

y with the Federal Election Commission and began raising money for a second congressional run. In an email to supporters, she admitted some of the weaknesses of her first campaign, including an inexperienced campaign staff, and she hired a Denver campaign consulting firm to manage her 2008 campaign.

Paccione faced Eric Eidsness, who had joined the Democratic Party, and Betsy Markey, a former aide to U.S. Senator Ken Salazar. Both Paccione and Markey, with prominent connections in the Colorado Democratic Party, vied for endorsements and in fundraising during 2007. In the second quarter of 2007, Paccione raised approximately $100,000 to Markey's $60,000. Although Markey was endorsed by a number of Colorado Democrats, including Senator Ken Salazar, former Congressional candidate Stan Matsunaka, and State Senator Bob Bacon, Paccione also garnered the support of prominent Democrats, including former Denver Mayor Wellington Webb and State Senate President Pro Tem Peter Groff.

In September 2007, however, despite her fundraising lead, Paccione announced her withdrawal from the Congressional race in order to accept a position with Pathways to Leadership (renamed Verus Global), a business consulting firm, and announced that she would return money raised for her Congressional campaign back to contributors. Paccione had worked with Pathways to Leadership since January 2007, and cited the expanded international travel and the opportunity to impact lives associated with her leadership consulting work as a factor in decision to withdraw from the Congressional race. Together with the withdrawal of Reform Party-turned-Democrat Eric Eidsness shortly after Paccione, her withdrawal cleared the Democratic nomination field for Betsy Markey, who went on to win both the Democratic nomination and the general election in 2008. In 2012, Paccione worked as a Director with Verus Global, Inc.

References

External links
 Colorado Department of Higher Education biography page
 Ask Angie Anything - Angie Paccione's Blog

1960 births
Living people
Democratic Party members of the Colorado House of Representatives
Colorado State University alumni
Basketball players from New York City
Stanford Cardinal women's basketball players
African-American state legislators in Colorado
African-American women in politics
American athlete-politicians
Women state legislators in Colorado
Sportspeople from the Bronx
Parade High School All-Americans (girls' basketball)
State cabinet secretaries of Colorado
21st-century African-American politicians
21st-century African-American women
20th-century African-American people
20th-century African-American women