[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

The Guangdong University of Foreign Studies (GDUFS) () is a leading public university with emphasis in foreign languages and cultures, overseas economy and trade, and international strategies in Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. It has been selected as one of the national 2011 Program. GDUFS is the Chinese partner institution of the United Nations University Outreach Programme for the training of high-end translators, the founding member of the Conférence Internationale Permanente d'Instituts Universitaires de Traducteurs et Interprètes (CIUTI) and the International Federation of Translators (FIT). It is also an important base for the training of international talents and the international dissemination of foreign languages and literature, global economic governance and Chinese culture. The university is ranked 151-200 in linguistics and 251-300 in English Language and Literature by QS World University Rankings. Together with Beijing Foreign Studies University and Shanghai International Studies University, it is considered one of the top 3 universities in Linguistics in China. GDUFS is also one of the first universities to introduce a Cyber Security Major with a focus on Natural Language Processing (NLP) in China.

As of December 2022, the university has four campuses with a total area of 2,442 mu (including planning), 25 teaching units and one independent college (South China Business School), offering 68 undergraduate majors; 2,166 staff members, 1,380 full-time teachers; 20,421 full-time undergraduate students, 5,323 doctoral and master's degree students and 850 foreign students.

History

In March 1964, the Central South Bureau of the Central Government, and the Party Committee and the People's Government of Guangdong Province decided to set up a foreign languages institute to train  competent graduates to meet the demands of the increasing international exchanges. In November 1964, with the sanction of the Central Government, Guangzhou Foreign Languages Institute was established. In July 1965, it began to enroll 4-year bachelor's degree students and offered 4 specialties – English, German, French, and Spanish. It was located at the old site of Guangdong Petroleum School in the Northeast suburbs of Guangzhou.

Since January 1966, Guangzhou Foreign Languages Institute had been operating under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Higher Education of the Central People's Government. In October 1969, in accordance with the CPC Central Committee's Notice to Transfer the Institutions of Higher Education to the Revolutionary Committees, the institute was delegated to Guangdong Province's Cultural Revolutionary Committee.

In October 1970, Guangdong Provincial Revolutionary Committee restructured the institutions of higher education in Guangdong Province. As a result, Sun Yat-sen University Foreign Languages Department, Jinan University Foreign Languages and Foreign Trade Department, and Guanghzou Foreign Languages School were merged into Guangzhou Foreign Languages Institute. In the meantime, the institute was renamed as Guangdong Foreign Languages Institute and was then moved to the old site of Central South Forestry Institute in the Northern Suburbs of Guangzhou.

In November 1977, the school resumed the name of Guangzhou Foreign Languages Institute and again operated directly under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education.

In December 1980, with the approval of the State Council, Guangzhou Foreign Trade Institute was established in the northern suburbs of Guangzhou. The institute evolved from Guangdong Provincial Foreign Trade Cadres School, which was founded in 1957 and operated directly under the jurisdiction of Guangdong Provincial Foreign Trade Bureau. In 1960, on the basis of Guangdong Provincial Foreign Trade Cadres School, Guangdong Foreign Trade School was founded and began to matriculate excellent students from middle schools, who were required to fulfill five years studies. In 1961, Guangdong Provincial Foreign Trade School became attached to Guangdong Provincial Finance and Trade Cadres School. During the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976), Guangdong Provincial Foreign Trade School was suspended for a time and re-opened in 1973. In accordance with the decision by Guangdong provincial government, Guangzhou Foreign Languages Institute Foreign Trade Department was incorporated into Guangdong Provincial Foreign Trade School, which began to enroll three-year college students in 1978. Later, the newly founded Guangzhou Foreign Trade Institute offered foreign trade economy, foreign trade accounting, and other specialties, and the students enrolled were required to fulfill four years schooling. The institute operated under the joint jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Guangdong provincial government, with the former playing the dominant role.