[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Soil contamination

lso found in the soil; such metals include iron, cobalt, and silver. Furthermore, upon examining the different vegetation surrounding the smelter it was evident that they too had been affected; the results show that the plants contained nickel, copper and aluminium as a result of soil contamination.

India
In March 2009, the issue of uranium poisoning in Punjab attracted press coverage. It was alleged to be caused by fly ash ponds of thermal power stations, which reportedly lead to severe birth defects in children in the Faridkot and Bhatinda districts of Punjab. The news reports claimed the uranium levels were more than 60 times the maximum safe limit. In 2012, the Government of India confirmed that the ground water in Malwa belt of Punjab has uranium metal that is 50% above the trace limits set by the United Nations' World Health Organization (WHO). Scientific studies, based on over 1000 samples from various sampling points, could not trace the source to fly ash and any sources from thermal power plants or industry as originally alleged. The study also revealed that the uranium concentration in ground water of Malwa district is not 60 times the WHO limits, but only 50% above the WHO limit in 3 locations. This highest concentration found in samples was less than those found naturally in ground waters currently used for human purposes elsewhere, such as Finland. Research is underway to identify natural or other sources for the uranium.

See also

 Contamination control
 Dutch pollutant standards
 Environmental policy in China#Soil pollution
 GIS in environmental contamination
 Groundwater pollution
 Habitat destruction
 Index of waste management articles
 Land degradation
 Landfill	
 List of solid waste treatment technologies
 List of waste management companies
 Litter	
 Pesticide drift
 Plasticulture
 Plastic-eating organisms
 Remediation of contaminated sites with cement
 Triangle of death (Italy)
 Water pollution

References

Panagos, P., Van Liedekerke, M., Yigini, Y., Montanarella, L. (2013)  Contaminated Sites in Europe: Review of the Current Situation Based on Data Collected through a European Network. Journal of Environmental and Public Health In Press. doi:10.1155/2013/158764

External links

Portal for soil and water management in Europe Independent information gateway originally funded by the European Commission for topics related to soil and water, including contaminated land, soil and water management.
European Soil Portal: Soil Contamination  At EU-level, the issue of contaminated sites (local contamination) and contaminated land (diffuse contamination) has been considered by:  European Soil Data Centre (ESDAC).
Article on soil contamination in China
Arsenic in groundwater Book on arsenic in groundwater by IAH's Netherlands Chapter and the Netherlands Hydrological Society

 
Environmental chemistry
Environmental issues with soil
Pollution
Soil chemistry