[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 137]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

er his belly. To keep him in this
attitude, they extend a piece of canvass over his body, and fix it to
the ground by laying heavy weights upon the edge. In this manner he is
tutored to obedience, and taught to kneel down at the orders of his
master, and receive the burthens which he is destined to transport. In
his temper he is gentle and tractable, and his patience in bearing
thirst and hunger is superior to that of any animal we are acquainted
with. He is driven across the burning desert, loaded with the
merchandise of those countries, and frequently does not even find water
to quench his thirst for several days. As to his food, it is nothing but
a few herbs, which are found in the least barren parts of the deserts,
and prickly bushes, upon which he browses as a delicacy; sometimes he
does not find even these for many days, yet pursues his journey with a
degree of patience which is hardly credible."

"'--We mounted our camels,' continued Chares, 'and soon had reached the
confines of the fertile plains of Egypt. The way, as we proceeded, grew
sensibly more dreary and disagreeable, yet was sometimes varied with
little tufts of trees and scanty patches of herbage; but these at
length entirely disappeared, and nothing was seen on every side but an
immense extent of barren sands, destitute of vegetation, and parched by
the continual heat of the sun. No sound was heard to interrupt the
dreary silence that reigned around; no traces of inhabitants
perceivable, and the gloomy uniformity of the prospect inspired the soul
with melancholy. In the meantime the sun seemed to shoot down
perpendicular rays upon our heads, without a cloud to mitigate his
violence. I felt a burning fever take possession of my body. My tongue
was scorched with intolerable heat, and it was in vain I endeavoured to
moisten my mouth with repeated draughts of water. At night we came to a
little rising ground, at the foot of which we perceived some aquatic
herbs and a small quantity of muddy water, of which our camels took
prodigious draughts; here we spread our tents and encamped for the
night. With the morning we pursued our journey; but had not proceeded
far before we saw a cloud of dust that seemed to rise along the desert;
and as we approached nearer, we easily distinguished the glitter of arms
that reflected the rising sun. This was a band of the Arabians that had
discovered us, and came to know our intentions. As they advanced they
spurred their horses, which are the most fleet and excellent in the
world, and bounded along the desert with the lightness of an antelope;
at the same time they brandished their lances, and seemed prepared alike
for war or peace; but when they saw that we had neither the intention
nor the power to commit hostilities, they stopped their coursers at the
distance of a few paces from us, and he that appeared the chief
advanced, and, with a firm but mild tone of voice, inquired into the
reason of our coming. It was then that I took the liberty of addressing
him in his own language, to which I had for some time applied myself
before my journey. I explained to him my curiosity, which led me to
observe in person the manners of a people who are celebrated over the
whole world for having preserved their native simplicity unaltered, and
their liberty unviolated, amidst the revolutions which agitate all the
neighbouring nations. I then offered him the loading of my camel, which
I had brought, not as being worthy his acceptance, but as a slight
testimony of my regard, and concluded with remarking, that the fidelity
of the Arabians in observing their engagements was unimpeached in a
single instance; and therefore, relying upon the integrity of my own
intentions, I had come a painful journey, unarmed, and almost alone, to
put myself into their power, and demand the sacred rights of
hospitality.

"'While I was thus speaking, he looked at me with penetration that
seemed to read into my very soul; and, when I had finished, he extended
his arm with a smile of benevolence, and welcomed me to their tribe,
telling me, at the same time, that they admitted me as their guest, and
received me with the arms of friendship; that their method of life, like
their manners, was coarse and simple, but that I might consider myself
as safer in their tents, and more removed from violence or treachery,
than in the crowded cities which I had left. The rest of the squadron
then approached, and all saluted me as a friend and brother. We then
struck off across the desert, and, after a few hours' march, approached
the encampment where they had left their wives and children.

"'This people is the most singular, and, in many respects, the most
admirable of all that inhabit this globe of earth. All other nations are
subject to revolutions and the various turns of fortune; sometimes they
wage successful wars; sometimes they improve in the arts of peace; now
they are great and revere