[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Orbital blowout fracture

sure better than the orbital floor.

The second prevailing theory is known as the buckling theory. The buckling theory states that a force is transmitted directly to the facial skeleton and then a ripple effect is transmitted to the orbit and causes buckling at the weakest points as described above.

In children, the flexibility of the actively developing floor of the orbit fractures in a linear pattern that snaps backward. This is commonly referred to as a trapdoor fracture. The trapdoor can entrap soft-tissue contents, thus causing permanent structural change that requires surgical intervention.

Diagnosis
Diagnosis is based on clinical and radiographic evidence. Periorbital bruising and subconjunctival hemorrhage are indirect signs of a possible fracture.

Anatomy
The bony orbital anatomy is composed of 7 bones: the maxillary, zygomatic, frontal, lacrimal, sphenoid, palatine, and ethmoidal. The floor of the orbit is the roof of the maxillary sinus. The medial wall of the orbit is the lateral wall of the ethmoid sinus. The medial wall is also known as the lamina papyrcea which means "paper layer." This demonstrates the thinness which is associated with increased fractures. The clinically important structures surrounding the orbit include the optic nerve at the apex of the orbit as well as the superior orbital fissure which contains cranial nerves 3, 4, and 6 therefore controlling ocular muscles of eye movement. Inferior to the orbit is the infraorbital nerve which is purely sensory. Five cranial nerves (optic, oculomotor, trochlear, trigeminal, and abducens), and several vascular bundles, pass through the orbital socket.

Imaging 
Thin cut (2-3mm) CT scan with axial and coronal view is the optimal study of choice for orbital fractures.

Plain radiographs, on the other hand, do not have the sensitively capture blowout fractures. On Water's view radiograph, polypoid mass can be observed hanging from the floor into the maxillary antrum, classically known as teardrop sign, as it usually is in shape of a teardrop. This polypoid mass consists of herniated orbital contents, periorbital fat and inferior rectus muscle. The affected sinus is partially opacified on radiograph. Air-fluid level in maxillary sinus may sometimes be seen due to presence of blood. Lucency in orbits (on a radiograph) usually indicate orbital emphysema.

Treatment

Initial management 
All patients should follow-up with an ophthalmologist within 1 week of the fracture. To prevent orbital emphysema, patients are advised to avoid blowing of the nose. Nasal decongestants are commonly used. It is also common practice to administer prophylactic antibiotics when the fracture enters a sinus, although this practice is largely anecdotal. Amoxicillin-clavulanate and azithromycin are most commonly used. Oral corticosteroids are used to decrease swelling.

Surgery 
Surgery is indicated if there is enophthalmos greater than 2 mm on imaging, Double vision on primary or inferior gaze, entrapment of extraocular muscles, or the fracture involves greater than 50% of the orbital floor. When not surgically repaired, most blowout fractures heal spontaneously without significant consequence.

Surgical repair of a "blowout" is rarely undertaken immediately; it can be safely postponed for up to two weeks, if necessary, to let the swelling subside. Surgery to treat the fracture generally leaves little or no scarring and the recovery period is usually brief. Ideally, the surgery will provide a permanent cure, but sometimes it provides only partial relief from double vision or a sunken eye. Reconstruction is usually performed with a titanium mesh or porous polyethylene through a transconjunctival or subciliary incision. More recently, there has been success with endoscopic, or minimally invasive, approaches.

Surgical approaches
1. Transcutaneous 
Transcutaneous surgery can be performed from a variety of surgical incisions. The first is known as the infraciliary incision. This incision has an advantage as the scar is barely perceivable but the disadvantage is that there is a higher rate of ectropion after repair. The next incision can be performed at the lower eyelid crease also known as the sub tarsal. This creates a more visible scar but has a lower risk of ectropion. The final incision option is infraorbital which allows the easiest access to the orbit but results in the most visible scar.

2. Transconjunctival 
The advantage to this approach is direct access to the orbit and there is no skin incision. The disadvantage to this a purported decreased view of the orbit which can be offset with a canthotomy to increase the view of the orbit.