[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Al-Azraq Treaty of 1245

e its defeat. The town was established for defensive purposes in an attempt to protect Valencia from attacks by al-Azraq and his troops. The Christians populace in this new city did not remain isolated; while not having property in the town itself, Mudéjars continued to hold lands surrounding Alcoi.

Mudéjar Revolt of 1247 
In 1247, two years after the al-Azraq Treaty was signed, the Mudéjar leader and his troops began a revolt that lasted until 1258. Bruns and Chevedden consider this to be a "counter crusade" by the Mudéjars. In December 1247, James I declared a general expulsion of Mudéjars from Aragón, Catalonia, and Valencia after al-Azraq took control of multiple castles in Valencia, including Penàguila which was "a place of 'importance and honor.'" While the clergy and average citizens were for the plan, James I's barons were against it since many of their tenants were Mudéjars and their expulsion would cost them money. Muslims began rioting across Valencia and more castles fell to their forces. James I then marched "a hundred thousand" Mudéjars to Castile and Granada. As the war ramped up, Mudéjar forces in Northern Valencia "defeated an invading Christian host of three thousand, killing four hundred or five hundred." In the South, they besieged Christian defensive positions at Peñacadel or Benicadell castle. In the spring and summer of 1248, James I conducted sieges against the Mudéjar cities of Lucente and Xátiva, relieved the castle being attacked, and killed the rebel leader Ibn Bassāl. They also managed to drive the Mudéjar forces back to al-Azraq's base at Alcalá. Pope Innocent IV intervened multiple times throughout the war, dispatching members of the church to regions of James I's kingdom as well sending out financial appeals and letters as a way to garner aid. On 13 November 1249, he published a "crusade circular" stating that the Muslims were "'infidel people still walking in darkness' and slavery" and were persecuting Christians. He stated that those who "take up the sign of the living cross, to give that king [James I] assistance against those people [Muslims]" via fighting in his army, would receive "full pardon of their sins." With this bull, Burns states that Innocent IV made the war into a full blow crusade against al-Azraq and Mudéjars on the Peninsula. At some point during the counter crusade, "al-Azraq came to James and said he wanted to become a Christian and marry a relative of the lord of Dénia. James rode to al-Azraq's castle of Rugat, where his small party was savagely ambushed and the king himself nearly killed." A clear date was not given for this encounter between the two leaders. In 1250, a diplomatic shift to the war began as al-Azraq sent a letter in Arabic to Queen Violante in which he acknowledged James I's rule over Valencia.  According to Burns, "The convention of accepting a Christian ruler as having some extrinsic claims over one's resources or territory was a ploy common enough in frontier warfare and rationalized in Islamic terms." The two leaders exchanged envoys with Joan de Muracting acting as Violante's and Abū 'al-Hasan (al-Azraq's cousin) and Abū l'-Qāsim acting as al-Azraq's. The Mudéjar leader announced the preparation of his embassy to the leaders of Aragón a week before Innocent IV sent a letter to James I. The letter used stronger language than his previous ones and continued to offer indulgences for those who fought on the Peninsula. Berns states that this meant the king "had opened negotiations with his enemy at the very time he was seeking renewed crusade status and military aid from the pope." Innocent IV also wrote to different Orders, such as the Templars and Hospitallers, pushing his crusading beliefs on the organizations and seeking aid. A truce occurred between the two sides around February 1258 (called the Truce of Easter 1258) brokered by Castile. Al-Azraq formed a semi-alliance with Alfonso X which backfired and triggered James I's final push during the years 1257–1258. He besieged the stronghold of Alcalá between April and June 1258 and the city's defeat ended the war with a Christian victory. A treaty was signed in July of that year; Al-Azraq was then exiled to North Africa. Like the Valencian Crusade, this war ended partially because James I bribed someone in al-Azraq's inner circle, depriving him of the funds he needed to buy grain to feed his troops. In his autobiography, James I spends fifteen chapters speaking about the Mudéjar revolt of 1247 and tries his best to down play it, claiming it lasted "a good three or four years" instead of ten. He is also the first one to identify the name of the Mudéjar leader heading the revolt, calling him "al-Azraq Our traitor" and "al-Azraq Our betrayer" since he had violated the terms of their surrender treaty. Al-Azraq returned to the Iberian Peninsula and al-Andulas in 1260 to help lead another Mudéjar revolt. He was killed at the Battle of Alcoi in 1276. The revolt of 1260 ended in much the same