[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# John Hostettler

). However, he was one of the leading Republican opponents of the Iraq War. He felt that preemptive military strikes were improper, and also felt that the military should not go into action unless there was an "imminent threat" to national security.

Hostettler was a hardliner on immigration issues:

... the Constitution ... is very clear. These are violations of our immigration law, and those that violate our immigration law should be dealt with, and should be punished, and should be ultimately deported.

Awards and commendations
 The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) bestowed upon Hostettler the Guardian of Small Business Award in 2000 because of attaining a 94% favorable rating with their organization, markedly above the 70% requirement for the award.
 In 2001, the National Taxpayers Union (NTU) presented to Hostettler the Taxpayers' Friend Award which he shared with 41 other Congressional Members that year.
 The National Taxpayers Union (NTU) gave, for second consecutive year, the Taxpayers' Friend Award to John Hostettler along with 35 other lawmakers in 2002.
 In 2004, Hostettler received the Distinguished Christian Statesman Award from the Center for Christian Statesmanship, an outreach of Coral Ridge Ministries and Dr. D. James Kennedy.
 He received a perfect 100% rating from the American Conservative Union in 2005.
 In 2006, 9/11 Families for a Secure America gave Hostettler the Homeland Defender Award

Airport firearm possession
On April 20, 2004, Hostettler was briefly detained at the Louisville International Airport when he attempted to board a flight for Washington, D.C., with a loaded 9 mm Glock pistol in his briefcase The congressman explained he "completely forgot" the gun was there, and called it a rather stupid mistake. His spokesman said Hostettler never brought the gun, registered to the Congressman, to Washington, where handguns are illegal. Hostettler did not have a house or apartment in D.C., but slept in his office.

In August, Hostettler pleaded guilty to carrying a concealed weapon. He agreed to a plea-bargained sentence of 60 days in jail, with the jail time to be conditionally discharged rather than served if he had no more legal problems in the next two years. On October 4, 2004, a Kentucky judge issued a bench warrant for his arrest after Hostettler failed to pay court costs, but it was recalled the same day after his attorney paid the $122.50.

Hostettler received strong support over the gun incident from an aviation security expert, Joseph Gutheinz, a retired NASA Office of Inspector General (OIG) Senior Special Agent and a former Special Agent with both U.S. Department of Transportation OIG and FAA Civil Aviation Security. In his Op/Ed appearing in the Courier Journal, Gutheinz said that rather than charging Hostettler for an obvious mistake, law enforcement "could have ... and should have exercised discretion ... by not charging him for bringing his weapon through security at Louisville International Airport." Gutheinz is a well known critic of letting pilots fly armed.

References

External links
 Nothing for the Nation: Who Got What Out of Iraq official book site
 Publius House, Hostettler's Publishing Company Website
 John Hostettler Bio
 The Official John Hostettler Website
 Marlin Stutzman for U.S. Senate campaign site
 Associated Press profile
 
 
 2010 Senate campaign contributions at OpenSecrets.org

1961 births
Living people
Politicians from Evansville, Indiana
Baptists from Indiana
Rose–Hulman Institute of Technology alumni
21st-century American politicians
Texas Public Policy Foundation people
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Indiana