[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

iega) and inadvertently leaks information about "Project G" to her and Celestial Being. After the death of Professor Eifman and Howard Mason during an attack by Team Trinity, Billy uses one of the recently acquired GN Drives to upgrade Graham's Flag unit to the GN-Flag in order to fight the Gundams.

 By the second season, Billy is taking care of a despondent Kujo, still unaware that she was a member of Celestial Being until Setsuna F Seiei appears to retrieve her. Shocked by this revelation and feeling betrayed, Billy joins the A-Laws and becomes the head of mobile suit development. Once again teaming up with Graham Aker, now using the alias Mr. Bushido, Billy develops the Masurao and the upgraded Susanoo. Billy disappears after the collapse of the African orbital elevator, but reappears four months later to provide his Trans-Am findings to the Innovators as he personally confronts Kujo while claiming to embraced the Innovators' ideals of world peace. However when exposed to the 00 Raiser's Trans-Am Burst, Billy is forced to express his feeling to Kujo as she apologized for hurting him. At the end of the series, a picture of him and Kujo is shown on a desk while Billy himself smiles down at the picture, doing his work while his friend Graham stands beside him. In the movie, Billy seems to have started a relationship with Mina Carmine. 

 
 A Union NCO with the rank of warrant officer. One of the first Flag Fighters assigned to the Anti-Gundam Investigative Task Force "Overflags" under Graham Aker. He seemed to have a friendship with Graham due to their belief in the qualities of the Flag. He has brown hair and glasses. He was killed in action by Michael Trinity. After his death, Graham and Daryl vowed to avenge his death. 

 
 A Union soldier with the rank of master sergeant. Another of the first Flag Fighters assigned to the Anti-Gundam Investigative Task Force "Overflags" under Graham Aker. Unlike Graham and Howard, he doesn't share their faith that a Flag can beat the Gundams. He is transferred to the Union's GN-X squad where he meets Patrick Colasour and tells him not to badmouth Graham. He is killed after performing a head-on suicide attack on Gundam Dynames in order to avenge Howard Mason's death. 

 
 A world famous Union professor who is invited to join the Overflags as their technical chief. He taught both Sumeragi Lee Noriega and Billy Katagiri in college and knows them both well. When Graham asks him whether the Gundams' action may bring the war to an end, Eifman does not deny the fact. Professor Eifman joined the Union's Anti-Gundam Investigative Squad as their technical chief and adviser to aid in capturing the Gundams. Having Billy at his side, they custom modified Graham Aker's Flag and renamed it as "Over Flag." Eventually these modifications were expanded to an entire squadron of Over Flags to stand against the Gundams.  While doing his investigation regarding Celestial Being, Eifman was on the verge of a major revelation about their ultimate intention but was killed by Team Trinity. 

 
 Saji's older sister. A journalist, she pursues Celestial Being during the course of working in the media. She and her brother Saji were orphaned prior to the start of the series. Kinue seemed obsessed over Aeolia Schenberg, believing that Celestial Being had motives other than ending warfare and that researching Schenberg is the key to discovering those motives. In episode 20, desperate for a lead, she interviews Ali Al-Saachez in his car. He gives her significantly more information than she expects, shocking Kinue before she is fatally wounded by Ali and left to die in an alleyway.

Human Reform League 
The  is a supranational political-economic community consisting of several countries on the Asian continent which includes China, India, Russia and the ASEAN nations. It controls the second-completed of the three orbital elevators located in the South Pacific.