[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# United Democratic Front (Kerala)

1–16 period include the Malayalam University at Tirur (2012) and Technological University at Thiruvananthapuram (2014). The National Institute of Visual Science and Arts at Kottayam was inaugurated in January 2016. Kerala was declared as the first complete digital state of India on 27 February 2016.

The Kerala Public Service Commission filled the vacant posts during 2011–16. As many as  job candidates were appointed, setting a record. As many as 46,223 posts were created in the same period. The Phase-3 of the Technopark at Thiruvananthapuram was inaugurated in 2014. The Taurus Downtown at Technopark was commenced during the period 2011–16. The phase-2 of InfoPark, Kochi was inaugurated in May 2015. Phase-2 of InfoPark Thrissur was completed during the same period. The Park Centre of Cybercity at Kozhikode was formally opened by IT Minister P.K. Kunhalikutty on 15 February 2014. UL Cyberpark at Kozhikode was inaugurated in January 2016. Chandy's regime was instrumental in beginning the construction of the Smart City Project.

Chandy received the United Nation's Public Service Award for his Mass Contact Programme ("Jana Samparkka Paripadi"). The government also sanctioned of Unemployment Allowance. Social welfare pension amounts and numbers were doubled during the second Chandy ministry.  Old-age pension amounts were also increased. Other social welfare measures during Chandy reign include free ration for those who lost their employment. Free rice was given to those who did not belong to Above Poverty Line (APL). Food kits were distributed to the people during Onam, the Eid, and Christmas.

Chandy government constructed more than 400,000 houses for the homeless people in Kerala.

Chandy's regime was instrumental in beginning the construction of Kannur Airport, the Kochi Metro, and the Vizhinjam Port near Thiruvananthapuram. The Kochi-Mangalore GAIL pipeline was commissioned by the second Chandy ministry in 2013.  In 2015, the Cochin Airport became the world's first fully solar powered airport. During his period, 227 road bridges worth nearly Rs 16 billion were built across Kerala.

A number of state highways were constructed under Chandy government and the final decision to widen the national highways of the state to 45 m were taken in 2014. Several "bypass" roads were also constructed.

Kerala Assembly Election results

Electoral history

List of elected members

State legislature

The United Democratic Front currently has 41 members in the 140-member Kerala Legislative Assembly. The alliance currently forms the Opposition in the Assembly.

Key

Lok Sabha 

Out of the 20 Lok Sabha (House of the People) constituencies in Kerala, 19 were won by the United Democratic Front in 2019 Lok Sabha election (including Thomas Chazhikadan, Kerala Congress Mani from Kottayam). Later when the Kerala Congress Mani crossed floors to join Left Democratic Front (2020), the number of M. P.s reduced to 18.

The following is the list of United Democratic Front Lok Sabha members from the state of Kerala:

Key

Rajya Sabha 
The following is the list of United Democratic Front Rajya Sabha members from the state of Kerala:

Key

See also 
 United Front (1970–79)
 Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee
 Indian National Congress
 United Progressive Alliance
 Left Democratic Front
 Indian Union Muslim League

References

Further reading
 

Political parties in Kerala
Political party alliances in India
Social democratic parties in Asia
United Progressive Alliance
Political parties established in 1979
1979 establishments in Kerala