[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Paulette Cooper

s of America. She has also ghost-written several books, including one for Margaret Truman, daughter of President Harry S. Truman.

Cooper wrote a one-act, one-woman play about her Church of Scientology frame-up entitled "The Perils of Paulette". Staged in 1997, it garnered a Chicago Dramatist Award.

Personal life 
As part of her career, Cooper moved in celebrity circles. At various times she dated television personality Allen Funt, writer Jerzy Kosinski, and author Ira Levin.

Cooper married television producer Paul Noble on May 17, 1988. They live in Palm Beach, Florida with their two shih-tzus. The couple have authored four books together.

Cooper's sister Suzy now lives in New York. She has two children, named after their parents.

Awards
In 1992, the American Society of Journalists and Authors awarded her their highest honor, the prestigious Conscience-in-Media Award.

Selected bibliography
 The Scandal of Scientology. Tower Publications, 1971. 
 The Medical Detectives. D. McKay Co., 1973. 
 Let's Find Out About Halloween. Reader's Digest Services, 1977.
 The 100 Top Psychics in America (co-written by Paul Noble). Pocket Books, 1996. 
 277 Secrets Your Cat Wants You to Know (co-written by Paul Noble). Ten Speed Press, 1997. 
 The Most Romantic Resorts for Destination Weddings, Marriage Renewals & Honeymoons (co-written by Paul Noble). S.P.I. Books, 2002. 
 Battlefield Scientology: Exposing L. Ron Hubbard's dangerous "religion" (co-written by Tony Ortega) Polo Publishing of Palm Beach, 2018.

See also

 The Scandal of Scientology
 Office of Special Affairs (OSA), formerly the Guardian's Office (GO)
 Operation Freakout
 Fair game (Scientology)

References

External links
The Scandal of Scientology by Paulette Cooper
"The Tragi-Farce of Scientology" by Paulette Cooper
Scientology documents about Paulette Cooper seized by the FBI.
Paulette Cooper's website
Paulette Cooper's description of her frame-up

Media
Video of Paulette Cooper's testimony at the Clearwater Hearings – May 8, 1982
Transcript of Clearwater Hearings testimony

Critics of Scientology
Living people
1942 births
American adoptees
American people of Polish-Jewish descent
Jewish American writers
Belgian emigrants to the United States
Belgian Jews
American women non-fiction writers
20th-century American non-fiction writers
20th-century American women writers
21st-century American non-fiction writers
21st-century American women writers