[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 1929 Bahamas hurricane

osses in the Altamaha River basin amounted to $500,000. In the southwestern part of Georgia, damage from the storm was primarily wind-driven, and many pecans were blown from trees. A conservative estimate from the Weather Bureau appraised damage to agriculture, highways, and railroads at $3 million.

Flood damage in South Carolina from heavy rains on September 26–27 were exacerbated by additional rains associated with the hurricane on September 30 and October 1. Heavy rains and strong winds swept across the Piedmont. The entire state recorded above-average rainfall for October due in part to the hurricane. In Hamburg, which lies across the Savannah River opposite Augusta, Georgia, many homes were swept away by floodwaters. Eight dams were breached in the Horse Creek Valley. Damage in the Santee River watershed totaled $1.1 million, with most due to property damage; $160,000 in property damage was estimated to have been mitigated by timely flood warnings. Total losses in South Carolina from flooding associated with the storm reached $3.829 million, of which $1.8 million was inflicted upon crops. Farming operations in South Carolina's northern and western counties were suspended across both uplands and lowlands. The Cape Fear River in North Carolina experienced its third highest flood on record, leading to $800,000 in losses. However, further losses were avoided as crops were already partly harvested. Areas downstream were also afforded clear conditions during which crops and other stocks were moved to safety as the bulge of floodwaters flowed downstream. October 1929 became the North Carolina's rainiest October on record upon its conclusion. In Virginia, highways and bridges were damaged by flooded streams. Southside and Southwest Virginia were the parts of the state most heavily impacted. High surf and damaging winds spread northward to the Mid-Atlantic states and New England, causing heavy damage. Trees were blown down in The Berkshires by strong winds enhanced by the local topography. In Maine, heavy rains up to  flooded storm cellars and broke a prolonged dry spell in the state, though damage was minimal.

Canada 
The extratropical remnants of the hurricane exhibited winds of 40 mph (65 km/h) as they passed over New Brunswick and Quebec. Heavy rainfall and flooding were reported in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. A peak rainfall total of 3.8 in (95 mm) was measured in Saint John, New Brunswick. Cellars and streets in the Saint John area had flood depths of . Streets were flooded and damaged in Digby and Truro, Nova Scotia.

See also 

1926 Nassau hurricane – passed directly over Nassau at a similar intensity
Hurricane Betsy – took a similar southwestward path through the Bahamas and Florida Keys
Hurricane Dorian – slow-moving Category 5 hurricane that caused catastrophic damage on Grand Bahama and Great Abaco islands

Notes

References 
Sources

 
 
 
 

Citations

External links 
 1929 Hurricane best track data

1929 Bahamas
1929 Bahamas
1929 Bahamas
Bahamas Hurricane, 1929
1929 in Florida
1929 natural disasters in the United States
1929 meteorology