[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Erzhan Kazykhanov

Erzhan Hozeuly Kazykhanov (born 21 August 1964) is a Kazakh politician who serves as diplomat. Kazykhanov holds a newly created position in the presidential administration with the title of Special Representative for International Cooperation. Prior to his appointment as the Ambassador to the U.S., Kazykhanov has served as Kazakhstan's Ambassador to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Before becoming Ambassador to the UK, he held the position of Assistant to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan. He previously served as the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, as well as the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Austria, Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan to the International Organizations in Vienna and Permanent Representative to the United Nations in New York.

Early life and education
Born in Alma-Ata, Kazykhanov earned his bachelor’s degree in Oriental studies from the Saint Petersburg State University in 1987. Kazykhanov holds Ph.D in History from Al-Farabi Kazakh National University. He is the author of numerous articles on Kazakhstan’s foreign policy, economic diplomacy, multilateralism, and the role of the United Nations. He speaks Russian, English and Arabic, and is the recipient of several State awards and recognition.

Ambassador to the United States

Kazykhanov presented his letter of credentials to President Donald Trump in the Oval Office on 24 April 2017. “The strategic partnership that Kazakhstan and the United States have built in the course of the past twenty-five years has matured into a strong bond of mutual trust, commitment and genuine friendship that both countries are truly proud of,” Kazykhanov said. “Astana and Washington share a common vision on many important issues of global politics. We are looking forward to deepening our bilateral relations”. In turn, Donald Trump highly praised the progress of Kazakhstan in the years of independence and its contribution to ensuring international and regional security. The U.S. President spoke for expanding the Kazakh-U.S. relations and expressed support to the oncoming EXPO 2017 exhibition to be held in Astana .

Interviews and Publications
In April 2017,  published Ambassador Kazykhanov's piece entitled "Finding the Energy for Increased Cooperation" where he notes that "Expo 2017 represents a clear opportunity for the United States and Kazakhstan to expand their excellent political and security relations further into the realm of economics, investment, and bilateral commercial deals. The United States government and the U.S. private sector have already made a significant commitment to Expo. American companies understand its value in showcasing the technology and innovation that the United States holds in energy. Expo 2017 should be seen as the first step in a larger effort to leverage Kazakhstan's unique standing among American friends and partners around the world, using the bilateral relationship to help address issues of critical importance to the United States. The United States and Kazakhstan have both entered a new era – one defined by innovative thinking and steadfast focus on the need to achieve results. We must seize the moment". 
                                                              
In the fall of 2017, Council of American Ambassadors published an article by Ambassador Erzhan Kazykhanov, "Kazakhstan: Building a Nuclear Safe World",  where he notes that as  the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, the newly independent Kazakhstan overnight emerged as the fourth-largest nuclear power in the world. Having inherited the major Soviet nuclear testing site at Semipalatinsk and some of the largest nuclear weapons, including 104 SS-18 intercontinental ballistic missiles and 40 Tu-95 strategic bombers with air-launched cruise missiles—comprising approximately 1,410 nuclear warheads in total—the young country could pose a serious threat to the international community. But it did not pursue this destructive path. Instead, as a firm believer in confidence-building measures, dialogue and partnership, Nazarbayev laid down a comprehensive long-term strategy aimed at complete dismantlement and removal of one of the world’s most pivotal nuclear arsenals and establishment of his nation as a reliable partner globally".