[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fred Schwarz

acknowledgement of Schwarz's influence upon Reagan's anticommunist policies and rhetoric, speechwriter Anthony R. Dolan sent Schwarz a copy of Reagan's Evil Empire speech with the note: “I thought you might like to see the oak tree that has grown from the acorn which you planted so many years ago.”

His fourth book, published posthumously in 2011 and co-authored with David A. Noebel, was You Can Still Trust the Communists: To be Communists, Socialists, and Progressives Too. The book included an encomium from Phyllis Schlafly that said, "Dr. Fred Schwarz is one of America’s great heroes. In his 50 years of work in the United States, he trained a whole generation to recognize the evil and the danger of Communism at home and abroad. He was a major force in building the conservative anti-Communist movement and in supporting Ronald Reagan’s goal of defeating the 'evil empire'."

Though some critics and supporters have sought to depict Schwarz as right wing, he eschewed the label, stating in Time magazine, "We are not angels; we have neither right wings, left wings or any wings." He insisted that the purpose of his work was bipartisan opposition to Communism grounded in a knowledge of its fundamental doctrines.

In 1936, while a student at the University of Queensland, Schwarz established the University of Queensland Medical Society (UQMS), a medical student's union. He pursued industrial action before and after his graduation, successfully ensuring better treatment and higher wages for graduating medical students. In Schwarz's obituary Derek H. Meyers wrote, "Although this industrial action seemed scandalous to older doctors at the time, it is clear that every graduate of an Australian medical school since then owes a debt of gratitude to Fred."

As a notable authority on the ideology, Schwarz expressed sympathy for the appeal of Communism. Appearing on Firing Line with William F. Buckley, he asserted that arguments that Communists are unintelligent, "psychological misfits" are puerile, and that he considered the "Communist critique and analysis of capitalism" to be understandably persuasive to those convinced of capitalism's role in the creation of poverty and war.

Schwarz was the father-in-law of leading Australian clinical cardiologist and medical scientist, Professor Murray Esler.

References

External links
  - Interview conducted by William F. Buckley Jr. on television series Firing Line. Duration: 50 mins.
 Dr. Fred Schwarz, You Can Trust the Communists (To Be Communists) - excerpts from Schwarz' works
  - Semper Floreat, The University of Queensland Student Newspaper, October 26, 1944.
 'Crusader Schwarz' (TIME magazine, 9 February 1962)
Fred Schwarz's FBI files, hosted at the Internet Archive: Part 1, Part 2, Part 3, Part 4, Part 5
FBI files on the Dallas Freedom Forum, One of a series of "anti-communism schools" organized by Fred Schwarz: Headquarters file, Dallas Office file
FBI files on the Christian Anti-Communism Crusade: Part 2, Part 3, Part 4, Part 5, Part 6, Part 7, Part 8,  Houston office file, Omaha office file, San Antonio office file

1913 births
Australian activists
People from Brisbane
Australian psychiatrists
Australian people of Austrian-Jewish descent
Australian Christians
Australian anti-communists
2009 deaths
American anti-communists
20th-century Australian writers