[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 32]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ve sometimes seen her laugh at herself, when
it was over, for being so cowardly. _Mr B._--Why, then, it is possible
that when these men found they were so well able to defend themselves
against the bears, they might no longer be afraid of them; and, not
being afraid, they would not be unhappy. _T._--Indeed, I believe so. _Mr
B._--Let us now continue.

"The three different kinds of animals above mentioned--viz., the
reindeer, the blue and white foxes, and the white bears--were the only
food these wretched mariners tasted during their continuance in this
dreary abode. We do not at once see every resource; it is generally
necessity which quickens our invention, opening by degrees our eyes,
and pointing out expedients which otherwise might never have occurred to
our thoughts. The truth of this observation our four sailors experienced
in various instances. They were for some time reduced to the necessity
of eating their meat almost raw, and without either bread or salt, for
they were quite destitute of both. The intenseness of the cold, together
with the want of proper conveniences, prevented them from cooking their
victuals in a proper manner. There was but one stove in the hut, and
that being set up agreeable to the Russian taste, was more like an oven,
and consequently not well adapted for boiling anything. Wood also was
too precious a commodity to be wasted in keeping up two fires; and the
one they might have made out of their habitation to dress their victuals
would in no way have served to warm them. Another reason against their
cooking in the open air was the continual danger of an attack from the
white bears. And here I must observe that, suppose they had made the
attempt it would still have been practicable for only some part of the
year; for the cold, which in such a climate for some months scarcely
ever abates, from the long absence of the sun, then enlightening the
opposite hemisphere,--the inconceivable quantity of snow, which is
continually falling through the greatest part of the winter, together
with the almost incessant rains at certain seasons,--all these were
almost insurmountable to that expedient. To remedy, therefore, in some
degree the hardship of eating their meat raw, they bethought themselves
of drying some of their provisions during the summer in the open air,
and afterwards of hanging it up in the upper part of the hut, which, as
I mentioned before, was continually filled with smoke down to the
windows; it was thus dried thoroughly by the help of that smoke. This
meat so prepared, they used for bread, and it made them relish their
other flesh the better, as they could only half-dress it. Finding this
experiment answer in every respect to their wishes, they continued to
practise it during the whole time of their confinement upon the island,
and always kept up, by that means, a sufficient stock of provisions.
Water they had in summer from small rivulets that fell from the rocks,
and in winter from the snow and ice thawed. This was of course their
only beverage; and their small kettle was the only vessel they could
make use of for this and other purposes. I have mentioned above that our
sailors brought a small bag of flour with them to the island. Of this
they had consumed about one-half with their meat; the remainder they
employed in a different manner equally useful. They soon saw the
necessity of keeping up a continual fire in so cold a climate, and found
that, if it should unfortunately go out, they had no means of lighting
it again; for though they had a steel and flints, yet they wanted both
match and tinder. In their excursions through the island they had met
with a slimy loam, or a kind of clay nearly in the middle of it. Out of
this they found means to form a utensil which might serve for a lamp,
and they proposed to keep it constantly burning with the fat of the
animals they should kill. This was certainly the most rational scheme
they could have thought of; for to be without a light in a climate
where, during winter, darkness reigns for several months together, would
have added much to their other calamities----"

_Tommy._--Pray, sir, stop. What! are there countries in the world where
it is night continually for several months together? _Mr
Barlow._--Indeed there are. _T._--How can that be? _Mr B._--How happens
it that there is night at all? _T._--How happens it! It must be so, must
it not? _Mr B._--That is only saying that you do not know the reason.
But do you observe no difference here between night and day? _T._--Yes,
sir, it is light in the day and dark in the night. _Mr B._--But why is
it dark in the night? _T._--Really I do not know. _Mr B._--What! does
the sun shine every night? _T._--No, sir, certainly not. _Mr B._--Then
it only shines on some nights, and not on others. _T._--It never shines
at all in the night. _Mr B._--And does it in the day? _T._--Yes, sir.
_Mr B._--Every day? _T._--Every day,