[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# World Tree (role-playing game)

World Tree is an anthropomorphic fantasy role-playing game designed by Bard Bloom and Victoria Borah Bloom and published by Padwolf Publishing in 2001.  The setting is the World Tree, a gigantic - possibly infinite - tree, with multiple trunks, branches tens of miles thick, and thousands long. World Tree was nominated for Best Anthropomorphic Game and Best Anthropomorphic Published Illustration in the 2001 Ursa Major Awards.

Although combat plays a part in the game, most campaigns benefit from good role-playing skills on the part of the players. Almost all characters can make creative use of spontaneous magic, where characters can invent their own spell from lists of verb-noun combinations.

Setting
The World Tree is described as a translation of the world's language, from the perspective of a visitor from terrestrial reality (Earth). World Tree civilization includes cities, guilds, merchants, schools, and professions (even prostitution). The civilization differs from human civilization in its lack of metals and magic everywhere.

System 
World Tree is a skill-based system, which uses custom d20 based system as well as playing cards.

Dice are divided into two types in World Tree, with two corresponding notations - simple dice, which are noted as dN (with N being the number of sides), stress dice (noted as sN), and botch dice. Most of the time, normal dice will be rolled, but when a situation arises where it is possible to succeed or fail spectacularly, stress dice and botch dice take the place of the normal dice.

Stress dice are open-ended and are re-rolled each time the roll equals the die's maximum value.  A natural 1 on the first stress die roll indicates a possible botch, requiring a botch roll to confirm the botch. Botch dice are d6s; only a roll of 1 indicates a botch.

Prime species 
Cani are anthropoid canines, with complex social relationships.
Gormoror are anthropoid ursines, tending towards bravery.
Herethroy are anthropoid beetles or grasshoppers - hexapod, agricultural and musical.
Khtsoyis are levitating heptapi (well, mostly, they have 5 eyes on eyestalks, and two mouths: one for eating, one for talking), who would be monsters, save for an accident of timing.
Orren are anthropoid water-mammalfolk and shapechangers, prone to extreme excitement, so much so that they change their interests - and name - often and with childlike enthusiasm.
Rassimel have the most obvious variation among the Primes, as 2/3 or 67% of them are anthropoid raccoonfolk, and the remaining third are other anthropoids based on other nocturnal mammals, including felines.  They also have strong interests, but are more focused, and change their interests only rarely.
Sleeth are nonmorphic panthera, who are predators first and foremost.
Zi Ri are small, immortal, hermaphrodite dragons, who may also have feathers.

Each prime species has a template that initially defines the species' skills from childhood and starting attributes as well as their advantages and disadvantages.  Certain species are more inclined towards character-class-like niches, although the ultimate choice still remains in the hands of the player.

Attributes 
Characters in World Tree have ten attributes, that technically have no upper limit, but generally range from -6 to +6, with a score of 0 being average.  The attributes are:
Strength (Str)
Stamina (Sta)
manual Dexterity (Dex)
bodily Agility (Agil)
Perception (Per)
Faith
Memory (Mem)
Wits
Will
Charisma (Cha)

Skills 
There are Nine skill categories in World Tree: Magic, Verbs, Nouns (Verbs and Nouns are collectively called the Arts), Fighting, Athletics, Rogue Arts, Social, Crafts, and Knowledges.  Some skills within some of the categories could reasonably fit into other categories.

Magic covers specific applications of magic, many of which are discussed in the Magic section below.  The most obvious game effects covered in this category are:
Cley
Magic Analysis (Magic Sense): A World Tree character's 6th sense, and the only one that requires a conscious effort to use.
Magic Resistance

Verbs cover the "action" parts of a spell, what the spell "does".  There are 7 Verbs:
Creoc - creation
Destroc - destruction
Healoc - healing and repairing
Kennoc - knowing (divination)
Mutoc - changing
Ruloc - controlling
Sustenoc - preserving and permanence