[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Terrorism in Australia

ause they had another citizenship, because international law does not permit the measure being used on individuals with only one citizenship. The five brought the total to six for Australians stripped of citizenship for acts "contrary to their allegiance to Australia".

Terrorist groups in Australia

A number of terror organisations and terror cells have operated in Australia, with their activities including fund-raising and providing material support for terror activities overseas, as well as plotting and executing domestic terrorism. The following table includes a selection of these groups.

Threats

Right wing extremists 
Various right wing extremist groups have posed tangible terrorism threats in Australia over several decades. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO) in the 1970s monitored Safari 8, the Legion of the Frontiersmen of the Commonwealth and the Australian Youth Coalition as terrorist threats, and from the 1980s through to the early 2000s sporadic terrorist activities were undertaken by National Action and the Australian Nationalist Movement.

In the wake of the 2019 Christchurch mosque terrorist attacks at Al Noor Mosque and Linwood Islamic Centre in Christchurch, New Zealand, perpetrated by Australian Brenton Harrison Tarrant from Grafton, a self-described "Ethno-nationalist, "Eco-fascist", "Kebab removalist" "racist", New South Wales Police Commissioner Michael Fuller identified the likelihood of right wing lone wolf terrorist attacks in Australia as "an emerging risk" and indicated he will consider boosting resources into the anti-terrorism squad focused on right-wing extremists. Recent examples of such right wing extremist 'lone wolves' include white supremacist Michael Holt, jailed for weapons and child pornography offences after threatening to carry out a mass shooting at a shopping centre on the NSW Central Coast, and Phillip Galea, convicted of terrorism charges relating to planned bombings of left wing organisations in Melbourne.

ISIL propaganda and recruitment
A number of incidents relating to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) terrorist group have involved Australians and garnered the attention of the Australian public. ISIL is a militant Sunni group which has been proscribed by Australian authorities as a terrorist organisation.

In 2014, two Australian Islamic extremists made a propaganda video encouraging Australians to join the ISIL, According to the Australian government, up to 150 Australians "have been or are currently overseas fighting with extremists in Iraq and Syria." One Australian jihadist, Khaled Sharrouf, posted a picture of himself, and another of his son, holding a decapitated soldier's head.

ISIL recruited Australian nationals for terror attacks in the Middle East including suicide bombings as late as March 2015. Eighteen-year-old Jake Bilardi, known as Jihadi Jake, converted to Sunni Islam. He died on 11 March 2015 when he carried out a suicide bombing in Ramadi, Iraq.

In 2015 it was reported that more than 20 Australians who have fought with ISIL have returned and are being monitored by security agencies. Then Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has said, "there is a risk they will come back as battle-hardened experienced terrorists ... and try to carry out terrorist attacks".

The Attorney-General Senator George Brandis has expressed concern that those fighting jihad, then returning from the Middle East, represent, "the most significant risk to Australia's security that we have faced in many years." The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO) is concerned that Australians fighting jihad may return home to plan terror attacks. In October 2014, ISIL published an online video in which a teenage Australian Jihadi, Abdullah Elmir, threatened the United States and Australia, naming U.S. President Barack Obama and Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott as targets.

On 18 April 2015, at least 200 police officers conducted a series of raids in Melbourne, frustrating a terror plot planned for ANZAC Day. During the raids Sevdet Besim was arrested, and in June 2016 pleaded guilty to planning a terrorism attack, in which he planned to behead a police officer. In October 2015, a British minor from Blackburn was found guilty and sentenced to life in prison for being the mastermind of the plot. In January 2021, the Parole Board said that "considerable progress that had been made" in his rehabilitation, and that he was suitable for release.

According to witnesses, some years later, some the officers committed some abuses during the raid; they had thrown a suspect into a fridge, causing a deep cut, made repeated racial slurs to an Aboriginal man and assaulted him. The Australian federal police spent years denying these accusations.
On 6 September 2016 ISIL published a new online magazine in which they urged "lone wolves" to carry out attacks: