[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sieben Steinhäuser

group. The support stones of the short, almost square burial chamber consist of a slab on the southwest side and two on the other side. The chamber is covered by a mighty stone slab which measures 4.6 x 4.2 m and is half a metre thick. The inside dimensions of the stocky chamber are roughly 4 x 3 m.

The entrance is located in the centre of the southeastern side, its support stones are original whilst the capstone has been restored.

A rectangular enclosure belongs to this gravesite, so it appears that we are dealing with a preserved long barrow whose enclosure has been restored. It is about 4 m wide und 14 m long, apart from an abrupt gap to the southwest. Because there are no traces of stone pillars having been removed, it is suspected that this could have been used to lay out 3 to 4 more sites for planned graves during the Neolithic era.

Grave E 
The sides of grave E, like grave A, comprise four supporters each, on which lie three capstones. The support stone on the southwestern end was restored. From the fact that two of the chambers capstones (the southwestern and the centre one) have been found in halves, it is not difficult to surmise that the stone blocks were artificially split in prehistoric times. In carrying out the restoration work the two easily movable capstones were replaced. The chamber has internal measurements of 5.6 x 2 m. Only the two external pillars are left from the entrance in the middle of the southeastern side.

The legend of the Sieben Steinhäuser 
According to a legend that is recounted by many in the Heidmark area, the largest stone was fired at the Sieben Steinhäuser by the giant of Borg from a catapult at Elferdingen which was located near the "Orskarrn". The two largest stone pillars of the largest grave were placed by the giant in the pocket of his coat. The giant went to the stone graves via Fallingbostel. There the area was very sandy and the giant's shoes soon filled with sand. He shook himself out near Fallingbostel and that's how the Tutberg and Weinberg hills appeared.

See also 
The following burial sites are also in the same general area:
 Bonstorf Barrows - a neolithic or early Bronze Age burial site.
 Dohnsen-Siddernhausen Dolmen - another dolmen site.
 Oldendorfer Totenstatt

References

Literature 
 E. Sprockhoff: Atlas der Megalithgräber Deutschlands. Part 3, Niedersachsen und Westfalen. (pub.: G. Kröner, Bonn, 1975). 
 Ernst Andreas Friedrich: Wenn Steine reden könnten. Vol. II, Landbuch-Verlag, Hanover, 1992, 
 H. Schirnig: Archäologischer Wegweiser. Die Sieben Steinhäuser bei Fallingbostel. Hildesheim, 1982.

External links

 Sieben Steinhäuser on the website of Fallingbostel 
 Access to the Sieben Steinhäuser

Dolmens in Germany
Lüneburg Heath
Heidmark
Protected areas of Lower Saxony
Funnelbeaker culture