[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1919 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1919 in New Zealand.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
 Head of State  – George V
 Governor-General – Arthur Foljambe, 2nd Earl of Liverpool

Government
The 19th New Zealand Parliament concludes. The election held in November sees the Reform Party returned with an increased majority (47 of the 80 seats). Women are eligible to stand for Parliament for the first time.
 Speaker of the House – Frederic Lang (Reform Party)
 Prime Minister – William Massey (Reform Party)
 Minister of Finance – Joseph Ward until 21 August, then James Allen

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition – Joseph Ward (Liberal Party).

Judiciary
 Chief Justice – Sir Robert Stout

Main centre leaders
 Mayor of Auckland – James Gunson
 Mayor of Wellington – John Luke
 Mayor of Christchurch – Henry Holland then Henry Thacker
 Mayor of Dunedin – James Clark then William Begg

Events 
 January – George Bolt ascends to a record height of .
 1 February – Cecil McKenzie Hill, chief instructor for the Canterbury Aviation Company, is killed in an air accident while flying over Riccarton Racecourse. This is the first aircraft fatality in New Zealand.
 4 February – New Zealand Rifle Brigade (Earl of Liverpool's Own) disbanded.
 31 May – George Bolt flies from Auckland to Russell in a Boeing and Westervelt floatplane. The distance of  is a record for a flight in New Zealand.
 16 December – George Bolt makes the first experimental airmail flight in New Zealand. He flies from Auckland to Dargaville and back again on the same day, a total distance of approximately .
 16–17 December – The 1919 general election is held.
 December – The Ministry of External Affairs is established, with James Allen as the first minister.

Arts and literature

See 1919 in art, 1919 in literature, :Category:1919 books

Music

See: 1919 in music

Film

See: :Category:1919 film awards, 1919 in film, List of New Zealand feature films, Cinema of New Zealand, :Category:1919 films

Sport

 See: 1919 in sports, :Category:1919 in sports

Chess
 The National Chess championship was not held (the influenza epidemic was still subsiding at its traditional new year dates).

Cricket
 Plunket Shield: 25–29 December, Hagley Oval, Christchurch: Canterbury defeated Wellington by 7 wickets. See 1920 in New Zealand#Cricket for remaining matches in this Plunket Shield competition.

Football
 Provincial league champions:
 Auckland – North Shore
 Canterbury – Linwood, Excelsior (shared)
 Hawke's Bay – Waipukurau
 Otago – Northern
 Southland – No competition
 Wanganui – Eastbrooke
 Wellington – YMCA

Golf
 The ninth New Zealand Open championship is won by Ted Douglas (his third victory) after a playoff against Sloan Morpeth.
 The 23rd National Amateur Championships are held in Napier
 Men – H. E. Crosse (Napier) (second title)
 Women – N. E. Wright

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup – Trix Pointer
 Auckland Trotting Cup – Creina

Thoroughbred racing
 New Zealand Cup – Vagabond
 Auckland Cup – Karo
 Wellington Cup – Red Ribbon  / Rewi Poto (dead heat)
 New Zealand Derby – Rossini

Lawn bowls
The national outdoor lawn bowls championships are held in Auckland.
 Men's singles champion – M. Walker (Ponsonby Bowling Club)
 Men's pair champions – J.B. Rosmon, W.J. Hueston (skip) (Gisborne Bowling Club)
 Men's fours champions – A.J. Andrew, W. Given, O. Gallagher, Ernie Jury (skip) (Karangahake Bowling Club)

Rugby union
 Wellington defend the Ranfurly Shield against six challengers;  (21–8),  (18–10), Canterbury (in Christchurch) (23–9),  (24–3), and  (30–3).

Rugby league
 New Zealand national rugby league team

Births

January–February
 4 January – Joseph Collins, boxer
 21 January – Eddie Robertson, geophysicist and scientific administrator
 23 January – Dorothy Winstone, educationalist and academic
 26 January
 Les Gandar, politician
 Hepi Te Heuheu, Ngāti Tūwharetoa leader
 4 February – Sam Cusack, community character
 5 February – William R. Newland, potter
 10 February – Dorothy Freed, author, composer, music historian
 12 February – Bob Miller, surveyor, Antarctic explorer, conservationist
 25 February – Jack Tizard, psychologist

March–April
 3 March – Henry Lang, public servant, economist
 6 March – Jim Knox, trade union leader
 7 March – John Wyatt, cricketer
 29 March – Lorrie Pickering, politician
 30 March – Robin Williams, mathematical physicist, university administrator, public servant
 5 April – Les Munro, World War II bomber pilot
 14 April – Lester Harvey, rugby union player
 16 April – Jan Nigro, artist
 29 April – Jack Ridley, civil engineer, politician