[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund

groups, AALDEF developed a Unity Map that was adopted by the federal court to enable fair representation of the growing Asian American population in Queens. This redistricting plan led to the election of Grace Meng, the first Asian American elected to the U.S. House of Representatives from New York.

AALDEF won $400,000 for small businesses in Manhattan's Chinatown in 2012, after the New York City Department of Finance wrongfully charged property owners thousands of dollars in Business Improvement District fees.

In 2012, AALDEF won a $1.2 million judgment in a human trafficking civil suit on behalf of a Filipina domestic worker subjected to involuntary servitude and forced labor in Rhode Island. In 2016, AALDEF also won a $900,000 judgment from a New York federal court for an Asian woman who was trafficked into the U.S. and forced to do household labor for more than a decade, without pay or freedom of movement.

In 2013, AALDEF won a federal ruling striking down a discriminatory zoning ordinance in Bridgewater, New Jersey, designed to prevent an American Muslim community group from building a mosque and community center.

In 2016, in Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the consideration of race as a factor in university admissions. AALDEF's amicus brief on behalf of 65 Asian American groups and education officials, including Asian American students and faculty at UT-Austin, was cited in the Court's majority opinion upholding equal opportunity in higher education.

In 2016, AALDEF won its legal challenge to a Texas election law requiring interpreters to be registered voters in the county where they provide language assistance. The 5th Circuit federal court of appeals affirmed that the state law violated the Voting Rights Act. AALDEF represented OCA of Greater Houston and Mallika Das, an Indian American voter, who died of cancer before the judge's decision. Her son, Saurabh, said she would have been proud that her case could help many other voters in the future.

In the case Students for Fair Admissions v. President and Fellows of Harvard College, the AALDEF supported Harvard University's case for race-based admissions.

Programs
AALDEF represents individuals and community groups that are most directly affected by racial and economic injustice: immigrants, the working poor, and persons not yet proficient in English. From Chinese take-out delivery workers in New York and Nepalese domestic workers in New Jersey, to Vietnamese American youth in Louisiana and Bangladeshi voters in Michigan, AALDEF addresses the legal needs of diverse Asian American groups.

AALDEF has litigated several precedent-setting cases on behalf of low-wage Asian immigrant workers, winning millions of dollars in back wages and overtime pay owed to these workers in the restaurant and nail salon industries. By working in multiracial coalitions, AALDEF has brought Asian American perspectives to policy debates and organized campaigns to stop hate violence, police misconduct and human trafficking. After the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center, AALDEF defended the civil liberties of South Asians, Arabs, Jews, Iranians, and Muslims who were the targets of racial and ethnic profiling. AALDEF has worked with grassroots groups to promote educational equity and youth rights and to ensure that Asian Americans have a greater voice in the political process. AALDEF has trained hundreds of young lawyers and students through its internship programs, encouraging Asian Americans to use their legal skills to serve the community.

AALDEF has a 14-person staff, including six attorneys. The organization works with more than 300 volunteers, including pro bono attorneys, community workers, and students. AALDEF receives financial support from foundations, corporations, individual contributions and special fundraising events. AALDEF receives no government funds.

The Asian American Exit Poll
There is relatively little data about the voting patterns of Asian Americans. Asian American voters often are overlooked by the mainstream media and by candidates for political office. As a result, mainstream exit polls typically report racial breakdowns for whites, African Americans, Latinos and "others." When the media neglect the Asian American vote, candidates often follow suit.

Multilingual exit polls give a fuller and more accurate portrait of Asian American voters than polls conducted in English. AALDEF conducted its first exit poll in 1988 in New York City. In the 2008 elections, AALDEF's Asian American Exit Poll reported on the preferences of almost 17,000 Asian American voters in 11 states and Washington, D.C. In the 2009 New York City elections, AALDEF's exit poll found that Asian American voters overwhelmingly supported Asian American candidates.

In the 2012 elections, AALDEF polled 9,096 Asian American voters in 14 states and Washington, D.C.