[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jaswant Singh Khalra

bal Police Station. Although witnesses gave statements implicating the police, and named Director General of the Punjab Police, Kanwar Pal Singh Gill as a conspirator, police have denied ever arresting or detaining Khalra. Further, the police have claimed to have had no knowledge of his whereabouts.

In 1996, the Central Bureau of Investigation found evidence that he was held at a police station in Tarn Taran and recommended the prosecution of nine Punjab police officials for murder and kidnapping. Those accused of his murder were not charged for ten years, though one of the suspects, Senior Superintendent of Police Ajit Singh Sandhu was murdered in 1997. However, his murder was staged as a suicide. On 18 November 2005, six Punjab police officials were convicted. Two defendants, Deputy Superintendent Jaspal Singh and Amarjit Singh, were sentenced to  life imprisonment and the others to seven years imprisonment for Khalra's abduction and murder. On 16 October 2007, a division bench of Punjab and Haryana High Court, chaired by Justices Mehtab Singh Gill and A N Jindal, extended the sentence to life imprisonment for the other four accused:  Satnam Singh, Surinder Pal Singh, Jasbir Singh (all former sub inspectors) and Prithipal Singh (former head constable).

On 11 April 2011, the Supreme Court of India dismissed the appeal filed against the sentence to life imprisonment for the four accused, scathingly criticizing the atrocities committed by Punjab Police during the disturbance period.

Legacy

Memorial
The City Council of Fresno approved the proposal to rename Victoria Park after Jaswant Singh Khalra on 26 August 2017. After bringing the motion before the City Council, the council member Oliver Baines said, "Jaswant Singh Khalra for Punjabi/Sikh Community is like Martin Luther King Jr. for my community."

Films 
An upcoming Punjabi movie is about to be made on the life of Jaswant Singh Khalra named Punjab 95 featuring Diljit Dosanjh.

See also
List of murder convictions without a body
List of solved missing person cases

References

External links 

Detailed biography of Jaswant Singh Khalra (PDF) from Reduced to Ashes: The Insurgency and Human Rights in Punjab, Final Report: Volume One by Ram Narayan Kumar et al.

1952 births
1990s missing person cases
1995 murders in India
1995 deaths
Activists from Punjab, India
Deaths in police custody in India
Indian human rights activists
Indian murder victims
Indian Sikhs
Insurgency in Punjab
Male murder victims
Missing person cases in India
Murder convictions without a body
People from Amritsar
People murdered in India
Punjabi people
Sikh martyrs
Enforced disappearances in India