[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hank Johnson

ter appointed and served as an impeachment manager (prosecutor) for Kent's impeachment trial. In 2010, he also voted in the unanimous majority that approved all four articles of impeachment against Porteous. He was also appointed and served as an impeachment manager for Porteous's impeachment trial.

On September 24, 2019, Johnson called for the impeachment of President Donald Trump due to the Trump-Ukraine scandal. This was the same day that the related impeachment inquiry was launched. Johnson sat on the House Committee on the Judiciary, which played a significant role in the inquiry. When the committee voted on approving articles of impeachment against Trump to be forwarded to the full House, Johnson voted in favor of approving both articles. In the full House vote on the adoption of the two articles of impeachment against Trump, Johnson voted with the majority to adopt them and thereby approve the first impeachment of Trump. In 2021, he voted for the adoption of sole article of impeachment against Trump in his second impeachment.

Washingtonian "Best & Worst" of 2014
On October 5, 2014 The Washingtonian published its 15th biennial "Best & Worst of Congress" list. Johnson was voted "Most Clueless" by congressional staffers.

Committee assignments
For the 118th Congress:
 Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet (Ranking Member)
 Subcommittee on the Administrative State, Regulatory Reform, and Antitrust
 Subcommittee on the Constitution and Limited Government
 Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure'''
 Subcommittee on Aviation
 Subcommittee on Highways and Transit
 Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials

Caucus memberships
 Congressional Progressive Caucus
 Congressional Black Caucus
 Congressional Freethought Caucus
 Congressional Arts Caucus
 U.S.-Japan Caucus
 Medicare for All Caucus
 Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission

Personal life
Johnson is married to attorney Mereda Davis Johnson; they have two children.

In December 2009, Johnson revealed that he had been battling Hepatitis C (HCV) for over a decade, which resulted in slow speech and a tendency to regularly get "lost in thought in the middle of a discussion". He said he learned he had the disease in 1998 but did not know how he contracted it. HCV-induced liver dysfunction often leads to hepatic encephalopathy, a cause of confusion. Symptoms are often reversible with treatment. The disease damaged his liver and led to thyroid problems. He was treated with a combination of ribavirin and interferon at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. In February 2010, Johnson successfully completed an experimental treatment for Hepatitis C, which resulted in restored mental acuity, weight gain and increased energy.

See also
List of African-American United States representatives
List of Buddhist members of the United States Congress

References

External links

Congressman Hank Johnson official U.S. House website
Hank Johnson for Congress

 

|-

1954 births
21st-century American politicians
American Buddhists
African-American members of the United States House of Representatives
African-American people in Georgia (U.S. state) politics
Clark Atlanta University alumni
Converts to Sōka Gakkai
Members of Sōka Gakkai
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Georgia (U.S. state)
Living people
Nichiren Buddhists
People from Decatur, Georgia
People from Lithonia, Georgia
Politicians from Washington, D.C.
Thurgood Marshall School of Law alumni
Buddhism in Georgia (U.S. state)
21st-century African-American politicians
20th-century African-American people