[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hassan Dahir Aweys

hiopia, he took a flight to an undisclosed location with Yusuf Mohammed Siad Inda'ade, and rather than news of medical treatment, it was said he was on the hajj.

According to Voice of America, Aweys left Mogadishu on 27 December 2006, along with several hundred members of Al-Shabaab's inner circle.

Aweys was the head of the 90-member shura council of the Islamic Courts Union (ICU) of Somalia and according to the BBC was viewed as one of the more radical leaders of the Union, which promoted shari'a and directed the militias that took control of the Somali capital of Mogadishu in June 2006. The BBC also mention that an eight-member executive committee was headed by the more moderate Sharif Sheikh Ahmed. The BBC stated "It is still not clear which man is more powerful." Aweys resigned from the ICU on 28 December 2006, at the end of ICU rule in Mogadishu.

2009–2010: Hizbul Islam

In early 2009, four major rebel groups, Sheikh Aweys' Asmara-based wing of the ARS, Hassan Abdullah Hersi al-Turki's Ras Kamboni Brigade, Jabhatul Islamiya and Muaskar Anole joined to form a new group called Hizbul Islam, to oppose the new government of President Sharif Sheikh Ahmed. Although the group was initially led by Omar Iman Abubakar, he stepped down on 26 May 2009 in favour of Sheikh Aweys taking the position of chairman.

On 23 April 2009, Sheikh Aweys returned to Somalia from Eritrea. He made clear that he would not meet Sheikh Sharif saying:
"Mr Sharif's government was not elected by the Somali people and it is not representing the interests the Somali people"
On 9 May 2009, Hizbul Islam and Al Shabaab tried to topple the government of Sharif Sheikh Ahmed by opening the 2009 Battle of Mogadishu, which lasted for months, in which the Islamists managed to gain territory but failed ultimately to topple the regime. Mogadishu residents reported that they saw foreign fighters in the frontline of the battle, raising concerns that Somalia may become the next terrorist safe haven after Iraq and Afghanistan.

In June 2009, it was rumoured he had been killed during the Battle of Wabho. He later dismissed reports that he was killed or heavily injured.

After the Battle of Kisimayo (2009) the group was involved in an unsuccessful power-struggle with al-Shabaab in which Hizbul Islam was ultimately forced to surrender, after which they merged with al-Shabaab on 20 December 2010 under the banner of al-Shabaab, dropping the name Hizbul Islam.

2010–2013: Al-Shabaab (HSM)

Aweys was involved in the power struggle between Mukhtar Robow (Abu Mansoor) and Moktar Ali Zubeyr (Godane), during which he supported Abu Mansoor in demanding that Godane would step down as the group's Emir. Aweys had been described as Hizbul Islam's political and spiritual leader.

Arrest and detention

In June 2013, Aweys was taken into custody by Somali security forces, denoting the victory of the hardliners in al-Shabaab. However, there was speculation in The Economist Newspaper'' the nature of his arrest, initially being promised talks with government officials and then being roughed up by soldiers when arrested instead, created concern that it could have caused the Hawiye clan of the president Hassan Sheikh Mohamud and Aweys to split.

References

External links

 Profile: Somalia's Islamist leader

1935 births
Al-Shabaab (militant group) members
Living people
Hizbul Islam politicians
Leaders of Islamic terror groups
People of the Somali Civil War
People from Dusmareb