[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dubai Media Incorporated

local sports events in the UAE and to have exclusive Middle East broadcast rights for some of Dubai's sports events like the Dubai World Cup. It was later expanded to include international sports by acquiring Middle East broadcast rights for events like the Olympic Games and Wimbledon Championships.

The popularity of the channel grew as it increased coverage of the UAE Football League, with live broadcast of matches and complementary shows like Dawrina and the popular Al Jamahir, which interviewed fans of teams during and after matches with all of their emotional outbursts when their teams lost.

Due to the development of the UAE Football League and the increasing number of events taking place simultaneously, Dubai Sports expanded to include Dubai Sports 2 & 3, which act as a simulcast except during multiple live events. The expansion of the channels has also been an attempt to compete with other pan-Arab sports channels like Abu Dhabi Sports Channel (for local events), Al Jazeera Sports and ShowSports (for international events). But due to budget limitations, the channel has not been able to fully compete and has since lost some of its popularity.

Official Site : http://www.dubaisports.ae/

Dubai Racing 
In essence, an extension of Dubai Sports, but with its own brand and identity, Dubai Racing is the only horse racing and camel racing TV channel in the Middle East. Specifically dedicated to coverage of horse racing events in the UAE like the Dubai World Cup, various camel races and accompanying programs. The channel originally took all of its content from Dubai Sports and larger sporting events are simulcast on Dubai Sports.

Dubai Zaman 
Dubai Zaman was launched on 23 April 2015 to show old programs and films from the 70's, 80's and 90's.

Dubai Drama 
Dubai Drama was launched on 23 April 2015 (the same day Dubai Zaman was launched) to show dramatic shows in Arabic or English (with Arabic subtitles) language. The channel ceased operations in 2016.

Radio Stations

Noor Dubai 
Noor Dubai (FM 93.9) was originally launched by Arab Media Group in 2005, replacing Dubai FM which had the same frequency. The channel's slogan was "A community channel with an Islamic perspective", it was intended to be a conservative radio station which did not air any music, while still serving the community through talk shows about various topics facing the community along with religious programming and Anasheed (instead of music). The most popular program was a morning call-in show called Al Bath Al Mubashar ("The Live Broadcast") which allowed anyone in the community to call in with their thoughts, opinions or complaints on almost any topic, but it was predominantly government-related service issues, the host would then call up the responsible agency to find solutions to the issues.

Dubai Radio 
On 30 August 2011, the same day as Eid al-Fitr, DMI launched Dubai FM on the frequency 93. The channel expanded DMI's radio stations, utilizing the infrastructure and expertise of the Noor Dubai station. Dubai FM is a youth-oriented channel with talk shows and music aimed at the more liberal Emirati youth market.

Official Site : http://www.dubairadiofm.ae/

Newspapers Printing, publishing & Distribution

Al Bayan 
Al Bayan was established in 1980 by the government of Dubai as a part of the Dubai Media Department. It reported on local news, Arab news and some international news, it was known for its critical coverage and political views of events in Arab world, but in essence it was considered the official news paper of government of Dubai and so was very popular among local readers working in the government sector. It later moved to Arab Media Group where it was rebranded, giving it a new look and making the whole newspaper in full color. This was an attempt to target a younger audience, but was ultimately unsuccessful as there was not a significant change in the content. Now Daily Al Bayan Pakistan also launched in Pakistan.

Since the 2009 AMG-DMI merger, the newspaper is a part of Dubai Media Incorporated.

Emarat Al Youm 
Emarat Al Youm (Emirates Today) was launched in 2005 by Arab Media Group. The newspaper was part of an experimental structure in which its sister newspaper, the English-language Emirates Today, had the same team of reporters, in essence the same news paper but in two languages. While the popularity of Emarat Al Youm grew amongst the younger readers, Emirates Today proved unpopular amongst the expatriate population compared to the already established English-language newspapers and was ultimately shut down. The popularity of Emarat Al Youm is attributed to its concentration on community issues and news, rather than politics and governmental issues.