[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Denis O'Brien (police officer)

public feeling against the IRA, particularly as the murder was carried out almost in full view of his wife. As she held her dying husband, she watched his assailants cycling past." 

Detective Sergeant Denis O'Brien was posthumously awarded the Scott Medal by the Commissioner of the Garda Siochana.

Aftermath
Two years later, Kerins was arrested in a pre-dawn raid and tried by court-martial for the murder of Detective Sergeant O'Brien. At a special military tribunal in Collins Barracks, Dublin, Kerins was formally charged on 2 October 1944 for the "shooting at Rathfarnham of Detective Dinny O'Brien". According to Coogan, "At the end of his trial, the president of the Military Court delayed sentence until later in the day to allow Kerins, if he wished, to make an application whereby he might have avoided the capital sentence. When the court resumed, Kerins said: "You could have adjourned it for six years as far as I am concerned, as my attitude towards this Court will always be the same." He thus deprived himself of the right to give evidence, to face cross examination, or to call witnesses.

After Kerins' fingerprints were identified on the bicycle which was left at the crime scene, he was found guilty, and sentenced to death by hanging. The sentence was carried out by British chief executioner Albert Pierrepoint, who was regularly employed for such occasions by the Irish State, at Mountjoy Prison on 1 December 1944, in spite of numerous calls for clemency.

Archie Doyle, who is also alleged to have been in command of the IRA hit squad during the killing of O'Brien, died in 1980.

See also
 List of Irish police officers killed in the line of duty

References

External links
 Garda Siochana Roll of Honour
 Detective Sergeant Denis O'Brien – From the Official Website for the Garda Siochana

Irish Republican Army (1919–1922) members
Irish Republican Army (1922–1969) members
1942 deaths
People of the Irish Civil War (Anti-Treaty side)
Garda Síochána officers killed in the line of duty
Deaths by firearm in Ireland
1899 births
1942 murders in the Republic of Ireland
Police officers from County Dublin
Murder victims from Dublin (city)