[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Battle of Baku

ns crowded the harbour in a frantic effort to escape. Regular Ottoman troops and locally recruited Azerbaijani soldiers massacred up to 30,000 Armenian civilians in several days as revenge for the massacre of Azerbaijanis few months earlier. It was the last major massacre of World War I.

Aftermath 

The British losses in the battle totalled about 200 men and officers killed, missing or wounded. Mürsel Bey admitted Ottoman losses of around 2,000. Among the civilian casualties, between 10,000 to 30,000 ethnic Armenians of Baku's Armenian community of 80,000 were massacred in what is called the September Days, in relation to Azerbaijani military and civilian deaths by Armenians and Bolsheviks during the March Days. Altogether up to 30,000 Armenians were killed and the rest of the population deported.

The capital of Azerbaijan was finally moved from Ganja to Baku. However, after the Armistice of Mudros between the United Kingdom and the Ottoman Empire on 30 October, Turkish troops were substituted by the Triple Entente. Headed by General William Thomson, British troops of 5,000 soldiers, including parts of Dunsterforce, arrived in Baku on 17 November, and martial law was implemented on the capital of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic until "the civil power would be strong enough to release the forces from the responsibility to maintain the public order".

No oil from Baku's oilfields got beyond Tbilisi before the Ottomans and Germans signed the armistice. By 16 November, Nuri and Mürsel Bey were ejected from Baku and a British general sailed into the city, headed by one of the ships that had evacuated on the night of 14 September.

Legacy 

A memorial in Baku was established to the Ottoman soldiers, who were killed in combat. There is also a memorial to the British soldiers in Baku.

The battle is considered by many Azerbaijani scholars to be the most significant event that took place in Azerbaijan's history before its incorporation into the Soviet Union. It also serves as an example for Azerbaijani-Turkish cooperation and friendship in their diplomatic relations.

100th anniversary celebrations 

Azerbaijan and Turkey celebrated the centennial anniversary of the capture of the city (Azerbaijani: Bakının azad edilməsinin 100 illiyi;  "100th anniversary of liberation of Baku") from Armenian and British forces. The anniversary was celebrated with a military parade on 15 September 2018 at Azadliq Square, with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev being the guests of honor. The parade of the Baku garrison included cadets of Azerbaijani military academies, the Internal Troops, troops of the Land Forces, Air Force, Navy, the State Border Service, the National Guard and a unit of the Turkish Armed Forces. The Turkish Air Force dedicated a video which was published on Twitter to the anniversary. A concert was also held in the Heydar Aliyev Center.

Gallery

See also 
 26 Baku Commissars
 Battle of Binagadi

Notes

Books

External links

 
 

Conflicts in 1918
1918 in Azerbaijan
1918 in Armenia
Battles of the Caucasus Campaign
Battles of World War I involving the Ottoman Empire
Battles of World War I involving Russia
Battles of World War I involving Australia
Battles of World War I involving New Zealand
Battles of World War I involving the United Kingdom
Armenian–Azerbaijani war (1918–1920)
Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War
1918 in the Ottoman Empire
August 1918 events
September 1918 events
20th century in Baku
Battles involving Azerbaijan Democratic Republic