[Source: PubMed]

34. Glob Health Med. 2025 Apr 30;7(2):112-126. doi: 10.35772/ghm.2025.01018.

Overview of global governance, capacity, and health systems implication of 
pandemic prevention, preparedness, and response: A narrative review and 
descriptive analysis of open-source data.

Miyamoto T(1), Fujita M(1), Hachiya M(1), Yokobori Y(1), Komada K(1), Murakami 
H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Bureau of International Health Cooperation, National Center for Global Health 
and Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)School of Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki, 
Japan.

The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of pandemic prevention, 
preparedness, and response (PPPR) in global health. This review first examined 
global health governance (GHG) for PPPR, identifying its core-satellite 
structure. Key GHG functions include rule-setting, resource mobilization, 
medical countermeasures (MCMs) supply, surveillance and data/pathogen sharing 
with rapid response, and One Health. Major gaps exist in global collaboration, 
enforcement of the International Health Regulations (IHR), and the World Health 
Organization's (WHO) capacity. The most urgent issue is pathogen access and 
benefit-sharing (PABS). Second, the PPPR capacity across world regions were 
assessed using two public datasets: eSPAR and GHS Index. Sub-Saharan Africa 
requires urgent support to strengthen most PPPR aspects, while epidemiological 
and laboratory surveillance, infection prevention and control (IPC), and 
regulatory functions need improvement in low- and middle-income countries 
(LMICs) in various regions outside Europe. Japan, with its strong PPPR capacity, 
is well-positioned to assist. Lastly, the review explored the link between PPPR 
and health systems strengthening (HSS). PPPR must be firmly integrated into HSS 
to ensure resilience, equity, inclusiveness, continuity of care, and 
sustainability. Core health system components - service delivery, workforce, 
health information systems, MCMs access, and governance - along with 
communication and trust-building, effectively contribute to PPPR. However, 
pandemic exceptionalism and the over-securitization of PPPR and health security 
may hinder coordination. The enhanced GHG for PPPR, led by the empowered WHO, 
should effectively facilitate and coordinate technical assistance to LMICs to 
strengthen their PPPR capacities and promote PPPR-HSS integration by bringing 
together the often-divided health security and HSS communities.

2025, National Center for Global Health and Medicine.

DOI: 10.35772/ghm.2025.01018
PMCID: PMC12047038
PMID: 40321454

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.