[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rosewood Center

of society by institutionalizing the patient for life. In 1943 the physically handicapped were admitted and in 1950 all age restrictions for admission were officially removed. Born out of the great humanitarian sentiments of the nineteenth century, Rosewood deteriorated into a custodial institution.

Despite the rapid expansion of facilities during this period, Rosewood continually suffered from over-crowding and a shortage of staff, often resulting in unsatisfactory patient conditions. These conditions were periodically reported during the 1940s in newspaper stories, culminating in 1949 in the series of articles in the Baltimore Sun on Rosewood and other state hospitals titled, "Maryland's Shame".  Public reaction to this expose and a series of grand jury reports in the 1950s focused attention on the need to better rehabilitate and eventually de-institutionalize patients while improving conditions for those requiring life-time care.

In 1952, Dr. Howard A. Howe successfully inoculated children against polio at the Rosewood State Hospital, just before the pioneer inoculation programs of Dr. Jonas Salk who used a more refined vaccine that was easier to mass-produce.

Modern era and integration
The hospital was integrated in 1956 and African American patients at the retarded unit of Crownsville State Hospital were transferred to Rosewood. In 1963, Henryton State Hospital was converted to an institution for the retarded. After reaching a high in the late 1960s, the patient population sharply declined as the emphasis shifted to the integration of the people with developmental disabilities into the community.  The trend toward deinstitutionalization of patients has continued, rendering many of the older custodial-care buildings obsolete. Several, including King, Thorn, Holland, Wyman and Hill cottages, were razed, in addition to many of the farm buildings.

Between the 1950s and 1970s, as in many similar state-run institutions in the United States, there were numerous reports of malpractice, neglect and abuse. In 1981, the U.S. Justice Department declared that residents at Rosewood "failed to receive minimally adequate care". Further investigations confirmed the reports, leading to the older buildings' being condemned in 1989.

The old and new facilities stood directly across a field from each other, the newer facility  actively housed over half of the people with developmental disabilities who reside in Maryland's four state-run institutions. The main building was burnt in a 2006 case of arson.

Fire and closure
On Sunday, March 8, 2009, one of Rosewood's vacant buildings was destroyed by fire. The building had previously been approved for demolition, so firefighters allowed the building to burn rather than attempt to put it out. The Maryland State Fire Marshal investigated the fire as possible arson.

The State of Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene closed Rosewood on June 30, 2009.

At the Maryland State Archives in Annapolis there is a large collection of historic photos  that illustrates the care of the Rosewood residents, and records related to patients and the administration of the hospital.

Future plans 

The Rosewood Center borders the Owings Mills campus of Stevenson University. Future expansion of Stevenson University may include acquisition of the Rosewood Center land, in whole or in part. Following resolution of environmental and surveyor issues, Stevenson announced in June 2017 that they were granted permission to acquire the Rosewood Center. Plans for the site include expansion for the School of Education and additional athletic fields.

In popular culture 

The 2017 thriller film The Institute is loosely based on Rosewood Center. The film is stated by its producers to be based on true events.

References

External links 
 2007 report by the Maryland Disability Law Center calling for the closure of Rosewood
 
 

Psychiatric hospitals in Maryland
Defunct hospitals in Maryland
Hospitals in Baltimore County, Maryland
Baltimore County, Maryland landmarks
Hospitals established in 1888
2009 disestablishments in Maryland
Buildings and structures in the United States destroyed by arson
Arson in Maryland
1888 establishments in Maryland