[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Harold Weston

ir sketches in oil and pencil on small pieces of cardboard. In the studio he painted canvases based on those sketches. When he wasn't painting, he chopped wood, cooked on a small wood stove, wrote letters and journal entries prolifically, and listened to classical records on his Victrola phonograph.

Weston's first solo exhibition was at the Montross Gallery in New York City in November 1922. He showed over one hundred oil sketches from Persia and the Adirondacks and 63 oil paintings, each of which rested in one of Weston's hand-carved and gilded frames. Critics heaped praise on his vibrant use of color and the unique American perspective he brought to his work. The Christian Science Monitor wrote that the show was the highlight of the season: "In his pictures [there is] something different, something stirring and magnificently bold, a proclamation of a bigger belief in beauty than is usually heard in the galleries."

Landscape Nudes

Weston met Faith Borton while giving a slide lecture about his experiences in Persia at Vassar College. He was impressed, and invited her along with his sister and friends to his cabin for a mid-winter party. Borton, raised Quaker in the suburbs of Philadelphia, was good-natured about the primitive experience in harsh winter weather. Hundreds of persuasive letters from Weston followed, until eight months later she relented. The couple was married on May 12, 1923.

For the first two and a half years of their marriage the Westons lived in the cabin studio—which now boasted indoor plumbing, a living room, and a bedroom—in the Adirondack Mountains. The period produced a significant change in Weston's work, that turned away from the landscape of nature toward the landscape of the human body.

The catalogue Wild Exuberance: Harold Weston’s Adirondack Art describes the paintings: "The nudes deviated from a long tradition of beauty that aspired to perfection. These were no Botticelli or Titian Venuses, but cropped body parts painted as if with earth and flesh, whose primitive honesty complicated beauty with uncomfortably raw emotion and sex. These were not tame, pastoral scenes through which one could take a bourgeois stroll, but the wild. Unlike pretty nudes displayed for the male gaze, these were something more about the woman herself." The series of paintings came to be known as "landscape nudes" after John Marin said, "I feel the woods and the mountains in these nudes." Alfred Stieglitz considered the nudes daring and new, but they were too radical for the Montross Gallery to exhibit.

In August 1925, Harold Weston was hospitalized with a diseased kidney, which was removed, but he suffered a month of high fever before starting to pull out of it. Doctors advised him to paint less intensively and move away from the Adirondacks to a warmer, less stressful climate.

Expatriates in France
The Westons visited the French Riviera in 1926, but contrary to doctors' orders settled in the rugged mountains in the French Pyrenees. They found an 11th-century farmhouse with a working chapel and bell tower in a farming community near Céret. The Westons bought a small wood stove to warm the room enough for posing in the nude. The painting of the new stove was the first purchase by Duncan Phillips, who went on to acquire the largest public collection of Westons at the Phillips Collection. "Quiet, simple, intimate and hard. It is a region very sympathetic to the pioneer in Harold. Suited to the Quaker in me," wrote Faith. The open fields and sunlight influenced Weston's palette, and his subjects broadened to include all manner of landscapes, figure painting, and still lifes in oil, watercolor, gouache, and etching.

At the Spanish sculptor Manolo's suggestion, the Westons went to Paris, France, to exhibit, and they became acquainted with painters working there. Captivated by etching, which was better suited to their small Parisian apartments, Weston experimented with the techniques of hard and soft ground, burin, dry point, and aquatint with and without brush. Weston exhibited his work in Paris, and also rolled-up canvases to ship back to New York City to be shown at the Montross Gallery.

They could not afford to live in Europe after the dollar weakened, and so after four productive years, the Westons—now with two small children—returned to America in 1930.

The Depression
 After living for a short period in Greenwich Village the Westons returned to their home and studio in the Adirondack mountains, again living simply. With a small family, he focused increasingly on the everyday: a quilt, plants in the garden, snowshoes.