[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ayoob Kara

Druze tradition that they are descendants of Jethro, and "commanded to watch over the Land of Israel for the People of Israel". At the first International Regional Cooperation Conference in Tel Aviv, Kara said Israel should negotiate with businessmen rather than the Palestinian Authority leadership.

Settlements
A staunch supporter of Jewish settlement in the West Bank, Kara spoke at a ceremony marking the end of the settlement freeze. He criticizing it as not helpful to Israel or the PA and said that the killings of four Israelis near Kiryat Arba shows that the freeze only serves as "appeasement" and is not working. At an event marking the construction of a new building in the West bank, Kara stated: "The expulsion of Jews from Gush Katif brought zero results, the expulsion of the Israeli army from Lebanon has brought zero results, and the construction freeze brought zero results." Kara attended an Israeli version of the American tea party protests with other Likud MKs and members. Speakers at the event called on Obama to stop pressuring Netanyahu and for the prime minister to stand his ground and uphold Jewish rights and values.
In 2010, Kara attended a rally marking the end of the construction slow down in Revava, that was also attended by hundreds of Christian supporters of Israel. He welcomed the tourists saying: "I say to all the non-Jews who are here, I too am not a Jew, but in spirit I am most Jewish, I am most Zionist, and so are you! Good for you that you are here to support Israel."

In 2011, however, he abstained from a vote brought by National Union MKs that would extend sovereignty to Jewish settlements in the West Bank.

Support for Trump
Following the violent Unite the Right rally, attended by neo-Nazis and other far-right protesters which took place in the United States in August 2017 Kara defended U.S. President Donald Trump. Trump's response to the protest and his failure to immediately condemn the rally received much criticism, including from some in Israel. Kara, however, suggested relations with Trump were more important, stating "Due to the terrific relations with the US, we need to put the declarations about the Nazis in the proper proportion." Kara also described the Obama administration as "terrible"

Calls for imposition of the death penalty
In 2010 Kara called for the imposition of the death penalty on the perpetrator of the Tapuah Junction stabbing.

2017 visit to Poland

Ayoob Kara was part of a delegation of Israeli politicians who visited Poland at the invitation of the Polish Redemptorist priest Tadeusz Rydzyk in late 2017. The purpose of the visit was to support Rydzyk's effort to draw greater attention to the Polish Righteous Among the Nations who saved Jews from the Nazis during the Holocaust.

Rydzyk and his radio station, Radio Maryja, have repeatedly been accused of anti-Semitism, notably by the Anti-Defamation League and the World Jewish Congress.

On 26 October 2017, together with Knesset Deputy Speaker Yehiel Bar, Rabbi Dov Lipman (a former Knesset member of the Yesh Atid party) and other politicians, Kara attended a Radio Maryja commemoration ceremony in Torun devoted to the theme of "Remembrance and Hope" and attended by then Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The group was attacked in the Israeli media over their visit

See also
Sarhan Bader

References

External links
 

1955 births
Living people
Deputy ministers of Israel
Deputy Speakers of the Knesset
Druze members of the Knesset
Israeli Druze
Government ministers of Israel
Likud politicians
Members of the 15th Knesset (1999–2003)
Members of the 16th Knesset (2003–2006)
Members of the 18th Knesset (2009–2013)
Members of the 20th Knesset (2015–2019)
Members of the 23rd Knesset (2020–2021)
Ministers of Communications of Israel
Ono Academic College alumni
People from Daliyat al-Karmel