[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Typhoon Xangsane

r streets.

Significant agricultural damage was reported, especially in Quảng Bình Province. More than  of crops, mostly rice, were damaged or washed away by the floodwaters. There were also reports of heavy losses of poultry and livestock, and nearly  of aquaculture and 786 fishing boats were lost.

Thailand
The remnants of Xangsane moved over Thailand on October 2 and combined with monsoonal moisture over the north central part of the country, causing torrential rains and severe flooding in over 35 provinces. Floodwaters broke through levees and barriers and flooded or damaged nearly  of farmland and local infrastructure. Many municipalities reported flooding of up to , and the municipality of Ang Thong reported flooding of . The Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation reported 47 deaths, and villages in several provinces reported significant levels of water pollution and waterborne illnesses from stagnant waters.

Aftermath

Philippines

Following the passage of Xangsane, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) issued an emergency request for 5.7 million Swiss francs ($4.6 million, 2006 USD) to aid the Philippine Red Cross in its relief effort. In addition, the movement dispatched 3,000 workers and three disaster response teams to affected areas for search and rescue missions, damage assessments, and assistance to people affected by the typhoon. The Philippine Red Cross provided canned goods, rice, clothing, and personal hygiene items to over 6,300 families, and local volunteers provided assistance to people in shelters. The Spanish Red Cross, present since 1998 as a backup to the Philippine Red Cross, also sent officials, logistics equipment, and water purification systems to the more heavily areas to aid in disaster relief and damage assessments.

In Manila, fallen billboards killed several people and caused traffic delays along EDSA, the main highway of the metropolis. This prompted some members of the Senate of the Philippines to push for the removal and banning of billboard advertising in the Manila area, which had been an issue for some time. Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago wrote an appeal to President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, asking her to approve the "Anti-Billboard Blight Act of 2006", which would ban billboard advertising on major thoroughfares within Metro Manila.

Vietnam
On October 3, the IFRC released 100,000 Swiss francs ($80,300, 2006 USD) from its disaster relief fund to support the Red Cross of Vietnam, and issued an emergency appeal for 1 million Swiss francs ($810,000, 2006 USD) in aid the next day. The Vietnamese government also released 100 billion Vietnamese đồng ($6.2 million, 2006 USD) and 1,500 metric tons (1,650 short tons) of rice from the national food security stock to help the recovery effort in central Vietnam. The National Fatherland Front also issued an appeal to national and international organizations for donations and aid. According to Vietnam Television's report prior to the impact of Typhoon Noru in late September 2022, due to the over-strengthen the storm was that the national observation agencies decided to upgrade typhoon level from 12 to 17.

On October 13, a minivan carrying a relief team from a local government in Ho Chi Minh city was caught in an accident, killing 12 aid workers.

Thailand
The Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation and the Thai Red Cross Society evacuated residents from areas of central Thailand that had been affected by flooding from the remnants of Xangsane. The Red Cross also provided victims and evacuees with food and emergency kits, and several Red Cross health centers in 12 provinces issued emergency relief kits, drinking water, and medicine kits to at least 16,000 families in flood-stricken areas.

Retirement
As a result of the deaths and damage caused, it was decided at the 39th annual meeting of the ESCAP/WMO Typhoon Committee in Manila in December 2006 that the name Xangsane, along with four others, would be retired from the name list. Its PAGASA name, Milenyo, was also retired by PAGASA. In December 2007, the committee selected the name Leepi to replace Xangsane on the Western Pacific basin name lists beginning in 2008. In 2010 the name selected by PAGASA to replace Milenyo was Mario, but the name itself was retired and was replaced with "Maymay" after devastating Metro Manila and Northern Luzon.

See also