[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aviv Kohavi

litant infrastructure from Syrian territory, along with promoting a good neighborhood project called Operation Good Neighbor on the Syrian border.

On May 11, 2017, he was appointed as Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Israel Defense Forces. He served in this position until December 13, 2018.

Chief of the General Staff 
On October 26, 2018, Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman recommended his appointment as the 22nd IDF Chief of Staff, with the consent of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. On November 25, the government approved his appointment. On January 15, 2019, he was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant General and began his service as Chief of Staff.

In November 2019 Kohavi commanded the IDF in Operation Black Belt, when it fought against the Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ), following the targeted killing of senior PIJ commander Baha Abu al-Ata in Gaza. He also led Israel's military during Operation Guardian of the Walls in May 2021.

Later in May, Defense Minister Benny Gantz announced that he will request from the government to approve extending his tenure as IDF Chief of Staff by an additional year. In July, the government approved the extension of term. In August 2022, Kohavi led Israeli forces during Operation Breaking Dawn. On January 16, 2023, Kohavi handed over his role to Herzi Halevi and officially finished his active military service.

Personal life
Kohavi is vegetarian, is married and is the father of three daughters. He lives in Adi in northern Israel.

Kohavi's brother is Dr. Zohar Kohavi, Head of Research at Zulat for Equality and Human Rights Institute.

Awards and decorations
Aviv Kohavi was awarded three campaign ribbons for his service during three conflicts.

References

External links
 Israeli army officer cancels UK trip to avoid war charges, The Daily Telegraph
 "Ma'asei Aman": Permanent Change in a Changing Reality
 Aviv Kohavi, To Be a Military Leader, The Dado Center for Interdisciplinary Military Studies, June 22, 2022

1964 births
Living people
Directors of the Military Intelligence Directorate (Israel)
Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni
Israeli generals
People from Kiryat Bialik
Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies alumni
Harvard Kennedy School alumni
Jewish military personnel
Israeli people of Polish-Jewish descent
Israeli people of Russian-Jewish descent