[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mort Künstler

Mort Künstler (born August 28, 1927) is an American artist known for his illustrative paintings of historical events, especially of the  American Civil War. He was a child prodigy, who, with encouragement from his parents, became a skilled artist by the time he was twelve. Today he is considered the "best-known and most respected historical artist in the country."

Künstler began his career in the 1950s as a freelance artist, illustrating paperback book covers and men's adventure magazines. In 1965 he was commissioned by National Geographic to create what became his first historic painting. He also created posters for movies such as The Poseidon Adventure and The Taking of Pelham One Two Three. And by the 1970s he was painting covers for Newsweek, Reader's Digest, and other magazines, with the bulk of his work during that period in advertising art.

While many of his early magazine illustrations were for public entertainment, Künstler eventually began creating military art. In 1977, his first major gallery exhibition brought new attention to his talents as a historical artist. By the 1980s he was acclaimed as America's foremost Civil War artist, and would eventually create over 350 Civil War paintings alone. Some of his paintings have changed opinions about the accuracy of early famous paintings by others, such as Emmanuel Leutze's famous Washington Crossing the Delaware. Besides his Civil War paintings, he created historical art of the American Revolution through the Korean and Vietnam wars, along with paintings of World War II. He painted historical events such as the Oklahoma Land Rush and new immigrants on Ellis Island.

Collections of Künstler's work are published  as limited-edition prints, and his artistic output places him at the forefront of contemporary historical realism. NASA made him their official artist for the Space Shuttle Columbia. In 1982, CBS-TV had him do a painting for the 3-part mini-series The Blue and the Gray, and in 1993 a one-hour television special, Images of the Civil War - The Paintings of Mort Künstler, was shown on the A&E TV network. He has received numerous honors and awards, and at least nine books are dedicated to featuring his artwork. Some experts see him as the next Norman Rockwell.

Early years and education
Künstler was born in Brooklyn, New York in 1927 and raised there during the Great Depression. His parents had Polish and Austrian roots and were of Jewish heritage. Their name derived from the German word "künstler," which means "artist." His great-grandfather was given that name by the Tsar of Russia as thanks after he created a carving of him when he ruled Germany (which never happened).

His father was an amateur artist, and both his parents saw his artistic talent at the age of two and a half. His father encouraged his son, who was often home sick, by setting up still lifes for him to draw. His mother also encouraged his budding talent by enrolling him in Saturday classes at the Brooklyn Museum. He said "My mother was a schoolteacher, and she would take me to the museums by subway every Saturday morning."

By the time he was in kindergarten he could already "draw very well," he says. And when he was twelve, he adds, "I could draw almost as well as I can today." His talent in art was further supported when he was at Abraham Lincoln High School in Brooklyn. There, he along with a number of classmates, were inspired by their art teacher, Leon Friend, who had also written a book on graphic design.

After graduating high school he enrolled at Brooklyn College to study art, although his main focus changed away from art and instead toward athletics. He was diver on the swimming team and a hurdler on the track team, and sports now dominated his life. He earned awards for basketball, diving, football and track, and ultimate honors in the Brooklyn College Sports Hall of Fame. He then received a basketball scholarship from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), where he continued to focus on sports.

But after his father suffered a heart attack, he returned to New York to help his family, and enrolled in the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. He studied to become a fine art illustrator, and graduated after three years. During his senior year he met his wife-to-be, Deborah, who was then a freshman at the school. They married soon after he graduated.

Among the artists whose work he studied that would influence his later career were Norman Rockwell, Winslow Homer and Frederic Remington.

Early jobs