[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Menachem Creditor

collection of Jewish voices in opposition to Trump's election, entitled "We Will Not Be Silent."

On February 6, 2017, Creditor was one of 19 American Rabbis arrested at a protest of President Donald Trump's refugee ban in front of the Trump International Hotel in New York City.

Religious activism

Creditor first received national attention for his controversial 2005 speech at the biennial conference of the Conservative Movement, urging the expulsion of non-egalitarian congregations from the movement.  He was a co-founder of ShefaNetwork: The Conservative/Masorti Movement Dreaming from Within, co-founder of KeshetRabbis: The Alliance of Gay-Friendly Conservative/Masorti Rabbis, and was the founding International Co-Chair of Rabbis for Women of the Wall. Rabbi Creditor appeared as a "central figure" in Josh Kornbluth's 2010 monologue Andy Warhol: Good for the Jews? and Kornbluth's 2013 monologue Sea of Reeds He has served as a Trustee of American Jewish World Service (AJWS), as co-chair of the Rabbinic advisory board of Shalom Bayyit, and is the former chair of The Masorti Center.

Publications

Among his 30 books and 6 albums of original Jewish music are "A Year of Torah" (2021), “And Yet We Love: Poems” (2016) with a foreword by Ruth Messinger(Global Ambassador for American Jewish World Service), and “Olam Chesed Yibaneh/A World of Love” (2002), considered a modern "Jewish anthem". He has published a transliterated Shabbat prayerbook "Tov LeHodot", and the children's books "A Pesach Rhyme" and "Avodah: A Yom Kippur Story." During the COVID-19 Pandemic, he co-edited with Sarah Tuttle-Singer a two-volume collection of reflections, poems, and prayers with contributions from hundreds of authors in response to COVID-19, entitled "When We Turned Within." Following the January 6, 2021 storming of the United States Capitol, Creditor published a rapid-response collection of rabbinic responses to the Insurrection entitled "Remember and Do Not Forget," co-edited with Rabbi Jesse Olitzky.

Personal life
In November 2017, Creditor became engaged to singer Neshama Carlebach. They married in August 2018. They have 5 children.

References

External links
Rabbi Menachem Creditor Official website

American Conservative rabbis
Year of birth missing (living people)
Living people
Place of birth missing (living people)
Jewish Theological Seminary of America semikhah recipients
American LGBT rights activists
21st-century American rabbis
Jewish American activists
American gun control activists