[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Irgun members

central institutions of the Herut movement and manager of the Herut newspaper.
 Heichman, Aharon – listed by other sources as a High Commander; later a manager of ZOA House in Tel Aviv.
 Hillel, Yaakov ("Asher") – according to the Irgun website, "took part in reprisals against Arabs rioters", in the blowing up of income tax offices in Haifa and in the embarkation of the Altalena from France.
 Kaplan, Benjamin (1927–1948) – participated in telephone and railway sabotage, an attack on an RAF airfield, arms raids against British installations, sabotage against the telephone network, and a mortar attack on a British Army. Arrested in April 1946 following a massive railway sabotage operation during which he wounded a British sergeant, he was sentenced to life in prison, but freed in the Acre Prison break after 13 months of imprisonment. After his escape, he was appointed commander of the Fighting Force in Netanya. He had a leading role in the Sergeants affair, personally leading the Irgun squad that abducted two British sergeants and later attending the hangings. He subsequently partook in operations against the Arabs, including the Battle of Jaffa in April 1948. In May 1948, shortly after Israeli independence, he was killed in action during the War of Independence.
 Katz, Shmuel (1914–2008) – was a member of the Irgun High Command, and focused on propaganda and overseas contacts, including with Irgun members abroad. He was one of the founders of the Herut movement and a member of the First Knesset; was later invited by Menachem Begin to be his propaganda adviser.
 Koenig, Zvi ("Yishai") (1924–1948), took part in the attack on Lydda military airfield, an arms raid at the Sarafand military camp, and the raid on the Ramat Gan police station, during which he was wounded in the arm and leg. He was arrested and detained in the Latrun camp, but was released and resumed his Irgun activities before the British left. Fought in the War of Independence. After settling in Ramat Raziel and being appointed regional commander of the Judean Hills area, he was killed in a road accident.
 Kook, Hillel – together with other Irgun members, was active in the United States from 1940 to 1948 under the name "Peter Bergson". He was active in disseminating propaganda and raising funds for the Irgun. Took part in the establishment of the Committee for the Rescue of European Jewry, and the Hebrew Committee for National Liberation. Elected to the First Knesset as a Herut member.
 Landau, Haim ("Avraham") (1916–1981) – was a senior commander in the Irgun, as well as a Herut founder and Knesset member. He held positions in the Begin government.
 Lapidot, Yehuda ("Nimrod") – took part in railway sabotage and had commanding roles in the assault on Ramat Rachel and Deir Yassin, as well as in Operation Kedem; later a professor of biochemistry, adviser to Begin, and noted author.
 Lankin, Eliyahu ("Benyamin") (1914–1994) – commanded the Altalena; later a battalion commander in the IDF, and a member of the first Knesset.
 Lev-Ami, Shlomo (1919–2011), member of the high command.
 Levi, Yisrael ("Gideon") (1926–1990) – commanded the Irgun squad that carried out the King David Hotel bombing, and personally set the fuses. Took part in many other Irgun operations, among them a bombing of British intelligence offices in Jerusalem.
 Levi, Yosef ("Uzi") (1916–1948)
 Livni, Eitan (1919–1992) – took part in the Night of the Trains attack, a joint Irgun-Lehi-Haganah bombing of the country's railroad network on October 31-November 1, 1945, during which he commanded an Irgun raid on a railway station. Became Chief Operations Officer of the Irgun, and in this capacity, supervised the planning and execution of operations. He was arrested in April 1946 following a major railway sabotage operation, but freed in the Acre Prison break. He was then sent to Europe to organize clandestine actions against British targets before returning to Israel to take part in the War of Independence. Later active in the Herut movement and served as member of the Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Knessets; father of Foreign Affairs Minister Tzipi Livni. Eitan's gravestone bears a map of Greater Israel with borders extending out to the Jordan River.
 Malatzky, Menachem; Held senior positions in the Irgun's intelligence service, and was appointed district commander of Haifa and the Northern District. He was arrested in a major railway sabotage operation in April 1946. He managed to briefly escape during the Acre Prison break, but was wounded and swiftly recaptured. He was transferred to Jerusalem Central Prison, and managed to escape in February 1948. Later co-founded the Shelah publishing house.
 Mazali (Pshadetzky) Aryeh (1917–1983), took part in an attack against the British police station in Gedera in 1944, and later appointed commander of Haifa and the North District. He was arrested by the British and detained in Africa until 1948.
 Meiten, Shmuel
 Meridor (Vizhvolovsky) Eliyahu ("Dan") (1