[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of Jeeves characters

n the sermon duration of local clergymen near Twing Hall on a given Sunday. In "The Purity of the Turf", he organizes betting on the events at the Twing village school treat held on the grounds of Twing Hall. In "The Metropolitan Touch", Steggles takes bets on who will win the heart of Mary Burgess.

J. Washburn Stoker
J. Washburn Stoker, a wealthy American, is a fictional character in the Jeeves novel, Thank You, Jeeves. His young son Dwight Stoker and daughter Pauline Stoker, to whom Bertie Wooster had once been engaged briefly, also appear. Stoker has another daughter, Emerald Stoker, who appears in Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves.

Rocky Todd
Rockmetteller "Rocky" Todd is a fictional character in the Jeeves stories. He is an American poet. Bertie mentions paying him a visit in "Jeeves and the Unbidden Guest". Rocky seeks help from Bertie and Jeeves in "The Aunt and the Sluggard". Both of these short stories are collected in Carry On, Jeeves.

Angela Travers
Angela Travers is a fictional character in the Jeeves stories. She is the daughter of Dahlia Travers and Tom Travers, a cousin of Bertie Wooster, and the fiancée of Tuppy Glossop. She is mentioned in several stories and appears in the novel Right Ho, Jeeves. Bertie is very fond of her. When they were children, she used to call herself his little sweetheart.

Dahlia Travers

Dahlia Travers (née Wooster) is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories, being Bertie Wooster's bonhomous aunt, as well as the wife of Uncle Tom Travers and the mother of Angela Travers and Bonzo Travers. Aside from Bertie and Jeeves, Aunt Dahlia makes an appearance in more Jeeves stories than any other character, appearing in seven short stories and seven novels.

Tom Travers
Thomas "Tom" Portarlington Travers is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. He is the husband of Dahlia Travers and thus Bertie Wooster's uncle. Travers, known to Bertie as Uncle Tom, made a fortune doing business in the Far East. Although reluctant to part with money, especially for income tax, he provides the funds for her rarely profitable magazine Milady's Boudoir, which he refers to as "Madame's Nightshirt". Travers also suffers from severe digestion problems, which are only allayed by the cooking of his French chef Anatole. Tom Travers's hobby is collecting old silver, in which his biggest rival is Sir Watkyn Bassett. Their rivalry forms a major part of the plot of The Code of the Woosters, in which they are both seeking to purchase a rare eighteenth-century cow creamer.

In addition to being mentioned in many stories, Uncle Tom appears in "Clustering Round Young Bingo", Right Ho, Jeeves, and Jeeves and the Feudal Spirit. Bertie gets a letter from him in Aunts Aren't Gentlemen.

Mr Trotter 
Mr Trotter (Lemuel Gengulphus Trotter) is a fictional character in a Jeeves novel, Jeeves and the Feudal Spirit. He is a newspaper owner from Liverpool, husband of the domineering Mrs Trotter, and stepfather of her son, the poet Percy Gorringe. Trotter is invited to Aunt Dahlia's country house Brinkley Court to decide on acquiring her literary journal, Milady's Boudoir.

Mrs Trotter 
Mrs Trotter is a fictional character who appears in one Jeeves novel, Jeeves and the Feudal Spirit, being the domineering and socially ambitious wife of Liverpool newspaper owner Mr Trotter and the mother by a former marriage of poet Percy Gorringe.

Aubrey Upjohn 
The Reverend Aubrey Upjohn is a fictional character who is mentioned in several Jeeves stories and appears in the novel Jeeves in the Offing. He was formerly the stern headmaster of Malvern House Preparatory School, the school attended by Bertie Wooster and several of his friends. Upjohn is 5' 7" tall, though he seemed to be 8' 6" tall to Bertie when Bertie was a child. In Jeeves in the Offing, Upjohn has retired and grown a moustache. He is the widower of Jane Mills, who was a friend of Aunt Dahlia, and stepfather of Jane's daughter Phyllis Mills. He hopes to stand for Parliament as the Conservative candidate in Market Snodsbury. He becomes the target of a libellous article by Kipper Herring. He threatens to initiate a litigation, but Jeeves, as usual, smooths things out. In some books the name of Bertie's headmaster is given as "Arnold Abney", but he appears to be the same person.

Aubrey Upjohn is also a minor Drones Club character. He is the headmaster of St. Asaph's preparatory school in Bramley-on-Sea, which Freddie Widgeon attended in the past, in "Bramley Is So Bracing". In the story, Freddie inadvertently leaves Bingo Little's baby in Upjohn's study. St. Asaph's may be another name for Malvern House.

Upjohn is mentioned in The Code of the Woosters, The Mating Season, and "Jeeves and the Greasy Bird". He is also mentioned in the Drones Club story "The Editor Regrets".

Bobbie Wickham