[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Background radiation

to localized spots at the bifurcations of segmental bronchi in the lungs from the decay of polonium-210. This dose is not readily comparable to the radiation protection limits, since the latter deal with whole body doses, while the dose from smoking is delivered to a very small portion of the body.

Radiation metrology
In a radiation metrology laboratory, background radiation refers to the measured value from any incidental sources that affect an instrument when a specific radiation source sample is being measured. This background contribution, which is established as a stable value by multiple measurements, usually before and after sample measurement, is subtracted from the rate measured when the sample is being measured.

This is in accordance with the International Atomic Energy Agency definition of background as being "Dose or dose rate (or an observed measure related to the dose or dose rate) attributable to all sources other than the one(s) specified.

The same issue occurs with radiation protection instruments, where a reading from an instrument may be affected by the background radiation. An example of this is a scintillation detector used for surface contamination monitoring. In an elevated gamma background the scintillator material will be affected by the background gamma, which will add to the reading obtained from any contamination which is being monitored. In extreme cases it will make the instrument unusable as the background swamps the lower level of radiation from the contamination. In such instruments the background can be continually monitored in the "Ready" state, and subtracted from any reading obtained when being used in "Measuring" mode.

Regular Radiation measurement is carried out at multiple levels.  Government agencies compile radiation readings as part of environmental monitoring mandates, often making the readings available to the public and sometimes in near-real-time.  Collaborative groups and private individuals may also make real-time readings available to the public.  Instruments used for radiation measurement include the Geiger–Müller tube and the Scintillation detector.  The former is usually more compact and affordable and reacts to several radiation types, while the latter is more complex and can detect specific radiation energies and types.  Readings indicate radiation levels from all sources including background, and real-time readings are in general unvalidated, but correlation between independent detectors increases confidence in measured levels.

List of near-real-time government radiation measurement sites, employing multiple instrument types:
 Europe and Canada: European Radiological Data Exchange Platform (EURDEP)  Simple map of Gamma Dose Rates
 USA: EPA Radnet near-real-time and laboratory data by state

List of international near-real-time collaborative/private measurement sites, employing primarily Geiger-Muller detectors:
 GMC map: http://www.gmcmap.com/ (mix of old-data detector stations and some near-real-time ones)
 Netc: http://www.netc.com/
 Radmon: http://www.radmon.org/
 Radiation Network: http://radiationnetwork.com/
 Radioactive@Home: http://radioactiveathome.org/map/ 
 Safecast: http://safecast.org/tilemap (the green circles are real-time detectors)
 uRad Monitor: http://www.uradmonitor.com/

See also
 Background radiation equivalent time (BRET)
 Banana equivalent dose
 Environmental radioactivity
 Flight-time equivalent dose
 Noise (electronics)
 Low-background steel

References

External links
 Background radiation description from the Radiation Effects Research Foundation
 Environmental and Background Radiation FAQ from the Health Physics Society
 Radiation Dose Chart  from the American Nuclear Society
 Radiation Dose Calculator from the United States Environmental Protection Agency

 
Cosmic rays
Ionizing radiation
Radioactivity