[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tutor Perini

cludes 12 roadway / railroad grade separations, 2 mainline viaducts, 1 tunnel, realignments of existing railroad tracks, utility relocations, roadway relocations, 2 trench sections, and a major river crossing over the San Joaquin River.

Terminal 3 - Harry Reid International Airport in Las Vegas, NV

The 14-gate Terminal 3 at Las Vegas' Harry Reid International Airport includes a new terminal building with an elevated roadway structure fronting the facility, over-roadway pedestrian bridges, underground automated transit system infrastructure, and an aircraft ramp. The terminal has its own retail concessions, parking and ticketing. The new 1,900,000-square-foot terminal building includes a basement, three upper levels and roof-level penthouses. The building houses a baggage handling system for outbound and inbound processing, and an in-line explosives detection system for baggage screening. The building's infrastructure is designed with extensive cabling for software interfaces. Other features include dynamic and static signage, way finding systems and Voice-over-Internet Protocol (VoIP). The elevated roadway extends the length of the terminal – approximately 90-foot wide and 2,000-foot long. Construction of the elevated roadway includes a concrete box girder with cast concrete columns.

Embassy Housing and Infrastructure in Baghdad, Iraq

Perini Management Services led a design-build team for construction of a housing compound at the Baghdad Embassy that included 11 two-story hardened barracks buildings (273,000 square feet), warehouse (39,000 square feet), guard booths and entry control points, and all associated infrastructure. Work was performed within a tight footprint, and included a site topographic survey, subsurface and geotechnical investigation, a hydrogeological study for the water well design, demolition of existing buildings, site excavation, and grading. The project was awarded under a multiple award task order contract for design-build services within the Central Command Area of Operations. Perini successfully completed $850 million worth of design-build task orders under the base contract.

Cosmopolitan Hotel in Las Vegas, NV

As a mixed-use, urban high-rise development, on approximately 8.5 acres, the project includes over 6,000,000 square feet of development.
This resort and casino features two 52-story hotel towers containing approximately 3,000 luxury rooms and suites; over 150,000 square feet of convention and conference space; a 75,000-square-foot casino; 300,000 square feet of retail boutiques and restaurants; an 1,800-seat theater; a 500-seat cabaret; a 50,000-square-foot spa, salon and fitness center; multiple nightclub venues; and a 3,800-car underground parking structure. The five-level, below-grade parking structure required one of the largest excavations in the history of Las Vegas. Over one million cubic yards of dirt was removed from the site to create a 90-foot-deep opening to begin construction.

Purple Line Extension Project, Sections 2 & 3 in Los Angeles, CA