[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fabian Delph

Manchester City, Fulham, Sunderland, Tottenham Hotspur and Aston Villa were linked with Delph. On 3 August 2009, Villa agreed an undisclosed fee with Leeds for the transfer of Delph to Villa Park. The transfer was concluded the following day after Delph completed a medical and agreed personal terms.

Early career
Delph's full Premier League debut came at home against Wigan Athletic on 15 August 2009, the first day of the 2009–10 Premier League season. In a match that Villa lost 2–0, Delph received a yellow card and was replaced in the 61st minute by Steve Sidwell. On 23 January 2010 Delph scored his first goal for Aston Villa in the FA Cup win at home against Brighton & Hove Albion.

On 17 April 2010, Delph had to be carried away from training on a stretcher after picking up a "serious" knee injury. He was immediately taken for tests on the injury. It was later revealed on 19 April 2010 that Delph had suffered a cruciate ligament injury, set to keep him out of action for up to eight months.

Delph returned to action on 26 February 2011, in a Premier League victory over Blackburn Rovers, when he came on as an impromptu left-back after Nathan Baker was injured in the first half.

On 3 March 2011, Delph signed a new deal with Aston Villa keeping him at the club until 2015. He scored his second goal for Villa against Tranmere Rovers in the League Cup on 28 August 2012.

On 20 January 2012, Delph re-signed for Leeds United on loan, initially until 25 February 2012. He made his second Leeds United debut against Ipswich Town on 21 January. Delph picked up an ankle injury in Leeds' defeat to Coventry City and returned to Aston Villa for treatment on the injury. It was revealed that Delph would miss the end of the season, so his loan at Leeds was not renewed and he returned to his parent club.

During the 2012–13 Premier League season, Delph established himself as a regular in Paul Lambert's team, finishing the season with 24 appearances. In the later half of the season, Fabian put in some good performances and began to show a good partnership with Ashley Westwood and Yacouba Sylla in the centre of midfield.

2013–14 season

Delph started the 2013–14 season very brightly, and put in some of his best performances in a Villa shirt. In the 3–1 away win against Arsenal on the opening day of the season, Delph made a number of successful tackles and dribbles, as well as completing a large number of passes with a high accuracy percentage. He saw a long range, low driven shot from his favoured left foot hit the inside of Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczęsny's left post, coming very close to his first Premier League goal. His good form continued four days later in a controversial 2–1 loss against Chelsea, and again the following weekend in a 1–0 loss against Liverpool. His first goal of the season came in a 3–0 win over Rotherham United in the League Cup third round. He played a neat one-two with Benteke, took the first touch to control with his favoured left foot and finished with his right within the box. His performances in the opening months of the season earned him the Aston Villa Player of the Month award for August, September and October 2013.

Delph scored for the first time in Premier League with "a goal of brutal brilliance" to complete a 3–2 win away at Southampton on 4 December. His performances over the season including stand out performances against Everton, Liverpool and Chelsea, resulted in him being voted Player of the Year by Aston Villa supporters.

2014–15 season
After reports that he could leave the club at the end of the season due to his contract expiring, Delph signed a four-and-a-half-year contract on 25 January 2015, keeping him at Villa until 2019.

On 7 March, Delph scored the first goal as Villa defeated local rivals West Bromwich Albion 2–0 to reach their first FA Cup semi-final since 2010. The victory prompted a pitch invasion by fans, who Delph claimed stole his captain's armband while kissing and biting him. He scored the winning goal in the semi-final on 19 April, as Villa came from behind to defeat Liverpool 2–1 and reach their first FA Cup final since 2000. On 30 May, Delph captained Aston Villa in the 2015 FA Cup Final at Wembley Stadium, where the team were defeated 4–0 by Arsenal.

On 10 July, Delph was reported to be having a medical ahead of an £8 million transfer to Manchester City. Delph never showed up for his scheduled medical, and subsequently released a statement on the Aston Villa website confirming he would be staying at the club and would not be moving to Manchester City. However, reports a week later emerged that Delph had again changed his mind and was having a medical at Manchester City ahead of a prospective move.

Manchester City