[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Grand River land dispute

1987 that consisted of $610,000 in the form of three parcels of land added to the reserve, which added approximately . The council also retained the right to purchase said railway lands if they were not used for railway purposes and were re-acquired by Canada.

Douglas Creek Estates (Kanonhstaton) 

In 1992, Henco Industries Ltd. purchased  of land for what it would later call the Douglas Creek Estates. The proposed subdivision was set to be located southeast of Caledonia, between Argyle Street South, 6th Line, the CN rail line, and the houses along Thistlemoor Drive. That land was part of an existing land claim submitted by the Six Nations Elected Council; the claim had been closed by 1995. In March of that year, the Six Nations sued the federal and provincial governments in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice over the developers' purchase of the land. The lawsuit is an accounting claim for "all assets which were not received but ought to have been received, managed or held by the Crown for the benefit of the Six Nations." The case was openly litigated until 2004, when it was paused for "exploratory" negotiated settlement talks with the federal government. These talks were never pursued, due to the Douglas Creek Estates conflict in 2006.

Regarding their right to purchase the land, Henco argued that the Six Nations had surrendered their rights to the land in 1841 and Henco had purchased it from the Government of Canada. The Six Nations, however, maintained that their title to the land was never relinquished, as their chiefs protested the 1841 surrender and sent a petition to the government arguing against the terms.

In July 2005, the subdivision plan for Douglas Creek Estates was registered, with title to the property guaranteed by the province of Ontario.

Starting in February 2006, community members from Six Nations occupied the site of the proposed development, which they named in Mohawk "Kanonhstaton" (, ). Direct action on the part of protesters over the years included blockade of roads and rail lines, damage to a power station resulting in an area blackout and more than $1 million in repairs, and low levels of violence from both sides, as well as isolated, more serious attacks. The federal government halted negotiations at times because of the protesters' actions.

As protests continued, on June 12, 2006, more than 400 area residents and businesses filed a class-action suit against the Government of Ontario for its "failure to protect them adequately". This was settled in July 2011, with the government paying  to class members. By the end of 2011, several criminal cases related to assaults had been prosecuted.

During the continuing dispute, on June 16, 2006, the Government of Ontario announced it had bought the disputed tract from the developer and would hold it in trust until negotiations settled the claim. Talks began, including the Confederacy chiefs, but were put on hold in 2009 when litigation of the 1995 lawsuit was resumed. The trial is anticipated to start sometime in early 2024.

Dispute timeline (2005–2006)

2005

October 

 October 25 – Day-long shutdown of Douglas Creek Estates construction by Six Nations’ Land Claims Awareness Group, led by Dawn Smith and Janie Jamieson.

 October 26 - Six Nations Elected Council Chief David General writes to Henco, expressing concerns about the development proceeding on disputed lands.

2006

February 
 February 28 –  A group of community members from Six Nations erect tents, a tipi and a wooden building on the proposed development site.

March 
 March 3 – Henco Industries, the developer of the land, obtains an injunction from Justice Matheson, ordering the protesters off the land.
 March 5 - The Sheriff tries to deliver Justice Matheson's order to the protesters late Sunday evening. They do not accept the injunction. One of the protesters, Dawn Smith, burns the order stating "I am an ally to you, not a subject."
 March 9 – At Henco's request, motions judge Justice Marshall makes the March 3 court injunction permanent. He also adjourns Henco's contempt motion against the First Nations protesters to March 16.
 March 17 – Justice Marshall makes a finding of civil contempt and orders the Sheriff to go to Douglas Creek Estates, read aloud the new contempt order, giving protesters until March 22 to leave the site.
 March 22 – Protesters continue to occupy the site beyond court-ordered deadline.
 March 28 – Justice Marshall issues new order of criminal contempt and warrant of arrest for protesters blockading Douglas Creek Estates.