[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Atlético Chalaco

The club is the first soccer representative of the first port of Peru, Callao, which laid the foundations for future Chalacos clubs, going from being a school club to being a professional club, gaining recognition, prestige and trust among fans of the Callao, from Lima and Peru, since today there are many clubs with the name of Atlético Chalaco, but only one is the original and traditional. [At present, Atlético Chalaco is called the "Historical Soccer Heritage of the Constitutional Province of Callao ".

He has several championships won at the district, regional and national level. In 1918 he obtained recognition as a national champion when he beat the team of the nascent Peruvian Football League, which he defeated by 2 to 1. He has been champion of the First Division of Peru on two occasions: 1930 and 1947. And he also has four runners-up. nationals those of 1948, 1957, 1958 and 1979.

His classic and historic rival is Sport Boys, with whom he plays the Clásico Porteño as both clubs are from the Callao region, and are the most successful clubs in the famous Peruvian port. It also had rivalries with the Lima clubs, with which the Lima-Callao classics were born, among them was the Association Football Club, which would later merge with the Club Unión Ciclista Peruana, to form the Ciclista Lima Association club, a club that is its successor. And he not only wears the colors of his jersey, but also the nickname of Dean for his predecessor, who was the first Peruvian soccer club. Also with Alianza Lima with which he played the old classic Lima-Callao. Fierce encounters that delineated the cultural and social boundaries of Lima and Chalacos.

His clothing is legendary, as it has the white and red colors that the Peruvian soccer team would later have. Through the ranks of "León Porteño", great players and scorers passed that nurtured and formed the character of Peruvian football, such as Telmo Carbajo, Claudio Martínez Bodero, Alfonso Saldarriaga, Enrique Salas, Antonio Maquilón, Manuel Puente, José Arana, Humberto Crescimbeni, René Rosasco, Domingo Raffo, Félix Mina, Carlos Torres, Andrés Bedoya, Óscar Arizaga, Augusto Prado.

The club played for long periods at the Telmo Carbajo stadium until its discontinuation due to the inauguration of the Miguel Grau stadium. The old model stadium later named in honor of the greatest idol of Atlético Chalaco, Telmo Carbajo, was always the stronghold of the chalaca fury that every day could be heard rumbling with a loud voice "chalaco fury, chalaco fury". Currently the Chalaco has returned to train at his home, the Telmo Carbajo stadium.

The club also participates in junior, youth and master football tournaments.

History
The club was founded on 9 June 1902 by young students of the Instituto Chalaco in the Marco Polo Nº 19 street, house of the captain Mr. Federico Rincón, father of one of the student founders. His first President was Cesar Rivera, who at the same time was the captain of the team and he was appointed like Honorary President to August Cazorla, director of the institute. Very fast the club conquer the affection of the Callao leaving indelible testimonies through many generations who won the triumphs that helped the contact and development of the town. He is known popularly as the León Porteño and the "Decano del Futbol Porteño".

Its debut was a 24 September of the year 1902, facing to the Sport Victoria, winning Chalaco for 1–0. Little by little went emphasizing among the clubs of the Callao of that epoch beginning to compete against the Lima clubs in some encounters that even they finished in pitched battle. The first National Olympic was carried out by the year 1917, and in the Championship was imposed as unbeaten, obtaining as prize a great shield that was exhibited in its old localities of the (Today Av. Sáenz Peña) counting in its rows with some of the most representative players of the epoch as Telmo Carbajo and Claudio Martínez.

On 7 September 1924, forming a combined with the club Unión Buenos Aires, rout to the Uruguayan selection for 1 to 0, in a historic match set against the Uruguayans. They emphasized in said match the players: Enrique Álvarez, Alfonso "El sereno" Saldarriaga, Antonio Maquilón, Faustino Mustafich, José "Patuto" Arana, Enrique Salas, Félix Muñoz, Esteban Dagnino, Manolo Puente and Juan Sudman.

In 1928 it becomes the first Peruvian football team that travelled to Quillota, Chile, before the teams of San Luis, Santiago Wanderers, Colo-Colo and others, in order to curing injuries on the War of the Pacific between both countries and of 8 matches that maintains with the main teams, alone loses one in his début front upon Colo-Colo.

In 1930, the club crowned Primera División champion after beating Alianza Lima 2–1 in the last round, with the following line-up: Enrique Álvarez; P.Ureta, Martínez, Enrique Salas, Juan Rivero, Faustino Mustafich, José Arana, Miñán, Miguel Rostaing, Manolo Puente, Miguel Arana.