[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

irginia Cavalry was sent upriver where it crossed and then charged down on Rosser. The brigade drove off Rosser's cavalry, capturing 50 men and all of his artillery. Thus Custer, utilizing Capehart's brigade (including the 1st West Virginia Cavalry), defeated one of the Confederacy's best cavalries.

Battle of Waynesboro
Sheridan's cavalry encountered the remnants of Early's army at Waynesboro, Virginia, on March 2. Most of Early's army was killed or captured, although Early evaded capture. Custer's division did the fighting. His 1st Brigade dismounted and attacked as infantry, then Capehart's 3rd Brigade, including the 1st West Virginia Cavalry, charged and cut off over half of Early's force—which forced that portion of the rebels to surrender. All of Early's headquarters equipment was captured, as were 11 pieces of artillery. Capehart's brigade chased the fleeing rebels toward Rockfish Gap. A New York newspaper credited the 3rd Brigade with capturing 5 pieces of artillery, 67 wagons of ammunition and food, and 1 battle flag. Early's army was eliminated from the war.

Sheridan leaves the Valley to fight Lee's army
Sheridan's original orders were to destroy the Virginia Central Railroad and then meet with the army of Union General William Tecumseh Sherman in North Carolina. Sheridan reached Charlottesville on March 3, but faced delays caused by muddy roads. On March 5, Sergeant Richard Boury, from CompanyC, was part of a squadron of the 1st West Virginia Cavalry sent into the mountains to find some rebels that had retreated from Waynesboro. Boury captured a flag and three rebels. He received the Medal of Honor, and the citation described his action as being "at Charlottesville" .

Rainy weather, swollen rivers, and destroyed bridges persuaded Sheridan to move east toward Richmond instead of moving south across the river to link with Sherman's army in North Carolina. Private Archibald H. Rowand, Jr., of the 1st West Virginia Cavalry's Company K, was one of two men sent with a message from Sheridan to General Ulysses S. Grant (the Union's highest-ranking officer and future president of the United States). His mission meant that he had to get through Confederate lines. To accomplish this feat, Rowand wore a Confederate uniform for much of his journey. His 48-hour journey covered  on horseback and an additional  on foot. Near the end of his journey, he was chased by Confederates and had to abandon his horse and swim the Chickahominy River. That started the walking portion of his journey. He was wet, muddy, and was wearing only his underclothing when he crossed into Union lines.

Sheridan's two divisions reached a Union Army base at the river port community of White House, Virginia, on March 18, 1865. At White House, the two divisions were resupplied, and rested for five days. They departed on March 24, and met the Army of the Potomac near Petersburg on March 27. The Army of the Potomac was "the Union's primary army operating in the East." Sheridan's Army of the Shenandoah was still considered separate from the Army of the Potomac, so he received orders directly from Grant. Grant was working on site with Meade and the Army of the Potomac. Meade had partially surrounded Lee's army at Richmond and Petersburg, but Lee still had a western escape route. Grant ordered Sheridan to proceed to Dinwiddie, Virginia, where it could cut off Lee's escape route. The two divisions were joined by the Second Cavalry Division from the Army of the Potomac, which was led by General Crook. The three cavalry divisions totaled to a force of about 9,000.