[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Aberdeen

ity Hospital, an antenatal hospital, Woodend Hospital, which specialises in rehabilitation and long-term illnesses and conditions, and City Hospital and Woolmanhill Hospital, which host several out-patient clinics and offices. Albyn Hospital is a private hospital located in the west end of the city.

Aberdeen City Council is responsible for city-owned infrastructure which is paid for by a mixture of Council Tax and income from the Scottish Government. Infrastructure and services run by the council include: nursery, primary and secondary education, roads, clearing snow in winter, city wardens, maintaining parks, refuse collection, economic development, public analyst, public mortuary, street cleaning and street lighting. Infrastructure in private hands includes electricity, gas and telecoms. Water and sewerage services are provided by Scottish Water.
 Police: Policing in Aberdeen is the responsibility of Police Scotland (the British Transport Police has responsibility for railways).
 Ambulance: The North East divisional headquarters of the Scottish Ambulance Service is located in Aberdeen.
 Fire and rescue: This is the responsibility of the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service.
 Lifeboat: The Royal National Lifeboat Institution operates Aberdeen Lifeboat Station. It is located at Victoria Dock Entrance in York Place.

Twin cities
Aberdeen is twinned with
  Stavanger, Norway, since 1990
  Regensburg, Germany, since 1955
  Clermont-Ferrand, France, since 1983
  Gomel, Belarus, since 1990
  Bulawayo, Zimbabwe, since 1986
  Houston, Texas, US, since 1979, is twinned with the former region of Grampian of which Aberdeen is the regional centre
  Kobe, Japan, since 2022, is twinned with Aberdeen for its hydrogen work.

Notable people and residents

 William Alexander (1826 - 1894), journalist and author of Johnny Gibb of Gushetneuk.
 Leslie Benzies, Former president of Rockstar North, creators of the critically acclaimed Grand Theft Auto series.
 Scott Booth, former football player, played for Aberdeen F.C., FC Twente, Borussia Dortmund and the Scotland national football team.
 Alf Burnett, footballer who played for Dundee United
 Lord Byron FRS (1788–1824), poet, was raised (age 2–10) in Aberdeen.
 Andrew Cant, (1584–1663) Presbyterian minister and leader of the Scottish Covenanters
 David Carry, swimmer, 2x 2006 Commonwealth Games gold medallist.
 Henry Cecil, one of the most successful horse trainers of all time.
 Oswald Chambers, author of My Utmost for His Highest
 Alexander Christie, portrait painter.
 Dan Crenshaw, Member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Texas's 2nd district.
 Andrew Cruickshank, actor famous for his role in Dr Finlay's Casebook
 John Mathieson Dodds, apprentice and engineer with Metrovick, Manchester and radar pioneer in Chain Home defence system for 1940 Battle of Britain.
 Neil Fachie, cyclist, 2012 Paralympic Games gold and silver medalist.
 Simon Farquhar, playwright.
 Graeme Garden, author, actor, comedian, artist, TV presenter, famous for The Goodies.
 Martin Gatt, principal bassoonist English Chamber Orchestra, LPO and LSO.
 Ryan Gauld, footballer who currently plays for Sporting Lisbon in the Portuguese Primeira Liga.
 James Gibbs, 18th-century architect.
 Quentin Gibson FRS (1918–2011), physiologist and biochemist
 James Gregory FRS (1638–1675), Scottish mathematician and astronomer, born in the manse at Drumoak, just outside Aberdeen. Attended Aberdeen Grammar School and Marischal College, University of Aberdeen. Discovered diffraction gratings a year after Newton's prism experiments, and invented the Gregorian telescope design in 1663 which is used in telescopes such as the Arecibo Observatory.
 David Gregory FRS (1659–1708), Scottish mathematician and astronomer. Attended Aberdeen Grammar School and Marischal College, University of Aberdeen. A professor of mathematics. Based on  his uncle James Gregory's work, he extended or discovered the method of quadratures by infinite series. His principle work "Astronomiae physicae et geometricae elementa" (1702) was the first text-book on gravitational principles.
 Michael Gove, politician and MP.
 George Jamesone, Scotland's first eminent portrait-painter.
 Reginald Victor Jones, physicist, Chair of Natural Philosophy at the University of Aberdeen, author.
 John Michael Kosterlitz, physicist, professor of physics at Brown University. Awarded the Nobel Prize in physics in 2016.
 Denis Law, former football player, played for Manchester City, Manchester United and the Scotland national team, joint all-time record Scotland goalscorer with 30 goals.
 Paul Lawrie, golfer, winner of the 1999 Open Championship.
 Annie Lennox, musician, winner of eight Brit Awards, grew up in Ellon.
 Rose Leslie, actress, best known for playing Ygritte in HBO's Game of Thrones.
 John Macleod FRSE FRS LLD (1876–1935) Biochemist and Physiologist. For his role in the discovery and isolation of insulin he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in