[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Klingon culture

the Next Generation] or are discomandated as "Social Outcasts" By Klingon Society[Sins of the Father Star Trek the Next Generation]; the only rights left by Klingon Social Outcasts is the "Right of Vengeance" (A duel to the death to avenge a murdered loved one)(Reunion:Star Trek The Next Generation)

The honored dead are not mourned but celebrated. The eyes of a dead warrior are opened, and all fellow Klingons present roar to tell the warriors in Sto'Vo'Kor that the warrior is joining them. The body of the dead warrior is viewed mainly as an empty shell to be disposed of; particularly well-respected warriors have their companions accompany the body for interment or disposal, "just" to keep away predators (though this is a privately held act of respect for the departed). The surviving mate and his or her companions might undertake a perilous quest in the name of a warrior who may be unsure of their eligibility to enter Sto'Vo'Kor because they did not pass away in valiant battle. If they win their stated deed or battle, they win honor for their late warrior and entry to paradise. To die of natural causes is looked upon as a horrible way to end one's life (The Royale: Star Trek The Next Generation). While the Klingon's greatest honor is to die in battle [Booby Trap, Star Trek The Next Generation; Once More into the Breach, Deep Space Nine], even in midst of a Klingon Civil War, sometimes on a neutral part of the Klingon home world, enemies will show their prowess as warriors by routinely Head butt each other's foreheads, or even sharing the Klingon beverage Bloodwine (knowing full well that they would kill each other in battle). To decline to drink bloodwine and pour it on the ground signals that the Klingon opposite another Klingon are Blood enemies as is calling an Klingon opponent a 'traitor" and backhanding him across the face (A warning that one or the other will be killed in personnel combat) [Sins of the Father, Star Trek: The Next Generation). To kill an opponent not by honorable dueling but by other means such as poison is considered dishonorable for a Klingon warrior [Reunion Star Trek: The Next Generation].The War Cry of the Klingons is "Long Live the Klingon Empire!"[Once More into the Breach Deep Space Nine]

Klingon beliefs were recorded in a series of scrolls collectively referred to as the paq'batlh, or Book of Honor. One prophecy, possibly taken from this book, was of the Kuvah'magh, a religious figure predicted to appear at some future time. Miral Paris, daughter of Tom Paris and B'Elanna Torres, was thought by some expatriate Klingon cult members in the Delta Quadrant to be this new spiritual leader.

Gre'Thor (in Klingon, ghe'tor or 'ghe"or) is the Klingon afterlife where the dishonored go when they die. It is the Klingon equivalent of hell and is guarded by a fearsome demon, Fek'lhr (roughly pronounced "Fek-Lar"; in Klingon, veqlargh). Fek'lhr and his demons are responsible for the eternal torture of those unfortunate Klingons who find themselves in Gre'Thor; however, Klingon legend allows for the salvation of souls from Gre'Thor, typically through heroic sacrifices made by friends and family (Kahless, for instance, once willingly traveled to Gre'Thor to save his brother, Morath, and send him to Sto'Vo'Kor).

If a Klingon dies and is fated to journey to Gre'Thor, they will find themselves on the Barge of the Dead, which travels the "river of blood" on its way to Gre'Thor. Klingon souls on the barge are tempted by siren-like voices, masquerading as friends and family, who try to lure them off the edge and into the river where they are torn apart forever [Barge of the Dead Star Trek Voyageur].

Under normal circumstances, it is difficult for the souls of dead Klingons to leave Gre'Thor, as in the expression "I will surrender when spirits escape from Gre'Thor!", but the legend of Kahless does allow for such things. Another example is the mother of B'Elanna Torres, who was initially sent to Gre'Thor due to her daughter's misdeeds but was eventually released.[Barge of the Dead Star Trek Voyageur].

Recreational activities

Martial arts
moQbara (mok'bara) is the name of the fictional Klingon martial art. It is sometimes practiced with a bat'leth, an edged weapon with a curved blade, four pointsand handholds on the back.

The style is similar to t'ai chi and was invented for Star Trek by visual effects producer and martial artist Dan Curry.

Opera
Klingon opera is a well-known genre of traditional Klingon music with certain dramatic and stylistic similarities to Human opera. Typical themes include passionate tales of doomed courage and star-crossed love. Its strident tones are considered ear-shattering by most non-Klingons.

Klingons are passionate about opera, which they use to combine battle with art. The opera 'u', retelling the legend of the battles of "Kahless the Unforgettable", is the first (real) Earth production of a Klingon opera.

Food