[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Juansher

Juansher was the Mihranid prince of Caucasian Albania, ruling the principality from 637 to 669. He was the son and successor of Varaz Grigor ().

During his reign, Juansher changed his allegiance thrice. He started out as a subject to the Sasanian Empire, under which he fought against the Arab-Islamic invasion of Iran (632–654). Realizing the impending downfall of the Sasanians, he withdrew to Albania, where he rebelled. Although he briefly lost control over the Albanian lowlands and its capital, Partaw, his guerrilla warfare forced the Sasanians to grant him more autonomy.

Following the fall of the Sasanian Empire in 651, Juansher's father seemingly became the leader of Albania once more, due to his seniority. He took the safe route by acknowledging the suzerainty of the Rashidun Caliphate, but also instructed Juansher to establish contact with the Byzantine emperor Constans II () and offer his services. Juansher submitted to the Byzantines, but this was implemented in practice only during the civil war in the caliphate between 656–661, when Constans II managed to exert his influence over all of the Southern Caucasus.

In 665, Juansher submitted to the Umayyad Caliphate, and in 667 reportedly played an important role in counselling Caliph Mu'awiya I () on how to assassinate Constans II, which took place in 15 July 669. As a reward, Juansher was given control over Siwnik and one third of the tribute collected from Albania by the caliphate, which marked the zenith of Juansher's rule. He was himself assassinated on 14 September 669 during the Feast of the Cross by a traitor named Varaznoy, probably due to falling out with the Caliph. He was succeeded by his nephew Varaz-Tiridates I.

Albeit a Christian, Juansher still participated in activities related to Zoroastrianism, the official religion of the Sasanian Empire. He notably appears in what is considered to be the first long secular poem in Armenian literature, written by the 7th-century Armenian poet Davtak Kertogh.

Background 
Juansher belonged to Mihranid dynasty. Despite the dynasty's Parthian origin, they claimed to be descended from the Sasanian monarchs of Iran, who had held authority over Caucasian Albania since 252/3. It is uncertain how the Mihranids became  (princes of Albania). Their ancestor, Mihran, was said to have received the region of Gardman by the Sasanian monarch Khosrow II (). In , a Mihranid prince conquered all of Albania and assumed the title of . The head of the family's full titulature was thus "Lord of Gardman and Prince of Albania". Juansher was the second eldest of the four sons of the Albanian prince Varaz Grigor (). His name is derived from Persian Juwānshēr, meaning "young lion". He was most likely fluent in Middle Persian and Armenian, familiar with Albanian, and acquainted with some Greek and likely a small degree of Arabic.

Reign

Under the Sasanian Empire 

During the Arab-Islamic invasion of Iran (632–654), Juansher was summoned to lead the Albanian contingent. Along with contingents from the neighbouring Sasanian-ruled regions of Siwnik and Armenia, Juansher was part of the army of Rostam Farrokhzad, the  (commander-in-chief) of the northern part of the empire. Juansher succeeded his father in 637. When Juansher arrived at the Sasanian capital of Ctesiphon in 637 or 638, his position as  (military commander) of the Albanians was officially acknowledged by the Sasanian monarch Yazdegerd III (). During the ensuing Battle of al-Qadisiyyah, Juansher suffered a serious wound, in which the Arabs triumphed. Along with some others, he managed to escape by swimming to the other side of the Euphrates River. When the Arabs later resumed their attacks and besieged Ctesiphon, Juansher led a force 3,000 soldiers on the right side of the Tigris River, being assigned to protect Yazdegerd III so he could move out of the city. The court, ministries, and the majority of the populace of the city likely went along with Yazdegerd III.

For several more years, Juansher fought under Farrukhzad, the brother and successor of Rostam. He participated in another crucial battle, which the 10th-century author Movses Kaghankatvatsi described as "a cruel defeat" for the Sasanians. In 644/45, Juansher went back to Albania through Adurbadagan (in present-day northwestern Iran), most likely due to losing faith in the Sasanian Empire, realizing its impending downfall. While he was still in Adurbadagan, Juansher alienated Farrukhzad by turning down a marriage alliance. After that, he rebelled against the Sasanians.