[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# International Islamic Relief Organization

subsequently delisted them in 2014. The Philippines and Indonesian branch offices of IIRO were also delisted by the US Treasury Department on the 16 August 2016.

Neither the Philippines nor the Indonesian branch offices of IIRO have ever been prosecuted by the Philippines or Indonesian authorities.

Albania
Another country where IIRO is alleged to have aided and abetted bringing in foreign terrorists was the former Communist country of Albania. In 1992, with the support of the government of Sali Berisha "turned to Saudi Arabia for financial support". Among the thirty Islamic NGOs and Islamic associations worked toward re-Islamization Albania was the IIRO. Muhammad al Zawahiri, (the brother of Ayman al Zawahiri, the leader of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad movement and Osama bin Laden's key lieutenant) as an accountant for the International Islamic Relief Organization (IIRO). In addition to helping with relief and spreading correct Islam, IIRO was secretly helping other members of Islamic Jihad find jobs within "charitable organizations building mosques, orphanages and clinics" in Albania. They included the architect Muhammad Hassan Tita, who was assigning him collecting 20% of the salaries earned by Islamic Jihad members employed by NGOs. By the mid-1980s, there were 13 members of Islamic Jihad in Albania's capital Tirana. Shawki Salama Attiya, a former instructor in Afghan camps in the 1980s, who specialized in false identity documents came to Albania under the pseudonym of Majed Mustafa, and Ahmed Osman Saleh, who was wanted by the Egyptian authorities on suspicion of involvement in the attempted assassination of Egypt's Prime minister Atef Sidiqi in 1993.  This conspiracy was later exposed during an investigation carried out by the American and Albanian secret services, and several  Egyptian Islamist accused of terrorist activities were arrested in 1998, particularly after the 1998 United States embassy bombings.

Responses from IIRO
IIRO has always denied that it, or any of its branch offices, has ever supported in any manner, and whether directly or indirectly, Al Qaida or any terrorist group.

The accuracy, reliability and veracity of the allegations particularly the role of Mohammed Jamal Khalifa, has always been strongly disputed by IIRO, especially since IIRO was in fact founded in Saudi Arabia in 1978, 10 years before Mohammed Jamal Khalifa is alleged to have been one of its founding directors in the Philippines. In addition, IIRO had closed its Philippines branch in 2004, more than two years before it was designated. Although Mohammed Jamal Khalifa was an employee of IIRO between 1991 and 1993, he was never a director of IIRO. More than 10 years after he ceased to be employed by IIRO,  Mohammed Jamal Khalifa was dismissed from the 9/11 lawsuits by the US district court. He was murdered in Madagascar in 2007.

It has also been alleged that Abd al Hamid Sulaiman Muhammed al-Mujil, who was the regional manager of the eastern office of IIRO in Saudi Arabia between 1986 and 2006 was involved in financing terrorism via both the Philippines and the Indonesian branches of IIRO. 
The accuracy, reliability and veracity of this accusations has always been strongly denied both by IIRO and by Abd al Hamid Sulaiman Muhammed al-Mujil – who after presenting a petition to the UN Ombudsperson was removed from the UN Security Council Al-Qaida Sanctions Committee's Sanctions List on the 1 July 2013, more than 6 years after he had ceased to be employed by IIRO.

IIRO has always maintained that it has only ever been solely concerned with providing humanitarian aid wherever it is most needed irrespective of ethnic background, nationality, social status or belief.

De-listing from suspected terror list
In 2009, IIRO petitioned the Security Council for removal of these two branches from the list in January 2010, and as a result on January 6, 2014, the Security Council Committee removed the IIRO offices in Indonesia and the Philippines from this Al-Qaida Sanctions List after concluding its consideration of the delisting requests for these names submitted through the Office of the UN Ombudsperson established pursuant to Security Council resolution 1904 (2009), and after considering the Comprehensive Reports of the Ombudsperson on these delisting requests.  As a result of the UN delisting, the EU also delisted the Indonesia and Philippines Branch Offices of IIRO. and the United Kingdom HM Treasury Financial Sanctions Notice (dated 14 January 2014) confirmed the deletion of IIRO Philippines and Indonesia branches from its consolidated list of persons and entities having a connection with Al-Qaida.

None of the member states represented on the Committee appears to have objected to the de-listing.

Subsequently, the Philippines and Indonesian branch offices of IIRO were delisted by the US Treasury Department on the 16 August 2016.