[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Quantum nonlocality

above describe what the quantum set of correlations looks like, but they do not explain why. Are quantum correlations unavoidable, even in post-quantum physical theories, or on the contrary, could there exist correlations outside  which nonetheless do not lead to any unphysical operational behavior?

In their seminal 1994 paper, Popescu and Rohrlich explore whether quantum correlations can be explained by appealing to relativistic causality alone. Namely, whether any hypothetical box  would allow building a device capable of transmitting information faster than the speed of light. At the level of correlations between two parties, Einstein's causality translates in the requirement that Alice's measurement choice should not affect Bob's statistics, and vice versa. Otherwise, Alice (Bob) could signal Bob (Alice) instantaneously by choosing her (his) measurement setting   appropriately. Mathematically, Popescu and Rohrlich's no-signalling conditions are:

Like the set of classical boxes, when represented in probability space, the set of no-signalling boxes forms a polytope. Popescu and Rohrlich identified a box  that, while complying with the no-signalling conditions, violates Tsirelson's bound, and is thus unrealizable in quantum physics. Dubbed the PR-box, it can be written as:

Here  take values in , and  denotes the sum modulo two. It can be verified that the CHSH value of this box is 4 (as opposed to the Tsirelson bound of ). This box had been identified earlier, by Rastall and Khalfin and Tsirelson.

In view of this mismatch, Popescu and Rohrlich pose the problem of identifying a physical principle, stronger than the no-signalling conditions, that allows deriving the set of quantum correlations. Several proposals followed:
 Non-trivial communication complexity (NTCC). This principle stipulates that nonlocal correlations should not be so strong as to allow two parties to solve all 1-way communication problems with some probability  using just one bit of communication. It can be proven that any box violating Tsirelson's bound by more than  is incompatible with NTCC.
 No Advantage for Nonlocal Computation (NANLC). The following scenario is considered: given a function , two parties are distributed the strings of  bits  and asked to output the bits  so that  is a good guess for . The principle of NANLC states that non-local boxes should not give the two parties any advantage to play this game. It is proven that any box violating Tsirelson's bound would provide such an advantage.
 Information Causality (IC). The starting point is a bipartite communication scenario where one of the parts (Alice) is handed a random string  of  bits. The second part, Bob, receives a random number . Their goal is to transmit Bob the bit , for which purpose Alice is allowed to transmit Bob  bits. The principle of IC states that the sum over  of the mutual information between Alice's bit and Bob's guess cannot exceed the number  of bits transmitted by Alice. It is shown that any box violating Tsirelson's bound would allow two parties to violate IC.
 Macroscopic Locality (ML). In the considered setup, two separate parties conduct extensive low-resolution measurements over a large number of independently prepared pairs of correlated particles. ML states that any such “macroscopic” experiment must admit a local hidden variable model. It is proven that any microscopic experiment capable of violating Tsirelson's bound would also violate standard Bell nonlocality when brought to the macroscopic scale. Besides Tsirelson's bound, the principle of ML fully recovers the set of all two-point quantum correlators.
 Local Orthogonality (LO). This principle applies to multipartite Bell scenarios, where  parties respectively conduct experiments  in their local labs. They respectively obtain the outcomes . The pair of vectors  is called an event. Two events  ,  are said to be locally orthogonal if there exists  such that  and . The principle of LO states that, for any multipartite box, the sum of the probabilities of any set of pair-wise locally orthogonal events cannot exceed 1. It is proven that any bipartite box violating Tsirelson's bound by an amount of  violates LO.

All these principles can be experimentally falsified under the assumption that we can decide if two or more events are space-like separated. This sets this research program aside from the axiomatic reconstruction of quantum mechanics via Generalized Probabilistic Theories.