[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Staunton and Parkersburg Turnpike

e in 1826. After funding was authorized to build the turnpike in 1838, Crozet reviewed the earlier plans and revised some portions. The following year, after some adjustments in the routing, Crozet estimated that the "distance from Staunton to Parkersburg will be probably between 220 and 230 miles."

Crozet settled on a route that passed west of Staunton through the tiny village of Monterey, in Highland County. Virginia's least-populated county, it is called "Virginia's Switzerland," in reference to the steep mountains and valleys. The route crossed into what is now Pocahontas County, West Virginia at Allegheny Mountain. As the route winds through the mountainous terrain, there are many switchbacks and loops designed by Crozet as he attempted to meet the 4% maximum grade standard. In this area, the road passes near modern attractions such as the Green Bank Observatory and Cass Scenic Railroad, and the communities of Bartow, Frank, and Durbin.

West of Bartow, it crossed the West Fork Greenbrier River, and wound up the eastern slope of Back Allegheny Mountain. At the top, it crossed the nearly flat plateau typical of the region's mountaintops. (In the 21st century, much of this land is part of the Monongahela National Forest). The turnpike descended Cheat Mountain into the valley of the Tygart Valley River and followed it northerly to the town of Beverly, the original county seat of Randolph County, arriving in 1841.

At Beverly, the turnpike spanned the Tygart Valley River where the Beverly Covered Bridge was constructed in 1845-47 by Lemuel Chenoweth (1811–1887), a local and master bridge builder. It then turned almost due west once again, crossing Rich Mountain near the site of the future (1861) Battle of Rich Mountain. Continuing west, it passed through Buckhannon, Weston, Troy, and Burnt House. The final western stretch generally followed the route of the Little Kanawha River to reach its terminus at Parkersburg on the western bank of the Ohio River.

Operation on the turnpike
Turnpike operations included through and local traffic. Toll houses, always staffed, were established at intervals, so as to collect from both types of traffic. Toll house sites were placed where it would be difficult for travelers to take an alternate routing and escape paying the toll.

Regional conflicts divide Virginia

Most historians are in agreement that slavery was the biggest issue of the conflict in the United States that led to the American Civil War (1861–1865). Then the fifth most populous state, Virginia had dramatic differences among its regions. The social conditions in western Virginia were unlike those in the eastern portion of the state. Most immigrants had come from Pennsylvania in the 18th century and included Germans; Protestant Ulster-Scots, the largest group by far from the British Isles before the American Revolution; and settlers from states farther north.

As early as the American Revolution, there was movement to create a state beyond the Alleghenies. In 1776, settlers presented a petition for the establishment of "Westsylvania" to Congress, on the grounds that the mountains made an almost impassable barrier on the east. The rugged nature of the country and poverty of the settlers meant that most became yeomen subsistence farmers. Since few held slaves, their ethnic and cultural differences from the Tidewater and Piedmont planters became stronger with economic considerations. Time increased the social, political and economic differences between the two sections of Virginia.

However, the conflicts between regions were never resolved within Virginia, nor separate state formed, until the American Civil War broke out. Eastern Virginians voted to secede and join the Confederate States of America. However, many western counties wanted to remain in the Union. An act for the reorganization of the government was passed on June 19, 1861 and a provisional government loyal to Union was set up initially based at Wheeling. The pro-northern government authorized the creation of the state of Kanawha, consisting of most of the counties that now comprise West Virginia. A little over one month later, Kanawha was renamed West Virginia. These actions were formally approved by the West Virginia public by wide margins.

The state was admitted to the Union effective June 20, 1863; officers for the new state were chosen. Governor Pierpont moved his capital to Alexandria from which he asserted jurisdiction over the counties of Virginia within the Federal lines, since the disposition of eastern Virginia as part of the Confederacy or Union had yet to be resolved. Following the end of hostilities, most of the portion which had considered itself part of the Confederacy Virginia rejoined the Union, with the exception of two northern counties which chose to join West Virginia in 1866.

American Civil War