[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Myanmar Navy

of landing craft. Landing craft and auxiliary ships are usually armed with Oerlikon 20 mm cannons, 40 mm Bofors anti-aircraft guns and heavy machine guns. In the mid-1960s, the Myanmar Navy took delivery of ex-US Navy  PCE-827 class corvette and a  , both of which were commissioned in the mid-1940s.

1970s
Although it expanded rapidly during the 1950s and 1960s, the navy was unable to keep pace with loss or deterioration of older vessels in the 1970s.  In 1978, the United States provided the Myanmar Navy with six small river patrol craft. A naval replacement program was initiated by BSPP Government in 1979.

1980s 
In 1980, the navy acquired six Carpentaria-class inshore patrol boats from Australia followed by three 128-ton Swift-type coastal patrol boats from Singapore and three 385-ton Ospery-class offshore patrol vessels built in Denmark. The Osprey and Swift-class boats have a range of , respectively, and were armed with Oerlikon 20 mm cannons and 40 mm Bofors anti-aircraft guns. In the early 1980s, Burmese naval shipyards built three 128-ton PGM type patrol boats based upon US PGM-class patrol boats. Each boat was armed with two 40 mm Bofors anti-aircraft guns and two 12.7 mm heavy machine guns.

1990s
The Myanmar Navy purchased six missile escort boats and ten submarine chasers from China. Since 1998, the navy has built two  Anawrahta-class corvettes (771 and 772) and four fast attack craft (551-554).

2000s

2008 Naval Clash with Bangladesh
In 2008 a naval encounter took place between the Bangladesh Navy and the Myanmar Navy. The confrontation was a direct result of the Myanmar Navy allowing companies to drill for natural gas and oil in a disputed area of the Bay of Bengal. The confrontation resulted in Bangladesh's favour

May 2008 Cyclone Nargis
As many as 25 Burmese naval ships may have been sunk in the storm caused by Cyclone Nargis in May 2008, while an unknown number of naval personnel and their family members were killed or are listed as missing. The Network for Democracy and Development in Thailand reported that 30 officers and 250 Burmese naval personnel were declared missing, while 25 vessels were destroyed by the cyclone in three naval regional command centres: Panmawaddy Regional Command on Hainggyi Island; Irrawaddy Regional Command; and Danyawaddy Regional Command in Sittwe in Arakan State.

2010s 
As part of international engagement of the US with the Myanmar's armed forces, the  visited Myanmar in early 2013.

In 2014, the Myanmar Navy began its annual 'Sea Shield' combined fleet exercise in the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea. The annual manoeuvres usually involved live-fire exercises by several of the Myanmar Navy's strategic vessels.

The navy participated in the Indian and Myanmar Navy Exercise 2018, held in the Bay of Bengal. On the Burmese side, vessels included the Kyan Sittha-class frigate UMS Sin Phyu Shin (F-14) and offshore patrol vessel UMS Inle and on the Indian side, vessels included anti-submarine warfare corvette INS Kamorta, Shivalik (Project 17)-class frigate INS Sahyadri, and a Type 877EKM Kilo-class submarine, along with one helicopter and two advanced aircraft. In September 2019, Myanmar Navy's UMS Kyan Sittha participated in the first US-Asean Maritime Exercise (AUMX) to improve disaster management and maritime cooperation in the region.

The navy has maintained relationships with regional navies. It has hosted navies from the region such as the Royal Australian Navy, the PLA Navy and the Indian Navy. Likewise, the navy's ships have visited countries in the region including Vietnam, Thailand and Singapore.

Commanders-in-Chief since independence

Commanders of Naval Region Command

Organisation

Administrative and support units

 Naval headquarters, Ministry of Defence (Naypyidaw)
 Naval Shipyard (Yangon)
 Strategic Naval Command (headquarters in Naypyidaw)
 Central Naval Command (Seikkyi)
 Naval Training Command (Seikkyi)
 Central Naval Hydrographic Depot (Yangon)
 Central Naval Diving and Salvage Depot (Yangon)
 Central Naval Engineering Depot (Botataung, Yangon)
 Central Naval Logistic Depot (Yangon)
 Central Naval Communications Depot (Yangon)
 Central Naval Armaments Deport (Seikkyi)

Naval regional commands and bases

 Irrawaddy Regional Command (headquarters in Yangon)
 Thanhklyet Soon Naval Base
 Thanlyin Naval Base
 Thilawa Naval Base
 Coco Island Base (including Naval Radar Unit)
 Danyawaddy Regional Command (headquarters in Sittwe)
 Kyaukpyu Naval Base
 Thandwe (Sandoway) Naval Base
 No.(71) Submarine Base (Ownchein Island) which was established in 2007. It is near Kyaukphyu SEZ.
 Panmawaddy Regional Command (headquarters on Haigyi Island)
 Mawyawaddy Regional Command (headquarters in Mawlamyine)
 Tanintharyi Regional Command (headquarters in Myeik)
 Zadetkyi Island Naval Base
 Mali (Tavoy) Naval Base
 Palai Island Naval Base
 Kadan Naval Base
 Sakanthit Naval Base
 Lambi Naval Base
 Pearl Island Naval Base
 Zadetkale Naval Base (Radar Unit)