[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Camp Nama

ure clash between agencies and groups involved with the facility.  By early 2004, one of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld's top aides, Under-Secretary for Defense Intelligence Stephen A. Cambone, ordered a subordinate, DIA head Vice Adm. Lowell E. Jacoby to "get to the bottom" of any misconduct.

By June 25, 2004, Admiral Jacoby wrote a two-page memo to Cambone, in which he described a series of complaints, including a May 2004 incident in which a DIA interrogator said he witnessed task force soldiers punch a detainee hard enough to require medical help. The DIA officer took photos of the injuries, but a supervisor confiscated them, the memo said.  The memo provoked an angry reaction from Mr. Cambone. "Get to the bottom of this immediately. This is not acceptable," Mr. Cambone said in a handwritten note on June 26, 2004, to his top deputy, Lt. Gen. William G. Boykin. "In particular, I want to know if this is part of a pattern of behavior by TF 6-26."

According to The New York Times article, General Boykin had earlier said (on March 17) through a spokesman that he told Mr. Cambone he had found no pattern of misconduct with the task force.  The article does not provide further detail on Boykin's response to the investigation after Cambone's and Jacoby's intervention in June, 2004.

Transfer to LSA Anaconda 

According to The New York Times article, in the summer of 2004, Camp Nama closed and the unit moved to "a new headquarters in Balad, 45 miles north of Baghdad."  This would probably refer to Balad AB, also known as Logistics Support Area Anaconda and later as Joint Base Balad.

Since the transfer the unit's operations are said to have been shrouded in even tighter secrecy.  According to Thomas E. Ricks of The Washington Post, a new "detainee center" has indeed been established at Camp Balad, under the auspices of a new unit, the Joint Special Operations Task Force; entry is not permitted to normal Army Rangers personnel.

Prisoner abuse 
British soldiers testified that:

 Iraqi prisoners being held for prolonged periods in cells the size of large dog kennels.
 Prisoners being subjected to electric shocks.
 Prisoners being routinely hooded.
 Inmates being taken into a sound-proofed shipping container for interrogation, and emerging in a state of physical distress.

Special areas

The Black Room 
Detainees at the camp that were considered "high-value" were interrogated in "The Black Room," a dark mostly bare room with large metal hooks hanging from the ceiling.  The guards often used loud rock 'n' roll or rap music to torment prisoners during interrogations.

Motel 6 and Hotel California 
The New York Times mentions other whimsically named sections of Camp Nama, including Motel 6, "a group of securely constructed wooden holding cells constructed by the United States Navy Seabees of Charlie Company NMCB-1 Air-Det. Conditions were cramped, forcing many prisoners to squat or crouch", in a block of 6-by-8 cubicles known as Hotel California. These holding cells were constructed to hold the leaders and Individuals responsible for terrorist acts and murders.

See also 
 Task Force 121

References

Installations of the United States Army in Iraq
Military installations closed in 2004
Buildings and structures in Baghdad
Black sites
Installations of the United States Air Force in Iraq
Human rights abuses in Iraq