[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andrew Little (New Zealand politician)

earing at the Auckland High Court.

At the 2014 election he again stood and lost in the New Plymouth electorate. Young was returned with a much increased margin, but this was partially explained by boundary changes. Little was elected as list MP because of his ranking of 11 on the Labour Party list.

Little introduced a member's bill in the ballot that, if passed, would create a new criminal offence of corporate manslaughter. The Crimes (Corporate Manslaughter) Amendment Bill was drafted in the wake of the 2010 Pike River Mine disaster and the CTV Building collapse during the 2011 Christchurch earthquake. The bill is modelled on the United Kingdom's Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act 2007. At the time, Little stated the bill was needed because "the track record of prosecutions under the Health and Safety Act is that they tend to focus on lower level failures because getting the evidence and securing the conviction are easier, but personal responsibility for fatalities goes unchecked." A 2012 3News poll found that seventy-four percent of respondents would like to see a charge of corporate manslaughter introduced. The Bill was eventually transferred to the name of David Cunliffe but was not drawn before Cunliffe's retirement from Parliament in early 2017.

Little was elected Labour Party leader in November 2014 but resigned from that role on 1 August 2017, less than two months before the 2017 general election, citing the party's poor public opinion polling. He was succeeded by his deputy, Jacinda Ardern, who led the party to victory in the 2017 and 2020 general elections, both of which Little contested as a list-only candidate. He was a senior minister in the Sixth Labour Government between 2017 and 2023.

Despite contesting the 2023 general election as a list-only candidate and securing a position as a member of the 54th New Zealand Parliament, Little opted to retire from politics. In a statement, he said that he did not see himself in a future Seventh Labour Government and would instead enable a younger MP to fill the seat.

Leader of the Opposition 

Following Labour's defeat at the general election in September 2014, David Cunliffe resigned as leader of the Labour Party. Little announced his bid for the 2014 Labour Party leadership election on 9 October 2014 and was nominated by Poto Williams and Iain Lees-Galloway. He won the election, which was held on 18 November 2014, and defeated Grant Robertson, David Parker, and Nanaia Mahuta. In reporting on the election, some media focused on his trade union background. 

As Leader of the Labour Party and Leader of the Opposition, Little sought to challenge the Government with a strong alternative narrative. In a 2015 conference speech he introduced a new "Kiwi dream" theme (the New Zealand dream). In 2015 Labour introduced a new slogan, "Backing the Kiwi Dream". Little largely focused on issues and concerns such as rising house prices in urban areas, a 'brain drain', unemployment and job security and the growing wage gap between baby boomers and millennials—the "Kiwi dream" narrative was particularly designed to engage young voters.

Little appointed long-serving Labour MP Annette King as Labour's 'interim' deputy leader shortly after his election as leader. This appointment was made permanent in October 2015 after Jacinda Ardern (who had previously sought to be Robertson's deputy leader) was reportedly offered the role but turned it down. Robertson was appointed finance spokesperson and ranked third in the caucus in a bid to unify different groups within the party. For much of Little's leadership, key portfolios in the Little shadow Cabinet were held by King (health), Phil Twyford (housing), Chris Hipkins (education), Ardern (justice and children) and Carmel Sepuloni (social development). Little reshuffled his shadow cabinet in November 2015 (demoting David Cunliffe), December 2016 (after the retirements of Phil Goff and David Shearer) and March 2017 (in which Ardern was promoted to deputy leader).

Little was criticised by some for perceived poor performance in television interviews, his low profile and poor name recognition with the general public. A Dominion Post assessment said "he has little charisma and a lack of new ideas" and criticised Labour's "bare platform". He was praised by political commentators early in his leadership for uniting the party caucus and averting the infighting that characterised David Cunliffe's tenure as leader, though at the expense of dropping many of the party's former policy proposals.