[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# New World Tapestry

the final product was racist in its depiction of Native American people.   "It shamelessly perpetuates a centuries-long artistic tradition that seeks to portray Native people as subhuman, warlike savages", according to Jacqueline Pata, the executive director of National Congress of American Indians.

"What I wanted to avoid was the picture of English people coming ashore from their galleon to the New World as peaceful and quiet. It wasn’t so," Mor told The Telegraph. "It's no use pretending about it or being shocked by it. Mine is a cartoon, but it is a reality. I tell it as it is and I tell it with humour."

The Library
The New World Tapestry Library material includes histories of the years 1583–1642, much of it original research, files on the two hundred sixty four people named on the tapestry, plus heraldic information on over three hundred individuals, companies, towns, counties and universities.

Supporters
Supporters of the New World Tapestry include the Adventurers for Virginia patrons of the New World Tapestry and Library. Their names are inscribed for posterity in the Adventurers for Virginia Record Book. Supporters who join the Adventurers for Virginia may also:

 In London, celebrate the Adventurers for Virginia Day every 10 April to commemorate the granting of royal charters by James II of England to the London Company and the Plymouth Adventurers (Plymouth Company) in 1606 to establish colonies in Virginia
 Help fund the production of the book, The Jamestown, Sagadahoc and Bermuda Story, for schools and researchers.
 Help fund the production of the Yeardley/Flowerdew Brasses for presentation in England and America.
 Help make grants to the British Empire & Commonwealth Museum at Bristol Temple Meads railway station in Bristol to create the permanent exhibition of the New World Tapestry, expand and enhance the New World Tapestry Library and help the development of three-way educational research between England, the Americas and Bermuda.
 Receive a tie showing the Adventurers' badge plus a lifetime pass to view the tapestry at the museum in Bristol.

References

1980 works
Modern tapestries
Embroidery
Culture of the Americas
Arts in the United Kingdom
Embroidery in the United Kingdom
English colonization of the Americas