[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yevfimiy Putyatin

ecember 23, the major Ansei Tokai earthquake shook Japan and surroundings. A 7-meter-high tsunami destroyed much of Shimoda including Putiatin's ships, with exception of Diana, which was badly damaged and sank soon afterwards at nearby Heda. The Russian delegation now found itself stranded in Japan.

Negotiations continued, resulting in the Treaty of Shimoda on February 7, 1855, which opened the ports of Hakodate, Nagasaki and Shimoda to Russian vessels, permitted limited trading and the residence of a Russian consul, and fixed the border of Japan and Russia on the Kurile Islands between Urup and Iturup.

In the meantime, the Russian sailors and technicians worked with Japanese carpenters to build a new vessel at Heda to enable the delegation to return to Russia. The schooner Heda was launched on April 14, and Putyatin returned to a hero's welcome in St Petersburg, where he was made a Count, and appointed military governor of Kronstadt from 1856 to 1857.

In 1857, Putyatin was dispatched to China in an attempt to establish a trade agreement; however, he had only limited success after failing twice to cross the border into China by land and by sea. He returned to Japan again in the same year to sign a follow-on accord to his previous agreement. In December, he was appointed commander of the Russian Pacific squadron, and flew his flag on the paddle-wheel steam corvette America, further exploring the coast of Amur Bay. On July 12, 1858, he signed a trade agreement with China at Tianjin and allowing for the access to the interior of China by Russian missionaries. On August 7, 1858 he signed the Russo-Japanese Treaty of Friendship and Commerce in Edo, which opened more ports in Japan to Russian trade.

Later years
After his return to Russia on August 26, 1858, Putyatin was promoted to admiral and was assigned as an attaché to London. He published a book on the subject of maritime training academies, and was appointed Minister of Education on July 2, 1861. While in this position, he conducted a number of reforms, including compulsory attendance at lectures. More controversially, he decided to turn primary education over to the scope of the Russian Orthodox Church by decreeing that teachers needed to have graduated from a two-year seminary. This led to rioting at a number of cities, and Putyatin was relieved of his post on January 6, 1862. However, he was also made an honorary member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and a member of the State Council of Imperial Russia.

During his trip to London in 1845, Putyatin married Mary Knowles (1823-1879), whose father was a high-ranking naval official. They had three sons and three daughters. On the death of his wife on December 18, 1879, Putyatin left Russia for Paris. He was awarded the Order of St Andrew in May 1883, and died in Paris later that year in October.

Decorations 
 Order of St George, 4th class (1830)
 Order of St Vladimir, 3rd class (1846)
 Order of St. Stanislav, 1st class (1850)
, Order of Saint Anna, 1st class (1853)
 Order of the White Eagle (1855)
 Order of St. Alexander Nevsky (1858)
 Order of St Andrew (1883)

See also
Relations between the Empire of Japan and the Russian Empire

References

Bibliography

External links
 
Frigate Pallada in Japan and the Friendship Treaty between Japan and Russia
William McOmie, The Frigate Askold and the Opening of the Russian Foreign Settlement at Nagasaki

1803 births
1883 deaths
Explorers from the Russian Empire
Imperial Russian Navy admirals
Russian military personnel of the Crimean War
Members of the State Council (Russian Empire)
Cabinet ministers of the Russian Empire
Primorsky Krai
Recipients of the Order of Saint Stanislaus (Russian)
Russian naval attachés
Russian military personnel of the Caucasian War
Ambassadors of the Russian Empire to China
Naval Cadet Corps alumni