[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Britannia (board game)

e land.  These forces will return in later Game Rounds.
 Overpopulation Phase At the end of their turn if a nation other than the Romans has more armies than twice the number of areas held, the excess armies are removed due to overpopulation.

A nation is made up of several different playing pieces:

 Army These represent the fighting forces of the nation, as well as possessing some characteristics of population.
 Leader These have no combat strength in themselves, but increase the combat strength of all forces they are with.  Named leaders appear on various Game Rounds for specific nations throughout the game.
 Fort These represent Roman Forts.  The Romans build a fort in each area they conquer.  These fight as normal armies and may not move.  The Romans must protect their forts, as they can only score on Round V for areas that contain an undestroyed fort.  If a fort is destroyed it is turned over onto its destroyed side, to show that the Romans failed to protect that area.  Forts may not be rebuilt.
 Burh These represent Saxons fortified settlements or Burhs.  These may be built if the Saxons hold less than a set limit of areas on certain Rounds, and help the Saxons build up their strength for resisting the expansion of the Danelaw late in the game.

The player whose nations have achieved the highest Victory Point total at the end of the game is the winner.  Nations can score Victory Points on any Game Round, such as for eliminating certain opposing pieces or temporarily capturing certain areas, but will mostly score for holding different areas of Britain during the Scoring Rounds of Round V, VII, X, XIII and XVI.  Also nations can score additional points by achieving Bretwalda or King of England.  Nations all have their own Victory Point objectives listed on their Nation cards, and each player colour will accumulate Victory Points at different rates through the game.  This means that at any given moment who is actually winning will not be immediately obvious.  Experienced players develop an idea of what typical scores are at different stages of a game and so will be able to tell what is really going on.

An ideal game ends with a close finish with several players still being able to win, and the outcome resting on one battle or roll of the dice.

Development history
This game was created by Lewis Pulsipher in 1983 under the working title of Invasions.  It was first published by Gibsons Games as Britannia from 1986 in the United Kingdom in two slightly different versions after development by Roger Heyworth.  A German-language version was released by Welt der Spiele and the game was later republished in the United States by Avalon Hill.  The game developed a devoted following across the world, generating variants and additions.  One of the most popular additions was the 'Oh Danny Boy'  By Jim Lawler, which included a variant for the First Edition rules. The rules included Isle of Man (part of England) and 4 Irish areas, an extra leader 'Brian Boru' was also an option.

In 2003, after a long break from board game work and having regained the publishing rights, Lewis Pulsipher announced he would be extensively revising the game, a great deal of player input contributed to the revision, which not only tidied up the rules, but also brought in a number of new features.  Consequently, the newest version published by Fantasy Flight Games is sometimes known as Britannia Second Edition, or Britannia II.  This version was first published in 2005, and when the first print run sold out a reprint was produced in 2008, incorporating all official errata and corrections, as well as new language versions in German, French, Spanish and Hungarian. The Fantasy Flight version went out of print in mid-2012.

A new edition, including two new, shorter games (one diceless) using new boards has been developed by Pulsipher, the designer.  This was published in 2020 by PSC Games.  It includes a two-player 'Duel Britannia' game.
 
Pulsipher is said to be working on 'Epic Britannia', an extension to include the Isle of Man and six areas in Ireland. Other possible options include extra Welsh leaders and Danish Burhs.