[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Internet safety

ationships abuse, grooming and more.

Online predation
Online predation is the act of engaging an underage minor in inappropriate sexual relationships through the internet. Online predators may attempt to initiate and seduce minors into relationships through the use of chat rooms or internet forums.

Online grooming 
Online grooming usually refers to child sexual abuse but can also refer to radicalisation, drug trafficking, and financial gain. Grooming is when a stranger targets a child by befriending them and gaining their trust. Once they gain this trust, the groomer can manipulate the child to do what they want, which may include sending sexual images, running drugs, or any number of other activities.

Obscene/offensive content
Various websites on the internet content material that some deem offensive, distasteful or explicit, which may often be not of the user's liking. Such websites may include internet, shock sites, hate speech or otherwise inflammatory content. Such content may manifest in many ways, such as pop-up ads and unsuspecting links.

Sextortion
Sextortion, especially via the use of webcams, is a concern, especially for those who use webcams for flirting and cybersex. Often this involves a cybercriminal posing as someone else - such as an attractive person - initiating communication of a sexual nature with the victim. The victim is then persuaded to undress in front of a webcam, and may also be persuaded to engage in sexual behaviour, such as masturbation. The video is recorded by the cybercriminal, who then reveals their true intent and demands money or other services (such as more explicit images of the victim, in cases of online predation), threatening to publicly release the video and send it to family members and friends of the victim if they do not comply. A video highlighting the dangers of sextortion has been released by the National Crime Agency in the UK to educate people, especially given the fact that blackmail of a sexual nature may cause humiliation to a sufficient extent to cause the victim to take their own life, in addition to other efforts to educate the public on the risks of sextortion.

See also

 Control software:
Accountability software
Content control software
 Identity fraud
 Internet crime
 Internet fraud
 Internet security 
 Procurement through online dating services
 Website reputation rating tools

Groups and individuals working on the topic
 AHTCC – Australian High Tech Crime Centre
 Childnet
 Insafe
 Internet Matters
 Sonia Livingstone
 ThinkUKnow
 Tween summit
 Youth Internet Safety Survey

References

External links
 
 Types of abuse seen on the internet 

 
Crime prevention
Internet culture