[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Viktor Prokopenko

Viktor Prokopenko () (24 October 1944 – 18 August 2007) was a Ukrainian football player and coach who played for the Soviet occupational forces in GDR and Ukrainian SSR including teams of the Soviet Top League and later worked as a coach in Russia and Ukraine.

Career

Prokopenko was born in Zhdanov, Ukrainian SSR, which now known as Mariupol, Ukraine. In 1975, he graduated from the Odessa State Pedagogical Institute of Ushynsky and later the Moscow Higher School of Coaches.

Prokopenko was the first manager of the Ukraine national team since dissolution of the Soviet Union. He also authored Flexibility, Strength, Endurance, a popular book on stretching.

Prokopenko was elected to the Ukrainian parliament for the Party of Regions as no.45 on their election list in the 2006 Ukrainian parliamentary election.

Prokopenko died in Odesa after a heart attack. He was 62 years old.

Managerial statistics

Honours
Chornomorets Odesa
USSR Federation Cup: 1990
Ukrainian Cup: 1992, 1993–94

Shakhtar Donetsk
Ukrainian Cup: 2000–01

References

External links
 Viktor Prokopenko at the Official Ukraine today.
 Statistics
 

1944 births
2007 deaths
Footballers from Mariupol
1. FC Frankfurt players
FC Nyva Vinnytsia players
FC Shakhtar Donetsk players
FC Chornomorets Odesa players
FC Krystal Kherson players
Soviet expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in East Germany
Ukrainian men's footballers
Soviet men's footballers
Soviet football managers
Ukrainian football managers
Ukraine national football team managers
FC Chornomorets Odesa managers
FC Shakhtar Donetsk managers
FC Rotor Volgograd managers
FC Dynamo Moscow managers
Russian Premier League managers
Expatriate football managers in Russia
Ukrainian Premier League managers
Higher School of Coaches alumni
Independent politicians in Ukraine
Party of Regions politicians
Fifth convocation members of the Verkhovna Rada
Ukrainian expatriate football managers
Ukrainian expatriate sportspeople in Russia
Men's association football forwards
K. D. Ushinsky South Ukrainian National Pedagogical University alumni
Politicians from Mariupol