[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Government of South Korea

Since the plan was announced, 22 agencies have moved to the new government complex in Sejong.

The following agencies will settle in the Government Complex Seoul:
 Financial Services Commission ()
 Ministry of Foreign Affairs ()
 Ministry of Unification ()
 Ministry of Gender Equality and Family ()

The following agencies will settle in Seoul, but in separate locations:
 Board of Audit and Inspection () will continue to stay in Jongno-gu, Seoul.
 National Intelligence Service () will continue to stay in Seocho-gu, Seoul.
 Nuclear Safety and Security Commission () will continue to stay in Jongno-gu, Seoul.
 National Security Council () will continue to stay in Jongno-gu, Seoul.
 National Unification Advisory Council () will continue to stay in Jung-gu, Seoul.
 National Economic Advisory Council () will continue to stay in Jongno-gu, Seoul.
 Presidential Advisory Council on Science and Technology () will continue to stay in Jongno-gu, Seoul.
 Ministry of National Defense () will continue to stay in Yongsan-gu, Seoul.
 Supreme Prosecutors' Office () will continue to stay in Seocho-gu, Seoul.
 National Police Agency () will continue to stay in Seodaemun-gu, Seoul.

The following agencies will settle in Government Complex Gwacheon:
 Korea Communications Commission ()
 Ministry of Justice ()
 Defense Acquisition Program Administration ()

The following agencies will settle in Government Complex, Daejeon:
 Korea Customs Service ()
 Public Procurement Service ()
 Statistics Korea ()
 Military Manpower Administration ()
 Cultural Heritage Administration ()
 Korea Forest Service ()
 Korean Intellectual Property Office ()
 Korea Meteorological Administration ()

The following agencies will settle in Government Complex Sejong:
 Office for Government Policy Coordination, Prime Minister's Secretariat ()
 Ministry of Personnel Management ()
 Ministry of Government Legislation ()
 Fair Trade Commission ()
 Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission ()
 Ministry of Strategy and Finance ()
 Ministry of Education ()
 Ministry of Science and ICT ()
 Ministry of the Interior and Safety ()
 Ministry of Patriots and Veterans Affairs ()
 Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism ()
 Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs ()
 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy ()
 Ministry of Health and Welfare ()
 Ministry of Environment ()
 Ministry of Employment and Labor ()
 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport ()
 Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries ()
 Ministry of SMEs and Startups ()
 National Tax Service ()
 National Fire Agency ()
 Multifunctional Administrative City Construction Agency ()

The following agencies will settle in separate locations:
 Ministry of Food and Drug Safety () will continue to stay in Cheongju, North Chungcheong Province.
 Rural Development Administration () will move to Jeonju, North Jeolla Province.
 Saemangeum Development and Investment Agency () will move to Saemangeum development project area.
 Korea Coast Guard () will continue to stay in Songdo, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon Metropolitan City.

Judicial branch

The judicial branch of South Korea is organized into two groups. One is the Constitutional Court which is the highest court on adjudication of matters on constitutionality, including judicial review and constitutional review. Another is ordinary courts on matters except jurisdiction of Constitutional Court. These ordinary courts are regarding the Supreme Court as the highest court. Both the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and the President of the Constitutional Court have equivalent status as two heads of the judiciary branch in South Korea.

Elections

Elections in South Korea are held on national level to select the President and the National Assembly. South Korea has a multi-party system, with two dominant parties and numerous third parties. Elections are overseen by the Electoral Branch of the National Election Commission. The most recent presidential election was held on 9 March 2022.

The president is directly elected for a single five-year term by plurality vote. The National Assembly has 300 members elected for a four-year term, 253 in single-seat constituencies and 47 members by proportional representation. Each individual party intending to represent its policies in the National Assembly must be qualified through the assembly's general election by either: i) the national party-vote reaching over 3.00% on a proportional basis or ii) more than 5 members of their party being elected in each of their first-past-the-post election constituencies.

Local governments