[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of American politicians of Irish descent

resident of the United States; 50th Governor of Indiana
 Tom Pendergast – Kansas City Democratic machine boss
 James D. Phelan – San Francisco mayor, US Senator
 George Washington Plunkitt – Tammany Hall member
 Samantha Power – US Ambassador
 Jack Quinn – US Congressman
 John Quinn – US Congressman

 Ronald Reagan (1911–2004) – 40th President of the United States (1981–1989); 33rd Governor of California (1967–1975); father was Irish-American
 Thomas Reilly – Massachusetts Attorney General
 Daniel J. Riordan – US Congressman
 Richard Riordan – former Los Angeles mayor
 William R. Roberts – US Congressman
 John J. Rooney – US Congressman
 Jim Ryan – former Illinois Attorney General; father was Irish, mother was Italian
 Paul Ryan – US Congressman and 2012 Vice Presidential nominee; father was of Irish ancestry
 Tim Ryan – US Congressman
 William Ryan – US Congressman
 Mary Gay Scanlon – US Congresswoman from Pennsylvania
 Wilson Shannon – Ohio governor
 H. James Shea Jr. – member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives
 William F. Sheehan – Buffalo democratic machine boss
 John Sheridan – New Jersey Transportation Commissioner
 James Shields – US Senator
 Peter Joseph Shields – Superior Court Judge, Jeffersonian Democrat, for 49 years; founder of University of California at Davis, and the McGeorge Law School; son of John Shields, County Donegal, Ireland and Elizabeth Bowe, County Waterford, Ireland
 Sargent Shriver – Democratic politician
 Al Smith – New York governor, Democratic Party presidential candidate (Irish born grandparents from Westmeath; Smith identified as an Irish American)
 James Smith – signatory to the Declaration of Independence
 Peter J. Somers – Milwaukee mayor
 Brian P. Stack – Mayor of Union City, New Jersey
 Michael J. Stack – US Congressman
 Christopher D. Sullivan – US Congressman
 James Sullivan – Massachusetts governor
 Patrick Joseph Sullivan – US Senator
 Timothy Sullivan – US Congressman
 Jane Swift – first woman to serve as Massachusetts governor
 William Howard Taft – 27th President of the United States
 James Tate – first Catholic mayor of Philadelphia
 George Taylor – signatory to the Declaration of Independence
 Charles Thomson – secretary to the Continental Congress
 Matthew Thornton – signatory to the Declaration of Independence
 John F. Tierney – US Congressman
 Maurice J. Tobin – Boston mayor and Massachusetts governor
 Harry S. Truman – 33rd President of the United States
 Joseph Patrick Tumulty – attorney/secretary to Woodrow Wilson 
 John V. Tunney – US Senator
 William M. Tweed – Political boss/US Congressman
 Jimmy Walker – New York City mayor
 David I. Walsh – Massachusetts' first Catholic governor
 James T. Walsh – US Congressman
 Marty Walsh – Boston mayor
 Patrick Walsh – US Senator
 Thomas W. Ward – Austin mayor
 Thomas J. Whelan – Jersey City mayor
 Woodrow Wilson – 28th President of the United States
 William Whipple – signatory to the Declaration of Independence
 Kevin White – Boston mayor

References

Politicians
Irish descent