[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Assyrians/Syriacs in Sweden

Assyrians/Syriacs in Sweden () are citizens and residents of Sweden who are of Assyrian/Syriac  descent. There are approximately 150,000 Assyrians/Syriacs in Sweden.

Assyrians/Syriacs first came to Sweden from Syria for work in the late 1960s when Europe needed laborers for its industries. However, with increased ethnic and religious persecution in their homeland, which is located in present-day southeastern Turkey, northern Iraq, northwestern Iran and northeastern Syria, Assyrian/Syriac immigration to Sweden increased. Those who had lived in Sweden for a longer period of time were granted residency for humanitarian reasons, given the conflicts in their place of origin.

History

Early immigration (1960s-1970s)

After the Assyrian genocide of 1915, it became clear that violence against the native Christian populations were widespread. In the 1960s, it became increasingly unsafe for Assyrians/Syriacs in Midyat, the regional centre of Tur Abdin. Muslims incited violent anti-Christian protests as a response to events unfolding in Cyprus. This led to many Assyro-Syriacs not seeing a future for themselves in their ancestral homeland.

On Thursday 9 March 1967, 108 stateless Assyrians/Syriacs left Beirut airport in Lebanon en route to Sweden where they landed at Bulltofta airport outside of Malmö. After being bathed upon arrival, the Assyrians/Syriacs were transported by bus to a refugee housing complex in Alvesta in the province of Småland. Over a month later on Thursday, 13 April, a second group of 98 Assyrian/Syriac refugees arrived from Beirut. The reason behind the initial immigration of Assyrians/Syriacs to Sweden was the introduction of a quota of 200 Christians from Lebanon that were to be accepted by the Swedish Public Employment Service after coordination with the World Council of Churches and the United Nation High Commissioner for Refugees. A group of Swedish public officials visited Beirut where a selection of mostly young families from Turkey that were members of the Syriac Orthodox Church, as well as Protestants and members of the Assyrian Church of the East were accepted to immigrate to Sweden.

Assyrians/Syriacs of Södertälje were involved in a riot on 19 June 1977, when raggare (greasers), mainly coming from nearby Stockholm attacked them at Restaurant Bristol in Södertälje, at the time the attack being believed that it was racially motivated. This was part of the raggare-scare that existed during those times. Mass media added fuel to the riots with headlines about "race riots" and "Södertälje - a city gripped by fear". It was said that the greasers' aversion towards the Assyrians/Syriacs was because the latter taking up too much space, talking loudly, walking around well-dressed and wearing gold chains. There were also rumours about the Assyrians taking over the city.

Demographics

Södertälje is seen as the unofficial Assyrian/Syriac capital of Europe due to the city's high percentage of Assyrians/Syriacs. According to Assyrian/Syriac organization estimates, there are approximately 150,000 Assyrians/Syriacs in Sweden. The Syriac Orthodox Christians number an estimated 30,000–40,000 people (2016), while higher estimations is 70–80,000, out of which an estimated 18,000 live in Södertälje.

According to Statistics Sweden, as of 2016, there 22,663 are citizens of Iraq (12,705 men, 9,958 women) and 116,384 citizens of Syria (70,060 men, 46,324 women) residing in Sweden.

Culture

Identity
There is an ideological division of this group in Sweden between
Assyrier: Mostly adherents of the Syriac Orthodox Church, Assyrian Church of the East, Chaldean Catholic Church and various Protestant churches, hailing from south eastern Turkey, north eastern Syria, northern Iraq, western Iran and Lebanon, who de-emphasize religious adherence in favour of ethnicity pre-Christian antiquity, who insist on the name Assyrier, with an Assyrian-Mesopotamian heritage and Assyrian identity for the group.
Syrianer: Largely adherents of the Syriac Orthodox Church hailing largely from Lebanon, north eastern Syria and south eastern Turkey, who insist on the name Syrianer, and often an "Aramean" heritage for the group.
To account for this division, official Swedish sources refer to the group as "Assyrier/Syrianer", with a slash (similar to the US census, which opted for "Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac").

Organisations