[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# History of the Dunedin urban area

sented liquor interests in Parliament, and was an opponent of Women's suffrage in 1890–1893 on their behalf. He paid his anti-suffragist campaigners a bounty for signatures collected, but lost credibility when some signatures were found to be fraudulent.

Fighting the relative decline (early 1900s) 

 
Relative to the rest of the country Dunedin was in decline, however, merchants like Edward Theomin built his grand town house Olveston and the Dunedin Railway Station was an opulent building, both completed in 1906. Reed publishing was founded in Dunedin in 1907. New Zealand's first radio was built in 1902 by J.L. Passmore a Dunedin teenager, who later managed a 10 km broadcast. Dunedin's Waipori hydroelectric plant started producing electricity in 1907 and in 1948 became the first remote-controlled power station in the Southern Hemisphere. The first municipal restrooms in Dunedin were only built in 1927. More companies and institutions were founded in these years, the Dunedin Public Art Gallery in 1884, the Otago Settlers Museum in 1898 and the Hocken Collections in 1910, all first of their types in New Zealand. But Dunedin was no longer the biggest city.

Determined to defeat the demographic gravity of the North Island and demonstrate their importance to the country, Otago and Dunedin sent proportionately more personnel to the First World War than the other New Zealand districts and the losses were proportionately greater (with 1831 men killed). The Anglican Cathedral, St. Paul's started in 1915 and consecrated in 1919 was the last great Gothic Revival building, and remains uncompleted. In another act of demographic defiance the 1925 New Zealand and South Seas Exhibition was staged at Logan Park to coincide with the five yearly census. 3.3 million people visited, more than attended any New Zealand exhibition before or since. The tramways' profits paid for a new town hall, still New Zealand's largest. But population growth continued to slow.

The first car owned by someone living in Dunedin was steam powered 1901 and delivery van 1904 (horses are largely phased out by the 1930s). In 1913, after public polling the road to Portobello was opened to motor ventricles, originally being closed to them due to safety concerns.

In January 1907 the sewerage pipe outfall into the harbour was improved to discharge at different tide levels. The Musselburgh pumping station was set up in 1908 and a pump installed in 1911 for more suction. The sewage was then moved to Lawyers Head and then extended off the coast at St Kilda beach.

This was a fertile period in the visual arts. William Mathew Hodgkins, the 'father of art in New Zealand' - according to his daughter Frances Hodgkins - certainly presided over a vital scene. From the interlocking circles of Turneresque Romantic landscape painters and younger impressionistic practitioners, G.P. Nerli helped to launch Frances Hodgkins on her career as New Zealand's most distinguished expatriate artist.

In this time too people started to notice Dunedin's mellowing, the aging of its grand old buildings, with writers like E.H. McCormick pointing out its atmospheric charm. R.N. Field at the art school inspired young students to break from tradition with M.T. (Toss) Woollaston, Doris Lusk, Anne Hamblett, Colin McCahon and Patrick Hayman forming the first cell of indigenous Modernism. The Second World War saw the dispersal of these painters, but not before McCahon had met a very youthful poet, James K. Baxter, in a central city studio.

The Great War 
Otago and Southland volunteers for the First World War gathered and trained at Tahuna Park in 1914. They were then deployed as the Otago Infantry Regiment and Otago Mounted Rifles Regiment to Gallipoli and the Western front. Otago University helped train medical personnel as part of the Otago University Medical Corps. They supplied or trained most of the New Zealand Armies doctors and dentists. After the war the returning servicemen were given support but found women doing many jobs that had previously been reserved for them. The Spanish flu struck Otago at a similar time September to November in 1918.

Images of the city of Dunedin in 1925

The flood of 1929 
Central Dunedin was heavily inundated with water twice during the 1920s, in 1923 and then in March 1929. The 1929 flood remains Dunedin's worst-ever flood. It was caused by the 1929 New Zealand cyclone, an ex-tropical cyclone which had earlier caused damage to parts of the Bay of Plenty. Heavy rainfall occurred from Christchurch to Balclutha, with Dunedin bearing much of the brunt of the storm. Several bridges were washed out along the Water of Leith, and much of the city was flooded, with over 500 houses damaged from North East Valley to Caversham. In the aftermath of the storm, flood prevention work was installed along much of the lower reach of the Leith, including weirs and concrete channels.

The Great Depression and world war