[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Arabs

mbination of political, economic, and social grievances and called for democratic reforms and an end to authoritarian rule. While the protests resulted in the downfall of some long-time authoritarian leaders, they also led to ongoing conflicts and political instability in other countries.

Identity 

Arab identity is defined independently of religious identity, and pre-dates the spread of Islam, with historically attested Arab Christian kingdoms and Arab Jewish tribes. Today, however, most Arabs are Muslim, with a minority adhering to other faiths, largely Christianity, but also Druze and Baháʼí. Paternal descent has traditionally been considered the main source of affiliation in the Arab world when it comes to membership into an ethnic group or clan.

Arab identity is shaped by a range of factors, including ancestry, history, language, customs, and traditions. Arab identity has been shaped by a rich history that includes the rise and fall of empires, colonization, and political turmoil. Despite the challenges faced by Arab communities, their shared cultural heritage has helped to maintain a sense of unity and pride in their identity. Today, Arab identity continues to evolve as Arab communities navigate complex political, social, and economic landscapes. Despite this, the Arab identity remains an important aspect of the cultural and historical fabric of the Arab world, and continues to be celebrated and preserved by communities around the world.

Subgroups 

Arab tribes are prevalent in the Arabian Peninsula, Mesopotamia, Levant, Egypt, Maghreb, the Sudan region and Horn Africa.

The Arabs of the Levant are traditionally divided into Qays and Yaman tribes. The distinction between Qays and Yaman dates back to the pre-Islamic era and was based on tribal affiliations and geographic locations.; they include Banu Kalb, Kinda, Ghassanids, and Lakhmids. The Qays were made up of tribes such as Banu Kilab, Banu Tayy, Banu Hanifa, and Banu Tamim, among others. The Yaman, on the other hand, were composed of tribes such as Banu Hashim, Banu Makhzum, Banu Umayya, and Banu Zuhra, among others.

Most notable Arab tribes of Mesopotamia (Iraq) are Banu Khuza'ah, Shammar, Al-Dulaimi, Al-Jubouri, Al-Aniza, Al-Asadi, Al-Ali, Al-Duraji, Bani Hasan, Al-Khazraj, Banu Lam, Bani Malik, Al-Muntafiq, Al-Bu Nasir, Al-Dhafeer, Al-Musawi, Al-Ubaid, Otaibah, Al-Zubaidi, Mutair, Banu Tamim, Banu Kilab, Banu Asad and as well in Iran began well before the Arab conquest of Persia in 633 CE. The largest group of Iranian Arabs are the Ahwazi Arabs, including Banu Ka'b, Bani Turuf and the Musha'sha'iyyah sect. Smaller groups are the Khamseh nomads in Fars Province and the Arabs in Khorasan.

As a result of the centuries-long Arab migration to the Maghreb, several Arab tribes (including Banu Hilal, Banu Sulaym and Maqil) settled in the Maghreb and formed the sub-tribes which exist to present-day. The most notable Arab tribes of Morocco include Abda, Ahl Rachida, Azwafit, Banu Ma'qil, Banu Tamim, Beni Ahsen, Beni Amir, Beni Guil, Beni Ḥassān, Banu Hilal, Beni Khirane, Beni Mathar, Beni Moussa, Banu Sulaym, Beni Zemmour, Chaouia, Doukkala, Hyayna, Khlout, Mzab, Oulad Delim, Oulad Tidrarin, Oulad Zyan, Rahamna, Sless, Zaër, Zughba, Zyayda. The Banu Hilal spent almost a century in Egypt before moving to Libya, Tunisia and Algeria, and another century later moved to Morocco. The most well known Arab tribes of Algeria are Chaamba, Dhouaouda, Doui-Menia, Ghenanma, Beni Hassan, Ouled Djerir, Awlad Sidi Shaykh, Banu Tamim, Thaaliba, Ouled Nail, Beni Amer, Hamyan, Riyah, Zughba, Athbaj, Ahl Ben Ali, Banu Suwayd, Awlad Sidi Yahya, Mirdas and Banu Latif.

Most notable Arab tribes of Sudan are Ababda, Artega, Awadia, Awlad Himayd, Batahin, Bedaria, Beni Halba, Dubasiyin, Fadnia, Fezara, Gawamaa, Gimma, Habbaniya, Hasania, Hawazma, Humr, Husseinat, Ja'alin, Kababish, Kawahla, Maalia, Mahamid, Manasir, Messiria, Rashaida, Rizeigat, Rubatab, Rufa'a, Selim, Shaigiya, Shukria, Ta’isha.

According to Arab traditions, tribes are divided into different divisions called Arab skulls, which are described in the traditional custom of strength, abundance, victory, and honor. A number of them branched out, which later became independent tribes (sub-tribes). The majority of Arab tribes are descended from these major tribes.

They are:

 Bakr, has descendants in Arabia and Iraq.
 Kinanah, has descendants in Arabia, Iraq, Egypt, Sudan, Palestine, Tunisia, Morocco, and Syria.
 Hawazin, has descendants in Arabia, Libya, Algeria, Morocco, Sudan, and Iraq.
 Tamim, has descendants in Arabia, Iraq, Iran, Palestine, Algeria, and Morocco
 Azd, has descendants in Arabia, Iraq, Levant, and North Africa.
 Ghatafan, has descendants in Arabia and the Maghreb.
 Madhhij, has descendants in Arabia and Iraq.
 Abd al-Qays, has descendants in Arabia.
 Al Qays (القيس), has descendants in Arabia.
 Quda'a, has descendants in Arabia, Syria, and North Africa.

Geographic distribution