[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 26]
# Politics — Aristotle

pleased. And upon the same principle there are laws
which forbid men to sell their property, as among the Locrians, unless
they can prove that some notorious misfortune has befallen them. They
were also to preserve their ancient patrimony, which custom being broken
through by the Leucadians, made their government too democratic; for
by that means it was no longer necessary to be possessed of a certain
fortune to be qualified to be a magistrate. But if an equality of goods
is established, this may be either too much, when it enables the people
to live luxuriously, or too little, when it obliges them to live
hard. Hence it is evident, that it is not proper for the legislator
to establish an equality of circumstances, but to fix a proper medium.
Besides, if any one should regulate the division of property in such a
manner that there should be a moderate sufficiency for all, it would
be of no use; for it is of more consequence that the citizen should
entertain a similarity of sentiments than an equality of circumstances;
but this can never be attained unless they are properly educated under
the direction of the law. But probably Phaleas may say, that this in
what he himself mentions; for he both proposes a equality of property
and one plan of education in his city. But he should have said
particularly what education he intended, nor is it of any service to
have this to much one; for this education may be one, and yet such as
will make the citizens over-greedy, to grasp after honours, or riches,
or both. Besides, not only an inequality of possessions, but also
of honours, will occasion [1267a] seditions, but this upon contrary
grounds; for the vulgar will be seditious if there be an inequality of
goods, by those of more elevated sentiments, if there is an equality of
honours.

  "When good and bad do equal honours share."

For men are not guilty of crimes for necessaries only (for which he
thinks an equality of goods would be a sufficient remedy, as they would
then have no occasion to steal cold or hunger), but that they may enjoy
what they desire, and not wish for it in vain; for if their desire extend
beyond the common necessaries of life, they were be wicked to gratify
them; and not only so, but if their wishes point that way, they will do
the same to enjoy those pleasures which are free from the alloy of pain.
What remedy then shall we find for these three disorders? And first,
to prevent stealing from necessity, let every one be supplied with a
moderate subsistence, which may make the addition of his own industry
necessary; second to prevent stealing to procure the luxuries of life,
temperance be enjoined; and thirdly, let those who wish for pleasure in
itself seek for it only in philosophy, all others want the assistance of
men.

Since then men are guilty of the greatest crimes from ambition, and not
from necessity, no one, for instance aims at being a tyrant to keep him
from the cold, hence great honour is due to him who kills not a thief,
but tyrant; so that polity which Phaleas establishes would only be
salutary to prevent little crimes. He has also been very desirous to
establish such rules as will conduce to perfect the internal policy of
his state, and he ought also to have done the same with respect to
its neighbours and all foreign nations; for the considerations of the
military establishment should take place in planning every government,
that it may not be unprovided in case of a war, of which he has said
nothing; so also with respect to property, it ought not only to be
adapted to the exigencies of the state, but also to such dangers as may
arise from without.

Thus it should not be so much as to tempt those who are near, and more
powerful to invade it, while those who possess it are not able to drive
out the invaders, nor so little as that the state should not be able to
go to war with those who are quite equal to itself, and of this he has
determined nothing; it must indeed be allowed that it is advantageous to
a community to be rather rich than poor; probably the proper boundary is
this, not to possess enough to make it worth while for a more powerful
neighbour to attack you, any more than he would those who had not so
much as yourself; thus when Autophradatus proposed to besiege Atarneus,
Eubulus advised him to consider what time it would require to take the
city, and then would have him determine whether it would answer, for
that he should choose, if it would even take less than he proposed,
to quit the place; his saying this made Autophradatus reflect upon the
business and give over the siege. There is, indeed, some advantage in an
equality of goods amongst the citizens to prevent seditions; and yet,
to say truth, no very great one; for men of great abilities will stomach
their being put upon a level with the rest of the community. For
which reason they will very often appear ready for every commotion and
sedition