[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Električni Orgazam

hat Singing Over There). Električni Orgazam was also one of the first Serbian bands to perform in Ljubljana after the independence of Slovenia on early 1991, with the band Majke from Vinkovci, also playing in Maribor, Koper and Hum. At the time, the band often performed in the Republic of Macedonia.

The double album Zašto da ne! (Why Not!), featuring a stylistic combination of Lišće prekriva Lisabon and Distorzija combined with the 1990s musical trends, was recorded with guitarist Dejan Radisavljević "Role", a former Revolveri member, keyboard player Zoran Zagorčić, a former Du-Du-A member, and Srđan Todorović as the second drummer. As guests on the album appeared Zoran Kostić "Cane" (vocals), politician Nenad Čanak (flute), Nenad Racković (backing vocals), and Neša Petrović (saxophone). The acoustically oriented song sections for the album were composed by Petrović, who co-written the song "Dajem ljubav" ("I Give Love") with Zagorčić. By Gojković's idea, the album cover was designed by Džukele guitarist Leonid Pilipović, expanding it with a short comic-book.

After the album release, Čavajda left the band, completely devoting himself to the band Babe, formed in 1992, and was replaced by the former Pasta ZZ and Partibrejkers member Vlada Funtek.

Lineup changes, comeback releases (1995–2003) 
In early 1995, the band celebrated their fifteenth anniversary at the Belgrade club Prostor, and, in July, performed at the London club The Bottom Line. The recordings from the performance were used by Marina Vulić, who lived in London since 1985, working as video producer, for the release of a promotional video. On 17 April 1996 the band performed an unplugged concert at the Novi Sad Studio M, featuring the band introduction by Zdenko Kolar, and guest appearances by Margita Stefanović (piano, Farfisa organ), Boris Bunjac (percussion), and Deže Molnar (saxophone). The album, recorded with the new drummer Miloš Velimir "Buca", featured a cover version of the Korni Grupa song "Magična ruka" ("Magic Hand").

Beside working with Električni Orgazam, Gojković played in the Vlada Divljan Old Stars Band, producing their live album Odbrana i zaštita (Defence And Protection), and performed on their studio album Sve laži sveta (All The Lies of the World), released by Automatik Records in 2000. Founding the Yellow Dog records, Gojković re-released most of the Električni Orgazam releases on compact disc, featuring bonus material. The debut album featured the three songs from Paket aranžman, Lišće prekriva Lisabon featured the "Dokolica" dub version, Kako bubanj kaže featured "Tetovirane devojke" ("Tattooed Girls"), the title track single B-side, and the previously unreleased "Slatka mala devojčica" ("Sweet Little Girl"), Seks, droga, nasilje i strah / Balkan Horror Rock and Balkan Horror Rock II were released as a single CD, featuring the bonus track "Hodam sad kao zombi", a cover of the Roky Erickson "I Walked with a Zombie" with Gojković on lead vocals, and the live EP Warszava '81 was expanded with ten live recordings from the Polish tour.

On 10 July 1998 the band, in the lineup Gojković, Petrović, bassist Zdenko Kolar, and drummer Ivan Ranković "Raka", a former Tvrdo Srce i Velike Uši and Ekatarina Velika member, guest starred the concert featuring bands from former Yugoslav republics. The following year, the band recorded the comeback CD A um bum (A 'oom Boom), featuring guest appearances by numerous rock veterans, Kornelije Kovač, Branko Marušić "Čutura", Bata Kostić, and the younger musicians, keyboard player Slobodan Misailović and drummers Ivan Ranković and Srđan Todorović. The cataclysmic drawings on the album cover were done by Gojković, and the album featured the Dylanesque acoustic rock sound. Lead vocals for the tracks "Gde da nađem takvu devojku" ("Where Would I Find Such A Girl"), and "Ja nisam znao neke stvari" ("I Did Not Know Some Things") were done by Petrović.

In May 2000, the band performed at the Zagreb club Tvornica, and the KSET performance was canceled due to the arrest of Gojković by the police which found 0,22 grams of heroin in his possession. The media gave much attention to the affair, and Gojković was released after a night in prison, where the police officers asked for autographs and taking pictures with him, with a fee of 250 Deutsche Marks.