[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iceland in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006

conference on 13 December 2005, while their artists were revealed on 16, 17 and 20 January 2006. Among the competing artists were previous Icelandic Eurovision entrants Gunnar Ólason, who represented Iceland in 2001 as part of Two Tricky, and Birgitta Haukdal, who represented Iceland in 2003.

Shows

Semi-finals
The three semi-finals took place on 21 January, 28 January and 4 February 2006. In each semi-final eight acts presented their entries, and the top four entries voted upon solely by public televoting proceeded to the final. "Sést það ekki á mér?" performed by Matthías Matthíasson and "Flottur karl, Sæmi rokk" performed by Magni Ásgeirsson were awarded the jury wildcards and also proceeded to the final. "Til hamingju Ísland" performed by Silvía Nótt directly qualified to compete in the final due to online leaks of the song prior to the competition, but still performed in the third semi-final.

Final
The final took place on 18 February 2006 where the fifteen entries that qualified from the preceding three semi-finals competed. The winner, "Til hamingju Ísland" performed Silvía Nótt, was determined solely by televoting. In addition to the performances of the competing artists, the interval acts featured guest performances by 1985 Eurovision Song Contest winner Bobbysocks!, who won for Norway with the song "La det swinge", and 1997 Icelandic Eurovision entrant Páll Óskar.

At Eurovision
According to Eurovision rules, all nations with the exceptions of the host country, the "Big Four" (France, Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom) and the ten highest placed finishers in the 2005 contest are required to qualify from the semi-final in order to compete for the final; the top ten countries from the semi-final progress to the final. On 21 March 2006, a special allocation draw was held which determined the running order for the semi-final, to be held on 18 May 2006, and the final, to be held on 20 May 2006. Iceland was drawn to perform last in position 23, following the entry from Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 30 April 2006, it was announced that "Til hamingju Ísland" would be performed in English at the Eurovision Song Contest and would be titled "Congratulations". At the end of the semi-final, Iceland was not announced among the top 10 entries in the semi-final and therefore failed to qualify to compete in the final. Silvía Night was also booed off the stage following her performance. It was later revealed that the Iceland placed thirteenth in the semi-final, receiving a total of 62 points.

The semi-final and the final were broadcast in Iceland on RÚV with commentary by Sigmar Guðmundsson. The Icelandic spokesperson, who announced the Icelandic votes during the final, was Ragnhildur Steinunn Jónsdóttir.

Voting 
Below is a breakdown of points awarded to Iceland and awarded by Iceland in the semi-final and grand final of the contest. The nation awarded its 12 points to Finland in the semi-final and the final of the contest.

Points awarded to Iceland

Points awarded by Iceland

Controversy 
Silvía Night's participation in the Eurovision Song Contest brought with it several moments of controversy, particularly over the lyrics of the English version of the song. The European Broadcasting Union (EBU) threatened to disqualify the entry due to the line "the vote is in, I'll fucking win" being used in the song. The contest's Executive supervisor Svante Stockselius formally informed the Icelandic delegation that the lyrics as written were in violation of the rules, however Silvía claimed at her press conferences that she would "fucking say what I fucking want". One set of lyrics published online featured the line "they say I win", prior to the formal objection being lodged.

Over the course of the rehearsals, Silvía continued to perform the lyrics as originally written. Her second dress rehearsal also featured abuse of the floor manager, whom she called a "fucking retard". Eventually however the swear word was dropped for the live performance during the semi-final, with the line replaced by "the vote is in, I'll freaking win".

Commentary both before and after Silvía's performance stressed the fact that she was a television character, rather than a real person. Her entire appearance, therefore, was in fact something of a joke at the expense of the contest – something Silvía herself picked up on when arguing at a press conference that people intending to enter the contest as a joke should not do so.

References

2006
Countries in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006
Eurovision