[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Campaign for Fiscal Equity

sing funding for New York City and other high-need districts by over $7 billion per year, over a four-year phase-in period. The state largely complied for the first two years, but after the Great Recession of 2008, the state first froze further increases and then substantially cut education funding.

, New York State had still not provided New York City and other districts throughout the state with all the funds promised  under the foundation aid formula adopted as a result of the suit. Despite increases over the years that have offset some of the substantial cuts that occurred after the 2008 recession, the State still was short about  $4.5 billion in meeting its full funding obligations under the foundation aid formula that is still on the statute books, although its requirements had not been followed in recent years. In 2014, a statewide Coalition of major statewide education groups and advocacy groups filed New Yorkers for Students Educational Rights (NYSER) v. State of New York. The plaintiffs, represented by Michael Rebell and the Morgan, Lewis and Bokius  sought full statewide funding of the foundation aid forumula  and to ensure that all students in New York City and other districts are provided the "meaningful opportunity for a sound basic education" guaranteed by Art. 12, section 1 of the New York State Constitution and the ruling of the Court of Appeals in the CFE case. In 2021, the NYSER suit was tentatively settled, based on the state's commitment to fully fund the remaining obligations of the foundation formula over the next three years, with  the stipulation that if the amount was not fully paid out by the 2023–2024 school  year, the lawsuit would promptly be reinstated. As of the 2022–2023 school year, the state had fully met its commitments for the first two years of the three year pledge.

See also
 Education in New York City
 Michael Rebell
 Robert Jackson (NYC)
 Geri Palast

References

External links
 Official website of the CFE as part of the Alliance for Quality Education
 

Education in New York City
City of New York litigation