[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# San Francisco in popular culture

ncisco native Jerry Garcia, and San Fierro's City Hall closely resembles San Francisco's ornate City hall.

In Destroy All Humans! 2, the first level is in Bay City, a parody of San Francisco featuring the Coit Tower, Alcatraz (called 'The Rock') and Hashbury Street, as well as the Golden Gate Park.

Resistance 2 for the PlayStation 3 based its first level on the edge of San Francisco in an underwater secret base belonging to SRPA. A memorable moment was when Nathan Hale steps outside to see the Chimeran fleet hovering over a destroyed San Francisco with the Oakland Bay Bridge in flames.

Call of Duty: Black Ops II features the "Raid" multiplayer map in California, along with the zombies map "MOB of the Dead," set in and around the Alcatraz Prison, seemingly infested by the undead.

Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare features the Golden Gate Bridge in the mission "Collapse".

Mario Kart 8 for the Wii U features a race course named Toad Harbor, which is heavily based on San Francisco.

Watch Dogs 2 is based in San Francisco and the surrounding Bay Area.

In Sonic Adventure 2, the first level is City Escape, which is based on San Francisco. This level also reappears in Sonic Generations.

San Francisco is an explorable city in American Truck Simulator.

Mostly in ruins and barely recognizable, San Francisco is partially shown in Horizon: Forbidden West.

Advertising
 Rice-a-Roni: The famous jingle touted the product as the "San Francisco treat".
 Levi Strauss & Co.: Stamps its buttons SF CA on its button-fly jeans. In 2005, they started to print "San Francisco" on the Dockers trademarked logo.
 IT'S-IT Ice Cream: Produced in San Francisco since 1928.
 Transamerica Corporation: Utilizes its prominent San Francisco building in its company logo.

See also
Alcatraz Island in popular culture
Hollywood North
Golden Gate Bridge in popular culture
List of San Francisco Bay Area writers

References

External links
 San Francisco Filming Locations in IMDb
 San Francisco Movie Locations interactive map (Nov. 2020) by ABC7News

 
popular culture
American cities in popular culture