[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Benoît Cheyrou

p for the third straight season reaching the group stage where they finished a disappointing 4th place in their group. Auxerre also finished out of Europe in the league standings, which prompted an exodus of players looking to continue playing in UEFA competitions, which included Cheyrou.

Marseille

Following the 2006–07 season, Marseille sporting director José Anigo sought Cheyrou's services after stating he was impressed with the player's performances during the season. On 21 June 2007, after weeks of discussion, Marseille reached an agreement with Auxerre for the transfer of Cheyrou with the player agreeing to a four-year deal and the southern coast club playing Auxerre €5 million for his services. Cheyrou was presented along with new recruits Gaël Givet and Laurent Bonnart and was assigned the number 7 shirt. Cheyrou made his club debut for the team on 4 August 2007 in a 0–0 draw with Strasbourg. Cheyrou formed an amazing three-way midfield partnership with fellow Frenchman Samir Nasri and the rugged Albanian Lorik Cana. Cheyrou scored two league goals with both coming in draws against Bordeaux and Lens. Marseille finished in 3rd position after falling behind Lyon and Bordeaux during the latter part of the season. Cheyrou was named to the league's Team of the Year for his performances. He also featured in his first-ever UEFA Champions League and impressed playing the entire match in Marseille's upset victory over English club Liverpool at Anfield. Unfortunately, the club finished third in the group, which meant a return to the UEFA Cup for Cheyrou. In the competition, Marseille reached the Round of 16 before shockingly suffering elimination to Russian club Zenit Saint Petersburg despite being up 3–1 heading into the match at Petrovsky Stadium. Cheyrou scored his only goal in the competition in the team's previous round 3–0 first leg win over Spartak Moscow.

The 2008–09 season was arguably Cheyrou's best season of his career. He appeared in 34 league matches scoring three goals and also providing seven assists. His positive play and the team as a whole led to Marseille finishing in 2nd-place position only falling to champions Bordeaux by three points. Cheyrou's score his first two goals on the season in back-to-back weeks against Saint-Étienne and Grenoble. On 26 April 2009, Cheyrou scored the equalizing goal in Marseille's 2–1 come from behind victory over rivals Lille. He followed up his performance in the Lille match by assisting on two goals in Marseille's 4–0 thumping of Rennes on the final match day of the season. Had Bordeaux lost their match on the final day, Marseille would have been crowned champions. For his performances, Cheyrou was named to the Team of the Year for the second straight season. In Europe, Cheyrou scored a vital away goal in Marseille's 1–0 first leg qualifying round victory over Norwegian club Brann. In the group stage, Marseille again finished third and played in the UEFA Cup, where the club reached the quarterfinals. In the Round of 32, Marseille advanced 7–6 on penalties with Cheyrou converting his penalty shot. In the following round, Cheyrou scored Marseille's opening goal in their 2–1 first leg win over Ajax. The team later advanced to the quarterfinals after a late extra time goal from Tyrone Mears in the second leg. The team were later eliminated by Ukrainian club Shakhtar Donetsk.

Toronto FC
It was confirmed on 29 January 2015 that Benoît had signed a contract with Major League Soccer club Toronto FC.

On 30 November 2016, Benoît scored the game-winning goal in extra-time for Toronto FC, a minute after coming on as a substitution for the injured Sebastian Giovinco in the second leg of the MLS Eastern Conference Final over Montreal Impact, sending Toronto FC to the MLS Cup Final with an eventual 7–5 aggregate win. In the final, held on 10 December at BMO Field, Toronto were defeated 5–4 on penalties by Seattle Sounders, following a 0–0 draw after extra time, although Cheyrou was able to net his spot kick in the shoot-out.

On 9 December 2017, Cheyrou came on for Marky Delgado as an injury time substitute in the 2017 MLS Cup Final – a rematch of the previous year's final – against Seattle, at BMO Field once again; Toronto won the match 2–0 to capture an unprecedented domestic treble of the MLS Cup, the Supporters' Shield, and the Canadian Championship.

Coaching career
Following a 19-season career, Cheyrou officially announced his retirement from professional football on 21 December 2017, at the age of 36, weeks after winning the MLS Cup with Toronto FC. He stated that he will remain with the Toronto organization, working as a coach with the TFC Academy. On 21 August 2018, Cheyrou left Toronto to return to his native France.

On 7 February 2019, Cheyrou joined French amateur club La Salesienne de Paris as the assistant manager.

Career statistics

Honours
Lille
Division 2: 1999–2000

Auxerre
Coupe de France: 2004–05