[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dutch–Indonesian Round Table Conference

the Indonesian side came to realise that agreeing to pay part of the Dutch debt would be the price they would have to pay for the transfer of sovereignty. On 24 October, the Indonesian delegations agreed that Indonesia would take over approximately ƒ4.5 billion of Dutch East Indies government debt.

The issue of the inclusion or not of Western New Guinea almost resulted in the talks becoming deadlocked. The Indonesian delegations took the view that Indonesia should comprise the entire territory of Dutch East Indies. The Dutch refused to compromise, claiming Western New Guinea had no ethnic ties with the rest of the archipelago. Despite Dutch public opinion supporting transfer of Western New Guinea to Indonesia, the Dutch cabinet was worried it would not be able to ratify the Round Table Agreement in parliament if it conceded this point.

Finally, in the early hours of 1 November 1949, a compromise was reached: the status of Western New Guinea would be determined through negotiations between the United States of Indonesia and the Netherlands within a year of the transfer of sovereignty. The conference was officially closed in the Dutch parliament building on 2 November.

Aftermath
The Dutch parliament debated the agreement, and the upper and lower houses ratified it on 21 December 1949 by the two-thirds majority needed. Despite criticism in particular of the Indonesian assumption of Dutch government debt and the unresolved status of Western New Guinea, the Indonesian legislature, the Central Indonesian National Committee, ratified the agreement on 14 December. Sovereignty was transferred to the United States of Indonesia on 27 December.

 The Kingdom of the Netherlands unconditionally and irrevocably transfers complete sovereignty over Indonesia to the Republic of the United States of Indonesia, and thus recognises the Republic of the United States of Indonesia as an independent and sovereign Nation.
 The Republic of the United States of Indonesia accepts this sovereignty based on the provisions of its Constitution; the Kingdom of the Netherlands has been notified of this proposed constitution.

The unresolved status of Western New Guinea would lead to the 12-year dispute. Political parties in Netherlands considered Indonesia dissolving the United States of Indonesia in 1950 into the original Republic of Indonesia as a pretense to not negotiate further on status of New Guinea which was promised to be completed in 1950, voiding the Round Table Agreement, according to the Indonesian side. In response, Indonesia nationalized Dutch companies and assets, and stopped paying the above-mentioned debt.  By around 1956, the remaining (not-recognized) debt of Indonesia was around ƒ600 million. This means that in the period of 1950-1956 ƒ3.8 billion had already been paid. After the conflict was resolved in 1962, Indonesia restarted payment of around ƒ.620 million. By 1965, 36 installments of unknown amounts had been made. The remainder was paid from 1976 in 30 installments with 1% annual interest rate until the last payment was made in 2002.

Notes

References

Sources

 
 
 
 
 
 

20th century in The Hague
1949 conferences
1949 in Indonesia
1949 in international relations
1949 in the Dutch East Indies
1949 in the Netherlands
Diplomatic conferences in the Netherlands
Events in The Hague
Indonesian National Revolution
Indonesia–Netherlands relations
International conferences in the Netherlands