[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sirkazhi

endent of Police. There is a police station in the town. There are special units like prohibition enforcement, district crime, social justice and human rights, district crime records and special branch that operate at the district level police division, headed by a Superintendent of Police.

Culture

The Bhramapureeswarar temple, also called Sattainathar temple, is an ancient temple complex dedicated to Shiva, and has three Shiva shrines. The temple is mentioned in the Saiva canonical work, Tevaram, by Thirugnana Sambanthar, Tirunavukkarasar and Sundarar, the foremost Saivite saints of 7th–8th century CE and is classified as Paadal Petra Sthalam. There is a separate shrine for Sambandar celebrating the miracle of Parvathi suckling the child Sambandar when he was crying for milk. Shiva is worshipped in three different forms; the Shivalingam (Bhrammapureeswarar), Uma Maheswarar (Toniappar) at the middle level, and Bhairavar (Sattanathar) at the upper level. The original temple was enlarged during the period of Kulothunga Chola I, Vikrama Chola, Kulothunga Chola II and Kulothunga Chola III (as in Chidambaram – 11th through the 13th centuries). Every year in the Tamil month of Chithirai (April – May), a 10-day festival is celebrated.

Kazheesirama Vinnagaram temple, also called Thadalan Koil, is dedicated to Vishnu in the form of Trivikrama.  Sirkazhi is base to the outlying places like Poompuhar, and the temples Thirusaikkadu, Thiruppallavaneeswaram, Melapperumpallam, Keezhaperumpallam, Thiruvengadu and Thirunangur. Thirukkavalampadi, Thiruvanpurushothamam, Thiruarimeya Vinnagaram, Thiruchsemponsey, Thirumanimadam, Thiruvaikunda vinnagaram, Thiruthevanartthogai, Thiruthetriyambalam, Thirumanikkoodam, Annan Koil and Thiruppaarththanpalli are eleven Vishnu temples, called Nangur Divya Desams revered in Nalayira Divya Prabandham, located in the outskirts of Sirkazhi. The annual Garudasevai festival held during January attracts thousands of pilgrims.

Tamil Isai Moovar (meaning Tamil trinity of Carnatic music) namely, Arunachala Kavirayar (1711–1778), Muthu Thandavar (1525–1600) and Marimutthu Pillai (1712–1787) originated from Sirkazhi. Arunachala composed devotional songs, including Sirkazhi Sthalapuranam and Sirkazhi Kovai, eulogising the town. S. R. Ranganathan, considered to be the father of library science in India, is from Sirkazhi. Padma Shri Sirkazhi Govindarajan, a leading vocalist in Carnatic Music and a playback singer for Tamil cinema and devotional songs was also born in Sirkazhi.

See also
Erukkur

Notes
  The municipalities in Tamil Nadu are graded special, selection, grade I and grade II based on income and population. While "grade II" is the official classification, all the municipal websites use "second grade".
  The census details of small towns for 2011 are yet to be published in census website. The municipal website provides the totals alone.

Citations

References

External links

 Sirkazhi municipality website
 Nagapattinam District Administration Website

Cities and towns in Mayiladuthurai district