[Source: PubMed]

5. Soc Sci Med. 2019 Jan;220:236-244. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.11.002. Epub 
2018 Nov 9.

Enabling local public health adaptation to climate change.

Austin SE(1), Ford JD(2), Berrang-Ford L(3), Biesbroek R(4), Ross NA(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, McGill University, Burnside Hall Building Room 705, 
805 Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal, QC, H3A 0B9, Canada; Tracking Adaptation 
to Climate Change Collaboration (TRAC3), Montreal, Canada and Wageningen, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: stephanie.austin@mail.mcgill.ca.
(2)Department of Geography, McGill University, Burnside Hall Building Room 705, 
805 Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal, QC, H3A 0B9, Canada; Tracking Adaptation 
to Climate Change Collaboration (TRAC3), Montreal, Canada and Wageningen, the 
Netherlands; Priestley International Centre for Climate, University of Leeds, 
Leeds, LS2 9JT, United Kingdom. Electronic address: j.ford2@leeds.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Geography, McGill University, Burnside Hall Building Room 705, 
805 Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal, QC, H3A 0B9, Canada; Tracking Adaptation 
to Climate Change Collaboration (TRAC3), Montreal, Canada and Wageningen, the 
Netherlands; Priestley International Centre for Climate, University of Leeds, 
Leeds, LS2 9JT, United Kingdom. Electronic address: l.berrangford@leeds.ac.uk.
(4)Tracking Adaptation to Climate Change Collaboration (TRAC3), Montreal, Canada 
and Wageningen, the Netherlands; Public Administration and Policy Group, 
Wageningen University & Research, P.O. Box 8130, Wageningen, 6700 EW, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: robbert.biesbroek@wur.nl.
(5)Department of Geography, McGill University, Burnside Hall Building Room 705, 
805 Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal, QC, H3A 0B9, Canada. Electronic address: 
nancy.ross@mcgill.ca.

Local public health authorities often lack the capacity to adapt to climate 
change, despite being on the 'front lines' of climate impacts. Upper-level 
governments are well positioned to create an enabling environment for adaptation 
and build local public health authorities' capacity, yet adaptation literature 
has not specified how upper-level governments can build local-level adaptive 
capacity. In this paper we examine how federal and regional governments can 
contribute to enabling and supporting public health adaptation to climate change 
at the local level in federal systems. We outline the local level's 
self-assessed adaptive capacity for public health adaptation in Canadian and 
German comparative case studies, in terms of funding, knowledge and skills, 
organizations, and prioritization, drawing upon 30 semi-structured interviews. 
Based on interviewees' recommendations and complemented by scientific 
literature, we develop a set of practical measures that could enable or support 
local-level public health adaptation. We find that adaptive capacity varies 
widely between local public health authorities, but most report having 
insufficient funding and staff for adaptation activities. We propose 10 specific 
measures upper-level governments can take to build local public health 
authorities' capacity for adaptation, under the interrelated target areas of: 
building financial capital; developing and disseminating usable knowledge; 
collaborating and coordinating for shared knowledge; and claiming leadership. 
Federal and regional governments have an important role to play in enabling 
local-level public health adaptation, and have many instruments available to 
them to fulfill that role. Selecting and implementing measures to enable local 
public health authorities' adaptive capacity will require tailoring to, and 
consideration, of the local context and needs.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.11.002
PMID: 30472516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]