[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Auxiliary Fire Service

Coventry Climax FWP engines. Water could be drawn from "open water" supplies (rivers, lakes or reservoirs) by a Transportable Water Unit more commonly known as "Bikini Units". These were floated on a raft so they could draw directly from a water and also use water under pressure to propel the raft.

The AFS (and the Civil Defence Corps) has never had any connection with any of the British armed forces, even though they used the same bronze-green paint colour. Although the supply of vehicles and equipment to both came via the Ministry of Supply, the AFS equipment was civilian registered and not military registered. When the AFS was disbanded in 1968, the 4×2 Green Goddess units were auctioned, but the 4×4 version and Land Rovers and Austin Gipsys were mothballed against some future emergency. Local authority fire brigades could borrow Home Office vehicles to meet exceptional needs, and 500 Green Goddesses were brought out of retirement during the drought of 1976. The government used Army and Royal Navy personnel to man and operate fire appliances during the firemen's strikes, including Home Office equipment brought out of storage. The Fire Service Circular in 1984 showed 1,079 Green Goddess emergency pumps, 142 Land Rovers/Austin Gipsies, 369 trucks and 2,321 lightweight portable hose pumps held in reserve. Although they had been stored all over the UK, from 1992 the Green Goddess pumps were all relocated to the large TNT Truck Care depot in Marchington, Staffordshire. In 1997 a total of 96 low-mileage Austin Gipsies were auctioned by the Home Office at Measham, and the Green Goddesses and remaining Gipsies were sold in 2005, many going to fire brigades in developing countries, particularly in Africa, some to preservation.

Footnotes

See also 
 1941 Old Palace School bombing
 Volunteer fire department
 Cyril Demarne

External links 
Brief details
Badges of the Auxiliary Fire Service and National Fire Service
Its role in the London Blitz
Green Goddess Cold War fire engines of the Auxiliary Fire Service

Defunct fire and rescue services of the United Kingdom
1938 establishments in the United Kingdom
1968 disestablishments
United Kingdom home front during World War II