[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Francis Lewis High School

l. A $4,229,000 contract was awarded to the lowest bidder, Caristo Construction Company. The ground-breaking happened that same year. A group of parents tried to have an indoor swimming pool built in the high school, but they were not successful. The high school ended up costing $6,100,000 to build.

Francis Lewis High School opened on September 13, 1960. The school was named after Francis Lewis, a resident of Whitestone who signed the United States Declaration of Independence. Vincent McGarrett was the first principal. Herman Wolf was the first basketball coach. Queensborough Community College held some of its classes at Francis Lewis High School that year because its own campus was still under construction.

Francis Lewis High School was built for a capacity of 2,700 students. The school was overcrowded as of the 1962–1963 school year. Cardozo High School was built in 1967 in order to relieve overcrowding at Francis Lewis.

In 1965, Queensborough Community College held some of its evening classes at Francis Lewis High School due to overcrowding at Queensborough.

In 1978, Francis Lewis High School graduated International Baccalaureate diploma students, the first public high school in the United States to do so. It terminated in the 1990s.

In early 2018, Francis Lewis High School announced plans for a new annex to add more space and alleviate overcrowding. It would be located where a tennis court and the Margaret Lambert Track and Field House were. Construction began in 2019. Completion is expected by 2023.

Notable alumni
 Mashama Bailey - an American chef specializing in Southern cuisine, she is the chef at The Grey
 Steve Dorff (1968) – composer/music producer
 Rob Echeverria – American musician who has worked as the guitarist of Biohazard, Helmet, Rest in Pieces, and Straight Ahead.
 Rick Elice (1973) – actor, writer
 Steve Greenberg (1978) – record producer, former President of Columbia Records
 Sebastián Guenzatti –  soccer player for the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the United Soccer League
 Peter Guttman (1972) – travel journalist, lecturer, and author
 Heejun Han (2007) – finalist on American Idol, season 11
 Albie Hecht – former president of Nickelodeon, founder of Spike TV 
 Mike Jorgensen (1966) – drafted by the New York Mets; played for the New York Mets, Montreal Expos, Oakland Athletics, Texas Rangers, Atlanta Braves, and St. Louis Cardinals; managed the Cardinals
 Paul Joskow — American economist and professor
 Peter Marino – American architect
 Clair Marlo (1976) - aka Clara Veseliza - composer/music producer, known for her hit-song "'Til They Take My Heart Away", for her work as a record producer,  and for her exceptional body of work heard in Television, Film, and streaming worldwide.
 Peter Mehlman (1973) - a renowned writer, comedian, and television and film producer best known for his work on Seinfeld and Madagascar.
 Mark Miloscia – Washington State Senator 
 Jonathan Pontell –  television director, producer, and editor
 Craig Setari – American musician and former competitive boxer who is currently active as the bass player in Sick of It All – hardcore punk band
 Ron Shandler (1974) – national baseball analyst, author of Baseball Forecaster, founder of BaseballHQ.com, columnist for USA Today
 Dennis Walcott – former chancellor of the New York City Department of Education, president and CEO of the Queens Borough Public Library system
 Chris Welty (1981) – computer scientist
 Alfred Scudieri - (1963) - Former President of The Society of Former Special Agents of the FBI.

In fiction
 In The Yards, Joaquin Phoenix plays a character who graduated from Francis Lewis High School. The film's director, James Gray, grew up in Flushing.

References

External links

 
 At High School in Queens, R.O.T.C.’s Enduring Influence
 At School in Queens, Success Draws Crowd - New York Times
 National Drill Competition- Champions Interview- NBC

Public high schools in Queens, New York