[Source: PubMed]

3. BMJ Glob Health. 2023 Feb;8(2):e010968. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2022-010968.

The impact of economic sanctions on health and health systems in low-income and 
middle-income countries: a systematic review and narrative synthesis.

Pinna Pintor M(1), Suhrcke M(2)(3), Hamelmann C(4).

Author information:
(1)Living Conditions, Luxembourg Institute of Socio-Economic Research, 
Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg matteo.pinnapintor@liser.lu.
(2)Living Conditions, Luxembourg Institute of Socio-Economic Research, 
Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg.
(3)University of York Centre for Health Economics, York, UK.
(4)EMRO, Cairo, Egypt.

INTRODUCTION: Economic sanctions restrict customary commercial and financial 
ties between states to induce change in political constitution or conduct of the 
targeted country. Although the stated goals of sanctions often include 
humanitarian objectives, prospective procedures for health risk assessment are 
not regularly incorporated in their implementation. Moreover, past experience 
suggests that the burden of economic isolation may fall on the civilian 
population. We present key findings from a WHO-sponsored evidence review on the 
impact of economic sanctions on health and health systems in low-income and 
middle-income countries, aiming at comprehensive coverage and explicit 
consideration of issues of causality and mechanisms.
METHODS: Broad searches of PubMed and Google Scholar (1970-2021) were designed 
to retrieve published and grey English-language literature expected to cut 
across disciplines, terminology and research methods. Studies providing an 
impact estimate were rated by a structured assessment based on ROBINS-I risk of 
bias domains, synthesised via vote counting and contextualised into the broader 
literature through a thematic synthesis.
RESULTS: Included studies (185) were mostly peer-reviewed, mostly 
single-country, largely coming from medicine and public health, and chiefly 
concerned with three important target countries-Iraq, Haiti and Iran. Among 
studies providing impact estimates (31), most raised multiple risk-of-bias 
concerns. Excluding those with data integrity issues, a significant proportion 
(21/27) reported consistently adverse effects of sanctions across examined 
outcomes, with no apparent association to assessed quality, focus on early 
episodes or publication period. The thematic synthesis highlights the complexity 
of sanctions, their multidimensionality and the possible mechanisms of impact.
CONCLUSION: Future research should draw on qualitative knowledge to collect 
domain-relevant data, combining it with better estimation techniques and study 
design. However, only the adoption of a risk assessment framework based on 
prospective data collection and monitoring can certify claims that civilians are 
adequately protected.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2022-010968
PMCID: PMC9923316
PMID: 36759018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.