[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

ublicans are killed and six captured, along with a machine gun, by Free State reinforcements rushed from Portobello. Two civilians are killed in the crossfire and many wounded. One of the IRA dead, James Spain, is allegedly executed while unarmed after capture.
One Civil Guard is mortally wounded.
Anti-Treaty fighters mount an ambush of a Free State cycling patrol near Milltown, Kerry, County Kerry. Two civilians (30-year-old Jeremiah McKenna and his mother) are killed in the firing.
A Free State soldier, Daniel Dennehy of Cork is shot dead by machine gun fire while guarding a railway near Mallow, County Cork.
9 November – Anti-Treaty fighters in Dublin attack Portobello barracks. One Anti-Treaty fighter is killed.
William Ahearne shot as an alleged spy by the Anti-Treaty IRA and dumped in Bishopstown, Cork.
A Free State sergeant is accidentally shot by a sentry in Cahersiveen, County Kerry.
There are simultaneous night attacks on Wellington and Portobello barracks in Dubin by Anti-Treaty fighters. In 20 minutes of firing, one Free State soldier is hit in the head. Two civilians are found shot dead in Rathmines, near Portobello – it is presumed killed in the crossfire.
11 November – Republican head of propaganda Erskine Childers is captured by the Free State at the house of Robert Barton in Annamoe, County Wicklow.
A civilian is shot dead by Free State patrol on Queen Street, Dublin.
13 November – Free State troops raid Newtownshandrum, County Cork at night, looking for Anti-Treaty fighters. Two are arrested with arms but the troops also fire on a pony and trap, killing civilian Molly Egan
A civilian, James Martin is shot dead by anti-Treaty raiders at his home at Drumcar, County Cavan. Another civilian is killed in North Frederick Street, Dublin.
14 November – Garda Síochána Garda Henry Phelan killed by anti-treaty insurgents at Mullinahone, County Tipperary
15 November – A seven-man Free State Army patrol, escorting a prisoner is ambushed at Ulverton road, Dalkey, County Dublin. A Free State soldier and a civilian are killed in the action, in which shots are exchanged and two grenades are thrown by the Anti-Treaty fighters.
17 November – Four Anti-Treaty IRA men from Dublin, who were captured with weapons in County Wicklow, are shot by firing squad.
An IRA fighter, Phillip Kilgam is killed in an exchange of fire in Manorhamilton, County Leitrim.
18 November – Four Anti-Treaty IRA fighters are killed when a land mine they are preparing on the Naas road near Dublin explodes prematurely.
A Free State lorry, driving from Dundalk is destroyed by a remotely detonated landmine in Carrickmacross. One soldier is killed and ten are badly injured. IRA fighters took the wounded men's weapons and equipment but also tried to give them first aid. Another FS soldier is killed in Manorhamilton.
19 November – Three more Republican prisoners are executed in Dublin by the Free State.
Free State troops fire on a Republican rally on O'Connell Street, Dubin that was protesting against the mistreatment of prisoners. One civilian is killed and seven wounded.
21 November – A Free State soldier is killed in an ambush between Tallaght and Clondalkin, Dublin.
23 November – The Battle of Newport – A National Army begin an operation to clear out Irregular forces from Newport, County Mayo. The force surprises Michael Kilroy and the leader of the Mayo Anti-Treaty IRA at Carrowbeg house. In the ensuing fight, 5 National Army soldiers and Two Irregulars are killed and more are wounded. Artillery is used against Irregulars who are holding positions in the hills outside the town.  The operation leads to the capture of 70 Irregulars.
Free State troops re-take Newport, County Mayo, after some resistance by Republicans. The Free State troops reportedly took 35 casualties between killed and wounded before the Republicans abandoned their positions and the National Army took possession of the town.
In the rest of the month of November – Free State troops under Tony Lawlor sweep south and west County Mayo and Connemara for Republican guerrillas. Lawlor reports that 5 of his men were killed in the operation and 9 wounded. He reports the Republican losses as 9 killed, 19 wounded and 23 taken prisoner. Thirty National Army soldiers are also hospitalised as a result of influenza.
One Free State soldier is killed and another badly injured when their truck crashes in Dalkey, Dublin, while driving too fast close to the scene of an ambush on 15 November.
A Free State soldier is killed by a shotgun blast at Lixnaw, County Kerry.
24 November – Former Treaty negotiator Erskine Childers is executed by the Free State, having been captured in possession of a pistol-which, ironically, had been given to Childers by Michael Collins (Irish leader). There are attacks that night on Protobello and Wellignton attacks in Dublin but inflicting no casualties.
25 November – The Anti-Treaty IRA mount an attack on Oriel House, Dublin. Several IRA fighters are captured at near