[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Azerbaijan–Turkey relations

fied on strategic partnership and mutual assistance between Azerbaijan and Turkey. The agreement consists of 23 articles and five chapters: Military-political and security issues, military and military-technical cooperation, humanitarian issues, economic cooperation, and common and final provisions.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated in a written statement that the 2019 Turkish offensive into north-eastern Syria will serve to eliminate the terror risks, return of the refugees to their homes, solution of the humanitarian problems, and providing peace and stability within the territorial integrity of Syria.

Support in Turkey's tensions with Greece
Amid the tensions between Turkey and Greece in the Eastern Mediterranean which sparked in the summer of 2020,  Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev vowed to "stand with Turkey under any circumstances without any hesitation." Aliyev made these remarks while accepting the credentials of Greece's newly appointed ambassador to Azerbaijan, Nikolaos Piperigos, at an event in the capital Baku in September 2020. Aliyev said "we support Turkey on all issues, including the issue of intelligence in the Eastern Mediterranean."

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that Ankara will too continue to support Baku and that the friendship between the two countries is eternal.

Energy relations
As of August 2020, Azerbaijan has become Turkey's major gas supplier which fits into Turkey's efforts of the past several years to diminish its dependence on Russian gas.

Economic relations
On 11 September 2020, Turkish Trade Minister Ruhsar Pekcan said that Turkey aims to sign a Free Trade Agreement with Azerbaijan and increase trade turnover between the two countries. Noting that the trade turnover between the two countries in 2019 amounted to $4.4 billion, she said that this figure does not reflect the real potential of the two countries. Earlier in the year, on 25 February, Azerbaijan and Turkey signed the Preferential Trade Agreement that aims to step up efforts to bring their trade volume to $15bn.

High-level visits
On August 11, 2020, the Foreign Minister of Azerbaijan Jeyhun Bayramov paid his first visit to Turkey after being appointed for the position of Azerbaijan's new foreign minister.

Diplomacy

Republic of Azerbaijan
Ankara (Embassy) 
Iğdır (Consular Mission)
Istanbul (Consulate-General)
Kars (Consulate-General)

Republic of Turkey
Baku (Embassy)
Nakhcivan (Consulate-General)
Ganja (Consulate-General)

Embassies
The Embassy of Azerbaijan is located in Ankara, Turkey. The Embassy of Turkey is located in Baku, Azerbaijan.

See also

 
 Foreign relations of Azerbaijan 
 Foreign relations of Turkey 
 Armenia–Turkey relations
 Azerbaijan–Turkey border
 Azerbaijanis in Turkey
 List of ambassadors of Turkey to Azerbaijan
 Eurasianism
 Mustafa Kemal Atatürk Monument, Baku
 Organization of Turkic States
 Shusha Declaration
 Turanism
 Turks in Azerbaijan 
 Azerbaijan–European Union relations 
 Turkey–European Union relations

Notes

References

External links
 
 Military Relations of Azerbaijan and Turkey

 
Bilateral relations of Turkey
Turkey