[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bill Bradley (American football)

William Calvin Bradley (born January 24, 1947) is an American former football player and coach. He played professionally as a defensive back in the National Football League (NFL), earning All-Pro honors twice. He played with the Philadelphia Eagles for most of his career. As an assistant coach he won two Grey Cups in the Canadian Football League (CFL). He was also the defensive backs coach of the San Antonio Commanders of the Alliance of American Football.

Early years
A native of Palestine, Texas, Bradley was a quarterback at Palestine High School. With Bradley as quarterback, Palestine won the 1964 Texas 3A State Championship, the only one in the school's history. His running and passing skills gained him selection as a high school All-American.  His football talents, including the reputed ability to pass with either hand, earned him the nickname "Super Bill." He also participated in the Big 33 football game for the Texas All-Stars in 1966.

His father was a baseball coach and Bradley dreamed of playing professional baseball. He was a talented shortstop who was drafted by the Detroit Tigers in the 7th Round of the 1965 Major League Baseball draft. He was offered $20,000 to sign, but turned it down because he wanted to go to college. Instead, he played semi-pro ball with the Palestine Pals.

College career
Bradley entered the University of Texas at Austin in 1965 and became the starting quarterback and punter in 1966 as a sophomore.

In 1966, he led the Longhorns to a 7-4 record and a victory over Mississippi in the Bluebonnet Bowl. Injured during a win over 
Indiana, he sat out the Oklahoma game in favor of back-up Andy White, and Oklahoma notched its first win in the rivalry since 1957. Bradley came back the following week and finished the season as the Southwest Conference's leader for rushing touchdowns with 6. In the Bluebonnet Bowl, Bradley and running back Chris Gilbert each ran for over 100 yards, marking the first time that two Longhorns had run for over 100 yards in the same bowl game.

Bradley was starting quarterback again the next season. Texas started the season ranked #5, but back-to-back losses to #4 USC and Texas Tech knocked them from the rankings. They then ran off 6 straight wins before ending the season with another pair of back-to-back losses, this time to TCU and Texas A&M to finish 6-4 and missing out on a bowl game. Despite the down year, Bradley led the Southwest Conference in total touchdowns with 14.

In 1968, Texas started the season ranked #5 and introduced the wishbone formation on offense, with co-captain Bradley at quarterback. Struggling with the new offense, Texas with Bradley under center tied #11 Houston and lost to Texas Tech. James Street replaced Bradley during the 3rd quarter of the Texas Tech game and never relinquished the position, leading the Longhorns to 9 consecutive wins, a Southwest Conference Championship and victory in the Cotton Bowl.  Bradley was moved to wide receiver for two weeks, and then to defensive back and kick-off returner. As a defensive back he set the Texas and Southwest Conference records for most interceptions in a game when he picked off Texas A&M four times at the end of the regular season. His final game as a Longhorn was the 36-13 win over Tennessee in the Cotton Bowl.  He then played in the 1969 Hula Bowl, the Coaches All-America Game and the College All-Star Game.

Records
 UT – Most passing yards, game (220 yards), broke his own record set earlier that year, surpassed by Rick McIvor in 1979
 UT – Longest Punt, bowl game (74 yards)
 UT  – Most Offensive Yards, season (1,624), surpassed by Earl Campbell in 1977
 Southwest Conference and UT – Most interceptions caught, game (4)

Bold means still active

NFL career
Bradley was drafted in the third round of the 1969 NFL Draft by the Philadelphia Eagles as a punter/defensive back. His first season he punted and returned kick-offs and punts. The next season, he was just the punter. In 1971, he finally moved to defense, became the back-up punter and was a returner again. It was on defense that he stood out. He went on to earn three All-Pro selections (1971–73) at free safety, including first-team All-Pro in 1971 and 1972. He also played in three Pro Bowls from 1971 to 1973. His last full season of punting was 1972. He continued returning kick-offs and punts off and on for the rest of his career. Bradley led the NFL in interceptions in both 1971 (11) and 1972 (9), the first player ever to lead the league in interceptions in consecutive seasons, a feat matched only once since. In 1971, he also led the NFL in yards after an interception with 248. These achievements did not draw widespread attention, though, as the Eagles' record for those 2 years was 6–7–1 and 2–11–1; and the Eagles never made the playoffs during Bradley's tenure. He played his final year as the Eagle free safety in 1976, replaced by John Sanders.