[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Singapore Airshow

The Singapore Airshow is a biennial aerospace event held in Singapore, debuted in 2008. It hosts high-level government and military delegations, as well as senior corporate executives around the world, while serving as a global event for leading aerospace companies and budding players (including start-ups) to make their mark in the international aerospace and defence market.

Status

Formerly known as Changi International Airshow, the Singapore Airshow was launched as a partnership between Singaporean agencies Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore and the Defence Science and Technology Agency after the relocation of Asian Aerospace from Singapore. The event offers a unique platform for industry thought leadership through its high-level conferences, forums and co-located events. Leading industry players, government and military chiefs gather here bi-annually to contribute to dialogues, exchange ideas and seek solutions and strategies to advance the interests of the global aerospace and defence sector.

It is cited to be the third largest air show in the world after Le Bourget and Farnborough, as well as Asia's largest air show, although this is disputed by the Dubai Air Show.

Venue
The selected venue for the permanent site of the Singapore Airshow is situated on a plot of land just beyond the northern edge perimeter fencing of Changi Air Base, which was itself located due east of the nearby Singapore Changi Airport. In 2006, a contract worth S$60 million was awarded to Eng Lim Construction to begin the building of the new exhibition site to replace the Changi International Exhibition and Convention Centre, including a main exhibition hall with 40,000 square metres of space.

When completed in September 2007, the New Changi Exhibition Centre boasted a 40,000 square metres of fully air-conditioned exhibition hall, 2,000 parking lots for trade visitors and motorists as well as 100,000 square metres of outdoor space for exhibitions and functions. Upon its completion, the hall was promptly named as the Changi Exhibition Centre to set it apart from the Changi International Exhibition and Convention Centre which had been in use by the Asian Aerospace exhibitions from 1988 to 2006. Note that the old site is a good 2 kilometres due west of the current one.

2008

The inaugural show was held from 19 to 24 February 2008, with the first four days reserved for trade visitors at the purpose-built Changi Exhibition Centre in Changi. Besides the usual exhibits and static displays, the event saw the return of aerobatic flying displays put up by the Airbus A380, Black Knights of the Republic of Singapore Air Force and the Roulettes of the Royal Australian Air Force. Also held concurrently are several seminars and conferences, including the Singapore Airshow Aviation Leadership Summit, the Global Air Power Conference, the International Defence Procurement Conference, the C4I Asia Conference and the Global Space and Technology Convention. The static displays included several themed exhibition pavilions, including the Airport Pavilion and the Integrated Land Defence Pavilion. The ATW Airline Industry Achievement Awards was also held during the Airshow. A minor incident occurred when Airshow organizers required Taiwanese aerospace company Aerospace Industrial Development Corporation to erase Taiwanese symbols displayed on their stand at the request of Chinese government officials.

Aircraft orders 

Garuda Indonesia: Conversion of an earlier order for six Boeing 777-200 to ten Boeing 777-300ER, worth US$2 billion.
Korean Air: Three Airbus A380-800 worth US$906 million.
Lion Air: 56 Boeing 737-900ERs with purchase rights for a further 50 aircraft worth US$4.4 billion
BJets: launch of new Singapore-based airline, and a US$500 million deal to purchase twenty Cessna Citation CJ2+ business jets.

Other announcements 
Air Caraibes: Selection of Pratt & Whitney PW4000-100 engines for its three Airbus A330-300 aircraft worth over US$180 million.
Grupo Marsans: Selection of Pratt & Whitney PW4000-100 engines for its five Airbus A330 aircraft worth over US$285 million.
Jetstar Asia Airways: Selection of Global Service Partners to maintain V2500-A5 engines.
JAT Tehnika: Selection of Pratt & Whitney to maintain CFM56-3 engines.
Etihad Airways: Addition of four new Indian destinations, namely Chennai, Jaipur, Kolkata and Kozhikode.
Tiger Airways: Selected International Aero Engines to supply V2500 engines for 20 Airbus A320 planes, worth US$580 million.