[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Vasily Shandybin

Vasily  Ivanovich Shandybin () (July 25, 1941 in Tyomnoye village, Trubchevsky District (now in Bryansk Oblast) – December 30, 2009 in Moscow) was a Russian politician. He was a member of State Duma representing the Communist Party of the Russian Federation until 2003.  He failed to get re-elected and subsequently joined the Agrarian Party of Russia, intending to run at the next elections.

Shandybin was a former metalworker and was well known for his bald head and his frank manners. Shandybin was involved in many charitable activities in favour of orphans asylum, poor people, schools and pensioners.

Biography

Early life and career
Vasily Ivanovich Shandybin was born on 25 July 1941 in large suburban Tyomnoye village (now Krasnoye village, Trubchevsky District, Bryansk Oblast. He received secondary general and secondary special technical education. Vasily Shandybin started his work life on the oldest industrial enterprise in Bryansk - Bryansk Road Building Machinery Plant ("Dormash", now CJSC "Bryansk Arsenal"). Shandybin worked as locksmith for 34 years up until his election to State Duma.

Vasily Shandybin actively participated in plant's community life. For his successful and skilled work Shandybin received numerous governmental and ministerial honors.

State Duma Member
In 1994 Vasily Shandybin was elected to the Bryansk Oblast Duma. In 1995 Shandybin was nominated by CPRF to run in an open-seat contest in Bryansk constituency No.64. Vasily Shandybin won the election with 32.26% of the vote trouncing his nearest opponent by 22 points. In State Duma Shandybin was appointed to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, but since April 1996 he served in Committee on Labour and Social Policy.

In 1999 Vasily Shandybin won re-election to State Duma with 36.59%, easily defeating his opponents - “Snezhka” poultry factory director Nikolay Denin (Independent, 17.73%) and fellow State Duma member Lyudmila Narusova (Independent, 5.90%), wife of former Saint Petersburg Mayor Anatoly Sobchak. In State Duma Shandybin was first appointed to the Committee on Energy, Transport, and Communications, and later to the Committee on Property Issues.

In 2000 Vasily Shandybin was rumoured to run for Governor of Bryansk Oblast, but he ultimately declined endorsing incumbent Communist Governor Yury Lodkin.

In 2003 election Vasily Shandybin lost his seat in a rematch against Nikolay Denin (United Russia) by a 32-25 margin. Much to the Shandybin defeat contributed Russian-wide popularity of United Russia and Governor Lodkin's support of Ivan Fedotkin (URF) and Gennady Seleznyov’s Party of Russia's Rebirth. Soon after the election Vasily Shandybin announced he was planning to return to State Duma running in 2004 Ulyanovsk by-election. However, he ran in Verkh-Isetsky constituency №162 but lost to former State Duma member Yevgeny Zyablitsev, winning only 8.80%. After his departure from State Duma Vasily Shandybin was appointed as Central Committee of CPRF consultant for labour movement and union activity.

Later Political Career
In upcoming 2004 Bryansk Oblast Duma elections CPRF and APR decided to form a single electoral bloc - "CPRF-APR-For the Victory!". Vasily Shandybin was invited to join the bloc list and also to run in a single-mandate constituency, but he declined to join the bloc list if it was going to be headed by Governor Yury Lodkin accusing the latter of mismanagement and Bryansk Machine-Building Plant forced bankruptcy. Governor Lodkin accused Shandybin of preparing to run against him in upcoming gubernatorial election (Vasily Shandybin considered running for Governor in 2004 but later endorsed Yury Lodkin). Nevertheless, Vasily Shandybin ran for Bryansk Oblast Duma in one of metropolitan Bryansk single-mandate constituencies but lost in an upset. Yury Lodkin also lost the governorship after being disqualified from the ballot by Bryansk Oblast Court.