[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Robert P. Letcher

higs were eager to avenge the loss in 1853, and Letcher wanted to be their candidate, but at their state convention, they chose Kentucky Attorney General James Harlan. The nomination was not well-received among some Whig factions; Harlan withdrew in March 1853, and Letcher was chosen to replace him.

Letcher first met Breckinridge in debate at Nicholasville on April 18, 1853. As the incumbent, Breckinridge spoke first and focused on political issues like contrasting the higher revenue generated by the Democratic Walker tariff with that produced by the higher Tariff of 1842 favored by the Whigs. Letcher, as he did for much of the campaign, responded by appealing to party loyalty; Breckinridge would misrepresent the district, he claimed, "because he is a Democrat". While Breckinridge was typically well composed in debate, Letcher would often become angry. On one occasion, Letcher so frequently attempted to interrupt Breckinridge that John J. Crittenden grabbed him by the coat tails to restrain him. Breckinridge supporters derisively nicknamed Letcher "Coat Tails" for the remainder of the campaign.

When Letcher's factional enemy, abolitionist Cassius Marcellus Clay, endorsed Breckinridge, Letcher charged that this, combined with the abolitionist views of Breckinridge's uncle, Reverend Robert Jefferson Breckinridge, proved that Breckinridge was secretly an abolitionist, despite his consistent denial that Congress had the power to interfere with that institution. Breckinridge responded by citing newspaper accounts of an 1848 campaign speech Letcher had made in Indiana on behalf of Zachary Taylor. In the speech, he predicted that the constitutional convention then under way in Kentucky would produce a document that contained provisions for gradual emancipation, noting "It is only the ultra men in the extreme South who desire the extension of slavery."

Both candidates received financial support from outside the district, some of which was used to buy votes or bribe voters to stay home. Breckinridge received several thousand dollars, with a substantial amount coming from Washington, D.C., banker William Wilson Corcoran; estimates of Letcher's support ranged from $30,000 to $100,000. Breckinridge won the canvass by 526 votes and received 71% of the vote in Owen County, which recorded 123 more votes than registered voters.

Letcher was considered the strongest Whig candidate in the state, and his inability to win the seat was a harbinger of the ultimate failure of the Whig Party in Kentucky. His loss to Breckinridge would be his last run for public office, though he remained active in politics until his death. During the 1856 presidential election, Letcher spoke on behalf of Millard Fillmore in Pennsylvania, New York, and Kentucky. In 1857 and 1858, he urged John J. Crittenden to oppose the Lecompton Constitution for Kansas.

After the dissolution of the Whig Party, Letcher generally supported Know-Nothing candidates in state politics.  Letcher and Crittenden both supported National Union candidate John Bell in the 1860 presidential election, believing he represented the best hope of peacefully resolving the tension between the north and south. By election day, his health was beginning to fail. He died at his home in Frankfort on January 24, 1861, aged 72, and was buried in Frankfort Cemetery. Letcher County, Kentucky, is named in his honor.

References

Bibliography

Further reading

Contested Election: Robert P. Letcher vs. Thomas P. Moore. 23rd Congress, 1st Session, House Report No 446. May 6, 1834.
Journal of the House of Representatives of the United States, June 12, 1834, p. 743.

External links

Robert Perkins Letcher entry at the National Governors Association
Robert Perkins Letcher entry at The Political Graveyard

1788 births
1861 deaths
People from Goochland County, Virginia
American people of Scotch-Irish descent
Presbyterians from Virginia
Democratic-Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Kentucky
National Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Kentucky
Kentucky Whigs
Kentucky Know Nothings
Kentucky Constitutional Unionists
Whig Party state governors of the United States
Governors of Kentucky
Speakers of the Kentucky House of Representatives
Kentucky lawyers
American lawyers admitted to the practice of law by reading law
People from Lancaster, Kentucky
Politicians from Danville, Kentucky
People from Letcher County, Kentucky
19th-century American lawyers
People from Kentucky in the War of 1812
Burials at Frankfort Cemetery
Members of the United States House of Representatives who owned slaves