[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Spirits (TV series)

ate fire
 Kuya Dong (Jhong Hilario) – The school's resident maintenance man and Nato's uncle. He is the only one who knows about Brita and her true plan. He hopes to stop her on his own in order to protect the kids and prevent Brita's rise to power.

Immortals
Immortal are creatures that cannot die.

 Taga-sundo (Death) (Ku Aquino) – The most hated being in the Engkanto's world. He is the series' first villain after he abducted Gabby while in their homeworld. But towards the end of the series, he became an ally because he was forced by Prinsipe Dumala in order to end the chaos that is happening.
 Pighati (Pain) (Glenda Garcia) – Taga-sundo's Sister. If Pain and Death touched each other, One of them is going to die.
 Taga-Bantay (The Protector) (Lito Pimentel) – The one who protects the three enchanted stones that completes the reborn of the darkness.
 Taga-tala (The Prophet) (Joji Isla) – An old hermit-like adviser to Prinsipe Dumala that writes every certain event of the history. He holds the key to finding out how to defeat the First Evil.

Elementals
Elementals are those who are supernatural and enchanted creatures.
 Prinsipe Dumala (Danilo Barrios) – The prince of Engkantos, He disguised as a human because he likes Gabby and even invited her to his kingdom; Dumala's intentions with her are honorable and intended to return Gabby to the human world in due time; however, her friends thinking otherwise led to Red and Lloyd following her to the world of the Engkantos. But later, the prince became an ally throughout the last episode and helped the kids in order to stop the greatest threat that is to yet to come.
 Bakshi – An elf friend of Nato and Dong and Mang Jose, Dong and Nato's Father told him to look after them.
 Sola (Kristine Jaca) – A disguiser. She disguised as Gabby while Gabby was still with the Taga-sundo, so that the people will not worry about Gabby.

Mga Taong Araw – Red and Lloyd meet them when they were travelling to save Gabby in the World of Elementals. Taong Araws works and give fun to Prinsipe Dumala.

 Bughaw (Janus del Prado) – A taong araw who is the eldest of the siblings, who dislikes Red and Lloyd when they entered their troupe.
 Luntian (Ronaliza Cheng) – A taong araw who is the youngest of the siblings, she helped Red and Lloyd when they were still in the troupe.
 Kahel (Mike Agassi) - A taong araw who is the middle of the siblings, in the first place he hates Red and Lloyd while in their troupe, but later on appreciates them because of an injury that Red and Lloyd saved Luntian in the spear attack in the field.

Mga Diwata (Fairies) – They helped Red, Lloyd and Jessie to go to the World of Elementals.

 Diwatang Tubig (Cherry Lou) -–Fairy of water.
 Diwatang Apoy (Jenny Miller) – Fairy of fire.
 Diwatang Hangin (Assunta de Rossi) – Fairy of air.
 Diwatang Lupa - Fairy of Earth
Mga Mangkukulam (Witches)

 Brita/Lupe (Lotlot de Leon) – Lloyd's mother and Jessie's aunt and the series' antagonist. She is dead as the series starts, but still regularly talks to Lloyd. He hopes to use Lloyd to do her bidding. Though motherly at first, her true goal is to finish what she started: to collect the "gifted" kids in town and sacrifice them in order to gain more power and to live.
 Milagros, The Leader of the Mangkukulams (Bella Flores) – Brita's aunt and leader of the group of mangkukulams.

Other characters
 Ricky Davao – Red's dad
 Sandy Andolong as Paz – Red's mom
 Marjorie Barretto as Marita – Gabby's mom
 Cris Villanueva – Liz's dad
 Ilonah Jean – Maya's mom
 Allyson Lualhati – Sofronia, Lloyd's ghost friend
 Miles Ocampo – Grace, Gabby's sister
 Efren Reyes Jr. – Police Chief Jaime, Jessie's step-dad
 Nica Peralejo
 Helga Krapf
 Diego Castro – Harvey
 Blair Arellano
 Glaiza de Castro – Pinky
 Minnie Aguilar
 Dexter Doria – school principal
 Nash Aguas – Young Red
 Miguel Vera
 My-My Davao
 Liza Lorena - as Red's Lola
 Ching Arellano

Broadcast
The show re-aired on Studio 23 (now S+A) in 2005 and on the Kapamilya Channel (now S+A International) in 2007. On August 13, 2021, the official Youtube channel of Jeepney TV started uploading full episodes of the series.

Reception
The drama received mixed reviews from TV viewers and critics. Its highest rating was 37.4%, the lowest was 20.5% and an average of 24.9% in the Mega Manila ratings as the Nationwide ratings were still occasional and not yet available daily.

Remake
A remake directed by Topel Lee and produced by GMO Entertainment Unit titled Spirits: Reawaken was announced for ABS-CBN's iWant streaming service. It will be set in the 90s and follows six teenagers with supernatural powers as they protect Earth from an alien invasion.

Spirits: Reawaken stars Grae Fernandez as Red, Jairus Aquino as Jesse, Bugoy Cariño as Nato, Kira Balinger as Maya, Chanty as Gabbie and Patrick Quiroz as Lloyd. The series began streaming on November 17, 2018.

See also
 List of programs broadcast by ABS-CBN
 Spirit Warriors
 Spirit Warriors: The Shortcut