[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rodrigo Millar

Rodrigo Javier Millar Carvajal (born 3 November 1981) is a Chilean former footballer who played as a midfielder. He played for Chile in the 2010 FIFA World Cup. He also holds Mexican citizenship.

Club career

Huachipato
Millar started his career at Huachipato in 1999. He made his Chilean Primera División debut, aged 20, against Santiago Wanderers on 30 April 2000. Millar scored his first goal for Huachipato against Rangers de Talca in a 1–1 draw. In the 2003 season, Millar scored 12 goals in 32 games and caught the eye of several European teams.

On 6 March 2004, it was reported that Millar was invited to train with the German side Hertha BSC. After training with the club, it was revealed that they wanted to sign him due to his good performances for Huachipato and his nomination for the 2004 Copa América in Peru. However, his move to Germany failed to materialise and he remained with Huachipato where his performance  improved considerably, scoring 14 goals in 39 games.

In July 2006, after a very good Torneo de Apertura, Millar was nearly transferred to CD Tenerife and was also linked with FC Terek Grozny, but later rejected the offer for personal reasons. Millar then had a poor Torneo de Clausura performance because of a series of injuries, scoring only 3 goals in 8 games.

Colo-Colo
On 14 December 2006, it was reported that Millar had come to an agreement with Colo-Colo. He signed a three-year deal, which was officially announced on 16 December. He joined the club in February 2007, but suffered a training injury that prevented him from playing for three months.

Once he recovered, he made his debut on 20 March 2007 against the Venezuelan side Caracas FC at the Copa Libertadores and scored his club's first goal in a 4–0 win over LDU Quito. In his league debut against O'Higgins, he scored twice, and was voted man of the match.

After a good start to the season, his form declined due to off field problems, and he ended up being relegated to the substitutes bench. At the end of the season, Millar was nearly transferred to the Israeli club Ashdod, but the transfer fell through. He attempted to return to Chile, but was shunned by Colo-Colo's coach Claudio Borghi and shortly after loaned to Once Caldas.

After his loan with Once Caldas had finished,  he returned to Colo-Colo in June 2008, despite Fernando Astengo not planning on featuring him in the team,. Millar made his first start against Universidad de Chile in a Copa Gato match that ended in a 2–1 victory at Tierra de Campeones Stadium in Iquique. Despite several starts, he found it difficult to break into the first team, with Astengo preferring to use him as a substitute.. With the arrival of Marcelo Barticciotto as coach, he was given a more permanent position in the first team, providing consistently good performances as a result. On 8 November 2008, Millar scored his first goal in the Barticciotto era against Cobresal in a 1–1 home draw. In the Championship playoffs second leg final, Millar was proclaimed a champion for third time in his career, after he scored the goal of the championship in the 3–1 victory against Palestino, by eluding the goalkeeper Felipe Núñez and playing masterfully.

On 14 February 2009, Millar scored his first goal of the season in an Apertura tournament match that ended in a 2–0 victory over Universidad de Concepción at Estadio Monumental, where he scored the first goal of the game. On 22 April,  he scored a goal in a Copa Libertadores match that ended in a 2–1 loss against Sport Recife in Brazil. He also scored the first goal at Colo-Colo's  5–2 win over Cobresal. At the end of season, Millar become the first footballer to contract swine flu on 16 June. He made a full recovery for the start of the Torneo Clausura.

During the 2010 season he performed consistently well with Colo-Colo, and was selected for Chile's FIFA World Cup 2010 team and voted the Chilean Footballer of the Year in the Anfp awards. His club lost the championship, finishing three points behindUniversidad Católica. Millar was approached by Toluca who were impressed by his consistently good performances. However he never moved to Mexico and remained in Chile.

In the 2011 season Millar was promoted to captain, due to the departure of Arturo Sanhueza to Deportes Iquique, but was stripped of the captaincy because of the departure of coach Diego Cagna and the arrival of Américo Gallego.

Atlas

In 2013, he was signed by Club Atlas, he debuted with Atlas in the 0–1 away defeat vs Tigres UANL. He scored his first goal in a 2–1 home victory over Club América. Prior to the start of the 2014 Torneo Apertura, Millar was announced as the new captain of Atlas. In December 2014, he renewed his contract for two years.

Coquimbo Unido
In September 2021, he returned to Chile after being released from Mazatlán and joined Coquimbo Unido in the Primera B de Chile.

Retirement
He retired at the end of the 2021 season.