[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Chinese emigration

Waves of Chinese emigration have happened throughout history. They include the emigration to Southeast Asia beginning from the 10th century during the Tang dynasty, to the Americas during the 19th century, particularly during the California gold rush in the mid-1800s; general emigration initially around the early to mid 20th century which was mainly caused by corruption, starvation, and war due to the Warlord Era, the Second Sino-Japanese War and the Chinese Civil War; and finally elective emigration to various countries. Most emigrants were peasants and manual labourers, although there were also educated individuals who brought their various expertises to their new destinations.

Chronology of historical periods 

 210 BCE: Qin Shi Huang (Chinese: 秦始皇) dispatched Xu Fu () to sail overseas in search of elixirs of immortality, accompanied by 3,000 virgin boys and girls.  Records suggest Xu Fu's expedition settled in Honshu, Japan.
 From the Han dynasty onwards, Chinese military and agricultural colonies () were established at various times in the Western Regions, which in the early periods were lands largely occupied by an Indo-European people called the Tocharians.
 661 CE: under the Tang dynasty, Zheng Guo Xi of Nan An, Fujian was buried at a Philippine island.

10–15th century 
 Many Chinese merchants chose to settle down in the Southeast Asian ports such as Champa, Cambodia, Java, and Sumatra, and married the native women. Their children carried on trade.
 Borneo: Many Chinese lived in Borneo as recorded by Zheng He.
 Cambodia: Envoy of Yuan dynasty, Zhou Daguan () recorded in his The Customs of Chenla (), that there were many Chinese, especially sailors, who lived there. Many intermarried with the local women.
 Champa: the Daoyi Zhilüe documents Chinese merchants who went to Cham ports in Champa, married Cham women, to whom they regularly returned to after trading voyages. A Chinese merchant from Quanzhou, Wang Yuanmao, traded extensively with Champa, and married a Cham princess.
 Han Chinese settlers came during the Malacca Sultanate in the early 15th century.  The friendly diplomatic relations between China and Malacca culminated during the reign of Sultan Mansur Syah, who married the Chinese princess Hang Li Po.  A senior minister of state and five hundred youths and maids of noble birth accompanied the princess to Malacca. Admiral Zheng He had also brought along 100 bachelors to Malacca. The descendants of these two groups of people, mostly from Fujian province, are called the Baba (men) and Nyonya (women).
 Java: Zheng He's  compatriot Ma Huan () recorded in his book Yingya Shenglan () that large numbers of Chinese lived in the Majapahit Empire on Java, especially in Surabaya (). The place where the Chinese lived was called New Village (), with many originally from Canton, Zhangzhou and Quanzhou.
 Ryūkyū Kingdom: Many Chinese moved to Ryukyu to serve the government or engage in business during this period.  The Ming dynasty sent from Fujian 36 Chinese families at the request of the Ryukyuan King to manage oceanic dealings in the kingdom in 1392 during the Hongwu Emperor's reign.  Many Ryukyuan officials were descended from these Chinese immigrants, being born in China or having Chinese grandfathers. They assisted in the Ryukyuans in advancing their technology and diplomatic relations.
 Siam: According to the clan chart of family name Lim, Gan, Ng, Khaw, Cheah, many Chinese traders lived there.  They were amongst some of the Siamese envoys sent to China.
 In 1405, under the Ming dynasty, Tan Sheng Shou, the Battalion Commander Yang Xin () and others were sent to Java's Old Port (Palembang; ) to bring the absconder Liang Dao Ming () and others to negotiate pacification. He took his family and fled to live in this place, where he remained for many years. Thousands of military personnel and civilians from Guangdong and Fujian followed him there and chose Dao Ming as their leader.
Early Chinese mariners had a variety of contacts with Kenya. Archaeologists have found Chinese porcelain artifacts made during the Tang dynasty (618-907) in Kenyan villages; however, these were believed to have been brought over by Zheng He during his 15th century ocean voyages. On Lamu Island off the Kenyan coast, local oral tradition maintains that 20 shipwrecked Chinese sailors, possibly part of Zheng's fleet, washed up on shore there hundreds of years ago. Given permission to settle by local tribes after having killed a dangerous python, they converted to Islam and married local women.  Now, they are believed to have just six descendants left there; in 2002, DNA tests conducted on one of the women confirmed that she was of Chinese descent.  Her daughter, Mwamaka Sharifu, later received a PRC government scholarship to study traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) in China. On Pate Island, Frank Viviano described in a July 2005 National Geographic article how ceramic fragments had been found around Lamu which the administrative o