[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chordate

ion
The following schema is from the 2015 edition of Vertebrate Palaeontology. The invertebrate chordate classes are from Fishes of the World. While it is structured so as to reflect evolutionary relationships (similar to a cladogram), it also retains the traditional ranks used in Linnaean taxonomy.

 Phylum Chordata
 Subphylum Cephalochordata (Acraniata) – (lancelets; 30 species)
 Class Leptocardii (lancelets)
 Clade Olfactores
 Subphylum Tunicata (Urochordata) – (tunicates; 3,000 species)
 Class Ascidiacea (sea squirts)
 Class Thaliacea (salps, doliolids and pyrosomes)
 Class Appendicularia (larvaceans)
 Class Sorberacea
 Subphylum Vertebrata (Craniata) (vertebrates – animals with backbones; 66,100+ species)
 Superclass 'Agnatha' paraphyletic (jawless vertebrates; 100+ species)
 Class Cyclostomata
 Infraclass Myxinoidea or Myxini (hagfish; 65 species)
 Infraclass Petromyzontida or Hyperoartia (lampreys)
 Class †Conodonta
 Class †Myllokunmingiida
 Class †Pteraspidomorphi
 Class †Thelodonti
 Class †Anaspida
 Class †Cephalaspidomorphi
 Infraphylum Gnathostomata (jawed vertebrates)
 Class †Placodermi (Paleozoic armoured forms; paraphyletic in relation to all other gnathostomes)
 Class Chondrichthyes (cartilaginous fish; 900+ species)
 Class †Acanthodii (Paleozoic "spiny sharks"; paraphyletic in relation to Chondrichthyes)
 Class Osteichthyes (bony fish; 30,000+ species)
 Subclass Actinopterygii (ray-finned fish; about 30,000 species)
 Subclass Sarcopterygii (lobe-finned fish: 8 species)
 Superclass Tetrapoda (four-limbed vertebrates; 35,100+ species) (The classification below follows Benton 2004, and uses a synthesis of rank-based Linnaean taxonomy and also reflects evolutionary relationships. Benton included the Superclass Tetrapoda in the Subclass Sarcopterygii in order to reflect the direct descent of tetrapods from lobe-finned fish, despite the former being assigned a higher taxonomic rank.)
 Class Amphibia (amphibians; 8,100+ species)
 Class Sauropsida (reptiles (including birds); 21,300+ species – 10,000+ species of birds and 11,300+ species of reptiles)
 Class Synapsida (mammals; 5,700+ species)

Subphyla

Cephalochordata: Lancelets

Cephalochordates, one of the three subdivisions of chordates, are small, "vaguely fish-shaped" animals that lack brains, clearly defined heads and specialized sense organs. These burrowing filter-feeders compose the earliest-branching chordate sub-phylum.

Tunicata (Urochordata)

Most tunicates appear as adults in two major forms, known as "sea squirts" and salps, both of which are soft-bodied filter-feeders that lack the standard features of chordates. Sea squirts are sessile and consist mainly of water pumps and filter-feeding apparatus; salps float in mid-water, feeding on plankton, and have a two-generation cycle in which one generation is solitary and the next forms chain-like colonies. However, all tunicate larvae have the standard chordate features, including long, tadpole-like tails; they also have rudimentary brains, light sensors and tilt sensors. The third main group of tunicates, Appendicularia (also known as Larvacea), retain tadpole-like shapes and active swimming all their lives, and were for a long time regarded as larvae of sea squirts or salps. The etymology of the term Urochordata (Balfour 1881) is from the ancient Greek οὐρά (oura, "tail") + Latin chorda ("cord"), because the notochord is only found in the tail. The term Tunicata (Lamarck 1816) is recognised as having precedence and is now more commonly used.

Craniata (Vertebrata)

Craniates all have distinct skulls. They include the hagfish, which have no vertebrae. Michael J. Benton commented that "craniates are characterized by their heads, just as chordates, or possibly all deuterostomes, are by their tails".

Most craniates are vertebrates, in which the notochord is replaced by the vertebral column. These consist of a series of bony or cartilaginous cylindrical vertebrae, generally with neural arches that protect the spinal cord, and with projections that link the vertebrae. However hagfish have incomplete braincases and no vertebrae, and are therefore not regarded as vertebrates,
but as members of the craniates, the group from which vertebrates are thought to have evolved. However the cladistic exclusion of hagfish from the vertebrates is controversial, as they may be degenerate vertebrates who have lost their vertebral columns.

The position of lampreys is ambiguous. They have complete braincases and rudimentary vertebrae, and therefore may be regarded as vertebrates and true fish. However, molecular phylogenetics, which uses biochemical features to classify organisms, has produced both results that group them with vertebrates and others that group them with hagfish. If lampreys are more closely related to the hagfish than the other vertebrates, this would suggest that they form a clade, which has been named the Cyclostomata.

Phylogeny

Overview