[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Esoteric Nazism

e Aryan unconscious deeply interested and influenced Miguel Serrano, who later concluded that Jung was merely psychologizing the ancient, sacred mystery of archetypal possession by the gods, independent metaphysical powers that rule over their respective races and occasionally possess their members.

Common beliefs
Since 1945, neo-Nazi writers have also proposed Shambhala and the star Aldebaran as the original homeland of the Aryans. The book Arktos: The Polar Myth in Science, Symbolism, and Nazi Survival, by Hypnerotomachia Poliphili scholar Joscelyn Godwin, discusses pseudoscientific theories about surviving Nazi elements in Antarctica. Arktos is noted for its scholarly approach and examination of many sources currently unavailable elsewhere in English-language translations. Godwin and other authors such as Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke have discussed the connections between Esoteric Nazism and Vril energy, the hidden Shambhala and Agartha civilizations, and underground UFO bases, as well as Hitler's and the SS's supposed survival in underground Antarctic bases in New Swabia, or in alliance with Hyperboreans from the subterranean world.

Relationship to neopaganism

Organisations such as the Armanen-Orden represent significant developments of neo-pagan esotericism and Ariosophy after World War II, but they do not all constitute forms of Nazi esotericism. Some northern European neopagan groups, such as Theods, Ásatrúarfélagið and Viðartrúar, have explicitly stated that neo-Nazism is not common among their members. On the other hand, there are neopagan organisations with close ties to neo-Nazism, such as the Artgemeinschaft or the Heathen Front, and the attraction of many neo-Nazis to Germanic paganism remains an issue particularly in Germany (see Nornirs Ætt).

Music
There is a contemporary loose network of small musical groups that combine neo-fascism and satanism. These groups can be found in Britain, France, and New Zealand, under names such as "Black Order" or "Infernal Alliance", and draw their inspiration from the Esoteric Hitlerism of Miguel Serrano. These groups advocate the anti-modern neo-tribalism and "Traditionalism" found in the "pagan" mysticist ideals of Alain de Benoist's Nouvelle Droite inspired by Julius Evola.

Esoteric themes, including references to artifacts such as the Holy Lance, are also often alluded to in neo-Nazi music (e.g. Rock Against Communism) and above all in National Socialist black metal.

See also

 Atomwaffen Division
 Kerry Bolton
 Cosmotheism
 Julius Evola
 Fascist mysticism
 The Foundations of the Nineteenth Century
 German Christians (movement)
 James Mason (neo-Nazi)
 Joy of Satan Ministries
 Landig Group
 Nazi UFOs
 Nazis: The Occult Conspiracy
 Occultism in Nazism
 Order of Nine Angles
 Order-State of Burgundy
 Positive Christianity
 QAnon
 Race of Jesus
 Religion in Nazi Germany
 Religious aspects of Nazism
 Religious views of Adolf Hitler
 Thule Society

References
Notes

Bibliography
 Dohe, Carrie B. (2016) Jung's Wandering Archetype: Race and Religion in Analytical Psychology. London: Routledge. 
 Glinka, Lukasz Andrzej (2014) Aryan Unconscious: Archetype of Discrimination, History & Politics. Great Abington: Cambridge International Science Publishing. 
Godwin, Joscelyn (1996) Arktos: The Polar Myth in Science, Symbolism, and Nazi Survival. Kempton, Illinois: Adventures Unlimited Press. 
Goodrick-Clark, Nicholas (1998) Hitler's Priestess: Savitri Devi, the Hindu-Aryan Myth and Neo-Nazism. New York: New York University Press. 
Goodrick-Clark, Nicholas (2002) Black Sun: Aryan Cults, Esoteric Nazism and the Politics of Identity. New York: New York University Press. . (Paperback, 2003. )
Guerra, Nicola (2014) I volontari italiani nelle Waffen-SS. Pensiero politico, formazione culturale e motivazioni al volontariato Chieti: Solfanelli. pp. 140–148.ISBN 9-788874-978588. 
Strube, Julian Strube (2012) Die Erfindung des esoterischen Nationalsozialismus im Zeichen der Schwarzen Sonne. In: Zeitschrift für Religionswissenschaft. vol. 20/2 , pp. 223–268, .

Occultism in Nazism
Conspiracy theories involving Jews
New religious movements

de:Rechte Esoterik
es:Ocultismo nazi
it:Misticismo nazista
pt:Misticismo nazi