[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tshilidzi Marwala

e. Furthermore, he was a member of the committee that developed the international accord on open data for the International Council for Science (ICSU) in Paris. Institute of Future Studies, with University of West Indies the  Institute for Global African Affairs and Institute of Intelligent Systems.

Governments 
Marwala has served globally and nationally on policymaking bodies. Most recently, he was the Deputy Chair of South Africa’s Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution (with the President of South Africa Cyril Ramaphosa serving as Chair). This committee developed the country’s fourth industrial revolution strategy. Continentally, Marwala is the Chair of the International Scientific Advisory Board for the African Centre of Excellence in the Internet of Things (ACE-IoT) based in Rwanda. The government of Namibia appointed him on the Fourth Industrial Revolution Task Team.

Other activities 
Marwala is on the corporate board of Nedbank (2019-2023), and is a trustee of the Nelson Mandela Foundation (2020-2023).

Marwala has been a visiting fellow at Harvard University, Wolfson College, Cambridge, and University of California, Berkeley. He is an honorary professor at the Nanjing Tech University as well as the Central South University in The People's Republic of China.

Academic contributions and research
Marwala's research interests include the theory and application of artificial intelligence to engineering, computer science, finance, economics, social science and medicine. Marwala and Israeli researcher Daniel Muller studied the St. Peterburg paradox using the concept of the relative net utility. Marwala and Bo Xing have also studied the relationship between blockchain and artificial intelligence. With Evan Hurwitz, Marwala built software agents that can bluff on playing a game of poker.

Artificial intelligence and aerospace engineering 
Marwala has applied artificial intelligence in aeronautical engineering and an example of this is his work on using AI to detect faults in aerospace structures, which he published papers in journals of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics such as AIAA Journal and Journal of Aircraft.

Artificial intelligence and medical sciences 
Marwala has worked on the application of artificial intelligence to health care. For example, he has used AI to diagnose pulmonary embolism  and epileptic activity  as well as understand HIV and Covid-19. He was a co-inventor of the innovative methods of radiation imaging and with Megan Jill Russell as well as David Rubin the artificial larynx.

Artificial intelligence and economics 
Marwala and Evan Hurwitz proposed that there is less information asymmetry between two artificial intelligent agents than between two human agents and that the more artificial intelligence there is in the market, the less the volume of trades in the market. Tshilidzi Marwala and Evan Hurwitz in their book applied Lewis turning point theory to study the transition of the economy into automated production and identified an equilibrium point (Lewis turning point) where it does not make economic sense to move human labor to automated machines. Tshilidzi Marwala and Evan Hurwitz, in their book, observed that the advent of intelligent online buying platforms such as Amazon and technologies such as flexible manufacturing offers the opportunity for individualized supply and demand curves to be produced. They observed that these reduce the degree of arbitrage in the market, permitting individualized pricing for the same product and bringing fairness and efficiency into the market. Furthermore, with Evan Hurwitz in their book, they observed that decision-making and predicting machines that are executed using artificial intelligence and other machine learning techniques reduce the biases and variances of the errors on decision making and thus make decisions in a closer manner to the conclusions of rational expectations theory than human decision-makers. In his response to Bill Gates, Marwala has also brought to the attention the difficulty of taxing robots given the fact that a great deal of the devices that we use have robotics features. He developed the concept of pseudo-modal energies, proposing the theory of rational counterfactual thinking, rational opportunity cost and the theory of flexibly bounded rationality. Marwala also observed that the applicability of prospect theory depends on how much artificial intelligence is used to make a decision. He also observed that the more artificial intelligence is used for decision-making, the more efficient the markets become. For example, if artificially intelligent machines make all decisions, the markets will be fully rational.