[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Battle of St. Charles

uck Mound City. The Union wounded were sent back down to Memphis on Conestoga. Six Confederate cannons had been captured on the field. Four were sent to Memphis, and the two 32-pounders were spiked and dumped into the river. The Union troops destroyed the Confederate fortifications after the battle.

Hindman had sent the 10th Texas Infantry Regiment to reinforce St. Charles, but the unit had to delay to be issued ammunition. By the time this was done, it was June 17. After learning of the fall of St. Charles, the Texans withdrew to DeValls Bluff, where they were reinforced by another regiment, a battalion, and three artillery batteries. Establishing a supply point at St. Charles, McGunnegle's fleet moved past the river obstructions and continued up the White. The movement began on June 18, although Mound City was left behind. The damaged ironclad later returned to service and survived the war. After meeting sporadic Confederate resistance on June 19, the vessels reached Clarendon, Arkansas, where they halted due to low water. Fitch took his men ashore and advanced  but withdrew after losing 55 men in a fight with Confederate dismounted cavalry. After leaving Clarendon, McGunnegle's flotilla continued north, where they halted for the night at a point in Monroe County known as Crooked Point Cutoff.

At Crooked Point Cutoff, McGunnegle was informed by his pilots that falling river levels would likely strand the ships if they continued further north, so the decision was made to turn around. Fitch was opposed to falling back without resupplying Curtis, but the ships turned back on the morning of June 20. By June 25, they had returned to the mouth of the river. On June 23, Major General Ulysses S. Grant had taken command of Union forces in Memphis. After receiving communication from Halleck that he still wanted Curtis reinforced, Grant sent additional supply vessels and transports loaded with the 34th and 43rd Indiana Infantry Regiments to join the White River flotilla on June 26. The new vessels reached the others on June 27, and Lexington, Conestoga, and Spiteful escorted the transports and supply ships upriver, leaving on June 28 under the command of Lieutenant James Shirk. At noon on June 30, Shirk's vessels reached Clarendon. With water levels falling, Shirk would not venture beyond the town. Fitch wanted to continue, but learned of a new Confederate strongpoint at DeValls Bluff, and decided that the infantry could not take the position without the gunboats. The Union ships turned back down the river on July 3, but began heading back upriver again on July 5. Union forces reoccupied Clarendon on July 7.

Curtis learned that the vessels would not be able to reach his position, so he severed his line of supply and had his men march down the White for two weeks. This was the first time in the war that a Union army had campaigned without a direct line of supply; this would not occur again until the Vicksburg campaign the next year. Curtis emancipated slaves during this movement, and foraging and plundering by his soldiers economically devastated the line of the march. In one county alone, $1,500,000 of property damage was inflicted. The Confederates made only one serious attempt to halt Curtis's movement. On July 7, Brigadier General Albert Rust led Confederate cavalry in an assault on the Union force while it was crossing the Cache River. In the ensuing Battle of Cotton Plant, Rust's attack was repulsed, and his men were then routed by a Union counterattack. McGunnegle's vessels had stayed at Clarendon until July 8, and Curtis's men did not reach there until July 9. Having missed his supply rendezvous, Curtis had his troops leave the White and march to the Mississippi River town of Helena, which was reached on July 12. The relief column itself turned up at Helena on July 15. Helena was later used as a significant operating hub for the Union Army in the Vicksburg campaign; the Confederates never retook the city.

Battlefield preservation

A portion of the battlefield is listed on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) as the St. Charles Battle Site. Divers recovered two cannons from the river bottom in the 1930s and the Belknap house burned in 1962. Also on the NRHP is the St. Charles Battle Monument, a commemorative marker placed in 1919. Unusually for a monument in the South, it commemorates both sides of the battle.

Notes

References

Sources

External links

 Battle of St. Charles at the Historical Marker Database

 
1862 in Arkansas
1862 in the American Civil War
Battles of the American Civil War in Arkansas
Battles of the Trans-Mississippi Theater of the American Civil War
History of Arkansas County, Arkansas
June 1862 events
Naval battles of the American Civil War
Riverine warfare
Union victories of the American Civil War