[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Osvaldo Bagnoli

as a defensive midfielder, or as an inside forward. His main traits were his good technique, tactical intelligence, ball-winning abilities, and eye for goal from midfield, courtesy of his powerful striking ability from distance. In his final seasons with Verbania, he was also deployed as a sweeper.

Style of management
A meticulous and tactically intelligent coach, Bagnoli usually applied the catenaccio system with his teams – in particular during his time at Verona – although he also employed zona mista tactics when defending, a cross between the man-marking and zonal marking systems; his defenders were usually required to contain their opponents in positions further away from the goal. His midfielders were often asked to press their opponents aggressively off the ball, while when in possession, he either asked his players to slow down the play and keep the ball, or hit his opponents quickly and suddenly on the counter-attack, making use of long balls out to his wingers and full-backs in order to stretch his opponents and create space for the forwards. He usually employed a sweeper in his teams, who was also required either to play or carry the ball out from the back after winning back possession and function as a deep-lying playmaker until his teammates were back in position; he also used an advanced playmaker behind the team's two forwards, who was in charge of implementing the side's set plays with his quick passing, as well as playing balls out to the wingers or attacking full-backs, or creating chances for the strikers. At Verona, Pietro Fanna was also required to play an important role on the wing under Bagnoli, who utilised the winger's technical skills, speed, and intelligent movement to help the team push forward quickly on the break; in this role, Fanna was also known for his ability to hold up the ball in order to create space for teammates and full-backs making overlapping attacking runs, functioning as a playmaker himself on the flank at times. Bagnoli usually attempted to field his players in a system which best suited their technical and tactical characteristics, and often felt that they should be given the freedom to express their individual skills in their most appropriate position. Furthermore, he preferred to work with a small group of players for his starting eleven, avoiding turnovers as much as possible. In spite of his friendly and reserved character, and reputation as a man of few words, he was known to be an excellent motivator and communicated well with his players, often looking to collaborate with them in implementing his ideas. Usually his teams were known for starting off slowly and then finishing seasons strongly, after Bagnoli was able to perfect his systems throughout the season through gradual modifications. Regarding Bagnoli, Italy's 1982 World Cup-winning manager Enzo Bearzot commented that he saw his own system in Verona's formation. Bagnoli's success with Verona later earned him the nickname "il mago della Bovisa" (the wizard from Bovisa).

Honours

Player 
Milan
 Serie A: 1956–57
 Latin Cup: 1956

Manager 
Fano
 Serie C2: 1978–79

Hellas Verona
 Serie A: 1984–85
 Serie B: 1981–82

Individual 
 Seminatore d'oro: 1984
 Italian Football Hall of Fame: 2017

References 

Living people
1935 births
Italian men's footballers
Footballers from Milan
Men's association football midfielders
Serie A players
Serie B players
AC Milan players
Hellas Verona FC players
Udinese Calcio players
US Catanzaro 1929 players
SPAL players
SS Verbania Calcio players
Italian football managers
Serie A managers
Serie B managers
Serie C managers
ASD SolbiaSommese Calcio managers
Como 1907 managers
Rimini FC 1912 managers
Alma Juventus Fano 1906 managers
AC Cesena managers
Hellas Verona FC managers
Genoa CFC managers
Inter Milan managers