[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Provisional Legislature of Oregon

raight, Clackamas
William G. T'Vault, Clackamas
George Summers, Clatsop
William F. Tolmie, Lewis
John D. Boon, Polk
James E. Williams, Polk
Lawrence Hall, Tuality
Daniel H. Lownsdale, Tuality
Joseph L. Meek, Tuality
Henry N. Peers, Vancouver
Absalom J. Hembree, Yamhill
Thomas Jeffreys, Yamhill

1847

In 1847 the legislature met from December 7 to 28 at the Methodist Church in Oregon City. On the second day of this meeting at Main and Seventh streets, news of the Whitman massacre, which occurred on November 29, 1847, was delivered to the legislature by Governor Abernethy. This event would dominate the remainder of the session as the Provisional Government worked with the Hudson's Bay Company to send an army east to Walla Walla. Forty-two men under the command of Henry A. G. Lee were sent immediately to The Dalles in what was the beginning of the Cayuse War. A large force under the command of Cornelius Gilliam was then organized and sent to punish those responsible for the massacre. On December 23, the group created Benton District out of the southern section of Polk District, naming the new district for Missouri Senator Thomas Hart Benton. In the legislature, Robert Newell was chosen as the speaker of the group with Calvin W. Cook as clerk.

Members
Members of the legislature and the districts they represented:

Aaron Chamberlain, Champoeg
Anderson Cox, Champoeg
Robert Newell, Champoeg
William H. Rector, Champoeg
Willard Hall Rees, Champoeg
Medorem Crawford, Clackamas
Jacob M. Wair, Clackamas
Samuel Simpson White, Clackamas
John Robinson, Clatsop
Simon Plamondon, Lewis
Marcus Aurelius Ford, Polk
James W. Nesmith, Polk
David Hill, Tuality
Joseph L. Meek, Tuality
Ralph Wilcox, Tuality
Henry W. Peers, Vancouver
Absalom J. Hembree, Yamhill
Levi A. Rice, Yamhill
Lewis Franklin Rogers, Yamhill

Final sessions

The Provisional Legislature met for two sessions in late 1848 and early 1849. The first session, from December 5 to December 13, never formally organized as so many of the representatives had traveled south for the California Gold Rush. Beginning on February 5, a session was organized that conducted the final business of the Provisional Government. The session lasted until February 16. During this session a law forbidding the sale of firearms and supplies to Native Americans was repealed, and a law was passed to authorize the minting of gold coins. The law concerning the coins allowed for the creation of the Beaver Coins, which had a higher gold content than United States minted coins. Less than a month later, when the new territorial governor Joseph Lane arrived, however, he rescinded the law as unconstitutional and the coins were collected and removed from circulation. For the legislative session Ralph Wilcox was chosen as speaker, but he resigned from the post. Stephen Meek served as the doorkeeper, William G. T’Vault as a clerk, and William Holmes as sergeant at arms.

Members
Members of the legislature and the districts they represented:

Joseph C. Avery, Benton
William J. Bailey, Champoeg
Albert Gaines (disqualified), Champoeg
Robert Newell (resigned), Champoeg
Samuel Parker, Champoeg
William Porter, Champoeg
Medorem Crawford, Clackamas
George L. Curry, Clackamas
Absalom F. Hedges, Clackamas
John L. Snook (resigned), Clackamas
John Hudson, Clatsop
Levi L. Smith, Lewis
Anderson Cox, Linn
Henry J. Peterson, Linn
Jesse Applegate, Polk
James W. Nesmith (resigned), Polk
Osborne Russell (resigned), Polk
Peter H. Burnett (resigned), Tuality
David Hill, Tuality
Ralph Wilcox, Tuality
Samuel Thurston, Tuality
Adolphus L. Lewis, Vancouver
Asa L. Lovejoy (resigned), Vancouver
Absalom J. Hembree, Yamhill
William J. Martin, Yamhill
Levi A. Rice, Yamhill

Oregon Territory

On June 15, 1846, the Oregon Treaty was signed with Great Britain, which settled the dispute over sovereignty of the Oregon Country. On August 13, 1848, the United States Congress created the Oregon Territory out of the land between California and the 49th parallel (this served as the border with Britain's North American colonies) and west of the Rocky Mountains. A new bicameral territorial legislature was created with an upper chamber Council and lower chamber House. These bodies met for the first time on July 16, 1849, with some members of the provisional legislature continuing into the new government, including David Hill, Asa Lovejoy, Samuel Parker, and Absalom J. Hembree. Upon statehood in 1859, the territorial legislature would be transformed into the Oregon Legislative Assembly.

References

Provisional Government of Oregon
1843 establishments in Oregon Country
1849 disestablishments in the United States
Oregon legislative sessions