[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Noise regulation

to rectify unacceptable noise generation.  Ordinances have achieved certain successes but they can be thorny to implement. Many European cities are still treating noise as the U.S. did in the 1960s, as a nuisance and not as a numerical standard to be achieved.
 Effects of Noise on Health and Welfare

One obligation of a community is to protect its citizens from adverse environmental influences.  Noise is one of these factors, Noise has documented effects on people, they can be divided into three types.  The first type is a physical effect that directly and adversely effects a person's health. Hearing loss and vibration of bodily components are examples. The second type is a physiological effect that adversely effects a person's health; heightened blood pressure and general stress response are examples.  The third type is psychological that adversely effects a person's welfare; examples are distraction, annoyance, and complaint.
	The only feasible legal basis for a community's right to control noise is based on these adverse health and welfare effects.  It is clearly easier to uphold the constitutionality of a noise ordinance in a court of law if it can be shown that it is based on health and welfare concerns.  The following is a short list of recognized effects of noise that can be addressed as a reason for a noise ordinance.
Excess non-Occupational noise exposure, hearing loss on both public and private property, speech interference on both public and private property, audio interference on both public and private property, and sleep interference on mostly private property.

Some legal considerations in the United States
There are several fundamental issues that shape the legality, effectiveness and enforceability of any community noise regulation.

Preemption
The federal government has preempted certain areas of noise regulation. They can be found in the Code of Federal Regulations under the EPA Noise Abatement Programs; Parts 201 to 205 and 211 cover railroads, motor carriers in interstate commerce, construction equipment, and motor vehicles.  They require product labeling and prohibit tampering with noise control devices.  Communities may enact regulations that are no more strict than the federal ones so that local enforcement can be carried out.  They can enact curfews and restrict vehicle use in established zones such as residential.  Any restriction on interstate motor carriers or railroads may NOT be for the purpose of noise control.
States have police powers granted by the Constitution.  They may also enact regulations that are no more strict than federal regulations. They may also preempt local ordinances.  California  and New Jersey have comprehensive noise codes that communities must meet. Many states required that local ordinances be no more strict than the state code whether such code exists or not.  One relatively common preemption is protection of shooting ranges from noise regulation or litigation and right to farm laws that protect agricultural areas from nuisance litigation by encroaching residential areas.

Constitutional vagueness
In one state court case, the court declared that numerical sound levels were constitutional as not void for vagueness, as the term plainly audible provided it was associated with a reasonable distance. Two requirements for a noise ordinance provision is that:
provide fair warning
avoid the possibility of arbitrary enforcement

Overbreadth
In one Supreme Court case  the court ruled that the specificity of the city ordinance regulating school verbal protests was not constitutionally vague, gave fair warning, and was not an invitation to arbitrary enforcement and so was not overbroad, despite the implied limitation on free speech.

Nuisance
Nuisance law applies to both community noise regulation as well as private suits brought to court to reduce noise impact.

Enforceability
Care must be taken in writing a subjective noise provision so that it overcomes the objections listed above. Care must be taken when writing an objective noise provision to make sure that the sound levels are physically realizable.  For example, requiring the maximum sound level of an automobile to be 40 dB(A) or the maximum sound level in a residential zone to be 30 dB(A) opens the provision to an enforceability challenge.

Four types of noise regulation
Fixed sound sources must be treated differently than moving sources.  In the former case, the listener is normally defined while for moving sources it is not.  Historically, regulations were enforced by the subjective judgment of an enforcing officer.  With the advent of sound measuring equipment, the judgment can be based on measured sound levels. Most comprehensive noise ordinances contain four types of provisions.