[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kevin A. Ring

Kevin A. Ring (born October 19, 1970) is a former American attorney and congressional staffer; he served Republicans in both the House and the Senate, including U.S. Representative John T. Doolittle (R-CA). He also served as a counsel on the Senate Judiciary Committee's Constitution, Federalism and Property Rights Subcommittee.

In 2000 Ring started work as a lobbyist with Jack Abramoff, particularly to support Native American tribes trying to develop and gain approval for gaming casinos. Ring and Abramoff were each indicted in the Abramoff Indian lobbying and bribing scandal.

He went to trial on September 1, 2009, resulting in a hung jury.

In a second trial beginning October 18, 2010, Ring was convicted of charges of corruption and honest services wire fraud; he was sentenced in October 2011 to 20 months in prison. He lost his appeal in January 2013, and the US Supreme Court denied certiorari in October 2013 to hear his case. He also faces trial on charges of obstructing congressional and criminal investigators.

Life and career
Ring has a B.A. in political science from Syracuse University and graduated from the Columbus School of Law at Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. He entered private practice as a member of the Maryland Bar after having worked as a staffer in both the House of Representatives and Senate. In 1993, he joined the staff of U.S. Representative John T. Doolittle. In 1995, he was promoted to legislative director.

In 1998, he was named by then-U.S. Senator John Ashcroft (R-Mo) to serve as a counsel on the Senate Judiciary Committee's Constitution, Federalism and Property Rights Subcommittee. Among other duties, he advised Ashcroft on federal judicial nominations. In 1999 he returned to the House to become executive director of the Conservative Action Team, a group of conservative House Republicans.

In 2000, Ring went to work for Jack Abramoff at Preston Gates Ellis & Rouvelas Meeds LLP, the lobbying arm of the law firm Preston Gates & Ellis LLP, based in Seattle. A year later, he followed Abramoff to Florida-based law firm Greenberg Traurig, where he worked until October 2004. In 2002 and 2003, he was named a "Top Rainmaker" by The Hill newspaper in its annual rankings of Washington's premier lobbyists. In 2004, his book, Scalia Dissents: Writings of the Supreme Court's Wittiest, Most Outspoken Justice, was published.

After leaving Team Abramoff at Greenberg Traurig, he joined Barnes & Thornburg LLP law firm in Washington, D.C. Many of his clients followed him there even as he was identified in several congressional investigations of Abramoff. He resigned from Barnes and Thornburg on April 13, 2007, the same day the FBI raided John Doolittle's home.

In 2015, Ring joined Families Against Mandatory Minimums and became their president from 2017 to 2023. Starting in July 2023, Ring will be the Vice President of Criminal Justice Advocacy at Arnold Ventures LLC.

Abramoff scandal
In 2005, Ring was subpoenaed to appear before the Senate Indian Affairs Committee as part of its Abramoff probe. Asked to discuss his work with Abramoff on behalf of several federally recognized tribes seeking to establish gaming, Ring asserted his Fifth Amendment right against self incrimination. He said, "I'm sorry the clients for whom I worked have had to endure the enormous emotional and financial burden", though he was still working for said clients, the Mississippi Band of Choctaw and the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe as their paid Washington lobbyist.
 
Ring has two daughters and is separated from his wife, who asked for a divorce after the Abramoff scandal unfolded. Although he has never spoken publicly about the charges and did not testify at his trial, he touched on the scandal in an essay written for an online fatherhood magazine.