[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gerak Khas (Malaysian Army unit)

Service Regiment was in charge of all Gerak Khas training. PULPAK is still supported by 21 Cdo, 22 Cdo, and 11 SSR in terms of manpower and expertise. PULPAK's role is to provide specialised courses and training for all military and law enforcement personnel in accordance with current circumstances:

 To train basic commandos for the Malaysian Army and other services (Navy, Air Force).
 To train Special Operations Forces personnel as well as other soldiers in specialised training and special operations as directed by higher authorities.
 To provide advanced training for Special Operations Forces and army personnel as directed by higher authority.
 To carryout training and evaluation tests on Special Operations Forces units.
 To deliver qualified observers and instructors for specialised assignments in Special Operations Forces Units.
 To revise and analyse all doctrines pertaining to specialised training and operations.

Gerak Khas Selection
Officers and other ranks are selected in the same way as for entering Gerak Khas. However, officers must volunteer and be assigned to units under the 21st Special Service Group before they can begin the Basic Commando Course. Officers are given a few months after being assigned before they can volunteer for the Basic Commando Course. They must complete the Basic Commando Course within three years of joining units under 21 SSG. If they fail to do so, the officers will be required to return to their previous unit and will no longer be able to enrol in the Basic Commando Course.

Preparatory Course (4 weeks) 
Each future trainee is required to attend a 30-day preparatory course, also known as the Gerak Khas orientation, before beginning the Basic Commando Course. The difficulty of the orientation will determine whether or not the student is eligible to participate in the Basic Commando Course.

Basic Commando Course (12 weeks) 
The Malaysian Army recruits for the Kursus Asas Komando ('Basic Commando Course') three times per year, in series AK1, AK2, and AK3. The course is divided into five phases and lasts 12 weeks. To be eligible for the course, a soldier must have served in another unit of the Malaysian Army for at least a year and have a good record. The five phases of Basic Commando Course are:
Phase 1 - Camp Phase (5 weeks)
Organized in five weeks, this phase is actually the most important level to test and develop individual physical & mental resistance. Physical endurance, weapon handling, explosives handling, tactics & stratagem implementation (muslihat), field medical, rappelling / abseiling and map reading skills are among the exercises conducted. The trainees are also required to undergo several series of long range march with full combat load. Range is increased from 4.8 km, 8 km, 11.2 km, 14 km to 16 km respectively. Usually, some of the trainees fail to arrive at the designated checkpoint within the stipulated time and they will be sent back to their original unit or other services ("turun skot" – according to the Army's lingo).

Phase 2 - Jungle Phase (2 weeks)
This two-week jungle training is a favourite among the trainees. This is where the trainees will be exposed to practical training, field skills & know-how such as guarding & patrolling, establishing base, survival and section/troop combat.

Phase 3 - Swamp Phase and Long Range March (1 week)
In this phase, all trainees undergo a tough combat march along with their 17 kg pack and reach the target 160 km in three days. Those who succeed will continue to live in the swampy area for seven days without food supply or proper clothing (they wear only underwear). They will practice all survival lessons here.

Phase 4 - Sea Phase (2 weeks)
The sea training is conducted in two weeks, where the trainees are exposed to practical exercises such as small craft navigation, long range/silent rowing and coastal attack using Rigid-hulled inflatable boats (RIB), scuba diving and kayaks. After completing the 'curriculum', they will travel 160 km along the Straits of Malacca using kayaks.

Phase 5 - Final Phase - Escape and Evasion (E&E) (2 weeks)
Now it is time for trainees to apply what they have learned and endured in the previous stage. All trainees are deployed in groups and they must infiltrate 100 km into the operation area by rowing RIB. At the operation area, trainees need to find and identify the location of the enemy, organize and launched an attack in the area. Once they've achieved the objective, they need to escape and report to several agents at designated checkpoints. They must know how to contact their agents and evade the "enemy" who controls that area. If they are caught, they will be tortured and abused. The trainees will then be released and continue their journey until they arrive at the last checkpoint. The total length the trainees cover during their escape are almost 240 km and they must cover the length within 5 days.