[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paul Tisdale

as manager of the club – Exeter City finished in fifth place, achieving another playoff finish. After defeating Carlisle United across a two-legged semi-final, Tisdale led Exeter to Wembley once again. The final would end in disappointment however, with Blackpool defeating Exeter 2–1 on 28 May 2017.

The 2017–18 season was to be Tisdale's final season as manager of Exeter City. Once again he led the club to the playoffs after achieving a fourth-place league finish. Following victory over promotion rivals Lincoln City across two legs, Tisdale led Exeter City to a Wembley playoff final for a fourth time. Once again, the day was to end with disappointment for Tisdale and Exeter City, with Coventry City winning the tie 3–1 on 28 May 2018. On 1 June 2018, following a failure to agree a new contract, Tisdale left Exeter City after twelve years at the club. At the time of his departure, Tisdale was the longest-serving manager in English football's top four divisions.

Milton Keynes Dons
Tisdale was appointed manager of newly relegated League Two club Milton Keynes Dons on 6 June 2018 ahead of the 2018–19 season. After a near-perfect month which saw the club gain 16 points from a possible 18, he was named League Two Manager of the Month for October 2018 by the EFL for only the second time in his career. Tisdale went on to lead Milton Keynes Dons to automatic promotion back to League One at the first attempt, achieving a third-place finish.

Following a poor start to the 2019–20 season in which Milton Keynes Dons achieved only one point from a possible 27 – the worst run of results in the club's short history – Tisdale's contract with the club was mutually terminated on 2 November 2019 following a 1–3 home defeat to Tranmere Rovers.

Bristol Rovers
After a twelve-month break, Tisdale returned to football management on 19 November 2020, signing a two-and-a-half year deal with League One club Bristol Rovers. On 10 February 2021, Tisdale departed the club after just 12 points in 15 league matches that saw Rovers only outside of the relegation zone on goal difference.

Colchester United
On 1 April 2021, Tisdale joined Colchester United in an advisory role until the end of the season, assisting inexperienced head coach Hayden Mullins as Colchester attempted to stay in the Football League.

Stevenage
Tisdale was appointed as manager of League Two club Stevenage, taking on the role on 29 November 2021. He left the club on 16 March 2022, with Stevenage having won three of his 21 matches as manager.

Personal life
Born in Malta, Tisdale went to Beechen Cliff School in Bath, England, where he was childhood friends with actor Andrew Lincoln. In 2017, Lincoln said "One of my oldest and dearest friends happens to be Paul Tisdale. So I've been watching him very avidly throughout his whole career and I've been very proud of him."

Tisdale's uncle is Game of Thrones actor James Faulkner who played Randyll Tarly in the show.

His brother Peter Tisdale also played at Bath City and Team Bath, and attracted interest from Football League clubs such as Queens Park Rangers and AFC Bournemouth, before deciding on a corporate career after graduating from the University of Bath with a degree in politics and economics.

Career statistics

Club

Managerial

Honours

As a manager
Team Bath
Western Football League First Division: 2000–01
Western Football League Premier Division: 2002–03

Exeter City
Conference Premier play-offs: 2008
Football League Two runners-up: 2008–09

Milton Keynes Dons
EFL League Two third-place promotion: 2018–19

Individual
LMA Manager of the Year: 2008–09 League Two
EFL League Two Manager of the Month: August 2017, October 2018

References

External links

 www.paultisdale.co.uk

1973 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Valletta
English men's footballers
England men's schools international footballers
Maltese men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Southampton F.C. players
Northampton Town F.C. players
Huddersfield Town A.F.C. players
Bristol City F.C. players
Exeter City F.C. players
FinnPa players
Panionios F.C. players
Yeovil Town F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
Veikkausliiga players
Super League Greece players
English expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Finland
Expatriate men's footballers in Greece
English football managers
Maltese football managers
Exeter City F.C. managers
Milton Keynes Dons F.C. managers
Bristol Rovers F.C. managers
Stevenage F.C. managers
Colchester United F.C. non-playing staff
National League (English football) managers
English Football League managers
People educated at Beechen Cliff School
Association football coaches