[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Miss Chinatown USA

g grew up in San Francisco idolizing Miss Chinatown, but admits she was "nervous because she did not know how she'd transition from being 'completely sexually repressed and totally awkward' to someone who was beautiful and self-assured. 'I felt like such an embarrassment to my family.

Pageant rules

Eligibility is limited to unmarried United States citizens of Chinese descent between the ages of 17 and 26, which means the entrant's father must be of Chinese descent. Local Chinatown beauty contests were won by the contestant that raised the most funds or sold the most raffle tickets for their family association, but these rules were changed. Initially, contestants were required to answer questions posed in Chinese, but by 1965, it was recognized that some, especially those who had not grown up in Chinatown, did not possess the necessary bilingual skills and the committee stopped factoring the Chinese language responses into the results. , the four scored segments are introduction, talent, swimsuit, and question-and-answer.

The winner of the Miss Chinatown USA title receives a  scholarship and, during her reigning year, travels to meet with family associations, officials, and politicians in the United States and abroad as a goodwill ambassador. As a national pageant, the titleholder of Miss Chinatown USA also is eligible to enter the Miss Chinese International Pageant, a contest for women of Chinese descent not residing in China. For instance, Ni Jiang won Miss Chinatown USA in 2008, then competed in Miss Chinese International in early 2009.

The first runner-up for Miss Chinatown USA holds the simultaneous titles of First Princess and Miss Chinese Chamber of Commerce. Third place is named Second Princess. There is a separate award for Miss Talent, given to the contestant who receives the highest talent score.

Venue

The first Miss Chinatown pageant was held on February 15, 1958, at the Great China Theater. The theater, now renamed as the Great Star, was completed in 1925 to stage Chinese operas and is still showing limited engagements and live performances. Since then, pageants have been held at larger event locations in San Francisco, including the SF Masonic Auditorium (starting in 1959),  Palace of Fine Arts Theatre, and Hyatt Regency San Francisco.

Traditionally, a separate coronation ball is staged at a separate venue after the pageant; in 2012, the coronation ball was held at the Hilton San Francisco Union Square. In 2020, the coronation ball was held at the InterContinental San Francisco. For 2022, the pageant and coronation ball occurred on the same night, in the same venue.

List of Miss Chinatown USA titleholders

Progress in Miss Chinese International

References

Sources
 Asian American History and Culture. Routledge.
 Northwest Asian Weekly
East West 
European Glocalization in Global Context. Palgrave Macmillan.

External links

Miss Chinatown USA Pageant (Official Site)
Chinese Pageant Pictures
 
 

USA
Beauty pageants in the United States
1958 establishments in the United States
American awards
Chinese-American culture