[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# African Union Mission to Somalia

U.S. airstrikes during May 2016.
 al-Shabaab fighters attacked an AMISOM base in June 2016.
 During November Lieutenant Dedan Karithi Karuti (26), of 17 Battalion Kenya Rifles, was killed when the vehicle in which he was traveling was struck by an improvised explosive device on the Warei–Elwak road.

 2017 
 During January al-Shabaab released a video showing the murder of a Ugandan soldier, Private M. Y. Masasa, who had been captured in September 2015 when the AMISOM base at Janaale was overrun by al-Shabaab.Kalinaki, D.K. (2017) 'Who Shall Account For Those Who Die While Fighting For Our Right to Live?' The Monitor (Kampala), 1 February 2017.
 On 2 January two suicide car bombs targeted a security checkpoint near the airport and a hotel.
 On 4 January three UN soldiers were wounded by an explosion near their headquarters in Mogadishu.
 On 24 January an attack on a hotel in Mogadishu left 28 people dead.
 On 25 January at least 25 people were killed in an al-Shabaab suicide assault on the Somali Parliament building. Two suicide car bombs were used in the assault.
 On 27 January a Kenyan base near Kulbiyow town in the Lower Juba region was attacked by al-Shabaab.  According to some reports the base, manned by members of 15 Battalion Kenya Rifles, was overrun and up to 50 Kenyans killed.  Kenyan reports say the base was successfully defended and put their death toll at nine.Waddington, C. (2017) 'AL-SHABAAB HAS REPORTEDLY OVERRUN ANOTHER KDF MILITARY BASE IN SOMALIA', African Defence Review, 27 January 2017, accessed 30 January 2017, <https://www.africandefence.net/al-shabaab-has-reportedly-overrun-another-kdf-military-base-in-somalia/>
 On 2 February a civilian was injured when a car bomb exploded near his house.
 On 19 February a car bomb detonated at a Mogadishu market, killing at least 30 people.
 On 27 February a number of Somali National Army (SNA) soldiers were wounded by a car bomb.
 On 28 February a Somali government official was assassinated when an IED fitted under the driver's seat of his car exploded.
 On 2 March it was announced that at least 57 al-Shabaab fighters had been killed in an attack by the Kenyan Defence Force. The KDF spokesman was reported as saying: 'KDF soldiers operating under AMISOM engaged al-Shebaab militants at a location 31 km northwest of Afmadow, close to Subow centre using artillery fire and supported by helicopter gunships.
 On 12 March a Somali journalist survived an assassination attempt after an IED fitted to his car exploded.
 On 13 March a Somali military base in Mogadishu was targeted by a car bomb, killing three and wounding five.
 On 13 March a popular hotel was targeted, leaving six dead.
 On 21 March ten people were killed and 12 others wounded when a car bomb detonated at a security checkpoint.
 On 24 March a car bomb targeted a popular cafe and hotel near the presidential palace.
 On 27 March it was announced that 31 al-Shabaab fighters had been killed during KDF raids on two bases.
 On 5 April 5 eight people were killed outside the Ministry of Youth and Sports headquarters by a car bomb.
 On 9 April a suicide bomber in a vehicle unsuccessfully targeted the new SNA commander, General Mohamed Ahmed Jimale, as his convoy left a military base in Mogadishu. Fifteen SNA soldiers were killed, including several high-ranking officers, and 20 others were wounded in the attack.
 On 10 April 2017 Kenyan sources announced that 15 al-Shabaab fighters had been killed when their camp 4 km west of Catamaa, and approximately 104  km from El Wak, was shelled and then assaulted.
 On 19 April a Djibouti soldier was killed by a member of the SNA following an argument in Bula-burte town, Hiiraan region.
 On 7 May a Somali intelligence official survived an assassination attempt after an IED fitted to his car exploded on Maka al Mukarama Street, Mogadishu.
 On 8 May a cafe on Maka al Mukarama Street, Mogadishu, was targeted by a car bomb, killing five and leaving ten others wounded.
 On 15 May police intercepted and later destroyed a car bomb intended to target the National Theatre.
 On 17 May a car bomb was intercepted but later accidentally detonated killing three and wounding two others.
 On 24 May eight people were killed and 15 others wounded in a car bomb targeting a police checkpoint.
 On 14 June eleven people were killed in an al- Shabaab suicide car bomb attack near a restaurant and hotel in Mogadishu.
 On 20 June six people were killed when a car bomb detonated near a local government administration office in Mogadishu's Wadajir district.
 On 22 June a police station on Maka al Mukarama Street, Mogadishu, was targeted by a car bomb.
 On 19 July a car bomb detonated outside the Ministry of Youth and Sports headquarters wounding one Somali intelligence official.
 On 30 July five soldiers were killed by a car bomb near a security checkpoint on Maka al Mukarama Street.
 On 30 July a joint SNA/Ugandan convoy was ambushed at Goryowein in the Lower Shabelle region, some 140 km so