[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Uwe Reinhardt

cians. Reinhardt served as a Commissioner for the Kaiser Family Foundation Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured.  Reinhardt was a member of numerous editorial boards, among them The New England Journal of Medicine, JAMA, The Journal of Health Economics, the Milbank Quarterly, and Health Affairs.

Reinhardt served as a trustee of Duke University and the Tekla Family of Funds. He also served on the Boards of Directors of Boston Scientific Corporation, a leading maker of medical devices, and Amerigroup Corporation, a large health insurer whose clients consist primarily of persons enrolled in Medicare. He served on the Board of Directors of Triad Hospitals, Inc, until that company was merged into Community Health Systems in 2007. He was a regular contributor to the New York Times''' Economix blog, where he wrote about economic matters, particularly the economics of health care.

Role in Taiwan's healthcare system and awards

In 1989, as Taiwan was restructuring its healthcare system, Reinhardt persuaded its leaders to model it on those of Canada and Germany. As of 2014, Taiwan's system provides universal care for 6.6% of GDP. For his contribution, in 2014 he was awarded the nation's Presidential Prize. "Reinhardt Receives Honors for Contributions to Health Care Economics," B. Rose Huber, Woodrow Wilson School News, Princeton Univ 30 Mar 2016 In 2018, Reinhardt was posthumously awarded the First Grade Medal for Professionalism in Health and Welfare by Taiwan's Ministry of Health and Welfare.

 Views 

 Administration 
In the 2009 Frontline show "Sick Around 
America", Reinhardt criticized the United States for spending 24% of every health care dollar on administration, and pointed out that Canada spends less than half of the U.S. amount and Taiwan spends significantly less than Canada. Reinhardt faulted the seeming U.S. preference for an unwieldy "mishmash of private insurance plans" for the inefficiency. He said if the U.S. could spend half as much on administration, it would save more than enough money to cover all the uninsured.

 Selected articles 
 "Little hope for the uninsured." Denver Post'', January 25, 2004; E4.

References

External links 

 Uwe Reinhardt's remarks on Princeton Class Day 1995
 Uwe Reinhardt's appearances on National Public Radio
 Institute of Medicine official web site
 Hambrecht and Quist Capital Investors official web site
 Boston Scientific official web site
 Reinhardt's posts on the New York Times Economix blog
 

1937 births
2017 deaths
American economists
Canadian economists
Health economists
Yale University alumni
Princeton University faculty
University of Saskatchewan alumni
Immigrants to the United States
Immigrants to Canada
Writers from Osnabrück
Recipients of the Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
Members of the National Academy of Medicine