[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Foreign direct investment in Iran

Law and the Labor Law. Iran's environment is protected by strict laws and the Department of the Environment is in charge of evaluating the impact of the projects and their monitoring.

General laws and regulations regarding foreign business in Iran could be regrouped under the following categories:

Contract work - A foreign company is allowed to be involved in contractual work in Iran. Such work may be performed either directly by the foreign company or through a registered branch in Iran. Branch offices in Iran do not have the separate legal status enjoyed by LLCs, and the parent company is responsible for the actions of the branch office. For legal and tax purposes, opening a representative office in Iran, by itself, is not considered foreign direct investment.  Establishing and setting up a legal presence in the Iranian market requires a local advisor who can provide a step-by-step advisory service regarding incorporation, office rental, recruitment, staff, business contracts, customs, and the laws in general. CMS Cameron McKenna is among the first major international law firms to open office in Iran.
Direct sales - Most foreign companies are involved in direct sales to Iranian customers through letters of credit and, occasionally on the basis of Usance.
Investments - In accordance with the terms of the Foreign Investment Promotion and Protection Act (FIPPA), foreign companies may invest in newly established factories and industries. Foreign companies are allowed to own 100 per cent of the businesses.

Investment by natural persons of foreign nationality

In 2006, Iranian citizens abroad's net worth was $1.3 trillion. In 2000, the Iran Press Service reported that Iranian expatriates had invested between $200 and $400 billion in the United States, Europe, and China, but almost nothing in Iran. In Dubai, Iranian expatriates have invested an estimated $200 billion (2006).

According to the Civil Code, foreign nationals will, subject to the existence of a treaty on reciprocity, enjoy the same rights and privileges of Iranians. The companies formed by such foreign nationals will be of Iranian nationality and subject to the same laws which regulate the activities of Iranian companies.

Foreign investment in the framework of the Commercial Code

The Iranian Commercial Code is divided into four parts: 
merchant and trade activities, 
trade companies, 
negotiable instruments, 
contracts and bankruptcy.

Foreign nationals can, in the framework of the Commercial Code and subject to the observance of the relevant procedures, form and register companies in Iran. Iran's Commercial Code does not differentiate between Iranian and foreign stock holders of Iranian companies. In other words, there is no restriction regarding the nationality of those who want to establish companies in Iran. In this context, foreign exchange restrictions are equally applied to Iranian and foreign investors. Such companies, however, do not enjoy the privileges set out in FIPPA (see below).

There are seven types of juridical entity or company which can be established under the Iranian Commercial Code as follows:

Joint-stock company may be either a public company (Sherkat Sahami Am) or a private company (Sherkat Sahami Khass)
Limited liability company (LLC) (Sherkat ba Masouliyat Mahdoud)
General partnership (Sherkat Tazamoni)
Limited partnership (Sherkat Mokhtalet Gheyr Sahami)
Joint stock partnership (Sherkat Mokhtalet Sahami)
Proportional liability partnership (Sherkat Nesbi)
Manufacturing / Consumer Co-operative (Sherkat Ta’avoni va Masraf)

From among all these different types, joint-stock company, in which the capital is divided by shares, is the most common and acceptable type of company which can be recommended to foreign investors.

FIPPA

Provisions of the 2002 Act entitled Foreign Investment Promotion and Protection Act (FIPPA) include:

Allowing foreign investment in all sectors opened to Iranian private companies.
A review of the definition of "Foreign Investor" to include Iranian expatriates provided that their investment capital originates from abroad.
Allowing repatriation of local sales related profits in addition to export-related profits in hard currency at the current official exchange rate.
Fair compensation in case of nationalization. If an act of the government disrupts the business activity, the government will be under obligation to make payments for any loan installments that are due on behalf of the project company.
FIPPA allows for international arbitration in legal disputes. There are two major arbitral institutions in Iran: the Tehran Regional Arbitration Centre (TRAC) and the Arbitration Centre of the Tehran Commercial Chamber.
The establishment of a maximum 45-day period for the processing of individual foreign investment applications.