[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# CT Special Forces: Fire for Effect

r's shock and takes over. It is then found out of the bunker; it is the base of the Nemesis Organisation (NO), where the ex-CTSF scientist Gregory Statszeck is found. Owl then tries to get him back, and they also succeed extracting data from the NO's AI, Nemesis. Raptor then arrives to pick them up.

Banner informs Raptor, Owl and Tracy of his latest find; NO has set a task for the CTSF, where they have held hostage of the CTSF's senators and will publicly execute them in 3 hours, doing so would result in the end of the CTSF. The three of them are shocked, but are determined to finish things off. Owl goes down in stealth, though on the ground Thesis is blocked off again, where Owl later enables contact via morse and saves the senators.

While back in Antarctica, the NO has begun attack on the CTSF base. Everyone is panicked. Owl receives a call while returning, which he is informed by Tracy to extract all of Thesis' data. A huge bomb is also fired down towards the base. Owl parachutes down and disarms the bomb, where on the ground he carries out his orders.

Banner enters and suspects Owl for betraying the CTSF. When the others find out, Raptor was shocked. Owl tries to prove his innocence, which was partly supported by the terrorists' action which the communications were disrupted. Owl is sent into detainment while Raptor goes out to secure the base and reprogram the communications. He later finds the leader and tells Tracy to release Owl and group with him.

The leader turns out to be none other than Owl's previous partner, Anton Call. Call wants revenge on the CTSF, which he almost succeeds. Owl seemed reluctant on shooting his former partner, until he and Raptor go on a chase to stop Call. They succeed, and Banner apologises to Owl for doubting him. Banner also recalls his late soldiers whose bravery he will not forget, and senses pride he has with the CTSF.

Gameplay
The game is played in a third person point of view, though interchangeable into a first person perspective but is more of a 'scope' view of the current weapon on hand. Guns with no scopes are given a close up view by the barrel top, while weapons with scopes are given the scoped view.

Like most shooter games, there is a life gauge on the top left corner, primarily a health bar indicating the amount of health available. In addition, there is another bar for energy of the suit worn. When playing as Raptor, his 'TAMSS' suit gives a spherical protection shield that blocks off any bullet or explosion, though it cannot block melee attacks from enemies. Any impact on the shield drains the energy bar while keeping the player safe. When playing as Owl, his 'Vampyr's Heart' suit enables his active camouflage and three specific visions, which any, when activated drains the energy bar while giving the player usage to the suit's functions; the bar however does not drain faster when multiple applications of the suit are in use. Players can recharge the energy bars from a special recharge battery booth marked as a blue dot on the minimap. There are also health kits throughout each missions' map, seen as a spinning health box.

The weapons in use depend on the current mission played. When playing as Raptor, heavy guns, explosives and automatic firearms are used in a frontal assault tactic. When playing as Owl, silenced guns, semi-automatic guns and scope rifles are used in stealth, but in the last few missions, Owl does not fully use stealth firearms. Ammunition packs are seen as spinning black coloured-trimmed boxes; small yellow packs for bullets, big orange packs for explosives, small cubic orange packs for grenades and flat blue packs for electromagnetic grenades.

When driving vehicles, both characters can drive any vehicle, ranging from boats to jeeps. The Hoverspeed is a massive vehicle only Raptor can drive which enables access to any terrain, also mounting a machine gun that can be controlled alone or when Owl is on board. Driving a vehicle is relatively easy that only requires the basic movement controls.

A free-fall mode is available when players play as Owl in a drop mission. When in free-fall, the player can speed up and attain streamlined body which enables quicker reach to the required height while leaving Owl vulnerable to attacks, or looping in free-fall to dodge any shots fired by enemies. A drop mission has enemies who are also in the sky with Owl as they gun him down, which the player can engage in combat up in free-fall. In later levels, locked-on missiles are launched which can be destroyed if detected and destroyed quickly, extreme enemy parachutists jumping onto Owl to kill him in mid-air which can be tackled when in all directions quickly, and lastly multiple missiles launched at Owl where destroying and dodging is imminent to survive. In the last few levels Owl also destroys a bomb in mid-air where the player simply shoots at designated spots. A time limit is given, also with a huge amount of ammunition.