[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Human Rights Act 2004

of Dennis Michael Nova v The Queen (2012) was heard in the Supreme Court by Justice Richard Refshauge who evaluated the halt in legal proceedings pertaining to Nova's charges being brought to trial. The decision of the court utilised common law and the Human Rights Act 2004 (ACT) to reach a verdict.

With respect to common law, Justice Refshauge acknowledged the "appalling delay" in the proceedings, however, the Justice was unconvinced Nova would experience prejudice relating to matters of fair trial. Additionally, Justice Refshauge pointed out the delay was not the result of "inaction on the part of authorities". As such, Justice Refshauge remained dissatisfied with the idea that the defendant's trial would be tainted by prejudice.

In addressing common law, Justice Refshauge moved to examine the parameters under the Human Rights Act 2004. The court investigated the basis for a stay under section 22 – Rights in Criminal Proceedings. Section 22 outlines that an individual "charged with a criminal offence" holds the right to a trail unencumbered by excessive postponement. Justice Refshauge explained that a delay in proceedings does not itself constituted a violation of the Act. Nonetheless, given the three year and four-month delay in bringing this matter to trail, Justice Refshauge concluded that the defendant's rights were violated, citing section 22 of Human Rights Act. In Justice Refshauge's ruling, this breach was acknowledged on the record.

Criticisms and Approbation

The Human Rights Act of 2004 was at the forefront of establishing Human Rights in Australia. Being the first of its kind, the Act's efficacy and scope are debated by legal scholars. This section outlines criticism and approbation of Act.

Jon Stanhope who served on council for A.C.T civil liberties as the president points out, that the Human Rights Act is ‘’one of the most important pieces of legislation’’ passed in Australia. Nevertheless, Stanhope acknowledges that ‘’the act is not an end in itself’’ but will be used to encourage norms and customs that respect Human Rights.

Congruent with the former, Helen Watchirs the president of the A.C.T Human Right Commission and Gabrielle McKinnon a director on the Australian National University research project into Human Rights Act levy heavy criticism. Watchirs and McKinnon describe the moderate influence of the Human Rights Act within the judicial system. The duo comment, that a ‘’great many cases’’ have been adjudicated without careful analysis and scrutiny of raised provisions pertaining to the Human Rights Act.

Conversely, Michael Walton a senior lecture of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy school stated, that this piece of legislation provides an honest accounting of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.   Notwithstanding, Walton takes issue with specific sections of the Act. For example, when an individual's rights have been violated, under this act, there is no path to remuneration through litigation.

Additionally, George Williams a Scientia Professor at the University of New South Wales and Lara Kostakidis-Lianos a member of the University of New South Wales law journal wrote about the connection between the Human Rights Act and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The pair comment that the Act's biggest advantage is the board spectrum of knowledge available. By utilising this knowledge to iteratively refine itself, this legislation may be Australia's greatest tool to protect rights and responsibilities despite concerns of opaque terminology.

Jim McGinty a retired Attorney-General of Western Australia continues by describing the legislation as ‘’ground-breaking’’ and providing an ‘’express list’’ of civil and political protections. McGinty comments, that unlike previous protections, the Human Rights Act establishes a connection between the individual and the government; without this partnership, the rights enshrined in the Act may become brittle, similar to analogous protections afforded within other legislative accounts.

Amendments: Humans Rights Amendment Act 2008
(The full text of the Act is available online.)

The Human Rights Amendment Act 2008 clarified various areas of confusion in Human Rights Act of 2004. Enshrined by the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, the following amendments came into effect on 4 March 2008.

Interpretation of law and human rights

This section sought to elucidate the interpretation of Territory law. Dictating that when congruous to a legislations’ aim, interpretation must be consistent with Human Rights  (Austlii, 2008).

Notice to Attorney-General and Commission

The following amendment specifies who the Supreme Court should communicate with, in the event, a case is heard that relates to an individual exercising a Human Right. It is made explicit, that both the Attorney-General and the Human Rights Commissioner should be notified.