[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Politics of South Sudan

it with a prime minister. Cabinet Affairs Minister Martin Elia Lomuro said: "The government delegation did not receive such proposal from IGAD. We only read it from the media reports attributing statements carrying such suggestions to the rebels, and I don't I understand the basis of the proposal."

Federalization 
The resolution, as announced by Intergovernmental Authority for Development (IGAD) entailed structures and functions of a Transitional National unity government that was "mostly agreed on." However, the "in principle" breakthrough after months of discussions on instituting a federalised structure of government was held up by the time frame for implementation. The Sudan People's Liberation Movement-In Opposition (SPLM-IO ) called for immediate implementation, while the governing SPLM-Juba asked for a 30-month transitional period prior to the formation of a new administration. This would entail bypassing the scheduled 2015 election.

As part of the ceasefire agreement following the end of the South Sudanese Civil War, South Sudan began a transition towards federalism, overseen by Lasuba L. Wango, the Minister of Federal Affairs since 2020.

2020 onwards, Unity Government 
To bring peace to South Sudan, President Salva Kiir and his former rival, Riek Machar formed a Unity Government in February 2020. The two-year deal included uniting their two armies, an act that by August 2022 had not yet occurred. The deal was due to expire on 22 February 2023, with a general election expected to follow, but in August 2022 the deal was extended and elections delayed until December 2024.

Constitution 
The Transitional Constitution of South Sudan (TCSS) was drafted in 2011 as a temporary document in place of a permanent constitution. It is the constitution of South Sudan until a permanent constitution is ratified. Because of the transitional nature of the TCSS, it favors a decentralized governmental system. Prior to the 2011 independence referendum, the Interim Constitution of South Sudan was the constitution of the then-autonomous Southern Sudan.

The National Legislature of South Sudan, the country's legislative body, is composed of the National Legislative Assembly and the Council of States.

The executive branch of government is headed by the president. Under the TCSS, the president's term lasts for two consecutive 5-year terms. However, in April 2015, South Sudan's parliament voted to extend Kiir's term to 9 July 2018. A new vote held in July 2018 further postponed South Sudan's first election until 2021. The president has vast powers in creating and dissolving state powers during times of emergency. Kiir demonstrated this power in the dismissal of his entire cabinet in 2013.

Ministries
South Sudan's President Salva Kiir has named cabinet ministers, sharing power with ex-rebels in a key step in the peace process.

Kiir nominated 20 ministers, while SPLM-IO's Riek Machar nominated nine ministers. The South Sudan Opposition Alliance (SSOA) nominated three ministers, Former Detainees nominated two ministers and other opposition political parties nominated one minister.

The new Transitional Government of National Unity (TGoNU) is part of a peace agreement signed in September 2018 between President Kiir and several opposition leaders including Riek Machar, the new First Vice President.

 Ministry of Cabinet Affairs
 Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation
 Ministry of Defense and Veterans’ Affairs
 Ministry of Interior
 Ministry of Peace Building
 Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs
 Ministry of National Security
 Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs
 Ministry of Information, Communication, Technology and Postal Services
 Ministry of Federal Affairs
 Ministry of East African Community Affairs
 Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
 Ministry of Petroleum
 Ministry of Mining
 Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security
 Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries
 Ministry of Trade and Industry
 Ministry of Environment and Forestry
 Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation
 Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
 Ministry of Wildlife, Conservation and Tourism
 Ministry of Investment
 Ministry of Higher Education
 Ministry of General Education and Instruction
 Ministry of Health
 Ministry of Public Service and Human Resource Development
 Ministry of Labour, Public Service and Human Resource Development
 Ministry of Energy and Dams
 Ministry of Transport
 Ministry of Roads and Bridges
 Ministry of Gender and Social Welfare
 Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs
 Ministry of Culture, Museums and National Heritage
 Ministry of Youth and Sports

Notable people
 

Isaac Awan Maper, politician, Minister for the Environment
Kosti Manubi, Minister for Cabinet Affairs
Luka Tombekana Monoja, Minister of Health

See also
 List of presidents of South Sudan
 List of vice-presidents of South Sudan
 Samson L. Kwaje

References

Further reading