[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Synagogues in India

he synagogues in Chendamangalam and Paravur
There were several Jewish communities north of Cochin, and their presence in this area goes back to at least the 11th century. Several synagogues were built over the years, two of which have recently been restored, in the towns of Chennamangalam and Pavur.

There was a Jewish presence in Chennamangalam (Chendamangalam) well before the current structure was built. Following a 17th-century plan devised by a local and tolerant leader in the town of Chennamangalam, four religious structures were built: a church, mosque, Hindu temple, and another Cochin synagogue. All still stand today, altogether rebuilt or much altered. By the turn of this century, this synagogue, which sat unused for many years with no Jews to use it, was in dire need of attention. In 2005, the Indian Department of Archaeology with funds mainly from the Department of Tourism restored the small white-washed structure. An international team made up of Professor Jay Waronker of the US, Dr. Shalva Weil of Israel, and Ms. Marian Sofaer of the USA were responsible for the planning of a permanent exhibition in the spaces of the synagogues. These highlight the history and architecture of the Chennamangalam Jewish community and other Cochin Jews. The museum, which opened in February 2006, is open daily, except Sunday.

Similarly, in the nearby town of Pavur (Paravur), the abandoned synagogue was restored and opened as a museum in 2015. The building combines Jewish tradition with Keralan vernacular architecture. In the courtyard there are a commemorative stone dating back to the construction of the current building in 1620.

Madras synagogues

The Madras Synagogue is the only Synagogue in Tamil Nadu, it was built by Jacques (Jaime) de Paiva (Pavia) a Paradesi Jew of Madras. Madras Synagogue was also known as the Esnoga, or  Snoge, Esnoga is synagogue in Ladino, the traditional Judaeo-Spanish language of Sephardic Jews.

Jacques (Jaime) de Paiva (Pavia) was originally from Amsterdam Sephardic community. Jacques (Jaime) de Paiva (Pavia) came to Madras for trading in Golconda diamonds, precious stones and corals, he developed very good relations with the rulers of Golkonda and maintained trade connections to Europe.

Baghdadi synagogues
Baghdadi synagogues, some built with the support of the Sassoon family, all have particularly large Holy Arks where the Sefer Torahs are stored. From the Ark's outside, the doors appear to cover a standard-sized cabinet typical to most synagogues around the world. Once the doors are opened in Indian Baghdadi synagogues, however, a sizeable walk-in room is revealed that is ample enough to store as many as one hundred Torahs.

Bene Israel synagogues

Synagogues used by the Bene Israel Jews who settled in Mumbai, Ahmedabad, and Pune in the very late 18th to early 19th centuries tend to be smaller. Since the Bene Israel Jews were by far the largest of the three groups of Indian Jews, they built the most synagogues. The first dates from 1796 in Mumbai, although this building, Shaar HaRahamim, was rebuilt in the mid-19th century. The architecture of most Bene Israel synagogues is rarely stylistically pure and hence hard to define or label, although there are examples of buildings built in the 1930s by the Bene Israel communities of Mumbai and Ahmedabad that are pure Art Deco. A few, particularly those built by the Bene Israel Jews in the coastal Konkan Region of Maharashtra during the 19th century, are interesting blendings of colonial influences, vernacular building traditions, and Jewish liturgical requirements. At one time more than a dozen synagogues existed in these small coastal communities where communities of Jews lived, including at Pen, Alibag, Panvel and Mhasala, but today many are closed or marginally operating due to the much dwindled Jewish population.

Synagogues in the State of Maharashtra
 

The state of Maharashtra has 10 Synagogues in Maharashtra, particularly in Bombay (later renamed Mumbai), Thane, and the neighbouring Konkan region. Bombay's oldest synagogue, the Gate of Mercy Synagogue was built in 1796. Other famous synagogues in Bombay include the Magen David Synagogue in Byculla and the Knesset Eliyahoo in Fort. Ohel David Synagogue and Succath Shelomo Synagogue are the two synagogues in Pune.

Synagogues in the State of Gujarat
Magen Abraham Synagogue in Ahmedabad is the only Synagogue in Gujarat.

The current Jewish population of India is likely less than 4,500. The number of Cochin Jews remaining in India is approximately 50, Baghdadi Jews number no more than a few hundred, and the balance are Bene Israel.

See also
Judaism in India
Kochangadi Synagogue
Paravur Synagogue
Paradesi Synagogue
Mumbai Chabad House