[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Laumeier Sculpture Park

er. The additional land was mostly woods and is for site-specific sculptures, including an abandoned Depression-era concrete pool from the Orchard Valley estate that once occupied the land which was transformed into Pool Complex: Orchard Valley, 1983–85, a large sculptural installation by Mary Miss.

Non-Profit History and County Parks Partnership 
The founding executive director of Laumeier Sculpture Park, a 501(c)3 non-profit organization, was Dr. Beej Nierengarten-Smith, whose tenure lasted 22 years from October 1979 to May 2001. During  these early years the park won 6 operating grants and 2 conservation grants from the Institute of Museum and Library Services, including a grant to create an informative video on the park and an architectural assessment of its buildings. The park also received 22 grants from the National Endowment for the Arts for exhibitions and sculpture commissions. An endowment fund was created, valued at $2 million by 2000, and the park's operating fund increased from an initial $30,000 from St Louis County to over one million from combined resources. A variety of national and international sculptors were featured, including Terry Allen, Manuel Neri, Andy Goldsworthy, Judith Shea, and Joyce J. Scott.  Fifty percent of featured artists were women. Nierengarten-Smith also created the Contemporary Arts and Crafts Fair for education revenue, the Winter Solstice Program Fire and Ice, the Sand Castle Festival, Safari Camp in the woods for children and parents, and numerous other festivals for diverse audiences, including children. A volunteer program for the park and its special events was also created.  During the first 22 years, attendance rose from several hundred to 500,000 people, and the park twice received museum accreditation from the American Association of Museums.

When Nierengarten-Smith retired in 2001, Glen Gentele became Executive Director.  In September 2009 when Gentele accepted a position at another museum, Marilu Knode came from Arizona State University, where she was head of research for Future Arts Research, to become the current executive director. Knode was the former head of research at Future Arts Research at Arizona State University. Knode left Laumeier in 2016 after seven years in the position, and was succeeded by Stephanie Riven of The Riven Company as Interim Director. Lauren Ross was appointed Executive Director of Laumeier in 2018.

Today, Laumeier is an internationally recognized, nonprofit arts organization accredited by the American Alliance of Museums (AAM) and operates in partnership with St. Louis County Parks and Recreation department. Projects and programs are supported by the Laumeier Endowment Fund, the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), the Regional Arts Commission (RAC), the University of Missouri-St. Louis (UMSL), Missouri Arts Council (MAC), and the Arts and Education Council of St. Louis.

Sculpting the Future
In 2015, Laumeier closed its first major capital campaign, Sculpting the Future, culminating in the renovation of the Laumeier’s 1917 Estate House into the Kranzberg Education Lab and the construction of the Aronson Fine Arts Center for exhibitions, programs and events. The project was designed in 2010 by Trivers, a St. Louis architectural firm, and completed in 2015.

The 1917 Estate House now functions as the Kranzberg Educational Lab, providing classrooms, presentation spaces, and staff offices for mission-driven programming and organizational sustainability.

Located beyond the foyer inside the Aronson is the Emerson Visitor's Center and Gracie’s Shop, Laumeier's gift shop. The majority of products sold in the Shop are made by local artists, including those of the winners of the Gracie's Shop Featured Artists' Award. These are awarded annually by a panel of jurors during the Laumeier Annual Art Fair, hosted Mother's Day weekend at the Park since 1987. The Aronson also includes the 3,280-square-foot Whitaker Foundation Gallery for temporary exhibitions by regional, national, and internationally-known artists each year, as well as collection storage facilities and workspace for the Preparator and Assistant Preparator

The Siteman Carriage House, located next to the 1917 Estate House, is designated for curatorial activities, including the office of the Curator, a collection-focused library, and the planned archive offices for Laumeier Sculpture Park.

The Collection

Among the 105 acres of Laumeier Sculpture Park are 70+ large-scale outdoor sculptures, including works by notable artists such as Alexander Liberman, Mark di Suvero, Mary Miss, Dan Graham, Beverly Pepper, Jackie Ferrara, Vito Acconci, Donald Judd, and Niki de Saint Phalle, among many others in the Collection.