[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eastern Anatolia Region

of indigenous Armenians, when it was also known as Western Armenia, and in addition had significant minorities of Georgians, Pontic Greeks and Caucasus Greeks.

Geography
The average altitude is . Major geographic features include plains, plateaus and massifs. There is some volcanic activity today.

Lakes And Rivers
 Located in the Eastern Anatolia Region Aras and Kura rivers flooded the shed outside the territory of Turkey to the Caspian Sea. Euphrates, the Tigris and the Zab river waters are poured back onto the Persian Gulf Turkey outside.
 The regime of the streams of the region is irregular. This is because; the irregularity of the precipitation regime and the fall of winter precipitation in the form of snow. As the snow falls on the ground for a long time without melting, the flow rates of the rivers decrease. The snow melting in spring and summer causes streams to increase their flow rates and flow enthusiastically. On the other hand, the rivers of the region have high hydroelectric energy potential. The reason for this is that it has high elevations and slopes.
 Lakes were formed on the fault lines throughout the region. Turkey's largest lake, Lake Van along with Lake Çıldır, Lake Nazik, Lake Erçek, Lake Hazar, Lake Balık and Lake Haçlı are located within the region.

Massifs and mountains
There are three massif lines running north–south:
To the north, the Çimen Dağı, Kop Dağı and Yalnızçam mountains
In the centre, the Munzur, Karasu Dağı, Aras Dağı mountains
To the south, Southeast Tauros, Bitlis, Hakkâri, and Buzul mountains.
The volcanic mountains Nemrut, Süphan, Tendürek and Ararat are in the region.

Plateaus and plains
The largest plateau in the region is Erzurum-Kars Plato.
The region includes the Malatya, Elazığ, Bingöl, Muş plains and the Van Lake basin.

Lakes

Rivers

Climate and nature

Since most of the region is far from the sea, and has high altitude, it has a harsh continental climate with long winters and short summers. During the winter, it is very cold and snowy, during summer the weather is cool in the highlands and warm in the lowlands.

The region's annual temperature difference is the highest in Turkey. Some areas in the region have different microclimates. As an example, Iğdır (near Mount Ararat) has a milder climate.

The region contains 11% percent of the total forested area of Turkey, and it is rich in native plants and animals. Oak and yellow pine trees form the majority of the forests.

The region has high potential for hydroelectric power.

Gallery

Endnotes

External links

 
Regions of Turkey
Geographic history of Armenia