[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Campeonato Brasileiro Série A

rie B, was included in the Blue Module of the new competition, where the elite of Brazilian football was, without having to go through the second division. Similarly, Bahia, playing at the 1999 Campeonato Brasileiro Série B failed to promote back to the top division, was included in the Blue Module.

Modern championship, stabilization and growth 
One of the historical characteristics of the Brazilian Championship was the lack of standardization and constant change in the competition system, as well as the rules and the number of participants. After the 2000 edition, changes to the format started being discussed in favor of a regular and stable form of competition. In 2002, the Clube dos 13 voted in favor of adopting an European-style round-robin format: The matches are divided into two rounds, and the team that scores the most points is declared champion. The tiebreaker criteria vary, from goal sequence to number of victories. Rede Globo, the championship's main broadcasting partner was against the removal of playoffs, arguing for a loss of revenue and audience without decisive games. 24 clubs disputed the 2003 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, and Cruzeiro won Brazil's first domestic treble after winning that years's Série A, Copa do Brasil and Campeonato Mineiro. The next years saw the number of clubs later scaled down to 22 in 2005 and 20 in 2006. In what the CBF itself confirms as a "definitive format", with the four best teams qualifying for the Copa Libertadores, and the four worst teams being relegated to Série B with the season being between May and December. This was the last change to the competition's format, which has remained stable ever since.

In 2008, the CBF announced the creation the Série D as a fourth division. In 2009, the number of clubs in the Série C was downsized from 63 to 20 teams. The 2009 Campeonato Brasileiro Série D had 39 teams and its first champion was São Raimundo from Santarém, Pará. Currently the Série D has 64 teams and serves as the lowest national tier.

In 2010, CBF decided to recognize the champions of both Taça Brasil (1959–68) and Torneio Roberto Gomes Pedrosa (1967–70) as Brazilian Champions, creating some controversy as there was a two-year period when both tournaments were held, thus Palmeiras was awarded two times for winning both in 1967 and both Santos and Botafogo were recognized as champions in 1968 as each tournament was won by one of them.

In August 2023, the CBF declared the Torneio dos Campeões 1937 retroactively a Brazilian championship. The titles of old tournaments, cited in the Brazilian championship history, are equated to the title of Série A, but the tournaments are cataloging with their original name in the statistics (despite being different competitions, they confer the same title).

Competition format

Competition 
There are 20 clubs in the Brasileirão. During the course of a season (from May to December) each club plays the others twice (a double round-robin system), once at their home stadium and once at that of their opponents, for a total of 38 games. Teams receive three points for a win and one point for a draw. No points are awarded for a loss. Teams are ranked by total points, victories, goal difference, and goals scored. At the end of each season, the club with the most points is crowned champion. If points are equal between two or more clubs, the rules are:

If the tie is between more than two clubs not competing for the national title or relegation, then the tie is broken using the results of the games the clubs have played against each other (head to head points and goals difference).
If the tie is still not broken, the winner will be determined by Fair Play scales.
 e) fewest yellow cards
 f) fewest red cards
If there is a tie for the championship, for relegation, or for qualification to other competitions, the Fair Play scales will not be taken into account; a play-off match at a neutral venue decides rank. Otherwise, a drawing of lots will determine the final positions.

A system of promotion and relegation exists between the Brasileirão and the Série B. The four lowest placed teams in the Brasileirão are relegated to Série B, and the top four teams from the Série B promoted to the Brasileirão.

Qualification for international competitions 

Since 2016, the top six clubs in the Brasileirão qualify for the following Copa Libertadores. The top four clubs directly enter the group stage whilst the fifth and sixth-placed clubs enter in the second round. The number of teams qualifying for the Libertadores may increase depending on who wins the Copa do Brasil, Copa Sudamericana or Copa Libertadores.

Clubs from seventh to twelfth place qualify for the following Copa Sudamericana, although as above the numbers can depend on other competitions.

Champions

Seventeen clubs are officially recognized to have been the Brazilian football champions. In bold those competing in Série A as of 2023 season.