[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Seyed Ali Zahir Moulana

Seyed Ali Zahir Moulana (born 25 June 1956) is a Sri Lankan politician, former diplomat and local government activist. He is most known for the pivotal and important role he played in bringing about an end to the Sri Lankan Civil War.

He has been politically active since 1988, and is the current Member of Parliament for the Batticaloa District, the only directly elected Sri Lanka Muslim Congress Parliamentarian in the current Parliament of Sri Lanka. He is the State Minister of Social Empowerment, appointed by President Maithripala Sirisena on 21 December 2018.

He was previously elected as a Member of Parliament for the Batticaloa District, under the United National Party from  August 16, 1994, until his resignation on June 23, 2004.

Moulana is most noted for his orchestration of the defection of prominent members of the LTTE guerrilla group, including its one-time Military Commander Vinayagamoorthy Muralitharan (Colonel Karuna),  from the terror outfit to the government in 2004. He resigned his seat in Parliament shortly thereafter due to the rising threat on his life from the LTTE. Moulana thereafter was appointed as a high-ranking diplomat at the Embassy of Sri Lanka to the United States., and upon his return to Sri Lanka in 2010, he resumed his political career by being elected as the Mayor of Eravur, and thereafter as a Member of the Eastern Provincial Council  and held that position until his re-election to Parliament in August 2015.

He served as Minister of State for Primary Industries and Social Empowerment in the Maithripala Sirisena government from 2015 to 2019.

Early life
Moulana grew up in Eravur, and attended Aligarh Central College in Eravur for his primary education, and thereafter the Jesuit-run St. Michael's College for his secondary education.

For his post-secondary education, he attended Jamal Mohamed College in Trichy, India, obtaining a bachelor's degree in commerce, and immediately thereafter the University of California, Los Angeles, US, obtaining a master's degree in computer science in 1987.

Moulana then returned to Sri Lanka in 1988 and entered active politics.

Early political career

Eravur Massacre 
Two nights prior, they had overrun and demolished the Eravur Police Station leaving the populace virtually helpless. Moulana was the first on the scene, and with the help of the Minister of Defense Ranjan Wijeratne, an army camp was established in Moulana's own home to help prevent further attacks from taking place on the people.

Eravur Pradeshiya Sabha 
In March 1994, Local Government Elections were held in northern and eastern parts of Sri Lanka. Moulana formed an independent party and contested as its chief candidate in the Eravur Pradeshiya Sabha elections. His party was elected with a large majority, and as the highest polled, he was unanimously elected Chairman of the Eravur Pradeshiya Sabha.

Member of Parliament (1994-2004) 
Prior to the Parliamentary elections in August 1994, Moulana and his supporters were invited by then President D.B. Wijetunga to join the United National Party (UNP). Owing to the rise in popularity of the sectarian Sri Lanka Muslim Congress led by its founder leader M. H. M. Ashraff in the region, his dissent towards communal politics and interest towards pursuing a national identity for the Muslim community led Moulana to accept the invitation, and he subsequently contested and won the 1994 General Election with the UNP for the Batticaloa District, and was an opposition Member of Parliament.

He remained a Member of Parliament until his resignation on June 23, 2004.

Assassination attempt 
Around 5:40 pm on December 9, 1995, Moulana and another UNP MP Jayalath Jayawardena were travelling to Batticaloa from Colombo, when their convoy was ambushed along the A15 highway in Kiran by around 40 members of the LTTE. After 11 minutes of intense fighting, the convoy managed to enter the cover of the nearby Sittandy army camp. Moulana and Jayawardena escaped unhurt, although two of Moulana's bodyguards were killed in the attempt, while 5 others sustained injuries.

UNP Government, Ceasefire, Karuna Controversy and Resignation from Parliament

Ceasefire & Development 
In the December 2001 General Elections, the UNP swept to power and formed the government with Ranil Wickremesinghe, the leader of the UNP appointed as the new Prime Minister. Moulana was appointed as Senior Advisor to the Prime Minister. The government then set about on its plan for the cessation of hostilities through a Norwegian government brokered ceasefire with the LTTE. During this time, peace talks commenced between the government and LTTE on a political solution to the ethnic crisis.