[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1926 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1926 in New Zealand.

Population
The 1926 New Zealand census is held on 20 April.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
 Head of State – George V
 Governor-General – Sir Charles Fergusson

Government
The 22nd New Zealand Parliament continues with the Reform Party governing.

Speaker of the House – Charles Statham
Prime Minister – Gordon Coates
Minister of Finance – William Nosworthy until 24 May, then William Downie Stewart
Minister of External Affairs – Francis Bell until 18 January, then from 24 May William Nosworthy

Parliamentary opposition
Leader of the Opposition – vacant until 26 June, then Harry Holland (Labour Party)

Judiciary
 Chief Justice – Sir Robert Stout, then Charles Skerrett from 1 February

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland – George Baildon
Mayor of Wellington – Charles Norwood
Mayor of Christchurch – John Archer
Mayor of Dunedin – Harold  Tapley

Events 
 15 April – The Eden by-election is won by Rex Mason (Labour). As a result, Labour became the dominant party in opposition, with 12 seats compared to the Liberals' 11.
 15 November – The Balfour Declaration asserts the right of New Zealand and other dominions to exist as independent countries
 3 December – Nine miners die in an explosion in the Dobson coal mine near Brunner
 Undated
 Writer and adventurer Zane Grey first visits New Zealand, helping to popularise big-game fishing
 Department of Scientific and Industrial Research is established
 Pavlova reportedly created by a Wellington hotel chef in honour of the visit of Anna Pavlova
 Ash eruption of Red Crater, Mount Tongariro
 Leonard Cockayne publishes the first part of Monograph on New Zealand beech forests, which argues that the forests could be managed with a rotation of 80–120 years, but warns about overgrazing by deer

Arts and literature

See 1926 in art, 1926 in literature, :Category:1926 books

Music

See: 1926 in music

Radio

See: Public broadcasting in New Zealand

Film

See: 1926 in film, List of New Zealand feature films, Cinema of New Zealand, :Category:1926 films

Sport

Chess
 The 35th National Chess Championship is held in Dunedin, and is won by S. Crakanthorp of Sydney, his second title

Cricket
 New Zealand, along with India and the West Indies, is admitted to the Imperial Cricket Conference, increasing the number of test playing nations to six

Football
 The Chatham Cup is won by Sunnyside (Christchurch)
 Provincial league champions:
	Auckland – Tramways
	Canterbury – Sunnyside
	Hawke's Bay – Whakatu
	Nelson – Athletic
	Otago – HSOB
	South Canterbury – Colmoco
	Southland – Ohai
	Taranaki – Auroa
	Waikato – Huntly Thistle
	Wanganui – Woollen Mills
	Wellington – Hospital

Golf
 The 16th New Zealand Open championship is won by Andrew Shaw after a playoff with Ernie Moss.
 The 8th National Amateur Championships are held at Miramar (men) and Balmacewan (women)
 Men – Arthur Duncan (Wellington) (his tenth title)
 Women – Louisa Kerr (Timaru)

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup – Ahuriri (2nd win)
 Auckland Trotting Cup – Talaro

Thoroughbred racing
 New Zealand Cup – Count Cavour
 Avondale Gold Cup – Beacon Light
 Auckland Cup – Tanadees
 Wellington Cup – Enthusiasm
 New Zealand Derby – Commendation

Lawn bowls
The national outdoor lawn bowls championships are held in Dunedin.
 Men's singles champion – W. Foster (Caledonian Bowling Club)
 Men's pair champions – W. R. Todd, E. Tamlyn (skip) (St Kilda Bowling Club)
 Men's fours champions – J. D. Best, H. G. Siedeberg, F. McCullough, E. Harraway (skip) (Dunedin Bowling Club)

Rugby league
 The New Zealand national rugby league team tours Britain, losing all three tests against Great Britain and one test against Wales
 The NZRFU takes legal action to prevent the NZRL from using the name "All Blacks" for the national rugby league team

Rugby union
 1926 New Zealand rugby union tour of New South Wales 
 1926–27 New Zealand Māori rugby union tour
 Ranfurly Shield – held by Hawkes Bay for the full season

Births

January
 3 January
 Marie Clay, literacy researcher
 David Spence, mathematician
 6 January – Pat Vincent, rugby union player, coach and administrator
 10 January – Jim Eyles, archaeologist
 11 January – Mary Rouse, cricketer
 19 January – Peter Cape, musician
 20 January – Tui Uru, broadcaster, singer
 29 January – Dennis McEldowney, writer, publisher

February
 3 February – Guy Ngan, artist
 7 February – Graham Latimer, Māori leader
 13 February – Lloyd Berrell, actor
 14 February – Sheila Natusch, naturalist, writer, illustrator
 20 February – Ted Meuli, cricketer
 26 February – Edwin Norton, weightlifter

March
 5 March – Joan Mattingley, clinical chemist
 13 March – June Litman, journalist
 19 March – Noel Bowden, rugby union player
 22 March – Helen Young, radio manager, arts advocate
 24 March
 Betty Clegg, watercolour artist
 Rowena Jackson, ballet dancer
 27 March – Harry Tapping, cricketer