[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Nico Mastorakis

Nico Mastorakis (; born 28 April 1941 in Athens, Greece) is a Greek filmmaker and radio producer. He is probably best known for his 1973 live interview of 17 arrested Greek students, which happened without their consent, in favor of the Greek military junta. The students were later tortured. He might also be known for writing and directing the infamous exploitation horror film Island of Death in 1975 and co-creating the nationally available Star Channel in 1993.

Early career
At the age of 18, Mastorakis as a young reporter with the Greek newspaper Ethnikos Kirikas scored his first international scoop, an exclusive interview with the exiled Princess Soraya. Later, as an investigative reporter for the daily Messimvrini, adding to multiple award-winning reports, he created the first "automobile page" in Greek press.

In his last job as a reporter for the daily Apogevmatini he posed as a musician for the group of popular singer Giannis Poulopoulos and gained access to Aristotle Onassis’ yacht, the Christina where Onassis was hosting Jackie and Ted Kennedy.

He used a Minox camera hidden behind the strings of his guitar to take photos but was discovered by Ted Kennedy's security men and, although managing to fly out of Skorpios with his negatives intact, he was later arrested by the junta's secret police and detained for the night while his negatives were discovered and confiscated.

Although his article about that night being heavily censored he broke the news of Onassis and Jackie Kennedy getting married months before the official announcement.

Mastorakis’ time on board the Onassis yacht was later described in detail in both Ari and Nemesis, by Onassis’ biographer Peter Evans, who writes: "Onassis used his pull with the colonels and Mastorakis was picked up in Athens… later Ari showed me a copy of Mastorakis’ original story which had been cut to ribbons by the military censors".

He was already a radio personality since the late 1950s, as Mastorakis was considered by many to be the DJ who brought international pop to Greek radio. In all, he hosted and produced more than 22 different radio shows. In the late sixties, he was introduced to The Beatles and became friendly with John Lennon in particular. On April 17, 1967 he produced the first ever international pop concert in Athens, booking the Rolling Stones for a memorable albeit troubled concert, dominated by police and amidst the riots which regularly occurred in Athens at the time. The military coup came four days later.

As a lyricist and record producer, he launched the careers of almost all of the Greek pop groups of the sixties, working mainly with the Forminx and their keyboard player Vangelis Papathanassiou, later known as the film score composer Vangelis.

Mastorakis was instrumental in the creation of Greek television in the late 1960s. From early 1966 (before the junta years) and until 1973 while Greece was under the Regime of the Colonels, he produced and hosted numerous entertainment shows in the army-owned YENED TV station. While the station's primary goal was to propagandize for the army his shows were mostly apolitical fare, such as game shows and celebrity interviews, including a Greek version of This Is Your Life, and he was among the most popular TV personalities of the time. He produced local versions of many international formats (Candid Camera, To Tell The Truth) and worked for both YENED and ERT, the country's national TV network. In addition to his shows he produced and directed Alati kai Piperi (Salt and Pepper), hosted by noted Greek columnist Freddy Germanos. One of the highlights of that show was when Mastorakis brought John Lennon and Yoko Ono into the military TV's two-camera studio. He wrote, produced and directed dramatic series and variety shows as well as the short-lived breakthrough sci-fi episodic Invasion From Another Planet, the first on Greek TV to be shot on film.