[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Port Way

ad led to the consensus that the settlement was in the area of present-day Neatham near Alton. No later than the 1730s, John Horsley had suggested that Vindomis was in the vicinity of Farnham (some  from Neatham). If not Vindomis, the settlement at the East Anton crossroads may have been Leucomagus.

Quarley Hill provided a line-of-sight with Sorbiodunum, and from here the road took a south-west heading through the Bourne Valley into present-day Wiltshire, crossing the river between Winterbourne Gunner and Gomeldon. At Sorbiodunum, the road entered the town on its east side, where it was met by Margary route 45a, the road from Venta Belgarum. Beyond Sorbiodunum, the road continued south-west to Vindocladia (Badbury Rings) as Ackling Dyke (Margary route 4c), west-south-west to Durnovaria as Margary route 4e, and finally west to Moridunum (near Axminster) and Isca Dumnoniorum (Exeter) as Margary route 4f.

Margary gave Portway the number 4b, and wrote that it was  long. Both Calleva Atrebatum and Sorbiodunum are listed in Iter XV of the Antonine Itinerary, although the distance given between the two towns – 55 Roman miles – is via Vindomis and Venta Belgarum rather than a straight route along Port Way.

Construction 

In 1879, some  of the road near St Mary Bourne was removed to provide better access for farm vehicles. The metalled road surface was found between  below ground level, and the road was approximately  wide.

Further west, close to the Amesbury branch railway in the parish of Newton Tony, a section of the road in excellent preservation was carefully examined; Margary noted that both here and at Bradley Wood, the agger was  wide. The road here was bottomed with chalk, then layered with  of flint, upon which a  layer of local gravel was laid. The road had been cambered to give a thickness of  at the centre. There were V-shaped ditches on each side of the road, each  deep and  wide. These were situated roughly  from the south kerb and  from the north kerb, making a total width for the road zone of  to the ditch centres.

Legacy 
In 1851, Henry MacLauchlan reported that the route could not be distinguished from Calleva Atrebatum until the area of Wolverton and Ewhurst, where farmers could occasionally observe the effects of the road in their cornfields. In 1889, Thomas William Shore described how the "great military road" could be traced to the gate in the wall at Calleva Atrebatum, although some of the Roman roads around the town had been "obliterated". In 1903, Codrington was unable to definitively trace the route between Calleva Atrebatum and Cottington Hill, although in the 1950s Margary stated that the agger was visible on the Tadley side of Pamber Forest and in farmland near Pamber Green, and traces of the road could be made out near Stoney Heath. Like MacLauchlan and Codrington, Margary reported that tracing the route from this area was difficult, with little to be seen until the area of Hannington. Here, the route of the road is now used by Meadham Lane, and a straight section of woodland known as Caesar's Belt is bordered on its north side by the road. A track continues on the route of the road through Bradley Wood, where it is recognised as a scheduled monument. After here, the course is lost to farmland. In the St Mary Bourne area, the route occasionally dictates or influences field boundaries, and at Middle Wyke, the Finkley Road follows its course into East Anton. As it crosses the Anton Valley, the course of the road again disappears before being used by the Andover–Monxton road. From here to Old Sarum, the alignment of the road is used by a number of lanes, tracks, and droves, as well as being paralleled by the West of England railway line as far as Idmiston. Referring to the Ordnance Survey's dead-straight projection of the road's course, Margary wrote that "near Quarley and Grateley it seems probable that the distinct ridge along the south side of the wide green lane marks it rather than the Ordnance Survey’s idealized straight line in the fields where there is no sign of it."

Archaeological excavations have found evidence of Roman villas along the Portway corridor at Balchester, Abbotts Ann, Grateley, Hurstbourne Priors, and Allington. Near the Balchester site was a Roman fort, although its circular plan suggests it predates Roman settlement.