[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gareth Porter

d a series of instances when government officials were propagandizing [about the Vietnam war]. They were lying," he explained.  "I've been well aware for many years that I was guilty of intellectual arrogance. I was right about the bloodbath in Vietnam, so I assumed I would be right about Cambodia".

Syria
Porter has written on the use of chemical weapons in the Syrian civil war, including the Ghouta chemical attack which occurred during the Syrian Civil War. Porter wrote in September 2013 about the origins and content of the White House intelligence report entitled U.S. Government Assessment of the Syrian Government's Use of Chemical Weapons on August 21, 2013, commenting that analysis by Inter Press Service (IPS) and interviews with former intelligence officials indicated the report only consisted of White House-selected information, and failed to accurately reflect the opinions of intelligence analysts. He queried the "assumption that it was a Syrian government-sponsored attack" by asserting that "significant new information has become available that makes an attack by opposition forces far more plausible than appeared to be the case in the first weeks after the event."

In response to Porter's statements questioning the use of chemical weapons in Syria by the government of President Bashar al-Assad, the British organization Bellingcat stated that Porter "relies heavily on ignoring the tests by the OPCW that detected Sarin in samples" and that "Porter relies on the usual chemical weapon truther claims that these results were from samples being tampered with in someway, without presenting any actual evidence it took place".

Iran
Gareth Porter argues that "the analysis of Khamenei’s fatwa [against nuclear weapons] has been flawed" not only because the role of the "guardian jurist" in the Iranian political-legal system is not understood completely, but also because the history of Khamenei's fatwa is ignored. He also says that to understand Iranian policy toward nuclear weapons, one should refer to the "historical episode during its eight-year war with Iraq" which explains why Iran never used chemical weapons against Iraq when seeking revenge for Iraqis attacks which killed 20,000 Iranians and severely injured 100,000 more. Porter argues that this fact strongly suggests that Iran has sincerely banned developing chemical and nuclear weapons and it is "deep-rooted".

In 2014, Porter attended an anti-Zionist conference in Tehran, New Horizons, which was reported to have been a platform for antisemitism and Holocaust denial. Porter told BuzzFeed News that he would not have attended the conference if he had known the extremist views of other conference participants.

Awards

In 2012, Porter was awarded the annual Martha Gellhorn Prize for Journalism at the Frontline Club in London to acknowledge reporting that exposes official propaganda for a series of articles about U.S. policies in Afghanistan and Pakistan. He has also been awarded a Serena Shim Award for Uncompromised Integrity in Journalism.

Bibliography
 The Myth of the Hue Massacre, Herman, Edward S. and Porter, Gareth (1975), Ramparts (May–June 1975)
 A Peace Denied: the United States, Vietnam, and the Paris Agreement (1975) – This book is an analysis of the negotiation and implementation of the 1973 Paris Peace Agreement on Vietnam.
 Cambodia: Starvation and Revolution (Monthly Review Press, 1976)
 Vietnam: A History in Documents (1981) – Porter originally edited this documentary history of the war in a two-volume hardcover edition published in 1979, and it was reissued in paperback under the above title.
 Vietnam: the Politics of Bureaucratic Socialism (1993)
 Perils of Dominance: Imbalance of Power and the Road to War in Vietnam (2005)
 Manufactured Crisis: The Untold Story of the Iran Nuclear Scare (2014)
 ''The CIA Insider's Guide to the Iran Crisis, 2020 (with John Kiriakou)

References

Further reading
 A Candid Discussion with Gareth Porter – Interview at Foreign Policy Blogs
 Interview with Gareth Porter at Talk Nation Radio

External links

 Antiwar.com Gareth Porter archives
 Stories by Gareth Porter for the news agency Inter Press Service
 

1942 births
Living people
American anti–Vietnam War activists
American foreign policy writers
American male non-fiction writers
21st-century American historians
21st-century American male writers
American investigative journalists
American war correspondents
Cornell University alumni
People from Independence, Kansas
Historians of the Vietnam War