[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Martyrs' Day

Martyrs' Day are days observed in or by some countries, incl. the United States, Japan, India, Brazil, Canada and Australia, to recognise martyrs such as soldiers, revolutionaries or victims of genocide. Below is a list of various Martyrs' Days for different countries of the World.

Afghanistan 
Martyrs' Day is observed on September 8 or 9 (variable), the anniversary of Ahmad Shah Massoud's 2001 assassination. It has also been recognised officially by San Diego County, California, home to the highest concentration of Afghani immigrants and refugees in the United States.

Algeria

Argentina

Armenia 
Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day, on April 24 in Armenia, commemorates the Armenian genocide, which occurred from 1915 to 1923 in the Ottoman Empire.

Australia and New Zealand 
Anzac Day () is a national day of remembrance in Australia and New Zealand that broadly commemorates all Australians and New Zealanders "who served and died in all wars, conflicts, and peacekeeping operations" and "the contribution and suffering of all those who have served". Observed on 25 April each year, Anzac Day was originally devised to honour the members of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) who served in the Gallipoli Campaign, their first engagement in the First World War (1914–1918).

Azerbaijan 
Martyrs' Day in Azerbaijan is observed on January 20, in memory of those killed in the Black January events.

Bangladesh 
Language Movement Day, also known as Language Martyrs' Day, on 21 February in Bangladesh, commemorates Bengali as a national language. 
Bengali Genocide Remembrance Day is observed on 25 March in Bangladesh to commemorate the victims of the Bengali Genocide of 1971, initially in 2017.
Martyred Intellectuals Day is observed on 14 December in Bangladesh to commemorate those intellectuals who were killed by Pakistani forces and their collaborators during the 1971 Liberation War, particularly on 14 December 1971.

Brazil

Burkina Faso 
Martyrs' Day, on October 31, honors victims of the 2015 Burkinabé coup d'état.

Burma (Myanmar) 
Martyrs' Day, on July 19, commemorates the day when nine Burmese independence leaders were assassinated in 1947.

Canada

Chile

China 

Martyrs' Day (China) is celebrated on September 30, the eve of the National Day of the People's Republic of China, to commemorate those who lost their lives for the national and territorial integrity of the people of China. It was created by the National People's Congress in 2014.

Eritrea 
Martyrs' Day (Eritrea), is observed on June 20 of every year to honor the fallen heroes of Eritrea's warriors from the Yikealo and Warsay generations.

India 

January 30 is recognised nationally as Martyrs' Day in India, to mark the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi in 1948. A number of states and regions recognise other days as Martyrs' Days locally.

Japan

Lebanon 
Martyrs' Day (Lebanon and Syria), commemorates the execution of Lebanese and Syrian nationalists in Beirut (on what's now called Martyrs Square) by the Ottoman soldiers on May 6 1916 and martyrs of the Lebanese civil war, which took place from 1975 till 1990.

Libya 
16 September Martyrs' Day remembers Libyans killed or exiled under Italian rule and those who were killed in the 17 February revolution.

Madagascar 
Martyrs' Day in the country, observed every 29 March, commemorates the beginning of the 1947 Malagasy Uprising.

Malawi 
In Malawi, Martyrs' Day is celebrated on March 3 to honor the political heroes who gave their lives in the struggle against British colonialism.

Malaysia 
Warriors' Day (; ) is a day in Malaysia that commemorates the servicemen killed during the two World Wars and the Malayan Emergency. By extension, it honours all individuals who lost their lives in the line of duty throughout Malaysia's history.

Mali 

Martyrs' Day or Democracy Day is celebrated on March 26 and honors the victims of the 1991 Malian coup d'état.

Nepal 
In Nepal, Martyrs' Day () is celebrated on January 30, corresponding to Magh 16 () in the Hindu Vikram Samvat calendar.

Martyr (; Shahid) in Nepal is a term for someone who is executed while making contributions for the welfare of the country or society. The term was originally used for individuals who died while opposing the Rana Regime which was in place in the Kingdom of Nepal from 1846 until 1951. There are five martyrs in Nepal.

Lakhan Thapa is regarded as the first martyr of Nepal.

Netherlands 
Remembrance of the Dead () is held annually on May 4 in the Netherlands. It commemorates all civilians and members of the armed forces of the Kingdom of the Netherlands who have died in wars or peacekeeping missions since the beginning of the Second World War.

Pakistan 
Martyrs' Day or Youm-e-Shuhada is a Pakistani holiday held on 30 April to pay tribute to Pakistani military who died in service of their country.