[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# May 1965

The following events occurred in May 1965:

May 1, 1965 (Saturday)
The Battle of Dong-Yin took place between Taiwan and Mainland China.  A Republic of China Navy destroyer was patrolling the Taiwan Strait near Dongyin Island on its side of the border, when it encountered eight gunboats from the Navy of the People's Republic of China, and two sides exchanged fire as the PRC combatants attempted to encircle the ROC ship.  Four of the gunboats were sunk, and two others damaged, while the destroyer returned to Taiwan with minimal damage.  The news, announced from Taipei by the ROC Navy, "did not identify the Nationalist ship further".
Two new world records for flight speed were set by a Lockheed YF-12A jet interceptor on the same day by two different crews.  On one flight, the crew broke the 2,000 mph barrier, flying at 2,070.102 miles per hour (Mach 3.27) and shattering the previous speed record of 1,665.8 miles per hour that had been set on July 7, 1962, by a Soviet Ye-166.  The YF-12A also broke the record for a closed course flight (from one point to another and then back again) averaging  per hour by flying  in 22 minutes, and breaking the record set by the Soviets in the Ye-166 the previous month.  A new record was also set for highest sustained altitude, as the YF-12A flew for several minutes at 80,258 feet.
Liverpool won the FA Cup in extra time, beating Leeds United 2–1 before a crowd of 100,000 at Wembley Stadium.  Neither side had been able to score in the 90 minutes of regulation time; three minutes into the extra time, Liverpool's Roger Hunt headed the ball in after a cross from Gerry Byrne (who had broken his collarbone early in the match); Billy Bremner equalised the score to 1-1 ten minutes later.  After 113 minutes of play, Ian St John headed in the game-winner on a pass from Ian Callaghan for Liverpool's first FA cup ever.
The Montreal Canadiens won the Stanley Cup in the seventh and deciding game of the National Hockey League best-of-seven series, beating the Chicago Black Hawks, 4–0.  All seven of the series games were won by the home team; only 14 seconds after the final started, Jean Béliveau scored the first goal, and before the first 20 minutes were completed, three more were added.
Died: Spike Jones, 53, American comedian, musician, and bandleader, from emphysema

May 2, 1965 (Sunday)
U.S. President Lyndon Johnson made a nationally televised speech to explain the invasion of the Dominican Republic by American troops, and said that "There are time in the affairs of nations when great principles are tested in an ordeal of conflict and danger.  This is such a time for the American nations.  At stake are the lives of thousands, the liberty of a nation, and the principles and the values of all the American Republics."  He added that the Dominican revolution had "taken a tragic turn" and that "what began as a popular democratic revolution" was "seized and placed into the hands of a band of Communist conspirators."  Johnson announced that he had ordered "2,000 extra men" to the Dominican Republic and for an additional 4,500 men to be deployed "at the earliest possible moment."  "The American nations cannot, must not, and will not permit the establishment of another Communist government in the Western Hemisphere.... This is what our beloved President John F. Kennedy meant when, less than a week before his death, he told us: 'We in this hemisphere must also use every resource at our command to prevent the establishment of another Cuba in this hemisphere.'"
South Korea President Park Chung Hee gave a speech chastising student protesters.  "Dear students!" he said, "Whenever the politicians wrangle over a big issue in the National Assembly, you, without knowing the real point of the issue, take to the streets or hold discussion meetings on the campus with placards saying 'Down with the Government'... But I say this to you frankly, that you are the future masters of the nation, but you must train yourself for the job 10 or 20 more years.  Then comes the time for your generation, not now..."
The Intelsat I communications satellite (nicknamed "Early Bird"), launched on April 6, was moved to a stationary geosynchronous orbit, 22,300 miles above the Atlantic Ocean and began regular operations.
The Soviet Union lost all contact with Zond 2, the interplanetary probe that it had launched toward Mars on November 30, 1964.
Wagon Train, the popular television Western drama ended after eight seasons with the broadcast of its 272nd and final original episode.  The series closer was also a television pilot with Frank McGrath's character (Charlie Wooster) telling Terry Wilson's Bill Hawks about Charlie's days working at a trading post.  The pilot, Bend of the River, would not be picked up by any of the networks.