[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fushigi no Kuni no Alice

is an anime adaptation of the 1865 novel Alice's Adventures in Wonderland which ran on the TV Tokyo network and other local stations across Japan from October 10, 1983 to March 26, 1984. The series was a Japanese-German co-production between Nippon Animation, TV Tokyo and Apollo Films.  The series consists of 52 episodes, however, only 26 made it to the US.

In the English language, this series is generally overshadowed by the success of Disney's 1951 feature film version of the story; however, the anime series was quite popular in various European countries, in Israel, in the Philippines, in Latin America, in Iran, and in the Arabic-speaking world. The series was also dubbed into Hindi by the national film development board of India and telecast on Doordarshan in the early 1990s.

Overview
A young girl named Alice follows a White Rabbit into a hole, only to find herself in Wonderland, where she meets many interesting characters, including the mysterious Cheshire Cat and the terrible Queen of Hearts.

The beginning of the series adheres more closely to the original novel, whereas later episodes adapt the sequel to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland,  Through the Looking-Glass, starting with episode 18.

One departure from the books is that Alice returns to the real world at the end of each episode, and goes back to Wonderland at the beginning of the next episode. These transitions between the two worlds are depicted as dream-like, and it usually takes Alice a moment to notice her surroundings have changed.

Music
The series uses two pieces of theme music for the original Japanese version. The Japanese opening song is called "Yumemiru Wonderland (夢みるワンダーランド Dreaming Wonderland)", and the Japanese ending song is called "NAZO NAZO yume no kuni (ナゾナゾ夢の国 Mysterious Dreamland)", both sung by the Japanese vocalist Tarako (also the voice actress for Alice).

Disco-style theme music used in European dubs is composed by Christian Bruhn, originally with German lyrics, "Alice im Wunderland".

Episodes

Alice in Wonderland
 Alice's Family
 Down the Rabbit Hole
 The Pool of Tears
 The Caucus Race
 The White Rabbit's House (Big Alice)
 Humpty Dumpty
 The Big Puppy
 The Forest of No Name
 The Crows
 Advice from a Caterpillar
 Looking for the Eggs
 Pig and Pepper
 Tweedledee and Tweedledum
 The Lion and the Unicorn
 The Croquet Party
 Cheshire Cat
 The Oysters
 The Lobster Quadrille
 The Mad Tea Party
 Circus Land
 The Trial
 The Weeping Mockturtle
 The Foot Tax
 Runaway Benny
 The Secret of Greenland

Through the Looking-Glass
 Alice in the Mirror
 The Queen's Picnic
 Bird's of a Feather (The Shy Duck)
 Washing Day
 Wool and Water
 Alice and the Dawson Twins
 The White Rabbit Leaves Wonderland
 The Strange Trainride
 The Corkscrew Mouse
 The Weathermakers
 The Giant Kangaroo
 The Balloon Ride
 Cloudland
 An Unpleasant Guest
 The Little Flute Player
 The Honey Elephants
 Little Bill in Love
 The Pearl of Wisdom
 The Fixit Pixie
 The Family Portrait
 The Magic Potion
 Octopus (The Vanished Light Fairy)
 All Things Nice (Many Colored Candles)
 The Non-Birthday
 Monkey Business (The Chimpanzee's Child)
 The Knight's Battle
 Queen Alice