[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of Acts of the Parliament of England, 1603–1641

Acte for the Grant of three entire Subsidies and Six Fifteenes and Tenthes granted by the Temporalty. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (General pardon) c. 27 An Acte for the Kinges Majesties most gracious generall and free Pardon. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863

Private Acts

Assurance of ground to Earl of Salisbury for enlargement of Salisbury House, Strand. c. 1
Assurance of the Countess of Essex's jointure. c. 2
Corpus Christi College, Oxford. c. 3
Lord Windsor's estate: sale of lands for payment of debts and better performance of his will. c. 4
Establishing the possessions and inheritance of Edmond, late Lord Chandos. c. 5
Vesting in the Crown the estates of Lord Cobham and George Brooke, attainted of high treason, with a confirmation of grants made by the King. c. 6
Confirmation of leases by Lord Spencer and his parents. c. 7
Restoration of Lord Danvers as heir to Sir John Danvers notwithstanding the attainder of his brother, Sir Charles Danvers. c. 8
Oriel College, Oxford, confirmation of letters patent. c. 9
St. Bees' Grammar School (Cumberland): confirmation of letters patent. c. 10
Sir Christopher Hatton's estate: enabling sale of property. c. 11
Sale of lands in Middlesex to Sir Thomas Lake and Dame Mary Knight his wife. c. 12
Sir Jonathan Trelawney's estate: sale of lands for payment of debts. c. 13
Assurance of Dame Elinor Cave's jointure. c. 14
John Hotham senior and John Hotham junior's estate: enabling them to convey lands to provide a jointure for John Hotham junior's future wife. c. 15
Settlement of manor of Rie (Gloucestershire and Worcestershire) on William Throckmorton. c. 16
Sir Thomas Rous' estate: sale of lands for payment of debts. c. 17
Sir John Skynner's estate: assurance of lands to Sir William Smith and Sir Michael Hicks. c. 18
John Roger's relief for a breach of trust made by Robert, Paul and William Taylor. c. 19
Assurance of lands of Walter Walshe. c. 20
Edward Downes' estate : sale of lands for payment of debts. c. 21
Naturalization of Sir Daniel Foulis and confirmation of letters patent. c. 22
Naturalization of Sir Edward Conway's children. c. 23
Naturalization of Sir James Areskyn and family. c. 24
Naturalization of Sir David Murray and Thomas Murray. c. 25
Naturalization of Daniel Godfrey. c. 26
Restitution in blood of John and Thomas Holland. c. 27
Restitution in blood of Roland Meyrick and Dame Margaret Knight. c. 28
Execution of Chancery decree between William le Gris and Robert Cottrell. c. 29

1606 (4 Jas. 1)

The third session of the 1st Parliament of King James I (the 'Blessed Parliament') which met from 18 November 1606 until 4 July 1607.

Note that this session was traditionally cited as 4 Jac. 1; it is listed in the "Chronological Table of the Statutes" as 4 Ja. 1

Public Acts