[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Culture of Assam

erful politico-economic systems or during political disintegration, more localized attributes were created with spatial differentiation. Time-factors for such integrations differentiations have also played an important role along with the position of individual events in the entire series of events.

With a strong base of tradition and history, modern Assamese culture is greatly influenced by various events that took place in under British rule of Assam and in the Post-British Era. The language was standardized by American Missionaries according to that of the Sibsagar District, the nerve center of the Ahom politico-economic system while a renewed Sanskritisation was increasingly adopted for developing Assamese language and grammar (). A new wave of Western and northern Indian influence was apparent in the performing arts and literature.

Due to increasing efforts of standardization in the 19th and 20th centuries, the localized forms present in different districts and also among the remaining source-cultures with the less-assimilated ethnocultural groups have seen greater alienation. However, Assamese culture in its hybrid form and nature is one of the richest and is still under development. 20th century saw numerous self-determination and identity movement and many states were new states were created in the process as most indigenous tribal communities of the state refused to accept the idea of collective Assamese identity which was imposed upon them. Many indigenous tribal communities of the state still oppose the efforts of assimilation into Assamese cultural identity.

Composition and characteristics

Culture in Assam in its true sense today is a 'cultural system' composed of different ethnic cultural compositions. It is more interesting to note that even many of the source-cultures of culture in Assam are still surviving either as sub-systems or as sister entities. In a broader sense, therefore, the cultural system of Assam incorporates its source-cultures and However, it is also important to keep the broader system closer to its roots.

Elements

Symbolism

Symbolism is an important part of culture in Assam. Various elements are being used to represent beliefs, feelings, pride, identity, etc. Symbolism is an ancient cultural practice in Assam, which is still very important for the people. Tamulpan, Xorai and Gamosa are three important symbolic elements in Assamese culture.

Tamul-paan (the areca nut and betel leaves) or guapan (gua from Goi of Bodo-Chutia language) are considered as the offers of devotion, respect, and friendship. It is an ancient tradition and is being followed since time-immemorial with roots in the aboriginal culture.

Xorai, a traditional symbol of Assam, is a manufactured bell-metal object and an article of great respect and is used as a container-medium while performing respectful offerings. It is an offering tray with a stand at the bottom similar to those found in East and South East Asia. There are Xorais with or without a cover on the top.
Traditionally Xorai is made of bell metal although nowadays they can be made from brass and/or silver. Hajo and Sarthebari are the most important centers of traditional bell-metal and brass crafts including Xorais. Xorais are used:
 as an offering tray for tamul-pan (betel nuts and betel leaves) to guests as a sign of welcome and thanks.
 as an offering tray for food and other items placed in front of the altar (naam ghar) for blessing by the Lord.
 as a decorative symbol in traditional functions such as during Bihu dances.
 as a gift to a person of honor during felicitations.

The Gamosa is an article of great significance for the people of Assam. Literally translated, it means 'something to wipe the body with' (Ga=body, mosa=to wipe), Its original term is Gamcha; interpreting the word "gamosa" as the body-wiping towel is misleading. It is generally a white rectangular piece of cloth with primarily a red border on three sides and red woven motifs on the fourth (in addition to red, other colors are also used).  Though it is used daily to wipe the body after a bath (an act of purification), the use is not restricted to this.  It is used by the farmer as a waistcloth (tongali) or a loincloth (suriya); a Bihu dancer wraps it around the head with a fluffy knot.  It is hung around the neck at the prayer hall and was thrown over the shoulder in the past to signify social status.  Guests are welcomed with the offering of a gamosa and tamul (betel nut) and elders are offered gamosas (bihuwaan) during Bihu. It is used to cover the altar at the prayer hall or cover the scriptures. An object of reverence is never placed on the bare ground, but always on a gamosa.  One can, therefore, very well say that the gamosa symbolizes the life and culture of Assam.

Significantly the gamosa is used equally by all irrespective of religious and ethnic backgrounds.