[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Craig J. Spence

briefly, evading government agents who wanted to subpoena him to testify about the Vinson prostitution ring. Spence made headlines again after his arrest on July 31, 1989, at the Barbizon Hotel on East 63rd Street in Manhattan for criminal possession of a firearm and criminal possession of cocaine.

In August, 1989 during an eight-hour interview with the Washington Times, Spence denied that deGueldre alone had cleared the White House tours and explained that the guard had only served as a guide. The reporters, Michael Hedges and Jerry Seper would write that "Mr. Spence hinted the tours were arranged by 'top level' persons", including Donald Gregg, national security adviser to Vice President George H. W. Bush at the time the tours were given. When pressed to identify who it was who got him inside the White House, Spence asked  "Who was it who got [long-term CIA operative] Félix Rodríguez in to see Bush?", indicating that he was alluding to Gregg. Gregg himself dismissed the allegation as "absolute bull", according to Hedges and Seper. "It disturbs me that he can reach a slimy hand out of the sewer to grab me by the ankle like this," he told the reporters.  "The allegations are totally false."

During the same interview Spence claimed that the surveillance equipment at his home had been set up by "friendly" intelligence agents. Rumors of Craig's ties to the CIA dated back to his Vietnam correspondent days, and the CIA was also speculated to be one of the sources of his wealth by his acquaintances.

Death

On November 10, 1989, Spence was found dead and barricaded in Room 429 of the Boston Ritz Carlton, the city's most expensive hotel.  He was dressed in a tuxedo and had three dollars in his pocket.  According to the police report, when found by hotel employees he was attired in the style he affected at his lavish dinner parties: "black Tux with white shirt, bow tie, white suspenders, black socks and shoes", with a telephone cradled in his ear and a Walkman headset containing a cassette tape of Mozart's "A Little Night Music". Next to his body was a newspaper clipping about efforts to protect CIA agents from testifying before government agencies. His death would later be ruled a suicide from ingesting alcohol and anti-depressants.

Found hidden in a false ceiling in the bathroom were seven small packets of Xanax, a prescription anti-anxiety drug, with one pill removed.  In black felt-tip marker he had written on a mirror of his room:

As a postscript, he wrote, "To the Ritz, please forgive this inconvenience."

During the lengthy August interview with Michael Hedges and Jerry Seper which had taken place at a Liz Trotta's Manhattan apartment a few months before his death, Spence alluded to more intricate involvements.  "All this stuff you've uncovered, to be honest with you, is insignificant compared to other things I've done. But I'm not going to tell you those things, and somehow the world will carry on." Shortly before that in a phone call with Trotta, during which she had urged Spence to turn himself in to the authorities who wanted him for questioning, he had also retorted that they wouldn't be able to "solve the big thing".

References

1941 births
1989 deaths
20th-century American journalists
American socialites
War correspondents of the Vietnam War
1989 suicides
American lobbyists
Suicides in Massachusetts
American LGBT journalists
1989 in Washington, D.C.
Prostitution in the United States
Alcohol-related deaths in Massachusetts