[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C.

dramatic goal in a 1–0 win over Maccabi Haifa in the final round, but due to her opponent's victory in the Bnei Yehuda Tel Aviv team, the team dropped to the second division after 27 consecutive years in the Liga Leumit. The number of high duty rates in its history in one season in the Liga Leumit.

In preparation for the 1998–99 season, in the Liga Artzit, Shiye Feigenbaum was appointed coach of the team, and during the season was replaced by Gili Landau. The team struggled with Maccabi Netanya to join the Premier League, but finally finished in third place in the table.

The beginning of the millennium
In preparation for the 1999–2000 season, Eliyahu Offer returned to coaching the team, and was later replaced by Motti Ivanir. Towards the end of the season Ivanir was replaced by Eyal Lahman, and the team failed again in their attempt to qualify for the first division after finishing seventh in the table, while Beitar Be'er Sheva was fifth and above in the table.

In the 2000–01 season, Eyal Lahman continued on the sidelines, but was fired during the season and was replaced by Shlomo Scharf, who resigned after two rounds, and Lufa Kadosh replaced him as Be'er Sheva returned to the top of the Liga Leumit to fight for the Premier League. this season the team met with Beitar Jerusalem in the Premier League in the framework of the State Cup, and won 3–2 after an extension. Be'er Sheva met Hapoel Ramat Gan for the first division game, Be'er Sheva won 5–0 and ensured her rise to the Premier League from the first place.

In the first two seasons after her return to the Premier League, the team finished twice in fifth place, and in the 2002–03 season it even reached the finals of the State Cup after beating Hapoel Tel Aviv F.C. 1–0 with a 1–0 win at Bloomfield Stadium and a 3–0 win in Maccabi Haifa. In the final, Be'er Sheva met Hapoel Ramat Gan of the Liga Leumit, but was beaten by a penalty kick from 11 meters after 1–1 after the extension.

In the 2003–04 season Eli Guttman returned to the position of coach, and Alon Mizrahi, Dedi Ben Dayan, Ofir Haim and Blessing Kaku were prominent. In this season Be'er Sheva finished fourth, which earned them a ticket for the UEFA Intertoto Cup factory.

In the 2004–05 season, the team suffered financial problems and at the end of the game the team dropped to the Liga Leumit after most of the players were released. The economic problems continued to accompany the team in the next two seasons, finishing fourth in the Liga Leumit.

The beginning of the era of Alona Barkat
In July 2007, businesswoman Alona Barkat purchased the team from Eli Zino. On 29 August 2007, during a training match against Maccabi Be'er Sheva, the team pioneer Chaswe Nsofwa collapsed and died of cardiac arrest.

In the first season of the Alona Barkat season, the 2007–08 season, the team finished fourth in the Liga Leumit and failed to qualify for the Premier League. In the 2008–09 season, Guy Levy was appointed coach of the team, and the midfielder Maor Melikson signed in the club. This season the team managed to return to the Premier League after four years in the Liga Leumit. In the same season, the team won the Toto Cup for the Liga Leumit, after beating Maccabi Herzliya 1–0 in the final.

In the 2009–10 season, Guy Azouri was appointed coach of the team, who signed a number of new players in the team, including David Revivo, Siraj Nassar and Brazilian William Soares, who joined in January. The team presented a weak ability and its supporters protested and demanded Azouri resignation. In March 2010, following a violent incident by Fan towards the coach, Azouri decided to resign. The owner, Barkat, announced that following the fans behavior, she will leave the team at the end of the season. The fans launched a campaign to keep her at the club, and eventually Barkat stayed at Be'er Sheva. The professional director of the youth department at the time, Vico Haddad, served as coach until the end of the season, when the team finished ninth.

In the 2010–11 season, Nir Klinger was appointed coach of the team. The team started the season well, but in January 2011 the team star Maor Melikson was sold to Wisła Kraków, and after that there was a significant decline in its ability. In the last round of the regular season she managed to reach the midfield playoffs, after a 2–0 away win over Maccabi Tel Aviv, and finished the season for the second time in a row in ninth place.