[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Nevado de Longaví

Nevado de Longaví is a volcano in the Andes of central Chile. The  high volcano lies in the Linares Province, which is part of the Maule Region. It features a summit crater and several parasitic vents. The volcano is constructed principally from lava flows. Two collapses of the edifice have carved collapse scars into the volcano, one on the eastern slope known as Lomas Limpias and another on the southwestern slope known as Los Bueye. The volcano features a glacier and the Achibueno and Blanco rivers originate on the mountain.

The oldest volcanic activity occurred one million years ago. After a first phase characterized by the production of basaltic andesite, the bulk of the edifice was constructed by andesitic lava flows. The volcanic rock that makes up Nevado de Longaví features an unusual magma chemistry that resembles adakite (having geochemical characteristics of magma thought to have formed by partial melting of altered basalt that is subducted below volcanic arcs). It may be the consequence of the magma being unusually water-rich, which may occur because the Mocha fracture zone subducts beneath the volcano.

Nevado de Longaví was active during the Holocene. 6,835 ± 65 or 7,500 years before present an explosive eruption deposited pumice more than  away from the volcano. A lava flow was then erupted over the pumice. The last eruption occurred about 5,700 years ago and formed a lava dome. The volcano has no historic eruptions but fumarolic activity is ongoing. Nevado de Longaví is monitored by the National Geology and Mining Service of Chile.

Geography 

Nevado de Longaví lies in the Longaví commune of Linares Province, Maule Region.

Regional 

Nevado de Longaví lies in the Andean Mountain Range's Southern Volcanic Zone, which extends between 33 and 46 degrees southern latitude. It is one among 60 volcanoes in Chile and Argentina that lie within the Southern Volcanic Zone. Among the largest volcanic eruptions in this area were the 1932 Quizapu and the 1991 Cerro Hudson eruptions. Nevado de Longaví is usually put into the "Transitional Southern Volcanic Zone", one of the four segments which the Southern Volcanic Zone is subdivided into; they are characterized by different thicknesses of the crust that the volcanoes are constructed on and by differences in the volcanic rocks. Farther east lie the Tatara-San Pedro and Laguna del Maule volcanoes.

Geology 

Volcanism in the Southern Volcanic Zone is caused by the subduction of the Nazca Plate beneath the South American Plate in the Peru–Chile Trench, at a pace of . The Southern Volcanic Zone is one among several volcanic belts in the Andean Volcanic Belt. Areas without volcanic activity separate it from the Central Volcanic Zone in the north and the Austral Volcanic Zone in the south. These gaps appear to coincide where the Juan Fernández Ridge and the Chile Rise, respectively, subduct in the Peru–Chile Trench. In the volcanic gaps, the subducting slab seems to be attached to the overriding plate without an asthenosphere in between, suppressing the production of magma.
 
There is a strong northsouth gradient among volcanoes of the Southern Volcanic Zone. The northernmost volcanoes are the highest and lie on thicker crust which causes their magmas to have a stronger crustal contribution. The output of the northernmost volcanoes is dominated by andesitic and more evolved magmas and they have the highest quantity of incompatible elements in their magmas. Southern volcanoes are lower, tend to erupt mafic magmas and are located west of the continental divide.

Volcanism in areas of subduction is caused by the release of slab fluids from the subducting slab into the abovelying asthenospheric mantle. The injection of such fluids triggers fluxing and the formation of magmas. Conversely, the descending slab itself is usually not considered a major contributor to magma genesis. Such exceptional magmas are often referred to as adakites, but magmas with such a chemistry can also originate by other processes.

Local 
Nevado de Longaví lies within a small mountain chain. It was formerly considered  or  high; the accepted elevation is . The volcano has a summit crater and many adventive craters on its slopes. The summit crater is heavily degraded by erosion. Lava flows extend radially away from the summit crater and form the bulk of the volcano. The adventive craters are also associated with lava flows. These lava flows are accompanied by breccia and reach thicknesses of . Lahar deposits are found on the eastern slopes.

Scarps on the eastsoutheast flanks resulted from sector collapses of the volcano. This collapse is known as Lomas Limpias and its scar has a surface area of  . The collapse scar was later filled with products from explosive eruptions. Another collapse occurred on the southsouthwestern flank, forming the Los Bueyes collapse and terrace deposits.