[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frank R. Gooding

the state's prosecution of leaders of the union which had been organizing their mines. Upon hearing of this circumstance, President Theodore Roosevelt issued a particularly stern rebuke to Governor Gooding, describing such a state of affairs as the "grossest impropriety." President Roosevelt wrote:

[Idaho's government would] make a fatal mistake—and when I say fatal I mean literally that—if it permits itself to be identified with the operators any more than with the miners... If the Governor or the other officials of Idaho accept a cent from the operators or from any other capitalist with any reference, direct or indirect, to this prosecution, they would forfeit the respect of every good citizen and I should personally feel that they had committed a real crime.

Governor Gooding's response to the President provided a "severely distorted" account of the financial arrangements for the trial, shifted the blame to others, and promised to return money contributed by the mine owners. Gooding then:

...kept the narrowest construction of his promise to the president... [He then proclaimed publicly and often that no] dollar has been or will be supplied from any private source or organization whatsoever, [and then] went right on taking money from the mine owners.

Pettibone, Haywood, and Moyer were found not guilty of conspiracy in the killing. Orchard was convicted and sentenced to death. His death sentence was commuted, and he spent the rest of his life at the state penitentiary, and died in 1954.

Idaho School for the Deaf and the Blind
The Idaho School for the Deaf and the Blind (ISDB) was first established in 1906 in Boise and operated there until it burned down on December 8, 1908. The Idaho Legislature passed an act on March 16, 1909 establishing a permanent state school. Governor Frank Gooding donated land for the ISDB so it was moved to Gooding and started accepting students in September 1910.
 
The grounds and some of the dormitories at the ISDB.The school covers a  area and provides dormitories for many of its students and has other facilities, such as a gymnasium and park.

Senate
In 1918, Gooding was the Republican nominee in a special U.S. Senate election to complete the term of James H. Brady, who died in office early in the year. Gooding was defeated by the appointed incumbent, Democrat John Nugent, by 970 votes.

In 1920, Gooding defeated Nugent for a full six-year term in the Senate. He took office in mid-January 1921, seven weeks early,
as Nugent resigned to accept a late-term appointment by outgoing President Woodrow Wilson to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).

Gooding was reelected in 1926, again defeating Nugent. He died in office in 1928, and was succeeded by a political protégé, John Thomas, appointed by Governor H. C. Baldridge.

Mountain Time Zone
In the 1920s, the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) had the western two-thirds of Idaho in the Pacific Time Zone. Gooding sponsored a bill in the Senate to place all of southern Idaho in the Mountain Time Zone, which stands today. The dividing line is the Salmon River at about 45.5° N, approximately midway from the borders with Nevada (42° N) and British Columbia, Canada (49° N).

Election results

Source:
 1918 was a special election (November) to complete the term, vacated by the death of James Brady on January 13.John Nugent was appointed by Governor Moses Alexander on January 22.

Death
Gooding had been in ill health with cancer for several months in 1928 and was recuperating from surgery performed in May at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota. Back in Idaho, he died at his daughter's home in Gooding on June 24 at age 68. Gooding and his wife Amanda (1865–1946) are buried in Elmwood Cemetery in Gooding. In 1958, he was inducted into the Hall of Great Westerners of the National Cowboy & Western Heritage Museum.

See also
 Frank Steunenberg, assassinated ex-governor of Idaho
 Harry Orchard, convicted assassin in the Steunenberg assassination
 James McParland, Pinkerton detective responsible for the investigation
 Bill Haywood, WFM union leader accused of conspiracy
 Coeur d'Alene, Idaho labor confrontation of 1899, alleged reason for the Steunenberg assassination
 List of United States senators born outside the United States
 List of United States Congress members who died in office (1900–49)

References

External links

National Governors Association: biography
Idaho State Historical Society:  Frank Robert Gooding

1859 births
1928 deaths
Methodists from Idaho
English emigrants to the United States
Republican Party governors of Idaho
People from Ketchum, Idaho
Republican Party United States senators from Idaho
People from Gooding, Idaho
People from Mount Shasta, California
People from Van Buren County, Michigan
Burials at Elmwood Cemetery (Gooding, Idaho)
20th-century American politicians