[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Federalist Party (Argentina)

The Federalist Party was the nineteenth century Argentine political party that supported federalism.  It opposed the Unitarian Party that claimed a centralised government of Buenos Aires Province, with no participation of the other provinces of the custom taxes benefits of the Buenos Aires port. The federales supported the autonomy of the provincial governments and the distribution of external commerce taxes among the provinces.

The federalists advocated a form of political organization that would ensure coexistence between autonomous provinces and a central government with limited powers. They took as a model the federalism of the United States.

The view on its historical leader is controversial. Juan Manuel de Rosas is considered by his detractors as a "dictator". Among the various possible ways of characterizing him, his supporters call him a "man of order."

Ideology and principles
They promoted economic protectionism, limiting the entry of foreign merchandise and protecting local productions by imposing tariffs on imports.

Its leaders were charismatic local caudillos who had great roots and prestige among the rural popular sectors, made up of farm laborers, free gauchos and freedmen.  These federal chiefs defended the idea that each province should have its own government, laws, and lifestyle.
 
Except for Rosas, they defended the free navigation of the interior rivers by foreign ships.

Early conflict
The Argentine War of Independence saw the forces of the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata fighting Spanish royalists who attempted to regain control of their American colonies after the Napoleonic Wars. After the victorious May Revolution of 1810, disagreements arose between the dominant province of Buenos Aires, who were known as Unitarios, and the other provinces of Argentina, known as the Federalists. These were evident at least as early as the declaration of Argentine independence in 1816. The Unitarios lost their controlling power after the Battle of Cepeda (1820), which was followed by several months of anarchy. However, the Unitarios were forced to sign a treaty with other provinces. This did not solve the conflicts between the Federalists and the Unitarians.

Unitarios
Under president Bernardino Rivadavia (1826–1827), the Unitarians gained control for a short period of time. The Constitution of 1826 allowed for a balance between the ideas of Unitarians and Federalists: “It provided for a centralized national authority while leaving the provinces with considerable local powers.”  However, the constitution was rejected by provincial caudillos, military leaders, and the conflict continued.

Unitarian League
In 1829, the Unitarian League () was created by General José María Paz in order to defeat the Federalists, easily taking power in nine provinces. The Federalist governments of Buenos Aires, Santa Fe, Entre Ríos and Corrientes, united under the Federal Pact, confronted Paz and his troops on May 31, 1831. The Unitarios were defeated after Paz was captured by the troops of Santa Fe Governor, Estanislao López.