[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Directorate-General for International Partnerships

he required tendering, monitoring and evaluation procedures. EuropeAid often publishes these evaluations in its website, aiming to improve management, in particular by taking into account the lessons of past public actions and to reinforce capacity to account for, and to ensure, better transparency.

This institution is a decentralised organisation. Two out of three Commission staff members working on aid implementation are based in the field. That is why most of the preparatory and implementation work is done through the EU Delegations in the beneficiary countries. Directorate-General is made up of more than 43 units divided into nine directorates  attached to the Director General.

Promoting joint effort 

To ensure coherence, complementarity and coordination in implementing external assistance programmes worldwide, DG INTPA works in close collaboration with its various partners. The overall aim is to make external aid more effective. Civil society, international organisations and governments of member states of the European Union are all important actors in this field.

Funding 
Directorate-General awards grants and contracts to implement projects or activities that relate to the European Union's external aid programmes. To ensure that EuropeAid's work to improve people's lives is recognised, a set of visibility guidelines have been produced. These guidelines ensure that aid projects acknowledge the funding support they receive from Commission budgets. They also help to raise the general profile of the EU across the world.

Development aid is financed directly by the EU budget (70%) as part of the financial instruments for external action and also by the European Development Fund (EDF) (30%). The EU's external action financing is divided into 'geographic' and 'thematic' instruments. The 'geographic' instruments provide aid through the Development Cooperation Instrument (DCI, €16.9 billion, 2007–2013), which must spend 95% of its budget on official development assistance (ODA), and from the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI), which contains some relevant programmes. According to the OECD, 2020 official development assistance from EU institutions increased by 25.4% to US$19.4 billion. The EDF (€22.7 bn, 2008–2013) is made up of voluntary contributions by EU Member States. There is currently a debate on whether to 'budgetise' the EDF. The perceived advantages include:
 contributions would be based on GNI and this may increase the currently voluntary contributions
 the harmonisation of EU budget and EDF administration might decrease administration costs and increase aid effectiveness
 an all-Africa, Caribbean, and Pacific countries geographic strategy is no longer relevant as programmes are more localised to regions or country-level
 there would be increase democratic control and parliamentary scrutiny
The perceived disadvantages are that:
 90% of EDF resources reach low-income countries as opposed to less than 40% of aid from the EU budget development instruments
 a loss of aid predictability and aid quality as the EU budget is annual, unlike the 6-year budget of the EDF

See also
 ACP-EU Development Cooperation
 European Commissioner for International Partnerships
 European Development Fund
 Eurosolar
 Foreign relations of the European Union
 Technical Assistance to the Commonwealth of Independent States

References

External links
DG INTPA - DG for International Partnerships
Development and Cooperation – EuropeAid
Organisational Structure
EuropeAid Partners
EuropeAid Funding Page
Financing Instruments
European Development Fund
EuropeAid Visibility Guidelines
Excerpt from an EU promotion video on Global Assistance (development aid)
European Union Delegations
DG Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection (ECHO)
ACP Programming
Millennium Development Goals
Commissioner Andris Pielbags
Commissioner Štefan Füle
Vice President of the European Commission Catherine Ashton
European External Action Service (EEAS)

International Cooperation and Development
International development agencies
European Union foreign aid