[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 145]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

nsider themselves as interested in
supporting the honour of a nation which is yet unsullied in the annals
of the world, and resolve to transmit it equally pure to their
posterity.

"With these impressions, which were the earliest I can remember, you
cannot wonder, gentlemen, that I should have early imbibed a spirit of
enterprise and a love of arms. My father was indeed poor, but he had
been himself a soldier, and therefore did not so strenuously oppose my
growing inclination; he, indeed, set before me the little chance I
should have of promotion, and the innumerable difficulties of my
intended profession. But what were difficulties to a youth brought up to
subsist upon a handful of oatmeal, to drink the waters of the stream,
and to sleep shrouded in my plaid, beneath the arch of an impending
rock! I see, gentlemen," continued the Highlander, "that you appear
surprised to hear a man, who has so little to recommend him, express
himself in rather loftier language than you are accustomed to among your
peasantry here. But you should remember that a certain degree of
education is more general in Scotland than where you live, and that,
wanting almost all the gifts of fortune, we cannot afford to suffer
those of nature to remain uncultivated. When, therefore, my father saw
that the determined bent of my temper was towards a military life, he
thought it vain to oppose my inclinations. He even, perhaps,
involuntarily cherished them, by explaining to me, during the long
leisure of our dreary winter, some books which treated of military
sciences and ancient history. From these I imbibed an early love of
truth and honour, which I hope has not abandoned me since, and by
teaching me what brave and virtuous men have suffered in every age and
country, they have, perhaps, prevented me from entirely sinking under my
misfortunes.

"One night, in the autumn of the year, as we were seated round the
embers of our fire, we heard a knocking at the door. My father rose, and
a man of a majestic presence came in, and requested permission to pass
the night in our cottage. He told us he was an English officer, who had
long been stationed in the Highlands, but now, upon the breaking out of
war, he had been sent for in haste to London, whence he was to embark
for America as soon as he could be joined by his regiment. 'This,' said
he, 'has been the reason of my travelling later than prudence permits,
in a mountainous country, with which I am imperfectly acquainted. I have
unfortunately lost my way, and but for your kindness,' added he,
smiling, 'I must here begin my campaign, and pass the night upon a bed
of heath amid the mountains.' My father rose, and received the officer
with all the courtesy he was able (for in Scotland every man thinks
himself honoured by being permitted to exercise his hospitality); he
told him his accommodations were mean and poor, but what he had was
heartily at his service. He then sent me to look after his visitor's
horse, and set before him some milk and oaten bread, which were all the
dainties we possessed; our guest, however, seemed to feed upon it with
an appetite as keen as if he had been educated in the Highlands; and
what I could not help remarking with astonishment, although his air and
manners proved that he could be no stranger to a more delicate way of
living, not a single word fell from him that intimated he had ever been
used to better fare.

"During the evening our guest entertained us with various accounts of
the dangers he had already escaped, and the service he had seen. He
particularly described the manners of the savage tribes he was going to
encounter in America, and the nature of their warfare. All this,
accompanied with the tone and look of a man who was familiar with great
events, and had borne a considerable share in all he related, so
inflamed my military ardour, that I was no longer capable of repressing
it. The stranger perceived it, and looking at me with an air of
tenderness and compassion, asked if that young man was intended for the
service. My colour rose, and my heart immediately swelled at the
question; the look and manner of our guest had strangely interested me
in his favour, and the natural grace and simplicity with which he
related his own exploits, put me in mind of the great men in other
times. Could I but march under the banner of such a leader I thought
nothing would be too arduous to be achieved. I saw before me a long
perspective of combats, difficulties, and dangers; something, however,
whispered to my mind that I should be successful in the end, and support
the reputation of our name and clan. Full of these ideas I sprang
forwards at the question, and told the officer that the darling passion
of my life would be to bear arms under a chief like him; and that, if
he would suffer me to enlist under his command, I should be ready to
justify his kindness by patiently supporting every hardship, an