[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1st Arkansas Infantry Regiment (Union)

y served as a Lieutenant in the 17th Arkansas Infantry. Some of these deserters, as well as unionists, formed armed units to repulse confederates in the region. These units would often seek refuge in the woods and hilly terrain of the Northwest, thus receiving the name “Mountain Feds” by both sides.

Mustering 
On March 25, 1863, the regiment was officially mustered into service, numbering 36 officers and 810 enlisted, the majority of these being from Washington, Newton, Benton, Searcy, and Crawford counties. Johnson was commissioned as the regiment's colonel and Searle was mustered in as Lieutenant Colonel. At the time of their mustering, however, the 1st Arkansas could scarcely be called a regiment. An April 1 report by Colonel Marcus Harrison, commanding officer at Fayetteville, describes the 1st Arkansas Infantry as being "totally without transportation, clothing or tents, or equipments" and the only weapons they could procure came from the guns left on the battlefield of Prairie Grove, of which were "of all patterns and calibers." Harrison was also concerned that if Fayetteville was attacked, union forces would not be able to distinguish between them and "rebels in the same dress.” These were the conditions in which the regiment would enter their first battle.

Service

Battle of Fayetteville 
The town of Fayetteville was becoming increasingly vulnerable throughout the spring of 1863, with confederate forces slowly making their way back into the northwest. By April Fayetteville was only garrisoned by two regiments, the 1st Arkansas Cavalry and 1st Arkansas Infantry, and there were doubts about how effective the Arkansans would be. The 1st Infantry was still awaiting proper guns and clothing from Missouri but these never arrived in time for the battle. Equipment aside much of the regiment would be unavailable for action as many were sick and portions of Companies C and F, numbering over 100 men, were sent on a scouting mission to Newton County on April 15. Captain Heffington and Colonel Johnson were not present as well, with the former leaving to induct more recruits and the latter being at St. Louis for a military tribunal. By the start of the Battle, less than 500 of the 810 enlisted would be available for action.

On the morning of April 18, 1863, a confederate force under General William Cabell attacked Fayetteville and colonel Harrison quickly organized his Arkansas regiments for battle. Given Colonel Johnson's absence, command of the regiment fell to Lieutenant Colonel Searle and Major Elijah D. Ham. Harrison ordered Searle to move seven companies of the regiment into a reserve position due to their lack of army clothing, though he later informed Searle to be ready to move them into position should the need arise. Companies A, F, and H were ordered to form along Harrison's centerline, along with 4 companies of cavalry. During the battle, Harrison later ordered two companies in reserve to form along the federal left flank facing east. Despite the roaring guns of artillery the companies in reserve held firm and stayed in position. Near the end of the battle Harrison's centerline, of which the three infantry companies made up the right half, faced heavy fighting as the confederates attempted to capture the federal headquarters building. After repulsing multiple charges the confederates withdrew and the battle war over.

The regiment's success did not come without a cost however as Captains Parker and Smith, of Companies H and A respectively, were both slightly wounded along with 6 others and one wounded severely. Private Cockrell would die during the battle and Private Shockley would later succumb to his wounds. A few from the regiment fled during the battle, most notably the Regimental Quartermaster Crittenden Wells who later returned and was dismissed in July. In his after-action report, Colonel Harrison praised Lt. Col. Searle and Major Ham, saying that the two “did good service in keeping their men in position and preventing them from being terrified by the artillery.”

Fearing that Fayetteville would again come under attack and faced with dwindling supplies, Harrison decided to withdraw his force into Missouri. On April 25 the two loyal Arkansans regiments departed Fayetteville along with a train of over 1,000 unionist families, many of which likely belonged to the 1st infantry and cavalry.