[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Israʼiliyyat

In hadith studies, Israiliyyat (in  "Israelisms") are narratives assumed to be of foreign import. Although indicating such stories develop from Jewish sources, narratives designated as Isra'iliyyat might also derive from other religions such as Christianity or Zoroastrianism. Isrā'īlīyāt were received varyingly by both early and later Muslim scholars, with early prophetic traditions criticising their details yet encouraging their transmission. Many pre-modern scholars enthusiastically used them, while many Arab scholars in modern times have called them unislamic.

These narratives appear frequently in Qur'anic commentaries, Sufi narratives and history compilations. They are used to offer more detailed information regarding earlier prophets mentioned in the Bible and the Qur'an, stories about the ancient Israelites, and fables allegedly or actually taken from Jewish sources.

History

Often included under the designation Isra’iliyyat are qisas al-anbiya ("tales of the prophets"). These tales have been divided into the following three categories by Tilman Nagel: first, legends about the creation; second, legends about the prophets; third, stories of the “Israelite people and their rulers from the death of Moses to their entry into the Promised Land”.
 
The term Isra’iliyyat was originally a descriptive term without any larger tags indicating legitimacy or illegitimacy. Marc Bernstein asserts that Isra’iliyyat was encouraged or at least condoned among Muslim scholars through the Umayyad and early Abbasid period. The acceptance of Isra’iliyyat traditions may have been strengthened by a widely known hadith cited by al-Shafi’i stating that Muhammad said, “Narrate [traditions] from the Children of Israel for there is nothing objectionable in that.” Other hadith were however less positive, with Bukhari reporting, "If the People of the Book tell you something do not either accept it as true or reject it as false for they may tell you something which is false but you may accept it is true". Despite the early acceptance of Isra’iliyyat stories and traditions, the term came to have a negative, even pejorative connotation. Toward the end of the eighth century and the period of canonization, “the ulama (religious scholars) began to forbid the transmission of traditions that were considered to be of foreign origin.”  Despite such prohibition many of the stories held wide popular appeal. Because such stories were largely not relevant to Islamic law (al-shari’ah), they were not subjected to focused elimination by authorities, and thus remained ubiquitous in folk culture.

There is no clear evidence regarding the exact manner by which biblical and Talmudic themes entered Islamic literature. Muslim sources indicate a number of individuals who converted to Islam from Judaism among the first generations of Muslims and were transmitters of Isra’iliyyat. These include such names as Ka’b al-Ahbar and Abd Allah b. Salam. Some sources also suggest that “Muslims studied with practicing Jews,” though the nature and extent of such coeducation is not clear. Biblical events and exegetical commentaries of Jewish origin may also have entered Islamic tradition via educated Christians of Eastern churches such as those of Abyssinia and/or through various local populations of Jews in the Yemen and the Arabian Peninsula.

Historically, the Isra'iliyyat were well received by the mufassirun (Quranic exegists) and historians, with at-Tabari being a prominent example. Conversely they were mainly criticised by the Hadith scholars and the theologians such as Al-Nawawi, Al-Dhahabi and Al-Ghazali. There were some exceptions to this - medieval exegete Ibn Kathir was in particular quite critical of Isra'iliyyat, foregoing their use in his Tafsir. Many contemporary scholars have followed suit, purging Isra'iliyyat from Quran commentaries and Islamic traditions. Some scholars believe that Jews told such stories out of hostility towards Muslims or because they are superstitious.

Ibn Taymiyyah classified the narratives of the Isra'iliyyat into three categories:
 Those considered to be true because the revelation to Muhammad confirms them.
 Those considered to be false because the revelation to Muhammad rejects them.
 Those not known to be either true or false.

Transmitters of Isra’iliyyat 

Among the best known transmitters of Isra’iliyyat traditions is Wahb b. Munabbih (655-732 CE), who lived in the generation after the Sahaba (companions of Muhammad), and who is cited as a trustworthy source for many oral accounts linked to Jewish and Christian traditions. Another well-known transmitter of Isra’iliyyat is Kaʽb al-Akhbār (d. 652 CE), a Yemenite Jew who converted to Islam shortly after the death of Muhammad. He is credited with many oral and written traditions from the Bible and Jewish sources. Yet another is Abdullah ibn Salam, who is described as a rabbi before his conversion to Islam.