[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# August 1976

arrest from an anaphylactic reaction to a local anesthetic during an outpatient tonsillectomy
Domenico Tripodo, 53, Italian mob boss and jailed leader of the 'Ndrangheta syndicate, was stabbed to death by a fellow inmate at the Poggioreale prison in Naples on orders from his rival, Paolo De Stefano.

August 27, 1976 (Friday)
The first internetworking using the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP/IP), between two separate computer networks, was carried out by Don Cone of the Stanford Research Institute (SRI) to open wireless two-way connection between SRI's network and the ARPANET established by the Advanced Research Projects Agency of the United States Department of Defense.  Cone transmitted from a mobile unit, the specially-equipped Packet Radio Van, which he drove from SRI in Menlo Park, California to a location in Portola Valley, about  away. A three-network internetworking link, the first true internet transmission, would take place from Cone's van on November 22, 1977.
Mathematician Willem Klein of the Netherlands calculated the 73rd root of a 500-digit number in 2 minutes and 43 seconds. This feat was recorded by the Guinness Book of Records.
The New York Sets defeated the Golden Gaters of San Francisco, 31 to 13, to win the World Team Tennis (WTT) championship.
Born: 
Carlos Moyá, Spanish professional tennis player briefly ranked number one in the world (by the ATP in 1999), 1998 French Open winner; in Palma de Mallorca
Sanjeev Das, Indian cancer research scientist, at Nasirabad, Rajasthan
Sarah Chalke, Canadian-born TV actress known for Roseanne, Scrubs, and The Conners; in Ottawa
Gautam Malkani, British financial journalist and author of the novel Londonstani; in Hounslow, London
Died: Wanda Montlak Szmielew, 58, Polish mathematical logician; from cancer

August 28, 1976 (Saturday)
The news of the first man-made gene was announced by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), which confirmed that a team of scientists led by Dr. Har Gobind Khorana would make a full report of their work at the August 30 annual meeting of the American Chemical Society in San Francisco.
Two C-141 Starlifter transports of the U.S. Air Force's 438th Military Airlift Wing crashed in separate accidents on the same day.  After crashing on landing in a flight from Thule, 21 members of a group of 27 American and Danish passengers died at Sondrestrom Air Base in Greenland.  In the other crash, all 18 people flying from McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey to the RAF Mildenhall in England died when the aircraft was struck by lightning at an altitude of  as it approached Mildenhall and crashed near Peterborough in Cambridgeshire.
The government of South Korea issued prison sentences against 18 prominent dissidents, ranging from two to eight years incarceration, for their criticism of the government of President Park Chung-hee.  Eight-year sentences were given to 79-year-old former President Yun Po-sun and to former presidential candidate Kim Dae-jung (who would later serve as President from 1998 to 2003).
Archaeologists in the U.S. state of South Carolina raised an 18th Century merchant ship from the Black River  near Oakland after starting salvage of its artifacts on July 13.  The ship was estimated to have been built between 1720 and 1760.  At the time, the oldest known ship to be recovered in the U.S. was the colonial gunboat Philadelphia, believed to have been built no earlier than 1770.
The U.S. Navy frigate USS Voge was heavily damaged by a Soviet Navy Echo II-class nuclear submarine K-22 while both were in the Mediterranean Sea near Greece. Repairs to USS Voge cost more than $500,000 and U.S. Navy sailor sustained minor injuries. 
Toronto Metros-Croatia defeated the Minnesota Kicks, 3 to 0, to win Soccer Bowl '76, the championship of the North American Soccer League, before a crowd of 25,765 people at the Kingdome, in Seattle.
Born: 
Nediyavan (nom de guerre of Perinpanayagam Sivaparan), Sri Lankan rebel and leader of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam militant secessionist group; in Vaddukoddai 
Angus Oblong (pen name for David Adam Walker), American children's book author and illustrator who later created the animated TV series The Oblongs; in Sacramento, California
Died: 
Anissa Jones, 18, American child actress known for her role as Buffy Davis in the TV series Family Affair, was found dead of an accidental drug overdose in Oceanside, California
Patricia Lam (stage name for Fung Suk Yin), 37, Hong Kong film actress, committed suicide

August 29, 1976 (Sunday)
Fourteen employees of a factory in Bangkok, all but two of them teenage girls, were killed in a fiery chemical explosion.  The blast at a hair curler factory also killed the wife of the owner and another woman.
Died: 
Jimmy Reed, 50, African-American blues musician and Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductee, died of respiratory failure.
Kazi Nazrul Islam, 77, Bengali musician and poet