[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Relaxation (NMR)

mplicated environments such as the human body.

This theory makes the assumption that the autocorrelation function of the microscopic fluctuations causing the relaxation is proportional to , where  is called the correlation time. From this theory, one can get T1 > T2 for magnetic dipolar relaxation:

,
where  is the Larmor frequency in correspondence with the strength of the main magnetic field .  is the correlation time of the molecular tumbling motion.  is defined for spin-1/2 nuclei and is a constant with  being the magnetic permeability of free space of the  the reduced Planck constant, γ the gyromagnetic ratio of such species of nuclei, and r the distance between the two nuclei carrying magnetic dipole moment.

Taking for example the H2O molecules in liquid phase without the contamination of oxygen-17, the value of K is 1.02×1010 s−2 and the correlation time  is on the order of picoseconds =  s, while hydrogen nuclei 1H (protons) at 1.5 tesla precess at a Larmor frequency of approximately 64 MHz (Simplified. BPP theory uses angular frequency indeed). We can then estimate using τc = 5×10−12 s:

(dimensionless)
= 3.92 s
= 3.92 s,

which is close to the experimental value, 3.6 s. Meanwhile, we can see that at this extreme case, T1 equals T2.
As follows from the BPP theory, measuring the T1 times leads to internuclear distances r. One of the examples is accurate determinations of the metal – hydride (M-H) bond lengths in solutions by measurements of 1H selective and non-selective T1 times in variable-temperature relaxation experiments via the equation:

, with 

where r, frequency and T1 are measured in Å, MHz and s, respectively, and IM is the spin of M.

See also
Nuclear magnetic resonance
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of carbohydrates
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of nucleic acids
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of proteins
Protein dynamics
Relaxation (physics)
Relaxometry
Spin–lattice relaxation
Spin–spin relaxation

References

External links
The Basics of NMR, RIT
Relaxation in high-resolution NMR spectroscopy
Field-cycling NMR relaxometry
relax Software for the analysis of NMR dynamics
Estimation of T1 and T2 relaxation parameters in MRI

Nuclear magnetic resonance
Articles containing video clips
Magnetic resonance imaging