[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fleet review

held in the Solent off Spithead, although Southend, Torbay, the Firth of Clyde and some overseas ports have also hosted reviews.  In the examples below, the venue is Spithead unless otherwise noted.

A list follows of fleet reviews in England, Great Britain, and later the UK since the 14th century.

Pre-1700
June 1346 - Edward III, before sailing to war with France
1415 - Generally acknowledged as the first fleet review on record, by Henry V, at Southampton, before sailing for his first French campaign that ended in the Battle of Agincourt
May 1662, Charles II on the occasion of his wife Catherine of Braganza's arrival in Portsmouth
February 1693, William III and Mary II, after the Battles of Barfleur and La Hougue

1700–1837

March 1700, on Peter the Great's visit to England, a show of strength
23–27 June 1773, King George III set out from Kew, in a Royal coach  with scarlet outriders, for what some call the first formal Royal Review. On his arrival he was saluted by a  "triple discharge of cannon", and proceeded to the dockyard where admirals and captains were assembled, each with his barge, to escort the King to Spithead. They had dressed their crews in fancy colours, each to his own taste (at that time the crews were not issued uniforms), whilst they themselves were resplendent in the full dress designed for them by George II in 1748.  The ships on show were those that had fought the French in the Seven Years' War and were soon to join the War of American Independence, and were led by , of 90 guns, built only 5 years before.
May 1778, George III, before France joined American War of Independence
1781
June 1794, after the Glorious First of June
25 June 1814, the last to consist solely of sailing ships.  It was to  celebrate the Treaty of Paris (1814), and to show the Allied Sovereigns, including the Czar of Russia and the King of Prussia, "the tremendous naval armaments which has swept from the ocean the fleets of France and Spain and secured to Britain the domain of the sea." 15 ships of the line and 31 frigates were present, all of them veterans of the Napoleonic Wars.  It was reviewed not by George III, but by the Prince Regent
September 1820, George IV, first Coronation Review.  One ship in attendance was , later made famous by Charles Darwin.

Queen Victoria
17 occurred during her reign, the most for any monarch.

March 1842, her first, held by herself and Prince Albert as a "Grand Naval Review." 
1844, May - visit of the King of Saxony; and October, on the visit of Emperor Nicholas I, King Louis-Philippe of France and Friedrich Wilhelm IV of Prussia, both were a show of strength
19 June 1845, inspecting the experimental squadron, from the new .  The Board of Admiralty attended in their steam yacht, Black Eagle. Some place this not 1814 as the last time that a Royal Review consisted only of sailing ships, and nearly the last time that the Queen could watch 's men run aloft and set the sails "with feline agility and astonishing celerity."
11 August 1853, two reviews that year, firstly on 15 July 1853, the fleet mobilisation for the Crimean War, and a full Review on 11 August including for the first time steam screw ships of the line.
10 March 1854.  Wary of a Russian break out into the North Sea, due to the numbers of their ships in the Baltic Sea, the British Admiralty brought together a force to contain them. This first division of the Baltic fleet was commanded by Vice-Admiral Sir Charles Napier. Napier's task was to find naval recruits and train them as quickly as possible. From the screw yacht-tender, , and two months before her 35th birthday (which it was perhaps also intended to commemorate), Queen Victoria reviewed Napier's fleet at Spithead, shortly before it set sail, including (on 10 March 1854) a review of the first part of the fleet to set sail only eighteen days before Britain declared war on Russia. According to reports in the London Illustrated News (which printed a special edition for the occasion, with drawings of various scenes from the day of the Review), Fairy reviewed the fleet as it steamed up a path created by the ships anchored on each side, then a day later led the fleet out of Spithead as it began its journey to the Baltic.
23 April 1856, of the Baltic fleet on its return.  First recorded example of the evening illumination of the fleet.  Showed lessons learnt from the Crimean War, with the first of the ironclad ships present in the form of 4 1,500-ton floating batteries.  Over 100 gunboats were present, "puffing about like locomotive engines with wisps of white steam trailing from their funnels."
August 1865, on visit of the French fleet
17 July 1867, held for Abdulaziz, and his Khedive of Egypt, Ismail of Egypt.  For the first time every ship flew the White Ensign, after the dissolution of the old Red, White and Blue Squadrons. New designs were the five-masted  with her powerful broadside, and the graceful 14-knot ironclad sister-ships  and .