[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Benjamin Holmes (Canadian politician)

Benjamin Holmes (April 23, 1794 – May 23, 1865) was a Lower Canada businessman and political figure. He served in the militia of Lower Canada during the War of 1812, including a period of captivity by the American forces.  He joined the Bank of Montreal shortly after it formed in 1817, and rose to be the cashier (general manager) by 1827.  He was twice a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada.  In spite of his service in the War of 1812, he was a supporter of annexation by the United States in the late 1840s, and a signatory of the Montreal Annexation Manifesto.  He became a vice-president of the Grand Trunk Railway, and also a director of the Bank of Montreal.

Early life and family
Born in 1794 in Dublin, Ireland, Holmes was the son of Thomas Holmes and Susanna Scott.  His father had some military background.  In 1797, the Holmes family took ship to North America, but their vessel was captured by a French frigate and taken as a prize to Cadiz, Spain. The family was kept in Spain for four years.  Holmes' younger brother, Andrew Fernando Holmes, was born during their captivity.  Finally, in 1801, they were able to complete their voyage to Lower Canada.

In 1819, Holmes married Élisabeth Arnoldi, daughter of Dr Daniel Arnoldi in Montreal.  Benjamin's brother Andrew apprenticed under Dr Arnoldi and was one of the founders of the Montreal Medical Institute, the forerunner to the McGill School of Medicine.

Militia service
Holmes began work as a clerk with a group of Montreal merchants under Horatio Gates, but joined the Canadian Light Dragoons during the War of 1812, becoming lieutenant in 1813. He took part in the Niagara campaign of 1813 in Upper Canada (now Ontario), but was taken prisoner in October.  He was held as a prisoner of war in Kentucky, before being released in 1814.  He was engaged in some commercial activities in Upper Canada, and then in 1815 received a new commission as an ensign in the Canadian Fencibles.

During the Lower Canada Rebellion of 1837–1838, Holmes served as lieutenant-colonel in the Montreal Light Infantry.  In that role, he took an active part in suppressing the Rebellion, which won him support amongst the Montreal English-speaking community.

Business career
In 1817, he began work as a discount clerk with the newly established Bank of Montreal.  Within ten years, he became cashier (general manager) of the Bank.  For the next twenty years, from 1927 to 1947, he guided the development of the Bank, taking responsibility for his management decisions and acting in a non-partisan fashion, which was important for an English-speaking banking organization in the increasingly heated ethnic politics of Lower Canada. 
However, after his first term as a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada, he found his political neutrality called into question by the English-speaking business community.  He resigned from the Bank of Montreal in 1847.

Holmes then began a merchandise and railway promotion business with John Young, a fellow merchant and politician in Montreal.  However, in 1849, following the repeal of the imperial preference law and its effect on Canadian exports,  Holmes signed the Montreal Annexation Manifesto, calling for the annexation of the Province of Canada by the United States.  That led to the breakup of his partnership with Young.

He then became involved in the construction of a railway to connect Montreal to the ice-free port of Portland, Maine, and became a vice-president of the St. Lawrence and Atlantic Railroad. 
In 1853, when the Grand Trunk Railway acquired the St. Lawrence and Atlantic, Holmes continued as a vice-president of the Grand Trunk. That same year, he was elected a director of the Bank of Montreal.  He retained that position until his death.

Political career

Province of Canada

First term:  1841 to 1844
Following the rebellion in Lower Canada, and the similar rebellion in 1837 in Upper Canada, the British government decided to merge the two provinces into a single province, as recommended by Lord Durham in the Durham Report.  The Union Act, 1840, passed by the British Parliament, abolished the two provinces and their separate parliaments, and created the Province of Canada, with a single parliament for the entire province, composed of an elected Legislative Assembly and an appointed Legislative Council. The Governor General retained a strong position in the government.