[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Disabled Peoples' International

Disabled Peoples' International (DPI) is a cross disability, consumer controlled international non-governmental organization (INGO) headquartered in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, and with regional offices in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Europe, Africa, Latin America, and North America and the Caribbean. DPI is a network of national organizations or assemblies of disabled people, established in 1980–81 to promote the human rights of disabled people through full participation, equalization of opportunity and development. DPI assists organisations in over 152 nations with the day to day issues of helping disabled people. They also host assemblies and symposiums across the world with their different national branches.

The goals of DPI are to:
 Promote the human rights of disabled people
 Promote economic and social integration of disabled people
 Develop and support organizations of disabled people

DPI holds special consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council and collaborates with many international organizations and governments of the world. For example, it is accredited to participate in the Conferences of the States Parties to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD).

1972–1990

Foundation 
Since meeting at the 1972 World Congress meeting of the Rehabilitation International NGO in Sydney, Australia, disabled people from many countries had been involved in campaigning for their voice to be heard within the organisation. In 1980 this campaigning came to a head at the four-yearly World Congress meeting in Winnipeg, Canada. A key organisation in supporting disabled people at the 1980 meeting was the Coalition of Provincial Organisations of the Handicapped, COPOH, a national organisation of disabled people in Canada. It was COPOH's policy that any post-trauma rehabilitation of disabled people should be for a limited period only, followed by independent living. Fifty disabled delegates met in Winnipeg for three days to plan out their interventions before attending the Congress, which was attended by around 250 disabled delegates plus a larger number of non-disabled delegates. A vote for Rehabilitation International to require a minimum level of membership and control by disabled people, rather than by non-disabled professionals alone, was again defeated. On the evening of Monday 23 June 1980 a "tremendous roar filled the Convention Centre in Winnipeg" as the vote was taken to set up the World Coalition of Citizens with Disabilities, soon afterwards known at the Disabled Peoples' International. An Ad-Hoc Planning Committee was established and met several times in the remaining time in Winnipeg with representatives from six countries, reporting back to disabled delegates on Wednesday 25 June 1980. This led to the Steering Committee with two representatives each from the seven regions of the world. Henry Enns, Canada, was elected chairperson, and Bengt Lindqvist, Sweden, vice-chairperson.

United Nations 
Henry Enns managed to obtain a place at the UN Advisory Committee meeting in Vienna, Austria, on 20–29 August 1980 for the UN International Year of Disabled Persons, and through these connections stated to gain United Nations (UN) recognition of DPI and some initial funding. Within a short period DPI was recognised as a legitimate NGO for consultation by the UN through its component organisations such as UNESCO, ECOSOC, the International Labour Organisation (ILO), and in May 1985 with the World Health Organisation (WHO). In October 1987 twelve disabled people from DPI attended the UN General Assembly when a report was being considered on the first half of the UN Decade of Disabled Persons 1983–1992. The upstairs gallery for observers was inaccessible, so the DPI members were in the main room and used it to lobby the various governments' delegations directly. This moment was seen as a high point in DPI's influence at the UN.

First Congress 
The first Congress of DPI took place in Singapore on 30 November – 4 December 1981 with 400 disabled delegates from all regions of the world. The British delegation, including Vic Finkelsein, had been mandated by the British Council of Organisations of Disabled People, BCODP, to challenge some aspects of the draft constitution, and this discussion formed the agenda for the start of the debates and votes in Congress. The first congress meeting was filmed, but the editing was problematic and reportedly members were generally unhappy with the final version, saying it had not captured the enthusiasm of the Singapore Congress. The following key Executive posts were elected:

 Ron Chandran-Dudley, Singapore, chairperson
 Henry Enns, Canada, deputy chairperson
 Bengt Lindqvist, Sweden, secretary
 Joshua Malinga, Zimbabwe, treasurer.