[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dental education throughout the world

e of Dentists. Today, Canada has about 16,000 dentists. Canadian dentistry is not publicly run (see Medicare (Canada)); however, some provinces provide for free dental care for children and the elderly. Other Canadians are mostly covered by workplace dental plans, but many have to pay out-of-pocket.

For most of the early colonial period dentistry was a rare and unusual practice in Canada. In severe situations, barbers or blacksmiths would pull a tooth, but for many years Canada lagged behind European advances. The first dentists in Canada were United Empire Loyalists who fled the American Revolution. The first recorded dentist in Canada was a Mr. Hume who advertised in a Halifax newspaper in 1814.

During the first half of the 19th century, dentistry expanded rapidly. In 1867 the Ontario Dental Association was formed and in 1868 they founded Canada's first dental school in Toronto, the Royal College of Dental Surgeons of Ontario. The University of Toronto agreed to be affiliated with the dental school. As time passed, other Canadian universities also created dentistry programmes. However, the University of Toronto still has the largest dental school in Canada that features the most postgraduate research opportunities as well as certifications for all the dental specialties. The UBC Faculty of Dentistry supports five specialty programs being Prosthodontics, Endodontics,  Orthodontics, Pedodontics and Periodontics.

Dental care is not covered by the Canadian health care system, as it is in many other countries with public health care, although public dental services have long been provided to certain categories of the population. Nevertheless, studies have estimated that at least 6 million Canadians avoid going to a dentist because of the cost.

Canadian dental schools
University of Toronto (1868)
McGill University (1905)
Université de Montréal (1905)
Dalhousie University (1908)
University of Alberta (1923)
University of Manitoba (1958)
University of British Columbia (1964)
University of Western Ontario (1966)
University of Saskatchewan (1968)
Université Laval (1971)

Chile 
In Chile, dentists require six years of post secondary education which, after 2 years dedicated to fundamental scientific and medical knowledge (chemistry, physics, biology, morphology, anatomy, histology, etc.) puts a particular emphasis on practice and the accountability to patients in the last 4 years. Specialization programs of 3–4 years (admission by competition) are possible after a minimum of 3 years' working experience has been completed. The first dental school was established at the Universidad de Chile in the year 1888. Other institutions providing professional dental education in Chile are Universidad Austral de Chile since 2004, Universidad de Concepción since 1919, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile (since 2009), Universidad de Valparaíso since 1952, Universidad de la Frontera (since 1992), Universidad de Talca, which are public universities, and the following private universities: Universidad Finis Terrae, Universidad Nacional Andrés Bello, Universidad Mayor, Universidad de los Andes, Universidad Diego Portales, Universidad del Desarrollo, Universidad San Sebastián and Universidad de Antofagasta.
After having been influenced for decades by both the European (especially from German-speaking countries) and North American dentistry, Chilean education and practice in dentistry have now reached a self-sufficient level and benefits from a range of top-level institutes, professors and practitioners. Research has developed at a fast pace and many articles find their path to international publications.

Costa Rica 
Dentistry is overseen by the Colegio de Cirujanos Dentistas de Costa Rica. Dentists complete 6-year courses from the University of Costa Rica in D.D.S. (Doctor of Dental Surgery), or similar courses from various private universities. Costa Rica is often cited as being one of the top ten countries in the world for medical tourism, including dentistry.

Guyana 
The University of Guyana School of Dentistry is dedicated to excellence in Dentistry through hard work and dedication. The School of Dentistry is the National Tertiary Educational Institution for Dentistry and it has been in existence for 15 years. UGSOD is devoted to the recruitment and training of Guyanese, Caricom nationals, and other students in the field of Dentistry.

The school offers an exceptional Bachelors of Dental Surgery program which consists of five (5) years, where two (2) of those five (5) years are dedicated solely to preclinical studies and the other three (3) years are dedicated to clinical studies. Students intern at Cheddi Jagan dental clinic.
Admission into the BDS program requires at a minimum, three (3) passes in CAPE or its equivalent in physics, chemistry, biology, or mathematics. Alternatively, students can be admitted into the program with at least one year of study in a science-based program with a minimum GPA of 3.0