[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Path 46

Path 46, also called West of Colorado River, Arizona-California West-of-the-River Path (WOR), is a set of fourteen high voltage (500 kV & 230 kV) alternating-current transmission lines that are located in southeast California and Nevada up to the Colorado River.

This power transmission system has a capacity of 10.6 gigawatts from east to west, and sends electric power to Southern California's massive population centers of Los Angeles and San Diego from many different sources, including hydroelectric dams (Hoover Dam on the Colorado River),  nuclear plants (Palo Verde Nuclear Plant, near Phoenix, Arizona), and more recently, utility-scale solar plants (Ivanpah Solar Power Facility)

Individual power lines of Path 46
Supporting system (230 kV only):
 El Centro – Imperial Valley 230 kV
 Ramon – Mirage 230 kV
 Coachella – Mirage 230 kV

Southern System (500 kV only):
 North Gila – Imperial Valley 500 kV
 Palo Verde – Devers 500 kV No.1

Northern System:
 Marketplace – Adelanto 500 kV – although this line is called Path 64, it is part of Path 46.
 Eldorado – Lugo 500 kV
 Eldorado – Lugo 230 kV lines 1 & 2
 Mohave – Lugo 500 kV
 Julian Hinds – Mirage 230 kV
 McCullough – Victorville 500 kV lines 1 & 2
 Hoover – Victorville 287 kV

Although the Intermountain HVDC line follows the route of the northern system (specifically, the Hoover – Victorville and McCullough – Victorville lines) the DC line is not considered part of Path 46. Instead, the line is a distinct path: Path 27.

Route of the 500 kV lines

North Gila – Imperial Valley (SDG&E)
This power line, maintained by San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E), begins at the Imperial Valley substation located northwest of Calexico between the United States-Mexico border to the south and Interstate 8 to the north. The same substation is also the northern end of Path 45, an international power transmission corridor linking the Western US power grid to Baja California, Mexico's power grid. Leaving the substation, the line travels parallel at a distance to the south of Interstate 8 as both head east through Imperial Valley. Just past the Hwy 98 interchange with Interstate 8 southeast of El Centro, the line then runs adjacent to Interstate 8, as infrastructure bunches up to cross the shifting sand dunes. For the next 10 miles (16 km), the line is squeezed tightly between Interstate 8 and the US-Mexico border until both turn northeast. As Interstate 8 crosses over the All-American Canal, the line spans over and departs the freeway, continuing to the northeast. The line reaches the foothills north of Yuma and turns east. Abruptly, after crossing the Colorado River, the power line turns south and heads into the North Gila substation. Another 500kv line, Palo Verde – North Gila, connects the North Gila substation to the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station. The section of line east of the Colorado River is referred to as Path 49.

Devers – Palo Verde No. 1 (SCE)
Also called DPV1, this power line is owned and maintained by Southern California Edison (SCE). Starting from the Devers substation northeast of the San Gorgonio Pass and north of  Interstate 10, the line runs north of and roughly parallel to Interstate 10 as both head southeast and pass by Palm Springs. After dropping in elevation to near sea level in the Coachella Valley near Indio, both the line and Interstate 10 climb about 1600-ft out of the Coachella Valley and into Shavers Valley.  Upon entering Shavers Valley, the line crosses over I-10 east of the Cactus City exit and continues to the south parallel with the freeway as both continue easterly across the Colorado Desert region of the Sonoran Desert.  Both pass Chiriaco Summit and Desert Center with the line never more than 1.5 miles south of the freeway. About 5 miles after passing the Chuckawalla Valley State Prison, the line leaves the freeway and turns south-east for a few miles before turning east in the Palo Verde Valley and crossing the Colorado River south of Blythe.  Like the North Gila – Imperial Valley line, the section of this power line east of the Colorado River is also referred to as Path 49. The power line eventually terminates at the Hassayampa switch yard substation adjacent to the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station along with the North Gila – Imperial Valley line mentioned above.

A second 500-kV transmission line to be called Devers – Palo Verde No. 2 (DPV2) is planned to run parallel to the existing Devers – Palo Verde line.