[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Treaty of Moscow (1920)

ual status of their consuls.

Article 15 entrusted the settlement of questions of public and private rights arising between citizens to special Russo-Georgian mixed commissions.

Article 16 stated that the treaty would come into force from the moment it was signed and would not require ratification.

Secret Supplement 
Article 1 of the secret supplement stated: “Georgia pledges itself to recognize the right of free existence and activity of the Communist party … and in particular its right to free meetings and publications (including organs of the press)."In no case could repressive measures be taken against private persons because they engaged in propaganda and agitation in favour of the Communist programme, nor against groups and organizations based upon it. This article actually curtailed Georgian sovereignty. For all practical purposes it annulled Article 2 of the Russo-Georgian treaty, in which Russia had promised not to interfere in the internal affairs of Georgia. Now Article 1 of the Secret Supplement by implication was giving Russia the right to interfere in favour of the Georgian Bolsheviks, whose freedom was guaranteed by treaty.

Aftermath

1920s
In spite of brief Menshevik euphoria of the declared diplomatic success, public opinion in Georgia denounced the treaty as "veiled subjection of Georgia to Russia", as was reported by the British Chief Commissioner Sir Oliver Wardrop. The government was subjected to harsh criticism  over the concessions made to Moscow from the parliamentary opposition, particularly from the National Democratic Party. Nevertheless, the Treaty of Moscow had a short-term benefit to Tbilisi by encouraging the reluctant Allied Supreme Council and other governments to recognise Georgia de jure on January 11, 1921.

The treaty did not resolve the conflict between Russia and Georgia. Although Soviet Russia had recognised Georgia's independence, the eventual overthrow of the Menshevik government was both intended and planned, and the treaty was merely a delaying tactic on the part of the Bolsheviks, who were then preoccupied with an uneasy war against Poland. 
 
According to the agreement, the Georgian government released most of the Bolsheviks from prison. They quickly established a nominally-autonomous Communist Party of Georgia, which, under the coordination of Caucasus Bureau of the Russian Communist Party, immediately activated their overt campaign against the Menshevik government and so were rearrested by energetic Interior Minister Noe Ramishvili. That caused protests from the newly-appointed Russian Ambassador Plenipotentiary Sergey Kirov, who exchanged fiery notes with Evgeni Gegechkori. The conflict, never finally resolved, was subsequently used in Soviet propaganda against the Menshevik government, which was accused by Moscow of harassing the communists, obstructing the passage of convoys passing through to Armenia and supporting an anti-Soviet rebellion in the North Caucasus. On the other hand, Georgia accused Russia of fomenting antigovernment riots in various regions of the country, especially among ethnic minorities such as Abkhazians and Ossetians, and of provoking border incidents along the frontier with Soviet Azerbaijan.

After nine months of fragile peace, in February 1921, the Soviet Red Army launched a final offensive against Georgia, under the pretext of supporting the rebellion of peasants and workers in the country, put an end to the Democratic Republic of Georgia, and established Soviet Georgia, which would last for the next seven decades.

1990s and 2000s
As Georgia was moving towards independence from the Soviet Union, the Georgian government, led by Zviad Gamsakhurdia, addressed the Russian President Boris Yeltsin and stating that "the only legitimate framework for relations" between Russia and Georgia could be the 1920 treaty. Moscow refused, and Georgia declared Soviet troops in Georgia an occupation force.

Parallels have been drawn in modern Georgia between the Georgian-Russian diplomacy in 1920 and the 2000s. In response to indications by several senior Russian diplomats that Moscow wanted to see Georgia "a sovereign, neutral and friendly country", rather than a member of military alliances such as NATO, Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili said on October 25, 2007 that neutrality was not an option for Georgia because "Georgia signed an agreement on its neutrality in 1920 with Bolshevik Russia and after six months Georgia was occupied".

References

External links 
  Full text of the Treaty. soviethistory.org

Modern history of Georgia (country)
Georgia (country)–Russia relations
Moscow
Moscow
Moscow
May 1920 events
1920 in Georgia (country)