[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Occupation of the Ottoman Bank

to desist from such activity by Sultan Hamid. They murdered around 6,000 – 7,000 Armenians. Within 48 hours of the bank seizure, estimates had the dead numbering between 3,000 and 4,000, as authorities made no effort to contain the killings of Armenians and the looting of their homes and businesses.

On 15 September 1896, three weeks after the bank raid, Ottoman authorities organized a massacre in the town of Egin, in the eastern province of Harput. Egin was chosen as the target because the leader of the bank raiding party, Papken Siuni, was a native of the town. According to a report by the French Ambassador, Ottoman troops killed "upwards of 2000 Armenians" in Egin, including "many women and children". A report by the British Consul at Harput, citing figures supplied by an Ottoman official, says that 1500 were killed, including 200 women and children. Of the 1500 houses located in the Armenian quarter of Egin, 980 were pillaged and burned. According to another report by the British Consul at Harput, the pretext used to attack the town's Armenian quarter was an "indirect order" from the Sultan that "the Armenians of Egin were set to cause trouble and that the local authorities should 'take the necessary action'". The same report said that there was no revolutionary movement whatever, and the victims had given no offense. A few pistols and revolvers were found in the ruins of the burnt houses. In protest against all the massacres, the representatives of the major powers addressed an insulting letter to the sultan. Dadrian describes the Egin massacre as a "case of collective punishment through mass murder".

 International response 
The Armenian Revolutionary Federation's goals had been partially accomplished in getting the attention of the major powers.

Despite the nature of the takeover of the bank, the brutality endured by the Armenian civilian population in the wake of the incident overshadowed the incident itself, renewing Western concern for Armenian safety in the Ottoman Empire. United States President Grover Cleveland, responding to widespread support for the Armenian cause galvanized by American missionaries stationed in the Ottoman Empire, condemned "the rage of mad bigotry and cruel fanaticism," the "not infrequent reports of the wanton destruction of homes and the bloody butchery of men, women, and children, made martyrs to their profession of Christian faith."

I do not believe that the present sombre prospect in Turkey will be long permitted to offend the sight of Christendom. It so mars the humane and enlightened civilization that belongs to the close of the 19th century that it seems hardly possible that the earnest demand of good peoples throughout the Christian world for its corrective treatment will remain unanswered.

Cleveland rejected the possibility of asserting American military force to protect Armenians in the Ottoman Empire, offering accommodation to "those who seek to avoid the perils which threaten them in Turkish dominions."

 Cultural references 
An Armenian revolutionary song titled Papken Siuniyi Hishadagin'' ("In Memory of Papken Siuni") or popularly known as Ottoman Bank is about the events of the takeover.

See also 

 Yıldız assassination attempt

Bibliography

References

External links
 Bank Ottoman Armenian patriotic song, performed by Karnig Sarkissian

19th century in Istanbul
Armenian Revolutionary Federation
19th century in Armenia
Economy of the Ottoman Empire
1896 in the Ottoman Empire
Military history of Istanbul
1896 in economics
Conflicts in 1896
August 1896 events
Armenian national liberation movement