[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# List of social nudity places in North America

yote. A clothing optional retreat in Santa Fe National Forest, 30 mins from beautiful Abiquiu Lake and Georgia O'Keeffe country.

Mi Casa Bed and Breakfast in Albuquerque, NM. Privately owned clothing optional resort that feels like home. Mi Casa is now permanently closed according to their website.

New York
Due to a 1992 Court of Appeals ruling (People v. Santorelli et al.), women may be topless anywhere in the state of New York for non-commercial purposes. (A concurring minority opinion reached the constitutional, i.e., equal rights issue, but the majority decision did not.)
 Young Naturists & Nudists America was a website promoting the nonsexual naturist lifestyle, which organized events intermittently, focused to the young adult (21- to 35-year-old) demographic. No longer active.
 Alice Falls, Keeseville. Family-friendly nude sunbathing.
 Skinny Dip Falls, just north of Chautauqua Gorge State Forest between Jamestown and Westfield in Chautauqua County
 Bonita Nudist Retreat in Candor. Formerly known as Buckridge Nudist Park. (No longer a Nudist Resort)
 Cherry Grove Beach in Cherry Grove on Fire Island. This is a largely gay-oriented beach. In February 2013, the Fire Island National Seashore announced its plans to being enforcing New York State's anti-nudity laws on Fire Island.
 Coxing Kill stream at Mohonk Preserve in Gardiner. Sanctioned clothing-optional hiking trail, skinny-dipping, and nude sunbathing.
 Stony Kill Falls, near the Mohonk preserve.  There is a swimming hole at top of falls known as 'nudist pool'. By custom, clothing is optional.
 Empire Haven in Moravia
 Full Tan Sun Club in Sprakers
 Juniper Woods in Catskill Juniper Woods is permanently closed to nude use as of Spring of 2021
 Lighthouse Beach, Fire Island National Seashore, a part of the National Park Service, is just east of Robert Moses State Park on Fire Island, separated from the main part of Long Island by Great South Bay. Once officially recognized with signage, this beach had been used by naturists since the 1950s. In February 2013, the Fire Island National Seashore announced its plans to begin enforcing New York State's anti-nudity laws on Fire Island. The signage was removed, and nude sunbathing does not appear to be allowed.
 Potters Falls in Ithaca. While nudity is fairly common in Ithaca due to the laid-back political environment, Potters Falls is the best-known skinny-dipping spot. And while it is well-known, many people are confused about its location. During the now defunct NorthEast Naturist Festival (formerly held at Empire Haven, see above), the Wednesday of the festival traditionally featured an excursion to Potters Falls.
 Steph's Pond Nudist Retreat in Williamson. No longer open to public since the passing of its owner, Gary,
 Colonial House Inn is a B&B in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan with a clothing optional roof top deck.

North Carolina
Public nudity is considered indecent exposure in North Carolina under * § 14–190.9 which states that

"(a) Unless the conduct is punishable under subsection (a1) of this section, any person who shall willfully expose the private parts of his or her person in any public place and in the presence of any other person or persons, except for those places designated for a public purpose where the same sex exposure is incidental to a permitted activity, or aids or abets in any such act, or who procures another to perform such act; or any person, who as owner, manager, lessee, director, promoter or agent, or in any other capacity knowingly hires, leases or permits the land, building, or premises of which he is owner, lessee or tenant, or over which he has control, to be used for purposes of any such act, shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor."

Social nudity places in North Carolina include:
 Whispering Pines Nudist Resort near Bird Island in Ocean Isle Beach
 Bar-S-Ranch in Reidsville
 Carolina Foothills Resort (CFR) Chesnee, SC 29323 
 Upper Creek Falls in Newland
 Pea Island in Cape Hatteras
 SW NC - Naked Hike/sunbathing Tuckasegee, NC - this secluded waterfall area frequently has nude sunbathing.
 Pleasure Island North Freeman Park, Carolina Beach, NC - Nude Sun Bathing is unofficial.
 Masonboro Island, NC - only accessible by boat, this animal sanctuary is secluded enough that many people go nude.
 Jordan Lake Multi-Use Area, Apex, NC (35°49'17.1"N 78°58'20.4"W) - This area features sandy, secluded enclaves a short walk from NC-751, just down from the Marathon gas station and before the bridge. Areas not in sight of the highway see frequent, unofficial nude sunbathing.
 Lucky Lovers in New Bern

North Dakota
Public nudity is illegal in North Dakota. Topless sunbathing is not illegal in North Dakota. However, cities across North Dakota may have their own set of laws on going topless.