[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Demy de Zeeuw

or the first time since 1981 after title contender AFC Ajax lost 6–2 to PSV Eindhoven on 18 April 2009. At the end of the 2008–09 season, he went on to make 34 appearances and scoring three times in all competitions. For his performance, de Zeeuw was named Voetbal International's Team of the Season.

In the spring of 2009, AZ offered de Zeeuw a contract extension again, this time until 2011. This time, however, the player rejected the proposal. The success brought more attention from international clubs including HSV once again. In July 2009 Ajax officially announced that they were interested in signing the player. De Zeeuw himself stated that he was interested in moving to the Amsterdam club where former HSV manager Martin Jol had taken over from Van Basten. AZ initially stated that they did not wish to sell the player to a club they saw as a direct competitor, but after several weeks showed a willingness to cooperate on the transfer. On 24 July 2009, the definite transfer from AZ to Ajax was announced for a reported €6 million. The player signed a contract for 4 seasons, until 2013.

Ajax

De Zeeuw was presented to the Ajax fans ahead of a match between Ajax and Atlético Madrid during the Amsterdam Tournament and was given a number forty shirt. He later stated his choice to join boyhood club because of UEFA Champions League and that manager Martin Jol was a huge factor for him to join.

De Zeeuw made his debut for Ajax, starting the whole game, in a 2–0 win against FC Groningen in the opening game of the season. After the match, manager Jol praised his performance, calling it "excellent". Since joining the club, he quickly establish himself in the first team, playing in the defensive midfield position. Despite suffering a foot injury, de Zeeuw started in the match in the play–off round of the UEFA Europa League against Slovan Bratislava and played a role for Ajax when he set up twice in the first leg in a 5–0 win, as the club went on to win 7–1 on aggregate. De Zeeuw followed up by contributing three assists in two matches, with once against Heracles Almelo and twice against NAC Breda. Two weeks later on 27 September 2009, he scored his first Eredivisie goal for Ajax in a 3–0 victory over ADO Den Haag at the Amsterdam ArenA. During a 1–1 draw against Anderlecht on 2 October 2009, de Zeeuw was involved in an incident with Jelle Van Damme after he tackled Van Damme, provoking him by pushing him that was caught by the referee and was given a red card. After the match, Van Damme felt that de Zeeuw should have been sent–off for the tackle on him. But no action was taken against him, as Van Damme was given a two match suspension. In a build up to a match against his former club AZ Alkmaar on 25 October 2009, he praised manager Jol and claimed his management was better than Van Gaal, claiming that he "can build a team himself, puts it tactically well, makes players better individually". On the day of the match against his former club AZ Alkmaar, de Zeeuw started in the match and made an assist for Gregory van der Wiel, as the club won 4–2. However, the match was overshadowed for de Zeeuw, as he was booed and jeered by AZ Alkmaar fans, who at one point called him "cancer jew", so referee Bas Nijhuis stopped the match for time being. This led to AZ Alkmaar's management to apologise to de Zeeuw for the chant, though no actions against his former club was taken by the KNVB. On 1 November 2009, he scored a brace in the "klassieker" against arch-rivals Feyenoord in a 5–1 thrashing of the Rotterdam team. This was followed up by scoring his first goal in European football, in a 2–0 win against Dinamo Zagreb. Three weeks later on 22 November 2009, he scored another brace, in a 5–1 demolition of SC Heerenveen, taking his tally to six goals in the first 21 matches of the 2009–10 season. A month later on 23 December 2009, de Zeeuw scored his seventh goal of the season, as well as, providing a hat–trick assists, in a 14–1 win against WHC Wezep in the last 16 of the KNVB Cup. After missing one match due to a yellow card, he scored his return from suspension, as well as, providing a double assists, in a 3–1 win against NEC Nijmegen on 27 January 2010. A week later on 7 February 2010, de Zeeuw scored his ninth goal of the season, in a 3–0 win against FC Twente. Two weeks later against Vitesse on 21 February 2010, he provided two assists in the last two matches for Ajax, in a 4–0 win. After missing another one match suspension due to suspension, de Zeeuw scored on his return from suspension, in a 6–0 win against Go Ahead Eagles on 25 March 2010 to help the club reach the final of the KNVB Cup. In the last game of the season against NEC Nijmegen, he scored his eleventh goal of the season, as Ajax won 4–1 to finish second place after finishing behind FC Twente, who won the league title. In the final of KNVB Cup, de Zeeuw played in both legs and in the second leg, he set up a goal for Siem de Jong, as the club beat Feyernood 6–1 on