[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Naruto: Ultimate Ninja

{{Infobox video game series
|title = Naruto: Ultimate NinjaNaruto: Narutimate Series
|image = 
|developer = CyberConnect2
|publisher = Bandai Namco Entertainment
|creator = 
|composer = Chikayo Fukuda
|genre = Fighting game, Role-playing game
|platforms =  PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Portable, Xbox 360, Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S
|first release version = Naruto: Ultimate Ninja
|first release date = October 23, 2003
|latest release version = Naruto X Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections
|latest release date = TBA
}}Naruto: Ultimate Ninja, known in Japan as the , is a series of fighting video games, based on the popular manga and anime series Naruto by Masashi Kishimoto. It was developed by CyberConnect2, and published by Bandai and later Bandai Namco Games. The first game was released in 2003 for the PlayStation 2, and was followed by four more titles for the system, as well as five spinoffs for the PlayStation Portable. A follow-up for the PlayStation 3, titled Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm, was the first to feature three-dimensional battles, and began the long-running Storm sub-series. While starting out as a series exclusive to the PlayStation family of systems, the series has also been present on Xbox and PC platforms since the release of Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 2 for the Xbox 360 and Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3 Full Burst for Windows, respectively. Latest releases were also ported to the Nintendo Switch. The Naruto: Ultimate Ninja series sold over 20 million copies worldwide as of December 2019.

Naruto: Ultimate Ninja series

Naruto: Ultimate NinjaNaruto: Ultimate Ninja, known in Japan as , is the first installment of the Ultimate Ninja series and the first installment of the Hero series in Japan. The game was released on October 23, 2003, in Japan, November 17, 2006 in Europe, June 26, 2006 in North America, and November 17, 2006 in Australia.

There are special techniques and jutsus that can be used. Some characters feature the ability to activate special mode by inflicting the special techniques which enhances their status and gives them new abilities. It also features several items, like shuriken and kunai. There are many multi-layered stages from around the Naruto universe, including the Hidden Leaf Village, the Chunin Exam arena, and the Forest of Death. The game also uses support characters such as Naruto's support being Iruka, or Sasuke's support being Kakashi Hatake. The game features an arcade style story mode. Although the game loosely covers the events in the original manga from the Introduction arc up to the Invasion of Konoha arc, the game's twelve stories are meant to depict the events from different characters' perspectives and as the result some of them deviates from the original source (such as Neji being declared the winner in his fight with Naruto). Each stories consist of up to six battles divided by dialogues in a manga style display, one of many homages to its source material.

In the original Japanese version, there were only 12 characters (Gaara, Haku, Hinata Hyūga, Kakashi Hatake, Naruto Uzumaki, Neji Hyūga, Orochimaru, Rock Lee, Sakura Haruno, Sasuke Uchiha, Shikamaru Nara and Zabuza Momochi). However, Namco Bandai has added the ability to separately select both the Curse Mark Sasuke and Nine-Tailed Naruto as bonus characters in the North American and European versions. As these characters were already available in the Japanese version as transformations (of Sasuke and Naruto respectively), both of these characters have lost the ability to transform into their stronger versions during battle. The original Japanese transformation would later serve as the ground up for the transformations in Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 3.