[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Henry C. Warmoth

e state convention, enforced by state militia. Warmoth's supporters had to assemble in a convention of their own. That winter, the governor seized control of the statehouse from his opponents by using the state militia forces outfitted with bayonets for protection. Warmoth's leadership was strained.

Believing that President Grant supported his enemies, Warmoth joined the Liberal Republican Party that was seeking a reform candidate for president. When it endorsed Horace Greeley and the Democrats adopted Greeley as their presidential candidate, the governor carried his influence to Greeley's side. In state politics, that meant endorsing the Fusionist-Democratic ticket of John McEnery in the 1872 gubernatorial election. Such a step alienated Warmoth from any black Republican support that he still had, including that of Pinchback. None of them trusted Democrats to protect equal rights, whatever the politicians professed. Fraud and violence accompanied the election, and its results were contested.

Both McEnery and William Pitt Kellogg, the official Republican candidate, declared victory and held inaugurations. The Warmoth-appointed Returning Board declared McEnery as victor. Republicans established a separate Returning Board, which certified Kellogg.

Ultimately, Grant supported Kellogg's Republican candidacy. The Republican-controlled legislature filed impeachment charges against Warmoth for his actions during the 1872 election. Only 35 days before the end of his term, he was suspended from office, as called for by Louisiana law for impeached officials, pending the outcome of a state senate trial. Pinchback was sworn in as the first governor of African descent in the United States. With the end of Warmoth's term soon reached, Warmoth was allowed to leave office and no impeachment trial was held.

After Reconstruction

In 1877, at age 35, Warmoth married heiress Sally Durand of Newark, New Jersey. They had two sons and a daughter, and resided at Magnolia Plantation in Plaquemines Parish. Warmoth had bought the sugar cane plantation in 1873. Warmoth helped establish a sugar refinery and get a railroad constructed along the west bank of the Mississippi, which contributed to the development of the area.

He represented the Sugar Planters Association in seeking a tariff against foreign competition, which they gained from Congress. Louisiana planters could not compete against outside sugar. In 1884, Warmoth traveled to France and Germany to study their sugar industries, and he developed an experimental station at his plantation afterward. Unable to compete with foreign sugar, Warmoth sold his plantation and moved with his wife and family to New Orleans.

In 1888, Warmoth ran for and narrowly lost a race for Governor to Francis T. Nicholls, a Democrat and former governor, in an election accompanied by extensive voter fraud. In 1890, Warmoth was appointed US Collector of Customs in New Orleans by President Benjamin Harrison. In turn he used his patronage appointments to select many men from among the Afro-Creole community, who had supported him politically. During his service, Warmoth lived in the St. Charles Hotel.

In 1889, the white Democrat-dominated legislature passed a constitutional amendment incorporating a "grandfather clause", which effectively disenfranchised most blacks in the state. Not being able to vote also excluded them from juries and local office. The Democrats essentially maintained this exclusion until after passage by Congress of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which authorized the federal government to oversee and enforce the constitutional right of all citizens to vote.

Warmoth published his memoir, War, Politics and Reconstruction, in 1930. It is well regarded and considered a classic of the genre. Warmoth died in New Orleans in 1931, at 89.

In popular culture
A New Orleans service industry writer and Quarter Rat columnist took the name "Henry Warmoth" as a pseudonym.

References

Bibliography 
Binning, F. Wayne, "Carpetbaggers' Triumph: The Louisiana State Elections of 1868," Louisiana History 14 (Winter 1973): 21-39
Current, Richard Nelson, Those Terrible Carpetbaggers (New York: Oxford University Press, 1988)
Tunnell, Ted, Crucible of Reconstruction:War, Radicalism and Race in Louisiana, 1862-1877 (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1984.

External links

Henry Clay Warmoth, War, Politics and Reconstruction: Stormy Days in Louisiana, Introduction by John C. Rodrigue, Univ of South Carolina Press, 1930/2006, googlebooks
 Inventory of the Henry Clay Warmoth Papers, 1798-1953, Southern Historical Collection, UNC-Chapel Hill.
"Henry Clay Warmoth", KnowLa - Encyclopedia of Louisiana
National Governors Association
Cemetery Memorial, Louisiana Cemeteries

|-

|-