[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Robin Raphel

eserved 20 percent of Parliament's seats for opposition candidates for the first time since he came to power. She served her full term and left in August 2000. Raphel was Senior Vice President at the National Defense University in Washington from 2000 until 2003. Raphel retired from service in 2005.

Post-retirement lobbyist
In 2005, soon after her retirement, Raphel began working for Cassidy & Associates, a Washington-based lobbying firm, where she headed the global affairs and trade group. Shortly after hiring Raphel as a senior vice president, Cassidy signed a $1.2 million contract to lobby for the government of Pakistan. Raphel was assigned to lead the contract. One month later, however, Cassidy canceled the Pakistan lobbying contract after Pakistan's president Pervez Musharraf declared emergency rule.

Raphel continued her role at Cassidy, lobbying for other international clients who included Bangladeshi politician Anwar Hossain Manju and the Iraqi Red Crescent Organization, according The Hill. On July 14, 2009, Cassidy signed a new one-year contract with the Pakistani Embassy, to "engage in efforts to improve Pakistan-U.S. relations and promote the development of U.S. policy beneficial to Pakistan and its interests."

AfPak diplomacy

In 2009, Robin Raphel joined the Afghanistan-Pakistan task force known as AfPak, joining the late Richard Holbrooke, U.S. Special Representative for the region. Her focus was to allocate U.S. resources committed under the proposed Kerry-Lugar Bill. That legislation was enacted in late 2009, tripling civilian U.S. aid to Pakistan to approximately $1.5 billion annually.

Raphel's responsibilities included oversight of spending for law enforcement, improvements in Pakistan's judicial system and education programs to raise the country's literacy standards. She worked with USAID in a number of Pakistan's border areas in particular to distribute non-military assistance.

Recognition by Government Of Pakistan
In 2023, she was awarded Hilal-e-Pakistan,Pakistan's second-highest civil award, which recognizes "meritorious contribution to the national interests of Pakistan."

FBI Investigation
In February 2013, the FBI began investigating Raphel, based on an intercepted conversation of a Pakistani official that raised suspicions Raphel might have provided secrets to the Pakistani government.

After obtaining warrants, investigators began to monitor Raphel's private conversations and Skype, and later (in January 2014) did a "sneak and peek" search of her home when she was away. During that search, they discovered some 20-year-old classified files in a file cabinet.

Raphel first learned of the investigation nearly two years after it began, on Oct. 21, 2014, when she encountered FBI agents searching her home. The State Department, based on information they received from the FBI, placed Raphel on administrative leave and withdrew her security clearance. Her contract with the State Department was allowed to expire on November 2, 2014.

By the spring of 2015, the Justice Department notified Raphel's attorney that she was no longer suspected of espionage. The NYT in October, 2015, reported, "officials now say the spying investigation has all but fizzled, leaving the Justice Department to decide whether to prosecute Ms. Raphel for the far less serious charge of keeping classified information in her home."

The FBI, having found no evidence that Raphel was spying or that she had illegally shared classified information,  repeatedly pressed Raphel, as the price of ending their investigation, to plead guilty to mishandling classified information: the 20-year-old files found in her basement. Raphel refused the plea deals. In March 2016, the Justice Department formally closed the investigation, declining to file any charges against Raphel.

Personal life
In 1972, Raphel married Arnold Lewis Raphel, later Ambassador to Pakistan, in Tehran. They divorced ten years later. Her subsequent marriage to Leonard A. Ashton (1990-?) also ended in divorce. She has two daughters: Alexandra and Anna. She is fluent in French and Urdu.

References

United States Assistant Secretaries of State
Living people
University of Washington College of Arts and Sciences alumni
University of Washington faculty
Ambassadors of the United States to Tunisia
1947 births
American expatriates in Pakistan
Translators from Urdu
English–Urdu translators
Intelligence analysts
American women ambassadors
People from Vancouver, Washington
People from Longview, Washington
20th-century American diplomats