[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Coco Martin

tions. After minor roles in films, Martin began appearing in TV advertisements and print ads. He got his big break in 2004, when the TV personality German Moreno included him as a star on his reality show Walang Tulugan with the Master Showman. He was later scouted for a role in an independent film.

2005–2008: Indie films and career breakthrough
Martin's big break came when he landed the lead role in the 2005 indie film, Masahista (The Masseur). The film was  directed by Brillante Mendoza, who was making his directorial debut under Gee Films Productions International and Centerstage Productions. It was a film about a young man who gives massages to gay men in exchange of extra service. The film was critically acclaimed, winning Best Movie and gave Martin his first Best Actor Award at the 2006 Young Critics Circle. The film also won the most coveted Golden Leopard Award at the 58th Locarno International Film Festival in Switzerland. In 2006, he starred in another indie film Summer Heat, released locally as "Kaleldo" also directed by Brillante Mendoza. The film earned multiple nominations at the FAMAS Awards, Gawad Urian Awards and won the critic's prize for the Network for the Promotion of Asian Cinema (NETPAC) at 2007 Jeonju International Film Festival in South Korea. In 2007, Martin starred in the film "Siquijor: Mystic Island" directed by Mark Philip Espina, and had a cameo role for a Seiko Films' produced indie film, Foster Child. In the same year, Martin top-billed another indie film Tirador directed by Mendoza along with Jiro Manio, which shows the political undertones of the Filipinos who are living in poverty. The film depicts the life of ordinary people in the slum area, Quiapo. During this year, Martin also starred on various indie films such as Pi7ong Tagpo and Nars	under Carl & Carl Productions and CCM Creatives. Martin acted in his first Cinema One Originals entry Tambolista alongside Jiro Manio and Sid Lucero, and directed by Adolfo Alix, Jr. The film portrays an intimate portrait of two brothers struggling with life's trials and tribulations and seeking their particular redemption. The film won  critical acclaim and became the premiere movie at the Rotterdam Film Festival in 2008. It was also featured in the Munich International Film Festival in Germany, Barcelona Asiatica Film Festival, and Cinema Asiatica Nuovo de Madrid in Spain. In 2007, Martin appeared as a supporting actor for the first time in a mainstream film under GMA Films titled Batanes: Sa Dulo ng Walang Hanggan alongside Iza Calzado and Taiwanese actor, Ken Chu of F4. Martin also appeared in Season 15 of Daisy Siete, "Isla Chikita" under GMA Network, his first-ever TV series. In 2008, Martin returned to indie films starring with "Condo" under Breaking The Box Productions directed by Martin Cabrera. He starred as an idealistic security guard named Benjamin Castro Jr. and it gave viewers a perspective on the life of a security guard and the people he interacts with on the job.

In 2008, Martin starred again in another critically acclaimed indie film Daybreak, a Philippine gay film written by Charliebebs Gohetia and directed by Adolf Alix, Jr. Martin portrays the role of a boatman who becomes sexually and romantically involved with another man played by Paolo Rivero. In the same year, Martin once again top-billed alongside Jaclyn Jose and Gina Pareno in an award-winning film, Serbis directed by Mendoza. The film competed for the Palme d'Or in the main competition at the 2008 Cannes Film Festival and became the first Filipino film to compete at the main competition in Cannes, since Lino Brocka's Bayan Ko: Kapit sa Patalim in 1984. The film won numerous awards at the 2008 Gawad Urian Awards and at the 3rd Asian Film Awards. Martin returned to the Cinemalaya film festival in 2008 with the film, "Jay" alongside Baron Geisler. The film was directed by Francis Pasion and tackles how media is able to create its own version of the truth. It challenges the audience to be critical and discerning of whatever they see on television or film. This film gave Martin his three Best Supporting Actor Awards at the 2009 Gawad Urian Awards, 2009 ENPRESS Golden Screen Awards, and 2009 Gawad Genio Awards. His contributions to the Philippines independent filmmakers led the media to dub him the "Prince of Philippine Independent Films."