[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of American and British defectors in the Korean War

tion not be disclosed.
Pate, Arlie (Cpl.). Worked in a paper mill before returning with Aaron Wilson (see below) in 1956.  He died in 1999.
Rush, Scott (Sgt.). Married in China. After living in China for ten years, he and his wife moved to the United States and settled in the Midwest.
Skinner, Lowell (Cpl. ). His mother begged him to come home over the radio at the time of the prisoner exchange, to no avail. He married in China, but left his wife behind when he returned to the United States in 1963. Later he had problems with alcohol and spent six months in a psychiatric hospital. He died in 1995.
Sullivan, LaRance. Returned in 1958 and died in 2001.
Tenneson, Richard (Pfc.). Returned in 1955. He went to Louisiana a few months later to welcome home fellow defector Aaron Wilson (see below). He settled in Utah before dying in 2001.
Veneris, James (Pvt.). (1922–2004), Born to a Greek family in Vandergrift, Pennsylvania, he stayed in China and became a dedicated Communist, taking the Chinese name 'Lao Wen'.  He worked in a steel mill, participated in the Great Leap Forward, hung posters during the Cultural Revolution, married three times and had children. He visited the United States in 1976, but returned to China where he is buried.
Webb, Harold (Sgt.). From Jacksonville, Florida. He married a Polish woman in China and moved to Poland in 1960, reportedly settling in Katowice. In 1988, he was given permission to settle in the United States.  He is the subject of the Youth Defense League song "Turncoat" about rejection of a Korean War defector seeking a return to America.
White, William (Cpl.). Married and obtained a bachelor's degree in international law while in China. He returned to the United States in 1965.
Wills, Morris (Cpl.). From Fort Ann, New York. He played basketball for Peking University and got married in China. He returned to the U.S. in 1965 and got a job in the Asian Studies Department at Harvard University. His autobiography, Turncoat: An American's 12 Years in Communist China, was published in 1966. He died in 1999.
Wilson, Aaron (Cpl.). (1932–2014)  Originally from Urania, Louisiana. Cpl. Wilson was one of five American defectors who never went beyond the eighth grade as a child. He was captured in 1950, during the first days of the Chinese-led counteroffensive that stymied US gains on territory held by the North Koreans. His lack of education and three years of indoctrination are cited as reasons for his decision to stay. He returned to the U.S. on 6 December 1956. Wilson married an American woman and worked in his Louisiana hometown's mill. Later in life Wilson flew a U.S. flag from an  pole in his front yard. For an interview he gave to the Korean War Veterans Association in 2002 he told the interviewer, "This is the greatest country in the world, and maybe when I was 17 years old I didn't know it, but I do now." He died in 2014 and is buried in Silverhill, Alabama.

British

Andrew Condron, a Scotsman of 41 (Independent) Royal Marine Commando, was the only Briton to decline repatriation. Allegations of American biological warfare during the Korean War have been reported to have influenced Condron's decision to live in China; however, those who knew him have said he was motivated by admiration of Maoism and Marxist theory. Regarding his desertion Condron said "I made my gesture because I am against war. I have spent my years in China learning a lot."

The British government refused to rule out the possibility of arrest and trial if he returned to the United Kingdom. Regarding Condron, Lieutenant Colonel J. L. Lindop of the Intelligence Division of the Admiralty stated that the Royal Navy "regard Condron as a deserter and ... he is liable to be arrested and charged with desertion" and as a result it was difficult for Condron to return to the UK.

In 1955, Condron was included in the editor's list for a book entitled: Thinking Soldiers – by Men Who Fought in Korea. In the following quotation written by Condron he expresses his disillusionment with military life:

'... the soldier today can no longer be viewed as a robot. The more different kinds of experience he has, the more he fits them together in his mind. That is why all those who consider the soldier merely as a thing to be used, like the rifle he carries or the pack he wears, are bound to come out very badly in their calculations. Our experience, and that of the men who wrote this book, included battle, capture and much thought in Korea. We were a few among many thousands.