[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# James Grover McDonald

spect for McDonald, a street in Netanya, Israel was named for him, Rehov McDonald.

McDonald's Credo

1951-52, James McDonald wrote "A Credo," a succinct explanation of his motivation for doing what he did. He reflects his motivations as being fundamentally rooted in Christian and American values.  

“To me, the threat of Jewish extermination in Germany was a threat also to all Christians, indeed to all freedom of religion and all democratic ideals and principles.  The threat to Jews was not only a hideous wrong but also created a world problem of overwhelming significance.  Hence it was that only for the sake of the Jews but for the larger cause of freedom, justice, and equal treatment of all human beings, everywhere, whatever their race, religion, or nationality, I – a blonde “Aryan” offspring of Scotch-Canadian and Midwest American stock, a teacher and student by profession and inclination – became a champion for Jewish aspirations and equal human rights. 

…It was an irresistible call.”

Death and burial

In retirement McDonald resided in Bronxville, New York.  He died at the hospital in White Plains, New York on September 25, 1964.  His funeral was held in the Reformed Church and he was buried at Strong Cemetery in Albany, Indiana.

Historical marker

    

On August 11, 2022, a historical interpretive double-sided marker was placed at 105 Broadway, Albany, Indiana, honoring the life and legacy of James G. McDonald.  The historical marker was funded by the Jewish American Society for Historic Preservation.  The marker was a joint collaborative effort by the citizens of Albany, the Indiana Jewish Historical Society, the Indiana Historical Bureau, and the Delaware County Historical Society. 

Text 
James Grover McDonald
1886-1964

Diplomat James G. McDonald grew up in Albany and taught history at Indiana University by 1910.  Representing the Foreign Policy Association, he met with Nazi officials in 1933, including Adolf Hitler who was quickly rising to power. McDonald warned U.S. leaders about “Impending tragedy” for European Jews and began advocating for refugees fleeing Nazi persecution.

(Side 2)

James Grover McDonald
(Continued from other side)

As the League of Nations’ High Commissioner for Refugees (1933-35) and the chair of President Roosevelt’s refugee advisory committee (1938-45), McDonald battled xenophobia, antisemitism, and restrictive quota systems to find asylum for thousands of persecuted Jews.  In 1949, President Truman appointed McDonald the first U.S. Ambassador to the new State of Israel.

Installed 2022 Indiana Historical Bureau, Indiana Jewish Historical Society,
Jewish American Society for Historic Preservation and the Delaware County Historical Society

References

External links

 United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (Papers of James McDonald)
 Columbia University (Papers of James McDonald)
 U.S. State Department List of Ambassador's to Israel
 U.S. State Department Archives (People)
 Historical Marker Database
 The New Synagogue of Netanya (McDonald's)
 
 Yossi Melman, WHAT DID AMERICA’S FIRST ENVOY THINK OF THE JEWISH STATE?, The Jerusalem Post
 'The Birth of Israel: U.S. Envoy McDonald’s Tireless Efforts' by Shlomo Slonim, Middle East Quarterly

1886 births
1964 deaths
People from Coldwater, Ohio
People from Albany, Indiana
People from Bronxville, New York
Indiana University Bloomington alumni
Ambassadors of the United States to Israel
League of Nations people
Harvard University alumni
Burials in Indiana
American Zionists