[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 Fijian presidential election

Ratu Naiqama Lalabalavu, the Tui Cakau (Paramount Chief of Tovata) for the office of President or Vice-President.  Lalabalavu, who was also Fiji's Minister for Transport, served an eight-month prison sentence (most of it extramurally) in 2005 for his role in an army mutiny) connected with the coup.

Although the contents were not revealed, the Fiji Sun claimed on 21 February that the Military had sent a seven-page letter to President Iloilo, threatening to invoke the "Doctrine of necessity" if a coup-convict was appointed president or vice-president.  The next day, Captain Leweni said that with an incumbent president and vice-president willing to serve for another term, it would be "pointless" to nominate anyone else.  Rabukawaqa reiterated this stance on 22 February, but denied knowledge of the seven-page letter alleged to have been sent.

According to Fiji Live, Attorney-General Qoriniasi Bale revealed on 23 February that the Constitution is silent on whether persons convicted of criminal offences are eligible to hold public office.

Fiji Live quoted Rabukawaqa on 24 February as reiterating the Military's opposition to any coup convict being appointed president or vice-president.  He strongly criticized Attorney-General Qoriniasi Bale for saying that there was no constitutional bar to an ex-convict holding the Presidency or Vice-Presidency, but denied that the Military had threatened to use the Doctrine of Necessity should such a scenario occur.

In another Fiji Live report on 7 March, Rabukawaqa called on the Military to make a wise choice.  "Our concern will be the character and the credibility of the nominations of the people who will actually sit in the office of the President and the Vice President," Rabukawaqa said.  No person who would bring the office into disrepute should be chosen, he insisted.  He refused, however, to say what the Military might do if a coup-convict were to be appointed, saying that he would not comment on hypothetical scenarios. His comments followed a call the previous day from the Prime Minister to respect the rule of law and avoid interfering in the selection of the president and vice-president.  Laisenia Qarase said that he himself would not attempt to influence the decision, even though he was constitutionally entitled to be consulted.

Others' comments
The Military was not the only institution expressing misgivings about the election.  Soqosoqo ni Vakavulewa ni Taukei (SVT) General Secretary Ema Druavesi said on 16 February that she would not be surprised if Seniloli returned to office, as numerous coup-convicts had already been reinstated in the positions they had held.  She alleged that Seniloli's possible return was part of a government campaign against the Military – and should be ready to answer for it.

Poseci Bune, Deputy Leader of the Fiji Labour Party (FLP), similarly claimed that there were moves to replace President Iloilo with a pro-Government chief who would remove Commodore Frank Bainimarama from his position as Commander of the Republic of Fiji Military Forces.  Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase, however, rejected Bune's claims as outrageous, saying that the government would not interfere with the decision of the Great Council of Chiefs.

In a further comment quoted in the Fiji Times (26 February), Ratu Epeli Ganilau said that the Great Council of Chiefs already had selection criteria, which were adopted in 1992.  While the Constitution allowed any Fijian citizen, in principle, to hold the Presidency or Vice-Presidency, the criteria of the Great Council required the person chosen to be of chiefly birth, experienced, and well regarded as a national leader.  "Also, the person appointed must not be convicted of any crime at all," Ganilau declared.  President Iloilo and Vice-President Madraiwiwi had both been selected on the basis of these criteria, Ganilau said.  He claimed to have met, in his then capacity as Chairman of the Great Council of Chiefs, former Vice-President Seniloli following his treason conviction, with a view to protecting the office.

Asesela Sadole, General Secretary of the Great Council of Chiefs, responded on 28 February by saying that it was the Great Council that had established the selection criteria, and was at liberty to change it.  It was only a guideline, he said.

Party of National Unity (PANU) leader Ponipate Lesavua endorsed Iloilo on 27 February and called on the chiefs of Ba and Burebasaga to rally behind him.  He hoped that in making their selection, the chiefs would consider that no country should be ruled by ex-convicts.  "We need clean and honest people running the nation so our chiefs should give them (Iloilo and Madraiwiwi) a second chance rather than choosing those people that have come out of jail for offences that could be described to be similar to murder," the Fiji Times quoted him as saying.