[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ricky Ravenhill

-appoint former manager Alan Buckley. The managerial change brought a down turn in fortunes for Ravenhill who fell out of contention following the loan signing of Peter Till from Birmingham City. He played his final game for Grimsby on 9 January 2007 in a 2–0 home defeat against former club Chester.

Darlington
His departure from Grimsby was initially on loan and he joined fellow League Two side Darlington on loan until the end of the 2006–07 season, Ravenhill who has scored for Grimsby against Darlo earlier in the season made his debut on 16 January 2007 in a 1–1 draw with Bury. He finished the spell with 2 goals in 15 games. In the summer of 2007 a permanent deal was finalised between Grimsby and Darlington and he became a full-time player with the club. Over the next two seasons Ravenhill went on to make 75 league appearances, scoring 5 goals.

Notts County
In the summer of 2009 Ravenhill joined Notts County who were in the middle of the takeover by Middle Eastern consortium Munto Finance. County were to bring in Sven-Göran Eriksson as director of football, as well as players such as Sol Campbell, Kasper Schmeichel and Lee Hughes. County, Munto and Sven despite all the media hype around the club had parted company before the 2009–10 season had seen its climax and to add to the confusion the club had seen five different managers in charge throughout the season. Ian McParland who signed Ravenhill during the summer was dismissed in October, and after Michael Johnson was placed in temporary charge the board appointed Hans Backe. Backe himself resigned in December after two months in charge and was replaced by Dave Kevan for a two-month period before Steve Cotterill took over for the remaining 18 games which eventually brought promotion with the club winning the League Two title. Ravenhill was an imperative part of the club's promotion push after playing in 48 games in all competitions, scoring 3 goals against Macclesfield Town, Burton Albion and Morecambe.

The following year there was less money in the pot at Meadow Lane and County struggled with life in League One but eventually staved off relegation by finishing in 19th place, 3 points above the relegation zone. Ravenhill played 42 times in all competitions without scoring. He played his final game for County against Wycombe Wanderers on 5 November 2011.

Bradford City
He joined Bradford City on loan on 18 November 2011. He made his debut the following day in a home match against Rotherham United. On 12 January 2012 the deal was made permanent, he continued to wear the number 14 shirt and was given a 2 and a half-year contract. He scored his first goal for the club on 14 January in a home match against Morecambe. Bradford's 2012–13 season though made by the club's outstanding run in the Football League Cup. Victories over Watford and Burton Albion brought a tie at home with Premier League side Wigan Athletic. Bradford stunned Wigan by beating them on a penalty shootout after a 0–0 draw at Valley Parade, this set up another home tie, this time with Arsenal who again Bradford beat on a penalty shootout, this time following a 1–1 draw. Bradford went on to knock Aston Villa out 4–3 in the semi-final to make themselves only the second team from the fourth tier of English football to qualify for a national cup final. Bradford however were beaten 5–0 by Swansea City at Wembley Stadium on 24 February 2013, Ravenhill was an unused sub for the quarter finals, both semi final legs and the final itself.

On 6 November 2013, Ricky joined Northampton Town on a month-long loan.

Northampton Town
On 30 January 2014, Ravenhill joined Northampton Town on an 18-month contract.

Later career
On 7 January 2015 Ravenhill joined Mansfield Town FC on a deal until 1 July 2015.

On 9 August 2015 Ravenhill joined Buxton FC. Ravenhill decided to retire from professional football, currently splitting his time between playing non-professionally for Buxton, coaching at Doncaster Rovers Youth Academy and working full-time as a recruitment consultant.

On 25 September 2018, Mickleover Sports announced the signing of Ravenhill.

Personal life
His son Liam Ravenhill plays as a midfielder for Doncaster Rovers.

Honours
Doncaster Rovers
Conference National: (1) Play-off Winners 2002–03
Football League Division Three: (1) Champions 2003–04
Notts County
League Two: (1) Champions 2009–10
Bradford City
League Cup: Runners-up 2012–13
League Two: Play-off Winners 2012–13

References

External links

1981 births
Living people
Footballers from Doncaster
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Barnsley F.C. players
Doncaster Rovers F.C. players
Chester City F.C. players
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Darlington F.C. players
Notts County F.C. players
Bradford City A.F.C. players
Northampton Town F.C. players
Mansfield Town F.C. players
Buxton F.C. players
Mickleover F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players