[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Defense of Cincinnati

nes connected each of the earthwork positions with his headquarters.

Following the threat, many more batteries and forts were constructed through November 1864, mostly under the direction of Major James H. Simpson.

Kentucky batteries
Unless otherwise noted, all traces of these earthworks are gone.

Kenton County
 J. L. Kirby Smith Battery - Located in the southwest area of modern Ludlow.  It was named for Colonel Joseph L. Kirby Smith, 43rd Ohio Infantry, who was mortally wounded at the Second Battle of Corinth, October 1862.
 Coombs Battery - Believed to be named for Leslie Coombs, a member of Wallace's staff. Remains of this battery are found in Covington's Devou Park.
 Bates Battery - Brigadier General Joshua Hall Bates, chairman of the Cincinnati Committee for Public Safety, was the namesake for this battery. Well-preserved, Bates Battery is located in Devou Park, but is difficult to reach.
 Perry Battery - Named for Cincinnati attorney Aaron F. Perry.
 Rich Battery - Named for Stephen Rich, landowner of the site. This position was built in 1861 and by the time of Heth's threat, it was considered out of position and unusable. It was referred to as "Old Battery" on military maps.
 Fort Mitchel - Constructed in 1861 and named for Major General Ormsby M. Mitchel, who originally directed the construction of Cincinnati's defenses in November 1861. (The city of Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, chartered in 1909, derives its name from both the fort and the general, although misspelling his name.) The fort was greatly expanded in 1863–1864. Today, only the road leading up to the fort remains.
 Kyle Battery - Located immediately northeast of Fort Mitchel on a farm owned by Robert S. Kyle. The site was destroyed by construction of Interstate 75.
 McRae Battery - Named for Captain Alexander McRae, 3rd United States Cavalry, killed in action at the Battle of Valverde, New Mexico Territory, in February 1862.
 Fort Wright - Constructed in 1863, this fortification was left uncompleted in 1864. Designed for thirteen heavy guns, Fort Wright could cover all of the ground from the front of Kyle Battery eastward to the Licking River. It was named for Major General Horatio Wright, commander of the Department of the Ohio. The city of Fort Wright, Kentucky derives its name from this fortification.
 Hooper Battery - Initially designated Kyle Battery, it was along the same ridge as McRae. The site of the battery was covered over with earth to make a level back yard for a private home that was the now-defunct James A. Ramage Civil War Museum.
 Carlisle Battery - Named for local attorney and politician John G. Carlisle.
 Burbank Battery - Named for Lieutenant Colonel Sidney Burbank, who was military commander of Cincinnati. Burbank was promoted to colonel, September 16, 1862.
 Hatch Battery - Alternately known as Brickyard Battery, it was named for Cincinnati's mayor George H. Hatch.
 Buford Battery - Constructed in 1863 and named for Kentucky half-brothers and generals Napoleon Bonaparte Buford and John Buford. This position was selected to command the ground from Fort Wright to Holt Battery in Campbell County.
 Burnet Battery - First known as Quarry Battery, it was renamed for Robert W. Burnet, commander of a local militia unit from the Cincinnati Literary Club, known as the Burnet Rifles.
 Anderson Battery - First known as Tunnel Battery, due to being located directly above a railroad tunnel (still in use), it was renamed for Larz Anderson, a Cincinnati businessman, married to Catherine Longworth, daughter of Nicholas Longworth. Larz was the brother of Brevet Major General Robert Anderson of Fort Sumter. Minor traces of this earthwork and a few rifle pits can still be seen.