[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Simcha Zissel Ziv

d open in Grobin until 1886. In that year, Ziv's health took a turn for the worse and his doctors warned him that there was real danger to his life if he continued making the effort that the running of the yeshiva in Grobin required. At this point, Ziv was forced to close the Talmud Torah in Grobin.

With the closure of the Grobin Talmud Torah, the focus of his work shifted back to Kelm, which now regained its former prominence. Ziv established a group that was known as "Devek Tov," comprising his foremost students. He shared a special relationship with the group's members and he worked on writing out his discourses for them, which, unfortunately, required more strength than he had.

A number of his students settled in Palestine in 1892, opening the "Beis HaMusar" in Jerusalem, under Ziv’s auspices and with his support.

Ziv died on Wednesday, 26 July 1898.

Personality
Ziv was known for his humility, lovingkindness, thoughtfulness, and focus on order.

At Ziv's funeral, his friend and colleague Eliezer Gordon, the rabbi and Rosh Yeshiva of Telz, said that aside from Ziv’s greatness in Torah, he had never heard a single word from him that was not related to Torah and to fear of Heaven.

Ziv was not only great in Musar but also in his knowledge of Torah and Talmud. Gordon, who was known as a fiery and tempestuous genius, would repeat his Talmudic thoughts to Ziv and seek his opinion on them, for he valued Ziv’s scholarship highly. Gordon said that his friend had been fluent in three orders of the Talmud, to such a level where he knew every comment of Rashi and Tosafot word for word. He was also fluent in all four divisions of the Shulchan Aruch and could locate any given Halacha within it with pinpoint precision.

Musar approach
Ziv taught that the whole world is a classroom where one can learn to improve one’s character and increase one’s belief in God. Ziv would frequently quote Socrates, who said that "true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing."

Ziv offered his students the following advice: "Take time. Be exact. Unclutter the mind." The school (Talmud Torah) that he operated in Grobin was an epitome of this approach. The students conducted themselves with calmness and order but were still motivated and enthusiastic. There are numerous anecdotes that illustrated the extent that this reached, among them are:
A man once left a cane hanging on a hook in the school by mistake; he came back many years later and the cane had not been moved.
Ziv once came into the school and saw that in the row of galoshes that had been lined up outside the study hall, one of the pair of galoshes was not in line with the others. Ziv dedicated an entire ethical sermon to the need for order in light of this event.
The windows that faced the street in the study hall were never opened in order to prevent distractions. A noise was once heard outside the study hall. One of the students opened the window and looked out to see what was happening. Ziv commented that he did not see that there was any possibility that that student would become an accomplished person.

Ziv explained that a person can only progress in life and perceive God by clearing his mind of confusion and haphazard thinking. Once a person has done this, they will be able to achieve a level of equanimity and clarity of mind that will allow them to plan a path through life that is independent of the fallacies that are the subconscious product of personal weakness and temptations. They will also be able to recognise the subtleties (subtleness) of God's manifestation in the world.

Ziv would study for twelve solid, successive hours each day no matter the time of year. He explained that only through clarity and clear mindedness can a person overcome their will to act impulsively and achieve focus.

Dov Katz described Ziv’s approach to learning as consisting of three guiding principles:
 One should become emotionally involved in his studies, whether joyful or sad.
 One should ask oneself after everything one learns, "What did I think before, and what do I know differently now?"
 One's study should always delve beyond the external facets and arrive at the essence of the topic.

He encouraged practices that would encourage visualization and introspection.

Students
His foremost student was Yeruchom Levovitz the Mashgiach of Mir, who wrote all of his texts into Chochmah Umussar, due to the fact that no one else was able to put it out. His other students included many of the musar greats of the next generation: Nosson Tzvi Finkel of Slabodka, Aharon Bakst, Reuven Dov Dessler (whose son Eliyahu Eliezer Dessler authored the classic Michtav M'Eliyahu), Nachum Ze'ev Ziv, and Zvi Hirsch Braude.