[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hellenic Police

child abuse is faced with a "Zero Tolerance" policy.

Additionally, the Hellenic Police has shown active support to the Children's Smile () non-profit organization, via a financial donation and the assurance that the agency was, is, and will remain "for life" an active supporter of the organization.

A free of charge digital application called Panic Button, which operates 24 hours a day, was introduced in Attica and Thessaloniki on 27 March 2023. Installed on smartphones, its aim is to allow police to immediately intervene in incidents of domestic violence against women. By pressing a button, it automatically sends a short text message to the police or another special service, and it locates where the user is through the phone's Global Positioning System (GPS). The application can be provided by Hellenic Police departments, the Offices to Manage Domestic Violence in Athens and Thessaloniki, and counseling centers of the network under the General Secretariat of Demographic and Family Policy and Equality of the Sexes at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in Attica and Thessaloniki. Currently, only females living in the Region of Attica and the Region of Thessaloniki are eligible for registration.

Current issues
There are several current issues affecting the police in Greece today. Of particular importance is the rise in drug related crimes, sometimes attributed to increased immigration from Albania and other former Eastern Bloc countries. This has particularly affected Athens (and in particular, Omonoia Square), which has become a central point for drug-related activities within Greece.  

Illegal immigration is also a problem as Greece remains both a destination and transit point for illegal immigrants, particularly from Albania (and, increasingly, African and Asian countries). There has been an effort in recent years to step up the security procedures along Greece's borders, although some allege the government's approach has been heavy-handed. The issue of the recruitment of immigrants has also been brought up by opposition PASOK MPs in Parliament several times. 

Greece is one of the few EU countries where there is a rising crime rate (although it is still very low by EU standards). Some also allege there is a division within the Greek Police force between 'Modern' and 'Traditional' elements; the 'Traditional' element is underpinned by a long history of links with the military, whereas the 'Modern' element is geared towards the police playing a greater social role in society (for example, through drug rehabilitation).

Controversies

Drugs case of Minister of Citizen Protection 
During a check on four persons in the area of Amarousiou on 22 November 2021 by motorcycle police unit DIAS officers, in particular the procedure of identity document (ID) checks and body search after having first ordered from them to place out the items who carry with them, they found drugs. Among the persons was reportedly Dimitris Theodorikakos son of Citizen Protection Minister Panagiotis (Takis) Theodorikakos. The revelation made by a retired police brigadier and the newspaper journalist and police editor of Ta Nea and To Vima Vasilis Labropoulos on Mega TV’s Mega Gegonona news on 2 February 2023 where it presents photographs from the drugs and recording of data of four, referring to the Panagiotis Theodorikakos who reportedly had done intervention in order to cover up and manipulate the case file, to destroy incriminating evidences and material, and to avoid arrest and transfer before a prosecutor. Vasilis Labropoulos commented that "Mega TV and other media had not have intention to refer who is the person checked, hence they referred only [they did not name who are] are from the surrounding of mister Theodorikakos. The revelation of person who is his son he is himself revealed the minister [Panagiotis Theodorikakos]".  

Panagiotis (Takis) Theodorikakos announced he will file a criminal complaint against the retired police brigadier and Vasilis Labropoulos. Also Dimitris Theodorikakos and former Chief of Hellenic Police Michail Karamalakis announced they will file a criminal complaint against the retired police brigadier.

Violence 
According to some organizations Greek police has been accused of overt and, generally unpunished, brutality, in specific cases like after the 2008 Greek riots and during the 2010–2012 Greek protests sparked by the Greek government-debt crisis. Amnesty international has issued a detailed report on police violence in Greece, concerning its practices in patrolling demonstrations, treatment of illegal immigrants, and other, while the Human Rights Watch has criticized the organization concerning its stance against immigrants and allegations of torture of detainees and the Reporters Without Borders have accused the police of deliberately targeting journalists.