[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

group. Once Pauker had been sidelined, the trial could grow to implicate various other former communists. As reported by Georgescu, the Securitate heads, including Pintilie and Dulgheru, were still quietly opposed to these developments, now "convinced that we had absolutely nothing" on Pătrășcanu. 

Pintilie himself attempted to intervene on behalf on one victim, Emil Calmanovici, noting that Calmanovici had once spent "half of his own fortune" in subsidies for the communist underground. According to his own testimony, he was pressured into accelerating the procedures by Chișinevschi, who was especially interested in having Pătrășcanu executed. Apostol contrarily claims that "Pantiușa, acting on his own responsibility", shot Pătrășcanu in his cell at Jilava Prison, thus preventing Dej from issuing a pardon. A similar story was reported in 2013 by a former communist journalist, Nestor Ignat: "it was Pantiușa himself who killed [Pătrășcanu], like he had done with Foriș. He went into his cell and put a bullet through his head... Now, Pantiușa was a Russian asset, so I figure he had his orders directly from Moscow, going over Dej's head..." The makeshift, single-shot execution is credited in other sources, including Pacepa, but these contradict the official report, according to which Pătrășcanu faced a firing squad; the report was also corroborated by an eyewitness, Vasile Varga. In 1967, both sets of accounts were contradicted by the suicide note of Securitate officer Iosif Moldoveanu, who claimed to have killed Pătrășcanu by himself.

A number of authors note that Pintilie played a direct part in Gheorghiu-Dej's orchestrated attack on Pauker and Vasile Luca, which saw the latter two sidelined, then persecuted. In a 2001 interview, Pleșiță claims that Pauker's fall contributed in enshrining Gheorghiu-Dej's already great respect for "Pantiușa", who "was not a hundred percent the Russian asset". One other account suggests that Pintilie openly celebrated Pauker's fall, which he reportedly greeted with the words: "Those kikes have been sabotaging our country!" Dulgheru, who was also brought down and sent to jail during the attack on Pauker, remembers that "Pantiușa" had a dual role: though he participated in framing Dulgheru, he wanted no part in the "swindle" (potlogării) affecting Pauker. Drăghici owed his appointment as minister to another ramification of the scandal, which touched Georgescu in 1953. The latter was imprisoned, and confessed to having raped his secretaries and taken a fortune in bribes, but was ultimately released in 1955 and sent to work as a clerk. Luca was the most aggrieved by the fabrication, as a subject of "physical constraints" that included being beaten with an iron rod. As later confessed by his torturers and his co-defendants, his mistreatment had been ordered by Drăghici and by "Soviet advisers", rather than by Pintilie.

In September 1952, Dej had segregated the Securitate from other police agencies, placing it under its own Ministry, and securing his own sweeping powers of that structure. As suggested by Pintilie, Nicolschi, and other members of a review board, it grew to absorb the last independent remnant of the Siguranța—Nicolau's Special Information Service, a counterintelligence unit. The DGSP, now known as DGSS, could rely on 55,000 armed personnel in 1953, with its civilian apparatus increased from 5,000 in 1950 to 19,000 in 1956. In February of that year, Pintilie's commission had extended the maximum legal term for penal servitude to five years, from a previous two. In November 1953, Pintilie and the other junior minister, Ion Vincze, assigned seven Securitate battalions and 50 police dogs to Colonel Coloman Ambruș, for the single purpose of hunting down Ion Gavrilă Ogoranu and his anti-communist guerillas hiding out in the Făgăraș Mountains. The display of force was largely futile, and Ogoranu was still free to engage in hit-and-run tactics during 1954.