[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nescopeck Creek

make up  of the creek's watershed. A total of 25 streams in the creek's watershed have a Strahler number of 2. They make up  of the creek's watershed. One hundred thirteen very small streams in the Nescopeck Creek watershed have a Strahler number of 1. Such streams make up  of the creek's watershed.

Little Nescopeck Creek A is one tributary of Nescopeck Creek. Its source is at the very northwestern edge of the creek's watershed, and it joins the main stem of Nescopeck Creek slightly downstream of Olympus Pond. Little Nescopeck Creek B is in the south of the watershed and is slightly longer than Little Nescopeck Creek A. Little Nescopeck Creek B joins Nescopeck Creek at Sybertsville. Black Creek is the longest tributary of Nescopeck Creek, with a length of . Reilly Creek is a tributary of Nescopeck Creek in the extreme east of the creek's watershed. Only  long, it is the shortest named tributary of Nescopeck Creek.

Hydrology

Discharge
From 1919 to 1926, the discharge of Nescopeck Creek at St. Johns was . The month with the highest average discharge during this time was March, when there was a discharge of . The month with the lowest average discharge during this time was September, when there was an average discharge of . The highest discharge in a single month was  in March 1920. The lowest discharge in a single month was  in September 1922. The average discharge of Nescopeck Creek from 1995 to 2002 is . From 1996 to 1998, the Jeddo Tunnel discharged an average of  of water into Little Nescopeck Creek.

Dams
There are ten dams on Nescopeck Creek's watershed. The impoundments behind these dams have surface areas of . Nine of the dams in the Nescopeck Creek watershed are made from earthen-fill. The tenth is an unnamed dam constructed of masonry. The dams range from  in height and  in length. Their drainage areas are between .

pH and contaminants
In 2005, a study was done on the pH of the waters of Nescopeck Creek and its tributaries. At three sites, its pH averaged 5.06, 4.85, and 4.49. However, the pH at Nescopeck Creek's headwaters is between 6.5 and 7. The lowest pH level in the Nescopeck Creek watershed is 4.2, which is on some parts of Black Creek. Creasy Creek is the most alkaline tributary of Nescopeck Creek, with a pH ranging from 6.9 to 7.2. Other relatively alkaline streams in the creek's watershed include Long Run (6.6), Reilly Creek (6.4), Long Hollow (6.4), Oley Creek (6.4), Conety Run (6.2), and Little Nescopeck Creek A (5.8 to 7). Brook trout are able to tolerate pHs down to 4.8 and the ideal pH range for freshwater fish is 6.5 to 9.0.

At these sites, the study also found averages of 1.7, 2.23, and 5.56 parts per million of aluminum, respectively. Concentrations of aluminium higher than 100 to 200 parts per million can cause suffocation of fish by accumulating in their gills. The toxicity of aluminum to fish is increased by a water pH of below 4.5 to 6.5. There were also 0.65, 0.81, and 1.84 parts per million of iron in these sites, and 0.96, 1.15, 0.03, and 2.65 parts per million of manganese. There were 91.37, 114.27, and 274.1 milligrams per liter of sulfates in the waters of Nescopeck at these sites.

A total of  of nitrogen per year are discharged from Nescopeck Creek. Thirty-three percent of this came from land, 60 percent from groundwater, and 6 percent from leaking septic tanks. Its Black Creek tributary adds toxic amounts of copper, lead, and zinc to Nescopeck Creek's watershed. In most parts of Nescopeck Creek and its tributaries, the concentration of phosphorus is slightly lower than the concentration of nitrogen. However, at St. Johns and Conyngham, the phosphorus level is considerably higher than the nitrogen level. Most phosphorus contributed to Nescopeck Creek comes from sub-watersheds instead of the main stem of the creek. The total amount of phosphorus in Nescopeck Creek is . Cropland and quarries are the largest land sources of phosphorus in the watershed, each contributing  (43.6 percent of land sources) and . The smallest sources of phosphorus in the watershed are unpaved roads, contributing  (0.1 percent) and mixed forest, contributing  (0.2 percent). Groundwater contributes  and septic systems contribute . Point source pollution in the watershed does not release any phosphorus.

Stony Creek's water is the hardest water in the Nescopeck Creek watershed, with a concentration of over 100 milligrams per liter of dissolved minerals. Other streams in the watershed with hard water are Reilly Creek (28 milligrams per liter) and Long Run (21 milligrams per liter). Some of the least hard waters in the Nescopeck Creek watershed are those of Little Nescopeck Creek A (3 to 8 milligrams per liter), Conety Run (5 milligrams per liter), and Oley Creek (7 milligrams per liter). However, the largest source of pollution in the Nescopeck Creek watershed is acid mine drainage (AMD).