[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Georgia Tech Research Institute

tion's reorganization and was named interim director upon Long's departure in 1975. During his tenure, Stelson reorganized the station into eight semi-autonomous laboratories in order to allow each to develop a specialization and clientele, a model it retains (with slight modifications) to this day.

The Engineering Experiment Station was renamed the Georgia Tech Research Institute in 1984. A separate organization originally called the Industrial Development Council, changed its name to the Georgia Tech Research Institute in February 1946, and finally to the Georgia Tech Research Corporation in 1984. There are legal difficulties when an American university wishes to accept contracts from some entities, especially the federal government, so the second organization is a contracting organization. Most importantly, it allows the university to perform multi-year contracts that are not possible under state law, which requires that money received must be spent in the same fiscal year. The name change coincided with a shift in focus toward obtaining industrial research contracts in addition to its contracts with the federal government. GTRI expanded its footprint in the mid to late 1980s: the Centennial Research Building opened on the north end of the Georgia Tech campus in 1985, providing expanded lab and office space, and the electromagnetic radiation measurement range was established at GTRI's Cobb County research facility.

Recent history

From 1992 to 1997, retired Vice Admiral Richard H. Truly was GTRI's director.  Truly helped GTRI survive a recession and the end of the Cold War despite its dependence on United States Department of Defense (DOD) contracts. During his tenure the percentage of GTRI's budget from the DOD did experience a small decrease (from 76 percent to 70 percent), but this was balanced by increased research in other fields. In 1997, GTRI passed $100 million in research contracts, with 546 awards for $103,061,780 (equivalent to $ in ). One of GTRI's more widely used (and ongoing) products, FalconView, was initially developed in the early 1990s; it is a geographic information system that allows pilots to plot flight paths while integrating real-time military intelligence.

Truly was replaced by Edward K. Reedy, who served from 1998 to 2003. Reedy encouraged funding researchers who had ideas that needed support, and introduced a new cost accounting standard for recovering indirect expenditures. Reedy was particularly influential in securing the $7.3 million in funding required to build the Food Processing Technology Building. Under his leadership, GTRI's first endowed chair was established in March 1998 in honor of Glen P. Robinson, the $1.5 million Glen P. Robinson Chair in Electro-Optics. 
GTRI and Georgia Tech played host to sitting president George W. Bush in March 2002; a mock disaster was staged during the visit, demonstrating new technologies. At the end of Reedy's tenure, GTRI had $115 million in research contracts (equivalent to $ in ), a new high. Much new funding came as an indirect result of the September 11 attacks and the resulting War on Terrorism as the DOD increased related research.

Stephen E. Cross was selected as director in late 2003. In March 2010, Cross was named Executive Vice President for Research, a newly created position within Georgia Tech with oversight over all research at the university, including GTRI, the Georgia Tech Research Corporation, the school's interdisciplinary research centers, and the Enterprise Innovation Institute; and will "work closely with" academic researchers. He began his new role on May 1, 2010, and was replaced as director by Robert McGrath.

Some recent notable projects have included the Deployable Joint Command and Control System and ULTRA AP, a concept combat vehicle. In 2010, researchers developed microfabricated planar ion traps using VLSI techniques for use in a trapped ion quantum computer. Also in 2010, researchers developed a method of using GPGPU to crack passwords, coming up with a minimum secure password length of 12 characters. Researchers are investigating the use of radar as a possible concussion detection tool.

GTRI is the primary contractor of the Homeland Open Security Technology program, which aims to promote the creation and use of open security and open-source software in the United States government and military, especially in areas pertaining to computer security. GTRI personnel are involved in DARPA's Anomaly Detection at Multiple Scales project through the Proactive Discovery of Insider Threats Using Graph Analysis and Learning system.

In 2018 the U.S. Army renewed a 10-year contract with GTRI worth $2.35 Billion for the Department of Defense. The following year in 2019 Georgia Tech won a U.S. Airforce engineering contract worth up to $491 Million with the condition of meeting certain criteria after 5 years.

Description