[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of South African slang words

ing of the phrases "in die" (in the) and "op die" (on the).
 in jou noppies – lit. "you are thrilled". Used to describe levels of excitement, similar to "tickled pink".
ipekonders – commonly pronounced as "iepie-corners", refers to Hypochondriasis. Unlike the actual disorder, it is often used to comically exaggerate a person's reaction to any kind of symptoms that are generally considered harmless regardless of the discomfort caused by them. Like when someone drinks cough-syrup after coughing just twice.
 ja – yeah (literally "yes" in Afrikaans)
 Jakob regop – lit. "Jacob upright". Refers to an erect penis.
 jakkals trou met wolf se vrou – lit. "Jackal weds Wolf's wife". Refers to the weather phenomena known as a "monkey's wedding". Can be used to describe an unlikely situation. Also refers to a song of the same name by Afrikaans singer Karlien Van Jaarsveld.
 jux/juks/jags – Meaning "horny". For example, "Jinne meisie, jy maak my nou sommer lekker jags."
 ja-nee – literally "yes-no", an expression of positive confirmation. Example : Dis warm vandag. ("It's hot today") : Ja-nee ("Indeed")
 Jan Allerman – lit. "Jan Every man". Local variant of the American term "Average Joe."
 jippo - Bypass, hack, slacking, short-term fix. I'll jippo the alarm to not make a sound while we work on it. While the team was working hard all night, Byron was jippoing.
 jippo-guts - Diarrhoea
 jislaaik! – expression of surprise, can be positive or negative. Often used when you get a fright, but equally often during particularly exciting parts of a rugby game.
 jissie – a shortened version of "jislaaik".
 jinne – another variation of "jislaaik".
 jip – informal for "yes".
 jo – an exclamation e.g., "Jo, that was rude," "Jo, you gave me a fright!" Pronounced as in "yolk".
 jol – to have fun, to party, can also refer to a disco or party, to commit adultery or even dating or courting
 jou ma se poes! – lit. "your mom's pussy" (vulgar).
 Juffie – the shortened version of "Juffrou". "Juffrou" is a shortened version of the formal title given to address a young unmarried woman "Mejuffrou" (Miss). It is also the formal title given to address a female teacher of any age or marital status, whereby "Juffie" would be considered informal.
 kaalgat – lit. "naked arse". Derived from the word "kaal" (naked), it's simply a more humorous description. Similar to the English term "birthday suits".
 Kaapse Dokter/Cape Doctor – A strong south-eastern wind in the Cape Peninsula-area. Called the "doctor" due to the belief that it clears the Cape Town air of its pollution.
 Kaapse Draai – lit. "Cape turn", refers to a folk song (of the same name) that describes a flightpath around the Cape Peninsula literally as the Pied crow flies (known as a Witborskraai in Afrikaans), can now be applied to actual tours around the peninsula. Singer Nádine released a single based on the folk song, with the same name. It also jokingly refers to a car that turns far to wide (i.e. like crossing into the oncoming lane).
 kafee/cafee/kaffie/caffie – refers to a café, though it can also refer to a small non-coffee serving grocery shop or Tuck shop.
 kaffer – Offensive pejorative referring to a black African. Derived from the Arabic word Kafir meaning a non-Muslim, which included black Africans along the Swahili coast.
  kaffer wil nie val nie  – a phrase referring to the consumption of KWV. Often used by black South Africans at shebeens.
 kak – Literal translation: shit, crap, rubbish, nonsense (vulgar), of very wide usage. Also used as a way of further expressing one's feeling in language, for example, instead of "that girl is pretty" one can say emphatically "that girl is kak pretty!"
 kak en betaal – lit "shit and pay". Used when frustrated about spending all your hard-earned money on family, or friends, and having none left for yourself. Closest English equivalent is "Cough it up and pay up", but it doesn't have anywhere near the same power.
 kakhuis – lit. "shithouse". Refers to both a toilet and the bathroom it is located in, as well as "a lot of".
 kakspul – lit. "shithouse/shitload". Refers to a troublesome situation as well as an exaggerated amount of money.
Kannie is dood van kruiwa stoot - lit "(I can't) died from pushing a Wheelbarrow". The phrase "ek kan nie" (shortened to kannie = cannot/can't) is personified as a lazy man. The phrase is used as a form of motivation and discipline, implying that if you can do a physical task as easy as pushing a wheelbarrow, then you are more than capable enough to do any kind of hard work.
 katspoegie – lit. "kat's spit". Refers to a very small amount of something, similar to "bietjie" (a little bit)
 khaki –  derogatory term for an English person. From the colour worn by British troops, as well as the traditional clothes worn by Boere (Afrikaans speaking white farmers).
 kêrels – police (original Afrikaans meaning: guys, chaps). "The kêrels are coming, watch out!" (dated). More commonly referring to boyfriend or literal translat