[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Human rights in Vietnam

the government of Vietnam has increased its crackdown on dissidents, human rights activists and independent journalists, ahead of the 13th party congress of the Communist Party of Vietnam that took place in January 2021. The court has also increased the prison time for dissidents serving detention.

On 23 December 2021, Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) condemned the conviction and long-term sentencing of four prominent human rights defenders and journalists in Vietnam. The sentences against Do Nam Truong, Trinh Ba Phoung, Nguyen Thi Tam and Pham Doan Trang stemmed from their continuous advocacy and reporting on human rights in Viet Nam.

Recent human-rights related dissidents 
In 2009, Le Cong Dinh, a lawyer who several years previously had acted for the government in a successful case against American catfish farmers, was arrested and charged with the capital crime of subversion; several of his associates were also arrested. Many Western governments condemned the move, and human rights groups alleged that the arrest was due to Le Cong Dinhs' support for freedom of speech. Amnesty International named him and his arrested associates prisoners of conscience.

Vietnam currently holds several other individuals in detention whom Amnesty International considers to be prisoners of conscience: Cù Huy Hà Vũ, convicted of "conducting propaganda against the state" for giving interviews to foreign press; Nguyen Dan Que, convicted of "red-handed keeping and distributing documents" calling for the overthrow of the government; and Roman Catholic priest Nguyen Van Ly (also known as Father Thaddeus) detained for "spreading propaganda against the state."

In January 2019, the authorities of Vietnam arrested and sentenced an Australian democracy activist, Chau Van Kham, to 12 years of imprisonment on charges of "financing terrorism". The 70-year-old was arrested over his membership of pro-democracy group Viet Tan. The charges against him were claimed to be baseless and politically motivated by human rights advocates, lawyers and his family. In June 2023, after serving four years in prison, The Guardian reported that the activist was released from imprisonment on humanitarian grounds, with the efforts of the Australian government.

Dozens were arrested and tried in 2021. 

In May 2023, activist Trần Văn Bang was sentenced to eight years in prison after making Facebook posts critical of the government.

See also 
 Vietnam Human Rights Network – founded by Vietnamese dissidents

Notes

References

External links 

 Vietnamese Human Rights Newspaper
 US Department of State Human Rights Report 2009 Vietnam
 Censorship in Vietnam – IFEX
 Human rights in Vietnam on websites of international NGOs: Human Rights Watch and FIDH
 Vietnam Human Rights Network
 Vietnam: from "Vision" to Facts. Human Rights in Vietnam under its Chairmanship in ASEAN FIDH, 2010
 UNPO – Vietnam Human Rights Report 2009
 National report of Vietnam under the universal periodic review of UN human rights council
 Indigenous People Face Deliberate Persecution in Vietnam
 Highlighting Vietnamese Government Human Rights Violations In Advance of the U.S.-Vietnam Dialogue: Hearing before the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, First Session, 11 April 2013
 Continuing Repression by the Vietnamese Government: Hearing before the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, First Session, 4 June 2013
 Vietnam: Repression of peaceful demonstrations revealed, FIDH 2023.