[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Economic patriotism

mic patriotism" by advocating the purchase of American products. In 2012, the phrase made a comeback in the context of the reelection campaign of Barack Obama, who used it to promote policies focused on middle class jobs, education and training, growing small businesses, and innovation.

Criticisms 

Some critics argue that economic patriotism promotes protectionist policies. Cliff and Woll acknowledge that economic patriotism can be a controversial concept, as it may lead to protectionist policies that harm international trade and cooperation. They argue that economic patriotism should be balanced with a recognition of the benefits of global economic integration, and that policies should be designed to promote both regional economic interests and international cooperation and market development.

American conservatives such Kevin D. Williamson have noted that the concept of "economic patriotism" has been promoted by Democrats in the United States, but in his view lacks any substantial intellectual content. Williamson suggests that Democrats use the term to criticize companies that legally relocate to tax-friendly countries while disregarding the fact that Democrats themselves have inserted special breaks and carve-outs into the tax code as incentives not to relocate. Additionally, he has highlighted outdated similarities between the economic philosophy of Democrats and the idea of economic nationalism, which has a troubling history associated with fascist rhetoric. Ultimately, he argues that "economic patriotism" appears to be more about serving the interests of the Obama administration and its congressional allies rather than doing what is best for the country, while others argue it is about both of these.

French business leaders have criticized the government's policy of "economic patriotism", which they typically interpret as a strategy to discourage unwanted acquisition attempts by foreign investors of essential French companies (instead of encouraging cooperation). They argue that the policy is both protectionist and ineffective and has damaged France's image in the eyes of the world. The policy gained prominence after the government reacted strongly to rumors of a takeover bid for Danone by PepsiCo and following interest from Enel in acquiring Suez, leading to plans to merge Gaz de France with Suez. Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin defended the policy, stating that all governments take steps to defend their countries' economic interests. In 2007, Alistair Darling, the new chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain, criticized French President Nicolas Sarkozy's policy of nurturing national industrial champions, which he referred to as "economic patriotism". Darling argued that such policies were protectionist in nature and would harm free trade. French officials, on the other hand, defended their policy and dismissed concerns about its impact on the European Union's budget targets. They pointed out that the tax cuts introduced as part of the economic patriotism incentive would help improve France's competitive position while still adhering to their European obligations.

See also
Domestic sourcing
Economic nationalism
Nationalism

References

Further reading 

 Economic Patriotism, the Politics of Market-Making, and the Role of the State in Twenty-First-Century Capitalism
 Impacts of the Crisis on the FDI-Led Development Model in Hungary: Emergence of Economic Patriotism or Shift from the Competition State to Patronage?
 Economic Patriotism, the Politics of Market-Making, and the Role of the State in Twenty-First-Century Capitalism

Patriotism