[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# European Commissioner for Trade

The European Commissioner for Trade (sometimes referred to as the EU Trade Commissioner) is the member of the European Commission responsible for the European Union's common commercial policy.

Responsibilities
The Commissioner heads up the Directorate-General for Trade in defining the commercial policy of the EU, which has been exclusively under the EU's mandate since the Treaty of Rome in 1957. Due to the size of the European economy, being the world's largest market and having a huge slice of world trade, this position can be very important in dealing with other world economic powers such as China or the United States. Former Commissioner Leon Brittan commented that "Frankly, it is more important than most [national] cabinet jobs".

The Commissioner defines the trade interests of the EU and negotiates bilateral, regional or multilateral agreements with third countries. They also monitor the implementation of such agreements and deals with any unfair practices, devise and monitor internal and external policies concerning international trade, ensure consistency in EU external policies and provide up-to-date public and industrial economic information.

WTO

The EU has been a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in its own right since the WTO was founded on 1 January 1995, alongside its member states. Until 1 December 2009, it held WTO membership under the name European Communities rather than European Union.

The EU forms its own customs union with a common external tariff and commercial international trade policy, which means that the EU operates as a single actor at the WTO, represented by the European Commission.

EU trade policy is decided by the Article 133 Committee – named after the article of the EU treaties on which its trade policy is based – which brings together the commission and member states to decide policy. Actual negotiations are carried out by the commission's Directorate-General for Trade under the authority of the Trade Commissioner.

However, current plans for the European External Action Service (EEAS) may see trade and WTO relations being transferred from the commission to the EEAS and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.

The EU has been involved in a large number of trade disputes with other WTO members, most notably the United States, having brought 81 cases to the WTO, had 67 brought against it and been a third party in a further 88, as of March 2010.

Commissioners

Mandelson (2004–2008)
At his hearing at the European Parliament in 2004, Peter Mandelson expressed a desire to develop multilateral rule-based trade, benefiting the poor as well as helping general economic development. He has been noted for being pro-European and an Atlanticist.

Concluding WTO talks has been a contentious point after the collapse of the Doha Development Round, with the EU not willing to cut agricultural subsidies without similar action by the United States.

Mandelson proposed the creation of European golden shares in July 2007, to protect certain European companies, such as Airbus, from foreign takeovers. The commission has generally been against golden shares due to their ability to distort the Single Market, the idea being that European golden shares would protect certain companies, but not other European companies, from outside influence.

Mandelson stated that he did not intend to seek another term in the commission after 2009, stepping down in 2008 to become Business Secretary in the Brown ministry. Although his tenure was supported by business representatives in Brussels in light of his advocacy of free trade, his departure was generally welcomed by development NGOs and fair trade campaigners, who viewed his attitude towards developing countries as aggressive, supporting European big business over development goals.

Ashton (2008–2009)
Catherine Ashton was nominated by Gordon Brown to replace Mandelson on 3 October, and formally appointed on 6 October. Although a life peer, she does not use her title Baroness Ashton of Upholland during her commissionship.

Ashton became the new High Representative on 1 December 2009, being replaced as Trade Commissioner by Benita Ferrero-Waldner until the second Barroso Commission was in place.

De Gucht (2010–2014)
Karel De Gucht was appointed Commissioner on 9 February 2010, however his statements to the European Parliament ahead of his appointment were met with dismay by trade justice campaigners, who claimed his "responses at his three-hour hearing revealed his corporate sympathies and gave little indication that the change of personnel at the European Trade Commission will lead to any change in the direction of European trade policy."