[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ontario Youth Parliament

is sent to the appropriate government offices in Toronto and Ottawa.

Sessions

2024 
The executive for OYP 2024 are: Premier Kieran Bodnar, Leader of the Opposition Erin Ralph, Registrar and Minister of Finance Erik Hansen, Minister of Individual Discipleship Zoe Fingas, and House Leader Ben Ralph.

2023 - 53rd Session 
OYP 2023 was held over the May long weekend (May 19-22, 2023) at Rideau Park United Church in Ottawa. This was the first parliament held after the COVID-19 pandemic. The executive was: Premier Hayden Henderson, Leader of the Opposition Lora Laleva, Registrar and Minister of Finance Mia Hansen, Minister of Individual Discipleship Jonah Grignon, and House Leader Kieran Bodnar. Jonah's ID theme was "The Dawn Draws Near", inspired by the Canticle of the Turning, and his theme song was Here Comes The Sun by The Beatles. The house theme was Cowboys vs. Pirates.

2021-2022 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, OYP was not able to hold a 2021 or 2022 parliament. In 2020, the executive for the next year was elected; Premier Bronwyn Clifton, Leader of the Opposition Camryn Gallagher, Registrar and Minister of Finance Mia Hansen, Minister of Individual Discipleship Dylan Coffin, and House Leader Kyra Mullen. After the 2022 cancellation, four of the five executive members were unable to continue, and chose to step back from their roles. Those positions were then offered to the people who ran for those executive positions in 2020.

After the cancellation of OYP 2021, the Senate voted to extend the upper age limit for delegates who would miss the year. Persons born in or after 2001 who have attended at least one session prior to the 52nd session in 2020 can attend one extra year (until they are 22).

History 
OYP is the successor organization of the Older Boys' Parliament of Ontario, which began in 1921 as a youth program within the United Church of Canada. The Older Boys' Parliament movement, which began in Western Canada and moved eastward, was an extension of the Trail Rangers and TUXIS programs of various churches.

Among the early participants of Older Boys' Parliaments was Prime Minister John Diefenbaker, who later recalled: "Few of the opportunities open ... for self-improvement and participation for a full role as contributing members of the Canadian community are more rewarding than participation in the ... [youth] parliament." Other notable supporters were MP Douglas Abbott and Ontario MPPs Irwin Haskett and Claude Bennett.

TUXIS
The first model parliament was organized in 1912 by the United Church as the TUXIS Boys' Parliament. In October 1918 the Trail Rangers and TUXIS programs were implemented by Taylor Statten and Wallace Forgie under the covering name of "Canadian Standard Efficiency Training" (CSET). The four main focuses of the program were the intellectual, physical, spiritual and social aspects of boyhood. Within a decade, thousands of boys were participating in leadership training courses, summer camps and other activities run through CSET programs in a number of provinces. By 1928, there were over 2,000 registered groups with a total enrollment of roughly 30,000 boys across Canada.

The TUXIS Boys' Parliament held in Ontario in 1917 officially transformed CSET into the Trail Rangers and TUXIS program. Three years later, the National Boys' Work Board of the Religious Education Council of Canada was established as an interfaith group composed of representatives of the Anglican and United Churches as well as the YMCA. The Ontario Boys' Work Board sponsored the TUXIS and subsequent Older Boys' Parliament programs throughout the mid-20th century.

Taylor Statten believed that boys themselves should be given the responsibility of a leadership role in making decisions about the CSET program and that adult advisors should not impose their opinions and ideas on the young people. Out of this basic philosophy, the concept of Older Boys' Parliament was born.

Older Boys' Parliament 
The Older Boys' Parliaments were given the authority to legislate for the CSET program and to become the vehicle of government and planning. They became one of the most important phases of the CSET movement, with party leaders citing extensive involvement in the Trail Rangers and TUXIS programs. At annual parliamentary sessions, boys were selected as representatives of their local churches and then gathered to work out ideas for the CSET program and debate the issues of the day. Throughout the 20th century, the method of selecting delegates varied from boys running in elections to being hand-picked from denominational groups. As well as providing leadership training and a chance to look at issues from a Christian point of view, these mock parliaments gave youth a chance to see other parts of their province and their country.