[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Dakota War of 1862

President Robert Larsen said, "I don't know if it's ever happened before, where a state gave land back to a tribe. [Our ancestors] paid for this land over and over with their blood, with their lives. It's not a sale; it's been paid for by the ones that aren't here anymore".

Monuments and memorials

Camp Release State Monument commemorates "the surrender of a large body of Indians and the release of 269 captives, mostly women and children" on September 26, 1862. The monument credits "the signal victory over the hostile Sioux at Wood Lake by Minnesota troops under command of General Henry H. Sibley." One of the other faces of the 51-foot granite monument is inscribed with the dates of battles that took place along the Minnesota River.
Wood Lake Battlefield State Monument, erected 1910, in memory of the U.S. soldiers who lost their lives in the Battle of Wood Lake. Listed in the National Register of Historic Places.
Birch Coulee Battlefield in Morton, Minnesota features self-guided trails including historical markers telling the story of the battle from the perspectives of Captain Joseph Anderson for the U.S. and Chief Big Eagle (Wamditanka) for the Dakota. The Birch Coulee State Monument honoring the officers and soldiers of the 6th Minnesota, the Cullen Frontier Guards and other detachments is approximately two miles away. 
Faithful Indians' Monument, adjacent to the Birth Coulee State Monument, erected in 1899 to honor "full-blood" Dakota who had remained "unwaveringly loyal and who had saved the life of at least one white person." Among the six Dakota named on the monument are John Other Day (Ampatutokicha), who helped 62 settlers escape to safety at the start of the conflict, and Snana (Maggie Brass), who took teenage captive Mary Schwandt under her protection during the war. 
Fort Ridgely State Monument, erected in 1896, commemorates the soldiers and citizens who defended the fort during the siege (August 18–27, 1862). Listed on the monument are members of Companies B and C of the 5th Minnesota Infantry Regiment, the Renville Rangers, armed citizens led by Benjamin H. Randall, and "a number of women who cheerfully and bravely assisted in the defense of the Fort."
Henderson Monument, dedicated to the memory of five members of the Henderson family. Erected in 1907 by the Renville County Pioneers, it was originally located in Beaver Falls Township, where they were killed. Moved to its current location near Morton by the Renville County Historical Society in 1981.
Radnor Erle Monument, in the Morton Pioneer Monuments Roadside Parking Area, four miles north of Morton, Minnesota, along U.S. highway 71. Erected in 1907 as a memorial to Erle, who was killed on August 18, 1862, saving his father's life.  
Schwandt State Monument, in Renville County, Minnesota, on County Road 15 near Timms Creek. Erected in 1915 to memorialize six members of the Schwandt family and one family friend who were killed.
Redwood Ferry Monument, honors Captain John Marsh, U.S. Interpreter Peter Quinn, and 24 men who died at the ambush on August 18. The granite monument was erected by the Minnesota Valley Historical Society on the site of the old ferry landing, on the north side of the Minnesota River, which was largely inaccessible and on private property. There is a roadside marker located on a bluff above the site along state Highway 19 between Morton and Franklin, Minnesota.
Defenders State Monument, Center Street, New Ulm. Erected in 1890 by the State of Minnesota to commemorate the two battles fought in New Ulm in 1862.  The monument recognizes the citizens of Blue Earth, Nicollet, and Le Sueur Counties who came to the aid of their neighbors in Brown County. The artwork at the base was created by New Ulm artist Anton Gag.