[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 185]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

t exactness the feelings that overwhelmed her now,
whenever she let her imagination dwell upon the lives of women, of
whatever class and whatever kind. Futility! The mournful composition,
with its strange modern character, its suggestion of striving and
confusion and pain, expressed as only music could express, the yearning
and the sadness that burden so many a woman's heart to-day.

She knew that the music was good, and that now she could compose music
infinitely better. The sharpness of longing for her lost art cut through
her. She half turned from the piano and then went back, as a moth to the
flame.

How was this eternal tumult to be stilled? Facts were definite and
clear, there was no room for doubt or for hope. These facts then had to
be dealt with. How did other women deal with them? Not so much better
than she did, after all, as it appeared when one was allowed to see
beneath the amiable surface of their lives. They were all spinning round
and round, in a dizzy little circle, all whirling and toiling and
troubling, to no purpose.

Even Lady Engleton, who appeared so bright and satisfied, had her secret
misery which spoilt her life. She had beauty, talent, wealth, everything
to make existence pleasant and satisfactory, but she had allowed
externals and unessentials to encroach upon it, to govern her actions,
to usurp the place of her best powers, to creep into her motives, till
there was little germ and heart of reality left, and she was beginning
to feel starved and aimless in the midst of what might have been plenty.
Lady Engleton had turned to her neighbour at the Red House in an
instinctive search for sympathy, as the more genuine side of her nature
began to cry out against the emptiness of her graceful and ornate
existence. Hadria was startled by the revelation. Hubert had always held
up Lady Engleton as a model of virtue and wisdom, and perfect
contentment. Yet she too, it turned out, for all her smiles and her
cheerfulness, was busy and weary with futilities. She too, like the
fifty daughters of Danaus, was condemned to the idiot's labour of
eternally drawing water in sieves from fathomless wells.




CHAPTER XLIX.


Algitha's marriage took place almost immediately. There was no reason
for delay. She stayed at the Cottage, and was married at Craddock
Church, on one of the loveliest mornings of the year, as the villagers
noticed with satisfaction. Both sisters had become favourites in the
neighbourhood among the poorer people, and the inhabitants mustered to
see the wedding.

It was only for her mother's sake that Algitha had consented to a
conventional ceremony. She said that she and Wilfrid both hated the
whole barbaric show. They submitted only because there was no help for
it. Algitha's mother would have broken her heart if they had been bound
merely by the legal tie, as she and Wilfrid desired.

"Indeed, the only tie that we respect is that of our love and faith. If
that failed, we should scorn to hold one another in unwilling bondage.
We are not entirely without self-respect."

The couple were to take a tour in Italy, where they hoped to meet
Valeria and Professor Fortescue. Joseph Fleming was married, almost at
the same time, to his merry Irish girl.

The winter came suddenly. Some terrific gales had robbed the trees of
their lingering yellow leaves, and the bare branches already shewed
their exquisite tracery against the sky. Heavy rain followed, and the
river was swollen, and there were floods that made the whole country
damp, and rank, and terribly depressing. Mrs. Fullerton felt the
influence of the weather, and complained of neuralgia and other
ailments. She needed watching very carefully, and plenty of cheerful
companionship. This was hard to supply. In struggling to belie her
feelings, day after day, Hadria feared, at times, that she would break
down disastrously. She was frightened at the strange haunting ideas that
came to her, the dread and nameless horror that began to prey upon her,
try as she would to protect herself from these nerve-torments, which she
could trace so clearly to their causes. If only, instead of making one
half insane and stupid, the strain of grief would but kill one outright,
and be done with it!

Old Dodge was a good friend to Hadria, at this time. He saw that
something was seriously wrong, and he managed to convey his affectionate
concern in a thousand little kindly ways that brought comfort to her
loneliness, and often filled her eyes with sudden tears. Nor was he the
only friend she had in the village, whose sympathy was given in generous
measure. Hadria had been able to be of use, at the time of the
disastrous epidemic which had carried off so many of the population, and
since then had been admitted to more intimate relationship with the
people; learning their troubles and their joys, their anxieties, and the
strange pathos of their lives. She learnt, at this time