[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Opportunistic encryption

d Amicima use only secure connections and Gizmo5 attempts a secure connection between its clients. Phil Zimmermann, Alan Johnston, and Jon Callas have proposed a new VoIP encryption protocol called ZRTP. They have an implementation of it called Zfone whose source and compiled binaries are available.

Websites
For encrypting WWW/HTTP connections, HTTPS is typically used, which requires strict encryption and has significant administrative costs, both in terms of initial setup and continued maintenance costs for the website operator. Most browsers verify the webserver's identity to make sure that an SSL certificate is signed by a trusted certificate authority and has not expired, usually requiring the website operator to manually change the certificate every one or two years. The easiest way to enable some sort of opportunistic website encryption is by using self-signed certificates, but this causes browsers to display a warning each time the website is visited unless the user manually marks the website's certificate as trusted. Because unencrypted websites do not currently display any such warnings, the use of self-signed certificates is not well received.

In 2015, Mozilla started to roll out opportunistic encryption in Firefox version 37. This was quickly rolled back (in update 37.0.1) due to a serious vulnerability that could bypass SSL certificate verification.

Browser extensions like HTTPS Everywhere and HTTPSfinder find and automatically switch the connection to HTTPS when possible.

Several proposals were available for true, seamless opportunistic encryption of HTTP/2 protocol. These proposals were later rejected. Poul-Henning Kamp, lead developer of Varnish and a senior FreeBSD kernel developer, has criticized the IETF for following a particular political agenda with HTTP/2 for not implementing opportunistic encryption in the standard.

Weaknesses
STARTTLS implementations often used with SMTP are vulnerable to STRIPTLS attacks when subject to active wiretapping.

See also

John Gilmore
Multi-factor authentication
Opportunistic TLS
Opportunistic Wireless Encryption (OWE)
Security level
Security level management
tcpcrypt

References

External links
 Enabling Email Confidentiality through the use of Opportunistic Encryption by Simson Garfinkel of the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science, May 2003
Windows KB article on NAT-T and DH2048
 – Opportunistic Encryption using the Internet Key Exchange (IKE)
 – Pervasive Monitoring Is an Attack

Cryptographic software
Internet Protocol based network software
Internet privacy