[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Arthur Kroeger College of Public Affairs

e, Global and International Studies, and International Business. Students in the program continue to be recognized for their academic merit. Since 2012, six PAPM students have been awarded the prestigious Killam Undergraduate Fellowship by Fulbright Canada for academic exchange in the United States.

PAPM students are represented by a student government, the Public Affairs and Policy Management Students' Society (PAPMSS) (previously named the Arthur Kroeger College Educational Students’ Society (AKCESS)). Established in 2003, it is composed of a President, six Vice Presidents, and Year Representatives for the freshman and sophomore cohorts. The organization hosts social events, networking opportunities, and other initiatives to promote community within the program.

The Bachelor of Public Affairs and Policy Management has produced many successful alumni in the fields of law, public administration, and politics, including two sitting Members of Parliament.

Bachelor of Global and International Studies 
The Bachelor of Global and International Studies (BGInS) is a specialized, interdisciplinary four-year program, offering both general and honours degree options. The program was conceptualized and developed by former Program Director Chris Brown. On top of selecting one of 17 different streams, students are required to complete a variety of core courses in global history and ethnography to gain a nuanced understanding of global and international processes from a multidisciplinary perspective. The BGInS degree also has a mandatory second-language requirement

Academics
Although a relatively new degree program offered through the College, having received its first cohort of students in the 2015-16 academic year, the program has attracted high rates of applications. In its inaugural year, the program saw 505 applications. Along with the core faculty the degree is taught by over 120 affiliated faculty members from 19 different academic units across the university (such as law, politics, and history) to provide larger breadth of knowledge for students to draw upon, and they often also supervise Honours Research Essays that students complete in their fourth year of study.

International Experience Requirement
Students completing an honours Bachelor of Global and International Studies must complete an International Experience Requirement. This component of the degree offers students immersive learning in diverse global settings, exposing them to cross-cultural perspectives across different academic disciplines.  Students have access to dedicated staff to assist them with identifying and applying for international opportunities relevant to their field of study. Students are able to choose one of six pathways to complete this requirement:

International Exchange
Carleton Course Taught Abroad
Global and International Group Project
Experiential Learning Abroad
Letter of Permission
International Placement

Areas of specialization 
The BGInS degree is multidisciplinary, composed of 18 specializations (called 'streams' in the general degree) that range from regional to thematic. They are listed below:

Thematic specializations and streams 
 French and Francophone Studies
 Global and Transnational History
 Global Development
 Global Genders and Sexualities
 Global Inequalities and Social Change
 Global Law and Social Justice
 Global Literatures
 Global Media and Communication
 Global Politics
 Global Religions: Identity and Community 
 Globalization and the Environment
 Globalization, Culture, Power
 International Economic Policy
 Migration and Diaspora Studies
 Teaching English in Global Contexts

Regional specializations and streams 
 Africa and Globalization
 Europe and Russia in the World
 Latin American and Caribbean Studies

Graduate programs

Master of Political Management 
The Clayton H. Riddell Graduate Program in Political Management, otherwise known as the Master of Political Management (MPM) program, is a one-year graduate program focusing on political management, preparing students for leadership roles in campaigns, political parties, political offices, and non-governmental organizations. The program is the first of its kind to be offered in Canada. Students receive experiential learning through a ten-week practicum in political offices, consulting firms, and non-governmental organizations within the National Capital Region. The program offers several core courses in Institutions and Governance, Strategic Communications, and Political Management. Other courses include communications, management, and political marketing.