[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Currency

d economic development, and the ratio of national debt issuance to deficit determines the repayment capacity and credit rating of the country. Such policies determine the mechanism of linking domestic and foreign currencies and therefore have a significant impact on the generation of exchange rates.

Currency convertibility is closely linked to economic development and finance. There are strict conditions for countries to achieve currency convertibility, which is a good way for countries to improve their economies. The currencies of some countries or regions in the world are freely convertible, such as the US dollar, Australian dollar and Japanese yen. The requirements for currency convertibility can be roughly divided into four parts:
 Sound microeconomic agency
With a freely convertible currency, domestic firms will have to compete fiercely with their foreign counterparts. The development of competition among them will affect the implementation effect of currency convertibility. In addition, microeconomics is a prerequisite for macroeconomic conditions.
 The macroeconomic situation and policies are stable
Since currency convertibility is the cross-border flow of goods and capital, it will have an impact on the macro economy. This requires that the national economy be in a normal and orderly state, that is, there is no serious inflation and economic overheating. In addition, the government should use macro policies to make mature adjustments to deal with the impact of currency exchange on the economy.
 A reasonable and open economy
The maintainability of international balance of payments is the main performance of reasonable economic structure. Currency convertibility not only causes difficulties in the sustainability of international balance of payments but also affects the government's direct control over international economic transactions. To eliminate the foreign exchange shortage, the government needs adequate international reserves.
 Appropriate exchange rate regime and level
The level of exchange rate is an important factor in maintaining exchange rate stability, both before and after currency convertibility. The exchange rate of freely convertible currency is too high or too low, which can easily trigger speculation and undermine the stability of macroeconomic and financial markets. Therefore, to maintain the level of exchange rate, a proper exchange rate regime is crucial.

Local currency 

In economics, a local currency is a currency not backed by a national government and intended to trade only in a small area. Advocates such as Jane Jacobs argue that this enables an economically depressed region to pull itself up, by giving the people living there a medium of exchange that they can use to exchange services and locally produced goods (in a broader sense, this is the original purpose of all money). Opponents of this concept argue that local currency creates a barrier that can interfere with economies of scale and comparative advantage and that in some cases they can serve as a means of tax evasion.

Local currencies can also come into being when there is economic turmoil involving the national currency. An example of this is the Argentinian economic crisis of 2002 in which IOUs issued by local governments quickly took on some of the characteristics of local currencies.

One of the best examples of a local currency is the original LETS currency, founded on Vancouver Island in the early 1980s.  In 1982, the Canadian Central Bank's lending rates ran up to 14% which drove chartered bank lending rates as high as 19%.  The resulting currency and credit scarcity left island residents with few options other than to create a local currency.

List of major world payment currencies 

The following table are estimates of the 20 most frequently used currencies in world payments in September 2023 by SWIFT.

See also 

Related concepts
 Counterfeit money
 Currency band
 Currency transaction tax
 Debasement
 Exchange rate
 Fiscal localism
 Foreign currency exchange
 Foreign exchange reserves
 Functional currency
 History of banking
 History of money
 Mutilated currency
 Optimum currency area
 Slang terms for money
 Virtual currency
 World currency

Accounting units
 Currency pair
 Currency symbol
 Currency strength
 European Currency Unit
 Fictional currency
 Franc Poincaré
 Local currencies
 Petrocurrency
 Special drawing rights

Lists
 ISO 4217
 List of alternative names for currency
 List of currencies
 List of circulating currencies
 List of proposed currencies
 List of historical currencies
 List of historical exchange rates
 List of international trade topics
 List of motifs on banknotes

Notes

References

External links 

 
 
 

 
Foreign exchange market