[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2007 New Year Honours

ral Robin Paul Boissier
 Rear Admiral Philip Lawrence Wilcocks, DSC
 Lieutenant General Robin Vaughan Brims, CBE, DSO (490334)
 Major General Keith Harington Cima (498895), late Corps of Royal Engineers.
 Major General Andrew Richard Evelyn De Cardonnel Stewart, C.B.E. (493787), late Light Dragoons.

Civil Division
John Codling, Finance Director General, Department for Work and Pensions.
Dr. Terence Robin Fellgett, Director and Deputy Head, Economic and Domestic Affairs Secretariat, Cabinet Office.
Richard Mitchell Henderson, solicitor, Office of the Solicitor to the Scottish Executive.
Bernard Herdan, Executive Director, Identity and Passport Service, Home Office.
Dr. Colin Peter Hicks, lately Director-General, British National Space Centre and Member, Natural Environment Research Council. For services to Science.
Ronald John Marchant, Chief Executive, Patent Office, Department of Trade and Industry.
Anthony Joseph Henry Orhnial, director, Personal Tax and Welfare Reform, HM Treasury.
Andrew Charles Bruce Ramsay, Director-General, Culture, Creativity and Economy Group, Department for Culture, Media and Sport.
Maurice John Smith, lately H.M. Chief Inspector of Schools, Office for Standards in Education, Department for Education and Skills.
Patrick Thomas Toal, Permanent Secretary, Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, Northern Ireland Executive.
Peter Thomas Wanless, director, School Performance and Reform, Department for Education and Skills.
Dr. David Wynford Williams, lately National Hydrographer and Chief Executive, United Kingdom Hydrographic Office, Ministry of Defence.
Trevor Adrian Woolley, Finance Director, Ministry of Defence.

Diplomatic service and overseas list
Dr.  Geoffrey Keith Taylor, counsellor, Foreign and Commonwealth Office

Order of St Michael and St George

Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (KCMG)
Mark Malloch Brown formerly deputy secretary general, United Nations
William Geoffrey Ehrman ambassador, Beijing
John McLeod Scarlett Director, Secret Intelligence Service (MI6)

Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG)
Keith George Bloomfield, formerly Ambassador to Kathmandu
Simon James Buckle, formerly Deputy Head of Mission, British Embassy, Kabul
Professor Victor Bulmer-Thomas, director, Royal Institute of International Affairs
Andrew George Tyndale Cooper, Counsellor, FCO
Martin Stuart Davidson, Deputy Director-General, British Council
Michael George Richardson, Counsellor, FCO
David Alexander Warren, Counsellor, FCO
Timothy Andrew Willasey-Wilsey, Counsellor, FCO

Royal Victorian Order

Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (KCVO)
Philip Alan Reid, Keeper of the Privy Purse
Alan William Waterworth, formerly Lord-Lieutenant for Merseyside

Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (CVO)
Lieutenant General Sir John Norman Stewart Arthur, K.C.B., formerly Lord-Lieutenant of the Stewartry of Kirkcudbright.
Major Edward Stuart Orr-Ewing, formerly Lord-Lieutenant of Wigtownshire.
John Terence Moulton Guest, formerly Executive Director of Round Square.
Captain Ronald Charles Cunningham-Jardine, formerly Lord-Lieutenant of Dumfries.
Bernard Trevor Matthews, C.B.E. For services to The Duke of Edinburgh's Award.
Sir Basil Henry David Montgomery, Bt., formerly Lord-Lieutenant of Perth and Kinross.
Peter Charles Orton. For services to Children's Literacy.
Michael Alan Pomery, former Partner, Hewitt.

Lieutenant of the Royal Victorian Order (LVO)
David Kim Hempleman-Adams, O.B.E., D.L. For services to The Duke of Edinburgh's Award Scheme.
Nigel Argentine Alington, formerly Executive Director, Aon Limited.
Roy Thomas Brown, M.V.O., Property Manager, London Palaces, Royal Household.
Christopher James Carnegie. For services to The Duke of Edinburgh's Award Charter for Business (Canada).
Claire Elizabeth, Mrs. Cox, M.V.O., formerly Senior Secretary, Household of The Duke of Edinburgh.
Jonathan Paul Grimwade, Manager, Royal Studs.
Lynda Margaret, Mrs. Hopkins, M.V.O., Clerk to the West Midlands Lieutenancy.
Mary, Mrs. de Bellefeuille-Percy (to be dated 6 November 2006). Formerly Director of Honours Chancellery, Government House, Ottawa, Canada.
Colonel Christopher John Pickup, O.B.E., Secretary, Royal Warrant Holders' Association.
Julian Richer, formerly non-executive Director, Duchy Originals.
Captain David John Bingham Younger, formerly Secretary, Royal Company of Archers.