[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lucas Biglia

Lucas Rodrigo Biglia (; born 30 January 1986) is an Argentine professional footballer who plays as a defensive midfielder.

Formerly of Argentinos Juniors and Independiente, he spent seven seasons with Anderlecht, where he made 312 appearances in the Belgian Pro League, winning four league titles. He later spent four seasons with Italian side Lazio, before joining Milan in 2017, spending three seasons with the Rossoneri, leaving in 2020.

Biglia's first senior international call-up for Argentina was in 2011 and he previously played for the Argentina U20 national team, who won the 2005 FIFA World Youth Championship. He represented his nation at two FIFA World Cups, reaching the final of the 2014 edition of the tournament, and in three Copa América tournaments, winning runners-up medals in the 2015 and 2016 editions of the tournament. He retired from international football after the 2018 FIFA World Cup, with 58 caps and one goal.

Club career

Career in Argentina
Biglia started his career at Argentinos Juniors and signed his first professional contract in 2004. After scoring against Godoy Cruz on 21 June 2004 in two appearances, he made his Argentinos Juniors debut on 1 July 2004, making his first start, in a 2–1 win over Talleres in play-offs. Eventually, Argentinos Juniors wins 4–2 in the play-offs and is promoted to Argentine First Division. The following season saw Biglia making 15 appearances and scoring 1 goal against Huracán on 28 November 2004. However, a lack of first team appearances led to Biglia leaving the club after only 17 appearances and one goal scored during his time there.

In February 2005, he moved to Independiente for an undisclosed fee following his performance at the South American U-20 Championship. Biglia made his Independiente debut on 26 February 2005, in a 1–0 loss against Lanús. In the first half of his season there, he made 11 appearances before becoming a first team player the following season, where he played in every match.

Anderlecht
In July 2006, after one-and-a-half seasons at Independiente, Biglia signed with Belgian Pro League club Anderlecht on a four-year contract and upon joining the club, he took up the number five shirt. Soon after, he was joined by his compatriot teammate Nicolás Pareja, Nicolás Frutos and Cristian Leiva.

In the 2006–07 season, Biglia made his debut against K. Sint-Truidense on the opening match of the season, coming on for an injured Mark De Man, in a 4–2 win. Bigila had a difficult start at Anderlecht, having been left out of the Belgian Supercup squad, which Anderlecht won for the second time in a row. Teammate Yves Vanderhaeghe felt sympathy for him and helped him to settle in Belgium and only speak Spanish there. A month later, he made his UEFA Champions League debut, as Anderlecht drew 1–1 against Lille in the group stage. As the season progressed, Biglia established himself in the starting 11 at Anderlecht in a midfield position. With his impressive performance at the club, he was awarded the Young Professional Footballer of the Year in January 2007. He then scored his first goal for the club, which came from a penalty kick, as well as, assisting two times during the game, in a 6–0 victory against FC Brussels to win the league this season. He went on to finish the season, making forty-six appearances and scoring once in all competitions.

In the 2007–08 season, Bigila started the season well when he helped the side win the Belgian Super Cup against Club Brugge. and then setting up a goal for Marcin Wasilewski to score the only goal in the match against KV Mechelen 1–0 in the season opener. After the club was eliminated in the UEFA Champions League, Bigila was considering his future at the club, but remained. Eventually, on 15 December 2007, Biglia signed a contract that kept him at the club until 2012. After sidelined from injury and suspension, he scored on his return from suspension, in a 5–0 win over Roeselare on 16 March 2008. After making 50 appearances and scoring once in the 2007–08 season, the club finished second place after losing to Standard Liège for the league title, but nevertheless won the Belgium Cup.

Ahead of the 2008–09 season, Biglia expressed desire to leave the club after they won the league, but stayed at the club throughout the summer transfer window and then scored his first European goal in a 2–2 draw against BATE Borisov during the Champions League qualification. Despite suffering minor injuries, Biglia continued to be the first team regular and scored two more goals, which were against Westerlo and Roeselare. In the January transfer window, he was linked with European clubs such as Barcelona, Inter Milan, Valencia, Fenerbahce, Galatasaray and Birmingham City. However, he remained at Anderlecht, insisting the club wanted him to stay. The club failed to win the league title in 2008–09. In all competitions, Biglia made 35 appearances and scored three goals.