[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# John Rodgers Meigs

h returned that night confirming the lack of opposition. Meigs also informed him that he had burned the home of a Virginian who had helped capture or kill some of Sigel's retreating troops two weeks earlier, and discussed a rumor that Southern women had armed themselves to fight for the Confederacy.

As Hunter prepared to attack the village of Piedmont, Virginia, on June 5, Meigs suggested that cavalry be sent in a feint to take Mount Crawford overlooking the town. Sources differ as to whether he rode with or without orders, but Meigs accompanied the cavalry to show them the way. Lieutenant Colonel John Platner's 1st Regiment of New York Volunteer Veteran Cavalry briefly skirmished with the defenders on Mount Crawford. The feint worked as nervous Confederates held off their attack and gave Hunter time to attack. But Meigs' ride with the cavalry proved a problem as well. Hunter planned an early attack on the town as a means of keeping the Confederates off-balance. But the Confederates had burned the bridge over the South Fork of the Shenandoah River. Hunter ordered a pontoon bridge constructed. But hours passed, and no bridge was built. Hunter was angered when he realized that Meigs, the responsible officer, was off with the cavalry. It is unclear whether Meigs rushed back to his unit and quickly constructed the bridge or whether Hunter oversaw its construction himself. At any rate, the bridge was poorly constructed, and only a small number of troops could cross it at once. The delay cost the Army of the Shenandoah three critical hours and ruined its planned early-hours attack.

Meigs fought in the Battle of Piedmont on June 5, although his combat role is not clear. It is known that he reconnoitered the battlefield during the day, and was the one to inform Hunter that a gap in the center of the Confederate lines had only partially been filled by the 60th Virginia Infantry. Hunter quickly took advantage of the gap, and ordered Colonel Joseph Thoburn 2nd Brigade into the gap. Meigs rode back and forth along the line of the 2nd Brigade, urging the men to attack as fiercely as possible. The Army of the Shenandoah won the day.

Meigs remained with the troops (but did not fight) when they successfully seized the city of Staunton, Virginia, on June 6. When Union soldiers set fire to several houses in the city, the conflagration threatened to engulf the town. Meigs oversaw an effort to tear down a carriage house to prevent the blaze from spreading.

On June 12, Hunter's forces shelled and burned the Virginia Military Institute (VMI). Meigs retrieved some mathematical instruments from the classrooms. VMI was the home of a life-size bronze statue of George Washington by the noted sculptor Jean-Antoine Houdon. Hunter ordered it removed and sent to West Virginia as a war trophy. Meigs argued that it should go to West Point, but it was shipped to West Virginia. (The statue was damaged when removed from its pedestal).

Hunter pressed on to Lynchburg. His army was delayed again in its crossing of the Big Otter River on June 16, as Meigs struggled for two hours to build yet another pontoon bridge. Riding with the General William Henry Powell 1st and 2nd West Virginia Cavalry on June 17, Meigs was involved in combat at Diamond Hill at the Battle of Lynchburg (June 17–18).

But the Union army was repulsed at Lynchburg. The late afternoon of June 17, Hunter's forces began retreating. At about 3:00 A.M., they reached the Big Otter River. Hunter had ordered the pontoon bridge destroyed so that Confederate forces could not attack him from the rear. But now, needing another bridge built, Meigs could not be found.  With the entire Army of the Shenandoah imperiled by Meigs' absence, Hunter fired him as engineer and appointed Captain Frank Martindale of the First New York Cavalry as engineer in his place. His supply lines long and under attack and supporting armies stymied in their attempt to reach him, Hunter retreated back to West Virginia. In his after-action reports, Hunter had nothing but scorn for Meigs. Meigs learned of his replacement only when Powell's cavalry rejoined the Army of the Shenandoah about June 20.

Meigs remained with the Army of the Shenandoah into August 1864. Hunter was removed as commander of the army on July 3, and Brigadier General Philip Sheridan appointed its commander.

The Valley campaign