[Source: PubMed]

77. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jun 29;19(13):7984. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19137984.

Progress of Local Health Department Planning Actions for Climate Change: 
Perspectives from California, USA.

Holmes TJ(1), Holt A(2), English DQ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urban and Regional Planning, Florida State University, 
Tallahassee, FL 32306, USA.
(2)School of Business and Industry, Florida A&M University, Tallahassee, FL 
32307, USA.
(3)Climate Change & Health Equity Section, Office of Health Equity, California 
Department of Public Health, Sacramento, CA 95814, USA.

Public health departments are on the frontlines of protecting vulnerable groups 
and working to eliminate health disparities through prevention interventions, 
disease surveillance and community education. Exploration of the roles national, 
state and local health departments (LHDs) play in advancing climate change 
planning and actions to protect public health is a developing arena of research. 
This paper presents insights from local public health departments in California, 
USA on how they addressed the barriers to climate adaptation planning with 
support from the California Department of Public Health's Office of Health 
Equity Climate Change and Health Equity Section (OHE), which administers the 
California Building Resilience Against Climate Effects Project (CalBRACE). With 
support from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
Climate-Ready States and Cities Initiative (CRSCI), CalBRACE initiated an 
adaptation project to seed climate planning and actions in county health 
departments. In this study, we compared the barriers and strategies of 
twenty-two urban and rural LHDs and explored potential options for climate 
change adaptation in the public health framework. Using key informant interviews 
and document reviews, the results showed how engagement with CalBRACE's Local 
Health Department Partnership on Climate Change influenced the county 
departments' ability to overcome barriers to adaptation through the 
diversification of funding sources, the leveraging strategic collaborations, 
extensive public education and communication campaigns, and the development of 
political capital and champions. The lessons learned and recommendations from 
this research may provide pathways and practices for national, state and local 
level health departments to collaborate in developing protocols and integrating 
systems to respond to health-related climate change impacts, adaptation and 
implementation.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19137984
PMCID: PMC9266246
PMID: 35805652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors were employees of state grantees in the 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention Building Resilience Against Climate 
Effects (BRACE) Program in California and Florida. No BRACE funding was used to 
conduct this research.