[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Malaysian Cub Prix

e had some racing experience but are not yet ready to race in the hyper-competitive CP150 class.
 Wira – This is an age-restricted class only for riders aged between 13 years to 17 years old.

Semi-Amateur Category 
 Privateer – This is strictly for privateer riders who race without factory backing.

One-Make Categories
The one-make categories of the Malaysian Cub Prix play a vital role in the effort to bring in more fresh talent every season.  Fully supported by motorcycle manufacturers Honda, Suzuki and Yamaha, the manufacturers prepare the bikes for the riders who are also supplied with the proper racing gear and safety attire. The one-make races, therefore, become ideal platforms for first-time newbies to break into the sport. To qualify for the one-make races, the riders must range from ages 13 to 20 and must be first-time riders in Cub Prix. In 2017, the one-make categories are:

 Yamaha PETRONAS Super Series
 Honda Dash 125 Challenge
 Aeon Credit Service Yamaha NVX Challenge

The Malaysian Cub Prix is only open to Malaysian riders only and all entries must hold the appropriate racing license issued by the Motorsports Association of Malaysia (MAM).

Key Milestones
1994: First Cub Prix race on May 8, 1994, in Melaka.
2002: Introduction of the age-restricted Wira class specifically for riders below-21 years of age. This is Cub Prix's first 4-stroke class. Since then, the age ceiling has been progressively dropped as part of the Championship's drive to attract more younger riders who will be able to enjoy a longer international career.
2003: Petronas signed on as title sponsor of the Malaysian Cub Prix.
2005: The introduction of the Team Award in the Expert class, aimed at creating recognition for the teams’ efforts to develop new talents, added heat to the competition.
2006: The Novice class was transformed from 2-stroke 110cc to 4-stroke 115cc. The age-ceiling in the Wira class was lowered to under-19. The landmark year also saw the old making way for the new. Veteran names like M. Meganathan, Wazi Abdul Hamid, Shahrun Nizam Tamin, Chia Tuck Cheong and Soong Chee Kieong announced their retirements. A new batch of riders quickly came in to fill the void. 
2007: The Malaysian Cub Prix went from a one-day event to a two-day event, giving more track time to the riders.
2008: The migration from 2-stroke to 4-stroke was finally complete when the 4-stroke 125cc class was introduced for the Expert category.
2009: Race classes were rebranded. The Expert category was renamed the CP130 class and the Novice category was renamed as the CP115 class. Nasha Edziera Bahauddin, the first woman rider, starts competing in Cub Prix.
2017: CP150 class replaces the CP130.
2020: CP125 class replaces CP115

Creating Malaysian Champions
In 2009, the key teams and sponsors of the Malaysian Cub Prix came together as an industry to launch its first mega-project. A wildcard development programme aimed at training Malaysian riders to race in the World Motorcycle Grand Prix. After an exhaustive training and selection process, Elly Idzlianizar Ilias and Zulfahmi Khairuddin made their GP125 debut. From there, Zulfahmi was given the opportunity to race full-season in the GP125 class of the MotoGP and became the 2nd Malaysian to do so after Shahrol Yuzy.

In 2010, the wildcard project moved from the GP125 class to the newly introduced Moto2 class. Only one rider was selected – Md Zamri Baba.

In 2011, the wildcard project was expanded to two riders – Md Zamri Baba and Hafizh Syahrin Abdullah.

Future 
The organiser considering to add a new 'Rookie' category into the championship because of overwhelming response received during the new season rider's registration. Organiser received near 1000 rider's applications for the Season 2017 championship.

In December 2017, Benelli, one of the oldest Italian motorcycle manufacturers, testing their prototype for CP150 class category. Currently, there are only two constructors competes in CP150 class which is Honda and Yamaha.

With Modenas expected to launch their new supermoped in 2018, it is very likely Modenas will compete in the CP150 class in the future.

List of Motorcycle Manufacturers being used by constructors in Cub Prix
 Hong Leong Yamaha Sdn Bhd
 Suzuki Assemblers Sdn Bhd
 Boon Siew Honda Sdn Bhd
 Syarikat Enjin Dan Motosikal Nasional Modenas Sdn Bhd

Trivia
 The very first Cub Prix race was held in Melaka on May 8, 1994.

Full Champions List

See also
 Underbone

References

External links
 Official site
 YouTube channel
 Malaysian Cub Prix Championship - Tag Archive on GPMalaysia.com
 Petronas AAM Malaysian Cub Prix - Tag Archive on Sports247.My
 Kejuaraan Cub Prix Malaysia - Tag Archive - Fastlenz.My

Motorcycle racing in Malaysia