[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lebanese prisoners in Israel

Lebanese prisoners in Israel have been a source of contention between Lebanon and Israel and were an issue in the 2006 Lebanon War. The number of such detainees is disputed. According to the Lebanese paramilitary and political party Hezbollah, there are two Lebanese citizens in Israeli prisons, but Israel denies holding them. Hezbollah had demanded the release of Lebanese prisoners as condition for releasing Israeli reservists Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev, captured in the Hezbollah raid which started the 2006 Lebanon War.  On July 16, 2008, the Israel Prison Service released five Lebanese prisoners in exchange for the remains of Goldwasser and Regev.

Context
Following the attempted assassination of the Israeli Ambassador to the United Kingdom, Shlomo Argov, by the Abu Nidal Organization, Israel initiated Operation Peace of the Galilee in June 1982, in order to terminate the military activity of the Palestine Liberation Organization and Syrian forces around the Israeli-Lebanese border. With U.S. assistance, Israel and Lebanon reached a withdrawal accord in May 1983, which was then recalled by Lebanon in March 1984, due to pressure from Syria. In 1985, Israel withdrew most of its troops, leaving the South Lebanon Army, an Israeli-supported Lebanese militia, to protect a security buffer zone in southern Lebanon, which Israel considered necessary to prevent attacks on its northern territory. Israel relinquished the security zone and withdrew behind the Blue Line in May 2000.

Persons named by Hezbollah 
Hezbollah has named two individuals who it says are Lebanese citizens held in Israeli jails.

Yehia Skaff is accused of participating in the 1978 Coastal Road massacre.  According to Hezbollah, several former Lebanese detainees said they have seen him in an Israeli prison. Israeli sources said he was killed in the massacre with his body never found.
Ali Faratan is a fisherman. Hezbollah gave no reason for his alleged detention. Israel denies holding him.

Hezbollah demanded the release of Samir Kuntar, Nissim Nasser, and Skaff at the time of the 2004 Israel-Hezbollah prisoner exchange. On June 1, 2008, Nasser was released in exchange for the body parts of Israeli soldiers killed during the 2006 Lebanon war. Kuntar was released in a prisoner exchange on July 16, 2008.

Missing persons, according to the Lebanese government 

In addition to the above, the following people were listed in a letter  dated March 2004 to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights by Lebanon's UN permanent representative as having been arrested during the 1982 Israeli occupation of Lebanon and still missing. The allegations are disputed by Israel.