[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# War in Somalia (2006–2009)

The war in Somalia, also called the Ethiopian invasion of Somalia or the Ethiopian intervention in the Somali Civil War, was a conflict largely involving Ethiopian forces and the Somali Transitional Federal Government (TFG), supplemented by troops from Puntland. The initial weeks of the conflict focused on deposing the Somali Islamist group, the Islamic Court Union (ICU), but the hardline militant group Al-Shabaab soon took center stage as an insurgency intensified in the wake of the ICU's collapse.

Ethiopian military involvement began in response to the rising power of the ICU, which had gained control of the majority of southern Somalia by late 2006. In order to reinforce the weak Transitional Federal Government, troops from the Ethiopian National Defence Force (ENDF) began deploying into Somalia during June 2006. By December of the same year, the combined ENDF/TFG coalition, alongside a covert US military contingent, were openly at war with the ICU. Concurrently, the ICU's organizational structure collapsed, and ENDF/TFG forces entered the capital city, Mogadishu during the last days of 2006. In early 2007 a violent insurgency began, centred on a loose coalition of ICU remnants, volunteers, clan militias, and additional Islamist factions, of which Al-Shabaab assumed a pivotal role. In the same period, the African Union (AU) established the AMISOM peacekeeping operation, sending thousands of troops to Somalia to bolster the besieged TFG and ENDF. The Alliance for the Re-liberation of Somalia (ARS), the successor to the ICU, further incited Islamist rebels and participated in the fighting. 

Over the subsequent two years, the ENDF, the TFG and AMISOM, became entrenched in a protracted struggle against an escalating insurgency, leading to the displacement of nearly one million inhabitants from Mogadishu. The city became the scene of three devastating battles in this period, March–April 2007, November 2007 and April 2008. Over the course of the conflict the TFG's fragility remained unchanged from its state prior to the ICU's disintegration. Though violence significantly escalated in 2007, the most violent year of the occupation was 2008. By the end of 2008, the ARS had been assimilated into the TFG's parliament in an effort to halt the growing insurgency and create a representative government.  

In December 2008, TFG President Abdullahi Yusuf resigned after stating that he had lost control of Somalia to the insurgency. At the start of 2009, former head of the ICU Sharif Sheikh Ahmed was elected president. That same month, claiming to have eradicated the 'Islamist threat' and declaring victory, Ethiopian forces entirely withdrew from Mogadishu, ending the two year occupation of the city. ENDF forces further withdrew from the majority of Somalia. Despite assertions by Meles Zenawi's government that the 'Islamist threat' in Somalia had been neutralized, it was widely observed that by the time of the January 2009 withdrawal, large portions of the country, including much of Mogadishu, had fallen under the control of the hardline militant group Al-Shabaab.

Background

Historic background
Boundary disputes between Somalia and Ethiopia over the Ogaden region date to the 1948 settlement when the land was granted to Ethiopia. Somali disgruntlement with this decision has led to repeated attempts to invade Ethiopia with the hopes of taking control of the Ogaden to create a Greater Somalia. This plan would have reunited the Somali people of the Ethiopian-controlled Ogaden with those living in the Somali Republic. These ethnic and political tensions have caused cross-border clashes over the years:

 1964 Ethiopian–Somali Border War
 1977–1978 Ogaden War
 1982 Border Clash
 1998–2000 Cross-border warfare during the chaotic fraction leader-led era.

Information warfare, disinformation and propaganda 

Even before the beginning of the war, there have been significant assertions and accusations of the use of disinformation and propaganda tactics by various parties to shape the causes and course of the conflict. This includes assertions of falsification of the presence or number of forces involved, exaggeration or minimization of the casualties inflicted or taken, influence or control of media outlets (or shutting them down), and other informational means and media to sway popular support and international opinion.

Eastern African countries and international observers had feared the Ethiopian offensive may lead to a regional war, involving Eritrea, which has a complex relationship with Ethiopia and whom Ethiopia claimed to have been a supporter of the ICU. The Eritrean government repeatedly denied any involvement despite Ethiopian claims to the contrary. Ethiopia would also deny deploying troops in Somalia despite being widely reported. The TFG also denied the involvement of Ethiopian forces.

Prelude to the invasion