[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Max Guevara

oys riding at high speed. When she wants to be alone she sits atop of the derelict Space Needle. Max's forms 'family' bonds with her best friend and flatmate Original Cindy, her ally Logan Cale and her fellow X5 escapees. Upon escaping from Manticore, Max chooses the last name "Guevara" for herself.

Max has a genetic flaw that causes her to have seizures, and must take tryptophan to help control them. The seizures played a subplot early in the first season though the issue was phased out without explanation as the series progressed. As a side-effect of having cat DNA,  Max goes into heat twice during the first season, though as with the seizures the issue did not re-appear in the second season. In the second season it is revealed that Max has no junk DNA; every one of her DNA sequences has a specific purpose.

Storyline
In 2009 twelve of the X5s, including 9-year-old Max, escape from Manticore into a snowy forest. Max is found and given shelter by Hannah, a sympathetic Manticore nurse. Several months later terrorists detonate an electromagnetic pulse weapon in the atmosphere over the US, destroying all electronic devices in the country and throwing it into chaos and poverty. In the prequel novel, Dark Angel: Before the Dawn, after escaping Manticore, Max makes her way to Casper, Wyoming, where she meets Lucy Barrett, a little girl who helps Max stow away in her mother's SUV. Later, after arriving in Los Angeles, California, Lucy's mother, Joann, agrees to let Max live with them. Max and Lucy endure physical and emotional abuse from Lucy's alcoholic father, Jack. Max runs away from her foster home in 2013 and heads to Hollywood, where she joins the Chinese Clan, a group of thieves taking refuge in the remains of Grauman's Chinese Theatre. In 2019, Max leaves Los Angeles to search for one of her Manticore siblings in Seattle, Washington. While stopping in Eureka, California, Max meets "Original Cindy" McEachin when she comes to McEachin's aid in a bar fight, and the two of them travel to Seattle together. In Seattle, the duo meet Kendra Maibaum, a young woman who offers Max a place to stay after Max defends her from her boss who was sexually harassing her. McEachin and Maibaum feature as regular characters in the TV series.

The TV series begins with Max, now 19, living in a post-apocalyptic Seattle. She lives in fear of Colonel Donald Lydecker, who had been assigned by Manticore to capture Max and the other escapees. Max holds a job as a bicycle messenger for the company "Jam Pony XPress", and also operates at night as a burglar, explaining, "I steal things in order to sell them for money. It's called commerce." Max is caught by Logan Cale, a vigilante cyber journalist who uses the alias "Eyes Only", while she is attempting to burglarize him. Cale notices and recognizes Max's barcode, and offers to help her locate her Manticore brothers and sisters if she agrees to team up with him. Max initially refuses, but changes her mind after Cale is rendered a paraplegic after he attempts a mission without her assistance. Max spends season one  "jugg[ling] 'Eyes Only' missions" while searching for fellow Manticore escapees. A complicated romantic interest develops between Max and Cale.

Near the end of the season, Lydecker is betrayed by his superior, Elizabeth Renfro, and subsequently defects from Manticore. He aids Max in an assault on the Manticore headquarters, though Max is badly wounded and captured. In season two Cale exposes Manticore to the world, and Renfro torches the facility in an attempt to cover up the evidence, though she is killed in the process. Max escapes the facility and frees hundreds of other super soldiers and failed Manticore experiments. Lydecker disappears under mysterious circumstances. National Security Agency agent Ames White, who is also a member of a secretive cult that wishes to eliminate transgenics, is tasked with recapturing the Manticore escapees. Both the authorities and cult members pursue Max, though she escapes to Terminal City, an abandoned part of Seattle where hundreds of outcast transgenics have been hiding. When the police begin to surround Terminal City, Max convinces the other transgenics to stand their ground rather than run. The second and final season ends with the military surrounding and possibly preparing to invade Terminal City.