[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# The Summit at Snoqualmie

the Grand Junction warming hut. The park opened in 2022 and the Bermy Lomax trail will be finished by summer 2023. Easier green and blue trails are in the Silver Fir area, and harder black trails are located near Alpine Bowl, Bonanza Face, Golden Nugget, and the Sunrise ski trails in Summit Central.

Scenic Lift Rides 
The Summit at Snoqualmie features scenic lift rides on the Pacific Crest chair not only for scenery, but also for summer hikes on the Pacific Crest Trail. It is used to access Lodge Lake and Beaver Lake and is located on the slopes of Summit West.

Summit 2030 
In April 2022, the Summit at Snoqualmie released the Summit 2030 plan, and is the "Future of Your Home Mountain." They said that between 2022 and 2030, there will be many major improvements, "enhancing the experience from Summit East to the top of Alpental." The plan has 5 major projects: Summit Transformed, Summit Summers, ForeverProject, Alpental Aspect, and Easier Escapes.

Summit Transformed 
Summit Transformed is arguably the largest and most important of the five projects. It includes lift upgrades, more snowmaking, and lodge upgrades.

The Alpental Aspect 
Alpental is best known for its expert terrain in contrast with intermediate runs under the cliff, but its lifts are aging, and capacity is very low. They announced 3 new lifts to be built for the next 2 years, and construction began for Sessel and International, as well as adding new chairs to Armstrong Express.

Summit Summers 
Originally, the Summit at Snoqualmie was a winter resort, but integrated some summer activities like music and scenic lift rides. The Summit continues to plan on opening new summer activities.

Chairlifts

References

Ski areas and resorts in Washington (state)
Cascade Range
Buildings and structures in King County, Washington
Buildings and structures in Kittitas County, Washington
Tourist attractions in King County, Washington
Tourist attractions in Kittitas County, Washington