[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mulla Powinda

William Lockhart, and then sent to Waziristan. By November, cantonments in Waziristan were filled with troops under the British.

General Lockhart gave the Mullas and other leaders a time frame of one month in which to submit an apology. But throughout the time nobody said anything or did anything.

On 14 December, the army spread out hoping to encounter the rebels and teach them a lesson. They proceeded from Wana to Kaniguram, Jandola to Makeen and from Bannu to Razmak. Winter had started and snow began to fall. Ice cold winds started to blow. The soldiers who had come from hot areas of India to these highlands were not used to the cold.

The Wazirs and Mahsuds played a patient waiting game. They did not confront the incoming armies, but followed the time-honored strategy of almost all Pashtun tribes which allows their enemies in and then unleash a fierce counterattack. However, in this case the British faced no resistance. On 9 January the British forces retreated back to the same positions from which they had started.

On 21 January 1895 the British approached the tribesmen for peace talks and proposed the following demands:
 The Tribesmen return all the loot and war booty
 Mulla Powinda not be allowed to enter any area of Waziristan
 50 Rifles, 200 Guns, 2 Swords and 1200 Rupees be given to the British as a fine for the crimes they have committed

During negotiations, the tribesmen agreed to the demands but none of them was ever fulfilled.
 He publicly refused the usual allowance given to a tribal leader by the colonial government, insisting that his tribe's concerns be addressed. Caroe admits in his book that they could never buy this man and he refused all offers. The British Political Agent and later Resident in his famous book on Mahsuds "Miz" writes "Given more malleable material to work upon than Masuds have ever afforded and fortunate setting in time and space, he might well have ranked with many who have been accounted as great men"  Caroe in his book pays very rich tributes to the man, by saying; "Had the Mahsuds been possessed with manners and decorum of yousafzais, under such leader they might have laid the foundation of a state as stable as Swat, under the Mianguls" ({ as quoted by Gandapur, in Unsung Pushtoons, P-115 & 122})

1900-1902 war 
Following a punitive expedition in 1900-02, the Mahsud had signed a peace agreement with the British authorities, bringing conflict to an end for the time being.

Death 
Mulla died in November 1913, and was succeeded as chieftain by his second surviving son, Fazl-Din, who was 14 or 15 years of age at this time.

See also
 Mirzali Khan
 Sartor Faqir
 Umra Khan

References

External links
 Waziristan-The Past overview of Pakistan's (and by extension the world's) newest trouble spot.

Pashtun people
People from South Waziristan
1863 births
1913 deaths