[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Gerak Khas (Malaysian Army unit)

ho controls that area. If they are caught, they will be tortured and abused. The trainees will then be released and continue their journey until they arrive at the last checkpoint. The total length the trainees cover during their escape are almost 240 km and they must cover the length within 5 days.

Graduation
Trainee whom pass will be given a week rest after final phase and before green beret award ceremony. At the ceremony, the graduates will perform a beach assault demonstration in front of VIPs and graduates' family and friends before they will be awarded green beret, blue lanyard and a Fairbairn & Sykes Commando Dagger.

Advanced training 
The Special Warfare Training Centre provides advanced special operations training up to supervisor level. There are a few exceptions where Gerak Khas commandos are sent to overseas schools for advanced training. However, this is reserved for the best trainees. Among the advanced training courses available are:

 Sniper
 Mountaineering
 Small unit patrol
 Close-quarters combat
 Parachuting
 High-altitude military parachuting
 Pathfinder
 Parachute rigger
 Small boat operations
 Underwater diving
 Combat swimmer
 Underwater demolition

Expansions
The 2nd Special Service Regiment was established on 1 January 1977, based at Sungai Udang Camp, Malacca. In 1979, Colonel Borhan Bin Ahmad was appointed the Commandant of Special Warfare Training Centre. A separate Special Forces Directorate was established in the Ministry of Defence on 4 April 1980 and the Markas Gerak Khas () was established in Imphal Camp, Kuala Lumpur. As such, supporting units were attached to Gerak Khas.

The commando units were then re-designated and 1st Special Service Regiment became 21st Regiment Para Commando and 2 Special Service Regiment became 22nd Regiment Para Commando. On 1 April 1981, the 11th and 12th Special Service Regiments were formed to provide support to 21st Commando and 22nd Commando. However 12th Special Service Regiment was disbanded soon after during the realignment of the Malaysian Army in the 1980s and its members were deployed to other combat units. Further to this development, the designation for the Para Commando Regiment was changed to the Commando Regiment. In 1983, 22nd Commando Regiment moved to Kuala Kubu Baru due to insufficient facilities in Sungai Udang Camp. All three as well as the Royal Malaysian Navy PASKAL will be soon moving out to the new SOF base in Mersing, facing the South China Sea unlike the Sungai Udang which is facing the very busy waterway of the Straits of Malacca. Sungai Udang Camp is very small and lacking in many facilities for a good SOF base and training centre. It is also near to a massive oil refinery and countless condominium projects which makes it unsuitable for security and practical reasons. The 3 regiments again had a name change, becoming known as 11th CRW Regiment, 21st Commando Regiment and 22nd Commando Regiment.

Sungai Udang Camp was certified as the 'Home of the Commandos'. Its achievements attracted many volunteers from other corps. Lieutenant Colonel Borhan bin Ahmad was the first administrator of MSSG responsible for expanding the Special Operations Forces. Various activities including sports and other Army activities were organised to get the SOF involved. Joint programs are conducted with other countries such as Britain, New Zealand, Australia and the United States to improve knowledge and to get new experience in certain aspects of SOF operations.

In the Third Malaysia Plan and the expansion of the Armed Forces, Special Warfare Training Centre (SWTC) was established on 1 August 1976. The function is to fulfill the training requirements for the Special Forces Team. After the establishment of SWTC, the Second Regiment of Special Service was established on 1 January 1977. All the three units were based in Sungai Udang, Malacca. In 1979, SWTC was fully established with Colonel Borhan bin Ahmad as the Commandant.

The Special Forces Directorate was established in the Ministry of Defence on 4 April 1980. Further to this, in January 1981, Gerak Khas Command Headquarters was established in Imphal Camp, Kuala Lumpur. The establishment of the Special Operations Forces group also involved other elements such as the combat support units and service support units. At the same time the names of the commando units were re-designated to 21st Regiment Para Commando and 22nd Regiment Para Commando.

Regimental motto and crest
The Regimental motto is 'Cepat Dan Cergas' ().

The Regiment Crest, fondly called 'Harimau Berjuang or fighting tiger, comprises a roaring tiger and the commando dagger. Green signifies the Regiment's status as a Commando regiment. Blue symbolises the close relationship between Gerak Khas with 40 Commando, Royal Marines. The Tiger denotes bravery, signifying ferocity and might. The Commando knife defines the commando status of the Regiment – only commandos use the commando knife.

Uniforms and insignia