[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Melbourne Polytechnic

ting and Publishing, and Tertiary Studies.

The 2014 Annual report states that two new master's degree courses have been accredited by the Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA) for delivery: in Creative Industries, and Practising and Professional Accounting.

Bachelor of Accounting

Bachelor and associate degree program in Accounting started in 2011, with a particular focus on a sustainability and environmental management.

Bachelor of Agriculture and Technology – Aquaculture

The Bachelor of Aquaculture at Melbourne Polytechnic was the first full-time course in applied aquaculture and aquatic environmental management at the bachelor's degree level to be offered by a Victorian TAFE institute. Aquaculture research has included captive breeding of Murray Cod and biodiesel from microalgae as part of this degree program. In 2014 this degree became the Bachelor of Agriculture and Technology, delivered by Melbourne Polytechnic, but accredited by La Trobe University.

Bachelor of Agriculture and Technology – Viticulture and Winemaking

Melbourne Polytechnic has been running wine training at its Epping campus since 1993 and in the Yarra Valley since 1994. The Bachelor of Viticulture and Winemaking degree commenced in February 2006 using the marketing label of Australian College of Wine, established by NMIT in 2001 to enable state-of-the-art training in viticulture, winemaking and hospitality. This label was discontinued in favour of the Northern Estates label, launched in 2010. In 2014 this degree became the Bachelor of Agriculture and Technology, delivered by Melbourne Polytechnic, but accredited by La Trobe University.

Bachelor of Agriculture and Technology – Agronomy, Bachelor of Agriculture and Technology – Agribusiness

The former Bachelor of Agriculture and Land Management degree was reformulated in 2014 as the Bachelor of Agriculture and Technology, delivered by Melbourne Polytechnic, but accredited by La Trobe University. It has majors in Agronomy and Agribusiness.

Bachelor of Built Environment

A new degree in architecture launched in the second semester of 2015.

Bachelor of Business

The Bachelor of Business commenced enrolments in 2012.

Bachelor of Education (Early Years), Bachelor of Early Years Studies

In 2011 the Institute offered 2 Bachelor's degrees in early childhood education: a 4-year Bachelor of Education (Early Years) degree, a 3-year Bachelor of Early Years Studies, and a 2-year associate degree in Early Years Studies. They are the first training courses run by a TAFE Institute in Victoria that has achieved registration with the Victorian Institute of Teaching.

Bachelor of Equine Studies

The degree in Equine studies has been hailed as the first course of its kind in Australia and a forerunner in higher education needed to professionalise the equine industry. Previous courses were only available at the Certificate or Diploma level at a variety of regional TAFEs. The course is based at Melbourne Polytechnic's  thoroughbred stud, Northern Lodge, north of Melbourne, which has sold its yearlings for up to $125,000 as part of its commercial activities. Northern Lodge was established in 1993 comprising plus an adjoining  property on a long term-lease for the stud farm, training track and a vineyard.

Bachelor of Engineering Technology (Civil)

Civil Engineering bachelor and associate degree course program delivered from 2014.

Bachelor of Hospitality Management

The Bachelor of Hospitality Management commenced in 2008. The course integrates hospitality management and business management, and utilises Melbourne Polytechnic's specialist hospitality industry facilities and resources in conjunction with Hospitality Certificate and Diploma level courses.

Bachelor of Information Technology

The Bachelor of Information Technology commenced enrolments in 2012.

Bachelor of Music

The 3-year bachelor's degree include studies in jazz, classical, pop/rock, and world music and is structured around four strands : music tools and language; music practice; applying music technology and music and culture; and creativity and the music business. The course is taught by musicians and music educators: Eugene Ball and Adrian Sherriff. It joins the other music industry courses at the Certificate, Diploma and Advanced Diploma levels that have been offered by Melbourne Polytechnic since 1986 in sound production, music business, and music performance. Melbourne Polytechnic has also introduced online courses in Songwriting, Arranging and Copyright for musicians which are units in its National Music Training Package.

Bachelor of Music Industry

The three-year Bachelor of Music Industry degree was launched in 2011, with ARIA award-winning musician Greg Arnold as the first academic program head. Students are able to select a major to specialise in including songwriting, sound production or music management.

Associate Degree of Veterinary Nursing