[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 148]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

iences of life, they are unacquainted with; nor can they
conceive that one man should serve another merely because he has a few
pieces of shining metal; they imagine that the only distinctions arise
from superior courage and bodily perfections, and therefore these alone
are able to engage their esteem. A celebrated traveller relates that, on
one occasion, while he was engaged in finishing a drawing, he was
suddenly interrupted by three of these curious-looking persons entering
the room in which he was. At first he feared that they intended to
attack him; but he soon found that he was mistaken, for, upon their
seeing the representation of themselves upon a sheet which he had taken
the day before, and which one of them took up, they immediately burst
into a loud fit of laughter, while one of them offered to purchase it by
giving some fruit in exchange.

"But if their manners are gentle in peace, they are more dreadful, when
provoked, than all the wildest animals of the forest. Bred up from
infancy to suffer no restraint, and to give an unbounded loose to the
indulgence of their passions, they know not what it is to forgive those
who have injured them. They love their tribe with a degree of affection
that is totally unknown in every other country; for they are ready to
suffer every hardship and danger in its defence. They scruple not in the
least to experience wounds, and pain, and even death itself, as often as
the interest of the country to which they are so much attached is
concerned; but the same attachment renders them implacable and
unforgiving to all their enemies. In short, they seem to have all the
virtues and the vices of the ancient Spartans.

"To one of these tribes, called the Ottigamies, was Colonel Simmons sent
ambassador, accompanied by a few more officers, and some private men,
among whom I had the honour to be included. We pursued our march for
several days, through forests which seemed to be of equal duration with
the world itself. Sometimes we were shrouded in such obscurity, from the
thickness of the covert, that we could scarcely see the light of heaven;
sometimes we emerged into spacious meadows, bare of trees, and covered
with the most luxuriant herbage, on which were feeding immense herds of
buffaloes. These, as soon as they snuffed the approach of men, which
they are capable of doing even at a considerable distance, ran with
precipitation into the surrounding woods; many, however, fell beneath
our attack, and served us for food during our journey. At length we came
to a wide and rapid river, upon whose banks we found a party of
friendly savages, with some of whom we embarked upon canoes made of the
bark of trees, to proceed to the country of the Ottigamies.

"After three days' incessant rowing we entered a spacious lake, upon
whose banks were encamped a considerable portion of the nation we
sought. As we approached the shore they saluted us with a volley of
balls from their muskets, which whistled just above our heads, without
producing mischief. I and several of the soldiers instantly seized our
arms, imagining it to be a hostile attack; but our leader quieted our
apprehensions by informing us that this was only a friendly salute with
which a nation of warriors received and welcomed their allies. We
landed, and were instantly conducted to the assembly of the chiefs, who
were sitting upon the ground, without external pomp or ceremony, with
their arms beside them; but there was in their countenances and eyes an
expression of ferocious grandeur which would have daunted the boldest
European. Yes, gentlemen, I have seen the greatest and most powerful men
in my own country; I have seen them adorned with every external
circumstance of dress, of pomp, and equipage, to inspire respect, but
never did I see anything which so completely awed the soul as the angry
scowl and fiery glance of a savage American.

"As soon as our leader entered the circle, he produced the calumet, or
pipe of peace. This is the universal mark of friendship and alliance
among all the barbarous nations of America, and he that bears it is
considered with so much respect that his person is always safe. This
calumet is nothing but a long and slender pipe, ornamented with the
most lively and beautiful feathers, which are ingeniously fixed along
the tube; the bowl is composed of a peculiar kind of reddish marble, and
filled with scented herbs and tobacco.

"Colonel Simmons lighted his pipe with great solemnity, and turning the
bowl first towards the heavens, then to the earth, then in a circle
round him, he began to smoke. In the mean time the whole assembly sat
with mute attention, waiting to hear his proposals; for, though we call
them savages, yet in some respects they well deserve to be imitated by
more refined nations; in all their meetings and assemblies the greatest
order and regularity prevail; whoever rises to speak is sure of being
patientl