[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# ALBA (synchrotron)

sion, and angle of incidence are used for sample analysis at this beamline.

BL04 - MSPD: Materials science and powder diffraction beamline 
The Materials science and powder diffraction beamline is for high-resolution powder diffraction and high pressure powder diffraction using diamond anvil cells.

The beamline works between 8 and 50 keV. This energy range adequately covers the desirable range for almost any powder diffraction experiment, and at the same time it is possible to perform both total scattering experiments, and high pressure diffraction, for which it is not only desirable but sometimes necessary to have high-energy sources (E>30 KeV).

There are two experimental end stations to accommodate the different experimental techniques, one devoted to high resolution powder diffraction and the second one is dedicated to high pressure experiments.

BL09 - MISTRAL: Soft X-ray microscopy 
"The full-field transmission X-ray microscopy beamline MISTRAL is devoted to cryo nano-tomography in the water window and multi-keV spectral regions (E = 270eV – 2600eV) for biological applications. In addition, spectroscopic imaging (a series of 2D images over a range of X-ray wavelengths) at several interesting X-ray absorption edges can be performed.

The transmission X-ray microscope (TXM) works from 270 eV to 1200 eV. A single-reflection elliptical glass capillary condenser focuses monochromatic light on to the sample, which is at cryo-temperature. The transmitted signal is collected by an objective Fresnel zone plate (of 25 or 40 nm outermost zone widths) and a magnified image is delivered to a direct illumination CCD camera. The routinely expected spatial resolution in 2D is 30 nm and ≈50 nm for tomographies. An upgrade of the microscope to higher energies (i.e. Zernike phase contrast at 2600 eV) is planned, as well as the development of correlated fluorescence visible light microscopy."

BL11 - NCD-SWEET: Non-crystalline diffraction 
Small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) experiments provide structural and dynamic information of large molecular assemblies like polymers, colloids, proteins and fibres. A wide range of fields (medicine, biology, chemistry, physics, archaeological, environmental and conservation sciences and materials) can be covered by this technique. SAXS is a powerful technique that is used to study the supramolecular organization in biological systems, the structure and function of muscle filaments, corneal transparency, biological membranes, polymer processing, self assembly of mesoscopic metal particles, colloids, inorganic aggregates, liquid crystals and devices.

Recording SAXS and WAXS (wide-angle X-ray scattering) simultaneously results in a length scale which ranges from a few microns to a few angstroms.

BL13 - XALOC: Macromolecular crystallography 
XALOC aims to provide the present and future Structural Biology groups with a flexible and reliable tool to help in finding solutions for structures of macromolecules and complexes. The beamline allows a broad variety of crystal sizes and unit cell parameters, with both wavelength-dependent and -independent experiments.

BL22 - CLÆSS: Core level absorption and emission spectroscopies 
The CLÆSS beamline provides a simultaneous and unified access to two complementary techniques: X-ray absorption and emission spectroscopes. The incoming energy range is 2.4 - 63.2 keV. The outcoming energy range selectable by the CLEAR spectrometer is 6.4 - 12.5 keV.

The sample set-ups give access to low/high-temperature (10-320 K, 80-1000 K), low/high-energy measurements (in transmission and fluorescence mode), "in situ" solid-gas reactors.

BL24 - CIRCE: Photoemission spectroscopy and microscopy 
BL24 - CIRCE is a variable-polarization soft X-ray beamline dedicated to advanced photoemission experiments.

BL29 - BOREAS: Resonant absorption and scattering 
The variable polarization soft X-ray beamline is dedicated to fundamental, as well as applied, polarization-dependent spectroscopic investigation of advanced materials.

Expansion
, three beamlines are under construction: LOREA, XAIRA, and NOTOS. A fourth, FAXTOR, is being designed.

See also 
 European Synchrotron Radiation Facility

References

External links

 Official website

Catalonia
Synchrotron radiation facilities
Research institutes in Catalonia