[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nashat Akram

k their passage to South Africa.

Club career

Salahaddin 
Nashat Akram started his senior career at Salahaddin FC and made his debut in the 1999–2000 season under the coach Ammo Baba. He scored his first goal for Salahaddin in a 6–1 win over Al-Samawa in the 1999–2000 Iraq FA Cup on 3 January 2000.

Al-Shorta 
In 2000, aged 16, Nashat Akram transferred to Al-Shorta and made it into their first team, and from the first sight the analysts believed that Iraq would produce one of the most promising players in Asia. In 2001, he was loaned out to Al-Zawraa for their matches in the Asian Club Championship. In 2002, he became a regular starter with his team leading them to win the Umm al-Ma'arik Championship and reaching the Iraq FA Cup final; unfortunately for the young star, they finished 2nd. After his great performance with Al-Shorta, Nashat Akram was called up to the Iraq Youth Team and later nominated for Asian Young Footballer of the Year. Nashat's Al Shorta finished third on 2 of the 3 season he spent at the club, and were leading the league in his final season before it was cancelled due to war.

Al-Nassr 
In 2003, he signed for Al-Nassr after their newly appointed coach Yugoslav Ljubiša Tumbaković was in awe of Nashat's performance in the Emir Faisal Abdullah Friendship Cup in Abha in the 5–1 demolition of his side. Nashat has since seen three of his coaches at Al-Nassr replaced, Ljubiša Tumbaković, the Romanian Mircea Rednic, and the Egyptian Mohsen Saleh after less than a year at the club. He left the Saudi club due to wranglings over unpaid wages owed to him. Al Nassr finished 7th (out of 12) in his only season with the club.

Al-Shabab
In 2004, Nashat signed with the giant club Al-Shabab; in his first season, the team won the Saudi Premier League, and won the title again in 2006, where Akram also won the league's Player of the Year and Foreign Player of the Year awards.

Al-Ain and moving to England controversy
On 1 August 2007, Nashat Akram signed a 1-year contract with the club Al-Ain from UAE for 1 million dollars, he was also linked to England with Sunderland.
During the current transfer window (January 2008), Akram agreed a deal to sign for Sven-Göran Eriksson's Manchester City side following a successful trial spell. Described by the Swede as an "elegant footballer," Akram was however refused the necessary work permit due to Iraq's FIFA ranking being outside the world's top 70 at the time. After his unsucceful transfer move, Nashat returned to Al Ain and the team finished 6th (out of 12) in the league that season. Following that season he signed for Al-Gharafa on a free transfer.

Al-Gharafa
In April 2008, Nashat signed with the Qatari League champions Al-Gharafa for one season. He made his debut on 27. April against Al-Arabi Sports Club in the Qatar Crown Prince Cup. They won 4:3 and Nashat assisted two goals. He completed his achievement with Al-Gharafa when he won the Qatari League 2008–09 and 2009 Emir of Qatar Cup. Nashat scored 10 goals with Al-Gharafa.

Nashat Akram vs. Real Madrid
On 15 May 2008, although Nashat Akram signed for Al-Gharafa, Akram has received an invitation from Al-Nassr of Saudi Arabia to participate in a testimonial honoring club legend Majed Abdullah on 20 May against the Stars of Real Madrid CF. On 20 May 2008, Nashat Akram played with Al-Nassr against Real Madrid for 75 minutes, in the 53rd minute Nashat Akram assisted the first goal and scored the 2nd goal in the 55th minute. The match finished 4–1 for Al-Nassr.

FC Twente
On 19 May 2009, the Iraqi international midfielder signed a three-year contract with FC Twente in the Netherlands, he comes on a free transfer until 2012 and previously played for Qatari club Al-Gharafa. FC Twente won the Dutch league in 2009/10.

On 10 June 2010, Nashat was released and canceled his two-year contract remaining with Dutch champions FC Twente after having many difficulties with the club, such as an injury keeping him off the pitch for more than 8 weeks.

Al-Wakrah
In November 2010, Akram signed with Al-Wakrah on a free transfer for the remainder of the season. Al Wakrah finished 7th in the league (out of 12 teams). They were eliminated in the Quarter Final by Lekhwiya in the 2011 Emir of Qatar Cup. He Left Al Wakrah at the end of the season to sign for Qatari champions Lekhwiya

Lekhwiya
In July 2011, Akram signed with Lekhwiya, the league title holder in the Qatar Stars League. He had some problems which he later released him from his contract during the winter transfer window.

Al-Wakrah
On 3 January 2012, shortly after being released by Lekhwiya, Nashat signed with his former club Al-Wakrah. He joined alongside national teammates Younis Mahmoud, Alaa Abdul-Zahra, and Ali Rehema.
where he added the Qatari Stars Cup to his trophy tally after winning it in March, where he scored an 85th-minute winner against his former club Lekhwiya in the Semi Final. Al Wakrah once again finished 7th in the league with Nashat Akram.