[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Roda Antar

this win that Lebanon striker Mahmoud El Ali hailed the performance of Antar and how much his presence had helped Lebanon. Antar had received his second yellow card of the third round against South Korea and therefore did not take part in Lebanon's 4–2 away loss against the UAE on 29 February 2012.

Fourth round
During Lebanon's fourth group-stage match of the fourth round on 11 September 2012, Antar scored in the 27th minute of the match to give Lebanon a 1–0 victory against Iran. Antar scored in the 27th minute from a header off a Mohamad Haidar free-kick, upon his return to the team, having missed the opening three games due to injury. The spirited victory not only marked Lebanon's first-ever goal but also its first-ever win against Iran, brought the Iranians' 13-match unbeaten qualifying record to an end. In October 2011, it was reported that Antar praised the Lebanon national team for their results and stated that it was the best national team in their history. He also indicated that his captaincy role was more of a job as opposed to a responsibility and that it was his duty to do his job well and try to win matches alongside his teammates.

2018 FIFA World Cup qualification
On 12 November 2015, Antar scored his 20th international goal for Lebanon in a 7–0 home victory against Laos during a 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification match. Antar celebrated the goal by showing ten fingers twice and also pointed to the number 20 on his shirt to indicate that he had achieved 20 national team goals.

During a press conference on 31 March 2016, Antar announced that he would retire from international football after Lebanon's 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification match against Myanmar. Antar ended his international career with 20 goals in 65 appearances.

Managerial career

Racing Beirut
In June 2017, Antar was appointed head coach of Lebanese club Racing Beirut. After two years in the Lebanese Premier League with the club, on 25 April 2019, Antar was suspended for one year by the Lebanese Football Association as he attacked the referee during the last game of the league, in a relegation battle against Tripoli which he lost 1–0.

Lebanon U23 
On 12 August 2020, Antar was appointed manager of the Lebanon national under-23 team.

Ahed 
On 28 September 2020, Ahed announced that Antar became the club's head coach. On 3 January 2021, Antar submitted his resignation; in the first phase of the 2020–21 season, Ahed won four games, drew five, and lost two.

Personal life
Antar speaks Arabic, German, English, and Chinese.

Career statistics

Club

International

 Scores and results list Lebanon's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Antar goal.

Honours

Player
Hamburger SV
 DFB-Ligapokal: 2003

SC Freiburg
 2. Bundesliga: 2002–03

Shandong Luneng Taishan
 Chinese Super League: 2010

Individual
 IFFHS All-time Lebanon Men's Dream Team
 Lebanese Premier League Best Player: 2000–01
 Lebanese Premier League Team of the Season: 1999–2000, 2000–01

See also
 List of Lebanon international footballers
 List of Lebanon international footballers born outside Lebanon
 List of association football families

References

External links

 
 Roda Antar at RSSSF
 
 
 

1980 births
Living people
Footballers from Freetown
Citizens of Lebanon through descent
Lebanese men's footballers
Sierra Leonean men's footballers
Lebanese people of Sierra Leonean descent
Sierra Leonean people of Lebanese descent
Sportspeople of Sierra Leonean descent
Sportspeople of Lebanese descent
Men's association football midfielders
Tadamon Sour SC players
Hamburger SV II players
Hamburger SV players
SC Freiburg players
1. FC Köln players
Shandong Taishan F.C. players
Jiangsu F.C. players
Zhejiang Professional F.C. players
Lebanese Premier League players
Oberliga (football) players
Bundesliga players
Regionalliga players
2. Bundesliga players
Chinese Super League players
Lebanon men's youth international footballers
Lebanon men's international footballers
Asian Games competitors for Lebanon
Footballers at the 1998 Asian Games
2000 AFC Asian Cup players
Lebanese football managers
Racing Club Beirut managers
Al Ahed FC managers
Lebanese Premier League managers
Lebanese expatriate men's footballers
Lebanese expatriate sportspeople in Germany
Lebanese expatriate sportspeople in China
Expatriate men's footballers in Germany
Expatriate men's footballers in China
Sierra Leonean expatriate men's footballers
Sierra Leonean expatriate sportspeople in Germany
Sierra Leonean expatriate sportspeople in China
International sportspeople born abroad