[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# UN Watch

nst sexual exploitation and child pornography. "Today far too many children are sexually exploited and abused causing lifelong damage. More than two million children are exploited in the multibillion-dollar sex industry each year and 1.2 million children are trafficked annually", the statement said.

Reception history
Former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan has said "I deeply appreciate the valuable work performed by UN Watch. I believe that informed and independent evaluation of the United Nations' activities will prove a vital source as we seek to adapt the Organization to the needs of a changing world." At the 2006 Centennial Anniversary of the American Jewish Committee, the Director-General of the UN Office in Geneva, Sergei Ordzhonikidze, praised the work of UN Watch by saying "allow me to also pay tribute to the valuable work of UN Watch in support of the just application of values and principles of the United Nations Charter and support for human rights for all."

Ian Williams, former president of the United Nations Correspondents Association and author of The UN For Beginners, wrote in an opinion piece in The Guardian in 2007 that the main objective of UN Watch "is to attack the United Nations in general, and its human rights council in particular, for alleged bias against Israel". Williams supported UN Watch's condemnation of the UN Human Rights Council as a hypocritical organization, but also accused UN Watch itself of hypocrisy for failing to denounce what he called "manifest Israeli transgressions against the human rights of Palestinians."

The New Republics Martin Peretz, in a 2007 blog piece, described the organization as "a truth-telling organization." Claudia Rosett, a journalist-in-residence with the conservative Foundation for Defense of Democracies, praised UN Watch as "stalwart and invaluable".

The American journalist and political activist Phyllis Bennis described UN Watch as a "small Geneva-based right-wing organisation" that is "hardly known outside of UN headquarters". She stressed that "undermining and delegitimising" Richard Falk through "scurrilous accusations" has been an "obsession of UN Watch" when he became Special Rapporteur.

Agence France-Presse has described UN Watch both as "a lobby group with strong ties to Israel" and as a group which "champion[s] human rights worldwide". The Economist has described UN Watch as a "pro-Israeli monitor".

References

Further reading
 Hillel Neuer of UN Watch interviewed on Shire Network News
 The Struggle against Anti-Israel Bias at the UN Commission on Human Rights – Hillel C. Neuer

External links
 Official website
 UN Watch, Institute for Policy Studies – Right Web, Tracking militarists’ efforts to influence U.S. foreign policy.

1993 establishments in Switzerland
Criticism of the United Nations
Human rights organisations based in Switzerland
Organisations based in Geneva
Organizations established in 1993
United Nations relations