[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 1. FC Schweinfurt 05

nument and is thus subject to preservation orders.
As a consequence of Willy Sachs' Nazi affiliation, in June 2021 the Schweinfurt city council decided to rename the sports venue into Sachs-Stadion, in recognition of the value of the former Fichtel & Sachs company for the development of Schweinfurt.

Proposed new stadium
Due to the club's ambitions to promote again to professional leagues with stricter legislations on stadium capacity and equipment,
the city administration commissioned a feasibility study for a new stadium to be realised in Schweinfurt.  
Two locations for a football arena with a capacity of 15,000 have been proposed by the German architectural office AS+P, one at former U.S. Conn Barracks, the other close to the existing venue.

Players

Current squad

Notable past players
  Albin Kitzinger (MF)
  Andreas Kupfer (MF)
  Robert Bernard (MF)
  Günter Bernard (GK)
  Lothar Emmerich (FW)
  Erwin Albert (FW)
  Michael Glowatzky (FW)
  Sebastian Kneißl (MF)
  Florian Trinks (MF)
  Daniel Adlung (MF)

International caps
Germany national football team (Caps/Goals):
  Albin Kitzinger: 44/2
  Andreas Kupfer: 44/1
  Günter Bernard: 2/0 (3 additional caps for SV Werder Bremen)
Europe XI (Caps/Goals):
  Albin Kitzinger: 1/0
  Andreas Kupfer: 1/0

Non-playing staff

Current management team

Managerial history
Head coaches of the club from 1929:

Supporters and rivalries
The supporters of Schweinfurt 05 maintain a traditional friendship with the fans of Würzburger FV 04. They have a distinct hostility with fans of Würzburger FV's local rival FC Würzburger Kickers.

References

External links

Official club site
The Abseits Guide to German Soccer
1. FC Schweinfurt 05 profile at Weltfussball.de
Football in Bavaria at FuPa.net
Football results at kicker.de
Fan site (Kugellagerstadt.com)

 
Association football clubs established in 1905
Football clubs in Germany
Football clubs in Bavaria
Football in Lower Franconia
Rugby union clubs in Germany
1905 establishments in Germany
Schweinfurt
2. Bundesliga clubs