[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Freetown International Airport

t of 2016. This was the first national airline to operate for more than 10 years after Sierra National Airlines stopped flying.  After last having served Freetown in December 1996, KLM restarted flights in March 2017, but discontinued them in 2019. ASKY Airlines recommenced flights in November 2017.

Access
Because the Lungi International Airport is across an estuary from the capital Freetown, passengers have the options of traveling from Freetown International Airport to Freetown through government ferry, private passenger water taxi speed boats and bus transportation. The water taxis are large boats, often with air conditioning and wifi.  Most people who are traveling outside Freetown, and to other parts of Sierra Leone, use the highway through public or private transportation. The ferry is the cheapest, and the most common way of traveling from Lungi to Freetown for most Sierra Leoneans. The ferry takes about an hour by sea from Lungi to Freetown. The private water taxis take 30–40 minutes to Aberdeen, Murray Town or Government wharf.

Public and private transportation buses run from Lungi to Freetown, and to other parts of Sierra Leone. The highway road journey from Lungi to Freetown is generally three hours drive, but can be considerably more because of traffic in Freetown.

Airlines and destinations

Previous Airlines and destinations

Accidents and incidents

 On 11 August 2004 at around 2:30 p.m. a Boeing 737-200 operated by Air Guinee Express crashed while failing to take off at Lungi Airport.  There were no fatalities among the 127 passengers and crew members.
 On 3 June 2007 a helicopter flight from Freetown exploded and crashed on landing at Lungi airport, killing all 22 people on board. The helicopter, a Russian Mi-8, was operated by Paramount Airlines, which shuttled passengers between Sierra Leone's coastal capital Freetown and Lungi airport.
 On 30 April 2017 a Brussels Airlines Airbus A330 landed at Lungi Airport after having lost a fairing at the wing root upon departure from Brussels. The aircraft was grounded for 48 hours to investigate and the Belgian Accident Investigation Board rated this as a "serious incident".

References

External links

A-Z World Airports

Airport
Airports in Sierra Leone
Transport infrastructure in Sierra Leone