[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Expo 2015

Expo 2015 was a World Expo hosted by Milan, Italy. It opened on May 1 at 10:00 CEST and closed on October 31. Milan hosted an exposition for the second time; the first was the 1906 Milan International.

The Bureau International des Expositions (BIE) general assembly in Paris decided in favour of Milan on March 31, 2008. On November 23, 2010, the event was announced by the BIE. Expo 2015's theme was "Feeding the Planet, Energy for Life".

Themes
Expo 2015's theme was "Feeding the Planet, Energy for Life", encompassing technology, innovation, culture, traditions and creativity and how they relate to food and diet. The exposition developed themes introduced in earlier expos (such as water at Expo 2008 in Zaragoza) in light of new global scenarios and emerging issues, focusing on the right to healthy, secure and sufficient food for the world's inhabitants. Futuristic concerns about food security are compounded by forecasts of increasing uncertainty about the quantity of food which will be available globally. The exposition had seven sub-themes:
 Science for food safety, security and quality
 Innovation in the agro-food supply chain
 Technology for agriculture and biodiversity
 Dietary education
 Solidarity and cooperation on food
 Food for better lifestyles
 Food in the world's cultures and ethnic groups

Site

The Expo 2015 site is about  northwest of Milan, in the municipalities of Rho and Pero, and covers an area of . It is adjacent to the Fiera Milano fairgrounds, designed by Massimiliano Fuksas, which may be considered the cornerstone of the area's urban redevelopment. It had long been an industrial zone before its conversion to logistical and municipal services and agriculture. The fairgrounds and the Expo site were connected by a pedestrian bridge adjacent to the Rho-Pero high-speed rail station. Originally-planned bicycle paths were never constructed, and several motorways were built (or expanded) to allow access to the site.

The area is oblong in shape with an overall length of nearly , suggesting a boulevard along which the pavilions would be located. The design of pools and waterways in and around the Expo area was an element of primary importance.

Initial plan

The initial plan had the following elements:
50 per cent of the area occupied by pavilions, 35 per cent dedicated to space around each pavilion and the remaining 15 per cent a green perimeter around the site
Piazza Italia and Piazza Expo at either end of the main boulevard, the former dominated by the  Italy pavilion and flanked by a second square (Piazza delle Regioni)
A large, artificial lake surrounded by the 20 pavilions representing the Italian regions
A 12,000-seat amphitheatre covering  and a 6,000-seat,  auditorium
Country pavilions in three sizes, depending on the financial resources of the participating country
Three pavilions dedicated to geographic areas: Asia, Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean

A  service area was planned near the main Expo site with hotels, parking facilities, stores, a convention centre, green areas, a business centre available to Expo participants and a  Expo Village to house staff, volunteers and security and administrative personnel.

The following thematic pavilions were also planned:
What the World Eats: At the base of the Expo tower and in the pedestrian bridge connecting the Rho-Pero fairgrounds to the expo site
Science and Conscience
Tales of Land, Air and Water
The Food Spiral
The Right to Eat Well
In the Realm of the Senses, in Piazza Italia
Equilibrium
The Art of Food

Concept

Expo 2015's concept was presented on September 8, 2009. It was designed by a committee of four architects: Stefano Boeri, Richard Burdett, Mark Rylander and Jacques Herzog.

The main idea was to trace two avenues (a main and a secondary avenue), representing the ancient Roman layout of a cardo and a decumanus. The initial idea of a "classical" site composed of avenues and pavilions was replaced by the idea of a "light" Expo composed of exhibition areas arranged across the main boulevard. The exhibition areas, identical for each country, recreated the typical food cycle of each nation from production to consumption. The centre of the avenue was occupied by a table in front of the country pavilions extending the length of the site, where visitors could sample foods produced in each country's pavilion. The area would be covered by large, tent-like structures to convey the idea of a global marketplace.