[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sabarmati Riverfront

Sabarmati Riverfront is a waterfront being developed along the banks of Sabarmati river in Ahmedabad, India. Proposed in the 1960s, the construction began in 2005. Since 2012, under Phase 1, the waterfront is gradually opened to public as and when facilities are constructed and various facilities are actively under construction. The major objectives of project are environment improvement, social infrastructure and sustainable development. Phase 2 was approved in 2020.

Geography

The Sabarmati river is a monsoon-fed river which has a total catchment area of . The Dharoi Dam constructed in 1976 upstream of Ahmedabad controls water and protects from flooding while Vasna Barrage constructed in 1976 downstream retains water in the river along the city banks and diverts it through Fatehwadi canal for irrigation. The Narmada Canal, which crosses Sabarmati a few kilometres upstream from the city, is part of a larger canal network of Sardar Sarovar Dam. The canal can feed excess water to the river and maintains the level of water in the river which is retained through Vasna Barrage.

History

The first proposal for developing the riverfront was presented in 1961 by the prominent citizens of the city. French architect Bernard Kohn proposed an ecological valley in Sabarmati basin stretched from Dharoi Dam to Gulf of Cambay in the 1960s. In 1964, he proposed an Integrated Planning and Development of Sabarmati Riverfront by reclaiming  of land. The project was considered feasible in 1966 by the Government of Gujarat. Later he distanced himself from the project citing the difference between his proposal and the project being implemented. In 1976, the Riverfront Development Group proposed an incremental approach for the construction. In 1992, the National River Conservation Plan proposed construction of sewers and pumping stations to reduce water pollution.

The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) set up the Sabarmati Riverfront Development Corporation Ltd (SRFDCL), a special purpose vehicle, in May 1997 funded by the Government of India with a seed capital of  for the riverfront development. Environmental Planning Collaborative (EPC) led by Bimal Patel prepared the feasibility report in 1998. Initially the proposal was to construct the riverfront to cover a stretch of  stretch from Subhash bridge to Vasna barrage and to reclaim  of the riverbed. In 2003, the project extended to cover an  stretch and reclamation of  and was put on fast track. The project estimated to cost   which was to be recovered by selling of a part of reclaimed land for commercial and residential purpose. Bimal Patel-led HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt. Ltd, Ahmedabad was roped in as the main architect of the project. The project  encountered several delays due to concerns regarding water level, flooding, rehabilitation of displaced slum dwellers and the opposition from the activists involved with slum rehabilitation.

The construction began in 2005. The heavy engineering, land reclamation and sewage system was completed at the cost of . The  long lower promenades on both banks are completed and some of its section were opened to the public on 15 August 2012. It was inaugurated by then state Chief Minister Narendra Modi. The waterfront is gradually opened to public as and when facilities are finished. Various facilities are actively under construction since then. Total  were spent on the project by 2014. By November 2019, the  were spent.

The Chinese leader, Xi Jinping and his wife Peng Liyuan visited Sabarmati riverfront with prime minister of India Narendra Modi on 17 September 2014.

Riverfront Phase 1

The average width of the river channel was  and the narrowest cross-section . It is uniformly narrowed to  without affecting its flood carrying capacity and the riverbed land is reclaimed on the both east and west banks to construct  long riverfront. It can hold  without spillage. The total of  of land is reclaimed. The reclaimed land is used for public as well as private development. More than 85% of the reclaimed land proposed be used for public infrastructure, recreational parks, sports facilities and gardens while nearly 14% proposed be used for commercial and residential purpose.

It improves environment by reducing erosion of the banks and flooding of low-lying areas of the city by the walls constructed on the both banks. The new integrated sewage and storm-water system intercepts 38 former sewage and industrial effluent discharge points and route it to sewage treatment plants south of Vasna Barrage.

It enabled the groundwater recharge and the recreational facilities like boating in the river. There are also plans to replenish river by treated sewage water.