[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

ting in the town square.
17 August – Free State troops under Dan Hogan re-occupy Dundalk unopposed. One civilian is killed in the operation.
Two unarmed National Army medics are shot dead by a sniper at Inisfallen, County Kerry.
18 August – 
A lorry of Free State soldiers is ambushed between Clonmel and Cahir, County Tipperary. Three National Army troops are killed and seven wounded.
Anti-Treaty fighters attack the Free State barracks in Monaghan town. They are driven off after a half-hour gun battle. One National Army lieutenant is killed and three Republicans are wounded. The Republicans also raid the post office in the town, and shoot dead a postman. They get away with £900.
Anti-Treaty IRA men attack a Free State patrol on Longford Street, Dublin, one civilian is killed and three more wounded.
19 August – There is a four-hour gun battle on the border near Dundalk between Free State soldiers and Anti-Treaty fighters. The Republicans eventually retreat across the border into Northern Ireland where they cannot be followed. Elsewhere, there are renewed attacks on Free State troops in Dublin and the railway bridge at Carrick on Shannon is blown up and destroyed by Republicans.
In County Kerry, a Free State column is ambushed near Listowel, one soldier is shot dead.
In County Tipperary, a National Army soldier is shot dead when visiting his family.
20 August – Seven Free State troops are ambushed in a car heading from Liscarrol to Kanturk, County Cork. One Free State officer is killed, two others wounded and the remainder surrendered with their arms.
A lorry of Free State soldiers is ambushed at Blessington, County Wicklow. One soldier is killed and five are wounded.
21 August – One Free State soldier is killed in an ambush at Blessington, County Wicklow. Four more are wounded in an ambush near Enniscorthy, County Wexford. Free State troops occupy Bandon and Dunmanway, County Cork without resistance.
22 August – Two Free State soldiers are killed and three wounded in an ambush at Redmondstown, County Kilkenny on the road between Clonmel and Kilkenny. Free State commandant Frank Thornton is also badly wounded in the incident. Three other Free State officers had been captured by the irregulars in the same spot the previous night.
A Free State soldier is killed in an ambush of a convoy near Tralee.
22 August – National Army Commander-in-Chief Michael Collins is killed in an ambush by Anti-Treaty Republicans at Béal na Bláth, near his family home in County Cork, he is the only fatality of the 45-minute fire fight. Richard Mulcahy takes over as Free State National Army commander in chief. Collins had been pursuing talks with Anti-Treaty leaders Dan Breen, Liam Deasy and others in order to try to stop the fighting. His killing greatly embittered the war and probably prolonged it by several months.
The Criminal Investigation Department (CID), a police intelligence unit, is formed to 'be distinct from existing police forces with separate headquarters under direct control of the Minister for Home Affairs.' It was formed from members of the National Army and the Irish Republican Police and is based at Oriel House, Westland Row, Dublin. They consist initially of over 100 heavily armed men and later are 350 strong. Also thirty members of the Squad (a former IRA assassination unit) are established as the Protective Corps, also based at Oriel House, to afford protection to members of the Provisional Government. The Oriel House unit is effectively a counter-insurgency corps and is accused of the assassination of many Republicans during the conflict.
A Free State soldier is killed in a raid on house at Kilcommin, County Kerry.
25 August – A Free State CID Motor Driver is fatally wounded in an attack at Dean's Grange, Dublin.
A Free State soldier is shot dead and a barracks burned at Shortcourse, Waterford.
26 August – A Free State convoy of 100 troops is ambushed between Tralee and Killorglin, County Kerry. One officer is killed. The Free State troops are caught in several more ambushes along their line of retreat, taking more casualties.
Anti-Treaty fighters ambush Free State troops at Glasson, near Athlone. National Army officer Lieutenant McCormack is killed and several more soldiers are wounded.
Fianna Éireann members Seán Cole and Alf Colley and Anti-Treatyite Bernard Daly, are abducted and killed in Dublin by the CID based in Oriel House, allegedly in revenge for Michael Collins killing, although possibly in retaliation for the death of a CID man the previous day. Witnesses describe the detectives putting buckets over the boys' heads, and the boys crying out "But what is it for?"
Two Free State soldiers are killed in an ambush on the road between Nenagh and Limerick.
A civilian is killed in an exchange of fire at Whitefriars, Dublin city.
27 August – In County Tipperary, three Free State soldiers are killed in ambush near Nenagh, when a mine is exploded under their lorry and they were fired on by Republicans. Several m