[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Military conquests of Umar's era

terminated the moment Uthman ibn al-Affan ascended as caliph, as he immediately instructed the incumbent commanders of the expedition towards Makran, al-Hakam and Abdallah ibn Mu'ammar at-Tamimi, to cease their campaign and withdraw their position from river in Hind.

 Conflict with Hindu kingdoms 

Before the Muslim raids, Makran was under the Hindu Rais of Sindh, but the region was also shared by the Zunbils. From an early period, parts of it frequently alternated between Indian and Persian control with the Persian portion in the west and the Indian portion in the east. It was later annexed by the Persians from Rai Sahiras II. It was reconquered by the usurper Chach of Alor in 631. Ten years later, it was described to be "under the government of Persia" by Xuanzang who visited the region. Three years later however, when the Arabs invaded, it was regarded as the "frontier of Al-Hind''".

Raja Rasil, a local Hindu potentate of the Kingdom of Sindh, concentrated huge armies in Makran to halt the advance of the Muslims. Suhail was reinforced by Uthman ibn Abi al-'As from Persepolis, and Hakam ibn Amr from Busra. The combined forces defeated Raja Rasil at the Battle of Rasil, who retreated to the eastern bank of River Indus. The Raja's army had included war elephants, but these had posed little problem for the Muslim invaders, who had dealt with them during the conquest of Persia. In accordance with the orders of Caliph Umar, the captured war elephants were sold in Islamic Persia, with the proceeds distributed among the soldiers as share in booty. The victorious Arab army returned to Persia along with booty and a war elephant. In accordance with the orders of Umar, the captured war elephants were sold in Islamic Persia, with the proceeds distributed among the soldiers as share in booty.

Further east from the Indus River laid Sindh, which was the domain of the Rai Kingdom. Umar, after learning that Sindh was a poor and relatively barren land, disapproved Suhail's proposal to cross the Indus River. For the time being, Umar declared the Indus River, a natural barrier, to be the easternmost frontier of his domain. This campaign came to an end in mid-644. The same year, in 644, Umar had already rejected the proposal by Ahnaf ibn Qais, conqueror of Khurasan, of crossing Oxus river in the north to invade Central Asia.

See also
Military campaigns under Caliph Uthman

References

Notes

Inline citations

Bibliography 

 
 
 
 

 
  
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
Elias S. Shoufani: "Al-Riddah and the Muslim conquest of Arabia". Toronto, 1973. 
Meir J. Kister: "The struggle against Musaylima and the conquest of Yamama". In: "Jerusalem Studies in and Islam", 27 (2002) 
Ella Landau-Tasseron: "The Participation of Tayyi in the Ridda". In: "Jerusalem Studies in Arabic and Islam", 5 (1984)

610s in the Sasanian Empire
620s in the Sasanian Empire
6th century in Iran
7th century in Asia
7th century in Egypt
7th century in Iran
7th century in the Byzantine Empire
Fall of the Sasanian Empire
History of Africa
History of Fars Province
History of India
History of Iraq
History of Islam
History of Jerusalem
History of Palestine (region)
History of Syria
History of West Asia
Islamic rule in the Indian subcontinent
Invasions of Iran
 
Umar
Spread of Islam
 
Umar