[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Council for Arab-British Understanding

The Council for Arab-British Understanding (Caabu), is a not-for-profit organisation that works for a British Middle East policy rooted in support for international law, human rights and civil society. Since it was founded in 1967, Caabu has taken on a strong advocacy, media and educational role to help shape UK foreign policy and public opinion.

Caabu carries out a range of events and publications aimed at promoting greater understanding of the Arab world, in particular political issues. Caabu works with politicians, conducting in-depth parliamentary briefings and situation up-dates on the Middle East, in addition to taking politicians to the region.  Caabu organises public and private meetings to raise awareness and tackle important issues in the Arab world.

Caabu is a non-profit organisation funded by donations and membership fees.

History 
Caabu was founded shortly after the 1967 war, when 98% of the British public were polled as knowing little or nothing about the Arab world.  It was started by a group of politicians, journalists and academics whose aim was “to address the lack of a clear voice in British politics that valued relations with the Arab world and was prepared to stand up for Arab and Palestinian rights”.  The organisation sought to challenge anti-Arab racism and Islamophobia, by engaging actively with the media to foster greater understanding and a more balanced coverage of the region.

Structure 
Caabu is a cross-party group with over 650 general and over 100 parliamentary members.  It is a non-profit organisation, which relies upon donations and membership fees to carry out its work.  Members at Caabu pay an annual fee of £50, granting them voting rights, access to a range of events and publications, and a daily new digest on the region.
Caabu acts as secretariat to the All-Party Parliamentary Groups on Palestine, Qatar and Jordan.

Executive 
Caabu is chaired by Rt Hon David Jones MP.

Other members of its executive committee include:

John Austin, former Labour MP and a founder of the Labour Middle East Committee.

Dr Maha Azzam, a former associate fellow at Chatham House.

John McHugo international lawyer and author of A concise history of the Arabs.

Carolyn Perry, Head of Philanthropy at the MBI Al Jaber Foundation.

Vyvyan Kinross, PR and communications advisor, management consultant UNOPS.

Rt Hon Alistair Carmichael MP, Chief Whip for the Liberal Democrat Party as well as the party’s spokesperson on Northern Ireland.

Andy Love, former Labour and Co-operative Party MP for Edmonton.

Director 
Middle East expert Chris Doyle has been director of Caabu since 2002.  Doyle has spoken at national and international conferences, at Chatham House, RUSI, the Dubai Press Club, the Al Arabiya Forum and the annual Doha Forum on Free Trade and Democratisation in Qatar. In 2003 he observed the elections to the Kuwait National Assembly and in January 2013, he appeared as an expert witness in front of the Foreign Affairs Select Committee in Parliament discussing UK relations with Arab states in the Persian Gulf region.

Doyle was Visiting Lecturer at St Mary’s College, University of Surrey, former Chair of Friends of Birzeit University, former trustee of Medical Aid for Palestinians and the Coordinator of the Joint Committee for Palestine.

In 2001 Doyle received a Special Tribute award from the Arab Screen Independent Film Festival for his work with the media.

Doyle was awarded the Annemarie Schimmel award for Championing a Muslim Cause at The Muslim News Awards for Excellence 2015.

Activities 
It carries out a range of activities including, advocacy, events, media and education.

Advocacy 
Caabu works to improve Arab-British relations in Parliament with ministers, senior civil servants, MPs and Lords from across the political spectrum.  It raises key issues with leading politicians and civil servants, including democratic reform in the Middle East and North Africa, the arms trade, Universal Jurisdiction, the siege of Gaza and settlements.

Caabu also writes reports and briefings on critical issues affecting the Arab world for politicians and the general public

Delegations 
Caabu takes delegations of politicians out to the Middle East, to give them a better understanding of the region and its key issues.  Between 1997 and 2017 Caabu has taken over 60 delegations to a variety of Arab countries, including Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Egypt and Libya, involving over 200 MPs and Lords.  The majority Caabu’s delegations visit Gaza and the West Bank, where delegates meet both Palestinian and Israeli officials, activists and businessmen.