[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 43]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

g a sudden spring, jumped
upon his back, hoping by these means to escape. The boys immediately
renewed their shouts, and the ass, who was frightened at the noise,
began galloping with all his might, and presently bore him from the
reach of his enemies. But he had but little reason to rejoice at this
escape, for he found it impossible to stop the animal, and was every
instant afraid of being thrown of and dashed upon the ground. After he
had been thus hurried along a considerable time, the ass on a sudden
stopped short at the door of a cottage, and began kicking and prancing
with so much fury that the little boy was presently thrown to the
ground, and broke his leg in the fall. His cries immediately brought the
family out, among whom was the very little girl he had used so ill in
the morning. But she with the greatest good-nature, seeing him in such a
pitiable situation, assisted in bringing him in, and laying him upon the
bed. There this unfortunate boy had leisure to recollect himself, and
reflect upon his own bad behaviour, which in one day's time had exposed
him to such a variety of misfortunes; and he determined with great
sincerity, that, if ever he recovered from his present accident, he
would be as careful to take every opportunity of doing good, as he had
before been to commit every species of mischief."

When the story was ended, Tommy said it was very surprising to see how
differently the two little boys fared. The one little boy was
good-natured, and therefore everything he met became his friend and
assisted him in return; the other, who was ill-natured, made everything
his enemy, and therefore he met with nothing but misfortunes and
vexations, and nobody seemed to feel any compassion for him, excepting
the poor little girl that assisted him at last, which was very kind
indeed of her, considering how ill she had been used.

"That is very true, indeed," said Mr Barlow; "nobody is loved in this
world unless he loves others and does good to them; and nobody can tell
but one time or other he may want the assistance of the meanest and
lowest; therefore, every sensible man will behave well to everything
around him; he will behave well, because it is his duty to do it,
because every benevolent person feels the greatest pleasure in doing
good, and even because it is his own interest to make as many friends as
possible. No one can tell, however secure his present situation may
appear, how soon it may alter, and he may have occasion for the
compassion of those who are now infinitely below him. I could show you a
story to that purpose, but you have read enough, and therefore you must
now go out and use some exercise."

"Oh pray, sir," said Tommy, "do let me hear the story; I think I could
now read for ever without being tired." "No," said Mr Barlow;
"everything has its turn; to-morrow you shall read, but now we must work
in the garden." "Then pray, sir," said Tommy, "may I ask a favour of
you?" "Surely," answered Mr Barlow; "if it is proper for you to have,
there is nothing can give me a greater pleasure than to grant it." "Why,
then," said Tommy, "I have been thinking that a man should know how to
do everything in the world." _Mr B._--Very right; the more knowledge he
acquires the better. _T._--And therefore Harry and I are going to build
a house. _Mr B._--To build a house! Well, and have you laid in a
sufficient quantity of brick and mortar? "No, no," said Tommy, smiling;
"Harry and I can build houses without brick and mortar." _Mr B._--What
are they to be made of, then--cards? "Dear sir," answered Tommy, "do you
think we are such little children as to want card-houses? No; we are
going to build real houses, fit for people to live in. And then, you
know, if ever we should be thrown upon a desert coast, as the poor men
were, we shall be able to supply ourselves with necessaries till some
ship comes to take us away." _Mr B._--And if no ship should come, what
then? _T._--Why, then, we must stay there all our lives, I am afraid.
_Mr B._--If you wish to prepare yourselves against the event, you are
much in the right, for nobody knows what may happen to him in this
world. What is it then you want, to make your house? _T._--The first
thing we want, sir, is wood and a hatchet. _Mr B._--Wood you shall have
in plenty; but did you ever use a hatchet? _T._--No, sir. _Mr B._--Then
I am afraid to let you have one, because it is a very dangerous kind of
tool; and if you are not expert in the use of it you may wound yourself
severely. But if you will let me know what you want, I, who am more
strong and expert, will take the hatchet and cut down the wood for you.
"Thank you, sir," said Tommy; "you are very good to me, indeed." And
away Harry and he ran to the copse at the bottom of the garden.

Mr Barlow then went to work, and presently, by Harry's direction, cut
down several poles about as thick as a man's wrist, and about eight feet
long; these