[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# OAO TMK

"TMK" () () is a leading global manufacturer and supplier of steel pipes, tubular solutions and related services for the oil and gas industry, and specialty tubular products and pipeline systems for the nuclear, chemical, mechanical engineering and construction industries. Currently, the company integrates production assets in Russia, Kazakhstan, Romania and Czech Republic. and two R&D centers in Russia. 
Headquarters – Moscow (Russia).

History 
TMK was established in 2001.

In 2002 TMK incorporated Volzhsky Pipe Plant, Seversky Pipe Plant and Sinarsky Pipe Plant. A Trade House TMK representative office was opened in Baku (Azerbaijan).

In 2003 a new TMK subsidiary, TMK-Kazakhstan, was established.

In 2004 TMK incorporated Taganrog Metallurgical Works.

In 2005 TMK established and incorporated TMK Global, a representative office was opened in Beijing (China). CJSC TMK was reorganized into an Open Joint Stock Company.

TMK incorporated the Romanian mills TMK-Artrom and TMK-Resita, and the Russian Orsky Machine Building Plant. The TMK Middle East trading subsidiary was created the same year. In 2020, TMK announced delisting of its GDRs from LSE.

In 2007 TMK acquired oilfield service companies including Truboplast, TMK NGS-Nizhnevartovsk, and TMK NGS-Buzuluk, as well as the Russian Research Institute for the Tube and Pipe Industries (RosNITI), Russia's largest pipe industry research institute. TMK-CPW, a joint venture between TMK and Corinth Pipeworks, and ТМК-Premium Service were established. TMK's shares began trading on the MICEX Stock Exchange. Additionally, ТМК opened representative offices in Turkmenistan and Singapore.

2008 was marked by the acquisition of US pipe assets and the creation of the American division - TMK IPSCO. The company also established TMK Oilfield Services and acquired TMK-Kaztrubprom (Kazakhstan).

In 2009 the TMK European Division was created. It includes TMK Europe, TMK Italia, TMK-Artrom, TMK-Resita.

In 2010 TMK-INOX became a joint venture between TMK and RUSNANO, it coordinates production and sales of precision stainless pipes. TMK ADRs began trading on the OTCQX International Premier trading platform in the US.

In 2011 TMK representative office in Uzbekistan was opened.

In 2012 the new Research & Development Center in Houston (Texas, United States) was commissioned and the Trade House TMK subsidiary in Orsk (Orenburg region) was opened. TMK acquired 55% of Gulf International Pipe Industry L.L.C. (GIPI) located in Oman and established a service joint venture with EMDAD in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates.

In 2013 TMK acquired pipe services and precision manufacturing assets incorporated into OFSi company (Houston, USA).

In 2020, TMK closed sale of 100% of Ipsco Tubulars Inc. shares to Tenaris.

In 2021, TMK announced the transaction for acquisition of 86.54% of shares in PJSC "ChelPipe" from controlling shareholder Andrey Komarov.

In the summer of 2023, the Cypriot company TMK Steel Holding Ltd, which owns a 90% stake in TMK, redominated to Russia. The new International Company LLC TMK received registration on Russky Island in the Primorsky Krai.

Heads 
Dmitry Pumpyansky – chairman of the Board of Directors until March, 9th, of 2022. Administrative control of the group is currently headed by its management and CEO, Igor Korytko.

Profile 
TMK plants produce almost the entire range of existing pipes used in the oil-and-gas sector, the chemical and petrochemical industries, energy and machine-building, construction and municipal housing, shipbuilding, aviation and aerospace, and agriculture.

TMK pipes are manufactured from carbon, stainless, and heat and cold-resistant steels, nickel alloys.

TMK delivers its products along with an extensive package of services in heat treating, protective coating, premium connections threading, warehousing and pipe repairing.

TMK's global market presence is supported by its extensive international distribution network. Sales are made through TMK Trade House and a number of other distributors. TMK supplies products to more than 80 countries around the world. In addition to direct sales, the company's products are distributed by more than 70 official dealers in Russia and the CIS.

Production and operation subsidiaries

Production 

TMK Russian Division