[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Adnan Farhan Abd Al Latif

Adnan Farhan Abdul Latif (1981 – September 8, 2012), also known as Allal Ab Aljallil Abd al Rahman, was a Yemeni citizen imprisoned at the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, from January 2002 until his death in custody there, ruled a suicide.

Capture and detention
According to Marjorie Cohn, Adnan Latif was involved in a car accident in 1994, during which he suffered significant head injuries, which left him with on-going neurological problems. Latif said he traveled from Yemen to Pakistan in August 2001 to seek medical treatment, while the U.S. government alleged he went there to receive military training from affiliates of al Qaeda. He was captured in December 2001 at the Pakistan/Afghanistan border in a widespread dragnet of Arabs, and brought to Guantanamo prison in January 2002.

Judicial and quasi-judicial proceedings
Immediately after his imprisonment, Latif and Guantanamo prisoners generally were blocked from filing habeas corpus petitions because of President George W. Bush's doctrine that "war on terror" detainees were not covered by the Geneva Conventions, and so could be held indefinitely without charge and without an open and transparent review of the justifications for their detention. In June 2004, however, the United States Supreme Court ruled, in Rasul v. Bush, that Guantanamo captives had basic habeas corpus rights, to be informed of and allowed to attempt to refute the allegations justifying their detention.

Latif attorneys Marc D. Falkoff and David Remes filed a habeas corpus petition on his behalf in 2004.

Following the Supreme Court Rasul ruling, in July 2004 the Department of Defense set up its Combatant Status Review Tribunals (CSRT). Scholars at the Brookings Institution, led by Benjamin Wittes, would later, in 2008, list detainees still held in Guantanamo, and the CSRT allegations against them. The allegations were as follows regarding Adnan Latif: the military alleged he was an al Qaeda fighter and operative, that he went to Afghanistan for jihad, that he "... took military or terrorist training in Afghanistan," and that he "... fought for the Taliban." Further allegations were that his name or alias had been found "on material seized in raids on Al Qaeda safehouses and facilities," and that he served on the security detail of Osama bin Laden. Annual CSRT status review hearings were held in 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007, and there is evidence Latif attended his 2004, 2005, and 2007 hearings.

Late in 2005, Guantanamo detainee habeas corpus rights were again restricted and largely replaced with a much more limited review known as "DTA appeal," after the United States Congress passage of the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005 and the Military Commissions Act of 2006. However, in June 2008, the United States Supreme Court overturned provisions of those laws and restored detainee access to habeas corpus.

Responding to Latif's habeas corpus petition in July 2010, District Court judge Henry Kennedy ordered Latif's release from detention. His ruling stated that the government had failed to show by a preponderance of evidence that he was part of al Qaeda or an affiliated force. Latif attorney Remes said, "This is a mentally disturbed man who has said from the beginning that he went to Afghanistan seeking medical care because he was too poor to pay for it. Finally, a court has recognized that he's been telling the truth, and ordered his release."

The decision was, however, appealed and a three-judge DC Circuit Court of Appeals panel over-turned the ruling in an October 14, 2011, split decision which granted government allegations stronger credibility. The Supreme Court decided not to review the appeals court decision.

Life at Guantanamo
Latif and other prisoners described Guantanamo conditions to Latif attorney Falkoff when he and other U.S. attorneys were first allowed to visit them in November 2004: "During the three years in which they had been held in total isolation, they had been subjected repeatedly to stress positions, sleep deprivation, blaring music, and extremes of heat and cold during endless interrogations." Latif also described to Lakoff a visit to his cell by an 'Immediate Reaction Force" team:

Latif became a frequent hunger striker, and described being force fed as "like having a dagger shoved down your throat." The Miami Herald writes that at times Latif "would smear his excrement on himself, throw blood at his lawyers, and on at least one occasion was brought to meet his lawyer clad only in a padded green garment called an 'anti-suicide smock' held together by Velcro."