[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tobias Lear

Tobias Lear (September 19, 1762 – October 11, 1816) was the personal secretary to President George Washington. Lear served Washington from 1784 until the former-President's death in 1799. Lear's journal details Washington's final moments and his last words: 'Tis well.

Tobias Lear also served third president Thomas Jefferson, as envoy to Saint-Domingue (modern-day Haiti), and as peace envoy in the Mediterranean Sea and North Africa during the First Barbary War (1801–1805) and the Second Barbary War (1815). He was responsible for negotiating a peace treaty with the Bey of Tripoli that ended the first Barbary War.

Early life

Lear was born on Hunking Street in the seaport town of Portsmouth, New Hampshire, on September 19, 1762, a fifth-generation American and the fifth generation of his family named Tobias. His parents were Tobias Lear (born August 1, 1737) (cousin of John Langdon) and Mary Stillson Lear (born May 25, 1739). His parents were married on December 29, 1757. The family home on Hunking Street, which still stands today, had been built in 1742 by the Stillson family. Lear had an older sister named Mary (Polly).

Before going to college, Lear attended Dummer Charity School (now known as The Governor's Academy) where Samuel Moody helped prepare Lear for college. Instead of joining the Continental Army, as many of his contemporaries did, Lear attended Harvard College, beginning in 1779, during the American Revolutionary War. He graduated with thirty classmates in 1783.

Career
He began his career by being an apprentice until a family friend, Benjamin Lincoln, recommended him for the job of tutoring Martha Washington's grandchildren and to the post of George Washington's personal secretary, both to which he was hired in 1786. He was integrated into Washington's house and his post quickly evolved beyond clerk to being Washington's right-hand man, doing whatever Washington needed, such as tutoring, filling out expense reports, and writing letters. He performed all his duties well.

Lear moved with Washington to New York City in 1789, when Washington became president, and they often dined alone together during his presidency. Lear was responsible for filling out Washington's expense reports as president, which Washington had wisely chosen instead of a $25,000 salary, as they turned out to be much more.

In 1793, at the start of Washington's second term, Lear decided to leave Washington and start out on his own (albeit with help from Washington). He started a company, T. Lear & Company, which focused on two things: working with Washington's Potomac Company to promote river traffic to the soon-to-be nation's capitol and participating in land speculation there. Lear traveled to Europe to sell parcels of land in Washington, DC, but was unsuccessful. His engineering work related to the Potomac Company also failed to enable navigation around two waterfalls on the Potomac River. He lost money in this failed venture despite his wealthy partners.

Family life
Lear married Mary (Polly) Long, his childhood sweetheart, in 1790.  Together they had a son, Benjamin Lincoln Lear (b. 1791), but Polly died in the President's House in Philadelphia during the 1793 yellow fever epidemic that claimed around 5,000 people.  In 1795, he married Frances Bassett Washington, the recent widow of the President's nephew, George Augustine Washington, but Fanny died in 1796 of tuberculosis. Tobias married again, this time to the young Frances Dandridge Henley. His new wife was also nicknamed Fanny and was the niece of Martha Washington.

Controversy
In the late 1790s, Lear's finances became more distraught.  During this period, he continued to run unpaid errands for Washington.  On one of these errands, Lear collected rent from one of Washington's tenants, but pocketed the funds.  Washington found out when he questioned his tenant as to why they had not paid.  Washington was furious for at least two days but Lear apologized and was quickly forgiven.

The next year, Lear was given the rank of colonel as chief aide to Washington, who had been reappointed by Congress to command the troops during a period when a French attack was feared.  He preferred to be addressed as Colonel Lear for the rest of his life despite the fact that the French never attacked by land and he never faced active duty.

Lear collected funds for the sale of a business partner's real estate and kept the funds.  He feigned illness for several months before meeting the man and apologizing, confessing and agreeing to reimburse him.

Washington's death
In 1799, Washington unexpectedly died while Lear was visiting him at Mount Vernon, leading to Lear's famous diary entry:

Lear oversaw the funeral arrangements, even to the detail of measuring the corpse at 6 feet 3.5 inches long and 1 foot 9 inches from shoulder to shoulder.  Lear inherited a lifetime interest in Walnut Tree Farm.