[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006 in Iran

e militia group Hezbollah is formally charged over the 1994 bombing of a Jewish centre in Buenos Aires.
 October 27 – Iran installs second network of centrifuges for uranium enrichment.
 October 28 – Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad fires the minister for cooperatives, Mohammad Nazemi Ardekani.

November
 November 1 – North Korea defeats Iran in AFC Youth Championship 5 to 0.
 November 4 – Iran begins the second stage of its war-games in north Persian Gulf.
 November 6 – Fereydoun Hoveyda, a former Iranian ambassador to the United Nations dies of cancer at the age of 82.
 November 6 – Iran hangs six 'tourist kidnappers' in public; six members of a Sunni "terrorist" group convicted of abducting European tourists and armed robbery were hanged in the southeastern city of Zahedan.
 November 7 – Iran is crowned at the first Asian men's jujitsu tournament in Almaty, Kazakhstan Monday night. The championship came as the Iranian team snatched two golds, two silvers, and one bronze.
 November 9 – Iran concludes war-games in north Persian Gulf, the last stage of which "the Great Prophet" was held in the north of the Persian Gulf in Khuzestan province.
 November 11 – A senior Israeli official suggest that Israel might launch a pre-emptive strike against Iran to prevent it from acquiring nuclear weapons, demanding tougher international action to stop Iran.
 November 12 – Iran lifts Croatia Taekwondo title, The seven-strong Iranian team stood top among 30 participating countries with four golds and three silvers.
 November 12 – Iranian figures of stage is honored veteran actress Mehri Mehrnia at Tehran Theater Complex Saturday night, accidentally marking her 90th birthday anniversary.
 November 14 – Iran's president Mr. Ahmadinejad says he is ready to talk to the United States if there was a change of attitude in Washington, which faces pressure to deal directly with Tehran to help ease violence in Iraq.
 November 14 – The arrest warrants for former Iranian president Ali Akbar Rafsanjani and six other former top Iranian officials were issued only after the United States had applied diplomatic pressure
 November 15 – Iran's Pars Gas and Oil Company reaches final agreements with Total on the expansion of South Pars oil field's phase 11, which will have the capacity to produce daily 50 million cubic meters of sour gas so to produce 10 million cubic meters of LNG and 70 million cubic meters of other various liquid gases.
 November 15 – President Ahmadinejad declares that Iran will celebrate nuclear victory soon.
 November 15 – Iran crushes South Korea 2-0 in Tehran in AFC Asian Cup 2007 qualifiers.
 November 24 – The Father of Iranian Modern Journalism, Dr Mostafa Mesbahzadeh dies at the age of 97.

December

Undated
Tehran Has No More Pomegranates!, musical-comedy film is released.

Major religious holidays
 March 21 – Iranian New Year's Day (Norouz)

Births

Notable deaths 

 May 4 – Hossein Kasbian, 73, Iranian film actor.
 May 14 – Reza Hassanzadeh, 33, Iranian professional soccer player with Teraktor Sazi F.C., injuries from car accident.
 July 30 – Akbar Mohammadi, 34, Iranian student dissident, heart attack following a hunger strike and torture.
 November 3 – Fereydoun Hoveyda, 82, Syrian-born Iranian ambassador to the United Nations (1971–1979), cancer.
 November 24 – Dr Mostafa Mesbahzadeh, considered as the Father of Iranian Modern Journalism
 November 26 – Babak Bayat, Iranian composer
 December 28 – Jamal Karimi-Rad, 50, Iranian Minister of Justice, car accident.

References

 
2000s in Iran
Years of the 21st century in Iran
Iran
Iran