[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Pinch (plasma physics)

ean particle mass 3×10−27 kg. The thermokinetic energy Wk >> πa2 pk(a). The curves, ΔWBz show different amounts of excess magnetic energy per unit length due to the axial magnetic field Bz. The plasma is assumed to be non-rotational, and the kinetic pressure at the edges is much smaller than inside.

Chart regions: (a) In the top-left region, the pinching force dominates. (b) Towards the bottom, outward kinetic pressures balance inwards magnetic pressure, and the total pressure is constant. (c) To the right of the vertical line ΔWBz = 0, the magnetic pressures balances the gravitational pressure, and the pinching force is negligible. (d) To the left of the sloping curve ΔWBz = 0, the gravitational force is negligible. Note that the chart shows a special case of the Carlqvist relation, and if it is replaced by the more general Bennett relation, then the designated regions of the chart are not valid.

Carlqvist further notes that by using the relations above, and a derivative, it is possible to describe the Bennett pinch, the Jeans criterion (for gravitational instability, in one and two dimensions), force-free magnetic fields, gravitationally balanced magnetic pressures, and continuous transitions between these states.

References in culture
A fictionalized pinch-generating device was used in Ocean's Eleven, where it was used to disrupt Las Vegas's power grid just long enough for the characters to begin their heist.

See also
Electromagnetic forming
Explosively pumped flux compression generator
Fusion power
List of plasma physics articles
Madison Symmetric Torus (reversed field pinch)

References

External links
Examples of electromagnetically shrunken coins and crushed cans
Theory of electromagnetic coin shrinking
The Known History of "Quarter Shrinking"
Can crushing info using electromagnetism among other things
The MAGPIE project at Imperial College London is used to study wire array Z-pinch implosions.

Fusion power
Plasma physics
Dutch inventions