[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Glynn Academy

more than fifty years. In 1915, it was disassembled and reassembled in Sterling, an unincorporated community in northern Glynn County. There, it served as a consolidated school for African-American students. After desegregation, it became a county-maintained community center for Sterling residents.

In 2008, the Old Glynn Academy Building was relocated to Hillsborough Square. It now serves as an interpretive museum.  On November 4, 2011, the 1840 building was added to the National Register of Historic Places.

Wolfe Street Building 
Constructed in 2016, the Wolfe Street Building houses the Foreign Language Department and the Technology and Career Departments. The original Wolfe Street Building was built in the 1940s and stood where the new cafeteria (built in 2016) now stands. John Tuten was also the architect for this building.

Wood Gym 

The Wood Gym is the original gymnasium of Glynn Academy, named after a Brunswick resident who donated money to the school for physical education. The Wood Gym is now rarely in regular use by the student body, having been supplanted by a modern gymnasium across campus. The interior of the gymnasium has functioned as home to the varsity wrestling team during the winter months since their inaugural season in 1996. When necessary the gym interior area also functions for administering standardized testing, and occasionally, a physical education class takes place here. A full weight room has been installed for weight training classes.

Annex Building 

The Annex Building was built in 1889. On August 19, 2005, the Annex Building was severely damaged as the result of a lightning strike but has since been remodeled. It is a contributing property to the Brunswick Old Town Historic District.

Prep Building 

In the late-19th century, as the student population of Glynn Academy increased, the need arose for an additional facility to accommodate an expanding student body. Thus, the Prep Junior High School was constructed, serving as a bridge between elementary school and high school and serving sixth, seventh, and eighth grades. The school was later annexed to Glynn Academy.

Renovation of Prep Building was completed in early 2018.

The Prep Building is the most recognizable building on the campus due to its massive stairs and columns, and the now closed off tunnel that connects it to the Glynn Academy building. This building holds most of the foreign languages classes as well as the visual arts and music classes.  It is a contributing property to the Brunswick Old Town Historic District.

Glynn Academy Building 

The Glynn Academy Building is the main administrative building on campus. At the end of World War I, a new school building was erected as a memorial to the men of Glynn County who had fought in war. Funds for it were raised through a bond election and the Glynn Academy Building was completed in September 1923. Renovations took place in 1999. In an effort to memorialize the structure, the architect of the building, Hendrik Wallin, drew inspiration from the Louvain Library in Belgium whose destruction by the Germans infuriated the Allied Forces.

The Glynn Academy Building houses the Memorial Auditorium.  It is a contributing property to the Brunswick Old Town Historic District.

Sidney Lanier Building 

The Sidney Lanier Building, a former primary school, was incorporated into Glynn Academy in the early 1970s. It was built in 1936 and named for the poet Sidney Lanier, who wrote a set of lyrical nature poems known as the "Hymns of the Marshes" describing the vast open salt marshes off the coast of Georgia. There is a historical marker in Brunswick commemorating the writing of “The Marshes of Glynn.” The Sidney Lanier Building houses primarily social studies classes. The Sidney Lanier Building had renovations during the 2018–2019 school year and is finished.

Science Building 

The Science Building was completed in 1963 and houses the literature and science classes. The school's library is also located in the Science Building. The Science Building is now the oldest (meaning least renovated) building on campus and is building #1. Renovations finished in the summer of 2020.

New Gym 

The "new" Gym was completed in 1983 to accommodate a growing student population. The Gym was designed by architect John Tuten, Glynn Academy Class of 1961. The Gym is affectionately known as "The Glass Palace." In November 2022, the Gym addition was completed which consists of a basketball court for classes, weight rooms, and office space for coaches. On December 3, 2022, the Gym basketball court was dedicated to Coach Theresa Adams.

Glynn Academy New Cafe 
The Glynn Academy Cafeteria serves as many as 2000 students and faculty daily. Construction of the new cafeteria building was completed by the end of the 2015–2016 school year. John Tuten was also the architect for this building.

Liberty Bell