[Source: PubMed]

1. JAMA. 2023 May 16;329(19):1650-1661. doi: 10.1001/jama.2023.5942.

Global Variations in Heart Failure Etiology, Management, and Outcomes.

G-CHF Investigators; Joseph P(1), Roy A(2), Lonn E(1), Störk S(3), Floras J(4), 
Mielniczuk L(5), Rouleau JL(6), Zhu J(7), Dzudie A(8)(9)(10)(11), 
Balasubramanian K(1), Karaye K(12), AlHabib KF(13), Gómez-Mesa JE(14), Branch 
KR(15), Makubi A(16), Budaj A(17), Avezum A(18), Wittlinger T(19), Ertl G(3), 
Mondo C(20), Pogosova N(21), Maggioni AP(22), Orlandini A(23), Parkhomenko 
A(24), ElSayed A(25), López-Jaramillo P(26), Grinvalds A(1), Temizhan A(27), 
Hage C(28)(29), Lund LH(28)(29), Kazmi K(30), Lanas F(31), Sharma SK(32), Fox 
K(33), McMurray JJV(34), Leong D(1), Dokainish H(1), Khetan A(1), Yonga G(35), 
Kragholm K(36), Wagdy Shaker K(37), Mwita JC(38), Al-Mulla AA(39), Alla F(40), 
Damasceno A(41), Silva-Cardoso J(42)(43), Dans AL(44), Sliwa K(9), O'Donnell 
M(45), Bazargani N(46), Bayés-Genís A(47), McCready T(1), Probstfield J(15), 
Yusuf S(1).

Collaborators: Rasmussen M, Prado A, Hominal MA, Zaidman CJ, Cursack G, 
MacKinnon I, Zapata G, Rojas DG, Duran RG, Vilamajo OG, Dutra OP, Oliveira L, 
Pavanello R, Minelli C, Sousa A, Maia LN, Hernandes ME, Oliveira M, De Souza 
WKSB, Nobre F, Clausell N, Abib E Jr, Bazan SZ, Reis G, Clovis N, Tantchou C, 
Abah JP, Kouam CK, Tamdja AD, Manon GE, Abang SM, Feuzeu SAN, Ban'Haka HM, 
Nganou-Gnindjio CN, Colette S, Nyanga A, Fomekong TG, Ndjebet J, Ngongang FAD, 
Anderson K, Lepage S, Tournoux F, Racine N, Smith S, McKelvie R, Moe G, Zieroth 
S, Toma M, Sia YT, Heckman G, Ross H, Ezekowitz J, Senechal M, Swiggum E, Vega 
M, Jano G, Bobadilla B, Tan H, Gou JW, Jin W, Jiang H, Ai F, Zhou W, Luo HY, Wei 
F, Jia Z, Peng J, Wang X, Bai X, Xu J, Liang XW, Chen X, Wang T, Zheng T, Qin S, 
Liang T, Tan G, Gao X, Chen Y, Wu J, Garcia A, Murillo N, Ceron JA, De Salazar 
DIM, Sandoval J, Buitrago A, Eljach JEV, Mendoza JLA, Moreno GS, Lozada HG, 
Carreno EMM, Quiroz F, Cadena Bonfanti A, Buelvas J, Dada FAT, Sogaard P, 
Pedersen M, Gislason G, Nielsen G, Wiggers H, Jaramillo MS, Anzules N, Duarte 
YC, Long FPC, Zuelta I, Velez MS, Lopez J, Trujillo F, Carrasco S, Gulec S, 
Cavusoglu Y, Acar DR, Yilmaz MB, Celik A, Gosse P, Kenizou D, Delarche N, 
Boulestreav R, Goussot S, Hamou KH, Jourda F, Guillot JP, Tartiere JM, Schellong 
S, Mahrholdt H, Jungmair W, Kadel C, Wolf A, Bruder O, Bott MC, Nagele H, 
Hertting K, Ito W, Hintze R, Stahl F, Maier S, Weiss C, Stoerk T, Drexler M, 
Hagenow A, Asotra S, Chaudley G, Gupta R, Mohan B, Jathappa N, Varghese K, 
Abdullakutty J, Negi P, Karna S, Chandra S, Russo G, Cosmi F, D'Orazio S, 
Gulizia M, Moccetti T, Scopigni F, Marcassa C, Frisinghelli A, Villani GQ, 
Venturi F, Piccinni G, Piepoli M, Nalwa W, Mbugua E, Barasa F, Castro-Montes E, 
Lopez JAC, Bhatta Y, Sharma D, Ansa V, Ogah O, Saidu H, Kayani AM, Evangelista 
LK, Tirador L, Cruz J, Morales D, Sulit D, Bednarski J, Czerski T, Skorski M, 
Cymerman K, Korol M, Miklaszewicz B, Piepiorka M, Wujkowski M, Mirek-Bryniarska 
E, Owsiak M, Gniot J, Stasiwski A, Solkiewicz M, Sudnik W, Chmielinski A, 
Andrade A, Moreira I, Isakova S, Ivan S, Kovalkova N, Panov D, Salbieva A, 
Sergey Z, Yufereva Y, Yusubova A, Poponina T, Gafarov V, Osipova I, Pozdnyakov 
Y, Sizova Z, Habeeb W, Kassim Y, Monem S, Zeyad M, Alasmari S, Alghalayini K, 
Kinsara A, Ullah Jan U, Lawand S, Mphahlele MJ, Moeketsi K, Ntsekhe M, Ratsela 
A, Thomas BM, Caballero EB, De La Espriella R, Garrido Bravo I, Minan G, 
Paniagua Martin MJ, Perez F, Roses JL, Santiago E, Goloskokova V, Thulin J, 
Thorvaldsen T, Lindholm CJ, Floderer NZ, Lönnberg I, Kanenda S, Duma N, Meda JR, 
Chillo P, Vogt R, Kalokola F, Kataraihya J, Mwakalukwa B, Kisenge P, Cetin HEO, 
Lugero C, Voronkov L, Fedorov S, Andriyevska S, Vereschuk L, Zalizna Y, Jhund P, 
Barton J, Moriarty A, Donnelly P, Murphy A, Edwards T, Arden C, Fuat A, Witherow 
F, Mcadam B, Arimie R, Adler F, Maurice K, Meier MA, Mehta R, Kitchen T, 
Malhotra V, Whellan D, Piña I, Murthy S, Kostis J, Gulati M, Gopalan R, Gaggin 
H, Airhart S, Juneman E, Sweitzer N, Thew S.

Author information:
(1)Population Health Research Institute, McMaster University and Hamilton Health 
Sciences, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Cardiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
Delhi, India.
(3)Department Clinical Research and Epidemiology, Comprehensive Heart Failure 
Center, Department Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Würzburg, Germany.
(4)Mount Sinai Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(5)University of Ottawa, University of Ottawa Heart Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada.
(6)Montreal Heart Institute, Université de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(7)FuWai Hospital, Beijing, China.
(8)Department of Global Health and Population, Lown Scholars Program, Harvard T. 
H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.
(9)Cape Heart Institute, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
(10)Faculty of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, University of Yaounde, Yaounde, 
Cameroon.
(11)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape Town, 
Cape Town, South Africa.
(12)Bayero University and Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, Department of Medicine, 
Kano, Nigeria.
(13)Department of Cardiac Sciences, King Fahad Cardiac Center, College of 
Medicine, King Saud University Medical City, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi 
Arabia.
(14)Fundación Valle Del Lili, Department of Cardiology and Universidad Icesi, 
Cali, Colombia.
(15)University of Washington, Cardiology, Seattle.
(16)Community Development, Gender, Elderly, and Children, Ministry of Health, 
Dodoma, Tanzania.
(17)Centre of Postgraduate Medical Education, Department of Cardiology, 
Grochowski Hospital, Warsaw, Poland.
(18)International Research Center, Hospital Alemão Oswaldo Cruz, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(19)Department of Cardiology, Asklepios Hospital Goslar, Goslar, Germany.
(20)Kiruddu National Referral Hospital, Kampala, Uganda.
(21)Medical Research Center of Cardiology named after E.I. Chazov, Moscow, 
Russia.
(22)ANMCO Research Center, Heart Care Foundation, Florence, Italy.
(23)Estudios Clínicos Latino America Collaborative Group, Rosario, Argentina.
(24)Emergency Cardiology Department, National Scientific Centre, Strazhesko 
Institute of Cardiology, Kiev, Ukraine.
(25)Alzaeim Alazhari University, Khartoum, Sudan.
(26)Universidad de Santander (UDES), Bucaramanga, Santander, Colombia.
(27)Clinic of Cardiology, University of Health Science, Ankara City Hospital, 
Ankara, Türkiye.
(28)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Medicine, Cardiology Unit, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(29)Karolinska University Hospital, Heart and Vascular Theme, Heart Failure 
Section, Stockholm, Sweden.
(30)Department of Cardiology, Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan.
(31)Universidad de La Frontera, Temuco, Chile.
(32)B P Koirala Institute of Health Sciences, Dharan, Nepal.
(33)Centre for Cardiovascular Science, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
United Kingdom.
(34)British Heart Foundation Cardiovascular Research Centre, University of 
Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom.
(35)University of Nairobi, Department of Clinical Medicine and Therapeutics, 
Nairobi, Nairobi City County, Kenya.
(36)Department of Cardiology, Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.
(37)Aswan Heart Center, Magdi Yacoub Foundation, Department of Cardiology, 
Aswan, Egypt.
(38)University of Botswana, Internal Medicine, Gaborone, Botswana.
(39)Division of Cardiology, Sheikh Khalifa Medical City, Abu Dhabi, United Arab 
Emirates.
(40)Bordeaux Population Health Research Center, Université de Bordeaux, 
Bordeaux, France.
(41)Eduardo Mondlane University, Faculty of Medicine, Maputo, Mozambique.
(42)Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(43)São João University Hospital Centre, Porto, Portugal.
(44)University of the Philippines, Medicine, Quezon City, National Capital 
Region, Philippines.
(45)College of Medicine, Nursing, and Health Sciences, University of Galway, 
Galway, Ireland.
(46)Dubai Hospital, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
(47)Hospital Universitari Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona, Barcelona, CIBERCV, 
Spain.

Erratum in
    JAMA. 2023 Sep 5;330(9):880. doi: 10.1001/jama.2023.12973.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2023 Aug 22;44(32):3038-3039. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehad410.
    JAMA. 2023 Sep 26;330(12):1191-1192. doi: 10.1001/jama.2023.13773.

IMPORTANCE: Most epidemiological studies of heart failure (HF) have been 
conducted in high-income countries with limited comparable data from middle- or 
low-income countries.
OBJECTIVE: To examine differences in HF etiology, treatment, and outcomes 
between groups of countries at different levels of economic development.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Multinational HF registry of 23 341 
participants in 40 high-income, upper-middle-income, lower-middle-income, and 
low-income countries, followed up for a median period of 2.0 years.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: HF cause, HF medication use, hospitalization, and 
death.
RESULTS: Mean (SD) age of participants was 63.1 (14.9) years, and 9119 (39.1%) 
were female. The most common cause of HF was ischemic heart disease (38.1%) 
followed by hypertension (20.2%). The proportion of participants with HF with 
reduced ejection fraction taking the combination of a β-blocker, 
renin-angiotensin system inhibitor, and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist 
was highest in upper-middle-income (61.9%) and high-income countries (51.1%), 
and it was lowest in low-income (45.7%) and lower-middle-income countries 
(39.5%) (P < .001). The age- and sex- standardized mortality rate per 100 
person-years was lowest in high-income countries (7.8 [95% CI, 7.5-8.2]), 9.3 
(95% CI, 8.8-9.9) in upper-middle-income countries, 15.7 (95% CI, 15.0-16.4) in 
lower-middle-income countries, and it was highest in low-income countries (19.1 
[95% CI, 17.6-20.7]). Hospitalization rates were more frequent than death rates 
in high-income countries (ratio = 3.8) and in upper-middle-income countries 
(ratio = 2.4), similar in lower-middle-income countries (ratio = 1.1), and less 
frequent in low-income countries (ratio = 0.6). The 30-day case-fatality rate 
after first hospital admission was lowest in high-income countries (6.7%), 
followed by upper-middle-income countries (9.7%), then lower-middle-income 
countries (21.1%), and highest in low-income countries (31.6%). The proportional 
risk of death within 30 days of a first hospital admission was 3- to 5-fold 
higher in lower-middle-income countries and low-income countries compared with 
high-income countries after adjusting for patient characteristics and use of 
long-term HF therapies.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This study of HF patients from 40 different countries 
and derived from 4 different economic levels demonstrated differences in HF 
etiologies, management, and outcomes. These data may be useful in planning 
approaches to improve HF prevention and treatment globally.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2023.5942
PMCID: PMC10189564
PMID: 37191704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Joseph 
reported grants from Bayer AG during the conduct of the study. Dr Lonn reports 
grants or contracts from Novartis, Bayer, Amgen, Boehringer Ingelheim, the 
Population Health Research Institute (PHRI), and the Canadian Institute of 
Health Research; personal fees (consulting) from Alnylam, Amgen, Bayer, HLS 
Therapeutics, NovoNordisk, Sanofi, Servier, and Takeda; personal fees 
(presentation honoraria) from Amgen, Bayer, HLS Therapeutics, and Servier; and 
serving on the data safety monitoring board or advisory board for Novartis, 
Resvirologix, and LIB Therapeutics. Dr Störk reported grants from the Federal 
Ministry of Education and Research during the conduct of the study; personal 
fees (advisory board) from Boehringer Ingelheinm, Bayer, Novartis, Pfizer, and 
Pharmacosoms; other (case payment in trials) from Boehringer Ingelheinm, Bayer, 
Novartis, and Pfizer outside the submitted work. Dr Mielniczuk reported other 
(speaker consulting fees) from Astra Zeneca and Merck, and speaker fees from 
Janssen and Servier outside the submitted work. Dr Rouleau reported personal 
fees (data monitoring committee membership) from Novartis, AstraZeneca, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, and Bayer outside the submitted work. Dr Zhu reported grants from 
PHRI during the conduct of the study; personal fees (speaker honoraria) from 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Bayer, Sanofi, and Novartis outside the submitted work. Dr 
Branch reported research grants from Bayer, Sanofi, Eli Lilly, Kestra, and Medic 
One Foundation; and consulting fees from Bayer, Janssen, Amgen, Sana, Kestra, 
and Hanmi. Dr Budaj reported personal fees (investigator fees, honoraria for 
lectures, advisory board, travel, and accommodations) from Bayer, AstraZeneca, 
and Pfizer; personal fees (investigator fees, honoraria for lectures, advisory 
board) from Novartis, and personal fees (investigator fees) from Amgen and 
NovoNordisk outside the submitted work. Dr Ertl reported grants or contracts and 
consulting fees from Novartis; and advisory board membership with the General 
Secretary of the German Society of Internal Medicine. Dr Mondo reports travel 
funding from Bayer AG. Dr Pogosova reports grants or contracts from Bristol 
Myers Squibb (AXIOMATIC-SSP); presentation honoraria from Bayer; and serving as 
a board member of the Russian National Society of Preventive Cardiology. Dr 
Maggioni reported personal fees (participation in study committees) from 
AstraZeneca, Bayer, and Novartis outside the submitted work. Dr Orlandini 
reported grants from PHRI during the conduct of the study. Dr Parkhomenko 
reported grants from PHRI; and personal fees (lectures and consulting) from 
Astra Zeneka and Boehringer Ingelheim outside the submitted work. Mr Grinvalds 
reported grants from Bayer AG awarded to Hamilton Health Sciences during the 
conduct of the study. Dr Hage reported personal fees (consulting) from AnaCardio 
AB and Roche Diagnostics; and serving on the data safety monitoring board, 
advisory board, or committee board for Roche Diagnostics, AnaCardio AB, and the 
Swedish National HF registry outside the submitted work. Dr Lund reports grants 
or contracts from AstraZeneca, Vifor Pharma, Novartis, Boston Scientific, and 
Boerhinger Ingelheim; personal fees (consulting) from Merck, Vifor Pharma, 
AstraZeneca, Bayer, Pharmacosmos, MedScape, Sanofi, Lexicon, Myokardia, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, and Servier; personal fees (presentation honoraria) from 
Abbott, MedScape, Radcliffe, AstraZeneca, Novartis, Bayer, TMA Academy, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, and Orion Pharma; serving as an advisory board member of 
the European Society of Cardiology Heart Failure Association, the European 
Society of Cardiology, the Swedish Society of Cardiology, and the Heart Failure 
Working Group; and holding stock in AnaCardio. Dr Fox reported grants from 
AstraZeneca and personal fees from Bayer outside the submitted work. Dr McMurray 
reported other (to his institution: investigator fees, executive committee 
membership, and advisory board membership for various trials) from AstraZeneca; 
fees for travel and accommodations from AstraZeneca associated with these 
meetings; other (fees to his institution for steering committee membership) from 
Bayer, Amgen, Servier, Theracos, Dalcor, Glaxo Smith Kline, and Bristol Myers 
Squibb; other (fees to his institution for advisory board participation) from 
Alnylam and Cardurion; other (fees to his institution for executive committee 
membership) from Novartis; other (fees to his institution for consultancy 
services) from Ionis Pharmaceuticals and Boehringer Ingelheim; and personal fees 
(for lectures) from Abbott, Alkem Metabolics, Eris Lifesciences, Hikma, Lupin, 
Sun Pharmaceuticals, Medscape/Heart.Org, ProAdWise Communications, Radcliffe 
Cardiology, Servier, and the Corpus outside the submitted work. Dr Al Mulla 
reported nonfinancial support from PHRI and grants from Bayer during the conduct 
of the study. Dr Bayés-Genís reported personal fees (lectures and advisory 
board) from Abbott Lecture, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, and Roche 
Diagnostics; personal fees Vifor (lecture fees); and grants from Boehringer 
Ingelheim outside the submitted work. Dr McCready reported grants from Bayer AG 
to Hamilton Health Sciences during the conduct of the study. Dr Yusef reported 
personal fees (honoraria and travel expenses) from Bayer, Astra Zeneca and 
Boehringer Ingelheim. No other disclosures were reported.