[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Frederick Hutton (scientist)

Captain Frederick Wollaston Hutton  (16 November 1836 – 27 October 1905) was an English-born New Zealand scientist who applied the theory of natural selection to explain the origins and nature of the natural history of New Zealand. Whilst an army officer, he embarked on an academic career in geology and biology, to become one of the most able and prolific nineteenth century naturalists of New Zealand.

Early life
Frederick Hutton's biographical accounts assert that he was born at Gate Burton, Lincolnshire, on 16 November 1836, and by parish records was baptised there on 27 January 1837; the second son of the Rev. Henry Frederick Hutton and his wife Louisa Wollaston, daughter of the Rev. Henry John Wollaston. Paternal grandfather, William Hutton, was the owner of the Gate Burton estate. His signed military statement of services, however, records that he was born at Bracknell, Berkshire, England, on 16 November 1836.

He received his early education through Southwell Grammar School, Notinghamshire, and, with a view to entering the Royal Navy, the Royal Naval Academy at Gosport, Hampshire. After brief service as a midshipman in Green's Merchant Service, with three voyages to India in the Alfred, he went on to civil engineer studies at the applied science department of King's College London in 1854–55.

Career

Military
At the age of 18.5 years, Hutton purchased a commission as ensign in the 23rd (Royal Welsh Fusiliers) Regiment of Foot on 18 May 1855. Stationed at Malta, November 1855–8 March 1856, he moved on to take part in the Crimean War, 9 March–21 July 1856, and Indian Mutiny, 28 September 1857–22 May 1858. Following Crimea, and having advanced to rank of lieutenant by purchase on 27 March 1857, the regiment embarked for the war in China but as with other forces, was diverted at Singapore to Calcutta for the mutiny in India. Joining the army at Lucknow on 14 November, Hutton was present at the second relief of Lucknow, the defeat of the Gwalior Contingent in the second battle of Cawnpore and the retaking of Lucknow in March 1858, under the command of General Sir Colin Campbell. He was issued the Indian Mutiny Medal with two clasps—Relief of Lucknow, Lucknow.

Transferred to 2nd Battalion of his regiment on 22 May 1858, he returned home in June 1858 to help raise it. After passing, through the School of Musketry, Hythe, Kent, he was appointed Instructor of Musketry to his battalion on 2 November 1858, and accompanied his regiment to Malta.

Back in England in 1860, and having devoted some study to geology, Hutton was elected a Fellow of the Geological Society of London (FGS). Over the next few years he completed military training at Staff College, Sandhurst, and Woolwich. He'd also taken a six month chemistry course in inorganic analysis with Professor George Downing Liveing, Cambridge, then teaching at Sandhurst.

In 1862, he was attached first to the Royal Horse Artillery and thereafter to the 9th Lancers. Following elevation to rank of captain by purchase on 2 December 1862, he married Annie Gouger Montgomerie, at Holy Trinity, Paddington, London, on 4 February 1863. He re-joined his regiment at Malta but was appointed to the staff of Ireland from 11 September 1863, as Brigade Major, 2nd Infantry Brigade, at the Curragh. That year he published the paper, The Importance of a Knowledge of Geology to Military Men, in the Journal of the Royal United Service Institution. After some nine months at the Curragh, Hutton moved to head quarters in Dublin as Deputy Assistant Quarter Master General from 1 July 1864, then, in November 1865, resigned and sold out of the army.

During those years he had "geologised, more or less, in the British Isles, parts of Germany, France, Italy, Sicily, Crimea, Gibraltar, and Switzerland in Europe; Madeira, St. Vincent (one of the C de Verde Isls) and Cape Colony in Africa; and in some parts of the Province of Bengal as far north as Lucknow and Futteghur". His latest work on Malta, "Sketch of the Physical Geology of the Maltese Islands", was published by The Geological Magazine in April 1866, following his service.

Science
The Huttons—Frederick, Annie, their children Alice and Gilbert, and two servants—left Gravesend, on the clipper Queen of the North, on 17 January 1866, bound for new opportunities in New Zealand. After a tedious voyage, passing Tristan da Cunha, Cape of Good Hope, Île Saint-Paul, South Cape of Tasmania, Three Kings and North Cape of New Zealand, the clipper came to anchor off Queen Street wharf, Auckland, on Monday, 11 June.