[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Monarchy in Quebec

usly allowed Catholicism within the laws of Great Britain and the Test Acts, which blocked Cathloics from governmental, judicial, and bureaucratic appointments, were relaxed in Quebec. Still, George faced the challenge of  persuading his French Catholic subjects to follow an English Protestant king.

As such, George issued the Royal Proclamation of 1763, which established an appointed colonial government and served as the basis for the constitution of the Province of Quebec until 1774. The King then, with the support of, and influenced by, his governor in the Province of Quebec, Guy Carlton (who had spent years convincing British officials to abandon their assimilationist policies), pushed for the passage of the Quebec Act in 1774, which was considered progressive for its time. Roman Catholics were granted religious and political freedoms that their compatriots in the United Kingdom would not have for another 50 years. French language rights were recognized and French civil law continued to apply in local disputes; British law was used only in criminal cases. This established the tradition of Canadian constitutional law protecting linguistic, religious, and legal rights in Quebec.

The American Revolution
The Royal Proclamation and Quebec Act were regarded by American colonists as two of the Intolerable Acts that were a catalyst for the American Revolution. But, the American hostility toward the spirit of those laws led most Québécois to reject the revolution; Quebec militiamen fought alongside British soldiers in repelling invasions by the republican revolutionaries and the residents of Montreal, which had fallen to General Richard Montgomery, did not take well to the American military presence, the Catholic clergy specifically asserting that the Quebec Act had given them what they wanted. Most of the peasant habitants, though, aided the Americans.

Also seeking the protection of the Crown, some 10,000 refugees—who became known as United Empire Loyalists—fled the Thirteen Colonies during, and the United States after, the conflict in order to settle in Quebec on land promised to them by the King-in-Council, much of it in what is today the Eastern Townships. It was Governor Carlton who  officially applied the term United Empire Loyalist to these refugees and allowed them to use the post-nominal letters UE, stating "that it was his wish to put the mark of honour upon the families who had adhered to the unity of the Empire."

Prince William Henry (later King William IV) visited Quebec in 1787, while in the Canadas in charge of his frigate, . He travelled as far inland as Cornwall (in present-day Ontario). While there, the Prince encouraged the United Empire Loyalists to settle the region that later made up Upper Canada. Nearby, he also received a reception from members of the First Nations communities. Of Quebec, the Prince wrote in a letter to his father, King George III, on 9 October 1787:

"As for the Province of Canada, it vastly surpasses all the accounts I can give to Your Majesty of its magnitude, beauty, and fertility; the province in extent is larger than all of Europe; the views in the summer are magnificent and, where, in England, the eye commands a view of ten miles, in Canada, for many leagues, the corn and the sky appear to meet. The ground is rich and, if the industrious Englishman tilled it, instead of the lazy Canadian, it would be inestimable. The country about Quebec is vastly inferior in beauty and richness to that about Montreal. My time was too short this year to go higher up than Montreal; but, next summer, I shall most certainly proceed as far as possible."

The residence of Prince Edward

One of King George III's sons, Prince Edward (the father of Queen Victoria), lived in Quebec City between 1791 and 1793, having requested a transfer from Gibraltar to the Canadian colonies, to act as colonel for the 7th Regiment of Foot. Upon Edward's arrival, Carlton, by then Governor General of the Canadas, used the Prince's status to ease the concerns of 40 First Nations chiefs who had travelled to Quebec City to complain about border incursions by the Americans, presenting Edward to the Indigenous leaders and proclaiming, "brothers! Here is Prince Edward, son of our King, who has just arrived with a chosen band of his warriors to protect this country." The Governor General then appointed Edward as second-in-command of the British forces in the colonies.