[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 22]
# List of smoking bans

in the United States or by American air carriers. On 9 August 1997, President Bill Clinton issued , banning smoking in all interior spaces owned, rented, or leased by the Executive Branch of the Federal Government, as well as in any outdoor areas under executive branch control near air intake ducts.

There is no federal law in the United States concerning smoking in private businesses and workplaces. Therefore, such policies are entirely a product of state and local criminal and occupational safety and health laws. As a result, the existence and aggressiveness of smoking bans varies widely throughout the United States, ranging from total bans (even outdoors), to no regulation of smoking at all. Jurisdictions in the greater South tend to have the least restrictive smoking bans or no statewide bans at all. Of the 60 most populated cities in the United States, all but 17 ban smoking in all bars and restaurants.

According to Americans for Nonsmokers' Rights, as of January 2021, 82.1% of the U.S. population is covered by bans on smoking in "workplaces, and/or restaurants, and/or bars, by either a state, commonwealth, or local law," although only 61.1% are covered by bans in all workplaces and restaurants and bars.

As of October 2018, 29 states have banned smoking in all general workplaces and public places, including bars and restaurants (though many of these exempt tobacconists, cigar bars, casinos, private clubs, and/or small workplaces). Six have enacted smoking bans exempting all adult venues including bars, and in some cases casinos and restaurants (Tennessee exempts any place not admitting patrons under 21). Georgia, Idaho, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina, and Virginia have particularised state laws banning smoking in specific places but leaving out all others. The remaining 10 states have no statewide smoking bans at all, though many cities and/or counties in those states have enacted local smoking bans to varying degrees (except Oklahoma, which prohibits local governments from regulating smoking at all).

As for U.S. jurisdictions that are not states, as of November 2012 smoking is banned in all public places (including bars and restaurants) in American Samoa, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and United States Virgin Islands. Guam prohibits smoking in restaurants, but not in any other workplaces. The Northern Mariana Islands prohibits smoking in most workplaces and in restaurants but not in bars.

Puerto Rico
The Law No. 40 from 1993, the Law to Regulate the Smoking Practice in Public Places, and its later 1996 amendment Law 133, regulate smoking in private and public places. The most recent modification established in [2 March 2007], Law 66, amended articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 11 of Law Num. 40, forbids this practice inside jails, pubs, restaurants (including open-air terraces with one or more employees), bars, casinos, workplaces, educational institutions, cars with children under age 13 and most public places. Smoking sections are not allowed. Fines start at $250.

Uruguay

In March 2006, it became illegal in Uruguay to smoke in enclosed public spaces. Now bars, restaurants or offices where people are caught smoking face fines of more than $1,100 or a three-day closure. This makes Uruguay the first country in South America to ban smoking in enclosed public spaces.

Anti-smoking groups estimate that as many as a third of Uruguay's 3.4 million people smoke. President Tabaré Vázquez, a practicing oncologist, has cited reports suggesting about seven people die each day in Uruguay (an estimated 5,000 people a year) from smoking-related causes including lung cancer, emphysema and other illnesses.

Vatican City
A July 2002 law signed by Pope John Paul II banned smoking on all places accessible to the public, and in all closed places of work within the Vatican City, and within all extraterritorial properties of the Holy See. Smoking bans in museums, libraries and churches on Vatican territory had already been in force for a long time. In November 2017, Pope Francis banned the sale of cigarettes throughout Vatican City; the sale of cigars is still legal.

Venezuela
On 31 May 2011 Venezuela introduced a ban on smoking in all enclosed public and commercial spaces, including malls, restaurants, bars, discos, workplaces, etc.

On 1 August 2023, Venezuela also introduced a ban on the production, sale and consumption of e-cigarettes.

Vietnam

The Vietnamese government has banned smoking and cigarette sales in offices, production facilities, schools, hospitals, and on public transport. However, bus drivers, especially in north Vietnam, occasionally smoke. Smoking was banned in enclosed indoor spaces and public facilities in Ho Chi Minh City in 2005 with the exception of entertainment areas.

A ban has also been imposed on all forms of advertisement, trade promotion, and sponsorship by tobacco companies, as well as cigarette sales through vending machines, or over the telephone and on the Internet.