[Source: PubMed]

63. Psychol Sci Public Interest. 2007 Dec;8(3):97-133. doi: 
10.1111/j.1539-6053.2008.00035.x. Epub 2007 Dec 1.

What Should This Fight Be Called? Metaphors of Counterterrorism and Their 
Implications.

Kruglanski AW(1), Crenshaw M(2), Post JM(3), Victoroff J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Maryland, College Park 
kruglanski@gmail.com.
(2)Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University.
(3)Elliot School for International Affairs, The George Washington University.
(4)Departments of Clinical Neurology and Psychiatry, University of Southern 
California Keck School of Medicine.

This monograph examines from a psychological perspective the use of metaphors in 
framing counterterrorism. Four major counterterrorism metaphors are considered, 
namely those of war, law enforcement, containment of a social epidemic, and a 
process of prejudice reduction. The war metaphor is as follows: Wars are fought 
by states; the enemy is thus an identifiable entity whose interests 
fundamentally oppose your own. The conflict is zero-sum-the outcome will be 
victory for one side or the other-and there is no compromise. The war metaphor 
is totalistic and extreme. Arguably, it was adopted in light of the immensity of 
damage and national hurt produced by the 9/11 attack. It has insinuated itself 
into the public discourse about counterterrorism, and it has guided policy, but 
it has also met challenges because of lack of fit and the availability of 
counteranalogies with different lessons of history. Some of the drawbacks of the 
war metaphor are addressable in the law enforcement metaphor of 
counterterrorism. Unlike war's special status and circumscribed duration, law 
enforcement is an ongoing concern that must compete for resources with other 
societal needs. A major advantage of law enforcement over warfare is its focused 
nature-targeting the actual terrorists, with less likelihood of injuring 
innocent parties. Yet despite its advantages, the law enforcement metaphor 
exhibits a partial mismatch with the realities of terrorism. Its complete and 
uncritical adoption may temporarily hamper terrorists' ability to launch attacks 
without substantially altering their motivation to do so. The public health 
epidemiological model was usefully applied to the epidemic of terror that 
followed the 9/11 attacks. It utilizes a partition between (a) an external 
agent, (b) a susceptible host, (c) an environment that brings them together, and 
(d) the vector that enables transmission of the disease. In the specific 
application to jihadist terrorism, the agent refers to the militant Islamist 
ideology, the susceptible host refers to radicalizable Muslim populations, the 
environment refers to conditions that promote the readiness to embrace such 
ideology, and the vectors are conduits whereby the ideology is propagated. The 
epidemiological metaphor has its own advantages over the war and law enforcement 
metaphors, but also limitations. Whereas the latter metaphors neglect the 
long-range process of ideological conversion and radicalization that creates 
terrorists, the epidemiological metaphor neglects the "here and now" of 
counterterrorism and the value of resolute strikes and intelligence-gathering 
activities needed to counter terrorists' concrete schemes and capabilities. 
Framing counterterrorism as the process of prejudice reduction addresses the 
interaction between two communities whose conflict may breed terrorism. This 
framing shifts the focus from a unilateral to a bilateral concern and 
acknowledges the contribution to intergroup tensions that the party targeted by 
terrorists may make. A major tool of prejudice reduction is the creation of 
positive contact between members of the conflicted groups. Efforts at prejudice 
reduction via positive contact need to take place in the context of a larger set 
of policies, such as those concerning immigration laws, educational programs, 
and foreign policy initiatives designed to augment the good-will-generating 
efforts of optimal-contact programs. For all its benefits, the 
prejudice-reduction framework is also not without its drawbacks. Specifically, 
the positive-contact notion highlights the benefits of mere human interaction; 
it disregards differences in ideological beliefs between the interacting 
parties, thereby neglecting an element that appears essential to producing their 
estrangement and reciprocal animosity. Too, like the epidemiological metaphor, 
the prejudice-reduction framing takes the long view, thereby neglecting the 
"here and now" of terrorism and the need to counter specific terrorist threats. 
Thus, each of the foregoing frameworks captures some aspects of 
counterterrorism's effects while neglecting others. Accordingly, an integrated 
approach to counterterrorism is called for, one that exploits the insights of 
each metaphor and avoids its pitfalls. Such an approach would maximize the 
likelihood of enlightened decision making concerning contemplated 
counterterrorist moves given the complex tradeoffs that each such move typically 
entails.

© 2008 Association for Psychological Science.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6053.2008.00035.x
PMID: 26161891