[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C.

Maor Melikson was sold to Wisła Kraków, and after that there was a significant decline in its ability. In the last round of the regular season she managed to reach the midfield playoffs, after a 2–0 away win over Maccabi Tel Aviv, and finished the season for the second time in a row in ninth place.

In the 2011–12 season, owner Alona Barkat decided to build on young home players, including the left defender Ofir Davidzada, with experienced players, but the season started badly, when the team lost six consecutive games. In the seventh round the team won 0–2 Hapoel Haifa, and at the end of the game Klinger decided to resign. Nir Klinger was replaced by Guy Levy, who returned to another term as coach of the team and signed a contract until the end of the season. In the last round, the team won 3–1 at Beitar Jerusalem, and then finished in 13th place and stayed in the Premier League.

In the 2012–13 season, owner Alona Barkat signed outgoing coach of Maccabi Haifa Elisha Levi. This season a senior goalie in the form of Austin Ejide signed. In the same season, the team reached the Toto Cup final against Hapoel Haifa and lost 0–1, when Ido Axebrad, missed a Penalty kick in the 88th minute. In this season the team reached the playoffs, Location. Following the victory, Be'er Sheva finished eighth, and Maccabi Netanya was relegated to the Liga Leumit.

Return to the top
In preparation for the 2013–14 season, Alona Barkat decided to sign Elisha Levi for another season, and to bring together players with a name and potential for the future. As a result, Alona Barkat increased the budget Accordingly, senior actors in the form of Elyaniv Barda, Maor Buzaglo, Glynor Plet signed. These signings led the team to its best season since the championship season, finishing the season in second place. As a result, the club received a ticket to the UEFA Europa League preliminaries.

In the 2014–15 season, the team returned to the European competitions after 18 years of absence playing against RNK Split in the preliminaries of the UEFA Europa League. Due to the security situation at that time, the Israeli teams were forced to host the home game in Cyprus. The first game was held in Croatia and ended 1–2 in favor of Croatia, Be'er Sheva was eliminated from Europe after the return leg finished 0–0 in Cyprus. That season, a number of senior players were signed in the form of Maor Melikson and Shlomi Arbeitman who returned from Europe. In addition, John Ogu from Nigeria and Ovidiu Hoban from Romania were signed. In the semi-finals of the State Cup, Be'er Sheva defeated Hapoel Afula and qualified for the State Cup final, losing 2–6 to Maccabi Tel Aviv. In the league, the team finished the season in third place.

In the 2015–16 Barak Bakhar was appointed as the team new coach. In addition, a number of leading players were signed in the form of Anthony Nwakaeme, Shir Tzedek, Maharan Radi and Ben Sahar. As part of the UEFA Europa League, Be'er Sheva was drawn against FC Thun from Switzerland for a home-away game encounter. In the first game held at Teddy Stadium the game ended with a 1–1 draw. Following a 1–2 defeat in the return leg at Stockhorn Arena Be'er Sheva was eliminated from the Europa League. In the fourth round of the season, the team inaugurated the Turner Stadium which was built in the city, in a match against Maccabi Haifa in front of 16,126 spectators. On 21 May 2016. the team won the third championship in its history after 40 years. During the season the team had 29 games without a loss, and throughout the season Be'er Sheva suffered only three losses. In the deciding game of the last round, Be'er Sheva defeated Bnei Sakhnin 3–1 at Turner Stadium and won the championship title.

In the 2016–17 season, Be'er Sheva won the title of Super Cup after winning 4–2 against the cup holder Maccabi Haifa. That season the team participated in the UEFA Champions League qualification reaching the playoffs after beating Sheriff Tiraspol from Moldova and Olympiacos from Greece. In the playoffs the team was eliminated by Celtic and as a result fell to the UEFA Europa League stage. In the group stage the club won twice against Inter Milan, managed two draws against Southampton and lost twice to Sparta Prague finishing second in the Group and progressing beyond the group stage of a European competition for the first time in their history. In the round of 32, Be'er Sheva was drawn against Beşiktaş from Turkey, and was eliminated after losing 2–5 in the final two games. On 28 December 2016, the team won the Toto Cup of the Israeli Premier League, the third most important Israeli football competition, after a 4–1 win over Ironi Kiryat Shmona in the final game held in Netanya Stadium. On 29 April, Be'er Sheva won 2–1 Maccabi Tel Aviv in Netanya Stadium achieving the second consecutive championship with three games remaining for the season.