[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Security Battalions

e German military governor of the Balkans, General Alexander Löhr, in a message to Berlin stated that his policy was to ensure "that the anti-communist part of the Greek population be fully utilised, revealing itself openly and obliged to display an undisguised hostility towards the communist side".

The main role of the Security Battalions was to fight against ELAS. Their aggregate force was at most 22,000 men, divided into 9 'evzonic' and 22 'voluntary' battalions, under the command of SS Lieutenant-General Walter Schimana. Although the plan was to expand them all over the occupied Greek territories, their main theater of action was in eastern Central Greece and the Peloponnese. At that time, ELAS had already gained control over 1/3 of continental Greece. The Security Battalions remained faithful to the Germans even when the occupation was crumbling. Their last mission was to engage in combat against ELAS and keep them away from the main routes, to secure the safe exit of the German troops from Greece.

What the Greek people hated about the Battalions, even more than their collaborationist nature, was their total lack of control over their members. For example, after a battle in the hamlet of Attali in Evvia, the collaborationists pillaged the houses of the village, taking away 1,000 oka of oil, five sewing machines, 200 oka of cheese, and 30 complete trousseaux. Sixty mules were needed to carry away the loot. By the end of the occupation their name was synonymous with arbitrary violence and frightful cruelty. An example of this behavior was the pogrom against the disabled in November 1943, when members of the Security Battalions arrested disabled veterans of the Greco-Italian war, brutally beating them with their own crutches and artificial limbs. 

The men of the Security Battalions were poorly disciplined and much given to looting and rape. Even collaborationist officials of the Hellenic State complained that the Security Battalions were a force for disorder rather than order, who stole whatever they wanted, raped any man or woman they wanted, and killed whomever they pleased. The Security Battalions killed indiscriminately, as it was German policy to cow the population of Greece into total submission by encouraging the Security Battalions to kill at random. Most of the people killed by the Security Battalions were not andartes or even associated with the andartes. Instead, they were  killed at random to instill an atmosphere of fear in Greece, so people would not want the andartes to operate in their area, lest that would bring the Security Battalions into their area. 

The mountainous terrain of Greece favored the andartes, together with the fact that the Wehrmacht was by 1944 fully committed elsewhere in Europe, led to the policy of "total terror" being employed. Sometimes, the Security Battalions engaged in targeted killings, as one Security Battalion death squad in Volos killed 50 local EAM members over the course of March 1944. More typical was the executions in the same month of 100 people shot at random as retaliation for the assassination by ELAS of General Franz Krech. When members of the Security Battalions were assassinated by ELAS, the Security Battalions tended to lash out by massacring any Greeks who just happened to be in the vicinity. The andartes would usually spare captured policemen or gendarmes, unless they had been involved in killing fellow Greeks, but members of the Security Battalions, if captured, were always summarily executed under the grounds that any member of the Security Battalions was a war criminal.