[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Van Regenmorter

horship of the William Van Regenmorter Crime Victims Rights Act and the subsequent amendment to Michigan's constitution. In a tribute following Van Regenmorter's death the Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) stated that his influence over the development of victims' rights policy has spread across the country, and that the Michigan Victims Bill of Rights has served as the model in drafting Arizona's law, that in turn, served as the model for many other states' amendments. A copy of the act and amendment can be found on Michigan Legislature's digital government publications website.
	
The policy reforms and amendments were so influential that in 1989 Pepperdine Law Review conducted a study of the history of Michigan's reforms on crime victims' rights, focusing on the Crime Victims Rights Act and Van Regenmorter's authorship. Van Regenmorter, in an article published by the Grand Rapids Business Journal, described how the federal Crime Victims Rights Act was approved using language from Michigan's constitutional amendment.
	
By far the most informative piece concerning William Van Regenmorter, other than his own personal collection, is the University of Akron's Oral History interview. In the 2003 interview Van Regenmorter stated his reasons of interest in crime victims' rights. The interview discusses the context in which Van Regenmorter started his policy making concerning victims' rights, the challenges involved, successes, failures, and future plans concerning the same subject.
	
Throughout his years as both a representative and senator in the Michigan state legislature Van Regenmorter has won a considerable number of awards. In an online publication of the Michigan Manual of 2003-04 it is stated that William was the recipient of Michigan "Legislator of the Year" eleven times and the "National Legislator of the Year" by the National Victim Center. Van Regenmorter's obituary stated that his death was on June 18, 2012, after having struggled with Parkinson's Disease for nine years. The Office of Victims of Crime's tribute to Van Regenmorter described how on June 20, 2012, Governor Rick Snyder ordered that flags were to be lowered at half-staff in honor of Senator Van Regenmorter.

References

External links
Michigan legislature page on Van Regenmorter
Grand Rapids press article on Van Regenmorter
biography of Van Regenmorter
William Van Regenmorter Crime Victim's Rights Act

1939 births
2012 deaths
Calvin University alumni
Neurological disease deaths in the United States
Deaths from Parkinson's disease
People from Ottawa County, Michigan
Republican Party Michigan state senators
Republican Party members of the Michigan House of Representatives
20th-century American politicians
21st-century American politicians