[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hermann-Bernhard Ramcke

ersonnel, had committed atrocities during the fighting on Crete which were contained in the book of memoirs he had written while in American custody. Ramcke was later transferred to a camp at Lüneburg and gave evidence in Student's war crimes trial. He was greatly angered when Student was convicted.

From 1946 Ramcke was held in French custody awaiting trial for war crimes relating to the fighting at Brest. The crimes he was charged with included the execution of French civilians, the looting of civilian property and the intentional destruction of civilian houses. After being held in custody for 57 months he escaped to Germany to see his family, but surrendered himself soon afterwards. Following a trial, he was found guilty on 21 March 1951, and sentenced to five years and six months' imprisonment. He was released after three months' imprisonment either on account of his age or due to having already been held in French captivity for five years before the verdict.

Following his release from nearly seven years captivity, Ramcke, through his public actions, became seen as a dedicated nationalist by his fellow generals and supported extreme right-wing movements such as the Naumann-Kreis in Germany. During an address to a meeting of the German paratrooper veterans' association in July 1951, Ramcke criticised what he claimed was Allied defamation of former German soldiers, and called for the release of "so-called war criminals". At a rally of SS veterans in October 1952 Ramcke gave a lengthy speech critical of the western Allies, during which he claimed that they were the real war criminals.

In November 1952, Ramcke told a group of former SS men attending a HIAG meeting they should be proud of being blacklisted, while stating that in the future their blacklist would instead be seen as a "list of honor". Ramcke's remarks caused a furor in Germany; even the former SS General Felix Steiner distanced himself from them. Konrad Adenauer was so furious with Ramcke's remarks that he directed Thomas Dehler, the German federal Minister of Justice, to investigate the possibility of prosecuting Ramcke. Adenauer publicly described Ramcke's remarks as "irresponsible" and his associated behavior as "foolishness"—a reaction probably prompted because Adenauer's government had made a significant effort to obtain early release for Ramcke from French imprisonment.

Ramcke and his supporters argued that the intent of his actions following the war was to again seek to protect his men, both in their reputations and their future, such as in cautioning against their being used as "cannon fodder" in the speech to ex-paratroopers during the rearmament debate. This was consistent with his behavior throughout his military career. Ramcke published two autobiographies, one during the war and the other in 1951. He died in 1968.

Awards
 Prussian Iron Cross of 1914 2nd Class on 17 April 1916 & 1st Class on 27 January 1917
 Prussian Golden Military Merit Cross on 24 April 1918
 Clasp to the Iron Cross of 1939 2nd Class on 1 October 1939 & 1st Class on 23 May 1941
 Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves, Swords and Diamonds
 Knight's Cross on 21 August 1941 as Oberst and commander of the Fallschirmjäger-Sturm-Regiment
 145th Oak Leaves on 13 November 1942 as Generalmajor and commander of Fallschirmjäger-Brigade "Ramcke"
 99th Swords on 19 September 1944 as General der Fallschirmtruppe and commander of Fortress Brest
 20th Diamonds on 19 September 1944 as General der Fallschirmtruppe and commander of Fortress Brest

Works
 Vom Ritterkreuzträger zum Angeklagten. Nation-Europa-Verlag, Coburg 2001. .
 Fallschirmjäger. Schütz, Preußisch Oldendorf 1973.
 Fallschirmjäger, damals und danach. Lorch, Frankfurt am Main 1951.
 Vom Schiffsjungen zum Fallschirmjäger-General. Verlag Die Wehrmacht, Berlin 1943.

Notes

References

Citations

Bibliography

  (link to pdf)
 Frei, Norbert (2002). Adenauer's Germany and the Nazi past: the politics of amnesty and integration. New York: Columbia University Press. .

External links

 Ramcke's letter to Byron Price
 

1889 births
1968 deaths
People from Schleswig, Schleswig-Holstein
Military personnel from the Province of Schleswig-Holstein
Luftwaffe World War II generals
German military writers
German prisoners of war in World War II held by the United States
Generals of Parachute Troops
Recipients of the Silver Medal of Military Valor
Recipients of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves, Swords and Diamonds
Recipients of the clasp to the Iron Cross, 1st class
Deaths from cancer in Germany
German prisoners of war in World War II held by the United Kingdom
German prisoners of war in World War II held by France
Imperial German Navy personnel of World War I
German male non-fiction writers
20th-century Freikorps personnel
Luftwaffe personnel convicted of war crimes
Military personnel from Schleswig-Holstein