[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Bob Corker

mother is endangered or in cases of rape or incest.

Corker opposes same-sex marriage. However, in 2015, Corker was one of 11 Republican Senators who voted with Democrats in support of giving social security benefits to same-sex couples living in states that had not yet recognized same-sex marriage.

In June 2018, Corker was one of thirteen Republican senators to sign a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions requesting a moratorium on the Trump administration family separation policy while Congress drafted legislation. In an interview that month, Corker stated that the Trump administration "obviously made a large mistake" and that he was aware "that some in the White House want to use the immigration issue as a force to activate the base for elections, but obviously the president realized that was a mistake, and now it's up to us in Congress to work with them to come up with a longer-term solution." Corker opined that the zero tolerance policy was part of a larger issue of Congress having failed to address existing immigration problems in the US.

Fiscal policy
In 2006, Corker supported making the 2001 tax cut and the 2003 tax cut permanent. He has shown interest in replacing the federal progressive income tax with a flat tax.

He endorsed the initial $350 billion of TARP funding in 2008, and opposed releasing the additional $350 billion of it in 2009.

In 2011, Corker voted in favor of the Republican alternative budget proposed by Representative Paul Ryan (R-WI), a proposal that would eliminate the health care provided through the Medicare program and instead give seniors subsidies for part of the cost of obtaining private medical insurance. Corker referred to such programs as Medicare and Social Security as "generational theft".

In 2013, Corker endorsed the Marketplace Fairness Act and voted for its passage in the Senate. The Marketplace Fairness Act would enable states to begin collecting sales taxes on online purchases.

Corker was the only Republican senator to vote against the Senate version of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 before it was sent to a conference committee with the House, citing concerns about the deficit. On December 20, 2017, Corker, who previously said he would "take a close look at the product developed in conference before making a decision on the final legislation," voted in favor of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act conference report, saying, "In the end, after 11 years in the Senate, I know every bill we consider is imperfect and the question becomes is our country better off with or without this piece of legislation. I think we are better off with it. I realize this is a bet on our country's enterprising spirit, and that is a bet I am willing to make."

IB Times pointed out that a provision newly added to the final version of the bill, which some termed the "pass-through provision"
could financially benefit the Trump family and several congressional Republicans, including Corker. For example, the top 20% of  Americans by income have received more than 60% of the tax savings. After two years, the tax cuts never paid for itself with economic growth,
according to Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.

Foreign policy
Corker traveled to Iraq for the first time as a senator in February 2007 as a member of the Foreign Relations Committee to study the situation on the ground. In March 2007, he subsequently expressed his opposition to an arbitrary withdrawal deadline of U.S. troops in Iraq and declared his support for General David Petraeus's counterinsurgency strategy. Corker said that any further reduction in U.S. forces in Iraq should be based on improved conditions in the country. In May 2008, Corker and Democratic U.S. Senator Bob Casey advocated for greater burden sharing among Iraq's neighbors in funding reconstruction efforts in the country.

In April 2009, Corker criticized President Obama's Afghan war strategy, which boosted civilian efforts to rebuild the impoverished country and placed nuclear-armed Pakistan at the center of the fight: "I have no idea what it is, other than sending additional troops. I hope we dig a lot deeper," said Corker. He expected that the United States is having to build the economic and governmental structure of Afghanistan after decades of war.

In September 2009, during a Special Committee on Aging hearing, Corker told former Canadian Public Health Minister Carolyn Bennett that Canada was living off the United States through setting lower health care prices and that "all the innovation, all the technology breakthroughs just about take place in our country and we have to pay for it." Corker stated that the US was not really the problem but rather "sort of the parasitic relationship that Canada, and France, and other countries have towards us" and affirmed his opposition to this policy.