[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Siping Campaign

tempt.  For the nationalists, the city was still in their hands, but the nationalist original plan to fight a decisive battle to annihilate the enemy at the gate of Siping (city) was equally spoiled by Lin Biao's wise and timely retreat, and thus the first stage of the campaign ended in a stalemate.

Second stage
After their victory of the Autumn Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China, the communists set their sights on the Siping (city) again in their Winter Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China, and this time they were ready and much better prepared.  By this time, the nationalists in Northeast China had suffered greatly and Siping (city) was only garrisoned by a mere 19,000 troops, without any hope of reinforcement.  The first sign of trouble appeared when a transportation battalion of the nationalist 88th Division  was ambushed on January 26, 1948, at Guo Family's Hotel (Guo Jia Dian, 郭家店) as the 500-men strong battalion attempted to transport grains to the city.  Though the enemy attack was considered unlikely, the nationalists nonetheless doubled the strength of the battalion and assigned over a dozen trucks and over 100 horse-drawn carts to ensure the safe completion of the job.  Learning the news, Luo Jie (罗杰), the deputy commander-in-chief of the communist base at the border area of Liaoning and Jilin, personally lead the units of the communist 18th Regiment and the Mongolian Cavalry Regiment launched a long distance surprise attack before dawn on the unsuspecting nationalist transportation battalion.  In a short period of 40 minutes, over 70 nationalist soldiers were killed and more than 200 were captured alive by the enemy.  The rest of the nationalists were able to successfully escape by trucks, but a truck and all of the 100+ horse-drawn carts full of grains had to be abandoned and left intact for the enemy in the hasty retreat.  On February 27, 1948, the order was formally given to take the city and the commander-in-chief of the communist 1st Column, Li Tianyou (李天佑), the communist commander in charge of last assault on the city nearly nine months ago, was put in charge again for the second time.  Similarly, two communist columns participated in the assault on the city nearly nine months ago, the 1st Column and the 7th Column, were tasked to take the city, with the help of the communist 3rd Column,  while the communist 2nd Column, 6th Column, 8th Column, and 10th Column were deployed to stop any possible nationalist reinforcement that never came, because the nationalist strength was greatly reduced by this time.

On March 4, 1948, the enemy assault on the nationalist positions outside the city begun, and the communist 1st Division of the 1st Column took Haifeng Village (Hai Feng Tun, 海丰屯) and Xu Family's Yaodong (Xu Jia Yao, 徐家窑), while the 3rd Division of the communist 1st Column took Xinlitun.  The enemy had made significant gains on March 8, 1948, when most of the nationalist positions outside the city wall fell in a domino effect:  the 7th Division of the communist 3rd Column took the bunkers outside the eastern gate, while the 8th Division of the communist 3rd Column took the region of Red Mouth (Hong Zui Zi, 红嘴子). Meanwhile, the 19th Division of the communist 7th Column took the Third Line of Grove (San Dao Lin Zi, 三道林子).  In order to find better positions for the artilleries to shell the defenders, the enemy took Shidao (师道) School, the airport and the Liu Family's Village (Liu Jia Tun, 刘家屯).  At 7:40 PM on March 12, 1948, the final assault on the city begun.  The nationalist defense was soon breached in five fronts in the north, the east, and the west, and defenders had to resort to street fights for their last stand.  By the next day, the nationalist defeat was complete when the entire nationalist garrison of more than 19,000 was totally annihilated by the attacking enemy, who declared the victory on 7:00 PM on March 13, 1948, after the mopping up operation was completed.

Outcome
The important strategic stronghold had fallen into the enemy hands with the nationalist defeat, and the defenders lost over 35,000 troops, with more than 16,000 in the first major battle, and over 19,000 in the second battle.  In addition to capturing the city, the enemy also captured enormous supplies from the nationalists, including 491 machine guns, over 9,000 repeating rifles, over 779,000 rounds of ammunition, over 200 artillery pieces, and over 11,000 rounds of artillery ammunition.

See also
List of battles of the Chinese Civil War
National Revolutionary Army
History of the People's Liberation Army
Chinese Civil War