[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Derick Brassard

s shouldered by Montreal Canadiens' skater Mike Weaver. Brassard returned for game four, scoring a goal in the Rangers' 3–2 victory. He finished the Rangers' postseason run with six goals and 12 points in 23 playoff games before the Los Angeles Kings defeated New York in the 2014 Stanley Cup Finals.

On July 27, 2014, Brassard, a restricted free agent, agreed to a five-year, $25 million contract extension with the Rangers. After Derek Stepan fractured his left fibula during the preseason, Brassard became the Rangers' No. 1 center for the  season. There, he was paired with former Columbus teammate Rick Nash and Martin St. Louis, who had been moved from centre to the wing after struggling in his first 10 games. In December, Brassard was one of several NHL players to contract the mumps during a league-wide outbreak. Although the case was mild, Brassard's mandatory quarantine left him unable to exercise, and he described himself as "rusty" when returning to practice. Brassard finished the regular season with 19 goals and 41 assists, most of which came on Nash's 42 season goals. He added an additional nine goals and 16 points in the 2015 Stanley Cup playoffs, including a hat-trick to keep the Rangers from being eliminated in game six of the Eastern Conference Finals. The Lightning defeated the Rangers in game seven, however, eliminating them from playoff contention.

Vigneault spent the first month of the  season shuffling his forward lines, ultimately reuniting Brassard, who had five points through ten games, with Nash and Zuccarello. After Stepan fractured his ribs, Brassard once again took on a leadership role among the Rangers' centers, with Vigneault pressuring him to "compete harder" in the first half of the season. On January 25, the final game before the NHL All-Star Game break, Brassard had a career-high five points (two goals and three assists) in a regular-season game when the Rangers won 6–3 over the Buffalo Sabres. It was the first regular-season five-point game of any Rangers skater since Ryan Callahan five years prior. Playing in 80 regular-season games, Brassard finished with 58 points, including a career-high 27 goals. The Penguins eliminated the Rangers in the first round of the 2016 Stanley Cup playoffs, with Brassard's three points in five postseason games leading the team.

Ottawa Senators (2016–2018) 

After three seasons with the Rangers, Brassard was the team's first offseason move in 2016, when he was traded to the Ottawa Senators on July 18 in exchange for Mika Zibanejad, who was "younger and faster" than Brassard. Although both teams had discussed the details of the trade earlier, Ottawa general manager Pierre Dorion wanted to wait until after July 15 to sign off on the deal, as it forced the Rangers to retain Brassard's $2 million signing bonus. Brassard joined the second line on his new team, serving as a left-handed skater to counterbalance first- and third-line centers Kyle Turris and Jean-Gabriel Pageau. He opened the  season in a scoring slump: his only goal in the first 15 games of the year came in the season opener, although he had an additional five assists in that same span. He told reporters that it took "a while to adjust" to the new team, particularly coach Guy Boucher's affinity for changing offensive lines every game, but Brassard managed to finish the regular season with 14 goals and 39 points in 80 games. The Senators clinched a spot in the 2017 Stanley Cup playoffs, and Brassard recorded an additional eight points in their first-round victory over the Boston Bruins. Ottawa faced the Rangers in the second round of playoffs, and Brassard scored against his old team in the 3–1 series-clinching victory. Altogether, Brassard had 11 points in 19 postseason games before Ottawa was ousted by the Pittsburgh Penguins in the Eastern Conference finals.

After the Senators were eliminated from the 2017 Stanley Cup playoffs, the team revealed that Brassard had a torn glenoid labrum in his right shoulder that would require surgical repair, and that he was expected to require four to five months of recovery time. His recovery progressed on time, and Brassard was able to join the Senators by opening night of the  season. Although Brassard individually played well, with nine goals and 23 points through the first 35 games of the season, the Senators as a whole were not effective, with losses in 16 of their last 39 games before the new year. As the trading deadline approached, Brassard went on another hot streak, with three goals in as many games as he made himself an attractive trade target. In 58 games with Ottawa that season, Brassard scored 18 goals and recorded an additional 20 assists.

Pittsburgh Penguins (2018–2019)