[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# Nuclear power in the United States

tired early. The 556 MWe Kewaunee Power Station is being closed 20 years before license expiry for these economic reasons. In February 2014, the Financial Times identified Pilgrim, Indian Point, Clinton, and Quad Cities power stations as potentially at risk of premature closure for economic reasons.

, the U.S. shale gas boom has lowered electricity generation costs placing severe pressure on the economics of operating older existing nuclear power plants. Analysis by Bloomberg shows that over half of U.S. nuclear plants are running at a loss. The Nuclear Energy Institute has estimated that 15 to 20 reactors are at risk of early closure for economic reasons. Nuclear operators in Illinois and New York have obtained financial support from regulators, and operators in Connecticut, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania are seeking similar support. Some non-nuclear power generating companies have filed unfair competition lawsuits against these subsidies, and have raised the issue with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

Statistics

See also 

High-level radioactive waste management

Nuclear energy policy of the United States
Energy policy of the United States
List of articles associated with nuclear issues in California
List of nuclear reactors
List of largest power stations in the United States
List of the largest nuclear power stations in the United States
Nuclear energy policy
Nuclear reactor accidents in the United States
List of nuclear whistleblowers
United States-India Peaceful Atomic Energy Cooperation Act
United States-Japan Joint Nuclear Energy Action Plan

References

External links
GA Mansoori, N Enayati, LB Agyarko (2016), Energy: Sources, Utilization, Legislation, Sustainability, Illinois as Model State, World Sci. Pub. Co., 
Comment: A US nuclear future?  Nature, Vol. 467, September 23, 2010, pp. 391–393.
World Nuclear Association
US Nuclear Power Plants – General U.S. Nuclear Info
World Nuclear Association: Nuclear energy in the world 
The Nuclear Energy Institute: The policy organization of the nuclear energy and technologies industry
Nuclear power plant operators in the United States (SourceWatch).
How many people live near a nuclear power plant in the United States? Data Visualization

 
Nuclear