[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Decline of the Byzantine Empire

aste to Nicaea and Sardes remained all but empty. And as they fell fallow, the Turks with their tents and their flocks wandered over them contentedly, as they had done in the deserts out of which they had come"

Demetrios Cydones on the Turkish depredations in Anatolia:

According to Speros Vryonis:

Byzantine princess Anna Komnene says:

A Letter written by Manuel II Palaiologos in 1391 to Demetrios Kydones makes specific reference to the Turkish threat to the Byzantine Empire, noting how the Greek Christian inhabitants of Anatolia "have fled to the clefts in the rocks, to the forests, and to the mountain heights in an effort to escape a death from which there is no escape, a very cruel and inhuman death without any semblance of justice…. Nobody is spared, neither very young children nor defenseless women. For those whom old age or illness prevents from running away there is no hope of escaping the murderous blade."

Historian Warren Treadgold gives a summary on the historical background highlighting the cumulative effects of the relentless Turkish Muslim depredations against the Byzantine Empire in its Anatolian heartland by the late 14th century:
 

In contrast, the Ottoman beylik of Osman, whose territory faced the Sea of Bosporus facing Constantinople, used a strategy of accommodation and incorporation. The Byzantine inhabitants of Asia Minor were tolerated by the Ottomans, many of which would rather accept Ottoman security over the militarily declining Byzantine Empire.

See also

Byzantine Dark Ages in the 7th–8th centuries
Byzantine-Lombard Wars
Byzantine–Seljuq wars
Byzantine Empire under the Doukas dynasty
Byzantine Empire under the Angelos dynasty
Byzantine Empire under the Palaiologos dynasty
List of Byzantine revolts and civil wars

Notes

Bibliography

Alan Harvey, "Economic expansion in the Byzantine empire, 900–1200"
John Haldon, "The Byzantine Wars"
J.W. Birkenmeier, The Development of the Komnenian Army 1081–1180
Magdalino, Paul, The empire of Manuel I Komnenos 1143–1180

Runciman, Steven. The Fall of Constantinople 1453. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1965.
Vryonis, Speros. The Decline of Medieval Hellenism in Asia Minor and the Process of Islamization from the Eleventh through the Fifteenth Century. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1971.

External links

Military history of the Byzantine Empire
Crusades
Komnenos dynasty
11th century in the Byzantine Empire
12th century in the Byzantine Empire
13th century in the Byzantine Empire
14th century in the Byzantine Empire
15th century in the Byzantine Empire

Byzantine Empire