[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mountain Park (Holyoke, Massachusetts)

e park was modified and improved, with colorful art deco styling and brightly lit structures designed by legendary roller coaster builder Edward Leis and Rhode Island craftsman Dominic Spadola. Together they designed three different walk-through fun houses and three different dark rides at the park.

From 1941 through 1962, the Casino was home to The Valley Players, a theater company that produced plays and musicals throughout the summer. A young Hal Holbrook was part of the cast from 1951 through 1954 and returned to the Casino in 1957 to perform his one-man show Mark Twain Tonight! as the Valley Players' season opener. When the Valley Players folded, Nikos Psacharopoulos established an Equity company  called the Casino-in-the-Park Playhouse in the theater where, with directors Ted Mann and Keith Fowler, he produced an artistically strong  but financially difficult season of plays by Shakespeare, Shaw, Brecht, and Tennessee Williams.  After 1964 a succession of managers was unable to make the Casino financially viable again.

In 1971, Collins leased the park to the food service company ARASERV which added a few new rides including the Sky Ride, a chair lift that brought riders down to the Animal Land zoo that was situated near the Casino. On June 11 of that year, a natural gas explosion leveled the Tap Room and Stardust Ballroom building while the Holyoke High School prom was taking place inside. Two park employees died in the explosion and resulting fire. The Tap Room and Stardust Ballroom were never rebuilt.

The following year, the Casino was demolished. Collins then took control of the park back from ARASERV. Throughout the 1970s, the midway stage played host to everything from soap opera stars to nostalgia acts such as Danny and the Juniors to bodybuilding competitions. In 1972 sports journalist Charles Gaines asked photographer George Butler to join him in covering the International Federation of Bodybuilding and Fitness's (IFBB) 1972 "Mr. East Coast" competition there for Sports Illustrated. The shoot included winner Leon Brown, the first bodybuilder to be showcased in the magazine. But more significantly, a young Arnold Schwarzenegger was also featured at the competition as a guest poser. Butler recognized Schwarzenegger's stage presence and he and Gaines would go on to make Pumping Iron, a book and subsequent movie which introduced bodybuilding to the American mainstream. Portions of the film were taken at the park, and it would prove to be the launching point of Arnold's career as an actor on the silver screen. In addition to bodybuilding, regular wrestling matches took place at the Midway venue featuring Walter "Killer" Kowalski. One afternoon "Killer" bodyslammed Mark "Marbles" Midura so hard the ring collapsed around "Marbles" and his manager Nelson Brothers. Bingo was a big attraction for senior citizens in the Clambake Pavilion every Sunday, as was popular polka king Larry Chesky, a Holyoke native, and his orchestra. Happy Louie and Julcia's Polka Band, led by Louie Dusseault, also regularly performed at the Pavilion, including in his sets the eponymous Mountain Park Polka.

Decline
Massachusetts entered an economic recession in the late 1980s. The park was still popular; Easter (the traditional opening day) of 1987 saw one of the largest crowds in the park's history. There were a few difficulties, however. Massachusetts had eliminated its blue laws, which prevented merchants from opening on Sundays, that year. People began going to the malls on Sundays, leading to much less traffic at the park on those days than previously. Even though the park had very few accidents, liability insurance costs were skyrocketing, devouring almost all of its profits.  James Parsons, the head of the game concessions and known to parkgoers as Pippo, died in 1982.  His passing was followed by George Dean, who had brought many corporate outings into the park.  At the end of the 1987 season, with the impending retirement of Roger Fortin (who had been Collins' friend and park supervisor for 30 years), Collins decided to sell Mountain Park. Many hoped a new buyer could be found. Collins advertised the entire property (with all the rides and equipment) in trade magazines for $4 million, but with the recession, there were no interested parties. The rides were sold and dismantled over the next two years.