[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1969 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1969 in the United Kingdom. The year is dominated by the beginnings of the Troubles in Northern Ireland.

Incumbents
 Monarch  – Elizabeth II
 Prime Minister – Harold Wilson (Labour)
 Parliament – 44th

Events

January
 January – The Space hopper toy is introduced to the United Kingdom.
 2 January
 People's Democracy begins a march from Belfast to Derry City, Northern Ireland to gain publicity and to promote its cause. 
 Australian media mogul Rupert Murdoch purchases the best-selling UK Sunday newspaper The News of the World.
 4 January – Guitarist Jimi Hendrix caused complaints of arrogance from television producers after playing an impromptu version of "Sunshine of your Love" past his allotted timeslot on the BBC One programme Happening for Lulu.
 10 January – Protesters in Northern Ireland defy police orders to abandon a planned march.
 14 January – Sir Matt Busby, hugely successful manager of Manchester United F.C. for the last twenty-four years, announces his retirement as manager. He will become a director at the end of the season, and hand over first-team duties to current first team trainer and former player Wilf McGuinness.
 17 January – Secretary of State for Employment and Productivity Barbara Castle publishes a White Paper In Place of Strife proposing powers of intervention in advance of industrial action. This proves unacceptable to the Trades Union Congress.
 18 January – Pete Best wins his defamation lawsuit against The Beatles. He had originally sought $8,000,000 but is awarded considerably less.
 24 January
 Violent protests by students about the installation of steel security gates close the London School of Economics, which does not reopen for three weeks.
 Launch of the Ford Capri, a four-seater sporting coupe designed to compete with the likes of the MG B and which Ford expects to become a top 10 seller in the United Kingdom.
 27 January
 London School of Economics students occupy the University of London Union building in Malet Street in protest at the temporary closure of the LSE.
 Reverend Ian Paisley, the hard line Protestant leader in Northern Ireland, is jailed for three months for illegal assembly.
 30 January – The Beatles' rooftop concert: The Beatles perform together in public for the final time, on the rooftop of Apple Records in London; the impromptu concert is broken up by the police.

February
 18 February – Pop star Lulu, 20, marries Maurice Gibb of the Bee Gees at St James Church, Gerrards Cross.

March
 March – The first B&Q DIY superstore is set up in Southampton by Richard Block and David Quayle.
 4 March – The Kray twins are both found guilty of murder: Ronnie of murdering George Cornell; Reggie of murdering Jack "the Hat" McVitie. On 5 March, they are sentenced to life imprisonment with a recommended minimum of thirty years by Mr Justice Melford Stevenson.  
 7 March – The London Underground Victoria line is opened by The Queen.
 12 March – Paul McCartney marries Linda Eastman at Marylebone register office in London.
 17 March –  The Longhope life-boat from Orkney is lost; all eight crew members on board perish.
 19 March
 British paratroopers and Marines land on the island of Anguilla, ending its unrecognized independence.
 The 385-metre tall Emley Moor transmitting station television mast in West Yorkshire collapses because of ice.
 20 March – John Lennon marries Japanese artist Yoko Ono in Gibraltar.
 27 March – First ordination of a woman in the Church of Scotland takes place, that of Catherine McConnachie by the Presbytery of Aberdeen.
 29 March – Lulu, representing the UK with the song "Boom Bang-a-Bang", shares first place in the Eurovision Song Contest in a four-way tie with France, the Netherlands and the host country, Spain.