[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adolf Hitler's directives

In The East", marking the radicalisation of so-called anti-partisan warfare. The directive called on the security forces to act with "utter brutality" to achieve "complete extermination" of "gangs", while providing immunity from prosecution for any acts committed during "bandit-fighting" operations.

The directive designated the SS as the organisation responsible for rear-area warfare in areas under civilian administration. In areas under military jurisdiction (the Army Group Rear Areas), the Army High Command had the overall responsibility. The directive declared the entire population of "bandit" (i.e. partisan-controlled) territories as enemy combatants. In practice, this meant that the aims of security warfare was not pacification, but complete destruction and depopulation of "bandit" and "bandit-threatened" territories, turning them into "dead zones" (Tote Zonen).

Commando Order, October 1942

The Kommandobefehl ("Commando Order") was issued by Adolf Hitler on 18 October 1942 stating that all Allied commandos encountered by German forces in Europe and Africa should be killed immediately without trial, even in proper uniforms or if they attempted to surrender. Any commando or small group of commandos or a similar unit, agents, and saboteurs not in proper uniforms, who fell into the hands of the German military forces by some means other than direct combat (through the police in occupied territories, for instance) were to be handed over immediately to the Sicherheitsdienst (SD, Security Service). The order, which was issued in secret, made it clear that failure to carry out these orders by any commander or officer would be considered to be an act of negligence punishable under German military law.

Nero Decree

The Nero Decree was a scorched-earth order issued by Adolf Hitler on 19 March 1945, ordering the destruction of German infrastructure to prevent their use by Allied forces as they penetrated deep within Germany. 

It was officially titled Demolitions on Reich Territory Decree (Befehl betreffend Zerstörungsmaßnahmen im Reichsgebiet) and has subsequently become known as the Nero Decree, after the Roman Emperor Nero, who supposedly engineered the Great Fire of Rome in 64 AD. 

It was countermanded by among others, Albert Speer, Minister of Armaments and War Production, who wanted to preserve as much of the country's infrastructure as possible following the imminent defeat.

See also
 Severity Order
 Führer Directive No. 30
 Lex Krupp
 German war crimes

Citations

Bibliography

 
 Kershaw, Ian Hitler 1936–1945: Nemesis

External sources
 Adolf Hitler and World War II: Operational Orders
 Führer Directive No. 21: Operation Barbarossa

Orders by Adolf Hitler