[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Refugee shelter

te to pain relief and suffering. Architects and psychologists have been in collaboration to construct design models that are holistic and functional, providing for both the most basic, physical needs as well as the psychological expectations from a post-disaster reality.

Roles and responsibilities 

In some cases, the entire burden of assistance and relief is placed on the national government, whereas in others, responsibility is varied across multiple levels of government and outside aid. Reconstruction is closely linked to land tenure, government policy, and all aspects of land-use and infrastructure planning. Resource management and availability is always a consistent issue in emergency recovery however there has been success when relief is found as locally as possible.

The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees or UNHCR, is a United Nations agency that protects and supports refugees. When the UNHCR was first established, material aspects of refugee relief (e.g., housing, food) were seen to be the responsibility of the hosting government. As many of the world's more recent major refugee communities have occurred in less developed countries, the UNHCR has acquired the additional role of coordinating material assistance for refugees and returnees. Although this was not UNHCR's original mandate, coordination of material assistance has become one of its principal functions alongside protection and the promotion of solutions.

Innovative practices 

There are scores of innovative approaches to constructing temporary shelters, but few make it to the field.  Architect Shigeru Ban has designed temporary and permanent structures with paper tubes as the underlying structure, used after the Kobe earthquake. Cal-Earth Institute has also developed "superadobe" which makes use of sandbags and barbed wire to form an emergency shelter for disaster relief.

Shigeru Ban is a Japanese architect famous for innovation with recycled paper/cardboard and has quickly and effectively housed disaster victims. He began working with cardboard tubing in cooperation with the UNHCR during the humanitarian crisis of war-torn Rwanda in 1994. Designed for easy construction by an unskilled labor force, each barn-shaped unit consists of a paper tube frame covered with plastic tarps. Polyurethane-coated cylinders are linked together with plywood joints and rope, resulting in a very stable, waterproof structure that maximizes internal space. Sand filled crates acts as a platform and floor for the shelters and protects from floods, rain, and snow. The paper is low cost low tech, recyclable, and replaceable. As designed the shelters take less than six hours to construct.

In addition, the social enterprise Better Shelter and the UNHCR have developed a modular refugee shelter in collaboration with the IKEA Foundation (philanthropic arm of a large furniture company notable for its user-friendly setup and mass production). These models include light-weight polymer panels attached to a steel frame. They take only about four hours to assemble and come flat-packed with panels, pipes, connectors, and wires, with a solar-powered LED light inside with a USB outlet.

Despite numerous attempts — Shigeru Ban's cardboard houses, the Better Shelter flat-pack shelter, the superadobe, and more — designing the appropriate shelter that encompasses all the necessary characteristics for refugees continues to be an ongoing process involving architects and psychologists alike.

References

Other sources 

 Evans, Gary W., and Nancy M. Wells. "Housing and Mental Health: A Review of the Evidence and a Methodological and Conceptual Critique." Journal of Social Issues 59.3 (2003): 475–500. Print.
  Levine, J. N., A.-M. Esnard, and A. Sapat. "Population Displacement and Housing Dilemmas Due to Catastrophic Disasters." Journal of Planning Literature 22.1 (2007): 3–15. Print.
  Gold, S. J. "Mental Health and Illness in Vietnamese Refugees." West J Med 157.3 (1992): 290–94. Print.

External links

 United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
 Shelter Centre
 Shigeru Ban
 IKEA Flat Pack Shelters

Disaster preparedness
Temporary populated places
Emergency services