[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Smiley Culture

rrey. His death came an hour and a half after officers arrived with a search warrant relating to the import of Class A drugs into the UK. A post-mortem examination revealed that he had died from a single stab wound to the heart. He is survived by his mother, son, daughter, sister and three brothers.

His death was investigated by the Independent Police Complaints Commission. In their final report – which at the request of the coroner was neither made public nor made available to Emmanuel's family – the IPCC concluded that there was no evidence justifying the pressing of criminal charges against any of the four officers present at the house during the raid. In the IPCC statement following the inquest – which returned a verdict of suicide – it was stated that there was neither criminal conduct by officers, nor individual failings by officers that might amount to misconduct. Nonetheless, the report also pointed out flaws in the police raid and called on the Metropolitan Police Service to improve the planning and execution of their drug seizures.

However, Emmanuel's family raised concerns about the investigation, claiming that the IPCC "had let [them] down" and that many "unanswered questions" remained. The conditions surrounding his death and the subsequent investigation were also questioned by members of the general public, his death often being considered in the context of police brutality and other black people dying in police custody. A study into the causes and consequences of the 2011 United Kingdom riots, led by the London School of Economics in collaboration with the British newspaper The Guardian, identified Emmanuel's death, perceived by some as a prominent case of police abuse, as a contributing factor to the riots.

Discography

Albums
Tongue in Cheek (1986), Polydor
The Original Smiley Culture (1986), Top Notch

Contributing artist
The Rough Guide to Reggae (1997), World Music Network

Singles
"Cockney Translation" (1984), Arthur Daley International/Fashion
"Police Officer" (1984), Fashion – UK No. 12
"Cockney Translation" (re-issue) (1985), Fashion – UK No. 71
"Schooltime Chronicle" (1986), Polydor – UK No. 59
"Mr. Kidnapper" (1986), Polydor
"So What" (1986), Boiling Point – promo only
"Noff Personality" (1986), Culture
"TV Lover", Senator
"Can't Stop the Rap" (1990), SBK/Capitol

See also
List of reggae musicians
List of Polydor Records artists
List of performers on Top of the Pops

References

1963 births
Suicides by sharp instrument in England
Deaths in police custody in the United Kingdom
20th-century Black British male singers
English people of Jamaican descent
English reggae musicians
Singers from London
2011 suicides
2011 deaths
People from Stockwell
Capitol Records artists