[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jamshoro District

Jamshoro District (, ), is a district of Sindh province, Pakistan. Jamshoro city is the capital while Kotri is the largest city of the Jamshoro District. The district borders Dadu district to the north.  To the east, the Indus separates it from Nawab Shah, Matyari and Hyderabad districts.  Thatta district lies to the south, and Karachi district to the south west.  To the west, the Kheerthar Range separates it from the Sindh and Lasbela district of Baluchistan.

Jamshoro District was split from Dadu District in 14th December 2004 It is situated on the west bank of River Indus.

Geography 
The total geographical area of the district is 11,260 square kilometres. It is about 220 kilometers from north to south and about 100 kilometres wide from east to west.  A 2 to 6 kilometres wide belt of the west bank of River Indus is cultivated and irrigated and the remaining land of the district is either hilly or cultivated. Agriculture is the main source of income.
In summer, the northern part (Sehwan) is hotter than that of other parts of the district and normally cool in winter.

The district is rich in limestone, salika sand, gravels, silt, and marble. These minerals are found in Taluka Thano Bula Khan and Sehwan.  Coal is obtained from Lakhra Taluka Manjhand.

Demographics
At the time of the 2017 census, Jamshoro district had a population of 993,908, of which 523,069 were males and 470,702 females. The rural population was 561,287 (56.47%) and urban 432,621 (43.53%). The literacy rate is 46.47%: 55.14% for males and 36.71% for females.

The current population figures are tabulated below:

Religion

The majority religion is Islam, with 95.07% of the population. Hinduism (including those from Scheduled Castes) is practiced by 3.87% of the population, while Christians are 0.98% of the population.

 Hindu temples
 Gobindram Darbar at Manjhand 
 Kathwari Harijan Manhar Mandir

Languages

At the time of the 2017 census, 84.76% of the population spoke Sindhi, 4.13% Urdu, 4.02% Punjabi, 2.76% Pashto, 1.93% Balochi and 1.38% Saraiki as their first language.

Economy 
The majority of the population of the district is rural and they are involved in cultivation. Industrial areas and Power plants are using manpower, while towns are providing business opportunities to the residents. The inhabitants of mountainous area keep cattle while Mallahs o Manchhar Lake earn their living by fishing. Approximately 20% of the district population works for the federal and provincial government.

Nooriabad Industrial Area and Kotri Industrial Area are two big zones of Industries where more than 500 different industries are located..

Jamshoro Power Station, Lakhra Power Project and Kotri Thermal Power Station are the main power units in this district.

Sindh Industrial And Trading Estate
Two main town's of Sindh Industrial and Trading Estate are in Jamshoro District, Kotri and Nooriabad. Having more than 500 production plants which produces Cotton, Rice, Flour, Oil and many more.

Education 
Mehran University of Engineering and Technology, Liaquat University of Medical and Health Sciences and University of Sindh are located in Jamshoro.

Administrative divisions

The district is administratively subdivided into the following tehsil:

 Kotri Tehsil
 Sehwan Sharif Tehsil
 Thana Bulla Khan Tehsil
 Manjhand Tehsil

List of Union Councils
Jamshoro District includes the following Union Councils:

List of Dehs
The following is a list of Jamshoro District's dehs, organised by taluka: