[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War

ons were killed.

The day after, on August 15, 2006, Israeli soldiers opened fire when four Hezbollah fighters approached them, killing three. The same day, about 10 rockets were fired by Hezbollah inside southern Lebanon. Israel reiterated it wouldn't respond since the rockets did not cross border.

On August 18, 2006, Lebanese police sources reported that Israeli warplanes launched four missiles toward targets in the eastern Lebanese town of Baalbek. Israeli sources acknowledge that its air force performs sorties over Lebanese territory, but denied breaking the ceasefire. Lebanese officials later contradicted the police sources stating that no missiles were fired by the Israeli planes. The Associated Press reported that Hezbollah had fired at least 10 Katyusha rockets into southern Lebanon. The IDF stated that as none had crossed the border and there were no casualties, they did not respond. Earlier, skirmishes between Israeli forces and Hezbollah left six guerrillas dead. UNIFIL also reported that the IDF fired a tank shell at the Lebanese village of Markaba but that there was no response from the other side.

One day later, on August 19, 2006, Israel launched a raid in Lebanon's eastern Beqaa Valley it says was aimed to disrupt weapons supplies to Hezbollah from Syria and Iran. Lebanese officials said "the Israelis were apparently seeking a guerrilla target in a school." Reports indicate that the Israeli commandos were disguised in Lebanese Army uniforms (thus masquerading as a non-combatant party) and spoke Arabic in an attempt to pass themselves off as Arabs. Two Israeli soldiers and four Hezbollah fighters were killed. U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said he was "deeply concerned" about an Israeli commando raid in eastern Lebanon Saturday, calling it a violation of a U.N.-backed ceasefire. The statement also cites UNIFIL troops as saying there have "also been several air violations by Israeli military aircraft." Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Mark Regev told the Associated Press that "[t]he cease-fire is based on (U.N. resolution) 1701 which calls for an international arms embargo against Hezbollah." Regev was referring to article 8 of the resolution which calls for an end to all weapons transfers to Hezbollah.

Less than a week later, on August 27, 2006, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan said that U.N. troops would not intercept Syrian arms shipments to Hezbollah unless requested to do so by the Lebanese Government.

Following these events, the UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan said on August 29, 2006, that Israel had committed most of the truce violations and described Israel's continuing embargo as "a humiliation and an infringement on [Lebanese] sovereignty." Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert reiterated Israel's willingness to lift the blockade after full implementation of the U.N.-brokered cease fire.

A week later, on September 7, 2006, the aviation blockade was lifted. Then on September 8, 2006, the naval blockade was lifted.

But on September 21, 2006, Hezbollah supporters threw stones over the border fence at Israeli patrols in Israel, seen as part of Hezbollah redeployments. On September 22, 2006, Nasrallah reported in a victory rally that Hezbollah possessed over 20,000 rockets and that it was stronger than before July 12. According to various estimates, the organisation had fewer than 20,000 rockets before and fired about 4,000 rockets during the conflict.

On October 1, 2006, the Israeli army reported that it had completed its withdrawal. The UN has said Israel has withdrawn the bulk of its troops from Lebanon, fulfilling a key condition of the UN ceasefire ending war with Hezbollah, but that some Israeli troops remained in Ghajar. The IDF confirmed its forces were still operating near Ghajar, a village split in two by the border. Because of the volatile nature of the place, Israel says it will maintain a presence in Ghajar until a security agreement is reached with the UN and the Lebanese army. Then on October 3, 2006, Israeli jets conducted mock air raids over Nabatiyeh, Khiam, and Marjayoun in Southern Lebanon, and later over the Iqlim al-Tuffah region and Western Bekaa Valley. An Israeli fighter penetrated the  defence perimeter of the French frigate Courbet without answer radio calls, triggering a diplomatic incident

Israel admitted on October 22 to using white phosphorus in Lebanon. Although Israel continues to deny the use of phosphorus on civilians, doctors in southern Lebanon have suspected some injuries were caused by contact with the chemical. On October 23, Lebanese police reported the "most intensive [Israeli] overflights" of Lebanon after the ceasefire. Two jets flew low over Beirut, while four more aircraft conducted sonic boom raid in Tyre. France, who leads UNIFIL troops, called the continuing overflights "extremely dangerous."