[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Satveer Chaudhary

rtisan Minnesota Senate Subcommittee on Ethical Conduct voted unanimously that Chaudhary had no conflict of interest in introducing the legislation, had violated no rule nor law, although "he should have taken more time to hear the proposal" and the "any benefit to (Chaudhary) was pure speculation".

The Senate District 50 DFL Party leadership held meeting in June 2010 to discuss revocation of Chaudhary's DFL senate endorsement due to Chaudhary's formal endorsement of DFL gubernatorial candidate Mark Dayton over the DFL-endorsed candidate Margaret Anderson .   On June 1, 2010 former State Representative Barbara Goodwin filed as a DFL senate candidate in the primary election. On June 28, 2010, the Senate District 50 DFL Central Committee voted to revoke their endorsement of Chaudhary due to the endorsement of Dayton, and endorsed Barbara Goodwin as the new candidate for Minnesota Senate. Chaudhary appealed the Senate District Committee's decision to a special panel of the State DFL Party.

On July 8, 2010 the Duluth News Tribune reported that Chaudhary and his wife owed the IRS 2007 and 2008 past-due personal income taxes. In response, Chaudhary stated the debt was incurred due to an exercise of stock options with his wife's employer, the couple had an existing IRS payment plan and was never delinquent in paying, and the amount owed had just been determined in late 2009. On August 1, 2010 the family announced all taxes were paid in full.

On July 11, 2010, the special panel of the Minnesota DFL Party unanimously upheld the revocation of Chaudhary's endorsement. Chaudhary still chose to proceed to the Minnesota primary election as an unendorsed DFL candidate. On August 10, 2010, Chaudhary was defeated in the primary, and in November democrat Barbara Goodwin was elected to the seat. That same year Mark Dayton went on to become the Minnesota Governor.  After his primary defeat,  Chaudhary announced that he would continue his involvement with outdoors issues and return to private law practice full-time.

Law Practice
In 2000, Chaudhary opened a private law office, and in Spring of 2002 he was featured on the cover of the Law Alumni News Magazine along with Senator Mee Moua. In 2004 he was named Alumni of the Year for the University of Minnesota Law School.   Chaudhary's practice specializes in immigration and criminal law, where he continues to teach local and national continuing legal education courses, and is called upon for commentary on U.S. immigration issues.  The Hennepin County Bar Association recognized eight member attorneys with its 2020 Excellence Awards, and honored members for their service to the local legal profession, the community, and the association. Chaudhary was cited for Mentoring in the Profession as "a dedicated mentor to new attorneys through involvement with community groups, bar association activities, and job shadowing." In March 2021 Chaudhary was invited to testify before a United Nations panel focusing on human rights violations in China.

References

External links

 Senator Chaudhary Web Page
 Senator Chaudhary Campaign Web Site
 

1969 births
American Hindus
American politicians of Indian descent
Living people
Democratic Party members of the Minnesota House of Representatives
Democratic Party Minnesota state senators
People from Fridley, Minnesota
Politicians from Minneapolis
St. Olaf College alumni
Alumni of Harris Manchester College, Oxford
University of Minnesota Law School alumni
Lawyers from Minneapolis
21st-century American politicians
Asian-American people in Minnesota politics