[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Abraham Lincoln

and, Donald opined in his 1996 biography that Lincoln was distinctly endowed with the personality trait of negative capability, defined by the poet John Keats and attributed to extraordinary leaders who were "content in the midst of uncertainties and doubts, and not compelled toward fact or reason".

In the 21st century, President Barack Obama named Lincoln his favorite president and insisted on using the Lincoln Bible for his inaugural ceremonies.

Lincoln has often been portrayed by Hollywood, almost always in a flattering light.

Lincoln has been also admired by political figures outside the U.S., including German political theorist Karl Marx, Indian independence leader Mahatma Gandhi, former Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, and Libyan revolutionary Muammar Gaddafi.

Memory and memorials

Lincoln's portrait appears on two denominations of United States currency, the penny and the $5 bill. His likeness also appears on many postage stamps. While he is usually portrayed bearded, he did not grow a beard until 1860 at the suggestion of 11-year-old Grace Bedell. He was the first of five presidents to do so.

He has been memorialized in many town, city, and county names, including the capital of Nebraska. The United States Navy   is named after Lincoln, the second Navy ship to bear his name. The Lincoln Memorial is one of the most visited monuments in the nation's capital and is one of the top five most visited National Park Service sites in the country. Ford's Theatre, among the most visited sites in Washington, D.C., is across the street from Petersen House, where Lincoln died. Memorials in Springfield, Illinois, include the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum, Lincoln's home, and his tomb. A portrait carving of Lincoln appears with those of three other presidents on Mount Rushmore, which receives about 3 million visitors a year. An influential statue of Lincoln stands in Lincoln Park, Chicago, with recastings given as diplomatic gifts standing in Parliament Square, London, and Parque Lincoln, Mexico City.

In 2019, Congress officially dedicated room H-226 in the United States Capitol to Abraham Lincoln. The room is located off National Statuary Hall and served as the post office of the House while then-Representative Abraham Lincoln served in Congress from 1847 to 1849.

See also

 Outline of Abraham Lincoln
 Grace Bedell
 Lincoln Tower
 List of civil rights leaders
 List of photographs of Abraham Lincoln
 Lincoln (film): 2012 film by Steven Spielberg
 Linconia, a proposed colony in Central America named for Lincoln

Notes

References

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  (2 vols.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Ellenberg's essay is adapted from his 2021 book, Shape: The Hidden Geometry of Information, Biology, Strategy, Democracy, and Everything Else, Penguin Press. ISBN 9781984879059
 
 
 
 
 
 
 . Second edition, 2022. Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.

External links

Official
 Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum
 The Lincoln Presidential Library's ongoing digitization of all documents written by or to Abraham Lincoln during his lifetime
 Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln – complete collected works as edited by Basler et al. (1958) – an online edition available through University of Michigan Library Digital Collections

Organizations
 Abraham Lincoln Association 
 Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Foundation

Media coverage

Other

 Abraham Lincoln: A Resource Guide from the Library of Congress
 "Life Portrait of Abraham Lincoln", from C-SPAN's American presidents: Life Portraits, June 28, 1999
 "Writings of Abraham Lincoln" from C-SPAN's American Writers: A Journey Through History
 Abraham Lincoln: Original Letters and Manuscripts – Shapell Manuscript Foundation
 Lincoln/Net: Abraham Lincoln Historical Digitization Project – Northern Illinois University Libraries
 Teaching Abraham Lincoln  – National Endowment for the Humanities
 
 
 
 In Popular Song: Our Noble Chief Has Passed Away by Cooper/Thomas
 Abraham Lincoln Recollections and Newspaper Articles Collection , McLean County Museum of History
 Digitized items in the Alfred Whital Stern Collection of Lincolniana in the Rare Book and Special Collections Division in the Library of Congress