[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Protestant Irish nationalists

rnley was chairman of the Irish Independence Party, co-founded with Frank McManus (former Unity MP for Fermanagh & South Tyrone) and Fergus McAteer (son of the former Nationalist Party leader Eddie McAteer)., and a leading member of the National H-Blocks Committee supporting the IRA blanket protest.

David Russell was a Protestant Provisional IRA volunteer originally from Ramelton in Donegal and a Presbyterian. He was killed due to a premature bomb explosion in 1974 at a supermarket in Derry. Tom Berry was an Official IRA volunteer with Protestant background. He was killed by the Provisional IRA in east Belfast during the intra-republican feud in 1975. Harry Murray was a Provisional IRA volunteer from Tiger's Bay who had served in the Royal Air Force (RAF). Ronald Spence, nephew of Ulster Volunteer Force leader Gusty Spence, joined an auxiliary unit of the Official IRA and was later charged with involvement in a punishment shooting carried out in 1977. Spence had married a girl from the predominantly Catholic Short Strand area of Belfast when he was seventeen and joined a republican social club.

Republic of Ireland
Martin Mansergh, a member of the Church of Ireland, has been influential in formulating Fianna Fáil's policy on Northern Ireland since the peace process began in the 1990s. Sinn Féin TD for Clare Violet-Anne Wynne is Protestant. Fine Gael TD Heather Humphreys has referred to herself as a republican and nationalist on several occasions.

Protestant nationalist converts to Roman Catholicism
A number of Protestant nationalists also converted to Catholicism, for a variety of reasons:

 Lord Ashbourne
 Ada Beesley, the second wife of John Redmond
 Thomas Bennett
 Charles Bewley
 Joseph Biggar MP
 Aodh de Blácam (né Harold Blackham)
 Roger Casement
 Lillie Connolly, widow of James Connolly
 Charlotte Despard, sister of Viscount French (Lord Lieutenant of Ireland 1918–21)
 Victor Fagg, prominent Irish republican (converted to Catholicism in 1943 to marry Una Daly, a member of the women's IRA group, Cumann na mBan)
 Father Patrick Fell, a Roman Catholic convert accused and later convicted in the 1970s of being a commander of an Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) active service unit; later became a priest.
 Mabel McConnell FitzGerald, wife of Desmond FitzGerald and mother of Garret FitzGerald
 Grace Gifford, sister of Muriel, wife of Joseph Plunkett
 Katherine Anna ("Katie") Gifford, Mrs Wilson (1875–1957), Irish republican, civil servant, and teacher; sister of Grace and Muriel Gifford
 Muriel Gifford, sister of Grace, wife of Thomas MacDonagh
 Maud Gonne, wife of John MacBride, mother of Seán MacBride, and mother-in-law of Francis Stuart
 Edmund Dwyer Gray, son of the Protestant nationalist, Sir John Gray
 Hugh Law MP and TD
 Shane Leslie
 Seán Mac Stíofáin, born John Edward Drayton Stephenson in England to an English Protestant father and a mother of Ulster Protestant and Unionist.
 Constance Markievicz MP (abstentionist) and TD, first female elected as both
 Pierce Charles de Lacy O'Mahony MP
 Gertrude Bannister Parry (cousin of Roger Casement)
 James Pearse, father of Patrick and Willie Pearse; converted to Catholicism (and, at least nominally, Home Rule) before marrying Margaret Brady (who, with her daughters, shared her sons' political beliefs and all became political activists) 
 William Stockley
 Francis Stuart, son-in-law of Maud Gonne

See also
Alliance Party of Northern Ireland
Catholic Unionist
Unionism in Ireland
Irish Unionist Party

References

Sources
 O'Broin, Leon; Protestant Nationalists in Revolutionary Ireland, Barnes & Noble 1985, 

 
Celtic nationalism
Irish nationalism
Politics of Northern Ireland