[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Steve Nelson (activist)

Stjepan Mesaros, best known as Steve Nelson (1903– December 11, 1993), was a Croatian-born American political activist. Nelson achieved public notoriety as the political commissar of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade in the Spanish Civil War and as a leading functionary of the Communist Party, USA. Nelson is best remembered for having been prosecuted and convicted under the Smith Act in 1953.

Background

Stjepan Mesaros (sometimes known as "Stephen Mesarosh") was born in Subocka, Austro-Hungarian Empire on January 1, 1903 of ethnic Hungarian extraction. The Communist Party of the United States would later claim he was born in Steelton, Pennsylvania.

Mesaros emigrated to the United States of America in 1919 with his mother and three sisters. He became a shipyard worker in Philadelphia.

Career

Communist Party

Upon arrival in the States, Nelson started working in a Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania slaughterhouse and meat-packing plant. A succession of blue-collar jobs followed.

In 1923, by now using the Americanized name "Steve Nelson," he joined the youth section of the American Communist Party, the Young Workers League. He went on to join the adult Workers (Communist) Party in 1925. That year, he moved (with his new wife) to Detroit, where he worked in the auto industry as an assembly line worker and union organizer. In 1928, they moved to New York City, where Nelson studied Marxism at the New York Workers School. With the onset of the Great Depression, husband and wife worked for the Communist Party full-time.

In 1930, Nelson organized the International Unemployment Day demonstration on March 6, 1930, at which he, Joe Dallet and Oliver Law were beaten up and arrested. Two weeks he was among the 75,000 demonstrators to demand unemployment insurance.

In 1931, Nelson and his wife were sent to Moscow for two years at the International Lenin School. He became a courier for the Communist International (Comintern), delivering documents and funds to Germany, Switzerland and China. In 1933, they returned to the United States and settled in Wilkes-Barre.

Spanish Civil War
In 1937, Nelson immediately tried to join the Abraham Lincoln Brigade but had to stay in Pennsylvania, where he agitated coal miners. After the severe setback at Jarama, Nelson, Joe Dallet and 23 others were allowed to fight in Spain. At first arrested in France, they reached Spain climbing the Pyrenees mountains and met the International Brigades at Albacete in May 1937. Nelson started the war as political commissar of the Lincoln Battalion. After heavy losses at Brunete, the Abraham Lincoln Battalion and the George Washington Battalion were merged into the Lincoln–Washington Battalion. Mirko Markovicz, a Yugoslav-American, was appointed as commander of the Lincoln–Washington Battalion and Nelson became his political commissar. In August 1937 the American forces were reorganized. Nelson was promoted to XV International Brigade commissarand Robert Hale Merriman became brigade chief of staff. Hans Amlie became commander of the Lincoln–Washington Battalion. In the fighting at Belchite, which started very badly, only two soldiers of 22 survived the first attempt to take the church of the town. Nelson then led his men in a successful diversionary attack; and Amlie's men entered the fortified town. Nelson was wounded, shot in the face and leg, and Merriman and Amlie received head wounds. After recovering in Valencia, Nelson was given the task to escort prominent visitors (such as John Bernard, Dorothy Parker and Ernest Hemingway).

In the 1940s, Nelson rose to the top ranks of the communist party. After years on the West Coast, the Nelsons returned east, when he was elected to the National Board of the party. He settled in Pittsburgh as District Secretary of Western Pennsylvania.

Steve Nelson moved to California and in 1942 he became chairman of the San Francisco branch of the Communist Party of the United States.

Espionage