[Source: PubMed]

31. Lancet Planet Health. 2019 Jan;3(1):e40-e47. doi:
10.1016/S2542-5196(18)30265-1.

Traumatic amputations caused by drone attacks in the local population in Gaza: a 
retrospective cross-sectional study.

Heszlein-Lossius H(1), Al-Borno Y(2), Shaqqoura S(2), Skaik N(2), Giil LM(3), 
Gilbert MF(4).

Author information:
(1)The Anaesthesia and Critical Care Research Group, Institute of Clinical 
Medicine, The Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø, Norway. Electronic address: 
ssius@gmail.com.
(2)All Al-Shifa Medical Centre, Gaza Strip, occupied Palestinian territory.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Haraldsplass Deaconess Hospital, Bergen, 
Norway.
(4)The Anaesthesia and Critical Care Research Group, Institute of Clinical 
Medicine, The Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Little data exist to describe the use and medical consequences of 
drone strikes on civilian populations in war and conflict zones. Gaza is a 
landstrip within the Palestinian territories and the home of 2 million people. 
The median age in Gaza is 17·2 years and almost half of the population is below 
the age of 14 years. We studied the prevalence and severity of extremity 
amputation injuries caused by drone strikes compared with those caused by other 
explosive weapons among patients with amputations attending the main physical 
prosthesis and rehabilitation centre in Gaza.
METHODS: In this retrospective cross-sectional study, we recruited patients from 
the Artificial Limb and Polio Centre (ALPC) in Gaza city in the Gaza strip with 
conflict-related traumatic extremity amputations. Patients were eligible if they 
had one or more amputations sustained during a military incursion in Gaza during 
2006-16 and had an available patient record. Each patient completed a 
self-reporting questionnaire of the time and mechanism of injury, subsequent 
surgeries, comorbidities, and their socioeconomic status, and we collected each 
patient's medical history, recorded the anatomical location of their amputation 
or amputations, and interviewed each patient to obtain a detailed description of 
the incursion or incursions that led to their amputation injury. We classified 
the severity of amputations and number of subsequent surgeries on ordinal scales 
and then we determined the associations between these outcomes and the mechanism 
of explosive weapon delivery (drone strike vs other) using ordinal logistical 
regression.
FINDINGS: We collected data on 254 patients from APLC who had sustained an 
amputation injury. Of these patients, 234 (92%) were male and 43 (17%) were aged 
18 years or younger at the time of injury. The age of participants was 
representative of the Gaza population, with a median age at inclusion was 28 
years (IQR 23-33), and the median age at the time of injury was 23 years (IQR 
20-29). 136 (54%) amputation injuries were caused by explosive weapons delivered 
by drone strikes, with explosives delivered by tanks being the next most common 
source of amputation injury (28 [11%]). Adjusted for age and sex, 
drone-delivered weapons caused significantly more severe injuries than 
explosives delivered by other mechanisms (eg, military jet airplanes, 
helicopters, tank shelling, and naval artillery; odds ratio [OR] 2·50, 95% CI 
1·52-4·11; p=0·0003). Compared with all other types of weapons, the patients 
whose injuries were caused by drone strikes needed significantly more subsequent 
surgical operations to treat their amputation injuries than those injured by 
other weapons (OR 1·93, 1·19-3·14; p=0·008).
INTERPRETATION: Drone strikes were the most commonly reported cause of 
amputation injury in our study population and were associated with more severe 
injuries and more additional surgeries than injuries caused by other explosive 
weapons. Limitations of our study include the self-reported nature of the 
mechanism of injury and number of subsequent surgeries and selection bias from 
not incorporating amputation injuries from individuals who died immediately or 
due to complications. The increasing use of drones needs to be addressed, rather 
than passively accepted, by the international community. This study fills a gap 
in our knowledge of the civilian consequences of modern warfare and we believe 
it is also relevant to the growing populations that are being exposed to drone 
warfare and for health-care personnel treating these people.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2019 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2542-5196(18)30265-1
PMID: 30654867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]