[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Equine anatomy

camels, do not have a gall bladder, meaning bile flows constantly. Most food is digested and absorbed into the bloodstream from the small intestine, including proteins, simple carbohydrate, fats, and vitamins A, D, . Any remaining liquids and roughage move into the large intestine.

Large intestine

Cecum
The cecum is the first section of the large intestine.  It is also known as the "water gut" or "hind gut". It is a cul-de-sac pouch, about  long that holds . It contains bacteria that digest cellulose plant fiber through fermentation.  These bacteria feed upon chyme digestive, and also produce certain fat-soluble vitamins which are absorbed by the horse.  The reason horses must have their diets changed slowly is so the bacteria in the cecum are able to modify and adapt to the different chemical structure of new feedstuffs. Too abrupt a change in diet can cause colic, which is a broad term used to describe abdominal pain in horses, much like a stomachache in humans. But unlike our occasional tummy upsets, colic in horses can have a myriad of causes and severities, ranging from mild gas buildup to serious intestinal obstructions when the new food is not properly digested.

Other section of the large intestine
The large colon, small colon, and rectum make up the remainder of the large intestine. The large colon is  long and holds up to  of semi-liquid matter.  It is made up of the right ventral (lower) colon, the left ventral colon, the left dorsal (upper) colon, the right dorsal colon, and the transverse colon, in that order.  Three flexures are also named; the sternal flexure, between right and left ventral colon; the pelvic flexure, between left ventral and left dorsal colon; the diaphragmatic flexure, between left dorsal and right dorsal colon.  The main purpose of the large colon is to absorb carbohydrates, which were broken down from cellulose in the cecum. Due to its many twists and turns, it is a common place for a type of horse colic called an impaction.

The small colon is  in length and holds only  of material. It is the area where the majority of water in the horse's diet is absorbed, and is the place where fecal lumps are formed.  The rectum is about  long, and acts as a holding chamber for waste matter, which is then expelled from the body via the anus.

Reproductive system

Mare

The mare's reproductive system is responsible for controlling gestation, birth, and lactation, as well as her estrous cycle and mating behavior. It lies ventral to the 4th or 5th lumbar vertebrae, although its position within the mare can vary depending on the movement of the intestines and distention of the bladder.

The mare has two ovaries, usually  in length and  thick, that generally tend to decrease in size as the mare ages. In equine ovaries, unlike in humans, the vascular tissue is cortical to follicular tissue, so ovulation can only occur at an ovulation fossa near the infundibulum. The ovaries connect to the fallopian tubes (oviducts), which serve to move the ovum from the ovary to the uterus. To do so, the oviducts are lined with a layer of cilia, which produce a current that flows toward the uterus. Each oviduct attaches to one of the two horns of the uterus, which are approximately  in length. These horns attach to the body of the uterus ( long). The equine uterus is bipartite, meaning the two uterine horns fuse into a relatively large uterine body (resembling a shortened bicornuate uterus or a stretched simplex uterus). Caudal to the uterus is the cervix, about  long, which separates the uterus from the vagina. Usually  in diameter with longitudinal folds on the interior surface, it can expand to allow the passage of the foal. The vagina of the mare is  long, and is quite elastic, allowing it to expand. The vulva is the external opening of the vagina, and consists of the clitoris and two labia. It lies ventral to the rectum. The mare has two mammary glands, which are smaller in maiden mares. They have two ducts each, which open externally.

Stallion

The stallion's reproductive system is responsible for his sexual behavior and secondary sex characteristics (such as a large crest). The external genitalia include the urethra; the testes, which average  long; the penis, which, when housed within the prepuce, is  long and  in diameter with the distal end  and when erect,  increases by 3 to .  The internal genitalia accessory sex glands are the vesicular glands, prostate gland, and bulbourethral glands, which contribute fluid to the semen at ejaculation, but are not strictly necessary for fertility.

Teeth