[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Russian Compound

ft in situ, still embedded in the natural rock. The column was presumably destined either for the colonnades of the Herodian Temple or - as a number of capitals found here suggest - for a building of the Theodosian period (second half of the 4th century). It is popularly known as the "Finger of Og".

Recent archaeological excavations suggest that Jerusalem's ancient "Third Wall," built by Agrippa I, extended as far as the Russian Compound, seeing that the newly uncovered section of a wall, measuring  in width, was littered with large ballista stones (stones used as projectiles with a type of crossbow) and sling stones. Pottery discovered at the site also suggests that this battlefield dates back to Roman times. They also discovered the remains of a watchtower along the wall.

See also
 Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia
 Church of Mary Magdalene
 Russians in Israel
 Moscovia Detention Centre

References

Further reading

 Ely Schiller (ed.): The Heritage of the Holy Land. A rare collection of photographs from the Russian Compound 1905-1910, Arie Publishing House, Jerusalem, 1982
 David Kroyanker (ed.): The Russian Compound: Toward the Year 2000. From Russian Pilgrimage Center to a Focus of Urban Activity The Jerusalem Municipality, 1997 
 David Kroyanker: Jerusalem Architecture (p. 132-135, The Russians).  (Introduction by Teddy Kollek), Keter Publishing House Ltd., 1994, 2002
 Yehoshua Ben-Arieh: Jerusalem in the 19th century. Emergence of the New City, St Martin's Press New York/Yad Izhak Ben-Zvi Jerusalem, 1986
 S. Graham: With the Russian Pilgrims to Jerusalem, London 1914  
 Aviva Bar-Am: Return to Bevingrad, Jerusalem Post (Magazine), September 19, 2003

Populated places established in 1860
Russian Orthodox churches in Jerusalem
History of the Russian Orthodox Church
Israel–Soviet Union relations
Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem
Museums in Jerusalem
Tourist attractions in Jerusalem
 
Russian diaspora in Israel
1860 establishments in Ottoman Syria
Russian Orthodox church buildings in the State of Palestine