[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Plant morphology

re is the activity itself".

For Jeune, Barabé and Lacroix, classical morphology (that is, mainstream morphology, based on a qualitative homology concept implying mutually exclusive categories) and continuum morphology are sub-classes of the more encompassing process morphology (dynamic morphology).

Classical morphology, continuum morphology, and process morphology are highly relevant to plant evolution, especially the field of plant evolutionary biology (plant evo-devo) that tries to integrate plant morphology and plant molecular genetics. In a detailed case study on unusual morphologies, Rutishauser (2016) illustrated and discussed various topics of plant evo-devo such as the fuzziness (continuity) of morphological concepts, the lack of a one-to-one correspondence between structural categories and gene expression, the notion of morphospace, the adaptive value of bauplan features versus patio ludens, physiological adaptations, hopeful monsters and saltational evolution, the significance and limits of developmental robustness, etc. Rutishauser (2020) discussed the past and future of plant evo-devo. Our conception of the gynoecium and the search for a fossil ancestor of Angiosperms changes fundamentally from the perspective of evo-devo.

Whether we like it or not, morphological research is influenced by philosophical assumptions such as either/or logic, fuzzy logic, structure/process dualism or its transcendence. And empirical findings may influence the philosophical assumptions. Thus there are interactions between philosophy and empirical findings. These interactions are the subject of what has been referred to as philosophy of plant morphology.

One important and unique event in plant morphology of the 21st century was the publication of Kaplan's Principles of Plant Morphology by Donald R. Kaplan, edited by Chelsea D. Specht (2020). It is a well illustrated volume of 1305 pages in a very large format that presents a wealth of morphological data. Unfortunately, all of these data are only interpreted in terms of classical morphology and the qualitative homology concept, disregarding modern conceptional innovations.
Including continuum and process morphology as well as molecular genetics would provide an enlarged scope.

See also 
 Glossary of plant morphology
 Plant anatomy
 Plant identification
 Plant physiology
 Plant evolutionary developmental biology
 Taxonomy

References

External links 
 Botanical Visual Glossary
 Plant morphology: fundamental issues

 
Branches of botany
-