[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Terrorism in Australia

Terrorism in Australia deals with terrorist acts in Australia as well as steps taken by the Australian government to counter the threat of terrorism. In 2004 the Australian government has identified transnational terrorism as also a threat to Australia and to Australian citizens overseas. Australia has experienced acts of modern terrorism since the 1960s, while the federal parliament, since the 1970s, has enacted legislation seeking to target terrorism.

Terrorism is defined as "an action or threat of action where the action causes certain defined forms of harm or interference and the action is done or the threat is made with the intention of advancing a political, religious and ideological or group cause".

Notable terrorist attacks in Australia 
Terrorists attacks have occurred in Australia over the country's history, including the following notable incidents.

Battle of Broken Hill (1915)

Two men shot dead four people and wounded seven more, before being killed by police and military officers. At the time of their attack, they raised the flag of the Ottoman Caliphate, later the Turkish flag to identify their cause. Neither of the men were members of any official armed force. In today's parlance, their attack would be described as an act of a lone wolf. The two men were later identified as being Muslims from the British colony of India, modern-day Pakistan (some sources incorrectly identify them as Turkish).

Soviet Embassy bombing (1971)
The Embassy of the USSR was attacked by a crude bomb on 17 January 1971 in Canberra.

Sydney Yugoslav General Trade and Tourist Agency bombing (1972)

The Sydney Yugoslav General Trade and Tourist Agency bombing occurred in Haymarket, Sydney on 16 September 1972; the attack injured sixteen people. The perpetrators of the attack were believed to be Croatian separatists.

Sydney Hilton Hotel bombing (1978)

The Sydney Hilton Hotel bombing occurred on 13 February 1978; a bomb exploded outside the Hilton Hotel in George Street, Sydney, which was hosting the first Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting. Two garbage collectors and a police officer were killed and eleven others were injured.

Family Court of Australia attacks (1980–1985)

On 23 June 1980, David Opas, a judge of the Family Court, was shot dead outside his home. In March 1984, a bomb destroyed the home of fellow judge Richard Gee, who survived. In April, a bomb exploded in the Family Court building in Parramatta. In July, the wife of judge Ray Watson was killed when a bomb exploded on their doorstep. In July 1985 a bombing at a Jehovah's Witness hall killed the minister, Graham Wykes.

Iwasaki resort bombing (1980)
At 2am on 29 November 1980, the day of the Queensland State election, a nitropril and fuel oil bomb was detonated with gelignite at the Iwasaki resort construction site north of Yeppoon. The blast created a seven-metre-wide crater in a block of holiday units under construction. Premier Joh Bjelke-Petersen and MP Ben Humphreys labelled the incident a terrorist attack, and a caller to Rockhampton's The Morning Bulletin newspaper claimed responsibility on behalf of the "Queensland Republican Army". The media saw the motivation behind the attack as increasing resentment over Japanese land ownership in Queensland, while Petersen claimed that it was a racist attack. Two men, Eric John Geissman and Kerry Geissman, were committed to trial on 15 May 1981. Both were found not guilty after questions were raised regarding police misconduct in the investigation, a common problem in Queensland at the time.

Sydney Turkish Consul General assassination (1980) 
On 17 December 1980, Sydney Turkish Consul General Şarık Arıyak and his security attaché Engin Sever were assassinated by two people on motorcycles wielding firearms in Sydney. The Justice Commandos of the Armenian Genocide claimed responsibility but the culprits were never identified and no charges were laid. The Consul General was gunned down despite having taken precautions in the form of not travelling in the official consulate Mercedes Benz vehicle and instead being chauffeured in the trailing security attaché's car. In December 2019, it was announced that New South Wales Joint Counter Terrorism Team had established Strike Force Esslemont to re-investigate the murders. The reward, for information that leads to an arrest and conviction, was increased from  to A$1 million. This was the first ever million-dollar reward offered in Australia for an act of terrorism.

In August 2020 police Marine Area Command divers searched Greenwich Point in relation to the assassination.

Jack van Tongeren and the ANM (1980s, 2004)