[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1983 Israel bank stock crisis

aware of the adjustments regime, but aside from slight warnings, easily dismissed by the banks' managers, they did nothing, failing even to warn the public. The Minister of the Finance, Yoram Aridor, even remarked on television that had he had the funds to do so, he would invest in the stock market.

The adjustments were based on the promise of a constant rise in the banks' stock prices, irrespective of the economic situation. The artificial prices thus achieved created an Economic bubble, where everyone involved continued to invest increasing sums of money for lesser returns. Every new issue of bank stocks further destabilized them, since more of the capital was invested in maintaining the adjustment regime instead of profitable loans. Also, as the market share of bank stocks grew, the adjustments became weaker, as every cent (agora, actually) invested by the banks became a smaller part of the total invested capital.

The real return (i.e. over and above the Consumer Price Index) on investment in the banks' stocks diminished, from a 41% return in 1980, to 34% in 1981, to 28% in 1982. Other investment options, especially purchasing U.S. dollars became more appealing, and the banks had to transfer more and more funds from their offshore tax havens to keep maintaining the illusion of safety of investing in their stocks.

Crisis
In early 1983, share prices across all non-financial stocks on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange suffered from weakness.  The banks invested heavily in all issues, hoping to maintain liquidity in the market. From January through March, some regulators, among them Finance Minister Aridor and Bank of Israel Governor Moshe Mendelbaum, approached the banks several times, trying to get them to gradually reduce their adjustments. Although some bank managers realized they could not continue this for long, they did not stop. Fearing a market collapse, Finance Ministry officials kept knowledge of this from the public.

However, the 8% devaluation in August was far too small to accomplish the purpose. Additionally, the supplies in the stock market grew steadily, and reached new heights in September. The public unrelentingly sold bank stocks, and purchFailing to stop the banks, Finance Ministry officials wished to execute a large devaluation of the Shekel as an excuse to stop the adjustments. ased U.S. dollars.

Bank stocks remained under pressure. On October 2, the first trading day after the Sukkot holiday, the public sold more bank stocks than in the entire month of September. On October 4, the Minister of Finance appeared on television saying, "We will not let the public dictate our moves," to say the large supplies would not bring about a devaluation or change of policy.

During those years the public's trust in the Finance Minister's promises was non-existent. Most of the public assumed the minister would lie at any time, and paid no attention to his statements. Most of all, Aridor's denial made it clear that at this point the public was dictating the government's moves.

Aridor later met with the banks' managers, who demanded the government limit the public's purchases of U.S. dollars, and allow it only for plane tickets. They assumed that without an option to save the money themselves, due to the high inflation, the public would be forced to invest in the banks' stocks. Even if their thesis was correct, one can assume such a move would only fuel the panic, and exacerbate the crisis.

On October 5, the stock exchange again opened with large numbers of sell offers, and on October 6, 1983, nicknamed "Black Thursday", there was an onslaught of sales. It was clear a collapse was a matter of days away at most, since the banks declared that day they would be unable to absorb additional supplies without government assistance.

That night, in a meeting at Aridor's home, it was decided that the government would purchase the banks' stocks from the public, to prevent the loss of their investments. On Sunday, October 9, the stock exchange remained closed, and stayed closed till October 24. In the meantime the shekel was devalued by 23%. The stocks sold by the public were bought by the Bank of Israel (the nation's central bank) at an average loss of 17%. Eventually, 35% of the stocks' value was lost.

Results
The immediate consequences of the crisis were the loss of a third of the public's investments in the banks, the acquisition of the banks by the government at a total cost of $6.9 billion (for reference, Israel's entire GDP in 1983 was about $27 billion), and the nationalization of the major banks (Leumi, Hapoalim, HaMizrachi, Discount, and Clali).