[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Salih ibn Mirdas

shes in Ma'arrat al-Nu'man in 1026/27, Salih imprisoned Muslim notables from the town on charges of razing a winehouse whose Christian owner was accused by a Muslim woman of molesting her. Salih later released them after the intercession of the poet al-Ma'arri, whose brother was among the prisoners.

Information is largely absent regarding any major administrative changes Salih made to the Emirate of Aleppo. His only known institutional innovation was the post of shaykh al-dawla (chieftain of the state) or raʾīs al-balad (municipal chief), who came from a prominent leading family and served as Salih's trusted confidant and permanent representative with the people of Aleppo. The post emulated that of the sheikh, who played a secondary role to an emir in a princely Kilabi clan. Salih appointed Ibn Mustafad to the post and utilized the latter's aḥdāth, which consisted of armed young men from the city's lower and middle classes, as a police force. Although they cooperated with Salih, the aḥdāth were still an independent force. Sometime during his reign, Salih also acquired some Turkish ghilmān, though details about them are lacking in the sources.

Influence over the Bedouin
According to historian Thierry Bianquis, Salih had "brought to success the plan which guided his [Kilabi] forebears for a century", and that he ruled with "concern for order and respectability". At its core, Salih's emirate was held together by Kilabi tribal solidarity, and indeed the Kilab were the backbone of the Mirdasid army. Though Salih previously established his paramountcy over the Kilabi chieftains, the Mirdasids were not the only princely clan of the tribe and several emirs from other clans demanded a stake in the emirate. Salih granted each of these emirs an iqṭāʿ (fief; pl. iqṭāʿat), though details about the size or specific holders of the iqṭāʿat are absent in contemporary sources.

Bedouin customs were a conspicuous feature of Salih's rule, and he always appeared publicly in the garb of a Bedouin chieftain rather than that of an urban leader. Moreover, Salih preferred to live in his tribal camp in the outskirts of Aleppo rather than the city itself. After his establishment in Aleppo, Salih's status increased among the Bedouin of Syria and the Jazira. He was sometimes referred to by Arabic chroniclers as amīr ʿarab al-Shām (commander of the Bedouin of Syria). The value of this title in Salih's time is unclear, but it "at least indicate[d] the high position of its holder", according to Zakkar.

Besides his leadership of the Kilab and influence over the Tayy and Kalb in Syria, Salih's influence also extended to tribes in the Jazira, including the Numayr. When two Numayri emirs lost Edessa to Nasr al-Dawla, the Marwanid emir of Mayyafariqin, they appealed for Salih's intervention; accordingly, he persuaded Nasr to restore Edessa to the Numayr. Furthermore, the Banu Munqidh first emerged as a political force in the Orontes valley under his patronage in 1024/25. At that time, Salih awarded the Munqhidi chieftain Muqallad ibn Nasr ibn Munqidh the feudal lands around Shayzar as an iqṭāʿ for supporting his conquest of Aleppo, but the town of Shayzar itself was controlled by the Byzantines.

Death and aftermath

Between 1025 and 1028, the Fatimids reached an agreement with Salih's Jarrahid/Tayyi allies, allowing them to maintain their foothold in interior Palestine, while Anushtakin was recalled to Cairo. In contrast to the Mirdasids, the Tayy consistently plundered their territory and its inhabitants. Moreover, the Fatimids would not permanently tolerate independent rule in Palestine: as Egypt's gateway to Southwest Asia, this posed a threat to the Caliphate's survival. Meanwhile, as the Fatimids regrouped, the Kalb had been repelled from Damascus, and in 1028, their emir died. He was replaced by his nephew, Rafi ibn Abi'l-Layl, who defected to the Fatimids, thus weakening the tripartite Bedouin alliance. In November 1028, Anushtakin returned to Palestine with a large Fatimid army and more horsemen from the Kalb and Banu Fazara to drive out the Tayy and evict the Mirdasids from central Syria.

With the Fatimids and Kalb poised against him, Hassan appealed for Salih's help to maintain their tribes' virtual autonomy throughout Syria against Fatimid encroachment. Accordingly, Salih mobilized his Kilabi forces to reinforce the Tayy in Palestine. The Bedouin leaders first encountered the Fatimid–Kalb army in the vicinity of Gaza, but, unable to halt their advance, they withdrew to the north. On 12 May or 25 May 1029, the two sides fought at al-Uqhuwana, on the eastern shores of Lake Tiberias. For unknown reasons, Hassan and his forces fled in the heat of battle, leaving Salih and his men to face Anushtakin's army alone. The Kilab were decisively defeated and Salih, his youngest son and his vizier were slain.