[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Otto Šling

produce evidence against Slánský when he in turn became the target of investigations.

The trial
The scripted show trial that included Šling, Slánský, and twelve others began on 20 November 1952. All were accused of being Trotskyist-zionist-Titoist-bourgeois-nationalist enemies of the Czech people.

A curious incident occurred during the trial: Šling was wearing the same trousers as at his arrest. Because he had lost so much weight since his arrest, and because the prisoners were not given belts, lest they use them to commit suicide, he had to hold his trousers up with his hands.  During his cross-examination, Šling was gesticulating and accidentally let trousers fall down, causing a merry uproar in the courtroom from all, including Šling, except for the interrogators.

In Šling’s closing statement, he said, “I was a treacherous enemy within the Communist Party…I am justly an object of contempt and deserve the maximum and the hardest punishment.” On 27 November 1952, Rudolf Slánský, Bedrich Geminder, Ludvik Frejka, Vladimir Clementis, Bedrich Reicin, Karel Šváb, Rudolf Margolius, Otto Fischl, Otto Šling, and André Simone were sentenced to death; the remaining three, including Eugen Loebl and Artur London, received life sentences.

Šling was executed on 3 December 1952. His last words were, “Mr. President [of the Court], I wish every success to the Communist Party, the Czechoslovak people, and the President of the Republic. I have never been a spy.”

Rehabilitation and posthumous references to Šling
On 21 August 1963, Otto Šling and the others convicted in his trial were officially rehabilitated by the KSČ and acquitted of all indictments. Three years earlier, the USSR had stated publicly that an anti-state conspiracy center had never existed. In the Dubček Government’s Commission of Inquiry, Václav Kopecký’s report in February 1951 is labeled a “mass of fabrications, idle gossip, and irresponsible dramatics about the Šling-Švermová case.”

This rehabilitation came at a time of de-Stalinization, when governments blamed the previous regimes and ideologies for the current situation. Reports on the trials came out during the Prague Spring period of 1968 in Czechoslovakia, though were quickly suppressed after the invasion of the Warsaw Pact troops in August that year.

See also
 Artur London
 Rudolf Margolius
 Milada Horáková
 Slánský trial

References

Sources
Please be advised that of the sources used, the Dubček Government’s report came out as part of a political push for the reform of socialism, and the Loebl, London, and Šlings texts are all memoirs that reference Czech records.

Works cited 
 Crampton, R. J. Eastern Europe in the Twentieth Century – and After. 2nd ed. New York: Routledge, 1994.
 “Executed Czechs ‘Rehabilitated.’" The Times. 22 August 1963, issue 52476: p. 6.
 Loebl, Eugen. My Mind on Trial. New York: Harvest/HBJ, 1976.
 London, Artur. The Confession. New York: William Morrow and Company, Inc, 1970.
 Lukes, Igor. Rudolf Slánský: His Trials and Trial. Cold War International History Project #50. (pdf)
 Pelikán, Jiří, ed. The Czechoslovak Political Trials 1950-1954: The Suppressed Report of the Dubček Government’s Commission of Inquiry, 1968.  Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1971.
 Šlingova, Marian. Truth Will Prevail.  London: Merlin Press, Ltd., 1968.

1912 births
1952 deaths
People from Nová Cerekev
People from the Kingdom of Bohemia
Jewish Czech politicians
Members of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia
Members of the Interim National Assembly of Czechoslovakia
Members of the Constituent National Assembly of Czechoslovakia
Members of the National Assembly of Czechoslovakia (1948–1954)
Jewish socialists
Slánský trial defendants
Executed politicians
Executed Czech people
Executed Czechoslovak people
People executed by the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic by hanging