[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# City Circle Line

de, ). That same year, various other works were finished, including the walls around all of the stations, and three of the shaft structures. Reportedly, the final construction activity was centered upon the refurbishment of the surrounding areas around the new stations.

Stations and route

Overview

The  City Circle Line serves 17 stations. It crosses the M1 and M2 lines at Kongens Nytorv and Frederiksberg stations, and suburban train services at København H, Østerport and Nørrebro. It extend the Metro network to the Nørrebro and Østerbro areas and København H (the Copenhagen central station). The City Circle Line services to many of the major areas of Copenhagen, including the Danish Parliament, the Central Station, City Hall, and multiple stations of the S-train and existing metro stops. Access to the region and commuter heavy rail network is also deliberately provision for at several places along its route; furthermore, a twin-track line provides a connection between the City Circle Line and the Nordhavnen Metro. Just as M1 and M2 share a section of the existing metro, the City Circle Line shares a 6-station section with the M4 line.

Initially, two possible routes were considered, after an even bigger screening of ideas. In December 2005, it was announced that the Copenhagen and Frederiksberg municipalities had selected the Frederiksberg route; the purpose is to cover areas not yet served by S-trains or the Metro.

The finished City Circle Line has been promoted as playing a heavy influence upon much of Copenhagen's current transport network. The transit agency Movia projects up to 34 million passengers switch from buses to the Metro annually. Once the line is completed, 85 per cent of all homes, work places and educational facilities in Copenhagen's inner city area, as well as the surrounding neighbourhoods, shall be less than a ten-minute walk from either a metro or train station. It has been projected for the line is used by approximately 240,000 passengers per day. It is fully automated, being operated using a driverless system that provides 24/7 service coverage and at a peak frequency between trains of 100 seconds. It is intended for trains on the line to achieve an average speed of 40km/h during regular service. As such, performing a round journey on the line is estimated takes approximately 29 minutes.

Stations
The stations of the City Circle Line are all underground, with easy access from the street level to the platform. The structure of the stations is largely identical to that of the existing Copenhagen Metro stations. They are built at a depth of approximately 19 meters using cut-and-cover methods; a standardised box structure has been adopted, measuring 64 meters by 20 meters. Each one is outfitted with island platforms of between 7 meters and 9 meters.

Stations are listed counterclockwise, beginning in the southeast.

 København H (Copenhagen Central Station, interchange with S-trains, DSB and SJ)
 Rådhuspladsen (City Hall Square)
 Gammel Strand near Christiansborg Palace
 Kongens Nytorv (interchange with M1 and M2)
 Marmorkirken (The Marble Church)
 Østerport (interchange with S-trains and DSB)
 Trianglen (close to the Parken Stadium)
 Poul Henningsens Plads
 Vibenshus Runddel
 Skjolds Plads
 Nørrebro (interchange with S-trains)
 Nørrebros Runddel
 Nuuks Plads
 Aksel Møllers Have
 Frederiksberg (interchange with M1 and M2)
 Frederiksberg Allé
 Enghave Plads

While the stations have a similar structure to those of the current Metro, they have been designed with more varied materials and colors, making each individual station more recognisable.

Rolling stock
Italian rolling stock manufacturer AnsaldoBreda, which had previously provided trains for the existing Copenhagen metro, was selected to supply new-build rolling stock for the line. Deliveries of the trains to the Metro company commenced during 2014; these are being referred to as being the version 5 of the AnsaldoBreda Driverless Metro trains. While these vehicles are broadly identical to the ones running on the Copenhagen metro, they feature several advancements in technology, materials and design.

The driverless trains are directly monitored from the line's centralised operations and maintenance centre; they are equipped with a communications-based train control (CBTC) for this purpose. These vehicles are to reportedly capable of a top speed of 90 km/h, an increase over the 80 km/h maximum for trains used on other Metro lines. They have a maximum capacity of 314 passengers and there is a train every 100 seconds, giving a frequency of 36 trains per hour. The system runs 24 hours per day, and passengers are able to keep track of the train location through an electronic display system.

References

External links

Information about the City Circle from the official Copenhagen Metro web site
City Circle Line official website