[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Edwin T. Woodward

uly 21, 1876, and laid up."

In 1876, Woodward served on the screw sloop . Newly commissioned on January 10, 1876, Vandalia "was soon deployed with the European Squadron and spent most of the next three years cruising in the Mediterranean Sea along the coasts of Africa, the Middle East, and Turkey."

Woodward was ordered to torpedo duty in 1877, was promoted to commander in February 1878. He was stationed at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard from 1879 to 1880. He was probably on leave in 1880, when he was listed in the New York Census, living with his wife and father-in-law, Bostwick Hawley, in Saratoga Springs, New York.

After his tour at Philadelphia, Woodward was ordered to his first command, , a Civil War vintage wooden-hulled screw gunboat. Under his command, Yantics crew took part in celebrations attending the unveiling of the statue of Admiral David G. Farragut in Washington, D.C., on  April 25, 1881, before sailing later that spring to Mexican waters. In June, at Progreso, Yucatán, she investigated the detention of the American bark Acacia before returning northward to familiar waters off the eastern seaboard of the United States." Woodward received the thanks of the State Department, probably in relation to the Acacia incident. In October 1881, Yantic also took part in observances commemorating the centennial of the Battle of Groton Heights and in festivities celebrating the centennial of the American victory at Yorktown, Virginia."

In 1884, Woodward is supposed to have commanded a squadron of ironclads, including the ,  and , but the ships' histories do not appear to support such a squadron. Passaic was a Civil War-era coastal monitor stationed at the Naval Academy, Annapolis, from 1883 to 1892. Nantucket was also a Civil War-era coastal monitor, briefly recommissioned between June and October 1884; it operated along the northern east coast. Alarm was an experimental torpedo boat which conducted research duties at New York in 1884 and served there until she was placed out of commission in 1885 and berthed at New York. This time frame bears more research. Whatever he did, Woodward received a commendatory letter from the Secretary of the Navy for his activities.

Woodward commanded , a screw sloop, from 1885 and 1886. The highlight of Swataras activities during his command was the transport of a cargo of gold bullion from New Orleans, Louisiana, to Washington, D.C., in September 1885. "In early 1886, she was assigned hydrographic duties fixing locations on the Puerto Rican coast. After subsequently cruising as far north as Halifax, Nova Scotia, Swatara arrived at the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, where she was decommissioned on October 27, 1886," and Woodward relinquished command.

In 1888, Woodward was in temporary command of , a monitor under construction at the New York Navy Yard.

Woodward spent his last two years at sea in command of the screw steamer . Originally commissioned in 1876, Adams had spent several years in the Pacific before returning to Mare Island Naval Shipyard for a brief period of repairs in early 1889. On April 22, 1889, Commander Woodward in command, "Adams took on stores and supplies before departing San Francisco on June 18. She arrived at Honolulu on Independence Day 1889 and remained there for a month."

"The duration of her stay in Hawaii resulted from the maturation of a plot to dethrone King Kalākaua and dissolve the reform government installed by American business and missionary interests as a result of the "Bloodless Revolution of 1887" that had been carried out in the course of Adams previous extended sojourn in the islands. During the night of 29 and July 30, insurgents occupied the palace grounds and a local militia unit, styled the Honolulu Rifles, took up positions in support of the government. By the evening of the 30th, the Honolulu Rifles had subdued the insurrection." At that point, Woodward sent a landing party from the ship which established itself in the vicinity of the American legation. But the Hawaiian government restored order quickly without the necessity of American intervention, and the landing party returned to ship the following morning.

On August 4, 1889, Adams departed Honolulu and sailed a course south to Samoa, arriving at Apia harbor, Samoa on August 20. For the next nine months, she remained in those islands serving as American station ship there making periodic visits to various islands. On May 2, 1890, Adams set sail from Pago Pago bound via Hawaii for the west coast of the United States. She entered San Francisco Bay on June 24 and moored at the Mare Island Naval Shipyard on the 25th. There she was placed out of commission, in ordinary, on July 31, 1890.