[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Max Guevara

f Seattle where hundreds of outcast transgenics have been hiding. When the police begin to surround Terminal City, Max convinces the other transgenics to stand their ground rather than run. The second and final season ends with the military surrounding and possibly preparing to invade Terminal City.

The novel Dark Angel: Skin Game picks up where season two ends. Reports of a transgenic serial killer in Seattle are exacerbating the stand-off at Terminal City. Max uncovers that the killer's psychosis was caused by him unwillingly being given a psychoactive drug by White. A truce develops between transgenics and the authorities after Max publicly reveals the information, and White goes into hiding. The final novel, Dark Angel: After the Dark, picks up where the previous novel ends. Cale is kidnapped by the cult, who are trying to provoke Max into attacking them. Max eventually leads an assault on the cult's headquarters, which frees Cale and results in White's death and the compound being set on fire. As the headquarters burn Max finds Lydecker in a prison cell, and he promises to help her find her mother if she saves him, to which she agrees. The book ends with Cale and Max finally consummating their relationship.

Reception
Max has been cited as a feminist character and is considered a symbol of female empowerment. Writing for the University of Melbourne, Bronwen Auty considered Max to be the "archetypal modern feminist hero – a young woman empowered to use her body actively to achieve goals", citing Max's refusal to use firearms and instead using martial arts and knowledge as weapons as contributing to this status. Writing in Science Fiction Film & Television, Clarice Butkus noted Max has been considered a "distinctly millennial post-third-wave feminist warrior", and considered Max's relationship and dialogue with Original Cindy, an African American lesbian, to convey female empowerment. For example Cindy encourages Max not to feel guilt over her sexual behaviour and instead to embrace a traditionally masculine approach to sex. Writing in Reconstruction: Studies in Contemporary Culture, Lorna Jowett also considered Max an example of female empowerment, saying she appeared to be the "usual postmodern, postfeminist representation of the female action hero" who displayed mixtures and reversals of traditional gender traits.

The character received mainly positive reviews from critics. In October 2000 Howard Rosenberg commented "If pouty faces and sexy walks could destroy, the highly arresting Max would be wiping out the entire planet. It's actually quite moving. And she looks great on her bike." Hal Boedeker from the Orlando Sentinel gave a positive review of Max, and compared her skills to those of Catwoman, Xena, Emma Peel and Wonder Woman. Time commented favorably on Alba's physical skills portraying Max, though stated she had "an emotional range unusual among action babes." Conversely, Joyce Millman said "Cameron and Eglee give us very little incentive to care about Max as a person, the way we care about Buffy or Faith. And that's because Max is little more than lips and ass and a premise reminiscent of other, better shows". In December 2000 People listed Alba's portrayal of Max as among the breakthrough performances of 2000.

Alba was nominated for several awards for her portrayal of Max. She won "Best Actress on Television" at the 27th Saturn Awards, "Breakout Star of the Year" at the TV Guide Awards, "Outstanding Actress in a New Television Series" at the ALMA Awards and "Choice Actress" at the 2001 Teen Choice Awards. In 2004, Max was ranked at number 17 in TV Guides list of the "25 Greatest Sci-Fi Legends", and in 2012, Dave Golder from GamesRadar ranked Max at number 49 on his list of the 100 sexiest women in sci-fi.

References

Bibliography

Dark Angel (American TV series)
Television characters introduced in 2000
Characters created by James Cameron
Cultural depictions of Jessica Alba
Fictional characters from Seattle
Fictional characters who can move at superhuman speeds
Fictional characters with accelerated healing
Fictional characters with superhuman strength
Fictional characters with superhuman senses
Fictional genetically engineered characters
Fictional American postal workers
Fictional female martial artists
Fictional feminists and women's rights activists
Fictional professional thieves
Fictional secret agents and spies in television
Fictional super soldiers
Fictional twins
Fictional vigilantes
Female soldier and warrior characters in television
Female superheroes
Television superheroes
Martial artist characters in television
Science fiction television characters
American female characters in television