[Source: PubMed]

59. EClinicalMedicine. 2025 Oct 24;90:103586. doi: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2025.103586. 
eCollection 2025 Dec.

Identifying Social factors that Stratify Health Opportunities and Outcomes 
(ISSHOOs) in pain research: consensus recommendations for the collection and 
reporting of equity-relevant data.

Karran EL(1)(2), Cashin AG(1)(3)(4), Chiarotto A(1)(5), Sharma S(1)(3)(4)(6)(7), 
Barker T(1)(2), Boyd MA(1)(8)(9), Maxwell LJ(1)(10)(11), Mohabir V(1)(12), 
Petkovic J(1)(13)(14)(15), Tugwell P(1)(10)(13)(14)(15), Moseley GL(1)(2); 
ISSHOOs Group.

Collaborators: Ajayi OK, Appiah RP, Barnabe C, Bernardes SF, Bouhassira D, Calvo 
M, Cowern M, Fullen BM, Hofstetter C, Janevic MR, Kapos FP, Langford DJ, 
Lennox-Thompson B, Loeser JD, Palermo T, Parker R, Phuentsho K, Rice AS, Tejani 
S, Treede RD, Tufte J, Yeo A.

Author information:
(1)The 'Identifying Social Factors that Stratify Health Opportunities and 
Outcomes' (ISSHOOS) Collaboration Core Research Group.
(2)IIMPACT in Health, University of South Australia, Kaurna Country, Adelaide, 
South Australia, Australia.
(3)Centre for Pain IMPACT, Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(4)School of Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of New 
South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(5)Department of General Practice, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Pain Management and Research Centre, Royal North Shore Hospital, Northern 
Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(7)Pain Management Research Institute, Kolling Institute, Faculty of Medicine 
and Health, The University of Sydney and Northern Sydney Local Health District, 
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(8)Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, 
South Australia, Australia.
(9)Northern Adelaide Local Health Network, South Australia, Australia.
(10)Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Methodological and Implementation 
Research, Ottawa, Canada.
(11)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, 
Canada.
(12)Child Health Evaluative Sciences, Peter Gilgan Centre for Research and 
Learning, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(13)WHO Collaborating Centre for Knowledge Translation and Health Technology 
Assessment in Health Equity, Bruyere Health Research Institute, Ottawa, Canada.
(14)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, 
Canada.
(15)University of Ottawa, School of Epidemiology and Public Health, Faculty of 
Medicine, Ottawa, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The aspiration to improve health equity is fundamental to scholarly 
focus and action in public health, and highly relevant to addressing the global 
burden of pain-the leading contributor to disability worldwide. There is 
potential for advancement towards health equity to be facilitated by greater 
access to data that identifies the role of socio-demographic factors in pain and 
health outcomes.
METHODS: The 'Identifying Social factors that Stratify Health Opportunities and 
Outcomes (ISSHOOs) in Pain Research' project was a multi-stage process that 
aimed to reach consensus on the most important equity-relevant items to include 
in all human adult pain research. Conducted April 2022-May 2025, it incorporated 
two scoping reviews (published 2023), an international Delphi study (published 
2025), consensus meetings and focus groups; prioritising global participation, 
patient perspectives, and interdisciplinary expertise throughout.
FINDINGS: Three hundred and four individuals from 45 countries, across six 
continents, contributed to developing two sets of items. Set A, the 'minimum 
dataset', is a globally relevant set of eight standardised socio-demographic 
items (age, sex, gender identity, place, race/ethnicity/cultural identity, 
education, financial position, work status), accompanied by concise guidance to 
assist implementation and setting-specific tailoring; Set B is an 'extended 
dataset' of optional items from which researchers can select items consistent 
with their study population and research questions. The ISSHOOs recommendations 
offer a culturally sensitive, cross-culturally relevant, practical and highly 
useful resource.
INTERPRETATION: Routine adoption and clear reporting of the ISSHOOs datasets 
across all human adult pain research will lead to improved and harmonious 
descriptions of research participants across health equity domains. Our goal is 
to promote equity-relevant awareness and understanding, and ultimately drive 
progress towards reducing avoidable disparities in health for people with pain, 
with potential for broader application to other fields of health.
FUNDING: NHMRC (Australia); MAYDAY Fund; IASP; Canada Research Chair Program; 
European Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Programme; ZonMw programs.

© 2025 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2025.103586
PMCID: PMC12595279
PMID: 41209654

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have completed the ICMJE uniform 
disclosure form and declare: Core Research Group: ELK has received support from 
the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) Australia and is 
currently supported by The Mayday Fund. ELK has received speaker fees for 
lectures on pain and rehabilitation from professional and scientific bodies, and 
reimbursement of travel costs related to presentations at scientific 
conferences/symposia. ELK is an unpaid member of The International Association 
for the Study of Pain (IASP) Global Year 2025 on the theme of “Pain Management, 
Research, and Education in Low/Middle-Income Settings”, the IASP, and the 
Australian Pain Society. AC is supported by grants from the European Horizon 
2020 Research and Innovation Programme (Europe), the ZonMw Huisartsgeneeskunde 
en Ouderengeneeskunde (HGOG) Programme and the ZonMw Goed Gebruik Geneesmiddelen 
(GGG) Programme (The Netherlands). SS was supported by the John J. Bonica 
Postdoctoral Fellowship from the IASP (2021–2023). The IASP did not have any 
influence on Dr Sharma's research. SS has received funding grant from the 
Medical Research Future Fund, the ANZ Back Pain Clinical Trials Networks and the 
National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC). SS has received financial 
support for travel costs related to presentations at scientific conferences, and 
renumeration for delivery of online lectures. SS has unpaid relationships with 
the following entities: SS is a board member for the Pain, Mind, and Movement 
Special Interest Group of the IASP, and the IASP Global Alliance for Partners in 
Pain Advocacy (GAPPA). SS is a trainee Editor for Pain Research Forum of the 
IASP and an Associate Editor for (1) the Journal of Orthopaedic & Sports 
Physical Therapy and (2) Physiotherapy. SS is Co-chair of The IASP Global Year 
2025 on the theme of “Pain Management, Research, and Education in 
Low/Middle-Income Settings”. SS is a member of the IASP, Nepal Physiotherapy 
Association, and Australian Pain Society. PT has received consulting fees to 
provide independent medical consultation and professional services. He is an 
independent Committee Member for clinical trial Data Safety Monitoring Boards 
for FDA approved trials being conducted by UCB Biopharma GmbH & SPRL, Parexel 
International, Prahealth Sciences. PT is an [unpaid] Chair of the Management 
Subcommittee of the Executive Committee of a registered non-profit independent 
medical research organisation, OMERACT. GLM has received funding support from 
the NHMRC. GLM has received book royalties from books on pain and education 
from: NOIgroup publications; Dancing Giraffe Press; OPTP. GLM has received 
consulting fees from various sporting organisations; workers’ compensation 
boards; ConnectHealth UK; IOH California; Reality Health. He has received 
speaker fees for lectures on pain, pain education and rehabilitation from 
various professional societies; and travel and accommodation support for 
attendance at scientific meetings from Reality Health. GLM is an (unpaid) board 
member of the Australian Pain Solutions Alliance and has unpaid scientific 
advisor roles with the CRPS network and RSDSA. The ISSHOOs Group: OA is a 
voluntary member of The International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP) 
Global Year 2025 on the theme of “Pain Management, Research, and Education in 
Low/Middle-Income Settings”, a voluntary member of the Global Alliance of 
Partners for Pain Advocacy (GAPPA), Sickle Cell Disease Ambassador for Rare 
Disease South Africa, and Member of the Sickle Cell Disease Coalition (SCDC) for 
the American Society of Haematology (ASH). DB has received payments and 
honoraria for lectures/presentations from Grunenthal. MC has received grant 
support from the National Agency R&D Chile, and payments for 
lectures/presentations from Grunenthal Latin America. MC has unpaid roles on the 
IASP Council and as NeuPSIG Secretary. MC (Cowern) has a paid leadership role as 
Head of Nations at UK Charity Versus Arthritis and an unpaid role as OMERACT PRP 
Support Team member. BMF received support for attending European Pain Federation 
(EFIC) European Congresses while in her role as President of EFIC (2020–2023). 
CH has received speaker payments from THINC Grant (CIHR) and received a stipend 
from OMERACT to attend bi-annual conferences. CH has a role in the Management 
Group at OMERACT. FK has received grant support from MASS Pain Study in NC 
(2023–2024) and The BACk Study (2024-present). FK has received payments for 
delivering workshops and webinars associated with the NIH HEAL Initiative and 
has received travel support to attend national and international 
conferences/symposia from professional organisations (USASP, IASP, ACTTION, 
QPRN). FK held the role of treasurer of the International Network for Orofacial 
pain and Related disorders Methodology (INfORM) (2020–2023). DL has received 
salary support from the HSS Dept of Anaesthesiology, Critical Care & Pain 
Management Research & Education Fund, and has received grant support from the 
NIH. DL has received travel support and payments for lectures/presentations from 
Analgesic, Anaesthetic, and Addiction Clinical Trials, Translations, Innovations 
and Opportunities Network (ACTTION). BLT has received grant support from the 
Health Research Council, New Zealand; Medical Research Future Fund (Australia); 
and the Canadian Chiropractic Research Foundation. BL has received support to 
attend meetings at the University of Otago and holds a role in the Lived 
Experience Advisory Panel, NZ Pain Society. BLT writes the blog 
https://healthskills.wordpress.com and runs educational courses for health 
professionals in New Zealand. JL has received annual payments from the Faculty 
for Honours Pain Course at University of Washington over the past decade. TP has 
received grant/contract funding from the NIH; has received royalties from Oxford 
University Press and consulting fees from TriveniBio. TP is Editor-in-Chief, 
Journal of Pain. RP has received grants to attend and participate in 
international research meetings from National Research Foundation of South 
Africa Knowledge, Interchange and Collaboration Grants (KIC23032487234; 
KIC240314209107; KIC24082824087). RP has received payment for lecturing on pain 
and pain management from Train Pain Academy not for profit organisation (South 
Africa), and payment for a webinar on pain from Heleon South Africa. RP is a 
councillor and fiduciary officer of IASP. ASCR has received grants from UKRI 
(Medical Research Council & BBSRC), Versus Arthritis, Alan and Sheila Diamond 
Trust, Royal British Legion, European Commission, Ministry of Defence, Dr Jennie 
Gwynn Bequests, The British Pain Society, Royal Society of Medicine. ASCR 
undertakes consultancy and advisory board work for Imperial College 
Consultants–in the last 24 months this has included remunerated work for: 
AstraZeneca, Pharmnovo, Confo and Combigene. ASCR has received payments or 
honoraria for lectures/presentations from Hospital for Special Surgery/Cornell 
University, USA; and United Arab Emirates University. ASCR has a patent issued 
or pending for Rice A.S.C., Vandevoorde S. and Lambert D.M Methods using 
N-(2-propenyl) hexadecanamide and related amides to relieve pain. WO 2005/079 
771. ASCR is President of IASP and has had roles on the following committees: 
Joint Committee on Vaccine and Immunisation-varicella sub-committee (until 
2024); Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), Commission on 
Human Medicines–Neurology, Pain & Psychiatry Expert Advisory Group (until 2024); 
Analgesic Clinical Trial Translation: Innovations, Opportunities, and Networks 
(ACTTION) steering committee member (until 2024); Non-Freezing Cold Injury 
(NFCI) Independent Senior Advisory Committee (NISAC) (current). ST is a member 
of the Board of Directors of the Australian Pain Society. RDT has received 
grants from the European Union GA 777 500, DFG SFB 1158, GRK2350, IRTG 1874; and 
cash contributions to EU grant: Esteve, TEVA. RDT has received consulting fees 
from Bayer, Cered, Grünenthal, GSK, Merz, Sanofi; and support for meeting 
attendance, presentations and travel from several scientific societies. RDT has 
leadership or fiduciary roles in AWMF, IASP, EFIC, DGSS, WHO-MSAC. JT has 
received payments and support to attend University of Ottawa Equity meetings and 
participate in STROBE research activities and manuscript writing. AY is 
Councillor of the Pain in Childhood Special Interest Group, IASP; and Vice 
President of the Pain Association of Singapore. There are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.