[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Committee for Human Rights in North Korea

The Committee for Human Rights in North Korea (HRNK), formerly known as the U.S. Committee for Human Rights in North Korea, is a Washington, D.C.-based non-governmental research organization that "seeks to raise awareness about conditions in North Korea and to publish research that focuses the world's attention on human rights abuses in that country."

Founded in 2001 by a group of foreign policy and human rights specialists, HRNK has published fifty-six reports on issues relevant to North Korean human rights today.  The committee's leadership has testified to Congress about North Korean human rights and China's forced repatriation of North Korean refugees.  In April 2012, HRNK held its first major conference on North Korean human rights to launch its publication, The Hidden Gulag, Second Edition, on North Korean political prison camps.

History

Establishment
HRNK was founded in 2001 by a group of foreign policy and human rights specialists to fill a gap in non-governmental expertise on North Korea.  Well-established organizations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch initially found it difficult to incorporate North Korea, about which information is frequently difficult to obtain, into their models of research and advocacy.

In 2003 HRNK released the first edition of The Hidden Gulag by David Hawk.  This was the first comprehensive study of North Korea's prison camp system.

Past Involvement
From its inception, HRNK claims itself to be a non-partisan holder of expertise on North Korea in the United States. Early members of the Board of Directors include figures such as Chuck Downs, Nicholas Eberstadt (of the American Enterprise Institute, conservative think-tank), Carl Gershman (president of National Endowment for Democracy), Morton I. Abramowitz (former president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace think-tank), and Samantha Power (one of the Obama administration's proponents of the 2011 military intervention in Libya.). Co-chairs of the Board of Directors included US Representative Stephen J. Solarz (cosponsor of the 1991 Gulf War) and Ambassador James R. Lilley (CIA agent during 30 years in Asia, worked in Laos to undermine communist insurgency and he helped to insert a number of CIA agents into China. He was also a member of Ronald Reagan administration), for whom the North Korean Human Rights Act of 2001 is named. Solarz, a former New York Democratic congressman, was known as the "Marco Polo of Congress" for his long record of international travel and involvement in foreign affairs.  Most notably, he was the first American politician to visit Kim Il Sung. Lilley was personally close to former president George HW Bush and served as Ambassador to the Republic of Korea and the People's Republic of China.

Testimony in the U.S. Congress

In September 2011, HRNK executive director Greg Scarlatoiu testified at a hearing of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights, entitled "Human Rights in North Korea: Challenges and Opportunities". Scarlatoiu emphasized the flow of information into North Korea, recommending on behalf of HRNK that "the United States should continue to expand radio broadcasting into North Korea and encourage other efforts that provide information directly to the North Korean people in accordance with the North Korean Human Rights Act".

The Congressional-Executive Commission on China received testimony from HRNK chair Roberta Cohen and Scarlatoiu on March 5, 2012, at a hearing on "China's Repatriation of North Korean Refugees". HRNK presented six recommendations to the commission and encouraged China to fulfill international obligations to protect North Korean refugees.

In June 2014, HRNK co-chair Andrew Natsios testified before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights and International Organizations, in what was entitled "Human Rights Abuses and Crimes Against Humanity in North Korea". In addition to outlining the ongoing crimes against humanity exposed by the COI, Natsios claimed, "While the US administration proposed and discussed imposing sanctions and other forms of pressure on the North Korean regime on the UN Security Council level, they were measures taken in response to North Korea's aggressions and nuclear weapons program, unrelated to human rights issues."

Governance
HRNK's Board of Directors includes prominent individuals from the North Korea and human rights policy communities.

Research work on human rights issues

International Abductions

HRNK released its publication, Taken: North Korea's Criminal Abduction of Citizens of Other Countries, to a crowd of 150 people in Washington, D.C. on May 5, 2011. Taken is a study that documents North Korean abductions, which total over 180,000 abductees, and exposes the breadth and scope of North Korea's actions.

Prisons