[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nevada Desert Experience

r Carl Sagan, privacy advocate Phil Zimmermann, and the actors Kris Kristofferson, Martin Sheen, and Robert Blake. Five Democratic members of Congress attended the rally: Thomas J. Downey, Mike Lowry, Jim Bates, Leon E. Panetta and Barbara Boxer. In April 2007 Martin Sheen among others was arrested.

Protests in Clark County against weaponized drones at Creech Air Force Base
In protest over UAV attacks in Pakistan and the perceived extremely high danger of harming civilians, in an event sponsored by Nevada Desert Experience, Friar Louis Vitale, Kathy Kelly, Stephen Kelly SJ, John Dear, and others were arrested outside Creech Air Force Base (adjacent to the Nevada National Security Site) on Wednesday April 9, 2009. Subsequent monthly protests have been ongoing and conducted by a number of organizations including Code Pink.

See also
Megan Rice - former employee of NDE
Louie Vitale - cofounder, former NDE council member, advisory group member
Thomas Gumbleton - former NDE council member
Rosemary Lynch - cofounder
Martin Sheen - former NDE council member
Alan Senauke - former NDE council member
Corbin Harney
Hibakusha
List of nuclear tests
International Day against Nuclear Tests
The Ribbon International
Nevada Semipalatinsk led by Olzhas Suleimenov in Kazakhstan.

References

Pilgrimage Through a Burning World, by Ken Butigan, Chronicles and discusses the political and religious aspects of the nonviolent protest against nuclear testing called the Nevada Desert Experience. 2003, 256 pp., paper.

External links
 
Western States Legal Foundation Non-profit, public interest organization which monitors and analyzes U.S. nuclear weapons programs
Poison Fire USA Animated map of nuclear activities in the United States

Anti–nuclear weapons movement
Peace organizations based in the United States
Civil disobedience
Religious activism
Christian pacifism
Anti-nuclear protests in the United States
Environmental protests in the United States
Anti-nuclear organizations based in the United States
Catholic Worker Movement
Peace movements
Christian anarchism