[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Brass instrument

to spin the bell head and to form a bead at the edge of bell head. Previously shaped bell necks are annealed, using a hand torch to soften the metal for further bending. Scratches are removed from the bell using abrasive-coated cloth.

Other materials

A few specialty instruments are made from wood.

Instruments made mostly from plastic emerged in the 2010s as a cheaper and more robust alternative to brass. Plastic instruments could come in almost any colour. The sound plastic instruments produce is different from the one of brass, lacquer, gold or silver. While originally seen as a gimmick, these plastic models have found increasing popularity during the last decade and are now viewed as practice tools that make for more convenient travel as well as a cheaper option for beginning players.

Ensembles

Brass instruments are one of the major classical instrument families and are played across a range of musical ensembles.

Orchestras include a varying number of brass instruments depending on music style and era, typically:
 two to three trumpets
 two to four French horns
 two tenor trombones
 one bass trombone
 one tuba
 Baroque and classical period orchestras may include valveless trumpets or bugles, or have valved trumpets/cornets playing these parts, and they may include valveless horns, or have valved horns playing these parts.
 Romantic, modern, and contemporary orchestras may include larger numbers of brass including more exotic instruments.

Concert bands generally have a larger brass section than an orchestra, typically:
 four to six trumpets or cornets
 four French horns
 two to four tenor trombones
 one to two bass trombones
 two to three euphoniums or baritone horns
 two to three tubas

British brass bands are made up entirely of brass, mostly conical bore instruments. Typical membership is:
 one soprano cornet
 nine cornets
 one flugelhorn
 three tenor (alto) horns
 two baritone horns
 two tenor trombones
 one bass trombone
 two euphoniums
 two E tubas
 two B tubas

Quintets are common small brass ensembles; a quintet typically contains:
 two trumpets
 one horn
 one trombone
 one tuba or bass trombone

Big bands and other jazz bands commonly contain cylindrical bore brass instruments.
 A big band typically includes:
 four trumpets
 four tenor trombones
 one bass trombone (in place of one of the tenor trombones)
 Smaller jazz ensembles may include a single trumpet or trombone soloist.

Mexican bandas have:
 three trumpets
 three trombones
 two alto horns, also called "charchetas" and "saxores"
 one sousaphone, called "tuba"

Single brass instruments are also often used to accompany other instruments or ensembles such as an organ or a choir.

See also
 Wind instruments
 Drum and bugle corps (modern)
 Pitch of brass instruments
 Horn section
 Brass instrument valve
 List of brass instrument makers

References

External links

 Brass Instruments Information on individual Brass Instruments
 The traditional manufacture of brass instruments, a 1991 video (RealPlayer format) featuring maker Robert Barclay; from the web site of the Canadian Museum of Civilization.
 The Orchestra: A User's Manual – Brass
 Brassmusic.Ru – Russian Brass Community
 Acoustics of Brass Instruments from Music Acoustics at the University of New South Wales
 Early Valve designs, John Ericson
 3-Valve and 4-Valve Compensating Systems, David Werden

 
Metallic objects