[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Amy Chua

eats and racial slurs directed at Chua, and calls for her arrest on child-abuse charges.

Chua taught J. D. Vance during at least his first year at Yale Law. She persuaded him to write his memoir Hillbilly Elegy, which became a New York Times bestseller and a film starring Amy Adams and Glenn Close.

Her fourth book, co-written with husband Jed Rubenfeld, is The Triple Package: How Three Unlikely Traits Explain the Rise and Fall of Cultural Groups in America (published in February 2014). The book received mixed reviews. Lucy Kellaway, writing for Financial Times, called it "the best universal theory of success I've seen." Emma Brockes, writing in The Guardian, commended the book for "draw[ing] on eye-opening studies of the influence of stereotypes and expectations on various ethnic and cultural groups ... The authors' willingness to pursue an intellectual inquiry that others wouldn't is bracing." However, The Guardian also published a satirical review-cum-summary written by John Crace, who used one of the Triple Package traits—impulse control—to tell potential readers to "resist this book." The book was also roundly criticized for  cultural stereotyping and ignoring additional factors such as intergenerational wealth transmission. Forbes writer Susan Adams criticized it for racist overtones and said Chua's suggestion that certain cultural groups are more conventionally successful than others given her "three-pronged prescription [for success]" is at best "pop psychology." An empirical study by Joshua Hart and Christopher Chabris found that "[t]here was little evidence for the Triple Package theory."

In February 2018, Chua's fifth book was published. Titled Political Tribes: Group Instinct and the Fate of Nations, it examines how group loyalty often outweighs any other ideological considerations. She argues that the failure to recognize the place of group loyalty has played a major role in the failure of US foreign policy and the rise of Donald Trump. The book received overwhelmingly positive reviews from across the political spectrum. David Frum, writing for The New York Times, praised Chua for her willingness to approach "the no-go areas around which others usually tiptoe." The Washington Post described the book as "compact, insightful, disquieting, yet ultimately hopeful," and Ezra Klein called the book "fascinating" on his podcast.

The book received a few criticisms. The Guardian called it "a well-intentioned book that never quite comes together." The Financial Times stated that it was "an important book" and supported Chua's argument "that America's liberal elite has contributed to Trump's rise by failing to acknowledge its own sense of tribalism"; it did, however, also state that it left the "crucial question" of how to create a "non-tribal world" unanswered.

Yale Law School

Chua is known for mentoring students from marginalized communities and for helping students get judicial clerkships. In 2018, HuffPost and The Guardian alleged that Chua had advised female students to dress "outgoing" when seeking employment. Chua denied this claim. In 2019, Chua agreed not to drink or socialize with students outside of class.

Personal life

Chua lives in New Haven, Connecticut, and is married to Yale Law School professor Jed Rubenfeld. She has two daughters, Sophia and Louisa ("Lulu"). The former appeared in the New Yorker in 2014 as a Harvard member of Kappa Alpha Theta and ROTC.

Bibliography
 The Golden Gate (book)
 World On Fire: How Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability. 2002. Doubleday.  
 Day of Empire: How Hyperpowers Rise to Global Dominance – and Why They Fall. 2007. Doubleday. 
 Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother. 2011. Penguin Books. 
 The Triple Package: How Three Unlikely Traits Explain the Rise and Fall of Cultural Groups in America. 2014. Penguin Books. 
 Political Tribes: Group Instinct and the Fate of Nations. 2018. Penguin Books.

References

Further reading

External links

Biography on Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother
Yale Law School profile
Leigh Bureau speaker profile