[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# January 1973

el singer, died after suffering two strokes
Earl S. Herald, 58, American zoologist and host of the TV science show Science in Action, drowned off the coast of Mexico while scuba diving in search of the rare golden angelfish. Centropyge heraldi, the yellow "Herald's angelfish", is named in his honor.

January 17, 1973 (Wednesday)
Following a referendum in the Philippines, Proclamation No. 1102 certified and proclaimed that the new Philippine Constitution proposed by the Constitutional Convention of 1971 had been ratified by the Filipino people and had thereby come into effect, repealing the limits on the president's term of office.  The new constitution made the presidency a ceremonial office and provided that actual control would be in the hands of the new office of Prime Minister of the Philippines, a job which Marcos appointed himself to.  The legislature provided for in the new constitution could be suspended by the prime minister, and he dismissed the interim assembly that had been scheduled to take office.
Born: Bill Hamel, American record producer; in Orlando, Florida (d. 2018)
Died: 
Ralph T. Walker, 83, American architect
Ted Koehler, 78, American lyricist

January 18, 1973 (Thursday)
In attempt to kill Hamaas Abdul Khaalis, a former member of the Nation of Islam ("Black Muslim") movement, five children and two adults were murdered in Washington, D.C. Khaalis, born "Ernest McGee" before converting to Islam and joining the Black Muslims, had split with the group to follow the Hanafi branch of Sunni Islam, and had sent letters to the 50 Nation of Islam mosques in the U.S. criticizing the movement's leader Elijah Muhammad.  In retaliation, seven members of the "Black Mafia" invaded the Hanafi Muslim headquarters and killed Khaalis's children and two adults.  Ultimately, four defendants would be convicted of murder. In 1977, Khaalis would later lead 11 Hanafi Movement gunmen to seize 149 hostages in a takeover of the District of Columbia building with the motive of calling attention to the 1973 murder of his family.
The six-year term of Urho Kekkonen, President of Finland, set to expire on March 1, 1974, was extended by four years in a 170 to 28 vote by the nation's parliament, the Suomen Eduskunta.  The change in law came at Kekkonen's request, after he decided that he did not want Foreign Minister Ahti Karjalainen to succeed him.  Kekkonen had been president since 1956 and had started his third 6-year term in 1968.
The government of France began a program of replacing 350 English-language words with French substitutes issued by a "terminology commission" chaired by former Prime Minister Jacques Chaban-Delmas, and the approval of the French Academy.  Among the changes were retrospectif (for "flashback"), palmares (for "hit parade"), navire citerne (for a "tanker" ship) and avion ADAC (for a "STOL aircraft").
The 28 people killed in the 1972 crash in the Andes of a Uruguayan airplane flight were given a funeral service by a Chilean priest and burial in a common grave more than  from the airplane's fuselage.
President's rule was declared in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh after Chief Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao resigned.
Eleven Labour Party councillors in Clay Cross, Derbyshire in England, were ordered to pay £6,985 for not enforcing the Housing Finance Act.
In a dramatic upset in the National Hockey League, the NHL's worst team, the first-year expansion club New York Islanders (with a record of 4 wins, 37 losses and 4 ties) defeated the defending Stanley Cup champions, the 28-10-4 Boston Bruins, 9 to 7, in Boston in a regular season game. The win snapped the Islanders' 12-game losing streak.  Boston would finish with 51 wins, 22 losses and 5 ties for the second-best record in the 16-team league, while the Islanders remained the worst, with a record of 12-60-6.
Timothy Leary, a former Harvard University professor and advocate of recreational drug use, who later escaped from prison and fled the U.S., was returned to the United States after being arrested by police in Afghanistan.
Born: Guo Degang, Chinese comedian and actor specializing in xiangsheng or "crosstalk"; in Tianjin
Died: Abdul Qaiyum Ansari, 67, Indian Muslim and independence activist who had campaigned to prevent the division of British India into two nations. In 1947, the predominantly Muslim areas became the nation of Pakistan while the Hindu areas became the Dominion of India.

January 19, 1973 (Friday)