[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Gopi Kottoor

Gopikrishnan Kottoor is the pen name of Raghav G. Nair (born 1956, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala), an Indian English poet. He is best known for his poem "Father, Wake Us In Passing". He is also the founder editor of quarterly poetry journal Poetry Chain. Kottoor lives in Trivandrum, Kerala.

Early life and education
Kottoor studied at the Loyola English School and Arya Central School, Trivandrum. He obtained his Bachelor's and Master's degrees in English from the Institute of English, Trivandrum. Kottoor won his first poetry prize in University college poetry competitions, and soon published his poetry in Indian magazines publishing poetry in English. He attended the Master of Fine Arts (Poetry) program of the Texas State University, Southwest Texas, US. In 2005, he was Poet-in-Residence at the University of Augsburg, Germany, on a sponsorship by the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) in association with Tagore Centre, Berlin. On 4 August 2019, he was requested to join the Indian Writers Association as a member of its advisory board.

Career

As poet

Gopi Kottoor won both the All-India Special Poetry Prize of the British Council-Poetry Society, India All India Poetry Competitions (AIPC) in 1997 for his poem "These are the things we could talk about" and Second Prize for his poem "Digging" in the General Category of the Competition in 1997. Between 1995 and 1998, he won two more poetry prizes presented by the British Council – Poetry Society (India) sponsored All India Poetry Competitions (AIPC).

His other major poetry prizes include The First Prize in the All India Poetry Competition(2017) and Wingword International Poetry Award(2021).

Kottoor's "Father, Wake Us In Passing" (2000), which won for the poet a Residency in the University of Augsburg, Germany, is a touching poem sequence on his father in coma, and dying. It has received rave reviews. Kottoor's poetry has appeared in international journals that include  Orbis (UK) , Ariel (University of Calgary), Toronto Review (Canada), Plaza (Japan), Arabesques Review (Africa), Persona (Texas State University Journal),  Bluefifth Online (UK),  Chiaroscuro Magazine (UK), Levure littéraire (UK), Big bridge (UK) , Nth Position (UK),  New English Review (UK)  and others. His poems are also featured in the anthology, The Dance of the Peacock.

A selection of Gopi Kottoor's poetry, 'Vrindavan' and Changampuzha's elegy 'Ramanan' in translation can be read online here

As playwright

Kottoor's play The Nectar of the Gods (2015) is a socio-historical take on the life of the palace soldier Devasahayam (Lazarus), who was executed following his conversion to Christianity during the reign of King Marthanda Varma (Kerala, 18c). His other plays include The Mask of Death, a radio-play on the dying days of the Romantic poet John Keats in Rome, Fire in the Soul, a play on the life and times of the Nationalist rebel poet of India, Subramania Bharati, and A Woman in Flames.

As novelist

Kottoor's first novel, A Bridge Over Karma, was translated into Malayalam and serialized in the popular Malayalam journal Kala Kaumudi.

As editor

Kottoor founded and edited Poetry Chain, a quarterly for Indian poetry in English, which ran from 1997–2007. He also edits the E-zine Underground Flowers.

Awards

 Poetry prizes at the Chandigarh Literary Poetry Festival (2022, 2023).
 The Wingword International Poetry Prize (2020), Honourable mention (2022).
 All India Poetry Competition (First Prize), The Poetry Society India, 2017.
 All India Special Poetry Prize, Poetry Society, India and The British Council, 1997.
 All India Poetry Prize (Second Prize), Poetry Society, India and The British Council, 1997.
 All India Poetry Awards, Commendation prizes, 1995 & 1998.
 The Bharathi Prize, Chennai (1995)
 The Kerala University College Prize (1976)
 The Clover Poetry Prize, Commendation (1973)

Honours
 Philip McCormick Scholarship, Texas State University, Texas, US 2000
 Distinguished Guest from India, Government of India Annual Report 2005-2006,(p) 152
 Michael Madhusudan Dutt Award
 D.Litt, World Academy of Arts, California, US
 21 Top Indian Poets

Bibliography

Poetry
 Piccolo 
 Milestones to the Sun
 Sunbirds in the Rain
 Nirvana and Other poems
 Rev: Father Benedict Goes To Heaven and Other poems
 Father, Wake Us In Passing,(Vater, Wecke Uns Im Vorübergehen – German, Laufschrift 2004)
 Mother Sonata
 A Buchenwald Diary (Poems following a visit to Buchenwald Concentration camp, Weimar, Germany)
 Victoria Terminus, Poems Selected and New
 Vrindavan – The Coloured Yolk of Love
 Tell Me Neruda

Novels
 A Bridge Over Karma (Katha Distribution, New Delhi)  Karmathinu Mele Oru Palam (Translation, Malayalam, Moosakutty).
 Presumed Guilty
 Hill House (A View From West Hill)

Plays
 The Nectar of Gods – King Marthanda Varma and Devasahayam
 Fire in the Soul – The Life And Times of Subramania Bharati
 The Mask of Death – The Final Days of John Keats
 A Women in Flames