[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peru–United States Trade Promotion Agreement

Peru won 45 of 120 seats in Congress, the largest share by a single party, prompting the debate and ratification of the agreement before the new legislature was sworn in. Some Congressmen-elect interrupted the debate after forcibly entering Congress, in an attempt to stop the agreement ratification.

Critics of the Peru TPA say the pact will worsen Peru's problems with child labor and weak labor rights, and expose the country's subsistence farmers to disruptive competition with subsidized U.S. crops. Additionally, critics contend that Dubai Ports World will be able to use its Peruvian subsidiary to obtain rights to operate U.S. ports. Animal rights groups have opposed this legislation due to the possibility of spreading factory farming practices through Latin America, increasing U.S. pork and poultry exports, and mining development that causes deforestation and habitat loss for animals.

The most controversial elements of the agreement relate to forestry.  Laura Carlsen, of the Center for International Policy, and contributor to Foreign Policy in Focus notes that "Indigenous organizations warn that this ruling effectively opens up 45 million hectares to foreign investment and timber, oil, and mining exploitation."

Prior to the implementation of the FTA the Peruvian government rolled back existing environmental protections in order to implement the FTA's foreign investor rights provisions to access forestry, mining and other natural resources. This included access to sensitive Amazonian territories over which indigenous communities had control under pre-FTA Peruvian law. Protests by indigenous communities in the Amazon against the execution of the free trade agreement, and related new foreign investors accessing rights to indigenous lands, have been deadly. As the opposition for this grew there was a confrontation back in June 2009 near the town of Bagua in the northern province of Amazonas, which according to official reports left a death toll of 34. Faced with this widespread unrest, the Peruvian Congress repealed two additional decrees that redefined forest land to permit more logging and mining.

The government had made a mistake by failing to consult with indigenous communities before passing 10 decrees that modified Peru's legal and regulatory framework on access to and use of natural resources in the country's Amazon jungle region. The decrees were declared unconstitutional in December 2008 by a multi-party parliamentary commission because they undermined the right of native people to prior consultation with respect to mining projects or other economic activities affecting their communities. Indigenous groups in Peru's Amazon are demanding that their land rights are acknowledged by national government, as well as being able to participate and be consulted on decisions or legislation that could affect them. A majority feel anger towards the fact that they were not consulted about the series of decrees passed by the government after the implementation of the FTA with the US.

Between January 2008 and June 2009, the government auctioned 7,700 square miles of land for mining, including forest area that is the ancestral home of the Awajun and Wampis indigenous groups. In addition to this legal mining, illegal mining in the Peruvian rainforest has skyrocketed since international gold prices have reached new heights (increasing 35 percent since FTA implementation). Indigenous land as well as parts of the Amazon rainforest are being lost at an alarming rate because of this activity. In October 2007 the AIDESEP, a Federation Representing 350,000 Indigenous Peoples in Amazon Region, sent a letter to congress and made the following statement: "The FTA will give incentives for further and irreversible destruction of virgin rainforest, which will in turn increase global warming and displace our communities from their home territories… Provisions contained in the Peru FTA are directly incentivizing this massive takeover that is threatening our livelihoods and leading to irreversible destruction of virgin rainforest".