[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peruvian prison massacres

According to a cable from the United States Department of State, "at least 100 prisoners were summarily executed."  The Peruvian government itself concluded that all 124 rebellious prisoners in Lurigancho prison died in the assault, and that no fewer than 90 were victims of extrajudicial executions.

The national and international scandal that resulted from this multiple crime was enormous.  During President García's delayed visit to the scene of the events, he declared that there were two possibilities: "either they [the authors of the massacre] go or I go." Nevertheless, nothing was ever done to punish the guilty.  Luis Giampietri, the naval officer in command of the operation, later became Alan García's vice president.

Congressional inquiry
The ensuing international outrage exerted enormous pressure on the Peruvian Government to establish an independent commission of inquiry. The Peruvian Congress quickly moved on to approve a special-mandated body in August 1986, but political negotiations regarding its composition dragged the appointment of its member for a whole year. Finally, in August 1987 the ad-hoc commission of inquiry’ configuration was agreed comprising 6 senators and 7 representatives. The 13 members-body was comprised by twelve men and one woman and its political outline assigned 6 seats for opposition parties and 7 for the Government party (APRA) and allies. However, the chair was yielded to one opposition figure, Senator Rolando Ames Cobián. The commission was granted 4 months to complete its probe and ultimately became deadlocked between two irreconcilable blocks: one supported by the opposition congressmen's that criticised the state's response and one loyal to the regime, which wanted to avoid attributing responsibility for the abuses.

See also
National Penitentiary Institute (Peru)

References

External links
Propaganda graphics on prison massacres in Peru
Las ejecuciones extrajudiciales en el penal de El Frontón y Lurigancho (1986)  - Truth and Reconciliation Commission
Peru in "The Eye of the Storm" - The National Security Archive. Declassified U.S. Documentation on Human Rights Abuses and Political Violence. National Security Archive Electronic Briefing Book No. 64. Edited by Tamara Feinstein, Director, Peru Documentation Project. January 22, 2002.

1986 in Peru
Massacres in 1986
20th-century executions by Peru
Conflicts in 1986
Internal conflict in Peru
Massacres in Peru
Political repression in Peru
Anti-communist terrorism
Prison uprisings
People executed by Peru by firearm
Prison massacres
June 1986 events in South America
1986 murders in Peru