[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# July 1976

exico

July 11, 1976 (Sunday)
The Miss Universe international beauty competition was won for the first time by a citizen of Israel, as 20-year-old Rina Messinger was crowned as the top finisher from 72 competitors in Hong Kong.
Died: Leon de Greiff, 80, popular Colombian poet

July 12, 1976 (Monday)

The game show Family Feud debuted in the United States on ABC-TV at 1:30 p.m. Eastern time, with British actor and comedian Richard Dawson as its host. The format required contestants to guess the most popular results of audience survey questions, and became the highest-rated daytime-TV game show within a year.  Other than the years 1986-1987 and 1996-1998, Family Feud has been a staple of American network and syndicated television.
Seven people were killed, and two others were wounded in a mass shooting in the library at California State University in Fullerton. The killer, a mentally-ill custodian at the university, walked into the library, shot nine employees, fled the campus and called police.  He would be found not guilty by reason of insanity and spent the rest of his life in at state hospitals.
Representatives of the nine nations of the European Economic Community (the EEC, referred to at the time as the "Common Market") reached an agreement in Brussels on the restructuring of the European Parliament, whose members would be elected directly for the first time rather than appointed by their nation's governments.  The new, 410-member unicameral body was apportioned by allotting 81 seats apiece to the four largest nations (France, West Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom), followed by 25 to the Netherlands, 24 to Belgium, 16 to Denmark, 15 to Ireland and six to Luxembourg.  At the time, the appointed assembly had 198 seats (36 each to the "Big Four" nations, 14 each to the Netherlands and Belgium, 10 each to Denmark and Ireland, and 6 for Luxembourg).
The Major League Baseball Players Association entered a new collective bargaining agreement with the owners of baseball's National League and American League teams that effectively gave away the unlimited free agency that had been won in December with the Seitz decision, but guaranteeing that the reserve clause would not be restored to player contracts.
Barbara Jordan became the first African-American to be a keynote speaker at a major political convention.
Born: 
Anna Friel, British TV and film actress and BAFTA Award winner; in Rochdale, Lancashire
Major General Prince C. Johnson III, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of Liberia since 2018; in Monrovia
Kyrsten Sinema, former U.S. Representative and (since 2019) the first woman U.S. Senator for Arizona; in Tucson, Arizona 
Nabor Vargas Garcia, Mexican drug lord and co-founder of the criminal enterprise Los Zetas; in Pachuca, Hidalgo state
Died: 
James Wong Howe, 76, Chinese-born American cinematographer and winner of two Academy Awards
Lewis Deschler, 71, legislative official who had served as the parliamentary procedure adviser to the Speaker of the House of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1928 to 1974.
James Stout, 62, American horse-racing jockey and National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame enshrinee
Guillermo Tolentino, 85, Philippine sculptor

July 13, 1976 (Tuesday)
Former Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti of Italy was asked by President Giovanni Leone to form a new government of ministers from a coalition of Andreotti's Democrazia Cristiana party and the Italian Socialist Party.
Born: 
Emma Bonney, English billiards player and 13-time world billiards title winner; in Portsmouth, Hampshire
Lisa Riley, English soap opera actress known for Emmerdale; in Bury, Lancashire
Oleg Sentsov, Ukrainian filmmaker and activist who was imprisoned in Russia for four years after the Russian invasion of Crimea; in Simferopol, Ukrainian SSR, Soviet Union
Died: William Haoui, 67, the leader of Lebanon's right-wing Phalangist Christian political party was shot and killed by a sniper while surveying Tel el-Zaatar, where the Phalangist militia had recently defeated the Palestinian Muslim attempt to take over Beirut.

July 14, 1976 (Wednesday)
A 6.5 magnitude earthquake killed 573 people in and around the city of Singaraja in Indonesia, in the Buleleng Regency area located on the north side of the island of Bali.