[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2003 in the United Kingdom

casts a report on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme stating that the government claimed in its 2002 dossier that Iraq could deploy weapons of mass destruction within forty-five minutes knowing the claim to be dubious. A political storm ensues. Gilligan has interviewed weapons expert David Kelly.

June

 14 June
 First Minister for Children appointed, Margaret Hodge.
 The first official Twenty20 cricket matches are played between the English counties in the Twenty20 Cup.
 15 June – the News of the World publishes an article in which Ian Huntley is photographed in his cell at Woodhill Prison. An undercover reporter had got a job in the prison and was employed as Huntley's guard.
 21 June – the novel Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is released to the public.
 24 June
 President Vladimir Putin becomes the first Russian head of state to make a state visit to the United Kingdom since Tsar Alexander II in 1874.
 Six members of the Royal Military Police are killed, and eight other soldiers are injured, in Iraq.
 26 June 
 The latest MORI poll puts Labour and Conservative parties on even terms at 35%.
 Businessman Sir Denis Thatcher, husband of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, dies aged 88 at the Lister Hospital in London.

July

 2 July – Chelsea F.C. are bought by Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich for a sum of £150,000,000 from current chairman Ken Bates, twenty-one years after he bought the club for £1.
 15 July – David Kelly appears before the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Select Committee, to answer questions over the information he had given to Andrew Gilligan.
 18 July – David Kelly is found dead near his home in Oxfordshire – police suspect that he committed suicide.
 20 July – the BBC confirms that Dr. David Kelly, found dead from a suspected suicide two days earlier, was the main source for a controversial report that sparked a deep rift with the government.
 27 July – The British-born American actor and comedian Bob Hope dies at his home in California, two months after his hundredth birthday.
 30 July – Eurostar train number 3313/14 sets a new speed record at 334.7 km/h (208 mph) on the Channel Tunnel Rail Link.

August

 1 August – the Hutton Inquiry into the recent death of weapons expert Dr. David Kelly, chaired by judge Lord Hutton, opens, beginning to take evidence on 11 August.
 3 August – police use the taser for the first time.
 10 August – Brogdale, near Faversham, enters the UK Weather Records for the highest ever recorded temperature of 38.5 °C, a record which holds until July 2019. The 2003 European heat wave makes this the United Kingdom's hottest summer for thirteen years.

September

 4 September – the rebuilt Bull Ring shopping centre in Birmingham is officially opened by Sir Albert Bore.
 18 September – Brent East by-election: Sarah Teather of the Liberal Democrats becomes MP for Brent East after twenty-nine years of Labour control.
 29 September
 Section 1 of the Channel Tunnel Rail Link, later High Speed 1, from Fawkham Junction to the Channel Tunnel is opened for passengers.
 The comeback of Den Watts (played by Leslie Grantham) in EastEnders is screened, fourteen years after the character was supposedly killed off, and just over four months after the BBC confirmed that Grantham would be returning to the series.

October

 24 October – supersonic aircraft Concorde makes its final commercial flights after twenty-seven years.
 29 October – Iain Duncan-Smith resigns after serving just two years as Leader of the Conservative Party.

November