[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kathy Castor

running on a pro-business and anti-immigration platform. A court-ordered redistricting cut out the district's share of St. Petersburg while pushing it further into Tampa, but it was no less Democratic than its predecessor, and Castor defeated Quinn with 61.79% of the vote to Quinn's 38.21%.

Tenure

Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (Bailout Bill)
Castor was the only Democratic member of Congress from Florida to vote against the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, also known as the "bailout bill," saying: "After thoughtful consideration and review, I voted against President Bush's $700 billion bailout. The Bush plan does not provide sufficient help to middle-class families in the housing squeeze or taxpayer protections." Instead, she championed programs such as the Neighborhood Stabilization Program and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and said it was "the lifeline that really saved the economy." In Tampa Bay, Recovery Act funds were invested in transportation, education, housing, research, law enforcement and various local infrastructure improvements. The I-4/Crosstown Connector received the largest Recovery Act investment in Tampa Bay, with $105 million to make completion of the project possible. It opened to the public in 2014.

Iraq War
Since her first congressional campaign in 2006, Castor supported withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq and redeployment of U.S. troops from Afghanistan. Her first committee assignment was the House Armed Services. In 2007, Castor voted to redeploy U.S. troops out of Iraq.

In June 2021 of the 117th Congress, Castor joined 267 of her colleagues in voting to repeal the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) Against Iraq Resolution of 2002. She said, "By repealing the 2002 AUMF, Congress will take a step towards reclaiming its proper constitutional authority over the use of military force. Today’s vote is a first step in ensuring that the AUMF will not be used by any president to justify new and unrelated offensive military actions. By finally repealing this two-decade old AUMF, this legislative body can once more execute its solemn constitutional responsibility, focus on supporting our service men and women and end the blank check for war."

Education
Castor has called the GI Bill for the 21st century that passed in 2008 despite strenuous opposition by President Bush "one of the most important pieces of legislation that I have cosponsored." The bill restored full, four-year college scholarships to veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars from benefits at the time that were only paying about 70% of a public college education and 30% of a private college education for returning veterans. The legislation also allowed veterans to transfer those benefits to family members.

Castor was outspoken on the 2013 sequestration originally proposed by the Obama administration and the cuts it would impose on Head Start programs as well as research programs at Moffitt Cancer Care and University of South Florida. In 2014, she supported a bipartisan budget agreement that included restoring Head Start funding with an increase of $1 billion over the sequester level and $612 million over the 2013 enacted level.

Health care
Castor has been interested in health care since her first elected position on the Hillsborough County Commission, where she defended the need to fund the county's indigent health care plan. In 2008, Castor successfully championed legislation to allow low-income families with overdue medical bills to still be eligible for student loans. Castor has served on the House Energy & Commerce Committee since 111th Congress. During her membership in the Health Subcommittee, the subcommittee worked toward progressive reform for Florida families, businesses, and university medical and nursing colleges . Since the Affordable Care Act passed, Castor has worked to educate Floridians about new patient protections and rights, and about enrollment in the marketplace exchange. She was critical of Governor Rick Scott and the Republican-led Florida legislature for not accepting more than $50 billion in federal funding to expand Medicaid to provide health care access to more than one million Floridians. With the assistance of the National Association of Children's Hospitals, she and Representative Dave Reichert founded the bipartisan Children's Health Care Caucus, dedicated to improving quality of health care and health care access for children .

Comprehensive immigration reform
Castor supports comprehensive immigration reform. She applauded President Obama's 2014 announcement on immigration accountability executive action.

Climate change 
Castor chairs the House Select Committee on the Climate Crisis. As chair, she has been credited as a driving force behind the movement and helped allocate federal funding for the issue.