[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Scouting in the United States

the YMCA as the Native Sons and Daughters in 2002.

The Camp Fire Girls are now a co-ed organization known as Camp Fire with about 300,000 youth members.

Another Scout-like organization is the Club de Exploradores with groups in the United States, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay.

Breakaway organizations

 The American Heritage Girls is a Christian Scouting group formed in 1995 by a group of parents who were unhappy that the Girl Scouts accepted lesbians as troop leaders, allowed girls to substitute another word more applicable to their belief for "God" in the promise, and allegedly banned prayer at meetings. The group currently has troops in many states of the continental United States; membership as of 2012 is about 28,000 girls in 45 states.
 Trail Life USA is a Christian Scouting group formed in September 2013 in reaction to the BSA's decision to cease its exclusion of openly gay youth from membership.
 Frontier Girls is a scouting style program for girls that focuses on life skills, patriotism, community service, and a love of learning serving girls ages 3 through adult.  Membership as of 2016 is about 2,500 girls in 47 states.
 SpiralScouts International

Other new organizations with inclusive policies include:
 Navigators USA, also co-ed
 Outdoor Service Guides, also co-ed (formerly Baden-Powell Service Association)
 Adventure Scouts USA (formerly StarScouting America),
 Earth Champs
 Kids for Earth

Alternative programs
In response to the BSA membership policies that limit participation by girls and avowed homosexuals, and exclude atheists, agnostics, some youth organizations using Scouting principles have formed.

The BSA converted its In School Scouting program to Learning for Life in 1992. LFL uses no Scout emblems and has no policies on religion, gender or sexuality. The BSA's career-oriented Exploring program was moved to LFL in 1998 and returned to the Boy Scouts of America in 2016.

Scouting-related organizations 
There are several organizations related to but not part of any Scouting organizations.

Alpha Phi Omega is a co-ed service fraternity organized to provide community service, leadership development, and social opportunities. It was founded by students who were former Boy Scouts and Scouters as a way to continue participating in the ideals of Scouting at the college level. Epsilon Tau Pi is fraternity whose membership is open only to Eagle Scouts.

Scouting for All and The Inclusive Scouting Network were formed to promote tolerance and diversity within the BSA in the face of its policies that excluded non-theists and "open or avowed" homosexuals from membership or leadership positions. ScoutPride is a similar organizations that is now defunct .

In response to opposition to the BSA's policies, several organizations were formed to support the BSA. These included now-defunct organizations such as the American Civil Rights Union's Scouting Legal Defense Fund, and Save Our Scouts.

There are several organizations that offer resources for Scouting—the U.S. Scouting Service Project is one of the largest.

See also
 American Scouting overseas
 History of the Boy Scouts of America
 USA age groups in Scouting
 Defunct Scout and Scout-like organizations in the United States

References