[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Robert Steven Rhine

Robert Steven Rhine, also known by his pen name Corpsy, is an American writer and actor. He is the founder, publisher, and "Deaditor-in-Chief" of Girls and Corpses, a horror-comedy magazine.Since 2006 he has been HIV positive.

Biography
He is the son of Larry Rhine.

Written work
Rhine has sold fiction to over one hundred magazines and the published anthologies.

He began working in comic books as a contributing writer for Cracked and Insidious Tales. Rhine's first solo comic book was Selected Reading From Satan's Powder Room, published by Asylum Press. It was followed up by  Chicken Soup for Satan, distributed by Diamond. A third comic book in the series, Satan Gone Wild, premiered in New Orleans on Halloween. Rhine's 280-page, color graphic novel Satan's 3 Ring Circus of Hell was published Asylum Press and includes contributions from 43 comic book horror artists. Rhine has also written for National Lampoon magazine.

Film work
Rhine wrote, produced and starred in the filmed pilot Vinnie & Angela's Beauty Salon and Funeral Parlor. The film sold to Universal's Hypnotic Films. Rhine also wrote, produced, directed and starred in the satire Road Lawyers and Other Briefs, distributed by A.I.P. Rhine wrote and directed an animated television pilot, Sickom, animated by Frank Forte. It was bought by Spike and Mike's Sick and Twisted Festival of Animation and premiered at the San Diego Comic-Con. The dark comedy series, about a serial killer's home life, was included on Spike & Mike's DVD Unprotected.

Before becoming a full-time fiction, screenplay and comic book writer, Rhine worked for a decade as a unit publicist for Universal Studios, TriStar Pictures, DreamWorks and Imagine Entertainment. He has worked as an entertainment publicist, book publicist, film advertising copywriter, segment producer for PM Magazine and also worked for CNN.

Acting
Rhine has appeared in over a two dozen plays (including two L.A. premieres), television, features, print and commercials. Rhine also portrayed Rod Serling for director Joe Dante's "The Twilight Zone Tower of Terror" ride at Disney's Hollywood Studios. Coincidentally, Rhine met Rod Serling, who was an acquaintance of his family, several times when he was ten years old. In 2019 Rhine starred in Exorcism at 60,000 Feet, also serving as a scriptwriter and producer.

Notes and references

External links
 
 

American male actors
Living people
American magazine editors
American comics writers
American male non-fiction writers
Year of birth missing (living people)