[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# History of Oxford

ord, as it is known today.

Additionally, there is evidence of Jews living in the city as early as 1141, and during the 12th century the Jewish community is estimated to have numbered about 80–100. The city was besieged during The Anarchy in 1142. In 1191, a city charter translated from Latin wrote:

Oxford's prestige was enhanced by its charter granted by King Henry II, granting its citizens the same privileges and exemptions as those enjoyed by the capital of the kingdom; and various important religious houses were founded in or near the city. Oxford's status as a liberty obtained from this period until the 19th century. A grandson of King John established Rewley Abbey for the Cistercian Order; and friars of various orders (Dominicans, Franciscans, Carmelites, Augustinians and Trinitarians) all had houses of varying importance at Oxford. Parliaments were often held in the city during the 13th century. The Provisions of Oxford were instigated by a group of barons led by Simon de Montfort; these documents are often regarded as England's first written constitution. Richard I (reigned 1189–1199) and King John (reigned 1199–1216) the sons of Henry II, were both born at Beaumont Palace in Oxford, on 8 September 1157 and 24 December 1166 respectively. A plaque in Beaumont Street commemorates these events.

University of Oxford 
The University of Oxford is first mentioned in 12th-century records. Evidence points to magistri teaching here around 1120. Scholars here provided monarchs with a pool of talented government employees, and benefices from the endowments of colleges provided royal civil servants at no cost to the crown. Of the hundreds of aularian houses that sprang up across the city, only St Edmund Hall () remains. What put an end to the halls was the emergence of colleges. Oxford's earliest colleges were University College (1249), Balliol (1263) and Merton (1264). These colleges were established at a time when Europeans were starting to translate the writings of Greek philosophers. These writings challenged European ideology, inspiring scientific discoveries and advancements in the arts, as society began to see itself in a new way. These colleges at Oxford were supported by the Church in the hope of reconciling Greek philosophy and Christian theology.

As a response to the killing of two students in 1209 by the local townspeople, a number of scholars left the town (some leaving to Cambridge to form a sister university). To prevent further troubles, the Papal Legate drew up the Oxford Ordinance in 1214 to grant special rights to scholars which placed them in a privileged position beyond the legal reach of the townspeople. The relationship between "town and gown" has often been uneasy – as many as 93 students and townspeople were killed in the St Scholastica Day Riot of 1355.

Attracted to the intellectual life of the University town, a group of friars (including Agnellus of Pisa) arrived in the early 13th century; the Greyfriars resided on the south part of the medieval town wall while the Blackfriars south of what is now Blue Boar Lane and then to a spot west of St Aldate's. It was here that several notable friars would emerge, such as Roger Bacon, Duns Scotus and William of Ockham. As the town declined economically in the later Middle Ages, the University gained greater power over the town at the expense of the urban community. The University also expanded its landholings and became a powerful employer and consumer of goods and services.

Tudor period 
Christ Church Cathedral, Oxford is unique in combining a college chapel and a cathedral in one foundation. Originally St Frideswide's Priory, the building was extended and incorporated into the structure of the Cardinal's College shortly before its refounding as Christ Church in 1546, since when it has functioned as the cathedral of the Diocese of Oxford.

The sweating sickness epidemic in 1517 was particularly devastating to Oxford and Cambridge where it killed half of both cities' populations, including many students and dons.

Oxford was not spared the turmoil of the Reformation, officials of the monarch threw out books relating to Roman Catholicism from Duke Humfrey's Library. The Oxford Martyrs were tried for heresy in 1555 and subsequently burnt at the stake, on what is now Broad Street, for their religious beliefs and teachings. The three martyrs were the bishops Hugh Latimer and Nicholas Ridley, and the archbishop Thomas Cranmer. The Martyrs' Memorial stands nearby, round the corner to the north on St Giles'.

Early modern period