[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Homosexual Law Reform Act 1986

st the same year.

On 10 April 2018 , the Criminal Records (Expungement of Convictions for Historical Homosexual Offences) Act 2018 came into effect, joining a range of similar statutes in other Commonwealth countries that pardoned or quashed convictions for homosexuality prior to decriminalisation.

Debate
The Bill was subject to substantial debate and faced fierce opposition from the Salvation Army, as well as Christian political activists such as Keith Hay, Peter Tait and politicians such as Norman Jones (National MP for Invercargill). A Coalition of Concerned Citizens was created by the group to distribute a petition against the Act, that on submission to parliament was claimed to have garnered more than 800,000 signatures, making it the largest petition in proportion to New Zealand's population up to that point. However, some petition sheets contained several signatures in the same handwriting, and some of the boxes were nearly empty, thereby discrediting the petition and causing the Parliamentiary Petitions Committee to reject it.

Despite the Coalition of Concerned Citizens threatening electoral reprisals, the Fourth Labour Government was returned for a second term of office, losing only one constituency seat to the National Party Opposition in 1987.

In accordance with surveys conducted amongst its membership, the Salvation Army continued to oppose law reform and full equality, including same-sex marriage in New Zealand, but later expressed regret for the hurt that its participation in the petition had caused. In a joint statement written in 2012, attempts at rapprochement were welcomed by the Rainbow Wellington LGBT+ group.

When National MP Lockwood Smith gave his valedictory speech in February 2013 after 30 years in Parliament, he listed voting against the Homosexual Law Reform Bill in 1986 as his biggest regret:

I faced the classic dilemma of voting according to my own judgement or the opinion of those I was elected to represent. As a new member, I opted for the latter and I've always regretted it.

See also

 LGBT in New Zealand
 LGBT rights in New Zealand

References

Bibliography
Laurie Guy: Worlds in Collision: The Gay Law Reform Debate in New Zealand: 1960–1986 Wellington: Victoria University Press: 2002: 
Laurie Guy: "Evangelicals and the Homosexual Law Reform Debate: 1984-5" Stimulus 13:4 (November 2005): 69–77.
History Group, Out and About: Homosexual Law Reform in New Zealand, http://www.nzhistory.net.nz/node/2198.

External links

A history of homosexual law reform in New Zealand (NZHistory.net.nz)
"20 Years Out" radio documentary, Radio New Zealand
Archival audio from homosexual law reform, PrideNZ.com

1986 in New Zealand law
LGBT law in New Zealand
LGBT history in New Zealand
Statutes of New Zealand
1986 in LGBT history
Law reform in New Zealand
Same-sex marriage in New Zealand