[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Russian Union of Evangelical Christians-Baptists

an churches; however, it may have had difficulties in recruiting agents from Baptists and similar Evangelical churches—a fourth department KGB report from 1956 said in reference to them, "a special psychological approach is needed to recruit sectarians, among whom there are many religious fanatics."

Christians (Baptists included) could be expelled from a university and had difficulties finding a job if they were open about their faith. Christian youth work and work among children was forbidden, churches were required to pay higher electricity rates, pastors could not receive state pensions, and churches were forbidden from doing social work. Evangelism occurred illegally. Baptists used 'revival weeks' as a means of public outreach because of the harsh conditions that forbade open evangelism; music was also an especially important tool of evangelization.

Once Khrushchev's heightened attack on religion began in the late 1950s, many Baptist activities were shut down. Baptists were required to study the Soviet constitution.

In 1959 an article in the official organ Izvestia said that "The Baptists and other evangelical sects mislead people with high-flown words and try to divert them from an industrious life and from the enlightened happenings of our great era. They try to disrupt Soviet morality".
In 1960 leaders of the Russian Baptists claimed a membership of 3,000,000.

In 1950s, some Christians were unhappy that church leaders were compliant with state anti-church policies, even collaborating with the state. Because of this, some started to express the view that the church should be separate from the influence of the state. At first, such Christians were silenced or persecuted, but their numbers grew. In 1961, a new movement started, subsequently called the "Unregistered Baptists." The state persecuted leaders and pastors of the new movement. Many were jailed and sent to work camps; however, the government was never able to stop the movement, which continued into the 21st century.
The most important distinctives of "Unregistered Baptists" in the 1960-1970s were:
 They were independent from the State in all church matters (in contrast to the "registered", who at some point had to get permission from the state officials in order to baptize someone)
 They did not register their churches with the State (hence their name)
 They organized print houses that printed Bibles, song books, and other literature. This activity was illegal in the Soviet Union.
 They organized ministries to support prisoners and their families. Members of "registered" churches was prohibited from even praying in church about prisoners, since officially nobody in The Soviet Union was persecuted because of their faith.

In the last decades of Soviet history, many youth began to take an increasing interest in learning about religion, to the dislike of the state. In the 1970s many Baptist churches began organizing illegal youth camps. In 1984 Billy Graham went to the Soviet Union and visited Baptist churches.

Statistics 
Baptist communities in different corners of Russia have experienced state harassment in recent years

The UECB is multiethnic, consisting of Russians, Ukrainians, Belarusians, Germans, Latvians, Armenians, Georgians, Ossets, Moldavians, Chuvashes, Komi, and other nationalities. According to a denomination census released in 2023, it claimed 1,674 churches and 68,166 members.

Schools
It has 1 affiliated theological institute, the Moscow Baptist Theological Seminary founded in 1993.

Personnel

Chairmen or presidents of the organization were:
Vasily Logvinenko (1992–1993)
Peter Konovalchik (1994–2002)
Yuri Sipko (2002–2010)
Alexey Smirnov (2010–2018)
Peter Mickiewicz (2018–present)

See also
 Baptist beliefs
 Believers' Church
 Baptists in Ukraine
 Brotherhood of Independent Baptist Churches and Ministries of Ukraine
 Evangelical Baptist Union of Ukraine
 Jesus Christ
 Spiritual Christians
 Union of Christian Evangelical Baptist Churches of Moldova
 Union of Evangelical Christian Baptists of Kazakhstan
 Worship service (evangelicalism)

References

External links
 Official Website

History of Christianity in Russia
Christian organizations established in 1944
Baptist denominations in Europe
Baptist denominations in Asia
Baptist denominations established in the 20th century
Free Will Baptists
Evangelicalism in Russia