[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Cassano (1705)

otected by a small fortification or redoubt. The area was also divided by numerous small streams and irrigation channels, the most significant being the Retorto, an irrigation canal running parallel to the Adda. This was connected to the left bank by another bridge, protected by another strongpoint.

Assuming Prince Eugene was heading for Mantua, Vendôme ordered his brother to leave Cassano, and take up blocking positions at Rivolta d'Adda, a village about 10 kilometres away on the left bank of the Adda. One suggestion is his decision was based on deliberate misinformation from a Spanish officer serving in the French army who was in reality an Austrian agent. After marching overnight from Romanengo, Imperial troops were already nearing the crossing point when they were spotted by a French cavalry patrol early next morning; realising their intentions, Vendôme hurried towards Cassano with around 2,000 cavalry, ordering the rest of his army to follow as quickly as possible.

On arrival, he found Philippe's troops in the process of moving and in an extremely dangerous position, with the bulk of their force caught between the Retorto canal and the Adda, and the main bridge blocked by their transport. Vendôme ordered the baggage thrown into the river, and formed a line running from the Retorto on the left, his centre around the main bridge, and his extreme right resting on the road leading to Rivolta d'Adda, where his brother was positioned with four brigades. Armand St Hilaire, the French artillery commander, positioned his guns inside the town, allowing him to fire directly on the bridge.

Around 14:00, Imperial grenadiers attacked positions around the Retorto and initially succeeded in capturing the bridge,  before being repulsed by St Hilaire's guns, and a French counter-attack. Vendôme sent four regiments of the Irish Brigade to reinforce his left, but after a fierce struggle, the Imperialists captured the sluice gates, which they closed, lowering the water level in the canal enough for men to wade across it. Prince Eugene ordered Leopold and his Prussians into the canal to assault the French left; they managed to seize the further bank, but suffered heavily in doing so. The battle surged back and forth across the river, in the course of which Vendôme had his horse killed under him, while Prince Eugene was wounded twice and had to leave the field. The fighting lasted between three and five hours until ended by sheer exhaustion with the opposing forces back in their original positions.

Aftermath

Nearly 25% of those engaged became casualties, Vendôme losing around 5,000 killed or wounded out of 22,000, his opponents over 4,500 killed, wounded or captured from 24,000. French military historian De Périni suggests French casualties of 2,728 killed or wounded, with Imperialist losses of around 6,000, including nearly 2,000 taken prisoner. In his own account, the Chevalier Folard, a French officer who was badly wounded in the battle, reports similar casualty figures of 3,000 and 5,000 respectively; he also suggests that if Vendôme had called on the troops left at Rivolta d'Adda, he might have won a significant victory.

Since Prince Eugene achieved his aim of delaying the Siege of Turin by nearly a year, he claimed Cassano as a victory, although historian John A. Lynn considers it a 'minor French tactical victory', but essentially inconclusive. The two sides spent the next few weeks watching each other; Prince Eugene quickly recovered from his injuries and in early October began building barracks at Treviglio to make it seem he had decided to stay there for the winter. Vendôme returned to Southern Piedmont to meet with La Feuillade, but it was now October, and they decided it was too late in the year to attack Turin. Nevertheless, Victor Amadeus' position remained precarious; in December, Nice finally surrendered, and his possessions north of the Alps were held by France until the end of the war.

Defeat at Ramillies in May 1706 forced Louis XIV to recall Vendôme from Italy, leaving the less competent La Feuillade in command. On 15 August, Prince Eugene began his advance on Turin, which he reached on 29th in a series of marches seen as comparable in skill and execution to Marlborough's more famous march to the Danube in 1704. After the siege was lifted in September, remaining French forces in Italy were withdrawn and fighting in Northern Italy ended with the March 1707 Convention of Milan.

References

Sources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Castiglione
Cassano
Cassano
Cassano
Cassano
1705 in the Habsburg monarchy
1705 in France
1705 in Italy
Cassano