[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Curtis Woodhouse

ree appearances for Birmingham City in the Premier League, before being loaned out to Rotherham United in January 2003. Grimsby Town and Brighton & Hove Albion were also reportedly interested in signing the midfielder. During his loan spell at Rotherham, he turned out 11 times in the First Division.

Peterborough United
Woodhouse signed for Peterborough United on 14 October 2003, the same day that he made his debut against Torquay United in a 3–2 victory in the Football League Trophy. However, he had been training with Peterborough a month prior to signing for them, whilst he "sorted out some problems at Birmingham City". He went on to captain the side, and was later described as "Captain Marvel" by manager, Barry Fry. In 2003–04, he made 27 appearances in the Second Division, scoring seven goals. Peterborough finished 18th in the Second Division, two points from relegation, with Woodhouse being named as Peterborough's player of the season. In May 2004, Hull City manager, Peter Taylor, made a failed £100,000 bid to try and sign the midfielder. The following season, 2004–05, he made 34 appearances in the newly named League One and scored four goals. Peterborough suffered relegation, after finishing 23rd in the league.

Hull City
He joined Hull City in May 2005, the club he supported as a child, on a two-year contract for a fee of £25,000, with the potential to rise to £150,000 depending on appearances. His debut for Hull was as a late substitute in a 2–0 victory against Brighton & Hove Albion on 20 August 2005. Though he lacked fitness at the start of the season, injuries to Keith Andrews and Ian Ashbee gave him the chance of a regular starting place, and manager Taylor also handed him the team captaincy.
Despite consistent performances, by December 2005 he had lost his place and there was speculation that he had fallen out with Taylor and wanted to leave; this was strongly denied by the player: "I'm shocked that people are saying I want to go. I'm very happy here. ... It's taken me long enough to get to Hull so I'm not going to walk out after a few months, or whatever." In the following six weeks he made only two brief substitute appearances – in five months with the club he played 18 games in the Championship without scoring – and the strength of Hull's squad was such that he could not be guaranteed regular first-team football.

Grimsby Town
In the January 2006 transfer window, he joined Grimsby Town on a two-year deal, three years after they first expressed an interest in signing him. He made his debut against former club Peterborough United in League Two, on 28 January 2006 in a 2–1 home defeat, and scored his first and what turned out to be only goal for the club against Mansfield on 14 February 2006. On 26 April 2006, Woodhouse said he planned to retire from football at the end of the 2005–06 season and embark on a career as a professional boxer. He made 16 appearances in League Two, helping them to finish fourth place, reaching the play-offs. Woodhouse played in both of Grimsby's play-off semi-final victories over Lincoln City, setting up the only goal of the game in the first leg. He played his last Football League game in the play-off final at the Millennium Stadium on 28 May 2006. Grimsby were defeated 1–0 in the final by Cheltenham Town. Woodhouse gave away a penalty in the 70th minute that was saved by goalkeeper Steve Mildenhall.

Switch to boxing
Woodhouse had a history of theft, robbery and affray, and said that he had "fallen out of love" with football. He admitted to have been involved in around 100 street fights. He said; "Boxing has always been my first love, even as a kid", and "I love fighting...Rather than get locked up for it, I might as well get paid for it." He also stated that he used to spar in the boxing gym after football training without his manager's knowledge, saying "A few times at Sheffield United, Neil Warnock would drag me in and say 'I hear you've been boxing'. I'd be standing there with a big black eye and a fat lip and deny it." He trained under former British featherweight champion, Gary De Roux, and made his boxing debut on 8 September 2006 at Grosvenor House Hotel, London, in a welterweight contest against Dean Marcantonio, despite not having any previous amateur experience. The former footballer had lost two stone in weight since his playing days with Grimsby Town. The fight was scheduled for four rounds of two minutes, Woodhouse knocked his opponent down twice in the final round and won on points.