[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Itzik Zohar

et him languish on the bench during the season. After a falling out with Brailovsky, Zohar joined Maccabi Tel Aviv for his third stint but suffered an injury that saw him off the pitch for about 10 months. In retrospect, he later credited this injury to be the hardest part of his footballing career.

Once recovered from injury, Zohar regained his fitness at Maccabi Herzliya before joining Maccabi Netanya. Zohar was an instant success and started to receive money off the pitch as a spokesperson for local brands. His career was dealt a setback when he was caught hurling racial slurs towards Tzafririm Holon's Ziv Caveda (an Israeli footballer of Ethiopian extraction). In his defense, he claimed that his comments were directed at Holon's Hamisi Amani-Dove (an African American). The event startled the Israel Football Association which never had racism between players on the field and had no punishment system in place for it. Aside from receiving a one match ban and ₪5,000 fine, Zohar was publicly lambasted for his words that shook up the football world in Israel that was in the middle of promoting racial equality in Israel. After being released from his contract in Netanya, club manager, Uri Malmilian, left the club in protest. Zohar rejoined Beitar, where he was a central part of the club and helped steer the club away from the relegation zone of the table. He continued there for another season after which he announced he was retiring from football.

Zohar began to look toward a life after football before F.C. Ashdod was able to coax Zohar out of retirement. In 2003, he opened up a bar-restaurant, called Saga, in the Tel Aviv marina. At the time, it looked like things were working out again on the pitch, though he later announced his retirement for a second time before coming out of retirement for a second time to join Hapoel Nazareth Illit. It was a short lived return though as Zohar only managed three games before announcing on February 14, 2005 that he was hanging up his boots for good.

Acting career
After hanging up his boots, Zohar began to split his time between a number of different projects. Remaining a celebrity in Israel, he is the face of Gillette, Careline and many other brands in Israel. He is a regular guest on the football wrapup show on Israel 10 as well as other sports related programmes. As an actor, he had a role on a television programme called, "The Show", but it was canceled shortly after a couple of episodes. On the side, he also dabbles in the Tel Aviv real estate market.

Beach football
On June 1, 2007 Zohar was in the starting line up of the first ever Israel national beach soccer team. In his first competitive match, Zohar scored a goal as Israel beat their English counterparts by a score of 6-5 in Netanya, Israel. He was originally going to be a part of the squad for the qualification round of the European beach football championship in Athens, Greece, but pulled out due to injury. Locally, Zohar represents the city of Rosh HaAyin in Israel's inaugural beach football league.

Statistics

Honours
 With Maccabi Tel Aviv:
 Israeli Premier League (2): 1991-92, 1995–96
 State Cup (2): 1994, 1996
 Toto Cup (2): 1992-93, 1998–99
 With Beitar Jerusalem:
 Israeli Premier League (1): 1996-97
 With Maccabi Haifa:
 State Cup (1): 1998

See also
List of select Jewish football (association; soccer) players

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 

1970 births
Living people
Israeli Jews
Israeli men's footballers
Israel men's international footballers
Israeli expatriate men's footballers
Israel men's under-21 international footballers
Maccabi Jaffa F.C. players
Maccabi Tel Aviv F.C. players
Royal Antwerp F.C. players
Belgian Pro League players
Beitar Jerusalem F.C. players
Crystal Palace F.C. players
Maccabi Haifa F.C. players
Maccabi Herzliya F.C. players
Maccabi Netanya F.C. players
F.C. Ashdod players
Hapoel Nof HaGalil F.C. players
Liga Leumit players
Israeli Premier League players
Premier League players
Israeli people of Tunisian-Jewish descent
Expatriate men's footballers in Belgium
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Israeli expatriate sportspeople in Belgium
Israeli expatriate sportspeople in England
Israeli beach soccer players
Footballers from Bat Yam
Men's association football midfielders
Big Brother (franchise) contestants
Israeli Football Hall of Fame inductees