[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Romney Expedition

pturing western Virginia was not achieved, Jackson did succeed in both thwarting a Union attack on Winchester and in clearing his new Valley District of all Federal forces. Jackson also effectively used Winchester as a "depot, headquarters and springboard" for various raids against the B&O Railroad.

The Romney Insurrection
In late January, discontented officers in Loring's Division wrote a letter of petition to the Confederate Secretary of War in Richmond, Virginia, resulting in an order from the Secretary to Jackson to withdraw Loring from Romney on grounds that his position was exposed to possible isolation by Federal forces. Jackson complied with the order, but angry with direct interference from Richmond internal to his command, he filed charges for a court-martial against Loring and resigned his commission, asking in a letter to Governor John Letcher on January 31 to be transferred to the position of Superintendent of the Virginia Military Institute (VMI) in Lexington, Virginia. Under pressure from his former commander General Joseph E. Johnston and from Governor Letcher, Jackson withdrew his resignation. The charges against Loring were dropped, however, and all non-Virginia forces, along with Loring, were reassigned out of the Valley District elsewhere, reducing Jackson's effective force to about 4,000 men.

This reduction had a direct impact upon Jackson's ability to defend the lower Shenandoah Valley, and led to the need to evacuate Winchester on March 9 in the face of superior forces advancing to Winchester under Union Maj. Gen. Banks. Therefore, despite having prevented Rosecrans's goal of taking Winchester in January or February 1862, the insurrection of Loring's Division and its subsequent reassignment led to the inevitable seizure of Winchester by General Banks in March. It was not until Jackson was able to be reinforced with more disciplined and seasoned troops from Major General Richard S. Ewell's Division that he would be able to retake the initiative in the Shenandoah Valley.

See also
Romney, West Virginia, during the American Civil War
Winchester in the American Civil War

References
Allan, Colonel William. Address delivered before the Virginia Division, A.N.V, 31 October 1878. Southern Historical Society Papers, Vol. VII. Richmond, Virginia, January, 1879, No. 1.
Davis, Jefferson. The Rise and Fall of the Confederate Government. Peter Smith Pub Inc.; Abridged edition, June, 1971. .
Henderson, Colonel G. F. R., Stonewall Jackson and the American Civil War. New York, Van Rees Press; Longmans, Green and Co., Reprinted 1955.
Maier, Larry B. Gateway to Gettysburg: The Second Battle of Winchester. Burd Street Press: Shippensburg, Pennsylvania, 2002. .
Robertson, James I. Jr. Stonewall Jackson: The Man, The Soldier, The Legend. MacMillan Publishing, 1997. .
Rosecrans, William S. Report on Conduct of War. 1865, Volume III.

Notes

External links
Loring-Jackson Incident in Encyclopedia Virginia

Hampshire County, West Virginia, in the American Civil War
Morgan County, West Virginia, in the American Civil War
Civil War near Cumberland, Maryland
1862 in the American Civil War
1862 in Virginia
Military operations of the American Civil War in Maryland
Military operations of the American Civil War in West Virginia