[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Celestino Migliore

ons". He continued by saying that "Countries that don't recognize the union between people of the same sex as marriage will be punished and pressured." The proposed declaration does not in fact mention same-sex marriage, but most of the nations that support the document do recognize same-sex unions.

Speaking on the 2008–2009 Israel–Gaza conflict, Migliore said that the Holy See "would like to express its solidarity with the civilians in those regions who bear the brunt of a cruel conflict"; "that Security Council resolution 1860, of January 8, which calls for an immediate and enduring ceasefire as well as for an unimpeded humanitarian assistance, be implemented fully"; and "that so many failed efforts are due to insufficiently courageous and coherent political will for establishing peace, from every side, and ultimately an unwillingness to come together and forge a just and lasting peace."

On 6 May 2009, Migliore called for "concrete, transparent and convincing steps" towards nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. Speaking to the third session of the Preparatory Committee for the 2010 U.N. Conference on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, he said the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Weapons (NPT) remains a "cornerstone" of nuclear disarmament, after four decades. "The Holy See reaffirms its strong and continuing support for the NPT and calls for universal and full adherence to and compliance with the Treaty", he said. The first measure he suggested was starting negotiations for a Fissile Material Cut-Off Treaty, which he said are "overdue". Migliore also advocated that the peaceful use of nuclear energy should be under "strict control" of the International Atomic Energy Agency.

Apostolic Nuncio
Pope Benedict XVI appointed him Apostolic Nuncio to Poland on 30 June 2010.

On 28 May 2016, Pope Francis named him nuncio to Russia, and on 21 January 2017 named him nuncio to Uzbekistan as well.

On 11 January 2020, Pope Francis named him nuncio to France.

See also
 List of heads of the diplomatic missions of the Holy See

References

External links

 His Excellency Archbishop Celestino Migliore
 

 

 

 

1952 births
Living people
People from Cuneo
21st-century Italian Roman Catholic titular archbishops
Apostolic Nuncios to Poland
Apostolic Nuncios to Russia
Apostolic Nuncios to Uzbekistan
Apostolic Nuncios to France
Permanent Observers of the Holy See to the Council of Europe
Permanent Observers of the Holy See to the United Nations
Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy alumni
Pontifical Lateran University alumni
Grand Officers of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic