[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Scott Tipton

Libertarian Gaylon Kent, receiving 54.6% of the vote.

2018 

In 2018, Tipton held off Democratic former state representative Diane Mitsch Bush, Independent Mary Malarsie, and Libertarian Gaylon Kent in his closest challenge since he was first elected to Congress, receiving 51.2% of the vote.

2020 

In what was considered by many media outlets to be a shocking upset, Tipton was defeated in the Republican primary by restaurant owner and gun rights activist Lauren Boebert. He received 45.2% of the vote to Boebert's 54.6%. Dick Wadhams, a Republican political consultant from Denver, says that Tipton had several hundred thousand dollars in the bank for his primary against Boebert, but he chose not to use it for TV/radio ads, mailings, or social media, ceding the debate to Boebert, who inspired a much higher Republican turnout than in 2018. Boebert went on to win in a general election.

Tenure 
Tipton voted in favor of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. According to Tipton, the bill fixes a "broken tax code" and "puts the needs of the American people before special interests." Tipton touts that the act "supports families, graduate students, homeowners, and small businesses," and is "a victory for Coloradans and all Americans."

Committee assignments
 Committee on Agriculture
 Subcommittee on Conservation, Energy, and Forestry
 Committee on Natural Resources
 Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands
 Subcommittee on Water and Power
 Committee on Small Business
 Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy and Trade
 Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight and Regulations
 Republican Study Committee
Caucus Memberships
Congressional Cement Caucus
Congressional Gaming Caucus
Congressional Western Caucus

Political positions

Abortion
Tipton opposes abortion.

Donald Trump
Tipton expressed support for then-candidate Donald Trump in March 2016. After the Donald Trump Access Hollywood tape was released, in which Trump and Billy Bush had a lewd exchange about women, Tipton re-affirmed his support.

On December 18, 2019, Tipton voted against both articles of impeachment against Trump.

Economic issues 
Tipton has said, "we have a problem with reckless spending across the board at the federal level." He has signed Grover Norquist's Taxpayer Protection Pledge, and a pledge sponsored by Americans for Prosperity promising to vote against any Global Warming legislation that would raise taxes. He has also supported the Ryan Plan, having twice voted for it.

In February 2017, he voted against a resolution that would have directed the House to request 10 years of Trump's tax returns, which would then have been reviewed by the House Ways and Means Committee in a closed session.

Environment 
Tipton rejects the scientific consensus on climate change. He argues that climate change is driven by natural climate cycles. He opposes the Paris Agreement, the international agreement which mitigates greenhouse gas emissions.

He opposes federal regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. He has an 8% score by the League of Conservation Voters.

In 2010, while serving in the state legislature, Tipton voted against legislation to compel Xcel Energy to convert three coal power plants to natural gas power plants. He also voted against legislation to require electricity utilities to use more renewable energy.

In 2016, Tipton wrote a draft bill on oil and gas drilling in the Thompson Divide that contained large sections taken "word for word" from a proposal offered by a SG Interests, a Texas-based energy company and its lobbying firm. Tipton's draft legislation (which he described as a "starting point") was criticized because of Tipton's receipt of $39,000 in campaign contributions from SG Interests over the course of his career.

In January 2017, Tipton voted in favor of legislation that would make it easier to sell federal public lands. Tipton was criticized by conservation groups for his vote.

Water rights 
Tipton introduced the Water Rights Protection Act into the House on September 26, 2013. The bill would prevent federal agencies from requiring certain entities to relinquish their water rights to the United States in order to use public lands. Tipton said the bill was needed because it "provides critical protection for water rights' holders from federal takings by ensuring that federal government agencies cannot extort private property rights through uneven-handed negotiations." Tipton argued that the bill "prohibits federal agencies from pilfering water rights through the use of permits, leases, and other land management arrangements, for which it would otherwise have to pay just compensation under the 5th Amendment of the Constitution."

Foreign policy 
He has criticized the Obama administration for inaction in the Middle East: "President Obama and Secretary Clinton's inaction in the Middle East has emboldened Syria, Iran and Russia and led to the death and displacement of millions of Syrian civilians."