[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Fort McAllister (1863)

the fort fired on the ironclad in an attempt to distract the Union vessel.  After only a few minutes the Montauk sent its fifth shot into the raider's hull.  This and subsequent shells produced a fire and eventually explosions which destroyed the ship.  The Montauk had fired fourteen rounds in all.

As the Montauk withdrew down the river, it struck a torpedo (mine).  Quick action by the commander and pilot steered the vessel onto a mud bank as the tide receded, sealing the leak until repairs could be effected.  Following temporary patching, the rising tide refloated the boat. Eventually the Montauk was sent to Port Royal for permanent repairs.

The final naval battle
After the early engagements with the fort, Adm. Du Pont recognized that a single monitor turret lacked the rate of fire to force the capitulation of the earthen battery.  He therefore ordered three ironclads—USS , , and —to test their guns and mechanical appliances and practice artillery firing by attacking the fort.  The Montauk was to be held in reserve as its 15" gun had already fired a large number of rounds and its durability was unknown at the time.  Capt. Percival Drayton of the Passaic would command this expedition.

Anticipating an attack, the malleable fort was again expanded, adding a 10" Columbiad.  The fort then consisted of a "32-pounder rifle" (an old 32-pounder smoothbore rifled so that it would fire an approximately 64-pound rifled bolt or somewhat lighter shell), a 10" Columbiad, an 8" Columbiad, a 42-pounder smoothbore, three 32-pounder smoothbores (one being a "hot shot" gun), and 10" mortar in a connected work.  Additionally, several sharpshooters were placed in the marsh on the opposite side of the river near where the monitors were likely to station during an attack.

On March 3, 1863, the three newer ironclads conducted an eight-hour bombardment.  They were supported by five gunboats and three mortar schooners held out of range of the fort's guns.  Several steamers containing the 47th New York Infantry awaited nearby to occupy the fort when subdued.

The lead monitors anchored about 1,200 yards from the fort and commenced shelling as the fort attempted to target the gun ports when the turrets rotated to fire.  The bombardment knocked out the 8" Columbiad, tore large holes in the face of the fort, and for a time disabled all but the 10" Columbiad, before several other guns could be returned to service.

The Confederate sharpshooters hidden in the marsh fired on Capt. Drayton and Cmdr. Miller when they emerged on the deck of the Passaic. Neither was seriously injured, and they withdrew into the vessel. Grapeshot was fired into the marsh to discourage any further sharpshooting.

While most of the damage experienced by the ironclads was the result of firing of their own cannon, the 10" Confederate mortar battery inflicted some potentially fatal damage to the Passaic.  The mortar battery commander, Capt. Robert Martin, realized that explosive mortar shells would have little effect, so he filled each shell with sand instead of gunpowder, to increase its weight and density.  This would result in it retaining more velocity and momentum when it struck the thinly armored deck.  One of these struck and partially penetrated the ironclad, only being stopped from penetrating all the way through the vessel because it struck on a beam.

As the tide was receding and nightfall was coming, the naval vessels withdrew.  Capt. Drayton attempted to prevent repair of the earthworks overnight by maintaining 13" mortar fire on the fort overnight.  This prevented slave labor from conducting the repair, but it did not prevent Confederate soldiers from working.  The damage had been repaired by the next afternoon, and the loss of the fort's mascot, Tom Cat, reported to General Beauregard.

The attack on the fort had failed and no further naval assaults against it were ordered.  Valuable information about several deficiencies of the monitors had been revealed by the action, and efforts would be made to remedy them where possible.

Aftermath and conclusions
The first test of the 15-inch Dahlgren gun and single-turret monitors against the sand parapets of Fort McAllister had revealed several things: