[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Armen Garo

us came back almost to normal. Pastermadjian was able to create a fairly prosperous life for himself. He secured the right to develop a copper mine, and worked towards a partnership with a large company. His business required that he should stay in the Caucasus to continue his successful enterprise.

When the Young Turk Revolution occurred in 1908, the Armenians in Erzurum, as well as the ARF, telegraphed Pastermadjian and asked him to become their candidate in the coming elections for Representative to the Ottoman Parliament. He became a member of the Ottoman parliament part from the Armenian Revolutionary Federation deputies. Pastermadjian was a deputy from Erzurum for 2 terms. He was a member of the Ottoman Parliament from 1908 to 5 August 1912. His document of election (tr: mazbata) is found in the library of the Grand National Assembly of Türkiye. During his four years in Constantinople (Istanbul) as a deputy, he worked for the railroad bill which was known to the public as Chester's bill. Its main objective was to build railroads as soon as possible in those vilayets which were considered to be Russia's future possessions. For that reason neither France nor Germany wished to undertake it, lest they should arouse the enmity of Russia. Another fundamental object was to build those lines with American capital, which would make it possible to counteract the Russo-Franco-German policies and financial intrigues. But in spite of all efforts unable to overcome the German, opposition in Constantinople, although, as the outcome of the struggle in connection with that bill, two ministers of public works were forced to resign their post.

Talaat, on behalf of the "Committee of Union and Progress", offered the portfolio of public works, refused these proposals, for the simple reason that he did not wish to compromise in any way with the leaders of the government.

He had taken too active a part in 1913 in the conferences held for the consideration of the Armenian reforms, and especially because, while parliamentary elections were going on during April 1914, he was in Paris and the Netherlands, as the delegate of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation, to meet the inspectors general who were invited to carry out the reforms.

World War I

During the autumn of 1914, a month and a half before the beginning hostilities, Garo went to the Caucasus on a special mission given after the Armenian congress at Erzurum, and joined the committee which had been appointed by the Armenian National Council of the Caucasus to organize the Armenian volunteer units. In November 1914, he accompanied the second battalion of the Armenian volunteers as the representative of the executive committee of Tiflis. 

On 14 November, at the Bergmann Offensive, the second battalion of the Armenian volunteers engaged in battle for the first time, near Bayazid. In the course of a bloody combat which lasted twenty-four hours, Dro, the commander of the battalion, was seriously wounded, and Garo was forced to immediately take his place. 

From that day until March of the following year, he remained at the head of that battalion, and led it into eleven battles in the neighborhood of Alashkert, Toutakh, and Malashkert, until Dro recovered and returned to resume the command.
In the summer of 1915, he went to Van during the Defense of Van, becoming one of the first to enter the city after the Russians had liberated it. 

Khetcho (Catchik), his assistant, died on the shores of Lake Van in July 1915.

In the spring of 1917, when the Russian Revolution turned the Caucasus upside down, Armen Garo and Dr. Hakob Zavriev were sent from the Caucasus to Petrograd to negotiate with the Russian provisional government concerning Caucasian affairs.

He left for America in June 1917 as the representative of the Armenian National Council of Tiflis. He was elected to be ambassador of the First Republic of Armenia to the United States in Washington, D.C.

Death and legacy 
When the 1915 Armenian genocide broke out, Armen Garo became very depressed and sick. When Armenia lost its independence, his sickness grew worse. He died of heart disease in Geneva, Switzerland on 23 March 1923, aged 51, where he was attending a conference on Russia.

There are several organizations with chapters named after him, including the Armenian Youth Federation "Armen Garo" Chapter of Racine, Wisconsin, and the "Armen Karo" Armenian Revolutionary Federation Student Association of Canada.

Bibliography
Why Armenia should be free: Armenia's rôle in the present war... (1918)
Armenia and Her Claims to Freedom and National Independence (1919)
Armenia a Leading Factor in the Winning of the War (1919)

References

External links

 
 
 Biography Reference
 Armen Karo Student Association