[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Električni Orgazam

sical Express with a few copies of the album, resulting in the band signing with Rough Trade Records for distributing the copies of the album to England.  After the album release, in autumn 1981, Marina Vulić left the band, being replaced by Jovan Jovanović "Grof", and Čavajda returned to the group.

In the meantime, the band met a student from Poland, Grzegorz Brzozowicz, who had contacts with the people from the Warsaw club Rivijera Remont, gathering the fans of new wave and punk rock. Bzozovič arranged the three bands from Paket aranžman to perform in Poland, and after Šarlo Akrobata, in November, the band went on a tour of Poland, playing six dates, four Warsaw, one at Kraków, and one at Kalisz. The performance of 8 November, at Rivijera Remont, was recorded on a simple tape recorder, later released on the six-song Warszawa '81 EP, limited to 2000 copies, being the first official bootleg in former Yugoslavia. The rough recordings were post-produced by Slobodan Konjović, presenting a valid document of the band sound, as well as the audience reaction, not accustomed to visiting punk rock concerts. During the performance of the song "Konobar", there was a half-minute sound equipment failure, during which a member of the audience dropped tear gas. The disturbance was documented on the record, which featured two new songs, "Leptir" ("The Butterfly") and "Razgovori" ("Conversations").

The album Lišće prekriva Lisabon (Leaves Fall Over Lisbon) was recorded at the Ljubljana Tivoli Studio, produced by the band themselves with the help of Toni Jurij. The album, which got the name by the title of the Serbian translation of the Barbara Cartland novel Lovers in Lisbon, featured seventeen songs, presenting a new aspect of the band's work, gradually influenced by psychedelic rock, with all the tracks having one-word song titles. Gojković later stated that the during the writing process the band was experimenting with LSD, which influenced the outbreak of the album. The songs "Afrika" ("Africa") and "Alabama", a cover version of The Doors interpretation of the Bertolt Brecht poem, featured Gojković and Đukić sharing vocals duties. The song "Dokolica" ("Idleness"), also released on single with the dub version of the song on B-side, featured the lyrics Gojković found in a sociology book, and the songs "Leptir", "Odelo" ("Suit") and "Podstanar" ("Sub-tenant"), deal with the problems of urban alienation. The album featured guest appearance by the trumpet player Petar Ugrin on the songs "Alabama" and "Leptir".

In autumn 1983, Gojković and Ivan Stančić "Piko", influenced by the New York City underground scene, formed the band Hijene (Hyenas), and recorded the album WooDoo za početnike (Voodoo For Beginners). However, dissatisfied with the record label treatment, the album was never released, but it did inspire the recording of the band fifth album Distorzija (Distortion). The next discography release was the unexpected cover album Les Chansones Populaires (French for Popular songs), produced by Gojković, Đukić, Toni Jurij and Piko Stančić, who also played drums due to Čavajda being in prison, featuring eight cover versions, including the David Bowie "The Man Who Sold The World", T.Rex "Metal Guru", The Doors "When the Music's Over", and Little Eva "Locomotion", the latter also released on single. The tour following the album release featured Mango Kuštrin on drums.

Personnel crisis, mainstream success, disbandment (1984–1989) 
In 1984, when they were about to enter the studio in order to record the fourth studio album, the band lineup changed, as the drummer Čavajda returned to the band and guitarist Jovanović left the band. With guest appearances by Ivan Pajević (guitar), Piko Stančić (drums), Goran Pojatić (piano), Kire Mitrev (trombone), Ivan Švager (saxophone), and Goce Dimitrovski (trumpet), the band recorded the album Kako bubanj kaže (As The Drum Decides), musically influenced by the early 1970s work of the Rolling Stones, also suggested by the album artwork. Like on all of the previous releases, vocal duties were shared between Gojković and Đukić. The track "Fras u šupi" ("Seizure In The Shed"), which appeared on the album, was a part of the trilogy, beside the story collection, written by David Albahari, and the poem of the same name, written by Miloš Komadina in his poetry book Etika trave (Grass Ethics). The song music and lyrics were written by Gojković, except for "Pričam o tebi" ("I Am Talking About You"), for which the music was written by Čavajda.