[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant

ncerns about contamination of food and water supplies, including the 2011 rice harvest, and also the health effects of radiation on workers at the plant. Scientists estimate that the accident released 18 quadrillion becquerels of caesium-137 into the Pacific Ocean, contaminating  of the ocean floor.

The events at units 1, 2 and 3 have been rated at Level 5 each on the International Nuclear Event Scale, and those at unit 4 as Level 3 (Serious Incident) events, with the overall plant rating at Level 7 (major release of radioactive material with widespread health and environmental effects requiring implementation of planned and extended countermeasures), making the Fukushima disaster and the Chernobyl disaster worldwide the only Level 7 events up to date.

After March 2011

April 3, 2011
2 bodies were discovered in the basement turbine room, most likely because the workers ran there during the tsunami.

April 9, 2013
TEPCO publicly admits Radionuclide contaminated water may have leaked from the storage units, possibly contaminating the soil and water nearby. The leak was controlled and stored in containment tanks. Contaminated water continued to accumulate at the plant, and TEPCO announces plans to filter radioactive particles and discharge purified water.

July 9, 2013
TEPCO officials reported that radioactive caesium was 90 times higher than it was 3 days prior (July 6), and that it may spread into the Pacific Ocean. TEPCO reported that the caesium-134 levels in the well water were measured at 9 kilobecquerel per liter, 150 times the legal level, while Caesium-137 was measured at 18 kilobecquerel per liter, 200 times the permitted level.

August 7, 2013
Japanese officials said highly radioactive water was leaking from Fukushima Daiichi into the Pacific Ocean at a rate of 300 tons (about 272 metric tons) per day. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe ordered government officials to step in.

April 12, 2016
Reactors were being cooled with 300 tonnes of water each day.

September 10, 2019
Since the 3 plants was damaged by the earthquake, tsunami, and subsequent hydrogen gas explosions in 2011, TEPCO has continued to pump water onto the previously melted-down fuel cores to prevent them from once again overheating. Contaminated cooling water has collected on site, where more than 1 million tons has been stored in hundreds of tall steel tanks.  Large filtration systems are used to clean the water of its radioactive contaminants, but cannot remove tritium, a radioactive isotope of hydrogen (Hydrogen-3) bonded into water molecules (tritiated water).  In 2016, only 14 grams of tritium in total was estimated to be contained in 800,000 cubic meters of contaminated water stored on site.   As the tritium-contaminated water continued to accumulate, according to TEPCO, the immediate site will run out of space by 2022. TEPCO plans to solve this problem by releasing the contaminated water into the Pacific Ocean. This proposed measure is heavily criticised by environmental groups, local fishermen and several Asian governments, who claim that storage area is available in the extensive, contaminated exclusion zone around the reactor. It is not known yet how much contaminated water will be released by TEPCO.

April 13, 2021

Japan's government approved the release of treated radioactive water from the plant into the Pacific Ocean – beginning in 2023 – over the course of an estimated 40 years.

July 23, 2021

A note in the 2020 Tokyo Olympic games opening speech referenced the disaster and how Japan has recovered from the disaster.

Dismantling of reactors

The reactors will take 30–40 years to be decommissioned. On August 1, 2013, the Japanese Industry Minister Toshimitsu Motegi approved the creation of a structure to develop the technologies and processes necessary to dismantle the four reactors damaged in the Fukushima accident.

To reduce the flow of contaminated water into the Pacific Ocean, TEPCO spent ¥34.5 billion (approx. $324 million) to build a 1.5 kilometer-long underground wall of frozen soil around the plant, constructed by Kajima Corporation. 1,500 , supercooled pipes were inserted into the ground in order to freeze the surrounding groundwater and soil. The wall ultimately failed to significantly decrease the groundwater flowing into the site.

The cost of decommissioning and decontamination of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant has been estimated at $195 billion, which includes compensation payouts to victims of the disaster. The amount also includes decommissioning of Fukushima Daiichi reactors, which is estimated at $71 billion. TEPCO will shoulder $143 billion of decommissioning and decontamination, while the Ministry of Finance of Japan will provide $17 billion. Other power companies will also contribute to the cost.