[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# GoShogun

includes a summary of key events, snippets from the daily lives and background stories of the characters, and advertisements for fictional products. The closing credits show images of the main characters as children. The last of these, young Remy, would later make an appearance in The Time Étranger.

The Time Étranger
A surrealistic follow-up film, known as The Time Étranger or Time Stranger (1985), is set forty years after the events of the GoShogun TV series. The team has long since disbanded, and most of them have lost touch, but when Remy is rendered comatose in a car crash, her old friends and former enemies gather at her bedside to try to lend her their strength. Meanwhile, in Remy's dream, she and her five friends are in the prime of their lives, and are trapped in a mysterious desert city inhabited by hostile fanatics, who worship a god of fate. All six team members receive anonymous letters that ordain for each of them a brutal death within several days, with Remy set to die first. As they fight back against the forces of fate, Remy is haunted by increasingly disturbing visions of her foretold demise, as well as by flashbacks to her lonely and troubled childhood, designed to drive her to despair. It is notable that the feature-length sequel of a "giant robot" series barely makes any reference to the giant robot, except for a brief shot of a GoShogun-shaped charm on the rearview mirror of Remy's car and a museum devoted to the former exploits of the GoShogun crew. All the fighting in the dream sequence is done with cold weapons and common firearms, such as Remy's trusty revolver.

Video games
The GoShogun team and mecha make several appearances in the Super Robot Wars series with various enemy robots including Debiza, Dogave, Doshard, the GoShogun doppelganger Gonagurl, and the three Dokuga ships and their fighters, the impactors.
In Super Robot Wars Alpha 2 and Super Robot Wars Alpha 3, Leonardo Medici Bundle's ship has "The Blue Danube" as its default background music. This song is played on enormous speakers, and it is one of the few situations in which Elzam V. Branstein (a.k.a. Rätsel Feinschmecker)'s theme "Trombe!" is overridden.

See also
Magical Princess Minky Momo
Chōdenji Machine Voltes V
Watchmen

References

External links
Site "Macron 1"  information about "Macron 1", "Sengoku Majin Goshogun", "Gotriniton" and "The Time Etranger". Video, audio.
Sengoku Majin GoShogun – aka Gotriniton, Fulgutor or Macron One fansite used to be goshogun.com, holds a lot of information and media
 
GoShogun section at Encirobopedia
Sengoku Majin GōShōgun by Takatoku Toys  A great article on the GoShogun toys by Erik Sjoen from ToyboxDX.com
Macron 1 review at Anime Game's Bargain Bin Anime Reviews
GoShogun: The Time Étranger article

1981 anime television series debuts
1982 anime films
1982 films
1985 anime films
1985 films
Television series set in 2001
Ashi Productions
Discotek Media
Super robot anime and manga