[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Myongji University

Myongji University () is a private, Christian university founded in 1948 in South Korea. It provides higher education in the fields of engineering, sciences and humanities. It has two campuses: the Social Science Campus is located in Seoul and the Natural Science Campus is in Yongin which is  south of the capital. It is made up of 10 colleges, 42 departments, seven faculties and eight specialized postgraduate programs.

Myongji University has been a center for practical humanism over the past half century, and is operating various and practical globalization programs while having exchange with 150 universities in 22 countries.

History
Myongji University set off as Seoul Primary College of Home Economics, established by Moo-gung Institution in 1948 and in 1953, established Geunhwa Women's Primary College. In 1955, its name was changed to Seoul's Primary Women's College. In 1956, it was reorganized as a coeducation school, Seoul College of Education of Liberal Arts and Science. Then, Christian founding spirit and education policy was set up. According to timely demand of reinforcement of vocational training, its name was changed again to Seoul Practical College of Liberal Arts and Science in 1962.

The school's name was changed from Moo-gung Institution to Myongji Institution based on Christian faith. After the inauguration of President Sang-geun You in 1964, its name changed to Myongji University. After being approved as a 4-year University, school planned and designed the 10 Developmental Programs including building new lecture halls, making and reorganizing departments, establishing graduate schools, etc.

Memorial Arch status raised to university on September 8, 1983, and made departments of politics and home economics, modified department quota. By active support of Myongji Institute, Yongin Campus was built and made growth such as founding of affiliated facility, Extension University dividing natural and social science campus in two different campuses.

On September 13, 1994, the Arts and Design Center was built in industry-academia cooperation of Myongji University and Nasan Group. Myongji University had a New Millennium Proclamation Ceremony to make creative epistemic community that will lead 21st century's Korea and to cope with rapidly changing university environment. It is also taking off to be a university living Christian faith, creativity, innovation, action and a university that becomes power of future society.

Symbol and mascot 
The leafed tree symbolizes the founding spirit of the Myong Ji Educational Foundation to imbue the students with the Christian faith, so that they may become devoted and capable leaders who can contribute to the advancement of our culture and national prosperity and ultimately to the realization of world peace.

The white stallion is a symbol of loyalty, courage, obedience, and purity. It is also a reference to the equestrian origins of the Korean people. The school mascot is, therefore, a representation of the profound hope that Myongjians, like the white stallion, will be steeped in such virtues as loyalty, courage, obedience, and purity as they gallop into the world for the realization of God's kingdom here on earth.

Organization

Undergraduate 

College of Humanities
Korean Language and Literature 
History 
Library & Information Science 
Japanese Language and Literature 
Creative Writing 
Arabic Studies 
Art History 
Chinese Language and Literature 
English Language and Literature 
Philosophy
College of Social Science
Public Administration 
Digital Media 
North Korean Studies 
Political Science and Diplomacy 
Youth Education and Leadership 
Child Development and Education 
Economics 
Department of Social Welfare
College of Business Administration
Business Administration 
International Business and Trade 
Real Estate 
Management Information
College of Engineering 
Electrical Engineering 
Civil and Environmental Engineering 
Chemical Engineering 
Industrial and Management Engineering 
Computer Engineering 
Communication Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
Environmental Engineering and Biotechnology 
Electronics Engineering 
Transportation Engineering 
Materials Science & Engineering
College of Natural Science
Mathematics 
Division of Biosciences and Bioinformatics 
Food and Nutrition 
Chemistry 
Physics
College of Arts and Physical Education
Division of Design 
Division of Film and Musical (formerly, Division of Culture and Arts)
Baduk Studies 
Division of Music 
Division of Physical Education, Sport and Leisure Studies
College of Architecture
Division of Architecture 
Space Design
Bangmok College of General Education
Division of general education in social science campus
Division of Open Major in Social Sciences 
Division of general education in natural science campus 
Division of Open Major in Natural Sciences 
Department of Teacher Training