[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Kharkiv National University of Economics

tudents' mayor of Kharkiv (nominations 2004, 2005. It is the co-founder of Kharkiv Student Youth Union, Regional Coordinator of Ukrainian Students Rada (USR) in Kharkiv; KhNEU's students Vladimir Shemaev and  Natalia Yakunina were the USR's elected leaders in 2006-2007 and in 2008-2010 respectively.

Youth Center 
Youth Center (Student Club) KhNUE was founded in 2000. Youth Center brings together and assists creative teams, i.e. provides a general support for the students activities. In 2010, among teams from different genres, there were skiffle-group of pop dance "Joy", pop dance band «Emotion», folk vocal-instrumental ensemble "Roxolana", chorus "Vernіsazh", vocal ensembleы "Opium", "Nathnennya"("Afflatus"), vocal band "New People", vocal and instrumental ensemble, an orchestra of wind instruments, stage theater «Empire» and others.

"Student Spring" 
"Student Spring" is a traditional, since 2001, annual university festival.

"Debut" 
Similarly, the "Debut" festival is dedicated and performed by first-year students.

"Inzhek" Travel Club 
"Inzhek" Travel Club provides a support for traveling activity for students and faculty.

Fan Club "Inzhek-Metalist" 
Fan Club "Inzhek Metalis" started its activity in February 2010 as a joint project "Towards each other" by KhNUE and Kharkiv FC "Metalist".

"The Golden Compass" 
The university is a venue for international student competition of PR-projects "The Golden Compass", founded in 2007. The competition aims to stimulate creativeness and practical initiatives of students enrolled in specialized educational fields: marketing, advertising, PR. Now "The Golden Compass" is a professional team competition. Before 2013 it was a part of promotional activities for tender projects, from 2014 - Startup initiatives. Participants are expected to complete projects for real enterprises and campaigns. The jury consists of representatives of the business only. The competition is supported by international and national companies and professional associations of Ukraine - Ukrainian Association of Public Relations (UAPR), Ukrainian PR-League.

Sports 
In 2003, the organizational system of students' sport activity was endorsed by the Minister of Education and Science as model and was recommended for all educational institutions of Ukraine. By 2013 there were annual competitions in 10 sports and in mini-football tournament on the Rector's Cup.

Aerobics, Fitness 
Aerobics, fitness aerobics, gymnastics, cheerleading.

Athleticism 
Weight lifting, weightlifting, powerlifting, athleticism.

Basketball 
Men's and women's basketball teams of the university.

Volleyball 

Women's volleyball team KNUE founded in 1999 and since 2000 is a member of the Graduate Students League of Ukraine. Regular participant of competitions held Volleyball Federation Kharkiv region and the Regional Department of Physical Education and Sport.

Table tennis 
Training groups of table tennis is available both for students and for faculty and staff of KhNUE. The university's team takes part in friendly matches with other Kharkiv universities teams and Kharkiv Sports Festival of Universities. There are personal championships among foreign students, the personal championship KhNUE in memory of L.S.Luchenko, faculties' matches.

Sambo and Judo 
The university has a developed network of Sambo and Judo acting teams. Team championships are held among the faculties, the individual championship, and performances. KhNUE's team is a participant of the International tournament in memory of Vladimir Kiselyov.

Sport tourism 
Started in 2006 sport tourism classes are held on the technique of walking, mountain biking, and boating. KhNUE teams were the  repeated awardee of regional and inter-university competitions.

Football 

There is a men's university team. Football championships are conducted among students' hostels teams and a futsal competition among faculties. The KhNUE's team was a winner of the "Metalist Student League" in 2013.

Checkers and Chess 

The university's chess club was opened in 2011.

Notable alumni 

 Simon Smith Kuznets, American economist, Nobel prize winner (1971).
 Evsei Liberman, Soviet economist, architect of the economic reforms of 1965.
Maria Quisling, wife of Nazi collaborator Vidkun Quisling.
Mykhailo Chechetov, Ukrainian politician.
 Victoria Spartz, member of the Indiana Senate, 2020 Republican candidate for Indiana's 5th congressional district

Ratings

External links 
 Simon Kuznets Kharkiv National University of Economics - Official site
 «Economics of Development» - International economic peer-reviewed open access scientific journal
 «Business Inform» - International economic peer-reviewed open access scientific journal
 KhNUE Open Access Scientific Repository
 University's Library
 KhNUE Portal of electronic distance learning
 Publishing House "INZHEK"
 Research and Development Centre for Industrial Problems of Development of NAS of Ukraine (RDC IPD NASU)

Notes and references