[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Utilization behavior

objects in the patients hands or enticed them to pick up the objects. Shallice performed two procedures, Lhermitte's experiment ("induced UB") and an 'incidental' which included a neurological examination while objects that could elicit UB were present. 23 patients were found to have symptoms of UB.

Thalamus
The anterior cingulate cortex forms connections with dorsolateral prefrontal cortex meaning prefrontal regions have strong connections with limbic structures. This can be seen in the following study conducted by Eslinger et al. A woman with bilateral encephalomalacia had a damaged medial thalamus and showed behavioral problems including utilization behavior. She conducted unnecessary motor use of objects in her immediate environment. The effect of the damage to the paramedian thalamic region did not astonish researchers because of its connection to the cingulate cortex. Thalamic infarctions have produced hypometabolism, a decrease in metabolic rate, in the frontal areas and hypoperfusion resulting in UB. The patient was marked with the behavior, and brain imaging noticed the infarctions in the thalamus.

White matter
In conjunction with the thalamus, UB has also been linked to the white matter of the frontal lobe. Ishihara et al. sought to demonstrate this linkage by observing a patient who was experiencing loss of consciousness. The patient, a 72-year-old male, exhibited utilization behavior after admission into the hospital. An examiner placed objects such as a tissue box, toothpaste and a toothbrush in front of the patient and before any instruction the patient brushed his teeth and picked up the tissue in a manner as if to blow his nose. When asked why he did these actions, he had no reason other than that he wanted to use the objects. Later, the patient was placed in front of a paper and pen and he immediately started to write correct letters and sentences without being told to do so because he felt compelled to write.

The results showed that a lesion in the subcortical white matter of the superior frontal gyrus was the cause of utilization behavior in the patient. A coronal section of the brain confirmed an infarct, tissue death due to lack of oxygen, in the left superior frontal gyrus with the main lesion in the subcortical white matter. Fiber bundles are also present in the subcortical white matter connecting the prefrontal area with the nucleus of the thalamus. The researchers believed that utilization behavior could also be a result of the disordering of these fibers. The researchers established that a network exists between the frontal cortical and some subcortical lesions, especially the thalamus, and a white matter lesion may disconnect this network.

Diagnosis
Quantitative methods of assessing utilization behavior are not available for use and because of this those who notice changes in behavior similar to that of the signs of UB should see a doctor. Many functional disorders can be mistaken for frontal dysfunction as several neurological causes can be attributed to frontal dysfunction. Proper criteria need to be in place for determining UB but because this disorder is in the elementary stage, researchers have not arrived at a full understanding of the disorder. Doctors can test the patient's response, communication and motor skills but the only way to fully diagnose this disorder is to do a scan of the brain to see if the frontal lobe has been damaged. This can be done with the following scan types:
 CT Scan (X-ray computed tomography)
 MRI (Magnetic resonance imaging)
 PET (Positron emission tomography)
 SPECT (Single-photon emission computed tomography)

Treatment
Although no specific cure has been found for UB, steps can be taken to reduce its symptoms and severity. If UB is a symptom of an underlying disease or disorder, treatment of the disease itself can reduce the severity of UB and may eradicate it completely. This was seen in patients with Moyamoya disease who had bilateral frontal lobe infarctions which resulted in UB. Upon treatment, the UB was resolved due to 60–70% shrinkage of the anterior lobe hypodensities. Concerning general frontal lobe damage, rehabilitation is known to help a patient function with their disorder.

Diseases
Utilization behavior is present in patients that have ranging diseases and disorders. The diseases mentioned below are some of those that include UB as a symptom. 
 Frontotemporal dementia
 Moyamoya disease
 Primary cerebral malignant lymphoma (see Primary central nervous system lymphoma)
 ADHD
 Children with ADHD were found to display significantly higher utilization behavior compared to children of a control group. ADHD is associated with frontal lobe abnormalities and with the knowledge that UB involves the frontal lobe, researchers have started to form a connection between the two. Archibald et al. found that those with ADHD exhibited UB that was more common with those objects familiar and in the field of view of the patient.