[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Energy Charter Treaty

l Institute for Sustainable Development describes the possibility of a withdrawal with neutralization of the survival clause.

The UK government  announced in September 2023 that it would consider leaving the "outdated" treaty if modernisation was not agreed by that November.

Announced withdrawals 

As of October 2022, Spain, the Netherlands and Poland intended to withdraw from the ECT, and Germany, France and Belgium were "examining their options". On 21 October 2022, France announced that it would leave the treaty, citing a desire to accelerate nuclear and renewable energy use before fossil fuels. And on 14November 2022, Germany announced its intention to withdraw in order to better tackle climate change. Slovenia had earlier stated its intention to withdraw. Denmark announced in April 2023 that it intends to withdraw.

In July 2023  the European Commission formally proposed legislation for both the union and its member states to make a "coordinated and orderly" simultaneous withdrawal from the ECT.

Withdrawals 

Italy withdrew in 2016.

See also

Energy law
Russia in the European energy sector
Energy policy of the European Union
Energy policy of Russia
Energy Community
INOGATE

References

External links
 Treaty texts
 Energy Charter website
 The Energy Charter Treaty – Legal Document
 A Reader's Guide to the Energy Charter Treaty
 ECT Provisional Application
 Noriko Yodogawa & Alexander M. Peterson, "An Opportunity for Progress: China, Central Asia, and the Energy Charter Treaty", 8 Texas Journal of Oil, Gas, and Energy Law 111 (2013).

Energy policy
Energy law
Energy treaties
International energy organizations
Treaties concluded in 1994
Treaties entered into force in 1998
Treaties establishing intergovernmental organizations
Treaties extended to Jersey
Treaties extended to the Isle of Man
Treaties of Albania
Treaties of Armenia
Treaties of Austria
Treaties of Azerbaijan
Treaties of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Treaties of Belgium
Treaties of Bulgaria
Treaties of Croatia
Treaties of Cyprus
Treaties of Denmark
Treaties of Estonia
Treaties of Finland
Treaties of France
Treaties of Georgia (country)
Treaties of Germany
Treaties of Greece
Treaties of Hungary
Treaties of Ireland
Treaties of Japan
Treaties of Kazakhstan
Treaties of Kyrgyzstan
Treaties of Latvia
Treaties of Liechtenstein
Treaties of Lithuania
Treaties of Luxembourg
Treaties of Malta
Treaties of Moldova
Treaties of Mongolia
Treaties of Poland
Treaties of Portugal
Treaties of Romania
Treaties of Russia
Treaties of Slovakia
Treaties of Slovenia
Treaties of Spain
Treaties of Sweden
Treaties of Switzerland
Treaties of Tajikistan
Treaties of the Czech Republic
Treaties of the Netherlands
Treaties of North Macedonia
Treaties of the United Kingdom
Treaties of Turkey
Treaties of Turkmenistan
Treaties of Ukraine
Treaties of Uzbekistan