[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hans Münch

manded not the imprisonment of Münch but his release on license. Münch was found guilty, but due to his old age and his mental health, the Paris appeal court decided that the 89-year-old Münch should not serve out the sentence. As in the previous proceedings, Münch did not attend the court hearings.

In September 2001, the French Radio rebroadcast the 1998 interview with Münch. Lawyers Without Borders, the International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism and the Union of Jewish Students in France lodged complaints. In 2002, all of the accused responsible staff members of the public-law broadcasting institution Radio France were acquitted of the accusation of assistance in incitement to race hatred. The reasoning of the court decision reads that all radio listeners would have understood that Münch's statements about Sinti and Roma and about NS-extermination camps were taken from the Nazi-propaganda.

Legacy

Foundation Remembrance, Responsibility and Future
The Foundation Remembrance, Responsibility and Future () has Hans Münch in its listings as a participant in malaria experiments on Auschwitz inmates; however, he is not listed for the malaria experiments in the Dachau concentration camp, which had taken place until 5 April 1945 under the direction of physician Claus Schilling.

Fritz Bauer-Institute
In 2002 and 2003, the Fritz Bauer-Institute in Frankfurt focused on the analysis of the first Frankfurt Auschwitz Trial and its effects on the socio-political-judicial-historical levels in the Federal Republic of Germany. There was an explicit invitation to participate in the series of public meetings and discussion events on perpetrators' and victims' biographies in the Nazi regime. On 4 November 2002, Prof. Dr. Helgard gave the lecture  (SS-physicians in Auschwitz and in the first Frankfurt Auschwitz Trial).

Study: Examination of the previous trials
Within the context of Holocaust research, Helgard Kramer reports about details in a study from 2005: Hans Münch was heard in the first Frankfurt Auschwitz Trial and even called as an expert on the 2nd and 5th of March 1964. Until the year 2000, the public prosecutor of Frankfurt had only knowledge about the judgement of the Kraków proceedings but not about the protocols and the witness hearings. Münch had stated that he had been forced into the Waffen-SS and that he had come to Birkenau at the end of 1944. During the discussion of the second hearing he corrected himself, stating that he had already arrived in 1943.

The documents of the witness hearing provided the answer of Münch to the precise questions of the prosecutor during the main hearing of 1947:

Münch was questioned about the medical experiments he had effected in Block 10. The questioning was stopped, when he demanded an expert colleague as interrogator. Professor Jan Sehn had prepared the Kraków Trial of 1947 as examining magistrate. He ordered Münch with the medical treatment of another inmate. He also sent the whole stack of files of the Hygiene Institute of the Waffen-SS in Raisko into his cell for "arranging". Then the files were kept by the Kraków journalist Mieczysław Kieta, who later on engaged himself with the most efforts for the exculpation of Münch. Kieta worked within the command range of the SS-Hygienics Institute as a laboratory assistant under the supervision of Münch.

Several concentration camp inmates have certified the fairness of Münch. Three of them are often quoted. The Hungarian medical science professor Geza Mansfeld was regarded as the most important among them. He praised Münch, as he had prevented his selection for the gas chambers and who had given him drugs because Mansfeld suffered from a stomach ulcer. In return Münch obtained training in Serology, Bacteriology and Chemistry. Mansfeld was one of the internationally famous "capacities" in these fields and he was meant to provide his knowledge to the Hygienics Institute for free.

See also
The Holocaust
Nazi human experimentation

References

External links
Profile, Nizkor.org

1911 births
2001 deaths
Auschwitz concentration camp medical personnel
Dachau concentration camp personnel
Physicians in the Nazi Party
SS-Untersturmführer
Auschwitz trial
German prisoners of war in World War II held by the United States
National Socialist Motor Corps members
Waffen-SS personnel
People indicted for crimes against humanity
People acquitted of international crimes
Deaths from Alzheimer's disease
Deaths from dementia in Germany
German people who rescued Jews during the Holocaust
People convicted of racial hatred offences
People convicted of speech crimes
Prisoners and detainees of Poland