[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Douglas Murray (author)

lso one of the directors of the Free Speech Union, an organization established by Toby Young in 2020 which speaks out against cancel culture.

Murray participates in the Intellectual Dark Web, a loosely affiliated group of commentators including Bret Weinstein, Dave Rubin, Joe Rogan, and Sam Harris.

Criticism 
A number of academic and journalistic sources critical of Murray have accused his ideology and political views of being far right, alt-right and Islamophobic. Murray has also been accused of being xenophobic, chauvinist and racist. His fans have described him as a defender of free speech.

Murray has been accused of putting a socially acceptable face on what would otherwise be considered fringe ideologies. In 2012, Arun Kundnani, who has written on radicalization, wrote in an article for Security and Human Rights that the "counterjihadist" ideology expressed by Murray and other conservative intellectuals was "through reworking far-right ideology and appropriating official discourse... able to evade categorisation as a source of far-right violence". Nafeez Ahmed argued in Middle East Eye that Murray's support for free speech in the wake of the Charlie Hebdo shooting and the January 2015 Île-de-France attacks was "really just a ploy for far-right entryism". In 2019, an article in Social Policy Review described Murray's views as a kind of "mainstreamist" ideology that defies easy categorization as extremist while remaining "entangled with the far right".

Murray has been accused of promoting far-right conspiracy theories, including the Great Replacement theory, the Eurabia conspiracy theory and the Cultural Marxism conspiracy theory. However, he has indicated that he dislikes the term "Cultural Marxism".

Murray has contended that he is frequently mislabelled politically, and that the mainstream right are unfairly conflated with the far-right in modern political discourse. In August 2019, Murray criticised what he perceived as the overuse of terms like "far-right", saying that since the election of Donald Trump and the Brexit vote "there has been an acceleration in claimed sightings [of the far right] and a blurring of the definitions".

Personal life
Murray was a friend of the journalist Christopher Hitchens.

Murray has described himself as atheist, having been an Anglican until his twenties. He has also described himself as a cultural Christian and a Christian atheist.

Works
.
 .
 .
 
 .
 .
 .
 .
 .
 .

References

External links

 Murray's writings at the Gatestone Institute
 Why the Conservative frontbench broke off relations with Douglas Murray. Opinion piece by Paul Goodman at Conservative Home

Living people
Writers from London
British atheists
English people of Scottish descent
People educated at Eton College
People educated at St Benedict's School, Ealing
Alumni of Magdalen College, Oxford
British political writers
British critics of Islam
Lambda Literary Award winners
British gay writers
British LGBT journalists
Critics of multiculturalism
English atheists
Former Anglicans
People educated at West Bridgford School
20th-century atheists
21st-century atheists
21st-century English LGBT people
Fox News people
British conspiracy theorists
Anti-immigration activists
Privately educated journalists
LGBT conservatism
Year of birth missing (living people)