[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# 11th Minnesota Infantry Regiment

The 11th Minnesota Infantry Regiment was a Minnesota USV infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. It was the last infantry regiment to be raised by Minnesota during the war.

Service
The 11th Minnesota Infantry Regiment was formed in response to President Lincoln's last call for troops in late 1864. The regiment was mustered into Federal service at Fort Snelling, Minnesota, between August and September 1864. Its original term of service was for three-years.

After training and equipping, the 11th received orders to report to the Department of the Cumberland around the Nashville, Tennessee area. Here, the regiment was tasked with protecting the Louisville-Nashville railroad; a thirty-mile stretch. Occasionally, the troops would engage in skirmishes with Confederate guerillas and raiders. However, the 11th would not take part in any notable engagements, though some men are said to have heard or witnessed the Battle of Nashville, which several other Minnesota regiments fought in.

After serving in the Nashville area for the remainder of the war, the 11th Minnesota was finally sent home on June 26, 1865 and discharged at St. Paul, Minnesota, on July 11. The regiment was the last army unit to be raised by the state of Minnesota until the Spanish-American War in 1898.

Casualties
The 11th Minnesota Infantry suffered 3 enlisted men killed in action or who later died of their wounds, plus another 1 officer and 21 enlisted men who died of disease, for a total of 25
fatalities.

Colonels
Col. James B. Gilfillian - November 3, 1864, to June 26, 1865.

See also
List of Minnesota Civil War Units

Notes

References

External links
 The Civil War Archive
 Minnesota Historical Society page on Minnesota and the Civil War

Units and formations of the Union Army from Minnesota
1864 establishments in Minnesota
Military units and formations established in 1864
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865