[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cold War liberal

n their opposition to McCarthyism. Truman would call Joseph McCarthy "the greatest asset the Kremlin has" by "torpedo[ing] the bipartisan foreign policy of the United States." The Truman Doctrine was an American foreign policy with the primary goal of containing Soviet expansion during the Cold War.

Notable Cold War liberals 
Some notable pioneers of Cold War liberalism included Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy, and Lyndon B. Johnson. World War II ended under Truman, while Johnson succeeded to the presidency after the assassination of Kennedy. Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party, and as president he was responsible for designing the Great Society legislation for civil rights, public broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education (Elementary and Secondary Education Act), and his war on poverty. Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the Johnson treatment, his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation. All of his accomplishments were influenced by the idea of Cold War liberalism. which was according to most implemented by Kennedy.

Henry M. Jackson, first a representative and then senator from Washington state, is widely recognized as a Cold War liberal. A Democrat, his political beliefs were characterized by support of civil rights, human rights, and safeguarding the environment; he had an equally-strong commitment to oppose totalitarianism in general, particularly Soviet Communism. Jackson and his legacy are acknowledged as having significant influence on neoconservatism. Zbigniew Brzezinski, Jimmy Carter's National Security Adviser, was a liberal Democrat and a committed anti-communist, favoring social justice while seeing world events in substantially Cold War terms. According to Foreign Policy, "Brzezinski’s outlook was anti-Soviet, but he also insisted, like George Kennan before him, on the necessity of cultivating a strong West."

John F. Kennedy 
John F. Kennedy is regarded by some as one of the key players that revived liberalism and was the most influential liberal of the time. During his campaign, Kennedy took the liberal approach by promising voters to revive liberalism, which had withered under Dwight D. Eisenhower, with a new set of reforms collectively called the New Frontier. Kennedy wanted to expand Social Security to benefit more Americans, help the elderly pay their medical costs, fund educational endeavors, raise the national minimum wage, and reduce income inequality. In his famous inaugural address, Kennedy appealed to American youth by instructing them to "ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country". He later launched the Peace Corps to support this effort, encouraging young Americans to assist people in developing countries. He also responded to national fears and pressures regarding the Space Race against the Soviet Union by challenging Americans to put a man on the moon by the end of the decade. His enthusiasm spread across the country. He sought to reform economic issues along with issues of the humanities, which is what paved the way for the future of liberalism. To improve relations with Latin America and guard against pro-Soviet regimes, Kennedy supported the Alliance for Progress, which over ten years provided billions of dollars in foreign aid to Latin American countries, encouraging economic cooperation, and aiming to reduce economic inequality in those countries through land reform. The alliance succeeded in some of its goals but faced limitations in its political goals.

Cold War liberalism and conservatism 
In the 1970s, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, and Jimmy Carter pursued a relative reduction of Cold War tensions through linkage policy and triangular diplomacy, while continuing to pressure the Soviet Union in key areas. The Carter Doctrine, which sought to oppose Soviet expansion toward the Persian Gulf, was expanded and altered by the Reagan Doctrine. As the United States president in the 1980s, Ronald Reagan believed that the United States should combat Communism more directly. He regarded the previous detentes, or the easing of strained relations between the United States and the Soviet Union, a sign of vulnerability. In 1991, two years after Reagan left office, the Cold War ended. His policies of preserving peace through strength and promoting advancement of democracy around the world had gained him significant foreign policy credibility. The American conservative Reagan supported liberal democracy as a system compared to the authoritarian Soviet system, and his policies supported a grand strategy consistent with pressuring the Soviet Union.

See also 
 Liberal hawk
 Liberal internationalism

References