[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# German occupation of Luxembourg during World War I

was left with no choice but to afford them this.  The resulting grand coalition cabinet included every leading light in Luxembourgish politics; besides Thorn himself, there were the conservatives Léon Kauffmann and Antoine Lefort, the socialist leader Dr Michel Welter, and the liberal Léon Moutrier.

Food shortage 
The most pressing concern of the Luxembourgish government was that of food supply.  The war had made importation of food an impossibility, and the needs of the German occupiers inevitably came before those of the Luxembourgish people.  To slow the food supply's diminishment, Michel Welter, the Director-General for both agriculture and commerce, banned the export of food from Luxembourg.  Furthermore, the government introduced rationing and price controls to counteract the soaring demand and to make food more affordable for poorer Luxembourgers.  However, the measures did not have the desired effect.  Increasing numbers of Luxembourgers turned to the black market, and, to the consternation of the Luxembourgish government, the German army of occupation seemed to do little to help.  Moreover, the government accused Germany of aiding the development of the black market by refusing to enforce regulations, and even of smuggling goods themselves.

Through 1916, the food crisis deepened, compounded by a poor potato harvest across all of the Low Countries; in neighbouring Belgium, the harvest was between 30% and 40% down on the previous year.  Although many Luxembourgers were on near-starvation level dietary intakes, the country managed to avoid famine.  In part, this was due to a reduction of German soldiers' dependence upon local food sources, instead relying on imports from Germany.

Despite the avoidance of a famine, the Luxembourgish government lost much of the faith placed in it by the public and by the politicians.  On 22 December, Michel Welter, the minister responsible, was censured by the Chamber of Deputies, which demanded his resignation.  Thorn procrastinated, seeking any option but firing the leader of one of three major parties, but could find none.  On 3 January 1917, Welter was fired, and replaced by another socialist, Ernest Leclère.  Even after the change and von Tessmar's promise of his soldiers' better conduct in future, Léon Kauffmann was capable of citing thirty-six instances of German soldiers caught smuggling foodstuffs between March 1917 and June 1918.

Miners' strike 

Discontent amongst the population grew constantly, particularly in the country's industrialised south.  The autumn of 1916 had seen the first unionisation within the iron and steel industries, with trade unions springing up in both Luxembourg City and Esch-sur-Alzette.  Despite the war demand, iron production had slumped, leading to greater employment insecurity.  In March and April, three independents were elected as deputies from the canton of Esch-sur-Alzette, where the economy was dominated by iron and steel.  As independents, these newly elected deputies were the only legislative opposition to the National Union Government.

For many Luxembourgers, particularly the miners, expression of disgust at the government could not be directed through the ballot box alone.  Sensing the threat of civil disobedience or worse, von Tessmar threatened any individual committing an act of violence (in which he included strike action) with the death penalty.  However, on 31 May 1917, the workers sought to use their most potent weapon, by defying von Tessmar's ultimatum and downing tools.  Germany was dependent upon Luxembourgish iron, as the British Royal Navy's naval blockade forced Germany to look to accessible local supplies; in 1916, Luxembourg produced over one-seventh of the Zollverein's pig iron.  As such, Germany simply could not afford a strike, lest it be deprived of critical raw materials.

In putting down the strike, von Tessmar was ruthlessly efficient, but he was not required to resort to the executions that he had threatened.  Within nine days, the strike was defeated and the leaders arrested.  The two ringleaders were then sentenced by German court-martial in Trier to ten years imprisonment, to the disgust of the government.  The continued refusal of the German authorities to respect the Luxembourgish government, and the humiliating manner in which the strike was put down by German military muscle rather than the Luxembourgish gendarmerie, were too much for Thorn.  On 19 June, the government resigned.

Kauffmann government