[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lupinus albus

r organic soils are not suitable. The soil must be well drained and loose because lupin is easily subject to root asphyxia. White lupin flourishes in the same climatic zones of maize, although lupin, except at the beginning of the growing season, requires little water because it has a long tap root.

Sowing 
In quite hot climatic zones, as in Italy, the sowing happens in October–November, after having ploughed the soil to bury the stubble of the previous crop, often a cereal. 100–150 kg/ha of seeds are used to obtain a final plant population of 30 plants per square meter, in rows 30 cm distant from each other. Thanks to its branched structure, the lupin can adapt to different sowing densities, compensating for a lower density with a higher branch growth. In colder zones, where lupin cannot get through the winter, white lupin is sowed in the springtime, between March and April. The soil must be prepared as soon as possible after the winter break. The seedbed must be enough fine, particularly in organic farming where mechanical weeding is done (so that harrowing the displacement of clods does not cause harm). In the case of mechanical weeding, higher plant density (about 100 plants / m2), sowing about 200 kg seeds/ha, at a sowing depth of 3–4 cm is recommended. In the regions where lupin is not indigenous, if it is cultivated for the first time on a soil or if the soil pH is higher than 6.5, lupin seeds must be inoculated with the nitrogen-fixing bacterium Rhizobium lupini. Soil acidity is an important factor for nitrogen fixation.

Fertilisation 
Thanks to the symbiosis with nitrogen-fixing bacteria, white lupin does not need nitrogen fertilisation, while it requires about 40 kg P2O5/ha and 60 kg K2O/ha. Fertilisations based on compost or composted manure are better than fresh manure. Thanks to its long tap root, white lupin can exploit well phosphorus reserves in the soil. The crop rotation for white lupin ideally lasts at least four, ideally five years and often lupin is grown after a cereal crop. Lupin is a good preculture since it let in the field about 50 kg nitrogen/ha.

Weed control 
The lupin does not compete well with weeds, particularly in the colder zones, because it closes the stand only in late summer. Mechanical weeding is feasible, also hoeing if the rows are wide enough. Chemical weeding is also used, by means of herbicides applied for other grain legumes.

Yield 
Depending on the climatic zone of cultivation, pods ripening happens from June–July to late August. Seeds do not ripen all at once and the harvesting shall be carried out when 90% of the pods are brown. To harvest with a combine harvester the ideally seed water content is 13-16%. Good yields are between 2 t/ha and 3,5 t/ha, although average yields are lower.

Diseases 
Based on the numerous diseases for Lupinus albus, the management is complex and very important. Higher yields can reach by early sowing dates, but this strategy can increase the affecting by pests and diseases.

Fungal diseases are often controlled with fungicides. To control the other diseases are the most effective practices the crop rotations and the use of disease-free seed.

Fungi
The following three fungi are lupin-specific and fully adapted to the presence of alkaloids:

Pleichaeta setosa causes brown-leaf spot. It is a problem of autumn-sown crops. Therefore, with the use of winter-hardy plant and the selection of frost tolerant plants, the tolerance of the genetic material has increased.

Uromyces lupinicolus is rust, which causes defoliation and reduces the biomass production. It is mainly developed during warm and dry summer periods. The chemical treatment with triazole fungicides is effective. There is no breeding program about rust tolerant plants designed.

Colletotrichum gloeosporioides is a seed-borne fungus disease. Therefore, it is present in an early lifecycle of the plant. So the plant can get killed before flowering, which means that the yield is null. In some cultivars resistance has been found. The most efficient way to control this fungi is through seed treatment.

Viruses
Bean mosaic virus is transmitted by aphids and with infected seed. It is the major viral disease for Lupinus albus. A major disease for the other lupines is cucumber mosaic virus. Lupinus albus is immune to this virus.

Pests
Phorbia platura is the only insect with significant impact on lupinus albus. 'The larvae damage the roots and hypocotyls and may destroy the crop.' The only useful treatment is the use of soil insecticides or seed treatment with systemic insecticides.

Aphids are also a problem. Mostly they are found during budding and early pod stages. They reduce crop yield and the numbers of flowers and also lead to pod formation. They can also transmit diseases.