[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alexander H. Rice

in January 1861; his speech on this last-ditch attempt to prevent civil war received a lukewarm reception.  After the war, he was elected as a Third Class Companion of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States in recognition of his support for the Union.

Governor of Massachusetts

Rice refused to stand for reelection, and then left politics for a time, devoting himself to his business interests.  In 1872, after the Boston fire, he served on a relief committee that assisted in dealing with its aftermath.  In 1871, Rice was one of a number of contenders for the Republican nomination for Governor of Massachusetts, a contest which was dominated by Benjamin Butler and won by William B. Washburn.  In 1875, he won the nomination, and defeated incumbent Democrat William Gaston in the general election.  He served three one-year terms before retiring from politics for good.

Legislation enacted during Rice's tenure included a child labor law mandating a minimum age of fourteen for factory work.  He generally supported legislation improving social conditions, but was unsuccessful in enacting a proposed reorganization of the state's major charities.  He also let stand the state's "local option" alcohol law, for which he was criticized by temperance activists.  He also chaired a committee formed in 1876 to oversee the rescue from demolition of the historic Old South Meeting House.  As a result of the committee's work, ownership of the building was passed to a nonprofit dedicated to its preservation.

One issue that had dominated Rice's race against Gaston in 1875 concerned the juvenile murderer Jesse Pomeroy.  Pomeroy, then fourteen years old, had been convicted in December 1874 of first degree murder for killing a girl earlier that year, and had been sentenced to death.  There was public clamor favoring his execution, especially after he attempted to escape from prison. Gaston, despite two rulings by the Governor's Council that clemency be denied, refused to sign the execution order, an unpopular move that probably cost him votes.  Rice also refused to sign the execution order, but his Council eventually recommended commutation of Pomeroy's sentence to life in solitary confinement.

Rice died at the Langwood Hotel in Melrose, Massachusetts, on July 22, 1895, after a lengthy illness. He was 76 years old, and was buried at Newton Cemetery.

Family relations and legacy
Rice was married twice.  In 1845, he married Augusta McKim, with whom he had three children before her death in 1868.  He had one son by his second wife, Angie Erickson Powell of Rochester, New York.  His grandson Alexander Hamilton Rice Jr. was a physician and explorer in South America.

The city of Boston named a school in Rice's honor in 1868.  Later renamed the Rice-Bancroft School, the building, located at Dartmouth and Appleton Streets in Boston's South End, now houses residential condominiums.

See also

 Timeline of Boston, 1850s

References

Sources

Further reading

Republican Party governors of Massachusetts
People of Massachusetts in the American Civil War
Papermakers
1818 births
1895 deaths
Mayors of Boston
Union College (New York) alumni
Presidents of the Boston Common Council
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Massachusetts
People from South End, Boston
19th-century American politicians
Businesspeople from Boston
American chief executives of manufacturing companies
19th-century American businesspeople