[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 9th New Jersey Infantry Regiment

listed with the 9th New Jersey. He served with Company E throughout the war. John was wounded before Petersburg during the Battle of the Crater on 30 July 1864. The 9th was in position to support Burnside's mine and subsequent attempt to breach the defensive line. A Minié ball struck his right hand.

John was first taken to the regimental surgeon where his right thumb was amputated. He was then transferred to the 18th Arm Corps field (flying) hospital at Broadway Landing. All of this happened on 30 July. The next day John was sent to the General Hospital at Fort Monroe where he remained for several days. The trip from the battlefield to the General Army Hospital took only two days, including the surgery. On 10 August, John was at White Hall, near Bristol, Pennsylvania, in Bucks County. On 15 August, John was transferred to the General Hospital at Philadelphia and on to the General Hospital at Newark on 29 October. By 5 November John was granted a furlough though he returned until his discharge in February 1865. This story shows that medical treatment and transfer could be very quick to move men away from the battlefield. From that point on the Army had an organized set of hospitals to care for the wounded while moving them back to their home state.

John married while on furlough at Christmas 1864 and later removed to Standing Stone Township, Bradford County, Pennsylvania, where he farmed until his death in February 1887. Later pension affidavits indicate he died of an unnamed stomach ailment that plagued him from the war until his death.

Footnotes

Bibliography

See also
List of New Jersey Civil War Units

External links
Regiment Infantry "Muskrats"
Ninth New Jersey Volunteers includes general history, service, officers, and company-by-company roster
Service record of the 9th NJ
Burnside Expedition timeline
 

Units and formations of the Union Army from New Jersey
1861 establishments in New Jersey
Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865