[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Maiti Nepal

Maiti Nepal () is a non-profit organization in Nepal dedicated to helping the victims of human trafficking. Currently, it operates a rehabilitation home in Kathmandu, transit homes at the Indo-Nepal border towns, preventive homes in the countryside, and an academy in Kathmandu.

The word ‘Maiti' has no literal interpretation in English but in the Nepali language the word ‘maiti' means the home of the girl's birth parents. The word itself holds sentimental value for the women's population of Nepal, "especially for a married Nepali woman who has no longer any right towards her parents or their property". Once a girl is married to another man, she becomes a perpetual member of her husband's family. She has all obligations to her husband and her new family. As this organization is home to all the girls, women, and children who are not accepted into their families and society, this NGO has been named ‘Maiti' Nepal to symbolize the love and affection that a girl receives in her birth parent's place.

History

Maiti Nepal was established in 1993 by a group of socially committed professionals in order "to protect Nepali girls and women from crimes like domestic violence, trafficking for flesh trade, child prostitution, child labor and various other forms of exploitation and torture". Since 1993, this organization has been working towards "preventing trafficking for forced prostitution, rescuing flesh trade victims and rehabilitating them". After rescuing women and children, this organization also works vigorously towards finding "justice for the victimized girls and women by engaging in criminal investigation and waging legal battles against the criminals". Due to continuous efforts, this organization has been able to raise awareness regarding this crucial issue of girl trafficking at international levels.

Objective

The main objective of Maiti Nepal is to provide comprehensive prevention of girls trafficking, rescuing and rehabilitating the survivors, advocating for justice in the cases of the rescued women and girls, and ensuring that effective immediate action is taken against their traffickers.

Founder of Maiti Nepal

Anuradha Koirala was born in 1949, to parents Colonel Pratap Singh Gurung and Laxmi Gurung. She was called dijju means [elder sister] by the ones who she saved. She completed her schooling at a convent school in Kalimpong, India. Her inspiration to establish an organization for the betterment of the women's population came from her bitter relationship with her husband, Dinesh Prasad Koirala. Her highest inspiration was Mother Teresa. After several years of violence, abuse, and three miscarriages, she separated from her husband. 
Anuradha Koirala established Maiti Nepal in 1993 with the aim of providing services for both children and women who have endured untold pain and suffering, often in silence. She not only established Maiti Nepal, but she also set up transit homes, academic and medical centre to provide support to the women and children who had no other place to go.

Maiti Nepal's Centers

Maiti Nepal has three prevention homes, fourteen transit homes, a hospice, eight information desks, and Teresa Academy.
The data for the centres of Maiti Nepal has been taken from the website of South Asia Foundation.

Transit homes 
The transit homes of Maiti Nepal are located in different locations across Nepal, as listed below. 
 Pashupatinagar Illam
 Kakarvita, Jhapa
 Biratnagar, Morang
 Birgunj, Parsa
 Bhairawa, Rupandehi
 Nepalgunj, Banke
 Dhangadhi, Kailali
 Kathmandu, Thankot
 Maheshpur, Nawalparasi
 Mahendranagr, Kanchanpur

Rehabilitation centers
The two rehabilitation centres of Maiti Nepal are located in Kathmandu and Ithari.
 Women Rehabilitation Centre, Kathmandu
 Women Rehabilitation Centre, Ithari

Prevention homes
 Chisapaani - Nuwakot
 Bardaghat - Nawalparasi
 Hetauda – Makwanpur
 Chitwan - Bharatpur

Hospice
 Satighatta - Jhapa District Eastern Nepal

Facilities

The transit homes, rehabilitation and medical centres of Maiti Nepal are well facilitated to provide support and assistance to the rescued women, children and girls.

The data for the facilities provided by Maiti Nepal has been extracted from the website of the Mother's Home Nepal website.

Rehabilitation centers
These centers provide shelter, safety, education and vocational training, and medical care to the rescued women and children.

Prevention programs
This program provides information to vulnerable girls with information and education about human trafficking. This program also provides temporary shelter and residential services to these girls.

Hospices
The hospices provide treatment to those suffering from psychological disorders, and anti-retro-viral treatment for HIV/AIDS patients.

Halfway houses
These types of houses provide shelter and protection to underage girls who are working in places like dance restaurants and massage parlors.