[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# On the Beach (1959 film)

ne memorable shot occurring when Sawfish first passes under the intact Golden Gate Bridge. In the novel the city has been largely destroyed and the bridge has fallen into the bay.

In the novel, the northernmost point of the submarine's journey is the Gulf of Alaska while the film uses Point Barrow.

Towers and Davidson attend the Australian Grand Prix and go to the mountains afterwards in the film. In the novel, they are vacationing in the mountains on the day of the race, and they hear a radio report of John Osborne's first-place finish.

The novel ends with a dying Davidson sitting in her car, having taken her suicide pills, while watching Scorpion head out to sea to be scuttled. Unlike the novel, no mention of scuttling the submarine is made in the film. Instead, Commander Towers's crew asks that he attempt to take them back to the U.S., where they can die on their home soil. Although he realizes that they probably will not survive a second passage north, he does as they request. In the film, Ava Gardner is merely watching the submarine submerge and disappear beneath the sea and is not shown taking her suicide pills.

Release and reception
On the Beach premiered in 18 theaters on all seven continents on December 17, 1959. The Hollywood premiere was attended by the film's stars Fred Astaire and Anthony Perkins, director Stanley Kramer, and other celebrities including Cary Grant. The New York premiere was attended by Mayor Robert F. Wagner Jr. The London premiere was attended by Soviet Ambassador to the United Kingdom Yakov Malik. Star Ava Gardner attended the Rome premiere. The Tokyo premiere was attended by members of the Japanese Imperial Family. The Stockholm premiere was attended by King Gustav VI Adolf. The Melbourne premiere was attended by Premier of Victoria Henry Bolte. Other premieres were held in West Berlin, Caracas, Chicago, Johannesburg, Lima, Paris, Toronto, Washington, D.C., and Zurich The film also was screened in a theater at Little America in Antarctica.

Although the film had no commercial release in the Soviet Union, a special premiere was arranged for that night in Moscow. Gregory Peck and his wife traveled to Russia for the screening, which was held at a workers' club with 1,200 Soviet dignitaries, the foreign press corps, and diplomats including U.S. Ambassador Llewellyn Thompson attending.

On the Beach recorded a loss of $700,000 and received mixed reviews. It acquired a fan base that agreed on many of the issues presented. Bosley Crowther in his contemporary review in The New York Times saw the film as delivering a powerful message.

The review in Variety was somber: "On the Beach is a solid film of considerable emotional, as well as cerebral, content. But the fact remains that the final impact is as heavy as a leaden shroud. The spectator is left with the sick feeling that he's had a preview of Armageddon, in which all contestants lost."

Stanley Kauffmann of The New Republic wrote: "When the film hews close to its theme, it is effective and valuable; when it deals with its characters as characters, it is often phony. Just as we are gripped by horror, along comes a pure Hollywood touch to remind us that what we are watching is only a movie".

In a later appraisal of both novel and film, historian Paul Brians (Nuclear Holocausts: Atomic War in Fiction, 1895-1964 (1987)) considered the novel "inferior" to the film. His contention was that the portrayal of nuclear annihilation on screen was more accurate as it was clear that the world was coming to an end.

On Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a 77% approval rating, based on 22 reviews, with an average rating of 6.4/10.

Box office
Kine Weekly called it a "money maker" at the British box office in 1960.

Awards and nominations

Remake
On the Beach was remade in 2000 as an Australian television film by Southern Star Productions, directed by Russell Mulcahy and starring Armand Assante, Bryan Brown, and Rachel Ward. It originally aired on Showtime. The remake of the 1959 film was also based on the 1957 novel by Nevil Shute, but updates the setting of the story to the film's then-future of 2005, starting with placing the crew on the fictional Los Angeles–class USS Charleston (SSN-704) submarine and also changing the final actions of Towers.

Documentary
The 2013 documentary Fallout by Melbourne filmmaker Lawrence Johnston explores Shute's life and Kramer's making of On the Beach, with interviews of Shute's daughter, Kramer's wife Karen, and Donna Anderson, one of the film's surviving cast members. Fallout was produced by Peter Kaufmann.

See also
 List of American films of 1959
 List of apocalyptic films
 List of underwater science fiction works
 Survival film, about the film genre, with a list of related films

References

Notes

Citations

Bibliography