[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

able to destroy 26 bridges and portions of railroad track near Dublin, Virginia. Rainy weather caused the nearby New River to rise, and  several men drowned while crossing—including a corporal from the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry. The rising river prevented pursuing Confederate soldiers from crossing.

Averell's cavalry joined Crook's infantry on May 15, and they struggled to return to their Charleston base. Ammunition was in short supply because some had been ruined by the rain and river. Rations were exhausted, clothing was soaked, and swollen feet became a problem. Counting only men from the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry, 188 men were bare footed after having to cut off their boots. About  of their return trip was made dismounted as the force took small obscure trails through the mountains. The division arrived at a base in Greenbrier County on May 18, having escaped pursuing Confederate forces led by General John McCausland and General William "Mudwall" Jackson (a cousin of Stonewall Jackson).

Hunter's Lynchburg Campaign
On June 2, 1864, the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry (plus additional cavalry and infantry regiments) marched from Charleston towards White Sulphur Springs in eastern West Virginia. The men were poorly equipped, and over one third of the cavalry did not have horses. Their immediate destination was Stanton, Virginia. On June 7, they met two groups of infantry, and one division of cavalry, under the commands of Generals David Hunter and George Crook. Fresh supplies were issued at that time.
The cavalry was reorganized on June 9, with General Duffié in command of the 1st Cavalry Division, and General Averell in command of the 2nd. The 3rd Brigade of the 2nd Cavalry Division was commanded by Colonel Powell, and it consisted of the 1st and 2nd West Virginia Cavalry regiments. The infantry was led by General Crook. General David Hunter was the commander of the entire cavalry and infantry force.

Lexington
On June 10, Averell and Crook moved towards Lexington, Virginia, in the first part of an effort to capture Lynchburg. This series of raids and battles, the Lynchburg Campaign, is also known as "Hunter's Raid". The force arrived in Lexington on June 11. Lexington, Virginia, is the home of the Virginia Military Institute (VMI), which produced numerous officers for the Confederate Army—including General Stonewall Jackson and General John McCausland. Lexington was occupied for several days, and General Hunter ordered VMI burned. General Duffié's 1st Cavalry Division, which had taken a different route toward Lynchburg, rejoined Crook and Averell in Lexington.  On June 14, Powell's brigade was sent forward to Liberty (today, Liberty is named Bedford), and drove away Confederate cavalry. During this time, Confederate reinforcements were arriving at Lynchburg.

Lynchburg
On June 16, the entire Union force left Liberty and approached Lynchburg from the southwest. Confederate soldiers under the command of General Jubal Early arrived in Lynchburg by train on June 17. The Battle of Lynchburg was fought on June 17 and 18. Approximately 44,000 soldiers participated in this Confederate victory. The Union force could not capture Lynchburg, and was forced to retreat as supplies dwindled.  Powell's brigade briefly became cut off from the rest of the army when he was not immediately notified of the retreat. His cavalry reached Union lines near New London as the Confederate army was close to catching them.

Retreat
A northern route of retreat had too many obstacles, so Hunter's force retreated westward toward Charleston—with the Confederate army in pursuit. On June 19, the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry was the rear guard. The regiment often had to fight dismounted. Averell's entire division fought for two hours near Liberty. His cavalry division fought until its ammunition was exhausted, and then was relieved by Crook's infantry. Averell lost 122 men.

More skirmishes were fought at Bonsack and Mountain Cove, Virginia. The retreat route took the army through the communities of Salem, New Castle, and White Sulphur Springs. The army reached Charleston on July 1. Total losses were 940. For the 2nd West Virginia, the loss was 13 killed (4 near Salem, Virginia), 33 wounded, and 21 missing.