[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Vuelta de Obligado

The Battle of Vuelta de Obligado took place on the waters of the Paraná River on 20 November 1845, between the Argentine Confederation, led by Juan Manuel de Rosas, and a combined Anglo-French fleet. The naval action was part of the larger Anglo-French blockade of the Río de la Plata.

Although the attacking forces broke through the Argentine naval defenses and overran the land defenses, the battle proved that foreign ships could not safely navigate Argentina's internal waters against its government's wishes. The battle also changed the political attitude toward the Confederation in South America by increasing support for Rosas and his government.

Background 
During the 1830s and 1840s, the British and the French governments were at odds with Juan Manuel de Rosas's leadership of the Argentine Confederation. Rosas's economic policies of requiring trade to pass through the Buenos Aires custom house, which was his method of imposing his will on the Littoral provinces, combined with his attempts to incorporate Paraguay and Uruguay to the Confederation, were in conflict with French and British economic interests in the region. During his government, Rosas had to face numerous problems with those foreign powers, which in some cases reached levels of open confrontation. The incidents included two naval blockades: the French blockade in 1838 and the Anglo-French of 1845.

With the development of steam-powered sailing, which mainly took place in Britain, France, and the United States, in the third decade of the 19th century, large and thus ocean-going merchant and military ships became capable of sailing up rivers at a good speed and with a heavy load.  This new technology allowed the British and the French governments to avoid the custom house in Buenos Aires by sailing directly through the La Plata Estuary and engaging in commerce directly with inland cities in Entre Ríos, Corrientes, Uruguay and Paraguay. That avoided the taxation of Buenos Aires, guaranteed special rights for the Europeans, and allowed them to export their products cheaply.

Rosas's government tried to stop the practice by declaring the Argentine rivers closed to foreign shipping and barring access to Paraguay and other ports in the process. The British and the French governments did not acknowledge that declaration and decided to defy Rosas by sailing upstream with a joint fleet, which set the stage for the battle.

Battle

Order of battle

The Anglo-French squadron that was sailing through the Paraná River in the first days of November was composed of  eleven warships:
 British
 , paddle (6 guns, Capt. Charles Hotham)
 , paddle (6 guns, Capt. James Hope)
  (8 guns, Commander Bartholomew James Sulivan)
  (18 guns, Commander Edward Augustus Inglefield (acting))
  (3 guns,  Lieut. Reginald Thomas John Levinge)
 Fanny, schooner (1 gun, Lieut. Astley Cooper Key)
 French
 San Martin (8 guns, Capt. François Thomas Tréhouart)
 Fulton, paddle (2 guns, Lieut. Louis Mazères (fr))
 Expéditive (16 guns, Lieut. Miniac)
 Pandour (10 guns, Lieut. Duparc)
 Procida (4 guns, Lieut. de La Rivière)

The ships were among the most advanced military machinery of their time, and at least three (Fulton,  and ) were steamers, which initially stayed behind the sailing vessels. They were partially armoured and had rapid-fire guns and Congreve rockets.

The main Argentine redoubt was located on a cliff rising between 30 and 180 m over the banks at Vuelta de Obligado, where the river is 700 m wide, and a turn makes navigation difficult.

Argentine General Lucio N. Mansilla, the commander of the Confederation forces and Rosas's brother-in-law, set up three thick metal chains suspended from 24 boats completely across the river, to prevent the advance of the allied fleet. The operation was under the charge of the Italian immigrant Filipo Aliberti.  Only three of the boats were naval vessels; the rest were requisitioned barges whose owners received a compensation in case of loss. Aliberti was the master of one of the boats, the Jacoba, that was sunk in the battle. At least 20 boats and barges were lost in the chain barrage at Obligado.

On the right shore of the river, the Argentines mounted four batteries with 30 cannons, many of them bronze 8, 10, 12 and 20-pounders. They were served by a division of 160 gaucho soldiers. There were also 2,000 men in trenches under the command of Colonel Ramón Rodríguez (es), together with the brigantine Republicano (es) and two small gunboats, Restaurador and Lagos, with the mission of guarding the chains across the river. Some sources increase the Argentine naval power to a third gunboat, the unarmed brigantine Vigilante, whose artillery had been dismounted and transferred to one of the batteries, eight armed launches and at least five armed barges.