[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# New Zealand Railways Department

motive & Tramway Engine Works
Hunslet Engine Company
Nasmyth, Wilson and Company
Neilson and Company
North British Locomotive Company (built a quarter (141) of NZR steam locomotives; the NZR J class (1939))
Robert Stephenson and Hawthorns
Sharp, Stewart and Company
Vulcan Foundry
Yorkshire Engine Co

American companies, e.g.:
Baldwin Locomotive Works Built 111 steam locomotives for NZR and the WMR, the first were the NZR T class of 1879.
Rogers Locomotive and Machine Works Built eight NZR K class (1877), the first American locomotives purchased. 
Brooks Locomotive Works Built Ub17 during purchase by ALCO
Richmond Locomotive Works Built Ub371 during purchase by ALCO (ten of the NZR Ub class were built by Baldwin).

New Zealand companies:
James Davidson & Co, Dunedin
A & G Price, Thames
E. W. Mills and Company
Scott Brothers, Christchurch

Companies that supplied NZR with diesel locomotives 
Clyde Engineering
Commonwealth Engineering
Drewry Car Co.
Electro-Motive Diesel
English Electric various British contractors and English Electric Australia
General Electric
General Motors Diesel
Hitachi
Hunslet Engine Company
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
A & G Price, Thames
Toshiba
Vulcan Foundry

Suppliers of electric traction to NZR
English Electric (New Zealand DM class electric multiple unit and NZR EC class, NZR ED class, NZR EO class (1923), NZR EW class locomotives)
Goodman Manufacturing (New Zealand EB class locomotive)
Toshiba (New Zealand EA class locomotive)

Suppliers of bus and coach chassis to NZR
Associated Equipment Company
Albion Motors
Bedford Vehicles Supplied a record 1260 Bedford SB chassis (largest fleet of Bedford SB buses in the world). As well as around 400 trucks
Ford
Hino Motors
Volvo

Suppliers of ferries to NZR
McGregor and Company, Dunedin, New Zealand. Builders of TSS Earnslaw.
William Denny and Brothers, Dumbarton, Scotland. Builders of GMV Aramoana.
Vickers Limited, Newcastle, England. Builders of GMV Aranui.
Chantiers Dubegion, Nantes, France. Builders of MV Arahanga and MV Aratika.

People
 A. L. Beattie, Chief Mechanical Engineer
 Whitford Brown, civil engineer, Mayor of Porirua 
 Alf Cleverley, fitter at Petone and Hutt Workshops, Olympic boxer
 Major Norman Frederick Hastings DSO, engineering fitter at Petone Railways Workshop, killed on Gallipoli and commemorated on the Petone railway station memorial.
 Graham Latimer, was stationmaster Kaiwaka, later president of New Zealand Maori Council 
 Ritchie Macdonald, worked at Otahuhu Workshops, union secretary, later member of parliament
 Garnet Mackley, General Manager 1933–1940, later member of parliament
 George Troup, Architect, Mayor of Wellington

See also
 List of Chief Executives of New Zealand Railways 
 New Zealand Railways Corporation
 Rail transport in New Zealand
 Railway houses

References

Citations

Bibliography

External links
 "Rail tourism" at NZHistory
  New Zealand Railways on Youtube  at Youtube
  New Zealand Railways Magazine  on NZETC
  New Zealand Railway Observer (Magazine)  on NZRLS

1981 disestablishments in New Zealand
Defunct transport organisations based in New Zealand
Railways Department
Locomotive manufacturers of New Zealand
Rail transport in New Zealand
Railway companies of New Zealand
Rolling stock manufacturers of New Zealand
Railway companies established in 1880
New Zealand companies established in 1880