[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Staffordshire Yeomanry

fidaville, supporting 2nd New Zealand Division in its attack on the hilltop village of Takrouna. Although the terran was too rough for its tanks to participate in the final advance on Tunis, the surrender of the Italian commander was negotiated via the wireless on the Staffs Yeomanry's command tank.

After fall of Tunis 8th Armoured Bde returned to Egypt and was not employed in the invasions of Sicily or Italy. It was then selected with other veteran formations to return to the UK to prepare for the planned Allied invasion of Normandy (Operation Overlord).

Invasion of Normandy

On 13 February 1944 the regiment transferred to 27th Armoured Bde, which had not seen action since the Dunkirk evacuation. As part of British Second Army, commanded by Lieutenant-General Sir Miles Dempsey, 27th Armoured Bde had been selected to land with amphibious DD tanks on Sword Beach in support of 3rd Division, and had been training in the Moray Firth. However, there was a shortage of DD Shermans, so the Staffs Yeomanry was equipped with conventional Shermans and 17-pounder armed Sherman Fireflies to be landed from Landing craft tank (LCTs) directly onto the beach.

The Staffordshire Yeomanry began landing at H+90 minutes (08.55) on D-Day (6 June) to spearhead 3rd Division's advance inland. It was one of the few conventional tank units actually to land on D-Day and had the ambitious objective of leading a mobile column to seize Caen. It was held up on the beach and by inland defences but got to within  of Caen. Although it helped to destroy a  counter-attack by German tanks, it was unable to complete the okjective. The regiment then played its part in the weeks of fighting in Normandy, including Operation Goodwood, in which it was involved in stiff fighting round Troarn.

Battle of the Scheldt
Following heavy casualties in the Normandy campaign, 27th Armoured Bde was broken up on 30 July to reinforce other formations. The Staffordshire Yeomanry was sent back to the UK finally to train on DD tanks. After training, the regiment crossed to Belgium where from 17 September 1944 it came under the command of 79th Armoured Division. This division was equipped with specialist armour ('Hobart's Funnies') and assigned its units to other formation as required for specific operations.

The regiment's first action in its new role came during the Battle of the Scheldt. In Operation Vitality 52nd (Lowland) Division was launched in an amphibious assault on South Beveland, crossing the  wide estuary in Landing Vehicle Tracked 'Buffaloes', accompanied by B Sqn Staffs Yeomanry, which had completed its DD training. Most of the tanks were unable to climb the muddy dykes, but Lt-Gen Guy Simonds commanding II Canadian Corps considered that they had made 'a tremendous difference to the situation in South Beveland'.

Across the Rhine
For the assault crossing of the Rhine on 23 March 1945 (Operation Plunder), the Staffs Yeomanry was assigned to support 51st (Highland) Division. This time Buffaloes laid chestnut paling 'carpets' to help DD tanks up the steep and muddy banks. The regiment was heavily engaged in several days' fighting round Rees before British forces broke through and began a pursuit over North Germany. The regiment was involved in an action at Lingen on 15 April before being brought up to use its DD tanks for the last assault crossing of the campaign, at the River Elbe (Operation Enterprise) on 29 April. Hostilities ended with the German surrender at Lüneburg Heath on 4 May.

After VE day the regiment continued serving on occupation duties with British Army of the Rhine (BAOR). The Staffordshire Yeomanry passed into suspended animation in BAOR on 1 March 1946.

Postwar
When the TA was reconstituted on 1 January 1947 the regiment reformed, still as an armoured regiment, affiliated to 16th/5th The Queen's Royal Lancers in the Regular Army. It had the following organisation:
 HQ at Stafford
 A Squadron at Walsall
 B Squadron at Stoke-on-Trent
 C Squadron at Burton-on-Trent

When the TA was reduced into the Territorial and Army Volunteer Reserve (TAVR) in 1967, the regiment was reorganised as infantry as The Staffordshire Yeomanry (Queen's Own Royal Regiment). It absorbed some Staffordshire Royal Artillery (RA) and Royal Engineers (RE) units, but also transferred some personnel to the 5th/6th Battalion (Staffordshire Regiment), giving the following organisation:
 HQ at Wolverhampton
 A Squadron at Wolverhampton, formed from Staffordshire Yeomanry and HQ RA 48th (South Midland) Division
 B (887 Locating Battery) Squadron at Stafford, formed from 887 Locating Battery, RA (formerly 61st (North Midland) Field Regiment, RA) and part of 125 Engineer Regiment, RE (originally 59th (Staffordshire) Infantry Division RE)
 C Squadron at Burton-on-Trent, formed from Staffordshire Yeomanry and HQ RA 48th (South Midland) Division