[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Winter Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China

The Winter Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China () was a series of battles initiated by the Communist forces against the Kuomintang (Nationalists) during the Chinese Civil War after World War II.

Prelude
After the Summer Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China and the Autumn Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China, the nationalists were forced to withdraw to 28 cities in northeast China, including Siping (city) – Dashiqiao, Jilin City, Changchun, and other cities along the Shanhai Pass – Shenyang railroad.  The Nationalist force totaled 13 armies and with additional independent divisions, the total strength was 44 divisions with troops numbering more than 580,000.  In contrast, the Communists had a total of 730,000 troops, including more than 340,000 regular troops in 40 divisions belonging to 9 columns of the field army, and an additional 390,000 belong to local garrison and militia units.

Nationalist Strategy
The Nationalist force was originally commanded by Chen Cheng, and the decision was made to ensure the security of the Liaoxi Corridor () and the current cities under the Nationalist control, and when the situation permitted, restore the communication line between Changchun and Shenyang.  To achieve this objective, the nationalists deployed at least 3 – 5 divisions at each city of Siping (city), Jilin City, Changchun, while 1 – 2 divisions were deployed at each of the strategic locations along the Jinzhou – Shenyang railroad.  In the meantime, the Newly Organized 1st Army () and the Newly Organized 6th Army () were deployed as mobile strike force in regions between Shenyang and Tieling.

Communist Strategy
The objective of the Communist force under the command of Lin Biao and Luo Ronghuan was to deploy its force more rapidly by taking advantage of the winter when the river surfaces had frozen, and destroy another 7 – 8 Nationalist divisions by concentrating its troops belonging to the field army, with the help of units of local garrison.  The Communists hoped to eliminate Nationalist force in southern Liaoning.  In order to achieve this objective, the 8th column and the 9th column of the field army were ordered to strike eastward from Chaoyang, while other columns were ordered to the north and west of Shenyang.

Order of Battle
Nationalist order of battle: major units engaged in the campaign included:
The Newly Organized 1st Army deployed at Shenyang
The Newly Organized 3rd Army deployed at Shenyang
The Newly Organized 5th Army deployed at Shenyang
The Newly Organized 6th Army deployed at Tieling
The 49th Army deployed at Zhangwu
The 52nd Army deployed at Yingkou
The 60th Army deployed at Panshan
The 71st Army deployed at Xinmin
The 25th division deployed at Anshan
The 43rd division deployed at Jinzhou
The 50th division deployed at Changchun
The 53rd division deployed at Changchun
The 54th division deployed at Jinzhou
The Reorganized 54th division deployed at Liaoyang
The 87th division deployed at Siping (city)
The 91st division deployed at Siping (city),
The 195th division deployed in South Liaoning
The 207th division deployed to the northwest of Shenyang

Communist order of battle:
Entire field army:
The 1st Column
The 2nd Column
The 3rd Column
The 4th Column
The 6th Column
The 7th Column
The 8th Column
The 9th Column
The 10th Column

First stage
The offensive started on December 15, 1947, when Communist 2nd column suddenly surrounded Faku, while at the same time, the communist 4th column approached Shenyang.  In the meantime, the communist 1st column, 3rd column, 6th column, and 7th column penetrated into the regions surrounding Tieling, Xinmin, Shenyang and Faku, while the 10th column approached Kaiyuan.