[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 85]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

an that of the Spartans, and
attacked Agesilaus, who was not in the least afraid of him; for the
Spartans, joining their shields together, and marching slowly along in
even ranks, fell with so much fury upon the Persians, that in an instant
they put them to flight."

Here Tommy interrupted the story, to inquire what a shield was.
"Formerly," answered Mr Barlow, "before men were acquainted with the
pernicious effects of gunpowder, they were accustomed to combat close
together with swords or long spears, and for this reason they covered
themselves in a variety of ways, to defend their bodies from the weapons
of their enemies. The shield was worn upon their left arm, and composed
of boards fixed together, and strengthened with the hides of animals,
and plates of iron, sufficiently long and broad to cover almost the
whole body of a man. When they went out to battle, they placed
themselves in even rows or ranks, with their shields extended before
them, to secure them from the arrows and weapons of their enemies. Upon
their heads they wore a helmet, which was a cap of iron or steel,
ornamented with the waving feathers of birds or the tails of horses. In
this manner, with an even pace, marching all at once, and extending
their spears before them, they went forward to meet their enemies." "I
declare," said Tommy, "that an army in full march, in such array, must
have been prodigiously fine; and when I have accidentally met with
soldiers myself, I thought they made such a figure, walking erect with
their arms all glittering in the sun, that I have sometimes thought I
would be a soldier myself whenever I grew big enough." "This
soldier-spirit of Tommy's brings to my recollection," said Mr Barlow, "a
circumstance that once occurred in the French army, which I cannot help
relating. After an execution had taken place in Paris, of a nobleman who
had been convicted of treason (which was no uncommon thing at that
time), the commanding officer of the regiment, who had been in
attendance during the tragic scene, ordered his men to their usual place
of exercise. While engaged in reviewing the troops, his attention was
drawn to a young man, who had been for some time concealed behind a
tree; who, coming forward and falling upon his knees, entreated the
general, in an imploring manner, to permit him to enter into his
regiment, declaring that he had, from a child, felt the most ardent
desire to be a soldier. The general gazed intently upon him, and
instantly recognised in the young man the child of his own beloved
brother, who had been lost for many years, and was supposed to be dead.
But I interrupt--let Harry now go on with his story."

"When Pharnabazus (for that was the name of the Persian general)
observed that his troops were never able to stand against the Spartans,
he sent to Agesilaus, and requested that they might have a meeting, in
order to treat about terms of peace. This the Spartan consented to, and
appointed the time and place where he would wait for Pharnabazus. When
the day came, Agesilaus arrived first at the place of meeting with the
Spartans; but not seeing Pharnabazus, he sat down upon the grass with
his soldiers, and, as it was the hour of the army's making their repast,
they pulled out their provisions, which consisted of some coarse bread
and onions, and began eating very heartily. In the middle of them sat
King Agesilaus himself, in nowise distinguished from the rest, neither
by his clothing nor his fare; nor was there in the whole army an
individual who more exposed himself to every species of hardship, or
discovered less nicety than the king himself, by which means he was
beloved and reverenced by all the soldiers, who were ashamed of
appearing less brave or patient than their general.

"It was not long that the Spartans had thus reposed before the first
servants of Pharnabazus arrived, who brought with them rich and costly
carpets, which they spread upon the ground for their master to recline
upon. Presently arrived another troop, who began to erect a spacious
tent, with silken hangings, to screen him and his train from the heat of
the sun. After this came a company of cooks and confectioners with a
great number of loaded horses, who carried upon their backs all the
materials of an elegant entertainment. Last of all appeared Pharnabazus
himself, glittering with gold and jewels, and adorned with a long purple
robe, after the fashion of the East; he wore bracelets upon his arms,
and was mounted upon a beautiful horse, that was as gaudily attired as
himself.

"As he approached nearer, and beheld the simple manners of the Spartan
king and his soldiers, he could not help scoffing at their poverty, and
making comparisons between their mean appearance and his own
magnificence. All that were with him seemed to be infinitely diverted
with the wit and acute remarks of their general, except a single person,
who had served in the Grecian