[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Blair's Landing

The Battle of Blair's Landing (April 12, 1864) saw a Confederate cavalry-artillery force commanded by Brigadier General Tom Green attack several Union gunboats led by Rear Admiral David Dixon Porter and soldiers in river transports under Brigadier General Thomas Kilby Smith in Red River Parish, Louisiana. Green's force attempted but failed to stop the retreat of Porter's and Smith's forces downstream in an action that was part of the Red River Campaign of the American Civil War. The only significant casualty during the fighting was Green, who was killed by an artillery round.

Background

Campaign 
President Abraham Lincoln and Major General Henry Halleck wanted a Union army to establish a foothold in Texas by way of the Red River. Major General Nathaniel P. Banks, commander of the Department of the Gulf was ordered to organize an expedition in cooperation with Major Generals William T. Sherman and Frederick Steele. While Steele moved south from Little Rock, Arkansas, with 15,000 troops, Banks moved in two columns. A 17,000-strong column ascended Bayou Teche and joined 10,000 men that came up the Red River under Major General Andrew Jackson Smith to occupy Alexandria, Louisiana on March 18. The Red River force was on loan from Sherman and was accompanied by 13 ironclad and 7 light-draft gunboats from Porter's Mississippi River Squadron.

After A. J. Smith's force won two minor actions at Fort De Russy (March 14) and Henderson's Hill (March 21), Banks' army started marching upriver and reached Natchitoches on April 2. Porter started upriver with 6 gunboats and T. K. Smith's division of the XVII Corps aboard transports. They planned to meet with Banks' army at Springfield Landing,  below Shreveport. However, Major General Richard Taylor drubbed the Union army at the Battle of Mansfield on April 8, forcing Banks to retreat. Reinforced, Taylor attacked Banks again at the Battle of Pleasant Hill on April 9, but was repulsed. Nevertheless, Banks withdrew to Grand Ecore near Natchitoches on the Red River.

River operations 
On April 7, Porter and T. K. Smith left Grand Ecore and headed upstream on the Red River. Porter commanded the gunboats USS Cricket, USS Chillicothe, USS Fort Hindman, USS Lexington, USS Neosho, and USS Osage, the last two being monitors. There were also several auxiliary vessels. T. K. Smith led 2,500 Union soldiers on 20 river transports. Water level in the river was low, causing the naval vessels to proceed at a slow pace. That day, the expedition reached Campti where it briefly landed a regiment to clear the town and anchored for the night. 

On April 8, the expedition reached Coushatta Point where it anchored for the night. Colonel Lyman M. Ward's brigade was sent ahead by land to chase away a Confederate force reported  farther ahead at Coushatta Chute. On April 9, the vessels advanced as far as Nine-Mile Bend before anchoring for the evening. On April 10, the expedition reached the mouth of Loggy Bayou near Springfield Landing where they found the Confederates sank the riverboat New Falls City loaded with bricks and mud athwart the channel. While they pondered what to do, a courier arrived from Banks saying his army was defeated and falling back to Grand Ecore. Porter and T. K. Smith decided to obey Banks' verbal instructions to return to Grand Ecore. 

The warships and other vessels were unable to turn around because the river was so narrow. So, they all had to back down the river with the last vessel in the lead. By the morning of April 11, after working all night, the ships were all able to turn around and proceed downriver bow-first. By this time, groups of Confederates on the east bank under Brigadier General St. John Richardson Liddell peppered the expedition with rifle fire, to which the warships replied with cannon fire. That day, the Chillicothe ran hard aground in mid-afternoon and was not freed for several hours. The expedition anchored for the night at Coushatta Chute, having received written orders from Banks to proceed to Grand Ecore. 

By late afternoon on April 12, the expedition reached Blair's Landing. Several vessels were damaged by snags, logs, tree stumps, collisions, and sandbanks as the river's stage fell. The transport Hastings was tied up to the west bank to make repairs. The transport Alice Vivian, loaded with 400 horses, was hard aground in mid-stream with the Osage aground right behind her. The transport Rob Roy was behind both, unable to pass. The transport Black Hawk was lashed alongside the Osage and the Lexington was near the east bank. All but five of the river transports had made it safely downstream.

Battle

Confederate plans