[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# List of smoking bans

ch as restaurants, cafes, and hotel. Anybody violating this ban will be charged with a fine of over $100, and the restaurant, the cafe or the hotel will be charged with a fine between $1300 and $4000

Liberia
Liberia has a smoking ban for public indoor places, indoor workplaces and public transport.

Luxembourg
Smoking is prohibited in all indoor public places, like hospitals, shopping centres, schools and restaurants. However, cafés and bars that only serve snacks are exempt. There is a smoking prohibition from 12 noon to 14:00h and 19:00h to 21:00h in cafés where meals are served. From 1 January 2014, the smoking ban will also cover all cafés and bars, except in specially ventilated smoking rooms.
As of 13 August 2017, smoking is prohibited in playgrounds, sporting venues in which under 16s will be playing and private vehicles in which under 12s are present. The law was also changed to prohibit under 18s from purchasing tobacco and to treat e-cigarettes in the same fashion as tobacco.

Madagascar
By official law, smoking is prohibited in taxi-brousses, but this is not enforced. The only transport environments in which smoking is prohibited are Antananarivo International Airport and on Air Madagascar flights. It is also forbidden to smoke in pubs and clubs.

Malawi
No smoke-free ordinance is in place, nor is one planned (December 2012)

Malta
In April 2004, smoking was restricted in all enclosed public spaces, including public transportation, clubs and restaurants, although smoking areas are allowed. While technically illegal, the reality regarding clubs is that smoking is permitted anywhere inside (despite No-Smoking signage), with little to no enforcement.

Malaysia
In all, 23 areas are smoke-free, including hospitals/clinics, airports, public lifts and toilets, restaurants, public transport, government premises, educational institutions, petrol stations, Internet cafes, shopping complexes and private office spaces with central air-conditioning, R&R area, public parks and areas of national parks. However, enforcement is lax, and the government claims to have plans to get tougher on offenders.

Starting 1 June 2010, it is an offence to smoke at private office spaces with central air-conditioning. People who violate the rules can be fined up to RM10,000 (US$3,333), or two years of imprisonment.

Since 1 January 2019, Smoking is prohibited in all types of restaurant within 3 meters from building or outer most table and fully enforcement by health authorities on 1 January 2020 which risk being fined more than RM 250 for offenders.

Mauritius
Since 1 March 2009, smoking is completely prohibited in all public places, workplaces and inside vehicles if they are carrying people other than the driver.

Mexico
Smoking in hospitals and airports has been restricted for at least 15 years. Smoking is allowed in designated areas at the Cancun Airport, although there are no longer any smoking areas within the international terminal. Mexico City's current smoking policy, passed in April 2004, requires physically separate smoking and non-smoking areas, and for non-smoking areas to make up at least 30% of all space in restaurants and bars. A proposal debated early in 2007 to extend Mexico City's smoking policy to provide completely smoke-free restaurants, bars, schools, taxis, and buses, did not pass. It was proposed again in the middle of 2007.

Since April 2008 the law has covered Mexico City, and since 28 August 2008 the law has been extended nationwide, although now some restaurants and other public places have the same designated areas for smokers as those that existed before the introduction of the law. Some bars and clubs continue to tolerate illegal indoor smoking at night, regardless of the law.

Advertisement of tobacco products has been barred from TV and radio for approximately 6 years.

Monaco
There has been a smoke-free law pertaining to public indoor places in Monaco since 1 November 2008, including bars, restaurants and nightclubs.

Montenegro
Smoking in public places is prohibited in Montenegro, unless a smoking permit is obtained from the government. Most cafes and bars in Montenegro continue to permit smoking on the premises, although several organizations are putting pressure on more local businesses to forbid smoking indoors. The law also forbids smoking advertising and the display of people smoking on television.

Morocco
Morocco's House of Representatives unanimously passed a smoke-free law pertaining to public places on 26 June 1995 (Dahir n° 1-91-112 law n° 15–91).

Mozambique
Since 2007, smoking has been restricted in indoor public places including public transport, government buildings, schools, hospitals, libraries, cinemas, theatres, restaurants and bars, with the exception of specially designated smoking rooms.

Myanmar
Myanmar has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.