[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries

From January 3 to June 3, 2008, voters of the Democratic Party chose their nominee for president in the 2008 United States presidential election. Senator Barack Obama of Illinois was selected as the nominee, becoming the first African American to secure the presidential nomination of any major political party in the United States. However, due to a close race between Obama and Senator Hillary Clinton of New York, the contest remained competitive for longer than expected; neither candidate received enough pledged delegates from state primaries and caucuses to achieve a majority, without endorsements from unpledged delegates (superdelegates).

The presidential primaries actually consisted of both primary elections and caucuses, depending upon what the individual state chose. The goal of the process was to elect the majority of the 4,233 delegates to the 2008 Democratic National Convention, which was held from Sunday, August 25, through Wednesday, August 28, 2008, in Denver, Colorado. To secure the nomination, a candidate needed to receive at least 2,117 votes at the convention—or a simple majority of the 4,233 delegate votes. This total included half-votes from American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, in addition to Democrats Abroad, as well as 'superdelegates'—party leaders and elected officials who were not chosen through a primary or caucus. The race was further complicated by a controversy over the scheduling of the Michigan and Florida state primaries, which had been scheduled earlier than party rules permitted, affecting the number of delegates that those states sent to the national convention.

The popular vote tally from most news organizations did not include Iowa, Maine, Nevada and Washington. These states did not release the results of the popular vote from their caucuses. The media reports did include Florida, which neither Clinton nor Obama contested, as well as Michigan. Both states were penalized by the Democratic National Committee (DNC) for violating party rules. Michigan proved a source of controversy due to the change in the date of the primary election. Consequently, Obama and other candidates removed their names from the ballot yet Clinton did not. The DNC did not count the popular vote from Michigan, and evenly split the state's delegates between Clinton and Obama. As a result, without the Michigan vote, Obama won the popular vote; whereas with the votes from Michigan, Clinton won the popular vote. Nevertheless, regardless of how votes were counted, the candidates' totals were within less than one percent of each other.

Obama received enough superdelegate endorsements on June 3 to claim that he had secured the simple majority of delegates necessary to win the nomination, before Clinton conceded the nomination four days later. Obama was nominated on the first ballot, at the August convention. He went on to win the general election, and became the 44th President of the United States on January 20, 2009. Clinton went on to serve as Obama's Secretary of State for his first term as president, and the Democratic nominee for president in 2016, although she lost to Donald Trump.

These primaries included the nominees for the next three elections (Obama again in 2012, Clinton in 2016, Biden in 2020). Joe Biden is running for reelection in the 2024 election. Should he secure renomination, it would match the amount of eventual nominees produced by the 1980 Republican primaries (Reagan in 1984, Bush in 1988 and 1992, Dole in 1996). It currently matches the amount of eventual nominees involved in the 1988 Democratic primaries at three (Michael Dukakis in 1988, Al Gore in 2000, Biden in 2020).



Candidates and results 

Notes for the following table:
 Delegate counts:
 The pledged delegate estimates come from the sum of the Current estimate columns for the states listed in the Chronicle section later in this article
 The source for superdelegate estimates is the 2008 Democratic Convention Watch blog. Superdelegate endorsements were frozen on June 7, the date of Clinton's concession speech.
 Ordering:
 The candidates are ordered by pledged delegate count and then alphabetically by last name
 To re-sort this table, click on the double-arrow symbol () at the top of a column

Nominee

Withdrew during the primaries

Declined to run 
 Wesley Clark, former commander of NATO and presidential candidate in 2004.
 Tom Daschle, former U.S. senator of South Dakota.
 Howard Dean, former governor of Vermont and chair of the Democratic National Committee.
 Russ Feingold, U.S. senator of Wisconsin.
 Al Gore, former Vice President of the United States and the Democratic presidential nominee in 2000.
 John Kerry, U.S. senator of Massachusetts and the Democratic presidential nominee in 2004.
 Al Sharpton, civil rights activist and candidate for the U.S. Senate in 1992 and 1994.
 Mark Warner, former governor of Virginia.