[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pablo Kleinman

ion's nationwide talk radio network, Univision America, between 2009 and 2014. He later hosted the conservative Radio California Libre (Radio Free California) program on KTNQ from late 2019 until it was cancelled in January 2021 shortly after the 2021 United States Capitol attack.

Political career 

Kleinman describes himself as being politically center-right. In early 2009, he took to organizing the Fundación Californiana or Californiana Foundation, a Section 501(c)(3) educational charity dedicated to reaffirming the notion of Hispanics as part of the mainstream of American society, primarily through its Romualdo Pacheco Initiative, and to educating the public on the principles of individual self-reliance and market economics in both English and Spanish.

In February 2014, Kleinman announced that he was running for United States Congress in California's 30th congressional district, against long-time incumbent Democrat Brad Sherman. Despite the poor brand image of the Republican Party in Los Angeles and the local trend of moderate Republicans running as Independents, Kleinman ran in the primary as a GOP candidate, describing himself as a "new generation Republican". Kleinman's campaign as the first Hispanic Jewish candidate in a heavily Jewish and Hispanic district generated attention by the media in an area where Democrats have won every election for many years. As a political outsider, he encountered difficulty getting endorsements from members of the Republican establishment, although he did secure prominent endorsements from conservative talk radio hosts as well as from well-known local community figures. Kleinman lost the June 3rd, 2014, primary.

Among some of the most noteworthy themes of Kleinman's unconventional congressional campaign were an embrace of libertarian principles on social issues such as gay rights, as well as a strongly pro-Israel foreign policy and a push for the official recognition of the Armenian Genocide by the United States government, which actually took place five years later.

He is a former delegate and member of the executive committee of the California Republican Party. On June 7, 2016, he was elected to the central committee of the Los Angeles County Republican Party for a four-year (2016–2020) term.

Kleinman signed the Madrid Charter, a document drafted by the conservative Spanish political party Vox that describes left-wing groups as enemies of Ibero-America involved in a "criminal project" that are "under the umbrella of the Cuban regime".

Philanthropy

Kleinman is vice-president and a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Hispanic Jewish Foundation in Spain, which is building the Hispanic-Jewish Museum in the Spanish capital. He is also the president of a sister charity based in Miami, called the Hispanic-Jewish Endowment.

References

External links
Pablo Kleinman's Flickr photo page
Diario de América - America's Daily (in Spanish)
Urbita: I love this place!
Revista El Medio
Article from the newspaper O Globo (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) about the foundational meeting of FidoNet in that country (May 20th, 1991, in Portuguese)

1971 births
Living people
American computer businesspeople
American columnists
American political commentators
Jewish American journalists
American male journalists
American people of Argentine-Jewish descent
Argentine emigrants to the United States
Argentine Jews
Argentine people of Polish-Jewish descent
Businesspeople from Buenos Aires
California Republicans
FidoNet
Alumni of London Business School
HEC Paris alumni
USC School of International Relations alumni
21st-century American Jews