[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

e, a vigil was held in Parliament Square on 18 July.  Another protest was held in front of Downing Street on 28 July, organised by the Stop the War Coalition and the CND. Worker-Communist Party of Iran organised a 3-day picket against the war in front of Israeli Embassy in London from 26 to 28 July.

30 July protestors at Scotland's Prestwick Airport managed to have a chartered plane laden with bombs en route from Texas to Tel Aviv diverted to RAF Mildenhall in Suffolk, England due to their protests. The bombs are part of a series of agreed arms shipments between the United States Government and Israel and were diverted originally from Irish airspace as the Irish Government refused to allow the aircraft permission to land. The transport of weapons to Israel via British airspace has caused embarrassment for the British Government although the shipments are to continue.

United States

More than a thousand demonstrated outside of the United Nations headquarters to support Israel and denounce Hezbollah.  Senator Hillary Clinton and New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg attended to show support. "We are here to show solidarity and support for Israel," said Clinton. "We will stand with Israel, because Israel is standing for American values as well as Israeli ones."  She condemned Hamas, Hezbollah, Syria, and Iran. Meanwhile, 10,000 Arab Americans demonstrated against Israel's actions in Dearborn, Michigan.

In Atlanta, about 5,000 came to support Israel's defense and military efforts and denounce Hezbollah, Hamas, and al-Qaeda. Among them were US Congressman David Scott and Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue.

In Seattle, Washington, 2,000 gathered to support America's "sister-nation" (Israel) waving American and Israeli flags, denouncing the "unprovoked actions of Hezbollah and Hamas," and asserting Israel's "right to protect and defend herself... The international community must not be silent or shelter terrorists." Among the supporters were Congressman Dave Reichert, his political opponent Darcy Burner, Michael Spektor of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, Presbyterian Reverend Leland Seese, Jr. (a long-time critic of Israel, prior), and some local rabbis. Congress Reichert received a standing ovation after saying "no other nation has given land for peace -- we now need to stand with Israel in its fight against terror and for freedom... Like Ronald Reagan, I'd like to see peace in Israel during our time."

In Los Angeles, 5,000 "Arabs and progressives", according to an activist, marched through downtown L.A. to protest against Israel and the U.S. and for the Palestinians and Lebanon. Speakers outside the federal building included the participants from the A.N.S.W.E.R. Committee, National Council of Arab Americans, Muslim American Society, Council on American Islamic Relations, Jim Lafferty of the National Lawyers Guild, Bill Paparian, the Green Party Candidate for Congress, Project Islamic Hope, KPFK 90.7 FM, Yael Koran of Women in Black, Shakeel Syed of the Islamic Shura Council of Southern California, Mahmud Ahmad of Al-Awda Palestine Right to Return Coalition, Kim Baglieri of the Alliance for Just and Lasting Peace in the Philippines, Phyllis Kim of Korean Americans for Peace, Carlos Alvarez of the Party for Socialism and Liberation and Bernie Moto of the FMLN. The rally was also against the Iraq War.

On 12 August 2006, thousands (according to the New York Times) (organizers say 30,000), of mostly Muslims "rallied near the White House on Saturday to protest what they described as Israeli aggression in Lebanon and the United States' unwavering support for Israel." Speakers included former Attorney General (and legal defender of Saddam Hussein) Ramsey Clark, Muslim American Society Freedom Foundation, Partnership for Civil Justice, A.N.S.W.E.R. Coalition, National Council of Arab Americans, Osama Siblani Publisher at Arab American News, and Dr. Clovis Maksoud the former ambassador from the Arab League to the U.N, American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee. This was the largest rally against Israeli aggression in America since the Gaza and Lebanon conflicts began. The protest was one of several held around the country. When a woman started to burn an Israeli flag at one such rally in San Francisco, police rushed toward her and then other demonstrators joined the fracas, resulting in one arrest. A counter protest of a few hundred people was organized by San Francisco Voice for Israel in San Francisco.