[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lord's Resistance Army insurgency (2002–2005)

government apparently drew a lesson from the Arrow Group fiasco in the early 1990s and has armed these militias with assault rifles. Some observers fear that the introduction of more weapons in northern Uganda will create more problems in the longer term.

Involvement of international organizations

During a November 2003 field visit to Uganda, United Nations Undersecretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Jan Egeland stated, "I cannot find any other part of the world that is having an emergency on the scale of Uganda, that is getting such little international attention." This was followed, on 14 April 2004, by UN Security Council condemnation of the atrocities committed by the LRA, and expressions of concern about the plight of the displaced children.

In December 2003, Ugandan President Museveni referred the LRA to the International Criminal Court (ICC) to determine if the LRA is guilty of international war crimes.  ICC Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo formally opened an investigation in January 2004.  Some local Ugandan groups have criticized this move, as an ICC conviction of Joseph Kony and his senior lieutenants is seen to make a negotiated end to the conflict nearly impossible.  In November 2004, President Museveni was reported to be exploring ways to withdraw the referral made to the ICC, which was seen as a complication to what appeared to be a significant movement towards a negotiated peace.  The human rights group Amnesty International protested the move.

Late 2004 peace talks collapse (15 November to 31 December 2004) 

On February 21, 2004, the LRA killed over 200 civilians in an IDP camp in Barlonyo, near Lira.  This resulted in street protests and riots in Lira town on February 25, 2004 protesting the government's failure to adequately protect civilians.  The riots caused at least nine deaths . The violence was partly motivated by animosity towards the Acholi, who many Langi collectively blame for the LRA insurgency.

From the middle of 2004 on, rebel activity dropped markedly under intense military pressure.  There were reports of significant numbers of LRA rebels taking advantage of the government Amnesty Act. On 15 November 2004, the government declared a unilateral seven-day cease-fire subsequently extended.  During the cease-fire substantial numbers of rebels gathered in government-designated  zones to discuss a government proposal from August 2002.

In this proposal Museveni had offered to talk to the LRA, saying his government would under certain conditions halt operations against the LRA and open talks to end the conflict.  These steps were taken after numerous LRA commanders contacted either the government or third parties and expressed a willingness to end the conflict.  Senior LRA commander Brigadier Sam Kolo has stated that Joseph Kony has granted him the authority to negotiate on behalf of the rebels.

In mid-December 2004 a number of civilians were killed by bands of LRA operating near the Sudanese town of Juba.  These rebels had purportedly lost contact with their chain of command under the ongoing government assault. Also, the Ugandan government reported that it had attacked a band led by Joseph Kony himself outside of the declared cease-fire zones. Sam Kolo stated that the continued government attacks make it difficult to establish a minimal basis of trust to progress with the peace talks.  On 31 December 2004, the extended 47-day truce expired without an agreement.

Negotiations amidst ongoing conflict (1 January 2005 to 3 February) 

On 1 January 2005, rebels recommenced hostilities in Alero, Gulu.  President Museveni declared that military "operations will not cease ever again until the Kony group irreversibly commit themselves to come out of the bush" and that "the combination of both the military option and dialogue will bring peace in northern Uganda."  On 19 January, the humanitarian organization Médecins Sans Frontières listed the conflict in northern Uganda as one of the "Top Ten" most underreported humanitarian stories of 2004.

The signing of a peace deal ending the Second Sudanese Civil War between the government and the Sudan People's Liberation Army prompted speculation that a more stable Sudan would help end the LRA insurgency.  In late January, SPLA leader John Garang pledged that he would not allow the LRA to operate in the south once he gained formal control of the region  While Garang died in a helicopter crash several months later, this did not appear to shake the close cooperation between the SPLA and Uganda.