[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Defibrotide

serum starvation. It also appears to increase t-PA function and decrease plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 activity.

Chemistry
Defibrotide is a mixture of single-stranded oligonucleotides. The chemical name is polydeoxyribonucleotide, sodium salt.  It is purified from the intestinal mucosa of pigs.

History 
The efficacy of defibrotide was investigated in 528 participants treated in three studies: two prospective clinical trials and an expanded access study. The participants enrolled in all three studies had a diagnosis of hepatic VOD with liver or kidney abnormalities after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). The studies measured the percentage of participants who were still alive 100 days after HSCT (overall survival). In the three studies, 38 to 45 percent of participants treated with defibrotide were alive 100 days after HSCT. Based on published reports and analyses of participant-level data, the expected survival rates 100 days after HSCT would be 21 to 31 percent for participants with severe hepatic VOD who received only supportive care or interventions other than defibrotide.

Society and culture

Legal status 
Defibrotide was approved in the European Union for use in treating veno-occlusive disease of the liver of people having had a bone marrow transplant in 2013; Gentium had developed it.  At the end of that year, Jazz Pharmaceuticals acquired Gentium.

In March 2016, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved it for a similar use. Defibrotide is the first FDA-approved therapy for treatment of severe hepatic VOD, a rare and life-threatening liver condition. The FDA granted the application for defibrotide priority review status and orphan drug designation. The FDA granted approval of  Defitelio to Jazz Pharmaceuticals.

Defibrotide was approved for medical use in Japan in June 2019.

Defibrotide was approved for medical use in Australia in July 2020.

References

Further reading

External links 
 

Anticoagulants
Orphan drugs