[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Latvian War of Independence

ed for the organisation of land defense forces between the Provisional Government of the Republic of Latvia and the German envoy August Winnig, representing the Baltische Landeswehr.
 17 December: The government of the Latvian Socialist Soviet Republic, headed by Pēteris Stučka, is formed in Russia.

1919 
 5 January: The first military unit of Latvia — the 1st Latvian Independent Battalion, under command of Oskars Kalpaks — is formed. The provisional government retreats from Jelgava to Liepāja.
 31 January: Most of Latvia is under the control of the Red Army; the Latvian government and German forces control the area around Liepāja.
 18 February: An agreement is signed between Estonia and Latvia, which provides for the formation of the North Latvian Brigade, led by Jorģis Zemitāns, on Estonian territory.
 3 March: The united German and Latvian forces commence a counterattack against the forces of Soviet Latvia.
 6 March: Oskars Kalpaks, commander of all Latvian forces subordinated to German headquarters, is killed by German friendly fire. He is replaced by Jānis Balodis.
 10 March: Saldus comes under Latvian control.
 21 March: 1st Latvian Independent Battalion is reformed into the Latvian Independent Brigade.
 16 April: The puppet Latvian Government established by the Baltic nobility organizes a coup d'etat in Liepāja, the provisional national government of Latvia takes refuge aboard the steamship Saratow under Allied protection.
 16 May: The Estonian Army starts a major offensive against the Soviets in north Latvia.
 22 May: The Baltische Landeswehr captures Riga.
 23 May: The Latvian Independent Brigade marches into Riga.
 3 June: The Baltische Landeswehr reaches Cēsis.
 6 June: The Landeswehr's North Latvian campaign begins, commanded by Major Alfred Fletcher.
 23 June: The Estonian 3rd Division commanded by Gen. Ernst Põdder, including the 2nd Latvian Cēsis regiment of the North Latvian Brigade defeats the Landeswehr in the Battle of Cēsis.
 3 July: Estonia, Latvia and the pro-German Provisional Government of Latvia sign the Ceasefire of Strazdumuiža.
 6 July: The North Latvian Brigade enters Riga.
10 July: The North Latvian Brigade and the Independent Latvian (or South Latvian) Brigade are merged to form the Latvian Armed Forces (Latvian Army) on the order of its first Commander-in-Chief, General Dāvids Sīmansons.
 5 October: The German mission secretly leaves Riga for Jelgava, where an attack is prepared by the German-established West Russian Volunteer Army on Riga.
 8 October: The West Russian Volunteer Army attacks Riga, taking the Pārdaugava district.
 20 October: Battle of Talsi.
 3 November: The Latvian Army, supported by Estonian armored trains and the British Royal Navy, launches its counterattack.
 5 November: Battle of Liepāja.
 11 November: The Latvian Army, supported by Estonian armored trains, the Royal Navy and the French Navy, defeats the West Russian Volunteer Army in Riga. The date is celebrated as Lāčplēsis Day ever since.
 21 November:  The Latvian Army liberates Jelgava from the West Russian Volunteer Army.
 22 November: The Lithuanian Army defeats the remnants of the West Russian Volunteer Army in Lithuania near Radviliškis.

1920 
 3 January: The joint forces of Latvia and Poland launch an attack on the Bolsheviks in Latgale and take Daugavpils.
 13 January: The government of the Latvian SSR announces its resignation.
 1 February: Latvia signs a cease-fire with Soviet Russia.
 17–18 April: Elections of the Constitutional Assembly of Latvia.
 1 May: First session of the Constitutional Assembly.
 15 July: Latvia signs a cease-fire with Germany.
 11 August: The Latvian-Soviet Riga Peace Treaty is signed.

In fiction

Literature
 Blizzard of Souls, by Aleksandrs Grīns

Film
 Lāčplēsis (1930), directed by 
 Defenders of Riga (2007), directed by 
 Blizzard of Souls (2019), directed by

See also
 Aftermath of World War I
 Freikorps in the Baltic
 West Russian Volunteer Army
 Estonian War of Independence
 Lithuanian Wars of Independence
 United Baltic Duchy
 Ober Ost
 British campaign in the Baltic (1918–1919)

References