[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jubilee (novel)

idea of violence, and is sympathetic towards slaves and abolition. He is socially pressured into joining the Confederate military and is killed.
Fanny Crenshaw—John Dutton Jr.'s childhood sweetheart. She takes care of him during his final convalescence, regretting that they were never able to marry.

Setting (location)
The historic novel is set in parts of Georgia and Alabama, such as:
Terrell County, Georgia—where Vyry is born
Lee County, Georgia—where the Dutton Plantation is
Troy, Alabama—where the wagon breaks down and Vyry and Innis settle down and befriend the Jacobsons; Vyry and Innis' house is burned down by the KKK
Luverne, Alabama—a very poor town that Vyry and Innis passed through
Greenville, Alabama—where Vyry and Innis live permanently, and Vyry sells goods in the marketplace
Selma, Alabama—where Randall Ware says he will take Jim to school

Setting (time)
1835–1870

Historical events (chronological order)

Before the Civil War the Bible was quoted to justify slavery as a natural and righteous state. Slaves meanwhile identified with the Old Testament Hebrew slaves who were liberated by Moses.
Jubilee follows the course of the Civil War and Reconstruction, where violence by the Ku Klux Klan was unfortunately common. Specific events from this historical novel (in chronological order) include:
 1857: The South was victorious in the Dred Scott case.
 March 4, 1861: Abraham Lincoln was inaugurated the sixteenth president of the United States. (184)
 April 1861: Guns of Charleston, South Carolina, fired on the Federal flag at Fort Sumter. President Lincoln declared the seceded states of the Confederacy to be in a state of rebellion which must be put down if the Union was to be preserved. (195)
 July 1861: The capital of the Confederacy was moved from Montgomery to Richmond. (201)
 1862: The South was winning the war. (208) (Despite Union victories at the battles of Pea Ridge and Shiloh)
 July 18, 1862: 'Fighting Joe' Wheeler was named commander of the cavalry of the Army of Tennessee by General Bragg. (213)
 Summer of 1863: Battle of Gettysburg with General Robert E. Lee and his Army of Northern Virginia which "failed in their second attempt to invade northern territory" (214) (Union Victory)
 July 1863: Battle of Vicksburg with General Ulysses S. Grant. (Union victory)
 1863: Marked a turning of the tide in favor of the Union forces (245); word spread that Abraham Lincoln would issue an proclamation to free slaves in Union-held territories. Thousands of slaves fled plantations. The South saw a wholesale disappearance of blacks seeking the "protection of the Union armies" (246). Abraham Lincoln was seen by blacks as a new Moses. The war also evinced technological progress: Union soldiers now fought with repeating rifles and longer projectiles, while the navy began to use iron-clad gunboats instead of wooden sail ships.
 February 17, 1864: To fight currency depreciation, the Confederate Congress passed Treasury Secretary Christopher Memminger's plan requiring citizens to turn in their paper currency and buy long-term war bonds. The measure failed to prevent the collapse of Confederate credit.
 August 7, 1864: End of the naval battle on Mobile Bay, a Union victory
 January 1, 1865: Emancipation Proclamation repeated in Georgia (Vyry and family are free)
 1868: The Ku Klux Klan rode for three days and nights during the national elections, resulting in terrible violence.