[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Japanese cruiser Kumano

with Suzuya to cover landings of troops at Anambas, Endau, Palembang and Banka Island, Sabang on Sumatra and Java in the Netherlands East Indies from the end of December 1941 to the middle of March. Kumano also participated in the seizure of the Andaman Islands in the Indian Ocean on 20 March 1942.

On 6 April 1942 during the Indian Ocean Raid, Kumano and Suzuya together with destroyer  sank the British steamships Silksworth (4921 tons), Autolycus (7621 tons), Malda (9066 tons) and Shinkuang (2441 tons) and the American Export Line steamship Exmoor (4986 tons). However, one of the E8N floatplanes from Kumano was damaged by a Curtiss P-36 Hawk from RAF No.5 squadron based at Cuttack, India. Kumano was withdrawn back to Japan, arriving at Kure Naval Arsenal on 27 April. On 26 May, she arrived at Guam to join the escort for the Midway Invasion Transport Group under Sentai -7 (Rear Admiral Raizō Tanaka).

During the Battle of Midway, on 5 June, lookouts aboard Kumano spotted the surfaced USN submarine , and Kumano signaled a 45-degree simultaneous turn to avoid possible torpedoes. Kumano and Suzuya correctly made the turn, but the third vessel in line, Mikuma, made a 90-degree turn by mistake. The error resulted in a collision in which Mikuma was rammed by Mogami. Kumano returned to Kure on 23 June. On 17 July, Kumano and Suzuya were assigned to provide support for the Japanese invasion of Burma, and evaded six torpedoes fired by the Royal Dutch Navy submarine  west of Perak, Malaya on 29 July. In August, Kumano and Suzuya were reassigned to support the reinforcement of Guadalcanal. During the Battle of the Eastern Solomons on 24 August, Kumano escaped without seeing combat and returned safely to Truk. However, she was attacked on 14 September north of the Solomon Islands by a flight of ten USAAF B-17 Flying Fortress bombers, and suffered light damage. During the Battle of Santa Cruz on 26 October, she provided support for Admiral Nagumo’s Carrier Strike Force, but did not see any combat. She returned to Kure on 7 November and after minor repairs, returned to Rabaul on 4 December with a cargo of troops and supplies. The cruiser continued to remain in the area on patrols and on fast transport missions through the middle of February 1943.

Returning to Kure Naval Arsenal on 6 June, Kumano was fitted with a Type 21 radar and her dual 13-mm machine guns were replaced by two triple-mount Type 96 anti-aircraft guns. She returned to Rabaul on 25 June with another cargo of troops and supplies. On 18 July, Kumano was escorting a Tokyo Express high speed transport mission with Chōkai and , but was attacked off of Kolombangara by USMC Grumman TBF Avenger torpedo bombers from Guadalcanal. The attack damaged Kumano’s aft hull, and she underwent emergency repairs at Rabaul by the repair ship Yamabiko Maru and at Truk by the repair ship , but finally had to be withdrawn back to Kure from 2 September to 3 November for proper repairs. She was based out of Truk through the end of the year, at Palau in January and February 1944, and in Singapore from March through mid-May. At Singapore, an additional eight single-mount Type 96 guns were added. From late May through June, Kumano was based at Tawi-Tawi.  During the Battle of the Philippine Sea, on 20 June 1944 she was attacked by aircraft from the aircraft carriers , , and . During this action, the carrier  was sunk and the battleship  was badly damaged. Kumano returned to Kure on 25 June, and additional Type 13 and Type 22 radars were installed, as were more Type 96 AA guns. She departed on 8 July with reinforcements and supplies for Singapore, arriving 16 July.

On 25 October 1944, Kumano was part of the Japanese Central Force in the Battle off Samar. She was hit by a Mark 15 torpedo fired by the destroyer , which blew off her bow. As Kumano was retiring toward the San Bernardino Strait, she came under aerial attack and suffered minor damage. The next day, 26 October Kumano was attacked from aircraft launched by the carrier  while in the Sibuyan Sea, and was struck by three  bombs. She survived and sailed to Manila Bay for repairs on her bow and all four boilers. While still under repairs, she was attacked on 29 October by carrier aircraft from Task Force 38.

She returned to service on 4 November, departing Manila for Taiwan as part of the escort for Convoy Ma-Ta 31. On 6 November 1944 off Cape Bolinao, Luzon, the convoy came under attack by a U.S. submarine wolfpack consisting of , , ,  and .