[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Josh Chetwynd

Joshua Stephen Chetwynd (born September 11, 1971) is a British-born American journalist, broadcaster, author, sports agent and former baseball player. He has also competed in the sport of curling.

Journalism
Chetwynd has worked as a staff reporter for USA Today, The Hollywood Reporter and U.S. News & World Report. His writing has also appeared in such publications/websites as The Wall Street Journal, The Times (of London), Chicago Tribune,  MLB.com, Harvard Negotiation Law Review, The Observer Sport Monthly, and Variety.
He was a two-time winner of the Los Angeles Press Club Award for best newspaper article written by a correspondent (1999 and 2000). In 2022, Chetwynd received a SABR Baseball Research Award for an article he wrote in Nine: A Journal of Baseball History and Culture.

Broadcasting
Between 2002 and 2008, Chetwynd served as a baseball analyst for the British television network Five, primarily alongside presenter Jonny Gould on MLB on Five. He joined the show at the beginning of the 2002 season and worked as the co-host until the middle of the 2003 campaign when he returned to the United States. While in the U.S. he did on-camera interviews and reports for the show at both the World Series (2003–2005) and Spring Training in Arizona (2004–2005). At the start of the 2006 season, he resumed the co-host position full-time and held that post until the show was cancelled after the 2008 season. In October 2006, Chetwynd also took over hosting duties on Five's Monday night coverage of the NFL for a season, replacing Colin Murray. In addition, Chetwynd did voice over work for sports packages on Five's sister digital station Five US between 2006 and 2008.

On 4 July 2010, he began co-hosting MLB on 5 Live with Jonny Gould on BBC Radio 5 Live Sports Extra. In 2011, the show was picked up for second season with Nat Coombs replacing Gould as Chetwynd's regular co-host. Third and fourth seasons featured Coombs and Chetwynd in 2012 and 2013. During the 2013 post season, Chetwynd served as the program's primary host, anchoring the BBC's World Series studio show with former Major League pitcher Jason Hirsh filling the analyst's role.

As part of the coverage, Chetwynd has also done live color-commentary, on-site at the World Series with Simon Brotherton providing play-by-play in 2011 and 2012. Chetwynd previously collaborated with Brotherton in the same role for the BBC between 2003 and 2005. In 2012, the pair also broadcast MLB's Opening Series between the Oakland A's and Seattle Mariners in Tokyo, Japan. In September of that year, Chetwynd was the on-air analyst for television broadcasts of the World Baseball Classic - Qualifier 2 in Regensberg, Germany. Telecasts aired on the MLB Network and MLB.com in the U.S., Sportsnet in Canada and ESPN America in Europe.  In 2019, Chetwynd provided commentary on BT Sport's coverage of the 2019 MLB London Series. He reprised that role at the 2023 MLB London Series.

Books
Chetwynd has written a number of books.

A second edition to his Baseball in Europe: A Country by Country History (2nd ed.) came out in October 2019. More than a decade after the original was written, this volume features approximately 80 new interviews and 70 new photos and images, updating the histories of baseball in more than 40 European countries. The Midwest Book Review said about the second edition: "A fascinating and informative sports history ... will prove to be a unique and unreservedly recommended addition to personal, professional, community, college, and university library Sports History collections in general, and Baseball History supplemental studies reading lists in particular."

Totally Scripted: Idioms, Words, And Quotes From Hollywood To Broadway That Have Changed The English Language was released in February 2017. The book received positive notices from a number of film and TV professionals. Pat Sajak wrote: "Josh Chetwynd has created a furiously fast, funny, fantastic read." Actor Gary Sinise said: "Totally Scripted by Josh Chetwynd entertains and educates on the origin of words, lines and phrases that have become a part of our everyday lives. For those in and outside of the entertainment business it is a wonderful read." Tony-nominated director Jason Moore added: "Totally Scripted is a wonderful, insightful read, packed with fascinating anecdotes and knowledge that will delight and inform everyone who loves the stage, film and TV."

The Field Guide to Sports Metaphors: A Compendium of Competitive Words and Idioms came out in May 2016. It looks at how sports have changed the English language through words and idioms. The author Bill Bryson endorsed the book saying, it is "fascinating, informative and hugely entertaining. This is a book I will return to again and again." When the volume was released, Mental Floss named it one of "25 Amazing New Books for Spring."