[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human rights in Switzerland

ational mechanisms manually. This is useful in Switzerland's plight to increase the human rights standards of the country. The Federal Constitution of Switzerland lists dignity and equality as paramount, which is evident in the application of a number of federal legislations.

Human rights defenders

Switzerland is a supporting nation of the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights Defenders, recognising the importance of the Defenders in the international application of human rights, and the pressures these individuals and groups put on states to improve their national commitment to human rights. Switzerland has implemented and seeks to standardise the Swiss Guidelines on the Protection of Human Rights Defenders in efforts to protect defenders internally and on rights-driven missions to other nation states.
however, Switzerland is a forerunner in the field of the right to  digital integrity. A parliamentary initiative aimed at introducing the right to digital integrity into the Federal Constitution  submitted on 29 September 2022 by the member of parliament Samuel Bendahan.  In the canton of Geneva, a popular vote was accepted by more than 94% of the population on 18 June 2023 to add this new right to the cantonal constitution

Children's rights

Switzerland ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1997 and has continued to enhance children's rights since. In 2011, the Federal Social Insurance Office began a program to protect youth from violence, and another for the education of and protection from the media. Complementary to this, nationwide organisations such as the Pro Juventute Foundation and the Swiss Foundation for Child Protection are active in working with victims of child abuse of many kinds. Internationally, Switzerland is signed to the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, which criminalises sexual acts against children in all of its signed countries. Regardless of the structural mechanisms in place, human rights reports still document high rates of child abuse in Switzerland. One children's hospital alone reported 450 instances of abuse during 2014, of which 33% was sexual abuse, 35% physical, and the remainder being psychological abuse and neglect.

There have been minor improvements made within the scope of children's right protection since the second Swiss UPR from October 2012. These are mainly in relation to rights and regulations governing the punishment of child offenders, however, not in relation to the high statistics of abuse.

Death penalty

Switzerland abolished capital punishment for all criminal actions in 1992. This is documented in the country's constitution,  and the nation has since rallied for the universal abolition of capital punishment. Switzerland observes the right to life and human dignity as fundamental to human rights and aims to have the punishment universally condemned by 2025.

Switzerland is taking an active role in the abolishment, working closely with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, and introducing a World Day Against the Death Penalty on 10 October every year.  The work with the United Nations also involves drafting of several resolutions, such as the moratorium on the death penalty, which was approved by the Human Rights Council in 2015, and is presented to the United Nations General Assembly every two years following Switzerland's support for the document in 2007.

The country also works with international organisations such as Death Penalty Project, International Commission Against the Death Penalty and the World Coalition Against the Death Penalty, and has ratified treaties such as the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, aiming at the abolition of the death penalty, Protocol No. 13 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, concerning the abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances and the Convention on the Rights of the Child.

Anti-discrimination provisions

Combating discrimination and promoting inclusion are one of the key ways Switzerland seeks to promote human rights domestically, as covered by Articles 1, 2 and 7 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex discrimination protection

Switzerland's anti-discrimination provisions do not specifically protect the lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, transgender or intersex communities from discrimination. But since 2022, Swiss law allows for same-sex marriage, IVF access and adoption of a child where one or both of the partners was already a legal guardian of the child prior to the relationship.

Racism