[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Music Summit

dio Networks officially announced the launching of the channel on August 18, 2008. The channel had a partnership between the Clear Channel subsidiary, and the City of Hope medical center in the Los Angeles area, specifically Duarte, CA to promote Cancer awareness and well being for just over a year.

On March 9, 2009, the Pink Channel revised their playlist by dropping songs from earlier decades in favor of a smaller selection of current hits. The channel positions itself as "All Hit Radio", playing only current hits (excluding recurrent and gold songs) from the Hot Adult Contemporary format; classifying the channel as contemporary hit radio.

On March 23, 2010, the Pink Channel changed its format to an adult album alternative playlist designed primarily for white females 18-45 and males 24-37. Key artists include: Annie Lennox, Indigo Girls, Sheryl Crow, KT Tunstall, Jack Johnson, Norah Jones, Chris Isaak, U2, R.E.M, Goo Goo Dolls, 10,000 Maniacs, Dave Matthews, Bob Marley, John Mayer and more.

As of August 2010, the channel has removed all Pink related packaging and elements, and is now identifying itself as both "The Music Summit" and "The Summit" through short voiceovers, but the XM website and receivers continue to label it as The Pink Channel. It's retaining the same music format.

The Music Summit (2010-11)
In late August/early September 2010, The Music Summit branding took place, retaining the same format as the Pink Channel.  XM receivers now display "Music Summit cm" and the XM website now reflects the name change.

On June 8, 2011, the WLTW simulcast returned to this channel.

Shows
 The Ian Whitcomb Show - An hour-long eclectic music show Sunday mornings. Hosted by musician Ian Whitcomb and produced by Premiere Satellite Radio.

References

XM Satellite Radio channels
Radio stations established in 2008
Radio stations disestablished in 2011
IHeartMedia radio stations
Defunct_radio_stations_in_the_United_States