[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Georgia Landing

itzers). The Confederate artillery fired at the flatboats, but most of the shots went high. Discovering that the Confederates on the left bank had vanished, Weitzel sent the 13th Connecticut and 4 of Carruth's guns to the right bank, keeping the 75th New York and Thompson's battery on the left bank.

On the right bank, the 8th New Hampshire encountered stiff resistance and it began falling back in some disorder. Placing the 12th Connecticut on the 8th New Hampshire's right, Weitzel ordered both to attack. Since their lines of advance diverged, Weitzel ordered the 13th Connecticut to fill the gap opening in the center. While the 8th New Hampshire blazed away, the other two regiments slowly advanced through ditches and briars. Fortunately for the Federals, the Confederate gunners mostly fired too high. The Union troops, in battle for the first time, reached an open field where the opposing fire became more heavy. The Federals fired at will as they advanced, cursing at the top of their lungs, while Weitzel sat on his horse smoking a cigar. The Terrebonne militia appeared on the western flank, fired a volley at the Union troops, then fled. Finally, the Federals reached a point about  from the 18th and 24th Louisiana Infantry, who defended a drainage ditch behind a fence. They were posted on the left of Ralston's battery near a plantation road at Georgia Landing. Suddenly, the Confederates panicked and fled, swarming out of the ditch and into the woods behind them. The Union soldiers rushed forward, cheering.

The 2nd Louisiana Cavalry started attacking the Union wagon train, but they pulled back after bumping into the 8th New Hampshire. The Confederate cavalry withdrew to Thibodaux by a roundabout path. Meanwhile, Perkins' cavalry, the 13th Connecticut, and two guns pursued Mouton's retreating force for 30 minutes before halting.

Losses
Weitzel reported 2 officers and 16 men killed, 1 officer and 73 men wounded, and 1 officer and 4 men captured. Mouton reported losing 5 killed, 8 wounded, and 186 missing. Colonel George P. McPheeters of the 24th Louisiana was among the dead. The National Park Service listed 86 casualties out of 4,000 Union soldiers and 229 casualties out of 1,329 Confederates. Weitzel claimed that his soldiers buried 5 Confederates and that 17 wounded were among the captured. He claimed 166 Confederates captured on the day of battle and 42 afterward. The Union troops captured the wounded Ralston and one artillery piece.

Aftermath

On October 28, Mouton's force withdrew to Thibodaux where they burned the railroad depot, bridges, sugar, and other supplies before abandoning the place. Weitzel's troops arrived at Thibodaux later that day. Mouton received news about Thomas' column and the naval expedition. Mouton loaded his soldiers aboard a train that took them to Brashear City. During the battle on October 27, Mouton ordered Colonel T. E. Vick at Des Allemands to abandon the place and join him with 500 men from the Lafourche Militia and 300 men detached from the 33rd Louisiana. Through a miscommunication, a railroad train that was supposed to transport the soldiers, failed to do so, and the men were forced to march. Vick's men, many of whom were conscripts, straggled badly and numbers were captured by Union troops. Vick only brought in 82 men, who boarded a train at Terrebonne Station.

At dusk on November 1, the gunboats USS Calhoun, USS Diana, USS Estrella, and USS Kinsman appeared in Berwick Bay. The Confederate gunboat CSS J. A. Cotton and the steamers Hart and Launch No. 1 successfully withdrew up Bayou Teche. A third steamer, the Seger was deliberately grounded by its master, allowing it to be seized by the Federal gunboats. Mouton abandoned Brashear City and took a defensive position on the Teche near its junction with the Atchafalaya River. Some plantation owners took a pro-Union oath and were allowed to remain in the Lafourche district as long as they paid their former slaves a wage. Other terrified residents fled the district, trying to take their Black slaves with them, though large numbers of slaves ran away to Union-held areas.

Former slaves

Weitzel's Union columns were swollen by large numbers of runaway Black slaves and their families. On November 1, Weitzel complained to Butler that he had twice as many African-Americans as he had soldiers in his camps. There were not enough rations to feed the multitude so that the former slaves stole food from the farms and plantations that they passed through. However, Union soldiers also stole livestock and personal possessions from the inhabitants. Butler urged Weitzel to put the former slaves to work for $10 per month on the plantations owned by those who had taken the oath.