[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Prince Moulay Hicham of Morocco

he prince developed a close relationship with King Hassan. He later attended Stanford University for graduate study, graduating in 1997 with an M.A. in political science. Many of these events are outlined in his memoirs, Journal d'un Prince Banni, published in April 2014 to considerable controversy.

In 2002, Prince Moulay Hicham relocated to Princeton, New Jersey with his family due to political tensions with King Mohammed VI and other elements of the Moroccan monarchy. He was married in 1995 to Sharifa Lalla Malika Benabdelali, a cousin of the Moroccan businessman, RNI party luminary, and current Prime Minister Aziz Akhannouch. He has two daughters: Sharifa Lalla Faizah Alaoui (born 1996), who attended Yale University, and Sharifa Lalla Haajar Alaoui (born 1999), who attended Princeton University. In 2014, he began pursuing a D.Phil. research degree in Middle East studies at the University of Oxford, which he successfully defended in February 2020.

Prince Moulay Hicham's positions have often instigated outside pressures, including personal and financial threats, as well as smear campaigns in Morocco's state-run media sector. In August 2012, Moroccan MP Abdelhadi Khairat accused him of financial embezzlement, a charge that instigated a successful defamation lawsuit and Khairat's eventual apology for the allegations. In May 2014, the French police arrested an individual on stalking charges at Orly Airport, who in turn claimed that several Moroccans had asked him to monitor the prince's movements. In September 2017, he was controversially deported from Tunisia while scheduled to speak at an academic conference held by Stanford University for reasons suspected to be politically motivated. In November 2018, he won a major libel trial in the United Kingdom against the Arabic-language Elaph media outlet, which had published a story accusing him to have plotted against the Moroccan monarchy. That case was also notable in compelling British courts, in the wider context of UK law, to clarify and deepen the meaning of defamation within electronic publications.  In July 2021, the prince was revealed to be one of the targets of the NSO Group's Pegasus spyware as deployed by the Moroccan intelligence services.  In January 2023, he was expelled from Tunisia a second time for reasons believed to be political, after arriving to attend a conference organized by the French monthly Le Monde Diplomatique.

Honours 
  : Grand Officer of the Order of Prince Henry (26 March 1993).

References

External links
 Moulay Hicham Selected Writings (Official Website)
 Moulay Hicham Foundation for Social Research on North Africa and the Middle East

1964 births
Living people
Moroccan people of Lebanese descent
Moroccan people of Arab descent
Moroccan royalty
Moroccan princes
Alumni of Rabat American School
Stanford University faculty
Princeton University alumni
Moroccan academics
Moroccan businesspeople
People from Rabat
Alumni of the University of Oxford
Grand Officers of the Order of Prince Henry
Controversies in Morocco
Lebanese people of Moroccan descent