[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Besor Stream

tified the site as Beth-Pelet () and published the excavation reports under the names Beth-Pelet I - II. It has been linked by William Foxwell Albright to the ancient settlement of Sharuhen, although Tell el-Ajjul near the estuary of Nahal Besor, and Tel Haror to the north, are also being suggested.

The tel is  in size and  high and was an important fortified site in the Middle Bronze Age. The earliest major settlement that has been uncovered to date is from the Middle Bronze Age II, lasting from ca. 1650 to 1550 BCE.

It was controlled by Egypt in the Late Bronze Age and inhabited by Philistines into the Iron Age. A hematite seal in the shape of the head of a bull was found and identified by Flinders Petrie to originate from Syria, it showed a bull attacking a lion beneath a scorpion.

Nahal Besor has been suggested to be the Brook of Egypt.

Various ostraca have been recovered from around the site with Aramaic inscriptions analysed and translated by Joseph Naveh.

Flooding
Besor Stream is subject to annual flooding following heavy rains. Some Palestinians have claimed that Israel is at fault for the flooding, due to the opening of one or more dams opened upstream, and in 2015, AFP posted a video showing flooding, entitled "Gaza village floods after Israel opens dam gates." Several days later, AFP published a story acknowledging that "no such dam exists in Israel that could control the flow of water into Gaza, according to a team of AFP reporters on the ground as well as interviews with Israeli and international experts."

See also
 Ein HaBesor
 Nahal Hevron
 Tell es-Sakan, an important Early Bronze Age site at the mouth of the river
 Tourism in Israel

References

Bibliography

External links

 Official website of the Tell el-Farah excavations, Nahal Besor. Claremont Graduate University.

Rivers of Israel
Geography of the Gaza Strip
Landforms of Southern District (Israel)
Rivers of the Gaza Strip
Hebrew Bible rivers
Negev
Hebrew Bible valleys