[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# King Naresuan (film)

rd of Pyay and of Mingyi Swa (the eldest son of Nandabayin).  Burmese rivals felt even more threatened by the strength and wits of Naresuan's army. During the battle, Naresuan's friend, Bunthing, now a highly skilled general under Naresuan, falls for the princess of Krang, who becomes his companion.

A plot is uncovered by Naresuan's childhood friends, two Mon rulers, that the Burmese are in fact planning the assassination of Naresuan.  Upon finding out, Naresuan executes the plotters and ceremoniously declares Ayutthaya free and sovereign from Hanthawadi. King Nanda and his Burmese are furious and begin a military campaign to capture and kill king Naresuan before his forces and liberated Siamese subjects can reach the Sittaung River. King Naresuan uses the strategy of a fighting retreat.  His forces built a wooden bridge across the river and engage the pursuing Burmese army as they follow.  Several battles took place during the crossing. However, as the Burmese forces catch up, the Siamese citizens and forces have already crossed to the other bank.

The Burmese, determined to defeat the Siamese, try to pursue Naresuan's forces by crossing the river. The king is then approached by his revered Buddhist teacher, Mon monk Khanchong.  Here, he is given a special musket, which is capable of firing across the river.  According to history, the movie portrays king Naresuan firing the musket across the Sittaung River, and with one strike, killing the general of the Burmese army. With the general dead, Burmese forces retreated back to Hanthawadi.  King Naresuan and his now independent Siamese forces head back to Ayutthaya and the king declares ; "It's not over yet, there is more work for us to do!"

Part III: Naval Battle
In 1584 at Kraeng, King Naresuan continues the war for independence of the Kingdom of Ayutthaya (Thai : อาณาจักรอยุธยา). The war began because King Nanda bayin king of the Burmese Kingdom (Thai : อาณาจักรพม่า) had secretly determined to fight a war by sending two armies to attack King Naresuan.  The first army is that of Lord Pathein which passes through the Three Pagodas Pass (Thai: ด่านเจดีย์สามองค์).  The second army is that of the King Noratra Mangsosri (Thai : นรธาเมงสอ) of Lanna (Chiang Mai) which attacks from the north of the Kingdom of Ayutthaya. The Lanna army halts and builds a camp at BanSraKet (Thai : บ้านสระเกศ). While two armies are preparing for continuing the war with Ayutthaya, the King of Lovek (Thai : ละแวก) sends Lord Jinjantu (Thai : จินจันตุ), a Chinese official, to spy in Ayutthaya, but a short time later, he heads back to Lovek because king Naresuan knows that he is a spy. After an intense river battle between Jinjantu's Chinese troops and the Siamese gunboats under Naresuan's personal command, he is able to escape.

When the King of Lovek learns about the skills and abilities of Naresuan, he decides to make an alliance with Ayutthaya by sending his reluctant brother, Prince Srisuphanrachathirat (Thai: พระศรีสุพรรณราชาธิราช) to help Ayutthaya fight against Hanthawadi (Thai : หงสาวดี). While Naresuan prepares for the war, he realizes that the soldiers in the army of Ayutthaya are outnumbered by the two armies of Burma, so he decides to fight with each army separately before the two armies come together. First he fights with army of Lord Pathein west of Ayutthaya and he wins this first battle.  Then he fights with the army north of Ayutthaya. After a hard-fought battle, King Naresun defeats the army of King Norata Mangsosri of Lanna. After King Nanda Bayin finish the war with Inn Wa (Thai : อังวะ), he back to war with Ayuthaya. Finally, King Naresuan can keep the independence of Ayuthaya.

Part IV: The Nanda Bayin War
Naresuan is injured trying to storm a Burmese camp. His advisors told him to avoid direct contact with enemy troops but he ignores and climb the ladder. He initially slays a few Burmese soldiers before the Burmese camp commander stabs him with a spear.

Nanda Bayin orders his son, Mingyi Swa to eliminate King Naresuan, saying that he doesn't care what losses the Burmese suffer. They must take down the king so that the Siamese forces would be easier to defeat.

The Burmese send their army to defeat Siam but were unsuccessful.

Part V: Elephant Battle