[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895)

nese pressed their claims to the island in the peace negotiations.  The Treaty of Shimonoseki was signed on 17 April 1895, and contained a clause requiring the cession of Taiwan and the Penghu Islands.  On 10 May, Admiral Kabayama Sukenori was appointed the first Japanese governor-general of Taiwan.

When the news of the treaty's contents reached Taiwan, a number of notables from central Taiwan led by Qiu Fengjia decided to resist the transfer of Taiwan to Japanese rule. On 23 May, these men proclaimed the establishment of a free and democratic Republic of Formosa in Taipei. Tang Jingsong, the Qing governor-general of Taiwan, was prevailed upon to become the republic's first President, and his old friend Liu Yongfu, the retired Black Flag Army commander who had become a national hero in China for his victories against the French in northern Vietnam a decade earlier, was invited to serve as Grand General of the Army. Qiu Fengjia was appointed Grand Commander of Militia, with the power to raise local militia units throughout the island to resist the Japanese.  On the Chinese mainland Zhang Zhidong, the powerful Viceroy of Liangjiang, tacitly supported the Formosan resistance movement, and the Republicans also appointed Chen Jitong, a disgraced Chinese diplomat who understood European ways of thinking, as the Republic's foreign minister.  His job would be to sell the Republic abroad.

There was little or no popular support in Taiwan for the proclamation of the Republic, and many Western observers considered its establishment as a cynical ploy by its authors to evade China's obligations under the Treaty of Shimonoseki.  Acting under the authority of the new Republic, Chinese troops would be able to resist the Japanese in Taiwan without technically breaching the terms of the treaty, and if they were successful Taiwan could return to Chinese rule at some future date.  (In this respect, it was significant that the nominally-independent Republic acknowledged the suzerainty of China.) There was therefore little sympathy in Europe for the Republic, despite its impeccably 'Parisian' manifesto.

Nor was there any support for the Formosan resistance movement in Beijing, as considerable diplomatic efforts were then underway to persuade Japan to relinquish the Liaodong Peninsula.  Under the terms of the Treaty of Shimonoseki, China had agreed to cede the peninsula to Japan, but once the treaty's contents became known there was alarm in Europe at Japan's rapacity.  In a diplomatic demarche known as the Triple Intervention, Russia, France and Germany put pressure on Japan in late April 1895 to restore the peninsula to China.  On 5 May the Japanese agreed to retrocede the Liaodong Peninsula to China in return for an increased indemnity, but it took until December 1895 to negotiate the necessary treaty amendments, and while the negotiations were in progress Japanese troops remained in place.  During this period the empress dowager and her officials had excellent reasons not to offend Japan, and the Qing court was horrified when it heard the news in mid-May that several officials in Taiwan intended to resist the Japanese occupation and that there was talk of setting up a Republic that recognised Qing suzerainty.  Shortly before the proclamation of the Republic of Formosa, the Qing court ordered Li Jingfang, the nephew and adopted son of China's elder statesman Li Hongzhang, to proceed to Taiwan and formally transfer sovereignty over the island from China to Japan.  It also cabled an imperial edict to Taipei on 20 May, directing Tang Jingsong to order all Qing civil officials and all officers and soldiers to leave Taiwan.  Tang himself was ordered to return to Beijing.

Spurned by European public opinion and disavowed by China, the Republic of Formosa enjoyed only one week of uninterrupted existence.  During this time it decked itself out with the conventional trappings of sovereignty.  The Republicans adopted a national flag with a yellow tiger on a blue background, ordered a large silver state seal to be made, and began to issue paper money and postage stamps in the name of the Republic.  The foreign minister Chen Jitong, who had lived in France for many years, was responsible for crafting much of this republican symbolism.

The course of the war

Phase One: Keelung, Taipei and Tamsui

Ruifang and Keelung