[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mel Alexenberg

phic Arts. This lithograph from a computer-generated image is a most valuable addition to our collection."

The "Rembrandt-inspired cyberangels ascending from the Land of Israel" serigraph was created by Mel Alexenberg and printed in 1987 at The Israel Museum affiliated graphics center in Jerusalem.

Desert Earth and the South Pole
International Desert Earth Archives (IDEA) This global earth-art project was created by Mel Alexenberg at MIT’s Center for Advanced Visual Studies. Earth from the 44 countries in the world that have deserts was collected through diplomatic channels. The earth samples themselves with maps and photographs of the collection sites and official government documents were displayed in a five panel art work exhibited in at The Jewish Museum in New York in 1988. It is in the collection of the Ashdod Art Museum in Israel.

Two Cosmic Pivots: Jerusalem at the South Pole
 This environmental artwork juxtaposes the pivot point at the South Pole around which our planet rotates with Jerusalem, a pivot point from which spiritual energies radiate from the three Abrahamic religions—Judaism, Christianity and Islam. Alexenberg collected earth from two sites in Jerusalem that span two millennia, from the Western Wall where the Temple stood to the college Mercaz Harav founded by Israel’s first chief rabbi Kook. This mixture from the past and future was placed at the South Pole for the 1986 exhibition “Imagining Antarctica” at Nordico Stadtmuseum Linz, Austria.

Parentheses of Asia

Mel Alexenberg marked the Parentheses of Asia from Israel to Japan. He collected sand from the beach in Tel Aviv, the west coast of Asia, flew with it to Chikura, a fishing village in Japan at the west coast of Asia. He scored a six-foot parenthesis in the black volcanic sand on the beach in Chikura at the western coast of Asia that he filled with the yellow sand of Tel Aviv. He returned to Tel Aviv with the sand of Chikura that filled the opposite parenthesis that he scored on the Tel Aviv beach. He documented the parentheses of Asia as a serigraph edition that he created and printed at The Israel Museum affiliated graphics center. The surrounding text is written in Hebrew, Japanese, and English. It is in the collection of the Israel Museum and the Baltimore Museum of Art  Maryland.

Four Corners of America
A series of eight artworks linking the four corners of United States was created by Alexenberg as the official artist of Miami’s Centennial in 1996 when he was dean at New World School of the Arts. Sponsored by National Endowment for the Arts and American Airlines with the participation of the President of United States, Alexenberg's artworks connected Miami, San Diego, Seattle, and Portland (Maine). Mayors of these four cities came together in Miami for the opening of his exhibition of multimedia artworks and models of four living sculptures to be photographed as one from outer space.

A digital artwork was an up-link satellite performance using ABC-TV technology in which dancers at the four corner cities dance with each other in real time, interacting in cyberspace on TV screens throughout North America. In a down-to-earth artwork, Mel Alexenberg collected earth from the four corners, mixed them, and placed them in Jerusalem where he took earth that he placed at the geographical center of USA in Lebanon, Kansas.

Cyberangels: Aesthetic Peace Plan for the Middle East
Alexenberg’s exhibition Cyberangels: Aesthetic Peace Plan for the Middle East in 2004 at the contemporary art gallery of the Jewish Museum in Prague proposed that peace in the Middle East can emerge from a fresh metaphor in which the Muslim world sees Israel’s existence as Allah’s will. This metaphor, derived from Islamic art and thought, invites a shift in perception in which peace between the Arab world and Israel is based upon anomalous patterns in Islamic art.

The ambassadors of the United States and Israel to the Czech Republic participated in the exhibition opening. Alexenberg’s aesthetic peace plan anticipated the 2020 “Abraham Accords” in which United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, and Morocco joined Israel in creating the beginning of a peaceful Middle East and North Africa. The colorful explanatory catalog of the exhibition was coupled by the artist’s statement in Leonardo: Journal of the International Society for the Arts, Sciences and Technology (vol. 30, no. 3).

AT&T Circumglobal Cyberangel Flight

An AT&T sponsored telecommunications art event on October 4, 1989 honoring Rembrandt on the 320th anniversary of his death. Alexenberg launched a digitized image of a Rembrandt inspired cyberangel on a circumglobal flight from New York to the Rembrandt House Museum in Amsterdam, Israel Museum in Jerusalem, University of the Arts in Tokyo, Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles and back New York. After a five-hour flight around the planet, the deconstructed angel was reconstructed at its starting point.