[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Education during the slave period in the United States

the U.S. “The NYMS established the African Free School in 1787 that, during its first two decades of existence, enrolled between 100 and 200 students annually, registering a total of eight hundred pupils by 1822.” The PAS also instituted a few schools for free blacks and ran them with freed slaves.

They were taught reading, writing, grammar, math, and geography. The schools would have an annual examination day to show the public, parents, and donors the knowledge the students had gained. It mainly was to show the white population that African Americans could function in society. There are some surviving records of what they learned in the free schools. Some of the work showed that they were preparing the students for a middle-class standing in society. Founded in 1787, the African Free School provided education for blacks in New York City for more than six decades.

In 1863, an image of two emancipated slave children, Isaac and Rosa, who were studying at the Free School of Louisiana, was widely circulated in abolitionist campaigns.

In examining the educational practices of the period, it is difficult to ascertain absolute figures or numbers. W. E. B. Du Bois and other contemporaries estimated that by 1865 as many as 9% of slaves attained at least a marginal degree of literacy. Genovese comments: "this is entirely plausible and may even be too low". Especially in cities and sizable towns, many free blacks and literate slaves had greater opportunities to teach others, and both white and black activists operated illegal schools in cities such as Baton Rouge, New Orleans, Charleston, Richmond, and Atlanta.

Notable educators 
 John Berry Meachum, a black pastor, who created a Floating Freedom School in 1847 on the Mississippi River to circumvent anti-literacy laws. James Milton Turner attended his school.
 Margaret Crittendon Douglass, a white woman who published a memoir after she was imprisoned in Virginia in 1853 for teaching free black children to read.
 Catherine and Jane Deveaux, a black mother and daughter who, with the Catholic nun Mathilda Beasley, ran underground schools in Savannah, Georgia in the early- to mid-1800s.
Mother Mary Lange, who with her Oblate Sisters of Providence founded St. Frances Academy in 1828.
Mother Henriette DeLille, who with her Sisters of the Holy Family founded schools in New Orleans in the mid- to late-1800s, including St. Mary's Academy.

References

Albanese, Anthony. (1976.) The Plantation School. New York: Vantage Books.
William L. Andrews, ed. (1996). The Oxford Frederick Douglass News. New York: Oxford University Press.
Bly, Antonio T. "Pretends he can read": Runaways and Literacy in Colonial America, 1730–1776." Early American Studies 6, no. 2 (Fall 2008): 261-294. America: History & Life, EBSCOhost (accessed October 27, 2014).
Genovese, Eugene. (1976). Roll, Jordan, Roll. New York: Vintage Books.
Monaghan, E. J. (2005). Learning to Read and Write in Colonial America. Boston: University of Massachusetts Press.

Webber, Thomas. (1978). Deep Like Rivers: Education in the Slave Quarter Community 1831–1865. New York: W.W. Norton & Company, Inc.
Woodson, C.G. (1915). The Education of the Negro Prior to 1861: A History of the Education of the Colored People of the United States from the Beginning of Slavery to the Civil War. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

External links
Harvard Educational Review, SELF-TAUGHT African American Education in Slavery and Freedom  by HEATHER ANDREA WILLIAMS  CHAPEL HILL: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS, 2005
Kimberly Sambol Toscol, The Slave Experience: Education, Arts, & Culture, PBS.com 
http://www.aaihs.org/rethinking-early-slave-literacy/

Slavery in the United States
Slave Period
Slavery
Underground education