[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rocco DeLuca

ber of albums for rock band U2, including The Joshua Tree, Achtung Baby, and All That You Can't Leave Behind, as well as other artists like Brian Eno, Peter Gabriel, and Bob Dylan. Lanois has many times made guest appearances with him on stage.

Solo career

2010-13: Solo touring and Drugs 'N Hymns 

He participated as a guest artist on the 13 cut of the album Slash, interpreting the theme Saint Is A Sinner Too.
DeLuca began touring as a solo artist, continuing to hone a raw, confessional, bluesy sound. No longer with the band, he parted ways with Ironworks and signed with 429 Records in December 2011. On March 6, 2012, 429 Records released DeLuca's third full-length and first solo album, Drugs 'N Hymns. The album was a decidedly different sound from his first two albums, featuring sparse production and a brooding, ethereal tone.

2014-present: Rocco DeLuca 
On August 19, 2014, DeLuca released his self-titled fourth album, his second for 429 Records. Once again produced by Daniel Lanois, the album found DeLuca returning to the more stripped-down sound of Drugs 'N Hymns and building upon it. To craft the album, DeLuca invited a number of local California musicians to his home to record sessions in his bedroom. He toured the United States until November of that year. Goodbye To Language was released on September 9, 2016. DeLuca joined forces with Lanois once again to create Goodbye To Language. Constructed entirely from the sounds of steel guitars, DeLuca and Lanois contribute a compositional rigor that recalls the 20th century dreamscapes of Ravel and Debussy, with a sense of sonic futurism and yet also with the naturalness that can only come from artists rooted in centuries of grassroots music. Uncut Magazine featured Goodbye To Language as one of the best albums of 2016. Robert Plant selected Satie as one of his favorite pieces from Goodbye To Language for his Golden Gods compilation.

Other works and appearances
After Mercy, DeLuca appeared on Slash's self-titled solo album singing on "Saint is a Sinner Too".

DeLuca also collaborated with Daniel Lanois and a myriad of others at Lakeshore Records to produce the soundtrack release of Red Dead Redemption 2, in which DeLuca was credited for "Crash of Worlds". He also wrote "That's the Way it is" and co-wrote "Unshaken". While the full album was released on July 12, 2019, DeLuca's song "Crash of Worlds" and one of Lanois' songs, "Table Top", were released early to promote the upcoming release.

Popular culture
The song "Feather and Knife" was featured in the sixth episode of the 2018 Australian TV series Mystery Road. The song "Swing Low" was featured in episode 9 of season 4 of Rescue Me. The song "When You Learn To Sing" was featured in episode 4 of season 1 of Parenthood. The song "Congregate" was featured in episode 3 of season 10 of Criminal Minds. The song "Gravitate" was featured in the 2007 K-Swiss commercial campaign starring Anna Kournikova. The song "Save Yourself" was featured in the 2010 Harley-Davidson commercial campaign.

Discography

Albums
I Trust You to Kill Me (2006)
Mercy (2009)
 Field Recordings (2010) (sold exclusively at live performances)
 Drugs 'N Hymns (2012)
 Rocco DeLuca (2014)
 Goodbye to Language (2016) (with Daniel Lanois)
Live off the Floor (2018)
Heavy Sun (2021) (with Daniel Lanois, Johnny Shepherd & Jim Wilson)

Singles
 "Colorful"
 "Save Yourself"
 "Open Pages"
 "Saint is a Sinner Too" - Slash ft. Rocco DeLuca
 "Liberation"

DVD
I Trust You to Kill Me (2006)

Chart information

References

External links
Rocco DeLuca official website

1975 births
Living people
American alternative rock musicians
Ironworks (record label) artists
Guitarists from California
Resonator guitarists
21st-century American guitarists