[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iron Helix

Instead the player is brought to an interrogation room. The game ends with the player being locked in a chair while being tortured and interrogated by a Commanding Officer of Earth Force (the same that has been advising the player the entire time) about the player's knowledge of project Iron Helix.

Development
The inspiration for creating the game came from the atmosphere of the SS Jeremiah O'Brien ship. Developer Drew Huffman had many issues to consider in the game's creation, especially fitting the game on to portable storage devices and decided the game would be a CD-Rom game. A utility used to develop the game was Macromind Director. Another issue was the long loading times between animation. QuickTime was insufficient for the game, so Drew made use of the PACo engine from the Company of Science and Art. The game was made by 15 people and it took 13 months to develop it.

Reception

Computer Gaming World in November 1993 praised the Macintosh version of Iron Helixs "incredibly fast" speed given the use of CD-ROM. The magazine stated that the game had "first-rate, realistic" graphics and sound, and that the five difficulty levels provided "excellent replay value", and concluded that Iron Helix offered "an intensely satisfying experience". In April 1994 the magazine said, however, that when the game's "several hours of intense, strategic duck n' jive against an aggressive and efficient opponent ... there is very little replay value". A 1994 survey of strategic space games set in the year 2000 and later gave the game three-plus stars out of five, also praising the graphics and wishing for more replay value. GamePro in 1995 gave the Sega CD version a positive review, saying it successfully translated the PC game to a home console experience. They highly praised Iron Helix'''s realistic graphics, slow-paced and suspenseful gameplay, and eerie atmosphere, remarking that "You really feel like you're in a lifeless, mechanical starship." Derek Pearcy from Pyramid commented: "There is no doubt that Iron Helix, with its relatively quick action, vivid realism and dynamic controls, is an interesting game -- the question is whether or not you will find yourself enveloped in an interesting story, as you race to uncover its mysteries."Iron Helix was named Best Strategy Game at the 1994 Codie awards.

The game sold 500,000 copies by 1997.

Legacy
Much of the development team of Iron Helix went on to work on Bad Mojo, which includes a (digitally reproduced) print advertisement for Iron Helix'' as an Easter egg.

References

External links

 

1993 video games
Windows games
Classic Mac OS games
Sega CD games
First-person adventure games
Fictional weapons
Spectrum HoloByte games
Video games developed in the United States