[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Ukraine–European Union relations

Netherlands ratified the agreement, which needed to be approved by its parliament. In late January 2017, the Dutch government introduced a bill to confirm approval of the agreement. The Dutch House of Representatives approved the bill on 23 February 2017. The Senate approved the bill on 30 May 2017.

During the 23rd Ukraine-European Union Summit, on 12 October 2021, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Denys Shmyhal, the Vice President of the European Commission, the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell and the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Slovenia to Ukraine Tomaž Mentsin signed an agreement between Ukraine and the European Union and its member states on the Common Aviation Area.

On 27 April 2022, the EU Commission proposed to temporarily drop all its tariffs on imports from Ukraine to help Ukrainian industry weather Russian aggression.

On 29 May 2022, in order to support Ukraine's path to the European future, in particular to obtain the status of a candidate for membership in the European Union on 25–26 June 2022, the Government of Ukraine launched a communication campaign «Embrace Ukraine. Strengthen the Union».

Legal instruments

Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (1994) 
The political dialogue between the EU and Ukraine started in 1994 when the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA) was signed. That document was focused on economic and social issues as well as on the necessity of improving public government and guaranteeing free press and civil rights. The framework set for political discussions was modest: yearly meeting between EU Troika and Ukrainian leadership and some inter ministerial consultations. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement of 1994 entered into force in 1998 and expired in 2008. None of the top level meetings brought any major changes to a reserved EU approach. Leaders focused chiefly on economic transition and human rights records as well as on issues connected to the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and its containment.

European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) 

sources: Wayback Machine, European Commission - Press release - European Neighbourhood Policy: A year of progress, ENP official page EEAS - European External Action Service

A Joint EU–Ukraine Action Plan was endorsed by the European Council on 21 February 2005. It was based on the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement of 1994 and provided, according to the European Commission, a comprehensive and ambitious framework for joint work with Ukraine in all key areas of reform.

Eastern Partnership (EaP) 

The Eastern Partnership is a forum aiming to improve the political and economic trade-relations of the six Post-Soviet states of "strategic importance" – Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia with the European Union. The EU draft of the EaP states that: "Shared values including democracy, the rule of law, and respect for human rights will be at its core, as well as the principles of market economy, sustainable development and good governance." The Partnership is to provide the foundation for new Association Agreements between the EU and those partners who have made sufficient progress towards the principles and values mentioned.

Ukraine is one of six post-Soviet nations to be invited to cooperate with the EU within the new multilateral framework that the Eastern partnership is expected to establish. However, Kyiv pointed out that it remains pessimistic about the "added value" of this initiative. Indeed, Ukraine and the EU have already started the negotiations on new, enhanced political and free-trade agreements (Association and Free-Trade Agreements). Also, there has been some progress in liberalising the visa regime despite persistent problems in the EU Member States' visa approach towards Ukrainians.

That is why Ukraine has a specific view of the Eastern Partnership Project. According to the Ukrainian presidency, it should correspond, in case of his country, to the strategic foreign policy objective, i.e. the integration with the EU. Yet, the Eastern Partnership documents (the European Council Declaration of May 2009) do not confirm such priorities as political and economic integration or lifting visas.

Ukraine has expressed enthusiasm about the project. Ukraine deputy premier Hryhorii Nemyria said that the project is the way to modernise the country and that they welcome the Eastern Partnership policy, because it uses 'de facto' the same instruments as for EU candidates.

Under the Eastern Partnership, Poland and Ukraine have reached a new agreement replacing visas with simplified permits for Ukrainians residing within 30 km of the border. Up to 1.5 million people may benefit from this agreement which took effect on 1 July 2009.

Negotiations of an Association Agreement (AA)