[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frances Clayton

a female Civil War soldier. However, the only knowledge of Clayton’s story beyond these photos is her own words as told through a few periodical articles from 1863, primarily the short-lived Philadelphia political pamphlet, "Fincher's Trades' Review." Those stories are fraught with inconsistencies.

Of the units in which she was purported to have served, one did not exist (4th Missouri Heavy Artillery), and the other did not come into existence until after her supposed military service concluded (13th Missouri Cavalry). Neither, of course, was engaged at Stones River, and certainly no cavalry unit participated in a bayonet charge as the story claims.
None of the military units in which Clayton claimed to have served contain any record of a Jack Williams, or her husband, or any possible derivation of their names. There are no records in any Missouri or Minnesota unit that match. No Frank (or Elmer, or John) Clayton (or Clalin, or Claylin) was killed at Stones River. The files of the War Department at the National Archives contain no discharge or hospital records. It is possible that Frances Clayton simply fabricated her story and posed in a photographer's prop uniform (to include a non-standard infantry jacket and officer's sword) in an effort profit from the war via donations and a fraudulent pension application.

Clayton and her story served as an inspiration to Beth Gilleland, who produced a 1996 play Civil Ceremony.

Gallery

See also

List of female American Civil War soldiers
List of wartime cross-dressers
Deborah Sampson, impersonated a man to fight during the American War of Independence

References

Further reading
Blanton, DeAnne, and Lauren M. Cook. They Fought Like Demons: Women Soldiers in the American Civil War. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 2002.  
Currie, Stephen. Women of the Civil War. San Diego: Lucent Books, 2003.  
Eggleston, Larry G. Women in the Civil War: Extraordinary Stories of Soldiers, Spies, Nurses, Doctors, Crusaders, and Others. Jefferson, N.C.: McFarland, 2003.  
Flanagan, Alice K. Great Women of the Union. Minneapolis: Compass Point Books, 2007.   
Frank, Lisa Tendrich. Women in the American Civil War. Santa Barbara, Calif: ABC-CLIO, 2008.  
Funkhouser, Darlene. Women of the Civil War: [Soldiers, Spies, and Nurses]. Wever, IA: Quixote Press, 2004.  
Hall, Richard. Women on the Civil War Battlefront. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas, 2006.  

Leckie, Robert. None Died in Vain: The Saga of the American Civil War. New York: HarperPerennial, 1991. 
Leonard, Elizabeth D. All the Daring of the Soldier: Women of the Civil War Armies. New York: W.W. Norton & Co, 1999.  
Massey, Mary Elizabeth. Women in the Civil War. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1994.   
Middleton, Lee. Hearts of Fire--: Soldier Women of the Civil War : with an Addendum on Female Reenactors. Franklin, NC: Genealogy Pub. Service, 1993.  
Silvey, Anita. I'll Pass for Your Comrade: Women Soldiers in the Civil War. New York: Clarion Books, 2008.  
Smithsonian Institution, and DK Publishing, Inc. The Civil War: A Visual History. New York: DK Pub, 2011.  
Tsui, Bonnie. She Went to the Field: Women Soldiers of the Civil War. Guilford, Conn: TwoDot, 2006.

External links

 Frances Clayton, Female Soldier In The Civil War
Outlaw Women - Women Soldiers of the Civil War includes photos of Clalin in disguise 
Disguised as a man Frances Clalin served many months in Missouri artillery and cavalry units , slide in a slideshow "Revolutionary War" part of Issues in Violence and Aggression for Health Professionals course at University of Washington
Women in The Civil War, Charity Post
Female Soldiers in the Civil War. 
Women Soldiers of the Civil War. 
Covert Force.

1830s births
Year of birth missing
Year of death missing
Union Army soldiers
People of Minnesota in the American Civil War
Female wartime cross-dressers in the American Civil War