[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1929 24 Hours of Le Mans

Stoffel was under his car for nearly two hours doing extended repairs. That restored the Bentleys to the top four positions. The Lea-Francis had moved up the order through the night to eighth and was running well when one of the shock-absorbers broke. Despite a rough ride they made it to the finish.

Finish and post-race
From there it was a routine run to the finish. With over  spreading the small field, the only real point of excitement was the Chrysler trying hard to reel in the Stutz to take fifth place. In the last hour, W. O. Bentley put the word out to his team to line up for a formation finish. Quite a novelty at the time, the “Motor” magazine described it as “superb, disposed in line ahead like a squadron of battleships.”

Bouriat/Rothschild bought the Stutz home in fifth, barely a lap ahead of the hard-charging Benoist in his Chrysler, with his teammate three laps further back. Ken Peacock's privateer Lea-Francis was the first smaller-engined car, in eighth, with two of the Tractas rounding out the ten finishers. Team-owner Grégoire almost had a race-ending spin at Arnage near the end of the race, but they were the only French cars to finish this year.

It was the most dominant display by a manufacturer in the short history of the race to date, and not matched until 1957 by Jaguar. The leading two Bentleys had not missed a beat. In the mighty Speed Six, Tim Birkin had stamped an impressive new lap record, fully 46 seconds faster, helped by the slightly abbreviated track layout. They also broke the race distance record, covering over . The Speed Six's performance was so strong that they also won all three major awards, becoming the biggest car to win the Index.

In finishing fourth, Frank Clement has the distinction of being the only driver to have participated in all seven of the Le Mans through the 1920s, all for Bentley and including the distance victory in 1924. Feeling very pleased with his consecutive victories, Barnato loaned Bentley another £25000.

In August, the innovative supercharging pioneer René Cozette was killed making a speed-record attempt when he crashed at 200 kp/h at Montlhéry.In November, Kidston was badly burned when he was the sole survivor in an air-crash in England of a Luft Hansa passenger flight.

Official results

Finishers
Results taken from Quentin Spurring's book, officially licensed by the ACO Although there were no official engine classes, the highest finishers in unofficial categories aligned with the Index targets are in Bold text.

Did not finish
 
Note *: [B]= car also entered in the 1928-9 Biennial Cup.
Note **: There were no official class divisions for this race. These are unofficial categories (used in subsequent years) related to the Index targets.

Did not start

1928-29 Coupe Biennale Rudge-Whitworth

1929 index of performance (Prix Saint-Didier)

Note: Only the top ten positions are included in this set of standings.

Highest finisher in class

Note *: setting a new class distance record.
 There were no official class divisions for this race and these are the highest finishers in unofficial categories (used in subsequent years) related to the Index targets.

Statistics
 Fastest Lap – H. Birkin, #1 Bentley Speed Six – 7:21secs; 
 Winning Distance – 
 Winner's Average Speed – 

Citations

References
 Clarke, R.M. - editor (1998)    Le Mans 'The Bentley & Alfa Years 1923-1939'    Cobham, Surrey: Brooklands Books  
 Clausager, Anders (1982)    Le Mans    London: Arthur Barker Ltd  
 Fox, Charles (1973)    The Great Racing Cars & Drivers    London: Octopus Books Ltd   
 Laban, Brian (2001)    Le Mans 24 Hours    London: Virgin Books   
 Spurring, Quentin (2015)    Le Mans 1923-29    Yeovil, Somerset: Haynes Publishing

External links
 Racing Sports Cars – Le Mans 24 Hours 1929 entries, results, technical detail. Retrieved 13 Nov 2018
  Le Mans History – entries, results incl. photos, hourly positions. Retrieved 13 Nov 2018
 World Sports Racing Prototypes – results, reserve entries & chassis numbers. Retrieved 13 Nov 2018
  24h en Piste – results, chassis numbers & hour-by-hour places (in French). Retrieved 13 Nov 2018
  Radio Le mans – Race article and review by Charles Dressing. Retrieved 13 Nov 2018
 Unique Cars & Parts – results & reserve entries. Retrieved 13 Nov 2018
  Formula 2 – Le Mans results & reserve entries. Retrieved 13 Nov 2018
  Motorsport Memorial – motor-racing deaths by year. Retrieved 13 Nov 2018

24 Hours of Le Mans races
Le Mans
1929 in French motorsport