[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Scouting in the United States

f Girl Guides and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS). A 1994 Chronicle of Philanthropy poll showed that the Girl Scouts was ranked by the public as the eighth "most popular charity/non-profit in America" of over 100 charities. It describes itself as "the world's preeminent organization dedicated solely to girls".

Scouting today
The main national Scouting organizations in the U.S. are the Boy Scouts of America and the Girl Scouts of the USA. The BSA is a member of the World Organization of the Scout Movement while the GSUSA is a member of the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, the two main international Scouting associations. "Scouting" in the United States is the exclusive trademark of the Boy Scouts of America. On February 18, 2020, the Boy Scouts of America filed for a Chapter 11 financial restructuring due to sex abuse lawsuits.

There are a number of other youth programs in the U.S. that are not recognized by any international Scouting associations, but use many methods of Scouting. Some of these programs are explicitly religious, while others are breakaway organizations which disagree with the policies of the BSA and GSUSA.

The International Scout and Guide Fellowship is an alumni association open to former members of the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, the World Organization of the Scout Movement and to adults who believe in the Scouting ideals; the ISGF has a number of members in the U.S.

Navigators USA is an American non-aligned Scouting organization. It has over 90 affiliated chapters in the United States and the United Kingdom.

The Baden-Powell Scouts' Association, a UK Scouting organization and part of the World Federation of Independent Scouts, have had a small presence in the U.S. since 1998.

In 2006, the Baden Powell Scouts were formed, operating groups in Florida, Missouri and Connecticut, with lone Scouts supported by them in 12 states. They are members of WFIS and claim to be affiliated to the "Baden-Powell Scouts' Association of England".

The Canada-based Federation of North-American Explorers (FNE) — a candidate association of the International Union of Guides and Scouts of Europe — has 19 active groups in the US, the oldest of which is the North Star Group located in the Philadelphia area.

The Israeli Scouts Movement operates 18 units in the U.S. and one in Canada to reach out to Israeli youth and operates a special programme for reimigration to Israel.

Scouts-in-Exile
The Związek Harcerstwa Polskiego (Polish Scouting Association) also has some presence in the U.S. Külföldi Magyar Cserkészszövetség (Hungarian Scout Association in Exteris) has also some presence in the U.S.
There are also some other Scouts-in-Exile groups in the U.S.: Organization of Russian Young Pathfinders, Latvian, Lithuanian Estonian and Ukrainian groups. Some of them are also members of the Boy Scouts of America.

Scout-like organizations
 Royal Ambassadors is an elementary school aged program run by the Southern Baptist Convention's Women's Missionary Union.
 Challengers is a teen aged program of the Southern Baptist Convention.
 The Royal Rangers was founded in 1962 as a program of the Assemblies of God.
 Pathfinders are a community service oriented uniformed youth organization of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.
 Calvinist Cadet Corps was officially founded in 1952 in Reformed Christian churches.
 Its sister organization, GEMS Girls' Clubs (formerly, "Calvinettes") was formed in 1957.
 Awana is an international evangelical youth organization founded in 1950.
 Some small elements of Seton's Woodcraft program survive as the Woodcraft Rangers.

After much success, the YMCA Indian Guides program declined until it was dissolved in 2001 and reformed as the YMCA Adventure Guides, no longer using American Indian themes. The Indian Guides program was reformed outside the YMCA as the Native Sons and Daughters in 2002.

The Camp Fire Girls are now a co-ed organization known as Camp Fire with about 300,000 youth members.

Another Scout-like organization is the Club de Exploradores with groups in the United States, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay.

Breakaway organizations