[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Critical reaction to 24

ch this show, they are huge fans." He specifically identified former Vice President Dick Cheney, former Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and Republican political strategist Mary Matalin as enthusiastic fans. The event audience also included Justice Thomas and radio talk show host Laura Ingraham.

The show is popular among conservatives. Time magazine ran an article on January 14, 2007, analyzing the show's political tilt. The article argued that while the show's use of the "ticking time bomb scenario" favored conservative interpretations, the thriller is itself a conservative genre and that such scenarios "make for exciting TV". Furthermore, journalist James Poniewozik pointed out the show's use of plotlines—such as an invasion of a Middle East country based on fabricated evidence of WMD stockpiles and a "chilling" depiction of Muslims rounded up into detention centers—favored a more liberal view. Joel Surnow is also quoted as noting that the show has fans across the political spectrum, from Limbaugh to Barbra Streisand. TIME concludes that, "24's ideology—Jack Bauerism, if you will—is not so much in between left and right as it is outside them, impatient with both A.C.L.U. niceties and Bushian moral absolutes."

However, in February 2007, The New Yorker claimed that the series was heavily tilted towards conservatives. Throughout the article, "Whatever It Takes: The Politics Behind the Man of 24," Jane Mayer cites Surnow's support for the Republican Party and in particular his admiration of Ronald Reagan, whom Surnow states was "the father this country needed" and "made me feel good that I was in his family". Mayer also characterizes Rick Santorum, to whose campaign Surnow donated money, as "hard line" and Surnow's friend Cyrus Nowrasteh as a "hard-core conservative". Early in the article Mayer states that Surnow is a critic of the 2003 Iraq War, an "isolationist" and as someone who has "no faith in nation building".

 Sexism 
The show has been criticized for its misogyny and sexist portrayals of gender stereotypes. Female characters are generally portrayed as physically and emotionally weak, and often rehash archetypes such as "the innocent damsel in distress, the evil seductress and the mad woman"; at the same time the show also exaggerates male stereotypical behavior, which has been described as hypermasculine (almost always valuing direct action instead of reflection). The show has been described, therefore, as targeting primary male audience. Many fans have also criticized the female characters, with one researchers citing a fan comment about "the weakest, stupidest (…) female character in the history of television" about Kim Bauer, which has been "panned by the critics and the public", and also described as "television’s dumbest character".

Audience interaction
The show was declared the sixth highest-rated show for the first ten years of IMDb.com Pro (2002–2012).

Fan phone
First appearing in the fifth episode of the fourth season, a valid California phone number (310-597-3781) has been shown on screen at various points during the show. The number, since dubbed the 24'' "fan phone", leads to an actual telephone on the set, and received upwards of 50,000 callers in the first week after it was shown.

In the original scene containing the phone number, a character receives a call from her mother. In order to have the cellphone's caller ID show "Mom", producers chose to use a real phone (belonging to a member of the props department), rather than build a fake display. Although the number only appeared on screen for a moment, calls started flooding in within minutes of the first airing. The phone's owner canceled the account, but director Jon Cassar decided to reactivate the line. Since then, the number has appeared multiple times, as the phone number of various characters, through the fourth, fifth and sixth seasons.

Generally, especially of late, viewers calling the number are directed to a generic Nextel voicemail box; however, the phone is often picked up by whoever is free on set, and viewers have spoken to a wide variety of cast and crew members, including director Jon Cassar, production designer Joseph Hodges, Kim Raver (Audrey) and Carlos Bernard (Tony).

References

24