[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Bünyan

Bünyan is a municipality and district of Kayseri Province, Turkey. Its area is 1,210 km2, and its population is 29,704 (2022).

History 
Evidence that the history of Bunyan is very old can be understood from the existing caves and ruins in the villages near the district. It is understood that it dates back to the Hittites from 4000-1200 BC. It was Turkified during the Anatolian Seljuk State, which experienced Iranian, Assyrian and Roman cultures. The region was annexed to the lands of the Ottoman Empire by Yavuz Sultan Selim in 1515.

The district, which used to be called Sarımsaklı, was removed from the Pınarbaşı (Aziziye) district of Sivas Province in 1895 and became a district by gaining the name of Bünyan-ı Hamid. This name means "The Structure of Hamid". As a result of the declaration of the Constitutional Monarchy in 1908, the Ottoman Sultan II. With the abdication of Abdülhamid, the name Hamid was abolished and his name continued as Bünyan. In 1912, it was separated from Sivas province and connected to Kayseri Province.

The historical artifacts in the region are from the times of the Hittites and Seljuks. Some of these works are the Daniş Ali Bey Mosque in Büyük Bürüngüz village, Bünyan Ulu Mosque in Cami-i Kebir neighborhood, Kayabaşı Caves, Abdurrahman Gazi Tomb and caves in Samağır village, Şammaspir Church in Doğanlar neighborhood, Seyit Halil Tomb in Karakaya town, Priest Fountain in Yenice neighborhood, Sultanhanı village. Khan and Karatay Inn in Karadayı village.

Composition
There are 46 neighbourhoods in Bünyan District:

 Ağcalı
 Akçatı
 Akmescit
 Asmakaya
 Bayramlı
 Burhaniye
 Büyüktuzhisar
 Camiicedit
 Camiikebir
 Cumhuriyet
 Dağardı
 Dervişağa
 Doğanlar
 Ekinciler
 Elbaşı
 Emirören
 Fatih
 Gergeme
 Girveli
 Güllüce
 Hezarşah
 İbrahimbey
 İğdecik
 Kahveci
 Karacaören
 Karahıdırlı
 Karakaya
 Karatay
 Kardeşler
 Köprübaşı
 Kösehacılı
 Koyunabdal
 Musaşeyh
 Pirahmet
 Sağlık
 Samağır
 Sıvgın
 Sultanhanı
 Sümer
 Topsöğüt
 Yağmurbey
 Yakutiye
 Yavuzselim
 Yeni Süksün
 Yenice
 Yünören

References

 Bünyan District Governorship 
 Bünyan 
 Kayserim 

Districts of Kayseri Province
Metropolitan district municipalities in Turkey
Populated places in Kayseri Province