[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Howard, 20th Earl of Suffolk

the same mistake. An official report underlined the strain of his work: "On many occasions Lord Suffolk cleared everyone away from the danger area and proceeded to operate alone. Deliberately he exposed himself daily to danger." Jack was a fatalist saying that "If my name is on a bomb, that's it." 

The 35th blew up on Erith Marshes in Kent on 12 May 1941, killing all three. The bomb, a  weapon, was at one of the so-called 'bomb cemeteries', on open ground on the marshes. Bombs were transferred here after being temporarily made safe for transport and then destroyed using controlled explosions.

The bomb had been dropped some six months earlier, the previous autumn and after removal and transfer to the marshes had been at Erith for so long it had been known to the Sappers as 'Old Faithful'. It contained two fuzes, a Type (17) and a Type (50); these two types were in short supply to the Bomb Disposal Sections, intact fuzes being required for instructional purposes and it was to recover the fuzes that the Earl was dealing with the bomb. The Type (17) was a delayed-action fuze containing a clockwork mechanism, while the Type (50) was an anti-handling device containing a motion sensor. Both fuzes had been temporarily made safe so that the bomb could be transferred from the impact site to an open area; the fuzes remained inside the bomb.

The Germans had added a Zus 40 booby trap to some bombs, that detonated when the Type (17) was withdrawn. The Zus 40 was below the other fuze and so was not visible until the obvious fuze was partially withdrawn from its pocket. At lunchtime of 12 May, the Earl had telephoned his office to say that the Type (17) was ticking and that he had sent for an Mk II KIM clock-stopper. By 14:45 this was in place along with a stethoscope and preparations were being made to sterilise the bomb with steam. As two sappers were going to fetch water for the steamer, the bomb exploded. The explosion killed 14 people: the Earl, Hards, Morden (who died in the ambulance) and eleven other people who had been nearby, including five sappers who had been working with the Earl on the bomb. It was later surmised that a Zus 40 may have been triggered as the Earl was removing it.

Personal life
In 1934, he married Chicago-born actress and ballet dancer Minnie Mabel "Mimi" Forde Pigott (21 December 1897 – 22 February 1966); they had three children:
 Michael Howard, 21st Earl of Suffolk (27 March 1935 – 9 August 2022)
 Hon. Maurice David Henry Howard (3 November 1936 – 22 November 2018), married Vicky Summers in 1978.
 Hon. Patrick Greville Howard (born 18 August 1940); married Mary Johnson in 1966.

Accolades, honours and memorials
On 18 July 1941, the London Gazette announced that the King had awarded the Earl of Suffolk a posthumous George Cross "for conspicuous bravery in connection with bomb disposal."

Sir Winston Churchill, in the second volume, "Their Finest Hour", of his book The Second World War reminisced:

A stained glass window designed by Gerald Smith of St. John's Wood was dedicated by Frederick Cockin, the Bishop of Bristol, at a special service on 15 September 1947, at the church of St. John the Baptist, Charlton, in north-west Wiltshire. (Charlton Park and its estate belonged to the Suffolk family.) The stained glass in the central panel above the four main lights shows the Earl's George Cross. The two main figures are the saints George and John of Nepomuk. St. George is trampling on the defeated dragon, a symbol of evil. St. John Nepomuk, a fourteenth-century priest from Bohemia is the Patron saint of Silence. His inclusion in the window is possibly a reference to the great concentration needed in all scientific activity, particularly in bomb disposal, and also (as with St George), to having suffered martyrdom for his beliefs. At the bottom of the panel is the Suffolk family coat of arms. In the right-hand light is a picture of SS Broompark, the vessel in which the Earl made his remarkable escape from Bordeaux in France. The picture shows the moment a German plane appeared above the ship, but flew off without attacking. St Catherine, above, is the Patron saint of Science and also a martyr. Below is St. Francis of Assisi, Patron saint of Birds and Animals – the Earl loved animals and hated hunting and shooting. At the bottom of the two central lights, two scenes are depicted in fascinating detail. One shows work taking place in a laboratory, the other the dangerous business of bomb disposal. Above the bomb disposal squad is the inscription in memory of the Earl and those who died with him. Finally, above the scene in the laboratory is displayed a poem by John Masefield, Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom, written by him upon hearing the news of Jack Howard's death:

In 1973, the BBC based a television drama series on the life of the Earl. Ronald Pickup played the leading role in The Dragon's Opponent. The Earl has a role in Michael Ondaatje's novel, The English Patient.

References