[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# 2007 New Year Honours

harles Marney, Supervisor, Newbury Ambulance Station. For services to the NHS.
Robert Norwood Marris. For services to the RAF Association in Hertfordshire.
Harry Marsh, Board Member, Children and Families Court Advisory and Support Service and Vice-Chair, National Children's Bureau. For services to Children and Families.
Alexander Marshall. For services to Bowls.
Dr. Elizabeth Carole Martin, lately Director of Public Health and Medical Director, Kingston Primary Care Trust. For services to Medicine.
Peter Duncan Arthur Marwood, Chair, Nottingham and Nottinghamshire Leukaemia Research Fund. For charitable services.
Mary, Mrs. Mathie. For services to Foster Care in Scotland.
Arthur Mathieson, Customer Services Manager, Standard Life. For services to the community in Leith, Edinburgh.
Commander Barry John Mattey, Royal Navy. For services to the Sea Cadet Corps.
Peter Charles Maudlin. For services to the community in Upper Caldecote, Bedfordshire.
David Maughan. For services to Farming in County Durham.
Councillor Walter McAdam, D.L., Councillor, Clackmannanshire Council. For services to Local Government.
Wesley John McCabe. For services to the Communication Industry.
Joan Heather, Mrs. McClelland, University Governor and lately Principal, Castlewellan Primary School. For services to Education in Northern Ireland.
Anthony Maurice McDermott, Leader, Halton Borough Council. For services to Local Government in Cheshire.
John Patrick McDowall, Commander, Counter-Terrorism Command, Specialist Operations, Metropolitan Police Service. For services to the Police.
Maureen, Mrs. McEvoy. For services to the Adoption of Children in Scotland.
Miss Margaret Mary Bridget McEwen. For services to Children Overseas.
Alison, Mrs. McFaul, RSPB Information Warden, Rathlin Island, County Antrim. For services to the Environment in Northern Ireland.
George McGrattan, Principal Teacher of Computing, Garnock Academy, North Ayrshire. For services to Education.
Kevin McKillop, Accommodation Officer, Driver and Vehicle Licensing Northern Ireland, Department of the Environment, Northern Ireland Executive.
Alan McKinney, lately Chief Executive, Scottish Stone Liaison Group. For services to the Stonemason Industry in Scotland.
Sheila Elizabeth Isobel, Mrs. McLaughlin. For services to Music in Northern Ireland.
Pamela, Mrs. McLean, Administrative Officer, Child Support Agency, Department for Work and Pensions. 
Ida, Mrs. McMaster. For services to Archaeology in Essex.
Yvonne, Mrs. McQuinn, J.P., Non-Executive Director, former North Kirklees Primary Care Trust. For services to the NHS.
Major Robert Harold Medley, D.L. For services to Ex-Servicemen and Women in Wales.
Jayne Denise, Mrs. Medlicott, Nursing Director, Hospice of the Valleys, Blaenau Gwent. For services to Healthcare.
Malcolm Coubrough Meikle, Member, Wychavon District Council, Fladbury Ward. For services to Local Government.
Dr. Althea Melling, Head of the Centre for Volunteering and Community Action, University of Central Lancashire. For services to Higher Education. 
James Duncan Alan Michael. For services to Visually Impaired and Disadvantaged People in the Highlands. 
Violet, Mrs. Miles. For services to the community in Milton-under-Wychwood, Oxfordshire.
David St. John Nasmyth-Miller, Inspector, Metropolitan Police Service. For services to the Police. 
Kenneth Angus Milroy, Chief Executive, Aberdeen Foyer. For services to Disadvantaged People in Scotland.
Christopher David Minty, Special Projects Officer, Belize, Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh. For services to the Conservation of the Central American Rainforest.
Ann, Mrs. Mitchell, lately Customer Services Assistant, Refectory, Lauder College. For services to Further Education in Dunfermline.
Elizabeth, Mrs. Mitchell, District Nurse, Dunfermline and West Fife Community Health Partnership. For services to Healthcare.
Lynn Mittell, Radio Presenter and Comedy Music Performer. For services to Entertainment in Wales. 
James Andrew Moar, Retained Station Officer, Highlands and Islands Fire and Rescue Service. For services to Fire Safety.
Anthony Mooney, lately Administrative Officer, Jobcentre Plus, Department for Work and Pensions. 
Phillip Edward Stephen Morgan, Director, Support Services, Bedford Hospital NHS Trust. For services to the NHS.
Susan, Mrs. Morgan, Macmillan Nurse Specialist for Teenagers and Young Adults, St. James's University Hospital, Leeds. For services to the NHS.
Terrig Goronwy Morgan, lately Chair, National Farmers' Union Milk Committee. For services to the Dairy Industry.
John Keith Mortin, lately Manager, H.M. Prison Manchester, H.M. Prison Service.
Betty, Mrs. Morton. For services to the British Red Cross Society in Lincolnshire.
Moses, Trustee, Brent Community Transport. For services to the community in North London.
David Rhodri Mugridge, Inspector, Metropolitan Police Service. For services to the Police.
Christine, Mrs. Mullen, Associate Director, Workforce Strategy NHS North West. For services to the N