[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gaspard de Saulx

. The queen mother would ultimately draw close to Tavannes, seeing him and Marshal Vielleville as useful counterweights to the Guise and Montmorency factions at court. In 1564 with the royal court on tour of France, Tavannes staged a grand welcome for them in Dijon, throwing a large military parade.

Second war
After the victory at the battle of Saint Denis Tavannes and Guise monitored the border, hoping both to prevent reiters coming to Condé's aid, and to achieve juncture with the Comte de Manfeldt; the crossing of 6000 reiters thwarted their plans and forced them to retire from the border. In 1568, after the conclusion of the second war with the Peace of Longjumeau he established a Confraternity of the Holy Ghost in Dijon, a violation of the edict's terms. The purpose of the league was to raise funds and prepare arms in the eventuality of conflict breaking out again. The success of the confraternity in bringing about abjurations in Dijon led to imitation orders being founded across Burgundy, such as in Autun and Chalon-sur-Saône. During the short peace Catherine implored Tavannes to enforce the terms of the edict in his territory.

Third war
With the peace collapsing and the Protestant nobles moving into opposition, Tavannes allowed his correspondence on the matter to be intercepted by their agents, alerting them to the fact they were due to be arrested. Whilst he opposed them politically he felt the planned arrest was a dishonourable method, the warning provided allowed them to flee south to La Rochelle and take up arms. During the third civil war he led the crown to victory at the battles of Jarnac and Moncontour commanding armies under the nominal leadership of Anjou. In the wake of the latter victory Tavannes and Cossé counselled the king to make peace while he had the advantage, but the government instead set about a siege of Saint-Jean-d'Angély. The siege would prove a disaster for the royal army, destroyed by disease and lack of pay. As a reward for his service, and compensation for being dispossessed of his lieutenant-governorship in Dijon, he was made Marshal of France on 28 November 1570. He was also granted a royal pension from Anjou.

Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre
In the uneasy peace that followed the third war, Tavannes was opposed to the plans of Coligny to reunite the kingdom through an invasion of the Spanish Netherlands. When Nassau crossed the border in May 1572 and Coligny urged the king to seize the moment, he was one of the figures selected to compose a memoranda against the idea. As one of Catherine's chief confidants and a member of the Conseil Privé he was intimately involved in the meetings that took place after the attempted assassination of Admiral Coligny in which the decision to liquidate the senior Protestant leadership was taken. According to the memoirs written much later by his son, he had argued for the life of Navarre and Condé during the meeting; however, the fact the memoirs were written during Navarre's reign as king makes this hard to take at face value. In October the same year he was appointed as governor of Provence and Admiral of the Levant. He traded the governorship of Provence to Albert de Gondi on condition that Gondi hand over Metz to his son.

Death
He died in his castle at Sully, and was buried in the Sainte Chapelle of Dijon. His memoirs, edited and published by his son around 1620, are an important primary source for the period.

Notes

Sources

 Forster, Robert (1994). House of Saulx-Tavanes: Versailles and Burgundy, 1700–1830. Johns Hopkins University Press. .

 
 Knecht, R. J. (1998). Catherine de' Medici. London and New York: Longman. .
 Oman, Charles (1937). A History of the Art of War in the Sixteenth Century.  London: Methuen & Co.

 Saulx, Jean de, vicomte de Tavannes ([c. 1620]; reprinted 1822). Mémoires de très-noble et très-illustre Gaspard de Saulx, seigneur de Tavannes, mareschal de France, admiral des mers de Levant, gouverneur de Provence, conseiller du roy, et capitaine de cent hommes d'armes, reprinted in Collection complèt̀e des méḿoires relatifs à ̀l'histoire de France, edited by M. Petitot. Paris: Foucault. Vols. 23, 24, & 25. .

1509 births
1575 deaths
Military personnel from Dijon
Marshals of France
Military leaders of the Italian Wars
French people of the French Wars of Religion