[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Muhyiddin Yassin

e Shah Alam court has reversed a preventive detention order signed by him during his time as the Minister of Home Affairs because he signed the order using his unofficial name, Muhyiddin bin Mohd. Yassin instead of his legal name/birth name, Mahiaddin bin Md. Yasin.

Involvement in the Sheraton Move

Following political infighting within Pakatan Harapan, BERSATU President Muhyiddin Yassin, PAS President Abdul Hadi Awang, PKR Deputy President Azmin Ali, and UMNO leaders Abdul Hadi Awang and Ismail Sabri Yaakob formed the Perikatan Nasional government which led to a loss of parliamentary majority for the ruling Pakatan Harapan coalition, ultimately resulting in Mahathir Mohamad's resignation as Prime Minister. This moment is widely regarded as the start of the Malaysian political crisis. Following its formation, the Perikatan Nasional government was the target of scathing criticism, with many calling its existence "democratically illegitimate" or more colloquially, a "backdoor government".

"Christianisation" claim 
During a campaign speech on 17 November 2022, Muhyiddin accused Pakatan Harapan of working with Jews and Christians to "Christianise the country". He backed his claim by saying "I saw a video where a group of Jews were talking about Malaysia and were praying for the country to fall into the hands of the opposition, which has been sponsoring these groups of Jews and Christians. For me this is dangerous. Is a Christianisation process going to happen?". His remarks was condemned as religiously insensitive by the Council of Churches of Malaysia. Muhyiddin defended himself and claimed that he was taken out of context by saying that his speech was 55 minutes long, and that the remark was only 1 minute and 35 seconds long. He also claimed he was merely commenting on a supposed video clip that allegedly showed "foreign religious groups" praying for Pakatan Harapan to win. Such a thing made Bersatu Sabah members leave the party and declare the dissolution of Bersatu Sabah organization because of sensitive religious issues made by the president of the party. Sabah is a multi-racial state just like Sarawak and Hajiji Noor (Chairman of Bersatu Sabah) strongly rejected and protested the statement of the president of Bersatu, Muhyiddin Yassin. Accordingly, Hajiji Noor and members of Bersatu Sabah announced to leave Muhyiddin's party and migrate to existing local parties. They confirmed to migrate to Parti Gagasan Rakyat Sabah, one of the component parties in GRS and one of the multi-racial parties in Sabah.

2023 corruption charges 
On 9 March 2023, Muhyiddin was detained by the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission after being questioned over a Covid-19 economic recovery package launched by his government. Muhyiddin denied the allegations. He was accused of sourcing $51m in bribes from companies who hoped to benefit from the emergency government spending program, and charged with gratification and money laundering. He allegedly abused his position for gratification from three entities and an individual for his ally, Bersatu. He pleaded not guilty on the charges. Judge Azura then fixed bail at RM2mil in two sureties and ordered Muhyiddin to surrender his passport. The case is being viewed by many Malaysians as a result of intense political rivalry which emerged after the defeat of Malaysia's incumbent political party, UMNO, in the 2018 Malaysian general election.

On 15 August 2023, the High Court has discharged and acquitted Muhyiddin of four charges involving abuse of power to obtain a RM232.5mil gratification for Bersatu. Justice Muhammad Jamil Hussin said all four charges were defective, baseless and vague. Muhyiddin claimed he knew the aforementioned charges were politically motivated from the very beginning and insisted he has not committed any wrongdoings under the law.

Personal life

Family 
He married Noorainee Abdul Rahman in 1972 and has 4 children; 2 sons and 2 daughters, namely Fakhri Yassin Mahiaddin, Nabilah Mahiaddin,  and Farhan Yassin Mahiaddin respectively. All of his children are heavily involved in business and corporate, entertainment or writing industries. His son, Fakhri Yassin, was a corporate figure in Malaysia and assumed the position of Executive Chairman. The second child, Nabilah was involved in book writing while Najwa and Farhan Yassin shared the same interest in the entertainment industry.

Sport 
He is an avid golf lover.