[Source: PubMed]

72. Global Health. 2020 Dec 30;16(1):120. doi: 10.1186/s12992-020-00652-6.

Integrating the social sciences in epidemic preparedness and response: A 
strategic framework to strengthen capacities and improve Global Health security.

Bardosh KL(1), de Vries DH(2), Abramowitz S(3), Thorlie A(4), Cremers L(5), 
Kinsman J(6)(7), Stellmach D(8).

Author information:
(1)Center for One Health Research, School of Public Health, University of 
Washington, Box 357230, Seattle, WA, 98195-7230, USA. kbardosh@uw.edu.
(2)Amsterdam Institute for Global Health and Development, Paasheuvelweg 25, 
1105, BP, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Independent Consultant, Boston, USA.
(4)Independent Consultant, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Amsterdam University Medical Centre, Meibergdreef 9, 1105, AZ, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Epidemiology and Global Health, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.
(7)Department of Public Health Sciences, Global Health (IHCAR), Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(8)Sydney School of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of 
Sydney, Edward Ford Building (A27) Fisher Road, Sydney, NSW, 2006, Australia.

BACKGROUND: The importance of integrating the social sciences in epidemic 
preparedness and response has become a common feature of infectious disease 
policy and practice debates. However to date, this integration remains 
inadequate, fragmented and under-funded, with limited reach and small initial 
investments. Based on data collected prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, in this 
paper we analysed the variety of knowledge, infrastructure and funding gaps that 
hinder the full integration of the social sciences in epidemics and present a 
strategic framework for addressing them.
METHODS: Senior social scientists with expertise in public health emergencies 
facilitated expert deliberations, and conducted 75 key informant interviews, a 
consultation with 20 expert social scientists from Africa, Asia and Europe, 2 
focus groups and a literature review of 128 identified high-priority peer 
reviewed articles. We also analysed 56 interviews from the Ebola 100 project, 
collected just after the West African Ebola epidemic. Analysis was conducted on 
gaps and recommendations. These were inductively classified according to various 
themes during two group prioritization exercises. The project was conducted 
between February and May 2019. Findings from the report were used to inform 
strategic prioritization of global investments in social science capacities for 
health emergencies.
FINDINGS: Our analysis consolidated 12 knowledge and infrastructure gaps and 38 
recommendations from an initial list of 600 gaps and 220 recommendations. In 
developing our framework, we clustered these into three areas: 1) 
Recommendations to improve core social science response capacities, including 
investments in: human resources within response agencies; the creation of social 
science data analysis capacities at field and global level; mechanisms for 
operationalizing knowledge; and a set of rapid deployment infrastructures; 2) 
Recommendations to strengthen applied and basic social sciences, including the 
need to: better define the social science agenda and core competencies; support 
innovative interdisciplinary science; make concerted investments in developing 
field ready tools and building the evidence-base; and develop codes of conduct; 
and 3) Recommendations for a supportive social science ecosystem, including: the 
essential foundational investments in institutional development; training and 
capacity building; awareness-raising activities with allied disciplines; and 
lastly, support for a community of practice.
INTERPRETATION: Comprehensively integrating social science into the epidemic 
preparedness and response architecture demands multifaceted investments on par 
with allied disciplines, such as epidemiology and virology. Building core 
capacities and competencies should occur at multiple levels, grounded in 
country-led capacity building. Social science should not be a parallel system, 
nor should it be "siloed" into risk communication and community engagement. 
Rather, it should be integrated across existing systems and networks, and deploy 
interdisciplinary knowledge "transversally" across all preparedness and response 
sectors and pillars. Future work should update this framework to account for the 
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the institutional landscape.

DOI: 10.1186/s12992-020-00652-6
PMCID: PMC7772799
PMID: 33380341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.