[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# List of South African slang words

made of wood. Primarily used by the elderly as general usage of a cane fell out of fashion among younger generations, though people still have a habit of when carrying a stick to use it as a walking stick, even though they don't necessarily need it.

Words from Xhosa, Zulu and other Nguni languages 

The following lists slang borrowings from the Nguni Bantu languages (which include Zulu and Xhosa). They typically occur in use in the South Africa townships, but some have become increasingly popular among white youth. Unless otherwise noted these words do not occur in formal South African English.
abba – the act of carrying a child on your back. Is a tradition of tribal African women to carry their young hands-free on their backs by literally binding them in a sarong-like garment, emulating the pouch of a Kangaroo.
Aikhona! – not on your nellie; nice try.  Sometimes a strong refusal/disagreement, No!
tjhaile/tshayile – (pronounced: chai-leh) "time to go home"
 chaai – used to describe a feeling of loss or disappointment (It is what it is or it's over in other words) e.g. "That test was chaai!" or "i lost my money it's chaai because I won't get it back "
 cherry – "meddie" could mean girl or girlfriend e.g. "is that your cherry "
 chommie – a friend (similar to English "chum")
cava – meaning "to see: (the c is pronounced as a dental click). It can be used meaning both "to see" or "to understand" as in "Did you cav that ?" or as in "Do you cav what I am saying?"
cocopan – small tip truck on rails used in mines (from Nguni nqukumbana, Scotch cart)
donga – lit. "wall" (Xhosa).  Small erosion channel, akin to arroyo in Mexico.
 eish! – an interjection expressing resignation
fundi – expert (from Nguni "umfundisi" meaning teacher or preacher) – used in mainstream South African English
faka – to put (pronounced as fuh-kuh) from the common Nguni word meaning the same thing, faka
gogo – grandmother, elderly woman (from Mbo-Nguni, ugogo)
hawu! – expression of disbelief, surprise. Pronounced like English "how!". From the Zulu "hawu".
hayibo! – has no direct English translation. It's used as an exaggerated response to something and can be apply to any situation (from Zulu, 'definitely not').
indaba – meeting of the community (from Nguni, 'a matter for discussion'); has become a mainstream word in South African English in the sense of consultative conference.
inyanga – traditional herbalist and healer (compare with sangoma)
jova – injection, to inject (from Zulu)
laduma! – a popular cheer at soccer matches, "he scores!" (literally: "it thunders", in Nguni)
nca – meaning something is nice or tasty (the nc is a nasalised dental click)
Vati – water, kasi word for water,also the name of a water purification company from standerton Sakhile
muti – medicine (from Nguni umuthi) – typically traditional African
Mzansi – South Africa (uMzantsi in Xhosa means "south"), specifically refers to the South Africa.
Ngca – (pronounced "Ngc-ah", dental click) an expression of appreciation or admiration, similar to "nice"
 ousie – Term used to refer to a maid, usually a black female; also used by black females to call/refer to each other (from Sesotho for 'sister)
sangoma – traditional healer or diviner
shongololo (also spelt songalolo) – millipede (from Nguni, ukusonga, 'to roll up')
Tshisa Nyama - of Xhosa origin, lit means to "burn meat". Is the Zulu equivalent to the braai.
spaza – an informal trading-post/convenience store found in townships and remote areas (also a term referring to something cheap and nasty – i.e. of poor quality)
tokoloshe – a dwarf-like water sprite, taken from tokoloshe.
toyi-toyi – (more commonly spelt toi-toi) protest-dancing; used in mainstream South African English
tsotsi – gangster, layabout, no gooder
ubuntu – compassion or kindness, humanity, connectedness
Vuvuzela – a traditional horn made from the hollowed-out horns of a Kudu bull. It produces a monotonous tone and is often used as a summonings. A modernized version is made from plastic and more closely resembles a straight trumpet. The modern version is commonly used by the audience at soccer games, though usage of it has been highly frowned upon and in some cases banned because of noise-regulations, due to its incredibly loud blaring monotonous tone.  
Ntwana yam> A friend of yours
Ewe – lit. "yes" (Mbo-Nguni)
wena – Literally "you" (Mbo-Nguni). Commonly used in a sentence "Hayiwena!"

Slang originating from other countries 

The following slang words used in South African originated in other parts of the Commonwealth of Nations and subsequently came to South Africa.