[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# USS Herbert J. Thomas

the Vietnamese counter-offensive after Tet, targeting enemy concentrations ashore. The destroyer also conducted patrols off Taiwan in June before sailing home on 15 June, arriving in San Diego via Sasebo on 5 July. Herbert J. Thomas spent the last three months of the year in overhaul at Long Beach.

After completing refresher training that spring, the destroyer departed San Diego for her next Western Pacific deployment on 4 June 1969. Arriving in the Tonkin Gulf on 3 July, Herbert J. Thomas began three weeks of positive identification and radar advisory zone (PIRAZ) duty (air traffic coordination) as well as the occasional shore bombardment mission. Following a port visit to Sasebo in early August, the warship conducted another three-week PIRAZ tour before putting in at Hong Kong on 15 September. She conducted one more shore bombardment patrol in October before turning for home on 1 November, arriving in San Diego via Subic Bay, Guam, Midway, and Pearl Harbor on 23 November.

In the summer of 1970, Herbert J. Thomas served as a school and training ship for NROTC midshipmen. In late August, the warship failed a final service inspection and was immediately tapped for inactivation. Herbert J. Thomas was decommissioned at San Diego on 4 December 1970.

She was struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 1 February 1974 and transferred to the Republic of China through the Security Assistance Program (SAP) on 1 June 1974.

Service in the Republic of China Navy 
The destroyer served in the Republic of China Navy as ROCS Han Yang (DD-915) on 17 March 1975.

In the 1980s, she underwent the Wu-Chin II modernization program and reclassified as DDG-915.

She was retired on 16 August 1999 and sunk as an artificial reef.

Her mast is on display at the Yuanzhiluxiuxian Park, Tainan.

Awards
 Herbert J. Thomas received six Battle Stars for Korean War service and three Battle Stars for Vietnam service.

References

 
 

Gearing-class destroyers of the United States Navy
Ships built in Bath, Maine
1945 ships
Maritime incidents in 1999
World War II destroyers of the United States
Cold War destroyers of the United States
Korean War destroyers of the United States
Vietnam War destroyers of the United States
Chao Yang-class destroyers
Shipwrecks of Taiwan