[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human rights in Paraguay

eless, discrimination against indigenous persons is widespread, and such persons' rights, especially their property rights, are often violated by authorities. Although indigenous people are permitted to serve in government, moreover, there are no such persons in any higher-level government position.

As Amnesty International put it in a 2012 report, there is “wide international recognition of the fact that Indigenous Peoples in Paraguay suffer serious and systematic violation of their rights.” The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR), the UN Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues, the ILO, the UN Special Rapporteur on Indigenous Peoples, and the Inter-American Commission and Court of Human Rights have all expressed concern about the land rights of indigenous people in Paraguay; such groups as Tierraviva, CODEHUPY, the Catholic Bishops’ Conference and the Coordinator for the Self-Determination of Indigenous Peoples (Coordinadora por la Autodeterminación de los Pueblos Indígenas, CAPI) have criticized indigenous people's displacement from their tribal lands. Also, the National Federation of Workers (Confederación Nacional de Trabajadores, CNT) has criticized the failure to consult indigenous persons on laws affecting their rights.

The UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination called on Paraguay in 2012 to protect indigenous people's rights, especially land claims.  In the same year, Amnesty International suggested that “approving and implementing anti-discrimination legislation that adheres to international human rights standards would play an important role in promoting Indigenous Peoples’ rights and in requiring concrete actions to uphold them.”

Children's rights

Paraguayan nationality is acquired by being born in Paraguay, or to citizens temporarily living abroad, or government employees serving abroad. A 2010 report by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child complained that many children in Paraguay, however, are unregistered.

Child abuse and neglect are widespread, as is child labor. The U.S. Department of Labor's List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor reported 5 goods produced under such working conditions in Paraguay. These included the production of bricks, the quarrying of stone, the production of cotton and sugarcane as well as pornography. The National Commission to Prevent and Eradicate the Exploitation of Children, the Secretariat for Children and Adolescents (SNNA), and the Integral Adolescent Attention Service seek to protect children and adolescents from abuse. There are hostels, shelters, and children's homes and orphanages around the country.

A major problem is the sexual exploitation of children, many of whom work as prostitutes.  Adults who pimp out child prostitutes are punishable by up to eight years.  For opposite-sex statutory rape, the maximum penalty is a fine; for same-sex statutory rape, a prison sentence. These laws are not vigorously enforced, however.

The UN Human Rights Committee called on Paraguay in 2006 “to ensure respect for children's rights, including urgent steps to eradicate child labour.”   An extensive 2010 report by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child made a series of urgent proposals regarding the human rights of children in Paraguay, including calls for major improvement in official approaches to the abuse, sexual exploitation, and trafficking of children, in the prevention of child labour, and in children's access to health care, education, and proper nutrition.

Paraguay is a signatory of the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction.

Rights of persons with disabilities

Technically it is illegal in Paraguay to discriminate against disabled people, but discrimination is widespread, and there is no law requiring buildings or transport to be wheelchair accessible. For this reason most disabled children are unable to attend school. A law requires 5 percent of government jobs to be filled by disabled persons, but in practice fewer than one percent of such jobs are held by persons with disabilities.

LGBT rights

Officially, discrimination against gays is illegal, though discrimination is widespread, and government officials often ignore the law in practice. LGBT groups operate freely, and the government issues permits and provides security for gay-pride marches. Even though the state provides security for gay-pride marches and gatherings recently these marches and gatherings have led to clashes between the police and the paraders that have accused the government of discriminating them after some homophobic statements made by Colorado and UNACE congressmen.

Employee rights