[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Cash-for-Honours scandal

ans and the matter is perfectly clear," Mr Maude told BBC Radio 5 Live. "It would clearly have been better if we had not as things turn out but that's the way it is." He insisted the Tories had done nothing wrong and that Labour had been "much less transparent about this whole process than we have."

He said he was "very proud" of the people who lent money to the Tories and insisted they had not supported the party out of "self-interest" because, he argued, it had not stood much of a chance of gaining power in recent years.

Liberal Democrats

Sir Menzies Campbell
Former Liberal Democrat leader Sir Menzies Campbell said that his party had not nominated anyone for a peerage who had loaned it large sums. He said the Lib Dems received loans from three people in the period before the 2005 General Election and had declared their names and the sums lent. He urged transparency on funding, and suggested a £50,000 cap on donations by individuals and a reduction in maximum permitted party election spending from £20 m to £15 m:

"There should be no secret loans of any kind, and if the lord chancellor is proposing that in legislation currently before Parliament, that's something we will most certainly support."

Previous instances
The expression "cash for peerages" has a long history. Titles have constantly been granted to court favourites and allies. James I was more overt; he created the title of baronet and sold them for £1,500 each to raise money for his war in Ireland.

In the 1920s David Lloyd George was involved in a barely concealed "cash for patronage" scandal managed by Maundy Gregory, which resulted in the 1925 Act which barred this (purchase of peerages had not previously been illegal).

In 1976 Harold Wilson's resignation honours list was similarly embroiled in what became known as the "Lavender List" (supposedly hand-written on lavender paper by Marcia Williams). This, though widely deemed to include some unsuitable and unsalubrious nominees, rewarded Wilson's friends and carried no suggestion of overt reward for money – given or loaned. Lord Kagan, ennobled in the Lavender List, was convicted of fraud in 1980 – for some years he had been funding Harold Wilson's Leader's office. Sir Eric Miller, knighted in the Lavender List, committed suicide in 1977 while under investigation for fraud; he too had helped fund Harold Wilson's Leader's office.

In the 1960s, Roy Thomson had some justifiable claim to a peerage as a Canadian and later British publisher. As even his company history observes, "Roy had noted that all proprietors of newspapers seemed to become members of the House of Lords. He had also noted this was emphatically 'a good thing'" and he showed himself ready to do whatever was required to achieve this goal, believing at first that it could be a simple open purchase but moving on to explicit lobbying of prime ministers. He contributed money to charitable bodies which were deemed to improve his chances. Eventually, having bought The Scotsman, The Sunday Times and later The Times, he became sufficiently important to Harold Wilson that he was given a hereditary peerage as Baron Thomson of Fleet.

As recently as 2004 the issue of large donations to a political party being linked to the award of a peerage arose when Paul Drayson donated £500,000 to the Labour Party. His company, Powderject (now part of Novartis), had also received a valuable government contract to make vaccines.

See also
List of political scandals in the United Kingdom
Reform of the House of Lords
Cash-for-questions affair
Cash for Influence
Political funding in the United Kingdom
David Abrahams (Labour party donor)
Tony's Cronies

References

External links
 'Loans for Honours' Affair: Media demand explanation about Tony Blair's second police interview – Greg Hurst, The Times, 2 February 2007.
 Guide to peers and House of Lords
 TIMELINE – Cash-for-honours investigation, Reuters, 20 July 2007.

British honours system
Labour Party (UK) scandals
2006 in the United Kingdom
2006 in British politics
House of Lords
Peerage of the United Kingdom
Tony Blair
2007 in British politics
Political funding in the United Kingdom
Political scandals in the United Kingdom