[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Darley Abbey

his amiable lady have realised.  It was cheering to view the neatness and comfort of the houses, the honey-suckles, jessamines, and roses growing in front, and the domestic occupations of persons who, in the same employment, in worse conducted establishments, live in filth, rags and squalid misery."

Church
After the Dissolution of the Monasteries, Darley Abbey had no church. Villagers had to travel to St Alkmund's Church, Derby until 1819.  Then, Walter Evans, one of the family who owned the mills, paid for the building of St Matthew's Church with a small contribution from a central government fund.  The architect was Henry Moses Wood of Nottingham (who also designed St Matthew's School).  The design was in the Gothic Perpendicular style.  The stone used in its construction was quarried locally from King's Croft Allestree, Pentrich, and Wirksworth.  The church was substantially extended in 1895–96.

Conservation
Because of the historical significance of Darley Abbey, much of the village has been designated as a conservation area and, as such, it is subject to enhanced development controls.  The conservation area includes the mills, the housing associated with the mills, the park and the church.

Darley Abbey is also part of the Derwent Valley Mills World Heritage Site which stretches from Matlock Bath to Derby.

Features 
 Darley Park is an  picturesque park featuring many different gardens and wildlife areas. Given to the people of Derby in 1931 by the Evans family, who lived at Darley Hall. The Hall was demolished in the early 1960s, but parts of the original ground floor remain, now used as terracing for a small cafe. Darley Park used to play host to the Darley Park open-air concert, which used to be one of the largest free concerts in the country.
 Saint Benedict Catholic Voluntary Academy is one of the largest schools in Derby with around 1500 pupils. The school dates back to 1986, but with several schools previously occupying the site including St Ralph Sherwin.
 Saint Mary's Catholic School is a historic coeducational Catholic school that can trace its roots back to 1813/1814 and has since moved to a new building on three separate occasions.

See also
 Listed buildings in Darley Abbey

References

External links

Darley Abbey local information portal

Areas of Derby
Villages in Derbyshire
Augustinian monasteries in England
Monasteries in Derbyshire
British country houses destroyed in the 20th century
Christian monasteries established in the 12th century
Gardens by Capability Brown
Monasteries dissolved under the English Reformation