[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kerensky offensive

Kritek took command of the Third Army, and by 16 July, had retaken Kalusz. The Russian West Front attacks on 7 July made only modest gains, which were soon relinquished, and the Northern Front attacks lasted less than a day. According to Buttar, "It was the high tide mark for the armies of Russia."

However, the Russian advance collapsed altogether by 16 July. On 19 July, the Germans and Austro-Hungarians counter-attacked, led by Arnold von Winckler, meeting little resistance and advancing through Galicia and Ukraine as far as the Zbruch River. The Russian lines were broken on 20 July, and, by 23 July, the Russians had retreated about  (Vinny). "The only limit to the German advance was the lack of the logistical means to occupy more territory".  According to Buttar, "Eleventh Army had effectively disintegrated and Seventh Army was rapidly following suit. To the south of the Dniester, Eighth Army began to pull back..."

On 25 July, the Russians abandoned Tarnopol as was Stanislau. On 2 August, they abandoned Czernowitz.

Aftermath 

According to Buttar, "But more important than the change of territory, was the complete disintegration of the Russian Army. Those killed, wounded or taken prisoner exceeded 400,000; the number of deserters was perhaps just as great." Kerensky blamed Brusilov for the failed offensive, and Kornilov replaced Brusilov as commander-in-chief. Kerensky expected Kornilov to restore discipline, and the death penalty for desertion was re-imposed by Kornilov and the Russian Provisional Government as a consequence. This led to a period of unrest in Petrograd known as the July Days.

References 

1917 in Austria-Hungary
1917 in Russia
Battles of the Eastern Front (World War I)
Battles of World War I involving Austria-Hungary
Battles of World War I involving Russia
Battles of World War I involving Romania
Battles of World War I involving Germany
Russian Provisional Government
Conflicts in 1917
July 1917 events
Ukraine in World War I
History of Chernivtsi Oblast
History of Ternopil Oblast
History of Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast
History of Lviv Oblast