[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of Battle Angel Alita characters

out of the Ouroboros and confront Nova. Kishiro has said of this second fight that Alita and Jashugan "had to confront each other again", as "many things had not been said" during their first fight.  Jashugan has also appeared in Alita's thoughts in Last Order, when she was fighting Caerula Sanguis.

Alita's Challenge Team
After Hugo's death, Alita ran away from Ido. She was shortly afterwards found crying in a bar by Ed, who recruited her to become a Motorball player and signed her to a 12-race contract.  When Ido finds out that she has become a Motorball player a month later, Alita has already become a popular player nicknamed the "Killing Angel", going on to win five straight races in the Third League before moving up to the Second League and picking up a sponsor, Mr. Thompson.  She successfully defeats Ajakutty in a practice match over the player number 99, earning the right to wear the number in the Second League and Ajakutty's respect.  After directly challenging Jashugan, Alita is only shown competing in her debut race in the Second League, from which she determines who will make up her five-man challenge team.  Against Ed's wishes, she plans to quit Motorball after the challenge race with Jashugan, having completed her racing contract.  In the challenge race, Jashugan successfully defeats Alita's teammates, leaving the two of them alone to duel. Forced to fight harder than she ever has before, Alita is severely damaged by Jashugan's final attack, but manages to survive him. She carries out her promise and retires from Motorball afterwards.

The following players were selected by Alita to be the members of her five-man challenge team against Jashugan.

Ajakutty
Portrayed by Marko Zaror

League: Second
Player Number: 99/88
Nicknames: "King Crusher", "The Crownless King"

The original player wearing number 99 in the Second League before Alita qualified for it, Ajakutty refuses to relinquish the number to Alita, who wore it in the Third League and is determined to continue wearing it, without a fight.  In a best of three rounds practice match, he wins the first round but loses the second.  Recognizing Alita's superior abilities, Ajakutty forfeits the third match and relinquishes the number to Alita.  She earns his respect and he becomes her closest ally in motorball.  Ajakutty calls Alita "Sister" instead of by her name, and she in turn calls him "Ajy".

Ajakutty is a player who relishes the fight more than the win.  His ranking of 23rd is thus deceptive, and he has crashed over 200 players.  His fighting style is what he calls the "Asian Arts", with an emphasis on kicks.  Three other players, Balgerald, Skaramasakus and Halberd, are Ajakutty's disciples, and each specializes in a particular discipline.  In his first race with Alita, Ajakutty takes on the Second League champion Armblessed for the first time after the latter has dispatched two of his students, and barely escapes with his life.  He is the third member of the challenge team to be dispatched by Jashugan.  Like Armblessed, he survives the encounter and is recovered from the track.  Alita's decision to quit Motorball after the match with Jashugan leads him to label her as an outsider, as he realizes that she is not in it for the game.

Armblessed
League: Second
Player Number: 1
Nickname: "Caligula"

The arrogant, vicious Second League champion, Armblessed is renowned for his cruelty and commands a fanatical following among his fans, who willingly offer their hands to be cut off by him and placed on his horns (the "Hands of Victory") as part of his pre-win ritual during races. His weapons are diamond-edged chain blades built into his arms and legs that can cut through any other player's armor. Armblessed uses his blades to deliver devastating cuts that slice his opponents vertically and horizontally.

During Alita's Second League race debut, Armblessed makes short work of both Halberd and Bargerald, provoking a fight with Ajakutty. Letting the latter take his right leg, he extends a spike from his body that he uses as the basis for his Gushiken (the "Taiwanese Spin"), which makes him spin like a top along the track and slice whoever is in his way to pieces with his chain blades. After crippling Ajakutty, Armblessed gets into a fight with Alita in which his chain blades are matched up against her Damascus blades, with Alita coming out on top and Armblessed flying off the track and out of the race. Still arrogant in defeat, Armblessed is nonetheless chosen against his will to be a member of Alita's challenge team. He is the first player to be taken on by Jashugan, who, impervious to his chain blades, uses his arm rotors to tear Armblessed's body to shreds. Jashugan then uses one of Armblessed's chain blades that has been severed from him to slice Zafal Takie in two and prevent her from securing the motorball.  Armblessed's head survives and he is picked up off the track along with Ajakutty by a recovery team.