[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# University of Eswatini

esented by the Student Representative Council (SRC) which falls under the Student Welfare Office which is run by the Dean of Student Affairs. Issues pertaining to student accommodation and residences on the campuses is the responsibility of the warden also under the Student Welfare Office.

Campuses

The three campuses are within 40 kilometers of each other:
Kwaluseni campus is the main campus, with the faculties of commerce, humanities, social science, education and science.
Luyengo campus was formerly the Swaziland Agricultural College and University Centre (SACUC), and is the location of the faculty of agriculture and consumer sciences.
Mbabane campus was formerly Swaziland's Institute of Health Sciences, and is the location of the university's faculty of health sciences; it includes a nursing school, a midwifery programme and the environmental studies programme.

Academics
The university is divided into the faculties of Agriculture, Consumer Sciences, Health Sciences, Education, Humanities, Commerce, Science & Engineering, and Social Science. There is also the Institute of Distance Education (IDE) which is responsible for all distance education instruction. The Institute of Postgraduate Studies is responsible for postgraduate programmes at masters and doctorate level. The university is also home to the biggest library in Eswatini. The library has branches in all three campuses with the main and biggest library at Kwaluseni, the main campus.

Faculty of Agriculture
The faculty is located at the Luyengo campus which is located between Malkerns and Bhunya. 
The faculty houses the departments of Agriculture and Biosystem Engineering, Agricultural Economics and Management, Agricultural Education and Extension, Animal Science, Consumer Sciences, Crop Production and Horticulture. The faculty offers undergraduate degree majors in Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering, Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness Management, Agricultural Education, Agronomy, Animal Science, Animal Science (Dairy), and Horticulture.

Faculty of Commerce
The faculty is located at the main campus in Kwaluseni.  It has two departments 
namely the Accounting and Business Administration departments and offers only undergraduate
programmes. The undergraduate majors for the Bachelor of Commerce degree are in Accounting, Management and Marketing. The faculty also offers a Diploma in Commerce course.

Faculty of Consumer Sciences
The faculty is located at the Luyengo campus. The faculty is made up of the following departments:
Consumer Science Education and Community Development (CED)
Food and Nutrition Sciences (NFS)
Textiles and Apparel Design (TAD)

The faculty offers degrees at undergraduate (B.Sc.) and post-graduate (M.Sc.) level.

Faculty of Education
The faculty is located at the Kwaluseni campus and has the following academic departments:
Adult Education
Curriculum and Teaching
Educational Foundations and Management
In-Service Education
Primary Education
Post Graduate Certificate in Education (PGCE)

The faculty offers undergraduate programmes leading to the B.Ed. degree and some departments within the Faculty also offer post-graduate programmes leading to the M.Ed. degree.

Faculty of Health Sciences
The faculty is located at the Mbabane campus of the university 
near the Eswatini Government Hospital.  The Faculty of Health Sciences has the 
following academic departments:
Community Health Nursing Science
Environmental Health Science
General Nursing
Midwifery Science

The faculty offers only undergraduate programmes in nursing and environmental health.

Faculty of Humanities
The faculty has the following departments: 
Academic Communication Skills, African Languages and Literature, English Language and Literature, History, Journalism and Mass Communication and Theology and Religious Studies.

The undergraduate programmes offered are the 
Diploma in Journalism and Mass Communication, Bachelor of Arts (Humanities), Bachelor of Arts (Journalism and Mass Communication). The double major combinations are offered for the B.A. (Humanities) degree. The faculty also offers the B.A. (Humanities) through the institute of distance education.

The only graduate programme on offer is the Master of Arts in History through the institute for post-graduate studies.

Faculty of Science and Engineering
The faculty is the main centre for teaching and research in scientific and technological disciplines in Eswatini. The faculty is located in the science block in the heart of the university. The faculty is divided into the departments of Chemistry, Biology, Geography, Environmental Science and Planning (GEP), Physics, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Mathematics, and Computer Science.

The undergraduate programmes offers are the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) and the Bachelor of
Engineering (B.Eng.) with the latter under the Electrical and Electronic Engineering department.