[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Ehren Watada

ent on a national tour to raise money for his son's defense, from October 26 to November 17. Ehren Watada was on hand to speak, and shared the stage with other prominent critics of the war, including Jane Fonda, Sean Penn, and Tim Robbins, at the January 27, 2007 anti-war protest in Washington, D.C.

At event called the "Citizens' hearing on the legality of U.S. actions in Iraq" testimony that had been barred from Watada's courts martial was heard; among those testifying on January 20 and January 21, 2007 were:

Daniel Ellsberg, Vietnam War-era whistleblower who leaked The Pentagon Papers
Denis Halliday, who coordinated United Nations humanitarian aid to Iraq when he was UN Assistant Secretary-General
Benjamin G. Davis, law professor, and expert on international law
Marjorie Cohn, President of the National Lawyers' Guild
Richard Falk Professor Emeritus of International Law at Princeton University;
Antonia Juhasz Policy-analyst and author on U.S. economic policies in Iraq;
John Burroughs Lawyers’ Committee on Nuclear Policy Executive Director
Francis Boyle Professor of international law at Univ. of Illinois
Darrell Anderson Army 1st Armored Division in Baghdad & Najaf; awarded Purple Heart;
Harvey Tharp Former U.S. Navy Lieutenant and JAG stationed in Iraq;
Geoffrey Millard 8 years in Army National Guard; awarded 13 medals;
Dennis Kyne Desert storm Veteran & drill sergeant; trained in NBC warfare;
Chanan Suarez-Diaz Former Navy hospital corpsman; Purple Heart and valor commendation
Stacy Bannerman Military Families Speak Out; author of "When the War Came Home"
 Eman Khammas Iraqi human rights advocate

Post-military life
In 2012, Watada founded and became the part-owner of the Bachi Burger restaurant in Las Vegas.

See also
Legality of the Iraq War
List of Iraq War Resisters
Crime against peace
Criticism of the Iraq War
Nuremberg Principles
Ann Wright (United States Army colonel who publicly submitted her letter of resignation to then Secretary of State Colin Powell on March 19, 2003, one day before the U.S. invasion of Iraq.)
Doe v. Bush (Appeals court decision on the constitutionality of the Iraq invasion)
Malcolm Kendall-Smith

References

External links
LewRockwell.com court-martial coverage by Jeff Paterson " Lt. Watada Mistrial Clear Victory"
Ehren Watada: a Soldier Refuses an Illegal War - YouTube video of Lt. Watada's speech in December, 2006.

1978 births
American anti–Iraq War activists
American military personnel of Japanese descent
Iraq War resisters
Japanese-American civil rights activists
American people of Chinese descent
Living people
People from Honolulu
United States Army officers
People from Henderson, Nevada