[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abram Shulsky

g the policy" as "truth is not the goal" of intelligence operations, but "victory". By contrast, in a paragraph discussing Shulsky's views, Dr. Michael Warner of C.I.A.'s History Staff states "the goal of intelligence is truth" but concurs with Shulsky's idea that secrecy is endemic to intelligence.

In a 1999 paper, "Leo Strauss and the World of Intelligence (By Which We Do Not Mean Nous)," also co-authored by Schmitt, Shulsky writes that "Strauss's view certainly alerts one to the possibility that political life may be closely linked to deception. Indeed, it suggests that deception is the norm in political life, and the hope, to say nothing of the expectation, of establishing a politics that can dispense with it is the exception."

Publications 
 The United States and Asia: Toward a New U.S. Strategy and Force Posture, Project Air Force Report with Zalmay Khalilzad and David T. Orletsky (RAND Corporation, 2001)
 Deterrence Theory and Chinese Behavior (RAND Corporation, 2000)
 Patterns in China's Use of Force: Evidence from History and Doctrinal Writings with Mark Burles (RAND Corporation, 2000)
 The US and a Rising China: Strategies and Military Implications with Zalmay M. Khalilzad, Daniel L. Byman, Roger Cliff, David T. Orletsky, David Shlapak, and Ashley J. Tellis (RAND Corporation, 1999)
 Leo Strauss and the World of Intelligence (By Which We Do Not Mean Nous), with Gary J. Schmitt in Leo Strauss, the Straussians, and the American Regime edited by Kenneth L. Deutsch and John Albert Murley (Rowman & Littlefield, 1999)
 The "Virtual Corporation" and Army Organization, with Francis Fukuyama (RAND Corporation, 1997)
 Preparing the U.S. Air Force for Military Operations Other Than War, with Vick Alan and John Stillion (RAND Corporation, 1997)
 Silent Warfare: Understanding the World of Intelligence, with Gary J. Schmitt (1991)

References

External links 

 Profile: Abram Shulsky  History Commons
 Abram Shulsky Right Web Profile
 The Neocon Philosophy of Intelligence by Tom Barry of Foreign Policy in Focus
 

1942 births
American political scientists
Cornell University alumni
Hudson Institute
Living people
University of Chicago alumni