[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Oklahoma Senate

n could serve up to three full terms following the implementation of term limits. For example, the longest-serving member of the Oklahoma State Senate, Gene Stipe was first elected in 1956, but would not have been term limited out until after the 2004 election, had he not resigned the previous year.

Salaries and benefits
The majority of Oklahoma legislators receive $35,000 (reduced in 2018) in annual pay while presiding officers earn a larger salary. (Also, they do not receive any Bonuses.) Additionally, legislators can seek reimbursement for expenses related to meals and lodging during the legislative session, and for certain travel expenses related to their duties at any point during the year. They also have access to benefits received by state employees, including health and life insurance as well as retirement savings plans.

Leadership

The Lieutenant Governor serves as President of the Oklahoma Senate, but by custom only casts a vote in the case of a tie and presides less frequently since the 1960s. The President Pro Tempore is the one who serves as leader of the Senate, managing legislative votes and is the head of the majority party. The President Pro Tempore appoints the majority floor leader and the chair of the appropriations committee. Along with the elected officers of the majority caucus (caucus chair, caucus vice chair, three assistant majority leaders and four majority whips), they comprise the leadership of the Senate majority caucus. The leader of the minority caucus is called either the Republican Leader or Democratic Leader, depending on which party is in the minority. Along with the elected officers of the minority party (assistant leaders, assistant whips and the caucus chair and vice chair), they comprise the Senate minority leadership team.

Notable past members 
Gene Stipe was the longest-serving member of the Oklahoma Senate from 1957 until his resignation in 2003 following felony conviction.
Todd Lamb, the former Lieutenant Governor of Oklahoma and President of the Oklahoma Senate, previously served as a state senator.
Brad Henry, former Governor of Oklahoma
Raymond D. Gary, former Governor of Oklahoma
William J. Holloway, former Governor of Oklahoma
Henry S. Johnston, former Governor of Oklahoma
James C. Nance, Oklahoma community newspaper chain publisher and former Speaker of the Oklahoma House of Representatives, President pro tempore of the Oklahoma Senate and member Uniform Law Commission
John Jarman, former congressman
Clem McSpadden, former congressman
Harry J. W. Belvin longest serving Principal Chief of the Choctaw Nation (In 1948 the Secretary of the Interior appointed Harry Belvin as the chief of the Choctaw tribe, along with chiefs of the other four tribes in eastern Oklahoma) served as both an Oklahoma Senator and Member of the Oklahoma House of Representatives. 
Scott Pruitt, the former Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency had served previously as Oklahoma Attorney General and a member of the Oklahoma Senate.
Stephanie Bice, U.S. Representative for Oklahoma's 5th congressional district since January 3, 2021.

Past composition of the Senate

See also
Government of Oklahoma
United States Senate

References

External links
Oklahoma Senate

Oklahoma Legislature
Oklahoma