[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Committee on Standards in Public Life

urrent concerns about standards of conduct of all holders of public office, including arrangements relating to financial and commercial activities, and make recommendations as to any changes in present arrangements which might be required to ensure the highest standards of propriety in public life".

First report, 1995 
The Committee's first report in 1995 established an initial version of The Seven Principles of Public Life, also known as the Nolan Principles after the committee's first chairman. The principles were Selflessness, Integrity, Objectivity, Accountability, Openness, Honesty and Leadership.

1997 change of remit - funding of political parties 
As Tony Blair had announced in 1996, referring back to the Neil Hamilton and Cash-for-questions affair, the committee's terms of reference were extended in November 1997. The committee's new remit included "To review issues in relation to the funding of political parties, and to make recommendations as to any changes in present arrangements."

2013 change of remit - devolved assemblies 
In February 2013, the committee's terms of reference were amended to specify that "...in future the Committee should not inquire into matters relating to the devolved legislatures and governments except with the agreement of those bodies". In June of that year the committee was included on a list of 200 organisations that the UK government claimed may need to be replicated in the event of Scottish Independence.

2013 change of remit - non-elected and non-appointed officials 
The Committee's remit was also expanded in February 2013 to cover standards of conduct of all holders of public office, not solely those appointed or elected to public office, including all those involved in the delivery of public services. It was later clarified that the committee "can examine issues relating to the ethical standards of the delivery of public services by private and voluntary sector organisations, paid for by public funds, even where those delivering the services have not been appointed or elected to public office."

2021 review

In September 2020 the committee commenced a detailed review into processes in Westminster. In its interim and final reports of July and November 2021 it noted that transparency relating to lobbying was "poor", and it recommended tightening up the rules governing the conduct of ministers and senior civil servants. A survey conducted by the committee found that the COVID-19 pandemic had exposed poor behaviour by politicians, including breaches of lockdown rules and the awarding of public procurement contracts to ministers' friends. Survey participants were said to be "visibly angry as they recounted the strict pandemic rules they had to follow, which they believed were disregarded by various politicians who subsequently faced few or no consequences." The committee's final report found the effectiveness of ethics regulators in Whitehall had "not kept pace with wider changes" and that there was a "particular need for reform in central government". Lord Evans called for more power to be given to the independent adviser on ministerial standards, and for these stronger rules to be written into law.

2021 concerns about appointments to the committee
In 2021 the committee's only non-white member Monisha Shah came to the end of her five-year appointment to the committee, and on 1 August new members Ewen Fergusson and Gillian Peele were appointed. The committee's chair, Lord Evans, wrote to the Cabinet Office minister reporting concerns about the committee's "lack of visible diversity now as a group" and said that the watchdog "needs to be representative of the people we serve." The appointment of Ewen Fergusson was criticised as "cronyism" by the Labour Party as he had been a member of the Bullingdon Club at Oxford at the same time as Boris Johnson. Former committee chair Sir Alistair Graham attacked the appointment as a "pathetic" attempt to recruit an old friend of the Prime Minister to an independent committee.

List of past committee chairs 

 The Lord Nolan 28 October 1994 – 7 November 1997
 The Lord Neill of Bladen, QC 7 November 1997 – 1 March 2001
 Sir Nigel Wicks 1 March 2001 – 26 April 2004
 Sir Alistair Graham 26 April 2004 – 24 April 2007
Rita Donaghy, Baroness Donaghy 25 April 2007 –
 Sir Christopher Kelly, KCB 1 January 2008 – 1 April 2013
 The Lord Bew 1 September 2013 – 25 October 2018

References

Bibliography

External links
 Official website

Organizations established in 1994
Non-departmental public bodies of the United Kingdom government
Cabinet Office (United Kingdom)
1994 establishments in the United Kingdom
Professional ethics
Ethics organizations