[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chris Tame

her military items with a credit card by mail order from the United States, Tame duly did so and carried his acquired collection of light armaments in his knapsack to work further in the library at the American Embassy in Grosvenor Square, London. He was arrested, charged and subsequently acquitted.

FOREST and Smokers' Rights
He was a non-smoker and keep-fit enthusiast, but he philosophically regarded that smokers' bodies were their own and that a person's liberty must extend to the freedom to make foolish decisions in this regard. He defended the rights of tobacco smokers as Director of pressure group FOREST from 1988 to 1995. During his time with FOREST he was an extensive user of Westminster libraries requesting many obscure books which were supplied by the British Library Document Supply Centre to the Great Smith Street branch. He saw off three Directors of ASH and forced ASH to refocus the debate away from the paternalistic desire to preserve the health of the smoker or would-be smoker to the harm of passive smoking to non-smokers. In 1992, he won libel damages after successfully suing LBC Radio, which accused him of "introducing young children to cigarettes and assisting in killing 110,000 people a year." In 1995, FOREST removed Tame as director, as its tobacco industry sponsors believed Tame's approach had become too confrontational and abstract.

Later years
In the later part of his life, Tame moved to Ramsgate, where he had been working on a seven-volume Bibliography of Freedom.

Tame was an avid collector of economic and philosophical books, and had amassed a collection of some 40,000 works, including a number of rare classical liberal documents, some of which were donated to the Foundation for Economic Education in New York. A large part of the rest of his collection was donated to Charles University, Prague (source: conversations later with Dr Sean Gabb). He also was an avid user of the public library system notably Westminster Library and the Great Smith Street library.

Tame died on 20 March 2006 from an aggressive bone cancer, diagnosed a year before. He was twice divorced and childless.

Legacy

Since Tame's death, the Libertarian Alliance, under Sean Gabb and then President Tim Evans, awarded a number of 'Chris R. Tame Memorial Prizes.' In 2008, this was awarded to American left-anarchist Keith Preston for his essay 'Free Enterprise: The Antidote to Corporate Plutocracy.' In 2010, the 'Chris R. Tame Memorial Lecture' was delivered by Stephen Davies of the Institute of Economic Affairs.

References

External links
 The Libertarian Alliance

1949 births
2006 deaths
British activists
Alumni of the University of Hull
British political writers
British libertarians
Objectivists
Deaths from bone cancer
People from Enfield, London
People from Godalming
People educated at Godalming Grammar School