[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of European Union member states by political system

ectly elected (e.g. the Senate of Poland); or indirectly elected, for example, by regional legislatures (e.g. the Federal Council of Austria); or non-elected, but representing certain interest groups (e.g. the National Council of Slovenia).

Listed by form of government

Listed by type of parliament

I: Due to Belgium's complex federal structure the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region (Brussels Hoofdstedelijk Parlement / Parlement de la Région de Bruxelles-Capitale) (89, regional assembly), Flemish Parliament (Vlaams Parlement) (124, regional and community assembly), the Walloon Parliament (Parlement wallon) (75, regional assembly), the Parliament of the French Community (Parlement de la Communauté française) (94, community assembly) and the Parliament of the German-speaking Community (Parlament der Deutschsprachigen Gemeinschaft) (25, community assembly) have competences in federal legislation that affects their interests.
II: Only 56 out of 80 are occupied, due to the occupation of Cyprus.
III: In legislation which affects the autonomous region of Åland, its Parliament (Lagting) (30) also has legislative competences.
IV: While there is a Federal Assembly () similar to the Austrian Federal Assembly, it is not simply a joint session of the Federal Diet and the Federal Council and as such not the overall name of the legislature.
V: Technically, the Federal Diet only has 598 seats; the additional thirty-two members are overhang seats resulting from the 2017 election.
VI: The Irish names are used in the English-language version of the Constitution of Ireland, and generally in English-language speech and writing in Ireland.
VII: In addition to the 315 elected members, there are currently five senators for life (); these include former Italian President, who is  senator for life, as well as senators appointed by the President "for outstanding patriotic merits in the social, scientific, artistic or literary field". There can only be five appointed senators in addition to the  ones at any one time.
VIII: Technically, the House of Representatives only has 65 members; the additional two seats are overhang seats to ensure a majority of MPs for the party which gained the most votes in the 2017 election.
IX: The name Zgromadzenie Narodowe is only used on the rare occasions when both houses sit together.

See also
List of political systems in France

References

 Political System
European Union-related lists
Political systems