[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Everyone Worth Knowing

Everyone Worth Knowing is Lauren Weisberger's second novel. Published in 2005, it tells the story of Bette Robinson, a single woman in New York City caught up in the city's party circuit through a new job in public relations.

Although similar in many ways to her bestselling debut, The Devil Wears Prada, it did not sell as well.

Plot introduction
The story takes place in the mid-2000s, probably in 2005 (the Iraq War is referred to in passing, and the 2004 U.S. presidential election is discussed as if it were in the recent past), mostly in New York but with departures to Istanbul and Poughkeepsie.

Explanation of title

Plot summary

Shaken by the news that her best friend Penelope has gotten engaged to Avery, who neither she nor Penelope's other friends think is right for her, Bette Robinson suddenly quits her job at UBS, the investment banking firm where she has worked in the five years since she and Penelope graduated from Emory. However, she does little to find a new direction in life until her uncle Will, an aging nationally syndicated entertainment columnist, introduces her to event planner Kelly.

Shortly thereafter, Bette finds herself working for Kelly & Co., planning parties, eating and drinking at the city's most fashionable night spots ... and becoming a regular subject of a popular online gossip column, whose anonymous author seems determined to link her romantically to wealthy playboy Philip Weston. While she does find Philip somewhat attractive, much like the heroines of the romance novels she secretly indulges in, and the association becomes of great benefit to her in her new job, she is later drawn to Sammy, a bouncer at Bungalow 8 who turns out to be from her hometown of Poughkeepsie and harbors ambitions of being a chef.

The two connect on a trip to Istanbul, and Sammy's culinary skills impress Bette's parents, former 1960s radicals, on a Thanksgiving trip back to Poughkeepsie. But he, too, is tied to a wealthy socialite, and dreams of escaping the high life to open a small restaurant. Bette, meanwhile, finds herself growing distant from Penelope and her other friends, and must choose between the person she once was and the one she is becoming.

Characters in "Everyone Worth Knowing"

Bettina "Bette" Robinson, a 27-year-old single woman living in Manhattan. With her personal and professional lives stagnant, she leaves her investment banking job abruptly and winds up working for a top public relations firm. She is secretly addicted to reading trashy romance novels and belongs to a reading group of similarly inclined women
Penelope ("Pen" for short), Bette's friend from their days at Emory University and co-worker at UBS, despite their very different backgrounds. In the first chapter, she becomes engaged to Avery, a long-time family friend Bette (and other friends of Pen) don't think is right for her.
Will Davis, Bette's uncle, writer of the once-popular "Will of the People" syndicated entertainment column whose writings have increasingly taken a bent toward  politically conservative rants.
Simon, Will's partner, who remains deeply in love with him despite vastly different political leanings.
Kelly, Bette's boss, who runs the hot public relations firm Kelly & Co.
Philip Weston, a wealthy British playboy, nominally a lawyer, to whom Bette is publicly linked as a girlfriend even though the two are never more than friends. She finds him attractive despite a cruel streak and a condescending attitude to women, until she comes across him having sex with another man.
Abigail "Abby" Abrams, an acquaintance of Bette and Pen from Emory who writes as "Ellie Insider", an online gossip columnist for the fictional website New York Scoop, while she is ostensibly just another freelance writer. A sociopath, she delights in causing emotional pain to other women, without seeming to do so directly, and will advance her interests by using people in any way possible, including sexually.
Samuel "Sammy" Stevens, a bouncer at Bungalow 8 and aspiring chef. Bette knew him in high school, although not well, and is increasingly drawn to him.
Avery Wainwright, Pen's fiancé. Like her, he is from New York's established society. However, he seems to have no career plans, other than applying to law school to put that decision off for a few more years.
Elisa, a co-worker of Bette's at Kelly & Co. A cocaine addict, she secretly feeds information about Bette to Abby out of jealousy over her perceived relationship with Phillip.
Davide, another Kelly & Co. employee. Of vaguely defined, probably Italian background, he or (more likely) his family is apparently wealthy and profligate enough for him to be eligible for an American Express black card.
Robert Robinson, Bette's father, a professor of ecology at Vassar College. His wife works for the college's health center. The two met at Berkeley in the 1960s, where they became the political radicals they remain today, to the point that they do not celebrate Thanksgiving and were once