[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Habbani Jews

ng legal decisions. Despite this religious zeal, voluntary conversions of Habbani Jews to Islam were not uncommon, which often put the community in conflict with each other.

There were a number of characteristics that made the Jews of Habban in modern times distinct from the Jews of Northern Yemen.

Their outer appearance and clothing.
Their food and its preparation.
Their distinct profession (they were  silversmiths).
There were no Kohanim or Levites among them.
Their unique traditions on holidays and happy occasions.
Their version of the prayers and piyutim

Though isolated, the Jews of Habban did maintain some level of contact with other Yemenite Jewish communities though said contact was infrequent and usually resulted from some quarrel over some point of Jewish law.

Habbani Jews were described as taller and more muscular than their Muslim neighbors.  The men did not sport peyot like other Yemeni Jews, and, rather than covering their heads, wore an oiled thong through their characteristically long hair.  They plucked their mustaches, distinct from other Jews, but similar to neighboring Muslims.  They wore a blue prayer shawl over one shoulder, or walked bare chested, smearing their torsos with sesame oil and indigo.  A course calico loincloth, died indigo, covered their bottom, and they typically walked barefoot or with sandals.  The women wore their hair in tiny braids, and wore loose-fitting embroidered dresses.

Unlike the Jews of northern Yemen, the Habbani Jews wore a jambiya or curved knife, matznaph (turban) and avne`t (sash).  It was very uncommon for Jews in Yemen, outside of Habban, to wear the Jambiya.

Habbani Jews practiced polygyny, which usually accounted for 10-20% of marriages.  A co-wife in Habbani culture was referred to as "sarra", or ‘[potential] discord’ and was brought into the household without consent of the existing wives. Most women were prepubescent at the time of their first marriage.

Affiliation with Chabad
According to researcher Kevin Avruch, about half of the Habbani in Israel are affiliated with the Chabad-Lubavitch Hasidic movement in some way. According to anthropologist Laurence Loeb, the religious integration and influence of Chabad has reshaped Habbani culture. Traditional Habbani values are praised and valued by the Chabad affiliates, although a preference for Chabad values is also held. Some tensions occurred during the 1960s and 1970s when Chabad culture was first introduced to the Habbani, but by the 1990s community resistance to Chabad had faded. The community had welcomed the piety introduced through Chabad education but had taken offence to differences in religious ritual. By the 1980s, Chabad Habbani had established a synagogue and founded the Alon Bareqqet journal dedicated to the synthesis of Chabad teachings and Habbani values.

See also
Adeni Jews
Yemenite Jews
Abrahamic religion
Demographics of Yemen
History of the Jews in the Arabian Peninsula
History of the Jews under Muslim rule
Jewish exodus from Arab lands
Jews of the Bilad el-Sudan (West Africa)
Judaism and Islam
List of Jews from the Arab World
Mizrahi Jews
Yehoshua Sofer

References

Further reading
 Ahroni, Reuben (1994). "The Jews of the British Crown Colony of Aden: history, culture, and ethnic relations." Brill.
 Belcove-Shalin, Janet S. (1995). "New world Hasidim: ethnographic studies of Hasidic Jews in America." SUNY Press.
 Boyar, Daniel (Apr.,1978). "On the History of the Babylonian Jewish Aramaic Reading Traditions: The Reflexes of *a and *ā." Journal of Near Eastern Studies, Vol. 37, No. 2, Colloquium on Aramaic Studies, pp. 141–160.
 Goldberg, Harvey E. (1996). "Sephardi and Middle Eastern Jewries: history and culture in the modern era." Jewish Theological Seminary of America.
 Klorman, Bat-Zion Eraqi (Fall 2007). “Muslim Society as an Alternative: Jews Converting to Islam,” Jewish Social Studies n.s. 14, no. 1 :89–118.
 Kutscher, E. Y.(1966) "Yemenite Hebrew and Ancient Pronunciation," JSS 11: 217-25.
 Towne, Bradford (1990). "Generational Change in Skin Color Variation among Habbani Yemeni Jews" Human Biology, 62:1 (1990:Feb.).
 Weingrod, Alex (1985). "Studies in Israeli ethnicity: after the ingathering." Gordon and Breach Science Publishers.

Jews and Judaism in Yemen
Jewish Yemeni history
Jewish tribes of Arabia
Jewish ethnic groups
Yemenite Jews
People from Shabwah Governorate
Ethnic groups in the Middle East