[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jack Ridley (pilot)

ht had fallen, Ridley led a team of engineers into a darkened hangar. There, he placed a flashlight on the horizontal tail and climbed into the cockpit. The flashlight beam, moving across the hangar door in response to his control inputs, easily revealed a lag problem, which could soon be corrected.

He never really turned off the computational portion of his mind, even when he was absorbed in other work. One evening found him deep in conversation at the officers club, planning the engineering aspects of an upcoming test series with the project pilot for the XF-91 rocket-assisted fighter program. Four master's degree hopefuls from MIT were seated at a nearby table, fretting at their inability to solve a complex problem which they had been assigned. Never breaking the thread of his own conversation, Ridley abruptly handed the students a notepad he had been scribbling on: "Would this help you any?" Cries of joy followed by hearty thumps on his back acknowledged his ingenious solution to their dilemma.

From project engineer, he was selected to be chief of the Test Engineering Branch. From this post he was subsequently promoted to Chief, Flight Test Engineering Laboratory. The responsibility of this division-level organization was to carry out the research and engineering phases of all of the experimental flight test programs assigned to the AFFTC, including overseeing such details as the human factors program and overseeing the weighing and balancing of aircraft. Ridley's new organization included separate branches for Data Reduction, Performance Engineering and Flight Research. It was in this post that he made his longest-lasting contributions to the science of flight testing.

Working with the Flight Test Center's Technical Director, Paul Bikle, he defined the basic flight test techniques that are still used by the Air Force Flight Test Center. Aiming to reduce the increasing length of time and costs required to determine the results of the center's flight tests, they standardized all of its data acquisition methods and set up a centralized Data Processing System. This made it possible for test teams to analyze their test data more rapidly, and to publish their Technical Reports more quickly. He also established training and indoctrination procedures for new military and civilian flight test engineers. Impressing his own long-thought-out ideals upon these changes and goals, Ridley is still credited for creating the Flight Test Center's basic philosophy in use today.

By this point in his career, his professional reputation had already spread far afield. Dr. Theodore von Kármán, Chairman of the Advisory Group for Aeronautical Research and Development (AGARD), nominated Ridley to represent the United States on its Flight Test Techniques Panel. This appointment was a signal honor. AGARD, a Standing Group of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization had been created to bring together the leading aeronautical experts from each of the member nations to find ways to use aviation research and development personnel and facilities for the common benefit of the member nations. Ridley served in this position from 1952 until 1956.

Ridley was promoted to full colonel in 1956 and became a member of the U.S. Military Assistance Advisory Group-Japan.

Death and legacy
Flying as co-pilot in a C-47 over Japan on March 12, 1957, Ridley died at age 41 when the transport crashed into a snow-covered Mt. Shirouma, northwest of Tokyo. In 1980, the Ridley Mission Control Center at Edwards Air Force Base was dedicated in Ridley's honor. In the 1983 film The Right Stuff, Ridley was portrayed, including beyond the time of his death, by Levon Helm. Scenes with the Bell X-1 occurred while Ridley was still alive. However, the scene in which Yeager crashes the Lockheed F-104 Starfighter in 1963 occurred after Ridley's death in the 1957 plane crash.
 
In 1996, Ridley was inducted into the Aerospace Walk of Honor and was inducted into the National Aviation Hall of Fame in Dayton, Ohio, in 2004. He was survived by his wife, Nell, and son Jack Ridley, Jr. He is buried at Arlington National Cemetery.

References

1915 births
1957 deaths
Air Force Institute of Technology alumni
American aerospace engineers
American mechanical engineers
American test pilots
Aviators from Oklahoma
Aviators killed in aviation accidents or incidents in Japan
California Institute of Technology alumni
People from Garvin, Oklahoma
People from Sulphur, Oklahoma
20th-century American engineers
United States Air Force colonels
United States Army Air Forces pilots of World War II
United States Army officers
University of Oklahoma alumni
U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School alumni
Victims of aviation accidents or incidents in 1957