[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1916–17 NHA season

The 1916–17 NHA season was the eighth and final season of the National Hockey Association. Six teams were to play two half-seasons of ten games each, but this was disrupted and only four teams finished the season. The Montreal Canadiens defeated the Ottawa Senators in a playoff to win the NHA championship.

The NHA franchise of the dormant Shamrocks was taken back from its owner Eddie Livingstone and used by the Toronto 228th Battalion, which had a number of NHA hockey players who had enlisted for military service. Also known as the Northern Fusiliers, the team played wearing khaki military uniforms and was the league's most popular and highest scoring club until the regiment was ordered overseas in February 1917 and the team was forced to withdraw. A scandal ensued when several stars were subsequently discharged, not having to fight and alleged they had been promised commissions solely to play hockey. The NHA would sue the 228th Battalion club for its withdrawal, though ultimately did not succeed.

A dispute also erupted over the playing schedule. After the 228th suspended play, the Toronto Blueshirts club was suspended for the rest of the season by the league, and some of its players played for other clubs for the rest of the schedule. The league intended for the players to be returned at the end of the season to whoever would own the Toronto club then. As the sale did not take place, the league kept them. The owner of the Blueshirts would file several lawsuits over the league's actions, sparking the events that led to the founding of the National Hockey League (NHL).

League business

The Ottawa club wanted to suspend play for the season due to the war, but was voted down.

Executives
Emmet Quinn resigned as president on October 18, 1916.

 Frank Robinson, Montreal (president)
 Frank Calder, (secretary-treasurer)

Directors:
 S. E. Lichtenhein, Wanderers,
 G. W. Kennedy, Canadiens
 Martin Rosenthal, Ottawa
 E. J. Livingstone, Toronto
 Capt. L. W. Reade, 228th
 Mike J. Quinn, Quebec

Rule changes

A split-schedule of two halves would be used.

The single-referee system would be reinstated.

Throwing the stick to prevent a goal would mean the award of an automatic goal for the other team.

Regular season

Suspending the Blueshirts
On February 10, 1917, the Blueshirts played their final game, losing 4–1 at home to Ottawa. The following day, a meeting of the NHA executive in Montreal was held to deal with the 228th Battalion leaving for overseas. Toronto proposed continuing with a five-team league, but the other owners instead voted to suspend Toronto's team. The players were dispersed by a drawing of names. The following day, President Robinson was quoted as stating that the players would return to the club after the season, but he would not guarantee that the club would be allowed to return to play, stating that would be decided at the NHA annual meeting. On February 13, Livingstone issued a statement that he was through with the NHA and that the Blueshirts franchise was available to the highest bidder. Livingstone was going to work on the opening of several arenas and a new hockey league in the United States.

Continuing the season
Ottawa, while not unhappy at the suspension of Toronto, nevertheless lost a game for the use of Cy Denneny in a game against the 228th, and saw the Wanderers and Quebec receive wins for games against the 228th. The club threatened to not play for the rest of the season. However, cooler heads prevailed and Ottawa went back to work.

The following weekend, Harry Meeking and Eddie Oatman arrived in Montreal, after being discharged by the 228th after arriving in Saint John, New Brunswick. Oatman charged that the 228th owed him $700 for his commission for his play with the 228th. As Oatman had gotten out of being drafted into the PCHA by being a member of the 228th, this set the Ottawa on again to reverse the game decision, claiming that Oatman was ineligible.

Livingstone lawsuits
On March 3, the Blueshirts were reinstated, with the instruction that the club must be sold within 60 days. On March 9, Livingstone filed lawsuits against the NHA and its clubs, seeking damages, the prevention of the other teams employing his players, forfeiture of the NHA club bonds, the declaration that his team suspension was illegal and the dissolution of the NHA, over its actions. Livingstone served one of the notices to Martin Rosenthal of the Ottawa Senators during the final game of the Montreal-Ottawa playoff. Livingstone asked Rosenthal to 'look them over when he had the chance' and Rosenthal left the envelope unopened until NHA Secretary Frank Calder called Rosenthal to ask if they had received any notices of Livingstone's legal actions. On March 18, Livingstone was granted a restraining order against the other teams to prevent the sale of the team.