[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Typhoon Chanchu

om the Masbate ferry wreck. The storm damaged 5,630 homes, and destroyed 1,013 others, forcing 53,307 people to leave their homes. Agricultural losses totaled ₱71.57 million (PHP, US$1.3 million), chiefly to the corn harvest, with an additional ₱46 million (PHP, US$850,000) in infrastructure damage.

While stalled over the South China Sea, Chanchu's large circulation caused an increase in rainfall over Malaysia. The typhoon brought the onset of the summer monsoon in the South China Sea after shifting the prevailing winds over the region.

Vietnam
While moving slowly through the South China Sea, Chanchu produced strong waves that struck the east coast of Vietnam. The associated flooding washed away many shrimp from coastal ponds and also entered Thu Bồn River, thus preventing its use as a source for irrigation for about  of rice paddy fields. Due to its unexpected change in course and ferocity, Chanchu caught dozens of ships off guard and damaged communications, sinking 17 ships and damaging several others. Initially, there were 400 fishermen missing, although there was conflicting information with regard to the number of ships and people affected, particularly with ships near Hainan or Taiwan. Following a request from the Vietnamese government, the Chinese government deployed rescue ships on May 19, a day after the storm made its final landfall. Offshore Quảng Ngãi Province, 94 fishermen sought refuge on a Chinese island, and 22 boats were found on Pratas Island (Tungsha/Dongsha), Taiwan (ROC). One Chinese ship rescued 97 fishermen, but also found 18 people killed. Chinese ships ultimately rescued 330 fishermen from 22 boats and provided them with food and water; this was the country's largest oceanic rescue at the time. Two Vietnamese boats departed from Quảng Ngãi to assist crews on damaged boats attempting to return to port. Medical teams greeted the ships returning to harbor, while an altar was set up for the deceased. After two weeks, the government of Vietnam ended the search, with 21 bodies found, and the remaining 220 missing fishermen presumed killed.

China

Typhoon Chanchu was the earliest on record to strike Guangdong at the time, having struck the country 44 days earlier than the average date for the first strike. Rainfall in the country spread across Guangdong, Fujian, Jiangxi, and Zhejiang, and Chanchu became the earliest typhoon to affect Shanghai in 80 years. Rainfall totaled over  in southeastern Guangdong and southwestern Fujian. In the former province, wind gusts peaked at  in Huilai.

Upon striking China, Chanchu produced deadly flooding and landslides along its path, with flooding spreading as far northeast as Zhejiang province. One landslide in Fujian killed eight people and wrecked two houses. In Guangdong and Fujian, Chanchu wrecked 14,000 houses and damaged over  of crop fields. Damage was particularly heavy in Shantou, Guangdong, where Chanchu moved ashore. There were about 200 flooded houses, and many roads covered, after rivers flooded from the heavy rainfall. The storm also caused power outages in Shantou, and damage there totaled ¥2.56 billion yuan (RMB, US$320 million). In nearby Xiamen, the typhoon forced 43 factories to temporarily close, resulting in a loss of ¥62.2 million yuan (RMB, US$7.8 million). The storm killed eight people in Guangdong, five of them due to traffic accidents, and a further 15 in Fujian. Overall damage was estimated at ¥7 billion yuan (RMB, US$872 million), roughly evenly split between Guangdong and Fujian. This was less than expected given the winds at landfall.

While passing east of Hong Kong, the outer rainbands of Chanchu dropped  of rainfall at Sha Tin. Sustained winds in the territory reached , while gusts reached , both recorded at Tate's Cairn. Chanchu produced a storm surge of , causing minor flooding, sinking a yacht, and injuring one person who was swept into the sea. The storm downed several trees and damaged some scaffolding. Six people were injured in the territory, including three on a jetfoil bound for Macau.

Taiwan, Japan, and South Korea
High waves in Taiwan washed an oil tanker ashore in Kaohsiung City; all 13 crew members were rescued with helicopters. In Kaohsiung County, the typhoon wrecked several dikes in coastal cities. Chanchu also produced heavy rainfall on the island, causing flooding and landslides, the latter of which covered a highway. Swollen rivers swept away three farmers in Hualien County, who were later rescued, and killed two sisters in Pingtung County underneath the Sandimen Bridge.

In Nishihara, Okinawa, high waves caused by Chanchu swept away three bathers. The Japan Coast Guard rescued one, another was killed, and the third remained missing as of May 23. The remnants of Chanchu produced  of rainfall in Gifu Prefecture in combination with a nearby cold front, causing one landslide. A fallen tree in Nagasaki Prefecture caused a small power outage, and nearby there was a damaged home.