[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Florida in the American Civil War

ation Proclamation during a ceremony in Tallahassee, officially ending slavery in Florida. That same day, his jubilant troopers raised the U.S. flag over the state capitol building. Tallahassee was the penultimate Confederate state capital to rejoin the Union. Austin, Texas, rejoined the next month.

Yulee was imprisoned for helping Jefferson Davis escape, and Lesley hid Judah Benjamin in a swamp before he fled to the Gamble Mansion.

Following the end of the Civil War, Florida was part of the Third Military District.

Lewis Thornton Powell, a member of the Booth Conspiracy from Live Oak, was hanged in Washington and later buried in Geneva, Florida.

Restoration to Union
After meeting the requirements of Reconstruction, including ratifying amendments to the US Constitution to abolish slavery and grant citizenship to former slaves, Florida's representatives were readmitted to Congress. The state was fully restored to the United States on June 25, 1868. Convention delegate E.C. Love was a leader in restoring the Democratic Party in Florida.

Although the military forces in Florida were to leave on July 4, 1868 (following the restoration to the Union), Governor Reed requested the continuation of Union forces. Almost nine years later, as part of the Compromise of 1877, in which Southern Democrats would acknowledge Republican Rutherford B. Hayes as president, Republicans agreed to meet certain demands. One such demand that affected Florida was the removal of all US military forces from the former Confederate states. At the time, US troops remained in only Louisiana, South Carolina, and Florida, but the Compromise completed their withdrawal from the region.

See also 

 List of Florida Confederate Civil War units
 List of Florida Union Civil War units

Notes

References

Further reading

 Brown, Canter. Tampa in Civil War & Reconstruction, University of Tampa Press, 2000. .
 Eicher, John H., and Eicher, David J., Civil War High Commands, Stanford University Press, 2001, .
 Johns, John Edwin. Florida During the Civil War (University of Florida Press, 1963)
 
 Nulty, William H. Confederate Florida: The Road to Olustee (University of Alabama Press, 1994)
 Taylor, Paul. Discovering the Civil War in Florida: A Reader and Guide (2nd edition). Sarasota, Fl. Pineapple Press, 2012. 
 U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, 70 volumes in 4 series. Washington, D.C.: United States Government Printing Office, 1880–1901.

External links

 Cannonball at A History of Central Florida Podcast
 Florida and the Civil War, open access digital collection of materials from the PK Yonge Library of Florida History
 Florida Memory Project - State Archives
 National Park Service map of Civil War sites in Florida 
Journal of the Secession Convention

 
.American Civil War
American Civil War by state
American Civil War
 
Western Theater of the American Civil War