[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Al Golden

T-shirts at their official bookstore. On the day of the game itself, fans posted mock "Missing Persons" notices throughout Tallahassee questioning the whereabouts of the formerly feared Hurricanes program as they welcomed them for their biennial visit to Tallahassee and FSU's Doak Campbell Stadium.

After being identified as a 7-point home underdog to Clemson in Week 8, many in national media picked Miami to have a good chance at covering the spread and possibly even upset the Tigers. Despite this, Clemson jumped out to a 45–0 lead before pulling out their starters. Clemson handed the Hurricanes their worst loss in the 90-year history of the program as the Hurricanes fell by a score of 58–0. This then led the University of Miami athletic director Blake James to dismiss Golden as head coach, only a day after the loss. Golden was 32-25 (17-18 in the ACC) in over four seasons with the Hurricanes. Golden announced after his firing that "On behalf of my family I want to thank the University of Miami for a tremendous opportunity," Golden said in a release. "I believe in what we are doing and how we are doing it and we have some outstanding young men in our football program. Though this moment is difficult, we wish the Canes the best of luck going forward."

Detroit Lions
On February 1, 2016, Golden was named tight ends coach of the Detroit Lions. On February 7, 2018, Golden was named linebackers coach of the Lions. He was fired December 31, 2019.

Cincinnati Bengals
Golden was hired by the Cincinnati Bengals as their linebackers coach on January 20, 2020. He missed the team's week 10 game in 2020 against the Pittsburgh Steelers due to COVID-19 pandemic protocols.

Notre Dame
On February 16, 2022, Golden was announced as the new defensive coordinator at Notre Dame, serving under recently-promoted head coach Marcus Freeman.

Personal life
A native of Colts Neck, New Jersey, Golden graduated from Red Bank Catholic High School, Red Bank, New Jersey, and earned his undergraduate degree in pre-law from Pennsylvania State University in 1991 before receiving his master's in sports psychology from the University of Virginia in December 1996.  A 2004 inductee of the Jersey Shore Sports Hall of Fame, he is married to Kelly Elizabeth Hanna of Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, and has a son, A.J.(Alfred James II) Golden, and two daughters, Addison Elizabeth Golden and Grace Hanna Golden.

For most of his head coaching career, Golden wore a dress shirt, slacks, and a tie in school colors on the sidelines, unlike most coaches of his generation.

Head coaching record

‡ Ineligible for Atlantic Coast Conference title, bowl game and Coaches Poll

References

External links
 Notre Dame profile

1969 births
Living people
American football tight ends
Boston College Eagles football coaches
Cincinnati Bengals coaches
Detroit Lions coaches
Miami Hurricanes football coaches
New England Patriots players
Notre Dame Fighting Irish football coaches
Penn State Nittany Lions football players
Temple Owls football coaches
Virginia Cavaliers football coaches
High school football coaches in New Jersey
Red Bank Catholic High School alumni
People from Colts Neck Township, New Jersey
Players of American football from Monmouth County, New Jersey
Coaches of American football from New Jersey