[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# St. Paul's Institution

Saint Paul's Institution (; abbreviated SPI) is an all-boys (and girls for form 6) and one of the oldest schools in Seremban and also in the country. The school is widely known as SPI and the students of St Paul's Institution are called Paulians.

The school is named after Saint Paul.

SPI Secondary was founded in 1899 by Father Catesson of the Paris Foreign Missions Society in Seremban, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia. Its aim was to provide an English education to "The boys of Seremban and its outstations".

St Paul's School, as it was then called, was the first English school in Negeri Sembilan. It was declared open on 18 June 1899 by Sir Charles Mitchell, the Governor of the Straits Settlements cum ex-officio British High Commissioner for the Federated Malay States, assisted by the acting British Resident for Negeri Sembilan, Sir E.W. Birch. There was an initial enrolment of 25 students, accommodated in a provisional building under protem headmaster, P.V. Coelho.

It was later taken over by the La Sallian Brothers, which saw its student enrolment rise and new buildings being erected over the years.

History

La Sallian Brothers takeover
The La Sallian Brothers initial foothold in the region had been in Singapore and then Penang. Their good work there did not go unnoticed among the education authorities.

As early as 1904, Rev Bro Gabriel, Visitor of the Christian Brothers' Schools, had been asked if the Order would take over St. Paul's Institution. But demand for the Brothers was heavy - 1904 saw the establishment of St. John's Institution, Kuala Lumpur (SJI) - and there was no immediate response.

In Seremban, all was not well. Coelho was an excellent headmaster, but he was encountering great difficulty finding good teachers. Both the Mission and R.J. Wilkinson, the Federal Inspector of schools, saw the Brothers as the solution to St. Paul's Institution's woes.

Still, it was not till 1 April 1909 that urgent requests by the bishop of Malacca and director of education finally bore fruit. Rev Bro Gilbert, director of SJI, arrived in Seremban to take over St. Paul's Institution's on behalf of his order.

The school's rapid growth soon proved that long - distance supervision from Kuala Lumpur was not practical. On-the-spot management would be necessary, so Rev Bro Isidore-Albert was appointed director. His tenure was short, for after about four-and-half months he was called to his reward.

From the First World War to the outbreak of the Second
In the years following 1914, when Rev. Bro. Adrian Edmund replaced Rev. Bro. Basilian, St. Paul's grew under a succession of directors. The acquisition of neighbouring buildings relieved the congestion in the original blocks, which were now reserved for residential purposes, offices and a library.

Rev. Bro. Lewis Edward raised a temporary hall, made of wood, for concerts, assemblies and badminton. Bro Edward was a great sportsman - the St. Paul's Athletic Association (SPAA) won the premier state football trophy, the Hose Cup, for three straight years. A permanent school hall was built during the Directorship of Bro. Joseph Brophy. He also purchased a large bungalow from Towkay Siow Kon Chia and a large shophouse in Jalan Tuan Sheikh for conversion into additional classrooms.

Bro. Joseph's improvements, coming on earlier architectural initiatives by Rev. Bro. Barnitus Kennedy (1930–31) and Rev. Bro. John Lynam (1931–33), shaped the school quadrangle into a fine set of modern buildings as the 1930s wore on. A small playing field was devised by removing some old buildings, although the need for a proper-sized field was still felt.

The improving facilities were matched by a rising enrolment, which reached 550 in the 1920s. Many pupils were boarders-boys from outside Seremban who stayed in the school itself. To cater for the waxing student population, the number of teaching staff - especially Lay Masters - rose proportionally. By 1933 there were more than 550 students - at which plateau student numbers stabilised till after the War.

The Japanese Occupation
By 1941, war was raging in Europe and drawing closer to Malaya by the day. St. Paul's was under military occupation, and Rev. Bro. Henry (1941–46) had to improvise classrooms in borrowed buildings. Rev. Mother St. Pauline also placed the I J Convent Hall and some classrooms at his disposal.

Then came the invasion. On 13 January 1942, Japanese troops took Seremban - but the Brothers did not flee. Some endured the ignominy of detention; young Bro. Christian Lane died of Cerebral Malaria at the Bahau jungle community. Others were pillars of strength for their fellow inmates - Changi Prison internees so valued Bro. Sylvester's selflessness they presented him with a signed testimonial.