[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lloyd–La Follette Act

civil servants through unauthorized disclosures. Based on its analysis of disclosure laws and its stance on separation of powers, Justice argued that Congress cannot vest "in executive branch employees a right to provide classified information to members of Congress without official authorization."

In 1997, Congress adopted an anti-gag rule.  The government-wide prohibition on the use of appropriated funds to pay the salary of any federal official who prohibits or prevents or threatens to prohibit or prevent a federal employee from contacting Congress first appeared in the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 1998, , , (1997). In 1997, the Senate passed a prohibition that applied only to the Postal Service, while the House of Representatives passed a government-wide prohibition. The conference report adopted the House version, and a government-wide prohibition has been included in every Treasury-Postal appropriations act since fiscal year 1998.

This provision has its antecedents in several older pieces of legislation, including the Treasury Department Appropriation Act of 1972, the Lloyd–La Follette Act of 1912, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978.

In 2006, Rep. John Conyers included the Lloyd–La Follette Act in a list of 26 laws that he contends President George W. Bush violated.

See also 
 Civil Service
 First Amendment to the United States Constitution
 United States civil service
 Whistleblower

References

External links 
 GovExec.com briefing for July 23, 1997 
 CRS report on National Security Whistleblowers
 National Alliance of Postal and Federal Employees history

Civil service in the United States
Civil service reform in the United States
Discrimination in the United States
First Amendment to the United States Constitution
Freedom of expression law
Public administration
United States federal labor legislation
United States federal government administration legislation
Whistleblower protection legislation
1912 in American law
62nd United States Congress
United States federal legislation articles without infoboxes
Robert M. La Follette