[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Moviment Graffitti

Moviment Graffitti is a left-wing radical environmentalist non governmental organisation and pressure group in Malta.

Moviment Graffitti promotes an amalgamation of leftist sociopolitical ideas, mainly human rights, equality, environmentalism and anti-fascism. It was founded in 1994.

History 
Founded in 1994, the movement has maintained a central message promoting anti-racist, socially liberal and environmental sustainability ideologies despite a regular turnover of activists throughout three decades.

Journalist and former member James Debono describes the movement as "playfully left wing, anti-racist, socially liberal and largely focused on land use issues", listing French philosopher Louis Althusser and the musical activists Rage Against the Machine as influences in the movement's early formation and inspiring members' counterculture-based sense of identity.

In the 1990s, members largely relied on leaflets and pamphlets distributed at the University of Malta campus to communicate, as later captured in Guze Stagno’s novel Inbid ta’ Kuljum and in Karl Schembri's Il-Manifest tal-Killer. Both Stagno and Schembri are former members of the organisation.

The organisation initially used the premises of the defunct Maltese Communist Party in Strait Street, Valletta.

Current prominent members of the movement include Andre Callus (since the early 2000s) as well as LGBTI and pro-Palestine activist Alex Caruana.

Ideology 
The organisation's ideological references shifted between Marxism and anarchism, green politics and new left throughout the years.

Moviment Graffitti describes itself as standing "against the oppression and exploitation of people, the environment and animals", and for "social justice, equality and sustainability", "with a vision of freedom and radical democracy".

Issues 
Moviment Graffitti is known to campaign for issues related to fairer workers’ rights (such as an increase in the minimum wage), promoting economic and social equality, and protesting environment destruction, illegal developments and the privatisation of public space.

The organisation has also advocated for the right of migration for all and against a world with man-made borders, as well as working to eradicate racism and xenophobia by organising actions and information campaigns as well as pushing for migrants’ rights.

Moviment Graffitti has also campaigned for international solidarity with the plight of Palestinians in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, arguing that they face cruel and constant injustice and discrimination at the hands of the Israeli state.

Political positions 
Moviment Graffittii used to be close to the activists of Żminijietna (Voice of the Left), a similar left-wing organisation, for a brief period around 2000 . While before 1996 it was openly supportive of the Malta Labour Party, it later switched to closeness to Alternattiva Demokratika, Malta's green party, for whom it also worked as recruitment pool. Yet, it also cooperated with other organisations such as Studenti Demokristjani Maltin during the 1996 stipend protests.

Its main campaigns have been on land use issues, consistently protesting overdevelopment under any government, and building coalitions with different allies.

In terms of political positions, Moviment Graffitti opposed the 1994 Maltese concordat on marriage, called for the decriminalisation of abortion, endorsed Alfred Sant's Labour at the 1996 elections, and in 2000 supported Malta's EU accession bid. In 2011 Moviment Graffitti participated in the divorce referendum, campaigning for a yes vote.

Tactics 
Moviment Graffitti's most visible activities are direct actions to draw public attention to specific issues, including protest demonstrations, banner-drops, and sit-ins.

Actions have included activists chaining themselves to the trucks and barges, and carrying out hunger strikes.

While remaining autonomous from economic interests or political parties, Moviment Graffitti has regularly built coalitions and networks with like-minded stakeholders to work as a common front on issues such as racism, destruction of natural landscape and animal rights. It has regularly supported workers' struggles and voiced its stance in favour of workers' rights.

Moviment Graffitti frequently holds awareness-raising campaigns where it distributes information and engages in discussions in public spaces and other venues such as universities, schools, and youth centres via film-nights, talks, and discussions.

The movement has no formal organisation and decisions are taken during regular assembly meetings where anyone who shares the organisation's vision and principles can attend and contribute. Their activities are self-funded through membership-payment and fund-raising events held throughout the year.

Campaigns