[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1983–84 in English football

ford, Nottingham Forest, Tottenham Hotspur and Aston Villa – progress to the second round. Tottenham recorded a 14-0 aggregate victory over Irish side Drogheda United, while Watford came from 3-1 down against West German side Kaiserlautern in the first leg to win the second leg 3–0 at Vicarage Road.

30 September 1983: With six wins from seven matches, West Ham United are top of the First Division at the end of September, with Manchester United, Southampton, Liverpool and Ipswich Town completing the top five. Leicester City's terrible start to the season sees them prop up the top flight with only a single point from their opening seven games. Wolverhampton Wanderers (winless) and Stoke City (one win) complete the bottom three. Sheffield Wednesday head the race for promotion from the Second Division, followed closely behind by recently relegated Manchester City and a Huddersfield Town side who only won promotion from the Fourth Division four seasons ago. Middlesbrough, Charlton Athletic and Chelsea have also made a good start to the Second Division campaign.

1 October 1983: First Division leaders West Ham lose 3–1 to Stoke City at the Victoria Ground. Southampton cut their lead of the table to a single point with a 1–0 win over Wolves at The Dell. Ipswich keep up the pressure by beating Coventry City 2–1 at Highfield Road. Manchester United miss the chance to draw level on points with the leaders when Norwich City hold them to a 3–3 draw in the thrilling match at Carrow Road. Leicester's shambolic start to the season continues with a 2–1 away defeat to Birmingham City. In the Second Division, leaders Sheffield Wednesday beat Blackburn Rovers 4–2 at Hillsborough. Struggling Derby County lose 4–1 at home to Carlisle United. Newcastle United boost their promotion push with a 4–2 home win over Portsmouth. Brighton give their hopes of an instant return to the First Division a major boost by beating Charlton Athletic 7–0 at the Goldstone Ground. Fallen giants Leeds United lose 5–1 at Shrewsbury.

2 October 1983: In the first fully televised Football League match for 23 years, Tottenham beat Nottingham Forest 2–1 at White Hart Lane.

8 October 1983: Despite the lack of First Division today, all 22 Second Division clubs are in action. Craven Cottage is the scene of an eight-goal thriller in which Chelsea boost their promotion push with a 5–3 away win over West London rivals Fulham.

12 October 1983: England keep their faint hopes of European Championship qualification alive by beating Hungary 3–0 in Budapest in their penultimate qualifying game, but Denmark remain top of the group.

15 October 1983: First Division action returns with Manchester United beating West Bromwich Albion 3–0 at Old Trafford to go top of the First Division, with West Ham's lead of the table being ended by a 3–1 home defeat to Liverpool. Wolves are still without a victory nine games into the season after losing 3–2 at home to Tottenham.

16 October 1983: Nottingham Forest beat neighbours Notts County 3–1 at the City Ground in the only First Division action of the day.

20 October 1983: Coventry City sign 21-year-old full-back Stuart Pearce from Alliance Premier League side Wealdstone.

22 October 1983: Manchester United remain top of the First Division with a 1–0 win over Sunderland at Roker Park. A mid-table clash at Highbury sees Arsenal beat Nottingham Forest 4–1. Leicester City claim their second point of the season with a 2–2 draw at Ipswich, but are still winless after 10 league games.

23 October 1983: The only league action of the day sees Wolves draw 1–1 at home to local rivals Aston Villa in a First Division, making it three points after 10 games, but still no league victories.

26 October 1983: Giant-killings in the second round of the Football League Cup, as third-tier clubs Oxford United and Wimbledon knock out Newcastle United and Nottingham Forest. Elsewhere in round two, Leeds United overcome a 1–0 deficit from the first leg to beat the Football League's basement club Chester City 4–2 on aggregate and Lincoln City win on the night at home to Tottenham Hotspur but lose out on aggregate. There is no such joy for Bury, who lose 10–0 to West Ham at Upton Park (12-1 on aggregate) with teenage striker Tony Cottee scoring four goals.