[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1997 Albanian civil unrest

by 66.7% of the voters, while former Crown Prince Leka claimed that 65.7% voted in favour. Meanwhile, the parliamentary election result was an overwhelming victory for the opposition Socialist Party of Albania, which won 100 of the 151 seats, with the voter turnout being 72.6%.

Armed groups

Gangs

Taking advantage of the difficult situations, criminal groups armed themselves and took control of entire cities. Most leaders had been imprisoned in Greece, but suddenly escaped and returned to Albania. The most famous case is that of Zani Caushi, who escaped from the high-security prison of Larissa in February 1997 and, with a group of friends, established the gang of Çole in Vlora.

In Vlora five gangs were created, but two ruled the city: the gang of Zani and the gang of Gaxhai. Movement in the city started at 10:00, when people gathered in Flag's Square to hear the Committee of Rescue, and ended at 13:00. After that hour the streets were deserted and the only people who moved were gang members. Gangs announced through speakers and flyers that other people were not to go out as there would be fighting.

Each night brought attacks with explosives and shooting, leaving dozens dead. In Berat Altin Dardha's rule was even more severe. In Lushnje Aldo Bare's gang had control. The worst crime that this gang committed was to behead an opponent. Cities ruled by gangs were Vlora, Berat, Tepelena, Memaliaj, Ballshi, Saranda, Gjirokastra, Lushnja, Pogradec, Cerrik and Tropoja.
 Gang of Çole (), in Vlora, led by Myrteza Çaushi, known as "Partizan" and "Zani". Named after Çole neighbourhood, in the eastern part of the city, which it controlled. Supported SP.
 Kakami, in Vlora, led by Fredi Nehbiu. Controlled western district of Babice.
 Gang of Gaxhai (), in Vlora, led by Gazmend "Gaxhai" Braka. Named after leader. Members were from Cerkovinë, the city of Vlora and other southern cities, and was formed in March 1997 in Vlora. Their main rivals were the Çole. Supported DP.
 Gang of Muko, in Vlora.
 Gang of Altin Dardha, in Berat, led by Altin Dardha.
 Gang of Aldo Bare, in Lushnje, led by Aldo Bare.

Salvation Committees
Salvation Committees (also known as People's Committees or the Committee of Public Salvation []) were organizations created during the unrest. They were established in many regions of the country in order to usurp the functions of the Albanian state. They were most influential in the south, where early in the crisis the local Salvation Committees merged to form the National Salvation Committee and demanded the removal of President Sali Berisha.

Many committees were based on local organisations for the Socialist Party of Albania and saw themselves as protectors of democracy against authoritarian one-man rule. The Albanian government viewed them as similar to Communist-era local party organisations and therefore a potential threat of returning to Communist rule.

Timeline

January