[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jerome Frank

oever."

Frank's scholarly tendency bled over into his judicial opinions, some of which were notoriously lengthy. One anecdote relayed about this aspect of Frank's work tells of a law clerk who had objected to the length of one of Frank's opinions. According to the story:

Julius and Ethel Rosenberg

As a judge, Frank wrote the opinion in February 1952 affirming the convictions of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, who had been convicted of conspiracy to commit espionage. In reviewing the case as part of a three-judge panel, Frank rejected each of the Rosenbergs' arguments on appeal. Frank denied that the death penalty imposed on the Rosenbergs was cruel and unusual punishment, but privately he had advised trial judge Irving Kaufman not to sentence the Rosenbergs to death. In his opinion, he also suggested that the Supreme Court might want to revisit the questions about the death penalty for crimes similar to treason.

In a related case, however, Frank dissented from his two colleagues by voting to grant a new trial to an accused third conspirator, Morton Sobell. The jury, according to Frank, should have been permitted to decide whether Sobell had joined the other conspirators in their plan to send atomic information from Los Alamos to the Soviets, or had merely engaged in a separate, less significant conspiracy with Julius Rosenberg to transmit non-atomic information.

United States v. Roth

In the 1956 case United States v. Roth, Frank wrote a concurring opinion to the decision, which affirmed the obscenity conviction of a criminal defendant. In a lengthy appendix to his concurring opinion, Frank "drew on a host of historical, literary, and social science studies to point to the dangers and contradiction of all forms of government censorship of ideas and images". The case was affirmed by the United States Supreme Court the following year, in Roth v. United States, which noted Frank's approach. The concurrence has been asserted to be one of Frank's most important opinions, and one which set the stage for the direction the Supreme Court would take on such issues beginning in the 1960s.

Personal life and death

Frank married Florence Kiper on July 18, 1914, and they had their only child, daughter Barbara Frank, on April 10, 1917. Florence Frank, herself a poet and playwright, said of her husband: "Being married to Jerome is like being hitched to the tail of a comet". Frank enjoyed word games, puns, and charades.

Frank died on January 13, 1957, of a heart attack in New Haven, Connecticut.

Legacy

Frank's extensive personal and judicial papers are archived at Yale University and are mostly open to researchers. Yale Law School's clinical programs are housed in the Jerome N. Frank Legal Services Organization, named in recognition of Frank's early championing of adding a clinical component to legal education.

Works

Frank had published many influential books, including Law and the Modern Mind (1930), which argues for ‘legal realism’ and emphasizes the psychological forces at work in legal matters. In 1965, his daughter Barbara Frank Kristein published A Man's Reach: The Selected Writings of Judge Jerome Frank, with a foreword by William O. Douglas and an introduction by Edmond Cahn of New York University School of Law. At least one legal commentator has written that "[f]ew jurisprudential writers have aroused such prolonged public controversy as Jerome Frank".

Law and the Modern Mind (Transaction Publishers, 1930), , .
Save America First (New York and London: Harper & Brothers Publishers, 1938)
If Men Were Angels (New York and London: Harper & Brothers Publishers, 1942), ISBN B007T2DFLS
Fate and Freedom (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1945)
Courts on Trial (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1949), 
Not Guilty (Garden City, N. Y.: Doubleday & Company Inc., 1957)

See also
 Legal realism
 List of Jewish American jurists

References

Sources and further reading
 
 Neil Duxbury 1991: "Jerome Frank and the Legacy of Legal Realism", in Journal of Law and Society, Vol.18, No.2 (Summer 1991), pp. 175–205.
 Robert Jerome Glennon, The Iconoclast as Reformer: Jerome Frank's Impact on American Law (Cornell U. Press, 1985). 252 pp.
 Barbara Frank Kristein, A Man's Reach: The Philosophy of Judge Jerome Frank (1965).
 Julius Paul, The Legal Realism of Jerome N. Frank: A Study of Fact-Skepticism and the Judicial Process (1959).
 J. Mitchell Rosenberg, Jerome Frank: Jurist and Philosopher (1970).
 Jordan A. Schwarz, The New Dealers: Power politics in the age of Roosevelt (Vintage, 2011) pp 177–194. online
 Walter E. Volkomer, The Passionate Liberal. The Political and Legal Ideas of Jerome Frank (1970).

External links

 
Jerome New Frank papers (MS 222). Manuscripts and Archives, Yale University Library.