[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Georgia–Russia relations

Russia and Georgia have had relations for centuries. The contacts between the two date back to the 15th and 16th centuries, and the most important stage started in 1580s, when Georgian kingdom of Kakheti and Russian Empire signed a treaty of alliance in 1587. Since then, Georgia-Russia relations have been developing vibrantly, and culminated in Treaty of Georgievsk, which established eastern Georgia as a protectorate of Russia. At that time, Georgia saw Russia as a powerful Christian and modernizing neighbor, capable of protecting Georgia from invading Muslim empires and North Caucasian raiders. Although Russia did help Georgia to ward off Lezgin invasions, it failed to protect Georgia when Persia invaded in 1795. Catherine the Great later imposed punitive measures against Persia, but they were cut short by her death. In 1800, Paul signed a proclamation on the incorporation of eastern Georgia into the Russian Empire, which was finalized the following year by Tsar Alexander I. This was followed by annexation by Russia of western Georgian kingdoms and principalities and their incorporation into Russian Empire, namely, Kingdom of Imereti in 1810, Principality of Guria in 1829, Principality of Svaneti in 1858 and Principality of Mingrelia in 1867. Incorporation into the empire ended Muslim invasions and brought peace to Georgia. Russian Empire ended slave trade by Ottomans in western Georgia, which saved Georgia's shrinking population from demographic catastrophe. It also provided Georia with means for a cultural revival, such as Tiflis Imperial Theater, which was opened in 1852 and revitalized Georgia's long-abandoned theatrical tradition. Georgian intellectuals pursued their education in universities of Moscow and Saint Petersburg and brought new ideas to Georgia. However, loss of sovereignty and abolition of the autocephalous status of the Georgian Orthodox Church, along with Russification policy, gave rise to public discontent and rebellions. As a result of Russo-Turkish wars of 1828-1829 and 1877-1878, Russia acquired the historical southern Georgian provinces, such as Adjara and Meskheti from the Ottomans. The unification of historical Georgian lands under Russian Empire and national consolidation of Georgia gave rise to Georgian nationalism, spearheaded by "Tergdaleulebi" movement, a group of Russian-educated Georgian intellectuals led by Ilia Chavchavadze who brought modern nationalist ideas into Georgia. They campaigned against Russification and promoted national identity among Georgians through "Society for the Spreading of Literacy among Georgians" and newspaper Iveria. Their vision did not envisage an outright revolt for independence, but demanded autonomy within the reformed Russian Empire, with greater cultural freedom, promotion of the Georgian language, and support for Georgian educational institutions and the national church. This movement instilled strong sense of national cohesiveness among Georgians, which were divided between various Georgian regional feudal kingdoms and Muslim empires throughout middle ages, and paved the path to the independence, which Georgia regained following the collapse of Russian Empire in 1917. The Menshevik government of Georgia transformed the image of now Bolshevik-led Russia from a source of enlightment into Asiatic state imbued with oriental backwardness and sough ties with the West through its links to Second International. The short-lived Georgian independence ended when Georgia was incorporated in the Soviet Union as the Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic in 1922. The bilateral Russo-Georgian ties were strained again in 1991 due to Moscow's support of separatist regions within Georgia and its intentions to join NATO. Russo-Georgian relations briefly began to improve during the Shevardnadze's presidency, but they became strained again after the Rose Revolution in Georgia. The tensions led to the Russo-Georgian War in August 2008, and diplomatic relations were broken. To this day, the two countries have maintained no formal diplomatic relations since.

Historical context 
Bilateral relations between Georgia and Russia date back hundreds of years and remain complicated despite certain religious and historical ties that exist between the two countries and their people. Following the Fall of Constantinople, throughout the early modern period, Georgians became politically fractured and were dominated by the Ottoman Empire and successive dynasties of Iran. Georgians started looking for allies and found the Russians on the political horizon as a replacement for their long-lost Orthodox ally the Byzantine Empire, "for the sake of the Christian faith". The Georgian kings and Russian tsars exchanged no less than 17 embassies from the 16th to the 18th centuries, which ultimately culminated in the first formal alliance between Georgia and Russia in 1783, when King Heraclius II of Eastern Georgia (Kartli-Kakheti) signed the Treaty of Georgievsk with the Russian Empire.