[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nils Malmros

s: a Bodil Award for Jan Weincke's cinematography and an audience prize at the Lübeck Nordic Film Days. However, Tree of Knowledge is one of the top 100 Danish films listed by the Danish Film Institute and is one of ten films listed in the cultural canon of Denmark by the Danish Ministry of Culture.

Malmros made Beauty and the Beast (Skønheden og udyret) in 1983. The film describes the tensions between a father and daughter when he becomes over his daughter's developing relationships with boys. In 1984 Malmros won his third Bodil Award for Best Danish Film. The movie was also awarded the newly established Robert Award for Danish Film of the Year. He followed this with his 1989 film Århus by Night. The film was inspired by Malmros' experiences during the filming of Boys and many of the characters were obvious portraits of those involved from the earlier film. During filming Malmros came under criticism from the Actor's union for employing amateur actors. Malmros held a preview of the movie and was criticized for the surrealistic Freudian ending by reviewers, for example critic Klaus Rifberg. However, without Rifberg's knowledge, Malmros had seen the review and one week before the official premiere he removed the film's ending, thus shortening the film by 5 minutes. Malmros received pleasant but mild reviews of the film.

In 1992, Malmros shifted from his usual milieu and made the dramatic tragedy Pain of Love (Kærlighedens Smerte). Departing from Malmros' usual sentimental view of childhood, the film tells a beautiful but bitter story about a young college student whose small setbacks in school and relationships lead her toward an inexorable descent into suicidal depression. The film won both the Bodil and Robert awards in 1993 for Best Danish Film. Both Anne Louise Hassing and Søren Østergaard received the same awards for their leading roles and both supporting actors received Bodil awards as well.

For his next film, Malmros for the first time chose a story from outside of his childhood environs. Malmros' Barbara (1997) is an adaptation of the classic Danish novel by Jørgen-Frantz Jacobsen set in the Faroe Islands. The film about a minister who falls in love and marries a promiscuous woman received the Audience Award at the Rouen Nordic Film Festival as well as the 1998 Robert Award for Best Film. For his 2002 film, Facing the Truth (At kende sandheden), Malmros returned to his personal experience with semi-biographical tale about his father who was a pioneer in brain surgery. Shot in black-and-white documentary style, the film relates the hardships of a young neurosurgeon struggling through a medical lawsuit. Malmros, intent on the film's realism, used his surgical background by performing all of the film's brain surgery scenes himself. The film was nominated for the 2003 Bodil Award for Best Danish Film and Malmros accepted the 2003 Danish Film Academy's Robert Award for Film of the Year.

In 2009, Malmros released another coming-of-age story, Aching Hearts (Kærestesorger). Filmed over a three-year period with teenagers in Viborg, the movie repeated the filming techniques and themes from Malmros' Tree of Knowledge.

In 2013, Malmros wrote and directed Sorrow and Joy () about the tragic events in which his wife killed their 9-month-old daughter. It was selected as the Danish entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 87th Academy Awards, but was not nominated.

Personal life 
Malmros married school teacher Marianne Tromholt on 5 June 1982. Tromholt suffers from bipolar disorder. In 1984, while on a home visit from Risskov Psychiatric Hospital and off her medication, Tromholt killed the couple's 9-month-old daughter with a kitchen knife. Tromholt received 18 months of hospital treatment after which Malmros obtained her release. Tromholt returned to teaching at the request of her students' parents. She retired from teaching in 2012, prior to the release of Malmros' 2013 film Sorrow and Joy which recounts the tragic events.

As of 2013, Nils Malmros and Marianne Tromholt had lived in their Højbjerg home for 29 years.

Filmography