[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Jaja Wachuku

a Blue Seal and Key to the City of Atlanta, Georgia. As Speaker of the House; and subsequently, Wachuku, during the civil rights movement, unwaveringly supported African Americans plus all Americans and humankind of goodwill who saw the humane, enriching need for true and respectful racial equality.

Notably, It was during this period and during his years as First Nigerian Foreign Affairs Minister that Wachuku forged the reputed friendship that he had with three Presidents of the United States: Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. He was also good friends with Sam Rayburn: 48th, 50th and 52nd Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, Adlai Stevenson, Martin Luther King Jr., Marian Anderson, Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller, Henry Ford II, Israel's Golda Meir, Nikita Khrushchev, plus numerous leaders and people around the world.

First Ambassador to the United Nations

Notably, Time magazine described him as "Nigeria's dynamic U.N. Ambassador" – stating that because of his worthy, very lively and enthusiastic diplomatic style with a lot of energy, wisdom and determination: "Nigeria, less than two months after winning its independence, is on its way to becoming one of the major forces in Africa."
 
From 1960 to 1961, Wachuku served as first Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Nigeria to the United Nations in New York, as well as Federal Minister for Economic Development. He hoisted Nigeria's flag as the 99th member of the United Nations on 7 October 1960. Accordingly, Wachuku was instrumental to Nigeria becoming the 58th Member State of United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) on Monday 14 November 1960. Also, as First Ambassador of Nigeria to the United Nations, Wachuku represented the country at the independence celebrations of Tanganyika – now known as United Republic of Tanzania. At the United Nations, with support from UN Secretary General Dag Hammarskjöld, the member nations elected Wachuku the first African to chair a United Nations Conciliation Commission, making him Chairman of the Conciliation Commission for the Congo from January to March 1961. Initial proposal and nomination of Wachuku to be mediator in Congo came from Paul-Henri Spaak of Belgium, to which "Wachuku responded favorably on condition that U Thant, Cyrille Adoula and Moïse Tshombe agree."

Following a cabinet reshuffle at Nigeria's independence, Wachuku was appointed Minister of Economic Development and Member of the First Nigerian Delegation on the admission of Nigeria to the United Nations. On the eve of his departure from New York, the Prime Minister Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa invited Wachuku to his hotel suite and told him that he was leaving him behind as Leader of the Delegation and Ambassador plus Permanent Representative of Nigeria to the United Nations. Wachuku protested to Prime Minister Balewa – saying that he did not join the Delegation with the intention of staying in New York, and that he told his wife, Rhoda, that he would be away for only one week. Balewa replied: "Never mind, I will tell her when I arrive Lagos."

At the United Nations, he soon stood out in service to humankind, including a speech to the General Assembly which national and international media commended for his lambasting of the Eastern and Western Blocs for not ending their differences and quarrels when he stated: "I am losing confidence in the great powers. They are climbing from the pedestal of greatness to the pedestal of insanity. We expect leadership from them; they give us destruction. We expect wisdom from them; they give us lack of knowledge...."

Under Wachuku's leadership at the United Nations, both the Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Police Force made their début with the UN peacekeeping effort. During his time at the United Nations, Nigeria's Major-General Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi was appointed Commander of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in the Congo. Also, the first Nigerian Permanent Secretary, Mr. Francis Nwokedi, was retained by the United Nations to help in the reorganisation of the Civil Service in the Congo. Wachuku also secured the appointment of the first African Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations – Nigeria's Godfrey K. J. Amachree – who became UN Under Secretary-General for Trusteeship and Non-Self-Governing Territories.

Nigeria's first Minister for Foreign Affairs

In 1961, Wachuku was appointed as Nigeria's inaugural Minister of Foreign Affairs and Commonwealth Relations. Wachuku served in the role until 1965. Prior to Wachuku's tenure, Prime Minister Balewa doubled as the country's foreign affairs advocate.

Concerning Wachuku becoming Minister for Foreign Affairs and Commonwealth Relations, the last colonial Governor-General of Nigeria, Sir James Wilson Robertson, sent a report to Iain Macleod, UK Secretary of State for the Colonies, stating: