[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Multibody system

Multibody system is the study of the dynamic behavior of interconnected rigid or flexible bodies, each of which may undergo large translational and rotational displacements.

Introduction 

The systematic treatment of the dynamic behavior of interconnected bodies has led to a large number of important multibody formalisms in the field of mechanics. The simplest bodies or elements of a multibody system were treated by Newton (free particle) and Euler (rigid body). Euler introduced reaction forces between bodies. Later, a series of formalisms were derived, only to mention Lagrange’s formalisms based on minimal coordinates and a second formulation that introduces constraints.

Basically, the motion of bodies is described by their kinematic behavior. The dynamic behavior results from the equilibrium of applied forces and the rate of change of momentum.
Nowadays, the term multibody system is related to a large number of engineering fields of research, especially in robotics and vehicle dynamics. As an important feature, multibody system formalisms usually offer an algorithmic, computer-aided way to model, analyze, simulate and optimize the arbitrary motion of possibly thousands of interconnected bodies.

Applications 

While single bodies or parts of a mechanical system are studied in detail with finite element methods, the behavior of the whole multibody system is usually studied with multibody system methods within the following areas:

 Aerospace engineering (helicopter, landing gears, behavior of machines under different gravity conditions)
 Biomechanics
 Combustion engine, gears and transmissions, chain drive, belt drive
 Dynamic simulation
 Hoist, conveyor, paper mill
 Military applications
 Particle simulation (granular media, sand, molecules)
 Physics engine
 Robotics
 Vehicle simulation (vehicle dynamics, rapid prototyping of vehicles, improvement of stability, comfort optimization, improvement of efficiency, ...)

Example 
The following example shows a typical multibody system. It is usually denoted as slider-crank mechanism. The mechanism is used to transform rotational motion into translational motion by means of a rotating driving beam, a connection rod and a sliding body. In the present example, a flexible body is used for the connection rod. The sliding mass is not allowed to rotate and three revolute joints are used to connect the bodies. While each body has six degrees of freedom in space, the kinematical conditions lead to one degree of freedom for the whole system.

The motion of the mechanism can be viewed in the following gif animation

Concept 
A body is usually considered to be a rigid or flexible part of a mechanical system (not to be confused with the human body). An example of a body is the arm of a robot, a wheel or axle in a car or the human forearm. A link is the connection of two or more bodies, or a body with the ground. The link is defined by certain (kinematical) constraints that restrict the relative motion of the bodies. Typical constraints are:

 cardan joint or Universal Joint ; 4 kinematical constraints
 prismatic joint; relative displacement along one axis is allowed, constrains relative rotation; implies 5 kinematical constraints
 revolute joint; only one relative rotation is allowed; implies 5 kinematical constraints; see the example above 
 spherical joint; constrains relative displacements in one point, relative rotation is allowed; implies 3 kinematical constraints

There are two important terms in multibody systems: degree of freedom and 
constraint condition.

Degree of freedom 

The degrees of freedom denote the number of independent kinematical possibilities to move. In other words, degrees of freedom are the minimum number of parameters required to completely define the position of an entity in space.

A rigid body has six degrees of freedom in the case of general spatial motion, three of them translational degrees of freedom and three rotational degrees of freedom. In the case of planar motion, a body has only three degrees of freedom with only one rotational and two translational degrees of freedom.

The degrees of freedom in planar motion can be easily demonstrated using a computer mouse. The degrees of freedom are: left-right, forward-backward and the rotation about the vertical axis.

Constraint condition