[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Charles R. Knight

recently published by Indiana University Press, and a 2007 calendar  of Knight's paintings is also currently available. Additionally, fantasy artist William Stout has compiled a series of Charles Knight Sketchbooks, which contain many rare and previously unpublished drawings and studies by Knight. 

Because Knight worked in an era when new and often fragmentary fossils were coming out of the American west in quantity, not all of his creations were based on solid evidence; dinosaurs such as his improbably-adorned Agathaumas (1897) for example, were somewhat speculative. His depictions of better-known ceratopsians as solitary animals inhabiting lush grassy landscapes were largely imaginative (the grasslands that feature in many of his paintings didn't appear until the Cenozoic).
Although Knight sometimes made musculoskeletal studies of living animals, he did not do so for his dinosaur restorations, and he restored many dinosaurs with typical reptilian-like limbs and narrow hips (Paul, 1996). In the 1920s, studies by the celebrated palaeontologists Alfred Romer and Gerhard Heilmann (Heilmann, 1926) had confirmed that dinosaurs had broad avian-like hips rather than those of a typical reptile. Knight often restored extinct mammals, birds and marine reptiles in very dynamic action poses, but his depictions of large dinosaurs as ponderous swamp-dwellers destined for extinction reflected more traditional concepts (Paul, 1996). In his catalogue to Life through the Ages (1946), he reiterated views that he had written earlier (Knight, 1935), describing the great beasts as "slow-moving dunces" that were "unadaptable and unprogressive" while conceding that small dinosaurs had been more active. Some of his pictures are now known to be wrong, such as the tripod kangaroo-like posture of the hadrosaurs and theropods, whereas their spinal column was roughly horizontal at the hip; and the sauropods standing deeply in water whereas they were land-dwellers. Knight also drew dinosaur tails dragging on the ground, whereas they were held out approximately horizontally.
 
The late Stephen Jay Gould was one of Knight's most well-known fans, notably refusing to refer to Brontosaurus as "Apatosaurus" because Knight had always referred to the creature with the former name. Gould writes in his 1989 book Wonderful Life, "Not since the Lord himself showed his stuff to Ezekiel in the valley of dry bones had anyone shown such grace and skill in the reconstruction of animals from disarticulated skeletons. Charles R. Knight, the most celebrated of artists in the reanimation of fossils, painted all the canonical figures of dinosaurs that fire our fear and imagination to this day".
Other admirers have included special effects artist Ray Harryhausen, who writes in his autobiography An Animated Life, "Long before Obie (Willis O'Brien), myself, and Steven Spielberg, he put flesh on creatures that no human had ever seen. […] At the L.A. County Museum I vividly remember a beautiful Knight mural on one of the walls depicting the way the tar pits would have looked in ancient times. This, plus a picture book about Knight's work my mother gave me, were my first encounters with a man who was to prove an enormous help when the time came for me to make three-dimensional models of these extinct beings". Paleoartist Gregory S. Paul has also mentioned Knight as a big influence on him.

In 2012, a book about Knight and his art written by Richard Milner titled Charles R. Knight The Artist Who Saw Through Time was published. It starts with an introduction by Knight's granddaughter Rhoda.

A website dedicated to Knight was created and maintained by Rhoda and features many of his paintings.

An homage to the painter was also made in the 1998 IMAX feature film, T-Rex: Back to the Cretaceous, in which he was portrayed by actor Tuck Milligan.

Works
 
 
 
 
Knight's works are currently included as part of the permanent collections of these colleges, libraries, museums, and zoos:
Academy of Natural Sciences (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)
American Museum of Natural History (New York, New York)
Bethune-Cookman College (Daytona Beach, Florida)
Bronx Zoo (Bronx, New York)
Carnegie Museum of Natural History (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)
The Dinosaur Museum (Blanding, Utah)
Everhart Museum (Scranton, Pennsylvania)
Field Museum of Natural History (Chicago, Illinois)
Florida Museum of Natural History (Gainesville, Florida)
Illinois State Museum (Springfield, Illinois)
Mesa Southwest Museum (Mesa, Arizona)
Museum of the Earth (Ithaca, New York)
National Museum of Natural History (Washington, DC)
National Zoo (Washington, DC)
Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County (Los Angeles, California)
Princeton University (Princeton, New Jersey)
Science Museum of Minnesota (Saint Paul, Minnesota)
Sebring Public Library (Sebring, Florida)
Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History (New Haven, Connecticut)