[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1973 in poetry

Nationality words link to articles with information on the nation's poetry or literature (for instance, Irish or France).

Events
 September 16 – Chilean poet Víctor Jara, having been detained four days earlier as a political prisoner in Estadio Chile and tortured during the 1973 Chilean coup d'état, is shot and killed. His last poem Estadio Chile is preserved in memories and scraps of paper retained by fellow detainees.
 Canadian poet and author, Michael Ondaatje adapts his 1970 book of poetry, The Collected Works of Billy the Kid, into a play which this year is first produced in Stratford, Ontario; it will appear in New York in 1974 and in London, England in 1984.
 White Pine Press founded in Buffalo, New York. The publisher is a nonprofit organization putting out poetry, fiction, essays, and literature in translation.
 The French journal L'éphémère, founded in 1966, ceases publication this year; poets associated with it include Yves Bonnefoy, Jacques Dupin and André du Bouchet.

Works published in English
Listed by nation where the work was first published and again by the poet's native land, if different; substantially revised works listed separately:

Australia
 John Tranter:
 Red Movie and other poems, Angus & Robertson
 The Blast Area, Gargoyle Poets number 13, Makar Press
 Chris Wallace-Crabbe:
 Selected Poems, Sydney: Angus & Robertson
 Vinyl record: Chris Wallace-Crabbe Reads From His Own Verse, St.Lucia

Canada
 Alfred Bailey, Thanks for a Drowned Island.
 Earle Birney:
 The Bear on the Delhi Road: selected poems. London: Chatto & Windus.
 what's so big about GREEN?. Toronto: McClelland and Stewart.
 Shirley Gibson, I Am Watching
John Glassco, Montreal.  Montreal: DC Books.
 Irving Layton, Lovers and lesser Men. Toronto: McClelland & Stewart.
 Dorothy Livesay, Nine Poems of Farewell. Windsor, ON: Black Moss Press.
 Eli Mandel, Crusoe: Poems Selected and New
 Miriam Mandel, Lions at Her Face. Edmonton: White Pelican Publications.
 John Metcalf (ed.), The Speaking Earth, anthology
 Michael Ondaatje, Rat Jelly, Toronto: Coach House Press
 Al Purdy, Sex and Death
 F. R. Scott, The Dance Is One. Toronto: McClelland and Stewart.
Raymond Souster, The Colour of the Times. Ten Elephants on Yonge Street. Toronto: McGraw-Hill Ryerson.
Raymond Souster and Richard Woollatt, eds. Sights and Sounds. Toronto: Macmillan.
Doris Huestis Speirs, Exercise for Psyche

Caribbean
 Mervyn Morris, The Pond, Jamaica
 Andrew Salkey (ed.), Breaklight, Doubleday, anthology
 Dennis Scott, Uncle Time, Jamaica
 Derek Walcott, Another Life, St. Lucia

India in English
 Kamala Das:
 The Old Playhouse and Other Poems, New Delhi: Orient Longman
 Alphabet of Love, New Delhi: Orient Paper Backs
 Richard L. Bartholomew, Poems, Calcutta: Writers Workshop, India .
 Brooks Frederick, Rocket to the Moon, Calcutta: Writers Workshop, India
 Alokeranjan Das Gupta, Poems, Calcutta: Dialogue Pub.
 A. K. Ramanujan, Speaking of Siva, Penguin

Ireland
 Patric Dickinson, A Wintering Tree, Irish poet published in the United Kingdom
 Seamus Heaney, a book of poetry, Northern Ireland native published in the United Kingdom
 Thomas Kinsella:
 Selected Poems 1956–1968, including "Chrysalides"
 New Poems 1973, including "Notes from the Land of the Dead"
 Paul Muldoon, New Weather, Northern Irish native published in the United Kingdom

New Zealand
 James K. Baxter, Two Obscene Poems, posthumous,
 Alan Brunton, Messengers in Blackface, work by a New Zealand poet published in the United Kingdom
 Allen Curnow, An Abominable Temper & Other Poems
 Winston Curnow (ed.), Essays on New Zealand Literature, Auckland: Heinemann Educational Books (scholarship)
 Keith Sinclair, The Firewheel Tree