[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 37]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

"Are you still dreaming of an ideal existence?"

"Why not?"

"Well, dream while you may," said Miss Du Prel. "My time of dreaming was
the happiest of all."

On one occasion, when Hadria and the Professor went to call at Craw
Gill, they found Miss Du Prel in the gloomiest of moods. Affection,
love?--the very blood and bones of tragedy. Solitude, indifference?--its
heart. And if for men the world was a delusion, for women it was a
torture-chamber. Nature was dead against them.

"Why do you say that?" asked Hadria.

"Because of the blundering, merciless way she has made us; because of
the needs that she has put into our hearts, and the preposterous payment
that she demands for their fulfilment; because of the equally
preposterous payment she exacts, if we elect to do without that which
she teaches us to yearn for."

Professor Fortescue, admitting the dilemma, laid the blame on the
stupidity of mankind.

The discussion was excited, for Valeria would not allow the guilt to be
thus shifted. In vain the Professor urged that Nature offers a large
choice to humanity, for the developing, balancing, annulling of its
various forces of good and evil, and that it is only when the choice is
made that heredity steps in and fixes it. This process simulates
Necessity, or what we call Nature. "Heredity may be a powerful friend,
or a bitter enemy, according as we treat her," he said.

"Then our sex must have treated her very badly!" cried Miss Du Prel.

"Or _our_ sex must have obliged yours to treat her badly, which comes
to the same thing," said the Professor.

They had agreed to take a walk by the river, towards Ballochcoil. It was
hoped that the fresh air and sunshine would cheer Miss Du Prel. The
Professor led the conversation to her favourite topic: ancient Greek
literature, but this only inspired her to quote the discouraging opinion
of the _Medea_ of Euripedes.

The Professor laughed. "I see it is a really bad attack," he said. "I
sympathize. I have these inconsolable moods myself, sometimes."

They came upon the Greek temple on the cliff-side, and paused there to
rest, for a few minutes. It was too cold to linger long under the
slender columns. They walked on, till they came in sight of the bare
little church of Ballochcoil.

The Professor instinctively turned to compare the two buildings. "The
contrast between them is so extraordinary!" he exclaimed.

Nothing could have been more eloquent of the difference in the modes of
thought which they respectively represented.

"If only they had not made such fools of their women, I should like to
have lived at Athens in the time of Pericles!" exclaimed Hadria.

"I," said Valeria, "would choose rather the Middle Ages, with their
mysticism and their romance."

The discussion on this point continued till the church was reached. A
psalm was being sung, in a harsh but devout fashion, by the
congregation. The sound managed to find its way to the sweet outer air,
though the ugly rectangular windows were all jealously closed against
its beneficence.

The sky had become overcast, and a few drops of rain having given
warning of a shower, it was thought advisable to take shelter in the
porch, till it was over. The psalm was ground out slowly, and with
apparent fervour, to the end.

Then the voice of the minister was heard wrestling in prayer.

The Professor looked grave and sad, as he stood listening. It was
possible to hear almost all the prayer through the red baize door, and
the words, hackneyed though they were, and almost absurd in their pious
sing-song, had a naïf impressiveness and, to the listener, an intense
pathos.

The minister prayed for help and comfort for his congregation. There had
been much sickness in the village during the summer, and many were in
trouble. The good man put forth his petition to the merciful and mighty
Father, that strength might be given to the sufferers to bear all that
was sent in chastisement, for they knew that nothing would be given
beyond their ability to endure. He assured the great and mighty Lord
that He had power to succour, and that His love was without end; he
prayed that as His might and His glory were limitless, so might His
mercy be to the miserable sinners who had offended Him.

Age after age, this same prayer, in different forms, had besieged the
throne of heaven. Age after age, the spirit of man had sought for help,
and mercy, and inspiration, in the Power that was felt, or imagined,
behind the veil of mystery.

From the village at the foot of the hill, vague sounds floated up, and
presently, among them and above them, could be heard the yelping and
howling of a dog.

The minister, at the moment, was glorifying his Creator and his race at
the same time, by addressing Him as "Thou who hast given unto us, Thy
servants, dominion over the beasts of the field and over every living
thing, that they may serve us and minister unto us----