[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Diane Black

mney, Congresswoman Michele Bachmann, former Congressman Allen West, Susan B. Anthony List, and The U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

In October 2015, Black was named to serve on the Select Investigative Panel on Planned Parenthood.

Black was a member of the U.S.-Japan Caucus.

2018 gubernatorial campaign

On August 2, 2017, Black announced her intention to run for Governor of Tennessee in the 2018 election. In March 2018, the Tennessean reported that Black had missed over 50 votes in the U.S. House, the most out of any member of the Tennessee delegation. The newspaper noted that it is typical for members of Congress running for a higher office to miss votes, but that some votes were on major pieces of legislation, including re-opening the government following the 2018 shutdown and funding the U.S. military. Black lost to Bill Lee in the Republican primary on August 2, 2018.

Political positions
During her 2018 gubernatorial run, Black "positioned herself as an ally of President Trump who would crack down on illegal immigration and introduce work requirements for government benefits," according to The Washington Post. The American Conservative Union gave her a 91% evaluation in 2017.

Environmental Protection Agency
Black often advocated against the Obama administration's EPA rules. She also supported the Trump administration's repeal of the Obama-era Clean Power Plan.

Black championed a loophole which allowed one trucking company (Fitzgerald) to skirt emissions rules, allowing the firm to produce trucks that emit 40 to 55 times the air pollutants of other new trucks. When the Obama administration sought to close the loophole, Black introduced legislation in 2015 to protect the loophole; the bill failed. She later appealed to the Trump administration's EPA head, Scott Pruitt, to protect the loophole, which he did. As of February 2018, individuals and entities related to the Fitzgerald trucking company had donated $225,000 to Black's 2018 campaign for Tennessee Governor; 12% of the total money from outside sources in her campaign. In September 2017, Fitzgerald hired its first federal lobbyist; it was a former aide to Black.

Immigration
Black opposed sanctuary cities. She supported President Donald Trump's 2017 executive order to impose a ban on entry to the U.S. to citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries, stating "We should insist upon the most careful and cautious vetting possible for refugees from failed states and hostile nations and I commend the President for taking this duty seriously after the failures of the Obama administration."

Comments on school shootings 
In May 2018, Black said that pornography was "a big part of the root cause" of school shootings. She also said that school shootings were rising due to the "deterioration of the family," mental illness, and violent movies.

Personal life
Since 1980, Diane Black has been married to David Black. Although the two met in high school, they went their separate ways after graduation. She married her high school sweetheart shortly after graduating, but he struggled with alcoholism and abruptly abandoned the family when she was pregnant with her third child. David's first marriage, which lasted seven years, ended amicably in divorce. The two met again several years later, and he proposed to her on a ski lift. David legally adopted her three children. In 2013 financial disclosure forms, Black listed 115 assets jointly held with her husband. These assets were valued between $32 million and $146.9 million. In 2012, these assets were worth between $34.4 million and $142.19 million.

Black is a Protestant.

See also
 Women in the United States House of Representatives
 List of politicians affiliated with the Tea Party movement

References

External links

 
 
 
 Aegis Science Corporation – Science in Defense of Justice

|-

|-

1951 births
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
American women nurses
Belmont University alumni
Christians from Tennessee
Female members of the United States House of Representatives
Living people
Republican Party members of the Tennessee House of Representatives
People from Arnold, Maryland
People from Linthicum, Maryland
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Tennessee
Tea Party movement activists
Republican Party Tennessee state senators
Women state legislators in Tennessee