[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Interreg

ltic Sea programme
Caribbean Area programme
Central Europe programme
Indian Ocean Area programme
MAC programme - Açores-Madeira-Canarias
Mediterranean programme
North Sea Region programme
North West Europe programme
Northern Periphery programme
South East Europe programme
South West Europe programme

Examples of Interreg IVB projects
ALFA (Adaptive Land use for Flood Alleviation) aims to protect the North West Europe region against the effects of flooding due to climate changes. This will be done in the project by creating new capacity for storage or discharge of peak floods within river catchments.
BLAST (Bringing Land and Sea Together) is a collaborative project of public, private and academic partners from seven North Sea countries, which is developing prototype tools for better data integration, coastal zone management and navigation in the North Sea.
MP4: 'Making Places Profitable, Public and Private Open Spaces' is a transnational project involving partners from seven countries in the North Sea Region focusing on innovative approaches to 'place-keeping' – the long-term management of private and public open spaces. Funded by the North Sea Region Programme.
'Collabor8.me', a transnational programme involving nine partners in five different North West European countries that aims to contribute to the economic prosperity, sustainability and cultural identity of North West Europe in increasingly global markets.
Rural Alliances, aiming to bring communities and businesses together to promote rural 'vibrancy'.
SmartCities, creating an innovation network between 8 municipal governments and 4+ academic partners in six countries, leading to excellence in the domain of the development and take-up of e-services. Funded by the North Sea Region Programme.
SoNorA, on improving transport infrastructure and services between the Adriatic and the Baltic Sea.
Technet_nano, is a transnational network of public clean rooms and research facilities in micro- and nanotechnology making accessible innovation resources and services to SMEs in the Baltic Sea Region.
The MUSIC Project (Mitigation in Urban areas: Solutions for Innovative Cities), is a transnational cooperation project between European cities and research institutes in Northwest Europe. MUSIC aims to reduce CO2 emissions by 50% in the partner cities Aberdeen, Montreuil, Gent, Ludwigsburg and Rotterdam in 2030. The Dutch Research Institute For Transitions (DRIFT) and Public Research Centre Henri Tudor from Luxembourg assist the cities with scientific expertise in Transition Management and Geospatial Decision Support Systems.

Strand C: interregional cooperation
Strand C covers the interregional co-operation programme (INTERREG IVC) and 3 networking programmes (URBACT II, INTERACT II and ESPON). Each programme covers all 27 Member States of the EU. ESPON, the European Spatial Planning Observation Network, covers 31 states; Liechtenstein, Norway, Iceland and Switzerland are included as well. They provide a framework for exchanging experience between regional and local bodies in different countries. Strand C has an ERDF contribution of 445 million euros. The non-EU countries contribute fully their shares to these programs.

Examples of Interreg IVC projects
Regioclima, on adaptation to the new climate conditions
Pre-waste, on waste prevention in cities and regions
Osepa, on usage of open-source software in public administrations
TR3S, on smart specialization and innovation

Interreg V
The funding period 2014-2020 was centered around the Europe 2020 Strategy which was adopted by the EU in 2010. It was aimed at leading the EU towards an intelligent, sustainable and integrative economy characterized by high levels of employment and production as well as by a marked social and territorial cohesion.

Interreg VI
For this period a budget of nearly EUR 10 billion has been allocated to support around 100 Interreg programmes which operate across borders, both within and outside the EU, contributing to the implementation of the EU’s main cohesion policy priorities.

See also
European Grouping of Territorial Cooperation
European Spatial Development Perspective

References

External links
Interreg.eu - All Interreg programmes search tool
keep.eu - A resource tool of projects and partners of Interreg since 2000
Interreg IVA (cross-border co-operation programmes
Official Interreg IVC website
Interreg.co.uk (Information Portal on Interreg Programmes eligible to UK applicants) (archived 1998)

Regional policies of the European Union

br:Politikerezh rannvro Unaniezh Europa