[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Paul McGowan (footballer)

announced that McGowan would not be offered a new contract and he was released.

Dundee
McGowan signed a two-year contract with newly promoted side Dundee in June 2014. Upon joining Dundee, Manager Paul Hartley stated he immediately sought to signed him once he learned he was released by St Mirren.

McGowan made his Dundee debut, playing as a central midfielder, as Dundee won 4–0 against Peterhead on 2 August 2014 in the Scottish League Cup, and then made his league debut as Dundee drew 1–1 with Kilmarnock on 9 August 2014. McGowan continued to be in the first team throughout the first half of the season until he suffered a knee injury that kept him sidelined for four weeks. He made his return to the first team in the Dundee derby, which Dundee lost 6–2 to Dundee United. McGowan scored his first Dundee goal in the last minute in a 1–0 win over Partick Thistle on 14 February 2015. As a result of being placed on a court-imposed curfew for another incident outside football, McGowan could not be included in the matchday squad for evening kick-offs for the remainder of the season, though he was still available for afternoon games.

During a League Cup group stage match against Forfar Athletic in 2016, McGowan chipped Grant Adam on the edge of the box to open the scoring in a 7–0 win for Dundee. He then scored in the opening league game of the 2016–17 season, a 3–1 win over Ross County in Dingwall, however afterwards Dundee would go into a six-game losing streak which saw the club involved in a relegation fight. On 29 October, McGowan scored a crucial winning goal in a 1–0 victory over Hamilton. Just before Christmas he scored an equalising goal against Hearts as Dundee came from 2–0 down to win 3–2. Towards the end of the season McGowan assisted Marcus Haber to score in a crucial match against Kilmarnock in a 1–0 win to help Dundee steer clear of relegation during Neil McCann's reign as interim manager.

McGowan scored his first goal of the 2017–18 season against Dundee United in the Dundee Derby to win the game 2–1, beating Harry Lewis from 20 yards. He picked up his second goal of the season with another long-range strike in a 1–1 draw with Motherwell at Fir Park. While not netting for the rest of the season, McGowan was a key player in once again keeping the Dee in the Premiership. After St Johnstone manager Tommy Wright confirmed his interest in signing him, McGowan signed a new one-year contract extension with Dundee with the option of a further year.

McGowan remained an important piece in the 2018–19 season, but had to endure a horrible season where the club managed just five league wins all season, and only one of them being at home, en route to relegation. Despite the dismal season, McGowan managed a couple of league goals during the season, both against Hibernian. The first was a crucial equaliser at Easter Road in November during Dundee's most successful spell of the season, and the second also being an equaliser at Dens, though Dundee would eventually lose the game.

As the 2019–20 season began, McGowan was given the captain's armband many times, and scored two key penalties in shootouts during Dundee's League Cup group stage matches to help them top the group. McGowan would get his scoring underway in his 200th appearance for the club, scoring the opener against Partick Thistle, though a late Dundee collapse would ruin the day. He went on to score the next week, away to Ayr United with what would prove to be the game-winning goal in a 2–1 victory. McGowan would next find the net on 14 December, scoring against Dunfermline Athletic in a 4–3 victory, and followed that up with his second goal in as many games the next week, once again netting against Partick in an away win. McGowan continued being a key player for the Dark Blues until the season was ended early due to the COVID-19 pandemic. After the season was brought to a close, McGowan was named the winner of the Andrew De Vries Player of the Year Award for the 2019–20 season. As one of the Dundee players due to have his contract expire in June and with many club officials and players on furlough due to the pandemic, McGowan's contract was extended until July in order to give more time for discussions. McGowan signed a one-year extension with Dundee near the end of June 2020, agreeing to drop his wages significantly for the year to help the club cope better with the coronavirus crisis.

In April 2021, an appearance clause in his contract triggered a further one-year extension in McGowan's contract, keeping him with Dundee until the summer of 2022. He would play a prominent role in Dundee's success in the Premiership play-offs, and helped the club gain promotion back to the Premiership. In January 2022, McGowan would once again agree a one-year contract extension, taking him into his ninth season with the club.