[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bruce Sterling

'movement', Embrace the Decay was the most visited piece/page at LA MOCA's Digital Gallery, and included contributions from Jared Tarbell of levitated.net and co-author of several books on advanced Flash programming, and Monty Zukowski, creator of the winning 'decay algorithm' sponsored by Sterling.

Neologisms
Sterling has coined various neologisms to describe things that he believes will be common in the future, especially items which already exist in limited numbers.
 In the December 2005 issue of Wired magazine, Sterling coined the term buckyjunk to refer to future, difficult-to-recycle consumer waste made of carbon nanotubes, a.k.a. buckytubes, based on buckyballs or buckminsterfullerene.
 In his 2005 book Shaping Things, he coined the term design fiction which refers to a type of speculative design which focuses on worldbuilding.
 In July 1989, in SF Eye #5, he was the first to use the word "slipstream" to refer to a type of speculative fiction between traditional science fiction and fantasy and mainstream literature.
 In December 1999 he coined the term "Wexelblat disaster", for a disaster caused when a natural disaster triggers a secondary, and more damaging, failure of human technology.
 In August 2004, he suggested a type of technological device (he called it "spime") that, through pervasive RFID and GPS tracking, can track its history of use and interact with the world.

Personal

In the beginning of his childhood he lived in Galveston, Texas until his family moved to India. Sterling spent several years in India and has a fondness for Bollywood films. In 1976, he graduated from the University of Texas with a degree in journalism. In 1978, he was the Dungeon Master for a Dungeons & Dragons game whose players included Warren Spector, who cited Sterling's game as a major inspiration for the game design of Deus Ex. In 2003, he was appointed professor at the European Graduate School where he is teaching summer intensive courses on media and design. In 2005, he became "visionary in residence" at ArtCenter College of Design in Pasadena, California.  He lived in Belgrade with Serbian author and film-maker Jasmina Tešanović for several years, and married her in 2005. In September 2007 he moved to Turin, Italy. He also travels the world extensively, giving speeches and attending conferences. Both Sterling and artist and musician Florian-Ayala Fauna are sponsors for V. Vale's RE/Search newsletter.

Awards
 2000 Clarke Award winner for the novel Distraction
 1999 Hayakawa's S-F Magazine Reader's Award for Best Foreign Short Story winner for the novelette Taklamakan 
 1999 Hugo Award winner for the novelette Taklamakan
 1997 Hugo Award winner for the novelette "Bicycle Repairman"
 1989 John W. Campbell Memorial Award for Best Science Fiction Novel winner for the novel Islands in the Net

Interviews
Sterling has been interviewed for documentaries like Freedom Downtime, TechnoCalyps and Traceroute.

Bibliography

References

External links

 Wired Blog : Beyond the beyond
 Wolf in Living Room - blog about domestic ubiquitous computing
 
  - the Open Source connected apartment.
 
 

1954 births
20th-century American essayists
20th-century American male writers
20th-century American non-fiction writers
20th-century American novelists
20th-century American short story writers
21st-century American essayists
21st-century American male writers
21st-century American non-fiction writers
21st-century American novelists
21st-century American short story writers
American bloggers
American futurologists
American male bloggers
American male essayists
American male non-fiction writers
American male novelists
American male short story writers
American science fiction writers
American speculative fiction critics
American transhumanists
American anthologists
Cyberpunk writers
Academic staff of European Graduate School
Hugo Award-winning writers
Journalists from Texas
Living people
Moody College of Communication alumni
Neologists
Novelists from Texas
People from Brownsville, Texas
Science fiction critics
Wired (magazine) people
Writers from Austin, Texas