[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Coptic Orthodox Church in the United States

t Anthony the Great in Barstow and the St. Paul Brotherhood in Murrieta. Both monasteries are under the jurisdiction of Metropolitan Serapion.

Diocese of the Southern United States

The Diocese was established by the enthronement of Bishop Youssef by the hands of Pope Shenouda III in November 1995.

Bishop Youssef (Joseph) is the Bishop of the Diocese of Southern United States and also is the Abbot of the Monastery of Most Holy Virgin Mary & Saint Moses the Strong in Corpus Christi, Texas. As of January 2021, there were 60 Churches and 39 Communities in this diocese along with a convent in Dawsonville, Georgia; several educational programs and institutions, St Stephen Christian Retreat and Conference Center in Titusville, St Clement Coptic Orthodox Christian Academy in Nashville, Triumphant Christian Retreat (TCR) Addiction Rehabilitation Center in Brooksville, FL.

The diocese is headquartered in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex suburb of Colleyville, Texas.In November 2018, Pope Tawadros II ordained two auxiliary bishops to serve alongside Bishop Youssef.

Bishop Basil, General Bishop for the state of Florida, USA.
Bishop Gregory, General Bishop for the states of Arizona and Texas, USA.

The territories covered under this diocese are in the following states:
Alabama
Arizona
Arkansas
Florida
Georgia
Louisiana
Mississippi
New Mexico
Oklahoma
Tennessee
Texas

Diocese of New York and New England

The Diocese was established by the enthronement of Bishop David by the hands of Pope Tawadros II in November 25, 2013.

Bishop David is the Bishop of the Diocese of New York and New England.

As of March, 2017 the Diocese serves about 33 churches and has 19 Hegumen and 31 Presbyters. The territories covered under this diocese are in the following states:
Connecticut
Maine
Massachusetts
New York
New Hampshire
Rhode Island
Vermont
The diocese has formally established a Monastery in The Boston Region, under the name of Virgin Mary & Pope Kyrillos VI in Charlton, Massachusetts. This is the first monastery to be established in the Diocese, and the third in North America. It is also the first monastery in the Coptic Orthodox Church to be named after Saint Pope Kyrillos VI.

Diocese of South Carolina, North Carolina, and Kentucky 
The Diocese was established by the enthronement of Bishop Peter by the hands of Pope Tawadros II on June 11, 2016.

Bishop Peter is the Bishop of the Holy Diocese of South Carolina, North Carolina, and Kentucky.

This diocese currently serves approximately 12 churches and has 8 Presbyters. The diocese is headquartered in St. Mary's Coptic Orthodox Church of Raleigh, NC.  The territories covered in this diocese are in the following states:
 South Carolina
 North Carolina
 Kentucky

Diocese of Ohio, Michigan, and Indiana
The Diocese was established by the enthronement of Bishop Saraphim by the hands of Pope Tawadros II on November 11, 2017.

Bishop Saraphim is the Bishop of the Diocese of Ohio, Michigan and Indiana. There are currently 11 churches in the diocese area, several Coptic communities, as well as St. Mary and St John the Beloved convent in Warren, Ohio. The number of churches by state in this Diocese is below:

 Ohio (5)
 Michigan (5)
 Indiana (1)

Diocese of Pennsylvania And Affiliated Regions 
The Diocese was established by the enthronement of Bishop Karas by the hands of Pope Tawadros II on November 11, 2017.

Bishop Karas is the Bishop of the Diocese of Pennsylvania And Affiliated Regions to currently include the states of Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and West Virginia.  

There are currently 17 churches in the diocese area, several Coptic establishments, as well as St John the Beloved Coptic Orthodox Monastery in Canadensis, Pennsylvania. The number of churches by state in this Diocese is below:
 Pennsylvania (12)
 Delaware (1)
 Maryland (3)
 West Virginia (1)

See also
Copts
Coptic American
Copts in Canada
Coptic diaspora
Coptic (disambiguation)
Coptic Orthodox Church in North America
List of Coptic Orthodox Churches in the United States
St. Mark Coptic Orthodox Church (Jersey City, New Jersey)
St. Mark Coptic Orthodox Church (Los Angeles)
St. Mark Coptic Orthodox Church (Denver, Colorado)
St. George Coptic Orthodox Church (Brooklyn)
St. Abraam Coptic Orthodox Church (Woodbury, New York)
List of Coptic Orthodox Popes of Alexandria
The Holy Synod of the Coptic Orthodox Church
Oriental Orthodoxy
British Orthodox Church
Coptic Orthodox Church in Australia
Coptic Orthodox Church in Canada
Coptic Orthodox Church in Europe
Coptic Orthodox Church in South America
The French Coptic Orthodox Church
Oriental Orthodoxy in North America
Dioceses of the Coptic Orthodox Church