[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United East Conference

randing themselves as the United East Conference. The conference said that the name “United East” was chosen because it describes the conference’s commitment to collaborate on a shared mission in a diverse environment while also still giving a nod to the geographical placement of the member schools.

On March 1, 2022, SUNY Morrisville announced that it will leave the United East to join the North Atlantic Conference starting in the 2023–24 academic year.

On July 6, 2022, the United East Conference announced that Clark Summit joined the conference as an associate member in men's golf and men's tennis starting in the 2022–23 academic year.

On August 15, 2022, Wells announced that it will leave the United East to join the Allegheny Mountain Collegiate Conference starting in the 2023–24 academic year.

On December 19, 2022, the United East Conference and the Colonial States Athletic Conference announced their intent to merge beginning with the 2023-24 academic year.  The merger is intended to address the evolving landscape of higher education by stabilizing conference membership and solidifying the sport sponsorship currently offered by the existing conferences. This merger will also provide member institutions an opportunity to decrease the number of associate memberships necessary to support the current sport offerings on each respective campus. When the merger is finalized sports with a large number of members will compete in north and south divisions.

On June 23, 2023, the CSAC and United East officially announced that the merged conference will retain the United East name, officially ending the CSAC on July 1, 2023. Consequently, all ten members from the CSAC (Bryn Athyn College, Cairn University, Cedar Crest College, Clarks Summit University, Keystone College, Notre Dame of Maryland University, Rosemont College, Saint Elizabeth University, the University of Valley Forge and Wilson College of Pennsylvania) joined the United East.

Chronlogical timeline

 2004 – In 2004, the United East was founded as the North Eastern Athletic Conference (NEAC). Charter members included Baptist Bible College (now Clarks Summit University), Bard College, Philadelphia Biblical University (now Cairn University), Cazenovia College, Chestnut Hill College, D'Youville College, Keuka College, Keystone College, Penn State-Berks, Polytechnic University (later the Polytechnic Institute of New York University and now the NYU Tandon School of Engineering), the State University of New York at Purchase (SUNY Purchase), and Villa Julie College (now Stevenson University), beginning the 2004–05 academic year.
 2007 – Five institutions left the NEAC to join their respective new home primary conferences: Bard, Polytechnic (N.Y.) and SUNY Purchase to the Skyline Conference, Chestnut Hill to the Division II ranks of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and the Central Atlantic Collegiate Conference (CACC), and Stevenson to the Capital Athletic Conference (CAC), all effective after the 2006–07 academic year.
 2007 – Pennsylvania State University at Harrisburg, Wells College and Wilson College joined the NEAC in the 2007–08 academic year.
 2008 – Clarks Summit, Cairn, and Keystone left the NEAC to join the Pennsylvania Athletic Conference (PAC; later renamed the Colonial States Athletic Conference (CSAC)) after the 2007–08 academic year.
 2008 – The State University of New York at Cobleskill (SUNY Cobleskill) and the State University of New York Institute of Technology (SUNYIT, now the SUNY Polytechnic Institute, or SUNY Poly) joined the NEAC in the 2008–09 academic year.
 2008 – Four institutions joined the NEAC as associate members: Medaille College for men's and women's lacrosse, Rutgers University–Camden for men's golf, the State University of New York at Oneonta for men's tennis, and the University of Dallas for men's soccer, men's golf, men's & women's cross country, and men's & women's basketball (despite the latter's conference affiliation as an all-sports member remains as a D-III Independent school), all effective in the 2008–09 academic year.
 2009 – D'Youville left the NEAC to join the Allegheny Mountain Collegiate Conference (AMCC) after the 2008–09 academic year.
 2009 – The College of Saint Elizabeth (now Saint Elizabeth University), Penn State University at Abington and the State University of New York at Morrisville (SUNY Morrisville) joined the NEAC in the 2009–10 academic year.
 2009 – Dallas added women's volleyball to its NEAC associate membership in the 2009 fall season (2009–10 academic year).
 2009 – The NEAC had accepted four associate member institutions in that same season. Additionally, the NEAC also began a three year partnership with the North Atlantic Conference (NAC) in four sports: baseball, women's lacrosse, and men's and women's tennis.
 2010 – Two institutions left the NEAC as associate members: Dallas for most sports sponsored during its tenure and SUNY Oneonta for men's tennis, both effectiv