[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 168]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

ition of
their Enemies, "their tacklings are loose, their masts weake, the
lame shal take the spoil of them." The condition of the Saved,
"The Inhabitants shall not say, I am sick:" And lastly, all this is
comprehended in Forgivenesse of sin, "The people that dwell therein
shall be forgiven their iniquity." By which it is evident, that
Salvation shall be on Earth, then, when God shall reign, (at the coming
again of Christ) in Jerusalem; and from Jerusalem shall proceed the
Salvation of the Gentiles that shall be received into Gods Kingdome; as
is also more expressely declared by the same Prophet, Chap. 66.20, 21.
"And they," (that is, the Gentiles who had any Jew in bondage) "shall
bring all your brethren, for an offering to the Lord, out of all
nations, upon horses, and in charets, and in litters, and upon mules,
and upon swift beasts, to my holy mountain, Jerusalem, saith the Lord,
as the Children of Israel bring an offering in a clean vessell into
the House of the Lord. And I will also take of them for Priests and for
Levites, saith the Lord:" Whereby it is manifest, that the chief seat of
Gods Kingdome (which is the Place, from whence the Salvation of us that
were Gentiles, shall proceed) shall be Jerusalem; And the same is also
confirmed by our Saviour, in his discourse with the woman of Samaria,
concerning the place of Gods worship; to whom he saith, John 4.22. that
the Samaritans worshipped they know not what, but the Jews worship what
they knew, "For Salvation is of the Jews (Ex Judais, that is, begins at
the Jews): as if he should say, you worship God, but know not by whom
he wil save you, as we doe, that know it shall be one of the tribe
of Judah, a Jew, not a Samaritan. And therefore also the woman not
impertinently answered him again, "We know the Messias shall come." So
that which our saviour saith, "Salvation is from the Jews," is the
same that Paul sayes (Rom. 1.16,17.) "The Gospel is the power of God to
Salvation to every one that beleeveth; To the Jew first, and also to the
Greek. For therein is the righteousnesse of God revealed from faith to
faith;" from the faith of the Jew, to the faith of the Gentile. In
the like sense the Prophet Joel describing the day of Judgment, (chap.
2.30,31.) that God would "shew wonders in heaven, and in earth, bloud,
and fire, and pillars of smoak. The Sun should be turned to darknesse,
and the Moon into bloud, before the great and terrible day of the Lord
come," he addeth verse 32. "and it shall come to passe, that whosoever
shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved. For in Mount Zion,
and in Jerusalem shall be Salvation." And Obadiah verse 17 saith
the same, "Upon Mount Zion shall be Deliverance; and there shall be
holinesse, and the house of Jacob shall possesse their possessions,"
that is, the possessions of the Heathen, which possessions he expresseth
more particularly in the following verses, by the Mount of Esau, the
Land of the Philistines, the Fields of Ephraim, of Samaria, Gilead, and
the Cities of the South, and concludes with these words, "the Kingdom
shall be the Lords." All these places are for Salvation, and the
Kingdome of God (after the day of Judgement) upon Earth. On the other
side, I have not found any text that can probably be drawn, to prove
any Ascension of the Saints into Heaven; that is to say, into any Coelum
Empyreum, or other aetheriall Region; saving that it is called the
Kingdome of Heaven; which name it may have, because God, that was King
of the Jews, governed them by his commands, sent to Moses by Angels from
Heaven, to reduce them to their obedience; and shall send him thence
again, to rule both them, and all other faithfull men, from the day of
Judgment, Everlastingly: or from that, that the Throne of this our Great
King is in Heaven; whereas the Earth is but his Footstoole. But that the
Subjects of God should have any place as high as his throne, or higher
than his Footstoole, it seemeth not sutable to the dignity of a King,
nor can I find any evident text for it in holy Scripture.

From this that hath been said of the Kingdom of God, and of Salvation,
it is not hard to interpret, what is meant by the WORLD TO COME. There
are three worlds mentioned in Scripture, the Old World, the Present
World, and the World to Come. Of the first, St. Peter speaks, (2 Pet.
2.5.) "If God spared not the Old World, but saved Noah the eighth
person, a Preacher of righteousnesse, bringing the flood upon the world
of the ungodly," &c. So the First World, was from Adam to the generall
Flood. Of the present World, our Saviour speaks (John 18.36.) "My
Kingdome is not of this World." For he came onely to teach men the way
of Salvation, and to renew the Kingdome of his Father, by his doctrine.
Of the World to come, St. Peter speaks, (2 Pet. 3. 13.) "Neverthelesse
we according to his promise look for new Heavens, and a new Earth." This
is that WORLD, wherein Christ comi