[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 9th Michigan Cavalry Regiment

The 9th Michigan Cavalry Regiment was a cavalry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War.

History
The Ninth Cavalry began its organization in the fall of 1862, at Coldwater, under the direction of Colonel James L. David, of Trenton, who had been Quartermaster of the 1st. Michigan Cavalry.

The regiment, with the exception of 2 companies incomplete, was mustered into the service of the United States on the 19th. of May, 1863, the muster rolls containing the names of 1073 officers and men.

Previous to leaving the State for the front, the ladies of Coldwater gave to the Ninth, a finely lettered silk standard, with the United States arms on one side, on the other, the arms of the State, with the inscription: "Presented by the ladies of Coldwater". This flag passed through many hard fought battlefields, being carefully guarded and well defended.

The regiment was ordered to the field in Kentucky, under the command of Colonel David, leaving its rendezvous at Coldwater by detachments, respectively, on May 18., 20th., and 25th., 1863, proceeding to Covington,KY, then on June 4., to Hickman's Bridge, where on June 12., they were ordered to Mount Sterling, to pursue Everett's guerrillas, who they overtook at Triplett's Bridge, then completely routed.

Returning to Hickman's Bridge on the 25th., they entered on the campaign against the confederate Morgan. Arriving at Stanford on the 28th., then to Lebanon, arriving there on the 4th. of July, with the rear guard, where they drove Morgan's forces from the town, who was then on his contemplated raid into Indiana and Ohio. Colonel David had hurried his command to this point at the rate of fifty miles per day, then after scattering Morgan's forces, returned to Danville.

The regiment reached Danville on the 6th., where, Colonel W.T. Saunders, of the 5th. Kentucky Cavalry, assumed command of the whole force then there, the Eighth and Ninth Michigan Cavalry, being in the same Brigade. The Ninth left there on the 7th., arriving at Lawrenceburg the same day, here companies "D", "H", and "B", under the command of Major Gallagher, went in pursuit of Morgan's men, engaging them at Cumming's Ford, scattering them and taking 32 prisoners, then returning to Lawrenceburg on the 9th. On the 12th., the Ninth regrouped and marched to Westport, where they were divided.

Companies "A", "B", "F" and "L", under the command of Lt.Colonel George S. Acker, with a section of Battery "L", 1st. Michigan Light Artillery, under the command of Lieutenant Roys, took transports to Cincinnati, arriving there on the 15th. They were disembarked, then immediately ordered by General Burnside, on a march, the intent being, to flank Morgan's forces, then on the Ohio side of the river. Colonel Acker's command joined the forces of General Hopson, at Montgomery, where the pursuit of Morgan commenced, marching day and night, coming upon the southern column at daylight on the 19th., at Buffington's Island. General Hopson's force attacked his rear, while General Judah attacked his front. The engagement was brisk, but short, and the rout of the rebels was complete, over 2000 prisoners being taken by the union forces, with some artillery and a large amount of small arms and equipment, with numerous horses and other property.