[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Cyme (Aeolis)

and often enriched by polychrome mosaics. Access was gained by a ramp placed at the edge of the southwestern part of the excavation. Still, what needs to be clarified is the extent of the building, whose destruction is placed between the end of the 6th century to the beginning of the 7th century AD.

5. The final phase is represented by some superficial structures found at the northern part of the excavation. There is a long wall going from the northwest to the southeast and a ramp built with reused blocks, with the same orientation as the wall. The wall and the ramp could be proof that this area was utilized during the Byzantine Age.

Numismatics 
 Although historians have dated the Trojan war to 1178 BC by calculating Homer's solar eclipse, it was not immortalised in the Iliad until about 750 BC. Around the same period, the Mykonos pithamphora - which shows the wooden horse the Greeks used to infiltrate Troy - was manufactured on the island of Tinos. Referenced in both literature and art, that cunning end to the war - the Trojan Horse - had become synonymous with the name of Agamemnon.  The house of Agamemnon claimed continuity at Cyme in Aeolia, associating themselves with the legends of the exploits of the Pelopids and "particularly the taking of Troy." and the symbolism of the horse was stamped in the coins from this area, presumably in reference to the power of the Agamemnon lineage. Indeed, the daughter of Agamemnon of Cyme, Damodice, is credited with inventing coined money by Julius Pollux after she married King Midas - famed for turning everything he touched into gold.
 The most rational explanation of this fable seems to be, that he encouraged his subjects to covert the produce of their agriculture, and other branches of industry, into money, by commerce, whence considerable wealth flowed into his own treasury... though it is more likely, that what the Greeks called invention, was rather the introduction of the knowledge of them [coins] from countries more advanced in civilization.

It is possible that the mythical figure of Midas was based on a real king of Phrygia in the 8th century BC known as Mita. However, as with all fables, there is a problem with the dates.  Coins were not invented until 610 BC by King Alyattes in Lydia whose kingdom started well after the Phrygian kingdom collapsed.  His Lydian Lion was most likely the oldest coin type circulated.  There were some pre-coin types, with no recognisable image, used in the Ionian city of Miletus and the island of Samos but it is noteworthy that the coins from Cyme, when first circulated around 600-550 BC, utilised the symbol of the horse - tying them to the house of Agamemnon and the glory of the Greek victory over Troy.  Cyme, being geographically and politically close to Lydia, took their invention of 'nobleman's tax-tokens' to the citizens - thus making Cyme's rough incuse horse head silver fractions, Hemiobols, a candidate for the title of the Second Oldest coins - and the first used for retailing on a large-scale basis by the Ionian Greeks, which quickly spreading Market Economics through the rest of the world. For an excellent timeline graphic showing the progression from pre-coin, to lion, to horsehead imagery on the earliest coins, see Basic Electrum Types.

Damodice may still have been instrumental in striking the coinage of Cyme as both Aristotle and Pollux attribute this to her but may have been confused with whether she married a later 7th or even 6th century Midas.

The river god Hermos, horse with their forefoot raised and victorious athletes are typical symbols commonly found on period coinage minted at Cyme. Ancient coins from Cyme often depict the head of the Amazon Kyme wearing a taenia with the reverse featuring a horse prancing - probably in allusion to the prosperous equine industry of the region.

Notable people
 Hermodike I attributed with transferring the Persian written script into Greece.
 Agamemnon of Cyme, associated himself with "the taking of Troy."
 Hermodike II attributed with inventing coinage for common use and transferring this throughout Greece. 
 Ephorus (c. 400 – 330 BC), ancient Greek historian. 
 Hesiod's father, according to the poet (Op. et D. 636), sailed from Cyme to settle at Ascra in Boeotia; which does not prove, as such compilers as Stephanus and Suidas suppose, that Hesiod was a native of Cyme.
 Antigonus of Cyme, ancient Greek prose writer.
 Teuthras of Cyme, ancient Greek musician.
 Heracleides of Cyme, ancient Greek historian.
 Rhodon of Cyme, Olympic winner at stadion race in the 213th Ancient Olympic Games, 73 AD.
 Gnostor of Cyme, Suda writes that Homer married Aresiphone who was the daughter of Gnostor of Cyme.

See also
List of ancient Greek cities

References

Sources
 Herodotus, The Histories 1954-1972, trans. Aubrey de Selincourt, edit. John Marincola, , Penguin Classics
 GigaCatholic with titular incumbent biography links