[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bourtreehill House

o a valuable and notable point when considering the history of Bourtreehill in the middle-ages and later 17th-18th centuries.

The building became derelict and was demolished in the 1970s, leaving only fragmentary remains of the coach-house and outbuildings.

Mr. Hamilton of Bourtreehill's gardener 

The owner of Bourtreehill in 1754 was one Robert Hamilton. His two daughters married the Earls of Crawford and Eglinton, the latter family later inheriting the entire estate. The Earl of Crawford, who lived in Kilbirnie took his new wife there to live but a devastating fire - from which the Earl rescued his family - brought the house to the ground. The Kilbirnie Earl of Crawford sought shelter and his father-in-law, Robert Hamilton of Bourtreehill, gave his estate to the distressed family. Hamilton moved to another estate he had purchased close by and the Crawford family moved into Bourtreehill House in 1757. The footman employed by the Earl of Crawford had come to Bourtreehill to continue to duties. He later published his works under the name Memoirs of an 18th Century Footman. At the same time, the gardener employed by Robert Hamilton of Bourtreehill, was directly responsible for much of the landscaping and decoration in the present remnant that survives today. 

He was a subject in the Letters of Gilbert Burns, a collection of letters written by the brother of Robert Burns. In these, Gilbert reminisces on a book loan between his own father, William Burness and "Mr. Hamilton of Bourtreehill's gardener". The grave of Andrew Urquhart can be seen in Irvine Parish Graveyard. 

For additional history and photographs visit the Bourtreehill website by clicking  here.

Bourtreehill Estate views (2007)

Micro-history
The future estate of Rozelle in Ayr was purchased by Robert Hamilton of Bourtreehill, a former Jamaica merchant who named it after a Jamaican property and also built the mansion house (1760).

See also 

Towerlands, North Ayrshire
Cunninghamhead, Perceton and Annick Lodge
Clan Montgomery
Eglinton Country Park
Dalry, Ayrshire
Lynn Glen

References 
Notes

Sources
 Davis, Michael C. (1991). The Castles and Mansions of Ayrshire. Privately printed.
 Dobie, James D. (ed Dobie, J.S.) (1876). Cunninghame, Topographized by Timothy Pont 1604–1608, with continuations and illustrative notices. Glasgow: John Tweed.
 Paterson, James (1866). History of the Counties of Ayrs and Wigton. Vol. IV. Cuninghame. Parts 1 & 2. Edinburgh : James Stillie.

External links 
RCAHMS Canmore archaeology site
General Roy's Military Survey of Scotland 1747 - 52
Old maps of Scotland from the National Library
 Old Ordnance Survey Maps
Commentary and video on the old Towerlands Tram Road

Country houses in North Ayrshire
Former country houses in Scotland
Scottish country houses destroyed in the 20th century
Irvine, North Ayrshire