[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Same-sex marriage in Maryland

ecision a "setback" and Ken Choe, the ACLU attorney who argued on behalf of the plaintiffs, expressed hope that, unlike the majority of the bench, the General Assembly would be able to see "that lesbian and gay couples form committed relationships and loving families just like heterosexual couples".

Recognition of out-of-state marriages
State Senator Richard Madaleno requested in 2009 that Attorney General Doug Gansler answer the question of whether same-sex marriages could be recognized by the state. In February 2010, Gansler issued an opinion after a nine-month analysis of state laws, stating that valid same-sex marriages performed in states that permit same-sex marriage could be recognized under Maryland law. Gansler stated that the opinion was not binding on the courts, and state agencies could begin immediately to recognize out-of-state same-sex marriages. He said that he expected the opinion to be quickly challenged in court.

The opinion garnered negative reactions from some Republicans, socially conservative Democrats, and several African-American lawmakers, including delegates Emmett C. Burns, Jr. and Don Dwyer, who spoke out against the opinion and promised to initiate impeachment proceedings against Gansler. "It is not up to the attorney general, and that's the reason I will be bringing charges of impeachment," Dwyer said in a statement where he described the Attorney General as usurping the law. The Roman Catholic Archbishops of Washington and Baltimore and the Bishop of Wilmington also took "strong exception" to the decision.

Port v. Cowan
Recognition of same-sex marriages from other states became precedent when the Court of Appeals ruled in a case from Prince George's County in May 2012. The couple, two women who had legally married in California, had been denied a divorce by the circuit court. On May 18, 2012, the Court of Appeals published a unanimous ruling in Port v. Cowan that validated the marriage of Jessica Port and Virginia Cowan because it said "no viable decision by the Court had deemed a valid foreign marriage to be 'repugnant'" even if the marriage was void or punishable as a crime were it performed in Maryland. The opinion cited conflicts that arose from decisions in Anne Arundel and St. Mary's counties where two same-sex couples had their petitions for divorce granted, and another case in Baltimore where it was denied. The decision of the court was based on the state's traditional use of the common law doctrine of comity, which specifies that Maryland "will give effect to laws and judicial decisions of another state or jurisdiction, not as a matter of obligation but out of deference and respect."

Legislative action
After the Court of Appeals upheld the statutory ban on same-sex marriage in 2007, State Senator Gwendolyn Britt of Landover Hills, along with delegates Victor R. Ramirez and Ben Barnes, sought to sponsor a marriage bill in the General Assembly. On January 12, 2008, Britt died of heart failure. The executive director of Equality Maryland, Dan Furmansky, who originally approached Britt to sponsor the legislation, said her death was a "devastating loss, but civil rights struggles are greater than any one person, and as our fight for equality in Maryland continues, her spirit will be with us." On January 25, 2008, the Religious Freedom and Civil Marriage Protection Act was introduced to the House of Delegates. The Senate version of the bill was introduced by senators Richard Madaleno and Jamie Raskin the same day. Advocates held a rally in support of the bill on February 11, 2008, but it ultimately failed in committee, alongside a constitutional ban introduced by Don Dwyer.

Domestic partnerships
While early efforts to legalize same-sex marriage failed, the General Assembly approved two laws in 2008 that grant all unmarried couples certain domestic partnership rights, including the ability to make hospital and nursing home visits, end-of-life choices and other medical decisions, as well as rights to joint property ownership. Domestic partners must be at least 18 years old and be able to provide an affidavit attesting to their relationship along with two documents, such as joint checking accounts, mortgages or car leases, coverage on health insurance policies or the designation as a primary beneficiary in a will. The laws went into effect on July 1, 2008.