[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brian Green (game developer)

ting to StoryBricks, a story-building system for video games.

Publishing

Green was also co-editor with S. Gregory Boyd of the book Business & Legal Primer for Game Development, published by Charles River Media (2007) , and was a contributor to the webzine Imaginary Realities.

Legacy

Remembrances

He died of natural causes on August 6, 2020, at the age of 46.  According to the MMORPG magazine Massively Overpowered, "It's with a very heavy heart today that we report that Brian 'Psychochild' Green has passed away at a relatively young age...." noting his contributions in blogging, Storybricks, and EverQuest after leaving Meridian 59.

Green was remembered by the JeuxOnline.com French MMORPG community, which stated in an obituary, "If the MMO industry is still relatively young, it is nevertheless already losing some of its main pioneers."

In-game memorial

His digital memorial was held on Sunday, August 16, 2020, 2pm EDT, at the Vale of Sorrows, Server 101, ingame.  The event was entirely recorded by numerous viewers.  A temporary portal was set up in Fams, Tos; users could immediately teleport to the event without any travel, and after the service, users were presented with a portal to teleport back.  The memorial lasted approximately one and a half hours, spanning about six speakers, each sitting on the center irrigation panel, which is the epicenter of the map.  The server reached 85 active users during this period. Active users at the ceremony were awarded masks of the xeochicatl creature, which were one of the creatures that Green had actively developed.  Among the remembrances of the speakers, he was highly acclaimed for his contributions to podcasts, blogs, and other grassroots communication with the gaming community.  A guestbook was allowed for users to write final condolences to deceased, which has been established as a permanent, unalterable book-item within the game, permanently fixed to the Vale of Sorrows.  Other permanent book-items became available, as well, such as the book at the Duke Arkadius Feast Hall, written by Psychochild, detailing the game development of Meridian 59 and 3DO studios in the late 1990s.

Credits

 Crusaders of Might and Magic (1999)
 Meridian 59: Evolution (2004) (Near Death Studios)
 The Saga of Ryzom (2004)
 March of the Living (2016)

References

External links
Psychochild's Blog
Meridian 59
Near Death Studios
Stratics interview  with Green, discussing Meridan 59: Resurrection
RPGVault article "Taking Games Seriously" about legitimacy for game development.
Twitter post revealing death

American video game designers
MUD developers
Video game programmers
Place of birth missing
1973 births
2020 deaths