[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Josh Thomson

omson was expected to face promotional newcomer Maximo Blanco at Strikeforce World Grand Prix: Barnett vs. Kharitonov but yet another foot injury forced him out of the bout.

Thomson returned in March 2012 to face K. J. Noons at Strikeforce: Tate vs. Rousey.  He won the fight via unanimous decision.

The trilogy rematch between Thomson and Gilbert Melendez for the Strikeforce Lightweight Championship took place at Strikeforce: Barnett vs. Cormier on May 19, 2012, with Thomson losing the fight via split decision.

Return to the UFC
Following the dissolution of Strikeforce in January 2013, Thomson returned to the UFC and faced Nate Diaz on April 20, 2013, at UFC on Fox 7. He won the fight via TKO (head kick and punches), becoming the first of only three fighters (Hermes Franca & Jorge Masvidal) to finish Diaz. The win also earned him his first Knockout of the Night bonus award.

Thomson was expected to face current UFC Lightweight Champion Anthony Pettis on December 14, 2013, at UFC on Fox 9, replacing an injured T. J. Grant,  However, the bout was cancelled after Pettis pulled out of the bout citing a knee injury.

Thomson faced Benson Henderson on January 25, 2014, in the main event at UFC on Fox 10. Henderson defeated Thomson via split decision. Many media outlets and observers were split on who they thought should have been declared the winner.  Thomson had one more takedown (5 to 4) and was able to secure Henderson's back on multiple occasions, while Henderson was able to significantly outstrike Thomson (114 to 33) over the duration of the bout and was credited with the bout's only submission attempt.  During the first round Thomson broke the thumb on his right hand, contributing to his inability to punch with much effectiveness.  Disappointed in the result of the Henderson bout, Thomson indicated in the post-fight press conference, that he may be "done" with the UFC or fighting.

Thomson was expected to face Michael Johnson on July 26, 2014, at UFC on Fox 12. However, on July 11, Johnson pulled out of the bout due to injury and was replaced by Bobby Green. Thomson lost the bout via split decision.

Thomson was expected to face Gilbert Burns on March 21, 2015, at UFC Fight Night 62. However, on February 26, Thomson pulled out of the fight with an undisclosed injury, while Burns remained on the card against a replacement.

Thomson faced Tony Ferguson at UFC Fight Night: Mir vs. Duffee on July 15, 2015. He lost the fight via unanimous decision. Thomson's contract ended after his bout with Ferguson and he opted not to re-sign with the UFC.

Bellator MMA
On August 11, 2015, Thomson signed a multi-fight contract with Bellator MMA. He made his debut on September 19, 2015, at Bellator MMA & Glory: Dynamite 1 against Mike Bronzoulis, winning via submission in the third round.

In his second fight for the promotion, Thomson faced Pablo Villaseca on December 4, 2015, at Bellator 147. He won the fight via TKO in the second round.

In his third fight for Bellator MMA Thomson faced Patricky Pitbull in the main event at Bellator 172. He lost the fight via knockout in the second round.

On January 28, 2020, Thomson announced his retirement from mixed martial arts.

Personal life
Before becoming a full-time professional fighter, Thomson worked in construction.

Thomson now runs and co-hosts the popular MMA and combat sports podcast "Weighing In" with former MMA referee "Big" John McCarthy.

Thomson made his acting debut in Fist of the Dragon (2014).

Championships and accomplishments
Strikeforce
Strikeforce Lightweight Championship (One time)
Strikeforce U.S. Lightweight Championship (One time)
One successful title defense
Ultimate Fighting Championship
Knockout of the Night (One time) 
Sports Illustrated
2009 Round of the Year vs. Gilbert Melendez on December 19; Round 5

Mixed martial arts record