[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lawrence Brainerd

Lawrence Brainerd (March 16, 1794May 9, 1870) was an American businessman, abolitionist and United States Senator from Vermont.  A longtime anti-slavery activist, after leaving the Jacksonians in the 1830s, Brainerd was active in the Whig, Liberty, and Free Soil parties, and was one of the organizers of the Republican Party when it was formed as the main anti-slavery party in the mid-1850s.  Brainerd's longtime commitment to the cause of abolition was recognized in 1854, when opponents of slavery in the Vermont General Assembly chose him to fill a five-month vacancy in the United States Senate.

A native of East Hartford, Connecticut, Brainerd was raised by an uncle from the age of nine, and grew up in Troy, New York and St. Albans, Vermont.  He taught school and worked as a store clerk, then began a business career of his own while still a teenager.  He operated a successful store, then expanded his holdings to include a successful farm, as well as interests in banking, railroads, railroad construction, and steamships on Lake Champlain.  Brainerd had extensive real estate holdings in and around St. Albans, including farms where he raised horses.  In 1856, he was chosen to serve as president of the Vermont Agricultural Society.  Brainerd became involved in the Congregational church at a young age and was a prominent advocate of temperance.

Brainerd became active in politics first as a Jacksonian, and he represented St. Albans in the Vermont House of Representatives from 1834 to 1835.  An opponent of slavery, Brainerd joined the Whigs, but became dissatisfied with the party's attempts to chart a middle ground on the issue, and became an adherent of the abolitionist Liberty Party, and later the Free Soil Party.  Brainerd was the unsuccessful Liberty Party candidate for governor of Vermont in 1846, 1847, 1848, 1852, and 1854, but his candidacies served to increase awareness of the abolitionist position on slavery.  In October 1854, Brainerd's years of advocacy in the cause of anti-slavery were recognized when anti-slavery Whigs, Liberty Party members, and Free Soil Party members in the Vermont General Assembly combined to elect Brainerd to fill a short term vacancy in the United States Senate.  He served until March 1854, and was succeeded by Jacob Collamer.

In 1855, Brainerd was one of the organizers of the new Republican Party when it was created as the main anti-slavery political organization.  He served as the first chairman of Vermont's Republican Party, and was one of the handful of state chairmen who issued the call for the party's first national convention in 1856.  Brainerd was a delegate, and called the convention to order as its temporary chairman.

Brainerd died in St. Albans on May 9, 1870.  He was buried at Greenwood Cemetery in St. Albans.

Early life
Brainerd was born in East Hartford, Connecticut on March 16, 1794, the fifth of thirteen children born to Ezra Brainerd and Mabel (Porter) Brainerd.  In 1803, Brainerd went to Troy, New York to reside with his uncle, Joseph S. Brainerd.  In 1808, they moved to St. Albans, Vermont.  Brainerd was educated in Troy and St. Albans, and attended St. Albans Academy.  He taught school for two years, then began a business career as a clerk in a St. Albans store.  During the War of 1812, Brainerd served as a sergeant in Colonel Luther Dixon's Regiment of Vermont Militia.  During the war, the area around St. Albans and Swanton was contested, with smugglers vying to move goods to the Canadian side of the border and militia patrols attempting to interdict their activities.  In addition, British and Canadian forces raided northern Vermont several times during the war, and American soldiers and Vermont militia conducted raids on the Canadian side of the border.  Brainerd continued his militia membership after the war and received a commission as a first lieutenant in 1st Artillery Company, 1st Regiment, 3rd Brigade.  His membership in Vermont's militia continued for several years, and he was promoted to captain during his service.