[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Chronicle of an Escape

Chronicle of an Escape (), also known as Buenos Aires, 1977, is a 2006 Argentine historical drama film directed by Israel Adrián Caetano. The screenplay is written by Caetano, Esteban Student, and Julián Loyola, based on the autobiographical book Pase libre – la fuga de la Mansion Seré written by Claudio Tamburrini. The film was produced by Oscar Kramer and Hugo Sigman, and stars Rodrigo de la Serna, Pablo Echarri and Nazareno Casero. The film tells the true story of four men who narrowly escaped death at the hands of a military death squad during Argentina's last civil-military dictatorship (1976-1983).

Winner of the Silver Condor Award for Best Film, it was Argentina's entry for the 2007 Golden Globes Awards for the Best Foreign Language Film, and director Israel Adrián Caetano was nominated at the 2006 Cannes Film Festival for a Golden Palm.

Plot
On 23 November 1977, during Argentina's last civil-military dictatorship, Claudio Tamburrini (Rodrigo de la Serna), a goalie for a minor league soccer team in Buenos Aires, is abducted by members of the Argentine secret military police. He is taken to a detention center known as Mansión Seré: an old dilapidated house in the suburban neighborhood of Morón on the suspicion he is a guerrilla man who opposes the dictatorship.

Blindfolded, Tamburrini is tortured daily by his jailers, who demand information he does not have because he is not a political activist and never was. Tamburrini discovers an acquaintance nicknamed El Tano, whom he has met twice in his life, has lied under torture and falsely implicated him, claiming he has a mimeograph. On New Year's Eve, Huguito, the lead captor, teases Tamburrini by implying he is about to be released. Instead, he is taken to another room with more men. When Huguito insists Tamburrini remove his blindfold and look at him, Tamburrini understands he will never be released alive.

He attacks Tano, who really is a member of a radical group. Tano claims he had no choice but to implicate Tamburrini after his name was discovered in Tano's address book. He insists that since Tamburrini is really innocent, he will be released eventually, but Tamburrini knows better. A new captive, Guillermo (Nazareno Casero), arrives and admits that he was really the one with the mimeograph, which he used to make fake papers for Tano. Tamburrini hopes that now he will be released, but Guillermo tells him that to have any chance of saving himself, he will have to implicate someone else, which Tamburrini refuses to do. Tano and a dozen other captives are told they are being transferred to prison but in reality are drugged and handed over to the Argentine Air Force, presumably being executed on a death flight.

Tamburrini expects to be killed by the ruthless guards at any time. After four months of imprisonment, and many sessions of torture, Tamburrini and his fellow captives Guillermo, Vasco and Gallego dive out a window during a thunderstorm. The four, naked and with nothing but their senses, begin a desperate flight to freedom. After a night hiding in the suburbs, the four men get ahold of some money and clothes and part ways; three of them leave the country, including Tamburrini, whom years later writes the book in which the film is based on.

Cast
 Rodrigo de la Serna as Claudio Tamburrini
 Pablo Echarri as Huguito
 Nazareno Casero as Guillermo Fernández
 Daniel Valenzuela as El Alemán ("The German")
 Lautaro Delgado as El Gallego ("The Galician")
 Matías Marmorato as El Vasco ("The Basque")
 Martín Urruty as El Tano ("The Italian")
 Diego Alonso Gómez as Lucas
 Leonardo Bargiga as Capitán Almagro
 Micaela Vázquez as Tamburrini's sister

Production

Historical context and factual basis of the film

The film is based on a real political event that took place in Argentina during Jorge Rafael Videla's reactionary military junta, which came to be known as Argentina's last civil-military dictatorship. The dictatorship took over the government after a Coup on 24 March 1976. During the juntas rule, the Congress was suspended and unions, political parties and provincial governments were banned. During the period that became known abroad as "the Dirty War", between 9,000 and 30,000 people were disappeared as a result of direct State-sponsored terrorism by the military government.

The film is about one such instance: the November 1977 kidnapping of Claudio Tamburrini, a goalkeeper of a B-league fútbol team, who's taken to a clandestine detention center and tortured.  On 24 March 1978, Tamburrini escaped along with Guillermo Fernández, Carlos García Muñoz (El Gallego), and Daniel Rusomano (known as El Chino in the book), and wrote Pase libre – la fuga de la Mansion Seré, a harrowing account of his experience.