[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Foreign relations of Macau

ice, on behalf of Macau. The EU-Macau Cooperation in the Legal Field Project was inaugurated on 3 December 2002, featuring a series of seminars and training programmes to be executed for a period of 48 months for judges, procurators, government lawyers and other legal practitioners of the Macau SAR.

Given its status as a separate customs territory as stated in the basic law, Macau continues to be treated by the EU as a separate entity for trade policy purposes.  The EU was Macau's third largest trading partner and absorbed about 23% of its total exports, while 12% of Macau's imports came from the EU in 2003 (Macau trade statistics). Total bilateral trade between the EU and Macau reached €1 billion in 2002. Macau's trade surplus with the EU was €382 million (Eurostat).  The EU was the third biggest investor in Macau after Hong Kong and the People's Republic of China with 25 firms investing in the SAR in 2001. Total investment stock amounted to over €400 million.  Macau's membership in the World Trade Organization and liberal economic system offer favourable conditions for EU investments.

Macau relations with US

In recognition of Macau's high degree of autonomy, the United States continues to treat Macau as a special area distinct from the People's Republic of China.
 
The U.S. government supports Macau's autonomy by strengthening bilateral ties through the promotion of bilateral trade and investment, law enforcement cooperation, academic and cultural links, and high-level dialogue and visits.
 
After the September 11 attacks, Macau officials pledged full cooperation with U.S. and global efforts against terrorism. Macau's legislature passed an anti-terrorism law in April 2002 that includes provisions that are consistent with the requirements of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373.
 
Macau's clothes and textiles continued to enter the United States under quotas separate from those of China. Under the terms of a September 2000 bilateral Memorandum of Understanding, Macau and the US government cooperate in enforcing textile quotas and preventing illegal trans-shipment. The US continued periodic visits by U.S. Customs Textile Production Verification Teams to ensure compliance with Macau bilateral textile commitments.
 
The protection of intellectual property rights remains a priority issue on the U.S.-Macau bilateral economic agenda. Macau progress since 1999 in strengthening IPR laws, tightening controls over DVD and VCD manufacturing, and stepping up street-level IPR enforcement resulted in Macau being removed from USTR's Special 301 list in 2002. Macau's new customs service worked with U.S. industry associations and maintained high tempo operations to combat piracy.
 
U.S. investment in Macau, while small in the past, is expected to increase in coming years as the result of the 2002 awarding of two gaming concessions to consortia with U.S. interests. Though trade with Macau represents a small portion of U.S. trade, the United States was Macau's second largest trading partner after the People's Republic of China. U.S. exports to and imports from Macau in 2002 were US$79 million and US$1.2 billion, respectively.  After the Macau government ended the 40-year-old gaming monopoly of the Sociedade de Turismo e Diversões de Macau (STDM) in February 2002, the government awarded concessions to three consortia, including two with significant U.S. investment. The restructuring of the gaming industry remains the centerpiece of Macau - efforts to improve its international reputation and become a Las Vegas-like gaming, convention, and family-oriented holiday destination. The possible new investment of US$1.5-2.5 billion in the medium term will increase jobs and income and dramatically raise the U.S. business profile in Macau.

Specialized diplomacy

Medical Diplomacy
On June 12, 2020, the Chinese medical expert group assisting Sudan successfully completed its mission to aid Africa and returned to China by plane. They ended their 30-day work in Algeria and Sudan. Among them, the China International Emergency Medical Team (Macau) sent five members to join the Chinese government expert group to successfully complete the first foreign aid international emergency medical practice since the team was formed last year.

Sister cities 
Concelho de Macau
  Brussels, Belgium (friendship agreement)
  Đà Nẵng, Vietnam (friendship agreement)
  Lisbon, Portugal
  Luanda, Angola (friendship agreement)
  Porto, Portugal
  Praia, Cape Verde
  São Paulo, Brazil
  Seoul, South Korea
  Kolkata,  India 
Concelho das Ilhas
  Coimbra,   Portugal
  Linköping,   Sweden

See also 
 Foreign relations of China
 Foreign relations of Hong Kong
 Consular missions in Macau
 China–Portugal relations
 Visa policy of Macau

References

External links
External relations of Macau
1.os Jogos da Lusofonia, Macau 2006

 
Government of Macau