[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Manuel Rosales

havez railed against him, threatening him with prison and accusing him of corruption and plotting to assassinate him". According to USA Today, Rosales characterized the allegations as an "electoral ploy to distract Venezuelans from pressing problems such as double-digit inflation and rampant crime".

Rosales was charged by the Venezuelan Attorney General with corruption in late 2008, accused of "misusing public funds" during his term as Governor of Zulia—charges which he denies. Prosecutors say he obtained $60,000 illicitly while he was governor. According to Rosales, a 2002–2004 investigation that "was closed for lack of evidence" was "'suddenly reopened by orders from above,' alluding to Chavez".

Rosales went into hiding in March 2009 when charges were filed, and failed to appear in court in April. On 22 April it was reported that he had sought political asylum in Peru. Interpol issued a "red notice" (requesting international cooperation in the apprehension of a suspect, with a view to enabling extradition proceedings) at Venezuela's request.

According to CNN, "[o]ne of Rosales' lawyers noted that Chavez said publicly in October 2008, before Rosales was charged, that he wanted the mayor in prison." Rosales' supporters characterized the charges as a "political witch hunt". According to the BBC, "His decision to leave Venezuela is the latest development in a long-running feud with Mr Chavez." Venezuelan authorities deny that the charges are politically motivated.

On April 28, 2009, Venezuela withdrew its ambassador to Lima in response to Peru's decision to grant Rosales political asylum. Peruvian officials said the decision was part of their "long-standing commitment to international law"; Venezuelan officials called it a "mockery of international law, a strong blow to the fight against corruption and an offence to the people of Venezuela", saying that Rosales should have been detained and extradited.

The newspaper El Nuevo Herald reported in 2009 about allegations by Geovanny Velásquez Zambrano, a member of the Colombian paramilitary group Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia serving a 40-year prison term for paramilitary massacres, that Rosales met with Colombian paramilitaries in 1999 to plot the assassination of Chávez. Zambrano claims that he attended two meetings with Morales, in which Morales offered him and his subordinates US$25 million to kill Chávez. Rosales denies these allegations, saying they are a lie and that his passport documents that he was in Aruba during the time of the alleged meetings, saying "The only plan in which I have been involved to 'do away with' Chavez has been the electoral plan". Venezuela's Attorney General announced an investigation of these allegations in October 2009.

The 2009 Human Rights Watch report mentions Rosales as an example of political persecution, questioning the judicial procedures against him.

In October 2015, Rosales announced that he would be returning to Venezuela. Attorney General Luisa Ortega Diaz reported that a warrant had been issued for Rosale's arrest, upon his arriving in the country.

On October 15, 2015, Rosales was arrested in Maracaibo after arriving from Aruba and was sentenced to 13 years and 9 months in prison soon after.

In October, 2016, Rosales' sentence was commuted to house arrest and he was released 2 months later on December 31.

Personal 
Rosales was a teacher before moving into public service. He was a co-founder of Universidad Nacional Experimental Sur del Lago, and received numerous distinctions and honors for his public service.

He is married to Eveling Trejo de Rosales; they have ten children (Hender Manuel, Jenny, Manuel Alejandro, Marenel, Marebeth, Carlos Manuel, Manuel Andrés, Alejandra, and Aleida).

See also 
 List of people granted political asylum

References

External links
Un Nuevo Tiempo (Manuel Rosales' Political Party)

1952 births
Candidates for President of Venezuela
Living people
Governors of Zulia
People from Zulia
Politicians from Zulia
Human rights abuses in Venezuela
Venezuelan Roman Catholics
Mayors of places in Venezuela
Democratic Action (Venezuela) politicians
A New Era politicians
Venezuelan exiles
Venezuelan city councillors
University of the Andes (Venezuela) alumni