[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jefferson County Schools (Alabama)

ity ever since.  Three African-Americans have served on the Board including the present Board member, Carita Venable.  Previously, Martha Bouyer, and Jacqueline Smith served with Mrs. Smith being the first African-American to be elected as Board President. Below is a partial listing of past members:

 William A. Berry (D)
 Carl R. Bottenfield (D)
 Martha V. J. Bouyer (D) (2014-2018)
 Roy F. Bragg (D)
 Jack E. Brymer (D)
 Mary M. Buckelew (R)
 Chester Cowan, Jr. (D)
 Jack M. Dabbs (D)
 Robert L. "Bob" Ellis, Jr.(D)
 Betsy Faucette (D)
 Randall Goodwin (D) (1978-1984)
 Belva Green (R) 
 Owen G. Gresham (D)
 Robert Gwin (D)
 Mrs. Robert (Harriette) Gwin (D)
 Jim R. Hicks (R) (1980-1992)
 W. A. Jenkins, Jr. (D)
 L. E. Kirby (D)
 Joseph E. Lacey (D)
 Tommy Little
 Bill Mewbourne (D) (1984-1986)
 Karen Smith Nix (R) (retired 2012)
 Jennifer Hatcher Parsons (R) (1998-2016)
 W. I. Pittman (D)
 Ronald Rhodes (R) (2000-2013)
 George M. Rogers (D)
 George Rudd (D)
 Jacqueline A. Smith (D) (1986-2018)
 Jeffrey Dean Taylor, Jr. (R) (2014-2016)
 Kevin Walsh (R)

Superintendents
Day-to-day operations of the system are run by the superintendent. That post is filled by appointment by a majority vote of the County Board of Education and that individual serves at the pleasure of the Board. The most recent superintendent was Dr. Craig Pouncey, who took over in June 2014, following the ouster of Dr. Stephen Nowlin after 16 months in office.  On September 11, 2019, it was announced that Dr. Pouncey had accepted the Presidency of Coastal Alabama Community College, effective October 1, 2019 and would leave his post with Jefferson County on September 27.   Dr. Walter Gonsoulin, Jr., the Deputy Superintendent became Interim Superintendent on September 27, 2019 and was given the position permanently by the Board in November, 2019, becoming the first African-American to be permanent Superintendent.

The first Superintendent of Jefferson County was Isaac Wellington McAdory from 1896–1913.  In 1868, shortly after The Civil War and long before the County System existed, he and his wife, Alice (Sadler) McAdory, established and ran the Pleasant Hill Academy in McCalla.  It was arguably the first education institution in Jefferson County preceding both the Birmingham and Bessemer systems and even predating any colleges or universities in the county.  The Pleasant Hill Academy is the forerunner of present-day McAdory High School.   The first seven superintendents of the system all had schools named in their honor.  However, McNeil School no longer exists and Simmons Elementary is now part of the Hoover School System.  Issac Wellington McAdory is the only Superintendent who has three separate schools named in his honor which may be more of a coincidence than a deliberate effort.

List of current schools

High schools 
The Jefferson County School District includes the following fourteen high schools. Data on enrollment, student-teacher ratio, and graduation rate are all drawn from the 2013–14 academic year. 

(1) Oak Grove is a combined Middle and High School campus containing grades 6–12.

(2) Both Pleasant Grove and Fultondale are combined Middle and High School campus containing grades 7–12.

Middle schools
 Bagley Junior High School
 Erwin Middle School
 Minor Middle School (formerly C. R. Bottenfield Junior High School)
 Bragg Middle School
 Brighton Middle School
 Clay-Chalkville Middle School
 Hueytown Middle School (formerly W. I. Pittman Junior High School)
 Irondale Middle School
 North Jefferson Middle School
 Rudd Middle School
McAdory Middle School

Elementary schools
 Adamsville Elementary School
 Brookville Elementary School
 Bryan Elementary School
 Center Point Elementary School
 Chalkville Elementary School
 Clay Elementary School
 Concord Elementary School
 Crumly Chapel Elementary School
 Erwin Elementary School
 Fultondale Elementary School
 Gardendale Elementary School
 Greenwood Elementary School (was Greenwood Junior High School 1959-1966)
 Gresham Elementary School
 Hillview Elementary School
 Hueytown Elementary School
 Johnson Elementary School
 Lipscomb Elementary School
 McAdory Elementary School
 Mount Olive Elementary School
 North Highland Elementary School
 Oak Grove Elementary School (K-5)
 Pinson Elementary School
 Pleasant Grove Elementary School
 Snow Rogers Elementary School
 Warrior Elementary School
 West Jefferson Elementary School

Community schools
 Corner Schools
 Grantswood Community School
 Irondale Community School
 Minor Community School

Former schools (Partial List)