[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Bob Carr

when Carr was premier included the Eastern Distributor and M5 East, while projects that were under construction when Carr left office included three bus expressways costing $300 million in Western Sydney, Lane Cove Tunnel, Cross City Tunnel, the Epping to Chatswood railway line and the Westlink M7.

After state politics (2006–12)
After leaving state parliament, Carr continued his involvement in public debate. He championed somatic cell nuclear transfer research—in particular therapeutic cloning—writing in The Daily Telegraph on 24 August 2006: "Therapeutic cloning holds great promise for sufferers of diabetes, Alzheimer's, motor neurone disease and untold other afflictions. [...] Let the doctors and scientists get on with the job. Their research might save a life in your family or mine". In another opinion piece he urged for broader support of embryonic stem cell research, stating that "Human embryonic stem cell research [...] has the most remarkable potential of any scientific discovery ever made in human health."

He continued to advocate nature conservation, for example by calling for national park declarations over the River Red Gums. He wrote in 2009 that the river red gums are "Australian icons, part of our folklore, symbols of inland Australia".

He was an opponent of a charter of rights. Carr wrote in The Australian that, "if the public believed the executive arm of government were stifling freedoms, Australia slipping behind other democracies, there would have been a decided shove towards a human rights act". He continued "Instead…it sunk below the water, not leaving a slick of printer's ink".

Pursuing his interest in literacy he urged an opening of the Australian book market to permit the import of cheaper books.

The rise in the annual immigration intake brought Carr into the debate on what he called 'Australia's carrying capacity'. Carr argued that "The debate is about whether immigration should be running at very high levels. It's about whether we end up with a population of 36 million in 2050 in contrast to the previous expectation of 28.5 million".

Carr took up the issue of obesity and argued that chain restaurants should be forced by law to put calorie measurements next to menu items, that trans fats be banned as in some US states and food manufacturers be made to reduce salt content.

In retirement Carr made speeches at international conferences on climate change, Australia–China relations and multiculturalism.

In October 2005 Carr became a part-time consultant for Macquarie Bank, advising the company on policy, climate change, renewables and strategic issues with a focus on the United States and the People's Republic of China.

Carr continued pursuing his literary interests, interviewing authors and lecturing at the Sydney Writers' Festival. He appeared as a guest reporter for the ABC television show Foreign Correspondent, conducting an interview with friend Gore Vidal. In 2008 he attended the Australia 2020 Summit as part of the economy panel, and raised the issues of an Australian Republic and childhood obesity.

He has been a member of the board of directors at the United States Studies Centre since 2009 and is a charter member of the Chester A. Arthur Society, a US political trivia group named after the US president, 1881–1885. In 2009 he was appointed to the council of Voiceless, the animal protection institute. In 2010 he was appointed Patron of the Sydney Conservatorium of Music Foundation and Patron of the Chifley home, Bathurst.

In April 2013, Fairfax journalist Philip Dorling identified Carr from a searchable database of declassified US State Department diplomatic cables as having criticised the Whitlam Government and provided information on internal Labor Party politics during discussions with the American consul-general in Sydney during the early 1970s. Asked about these contacts with US diplomats, Senator Carr said: "I was in my 20s. I could have said anything."

Federal politics (2012–2013) 

On 2 March 2012, Prime Minister Julia Gillard announced that Carr would be nominated to fill a casual vacancy in the Australian Senate caused by the resignation of Mark Arbib.  This term would expire on 30 June 2014.  Gillard also announced Carr would become the new Minister for Foreign Affairs in succession to Kevin Rudd. Carr confirmed that he would seek election to the Senate for a further full six-year term and was subsequently nominated at the head of Labor's New South Wales Senate ticket for the 2013 poll.

Carr was formally chosen to fill the vacant Senate position by a joint sitting of the NSW Parliament on 6 March 2012. He was sworn as a Senator and Minister for Foreign Affairs on 13 March.