[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Alfred Russel Wallace

allacea, named after the region, awards "Alfred Russel Wallace Grants" to undergraduate ecology students. Several hundred species of plants and animals, both living and fossil, have been named after Wallace, such as the gecko Cyrtodactylus wallacei, and the freshwater stingray Potamotrygon wallacei.

Writings 
Wallace was a prolific author. In 2002, historian of science Michael Shermer published a quantitative analysis of Wallace's publications. He found that Wallace had published 22 full-length books and at least 747 shorter pieces, 508 of which were scientific papers (191 of them published in Nature). He further broke down the 747 short pieces by their primary subjects: 29% were on biogeography and natural history, 27% were on evolutionary theory, 25% were social commentary, 12% were on anthropology, and 7% were on spiritualism and phrenology. An online bibliography of Wallace's writings has more than 750 entries.

References

Notes

Citations

Sources

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Vol. 1 
 . Vol. 2

Further reading 
There is an extensive literature on Wallace. Recent books on him include:

 
 
 
 
 
  Vol. 2 (Parts III – VII) (Project Gutenberg). London: Cassell and Company. Published in a single volume by Harper & Brothers Publishers, New York and London, June 1916.

External links 

 The Alfred Russel Wallace Website by George Beccaloni
 Alfred Russel Wallace at Western Kentucky University
 The Alfred Russel Wallace Correspondence Project
 Wallace Online – The first complete online edition of the writings of Alfred Russel Wallace
 Great Lives – Bill Bailey on his hero Alfred Russel Wallace on BBC Radio 4
 
 
 

1823 births
1913 deaths
19th-century English scientists
19th-century British writers
20th-century English non-fiction writers
Biogeographers
British anti-vaccination activists
English coleopterists
British deists
Charles Darwin
English activists
English anthropologists
English biologists
English naturalists
English people of Scottish descent
English socialists
English spiritualists
British evolutionary biologists
Explorers of Amazonia
Explorers of Indonesia
Fellows of the Linnean Society of London
Fellows of the Royal Geographical Society
Fellows of the Royal Society
Fellows of the Zoological Society of London
Georgists
English lepidopterists
Botanical illustrators
Members of the Order of Merit
Natural history of Indonesia
People associated with Birkbeck, University of London
People educated at Hertford Grammar School
People from Broadstone, Dorset
People from Grays, Essex
People from Kington, Herefordshire
People from Usk
Philosophical theists
Recipients of the Copley Medal
Royal Medal winners
Victorian writers