[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Andrés Guardado

the 2017 Confederations Cup in Russia, where he appeared as captain in the group stage fixtures against Portugal and Russia, picking up a yellow card on both occasions and thus missing the semi-final match against Germany. He returned to the lineup in the third-place playoff, a 2–1 loss to Portugal.

Following an injury scare that required medical intervention that was picked up while playing with Betis, Guardado was selected in the final 23-man squad for the 2018 World Cup, his first as captain. In the first match, he played 74 minutes in a 1–0 defeat of Germany, going on to take part in all the fixtures including the round of 16 loss with Brazil. Following their elimination, it was reported by Mexican sports newspaper Récord that he had played through the tournament with a muscle injury.

Guardado was called up by Gerardo Martino to participate in the 2019 Gold Cup. In the second group match against Canada, he replaced the injured Érick Gutiérrez at the 37th minute and scored twice, helping to a 3–1 win and being named Player of the match. He broke various CONCACAF-based records at the end of that stage, among them the most-capped Mexican player in the Gold Cup and the only from the country to score in four editions of the CONCACAF Gold Cup, eventually winning the competition and being included in the Best XI.

In November 2022, Guardado was included in Mexico's 26-man squad for the World Cup. In a friendly match against Sweden prior to the World Cup, Guardado made his 178th appearance for Mexico as a half-time substitute, and became the most capped player in the history of the national side, surpassing Claudio Suárez.

On 16 May 2023, Guardado officially announced his decision to retire from the national team.

Style of play
Guardado started his career as a winger at Atlas, occasionally playing as a left-back. He was mainly deployed in the former position at Deportivo by Miguel Ángel Lotina, and changed to the latter after moving to Valencia. When played as a winger, he was an incisive and quick footballer, known to play deep into the field, take on defenders one-on-one and provide accurate crosses, managing to score for both club and country.

In 2014, under Miguel Herrera's improvisation, Guardado began to play as a defensive midfielder for the national team. At PSV, manager Phillip Cocu facilitated his positional change as injuries hampered his speed, as the latter began to operate as a central midfielder with box-to-box and deep-lying playmaker qualities; he later took on more defensive duties.

A creative player with excellent vision, Guardado is also a technically proficient player known for establishing the tempo of his team. He also has good passing and dribbling skills, also being proficient at free kicks, penalties and holding up the ball. He also possesses a powerful and accurate shot from distance, and is also capable of aiding his team defensively due to his work rate and stamina; additionally, he was described as playing closer to the "Iberian midfielder archetype," focused on possession in the center of the field, winning the ball back with smart positioning instead of tackles and then pushing it forward.

Guardado has cited his compatriot and national teammate Rafael Márquez as an influence in his playing style and leadership.

Personal life
Guardado married fellow Guadalajara native Briana Morales in December 2006. Five years later, they divorced.

Guardado is an "honorary associate" of the Asociación Mexicana de Futbolistas (Mexican Footballers Association), created in October 2017. An association that its main goal is, according to him, to "create a dialogue with league, federation and club authorities" with the domestic footballers.

Much of Guardado's first year at Betis' Estadio Benito Villamarín was captured in the Amazon Prime television documentary series Six Dreams, in which he was one of the stars.

On 1 January 2021, it was reported that Guardado tested positive for COVID-19. By 13 January, he recovered.

Career statistics

Club

International

Scores and results list Mexico's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Guardado goal.

Honours
Deportivo La Coruña
Segunda División: 2011–12
UEFA Intertoto Cup: 2008

PSV
Eredivisie: 2014–15, 2015–16
Johan Cruyff Shield: 2015, 2016

Betis
Copa del Rey: 2021–22

Mexico
CONCACAF Gold Cup: 2011, 2015, 2019
CONCACAF Cup: 2015