[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Whiteshell Provincial Park

Whiteshell Provincial Park is a provincial park in southeast Manitoba, approximately  east of the city of Winnipeg. The park is considered to be a Class II protected area under the IUCN protected area management categories. It is  in size. 

The park protects areas representative of the Lake of the Woods Ecoregion within the Boreal Shield ecozone. The park's protection also specifically extends to the Tie Creek basin, an area of great spiritual significance to Indigenous peoples.

History 
Whiteshell Provincial Park was designated a provincial park by the Government of Manitoba in 1961. It was one of the first group of parks established the year following the passage of the Manitoba Provincial Parks Act. Tourism interest in the area had begun shortly after the arrival of railway lines—the Canadian Pacific Railway in 1883 and the Canadian Northern Railway around 1908. In 1927, the area was suggested as the location for Manitoba's first national park, eventually losing out to a competing proposal for Riding Mountain National Park.

The Ojibway people and various other groups before them initially populated the area. The Ojibway, or Anishinaabe, first mapped some of the area on birch bark. The name of the park is derived from the cowrie shells that were used in ceremonies by the Anishinaabe, including the Ojibway, and among them the Midewiwin practitioners.  The historic Winnipeg River and the Whiteshell River are the main rivers that run through the park.  For thousands of years, Indigenous peoples used the area for harvesting wild rice, hunting, fishing, trade, ceremonies, teaching, and dwelling.  In 1734, La Vérendrye was the first European to explore the area during his quest for a route to the Western Sea. First Nations, fur traders, and trappers used the Winnipeg River as the main travel route through this area, as well as the Whiteshell River.

Whiteshell Provincial Park has many pink granite ridges, cliffs, and flat granite areas used for petroform making by First Nation peoples. There is also archaeological evidence of ancient copper trading, prehistoric quartz mining, and stone tool making in the area.  The copper trade, which extended toward Lake Superior, began approximately 6,000 years ago.  Many artifacts and prehistoric camps were discovered in Whiteshell Provincial Park and are protected under the Heritage Act of Manitoba. The park is still used by Indigenous peoples for wild rice harvesting and ceremonies.

Around 1920, the development of roads brought tourists into the Whiteshell area. The first summer cottages were close to the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Canadian National Railway. In 1922 Brereton Lake Dominion Park was created. A decade later and in 1930 the park was transferred to the province of Manitoba and established the Whiteshell Forest Reserve. Further roadwork continued, linking the reserve to Ontario in the east and campgrounds and picnic sites further north.

A Manitoba Historical Plaque was erected in the community of Falcon Lake by the province to commemorate the role of the Dawson Road in Manitoba's heritage.

Geography
Three rivers flow through the park forming strings of lakes. The Winnipeg River defines the northern edge of the park from Eaglenest Lake, straddling the Manitoba-Ontario boundary flowing west through Numao Lake, Nutimik Lake, Dorothy Lake, Margaret Lake to Natalie Lake on the park's northwestern edge. The Whiteshell River enters in the south-eastern corner linking West Hawk Lake, Caddy Lake, South Cross Lake, North Cross Lake, Sailing Lake, Mallard Lake, Lone Island Lake, Jessica Lake, White Lake and Betula Lake before joining the Winnipeg River at Nutimik Lake. The Rennie River forms a third chain of lakes, arising in Shiaro Lake within the park through Jean Lake, Brereton Lake, Rice Lake, Heart Lake before joining the Whiteshell River just below Betula Lake. Falcon Lake lies to the south of the TransCanada Highway. Big Whiteshell Lake is the largest of a number of lakes lying to the north of the Whiteshell River.

Visiting the Park
The park is located along the eastern side of Southern Manitoba, along the Ontario border. It is the first area that is entered when arriving in Manitoba from the east on the Trans-Canada Highway which runs east west through the park. Provincial Trunk Highway 44 joins West Hawk Lake with Rennie. Provincial Road 309 connects Provincial Road 307 at White Lake with Lone Island Lake and Big Whiteshell Lake. 

Park vehicle permits are typically required year-round in Manitoba Provincial Parks. Permits are available at all campgrounds and district offices, or can be purchased online.