[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mass in the Catholic Church

he Economy of Salvation
IV. The Liturgical Celebration of the Eucharist
V. The Sacramental Sacrifice Thanksgiving, Memorial, Presence
VI. The Paschal Banquet
VII. The Eucharist - "Pledge of the Glory To Come"

Liturgical books
The Roman Missal contains the prayers, antiphons and rubrics of the Mass.

The Lectionary presents passages from the Bible arranged in the order for reading at each day's Mass. Compared with the scripture readings in the pre–Vatican II Missal, the modern Lectionary contains a much wider variety of passages, too extensive to include in the Missal. A separate Book of the Gospels, also called the Evangeliary, is recommended for the reading from the Gospels, but where this book is not available the Lectionary, which also includes the Gospels, is used.

The Roman Missal refers to another liturgical book, the Ceremonial of Bishops, saying the norms found in it are to be observed when a bishop celebrates the Mass, or presides without celebrating the Eucharist.  An English translation was published in 1989

The Roman Missal also says special celebrations of Mass should observe the guidelines for them. This includes Masses with children, in the "Directory for Masses with Children", by the Sacred Congregation for Divine Worship, 1 November 1973.

The most frequently celebrated form of the Roman Rite Mass is that in the post–Vatican II editions of the Roman Missal. Authorization for use of the earlier (1962) form may be granted by the Holy See or, as indicated in the 2021 document Traditionis custodes, by the diocesan bishop.

Liturgical structure

The Eucharistic celebration is "one single act of worship" but consists of different elements, which always include "the proclamation of the Word of God; thanksgiving to God the Father for all his benefits, above all the gift of his Son; the consecration of bread and wine, which signifies also our own transformation into the body of Christ; and participation in the liturgical banquet by receiving the Lord's body and blood".

Within the fixed structure of the Roman-Rite Mass outlined below, the "proper" or daily-varying parts are the Scripture readings and responsorial psalm, the antiphons at the entrance and communion processions, and the texts of the three prayers known as the collect, the prayer over the gifts, and the prayer after communion. These convey themes from the liturgical season, the feast days of titles or events in the life of Christ, the feast days and commemorations of the saints, or for Masses for particular circumstances (e.g., funeral Masses, Masses for the celebration of Confirmation, Masses for peace, to begin the academic year, etc.).

Introductory rites
The priest enters in procession into the nave with altar servers, and with a deacon if there is one. The deacon may carry the Evangelion (Gospel book), which he will place on the altar; and one altar server, called the crucifer, carries a processional cross at the front of the procession. Other servers may carry blessed candles, incense and a thurible. During this procession, ordinarily, the entrance chant or hymn is sung. If there is no singing at the entrance, the entrance antiphon is recited either by some or all of the faithful or by a lector; otherwise it is said by the priest himself. When the procession arrives at the sanctuary, all bow toward the altar. The priest and other ordained ministers kiss the altar. Then, when the priest arrives at his chair, he leads the assembly in making the Sign of the Cross, saying: "In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit," to which the faithful answer: "Amen." Then the priest "signifies the presence of the Lord to the community gathered there by means of the Greeting. By this Greeting and the response of the faithful, the mystery of the Church gathered together is made manifest." The greetings are derived from the Pauline epistles.

Then the priest invites those present to take part in the Penitential Act, of which the Missal proposes three forms, the first of which is the Confiteor. One form includes tropes acclaiming God's deeds on our behalf, and the priest has some freedom in formulating these. This is concluded with the priest's prayer of absolution, "which, however, lacks the efficacy of the Sacrament of Penance." It does absolve venial sins, however. "From time to time on Sundays, especially in Easter Time, instead of the customary Penitential Act, the blessing and sprinkling of water may take place as a reminder of Baptism." This ceremony, in which the congregation is cleansed with holy water, is known as the Asperges.