[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

nked the west side of the Confederate line. Crook's surprise attack broke through the Confederate lines, and was the major reason for the Union victory. Powell's cavalry brigade pushed through the gap created by Crook, and chased rebels as they fled south. The chase continued throughout the evening.

After the battle, Sheridan pressured his officers to pursue Early's retreating army. On September 23, Sheridan became impatient with the cautious commander of the 2nd Cavalry Division, General Averell. Sheridan replaced Averell with Colonel Powell, who had been one of Averell's brigade commanders. Powell was promoted to brigadier general shortly afterwards. Colonel Henry Capehart was designated commander of Powell's old brigade, and Capehart's brother, Charles, became commander of Capehart's 1st West Virginia Cavalry regiment. Major Hoffman remained commander of the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry regiment. Powell's 2nd Cavalry Division pursued Early further south. During this pursuit, Confederate cavalry led by General Williams Carter Wickham attempted a flanking maneuver on Powell's right, but was repulsed by artillery and a charge by the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry.

Battle of Cedar Creek

The Battle of Cedar Creek occurred on October 19, 1864. Jubal Early's Confederate Army appeared to have a victory until General Sheridan rallied his troops to a successful counterattack. Although Union casualties were more than double those of the Confederates, this battle is considered a Union victory, and Confederate troops were driven from the battlefield. The Union troops recaptured all of their artillery lost earlier in the battle, and 22 additional cannons belonging to Early's army. The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry did not participate in this battle until near the end. The regiment advanced toward Front Royal right before the final cavalry charge by Merritt's and Custer's divisions. This positioning prevented the Confederate cavalry under General Lunsford L. Lomax from flanking the Union force. The Union victory helped President Abraham Lincoln get re-elected a month later.

Muster out
On November 8, 1864, the regiment left their Front Royal, Virginia, camp for Martinsburg, West Virginia. They stopped near Winchester, Virginia, and voted in the presidential election. After a short period, 240 officers and enlisted men departed for Wheeling, West Virginia. These were the men who had completed their 3-year enlistment, and did not re-enlist. These men were discharged on November 28, 1864. Among those discharged was Lieutenant Colonel John J. Hoffman, commander of the regiment. General William H. Powell did not remain with the army much longer, as he resigned to attend to family issues. His resignation was reluctantly approved after a protest that the army could not afford to lose an officer of his quality, and he gave his farewell speech on January 10, 1865.

New 2nd West Virginia Cavalry
After 240 men mustered out of the regiment, it was reorganized into seven companies. Since most of the regiment's companies were depleted from either lack of re-enlistments or casualties, some of the companies were combined. CompanyI was combined into CompanyB, CompanyH was combined into CompanyC, CompanyE was composed of men from CompanyG and CompanyK, and a new CompanyG consisted of men from CompanyM. The new regiment commander was Lieutenant Colonel James Allen.  His second-in-command was Major Edwin S. Morgan.

General Sheridan now led an 8,000-man force, and it consisted of two cavalry divisions. General Wesley Merritt was Sheridan's cavalry commander. General Thomas Devin led the 1st Division, and the 3rd Division was commanded by George Armstrong Custer, who was now a general. The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry became part of the 3rd Brigade, 3rd Division Cavalry Corps. The brigade consisted of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd West Virginia Cavalry regiments, and was commanded by Colonel Henry Capehart. The divisions spent about six weeks in winter quarters, where they rested and were given fresh clothing. On February 27, they left Winchester and moved south. Their purpose was to eliminate Jubal Early's Confederate army.

On March 1, a few miles north of Stanton, Virginia, the 3rd Division encountered Confederate cavalry (known as the Laurel Brigade) under the command of General Thomas L. Rosser.  Rosser's elite Laurel Brigade had been sent to assist Early's army—and enable it to attack instead of flee.  Many of the men in the proud and well–equipped Laurel Brigade had served with General Jeb Stuart—the Confederacy's most famous cavalry officer. Custer sent Capehart's Third Brigade after Rosser.  Capehart's brigade chased Rosser's cavalry from the area, captured 50 men, and captured all of the Laurel Brigade's artillery. Custer, with Capehart's Brigade (including the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry) leading, defeated one of the Confederacy's best cavalries.