[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Treaty 4

self. A number of Metis attended the Treaty negotiations as interpreters and signed Treaty 4 as witnesses. On 7 September 1876, the Metis at Fort Walsh submitted a petition to Inspector Walsh on behalf of the Metis of the four districts of Assiniboia to join Treaty 4, but their request was declined.

In 1873, the first three numbered treaties were concluded and as a result, a clear route was established for the intended transcontinental railway. The Canadian government had also decided that there was enough land for the beginning of settlement and development. Therefore, they had no interest to negotiate any other treaties at that time. However, the Indigenous people who had not been a part of treaty discussions were worried about their future because of the dwindling bison and the ongoing settlement. They were aware that other Indigenous communities who lived southeast in the newly confederated land had signed treaties for themselves. They believed that the treaties provided protection from the change and economic hardships, and they wanted that for themselves too. Until treaties were signed with them, the Prairie Indigenous people made it clear to the Canadian government that they believed the land belonged to them and thus they demanded compensation and assistance. Chief of the Plains Cree, Sweet Grass, wrote a letter to Morris in which he wrote, "we heard our lands were sold and we did not like it", and made a list of demands. Chief Yellow Quill of Saulteaux bands also took action when settlers cut wood for timber without Indigenous permission. When he asked for a treaty and did not receive an answer, he put a sign on a church door warning the settlers not to cut any more wood because without a treaty, the wood belonged to the Saulteaux. Because of this consistent pressure, the Canadian government agreed to negotiate treaties sooner than expected. The disruptions made by the Indigenous people were interrupting the development of the land.

Treaty 4 negotiations had a slow start and discussions were delayed several times. Conflict surrounding the negotiations arose from disagreement between the different bands. They also felt resentment towards the Canadians and the commissioners due to the sale of Rupert's Land and the £300,000 that the Hudson's Bay Company received. The Canadian commissioners arrived at the outpost on 8 September 1874, but the bands were not able to select spokesmen. The discussions were delayed until 11 September when they elected some of them to represent their side in the discussions. However, on that day, the Saulteaux informed the Canadian commissioners with a messenger that they were uncomfortable holding negotiations on land that belonged to the Hudson's Bay Company. Treaty discussions were postponed again, and the next day they met at camp closer to where the Indigenous people were staying. An Indigenous spokesman began by stating that they wanted to be paid the £300,000 that the Hudson's Bay Company received for Rupert's Land. Morris refused this request, and made it clear that it would not be given. Once again the treaty discussions were postponed. Finally, on the 15th, treaty terms were concluded. The terms were explained to the Indigenous people by an interpreter, and both parties signed. In the following years, several adhesions to Treaty 4 occurred: on 21 September 1874, by Saulteaux; on 8 September 1875, by Cree, Saulteaux, and Stony Indigenous; on 9 September 1875, by Cree, Saulteaux, and Stony; on 24 September by Cree, Saulteaux, and Stony; on 24 August 1876, by Cree and Saulteaux; and on 25 September 1877, by Stony.

Terms of the treaty 
The terms of the treaty are as follows: