[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 33rd Illinois Infantry Regiment

Union troops from eastern states. According to one 33rd Illinois soldier, the easterners, "wore more feathers and less dust than those from the West." When soldiers of the 33rd Illinois and the 3rd Rhode Island Cavalry Regiment got into a drunken fistfight, the Illinoisans ended with fewer injuries.

On 10 November 1863, the 33rd Illinois was ordered to New Orleans where it embarked for the Texas coast two days later. The expedition's goals were to raise the national flag in Texas, to cut off the cotton trade with Mexico, to damage the Texas economy, and to serve warning to the French occupation force in Mexico. On 22 November, the regiment landed on St. Joseph's Island with every soldier carrying three days of rations and 80 rounds of ammunition. The Union forces marched north on St. Joseph's Island and crossed to Matagorda Island. Fort Esperanza guarded the Pass Cavallo inlet. In the Battle of Fort Esperanza, the fort was abandoned by its Confederate garrison on 29–30 November. One soldier claimed that the flag of the 33rd Illinois was the first to fly over the abandoned fort. Its capture gave the Union control of Matagorda Bay. First Lieutenant George H. Fifer was mortally wounded in the fighting and died 26 December 1863. The 33rd Illinois performed garrison duty at Indianola and Lavaca until March 1864. During this period, the regiment was part of Brigadier General Fitz Henry Warren's brigade.

On 8 January 1864, most of the soldiers of the 33rd Illinois reenlisted as veterans; a bounty of $402 was offered. The men who chose to reenlist left Texas on 28 January 1864 while those who chose not to reenlist were transferred to the 99th Illinois Infantry Regiment. The men who reenlisted reached Bloomington on 14 March and received their veterans' furlough. On 18 April, the regiment reorganized at Camp Butler and proceeded first to St. Louis and then to New Orleans, arriving on 29 April. The unit moved to Brashear City on 17 May where it was parceled out to defend the railroad. Companies A and D were ordered to Tigerville, Company B to Bayou Lafourche, Companies C, F, and K to Bayou Boeuf, Company E to Terre Bonne, Company G to Chacahoula, Company H to Boutte, and Company I to Bayou L'Ourse. The unit was assigned to the District of LaFourche in June 1864 – February 1865. The men temporarily assigned to the 99th Illinois rejoined the 33rd Illinois on 3 July 1864.

On 18 September 1864, the more than 100 soldiers of the 33rd Illinois who had not reenlisted embarked on the steamer Cassandra along with 300 Confederate prisoners that they were assigned to guard. After reaching New York City, the Illinoisans traveled by railroad to Camp Butler on 3 October and were mustered out on 11 October. On 5 March 1865, the regiment boarded a railroad train to join the XVI Corps. That day, the train derailed at Boutte and nine men from Companies A, D, and G were killed in the wreck. Another 72 men were injured of whom 2–3 men later died. The injured soldiers were mostly in Companies A and D, but all companies had injured men except C and F at the rear of the train. A number of injured men had to be discharged because they were disabled.

The 33rd Illinois participated in the Mobile campaign on 18 March–12 April 1865. The regiment was assigned to Colonel William L. McMillen's 1st Brigade, Brigadier General John McArthur's 1st Division, Major General Andrew Jackson Smith's XVI Corps, Major General Edward Canby's Army of West Mississippi. McArthur's Division engaged in the Battle of Spanish Fort starting on 27 March. On the night of 8 April, the Confederate defenders evacuated Spanish Fort. Smith planned to have McArthur's 1st and Carr's 3rd Division at Spanish Fort join Brigadier General Kenner Garrard's 2nd Division for the Battle of Fort Blakeley on 9 April, but the fort was quickly captured by assault and they were not needed.