[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 25]
# 2007 New Year Honours

Mrs. Baird, Deputy Chief Officer, Strathclyde Fire and Rescue Service. 
Wayne Terrance McCollin, Temporary Deputy Chief Fire Officer, Lothian and Borders Fire and Rescue Service.

The Queen's Volunteer Reserves Medal
ROYAL NAVY 
Warrant Officer 2nd Class Alan Starr, Royal Marines Reserve, P997670Q.

ARMY 
Colonel Magnus Von Schutz Cormack, T.D. (505155), late Queen's Own Yeomanry, Territorial Army. 
Lieutenant Colonel Kevin Frank Halus, T.D. (514207), The Royal Logistic Corps, Territorial Army. 
Major Thomas Finton O'Reilly (557959), General List, Territorial Army. 
Lieutenant Colonel David John Reynolds (546097), The Parachute Regiment, Territorial Army. 
Brigadier James Alexander John Thomson, O.B.E.,T.D. (496402), late The Cheshire Regiment, Territorial Army.

ROYAL AIR FORCE 
Squadron Leader Alison Margaret Moodie (2625256F), Royal Auxiliary Air Force.

Colonial Police Medal
Richard Horace Bosano, Superintendent, Royal Gibraltar Police. 
Randolph Osmond Liverpool, Superintendent, Bermuda Police Service.

New Zealand

The Cook Islands

Order of the British Empire

Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) 
 Dr. Terepai Tuamure-Maoate. For services to the community and the public sector.

Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) 
 Selina, Mrs. Matenga-Napa. For services to sports, youth and the community.

British Empire Medal 

Matapo Paiere Mokoroa. For services to the community and the public sector.

Bahamas

Order of Saint Michael and Saint George

Dame Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (DCMG) 
Marguerite M., Lady Pindling. For services to politics, community development and charities.

Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (KCMG) 

Baltron Benjamin Bethel, C.M.G. For public service, and services to the Church and Education. 
Garet Orlando Finlayson, O.B.E. For services to commerce and business.

Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) 

Alfred Jarette. For services to banking and the public sector management. 
Basil Laselles Sands. For services to accountancy, the Anglican Church and the field of diplomacy. 
The Right Reverend Gilbert Arthur Thompson. For services to the Church and the community.

Order of the British Empire

Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) 
Bishop Albert H. Hepburn. For services to religion and the community. 
Bishop William Michael Johnson. For services to religion, the Church and the community. 
Ms Nettica R. Symonette. For services to tourism.
Herbert Leon Treco. For services to industry and the community.

Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) 

Bruce Charles Braynen. For services to politics, business and the community. 
Ms Willimae Bridgewater. For services to trade unions and the community. 
Eric Cash. For services to music, art and education. 
Ms Linda Ford. For services to sport.
Levi Gibson. For services to real estate. 
Leon Rahming. For services to public transport. 
The Reverend Dr. John N. T. Rolle. For services to the Church.

British Empire Medal (BEM) 

Jane Adelia, Mrs. Adderley. For services to business, commerce, politics and the community. 
Kenneth Joseph Braynen. For services to politics and community development. 
Ms Oraline Butler. For services to politics and community welfare. 
John Lochley Cooper. For services to politics and community development. 
Ms Millicent Deveaux. For services to politics and community development. 
Cecilia Anne, Mrs. Grant. For services to politics and community development. 
Gloria Branulah, Mrs. Knowles. For services to business, commerce, politics and the community. 
The Reverend Dr. Henry Pratt. For services to politics and community development. 
Eric Wilmott. For contribution as a journalist and writer, and services to the community and to the Church in Fox Hill.

Queen's Police Medal (QPM) 

James Audley Carey. For services to the Royal Bahamas Police Force. 
Grafton O. Ifill (Senior). For services to the Royal Bahamas Police Force.

Grenada

Order of the British Empire

Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) 

Lawrence Lambert, M.B.E.

Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) 

Gordon Steele. For services to banking.

Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) 

Horatio Brizan. For services to business. 
Jean, Mrs. Robinson. For services to the community. 
Cynthia, Mrs.Cruickshank-Telesford. For public service.

British Empire Medal (BEM) 

Anthony George. For services to art and culture. 
Norris Marshall. For services to farming.

Solomon Islands

Order of Saint Michael and Saint George

Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) 

The Honourable Bartholomew Aba'au Ulufa'alu. For services to politics and the community.

Order of the British Empire

Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) 

Dr. Patrick Paia. For services to medicine.