[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Benin

r and sliced garlic to tenderize them, then used in dishes. Some people have outdoor mud stoves for cooking.

Sports
The major sports in Benin are Association football, Basketball, Golf, Cycling, Baseball, Softball, Tennis and Rugby union. In the 21st century, Baseball was introduced to the country.

Traditional authorities 
Benin has numerous non-sovereign monarchies within the country, many of them derivative of pre-colonial kingdoms (such as Arda). Non-sovereign monarchs do not have an official, constitutional role, and are largely ceremonial and subservient to political and civil authorities. Despite this, they play an influential role in local political matters within their particular realms and are often courted by Beninese politicians for electoral support. Advocacy groups such as the High Council of Kings of Benin represent the monarchs nationally.

See also 

 Index of Benin-related articles
 Outline of Benin
 Telephone numbers in Benin

References

Further reading

 Butler, S., Benin (Bradt Travel Guides) (Bradt Travel Guides, 2019)
 Caulfield, Annie, Show Me the Magic: Travels Round Benin by Taxi (Penguin Books Ltd, 2003)
 Kraus, Erika and Reid, Felice, Benin (Other Places Travel Guide) (Other Places Publishing, 2010)
 Seely, Jennifer, The Legacies of Transition Governments in Africa: The Cases of Benin and Togo (Palgrave Macmillan, 2009)

External links

 Country Profile from BBC News
 Benin. The World Factbook. Central Intelligence Agency.
 Benin from UCB Libraries GovPubs
 BBC, , Apr 10, 2018.
 
 commons:Atlas of Benin
 Benin Exports
 Forecasts for Benin Development

Government
 Government of Benin (official website) 
 Chief of State and Cabinet Members
 Global Integrity Report: Benin

News media
 Directory of Benin news sources from Stanford University

Trade
 World Bank Benin 2010 Summary Trade Statistics

Sports
 Baseball 

 
Countries in Africa
Economic Community of West African States
Former Portuguese colonies
French-speaking countries and territories
Least developed countries
Member states of the African Union
Member states of the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie
Member states of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation
Member states of the United Nations
Republics
States and territories established in 1960
West African countries
1960 establishments in Africa