[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1st Iowa Infantry Regiment

the 1st Iowa traveled to Renick by train, and then began a march to Boonville, where the men joined Lyon's main force on June 20 or June 21. During the march to Boonville, the regiment encountered several fugitive slaves: six were returned to their masters, and another one was driven from the camp.

Lyon's advance from Boonville to join forces with the southern prong of his offensive was delayed by logistical issues. During the time at Boonville, the Iowans interacted in camp with some of Lyon's United States Regulars, taking a dislike to the stricter discipline of the Regular Army units. In one incident, violence almost broke out between the Iowans and some of the Regulars over objections to a Regular soldiers being bound and gagged as a punishment. The regiment drilled heavily while at Boonville, but the unit's status as volunteer troops led to Lyon, a Regular, disliking the unit, which returned the feelings. Early on the morning on July 3, Lyon's command advanced out of Boonville.  One day on the march, the Iowans were placed at the rear of the column, and intentionally marched quickly, forcing the Regulars ahead of them to speed up and causing many of the Regulars to wear out and straggle behind.  On another day, the Iowans were in the front of the column, and would march quicker than the Regulars, causing Lyon to have to order them to stop whenever the gap between them and the Regulars would grow too great. During the marches, the men of the 1st Iowa sang "The Happy Land of Canaan", a 217-verse ditty that was particularly popular with the unit.

On July 7, Lyon's men reached Clinton, where his force was supplemented by men commanded by Major Samuel Sturgis.  Lyon's reinforced command made difficult crossings of the Grand River at Clinton and then the Osage River at Osceola. On July 9, Lyon learned of the Battle of Carthage, in which Colonel Franz Sigel's federal forces had been defeated by the Missouri State Guard, a state militia unit. Lyon reached Springfield on July 13, with his command following in bits and pieces over the next several days.  Aware of a Missouri State Guard camp at Forsyth, Lyon ordered a strike against it. Captain Thomas W. Sweeny led a 1,200 man force towards Forsyth, beginning on July 20. The command included 550 men, in six companies, from the 1st Iowa, led by Merritt.  Reaching Forsyth on July 22, the command drove off a small opposing force in a minor skirmish and then looted the town. During the skirmish, the Iowans supported an artillery unit. Sweeny's men returned to Springfield on July 25.

Wilson's Creek and mustering out

Meanwhile, components of the Missouri State Guard under Major General Sterling Price had combined forces with a Confederate army led by Brigadier General Benjamin McCulloch.  This combined force began an advance towards Springfield on July 31. Lyon, unaware that Price and McCulloch had joined forces, began an advance from Springfield on August 1, hoping to defeat in detail the Confederates and Missouri State Guardsmen. On August 2, a portion of Lyon's command routed some Missouri State Guard cavalry in the Battle of Dug Springs. Two companies of the 1st Iowa were present at Dug Springs, being aligned on the right of the command. Having learned that McCulloch and Price had combined, Lyon ordered a withdrawal to Springfield on August 4.

On August 6, the regiment believed that its term of enlistment had expired, believing that its term of service began when it was placed into service by Iowa authorities.  The regiment held a vote that resulted in a decision to remain in the service, as a battle was about to occur. Instead, the units term of service was actually calculated from the date of its mustering in to federal service, with the true expiration of enlistment being August 14.  McCulloch and Price camped their forces along Wilson's Creek, and after much urging from Price, McCulloch decided on August 9 to attack Lyon in Springfield the next day. Lyon, in turn, had decided to attack as well, despite being outnumbered. For the upcoming battle, the Iowans were placed in Lyon's 4th Brigade, which was commanded by Colonel George Dietzler. The 4th Brigade, along with the 1st and 3rd Brigades, advanced with Lyon, while the 2nd Brigade moved with Sigel to strike the enemy position in the rear. Merritt led the regiment into battle, as Bates was left sick in Springfield. As the federals moved out on the evening of August 9, the Iowans sang loudly on the march, which made Lyon worried that the men would not fight well due to levity.