[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 144]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

Mat. 14.26.
and Marke 6.49.) supposed him to be a Spirit, meaning thereby an Aeriall
Body, and not a Phantasme: for it is said, they all saw him; which
cannot be understood of the delusions of the brain, (which are not
common to many at once, as visible Bodies are; but singular, because of
the differences of Fancies), but of Bodies only. In like manner, where
he was taken for a Spirit, by the same Apostles (Luke 24.3,7.): So also
(Acts 12.15) when St. Peter was delivered out of Prison, it would not
be beleeved; but when the Maid said he was at the dore, they said it
was his Angel; by which must be meant a corporeall substance, or we must
say, the Disciples themselves did follow the common opinion of both Jews
and Gentiles, that some such apparitions were not Imaginary, but Reall;
and such as needed not the fancy of man for their Existence: These the
Jews called Spirits, and Angels, Good or Bad; as the Greeks called the
same by the name of Daemons. And some such apparitions may be reall, and
substantiall; that is to say, subtile Bodies, which God can form by
the same power, by which he formed all things, and make use of, as of
Ministers, and Messengers (that is to say, Angels) to declare his
will, and execute the same when he pleaseth, in extraordinary and
supernaturall manner. But when hee hath so formed them they are
Substances, endued with dimensions, and take up roome, and can be moved
from place to place, which is peculiar to Bodies; and therefore are not
Ghosts Incorporeall, that is to say, Ghosts that are in No Place;
that is to say, that are No Where; that is to say, that seeming to be
Somewhat, are Nothing. But if corporeall be taken in the most vulgar
manner, for such Substances as are perceptible by our externall Senses;
then is Substance Incorporeall, a thing not Imaginary, but Reall;
namely, a thin Substance Invisible, but that hath the same dimensions
that are in grosser Bodies.




Angel What

By the name of ANGEL, is signified generally, a Messenger; and most
often, a Messenger of God: And by a Messenger of God, is signified, any
thing that makes known his extraordinary Presence; that is to say, the
extraordinary manifestation of his power, especially by a Dream, or
Vision.

Concerning the creation of Angels, there is nothing delivered in the
Scriptures. That they are Spirits, is often repeated: but by the name of
Spirit, is signified both in Scripture, and vulgarly, both amongst Jews,
and Gentiles, sometimes thin Bodies; as the Aire, the Wind, the Spirits
Vitall, and Animall, of living creatures; and sometimes the Images
that rise in the fancy in Dreams, and Visions; which are not reall
Substances, but accidents of the brain; yet when God raiseth them
supernaturally, to signifie his Will, they are not unproperly termed
Gods Messengers, that is to say, his Angels.

And as the Gentiles did vulgarly conceive the Imagery of the brain, for
things really subsistent without them, and not dependent on the fancy;
and out of them framed their opinions of Daemons, Good and Evill; which
because they seemed to subsist really, they called Substances; and
because they could not feel them with their hands, Incorporeall: so also
the Jews upon the same ground, without any thing in the Old Testament
that constrained them thereunto, had generally an opinion, (except the
sect of the Sadduces,) that those apparitions (which it pleased God
sometimes to produce in the fancie of men, for his own service, and
therefore called them his Angels) were substances, not dependent on the
fancy, but permanent creatures of God; whereof those which they thought
were good to them, they esteemed the Angels of God, and those they
thought would hurt them, they called Evill Angels, or Evill Spirits;
such as was the Spirit of Python, and the Spirits of Mad-men, of
Lunatiques, and Epileptiques: For they esteemed such as were troubled
with such diseases, Daemoniaques.

But if we consider the places of the Old Testament where Angels are
mentioned, we shall find, that in most of them, there can nothing else
be understood by the word Angel, but some image raised (supernaturally)
in the fancy, to signifie the presence of God in the execution of some
supernaturall work; and therefore in the rest, where their nature is not
exprest, it may be understood in the same manner.

For we read Gen. 16. that the same apparition is called, not onely an
Angel, but God; where that which (verse 7.) is called the Angel of
the Lord, in the tenth verse, saith to Agar, "I will multiply thy seed
exceedingly;" that is, speaketh in the person of God. Neither was this
apparition a Fancy figured, but a Voice. By which it is manifest,
that Angel signifieth there, nothing but God himself, that caused Agar
supernaturally to apprehend a voice supernaturall, testifying Gods
speciall presence there. Why therefore may not the Angels that appeared
to Lot, and are called Gen. 19.13. Men; and