[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Husain Haqqani

way to work on areas of mutual concern."

As per Ex-Prime Minister Imran Khan, Haqqani was hired to lobby against his government in the US. Since the allegations of his alleged role in the regime change operation, a cypher leak expose has been published by The Intercept which gives further credence.

Relationship with the United Arab Emirates 
Haqqani has had a longtime relationship with the United Arab Emirates. He has served as a columnist for the UAE-based Gulf News for over two decades.  In 2017, Haqqani appeared on a documentary critical of Qatar, titled "Qatar: A Dangerous Alliance," produced by a UAE-based company. In 2018, he spoke on human rights in Qatar at a London conference organized by the Foundation for Sports Integrity conference, which campaigned against Qatar's hosting of the 2022 football World Cup.

In 2023, Haqqani joined the Anwar Gargash Diplomatic Academy in Abu Dhabi as a senior fellow.

Academic career
From 2004 to 2008, Haqqani was an associate professor for international relations at Boston University.  In addition, he co-chaired the Project on Islam and Democracy at the Hudson Institute in Washington, and was co-editor of the international scholarly journal Current Trends in Islamist Ideology.  Among his numerous writing credits are "Pakistan Between Mosque and Military" for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace; "Islam's Medieval Outposts" for the journal Foreign Policy, and "The Role of Islam in Pakistan's Future" for Washington Quarterly. From 2012 to 2014 Haqqani was Professor of the Practice of International Relations and Director of Boston University's Center for International Relations. During Fall 2015, Haqqani was a Resident Fellow at the University of Chicago Institute of Politics.

Foreign Policy Global Thinker 2013
Husain Haqqani was named among Foreign Policy magazine's Top 100 Global thinkers for 2012 along with his wife Farahnaz Ispahani "for pushing tough love for their troubled country." The magazine wrote that "Husain Haqqani and Farahnaz Ispahani have spent their careers fighting the slow-motion radicalization of Pakistan—even as it became increasingly obvious that the deck was stacked against them."

Books
Haqqani has authored four books on Pakistan.
 The first, Pakistan: Between Mosque and Military, was published by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in 2005. In the book, Haqqani examines the relationship between Pakistan's armed forces and Islamist groups as a function of Pakistan's search for identity and security.
 Haqqani's second book, Magnificent Delusions: Pakistan, the United States, and an Epic History of Misunderstanding, was published by PublicAffairs on 5 November 2013. In this book, Haqqani reviews the history of U.S.-Pakistan relations. Magnificent Delusions was included in a list of the "best books about the rest of the world" by The Daily Beast, who called it "compulsory reading for members of Congress and officials at the State Department.".
 Haqqani published his third book in May 2016. Titled India vs Pakistan, it is a short history of the India-Pakistan relationship published by Juggernaut Books.
 In 2018, Haqqani's fourth book, Reimagining Pakistan: Transforming a Dysfunctional Nuclear State, was published by HarperCollins. The books "offers a candid discussion of Pakistan's origins and its current failings, with suggestions for reconsidering its ideology, and identifies a national purpose greater than the rivalry with India."

Views
Husain Haqqani has described Islamist extremism as "the single most dangerous idea that has emerged in the Muslim world". He has called on Pakistan to crack down on Islamist militants, and has cautioned the U.S. against trying to negotiate with the Afghan Taliban, who he describes as "a movement with an extreme ideology [that] will not compromise easily on their deeply held beliefs." In 2019, he warned not to trust the Taliban and that a U.S. withdrawal would leave a power vacuum to be filled by terrorists, and in 2021 he predicted that Pakistan would come to regret aiding the Taliban's resurgence.

The Wall Street Journal described Haqqani as "a hostage" while he was in Pakistan and published an interview with him from the Prime Minister's house in which he outlined why he was hated by Pakistan's intelligence services and Jihadi groups. Michel Hirsh, writing in The Atlantic, described Haqqani as "The Last Friendly Pakistani" towards the US. Jeffrey Goldberg, writing for The Atlantic and Bloomberg News, has been a consistent supporter of Haqqani, calling him "The Hardest Working Man in Washington" and criticising Pakistan's military and security services. Simon Tisdall of The Guardian called Haqqani "an instinctive ally of the west" and attributed Memogate to the ambassador's difficult relationship with Pakistan intelligence service.