[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Thomas Lee (Virginia colonist)

Colonel Thomas Lee ( – November 14, 1750) was a planter and politician in colonial Virginia, and a member of the Lee family, a political dynasty. Lee became involved in politics in 1710, serving in both houses of the Virginia General Assembly, and also held important positions as Naval Officer for the Northern Potomac Region and agent for the Northern Neck Proprietary. After his father died, Lee inherited thousands of acres of land as well as enslaved people in then-vast Northumberland and Stafford Counties in Virginia as well as across the Potomac River in Charles County, Maryland. These properties were developed as tobacco plantations. Northumberland County was later subdivided, so some of Lee's properties were in modern Fairfax, Fauquier, Prince William and Loudoun Counties as well as the counties in the modern Northern Neck of Virginia.

When Lee married Hannah Harrison Ludwell in 1722, he benefited from the connections of the already established Harrison family of Virginia. A year later, he would become a member of the House of Burgesses. Arson destroyed Lee's home, he used money from Caroline of Ansbach and Britain to build Stratford Hall overlooking the Potomac River. Four years later, in 1733, he was appointed to the Governor's Council, the upper house of the General Assembly. In 1747, he founded the Ohio Company of Virginia with fellow Virginian colonists who wished to expand Virginia's territory into the Ohio River Valley. For less than a year, in 1749 until his death in 1750, Lee served as the de facto royal governor of Virginia in place of the absent William Gooch.

Early life and education
Thomas Lee was born around 1690 at Mount Pleasant, on the Machodoc River in Westmoreland County, Virginia. His parents were Col. Richard Lee II, "the scholar", and Laetitia Corbin, daughter of  Henry Corbin. His ancestors had immigrated from Coton, Shropshire, to Virginia in 1642. As the fourth son of the couple, Lee would not receive as large an inheritance as his older brothers. This did not prevent him from becoming successful in politics.

Lee attended college at the College of William and Mary around 1700. Lee's education was referred to as a "common Virginia education". He soon became interested in the working of the tobacco industry. He left home to work with his uncle Thomas Corbin in the tobacco business.

Planter and naval officer

Lee's political career began in 1710 when he was appointed Naval Officer of the Northern Potomac River region. His father previously held the position, and resigned in favor of this son. The lucrative position involved collecting taxes for tobacco exported to England. In 1711, two of Lee's uncles, Thomas Corbin and Edmund Jenings, helped Lee become the Virginia agent for the Northern Neck Proprietary. Catherine (Culpeper) Fairfax, Lady Fairfax, had inherited the proprietary from her father, Governor Thomas Colepeper, 2nd Baron Colepeper, but lived in England. Catherine was the wife of Thomas Fairfax, 5th Baron Fairfax. This property consisted of approximately six million acres (24,000 km2), including all the land between the Potomac and Rappahnnock rivers.

Fellow planter Robert "King" Carter had previously held the position as Virginia-based agent, as had Jenings, and Carter regained it from this man in 1720 or 1722. While Jenings was in England, the agency's offices were located at Machodoc and under Lee's supervision. This lucrative position and multiple accusations of mismanagement led to decades of animosity between the Lee and Carter families. Members of the powerful families refused to marry each other until Henry "Light Horse Harry" Lee married Anne Hill Carter. Henry and Anne's most notable child was Robert E. Lee. 

In 1714, upon his father's death, Lee inherited lands in Northumberland County near Dividing Creek, as well as land in Maryland adjoining land inherited by Maryland-based his brother Philip from their childless uncle Capt. John  Lee. Thomas leased the "Machodoc" estate from his elder brother Richard Lee III who was then living in London and experiencing severe financial problems. That same year Thomas visited England and remained for about a year attempting to resolve those finances.

Lee and his brother Henry negotiated a lease for 99 years on the  Machodoc plantation from Richard's widow after his death. While in England, Lee had also decided to buy some property on the Potomac River called the "Clifts Plantation" in Westmoreland County. At the time, the property was owned by Nathaniel Pope Jr., a mariner of London.  He later renamed it as Stratford.