[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of Providence, Rhode Island

nesses. These highways ultimately severed Downtown from the South Side, the West End, Federal Hill, and Smith Hill. Over the following years, the Providence Redevelopment Authority further razed a number of blocks west of Downtown in an unsuccessful effort to attract investment.

Decline of downtown

Providence's population decreased from a maximum of 253,504 in 1940 to only 179,213 in 1970, as the middle class fled to the suburbs. Those who stayed behind were disproportionately poor and in need of social services. Retail stores, movie theaters, and businesses likewise fled as Providence's downtown was widely considered polluted, dangerous to visit after dark, and lacking in parking. As hotels and department stores failed, many significant downtown buildings were demolished, boarded up, or abandoned. In 1964, Westminster Street was pedestrianized in a failed attempt to attract shoppers; within a decade, all the street's major stores had closed except Woolworth's. Familiar local names disappeared from the city by the end of the 1970s, such as the Crown Hotel, Kent Hotel, Narragansett Hotel, Dreyfus Hotel, Arcadia Ballroom, Albee Theater, Port Arthur Chinese Restaurant, J.J. Newbury's, Kresge's, Gladdings, and Shepard's Department Store.

Crime
From the 1950s to the 1980s, Providence was a notorious bastion of organized crime. Notorious mafia boss Raymond L.S. Patriarca ruled a vast criminal enterprise from the city for over three decades, during which murders and kidnappings became commonplace.

"Renaissance City"

During the late 1970s and early 1980s, $606 million of local and national Community Development money was invested throughout the city, and the declining population began to stabilize.

In the 1990s, Mayor Buddy Cianci advertised the city's arts and promoted further revitalization. Cianci's administration uncovered parts of the city's previously paved rivers, relocated a large section of railroad underground, created Waterplace Park and river walks, and constructed the 1.4 million square-foot Providence Place Mall.

In 1980, Providence's decreasing population began to grow once again.

21st century

First decades 
From the mid 2000s to early 2010s, the city of Providence worked to relocate portions of Interstate 95 and 195, with the intention of reunifying formerly divided neighborhoods on the city's West Side. The project cost more than $620 million but freed 19 acres of land in and adjacent to the city's Jewelry District. The city and state have marketed the new neighborhood as Providence's "Innovation & Design District," with the intention of establishing the area as a science, technology, and education hub and cementing the city's knowledge economy.

During the 2000s and early 2010s, new investment was triggered in the city with new construction, including numerous condominium and hotel projects and a new office high rise. The city recruited a number of companies including Virgin Pulse and GE Digital to establish offices in Providence, offering tax incentives and advertising a lower cost of living than nearby Boston.

Ongoing challenges 
Poverty remains a problem in Providence, with 26 percent of the city living below the federal poverty line. A 2020 Brandeis University report claimed that the "opportunity gap" between white and Latino children in Providence was the third-highest of the 100 cities considered in the study.  

From 2004 to 2005, Providence had the highest rise in median housing price of any city in the United States.

Bicycle and pedestrian initiatives

The late 2010s saw a number of bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure improvements. A greenway opened in Roger Williams Park in 2017. In August 2019, the Providence River Pedestrian and Bicycle Bridge opened, connecting the east and west sides of downtown. The bridge was built on the granite piers of the old Route 195 bridge.

A bicycle sharing program started in September 2018, only to be halted within a year due to vandalism and theft.

In January 2020, mayor Jorge Elorza introduced a "Great Streets" initiative to create a framework of public space improvements to encourage walking, riding bicycles, and using public transit. The plan includes establishing an "Urban Trail Network" which includes 60 miles of bicycle paths, bike lanes, and greenways within Providence.

See also

 Timeline of Providence, Rhode Island
 List of newspapers in Rhode Island in the 18th century: Providence
List of mayors of Providence, Rhode Island

Notes

Sources

Further reading
 Perlmann, Joel. Ethnic Differences: Schooling and Social Structure among the Irish, Italians, Jews, and Blacks in an American City, 1880-1935 (1988) covers Providence.

 
1636 establishments in Rhode Island
Providence