[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Langdon-Davies

making the book a collectors' item. He returned to London and spent another period travelling between England, the United States and Catalonia. The Daily News sent him to Barcelona in 1923 to report on the coup d'état by Miguel Primo de Rivera, which he evaluated as comparable to the Irish question.

In 1924 he began a series of lecture tours in the US, speaking to women's associations and universities on history, literature and his own work. He lived in New York between 1925 and 1926, during which time he wrote The New Age of Faith, a book of scientific popularisation, published by the Viking Press, N.Y. 1925, second ed. January 1926. In it, he attacked the pseudoscientists whose books were so popular in the US, particularly advocates of racial superiority, such as Madison Grant and Lothrop Stoddard, whom Langdon-Davies described as "Race Fiends". In January 1926, The New York Times reported that Langdon-Davies, noted as a member of the Labour Party, spoke out harshly against Stoddard in the wake of Stoddard's recent warm reception and the embrace of Stoddard's ideas by the Foreign Policy Association at a meeting in the Hotel Astor; speaking in a public forum, Langdon-Davies criticised Stoddard's beliefs in scientific racism and Nordicism or Nordic superiority, asserting that there was no scientific basis for racial distinction and arguing instead for the importance of environmental factors in influencing individuals. Langdon-Davies further challenged Stoddard to a public debate. Langdon-Davies's book and his passionate critiques of the scientific racism popular at the time provoked a number of counterattacks, pointing out that Langdon-Davies himself was not a professional scientist. Most of the 60 or more published reviewers of The New Age of Faith were in agreement with John Bakeless, who wrote that "rarely has popular science been written with such spicy impertinence, such gay insouciance, or with so much intelligence and such scrupulous regard for facts...". 

Langdon-Davies then moved to Sant Feliu de Guíxols, on the Catalan coast, where he stayed from 1926 to 1928 and wrote Dancing Catalans, a study of the significance of the 'Catalan national dance', the sardana. Twenty years later the Catalan writer Josep Pla said that it was the best book ever published on the sardana: "With the exception of the poetry of Joan Maragall, there is nothing in our language comparable with this essay". A Short History of Women, published in New York, had also appeared in 1927. In it Langdon-Davies traced the development of the idea of Woman from the primitive taboo, the Christian fear, worship of fertility, etc., which was now to be reshaped by the new knowledge. Virginia Woolf commented on some of the author's ideas in A Room of One's Own. In 1929 he settled in Devon but three years later (1932) he moved back to the US. Langdon-Davies'Man and his Universe (1930) was a history of humanity's scientific views, covering the period from Ancient Greece to Einstein. He returned to England again in 1935 and lived at Clapham Common. During this time, Langdon-Davies developed strong left-wing views; although not a member of the Communist Party, he was sympathetic to its activities. His book A Short History of the Future argued an alliance of Britain, France and the Soviet Union was necessary as a bulwark against fascist aggression.

 Spanish Civil War 
Langdon-Davies welcomed the establishment of the Second Spanish Republic, describing it as a "good-tempered revolution" that marked "a real break with the past" and which would deliver freedom to Catalonia. In May 1936, he went to Spain to report on the May Day celebrations in Madrid for the News Chronicle, who sent him out again in August that same year to cover the Civil War. On this second trip he travelled by motorbike with his 16-year-old son Robin, whom he left with the "Revolutionary Committee" in Puigcerdà for safe keeping. The following year he wrote Behind the Spanish Barricades, in which he recorded the exuberance of the short-lived proletarian revolution in Barcelona and also reported on the horrors of war as he visited Toledo during the siege of the Alcázar. The book was a critical success and "even received favourable mention in the House of Lords".Paul Preston: We Saw Spain Die: Foreign Correspondents in the Spanish Civil War. Constable, 2008 , (p.12-13). Behind the Spanish Barricades has recently been republished by The Clapton Press, with a prologue by Paul Preston.