[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Keiko Fujimori

ndidate on 6 November 2005 and was arrested shortly after by Interpol. After her father's arrest in Chile, Fujimori's father was blocked from announcing his candidacy for President of Peru in the 2006 Peruvian general election, as was his political coalition Si Cumple.

Congress of Peru (2006–2011) 

As a result of Alberto Fujimori's arrest, those sympathetic to the ex-president created the party Alliance for the Future (Alianza por el Futuro) with the acronym AF recognizing their previous leader. With her father unable to preside over the new party, Keiko Fujimori was chosen as the party's leader and candidate, which resulted with her ending her residency in the United States. It was in this context that she finally returned to the country and ran for Congress in the general elections of 2006. At this time, she would continue to defend the actions of her father and Montesinos.

On 6 January 2006, Keiko managed to get her new party included in the Peruvian Registry of Political Organizations. In that year's legislative elections, she topped the list of her party's candidates. The party's presidential candidate, Martha Chavez Cossio, running with vice presidential candidate Santiago Fujimori (Keiko's uncle), finished in fourth place, with 7.4% of the valid votes. Keiko received the most votes of any congressional candidate that year, with 602,869 votes, more than three times more than the runner up, Mercedes Cabanillas; breaking the national record for most votes received by a legislator up to that point. The Alliance received 1.4 million votes in total, or 13% of all valid votes cast, winning 13 congressional seats and becoming the fourth most powerful party in the Congress. In the night of the first vote, 9 April, Fujimori declared, "I believe that much of the support is because I am the daughter of Alberto Fujimori, and it is obvious that I am really the recipient of the caring and gratefulness that the people have for my father." She would serve as a Member of the National Congress from 26 July 2006 – 26 July 2011 for Lima.

With the election of Alan Garcia to the presidency, Fujimori now became the part of the congressional opposition. Adopting a moderate tone concerning Garcia, who did not have a majority of parliament, Fujimori announced her willingness to cooperate on certain issues. During her term, she played the role of a discreet legislator who was yet a prominent spokesperson for fujimorismo until the role was handed to Carlos Raffo Arce in 2008. Of the only 20 legislative projects she proposed in five years, just 6 were approved. The majority of her proposals concerned reforms of the legal code. Fujimori and her parliamentary bloc supported various government policies, such as their fruitless reform of the Penal Code to reintroduce the death penalty for terrorists. Later, she attempted to reintroduce the death penalty for pedophilia and robbery. She authored a law that restricts penitentiary benefits for those who commit serious offenses, and another law that obligates judges to give the highest sanctions to repeat offenders. Similarly, she passed a law that reduces the jail benefits to those who are protected under the "sincere confession" provision.

In September 2007, she organized demonstrations in support of her father, who was now being judged for his previous crimes. She told the press that she was confident of his acquittal because "there is no hard evidence." Fujimori insisted that her father was unaware of the crimes committed by Montesinos and other public functionaries. In December, the ex-president received his first guilty verdict and was convicted of participating in acts of corruption, murder, human rights abuses, and other charges. His daughter considered the ruling an "injustice", the result of "political and judicial persecution", saying that the Peruvian judiciary "inspires no confidence." The next year, she said that if she was elected president, she would "not hesitate" to use her presidential pardon power on her own father.

On 13 January 2008, Fujimori announced the creation of a new political party, Fuerza 2011, that would nominate a candidate for 2011. It would nominate her if her father was blocked from running by the law. Other Fujimorista organizations, such as Cambio 90 and New Majority, decided to maintain their organizational independence.