[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Radio repeater

a, a quarter of each transmitter's power will reach the output of the combining circuit. Part of this loss can be made up with increased antenna gain. Fifty watts of transmitter power to the antenna will make a received signal strength at a distant mobile radio that is almost identical to 100 watts.

In trunked systems with many channels, a site design may include several transmit antennas to reduce combining network losses. For example, a six-channel trunked system may have two transmit antennas with three transmitters connected to each of the two transmit antennas. Because small variations affect every antenna, each antenna will have a slightly different directional pattern. Each antenna will interact with the tower and other nearby antennas differently. If one were to measure received signal levels, this would cause a variation among channels on a single trunked system. Variations in signal strength among channels on one trunked system can also be caused by:
 failed parts in the combiner, 
 characteristics of the design, 
 loose connectors, 
 bad cables, 
 mistuned filters, or; 
 incorrectly installed components.

Modern

Cross-band repeaters are sometimes a part of government trunked radio systems. If one community is on a trunked system and the neighboring community is on a conventional system, a talk group or agency-fleet-subfleet may be designated to communicate with the other community. In an example where the community is on 153.755 MHz, transmitting on the trunked system talk group would repeat on 153.755 MHz. Signals received by a base station on 153.755 MHz would go over the trunked system on an assigned talk group.

In conventional government systems, cross band repeaters are sometimes used to connect two agencies who use radio systems on different bands. For example, a fire department in Colorado was on a 46 MHz channel while a police department was on a 154 MHz channel, they built a cross-band repeater to allow communication between the two agencies.

If one of the systems is simplex, the repeater must have logic preventing transmitter keying in both directions at the same time. Voting comparators with a transmitter keying matrix are sometimes used to connect incompatible base stations.

Historic

In looking at records of old systems, examples of cross-band commercial systems were found in every U.S. radio service where regulations allowed them. In California, specific systems using cross-band repeaters have existed at least since the 1960s. Historic examples of cross-band systems include:

 Solano County Fire, (former Fire Radio Service): 46.240 input; 154.340 output. This system was dismantled in the 1980s and is now a same-band repeater.
 Mid-Valley Fire District, Fresno, (former Fire Radio Service): 46.140 input; 154.445 output. This system was dismantled in the 1980s and is now a same-band repeater.
 Santa Clara County Department of Parks and Recreation, (former Forestry Conservation Radio Service): 44.840 MHz input; 151.445 MHz output. This system was dismantled in the 1980s and is now a same-band repeater.
 State of California, Governor's Office of Emergency Services, Fire, (former Fire Radio Service): 33.980 MHz input; 154.160 MHz output.

In commercial systems, manufacturers stopped making cross band mobile radio equipment with acceptable specifications for public safety systems in the early 1980s. At the time, some systems were dismantled because new radio equipment was not available. Sporadic E ionospheric ducting can make the 46 MHz and below frequencies unworkable in summer.

As links

For decades, cross-band repeaters have been used as fixed links. The links can be used for remote control of base stations at distant sites or to send audio from a diversity (voting) receiver site back to the diversity combining system (voting comparator). Some legacy links occur in the US 150–170 MHz band. US Federal Communications Commission rule changes did not allow 150 MHz links after the 1970s. Newer links are more often seen on 72–76 MHz (Mid-band), 450–470 MHz interstitial channels, or 900 MHz links. These links, known as fixed stations in US licensing, typically connect an equipment site with a dispatching office.

Vehicular repeaters

Modern amateur radios sometimes include cross-band repeat capability native to the radio transceiver.

In commercial systems, cross-band repeaters are sometimes used in vehicular repeaters. For example, a 150 MHz hand held may communicate to a vehicle-mounted low-power transceiver. The low-power radio repeats transmissions from the portable over the vehicle's high power mobile radio, which has a much longer range. In these systems, the hand-held works so long as it is within range of the low power mobile repeater. The mobile radio is usually on a different band than the hand-held to reduce the chances of the mobile radio transmitter interfering with the transmission from the hand-held to the vehicle.