[Source: PubMed]

8. Tob Control. 2016 Mar;25(2):129-40. doi: 10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2014-052054. 
Epub 2015 Mar 13.

A systematic review on tobacco use among civilian populations affected by armed 
conflict.

Lo J(1), Patel P(2), Roberts B(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Public Health and Policy, ECOHOST-The Centre for Health and Social 
Change, The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(2)Department of War Studies, King's College London, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To systematically examine evidence on tobacco use among 
conflict-affected civilian populations.
DATA SOURCES: Primary quantitative and qualitative studies published in English 
up to April 2014. Bibliographic databases searched were EMBASE, Global Health, 
MEDLINE, PsycEXTRA, PsycINFO, Web of Science, Cochrane; with the main terms of: 
(Smoke*, tobacco*, cigarette*, nicotine, beedi, bidi, papirosi, dip, chew, 
snuff, snus, smokeless tobacco) AND (armed-conflict, conflict-affected, 
conflict, war, refugee, internally displaced, forcibly displaced, asylum, 
humanitarian). Grey literature was searched using humanitarian databases, 
websites and search engines.
STUDY SELECTION: Studies were independently selected by two reviewers, with a 
study outcome of tobacco use and a population of conflict-affected civilian 
populations such as internally displaced persons, refugees, residents in 
conflict-affected areas, residents and returning forcibly displaced populations 
returning in stabilised and postconflict periods. 2863 studies were initially 
identified.
DATA EXTRACTION: Data were independently extracted. The Quality Assessment Tool 
for Quantitative Studies and the Critical Appraisal Skills Programme for 
qualitative studies were used to assess study quality.
DATA SYNTHESIS: 39 studies met inclusion criteria and descriptive analysis was 
used. Findings were equivocal on the effect of conflict on tobacco use. Evidence 
was clearer on associations between post-traumatic stress and other mental 
disorders with nicotine dependence. However, there were too few studies for 
definitive conclusions. No study examined the effectiveness of tobacco-related 
interventions. The quantitative studies were moderate (N=13) or weak (N=22) 
quality, and qualitative studies were moderate (N=3) or strong (N=2).
CONCLUSIONS: Some evidence indicates links between conflict and tobacco use but 
substantially more research is required.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2014-052054
PMID: 25770116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]