[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jung Woo-sung

Jung Woo-sung (born April 22, 1973) is a South Korean actor and the first Korean UNHCR Goodwill Ambassador.

Jung started his career as a fashion model, rising to stardom and teenage cult status with the gangster film Beat (1997), for which he won Best New Actor at the 17th Korean Association of Film Critics Awards.

Jung is also widely popular in other Asian countries, notably in Japan. He is a versatile actor known for playing leading roles in a wide spectrum of genres including high-grossing box office hits: Steel Rain (2017), The King (2017), Asura: The City of Madness (2016), The Divine Move (2014), Cold Eyes (2013); martial arts film: Reign of Assassins (2010), fantasy: The Restless (2006); dramas: Don't Forget Me (2016), City of the Rising Sun (1998), erotic thriller Scarlet Innocence (2014); romantic films: A Good Rain Knows (2009), Daisy (2006), A Moment to Remember (2004) and historical epic Musa (2001). His critically acclaimed film Innocent Witness (2019) won him Best Actor at the 40th Blue Dragon Film Awards and the Daesang (Grand Prize) for Film at the 55th Baeksang Arts Awards.

He is also an accomplished television actor. For his first major TV drama part in Asphalt Man (1995) he won Best New Actor at SBS Drama Awards and at the 32nd Baeksang Arts Awards (TV). His other prominent roles were in high-budget espionage TV series Athena: Goddess of War (2010) and the romantic drama Padam Padam (2011).

Early life 
Jung grew up in Sadang-dong, then one of the poorest neighborhoods in Seoul. He gave up studying, dropping out of high school after one year, to work and thus support the family budget. He never hid this fact or regretted doing so. He was tall in elementary school, his height causing him to constantly hunch. When trying to break into the film industry, he was told he was too tall to become an actor, so he first worked as a model.

Career

Film 
Jung Woo-sung made his film debut with a leading role in 1994's The Fox with Nine Tails, one of the first Korean fantasy movies and the first to use computer-generated imagery. He debuted together with actress Ko So-young, who later co-starred with him twice including in his breakthrough 1997 film Beat.
Directed by Kim Sung-su, Beat is a story of a high school student forced into gang life. The movie brought Jung widespread fame and started his rise to Korea's  A-list actor and one of the most sought-after commercial models.

In 1999, he starred in director City of the Rising Sun, playing an unsuccessful boxer who forms a friendship with an unlucky swindler. His co-lead in the movie, actor Lee Jung-jae, became his lifelong friend.

Jung later played a naval lieutenant in Phantom: The Submarine and a marathoner in Love.

2001's Musa marked his third collaboration with director Kim Sung-su. In the epic blockbuster, Jung played opposite Chinese star Zhang Ziyi and received wide exposure abroad as well as in Korea. After spending time in 2002 directing a series of music videos and appearing in a large number of commercials, Jung took on the eccentric lead role in Mutt Boy, the fifth film by director Kwak Kyung-taek.

Jung's next roles were in highly romantic roles that used his established screen image. In the box office hit A Moment to Remember he played an architect whose wife (played by Son Ye-jin) is diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's disease and in the Netherlands-set Daisy, he played a hired assassin who falls in love with a street artist played by Jun Ji-hyun. He portrayed a happily committed fireman in Sad Movie, and played a demon hunter seeking for lost love in The Restless.

Kim Jee-woon's "kimchi western" The Good, the Bad, the Weird inspired by Sergio Leone's work, would become one of Jung's most iconic roles. He used his physicality to great effect as the Clint Eastwood counterpart in The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. The film was screened out of competition at the 2008 Cannes Film Festival which also marked its world premiere. Jung attended the festival together with his co-stars. He won Best Supporting Actor at the 3rd Asian Film Awards and Outstanding Achievement in Acting at the 2008 Hawaii International Film Festival for his performance. Shortly afterwards, Jung worked again with Kim Jee-woon on a short film for W Korea.

Jung then starred alongside Chinese actress Gao Yuanyuan in Hur Jin-ho's romance film A Season of Good Rain, and Su Chao-pin's martial arts film Reign of Assassins with Michelle Yeoh.