[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Transfer Day

ish rule. At 4:53 p.m. the American honor guard presented arms, a band played the "Star-Spangled Banner," and to the roar of the cannon the American flag was raised. As a last gesture, Admiral Henri Konow of Denmark and Admiral Edwin T. Pollock of the United States Navy drew their ceremonial swords.

The Virgin Islands now have annual celebrations in honor of transfer day. According to a St. Croix website, "Transfer Day is commemorated annually with a military parade and various ceremonies and cultural events across all of the islands". The celebration varies by year, for example in 1987, "A reenactment of the transfer will begin at 4 p.m. Tuesday on the lawns of the 1874 lime-green, white-shuttered Legislature building. That's the precise time the event originally occurred on March 31, 1917". In addition to reenacting the transfer, the Danish also replicated their departure, "The 196-foot-long, three-masted, full-rigged Danish government training ship Danmark has sailed here from Copenhagen especially for the celebration. The Danmark 80 cadets and 18 officers will represent the officers and crew of the Danish cruiser Valkyrien which in 1917 carried back to Denmark the last Danish governor and his official party".

Key actors 
Constantin Brun, a Danish royal administrator and merchant, was in Washington, D.C., on Transfer Day as representative of Denmark accepting payment for the Virgin Islands on behalf of  President Woodrow Wilson. Following payment, various telegraphs were sent to the islands in order to inform them of the sale. As mentioned previously, a final act of respect would be displayed by Admiral Henri Konow of Denmark and Admiral Edwin T. Pollock of the United States Navy.

In popular culture 
The holiday is the subject of Sophie Schiller's 2012 novel Transfer Day.

Gallery

References

External links 
Transfer Day, Royal Danish Consulate, U.S. Virgin Islands
Article and video concerning Transfer Day (in Danish)

Public holidays in the United States Virgin Islands
History of the United States Virgin Islands
March observances
1917 in the United States Virgin Islands
1917 establishments in the United States