[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ghorahi

y. Many small scale and medium scale industries related to poultry are running in this region.

Food and cuisine
Dal Bhat is a popular cuisine among most of the people in the city. It is eaten twice a day: once after breakfast and at night.

Momo, Chowmein, Samosas, and Chaat are famous in the city.

Media
 Newspapers: the people of Ghorahi are served by several daily local newspapers and national newspapers. There are 13 local newspapers in total. Among these are New Yougbodh Daily, Ganatantra Daily, Rapti Post Daily and Gorakshya Daily. National newspapers are also provided to the people on a daily basis. Some of the National newspapers are The Kathmandu Post, Kantipur, Annapurna Post, and the Himalayan Times among others. Several monthly neighborhood papers serve the town.
 Radio: the state-owned Radio Nepal is broadcast on the 98Mhz frequency in the city. Similarly, six private local FM stations are available. They are: Madhyapaschim FM 91.4 MHz; Indreni FM 92.4 MHz; Jharana FM 88 MHz; Radio Pathshala FM 105.8 MHz; Radio Ganatantra Rapti FM 95.1 MHz; Radio Swargadwari FM 102.8 MHz
 Television: Nepal's state-owned television broadcaster, Nepal Television relay station is present near its border, which provides only one free-to-air terrestrial channels. Besides that, a mix of Nepali, Hindi, English, and other international channels are accessible via cable subscription and direct-broadcast satellite services. Ambikeshwori TV and RC Television are local television channels that cover events in the city.
 Internet: Internet facilities are provided by Nepal Telecom, BroadLink, Lumbininet, WorldLink, and Subisu. Nepal Telecom is the leading internet facilities provider. Wi-Fi connectivity is available at many cafes.

Places of interest
 Ambikeshwori Temple: It is one of the famous temples of Western Nepal. Its history is mentioned in the famous Hindu religious book  Swosthani.

 Ratnanath Mandir: It lies in the 4th ward of the municipality and is known as Gorakshya Siddha Ratna Nath Mandir. It is one of the historic places of Nepal.
 Barhakune Daha and Baraha Temple: It lies in the 7th ward of the municipality. There is a pond that has twelve corners (angles); hence its name barha kune daha. The Temple of God Bishnu, barah is also an important place for pilgrims in that area, and several temples of Ganesh and Shiva are there. A special fair is organised here during Maghe Sankranti. It is also a tourist spot.

 Pandaveshwor Temple: The management committee of Pandaveshwor temple at Dharpani, Dharna-1, has installed a -long trishula that weighs . It is considered to be the largest in the world. It is related to the Pandavas of the famous epic Mahabharata. A special fair is organised during Maha Shiv Ratri. A total of a thousand trees were also planted in the region. 

 MAINI: There is a place called Maini on the outskirt of the city amidst the lush green forest and sits on the bank of Arjun Khola. This is a hidden gem hangout spot. Chaudhary cottage(अपन डाडुक कटेज) is icing on the cake. One can enjoy a chilled beer and flex his swimming skill in the local khola. Local chicken roast and fish gravy are no match to the best chicken you ever had. 
You can catch a bus or hop on your bike to get there. You need to follow Ghorahi Lamahi highway section uptill Beldamar, there is a dirt trail on the east side which goes through the Arjun khola and to the Chaudhary Cottage. One should not miss the pleasant and tranquil experience by not going there.

DISCLAIMER: Chilled beer in Maini is a must for glimpse into a realm of perfect tranquility and bliss.

 Ambapur
 Nama:chu Bouddha Stupa
 Charinge Daha and Bhote Daha
 Sawarikot
 Ghordaura
 Jhinnikot
 Panaura Tharu Cultural Museum
 Martyr Lakhan Thapa Magar Memorial Park : It lies in the centre of the city.
 Netralal Abaghi Memorial Park Gulariya
 Magar Village and Homestay'
 Vulture Restaurant Bijauri
 Jhigaura Sports Stadium

References

External links
 Ghorahi municipality site ; www.ghorahi.gov.np

Nepal municipalities established in 1978
Populated places in Dang District, Nepal
Submetropolitan municipalities of Nepal