[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Camp Nelson National Cemetery

vated for use as the cemetery's main office and visitor center. In 1995, the Daughters of the Union erected a granite monument dedicated to the memory of Union soldiers who fought in the Civil War. In 1997, a new flagpole with surrounding assembly area was erected on a knoll within view of the road.

A committal shelter was built for the observance of funeral services. The committal shelter, or funeral shelter, is a roofed pavilion, open on three sides, and was intended to make graveside services unnecessary, as elderly mourners may have difficulty walking over uneven ground. The shelter can mitigate the inconvenience of inclement weather. Within the shelter is a bier for the casket, and space to accommodate twenty chairs for family members. In 1998, Camp Nelson National Cemetery was placed on the National Register of Historic Places (Reference #98001134).

In 2010, an additional  of land was purchased from the Camp Nelson Civil War Heritage Park, located next to the cemetery and owned by Jessamine County. The plot of land is located to the rear of the current cemetery. It is expected to double its capacity, bringing the total projected capacity to 30,000 graves. The purchase was made possible with a grant from the Department of Veterans Affairs' National Cemetery Administration and the co-operation of various local organizations.

Annual events

Ceremonies are held annually on Memorial Day and on Veterans Day at Camp Nelson National Cemetery. In the past these were held in the walled-off old section, but since 1997, they have been held at the assembly area at the flagpole near the front gates.

At the Memorial Day ceremony, a keynote speaker is typically part of the program, as is a local high school band, a bugler who plays Taps, and a cannon salute. Representatives of reenactment units in Civil War-period uniforms are usually present to act as an honor guard. Represented units have included members from the re-enacted 54th Massachusetts Infantry, the all-black regiment that earned fame in the Civil War and fresh recognition from its depiction in the 1989 film Glory. In the past, the cannon salute was fired by representatives from a U.S. Army Reserve or Kentucky National Guard artillery unit. In recent years, the salute has been fired from a replica 19th-century cannon, fired by Civil War re-enactors. The ceremony has been augmented by a procession of a horse-drawn limber-and-caisson bearing an empty, flag-draped coffin, symbolic of the many military personnel who have died in the service of the country. This is followed by a soldier leading a riderless horse, an homage to their loss. In 2010, over 1,000 people attended the Memorial Day ceremony.

Eligibility
Any veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces who was discharged from the military under conditions other than "dishonorable" is eligible to be buried at Camp Nelson. A veteran's spouse and dependent children are likewise eligible to be buried. The grave plot, headstone, perpetual maintenance of the grave, and labor involved with burial are provided at no cost to the veteran or the family. Starting in the 1990s, inexpensive plastic burial vaults have been used to enclose the casket within the grave, and are provided at no additional cost to the family. These vaults protect the casket from being crushed, and are effective at preventing collapse of the surface of the grave due to soil compaction.

At the funeral service of a veteran, an American flag will be draped over the casket. At the end of the service, it is ceremonially folded, and presented to the veteran's next-of-kin. "Taps" will be played at the veteran's funeral service at the request of the family.

Staff

Camp Nelson National Cemetery is overseen by one cemetery director. The director and one administrative assistant work in the office, communicating with families and funeral homes to schedule funeral services and burials, coordinate with various agencies for the annual ceremonies, maintain records, and to answer questions or address concerns made by the general public. The staff includes six full-time cemetery caretakers, though the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hires temporary workers almost every summer to augment the staff by about fifty percent. These caretakers prepare graves with a backhoe or hand held tools (pick and shovel), take custody of and transport a casket to its grave, lower the casket into the grave, seal it within a burial vault, and fill in the grave. Caretakers also receive delivered headstones, set and align them at the head of the appropriate graves, and maintain the grounds; duties include cutting the grass, pruning trees, clearing the roads of leaves in the autumn and snow in the winter, preparing the funeral shelter for services, disposing of litter, and interacting with the public to answer questions or find graves.