[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Moshe Sanbar

. Later, he was made a visiting professor of economics at Tel Aviv University (1977–79). In 1971, he was among the founders of the Foerder Institute of Economic Research at Tel Aviv University.

Between 1974 and 1979 he was president of the Association of Graduates in Social Sciences and Humanities.

Welfare of Holocaust survivors and Holocaust remembrance
Since 1987 Sanbar was active in various national and international organizations working for the benefit of Holocaust survivors. He was a founding member in 1987 of the Umbrella Organization for Holocaust Survivors in Israel and appointed as its chairman (1987–2003) and later as its honorary president (2003-2011). In 2011 he resumed his position as chairman following the death of his successor Noah Flug.

Under Sanbar's leadership, in 1992 the umbrella organization began being officially represented within the institutions of the Claims Conference, himself having been elected to serve as international treasurer of the Claims Conference (1992–2001) and later as chairman of the executive (2002–2006). Following many years of consensus that no further reparations be claimed from the Government of Germany, the subject was reopened and the umbrella organization was successful in claiming reparations to new groups of victims, such as survivors from Eastern Europe and later on in negotiating compensations for survivors of forced labor camps. One of Sanbar's achievements within the Claims Conference was in passing a resolution that set a general expenditure policy with 80% allocated to holocaust survivors in need and the remaining 20% allocated towards educational, research and commemorative projects. In Israel, Sanbar reached agreement with the Claims Conference for establishing the Foundation for the Welfare of Holocaust Victims. 

Sanbar was among the founders of the World Jewish Restitution Organization and in 2000 published a research book titled “Holocaust Gold From The Victims to Switzerland: The Paths of the Nazi Plunder”. He sat on various international commissions and forums concerning property restitutions: a Swiss National Committee on Needy Holocaust Survivors the International Commission on Holocaust Era Insurance Claims (1998–2007) and the Hungarian Inter-ministerial Committee for Restitution. In 2011, he was appointed as honorary member of the European Shoah Legacy Institute, a title given to only six individuals including Czech President Václav Havel and Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel. 

In Israel, Sanbar was involved with most institutions for commemoration of the hcolocaust. He was chairman of the board of trustees at Massuah Institute for Holocaust Studies and a member of the council of Yad Vashem. On Israel's 50th anniversary in 1998, he was the main speaker at the annual memorial service opening the events of Yom HaShoah at Yad Vashem. In 2005, he was appointed as chairman of the national council focused on the contribution of holocaust survivors to the development of the State of Israel.

Later years and death
Sanbar dedicated most of his later years to the various committees and organizations concerning the welfare of holocaust survivors, both in Israel and internationally. In the years 2002 to 2008 he was also chairman of Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation Systems Ltd.

In 2008, he advised minister Rafi Eitan in the creation of an emergency plan for providing a safety net to pension funds in Israel.

During the 2009 Israeli legislative election, Sanbar was the closing name in the list of nominees of Gil Party.

In 2010, Sanbar's biography was printed in a Hebrew book titled Signed on the Bill: An Economist in a Political World.

At the time of his death in 2012 he was chairman of Rosenrauch Foundation, chairman of the public council of the Yiddishpiel Theatre and honorary president of ICC Israel, Janco-Dada Museum and the Umbrella Organization of Holocaust Survivors in Israel.

Sanbar died on October 1, 2012, in Tel Aviv. He was buried the following day at Kiryat Shaul Cemetery. Among those who spoke during the service were Rabbi Israel Meir Lau, Karnit Flug, Julius Berman, Colette Avital, Rafi Eitan and others.

Honors and recognition
Sanbar was the recipient of many awards and honors: Herzl Prize for his public activity (1973), Honorary citizenship of Pueblo, Colorado (1978), Ministry of Interior Award for his special contribution to the municipalities in Israel (1986), the Special Humanitarian Award by B'nai B'rith Organization (1995), Honorary Doctorate by Bar-Ilan University (2000), Israeli Chamber of Commerce honor for lifetime achievements (2004), the Light Award by the Fund for the Welfare of Holocaust Survivors (2012),Honorary citizenship of Metula (1973), distinguished citizen of Tel Aviv (2000), and many others.

In 2004 he was awarded the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary, the highest civil decoration bestowed in Hungary.