[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# David Feeney

David Ian Feeney (born 5 March 1970) is a former Australian politician. He was the Labor member for the division of Batman in the House of Representatives from 7 September 2013 to 1 February 2018. Before that, he was a member of the Australian Senate for Victoria from 2008 until his resignation to contest Batman. Feeney resigned as a member of Parliament on 1 February 2018 as he was unable to produce any documentary evidence disproving he was a dual citizen, which is a breach of section 44 of the Constitution of Australia.

Background and early career
Feeney was born in Adelaide, South Australia in 1970, his father having emigrated from Belfast, Northern Ireland. Raised as a Roman Catholic, Feeney attended Mercedes College, Adelaide, before moving to Melbourne in 1987, where he attended the University of Melbourne. He later completed post-graduate study at Monash University, with a Masters in Public Policy and Management (MPPM).

Feeney worked in the National Office of the Transport Workers Union (TWU) as a Federal Industrial Officer from 1994 to 1999. At the TWU, Feeney served as a union advocate before the Australian Industrial Relations Commission (AIRC).

Feeney served as Victorian State Secretary of the Labor Party and State Labor Campaign Director from March 1999 to December 2002, where he had considerable success as a fund-raiser and campaign director. At the 2002 state election, Victorian Labor won 20 seats, holding 62 seats in the parliament of 88—the largest majority in Victorian history. Following that election, he joined the private staff of Premier Steve Bracks as his Director of Strategy.
 
In 2005, Feeney returned to his home state of South Australia to become Labor's Assistant National Secretary and campaign director for SA Labor at the March 2006 state election. Feeney helped SA Labor win six seats previously held by the opposition Liberal Party.

David served as Assistant National Secretary and Deputy National Campaign Director of the Australian Labor Party between 2005 and June 2008.

Political career

Senate
In March 2006, Feeney was placed third on the Australian Senate from Victoria ballot paper as the Labor Party's candidate. Winning against lead candidate from the Australian Greens, Richard Di Natale, Feeney entered the Senate on 1 July 2008.

During his period in the Senate, he sat on the Senate Select Committee on Climate Policy.

In 2010, Feeney was one of the key MPs (along with Bill Shorten, Mark Arbib, and Don Farrell) who convinced their colleagues to support Julia Gillard in calling for a leadership spill against sitting Prime Minister Kevin Rudd. When Gillard was sworn in as Prime Minister, Feeney was appointed as Parliamentary Secretary for Defence in her first ministry, and was reappointed to this role in the second Gillard ministry. He maintained this position in the reshuffle when Rudd regained the Prime Ministership in June 2013.

As Parliamentary Secretary, Feeney commissioned the report into Unresolved Recognition for Past Acts of Naval and Military Gallantry and Valour, and was responsible for the Australian Government's Defence Honours and Awards Appeals Tribunal.

His responsibilities included ADF Reserves, ADF force structure (especially Plan BEERSHEBA in the Army), the Pacific Maritime Security Plan (PMSP) and liaison with Pacific Island Countries, participating in the first meeting of South Pacific Defence Ministers Meeting (SPDMM) in Tonga. Feeney also commissioned the Department of Defence workforce review, known as Plan Suakin, in 2010.

House of Representatives
Feeney was elected as the member for Batman in 2013, succeeding the retired Martin Ferguson. His switch to nominating for the House of the Representatives came after he was preselected to the third spot on the Victorian Senate ticket. Although it was the same ticket position from which he had been elected in 2007, the state of Labor's polling in 2013 made the prospects of holding his Senate seat unlikely, with Feeney admitting that this made his position in the Senate, "very, very marginal."

At the 2013 election Labor Leader Bill Shorten appointed Feeney as Shadow Minister for Justice and Shadow Assistant Minister for Defence. After 1 July 2014 the portfolio of Veterans Affairs and Centenary of ANZAC were added to his responsibilities. As a local MP, Feeney campaigned for schools funding, healthcare and public transport. He also worked to promote the Anzac Centenary in his Batman electorate, and to secure grants for local projects to commemorate the service of Australian service-men and women in the First World War.