[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Remediation of contaminated sites with cement

Remediation of contaminated sites with cement, also called solidification/stabilization with cement (S/S with cement) is a common method for the safe environmental remediation of contaminated land with cement. The cement solidifies the contaminated soil and prevents pollutants from moving, such as rain causing leaching of pollutants into the groundwater or being carried into streams by rain or snowmelt. Developed in the 1950s, the technology is widely used today to treat industrial hazardous waste and contaminated material at brownfield sites i.e. abandoned or underutilized properties that are not being redeveloped because of fears that they may be contaminated with hazardous waste. S/S provides an economically viable means of treating contaminated sites. This technology treats and contains contaminated soil on site thereby reducing the need for landfills.

Process
The Solidification/Stabilization method utilizes chemically reactive formulations that form stable solids that are non-hazardous or less-hazardous than the original materials. Solidification refers to the physical changes in the contaminated material when a certain binding agent is added. These changes include an increase in compressive strength, a decrease in permeability, and condensing of hazardous materials. Stabilization refers to the chemical changes between the stabilizing agent (binding agent) and the hazardous constituent. These changes should include a less soluble, less toxic constituent with hindered mobility. Common bonding agents include, but are not limited to, portland cement, lime, limestone, fly ash, slag, clay, and gypsum. Because of the vast types of hazardous materials, each agent should be tested on the site before a full-scale project is put under way. Most binding agents used are a blend of various single binding agents, depending on the hazardous material it will be used on. Portland cement has been used to treat more contaminated material than any other S/S binding agent because of its ability to bind free liquids, reduce permeability, encapsulate hazardous materials, and reduce the toxicity of certain contaminants. Lime can be used to adjust the pH of the substance of drive off water by using high heats of hydration. Limestone can also be used to adjust pH levels. Slag is often used for economical purposes because of its low cost.

Different methods

In situ
In situ is a Latin phrase meaning “in the place”. When referred to chemistry or chemical reactions it means “in the reaction mixture”. In situ S/S, accounting for 20% of S/S projects from 1982–2005, is used to mix binding agents into the contaminated material while remaining on the site. Outside benefits of in situ mixing include conserving transportation costs, no landfill usage, and lesser risk to surrounding communities to be exposed to the hazardous materials while in transport. In-situ mixing treatments can also have the added benefit of improving soil conditions on the site.

Ex situ
Ex situ is a Latin phrase meaning “off site”.  In ex situ mixing, the hazardous materials are excavated, then machine-mixed with a certain bonding agent. This new, less-hazardous material is then deposited in a designated area, or reused on the initial site. From 1982–2005, ex-situ S/S technologies have accounted for 80% of the 217 projects that were completed.

Limitations and concerns
Prolonged use of the treated site and environmental and weather conditions may cause the materials used to stabilize the contaminants to erode, limiting the effect of the stabilization on the hazardous materials. Because of this, continuous monitoring of the site is required in order to ensure the contaminants have not re-assembled. Environmental factors such as freezing–thawing and wetting–drying were the focus of many studies dealing with the strength of S/S. It was found that freezing and thawing had the most adverse effects on the durability of the treated materials.

When dealing with a radioactive contaminant, the solidification process may be interfered by various other types of hazardous waste. Most S/S processes have little or limited effects on organics and pesticides. Only by destroying these wastes by heating at very high temperatures will organics and pesticides be immobilized. Prior to performing the process to these types of sites, treatability studies need to be conducted in order to conclude if the solidification/stabilization process will be beneficial. These cement processes can result in major volume changes to the site, often up to double its original volume.

Projects