[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# March 1973

(SLA) terrorist group, escaped from Soledad Prison in California, where he was two years away from completing a 6-year sentence. After his escape, he met Patricia Soltysik and the two created the SLA.
Died: Michael Jeffery, 39, English music business manager, was killed in Nantes mid-air collision.

March 6, 1973 (Tuesday)
The Office of the U.S. Immigration Department in New York City cancelled John Lennon's visa extension five days after granting it.  On March 23, the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) told Lennon that he had 60 days (until May 5) to voluntarily leave the United States because of a 1968 conviction in the UK for possession of hashish. Lennon's wife Yoko Ono's application for permanent resident alien status was approved. Lennon had lived in the U.S. since August 13, 1971.
Operation End Sweep was resumed after a short suspension prompted by North Vietnamese delays in releasing prisoners-of-war.
Spring training and exhibition games opened for the 1973 baseball season in the U.S., with the first test of the American League's new designated hitter rule being done with Larry Hisle of the Minnesota Twins, who hit two home runs in five times at bat. Ron Blomberg of the New York Yankees would become the first DH in a major league game on April 6.
Born: Joshua Bergasse, American choreographer and dancer; in Farmington Hills, Michigan 
Died: Pearl S. Buck, 80, U.S. novelist and Nobel Laureate

March 7, 1973 (Wednesday)
Nationwide voting was held in Bangladesh for the first time, with all 300 seats in the Jatiya Sangsad, the nation's national parliament to be filled. The Awami League, led by President Mujibur Rahman, won all but seven of the seats.
The first photographs of Comet Kohoutek were taken, as Czech astronomer Luboš Kohoutek was photographing the night skies from the Hamburg Observatory in Bergedorf, West Germany, while looking for the return of a different comet. On comparison of the first photos to a set taken two days later, Kohoutek realized on March 18 that he had discovered a new astronomical object. Initially promoted as what would be the brightest comet since Halley's, Comet Kohoutek would be barely visible in the night skies.
Barend Biesheuvel announced his resignation as Prime Minister of the Netherlands along with his coalition government of ministers, though he would serve until a new government could be formed by Joop den Uyl in May. 
Born: 
Arnab Goswami, Indian news anchor and journalist; in Guwahati, Assam state
Esad Landžo, convicted Bosnian war criminal; in Glavatičevo, SR Bosnia i Hercegovina, Yugoslavia
Died: Johann Risztics, 78, Austro-Hungarian flying ace during World War One and later a test pilot

March 8, 1973 (Thursday)
In the 'Border Poll', voters in Northern Ireland elected to remain part of the United Kingdom. Irish nationalists were encouraged to boycott the referendum. Turnout was 58.7%, but less than 1% for Catholics.
Two car bombs exploded in front of Whitehall and the Old Bailey in London within 10 minutes of each other, injuring as many as 300 people, one fatally, in what one reporter described as "the worst scenes of destruction since the World War II blitz." Police two other parked cars with large bombs and defused both before they were set to go off. The bombs had been placed by the Provisional Irish Republican Army in an apparent protest against the Northern Ireland referendum. 
A fire at the Whiskey Au Go Go nightclub in Brisbane, Australia, killed 15 people.  The fire was caused arsonists who threw two 23-litre drums of diesel fuel into the building's foyer and set alight.  James Richard Finch, 29, and John Andrew Stuart, 33, were later convicted of the crime.
The South Vietnamese government made its second prisoner exchange of POWs with North Vietnam, releasing 499 captured soldiers at the border in Quang Tri province. The South had 6,300 POWs and the North had 1,250.
The crash of a U.S. Army C-47 killed the 11 members of The Golden Knights, the Army's parachute demonstration team, as they were practicing from their base at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.
Born: Alexander Kushaev, Russian film and television producer; in Moscow, Soviet Union
Died: Ron "Pigpen" McKernan, 27, American musician and founding member of the Grateful Dead, died of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage as a consequence of alcoholism.