[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rama Yade

Rama Yade (born Mame Ramatoulaye Yade; 13 December 1976) is a Senegalese-born French politician and author who has been director of the Atlantic Council’s Africa Center since 2021.

Rama was the French Secretary of Human Rights from 2007 to 2009, and the Secretary of Sports from 2009 to 2010. She was the Permanent Delegate of France to UNESCO from December 2010 to June 2011. She held the vice-presidency of the centre-right Radical Party up until 25 September 2015. She announced her candidacy in the 2017 French presidential election, but was unable to obtain enough signatures to be a participant in the presidential race. Her campaign was aimed at "the forgotten people" of France.

Early life and education
Yade was born in Ouakam, Dakar, Senegal. She comes from an educated, upper-middle-class, Lebou family. Her mother, Aminata Kandji, was a professor and her father, Djibril Yade, also a professor, was the personal secretary of Senegalese President Léopold Sédar Senghor and a diplomat. She moved to France with the rest of her family at the age of eight. After her father left the country when she was fourteen, she moved into a council flat in Colombes with her mother and three sisters. 

Yade was educated in Catholic schools and then at the Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris, where she graduated in 2000.

Early career

Yade worked at the Paris city hall and the National Assembly. She also worked for The Greens. She later became an administrator in the Senate in 2002.

Political career
Yade joined the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) political party in 2005 and became National Secretary in charge of Francophonie in 2006. She credits Nicolas Sarkozy's charisma with making her want to join the UMP.

Career in government
In May 2007, Yade was appointed as Secretary of State for Human Rights under the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Bernard Kouchner. In this capacity, she notably denounced Sarkozy's invitation to Muammar Gaddafi for state visit to France in 2008, citing the Libya's track record of human rights abuse.

On 6 November 2007, Yade was among the guests invited to the state dinner hosted by U.S. President George W. Bush in honor of Sarkozy at the White House.

In November 2008, Yade was rumoured to be Sarkozy's favorite choice for replacing Jean-Pierre Jouyet as Secretary of State for European Affairs, and was also privately asked to lead one of the UMP lists for the 2009 European Parliament elections. However, on 7 December, she declined to run for a seat in the European Parliament and declared herself "more interested in national mandate". On 9 December, Le Monde reported that Nicolas Sarkozy was "deeply disappointed" by her attitude and that she had "ruined all her chances" to succeed Jouyet. The following day, Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner, in an interview with Le Parisien, said he regretted his suggestion to appoint a Secretary of State for Human Rights, although he noted that Yade had "done, with talent, what she could do". She had at the time the highest approval rating in the French government, with over 70%.

Yade was moved to the post of Secretary of State for Sports on 24 June 2009. Some interpreted this as a demotion in connection with Sarkozy's disapproval of her decision to not stand in the European elections. In 2010, she criticised the France national football team for staying in expensive hotels during the 2008–2012 global recession.

Ambassador to UNESCO
Yade was appointed as French Ambassador to the UNESCO in December 2010. By April 2011, it was rumoured that she would be fired. She quit her job in June 2011.

Radical Party
In 2012, Yade left the UMP, joined the Radical Party and supported Jean-Louis Borloo in the presidential elections until he decided not to run. She later supported Nicolas Sarkozy, but joined the New Centre. She serves as President of the Allons Enfants! think tank.

Parliamentary elections
Yade ran and lost in the 2012 parliamentary elections in Hauts-de-Seine's 2nd constituency for the National Assembly of France. She now works for a human resources firm based in Paris, Cursus Management.

Political positions
Yade is moderate-conservative and a feminist.

Affirmative action 
She favors affirmative action.

Burqas 
In 2009, she said that she was not opposed to ban on burqas in France. Rama believes that this ban should be decided "as a defense of secularism and the dignity of women" and calls on Muslims to "leave the literal text behind, and adjust to the times". In 2010, she called for a referendum on banning the full veil burqas in France, in order to circumvent any legal obstacles.