[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Immigration and Checkpoints Authority

Arrival Card website.

Biometric verification 
ICA has progressively implemented the use of biometric verification to improve security at its checkpoints. ICA employs the use of biometry to find persons of interests and has deployed a suitcase sized facial recognition system to different checkpoints

In 1997, ICA implemented the Checkpoint Access Cards. which used fingerprint data to facilitate entry. The system was called Immigration Automated Clearance System or IACS. Later in 2006, the system was upgraded to the Enhanced Automated Immigration Clearance System (EIACS).

In 2005, the Biometric Database for Immigration Clearance (BDIC) was introduced. This was a biometric database that contained all the biometric records of immigration offenders and police criminal records. This was used to supplement text-based blacklist screening and prevented undesirable travellers from entering Singapore with a fraudulent passport.

In October 2006, ICA began issuing biometric passports to Singapore citizens.

In October 2017, ICA started issuance of new biometric passports that comes with additional security features. This marked the second series of biometrics passports issued by Singapore. Singapore citizens and Permanent Residents have their iris bio-data registered as well.

In 2016, ICA began the biometric registering and verification of travelers using the Bioscreen system. In 2019, ICA announced the launch of iris scanning and facial recognition trials. This would allow passport-less travel for its citizens and permanent residents.

At Changi Airport's Terminal 4, there are Automated Immigration Gates (AIGs) which allow foreigners one-time use of automated immigration clearance.

References

External links

2003 establishments in Singapore
Government agencies established in 2003
Law enforcement agencies of Singapore
Organisations of the Singapore Government
Kallang
Border guards
Immigration to Singapore