[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# King Naresuan (film)

anda Bayin orders his son, Mingyi Swa to eliminate King Naresuan, saying that he doesn't care what losses the Burmese suffer. They must take down the king so that the Siamese forces would be easier to defeat.

The Burmese send their army to defeat Siam but were unsuccessful.

Part V: Elephant Battle

Nanda Bayin was humiliated by his crushing defeats by King Naresuan. He sent his son Mingyi Swa with an army to attack Ayutthaya. Naresuan planned the battle with his generals and came up with a decision to fight at Nong Sarai. The larger Burmese force under Mingy Swa was faced with a smaller army by King Naresuan. Naresuan calls Mingyi Swa for an elephant duel. Fearing humiliation of his royalty, he accepts the duel. Ekathosarot also duels with Chaophraya Chaiyanuphap. Naresuan and Mingyi Swa fought in the middle of an open field. Naresuan was cut in his helmet, but managed to continue fighting and was able to slay Mingyi Swa. Ekathosarot also slays Chaophraya Chaiyanuphap. The Burmese army soon retreats from Siam. This will be the last Burmese invasion that Nanda Bayin will have ordered. After his victory, Naresuan planned to order the execution of all his soldiers that didn't participate in the fight with him, but he was convinced by Khanchong, his childhood monk teacher to not have them executed and sent to fight Burma.

Part VI: The end of Hong Sa 
Naresuan receives news from a Burmese deserter that the Burmese king Nanda Bayin, enraged over the loss of his son, had ordered the deaths of most of the military leaders in his Army, on the grounds that they had 'let his son die'. There was also news that, in his rage, Nanda Bayin had also killed off Suphankalaya, Naresuan's older sister. This angers the King, and he quickly announces his intention to gather an army, capture Pegu, and burn it to the ground as revenge. Nanda Bayin was met by the viceroy of Toungoo and was requested to leave Pegu and retreat to Toungoo. The Lord of Pyay marched his army to loot the city. The city was later sacked by the Arakans. When Naresuan reached the city, he saw the once glorious city in ruins. His generals advised him that supply lines are stretched thin and he could march up to catch Nanda Bayin, but Naresuan insisted that the Siamese army can use Mawlamyine to supply. The Siamese army marched up to Toungoo. Toungoo was besieged by the Siamese army after the viceroy of Toungoo refused to hand over Nanda Bayin. Natshinnaung the prince of Toungoo didn't enjoy Nanda Bayin's presence in the city so he got into an agreement with Naresuan. He would allow Naresuan to get into the palace of Toungoo and execute Nanda Bayin. Nanda Bayin crossed the moats of the city and entered Nanda Bayin's chamber. Nanda Bayin then admits his guilt to Naresuan and shows his burnt face. Naresuan then spares Nanda Bayin and takes the Siamese army back to Ayutthaya. Natshinnaung later assassinates Nanda Bayin by poisoning him. Naresuan arrives back to Ayutthaya to tell his monk that we will retire and be a monk. His brother Ekathosarot would ascend to the throne.

Cast
 Wanchana Sawatdee as King Naresuan the Great
 Pratcha Sananvatananont as Prince Naresuan (youth)
 Napatsakorn Mitr-em as Crown Prince Mingyi Swa
 Nopachai Jayanama as Rachamanu (Bunting)
 Taksaorn Paksukcharern as Manichan
 Chatchai Plengpanich as King Mahathammarachathirat
 Grace Mahadumrongkul as Princess Suphankanlaya
 Intira Jaroenpura as Lurkin
 Sompob Benjatikul as King Bayinnaung
 Jakkrit Amarat as Nanda Bayin
 Sorapong Chatree as Mahathera Khanchong
Santisuk Promsiri as King Mahinthrathirat
 Saranyu Wongkrajang as King Mahachakkraphat
 Winthai Suvaree as Prince Ekathotsarot
Dom Hetrakul as Prince Hanfa
 Jirayu La-ongmanee as Bunting (youth)
 Suchada Chekly as Manichan (youth)
 Manop Aswathep as Lord Sawankhalok
Krung Sriwilai as Lord Phichai
 Chumphorn Thepphithak as King of Kung

Production

Special effects
Production on The Legend of King Naresuan began in 2003 on a purpose-built set in Kanchanaburi Province.