[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Multiven

ster and four Cisco lawyers. On 20 May 2010, Cisco accused the person who filed the antitrust suit of hacking and orchestrated his arrest from the court session by Canadian police based on a misleading US arrest warrant while in the middle of testifying against Cisco in Multiven's antitrust hearing.

Alfred-Adekeye was released after 28 days in custody but was forced to remain in Canada for another year before he was allowed to return to his home in Zurich, Switzerland. On May 31, 2011, Mr Justice Ronald McKinnon of the Supreme Court of British Columbia stayed the extradition, ruling that the strict standard of "extraordinary misconduct" was met by the circumstances and speaking of the "audacity of it all", of "Cisco's duplicity", and the "shocking" act of preventing someone's participation in a judicial proceeding by arresting them. False material in the US attorney's letter had misled the judge who signed the Canadian arrest warrant. "Grotesquely inflated" charges and the unjustified portrayal of Alfred-Adekeye as a Nigerian-born scam artist and flight risk had misled the Canadian judicial system further. The underlying civil case by Multiven against Cisco had been withheld from them.

Cisco Settles Multiven v. Cisco 
On July 19, 2010, Cisco settled Multiven's antitrust lawsuit by making its operating system and application software updates, bug fixes and patches available to all Multiven customers worldwide. This settlement agreement transformed Multiven into Cisco's first and only independent competitor in the multi-Billion dollars per year software maintenance services business.

Libel Lawsuit Against Cisco 
On July 20, 2015, Multiven CEO, Peter Alfred-Adekeye initiated a libel lawsuit against Cisco for (1) falsely claiming that ‘he or someone under his control at Multiven’ downloaded and ‘stole’ Cisco software five times in 2006 from cisco.com (2) used this lie (a) to orchestrate his illegal arrest in Vancouver, Canada in 2010 during Multiven v. Cisco and (b) to fabricate an ‘indictment’ in August 2011 after the Canadian Supreme Court threw out Cisco/US Government's extradition request and (3) continuing to knowingly propagate this falsehood till today, with the core purpose of defaming Mr Alfred-Adekeye's character and that of Multiven's - Cisco's only competitor in the global multi-Billion dollar per year services business.

References

External links

Companies established in 2005
Companies based in Redwood City, California
Online companies of the Netherlands
International information technology consulting firms
Blockchain entities
Peer-to-peer