[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Liberation Front (Macedonia)

The National Liberation Front (, Narodnoosloboditelen front [NOF]), also known as the People's Liberation Front, was a communist political and military organization created by the Slavic Macedonian minority in Greece. The organization operated from 1945–1949, most prominently in the Greek Civil War. As far as its ruling cadres were concerned its participation in the Greek Civil War was nationalist rather than communist, with the goal of secession from Greece.

Background

Historical overview

Late Ottoman era
The Macedonian Question surfaced in 1878, after the Treaty of Berlin had revised the short-lived Greater Bulgaria established by the Treaty of San Stefano and turned back Macedonia under Ottoman control. During rise of nationalism in the Ottoman Empire, the Slavic speakers in Ottoman Macedonia were under the influence of the Bulgarian, Greek and Serbian religious, educational and military propaganda. Even the  Macedonian nationalist movement hardly started its activity in the late 19th century. However at that time and beyond, the majority of the Macedonian Slavs who had clear ethnic consciousness, believed they were Bulgarians.

Interwar Greece
The Balkan Wars (1912–1913) and World War I (1914–1918) left the area divided mainly between Greece and Serbia (later Yugoslavia), which resulted in significant changes in its ethnic composition. The formerly leading Bulgarian community was reduced either by population exchanges or by change of communities' ethnic identity. Part of the Treaty of Neuilly-sur-Seine in 1919 was a population exchange Convention, signed between Bulgaria and Greece. In 1924 upon the League of Nations' demand, a Bulgarian-Greek agreement was signed, known as the Politis–Kalfov Protocol, which recognized the Greek Slavophones as Bulgarians and guaranteed their protection. Belgrade was suspicious of Greece's recognition of a Bulgarian minority and was annoyed this would hinder its  policy of Serbianisation in Vardar Macedonia. On February 2, 1925, the Greek parliament, claiming pressure from the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which threatened to renounce the Greek–Serbian Alliance of 1913, refused to ratify the agreement, that lasted until June 10, 1925. In 1927, Mollov–Kafantaris Agreement was signed that dealt with the financial issues related to the liquidation of the Bulgarians' properties in Greece and the Greeks' in Bulgaria.

During the Metaxas regime the Greek government began promulgating a policy of persecution of the use of Slavic dialects both in public and in private, as well of expressions of any cultural or ethnic distinctiveness. At that time a new consciousness arrived among the Slavic-speaking population – an ethnic Macedonian one. The first organization that promoted in 1932 the existence of a separate ethnic Macedonian nation was IMRO (United), composed of former left-wing Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO) members. This idea was backed by the Comintern, which issued a resolution in 1934, supporting the development of Macedonia as a separate entity  and recognizing a Macedonian nationality. This action was attacked by the IMRO, but was supported by the Balkan communists, including the Greek Communist Party. It created a Macedonian section within the party, headed by Andreas Tsipas and maintained the national consolidation of the Slav Macedonian minority within Greece.

Axis occupation
Nevertheless, most of the Macedonian Slavs in all parts of divided Macedonia, still had strong pro-Bulgarian sentiments at the beginning of the Occupation. Tsipas himself declared Bulgarian ethnicity during the Second World War, sought refuge in Sofia, and became an agent of the Bulgarian secret service. More, until the end of the Second World War, the Macedonian peasants, being neither communists nor members of IMRO (United), were not affected by the Macedonian national identity. Bulgarian withdrawal from Northern Greece after the pro-Communist coup in the country on 9 September 1944 led to that, ca. 90,000 Bulgarians left the area, nearly the half of them locals.

The turning point for the Macedonian ethnogenesis became the creation of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia as part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia following World War II. Then the idea of an ethnic Macedonian conscience and identity gained momentum and ethnic Macedonian institutions were created in the three parts of Macedonia. The new People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia began a policy of making the region of Macedonia a connecting link for the establishment of new Balkan Communist Federation and also supported the development of a distinct ethnic Macedonian consciousness in the area. The Greek communists as well, were then the only political party in Greece to recognize Macedonian national identity.

World War II

Occupation of Greece in World War II