[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Richard M. Berman

court in deciding Healthcare's post-trial application for judgment as a matter of law.  As noted, 'clear liability' was specifically rejected and abandoned [and] there is no case since Pavia in which a court held that a finding of clear liability was given conclusive or totally dispositive weight."

Publications and Teaching 
Berman has authored a number of articles about children, including A Team Model To Identify Child Abuse, Seven Steps To Protect Children, Community Service for Juvenile Offenders, and Special Immigrant Juvenile Status.  Published in the New York Law Journal, these articles offer guidance in developing improved models for identifying child abuse, bolstering the child welfare system, implementing community service-based sentencing options for juvenile offenders, and improving the process for obtaining special immigrant juvenile status.

Berman's efforts in improving media access to the Family Court system and promoting community service have been cited in the New York Daily News and Newsday.  See, e.g., Sun Also Rises in Family Court, Helping Other Helps Teens, Embracing Community Service for Juveniles, and A New Way Out of Trouble.

Berman lectured about the "Rule of Law" before judges in Albania in 2013. He has also moderated a panel discussion of the "Rule of Law" at an international legal symposium in Istanbul, Turkey in 2014.

Federal Court Involvement in Supervised Release 
Berman has been actively involved in the supervised release of defendants whom he sentenced to incarceration.  Drawing upon his MSW studies and Family Court experience, his project has produced positive supervised release outcomes (regarding recidivism/desistance and successful termination of supervision) which are detailed in four written reports, dated April 2021, September 2021, April 2022, and October 2022. The reports include case studies and "steps" judges can take to improve supervision results.  They are available at The Regulatory Review. On October 15, 2021, Berman also participated on a panel with the Honorable L. Felipe Restrepo for the Penn Program on Regulation titled How Judges Can Make a Difference in the Success of Supervised Release.

Awards
Berman received the National Association of Social Workers (NYC) Emerald award for 20 years of leadership as a licensed social worker and judge on March 28, 2019.

See also 
 List of Jewish American jurists

References

External links

1943 births
Living people
Cornell University alumni
New York University School of Law alumni
Fordham University alumni
Judges of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
United States district court judges appointed by Bill Clinton
Lawyers from New York City
Davis Polk & Wardwell lawyers
20th-century American judges
21st-century American judges