[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# MERRF syndrome

he diagnosis varies from individual to individual. Each is evaluated and diagnosed according to age, clinical phenotype, and pressed inheritance pattern. If the individual has been experiencing myoclonus, the doctor will run a series of genetic studies to determine if it is a mitochondrial disorder.

The molecular genetic studies are run to identify the reason of for the mutations underlying the mitochondrial dysfunction. This approach will avoid the need for a muscle biopsy or an exhaustive metabolic evaluation. After sequencing the mitochondrial genomes, four points mutations in the genome can be identified which are associated with MERRF: A8344G, T8356C, G8361A, and G8363A. The point mutation A8344G is mostly associated with MERRF, in a study published by Paul Jose Lorenzoni from the Department of neurology at University of Panama stated that 80% of the patients with MERRF disease exhibited this point mutation.  The remaining mutations only account for 10% of cases, and the remaining 10% of the patients with MERRF did not have an identifiable mutation in the mitochondrial DNA.

If a patient does not exhibit mitochondrial DNA mutations, there are other ways that they can be diagnosed with MERRF. They can go through computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).The classification for the severity of MERRF syndrome is difficult to distinguish since most individuals will exhibit multi-symptoms. This is often necessary for children with complex neurologic or multi-system involvement, as described below.

History and physical examination of the patient
A detailed family history should be obtained from at least three generations, particularly if there have been any neonatal and childhood deaths. A family history may also indicate if any family members exhibit features of the multi-system disease, specifically if there has been maternal inheritance. This would show transmission of the disease only to females, or if there is a family member who experienced a multi-system involvement such as: brain condition that a family member has been record to have such as seizures, dystonia, ataxia, or stroke-like episodes. There may also be optic atrophy, skeletal muscle with a history of myalgia, weakness, or ptosis. Family history may also include neuropathy and dysautonomia, or heart conditions such as cardiomyopathy. The patient's history might also exhibit kidney problems, such as proximal nephron dysfunction. There may also be endocrine conditions, such as diabetes or hypoparathyroidism. The patient might have also had a gastrointestinal condition which could have been due to liver disease, as well as episodes of nausea or vomiting. Multiple lipomas in the skin, sideroblastic anemia and pancytopenia in the metabolic system, or short stature might all be examples of patients with possible symptoms of MERRF disease.

Treatment
Like many mitochondrial diseases, there is no cure for MERRF, no matter the means for diagnosis of the disease. The treatment is primarily symptomatic. High doses of coenzyme Q10, B complex vitamins, and L-Carnitine are used for the altered metabolic processing that results in the disease. There is very little success with these treatments as therapies in hopes of improving mitochondrial function. The treatment only alleviates symptoms, and these do not prevent the disease from progressing. Patients with concomitant disease, such as diabetes, deafness, or cardiac disease, are treated in combination to manage symptoms.

Research 
The Journal of Child Neurology published a paper that discusses possible new methods to test for MERRF and other mitochondrial diseases through a simple swabbing technique. This is a less invasive technique which allows for an analysis of buccal mitochondrial DNA, and showed significant amounts of the common 5 kb and 7.4 kb mitochondrial DNA deletions, which are also detectable in blood. This study suggests that a buccal swab approach can be used to informatively examine mitochondrial dysfunction in children with seizures and may be applicable to screening mitochondrial disease with other clinical presentations.

Proceedings of the National Academy of Science of the United States of America published an article investigating the human mitochondrial tRNA (hmt-tRNA) mutations which are associated with mitochondrial myopathies. Since the current understanding of the precise molecular mechanisms of these mutations is limited, there is no efficient method to treat their associated mitochondrial diseases. All pathogenic mutants displayed pleiotropic phenotypes, with the exception of the G34A anticodon mutation, which solely affected aminoacylation.

Society and culture 
MERRF syndrome was the final diagnosis of seventh episode of third season on the show House, M.D..

See also 
 Epilepsy
 Mitochondrial disease
 Myoclonus
 Ragged red fibers

References

External links