[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anatoly Dyatlov

his stay, he discussed possible causes of the accident with Akimov and Toptunov, but they were mystified as to the causes. Dyatlov's condition began to worsen due to the delayed effects of his radiation exposure. He recovered thanks to hospital care, surviving what is often a lethal radiation dose.

Together with Nikolai Fomin and Viktor Bryukhanov, Dyatlov was criminally charged for failure to follow safety regulations. The trial began on 6 July 1987 at the Palace of Culture in the town of Chernobyl. Only people invited by the state were allowed to witness the proceedings. There were six defendants; Bryukhanov, Fomin, Dyatlov, station shift supervisor Boris Rogozhkin, reactor division chief Alexander Kovalenko, and inspector Yuri Laushkin. Among the defendants, only Dyatlov remained combative, saying that the operators were not responsible for the accident. 

Dyatlov claimed that he was not present when the reactor stalled or when the power level was increased, but this was contradicted by several witnesses. The design flaws in the reactor were not considered by the court, and any expert witnesses involved in the design were keen to avoid blame. All six were found guilty and Dyatlov was given the maximum sentence of ten years.

From prison he wrote letters trying to explain RBMK reactor flaws he had discovered, as well as to restore his and the other operators' reputations. He wrote a letter to the family of Toptunov, relating how he had tried to restore coolant to the reactor. He was granted amnesty in late 1990 due to his worsening health from radiation exposure.

He wrote a paper published in Nuclear Engineering International in 1991 and a book in which he claimed that poor plant design, rather than plant personnel, was primarily responsible for the accident.

While the initial Soviet investigation put almost all the blame on the operators, later findings by the Ministry of Atomic Energy and the IAEA found that the reactor design and how the operators were informed of safety information was more significant. However, the operators were found to have deviated from operational procedures, changing test protocols at will, as well as having made "ill judged" actions, making human error a major contributing factor.

Dyatlov died of bone marrow cancer in Kyiv, Ukraine in 1995, which was almost certainly caused by his radiation poisoning from the accident.

In media
Dyatlov was portrayed by Igor Slavinskiy in the 2004 series Zero Hour: Disaster At Chernobyl, by Roger Alborough in 2006 BBC production Surviving Disaster: Chernobyl Nuclear Disaster and by Paul Ritter in the 2019 HBO miniseries Chernobyl.

Dyatlov's memoirs were recorded in 1994, a year before his death. The recording was made by an unknown operator and appeared on YouTube in 2016. A version with English subtitles was provided in 2019.

See also 
 List of Chernobyl-related articles
 Individual involvement in the Chernobyl disaster
 Vasily Ignatenko
 Boris Shcherbina

References

External links
Dyatlov's memoirs, 1994 (1 h Video in Russian with English subtitles)

1931 births
1995 deaths
20th-century Ukrainian engineers
People from Krasnoyarsk Krai
Expelled members of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union
Moscow Engineering Physics Institute alumni
Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour
Chernobyl liquidators
Ukrainian people of Russian descent
Soviet engineers
Deaths from cancer in Ukraine
People from Norilsk