[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of websites founded before 1995

The first website was created in August 1991 by Tim Berners-Lee at CERN, a European nuclear research agency. Berners-Lee's WorldWideWeb browser was made publicly available the same month. The World Wide Web began to enter everyday use in 1993 and 1994, when websites for the general public started to become available. By the end of 1994, the total number of websites was still minute compared to present figures, but quite a number of notable websites were already active, many of which are the precursors to today's most popular services. Of the thousands of websites founded prior to 1995, those appearing here are listed for one or more of the following reasons:

 They still exist (albeit in some cases with different names).
 They made contributions to the history of the World Wide Web.
 They helped to shape certain modern Web content, such as webcomics and weblogs.

1991
CERN
 Snapshot of the CERN site The World Wide Web project, the first website, as of November 1992. The Web was publicly announced (via a posting to the Usenet newsgroup alt.hypertext) on August 6, 1991.
World Wide Web Virtual Library Originally Tim Berners-Lee's web catalog at CERN. Snapshot from November 1992: Subject listing – Information by Subject. http://info.cern.ch/hypertext/WWW/TheProject.html
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center Paul Kunz from SLAC visited Tim Berners-Lee at CERN in September 1991. He was impressed by the WWW project and brought a copy of the software back to Stanford. SLAC launched the first web server in North America on December 12, 1991. SLAC's first web page: SLACVM Information Service.

1992
Near the end of 1992, there were approximately 50-60 websites, according to a robot web crawl by CWI researcher Guido van Rossum.
Nikhef The Dutch National institute for subatomic physics was originally found at http://nic.nikhef.nl. This site was the third website in the world to come online in February 1992, after CERN and SLAC.
National Center for Supercomputing Applications The National Center for Supercomputing Applications site was an early home to the NCSA Mosaic web browser, as well as documentation on the web and a "What's New?" list which many people used as an early web directory.
Fermilab Second web server in North America, following in the trend of high-energy physics laboratories.
SunSITE Early, comprehensive archiving project. Project as a whole started in 1992 and was quick to move to the web.
Ohio State University Department of Computer and Information Science Early development of gateway programs, and mass conversion of existing documents, including RFCs, TeXinfo, UNIX man pages, and the Usenet FAQs.
IN2P3 The French National institute for nuclear physics and particle physics, originally at Centre de Calcul IN2P3.
HUJI The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Information service – both in Hebrew and English. It was the first RTL website and the 10th to come online in April 1992, at http://www.huji.ac.il.

The Exploratorium One of the first science museums on-line.
youngmonkey (studios)
Initially hosted as a .nb.ca domain, it showcased music/writing projects and DOS and Amiga software. It also included articles, technical information, and other resources for synthesizer enthusiasts, developers, and others. It was home to what was likely the first online store (SalesSite) using dial-up credit card verification; and first web streaming, video distribution, and pay-per-view online video system (StreamSite). Came online at some point between 1991–1992. Moved to its .ca domain (https://www.youngmonkey.ca) in April 1995.
simianpress (a manifestation of youngmonkey)
A showcase for graphic design and publishing projects, and likely offering the first professional website design. The slater mergedline at some point between 1991–1992. It was later merged with youngmonkey's .ca domain in 1995.
CBSS (Consulting Firm)
Came online in late 1992. CBSS Inc. of Houston, Texas quietly offered what was very likely the first commercial Website hosting service. CBSS pioneered Web access via mobile phone through Motorola's proprietary cellular data interface. The Motorola service is no longer maintained, but the Website is still visible today at CBSS, Inc..
KEK The High Energy Accelerator Research Organization.  The first web page in Japan was created by Dr. Yohei Morita at the suggestion of Dr. Tim Berners-Lee in September 1992.  CERN's web site linked the KEK page on 30 September 1992. Still online at KEK Entry Point.
Cybergrass Bluegrass Music News and Information.  Bob Cherry's music web site was launched on September 9, 1992.  It became called "Banjo" on September 30, 1992, and later "Cybergrass" in 1995. Its content was bluegrass music and Digital Traditions lyrics & chords. It was hosted on the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center's vax, parcvax.xerox.com. It now resides at www.cybergrass.com.  It was the first music-based website on the web.