[Source: PubMed]

46. Milbank Q. 2021 Jun;99(2):426-449. doi: 10.1111/1468-0009.12503. Epub 2021
Mar  2.

International Collaboration to Ensure Equitable Access to Vaccines for COVID-19: 
The ACT-Accelerator and the COVAX Facility.

Eccleston-Turner M(1), Upton H(1).

Author information:
(1)Keele University.

Policy Points Equitable access to a COVID-19 vaccine in all countries remains a 
key policy objective, but experience of previous pandemics suggests access will 
be limited in developing countries, despite the rapid development of three 
successful vaccine candidates. The COVAX Facility seeks to address this 
important issue, but the prevalence of vaccine nationalism threatens to limit 
the ability of the facility to meet both its funding targets and its ambitious 
goals for vaccine procurement. A failure to adequately address the underlying 
lack of infrastructure in developing countries threatens to further limit the 
success of the COVAX Facility.
CONTEXT: Significant effort has been directed toward developing a COVID-19 
vaccine, which is viewed as the route out of the pandemic. Much of this effort 
has coalesced around COVAX, the multilateral initiative aimed at accelerating 
the development of COVID-19 vaccines, and ensuring they are equitably available 
in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). This paper represents the first 
significant analysis of COVAX, and the extent to which it can be said to have 
successfully met these aims.
METHODS: This paper draws on the publicly available policy documents made 
available by the COVAX initiatives, as well as position papers and public 
statements from governments around the world with respect to COVID-19 vaccines 
and equitable access. We analyze the academic literature regarding access to 
vaccines during the H1N1 pandemic. Finally, we consider the WHO Global 
Allocation System, and its principles, which are intended to guide COVAX vaccine 
deployment.
FINDINGS: We argue that the funding mechanism deployed by the COVAX Pillar 
appears to be effective at fostering at-risk investments in research and 
development and the production of doses in advance of confirmation of clinical 
efficacy, but caution that this represents a win-win situation for vaccine 
manufacturers, providing them with opportunity to benefit regardless of whether 
their vaccine candidate ever goes on to gain regulatory approval. We also argue 
that the success of the COVAX Facility with respect to equitable access to 
vaccine is likely to be limited, primarily as a result of the prevalence of 
vaccine nationalism, whereby countries adopt policies which heavily prioritize 
their own public health needs at the expense of others.
CONCLUSIONS: Current efforts through COVAX have greatly accelerated the 
development of vaccines against COVID-19, but these benefits are unlikely to 
flow to LMICs, largely due to the threat of vaccine nationalism.

© 2021 The Authors. The Milbank Quarterly published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of The Millbank Memorial Fund.

DOI: 10.1111/1468-0009.12503
PMCID: PMC8014072
PMID: 33650737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]