[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Cornish diaspora

which has experienced very little change in several hundred years, most of its inhabitants partially descend from him to this day. Due to a number of inhabitants of Pitcairn being moved to Norfolk Island in later years, a significant number of his descendants carrying Cornish ancestry live here too.

South Africa
During the gold rush period on the Witwatersrand many Cornishmen went to the then South African Republic (also known as the Transvaal) in order to seek their fortune. In fact, the pioneering of the Rand gold reef was largely down to the hardrock mining expertise that Cornishmen brought with them from their native country, where tin and copper had been obtained from granite for many centuries. By the end of the 19th century the sheer numbers of Cornish miners on the Rand, sending up to £1 million a year back to Cornwall, even caused friction with the Kruger government which resented the wealth these "uitlanders" were sending home. The Kruger government's decision to tax these so-called uitlanders without any kind of legislative representation was one of the many reasons behind the outbreak of the Second Boer War. "Cousin Jack", as the Cornishman was known, also brought a strong rugby tradition, the Cornish pasty and a few other elements of Cornish culture to South Africa that can still be found today. Indeed, there is an area known as New Redruth in Johannesburg and one area of Soweto bears a Cornish language name, Baragwanath. Later Cornish migration to South Africa could be viewed as part of a more general trend of emigration from the British Isles and is thus harder to gauge. The prevalence of Cornish surnames, e.g. Tregowning, amongst people of all races, especially in the Cape of Good Hope, is further testimony to the Cornish contribution to South Africa.

United Kingdom
Cornish people have also moved to a number of other parts of England and the rest of the United Kingdom. Close to the Cornish county border with Devon is the naval city of Plymouth which has had an influx of Cornish people since time immemorial and, during the rise of Devonport Dockyard, was a main source of income for many of the Cornish.  Historically the surname Cornish/Cornishe/Cornyshe was given to a Cornish person who had left Cornwall and this surname can be found throughout the British Isles. Today there are significant Cornish populations in Plymouth, Bristol and the capital, London, which is also home to London Cornish RFC. Within Great Britain, Cornish families were attracted from Cornwall to North East England—-particularly on Teesside, East Cleveland—-to partake in ironstone and alum mining (see:Ironstone mining in Cleveland and North Yorkshire), as a means to earn wealth by using their mining skill. This has resulted in a concentration of Cornish names on and around Teesside that persists into the 21st century. Other areas settled by Cornish miners were Roose in Cumbria and parts of south Wales. In addition Cornish farming families took advantage of cheap agricultural land to relocate to north west Essex, specifically the Great Dunmow area, where the surrounding villages of Stebbing and Lindsell boast descendants with Cornish surnames such as Lanyon, Menhinick and Trembath.

United States

There are estimated to be close to 2 million people of Cornish descent in the US. Cornish culture continues to have an influence in the Copper Country located in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, the Driftless Area of southwestern Wisconsin and the Iron Ranges of northern Michigan and Minnesota, as well as in the major copper mining district of Butte, Montana. In Grass Valley, California, the tradition of singing Cornish carols lives on and one local historian of the area says the songs have become “the identity of the town”. Some of the members of today’s Cornish Carol Choir are in fact descendants of the original Cornish gold miners. Statues and monuments in many towns pay tribute to the influence of the Cornish on their development. Some inhabitants of Tangier Island, Virginia, a former Cornish fishing settlement, have a Cornish accent that traces back to the Cornish settlers who settled there in 1686.

See also

:Category:People of Cornish descent
List of topics related to Cornwall
Culture of Cornwall
Culture of Minnesota
History of Cornwall
Celtic nations
Mining in Cornwall
Camborne School of Mines

References

External links
BBC The Cornish Diaspora - I’m alright Jack
The Cornish Transnational Communities Project
Kernewek Lowender - The world's largest Cornish festival
Cornish Miners and the Witwatersrand Gold Mines in S.Africa. 1890-1904
Overseas Cornish Associations
UK Cornish Associations
The Cornish in Latin America
Cornish American Heritage Society - Cornwall on the Web
New Zealand emigration
Cornwall: Emigration & Immigration; Genuki
Cornish Connection of Lower Michigan

 
History of Cornwall
European diasporas

es:Fútbol en México#Historia