[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yossi Shain

nals and edited books. His articles have appeared in (among others) International Organization, Comparative Politics, Foreign Policy, International Affairs, Orbis, Political Science Q, The Journal of Democracy, The Journal of Political Science, Government and Opposition, and Nations and Nationalism.

Public service, journalistic writing, and media 
Shain served as special adviser to Israel's Minister of Foreign Affairs. He is a regular contributor to the op-ed page of Israel's leading daily Yediot Achronot, and has contributed numerous essays to other newspapers and magazines (including The New York Times, The American Interest, The Foreign Service Journal, New Haven Register, Ha’aretz, and the Jerusalem Post). Shain is also a nationally known commentator on Israeli television and radio. He has been a guest on many political news shows in Europe and the US, including the BBC, NBC, ABC, CNN, Fox News, CNBC, PBS, Al-Jazeera, and The News Hour.

Ideas 
According to Shain's recent book The Language of Corruption in Israel’s Moral Culture (in Hebrew), the Israeli judicial approach is counterproductive. It creates the impression that Israeli politics suffers from rampant corruption. This undermines the public’s trust in politics and politicians without addressing the real problem. Instead of a blanket prohibition against all political appointments, a more nuanced approach is in order, one that recognizes the realities of political life.

In their Diasporas and International Relations Theory, Yossi Shain and Aharon Barth incorporate the study of diasporas into international relations (IR) theory by focusing on diasporas as independent actors who actively influence their homeland (kin-state) foreign policies. Shain and Barth argue that diasporic influences can best be understood by situating them in the 'theoretical space' shared by constructivism and liberalism; two approaches that acknowledge the impact of identity and domestic politics on international behavior.

In his September 2014 article "The Two Faces of Qatar" in The American Interest, Shain develops his concerns regarding Qatar. He observes that "For years Qatar has played a brilliant a double game between Islamism and the West, offering aid and comfort for the forces of the former while doing the bare minimum asked of it by the latter," yet Shain asks "whether this act beginning to wear thin?" Shain observes, that "recent events, however, have not all been favorable to Qatar’s strategy. In particular, the fall of the Muslim Brotherhood and the rise of Al-Sisi in Egypt were shattering blows to Qatar’s view of the Middle East. With the Muslim Brothers being the bitter enemies of the Egyptian regime, Egypt has also turned on its prime backers, the Qataris. And in Egypt today, Al Jazeera has developed a reputation as traitor to the Arab cause, and the Emir of Qatar as an instigator of radicalism and terror. Reporting on the crackdown on the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt last February, Gregg Carlstrom noted how Al Jazeera became the mouthpiece of radical Jihadi views—featuring guests openly calling for an assault on the Egyptian Coptic minority. None of this, of course, made it into Al Jazeera English."

Books 
 Shain, Y, The Israeli Century: How the Zionist Revolution Changed History and Reinvented Judaism, trans. Eylon Levy (Wicked Son: 2021)
Shain, Y. & Fainberg, S. The Israelization of Judaism (book and documentary film in progress)
	Shain, Y. (2010). Śefat ha-sheḥitut ṿe-tarbut ha-musar ha-Yiśreelit (Who Controls Morality in Democracies: The Language of Corruption and Its Consequences (in preparation an English amended version of the Hebrew book). Or Yehudah: Devir. שפת השחיתות ותרבות המוסר הישראלית (דביר: 2010)
 Shain, Y., & Langenbacher, E. (2010). Power and the Past: Collective Memory and International Relations. Washington, D.C: Georgetown University Press (edited).
 Shain, Y. (2007). Kinship & Diasporas in International Affairs. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.
 Shain, Y. (1999). Marketing the American Creed Abroad: Diasporas in the U.S. and Their Homelands. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
 Shain, Y., & Klieman, A. S. (1997). Democracy: The Challenges Ahead. New York: St. Martin's Press (edited).
 Shain, Y., Linz, J. J., (1995). Between States: Interim Governments and Democratic Transitions. Cambridge [England: Cambridge University Press. (Two volumes: Vol. 1: Theory.  Vol. 2 is edited under the name Case Studies).
 Shain, Y. (1991). Governments-in-Exile in Contemporary World Politics. New York: Routledge (edited).
 Shain, Y. (1989; 2005 new and revised edition). The Frontier of Loyalty: Political Exiles in the Age of the Nation-State. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press. Translated to Hebrew by Aha'aron Amir in 2006.

See also 
 Diaspora politics in the United States

References

External links 
 Yossi Shain's Georgetown University homepage
 Yossi Shain's Tel Aviv University homepage