[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Yousef Beidas

co di Roma. Checks on Intra documents indicated false account statements, and an understating of liabilities to the tune of $40 million. In addition, Beidas has undercut the local norm advising that 25% of deposits be retained in liquid cash. Intra reduced this margin to 5% in its business practice.

One observer in his recollections states that, nonetheless, the value of Intra's fixed assets, with extensive foreign property abroad, exceeded its financial liabilities. At this critical juncture, Saudi Arabia decided to withdraw its deposits from Beirut, causing a panic and a run on Intra's capital, beginning on 9 October. The Lebanese government, perhaps sensing a unique opportunity to cut Beidas down and strip him off his key infrastructural investments in Lebanon, refused to budge, or consider Beidas request for a $30 million bridging loan to tide Intra over the crisis. aside from a minor loan mortgaged on the casino, the Port Authority and the Airline. Joseph Oghourlian, deputy governor of Lebanon's central bank, asked him, "Why did you invest in Lebanon? You are not Lebanese, and Lebanon does not want you to control its economy", and turned down his request for a bridging loan down. In Beidas's recollection, Raymond Eddé, president of the Lebanese Bankers Association, had a personal hatred for him, shared by the Lebanese Prime Minister, Abdallah El-Yafi, who was annoyed that Beidas had denied him a personal loan, also pressured the Central Bank to turn down his loan request. Chase Manhattan also stepped in by freezing Intra's New York deposits until its own loans to the company were repaid. Though ranked 425th among the world's banks, the subsequent collapse of Intra became, 'the world's greatest bank catastrophe since World War 2.'

Lebanese bankers stated at the time that the crack was simply due to the fact that Beidas was overextended. Many European bankers and the International Monetary Fund were to disagree, saying that a small loan from Lebanon's Central Bank would have enabled Intra to ride out the crisis without strain. The decision not to intervene was to have drastically averse collateral impact on Lebanon's other banks, as local depositors withdrew their money to open up accounts in US banks. In addition, El-Yafi was forced to resign. Arab trust in the Lebanese banking system vanished, and investors thereafter preferred to place their funds in Zürich, London and New York. The ownership was turned over to the bank's largest depositors and it was to remain the largest financial institution in Lebanon for the following two and a half decades. According to Anthony Sampson many of Beidas' business investments turned out in the long term to be very shrewd.

Theories about the collapse

It was widely believed at the time of the crash that the fall of Beidas and his banking empire was politically inspired. Many conspiracy theories circulate about the basic reasons for the bank's collapse and the destruction of Baydas's empire. Some pinpoint its cause on a coalition of Western powers, oil-rich Arab countries, the Israeli Defense establishment, and Lebanese oligarchs. Others cite the Corsican connection, noting that the FBI believed that Marcel Francisci used the gaming tables at the casino to launder profits from drug-running, and attributing a significant role in the unplugging of the Bank to Paul-Louis Weiller, claiming that the financier had connections with the heroin smugglers.

Palestinian reporter and author Said Aburish claims that jealous Lebanese business people, bankers and reporters were behind the demise of the bank. He writes that the rumors that doomed the bank started in the St. George hotel by, among others, a Lebanese whom Beidas refused to appoint to the bank's board and another Lebanese man who owed the bank a big loan. Aburish claims that, when the news of the failure of the bank became known, Lebanese reporters and business people celebrated its failure by drinking champagne in the St. George Hotel.

As to the role of the Kuwaitis in the failure of the bank, Aburish claims that Beidas treated the Emir of Kuwait disrespectfully which made Kuwaitis and other Arab countries in the Persian Gulf area remove their money from the bank. Wilbur Crane Eveland in his book Ropes of Sand claimed that Kuwait caused the failure of the bank in an effort to induce Lebanon to accept more Palestinian refugees: "When Kuwait made huge withdrawals from Lebanon's Intra bank (to induce the country to accept more Palestinian refugees) the bank failed, and the collapse of the Lebanese economy was barely forestalled."

Aftermath and death