[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Variety (cybernetics)

formation, or if the states have synchronized into a subset for which this is the case. In the formal language analysis of finite machines, an input sequence that synchronizes identical machines (no matter the variety of their initial states) is called a synchronizing word.

Law of requisite variety

Ashby used variety to analyze the problem of regulation by considering a two-player  game, where one player, , supplies disturbances which another player, , must regulate to ensure acceptable outcomes.  and  each have a set of available moves, which choose the outcome from a table with as many rows as  has moves and as many columns as  has moves.  is allowed full knowledge of 's move, and must pick moves in response so that the outcome is acceptable. 

Since many games pose no difficulty for , the table is chosen so that no outcome is repeated in any column, which ensures that in the corresponding game any change in 's move means a change in outcome, unless  has a move to keep the outcome from changing. With this restriction, if  never changes moves, the outcome fully depends on 's choice, while if multiple moves are available to  it can reduce the variety of outcomes, if the table allows it, dividing by as much as its own variety of moves. 

The law of requisite variety is that a deterministic strategy for  can at best limit the variety in outcomes to , and only adding variety in 's moves can reduce the variety of outcomes: "only variety can destroy variety". For example, in the table above,  has a strategy (shown in bold) to reduce the variety in outcomes to , which is  in this case. Ashby considered this a fundamental observation to the theory of regulation.

It is not possible for  to reduce the outcomes any further and still respond to all potential moves from , but it is possible that another table of the same shape would not allow  to do so well. Requisite variety is necessary, but not sufficient to control the outcomes. If  and  are machines, they cannot possibly choose more moves than they have states. Thus, a perfect regulator must have at least as many distinguishable states as the phenomenon it is intended to regulate (the table must be square, or wider). 

Stated in bits, the law is . In Shannon's information theory, , , and  are information sources. The condition that if  never changes moves, the uncertainty in outcomes is no less than the uncertainty in 's move is expressed as , and since 's strategy is a deterministic function of  set . With the rules of the game expressed this way, it can be shown that . Ashby described the law of requisite variety as related to the tenth theorem in Shannon's Mathematical Theory of Communication (1948):
This law (of which Shannon's theorem 10 relating to the suppression of noise is a special case) says that if a certain quantity of disturbance is prevented by a regulator from reaching some essential variables, then that regulator must be capable of exerting at least that quantity of selection.

Ashby also postulated that the law of requisite variety allows for the measurement of regulation, namely that the requirement for a well-functioning regulation is that the regulator or regulators in place are designed to account for all the possible states in which the variable or variables to be regulated may fall within, so as to ensure that the outcome is always within acceptable range. Ashby saw this law as relevant to problems in biology such as homeostasis, and a "wealth of possible applications". Later, in 1970, Conant working with Ashby produced the good regulator theorem which required autonomous systems to acquire an internal model of their environment to persist and achieve stability (e.g. Nyquist stability criterion) or dynamic equilibrium. 

Boisot and McKelvey updated this law to the "law of requisite complexity", that holds that, in order to be efficaciously adaptive, the internal complexity of a system must match the external complexity it confronts. A further practical application of this law is the view that information systems (IS) alignment is a continuous coevolutionary process that reconciles top-down ‘rational designs’ and bottom-up ‘emergent processes’ of consciously and coherently interrelating all components of the Business/IS relationships in order to contribute to an organization’s performance over time. 

The application in project management of the law of requisite complexity is the model of positive, appropriate and negative complexity proposed by Stefan Morcov.

Applications