[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1972 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1972 in New Zealand.

Population
 Estimated population as of 31 December: 2,959,700.
 Increase since 31 December 1971: 61,200 (2.11%).
 Males per 100 females: 99.7.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
Head of State – Elizabeth II
Governor-General – Sir Arthur Porritt Bt GCMG GCVO CBE, followed by Sir Denis Blundell GCMG GCVO KBE QSO.

Government
The 36th Parliament of New Zealand concluded.  A general election was held on 25 November and saw the second National government defeated by a large margin, with the Labour Party winning 55 of 87 seats in Parliament.
Speaker of the House – Roy Jack until 8 December, then Alfred Allen.
Prime Minister – Keith Holyoake then Jack Marshall then Norman Kirk
Deputy Prime Minister – Jack Marshall then Robert Muldoon then Hugh Watt.
Minister of Finance – Robert Muldoon then Bill Rowling.
Minister of Foreign Affairs – Keith Holyoake then Jack Marshall then Norman Kirk.
Attorney-General – Dan Riddiford until 9 February, then Roy Jack until 8 December, then Martyn Finlay.
Chief Justice — Sir Richard Wild

Parliamentary opposition 
 Leader of the Opposition –   Norman Kirk (Labour) until 8 December, then Jack Marshall (National).

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland – Dove-Myer Robinson
Mayor of Hamilton – Mike Minogue
Mayor of Wellington – Frank Kitts
Mayor of Christchurch – Neville Pickering
Mayor of Dunedin – Jim Barnes

Events 

 7 February – Jack Marshall replaces Keith Holyoake as prime minister.
 14 September – As a part of the Māori protest movement, activist group Ngā Tamatoa, the Te Reo Māori Society of Victoria University, and Te Huinga Rangatahi (the New Zealand Māori Students’ Association) presented a petition signed by over 33,000 people calling for te Reo Māori to be taught in schools, leading to the creation of te Wiki o te Reo Māori (Māori Language Week) in 1975, and a revitalisation of Māori language.
 20 October – Restrictions on the manufacture and sale of margarine in New Zealand are removed.
 25 November – The 1972 general election is held. The Labour Party, lead by Norman Kirk, wins 55 of the 87 seats and forms the third Labour government.
 3 December – Qantas commences the first Boeing 747 service in New Zealand, between Christchurch and Sydney.
 Chile and New Zealand establish embassies in each other's capitals.
 The Values Party is formed.
 Mount Ngauruhoe erupts.

Arts and literature
Ian Wedde wins the Robert Burns Fellowship.

See 1972 in art, 1972 in literature

Music

New Zealand Music Awards
Loxene Golden Disc  Suzanne – Sunshine Through A Prism
Loxene Golden Disc  Creation – Carolina

See: 1972 in music

Performing arts

 Benny Award presented by the Variety Artists Club of New Zealand to Jon Zealando and Lou Clauson QSM.

Radio and Television
The Broadcasting Authority in March grants the right to broadcast a second television channel to the private consortium Independent Television Corporation. After the election of the Labour Government in November, Norman Kirk announces the second channel will be run by NZBC.
In September, the first live broadcast of an All Black match takes place. The All Blacks played against Australia.  
Feltex Television Awards:
Best Programme: Charlie's Rock – Pukemanu
Outstanding Performance: Peter Sinclair in Golden Disc Award
Best Drama: Charlie's Rock – Pukemanu

See: 1972 in New Zealand television, 1972 in television, List of TVNZ television programming, Public broadcasting in New Zealand

Film
To Love a Māori

See: 1972 in film, List of New Zealand feature films, Cinema of New Zealand

Sport

Athletics
 Field events within New Zealand switch from imperial to metric measurements. Track events changed earlier in 1969.
 David McKenzie wins his fourth and last national title in the men's marathon, clocking 2:14:11.2 on 11 March in Dunedin.

Chess
 The 79th National Chess Championship is held in Hamilton, and is won by R.J. Sutton of Auckland (his third title).

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup: Globe Bay
 Auckland Trotting Cup: Royal Ascot

Olympic Games

Summer Olympics

 New Zealand sends a team of 89 competitors.

Winter Olympics

 New Zealand sends a team of two alpine skiers.

Paralympic Games

Summer Paralympics

 New Zealand sends a team of 10 competitors.

Soccer
 New Zealand National Soccer League won by Mt. Wellington AFC
 The Chatham Cup is won by Christchurch United who met Mount Wellington.
Final 4-4 after extra time
First replay 1-1 after extra time
Second replay 2-1