[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Libertarian conservatism

self from the paleolibertarian alliance strategy, Rockwell affirmed paleoconservatives for their "work on the immigration issue", maintaining that "porous borders in Texas and California" could be seen as "reducing liberty, not increasing it, through a form of publicly subsidized right to trespass".

In 2001, Edward Feser emphasized that libertarianism does not require individuals to reject traditional conservative values. Libertarianism supports the ideas of liberty, privacy and ending the war on marijuana at the legal level without changing personal values. Defending the fusion of traditionalist conservatism with libertarianism and rejecting the view that libertarianism necessarily requires support for a liberal culture, Feser implied that a central issue for those who share his viewpoint is "the preservation of traditional morality—particularly traditional sexual morality, with its idealization of marriage and its insistence that sexual activity be confined within the bounds of that institution, but also a general emphasis on dignity and temperance over self-indulgence and dissolute living".

Hans-Hermann Hoppe is a libertarian conservative, whose belief in rights of property owners to establish private covenant communities, from which homosexuals and political dissidents may be "physically removed", has been strongly criticised. Hoppe also garnered controversy due to his support for restrictive limits on immigration which critics argue is at odds with libertarianism. In Democracy: The God That Failed, first published in 2001, Hoppe argued that "libertarians must be conservatives". Hoppe acknowledged "the importance, under clearly stated circumstances, of discriminating against communists, democrats, and habitual advocates of alternative, non-family centered lifestyles, including homosexuals". In contrast to Walter Block, Hoppe argued that libertarianism need not be seen as requiring open borders and attributed "open border enthusiasm" to "egalitarianism". While defending "market anarchy" in preference to both, Hoppe has argued for the superiority of monarchy to democracy, maintaining that monarchs are likely to be better stewards of the territory they claim to own than democratic politicians, whose time horizons may be shorter.

Notable people 
Richard Epstein, Milton Friedman, Friedrich Hayek, Ludwig von Mises, Albert Jay Nock, Richard Posner, Peter Schiff, Thomas Sowell, David Stockman, Peter Thiel, and Walter E. Williams have been described as libertarian conservatives. Former Congressman Ron Paul and his son Senator Rand Paul have been described as combining conservative and libertarian small government ideas and showing how the Constitution of the United States defends the individual and most libertarian views. Barry Goldwater who furthered conservatism in America was a libertarian conservative.

Ivan Reitman, the director of Ghostbusters, described his political views as "conservative-slash-libertarian".

See also 

 Anti-Federalism
 Chicago school of economics
 Democracy promotion
 Empire of Liberty
 Fiscal conservatism
 Freedom Caucus
 Jeffersonian democracy
 Libertarianism and Objectivism
 Libertarian perspectives on foreign intervention
 Libertarian Republican
 Liberty Caucus
 Neo-libertarianism
 Paleolibertarianism
 Republican Liberty Caucus
 Starve the beast
 Supply-side economics
 Tea Party movement
 Western conservatism

References

Bibliography

Further reading 
 Ashford, Nigel; Davies, Stephen (2012). A Dictionary of Conservative and Libertarian Thought (Routledge Revivals). London: Routledge. .
 Blanchette, Jude (October 27, 2004). "What Libertarians and Conservatives Say About Each Other: An Annotated Bibliography". LewRockwell.com. Retrieved September 23, 2020.
 Hoppe, Hans-Hermann (2014). "A Realistic Libertarianism is Right (Conservative) Libertarianism". Mises Institute. Retrieved September 23, 2020.
 Rothbard, Murray (1981). "Frank S. Meyer: The Fusionist as Libertarian Manqué". Modern Age. Retrieved September 23, 2020 – via LewRockwell.com.

External links 
 Republican Liberty Caucus. A group of libertarian conservatives.

Conservatism in the United States
Conservatism
Conservatism
Republican Party (United States)
Conservatism