[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# December 1977

The following events occurred in December 1977:

December 1, 1977 (Thursday)
In Columbus, Ohio, the first interactive cable television system, QUBE, was launched by Warner Communications. In addition to the standard box to receive cable signals, the system included a remote with five additional buttons to allow viewers to respond to multiple choice questions, including approval or disapproval of programming.
The heads of state of multiple Arab nations gathered at Tripoli in Libya to discuss moves against Egypt and President Anwar Sadat for his recognition of the Jewish nation of Israel. 
Born: Brad Delson, American rock guitarist and co-founder of Linkin Park; in Agoura Hills, California

December 2, 1977 (Friday)
A jet crash killed 59 of the 159 people aboard a Libyan Arab Airlines flight that was bringing Muslim pilgrims back home from Saudi Arabia. The Tupolev Tu-154 ran out of fuel after having to alter its route to avoid Egyptian airspace, and the crew was attempting to find an alternate airport after its destination at Benghazi was hindered by a heavy fog.
"World Series Cricket" (WSC), created by Australian TV network owner Kerry Packer after he was unable to secure rights to broadcast international network on his Nine Network, played its first match. Denied the right to use the trademark term "Test match" by the Marylebone Cricket Club, or to identify a national team as "Australia", Packer promoted the five-day international series as a "Supertest" and dubbed the team "WSC Australian XI". In that normal cricket venues in Australia were denied by Marylebone to rival competitors, WSC leased four alternate sites and hired John Maley to develop the "drop-in pitch". In the inaugural match, WSC Australian XI faced off against WSC West Indies XI at the Australian rules football stadium at Adelaide, in South Australia, playing before only 2,847  spectators. On the same day, a regular Test series began at Brisbane between Australia and India in front of 9,000 fans. 
Convicted murderers Erskine "Buck" Burrows and Larry Tacklyn were hanged at Casemates Prison in Bermuda, becoming the last people to be executed under British rule anywhere in the world. Burrows had been convicted of the 1973 assassination of Bermuda Governor Richard Sharples and four other murders, while Tacklyn was convicted of assisting Burrows on two murders. Rioting broke out the day before the execution of the two men, and at the request of Governor Peter Ramsbotham, the British Defence Ministry sent 150 troops to restore order.

December 3, 1977 (Saturday)
Seamus Twomey, a member of the Provisional Irish Republican Army's ruling army council, was recaptured in Ballsbridge more than four years after his escape by helicopter from Dublin's Mountjoy Prison. Police in the Republic of Ireland had spotted the fugitive near Dublin and arrested him after a high-speed car chase.
Fraye Arbeter Shtime, the oldest Yiddish language newspaper in the United States, published its final edition after 87 years of existence. The folding of the Stimme left only five Yiddish newspapers in the U.S., with the most popular one being the 80-year-old Jewish Daily Vorwarts.
Died: Jack Beresford, 78, British rower gold medal winner in Olympic gold medals (1924, 1932 and 1936), and silver medals in 1920 and 1928

December 4, 1977 (Sunday)
All 100 passengers and crew on board Malaysian Airline System Flight 653 were killed in a crash after the plane was hijacked. MAS 653 had departed Penang toward Kuala Lumpur at 7:54 p.m. local time. Ten minutes later, the crew reported that a terrorist from the Japanese Red Army had entered the cockpit and demanded to be flown to Singapore. The gunman then killed the pilot, the co-pilot and himself, and the autopilot was apparently disconnected, perhaps by another person attempting to fly the aircraft. The Boeing 737 crashed into a swamp near Tanjung Kupang on Johor.
The coronation of Emperor Bokassa I took place in the Bangui, capital of the Central African Empire. According to reporters, the lavish ceremony at Bangui's indoor sports stadium was inspired by the 1804 coronation of Bokassa's idol, French Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte. Bokassa, formerly President Jean-Bédel Bokassa, received "a 6-foot diamond-encrusted scepter of office and was then draped by aides in an ermine-trimmed red velvet cloak" that included a  train. Emulating Napoleon, Bokassa placed a "diamond-encrusted imperial crown" upon his own head and then crowned his wife as the Empress Catherine, before sitting down on a specially-designed "two-ton gold-plated throne, shaped like a 15-foot high eagle with an 18-foot wingspan", designed by French sculptor Olivier Brice, who also designed the crown, the scepter and a ceremonial sword. The event, held in a nation where the average per capita income was only $155, cost US$30,000,000.