[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# EFG Hermes

cross North America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The Investment Banking team has completed some US$53.3 billion in M&A transactions since 1985 while raising more than US$19 million through initial public offerings, rights issues, secondary offerings and private placements in the same period.

Research
EFG Hermes Research division offers its clients coverage of MENA markets, including more than 150 companies representing c. 60% of the region's aggregate market capitalisation. The team offers economics and strategy coverage of 11 key countries in the Arab world. Products include equity research, strategy and macro-strategy notes, sector overviews, economic notes, industrial research and country-specific economic and banking data reports.

Strategy
EFG Hermes global strategy relies heavily on expanding in frontier emerging markets FEM. Therefore, the company has made its priority to enter into the major financial hubs of the Middle-East, namely Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait and Lebanon. Further expansions focused on key African financial hubs such as Kenya as a hub for East Africa and Nigeria as a hub for West Africa.

United Arab Emirates
EFG Hermes launched its brokerage activities in the UAE in early 2005, and by early 2007 had captured dominant market share on Dubai Financial Market. The firm is also the top ranked broker on the Abu Dhabi Securities Market, Dubai Financial Market and Nasdaq Dubai.

In December 2005, EFG Hermes was granted a license by the Dubai International Financial Centre to conduct asset management and investment banking activities. EFG Hermes UAE is regulated in this capacity by the Dubai Financial Services Authority, an independent regulatory authority that operates to the standards of major financial centers such as London and New York City. Out of Dubai, the firm manages the region's top performing funds and has closed a number of landmark investment banking transactions. In February 2006, EFG Hermes UAE was also granted a license to conduct brokerage activities from within the Dubai International Financial Centre and became the first regional trading, clearing and custody member of the Dubai International Financial Exchange, its wholesale exchange.

Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
EFG Hermes was granted a license from the Capital Market Authority (Saudi Arabia) to launch its operations in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in March 2007 offering securities brokerage, investment banking, asset management and research services in the largest investment market in the region. The brokerage arm reached the #1 position among the 12 independent brokerage companies, despite having started trading properly only in the third quarter of 2007.

Pakistan
EFG Hermes, inaugurated its office in Pakistan, making it the first foreign investment bank to directly enter the market since 2008 and the first foreign broker to have a local footprint in the country. The opening followed the firm's acquisition of Pakistani brokerage Invest and Finance Securities Ltd., which began operating as EFG Hermes Pakistan Limited.

Oman
In April 2008, EFG Hermes acquired 51% of Vision Securities in Oman at a PE ratio of 11.5 compared to EFG Hermes’ PE ratio of 16.6. EFG Hermes has long since accounted for substantial flows into the Omani market on behalf of its foreign institutional clients, and is able to serve a broader base of clients from its presence on the ground in Oman.

Kuwait
EFG Hermes IFA, the brokerage arm of EFG Hermes in Kuwait, is a brokerage firm on the Kuwait Stock Exchange (KSE) with a client base including a wide array of retail, VIP and high-net-worth clients, as well as local, regional, and international institutional investors. EFG Hermes IFA provides the full range of brokerage services including an online trading platform.

The firm has maintained its position as the top brokerage firm in Kuwait.

Jordan
Since inception, EFG Hermes Jordan has maintained a client base of around 6,000 investors by the end of 1H2017 ranging from retail, VIP, high net worth clients, local and regional institutions as well as foreign institutional investors. The firm offers its client base access to senior and executive management teams of publicly listed companies, promoting a business-friendly climate in Jordan. Moreover, EFG Hermes Jordan is the only local broker that has the support of a large and dedicated research division that publishes thorough fundamental analysis, sector analysis and strategy reports on the country and the market. Currently, the research team covers five of the largest listed companies that represent a market capitalization of 45%.

Kenya
EFG Hermes Kenya launched its operations in 2017, being the firm’s first foray into Sub-Saharan Africa in a step that will serve as an East African hub into more neighboring markets. The company provides securities brokerage, research and corporate advisory services spanning Kenya and neighboring markets.