[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# IAI Arava

shkol, issued its approval of the initiative, authorising IAI to proceed with full-scale development. The Arava was viewed not only as a sellable product in its own right, but also as a means of enhancing IAI's ability to develop aircraft and thus would heavily influence its work on future projects.

Flight testing and sales effort
On 27 November 1969, the first prototype Arava made its maiden flight, flown by IAI's chief test pilot Avraham Hacohen. This aircraft would perform another 92 flights before tragedy struck the test programme; on 19 November 1970, the first prototype was destroyed during a high speed test flight when a wing strut failed due to excessive flutter, killing most of the crew on board, including Hacohen. IAI's engineers had previously disagreed over the strength of the wing's structure, but several tests had validated the wing's design to be sufficient. Flight testing was suspended for one year, while IAF pilot Danny Shapira took Hacohen's position as chief test pilot. Shapira later noted that the accident had generated significant doubt over the aircraft's suitability, both internally and externally, which made the aircraft considerably more difficult for IAI to sell. On 8 May 1971, the second prototype conducted its first flight.

While IAI had anticipated considerable demand for the Arava from the civilian market, customers quickly proved to be elusive. In comparison to the older Nord, IAI's new aircraft was not only slower but possessed barely more than half the endurance. Due to its inferior performance to existing transport aircraft, IAI soon concluded that the Arava possessed little appeal to any civil operators, and turned its efforts towards the military market instead. The IAF failed to take any meaningful interest in the type; in one exchange, Motti Hod, commander of the IAF, revealed that he had never even heard of the Arava. IAI, realising that a sale to the IAF was of substantial value in the eyes of prospective export customers, attempted to market the type for various needs, including air ambulance, search and rescue operations, troop-transport and utility missions.

By 1973, the lack of orders for the Arava, which was viewed by some as IAI's flagship programme, had become a subject of national criticism. Journalists noted that IAI's sales projections had been considerably more optimistic than those of several independent economists. Yitzhak Ernst Nebenzahl, Israel's state comptroller at the time, made several critical observations of the programme, attributing its failure to IAI's senior management, particularly in the failure to critique its own forecasts. IAI, being keen to validate both itself and the Arava, dispatched a team of test pilots and marketing staff on a flying tour of the Americas using the Arava, visiting various nations, including Mexico, Bolivia, Ecuador, Chile, Argentina, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Paraguay, to demonstrate the type directly to potential customers. These demonstrations were not without risk, as test pilots would occasionally fly the plane outside of its safe flying envelope in order to impress customers; this led to an Arava being destroyed in Malawi during one such flight in 1980.

The intensive marketing campaign, along with a decrease in unit prices and the adoption of new payment schemes, was able to yield a degree of success; ultimately, IAI would sell around 70 Aravas across various South American customers. During October 1980, IAI struck an agreement with American aviation company Consolidated Aircraft for the latter to act as the exclusive distributor for the Arava in the United States; Consolidated announced that it expected that sales of the type, which it marketed under the name Commuter liner, had been anticipated as 20 aircraft within the first year, mainly to the expanding commuter airline industry.

Operational history
During October 1973, three aircraft were leased by IAI to the IAF to help meet demand during the Yom Kippur War. These aircraft, which were assigned to Squadron 122, were flown by IAI pilots and were typically used to fly transport and CASEVAC operations to and from the front lines. This leasing arrangement was terminated shortly after hostilities came to an end, the aircraft themselves being returned to IAI. Despite this, the IAF continued to be unenthusiastic about the type's potential in a utility transport mission, seeing little use for its STOL capabilities. However, during 1983, the service opted to acquire nine aircraft for Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) operations. All of these aircraft were flown to the United States, where they were fitted with various American-sourced electronics and onboard systems to perform the intelligence mission; a likely factor in this decision was that the IAF's acquisition had been financed via US aid.