[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Germans in the United Kingdom

Germans in the United Kingdom form one of the largest minority groups in the country. Today, there are many Germans living in the United Kingdom, and many Britons or German British () have German ancestry, including the British royal family. While those born in Germany constitute one of the UK's largest foreign-born groups, many are British nationals, rather than German nationals, who were born in Germany to British military personnel based there.

History
Examples include the Hanseatic merchants of the Middle Ages and also the 16th-century Protestant refugees who emigrated Great Britain to flee the instability caused by the religious wars after the Reformation. By the end of the 17th century, a significant German community had developed, consisting mostly of businessmen, mainly from Hamburg; sugar bakers; and other economic migrants.

In 1709 and 1710, thousands of Germans from the Electorate of the Palatinate, which had been invaded by French forces and suffered a severe winter, also migrated to England. Queen Anne's government had invited them, with the plan to settle them in the North American colonies. Some stayed in the London area.

In 1714, George I, a German Hanoverian prince, ascended to the British throne and founded the British House of Hanover. Every subsequent British monarch until Edward VII, in the 20th century, would take a German spouse.

Edward VII did not take a German spouse, but his wife was a Danish princess of German ancestry. His son would marry a British-born princess of predominantly-German ancestry, and his great-granddaughter Elizabeth II would marry a Greek prince of predominantly-German ancestry.

The British Royal Family retained the German surname Saxe-Coburg-Gotha until 1917, when, in response to anti-German sentiment during the First World War, it legally changed it to the English-sounding Windsor. King George V famously relinquished all his titles he held in Germany, and the Titles Deprivation Act 1917 deprived three British princes (two from the House of Hanover and one from the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha) of their titles. Even today, the Royal Family is sometimes parodied as being German.

In terms of religion, St Georges, a Lutheran Church dating from 1762/63, is the oldest German church in the UK. The congregation was founded by Dederich Beckmann, a wealthy sugar boiler and cousin of the first pastor. It served as a religious centre for generations of German immigrants who worked in the East End sugar refineries, and meat and baking trades until the First World War. During the Nazi period in Germany, St George's pastor Julius Rieger set up a relief centre for Jewish refugees from Germany, who were provided with references to travel to Britain. The leading theologian and anti-Nazi activist Dietrich Bonhoeffer was also associated with the work of St George's when Bonhoeffer was pastor at the nearby St Paul's church between 1933 and 1935.

Population and distribution
The 2001 UK Census recorded 266,136 people born in Germany, making them the fourth-largest foreign-born group after Irish, Indians and Pakistanis. A large proportion of these people are thought to be the children of British military based in Germany at the time of their birth, who have since returned to the UK with their families. Wiltshire, Colchester, North Yorkshire and Aldershot, which are all home to significant army populations, had a combined population of 12,000 born in Germany.

The 2011 UK Census recorded 262,356 Germany-born residents in England, 11,208 in Wales, 22,274 in Scotland, and 3,908 in Northern Ireland.

The Office for National Statistics estimates that in 2013, there were 297,000 people living in the UK who had been born in Germany, but that 189,000 of these were British nationals. The total number of German nationals resident in the UK, regardless of ethnic origin or birthplace, is estimated at 126,000 in 2013.

Other than in areas with army bases, clusters of people born in Germany are found in West London, particularly around Richmond, where there is a German school.

Influence

German Britons and German speakers have contributed to numerous areas in British life, especially in establishing powerful family dynasties. There are also areas and buildings named after famous Germans, such as Holbein Place in Central London, named after the Renaissance painter Hans Holbein the Younger, as well as the Herschel Museum of Astronomy, an independent museum in Bath dedicated to the life and works of the famous astronomer William Herschel, who discovered the planet Uranus in 1781.

In music, George Frideric Handel, one of the greatest composers of the Baroque era in the first half of the 18th century, was commissioned to write four anthems for the coronation ceremony of King George II. He became a subject of the British crown in 1727.