[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sakiko Fukuda-Parr

Sakiko Fukuda-Parr (サキコ・フクダ・パー、福田 咲子) (born 1950) is a development economist who has gained recognition for her work with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and for her writing in publications including the Journal of Human Development and Capabilities, which she founded.

Fukuda-Parr is Professor of International Affairs at The New School.

Since 1973, when Fukuda-Parr worked in the Young Professionals Programme at World Bank, she has played a large role on the world stage of globalization, poverty, and economics, with interests in technology, human rights, gender, capacity development, and aid architecture. Despite the tremendous imbalance of international resources and wealth distribution, Fukuda-Parr maintains hope for positive human development.

Education
Fukuda-Parr pursued her interests in culture, international affairs, and human development at the universities of Cambridge (receiving a bachelor's degree in the social and political sciences), Sussex (receiving a master’s in economics), and the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy (receiving a master’s in law and diplomacy (MALD)).

Career
After working as a loan officer with the World Bank from 1974 to 1979, Fukuda-Parr served as a technical adviser in agricultural economics at the United Nations Development Programme from 1979 to 1985. Then, as Deputy Resident Adviser in Burundi (1985-1987), Principle Economist and Deputy Director at the Regional Bureau for Africa (1986-1991), and Chief of the West Africa Division (1992-1994), Fukuda-Parr garnered both the information and the experience to become Director of the Human Development Report Office (1995-2006).

From a loan officer at World Bank to a director at the UNDP, Fukuda-Parr has been positioned throughout the world (Burundi, Morocco, and Turkey, for instance). Particularly as a director, she gained insight into the process of human development, with an emphasis on “democracy, cultural diversity, and human rights.” To promote awareness of the vast inequalities separating gender, race, and class, Fukuda-Parr aided in the publication of research-based proposals and policy work on technical cooperation effectiveness and capacity building.

Since leaving the UNDP, Fukuda-Parr has worked as a professor at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University, Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, and The Graduate Program in International Affairs at The New School.

In November 2016, Fukuda-Parr was appointed by United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to the High-Level Panel on Access to Medicines, co-chaired by Ruth Dreifuss, former President of Switzerland, and Festus Mogae, former President of Botswana. She also serves on the advisory board for Academics Stand Against Poverty (ASAP) and on the University of Oslo/The Lancet Independent Panel on Global Governance for Health.

Writer and editor
To supplement her teaching and professional experience, Fukuda-Parr has acted as both writer and editor on works pertaining to human development, poverty, and economics. In addition to her contributions to the Annual Human Development Reports, she has written and edited several works, including Rethinking Technical Cooperation: Reforms for Capacity Building in Africa, Capacity for Development: New Solutions to Old Problems and The Gene Revolution: GM Crops and Unequal Development. She has also participated in several journal projects and written book chapters concerning capacity development and human rights.  As an editor, she founded the Journal of Human Development (2000, annually), co-edited Readings in Human Development: Concepts, Measures and Policies for a Development Paradigm, and has held a position on the Feminist Economics editorial board.

In her writings, such as those for the Belfer Center, she highlights a lack of social parity on an international scale. Inequalities, according to Fukuda-Parr, exist in education, resource distribution, gender rights, and income. Despite such inequalities, however, Fukuda-Parr remains positive about social and economic change.  Her role in the Millennium Development Goals, among other initiatives, is making a difference in the wars on poverty and inequality.  Toward this end, she will continue to fight for an outcome that embodies true human rights on every level.