[Source: PubMed]

43. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 10;9(3):e88494. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088494. 
eCollection 2014.

The association between attachment and mental health symptoms among school-going 
adolescents in northern Uganda: the moderating role of war-related trauma.

Okello J(1), Nakimuli-Mpungu E(2), Musisi S(2), Broekaert E(3), Derluyn I(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Makerere University College of Health Sciences, 
Kampala, Uganda; Department of Psychiatry, Gulu University, Gulu, Uganda; 
Department of Social Welfare Studies and Centre for Children in Vulnerable 
Situations, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Makerere University College of Health Sciences, 
Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Department of Orthopedagogics, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(4)Department of Social Welfare Studies and Centre for Children in Vulnerable 
Situations, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: The association between attachment and mental health symptoms in 
adolescents in a post-conflict low resource setting has not been documented.
METHODS: We investigated the relationship between parent and peer attachment and 
posttraumatic stress, depression and anxiety symptoms in a sample of 551 
adolescents aged 13-21 years old. Attachment quality was assessed using the 
Inventory of Parent and Peer Attachment (IPPA). Post-traumatic stress, 
depression and anxiety symptoms were assessed using the Impact of Events Scale 
Revised (IESR) and Hopkins Symptom Checklist for Adolescents (HSCL-37A) 
respectively. Gender differences in attachment relationships were determined 
using independent t-tests. Multivariate logistic regression was used to assess 
whether attachment relationships were independently associated with 
posttraumatic stress, depression and anxiety symptoms. Hierarchical linear 
regression analyses were conducted to explore the moderating role of war-related 
trauma.
RESULTS: Our analyses revealed gender differences in attachment to parents, with 
males reporting stronger attachment than females. Parental attachment was 
protective against depression and anxiety symptoms but not posttraumatic stress 
symptoms after adjusting for potential confounders. Alienation by parents was 
independently associated with an increase in these mental health symptoms while 
peer attachment was not associated with any of these symptoms. However, in 
situations of severe trauma, our analyses showed that peer attachment was 
significantly protective against post-traumatic stress symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Secure parental attachment is associated with better psychosocial 
adjustment in adolescents affected by war. Further, adolescents with secure peer 
attachment relationships in situations of severe war trauma may be less likely 
to develop posttraumatic stress symptoms. Interventions to enhance peer support 
in this post conflict setting would benefit this vulnerable population.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088494
PMCID: PMC3948618
PMID: 24614005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.