[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Certificate of Competence

n reality, the ICC is more widely accepted as proof of the holder’s competence than adoption of Resolution 40 would suggest.

Implementation of Resolution 40
The following UNECE member states have adopted Resolution 40 and thus officially accept the ICC as a proof of competence in their territories:

Austria,
Belarus,
Belgium,
Bulgaria,
Croatia,
Czech Republic,
Finland,
Germany,
Hungary,
Ireland,
Latvia,
Lithuania,
Luxembourg,
Netherlands,
Norway,
Romania,
Serbia,
Slovakia,
South Africa (not a member state),
Switzerland
the United Kingdom
and Ukraine.

Implementation of Resolution 14
The following UNECE member states have adopted the earlier Resolution 14. Also these countries accept the ICC:

France,
Italy and
Poland.

States that have not adopted Resolution 40
The following UNECE member states have not accepted the Resolution 40 nor the Resolution 14:

Greece,
Moldova,
Portugal,
Spain,
Russian Federation,
Sweden

Individual states

Finland
Finland has adopted the resolution but does not require the ICC for normal yachts ("sufficient age and skill" is enough) and does not use CEVNI for its inland waters.

Some official and some quality assured non-official certificates (mainly the coastal master certificates of the navigation association and the scouts) are regarded as fulfilling knowledge requirements of ICC for coastal waters. Courses for the CEVNI part are arranged separately by many organisations. The certificate itself is issued by the authorities, usually based on such documents.

The ICC is required for masters of boats chartered for international voyages (in addition to a domestic certificate) and for masters of recreational vessels with a length of more than 24 metres.

Ireland
The Irish Sailing Association is uniquely authorized by the Irish Department of Transport to issue ICC's to only Irish Citizens. Holders of the ICC license are able to operate recreational vessels for recreational use in European waters where an ICC is required, and proves to local authorities that the skipper has the required Irish qualifications for skippering the vessel.

United Kingdom
International Yacht Training Worldwide (IYT Worldwide), The Royal Yachting Association (RYA),  and the British Sub-Aqua Club (BSAC) are with the authority of the Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA) approved to issue ICCs to those who meet the mandated requirements and the competency requirements.

ICC's are able to be issued by these Associations to citizens of Nations who are not signatories. In this manner, for example, USA citizens can gain the ICC. In the USA, NauticEd International Sailing Education facilitates the issuance of the ICC through the UK government via the Royal Yachting Association.

UK ICCs are for use on British registered vessels in the waters of foreign states that participate in Resolution 40, without the need to comply with those states’ national certification requirements. An ICC does not enable a British ICC holder to skipper a non-British registered vessel. If a British skipper wants to skipper a non-British registered vessel then he/she must be qualified per the regulations of the country in which the vessel is registered. (NOTE: The RYA home page makes no reference of this limitation   https://www.rya.org.uk/membership/membership-benefits/international-certificate-of-competence)

The UK ICC was only available to British citizens or bona fide British residents. This has now been extended to cover other Nationals.

Estonia
Estonia requires operators of a small pleasure craft (2.5-24 m with 25 m² sail area or 25 kW+ power) to have an International Certificate of Competence. The Maritime Administration has licensed training institutions to carry through courses, based on which the Road Administration issues Certificates of Competence that conform to international standards.

See also 
 Code Européen des Voies de la Navigation Intérieure (European Code for Inland Waterways)
 List of certificates for operators of pleasure craft

References

Maritime education
Boating
Sailing qualifications