[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neuroconstructivism

(rather than context free). This leads to "restrictions of fate" in which later learning is more restricted than earlier learning. Neuroconstructivism refers to how we construct our conceptual frameworks throughout our lives. It appeals to early childhood development, culture, and education.

Genes

Previous theories have supposed that genes are static unchanging code for specific developmental outcomes. However, new research suggests that genes may be triggered by both environmental and behavioral influences. This probabilistic epigenesis view of development suggests that instead of following a predetermined path to expression, genes are modified by the behavior and environment of an organism. Furthermore, these modifications can then act on the environment, creating a causal circle in which genes influencing the environment are re-influenced by these changes in the environment.

Encellment

Cells do not develop in isolation. Even from a young age, neurons are influenced by the surrounding environment (e.g. other neurons). Over time, neurons interact either spontaneously or in response to some sensory stimulation to form neural networks. Although the exact number of neurons in the brain is an unknown, there are estimations ranging from 100 billion to an approximate 128 billion. This allows a vast neural network to be formed, and consequently a "storage capacity of the human brain." Competition between neurons plays a key role in establishing the exact pattern of connections. Through neuron-neuron communication made possible by the neuron's synapses, axon, and dendrites, different neurons can influence each other and lead to changes in the neural network. This is important for processing information and learning new material. This is possible because of neuron interactions that occur between neurons. As a result, specific neural activation patterns may arise due to the underlying morphology and connection patterns within the specified neural structures. These may subsequently be modified by morphological change imposed by the current representations. Progressively more complex patterns may arise through the manipulation of current neuronal structures by an organism's experience.

Enbrainment

While neurons are embedded within networks, these networks are further embedded within the brain as a whole. Neural networks do not work in isolation, such as in the modularity of mind perspective. Instead, different regions interact through feedback processes and top-down interactions, constraining and specifying the development of each region. For example, the primary visual cortex in blind individuals has been shown to process tactile information. The function of cortical areas emerges as a result of this sensory input and competition for cortical space. "This interactive specialization view implies that cortical regions might initially be non-specific in their responses but gradually narrow their responses as their functional specialization restricts them to a narrower set of circumstances." Circumstances within a person's life can result in head trauma. Instances such as concussions from sports and high-impact accidents can result in the brain colliding into the skull. This causes neurons to be damaged and the brain to be bruised. During this time, brain function is temporarily lost since the neurons are being damaged. Repeated instances of head trauma can lead to the development of lasting brain damage.

Chronic stress causes long-term changes in the structure and function of the brain. This form of stress can cause an increase in myelin-producing cells and a decrease in neurons. Chronic stress reduces the amount of stem cells that grow into neurons, which may explain how it impacts learning and memory. Having said that, the neuronal network of a brain is continually changing due to plasticity. Chronic stress, as well as mindset and behaviour, are never resolved. The power of neuroplasticity allows to modify the shape and function of a brain throughout its lifespan.

Embodiment

The brain is further limited by its constraint within the body. The brain receives input from receptors on the body (e.g., somatosensory system, visual system, auditory system, etc.). These receptors provide the brain with a source of information. As a result, they manipulate the brain's neural activation patterns, and thus its structure, leading to constraining effects on the construction of representations in the mind. The sensory systems limit the possible information the brain can receive and therefore act as a filter. However, the brain may also interact with the environment through manipulation of the body (e.g., movement, changes in attention, etc.), thus manipulating the environment and the subsequent information received. Pro-activity while exploring the environment leads to altered experiences and consequently altered cognitive development.