[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Va'etchanan

first reciting and needed to repeat the prayer. One said: long enough for the person praying to fall into a suppliant frame of mind, citing the words "And I supplicated the Lord" in . The other said: long enough to fall into an interceding frame of mind, citing the words "And Moses interceded" in .

Rabbi Simlai deduced from  that one should always first praise God at the beginning of prayer, for Moses praised God in  before he asked God in  to let him see the good land. Rabbi Eleazar deduced from  that God let Moses see the Promised Land only because Moses prayed, and thus Rabbi Eleazar concluded that prayer is more effective than good deeds, for no one was greater in good deeds than Moses, and yet God let Moses see the land only after Moses prayed.

Rabban Johanan ben Zakai interpreted the word "Lebanon" in  to refer to the Temple in Jerusalem and "that goodly mountain" to refer to the Temple Mount. Thus one can interpret  to say that Moses asked to see God's House. Similarly, a Midrash interpreted the word "Lebanon" in  to refer to the altar. Rabbi Simeon ben Yohai explained that the altar was called "Lebanon" because it made white (malbin) the sins of Israel, as indicated by the words of  "though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white (yalbinu) as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool." Rabbi Tabyomi said that the altar was called "Lebanon" because all hearts (lebabot) rejoice there, as indicated by the words of  "Fair in situation, the joy of the whole earth, even Mount Zion." And the Rabbis said that the altar was called "Lebanon" because of the words of 1 Kings , which says of God and the Temple: "My eyes and My heart (libbi) shall be there perpetually.

Another Midrash employed the understanding of "Lebanon" as the Temple to explain the role of gold in the world. Rabbi Simeon ben Lakish taught that the world did not deserve to have the use of gold. But God created gold for the sake of the Temple. The Midrash deduced this from the use of the word "good" in both , where it says, "the gold of that land is good," and , where it says, "that goodly hill-country, and Lebanon."

Rabbi Levi taught that God told Moses "enough!" in  to repay Moses measure for measure for when Moses told Korah "enough!" in . The Gemara provided another explanation of the word "enough! (, rav)" in  God was telling Moses that Moses had a master (, rav), namely Joshua, waiting to assume authority to lead the Israelites into the Promised Land, and thus Moses should not delay another master's reign by prolonging his own. The Gemara provided a third explanation of the word "enough!": God was telling Moses not to petition him anymore, so that people should not say: "How severe is the Master, and how persistent is the student." The Gemara explained why God was so hard on Moses with a Baraita taught in the School of Rabbi Ishmael: according to the camel is the burden; that is, a stronger, more righteous one must bear a greater burden.

The School of Rabbi Ishmael taught that whenever Scripture uses the word "command" (, tzav) (as  does), it denotes exhortation to obedience immediately and for all time. A Baraita deduced exhortation to immediate obedience from the use of the word "command" in , which says, "charge Joshua, and encourage him, and strengthen him." And the Baraita deduced exhortation to obedience for all time from the use of the word "command" in , which says, "even all that the Lord has commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the Lord gave the commandment, and onward throughout your generations."

Deuteronomy chapter 4
In , Moses calls on Israel to heed the "statutes" (hukim) and "ordinances" (mishpatim). The Rabbis in a Baraita taught that the "ordinances" (mishpatim) were commandments that logic would have dictated that we follow even had Scripture not commanded them, like the laws concerning idolatry, adultery, bloodshed, robbery, and blasphemy. And "statutes" (hukim) were commandments that the Adversary challenges us to violate as beyond reason, like those relating to shaatnez (in  and ), halizah (in ), purification of the person with tzaraat (in ), and the scapegoat (in ). So that people do not think these "ordinances" (mishpatim) to be empty acts, , which speaks of the "statutes" (hukim) and "ordinances" (mishpatim), says "I am the Lord," indicating that the Lord made these statutes, and we have no right to question them.