[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Education in Peru

democratize schools in Peru by constructing new schools and promoting the inclusion of the indigenous peoples of Peru in education. In 1972, the National Policy for Bilingual Education came into effect; a monumental step considering the teaching of any indigenous language was previously prohibited.

Fujimori government 
The neoliberal government of authoritarian president Alberto Fujimori used education as a part of his populist platform. In negotiations with the World Bank, Fujimori forcefully advocated for funding to build new schools – which was already supposed to occur – in a strategic effort to establish more political support through tangible projects Peruvians could experience firsthand. The building of new schools occurred primarily in rural areas, where Fujimori built much of his support combatting Shining Path during internal conflict in Peru. In 1996, Fujimori passed laws that encouraged investment in private education, offering tax relief to investors, leading to a further surge in private schooling.

Though Peru constructed new schools and primary education initially benefitted, improvement in education overall remained profoundly poor by the turn of the century. While school construction funding jumped from 1.4% to 15% of the total education budget between 1990 and 1994, spending from the budget per student was the lowest in Latin America. The quality of school construction was also negligent, with multiple schools collapsing or requiring large amounts of repair years later.

21st century 
Into the 2000s, Peru's emerging middle class and poor families also began to opt for private schooling due to an influx in low-fee private schools. The government of Alejandro Toledo signed into law the "National Agreement" in July 2002 to turn Peru from the Fujimori government's policies, adopting a policy to provide universal access to education to all Peruvians. A report review the agreement released in 2005 found that while enrollment of students increased in Peru, the quality of education remained low.

In 2006, President Alan García decentralized Peru's education system, resulting with municipal governments overseeing their local schools. The move was heavily criticized as small local governments lacked the funding and resources of the national government.

By the 2010s, studies found that low-fee private schools did not provide the quality education of higher cost private schools; low-fee schools are often superficially adapted into education facilities from small private dwellings, hire inexperienced teachers, and lack curriculum planning. Nonetheless, the majority of poor families are excluded from the private educational market. Corruption and bribery are rampant in private school admissions due to lack of government regulation. 

During the administration of President Ollanta Humala, funding for education increased dramatically.

Congress in the early 2020s, Congress pushed to weaken accreditation standards at universities.

Statistics

Education quality 
In 2009, the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), created by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, exam placed Peru last out of nine participating Latin American countries. According to the OECD's 2018 Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), Peru was ranked low, placing 64th of 77 countries listed. The U.S. News & World Report article 2020 Best Countries for Education ranked Peru 59th of 73 countries in education quality.

Funding 
In 1963, the national government provided 20.70% of its total budget towards education. By 2000 under the Fujimori government, this percentage decreased to 15.25% of the national budget. By 2010, this percentage fell again to a low of 13.55%. Since 2012, funding has continually increased, with the percentage of the national budget spent on education standing at 17.49% in 2019.

Educational stages

Early Education 
This education begins from age six, and exists to max out the periods of a child's development in which a child lovely assimilates determined learning. It is important to know how to focus the educational effort for each stage of a child's development to offer the greatest benefit and opportunities. In early education, the child controls his or her own learning with the assistance of internal and external agents which offer optimal conditions for realizing his or her capabilities.

The objective of early education is to promote the development of the child through a rights-based approach with the involvement of the parents (internal agents), people close to the child, educators (external agents), implementing early education centres with strategies based on free play and the role of children.