[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of PlayStation games incompatible with PlayStation 2

f the Tiger (During video playback, the screen blacks out, an error message is displayed at the top of the screen, and the image stops.)

SCPH-500XX 
The SCPH-500XX models may have issues running the following games:

PlayStation games
Army Men 3D (Game does not read on SCPH-500XX PAL v10 consoles.)

SCPH-750XX to SCPH-900XX 
The following games may have issues with the SCPH-750XX, SCPH-770XX, SCPH-790XX & SCPH-900XX "slim" model PlayStation 2, reported by Sony Japan, America and Europe.

PlayStation games
007 - Tomorrow Never Dies
3X3 Eyes - Tenrinou Genmu (The screen may stop at "Character introduction" in the main menu "Sankei Feast Digest".)
Action Man: Destruction X
Action Puzzle - Prism Land (Sound effects do not play properly in the title menu, pause menu, and optional "SE test".)
Actua Ice Hockey 2
AFL '99
Air Management '96 (During the game, BGM does not sound properly when the player does not operate directly.)
Akuji the Heartless
Albalea No Otome - Uruwashi No Seishikitachi (BGM is not played properly at an event where "Jill" and "Sleia" have a conversation.)
Alice in Cyberland (The boss battle may end on the first stage, and the progress may stop after the movie is played. There are other places where the same phenomenon occurs.)
Ape Escape (there is slowdown in some areas that normally have slowdown. for example the area with a UFO monkey in thick jungle has slowdown. PAL version potentially may not work due to librypt anti piracy being triggered with emulation)
Aqua GT
Arcade Party Pak
Arcade's Greatest Hits: The Atari Collection 2
Area 51 ( PAL Only )
Armored Core - Master of Arena (In "SHOP", some parts may not be displayed. In addition, not limited to this screen, a symptom that the image stops may occur.)
Aubirdforce After (BGM is not played normally on the battle screen.)
Barbie: Race & Ride
Broken Helix
Bubsy 3D (The levels don't load up on NTSC copies. The PAL works but has graphical issues when jumping (eg disappearing textures).
Castrol Honda Superbike World Champions
Castrol Honda Superbike 2000
Cheesy (Password screen cursor moves too fast, making it difficult to input password correctly)
Chrono Cross (In the ending movie, part of the video is not displayed properly.)
Command & Conquer: Red Alert - Retaliation
Crash Bash
Croc 2
Dave Mirra Freestyle BMX (On the loading screen after selecting a course, the image in the center window may be displayed in a half gray.)
Densha Daisuki (After selecting "NEW GAME" and displaying the operation timetable, the image stops when loading from the disc.)
Deserted Island (The screen may not be displayed properly in some scenes during the game.)
Devil Dice
Disney's 102 Dalmatians: Puppies to the Rescue
Dokapon! Ikari no Tetsuken (After the battle is over, the screen may not be displayed normally.)
Doraemon - Nobitaito Fukkatsu no hoshi (The operating speed of the game is generally slow.)
Dragon Beat (The picture stops when try to start the game.)
Driver (The game randomly slows down, and when played using an original DualShock, the pause menu may open on its own.)
Elder Gate / Eldergate (The screen after "Gate rush" is not displayed normally.)
FIFA: Road to World Cup 98
F.A. Manager
Fighter Maker
Final Fantasy Anthology
Formula One Arcade
Formula One 98 (The main menu flickers.)
Formula One 99 (Sound effects do not sound properly during the game.)
Fun! Fun! Pingu (If the analog controller is set to analog mode, the progress will stop when loading from the disc. There is no problem in the digital mode.)
Gallop Racer (Information such as horse name and record is not displayed on the race result display screen after the race is over.)
Gekisou Tomarunner (The screen may freeze if a player take first place on the first course of the "Tomaran Tournament" in the game.)
Goemon: Shin Sedai Shūmei! (the game runs fine but the d pad input is registered as one input at a time making it almost impossible to play)
Gradius Deluxe Pack (In "GRADIUS II", the speed during the game is slow.)
Grid Runner
Gundam: Battle Assault
Hard Boiled
Harvest Moon - Back to Nature (The progress of the game may stop without the next screen appearing when switching screens.)
Heart of Darkness (Console doesn't recognise the discs)
Hello Kitty's Cube Frenzy (The progress of the game stops without the next screen appearing when switching screens.)
Hissatsu Pachinko Station 9 - Ushiwaka to Lemi (BGM in the game may not sound normally.)
Hooters Road Trip
Houma Hunter Lime - Special Collection Vol.2 (The screen may freeze at some points during the game. When entering the OPTION screen in the title menu, etc.)
Hugo 2
Idol Promotion - Yumie Suzuki (On disc 2 (bonus disc), when the start button is pressed on the title screen, noise continues to sound after that.)
Indy 500
International Superstar Soccer Pro
In Cold Blood
Jackie Chan Stuntmaster
Jampack Vol. 2
Jigoku Sensei Nube (The screen may not be displayed properly in the movie when the game is started.)
Jikki Pachi-Slot Tettel Kouryaku -