[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peace of Vienna (1725)

e reacquired once again as a possession.

Therefore, the Austrian takeover of Sicily as a direct possession under Charles VI was debated as to whether the acquisition was legitimate or not. Regardless of Austrian legitimacy, Philip V renounced his personal and filial claims to the Kingdom of Sicily.

Aftermath 
Only ten years later, Sicily would again shift into Bourbon (not Spanish) hands. The Duke of Parma, Charles I de Bourbon, would conquer Sicily from the Austrians in the War of the Polish Succession (1734-1735) and would be crowned the independent 'Charles V' as King of Sicily in 1735. Charles would later be crowned King of Spain as 'Charles III' in 1759, after the death of his father Philip V. Though Charles was obligated to give up his Italian possessions to his son Ferdinand I.

Spanish renunciation of the Southern Netherlands 
Prior to 1714, the Spanish had owned a portion of the Low Countries which had become known as the Spanish Netherlands. The Spanish had owned the territory starting with the abdication of Charles V (Charles I in Spain) as Holy Roman Emperor in 1556. Before Spanish ownership, it was occupied by the Austrians who conquered the provinces in the War of the Burgundian Succession (1477-1482).

After the Austrians re-occupied the territory during the War of the Spanish Succession, it was decided at the Peace of Utrecht thar the lands of the Spanish Netherlands should pass once again to the Austrians.

Succession in the Grand Duchy of Tuscany 

The final disputed territory was the Grand Duchy of Tuscany. Charles VI came to an agreement with Philip V that his heir by Elisabeth Farnese would have legal rights to Tuscany. Grand Duke Gian de' Medici was without issue and bedridden. Rights to the Duchies of Parma and Piacenza were also granted to the Spanish Bourbons. The catch being these duchies would remain fiefs of the Holy Roman Empire, and not be independent of Imperial affairs.

Spanish concessions in Livorno and Elba 
King Philip V agreed to establish the city of Livorno as a free port of entry for both parties. The Sicilian-ruled part of the island of Elba, with the town of Porto Logone, would be ceded to the future claimant and owner of the throne of Tuscany upon their accession.

Spanish recognition of the Pragmatic Sanction 

An important victory for Charles VI was Philip V's acceptance of Charles' Pragmatic Sanction of 1713. While Charles agreed to withdraw his claims to the Spanish throne and consented to defend the Spanish succession, Philip agreed to the Austrian succession. The Spanish recognition of the Sanction would contribute to Charles' goal of securing the Austrian succession for his daughter Maria Theresa.

Commerce Provision

Ostend East India Company 

The main commerce clause within the treaty was the recognition of the Ostend East India Company. Philip V granted the Company permission to dock and resupply in Spanish dominions and states across the globe, providing these ships produce proper documentation. The Ostend Company was granted the same privileges granted to the United Provinces in matters of trade.

Defensive Provisions

Austro-Spanish alliance 
The last of the three separate treaties written in Vienna was the defensive military alliance between the Habsburgs and Spain. After Spain's severe loss in the War of the Quadruple Alliance (1717-1720) and weakening in the War of the Spanish Succession (1700-1714) the balance of power needed to be reset in Europe; and the Habsburgs believed making peace and fostering a new relationship with the Spanish would spark a realignment of control. Both army and naval support were guaranteed in the event of either nation being attacked by a foreign power.

Restitution of Gibraltar and Port Mahon 

Gibraltar and Port Mahon were annexed by the British as a result of the War of the Spanish Succession, and Spain began quickly scheming on how to reacquire them. Habsburg support for the restitution was not military but financial; and Austria promoted itself as a peace mediator between Spain and Great Britain in the eventuality of war.

References

See also
War of the Spanish Succession 
War of the Quadruple Alliance
War of the Polish Succession
War of the Burgundian Succession
Ostend East India Company
Kingdom of Sardinia (1700-1720)
Pragmatic Sanction of 1713
Treaty of Vienna (1731)
Treaty of Hanover (1725)

1725 in the Habsburg monarchy
1725 in the Holy Roman Empire
18th century in Vienna
1725 in Gibraltar
1725 treaties
Vienna
Vienna
1725 in Spain
Habsburg monarchy–Spain relations
Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor
Philip V of Spain