[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pearse Jordan

of the European Convention on Human Rights, a section of which reads: "Everyone's right to life shall be protected by law. No one shall be deprived of his life intentionally save in the execution of a sentence of a court following his conviction of a crime for which this penalty is provided by law."

At the High Court, counsel for the Jordan family argued that the Secretary of State was in continued breach of Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights by failing to properly investigate Jordan's killing. The counsel also stated that the British government is still in breach of European law, and he called upon the Court of Appeal to issue a declaration that such a breach exists, along with an 'order of mandamus' to instruct immediate corrective action from the Secretary of State.

Counsel for the Secretary of State argued that the inquest system is the way in which Article 2 is complied with by the state.

Song
The circumstances of Jordan's death are recounted in the Irish rebel/Republican song "Pearse Jordan" written & recorded by The Irish Brigade. The recurring phrase "Slán go fóill mo chara" – the song is otherwise in English – in Irish means "Goodbye, my friend/comrade".

References

External links
Amnesty International. 4 May 2001. "United Kingdom: Landmark judgement on killings in Northern Ireland". Public Statement. Amnesty International Online>Home>Library>Europe and Central Asia>Western Europe>UK. . Retrieved 14 March 2007.
Amnesty International declares the judgements of the European Court of Human Rights in the cases of Jordan et al. "landmark judgements".
BBC News. 9 July 2002. "IRA family sue top judge". . Retrieved 14 March 2007.
In 2002 the Jordan family sued the Lord Chief Justice for breach of the Human Rights Act. It was the first case in which judicial officials were personally sued under this act.
Friel, Laura. 7 September 2006. "Insult to Injury". An Phoblacht. . Retrieved 14 March 2007.
Pearse Jordan.
MacDabhaid, Pádraig. 14 October 1999. "Who killed our loved ones?". An Phoblacht. . Retrieved 14 March 2007.
Pearse Jordan's parents, Hugh and Teresa Jordan.
McNally, Maire. "Pearse Jordan" (song). GaryOg.com. . Retrieved 15 March 2007.
The lyrics of the Irish rebel song "Pearse Jordan", by Maire McNally, recounting the circumstances of Jordan's death.

1969 births
1992 deaths
Deaths by firearm in Northern Ireland
Paramilitaries from Belfast
People killed by security forces during The Troubles (Northern Ireland)
Provisional Irish Republican Army members