[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# APO Hiking Society

extra syllable more than what he had originally intended.

Looking back, APO members Danny Javier and Boboy Garrovillo do not regret never having been regular wage earners. Their farewell concert, which had SRO audiences for two stormy nights, not unexpectedly became a hit record the following year.

Achievements
In the three decades since that "farewell" concert, APO has made 22 record albums; hosted several television shows, including their own noontime Sunday show "Sa Linggo nAPO Sila" and noontime show from Monday to Saturday "'Sang Linggo nAPO Sila"; and launched hugely successful major solo concerts and countless provincial, dinner, and corporate shows. They have performed in over 50 cities in the United States, Canada, Singapore, Indonesia, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, and Japan to bring Original Pilipino Music to Filipinos.

In 1978, APO won 2nd Place winner in the Metro Manila Popular Song Festival (now MetroPop Song Festival from 1996 to 2003) for their runner-up song Ewan. The song was composed by Louie Ocampo.

In October 1987, during their annual US tour, APO became the first Filipino pop artists with Marco Sison to perform at the Main Hall of New York's prestigious Carnegie Hall. They also performed at the equally prestigious Massey Hall in Toronto, Canada's music capital. Both concerts and the other shows held during that particular concert tour were sold out. APO were also the first Filipino artists to perform in a public concert in Saudi Arabia. In 1987, they were one of the first Filipino artists to be recorded on compact disc. And in 1994, they were awarded the first Dangal ng Musikang Pilipino by Awit Awards - the Filipino equivalent of the Grammy. They have also been conferred the Tanglaw Ng Lahi Award, the highest accolade given by Jesuits in the field of culture and arts.

APO also earned international recognition for "Handog ng Pilipino sa Mundo" was recorded by 15 Filipino artists in April 1986. A few months later, the English version "A New and Better Way" was launched in Australia. In February 1987, the first anniversary of the Philippines' People Power revolution, the song was released in London, England. The song's lyrics are embedded on Our Lady of Edsa Shrine's wall, the center of the revolution.

In 1998, APO and the now-defunct band Eraserheads teamed up for their first "San Miguel Beer" TV commercial, "Homeboys." The concept of reviving and modernizing their originals by rock/alternative bands in the 1990s paved the way to two tribute albums by various bands entitled Kami nAPO Muna in 2006 and Kami nAPO Muna Ulit in 2007.

In 1999, APO was also a finalist at MetroPop Song Festival for their song finalist Dito Sa Kanto. The song was composed by Noel Cabangon, then Cabangon covered his version in 1999, then re-recorded a duet with Parokya Ni Edgar vocalist Chito Miranda in 2013 again.

In 2007, Jacee with the group was awarded as "MYX Magna Award 2007" in the MYX Music Awards 2007, achieving the best OPM pop music and his music and recording achievements in OPM history.

In 2009, APO was inducted to the Philippines Eastwood City Walk of Fame, contributing their singing, hosting, and acting skills.

APO Tribute albums
Just a few years after their hiatus, the tribute album Kami nAPO Muna was released in honor of the group. The Filipino musical artists who did their own unique renditions of APO songs includes: Imago, Orange and Lemons, Parokya ni Edgar, Kamikazee, Sandwich, Sugarfree, Itchyworms, Sponge Cola, Boldstar, Sound, Drip, Rocksteddy, Top Suzara, Barbie Almalbis, Kitchie Nadal, Shamrock, and The Dawn. Their second volume, Kami nAPO muna Ulit has also included their new members in the compilation album are True Faith, Silent Sanctuary, Concrete Sam, Up Dharma Down, Chilitees, The Bloomfields, Scrambled Eggs, The Spaceflower Show, and Hilera.

Acoustic balladeer Noel Cabangon also had a new tribute album to the Pinoy pop musical group, Throwback: Ang Songbook Ng APO. Released in 2014 through Universal Records, it features his cover versions of popular various APO songs.

2008–2009 reunion
On September 20, 2008, APO Hiking Society had a reunion concert called "Apo of the Philippines" which was held at the Araneta Coliseum to celebrate their 39th Anniversary. They sang all of the APO favorites and all songs from their past releases.

On February 7, 2009, APO performed in the Open Air FTI Complex in Taguig. The free concert was sponsored in cooperation with Taguig City Hall. One month later, the Eraserheads had their Final Set Concert.

On November 17, 2009, APO Hiking Society marked their 40th anniversary with a big concert at the SM North EDSA Skydome. It was called "APO Kayang-Kaya Pa". This was originally scheduled on September 26 but was rescheduled due to the Typhoon "Ondoy" ("Ketsana").

2010 retirement