[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# TT1

court is rectangular and measures . It was probably entered via stairs through a gateway shaped like a pylon, although excavations by Bernard Bruyère found no trace of them. A mudbrick bench was located against the north wall of the courtyard, likely to hold funerary offerings on festive occasions.

Sennedjem's chapel is the central of the three. It was constructed of a mix of mudbrick and stone, as was typical for the Nineteenth Dynasty. It has a projected restored height of  tall and width of  and was capped with a pyramidion of limestone, now fragmentary, depicting Sennedjem adoring the sun god Ra on his journey across the sky. The chapel was entered through a single doorway on the eastern side; the lintel of the door depicts Sennedjem and Iyneferti worshipping the crocodile god Sobek. A stele was set into the face of the pyramid above the entrance which depicted Sennedjem worshipping the rising sun. The chapel itself is a single barrel-vaulted room with a further funerary stele set into the rear wall. The interior was entirely painted with colourful scenes but little trace of it remains.

Sennedjem's chapel is flanked on the north side by the smaller pyramid-chapel of Khonsu. Due to lack of space, its walls are initially vertical before sloping to become a pyramid. The pyramidion of Khonsu's chapel depicts Khonsu, his wife Tamaket and their son Nekhenmut; it is now in the Museo Egizio in Turin, Italy. This is the only one of the three chapels to preserve painted decoration. The decoration on the interior of the door frame depicts Khonsu's brother Khabekhnet and his second wife Isis. Another preserved piece of decoration depicts two fragmentary underworld deities. The scene was likely similar to that seen in the burial chamber of TT1, where the deceased couple appear in adoration of a series of gods. Above this is a small section of a band of text giving Khonsu's name and title and served to divide the wall decoration from the ceiling. The south wall featured the funeral procession. The lower register shows the funerary sledge pulled by men and two oxen and accompanied by women. The scene continued onto the rear (west) wall, where the mummy, supported by a kneeling man, stands before a pyramid chapel; priests administer funerary rites.

A wall divided the chapels of Sennedjem and Khonsu from the larger southernmost pyramid chapel. It is the oldest of the three, being constructed entirely of mudbrick and therefore dating its construction to the Eighteenth Dynasty. The southern pyramid chapel is assigned to Tjaro, thought to be Sennedjem's elder brother or Khabekhnet, Sennedjem's father. The southern chapel was never used as the burial shaft is unfinished. Kathrin Gabler and Anne-Claire Salmas suggest that this is intended, as Khabekhnet did not live in Deir el-Medina and worked outside of the necropolis; his title is "servant of Amun in the Southern City" indicating he worked in the temple complexes on the east bank. They suggest that the chapel was non-functional, given its separation from the others by a wall and its apparent lack of decoration, and was instead a physical representation of the familial line of descent.

Three burial shafts were dug in the courtyard in front of the chapels. The central shaft, numbered P1182, is located at the very front of the enclosure and is  long and contains two adjoining subterranean rooms. Based on finds of fragments of statuary and pottery with inscribed names, this seems to have been the burial place of Sennedjem's older brother Tjaro and Sennedjem's son Bunakhtef. The other shaft, numbered P1183, in front of the southern chapel is unfinished and unused. The northernmost shaft located  from Sennedjem's chapel led to his burial chamber.

Tomb

Discovery and clearance

The intact burial chamber of TT1 was discovered in January 1886 by Gurnawi local Salam Abu Duhi and three others. They had obtained permission from Gaston Maspero, the director of the Antiquities Service, to look for tombs in Deir el-Medina. After seven days of excavation, they found an intact burial shaft that led to a series of underground rooms. The tomb descended further via a concealed shaft leading to a painted doorway closed with a decorated door sealed with a moulded clay seal in the shape of the head of Anubis. On 31 January Maspero was informed of the find, and visited with Urbain Bouriant, Eduardo Toda y Güell and Jan Herman Insinger on 1 February. They made copies of the decorated doorframe before dismantling it to preserve the door and entered the room. The painted burial chamber contained the burials of at least 20 people and were accompanied by a wide variety of objects. Both coffined and uncoffined mummies were placed against the west wall of the chamber, while funerary equipment such as disassembled funerary shrines, canopic chests, and ushabti, were mixed with work tools, boxes, vases, furniture, food, and bouquets.