[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Leon Eisenberg

Leon Eisenberg (August 8, 1922 – September 15, 2009) was an American child psychiatrist, social psychiatrist and medical educator who "transformed child psychiatry by advocating research into developmental problems".

He is credited with a number of "firsts" in medicine and psychiatry – in child psychiatry, autism, and the controversies around autism, randomized clinical trials (RCTs), social medicine, global health, affirmative action, and evidence-based psychiatry.

He served as Chairperson of the Johns Hopkins Hospital Department of Child and adolescent psychiatry and Harvard Medical School until his retirement in 1988. After retirement, he continued as The Maude and Lillian Presley Professor of Social Medicine, Psychiatry Emeritus, and in the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine of the Harvard Medical School in the Longwood Medical Area of Boston, until a few months before his death in 2009. He received both his BA and MD degrees from the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. He taught previously at both the University of Pennsylvania and Johns Hopkins University. He was chief of psychiatry at both Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston during formative periods in psychiatry for each institution.

Medical accomplishments
Leon Eisenberg, completed the first outcome study of autistic children in adolescence, and recognized patterns of language use as the best predictor of prognosis. Of the two first studies of the outcome of infantile autism, he reported the American study in the American Journal of Psychiatry in 1956, and the UK study was reported in JCPP shortly afterward by Victor Lotter  and Sir Michael Rutter. Eisenberg also studied and identified the use of rapid return to school as the key treatment in the management of the separation anxiety in an underlying school phobia.

He was principal investigator (PI) on the first grant from the Psychopharmacology Branch of NIMH for RCTs in child psychopharmacology. From a concern for evidence-based care, well before the phrase was coined, he introduced randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in psychopharmacology and showed that "tranquilizing" drugs were inferior to placebo in the treatment of anxiety disorders, whereas stimulant drugs were effective in controlling hyperactivity. 

Eisenberg completed the first RCTs of psychiatric consultation to social agencies and the utility of brief psychotherapy in anxiety disorders. He published a forceful critique of Konrad Lorenz's instinct theory and established the usefulness of distinguishing "disease" from "illness". He has highlighted the environmental context as a determinant of the phenotype emerging from a given genotype, and from the late 1990s through 2006, he had been involved with developing conferences and resources for medical educators in various specialties that would help them incorporate, into courses with their current and future students, the tidal wave of new information in genomics yet to puzzle future clinicians.  This interest may have been encouraged by his stepson, Alan Guttmacher, then acting head of the National Human Genome Research Institute.  For many decades, Leon Eisenberg had criticized psychoanalysis from a number of platforms. 

The scientific contributions of Eisenberg include:
 The first longitudinal follow-up of Leo Kanner's original cases of autism
 A study that identified the roots of social phobia in parental anxiety
 The first clinical trial of the effectiveness of psychiatric consultation in a social agency
 The first randomized controlled trial in childhood psychopharmacology
 The first randomized controlled trial of stimulant drugs in adolescents
 The first randomized clinical trial of brief psychotherapy
 A forceful critique of Lorenz's theory of instincts and imprinting
 An early statement of the distinction between "disease" (what doctors deal with) and "illness" (what patients suffer)
 A widely cited critique of the oscillation of psychiatry between brain-centered and mind-centered approaches arguing for the integration of the two
 A synthesis of the evidence on the importance of training primary care physicians to recognize and treat depression
 Papers that highlight the molding of the brain structure by social experience
 Publications putting inheritance in an environmental context as a determinant of risk and resilience.
 Leon Eisenberg is Known as "the father of prevention science in psychiatry"

Leon Eisenberg was proudest of the Diversity Lifetime Achievement Award he received in 2001 for his role in inaugurating affirmative action at HMS in 1968 and sustaining it as chairman of the Admissions Committee from 1969 to 1974. He regards that as his most important contribution to Harvard Medical School.