[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Yellow Rolls-Royce

ine, Alain Delon, Jeanne Moreau, George C. Scott and Omar Sharif were already cast in the key roles.

Shooting took place in MGM's British Studios in London and on location in Great Britain and Italy.

Reception
The film's reviews were "tepid," but the film performed "respectably" at the box office.

Critical
Contemporary reviews were mixed.  According to The Sunday Telegraph, "anyone willing to be taken for a smooth ride could hardly find a more sumptuous vehicle, star-studded, gold-plated, shock-proof and probably critic-proof, too." Time magazine called it an "elegant, old-fashioned movie about roadside sex" that "looks worn at times," but is "always appropriately overprivileged in high-powered personalities and spectacular sets." A.H. Weiler of The New York Times called it a "pretty slick vehicle, that is pleasing to the eye and occasionally amusing, but it hardly seems worthy of all the effort and the noted personalities involved."

Box office
The film grossed $5.4 million at the US box office, among the top ten films in box office receipts for 1965, a year in which Mary Poppins topped the list with $28.5 million.

The movie was not particularly successful at the French box office, failing to reach more than one million admissions.

The film's producers also benefited financially from television's willingness to pay studios more for more timely broadcasting rights to new films: The Yellow Rolls-Royce received its television premiere on CBS in fall 1967.

Awards and nominations

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 The Yellow Rolls-Royce at the British Film Institute
 

1964 films
1960s adventure drama films
Adultery in films
British anthology films
Films about automobiles
Films directed by Anthony Asquith
Films set in the 1920s
Films set in the 1930s
Films set in 1941
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer films
Rolls-Royce
Works by Terence Rattigan
British World War II films
Films set in London
Films set in Genoa
Films set in Pisa
Films set in Trieste
Films set in Yugoslavia
War films set in Partisan Yugoslavia
British drama films
Films scored by Riz Ortolani
Films with screenplays by Terence Rattigan
Films produced by Anatole de Grunwald
1964 drama films
Films shot at MGM-British Studios
1960s English-language films
1960s British films