[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Richmond and Petersburg Railroad

The Richmond and Petersburg Railroad moved passengers and goods between Richmond and Petersburg from 1838 to 1898.  It survived the American Civil War and eventually merged into the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad in 1900.

History
The Richmond and Petersburg was founded in 1836 and sold in 1898.  It survived a war and several financial panics.  It went from a railroad that only connected trains from Richmond to Petersburg, to a part of an entire east coast system.  It went from a slave economy to having fully paid employees.

Founding

The Virginia General Assembly granted a charter of a railroad between Richmond and Petersburg in 1836 which connected other railroad lines to make profits transporting cotton and coal to market. Moncure Robinson, the engineer who designed the Reading Railroad owned by the Reading Company,  designed the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad. The rail line was completed to Manchester, Virginia's industry on the south bank of the James River across from Richmond, Virginia. The steam engines would pass right under the terminus of the mule and gravity powered Chesterfield Railroad, which brought coal from Midlothian, Virginia to Manchester.  The Richmond and Petersburg Railroad Bridge across the river, connecting to Richmond, would be built after the rail line was completed.  The Panic of 1837 lead to a reduction in the purchase of subscriptions to ship on the rails so it was difficult to pay for construction. The Virginia Board of Public Works advanced money for their subscription and England loaned money to keep the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad company solvent.  The labor for the railroad was provided by slaves, but slave holders collected fees from leasing  arrangements, and the railroad company provided clothes for the slaves. The Rail line was completed in 1838.

A branch line was created to Port Walthall which connected to Norfolk, Washington, Baltimore and Philadelphia by Steamboat in 1845.  In 1846 passengers began to travel this way and freight could be shipped as well.   The rail line also carried mail under contract with the U.S. Postal Service

Transporting coal

The Clover Hill Railroad Company was chartered in 1841 by the Virginia General Assembly to do business with the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad but was not allowed to charge more than 2 cents per bushel of coal shipped over the railroad. The Clover Hill Railroad brought coal from the newly discovered Clover Hill Pits beginning in 1848.    This coal was taken to Richmond and Petersburg Railroad and shipped north from Port Walthall.  Although the Clover Hill made a large profit at first, the Chesterfield Railroad could not move coal from Midlothian to Manchester as efficiently as the steam powered Richmond and Danville Railroad, which reached Midlothian in 1850. The Chesterfield Railroad was sold when the Virginia General Assembly gave the Chesterfield Railroad permission to sell off its assets in the same year.   The Richmond and Petersburg Railroad lost money as well.  In 1948, the Virginia General Assembly allowed the Richmond and Petersburg to cut by half the total shares of stock and give each creditor one half as many shares, paying the same dividends per share because of losses and debts incurred by  the railroad company.

Fares
Fares for the entire line in 1853 were $1.10 for White adults and 60 cents for African Americans, and children paid the same as African Americans. Fares for stopping at Port Walthall Junction, the Half Way stop, and Temple or Falling Creek fares were 35, 60 or 85 cents for White adults and 35 or 60 for African Americans.

1857 legal precedent set by Richmond and Petersburg Railroad
In the same year as the Panic of 1857, the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad faced a lawsuit, The Richmond and Petersburg Railroad v. Martha J. Jones, over hitting several cows in a railroad accident.  The plaintiff had left her cows outside of her fence and they wandered onto the track.  The railroad was found to be following their lawful practices.  The railroad was found not to be liable and a precedent was set that a railway company has the same rights and protection, when doing lawful business as a person doing lawful business.  To collect damages, the plaintiff must show a lack of skill or caution.

Civil War and Reconstruction

Railroads in the Southern United States were funded to boost local economies.  The Richmond and Petersburg Railroad owned an Omnibus and coaches to take passengers from one line to another.  Goods and passengers had inefficient connections when travelling through cities and passengers would have to stay at hotels. Robert E. Lee, of the Confederate States of America predicted that the south's non-connecting railroads would cause problems for the military.  He was proven correct when two locomotives had to be hauled over land around Alexandria during the American Civil War.