[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Chinese Democracy Tour

as a presenter, noting that the band would go on a North American tour on October 24. Five warm-up shows for the tour were held in September 2006, with two at the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas two at Warfield Theatre in San Francisco and one show in Devore for KROQ's Inland Invasion 2006.

Following the band's appearance at Inland Invasion on September 23, a handful of subsequent warm-up shows were postponed, which led to rumours that this was carried out in order to finalize the work on the new album. The rumors were seemingly denied by manager Merck Mercuriadis, who stated that the shows had been merely moved to "fit in with the main body of the tour". He did, however, once again state that Chinese Democracy would be out before the end of the year. The actual tour, again called the Chinese Democracy Tour, was now scheduled to begin on October 20 in Jacksonville, Florida.

The Jacksonville show was moved to October 31, with the show of October 22 in Nashville, Tennessee, postponed up to January 2007, until being cancelled in December. The tour commenced on October 24 in Sunrise, Florida, now ringing true to Rose's prior statement.

During the 2006 North American tour the band's opening acts included SuicideGirls, Papa Roach, Sebastian Bach, Die Mannequin and Helmet. The band were also joined onstage by former Gunner Izzy Stradlin and Metallica drummer Lars Ulrich both making one-off appearances. Bubbles, Ricky, and Julian of the Trailer Park Boys made some appearances in Canada. Long-time drummer Brain took a leave from his touring responsibilities before the October tour dates to spend more time with his family. He was replaced by his understudy Frank Ferrer. Brain did not return to the band and Ferrer became the band's full-time drummer.

Eagles of Death Metal were supposed to go on tour with Guns N' Roses. On November 24, 2006, in Cleveland, Ohio, during their first concert with Guns N' Roses, the band was not well received by the crowd. When Axl Rose came out to perform, he asked the crowd whether they enjoyed "the Pigeons of Shit Metal", following with an onstage announcement the band wouldn't open for the Guns during the remainder of the tour. Soon after, Eagles of Death Metal released a statement regarding the incident:

"At first the audience refused to welcome us to the jungle, but by the time we took our final bow, it had become paradise city. Although Axl tried to November rain on our parade, no sweet child o' mine can derail the EODM night train. We say live and let die."

Tour dates

2007 World Tour 
Chinese Democracy Tour 2007 was a continuation of the previous tour promoting Chinese Democracy. The album had a tentative release date in March according to Axl Rose, but it did not materialize. The band continued touring in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand and Japan. Mucc was the opening act for the Japanese leg of the tour. They also performed two songs at Rodeo Drive's Walk of Style.

Walk of Style Ceremony
This performance featured keyboardist Chris Pitman on bass guitar, as Tommy Stinson was unable to attend due to a personal family issue. They played acoustic versions of "Knockin' On Heaven's Door" and "Sweet Child O' Mine" to close out the ceremony.

Tour dates

2009–2011 World Tour
Rumors started in February that Guns N' Roses would perform Spain and Italy in June, and continued through the year with comments from Irving Azoff about a Summer Stadium Tour but nothing happened.

On November 10, 2009, after speculation about shows in Japan, the band announced on their MySpace four dates in Asia and thirteen in Canada. More dates were added later for South America and Europe.

On August 15, 2010, a cancellation notice for the remaining shows of the tour was posted on Rose's Twitter. The statement would later be refuted on the official Guns N' Roses Twitter and Facebook, with claims that the tweets were being looked into. Several hours later, the band confirmed that Axl's account had been hacked, and the band would in fact continue the tour.

Following the events that took place at the Reading Festival where the organizers pulled the plug on their set because they passed the curfew time, Axl Rose said his Twitter account criticizing the organizers for failing to factor in the set change times.

Towards the end of the European leg, Duff McKagan joined Guns N' Roses onstage for the first time in seventeen years on October 14, playing bass on "You Could Be Mine" and guitar on "Knockin' On Heaven's Door", "Nice Boys" and "Patience" at London's O2 Arena.

On November 5, 2010, DJ Ashba confirmed the tour would continue across the U.S. in 2011. On October 2, 2011, the band came back to South America playing Rock In Rio in front of 100,000 people. After passing through Argentina, Chile and Paraguay, the first US tour in five years took place with positive reviews.