[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Friends of the Israel Defense Forces

iers. Planned giving options include gift annuities, charitable remainder trusts, bequests, endowments and other planned gifts.

Organization
In addition to its national headquarters in New York and its office in Israel, Friends of the Israel Defense Forces has fifteen chapters in the United States.

Fundraising
Friends of the Israel Defense Forces collects tax-deductible donations through a variety of fundraising efforts, including community events, online activity, concerts, missions to Israel, and small-scale parlor meetings. Many high-level Israeli and American officials and cultural icons have spoken and participated at Friends of the Israel Defense Forces' gala dinners, including:
Israel Defense Forces' Chief of the General Staff, Lt. Gen. Benjamin (Benny) Gantz
Former Minister of Defense Ehud Barak
Former Israel Defense Forces' Chief of the General Staff Lt. Gen.Gabi Ashkenazi
Former Minister of Defense Moshe Ya'alon
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
Israeli President Reuven Rivlin
 Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg 
 Former Israeli Ambassador Daniel Ayalon 
 Actor Jason Alexander
 Music producer David Foster 
 Actress-singer Barbra Streisand
 Haim Saban 
 Benny Shabtai
 Simon Cowell 
 Lionel Richie 
 Macy Gray
 A. J. McLean
 Michael Dell
 Steve Tisch
 Sheldon Adelson
 Maurice and Paul Marciano
 Larry Ellison
 Monica Crowley
 Pamela Anderson
 Sylvester Stallone
 Arnold Schwarzenegger
 Chris Tucker
 Avi Arad
 Ben Silverman
 Alan Horn
 Barry Meyer
 Vivi Nevo
 Spencer Hawes

Israel Defense Forces' soldiers and commanders as well as wounded veterans bereaved family members of fallen soldiers also take part in Friends of the Israel Defense Forces events.

In the fall of 2014, Friends of the Israel Defense Forces' Western Region raised a record of more than $33 million in Beverly Hills, California. Other recent Friends of the Israel Defense Forces galas took place in Chicago ($2 million raised); Long Island, New York ($1.4 million raised); Michigan ($1 million raised); Boston ($800,000 raised at the gala and $4.1 million raised by the region this year); Northern New Jersey ($600,000 raised at the gala and $3 million raised by the region this year); Philadelphia; Ohio; San Francisco; San Diego; Baltimore; and Scarsdale, New York

References

1981 establishments in New York (state)
Charities based in New York City
Israel Defense Forces
Jewish charities based in the United States
Foreign charities operating in Israel
Zionist organizations
Jewish organizations based in New York City
Zionism in the United States