[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Coptic Orthodox Church in the United States

Copts, many of whom are adherents of the Coptic Orthodox Church, began migrating to the United States of America in the late 1940s. After 1952, the rate of Coptic immigration from Egypt to the United States increased. The first Coptic church in the United States, St. Mark's Coptic Orthodox Church, was established in the late 1960s in Jersey City.

There are many Coptic Orthodox churches and congregations in the United States. Estimated numbers of adherents, based on church membership, was stated in 2008 as between 350,000 and 420,000. Based on the estimates of certain Coptic organizations, the number was between 700,000 and one million in 2002. , there were about 200 worshipping communities in the United States that served the expanding Coptic Orthodox population.

History

Early community 
The first Copts arrived in the United States during the early 20th century. Due to the restrictions on immigration put in place by the National Origins Formula, the majority of these early Coptic migrants to the USA were non-permanent residents. The Copts who traveled to the United States at this time were mostly foreign exchange students who were continuing their graduate education within the United States, and then returning home to Egypt. After the 1952 Coup d'Etat in Egypt, the Egyptian Economy began to stagnate, and more and more young Egyptians began seeking opportunities to study and work abroad. In 1964, as the number of Copts grew in the United States, the first Coptic lay organization in the United States, the Coptic American Association (CAA) was founded. The organization managed to amass 200 members, from throughout the States, by the end of 1964.

Immigration reform 
In 1965, the United States Congress passed a new Immigration Act that put an end to the National Origins Formula, and allowed for greater numbers of Immigrants from non-European countries. This new act, which was fully implemented in 1968, coupled with Egypt’s humiliating defeat in the Six Days War, paved the way for many young-educated Copts, disillusioned with Egypt’s state of affairs, to immigrate. These early immigrants moved to the United States in search of religious freedom, political stability, and economic opportunity. The majority of these new immigrants settled either on the East Coast in the New York and New Jersey metropolitan area, or on the California West Coast, near Los Angeles and San Diego. 

As the number of Copts in America continued to grow, the CAA and other Coptic groups in the US began lines of dialogue with Pope Cyril VI and Bishop Samuel, the Bishop of Public, Social, and Ecumenical Services, to establish churches in the US and Canada. In response to these requests, a series of visiting priests began to visit and serve the congregation in North America. The community was not content, however, with being visited a few times a year, they  wished to have their own local Church congregations. The efforts to establish permanent churches in United States were re-doubled, and Pope Cyril VI and Bishop Samuel, supported the congregations in this endeavor by sending more priests to serve the communities on a more permanent basis.

Establishing churches 
Early in 1970, the Coptic community in the East Coast, purchased and renovated a Church building in Jersey City. This building was registered and incorporated as Saint Mark Coptic Orthodox Church, Jersey City; the first Coptic Church in the United States. On March 22, 1970, the Church's inaugural Liturgy was prayed by Fr. Rofael Nakhla. 

Meanwhile, the Coptic community in the West Coast had also been working on purchasing their first Church. In 1969, Pope Cyril VI commissioned Fr. Bishoy Kamel to go serve the community in Los Angeles. In addition to his spiritual service to the community, Fr. Bishoy Kamel led a fund raising campaign in order to purchase a church building. In 1970, the congregation succeeded in purchasing a building and incorporating it as Saint Mark Coptic Orthodox Church, Los Angeles, the first Coptic Church on the West Coast.  

By 1976, there were ten Coptic Churches in the United States, two in New Jersey, two in California, two in New York, one in Pennsylvania, one in Texas, one in Ohio, and one in Illinois; all being parishes of the Archdiocese of North America, headed directly by the Patriarch of Alexandria.