[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment

The European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment was adopted by the member states of the Council of Europe, meeting at Strasbourg on 26 November 1987. After the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention for the Prevention of Torture is widely regarded as being one of the most important of the Council of Europe's treaties. The Convention marks a fresh and preventive approach in handling human rights violations. It was subsequently amended by two Protocols. Additionally, the Committee for the Prevention of Torture was established to comply with the provisions of the convention. This body is enabled to visit any place within the jurisdiction of the states' parties where people are deprived of their liberty in line with the articles of the convention.

As of 2020, the convention has been ratified by all 47 of the Council of Europe's member states. Furthermore, the ratification of the convention has become a pre-condition for all states who have joined the Council of Europe in the last few years.

History

Objective 
At the time of its publishing, the convention was groundbreaking, as it was the first instrument capable of enforcing compliance with the obligations it created. Therefore, the objective was to create a document which would ensure adequate consequences are presented to those who do not abide by it. Despite the existence of core publications such as the United Nations Charter or the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, these documents simply could not stop or remedy violations in a rigorous way. The key was thus to prevent torture altogether.

Background 
The origins of the Conventions date to a proposal by Jean-Jacques Gautier in 1976. Gautier was the founder of the Swiss Committee against Torture. He was inspired by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), who conducted visits to places where prisoners of war were held. He suggested that the conditions of prisoners were improved. However, the ICRC (at the time) had the power to conduct such visits only in case of international armed conflict between states parties to the Geneva Conventions. Gautier thus proposed to extend this system of visits to include all other places where individuals are deprived of their liberty, such as prisons, police stations, psychiatric institutions and remand centres. This proposal then formed the basis of a draft which would eventually become the International Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. The draft was submitted in April 1980 to be evaluated by the Commission on Human Rights, the body which would come to draft the UN Convention.

Gautier's ideas were then taken by the Council of Europe to be realised, at least at the regional level. Eventually, in June 1983, a report was produced with a draft European Convention on the Protection of Detainees from Torture and from Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. The report was accepted by the Consultative Assembly in September 1983. Several years of debate followed, including discussions regarding the views of the European Commission and Court of Human Rights. An agreed draft was finally concluded in June 1986, which was transmitted to the Committee of Ministers, who ultimately adopted it on June 26, 1987. It was opened for signature on November 26, 1987. At the time, the convention was signed by all of the 21 member states of the Council of Europe. As of 2020, it has been signed by all 47 member states of the council. It is also open for accession by non-member States.

Actors 
This section serves as an overview of the actors which actively contributed to creating the convention.

 Jean-Jacques Gautier, the person who came forward with the original proposal which would eventually lead to the adoption of the Convention
 the Council of Europe
 the Member States of the Council of Europe

Convention Articles 
Hereby is a selection of the most significant Articles of the Convention which outline the core values of the document.

Article 1 
The primary and opening article of the Convention depicts the need for the establishment for a European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. For the remainder of the document, it is referred to as "the Committee".

"The Committee shall, by means of visits, examine the treatment of persons deprived of their liberty". If deemed necessary, the committee is to strengthen their protection from torture.

Article 2 
Article 2 emphasises that each Member State in accordance with the Convention shall permit visits to a place within its jurisdiction where people are deprived of their liberty. This is under the condition that the liberty is taken by a public authority.

"Each Party shall permit visits, in accordance with this Convention, to any place within its jurisdiction where persons are deprived of their liberty by a public authority"