[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Breakthrough (human rights)

sexuality.

The program is being implemented on the ground in two Ranchi and Hazaribagh, Jharkhand, and Gaya, Bihar, all located in northern India. The program consists of mass media intervention, block-level training with NGOs, CBOs, self-help groups, and youth groups, and community mobilizations.

Breakthrough produced public service announcement videos about the harms of early marriage. These Hindi-language videos urge fathers to reconsider if early marriage is best for their daughter. Breakthrough also produced mini-documentaries about girls who were confronted with early marriage, which are posted on Breakthrough's website.

Gender-Biased Sex Selection 
Gender-biased sex selection (GBSS) is a result and an expression of cultural preference for sons. Son preference, in turn, is an expression of deeply rooted and long-held biases against women and girls. These biases are related to societal beliefs, norms, and practices that position girls as risks and burdens, and less worthy than sons of family investment. Bottom line, girls are not valued. These norms and practices run deep and their consequences reach far. In fact, among many communities, including those we work in:
 Girls may be given names considered ugly, such as Bhateri, Bhoti, or Varsha, all meaning "Enough!"
 When a girl dies, a red thread (dhaga) is tied to her arm with a note saying, "Next time send a boy" ("Agli baar bhaiya bhejna").
 A majority of men believe that raising a daughter is "like irrigating someone else's land."
 The shortage of young women resulting from GBSS leads communities to increased acts of violence and trafficking brides from other regions, decreasing safety and security for women.
Effective laws and enforcement are needed to combat GBSS, which is illegal [in India]. But Breakthrough believes that to reduce and prevent the practice for good, we need culture change. We need to challenge the norms and practices that devalue girls. Breakthrough works to inspire and support families and communities to stand up and say “Daughters are welcome here.”

Other campaigns and initiatives

Deport The Statue 
In 2013, Breakthrough partnered with The Yes Men to reach and energize new supporters for women’s and immigrants’ rights. The Deport the Statue campaign's goal is to deport the Statue of Liberty under the premise that she does not have legal documentation for living and working in the United States. It is run by the mock organization Legals for the Preservation of American Culture (LPAC). LPAC's website, deportthestatue.us, incorporates video, text, interactive features, social media advocacy, and downloadable materials to promote this goal. Website links direct to related media and Breakthrough's Deport the Statue campaign landing page, which explains the rationale behind the mock campaign and urges readers to join a movement for fair immigration reform by taking concrete actions, such as contacting their Congress members and joining Breakthrough on the web and on the ground.

Around its launch in June 2013, Deport the Statue received wide attention from the press, which further propelled the campaign. Unfortunately, immigration reform failed to pass in Congress. Since then, Breakthrough has continued to push the campaign online and with partner events, including participation in the Bushwick Film Festival, and October event with the Illuminator for the National Day for Immigrant Dignity and Respect.

As of November 2013, the namesake video has over 100,000 YouTube views and the Deport the Statue campaign page has over 700 views per month

#ImHere 
Breakthrough’s #ImHere multimedia campaign reached more than 7 million people and mobilized thousands of everyday Americans to say “#ImHere” to promote the rights of immigrant women. Through a potent mix of user-generated content, targeted social media, and partnerships with artists and celebrities including Conor Oberst and Margaret Cho, the campaign exposed large new audiences to the ways in which U.S. immigration policy causes and perpetuates violence against immigrant women. Its centerpiece, "The Call" — a short narrative film about one mother facing an impossible choice — brought home the impact of U.S. policy on the daily lives of immigrant women and families. By connecting emotionally and personally with a critical mass of new supporters, #ImHere helped propel the rights of immigrant women onto the national agenda at a pivotal moment in American history and drove palpable — and continued — demand for change. Immigration overhaul became a top priority for leaders and lawmakers, and newly energized supporters now demand that immigrant women and their rights remain a priority, too.

ICED - I Can End Deportation