[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Path 46

sayampa switch yard substation adjacent to the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station along with the North Gila – Imperial Valley line mentioned above.

A second 500-kV transmission line to be called Devers – Palo Verde No. 2 (DPV2) is planned to run parallel to the existing Devers – Palo Verde line.

Mohave – Lugo (SCE)
Starting from the Lugo substation in Hesperia, this 500 kV power line heads generally northeast along with the El Dorado – Lugo 500 kV line and two other 230 kV power lines. Both lines cross vast expanses of desert and mountains as they head towards Nevada. Just south of Interstate 40, the Mohave – Lugo line splits from the Eldorado – Lugo line; the Mohave line turns and heads in a more easterly direction than the other power lines. The line roughly parallels Interstate 40 at a large distance up to the California border. The power line then heads northeast to the Mohave Power Station at Laughlin, Nevada. The line terminates there along with another SCE 500 kV line from Eldorado substation.

Eldorado – Lugo (SCE)
The Eldorado – Lugo 500 kV line follows the same exact path as the Mohave – Lugo 500 kV until south of Interstate 40. The line then continues northeast through the Mojave desert along with other 230 kV power lines. Although the power lines generally parallel Interstate 15 through the Mojave desert, they do so at a very large distance and are completely out of sight. As the set of power lines leaves California and enters Nevada, they rises to an elevation of  before turning to head north-northeast and descending into Eldorado Valley. The 500 kV power line then joins two other SCE 500 kV powerlines, one from the Mohave Power Station in Laughlin, and the other an SCE-built extension of Path 49 from Moenkopi Substation in central Arizona. All three lines terminate at the Eldorado substation, which is connected to the nearby McCullough and Marketplace substations via Path 62.

McCullough – Victorville lines 1 and 2 (LADW&P)
Both McCullough – Victorville 500 kV power lines are maintained by Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADW&P) and leave the Victorville substation heading northeast along with the Hoover – Victorville 287 kV line. The Intermountain 500 kV DC power line also joins the group of three power lines a short distance later. After crossing the Interstate 15 for the first time north of the Dale Evens Parkway interchange, the lines turn and head in a more easterly direction to avoid the Barstow area. The lines then cross the Interstate 40 just east of Daggett for their only time and then cross over Interstate 15 again. The set of four power lines generally parallels Interstate 15 at a distance to the north of the highway for the rest of the path in California. The Marketplace – Adelanto 500 kV power line joins the group of four power lines north of Newberry Springs for a short distance before it turns away eastward and follows Interstate 15 closely instead. After the lines pass Clark Mountain to the north, they enter Nevada adjacent to Primm and Interstate 15. At Primm the group of power lines, along with the Marketplace – Adelanto line which has come back, split and spread out across the desert, with lines spanning over each other. After crossing some mountains, the McCullough – Victorville and the Hoover – Victorville 287 kV lines reunite and terminate at the McCullough substation, while several other lines bypass the substation and terminate in other locations, such as the Intermountain line.

Marketplace – Adelanto (LADW&P)

The Marketplace – Adelanto line originates at the Adelanto substation west of the Victorville substation. This same substation is also the southern terminus of the Intermountain HVDC line at the Adelanto Converter Station. As the line leaves the substation, it heads north and parallel with U.S. Route 395 for a while before turning east at Kramer Junction and then northeast near Fort Irwin before meeting the Marketplace – Victorville lines near Newberry Springs. The line then runs adjacent to the other Marketplace – Victorville lines for a short distance before crossing over them and heading towards the Interstate 15 where it follows the highway closely until reaching the Ivanpah Valley. The line crosses the freeway again just prior to the Nevada State Line and enters Nevada to the southeast of Primm where it then turns northward and rejoins with the other Path 46 line northeast of the community and continues northeast on the way to the Marketplace substation.