[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Vale Royal Abbey

he roof, flanked by a pair of single bay rooms, the whole set above a masonry ground floor". The 1958 excavation uncovered the 1359 additions, including the chevet apse. Pieces of stained glass were uncovered in Delamere Forest, while Purbeck marble and other architectural fragments were also found.

Historian Jeffrey Denton has suggested that Vale Royal Abbey has been relatively unexamined by scholars because of its near-total mid-16th-century destruction; "had it survived, our views of Edward I's relations with the Church may well have been radically different". A circular stone monument, known as the Nun's Grave, reportedly commemorates Sister Ida, thought to be a 14th-century Cheshire nun who nursed an unnamed Vale Royal abbot, and who was buried at the high altar. The monument was erected by the Cholmondeley family, possibly to lend credence to the legend of the nun. The material in its construction is from three sources: the head from a medieval cross whose four panels depict the crucifixion, the virgin and child Jesus, St. Catherine and St. Nicholas; the shaft, made of sandstone in the 17th century; and a plinth from a reclaimed pillar base. Pevsner's Buildings of England has described the monument as looking "convincingly late 13th-century", and notes other remnants of pillars around the grounds "of great size and elaboration". The present country house on the site incorporates parts of the south and west ranges; the former has a door arch from the abbey, one of the few elements of the original abbey which is still visible. At least some of the original abbey still survives to the first floor; in 1992 a British Archaeological Association study discovered late-medieval graffiti scratched into plasterwork on an internal wall. Holcroft's Tudor house also stands. The building is a Grade II* listed building, and St Mary's church is listed at Grade II, while what remains of Vale Royal Abbey is a scheduled ancient monument.

See also

Abbot of Vale Royal
Grade II* listed buildings in Cheshire West and Chester
Listed buildings in Whitegate and Marton
List of houses and associated buildings by John Douglas
Round Tower Lodge

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links

 Information on the abbey from the Sheffield University site about Cistercian abbeys in the UK
 The Ledger Book of Vale Royal abbey: the main record book of the abbey. First published by the Record Society of Lancashire and Cheshire in 1914 – full-text version as part of British History Online
 Information about the stained glass from the Corpus Vitrearum Medii Aevi (CVMA) of Great Britain

Religious organizations established in the 1270s
Monasteries in Cheshire
Cistercian monasteries in England
Whitegate
Christian monasteries established in the 13th century
Edward Blore buildings
Cholmondeley family
John Douglas buildings
Archaeological sites in Cheshire
1270 establishments in England
1538 disestablishments in England
Abbots of Vale Royal Abbey
Edward I of England
Golf clubs and courses in Cheshire
Buildings and structures in Cheshire
Monasteries dissolved under the English Reformation