[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Armenia–Greece relations

Bilateral relations exist between Armenia and Greece.
Due to the strong political, cultural and religious ties between the two nations (the vast majority of Armenians and Greeks practice Eastern Christianity), Armenia and Greece today enjoy excellent diplomatic relations. They have always been strong both emotionally and historically due to religious and cultural roots and co-existence during the Byzantine period and under the Ottoman Empire.

All three Presidents of Armenia paid official visits to Greece and there are high-level contacts between the two countries.
Greece formally recognized the Armenian genocide in 1996, while Armenia formally recognized the Greek genocide in 2015.
Both countries are full members of the Council of Europe.

Names 
In the Greek language, Armenia is called Αρμενία (Armenia), the Armenians are called Αρμένιοι (Armenii) and the Armenian language is called αρμένικα (Armenica). In the Armenian language, Greece is called Հունաստան (Hounastan), the Greeks are called հույներ (Houyner) and the Greek language is called Հունարեն (Hounaren).
The Greek transcription of the Armenian word for Armenia (Հայաստան) is Χαγιαστάν (Hayiastan). The Armenian transcription of the Greek word for the Greek language (Ελληνικά ) is էլլինիկա (Ellinika).

History 

Both being ancient civilizations, Armenians and Greeks have co-existed for centuries. There are ancient notes by Greek historians suggesting of the roots of Armenians. The earliest reference to Armenia was made by the Greek historian Hecataeus of Miletus in 525 BC.
According to a hypothesis proposed by linguists during the 20th century, the Armenian and Greek languages share a common ancestor. This has led to the proposal of a Graeco-Armenian language, post-dating the Proto-Indo-European language. Herodotus suggests that the Armenians are descendants of the Phrygians. Plato had early noticed the similarities between the Greek and the Phrygian languages. In addition Strabo has written that the ancestral homeland of the Armenians or of their ruling class, prior to their immigration in Asia Minor, was a valley in Thessaly, after which they are named. A chain of ancient references show the close relation between the two peoples.

After the destruction of the Seleucid Empire, a Hellenistic Greek successor state of Alexander the Great's short-lived empire, a Hellenistic Armenian state was founded in 190 BC.

The Armenian language is said to be influenced from Ancient Greek, but both languages developed differently over time.

The Armenian alphabet (created in 405), being written from left to right and not from right to left like other scripts of the Mediterranean Basin or Middle East, has a certain Greek flavour.

Armenians constituted an integral part of the Empire in its early centuries, with many of the Byzantine Emperors being Armenian and/or having Armenian blood. The Macedonian dynasty is often considered the era in which the Byzantine Empire reached its greatest extent since the Muslim Conquests and the Macedonian Renaissance in letters and arts began. The dynasty was named after its founder, Basil I the Macedonian, who was descended from the theme of Macedonia (the theme was actually located in the region of Thrace, and had no relation with the geographical region of Macedonia). The dynasty's founder and many subsequent emperors were of Armenian descent, hence the dynasty is also referred to by some authors as the "Armenian dynasty".
However, because of the differences that existed between Greek Orthodox and Armenian Apostolic Christianity, Byzantine emperors often tried to conquer the Armenian Bagratuni dynasty Kingdom and impose Greek Orthodoxy. They achieved this in 1045 after many attempts. This weakened both Byzantines and Armenians alike, and in consequence, they weren't able to keep the Turks away from Armenia who left it undefended (1064) and from the rest of Anatolia (1071 onwards)

Regardless, these two nations also co-existed under Seljuk and later Ottoman empire.

Today

Political relations 

Greece was one of the first countries to recognize Armenia's independence on September 21, 1991. Both countries have an embassy in their respective capitals. Also, Greece is one of the countries that have officially recognized the Armenian genocide and is one of the few countries that has criminalized the denial of the Genocide.

Since the declaration of independence in Armenia, the two countries have been partners within the framework of international organizations (United Nations, Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, Council of Europe, BSEC), whilst Greece firmly supports the community programs aimed at further developing relations between the European Union and Armenia.