[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lew Hing

1, Lew Hing's Pacific Coast Canning Company had become one of Oakland's largest businesses, providing over 1,000 jobs during the peak canning seasons.  Employees were usually from the local Portuguese, Italian, and Chinese communities.  Lew Hing was the Bay Area's single largest employer of Chinese.

In 1912 Lew built his second hotel, originally named the Mun Ming Lue Kwan, at 858-870 Clay Street, between Grant and Stockton Streets.  Still in existence, the name has since been changed to The Lew Hing building in honor of Lew.

In 1915, Lew accepted the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors for the China Mail Steamship Co. Ltd., whose office was in the same building as his Canton Bank office.

In 1917, Lew Hing expanded his cannery business by investing in the Bayside Canning Company, a sardine cannery at Monterey's famed Cannery Row.  It was said that the sardines were so plentiful in Monterey Bay that they actually swam their way into the cannery.

By World War I, Pacific Coast Canning Company was regularly exporting convenient canned goods to Europe.  This provided an easy source for Herbert Hoover's food rehabilitation program for Europe.  Lew Hing's efforts were now helping the United States to win the war.

From 1916 to 1921, Lew Hing was the principal owner of a cotton plantation known as Wa Muck in Mexicali, Mexico.  For laborers, he conscripted hundreds of Chinese from China who would pass through San Francisco and go directly to Mexico by rail.  Lew Hing set aside a few city blocks of land on the plantation for shops to accommodate the needs of Chinese workers.  The remains of this impromptu Chinatown still exist in Mexicali.

In 1918, Lew Hing was on a "hate list" for assassination, which made local and international news. 

In 1928, at age 70, Lew Hing established his fourth cannery, the West Coast Canning Company, along the shores of San Pablo Bay in Antioch, California.

Legacy
Lew Hing was a pioneer in California industry. The Lew Hing building remains in San Francisco's Chinatown, and Oakland's Chinatown owes incalculable gratitude to Lew.  The Pacific Coast Canning Company's building had remained, though empty, at 12th and Pine Streets in Oakland.  In 2006 this building was torn down and replaced by housing, Pacific Cannery Lofts, with a plaque commemorating Lew Hing and his importance to the site.

After a rich career in canning, shipping, hotels, banking, and other industries, Lew Hing considered his most worthy contribution to be the swimming pool for the youth at the San Francisco Chinese YMCA, built in 1925.  For more than 80 years, the pool that Lew Hing built was the only swimming pool in San Francisco's Chinatown.

Inventive and industrious throughout his life, Lew Hing was very progressive for his time. He was also a man of high principles.  Coming from his very humble beginning, he had great compassion for Chinese immigrants in America because he understood them well. He was a well-respected gentleman who generated much business in the community and created many job opportunities for the Chinese in the Bay Area. He contributed in upgrading the quality of life for Chinese immigrants in their ordeal of assimilation and integration into the Western ways of life in these United States.

He also related well to the Caucasian community, as indicated when he often attended formal civic events and was included in the inner circle of San Francisco's long-time mayor, Jimmy Rolph. Lew became very American in his ways, never again desiring to return to China.

References

External links 
 Podcast: Long Lost Oakland, chapter 5: Overcoming racism, Lew Hing became king of Oakland’s canning industry, from East Bay Yesterday on Soundcloud

1858 births
1934 deaths
American bankers
American businesspeople in shipping
American hoteliers
American manufacturing businesspeople
American real estate businesspeople
Businesspeople from the San Francisco Bay Area
Chinese emigrants to the United States
American people of Chinese descent