[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# A Scourge of Screamers

g.

Gregson helps Wellford re-wire the suppressor, and they escape to a comparatively safe distance of a few thousand miles aboard Wellford's ship.  Even at that distance, the radiance is almost more than they can bear.  Returning to the station, they find the people aboard either dead or catatonic.

The final chapter takes place a few years later.  Helen and Gregson are married with young children.  Humanity is learning to live with rault, but already the Valorians have located another civilization about to emerge from the shadow of the Stygum Field.  Gregson and Wellford are offered a place on that mission.

Major themes
Above all the novel is a thriller in the style of Alistair MacLean.  There are reflective moments during breaks in the action, where peripheral characters and events move, fleetingly, to center stage.  There are vignettes of Valorians carrying out their duties, especially Andelia.  The fear of infection engendered by the Screamies creates incidents which are visible to the main characters, but they do not participate or sympathize.

Mystical elements include the empathic bond between the Gregson brothers.  Also, there are references to the Fall from the Garden of Eden as being one of many human legends caused by the Earth entering the shadow of the Stygum Field in ancient times, cutting off humanity from rault.

Technology
Most novels of the 1950s and 1960s tended to overestimate near-term progress in space and weapons technologies, while neglecting the rise of computer technology.  In this version of the 1990s, characters wield laser weapons, which can kill or stun depending on how focussed the beam is.  In the opening sequence the attack on Gregson's flying craft involves both lasers and .50 caliber machine guns, which elicits the comment "Something old, something new" from Wellford.

The flying craft themselves, some described as "hoppers", have VTOL capabilities and unusually long ranges.  They are also quite quiet, so that Gregson is taken by surprise when hoppers descend around him while he is searching for Helen in Pennsylvania.

The ability to travel into space is available to clandestine groups, suggesting great advances in propulsion over basic chemical rockets which require tons of fuel to place even modest payloads into orbit.  The Nina apparently also makes use of previously unknown propulsion systems, possibly the ion drives used in other contemporary novels, which allow acceleration to very high speeds if left running for long enough.