[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Friedrich Münch

uis region.  One of his sons was among the first volunteers in the Civil War and died in the Battle of Wilson's Creek under the command of Franz Sigel, a former officer of the German 1848 revolution.  One of his daughters, Emilie, married Dr. William Follenius, the son of his old friend Paul Follen.

Bibliography
 Paul Follen und Friedrich Münch: Aufforderung und Erklärung in Betreff einer Auswanderung im Großen aus Teutschland in die nordamerikanischen Freistaaten (Invitation and Declaration Regarding a Mass Emigration from Germany to the North American Free States), Gießen: Ricker, 1833.
 A Treatise on Religion and Christianity, Orthodoxy and Rationalism
 Der Staat Missouri, geschildert mit besonderer Rücksicht auf teutsche Einwanderung (The State of Missouri, Described with Special Regard for the German Immigrant), 1859
 American Grape Culture, 1859
 School for American grape culture: brief but thorough and practical guide to the laying out of vineyards, the treatment of vines, and the production of wine and North America., St. Louis 1865
 Amerikanische Weinbauschule (American Wine School), St. Louis: 1877
 Geisteslehre für die heranreisende Jugend zum Gebrauche für Lehrer höhere Lehranstalten : ein Buch für Lehrer und Schüler und alle Freunde des freien Denkens (Spiritual heranreisende Lesson for the Youth, for the Use of Teachers Colleges: a Book for Teachers and Students and All Friends of Free Thought, St. Louis: 1872
 Friedrich Münch (Hg.): Erinnerungen aus Deutschlands trübster Zeit, dargestellt in den Lebensbildern von Karl Follen, Paul Follen und Friedrich Münch (Memories of Germany's Gloomiest Period, Depicted in the Lives of Karl Follen, Paul Follen and Friedrich Münch), St. Louis (Missouri) and Neustadt: Haardt, 1873.
 Friedrich Münch: Gesammelte Schriften (Collected Works), St. Louis: 1902

Further reading
 Don Heinrich Tolzmann, ed., Missouri's German Heritage. Second Edition. Milford, Ohio: Little Miami Publishing Co., 2006.

See also 
 Giessen Emigration Society
 Missouri Rhineland

External links 

Muench Family Association

References 

1799 births
1881 deaths
University of Giessen alumni
Government ministers of Germany
German emigrants to the United States
Missouri wine
German-American culture in St. Louis