[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Majid Khan (detainee)

there.

Related case
In September 2006, Uzair Paracha, the son of Saifullah Paracha, another Guantanamo detainee, was tried and convicted of terrorism charges in a U.S. court. Paracha had requested Majid Khan as a witness. The U.S. government declined to produce him, although he was in U.S. custody.

Torture
According to Khan, during his time imprisoned by the CIA, "the more I cooperated, the more I was tortured", and so he made up lies in order to appease interrogators. In the CIA black site, which he described as resembling a dungeon, "he was kept naked with a hood on his head, his arms chained in ways that made sleep impossible".

On March 13, 2008, the CIA released highly redacted documents from a Combatant Status Review Tribunal in which Khan describes abuse and torture he suffered in CIA custody.

The Senate Intelligence Committee's C.I.A. Torture Report, released December 9, 2014, revealed that Khan was one of the detainees subjected to "rectal feeding", which his lawyers described as a form of rape, as part of his ″torture regime″ at the black site prison. Khan's "lunch tray", consisting of hummus, pasta with sauce, nuts, and raisins was pureed and rectally infused," says the report.

Release and life in Belize

Sentence completion and release
On June 7, 2022, lawyers for Khan petitioned the United States District Court for the District of Columbia for a writ of habeas corpus. The petition asked the United States inter alia to release him from his unlawful detention in Guantanamo and for the United States to comply with their non-refoulement obligations under international law for relocation to anywhere but his native Pakistan.

On 25 July 2022 the New York Times published that "a senior Pentagon official declared" Khan's sentence was completed on March 1, 2022, Khan was transferred to Belize on February 2, 2023.

Belize
Belize’s foreign minister called its agreement to settle Khan along with his wife and their teenage daughter “a humanitarian act”. Belize had required that the US government provide funds to buy Khan "a home, a phone, a laptop and a car".

In Belize, Khan issued a statement saying:

References

External links

 "Guantánamo's tangled web: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Majid Khan, dubious U.S. convictions, and a dying man", Andy Worthington, 14 July 2007
 UN Secret Detention Report (Part One): The CIA's "High-Value Detainee" Program and Secret Prisons, Andy Worthington, 15 June 2010

Pakistani extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
Detainees of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp
Pakistani emigrants to the United States
Living people
People subject to extraordinary rendition by the United States
1980 births
People from Catonsville, Maryland
People with acquired American citizenship
People convicted of war crimes
Pakistani people convicted of murder
Pakistani mass murderers
People convicted of murder by the United States military
Pakistani expatriates in Belize