[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fred Roti

gations that "informants continue to advise through the years {that} former 1st Ward alderman John D'Arco and Roti were the front men for businessman Pat Marcy and for the mob."

Roti was identified as a member of La Cosa Nostra in the 1991 Annual Report of the Attorney General of the United States.

On August 11, 1999, in a civil racketeering complaint against the Chicago Laborers District Council (CLDC), the Justice Department described Roti:Fred Roti was convicted of Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) conspiracy, bribery, and extortion regarding the fixing of criminal cases in the Circuit Court of Cook County, including murder cases involving organized crime members or associates and was sentenced to 48 months' imprisonment. Roti was released from prison in 1997. As First Ward alderman, Roti was a key political patronage boss and, along with his co‑defendant Pat Marcy, a fixer for the Chicago Outfit. Roti has directly participated in interfering with the rights of the members of Laborers' International Union of North America in the selection of their officers and officials in that he has improperly influenced the selection of officers of the CLDC and has been responsible for the pervasive hiring of mobster Angelo "the Hook" LaPietra's crew members and associates at the Chicago Streets and Sanitation Department. Roti is a "Made Member" of the Chicago Outfit.

An ill Roti never commented on the allegations.

Death
Roti died September 20, 1999, at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center from complications from cancer.

Legacy
Roti's legacy lives on through the many City of Chicago employees whose hiring he effected. He also led the fight for Chicago's handgun ban in Chicago's City Council. Roti was instrumental in the appointment of William Hanhardt as Chief of Detectives of the Chicago Police Department. Hanhardt was the Chicago Outfit's main plant, was convicted in 2001 of masterminding multi-million-dollar jewelry thefts, and served 10 years in prison.

See also
List of Chicago aldermen since 1923

References

External links
 Illinois House of Representatives, 91st General Assembly, House Resolution HR0425, Roti memorial resolution
 The Roti Family special section, Chicago Sun-Times
  access date March 24, 2019

1920 births
1999 deaths
Politicians from Chicago
Military personnel from Illinois
Democratic Party Illinois state senators
Chicago City Council members
Illinois politicians convicted of crimes
20th-century American politicians
Chicago Outfit mobsters
United States Navy personnel of World War II
Deaths from cancer in Illinois
American people of Italian descent