[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dyab Abou Jahjah

would have been much easier and more productive to dialogue with a person  like Abou Jahjah instead of the religious groups that appeared after he left Europe. This opinion has been outed by many people including former rivals, like former prime minister Verhofstadt, the man who decreed his arrest.

Popular culture
During the year of 2002 Abou Jahjah was the most mentioned name in the Belgian media, exceeding reference of the prime minister and the king. He became a household name in Belgium and in the Netherlands, and this was reflected in hundreds of caricatures and satires. He was played by the comedian  in the Dutch comedy show Kopspijkers. He was also a main character in the best selling novel Los of writer Tom Naegels which was later filmed.  was directed by .
The name "Abou Jahjah" also was used as a protest slogan by Antwerp dock workers during a strike in clashes with the Police. It was also sung by supporters of football club RSC Anderlecht in its clashes with rivals Royal Antwerp, as a tool to provoke the Antwerp supporters.

Debating skills

Abou Jahjah was called by Roderiek van Grieken of a Dutch debating institute a "perfect pure talent" in debating. Also as a solo speaker, Abou Jahjah drew very large crowds and could galvanize them to his causes. The renowned linguist Professor C. Delantsheer wrote a chapter on Abou Jahjah's rhetoric in a book published by Cambridge university in 2007. He had also presented a paper on the power of metaphors in the discourse of Abou Jahjah and presented it to an academical congress in Sweden.

Return to Belgium
In September 2013 Abou Jahjah returned to Belgium due to the dire security situation in Lebanon. He declared that for the time being he was choosing the security of his children over all other considerations. Upon his return, several opinion makers wrote articles welcoming him back. He declared that he will be founding a new movement that will seek to defend equal rights and social justice. From January 2014 he became a weekly columnist at the prestigious newspaper De Standaard. In January 2017 De Standaard stopped his column, when Jahjah declared on the January 2017 Jerusalem vehicular attack, the "liberation of Palestine 'by any means necessary' needs to take place" as calling for violence is not compatible with the policy of the newspaper.

Soon after he was chosen as the 4th most influential Belgian of foreign origin by Knack magazine, only preceded by then Belgian Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo, Meyrem Almaci and Vincent Kompany.

References

External links
 
 Dyab Abou Jahjah 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1971 births
Living people
Lebanese agnostics
Lebanese Shia Muslims
Lebanese Arab nationalists
Belgian activists
Belgian columnists
Minority rights activists
Debating
Belgian Shia Muslims
Lebanese emigrants to Belgium
Controversies in Belgium