[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of immigration to Canada

an subsistence agriculture. The colonists also engaged in a long-running series of wars with the Iroquois.

Ontario

Étienne Brûlé explored Ontario from 1610 to 1612. In 1615, Samuel de Champlain visited Lake Huron, and French missionaries then established outposts in the region.

Prairie provinces 

In the 18th to 19th century, the only immigration that Western Canada or Rupert's Land had was early French Canadian North West Company fur traders from eastern Canada and the Scots, English Adventurers, and Explorers representing the Hudson's Bay Company who arrived via Hudson Bay. Canada became a nation in 1867, Rupert's Land became absorbed into the North-West Territories. To encourage British Columbia to join the Canadian Confederation, a transcontinental railway was proposed. The railway companies felt it was not feasible to lay track over land on which there was no settlement. The fur trading era was declining; the buffalo population disappeared, and the nomadic buffalo hunters left, which presented a possibility to increase agricultural settlement. Agricultural possibilities were first expounded by Henry Youle Hind. The Dominion government, with the guidance of Interior Minister Clifford Sifton, in charge of immigration, (1896–1905) enacted Canada's homesteading act, the Dominion Lands Act, in 1872. An extensive advertising campaign throughout Western Europe and Scandinavia brought in a huge wave of immigrants to "The Last, Best West." (In 1763, Catherine the Great issued manifesto, inviting foreigners to settle into Russia, and in 1862, the United States enacted the Homestead Act, inviting immigration.)

Ethnic or religious groups seeking asylum or independence no longer travelled to Russia or the United States, where lands were taken or homestead acts were cancelled. The Red River Colony population of Manitoba allowed it to become a Canadian province in 1870. In the 1880s, fewer than 1,000 non-Aboriginal people resided out West. The government's immigration policy was a huge success since the North-West Territories grew to a population of 56,446 in 1881, almost doubled to 98,967 in 1891, and exponentially jumped to 211,649 by 1901. Ethnic Bloc Settlements dotted the prairies, as language groupings settled together on soil types of the Canadian western prairie similar to agricultural land of their homeland. That way immigration was successful; new settlements could grow because of common communication and learned agricultural methods. the Canadian Pacific Railway transcontinental railway was finished in 1885.

Immigration briefly ceased to the West during the North-West Rebellion of 1885. Various investors and companies were involved in the sale of railway (and some non-railway) lands. Sifton himself may have been involved as an investor in some of the ventures. The populations of Saskatchewan and Alberta were eligible for provincial status in 1905. Immigration continued to increase through to the roaring twenties. A mass exodus affected the prairies during the Dirty Thirties and the Great Depression, and the prairies have never again regained the impetus of the immigration wave seen in the early 20th century.

British Columbia 

Until the railway, immigration to British Columbia was via sea, or (the gold rushes were under way) via overland travel from California and other parts of the US, as there was no usable route westward beyond the Rockies, and travel on the Prairies and across the Canadian Shield was still water-borne. The very small early non-native population of BC was mostly French-Canadian and Metis fur-company employees, their British (largely Scottish) administrators and bosses, and a population of Kanakas (Hawaiians) in the company's employ, as well as members of various Iroquoian peoples, who were also in the service of the fur company. The non-local native population of the British Pacific was from 150 to 300 until the advent of the Fraser Gold Rush in 1857, when Victoria'ss population swelled to 30,000 in four weeks and towns of 10,000, and more appeared at remote locations on the Mainland, at Yale, Port Douglas, and Lillooet (then called Cayoosh Flat). The wave of settlement was nearly entirely from California and was approximately one third Americans, one third Chinese, and one third various Europeans and others. Nearly all had been in California for many years, including the early Canadians and Maritimers who made the journey north to the new Gold Colony, as British Columbia was often called.