[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eco-innovation

power – utitialised through technology such as hydroelectric dams.
 Solar power – utitialised through technology such as solar panels.
 Tidal power – utitialised through technology such as tidal barrages and tidal stream generators.
 Wind power – utitialised through technology such as wind turbines.

Diffusion 
Literature in the field of eco-innovations often focuses on policy, regulations, technology, market and firm specific factors rather than diffusion. However, understanding of diffusion of eco-innovations recently has gained more importance given the fact that some eco-innovations are already at a mature stage. Survey research shows that most customers hold positive attitudes towards various types of eco-innovations. At the same time, adoption rates of solutions such as dynamic electricity tariffs remain unsatisfactorily low. The "Not In My Back Yard" (NIMBY) concept is often used to describe what at first seems to be a confusing intention-behavior gap between high levels of public support for eco-innovations and frequent non-engagement or even local hostility towards specific project proposals. Social psychology and economic behavior models could and should be used to overcome these challenges. According to theory on the diffusion of innovation different adopters of innovation can be in different stages of acceptance. Research on eco-innovations in the construction sector reveals that for eco-innovations to gain acceptance among B2B actors, in addition to having a reduced environmental footprint, they need to demonstrate improved efficiency, create new market opportunities, and help to change the mindset from the traditional mass production to that of creating value. Hence, for such innovations to diffuse in a larger market they need to address industry-specific problems, and not simply act as a substitute for an existing technology.

See also
Eco-development
Ecological design
Ecological restoration
Ecomodernism
Environmental technology
Frugal innovation
International Innovation Index
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainopreneurship

References

External links
Eco-innovation: Potentials and challenges of tomorrow's technologies (conference held in Copenhagen 2005)
Environmental technologies Action Plan (ETAP) A European Commission initiative:
 What is ecoinnovation? (EnviroWindows-European Environment Agency).
 European Funding programme for SMEs who want to put an Eco-Innovation on the European market

Bright green environmentalism
Design
Innovation economics
Innovation
Product management
Product development
Science and technology studies
Sustainable technologies