[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frisby McCullough

rilla. He was a brave fellow, and a splendid specimen of manhood. I would have gladly spared him had my duty permitted. As it was, he suffered the fate that would have fallen to you or to me if we had been found recruiting inside the Confederate lines. He met a soldier's death, as became a soldier."

The intensely pro-Union Palmyra Courier was restrained in its criticism of McCullough: "We have known him personally since he was a boy. He was ever, as a citizen, a high-toned gentleman – really a noble specimen of a man. Brave as a lion, no danger could intimidate him. We doubt whether the rebel ranks contain a more honorable man than he was. Yet his judgment led him to commit the fatal error of taking up arms against his country. He has been one of the most active and vigilant rebels in the Northeast Missouri [sic]. Honorable as he was, however, as a gentleman, he justly merited the fate he received, as a rebel, in unlawful and barbarous warfare against the authorities of the land. Had he engaged in the service of his country with the zeal he evinced against it, he would doubtless have risen to a high position of honor and renown."
He was interred at the Ashbury Methodist Church South of Steffenville Mo.  The church is no longer there but the cemetery still exists today.

Evaluation
While there may have been some technicalities as to McCullough's commission, he was in fact wearing a Confederate officer's uniform when captured and was acting under orders from General Price. Reaction to his execution was generally negative. It was viewed by many as neither necessary nor just, and may have done more to galvanize pro-Southern sympathies than to discourage activities of the type McCullough was charged with.

References

Attribution

External links
Frisby McCullough, Missouri bushwhacker, ExecutedToday.com

1828 births
1862 deaths
American guerrillas killed in action
Bushwhackers
People from New Castle County, Delaware
Confederate States Army officers
Confederates executed by the United States military
Confederate States Army personnel who were court-martialed
Confederate States of America military personnel killed in the American Civil War
Deaths by firearm in Missouri
Executed people from Delaware
People of Missouri in the American Civil War
People from Marion County, Missouri
People executed by the United States military by firing squad