[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# India–Israel relations

Since the 1990s, the Republic of India and the State of Israel have had a comprehensive economic, military, and political relationship. In 1947, India voted against the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine, but nonetheless recognized Israeli sovereignty in 1950. Israel opened a consulate in Bombay in 1953. Collaboration gradually increased as Israel became a key Indian ally amidst the India–Pakistan conflict — Israel supplied India with armaments, ammunition, and intelligence during the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 and the Indo-Pakistani War of 1999. Full diplomatic relations were established in 1992, when India opened an embassy in Tel Aviv and Israel opened an embassy in New Delhi. Both countries are members of the I2U2 Group, formed in October 2021, and have stated that they have a strong bilateral relationship, sharing "similarities in spirit" and facing common challenges, increasingly cooperating in the industrial and technological sectors.

, India is Israel's largest client for military equipment sales, and Israel is India's second-largest supplier of military equipment after Russia; approximately 42.1% of all Israeli arms exports are received by India. From 1999 to 2009, military business between the two countries was worth around , and their strategic ties extend to joint military training as well as intelligence-sharing on the activity of various terrorist groups.

, India is Israel's third-largest Asian trade partner and tenth-largest overall trade partner — bilateral trade, excluding military sales, stands at around . Relations were further expanded under Indian prime minister Narendra Modi, with India abstaining from voting against Israel in several United Nations resolutions. , both countries are negotiating an extensive bilateral free-trade agreement, focusing on areas such as information technology, biotechnology, and agriculture.

Israel is represented in India through an embassy in New Delhi as well as consulates in Mumbai and Bangalore. India is represented in Israel through an embassy in Tel Aviv; the Indian government does not currently recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital city (see status of Jerusalem).

In 2009, an international study on the Arab–Israeli conflict revealed that around 58 percent of Indian respondents sympathized with Israel — the most positive opinion of any country surveyed.

History

Ancient relations
Excavation at Tel Megiddo shows evidences of Indo-Mediterranean trade relations from mid second millennium BCE between south Asia and southern Levant as they prove presence of turmeric, banana, sesame, all originating from south Asia. Geographical analysis of Israel suggests that the authors of Old Testament were talking about India, where the trade of animals such as monkeys and peacocks existed. According to Chaim Menachem Rabin, the connection between ancient Israel and the Indian subcontinent was recorded during the reign of King Solomon (10th century BCE) in I Kings 10.22. Ancient trade and cultural communication between India and the Levant is documented in the Periplus of the Erythraean Sea and the accounts surrounding Queen of Sheba in the Hebrew Bible. Jews who have settled in Kochi, Kerala, trace their origin back to the time of King Solomon and are called Cochin Jews. Later on, Paradesi Jews migrated to Kochi, Kerala, during the 15th and 16th centuries following the expulsion of Jews from Spain.

The trade relations of both communities can be traced back to 1,000 BCE and earlier to the time of the Indus valley civilization of the Indian subcontinent and the Babylonian culture of Middle East. A Buddhist story describes Indian merchants visiting Baveru (Babylonia) and selling peacocks for public display. Similar, earlier accounts describe monkeys exhibited to the public. Trade connections between India and Palestine and Mediterranean Jewish communities continued, and later, the languages of these cultures started to share linguistic similarities.

Judea played a minor role in trade between the Roman Empire and India during the period of Roman rule in Judea. It is known that there were expensive garments in the Temple in Jerusalem imported from India via Alexandria.

Non-recognition period (1948–1950)