[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Acland baronets

There have been four baronetcies created for members of the Acland family, which originated in the 12th century at the estate of Acland in the parish of Landkey, North Devon, two in the Baronetage of England and two in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom.

Acland baronets, of Columb John (1644/1678)

The Acland Baronetcy, of Colum John (modern: Columbjohn, near Broadclyst) in the County of Devon, was created in the Baronetage of England on 24 June 1644 for John Acland, a supporter of Charles I. However, the letters patent were lost in the confusion of the Civil War. He was succeeded by his son, the second Baronet. He died as a minor and was succeeded by his younger brother, the third Baronet. On his death the title passed to his son, the fourth Baronet. He also died young and was succeeded by his uncle, the fifth Baronet. On 21 January 1678 he was granted new letters patent, confirming him in the title, with the precedence of 1644. Acland later represented Barnstaple and Tiverton in the House of Commons. He was succeeded by his grandson, the sixth Baronet. He sat as Member of Parliament for Barnstaple. When he died the title passed to his son, the seventh Baronet, who married Elizabeth, daughter of Thomas Dyke and built Killerton House as the family seat. He represented Devon and Somerset in Parliament.

He was succeeded by his grandson, the eighth Baronet. He died as a child and was succeeded by his uncle, the ninth Baronet. When he died the title passed to his eldest son, the tenth Baronet. He was a successful politician. He was succeeded by his eldest son, the eleventh Baronet. He was also a prominent politician as well as an advocate of educational reforms. On his death the title passed to his eldest son, the twelfth Baronet. He was a Liberal politician and held minor ministerial office under William Ewart Gladstone. He died childless and was succeeded by his younger brother, the thirteenth Baronet. He was also a Liberal politician and like his elder brother held minor ministerial office. His eldest son, the fourteenth Baronet, was also a Liberal politician and notably served as Financial Secretary to the Treasury and as Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. On his death the title passed to his eldest son, the fifteenth Baronet. He was one of the founder members of the socialist Common Wealth Party. As of 2018 the title is held by his grandson, the seventeenth Baronet, who succeeded his father in 2009.

Several other members of this branch of the family gained distinction. Sir Wroth Palmer Acland, son of Arthur Palmer Acland, younger son of the sixth Baronet, was a lieutenant-general in the Army. John Acland, younger son of the sixth Baronet, was a clergyman and writer on social issues. Colonel John Dyke Acland, eldest son of the seventh Baronet and father of the eighth Baronet, fought in the American Revolutionary War. Arthur Nugent Floyer-Acland (1885–1980), son of John Edward Acland, son of Arthur Henry Dyke Troyte (who assumed the surname of Troyte in lieu of his patronymic by Royal licence in 1852), second son of the tenth Baronet, was a lieutenant-general in the Army. Edward Leopold Dyke Acland (1878–1968), grandson of Reverend Peter Leopold Dyke Acland, fifth son of the tenth Baronet, was a rear-admiral in the Royal Navy. The Right Reverend Richard Dyke Acland, grandson of Reverend Peter Leopold Dyke Acland, fifth son of the tenth Baronet, was a noted clergyman. John Barton Arundell Acland (1823–1904), sixth son of the tenth Baronet, was a member of the New Zealand Legislative Council. His fourth son Sir Hugh Thomas Dyke Acland (1874–1956), was a prominent surgeon in New Zealand. His son Sir Hugh John "Jack" Dyke Acland (1904–1981) was a member of the New Zealand House of Representatives.