[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Box Grove, Ontario

century.  The current post office is located inside the Rexall pharmacy at Ninth Line and Copper Creek Drive.

Legacy and Rouge-Fairways

Within Box Grove there are two distinct residential developments built from the former IBM Canada Golf Course, but are not historically considered as communities:

 Legacy - located west of 9th Line, north of 14th Avenue, east of Markham Road and south of Highway 407
 Rouge-Fairways - located west of 9th Line, south of 14th Avenue, east of Markham Road and north of Parkview Golf and Country Club

Transportation
Most commuters in the area travel by car as there is limited bus service by York Region Transit (2 Milliken (weekends), 9 9th Line (weekdays), 14 14th Avenue (weekdays)). Highway 407 serves the area from the Ninth Line interchange; however there is no access onto eastbound Highway 407 from Ninth Line northbound. This has been an ongoing problem for most Box Grove residents who tries to go east on the highway as access to the Highway 407 eastbound is limited. Option 1 is to enter the Highway 407 east from Markham Road which is west of this community, option 2 is to enter the Highway 407 east from York-Durham Line but the interchange is far from this neighbourhood, and option 3 is to make a U turn at Highway 407 and Ninth Line or Donald Cousens Parkway to go east.

Parks and Recreation

Luenta Gardens is named former name of the park (formerly Luneta Park and now Rizal Park) in Manila where Jose Rizal is buried. The small park also has a statue of Rizal.

Other parks in the area includes:

 Bob Hunter Memorial Park (Rouge National Urban Park)
 Collingham Parkette
 Fieldside Mariette
 Riverwalk Park
 Tomlinson Park

Box Grove Community Centre

Box Grove Community Centre at 7651 9th Line is housed in the old Box Grove Schoolhouse (S.S. #18) built around 1870. Renovated with two additions to the original school house, it has 2 rooms and home a co-operative day care centre. There is also an outdoor pool that operates during the summer months.

Outside is small grass area and two tennis courts.

The community centre historic school house is twin of Cedar Grove Community Centre, formerly Cedar Grove Schoolhouse (S.S. #20) c. 1869.

In film
 The 1974 film, Vengeance is Mine, starring Ernest Borgnine was filmed partially at the Box Grove United Church.

References

External links
 City of Markham

Neighbourhoods in Markham, Ontario