[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ghassan Elashi

October 2006, Elashi was sentenced to seven years in prison. The second case ended in a mistrial in 2007, but Elashi and his codefendants were convicted after a retrial in November 2008. In 2009, Elashi was sentenced to 65 years in prison on federal charges of funneling 12 million dollars to Hamas.

Elashi was originally housed at Federal Correctional Institution, Seagoville, to allow the convicted men to stay in the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex so the convicts could aid their lawyers with their appeals. On 20 April 2010, U.S. District Judge Jorge Solis ended the requirement, facilitating their move to more secure facilities. In addition the men were required to speak English when talking with outsiders. Elashi was moved to a more secure prison in Illinois. Elashi, Federal Bureau of Prisons #29687-177, is serving his sentence at United States Penitentiary, Marion.

Criticism 
The non-governmental organization Charity & Security Network has charged that the convictions send a "chilling message" to US NGOs, in part because they are uncertain how to determine which charities are acceptable. One indication of that uncertainty, the group states, is that the charitable committees that Holy Land was convicted of working with were never "placed on the U.S. government's list of organizations supporting terrorism."

In 2018, activist Miko Peled published this book, Injustice: The Story of the Holy Land Foundation Five, where he catalogs the trial of the criminalization and dismantling of the Holy Land Foundation for Relief and Development, leading to the arrest and jailing of Foundation Elashi, President Shukri Abu Baker, Mohammad el-Mezain, Mufid Abdulqader and Abdulraham Odeh. According to Peled, "American justice […] can convict a hundred innocents for one who is guilty". The families of Elashi and Shukri Abubaker maintain that they were convictions were wrong and they have suffered unjust long-term imprisonment.

Human Rights Watch has condemned the trial as it was based on hearsay evidence and called on the Biden administration to release all 5 accused.

References

1953 births
Living people
People from Gaza City
People from Riyadh
Funding of terrorism
Muslim activists
Palestinian expatriates in Saudi Arabia
Palestinian expatriates in the United States
People convicted on terrorism charges
People imprisoned on charges of terrorism
Prisoners and detainees of the United States federal government
University of Miami alumni
20th-century Palestinian people
21st-century Palestinian people