[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Uzhhorod National University

titute of State Management and Regional Development

Institute of Ecological and Religious Studies

Research Centre of Slovakian Studies

Hungarology Center

Research Institute of State and Confessional Relations

Center of Bohemian and Slovak Historical Studies

Centre of Innovation and Development

Sustainability Development Centre

Business Center

Centre of Psychological Assistance

The Centre of Historical and Religious Studies “Logos”

Centre of Medicinal Products Testing

Laboratory of Physical Electronics and Space Research Laboratory

Laboratory of Natural Ecosystems Protection

Scientific Research And Educational Center Of Molecular Microbiology And The Immunology Of Mucous Membranes

Admissions Committee  
Address: room 228., 14 Universytetska str.

Interesting facts
Only in this university among the universities of the CIS countries, there is a department of Slovak philology

In June 2013, a Foucault pendulum was installed in the main building of the university.

About 1700 international students from 52 countries study at Uzhhorod National University.

Every third young person in the city of Uzhhorod is a student of Uzhhorod National University.

The scientific library of the university has more than 1 million 700 thousand documents.

Uzhhorod National University library keeps 32 incunabula - the first printed books that were published before 1500.

The University Botanical Garden grows a giant redwood, the tallest and one of the oldest trees on Earth.

The Zoological Museum has the best collection of preys and owls in Central Europe (215 exhibits).

Archaeologists of Uzhhorod National University were the discoverers of the parking lot of primitive man of the Paleolithic era near the village of Korolevo, which is a monument of European importance.

The Laboratory of Space Research - one of the three stations for optical observations of artificial satellites of the Earth - houses the tallest telescope in Ukraine.

Uzhhorod National University has the highest mountain bio base in Ukraine, ‘Kolochava’.

The university disposes of one of the three classes and access points for the visually impaired in Ukraine.

On September 16, 2015, UzhNU students set a record for the most massive conquest of Hoverla. 416 people climbed to the top.

References

External links
 http://www.uzhnu.edu.ua/en/consortium/

National University
1945 establishments in the Soviet Union
Universities and colleges established in 1945
National universities in Ukraine
Universities and institutes established in the Soviet Union