[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sighet Prison

m bed with insults and blows, the entire guard corps carrying out a minute search. Prisoners performed menial tasks: peeling potatoes, washing clothes, chopping wood, sweeping. Some of these, such as washing apples or cleaning bathrooms, were done for their humiliation and for the guards’ amusement.

Once or twice a week, a prisoner was allowed a ten-minute walk in one of the two courtyards. Hands behind his back and head down, so as not to be recognized by other inmates, any violation was punished by solidarity confinement. The cell used for this purpose had no windows or light, and rations were reduced by half. The cold, hungry prisoner, if not chained, had to stand all day. Prisoners not in solitary also spent most of the day in their cells, the door locked, forbidden from looking out the window. When taken out in the morning, they remained silent, not allowed to know their neighbors. Memoirists agree that the greatest torture at Sighet was hunger, which began to grip them days after arrival. Rations never exceeded 1300 calories per day, sometimes falling below 700. This extermination regime often gave rise to serious illnesses. Food included bread, boiled corn flour, beans, cabbage with occasional bits of meat and, for most of the first three years as a main meal, pearl barley. In the summer of 1953, the food began to improve as milk and more meat appeared. However, the warden and guards habitually stole these two items, as well as sour cream, smoked bones and vegetables. A report noted that the warden would daily bring home three or four buckets full of food for his pigs.

When the detainees arrived in May 1950, the prison was in poor condition; repairs lasted until the following spring. Cold was a problem the first winter: the stoves did not burn properly, and the warden stole, both for making furniture and for burning in his own house. The cells stopped being heated at all from March 1954. Medical care was practically absent. Weekly doctor’s visits were perfunctory, perhaps resulting in the distribution of a few aspirins. Terminally ill inmates were isolated on the ground floor, left to die alone. The most common diseases were rapid weight loss, ulcers and liver, heart, kidney problems. They were caused by malnutrition and old age. The conditions also caused mental illnesses such as psychosis, delirium and insomnia. Isolation was severe. Besides the warden and his superiors, no one knew the detainees’ whereabouts. The only news came from new arrivals or pilfering guards’ newspapers. No correspondence was permitted. Circulation was restricted on the streets around the prison: from some distance away, signs warned people away, and the sidewalk was patrolled by armed guards.

Aftermath
In July 1955, the political prisoners were moved out of Sighet. Some were freed and allowed to return to their families, although to other homes, since their property had been confiscated. Others were forced to live on the Bărăgan Plain. A third category, numbering around 60, were sent to other prisons, especially Râmnicu Sărat. A new set of prisoners arrived from Făgăraș, Galați and Suceava. These were common criminals sentenced to life imprisonment, henceforth its main occupants. Their recalcitrant behavior, including an uprising and a joint escape by five, caused problems for the rest of the year. Occasionally, political prisoners, not part of the former elite, were held at Sighet for very short periods. The prison was closed in August 1977. The building was turned into a depot run by the town hall, and slowly fell into disrepair.

In the aftermath of the Romanian Revolution of 1989, that saw the dismantlement of the communist regime, poet Ana Blandiana presented in January 1993 to the Council of Europe a project to transform the former prison into a museum, called the "Memorial to the Victims of Communism and Resistance." On June 20, 1997, the first halls were opened and a prayer and silence space was inaugurated in the small prison courtyard, meant as a tribute to all political prisoners who died in detention in Communist Romania. The larger courtyard features the statuary group called "Sacrifice Parade," made by the sculptor .

Inmates