[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# An Autumn's Tale

ning late for her babysitting job, so Pang insists on driving her there. He stripped the car and rebuilt it, so she would not have to hold onto the broken door. They arrive at the home of the child Chung has been hired to babysit, but Jennifer is too anxious to enter. She asks Pang to accompany her.

Pang spent all his money and asks Cow and Bull to give him some money to gamble. Bull is reluctant to give some because he wants to save it for his new restaurant. Bull pays the gangs $400 each week, but is still not enough from keeping them from destroying his property.

Tony, one of Mrs. Sherwood's (Gigi Wong) boyfriends, wants to hire Jennifer as a waitress for his restaurant. Pang is suspicious of the owner, but offers to try the restaurant. Jennifer assures him it is not necessary, but would love for him to visit her there. Pang declines, with work on his mind. He later visits Jennifer, and is led to an expensive restaurant called "The Big Panda". Unable to read the English menu, he has the waiter order a simple meal for him. The waiter suggests a high-priced array of dishes, which Pang reluctantly agrees to.

While babysitting Anna (Joyce Houseknecht), Tony visits Jennifer and walks with her into the garden. Mrs. Sherwood recently came home and sees Tony flirting with Jennifer, and calls for her to leave immediately. Having heard about Jennifer losing her babysitting job, Pang and his friends go to The Big Panda restaurant and beat up the owner.

They spend their morning trying to sell her dolls for money. Walking past a vendor, Jennifer sees a watchband she likes; unfortunately, it is out of her budget ($800). At the park, she sees Vincent with Peggy but wants to flee. She asks Pang if she looks better than Peggy. Pang explains that he doesn't care how others looked, nor how others looked at him, as long as he kept his dignity. He told Jennifer that it was his dream to open a restaurant on a pier on the beach, and name it Sampan.

The next morning, Pang writes on his bedroom mirror three commandments and five goals; one goal being "If you want it, go for it", in this case Pang going for "cha bo", Jennifer.

Pang is holding a party, and invites Jennifer, but does not tell her it is his birthday. Vincent heard she was at a party, so he talked with Jennifer the entire night. The conversation became awkward when he mentioned he broke up with Peggy. Pang, serving guests leaves because he does not think he will have a chance with Jennifer. He went drinking and gambling until Bull asks for more money to pay off the gangs. Frustrated, Pang gathered a group of friends to drive in search of the gang and beat them up.

Jennifer wanders into Pang's room and sees a mirror with his handwriting on it. He wrote his name, age, and birthday in English. Feeling lonely, she walks across a park and sees Anna at her school. Mrs. Sherwood greets Jennifer and acknowledges that it was Tony who flirted with her. She invites Jenny to move in with the family on Long Island.

Pang comes back to his apartment the next morning and finds Jennifer's graduation certificate. To congratulate her, he buys the watchband as a gift. The old man did not accept his offer, so Pang sold his car for the watchband. Excited to see Jennifer with the gift, he runs to her apartment only to see Vincent helping Jennifer move furniture in his car. She gives him her address. They exchange gifts and Pang assumes she has gotten back together with Vincent. After hesitation Pang runs after her after she leaves. Unable to catch up as the car turns up the highway ramp, he walks to a beach. He opens his gift and finds her grandfather's watch. Soon Jennifer opens her gift and realizes it is the watch band she had wanted and cries.

Some time afterwards, Jenny is walking with Anna at the same beach she had visited with Samuel. To Jennifer's surprise, they come across a restaurant on the pier called Sampan. Jennifer walks up to the restaurant and approaches Samuel. After calming himself down, Pang asks her, "Table for two?"

Cast

Main Cast:

 Chow Yun-fat as Samuel Pang aka "Sampan"
 Cherie Chung as Jennifer Lee
 Danny Chan as Vincent, Jennifer's boyfriend

Secondary Cast:

 Cindy Ou (also transliterated as Wu Fu-sheng) as Peggy, Vincent's other girlfriend
 Arthur Fulbright  (also transliterated as Ching Yungcho) as Samuel Pang's friend
  as Mrs. Sherwood
 Chan Yui-yin
 Joyce Houseknecht as Anna Sherwood, daughter of Mrs. Sherwood
 Wong Man as Jennifer's mother (cameo)
 Brenda Lo as May Chu, Jennifer's friend (cameo)
 Tom Hsiung
Tai Leung as Chinatown restaurant staff

Ending
The ending of the film shows that Jennifer and Pang exchanged gifts. Pang gave the beautiful watch band while Jennifer gave him her grandfather's watch. This was based on  
The Gift of the Magi by American short story writer O. Henry.

At the end of the film, a sign on the right of Samuel Pang's restaurant, "Sampan", is mislabelled as "Sampman".

Filming locations