[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lito Atienza

quiao for President. Atienza underwent knee replacement surgery in February 2022 days after spraining his foot, making him unable to join Pacquiao in his campaign sorties, as well as the vice presidential debates. He lost the race with 270,381 votes, placing 5th behind Davao City Mayor Sara Duterte.

Leadership style
Atienza's leadership can be described into three aspects; (1) social and community development – where he focused on improving the welfare of senior citizens and of children, especially for abandoned children, (2) improving living conditions by improving government services and facilities, and (3) simplifying the bureaucracy in dealing with the city government of Manila.

Social development
In almost forty years of Atienza's political career, he has established social development projects such as the "Mahal Ko si Lolo, Mahal Ko si Lola" () foundation in 1976, a model for today's Office of Senior Citizens Affairs (OSCA). In 1984, he also founded the "Kababaihan ng Maynila," () a women's livelihood organization. In 1992 while serving as Vice-Mayor, he established the "Home for the Angels," a child care center for abandoned and abused infants.

Community development
In the areas of urban renewal for the City of Manila, Atienza implemented the "Buhayin ang Maynila" () program, renovating most of Manila's decaying public facilities such as lighting and improving the sidewalk by the Manila Bay along Roxas Boulevard and the area is now filled with al fresco restaurants and coffee shops. Public places such as the Plaza Miranda, the Andres Bonifacio monument, Rajah Sulayman, the Binondo areas, the creation of a Linear-Park in Pandacan, renovating Carriedo and the R. Hidalgo streets in Santa Cruz, upgrading services of the city's public libraries, schools and hospitals including the Ospital ng Maynila and the building a permanent campus for the Universidad de Manila are among the achievements under Atienza's administration.

Advocacies and issues
Atienza is a devout Roman Catholic and under his administration, he pursued programs that were “Pro-Life” and opposed any forms of campaign or programs that promoted contraception or abortion, or sex education programs. All of the City's health centers do not promote "family planning" programs involving contraception. He and his wife founded the Home for the Angels.

Atienza's urban renewal programs also faced certain controversies when he decided to build a new campus for the Universidad de Manila, (formerly called City College of Manila) on the historical Mehan Gardens. Environmentalists and historians were opposed to the project stating that Mehan Gardens should remain as an open space, one of the few remaining open spaces in the City of Manila and for historical reasons, with the gardens an untapped archaeological resource that dates back to the time of the Spanish colonial era.

Historians also questioned Atienza's respect for historical architecture when the mayor ordered the demolition of the Manila Jai Alai Building along Taft Avenue to give way to the envisioned Hall of Justice to house the city's regional trial courts. The building, built during the American colonial period was one of the last remaining art-deco style buildings that survived World War II.

The mayor battled the country's three major oil companies, the partly state-owned and Saudi Aramco managed Petron, Dutch-owned Pilipinas Shell and Caltex-Chevron. Atienza and the Manila City Council decreed that the presence of oil distribution depots in the heavily populated district of Pandacan poised as a security and safety danger and issued an eviction notice to the oil companies. The concern was raised after the terror attacks that started on September 11, 2001, that destroyed the World Trade Center in New York. Atienza and the council decreed that the Pandacan district was to be converted from an industrial zone to a residential-commercial zone. A moratorium was set and the oil companies have agreed to gradually scale down their operations.

During the second week of December 2006, Atienza, in his show of commitment to "Pro-Life," terminated the Commander of the Manila Police District (MPD) detachment in Quiapo district for failing to rid the area of herbalists who are supposedly selling concoctions that induce abortion.

Lito Atienza had been severely criticized by cultural activists for his heavy-handed decision to demolish the famed Jai-Alai Building along Taft Avenue, designed by Hollywood architect Welton Beckett. One of the finest edifices of art deco "streamline-moderne" in the world was destroyed unheeded by the mayor.