[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Articles of Confederation

e absent.

After the first signing, some delegates signed at the next meeting they attended. For example, John Wentworth of New Hampshire added his name on August 8. John Penn was the first of North Carolina's delegates to arrive (on July 10), and the delegation signed the Articles on July 21, 1778.

The other states had to wait until they ratified the Articles and notified their Congressional delegation. Georgia signed on July 24, New Jersey on November 26, and Delaware on February 12, 1779. Maryland refused to ratify the Articles until every state had ceded its western land claims. Chevalier de La Luzerne, French Minister to the United States, felt that the Articles would help strengthen the American government. In 1780, when Maryland requested France provide naval forces in the Chesapeake Bay for protection from the British (who were conducting raids in the lower part of the bay), he indicated that French Admiral Destouches would do what he could but La Luzerne also "sharply pressed" Maryland to ratify the Articles, thus suggesting the two issues were related.

On February 2, 1781, the much-awaited decision was taken by the Maryland General Assembly in Annapolis. As the last piece of business during the afternoon Session, "among engrossed Bills" was "signed and sealed by Governor Thomas Sim Lee in the Senate Chamber, in the presence of the members of both Houses... an Act to empower the delegates of this state in Congress to subscribe and ratify the articles of confederation" and perpetual union among the states. The Senate then adjourned "to the first Monday in August next." The decision of Maryland to ratify the Articles was reported to the Continental Congress on February 12. The confirmation signing of the Articles by the two Maryland delegates took place in Philadelphia at noon time on March 1, 1781, and was celebrated in the afternoon. With these events, the Articles were entered into force and the United States of America came into being as a sovereign federal state.

Congress had debated the Articles for over a year and a half, and the ratification process had taken nearly three and a half years. Many participants in the original debates were no longer delegates, and some of the signers had only recently arrived. The Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union were signed by a group of men who were never present in the Congress at the same time.

Signers
The signers and the states they represented were:

Connecticut
 Roger Sherman
 Samuel Huntington
 Oliver Wolcott
 Titus Hosmer
 Andrew Adams

Delaware
 Thomas McKean
 John Dickinson
 Nicholas Van Dyke

Georgia
 John Walton
 Edward Telfair
 Edward Langworthy

Maryland
 John Hanson
 Daniel Carroll

Massachusetts Bay
 John Hancock
 Samuel Adams
 Elbridge Gerry
 Francis Dana
 James Lovell
 Samuel Holten

New Hampshire
 Josiah Bartlett
 John Wentworth Jr.

New Jersey
 John Witherspoon
 Nathaniel Scudder

New York
 James Duane
 Francis Lewis
 William Duer
 Gouverneur Morris

North Carolina
 John Penn
 Cornelius Harnett
 John Williams

Pennsylvania
 Robert Morris
 Daniel Roberdeau
 Jonathan Bayard Smith
 William Clingan
 Joseph Reed

Rhode Island and Providence Plantations
 William Ellery
 Henry Marchant
 John Collins

South Carolina
 Henry Laurens
 William Henry Drayton
 John Mathews
 Richard Hutson
 Thomas Heyward Jr.

Virginia
 Richard Henry Lee
 John Banister
 Thomas Adams
 John Harvie
 Francis Lightfoot Lee

Roger Sherman (Connecticut) was the only person to sign all four great state papers of the United States: the Continental Association, the United States Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation and the United States Constitution.

Robert Morris (Pennsylvania) signed three of the great state papers of the United States: the United States Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation and the United States Constitution.

John Dickinson (Delaware), Daniel Carroll (Maryland) and Gouverneur Morris (New York), along with Sherman and Robert Morris, were the only five people to sign both the Articles of Confederation and the United States Constitution (Gouverneur Morris represented Pennsylvania when signing the Constitution).

Parchment pages 
Original parchment pages of the Articles of Confederation, National Archives and Records Administration.

Revision and replacement