[Source: PubMed]

83. Disasters. 2019 Oct;43(4):711-726. doi: 10.1111/disa.12398. Epub 2019 Aug 22.

The ethical contours of research in crisis settings: five practical 
considerations for academic institutional review boards and researchers.

Falb K(1), Laird B(2), Ratnayake R(3), Rodrigues K(4), Annan J(5).

Author information:
(1)ScD is Senior Researcher at the International Rescue Committee, United 
States.
(2)MA is Measurement Advisor at the International Rescue Committee, United 
States.
(3)MHS is former Senior Epidemiologist at the International Rescue Committee, 
United States.
(4)MPA is Senior Coordinator at the International Rescue Committee, United 
States.
(5)PhD is Chief Scientist at the International Rescue Committee, United States.

The number of research studies in the humanitarian field is rising. It is 
imperative, therefore, that institutional review boards (IRBs) consider 
carefully the additional risks present in crisis contexts to ensure that the 
highest ethical standards are upheld. Ethical guidelines should represent better 
the specific issues inherent to research among populations grappling with armed 
conflict, disasters triggered by natural hazards, or health-related emergencies. 
This paper seeks to describe five issues particular to humanitarian settings 
that IRBs should deliberate and on which they should provide recommendations to 
overcome associated challenges: staged reviews of protocols in acute 
emergencies; flexible reviews of modification requests; addressing violence and 
the traumatic experiences of participants; difficulties in attaining meaningful 
informed consent among populations dependent on aid; and ensuring reviews are 
knowledgeable of populations' needs. Considering these matters when reviewing 
protocols will yield more ethically sound research in humanitarian settings and 
hold researchers accountable to appropriate ethical standards.

© 2019 The Authors Disasters © 2019 Overseas Development Institute.

DOI: 10.1111/disa.12398
PMID: 31435967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]