[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2001 in Zimbabwe

threatens Masvingo residents with death if they do not vote for ZANU–PF in mayoral elections.
 31 March – Harare Hospital reports that it has run out of essential drugs; nine infant deaths are being recorded per week at the hospital; 80 per cent of children admitted are suffering from malnutrition.

April
 2 April – Nurses and health workers in Nkayi, suspected of supporting the MDC, are dismissed and replaced by army personnel.
 4 April – Chenjerai Hunzvi announces that war veterans will set up base centres in all urban centres
Teachers are forced to pay protection money to war veterans in Mashonaland East.
 9 April – Zimbabwean lawyers petition Police Commissioner Augustine Chihuri to stop police harassment of lawyers
University of Zimbabwe (UZ) first-year student Batanai Hadzizi dies after being assaulted by riot police.
 10 April – Riot police fire shrapnel-loaded tear gas at University of Zimbabwe students who march in peaceful protest through Harare
War veteran Joseph Chinotimba declares himself the president of the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions
War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters invade and close the Chipinge branch of Farm and City Centre.
 12 April – War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters assault five senior officials at the Cotton Company of Zimbabwe's Gokwe branch
Hundreds of villagers from the Kezi district flee to the mountains to escape rampaging war veterans and government supporters incensed at the locals' support of an MDC rally.
 18 April – President Mugabe threatens to nationalise mines and manufacturing companies that are closing down due to economic collapse.
 20 April – Two Pakistani Businessmen who have invested Z$200 million in Zimbabwe flee the country after repeated attacks by war veterans on their city businesses and homes
137 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition by the government.
 24 April – War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters invade the Harare Avenues Clinic, Macsteel Zimbabwe, Meikels department store and the Forestry Commission; they also force the Dental Clinic to pay out Z$7 million, and the company closes completely.
 25 April – War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters invade Mechman Engineering and successfully demand pay-outs to employees of Z$7 million; they also invade Resource Drilling, Trinidad Industries, Lobels Bakery, Scotco, Omnia Fertilizer, Leno Trading, Willdale Bricks, Madel Training Centre, Craster and Phillips.
 26 April – South Africa summons the Zimbabwe High Commissioner and protests the violent attacks on its business in Harare
Chenjerai Hunzvi warns that war veterans will target foreign embassies and NGOs in the ongoing company invasions; the EU protests to the Zimbabwe government about war veterans who raid and steal Z$1 million worth of food aid given to victims of Cyclone Eline
The Law Society urges Justice Minister Chinamasa to end attacks against lawyers
A seven-member panel of international jurists releases a report criticising attacks against Zimbabwe's judiciary.
 27 April – Agriculture Minister Joseph Made insists that there will be no food shortages in Zimbabwe and no need to import any wheat or maize
374 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition by the government – included are the country's major tea and coffee estates.
 28 April – Still no arrests three months after Daily News press bombings
Minister of Youth, Border Gezi, dies in a car crash.
 30 April – Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies move their seven expatriate families out of Zimbabwe, fearing for their safety.