[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Socialism in Canada

rmed in 1931 publishes a journal called Imagine and is a companion party of the World Socialist Movement.
 Fightback, the Canadian section of the Trotskyist organization called the International Marxist Tendency publishes a self-titled newspaper and practices Entryism in Quebec Solidaire and the NDP

Historical parties 
Parties that have held seats in the House of Commons of Canada and provincial legislatures.
 Canadian Labour Party (1917–1942)
 Ginger Group (1924–1932) was a group of radical members of the Progressive Party of Canada
 United Farmers – farmer advocacy groups tied to the Progressive Party of Canada. In Ontario, the United Farmers of Ontario governed from 1919 to 1924 with a fairly social democratic agenda, while the United Farmers of Alberta governed Alberta from 1921 to 1930 following more conservative guidelines.
 Socialist Party of Canada was a name used by two political parties. The first existed from 1905 to 1925 and was created by the Socialist Party of British Columbia; it played an important role in the creation of the CCF. The second has existed since 1931 and has been very marginal in terms of support.
 Labor-Progressive Party was the name used by the Communist Party of Canada from 1941 to 1959 while it was an illegal party. The LPP followed a Marxist line and succeeded in not only electing a member of the House of Commons, but also electing representatives to the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba and the Legislative Assembly of Ontario.
 Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (1932–1962) – known as the CCF, it was, before the NDP, Canada's most popular left-wing party. The CCF was formed during The Great Depression by members of the centrist Progressive Party of Canada (the Ginger Group), the United Farmers, the Labour Party and a social advocacy group known as the League for Social Reconstruction. At the party's first convention in Regina, Saskatchewan, the Regina Manifesto was launched announcing that: "No CCF Government will rest content until it has eradicated capitalism and put into operation the full programme of socialized planning which will lead to the establishment in Canada of the Co-operative Commonwealth." The radical Regina Manifesto was replaced by the more moderate Winnipeg Declaration in 1956. The CCF went on to form one of Canada's most popular and historically significant provincial governments in 1944 in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan under Tommy Douglas. In Ontario the CCF formed the official opposition in 1943 and again in 1948 until losing that position to the Liberals. In British Columbia the CCF also formed the official opposition after 1941. Federally the party never got past third place and in an attempt to broaden their support base the CCF merged with the Canadian Labour Congress to create the NDP.
 Cape Breton Labour Party was a social-democratic party from the province of Nova Scotia represented in the Nova Scotia legislature from 1981–1988 by a former NDP member Paul MacEwan.
 New Democratic Party of Quebec was the Quebec wing of the NDP. The Quebec NDP failed to win any significant support or win any seats in the Quebec legislature (its parent party, the Quebec CCF won one). After years of infighting in 1989, the party broke off relations with the federal NDP and in 1994 changed its name to the Parti de la Democratie Socialiste (PDS) or "Socialist Democratic Party". The PDS adopted a program calling for Quebec's separation from Canada and had attempted to nominate a former terrorist, Paul Rose (formerly of the FLQ) as a federal candidate. The PDS contested the 1998 Quebec election without any success. In 2002 the PDS joined the Communist Party of Quebec and other far left, sovereigntist parties in an alliance known as the Union des forces progressistes (UFP). In 2006 the UFP became Quebec solidaire.
 Revolutionary Communist Party was a communist organization advocating the overthrow of the capitalist system. It was in the organizing stage before its dissolution in 2021. The ideology of the organization, founded in 2000, can be regarded as anti-revisionist in character. They describe their ideology as "Marxism-Leninism-Maoism" which they consider the third phase of Marxism. The group does not take part in electoral politics, instead aiming to educate the working class about the need for a revolution in the style of the Russian and Chinese revolutions. The PRC-RCP was non-collaborationist and opposed all Canadian political parties, including ones calling themselves communist.

See also 
 Anarchism in Canada
 Conservatism in Canada
 Douglas-Coldwell Foundation
 Fascism in Canada
 History of Canada
 History of socialism
 League for Social Reconstruction
 Liberalism in Canada
 Monarchism in Canada
 Politics of Canada
 Republicanism in Canada

References

Bibliography 
 Berton, Pierre (2001). The Great Depression 1929-1939. Anchor Canada.
 Horowitz, Gad (1968). Canadian Labour in Politics.