[Source: PubMed]

71. ORGYN. 1993;(4):12-6.

Maternity care for all.

Abouzahr C.

PIP: Until the 20th century, women and families worldwide knew that it was 
always a possibility that women would die from childbearing (e.g., over 2000 
maternal deaths/100,000 births in Europe). Increased knowledge about pregnancy 
and its complications and the application of that knowledge in maternal health 
care systems in developed countries reduced maternal mortality considerably 
(e.g., 20 in northern Europe). Improvements in delivery management helped 
greatly to reduce maternal deaths, which include aseptic techniques, appropriate 
use of forceps, safe blood transfusion, sulphonamides, and proper management of 
preeclampsia and eclampsia. Maternal mortality is still high in developing 
countries (e.g., 5% of women in some parts of Africa die from a 
pregnancy-related condition) where 99% of all maternal deaths occur. These 
pillars of family life die in the prime of their life and often leave other 
children. Their loss adversely affects social and economic development. Just 78 
countries (35% of the world's population) have a vital registration system 
recording causes of death, thereby making it difficult to understand the extent 
of maternal mortality. The 1st cause of maternal death to fall in developed 
countries and now in developing countries is sepsis. Other causes of maternal 
death are obstetric hemorrhage, eclampsia, ectopic pregnancy, unsafe abortions, 
and obstructed labor. Lack of access to maternal health services keeps many 
women with pregnancy complications from receiving the care they need to survive. 
Trained persons help only about 50% of women worldwide with labor and delivery. 
Upgrading of local health centers and training midwives in recognizing 
complications and in aseptic delivery techniques are needed to improve the 
quality of maternal health care. Each health center must have the means to 
transport women to district hospitals. Health centers must offer contraception 
to prevent unwanted pregnancies. Countries need to reduce the social 
inequalities that women face.

PMID: 12318474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]