[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Ollanta Humala

centre during his presidency.

Ideology
Ollanta Humala expressed sympathy for the regime of Juan Velasco Alvarado, which took power in a bloodless military coup on 3 October 1968, and nationalized various Peruvian industries whilst pursuing a favorable foreign policy with Cuba and the Soviet Union.

During his presidential candidacy in 2006 and his run for the presidency that he ultimately won in 2011, Humala was closely affiliated with other pink tide leaders in Latin America in general and South America in particular. Prior to taking office in 2011, he toured several countries in the Americas where he notably expressed the idea of re-uniting the Peru–Bolivian Confederation. He also visited Brazil, Colombia, the United States, and Venezuela.

Controversies 
In February 2016, amidst the Peruvian presidential race, a report from the Brazilian Federal Police implicated Humala as recipient of bribes from Odebrecht, a Brazilian construction company, in exchange of assigned public works. President Humala rejected the implication and has avoided speaking to the media on the matter.

Post-presidency (2016-present)

Arrest 
During the Peruvian presidential election in February 2016, a report by the Brazilian Federal Police implicated Humala in bribery by Odebrecht for public works contracts. President Humala denied the charge and avoided questions from the media on that matter. In July 2017, Humala and his wife were arrested and held in pre-trial detention following investigations into his involvement in the Odebrecht scandal. On 26 April 2018, by resolution of the Constitutional Court of Peru, he began his process of freedom. He is currently being investigated under restricted appearance.

In January 2019, Peruvian prosecutors stated that they had enough evidence to charge Humala and his wife with laundering money from both Odebrecht and the Government of Venezuela. In May 2019, the Prosecutor's Office requested 20 years in prison for him and 26 years for his wife, Nadine Heredia. The process also reaches several relatives close to the former presidential partner. The case is in prosecution control.

Ollanta Humala was being investigated under restricted appearance, allegedly accused of money laundering to the detriment of the State and of illicit association to commit a crime, among others.

However, Odebrecht's main projects were carried out under the presidencies of Alberto Fujimori and Alan García.

Publications 

 Ollanta Humala: From Locumba to Presidential Candidate in Peru (2009)
 Ollanta Uniting Peru: the great transformation: Peru of all of us: government plan, 2006-2011 (2006) (Collaborator)

Awards and decorations
:
 Grand Collar of the Order of Boyaca (11 February 2014)

Electoral history

See also
Presidency of Ollanta Humala

References

External links

Resume on the National Electoral Panel (JNE) site (Spanish)
Biography by CIDOB (in Spanish)
Articles
"Peru Leans Leftward", 10 April 2006 Council on Foreign Relations
"Breakdown in the Andes", September/October 2004 Foreign Affairs
"Ollanta Humala's Path to Peruvian Presidency", 5 August 2011 Sounds and Colours
"Rebellion in Peru", 1 November 2000 NPR's Talk of the Nation
"Peru Report", 30 October 2000 NPR's Morning Edition
"Peru's Election: Background on Economic Issues", April 2006 Center for Economic and Policy Research
"Peru Elections Near: A Look at the Candidates", 1 June 2011 Washington Office on Latin America
"He May Be Leader of Peru, but to Outspoken Kin, He’s Just a Disappointment" by William Neuman, The New York Times, 4 August 2012

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1962 births
Candidates for President of Peru
Chorrillos Military School alumni
Collars of the Order of Isabella the Catholic
Heads of government who were later imprisoned
Ollanta
Leaders of political parties
Living people
Peruvian Army officers
Peruvian Christian socialists
Peruvian Nationalist Party politicians
Peruvian people of Italian descent
Peruvian politicians of Quechua descent
Presidents of Peru
Presidents pro tempore of the Union of South American Nations
Peruvian rebels
Recipients of Peruvian parliamentary pardons
Union for Peru politicians
Peruvian politicians convicted of crimes
Pontifical Catholic University of Peru alumni
Indigenous leaders of the Americas