[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Night of the Pencils

The Night of the Pencils (in ), was a series of kidnappings and forced disappearances, followed by the torture, rape, and murder of 10 high-school students that began on the evening of 16 September 1976 and continued into the next day, during Argentina's last civil-military dictatorship.  The event is one of the most infamous acts of repression committed by the last Argentine military dictatorship, as most of the victims were under 18 years of age.  Four of the victims survived; the remains of the others have never been found.

Context

In March 1976 the Argentine military seized power following a coup d'état. The military junta then implemented what was called the National Reorganization Process which was a set of policies used by the regime to destroy left-wing guerrilla forces and oppress resistance to its rule. The process included kidnappings, torture and murder. Meanwhile, the Montoneros, a leftist guerilla group, responded violently to the junta and its actions as they enlisted other Argentines to join their campaign against the regime.  The junta was undoubtedly fearful of the Montoneros and others who orchestrated opposition to the military junta. Thus, they sought to destroy any opposition.

The victims were largely from the Unión de Estudiantes Secundarios (Union of High School Students) of La Plata.  UES was committed to achieving school reforms and other political reforms, including the 1975 protests in which more than 3,000 students marched to protest recent price hikes in the bus fare and demanding the restoration of a subsidised bus ticket for secondary school students., As with many left-wing activists in Argentina, they were persecuted and targeted by the Police.

The UES was a front organisation for the Montoneros, although the extent to which the UES was actively connected to the ERP and the Montoneros is disputed.  Certainly, one of the survivors, Pablo Diaz, had left the UES for the Guevarist Youth in 1975.

Jorge Falcone, the brother of one of the kidnapped students, María Claudia Falcone, has maintained that her activities against the military dictatorship went beyond student protests, and that on the day she was kidnapped she was hiding weapons in her aunt's residence and was prepared to use them. He wrote his sister was not a victim, or a martyr, but a hero of the organization Montoneros.

He also defended his sister's commitment to the Montoneros guerrilla movement in Argentina:

My sister wasn't Little Red Riding Hood whom the wolf gulped down. She was a revolutionary militant. . . . The militant was the type [of person] who, in a moment, could send a molotov flying in a lightning act. . .  They could also carry out support action in a major military operation.

On the whole, the victims were like thousands of other teens at the time who had become politically active after the fall of the Lanusse Dictatorship. 

At a 2006 event to mark the 30th anniversary, Emilce Molder, who was held and tortured for 2 years said that:
"The ticket had been a motive of course to organize ourselves, but it happened in '75. It was too much before our arrests... the problem was that we were militant and that's what I associate our detention with.  I was 17 years old and I couldn't defend myself against those charges [Illegal association, possession of weaponsand explosives].  They closed the door on me and then yes, I imagined the worst.

Regardless, as a group of young, left-wing, politically active students, the UES were suspected of having supplied fighters to the ERP. Colonel Ramón Camps, head of the Buenos Aires Provincial Police, and Director of Investigations Miguel Etchecolatz were tasked with eliminating the UES.

The kidnappings

On 16 and 17 September 1976, masked men raided homes under cover of darkness, taking students away to clandestine detention centres in what became known as the "Night of the Pencils". It concluded five days later when Camps' henchmen kidnapped student Pablo Diaz. He was taken to a detention center in Arana, joining his fellow high school activists, where they were brutally tortured.
At some point in late September, a large group of detainees which included the students was herded into two police vans. The convoy stopped at the Investigations Brigade of Bánfield headquarters, where a number of people were forced to get out. Díaz was among them.