[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Indonesian Americans

e 1960s were of Chinese descent. Unofficial estimates suggest that as many as 60% of the Indonesians in Southern California are of Chinese descent. Interracial marriage is not uncommon, especially among the young, though the elderly often prefer that their children marry other Indonesian or Chinese.

Many second-generation Indonesian Americans still feel a connection to their Indonesian identity through their ancestry despite often not having a complete grasp on the Indonesian language.

Religion

Indonesian Americans belong to many faiths including Protestantism, Catholicism, Sunni Islam, Buddhism and Hinduism, although the first three are the most common.

While Islam gains its popularity among Indonesian Americans due to Indonesia being one of the largest Islamic countries in the world, Christianity is the mostly rapidly growing religious tradition among these communities. The first Indonesian church in the U.S. was a Seventh-day Adventist Church established in Glendale, California in 1972 with a predominantly Indo congregation (now located in Azusa, CA); however, as more pribumi migrants joined the church, racial tensions arose, and the Indos withdrew to other churches. The second Indonesian church to be founded in the U.S. was a Baptist church, started by an ethnic Chinese pastor and with a predominantly ethnic Chinese congregation. By 1988, there were 14 Indonesian Protestant congregations; ten years later, that number had grown to 41, with two Indonesian Catholic congregations as well. Catholicism is most present within Indonesian American communities in states like California, Georgia, New Jersey, or Pennsylvania where mass is offered weekly or monthly in the Indonesian language. Many of the Chinese-Indonesian immigrants of the late 1990s were Christian, and chose to flee their mainland due to fear of persecution.

Indonesian Muslims constituted around 15% of the Indonesian American population in the 1990s. The first Indonesian Mosque in the US was the Al-Hikmah Mosque founded in Astoria, New York, which is currently headed by Shamsi Ali. In 2017, the Indonesian Muslim community in Los Angeles purchased a former church at 1200 Kenmore Avenue and converted it into At-Thohir Mosque. There is also an Indonesian mosque in Silver Spring, Maryland named the IMAAM Center. This mosque is very active today through its regular services and community outreach, as it is an important hub for Indonesian Muslim life in America. Many upper class Indonesians have chosen to assimilate more into American culture due to economic and cultural comforts. From the perspective of those within this community, this can be seen as a divergence from the Indonesian Muslim identity.

Workforce 
Roughly one of every eight Indonesian Americans worked as a cook, waiter, or waitress. Restaurants owned by Indonesian Americans are sites for cultural unity over shared meals and traditions.

According to Pew Research in 2019, households headed by an Indonesian immigrant had a median income of $80,000, compared to $64,000 and $66,000 for all immigrant and U.S.-born households, respectively.

Media
Indonesians have founded a number of publications in California. The earliest was the Indonesian Journal, founded in 1988, and published primarily in the Indonesian language. Others include the Loma Linda-based Actual Indonesia News (founded 1996, also in Indonesian), and the Glendora-based Indonesia Media (founded 1998). Los Angeles-based monthly The Indonesia Letter has the largest circulation.

Notable people

Arts and entertainment
 Agnez Mo, singer, songwriter, dancer
 Joey Alexander, pianist
 Lulu Antariksa, actress and singer
 Carmit Bachar, member of The Pussycat Dolls, singer, dancer, and actress 
 Raja Gemini, drag performer
 Michelle Branch, Grammy-winning singer and songwriter
 Mark-Paul Gosselaar, actor, mother is Dutch-Indonesian
 Cynthia Gouw, actress, TV news anchor and host who was named Miss Chinatown USA 1984
 Tania Gunadi, Indonesian-born Hollywood actress
 Steven Ho, martial artist and actor
 Coco Lee, international artist, Hong Kong-based singer, actress, and songwriter (father was an ethnic Chinese from Indonesia while mother was from Hong Kong, China)
 Rory Leidelmeyer, bodybuilder and stuntman
 Innosanto Nagara, author, illustrator
 Irma Pane, pop singer
 Jodi Ann Paterson, model
 Rich Brian, rapper, singer, songwriter, record producer
 Niki, singer, songwriter
 Yoshi Sudarso, actor, stuntman
 Alex Van Halen, member of rock group Van Halen, mother was Dutch-Indonesian
 Eddie Van Halen, member of rock group Van Halen, mother was Dutch-Indonesian
 Wolfgang Van Halen
 Armand van Helden, American DJ, record producer, remixer and songwriter
 Stephanie Poetri, singer-songwriter
 Dallas Liu, actor
 Warren Hue, rapper
 Samantha Win, actress, martial artist, stunt woman and wushu taolu athlete