[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zenobia Camprubí

all kinds of social events. Meanwhile, she continued reading and studying – Latin, literature, music, European and American history – writing, attending cultural events, preparing for the future, taking care of her education. She began to be courted by a lawyer, friend of the family, Henry Shattuck.

In 1908, Zenobia enrolled in the Teacher's College of the University of Columbia (New York) to study English literature and composition.

After the marriage's reconciliation, Mrs. Isabel Aymar returned to Spain in 1909 in the company of Zenobia and her cousin Hannah. They called her "the Little American", since she began her university studies in Columbia; she attended cultural activities and women's clubs. She came into contact with American feminism, traveled alone, read the Spanish and English classics and followed a course on literature.

They settled in La Rábida (Huelva) where Mr. Raimundo Camprubí was the chief engineer of the port of Huelva. In a room of the house where they settled, Zenobia improvised a school to teach a group of nineteen children of the surroundings.
In 1910, Zenobia's father was transferred to Madrid. The family residence was set in Paseo de la Castellana.

On the return from a short trip to Switzerland in March 1911, Zenobia and her mother went through Barcelona and visited Malgrat. This was the first time that Zenobia returned to her native house, which she found "sad and dark". In October, the third trip of Zenobia to the United States took place on the occasion of the birth of the first daughter of her brother José, Inés. The idea of exporting crafts, embroidery and books to North America arose.

In the first months of the year 1912, Zenobia returned to Madrid, she continued to publish articles in American magazines. She took advantage of all that Madrid offered and got involved in cultural and intellectual projects. There, she was related primarily concerned with Americans, she was distressed because she could not move freely alone until she met Susan Huntington, who ran the Instituto Internacional de Señoritas, where foreigners were staying, attending the summer courses they organized.

Juan Ramón Jiménez

In 1913, Zenobia kept an epistolary relationship with her North American suitor Henry Shattuck, who came to Spain in May to discuss details about a possible marriage.  Through a letter, the relation split up, though they remained friends.

She attended many conferences, but she could only do so if she was accompanied by an American couple, the Bynes. This couple organized parties and in them, she heard about a fierce and strange poet hosted in the Residencia de Estudiantes, who complained about the noise but stuck his ear to the wall when he heard Zenobia's laugh, whom he didn't know yet. Zenobia met Juan Ramón Jiménez in 1913, in a conference imparted by Bartolomé Cossío, celebrated in the Residence where he worked.

In 1914, Zenobia translated some verses from The Crescent Moon by Tagore, including a prologue-poem by Juan Ramón. In June she visited Ávila and Segovia. By the end of the year, there were some disagreements between Juan Ramón and Zenobia. They couldn't deliver the translated La Luna Nueva by Tagore on time for its publication, and to compensate this problem they published the children edition of Platero y yo.

In December, Zenobia and her mother boarded in Cádiz on their way to New York, to avoid the relationship of her daughter with the poet. But, on 12 February 1916, the Jiménezes arrived in New York and on 2 March Zenobia and he married in the Catholic Church St. Stephen of New York. They traveled around the United States: Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington... On June 7 they boarded the ship "Montevideo", accompanied by Mrs. Isabel Aymar, destination Spain. After landing in Cádiz they arrived in Sevilla, where they spent a couple of days, on their way to La Palma del Condado, where they were expected by Juan Ramón's relatives, who wanted to meet his wife at last. On 1 July they arrived in Madrid.
In 1917, Zenobia translated and published El Jardinero ("The Gardener"), El Cartero del Rey ("The Post Office"), Pájaros perdidos ("Stray Birds") and La Cosecha ("The Harvest") by Tagore. Jiménez added a prologue-poem to them. Also in collaboration with Juan Ramón, she translated El Asceta ("The Ascetic"), El rey y la reina ("King and Queen"), Malini, Ofrenda Lírica ("Gitanjali"), Las Piedras Hambrientas ("The Hungry Stones") and Ciclo de Primavera ("Cycle of Spring"), all of them by Tagore.
Both Camprubí and Jiménez used a simplified Spanish orthography different from the RAE standard.