[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# List of South African slang words

/pozzie – "home". Afrikaans-speakers tend to use the first for; English-speakers the second.
 press – "sex", as in: "I want to press my young one tonight" (KZN)
 shot – "good", "cool", "correct" or "thanks" (depending on context). Example for the meaning "good" – Person A: What is 3+3? Person B: six Person A: shot. Example for the meaning "thanks": – Person: A I have bought you a sweet Person B: Shot.
 sunno – initially an insult, but  used amongst friends as a greeting, as in: Whakind son
 Stukkie – "girl" or possibly "girlfriend"
 Tannie – "aunt", used by Afrikaans-speakers
 Taah-nie – "Mother", used by some Cape Townians
 tops – "excellent", "the best", "great!"
 Toppie – "old man", used by Afrikaans-speakers, can also mean 'dad', ex: 'My friend recently became a Toppie'
 Whakind – a greeting (Used as "Howzit" in KZN), usually used amongst guys only, and frowned upon when used in greeting women.  This word can also express an enquiry about something, especially when used outside the Kwa-Zulu Natal region.
 What say/What you say/Wat sê jy – alternative for Whakind in the greeting-sense. English-speakers use the first and second forms; Afrikaans-speakers the third.
 Young one – Refer to "Stekkie"
 Skommel – masturbate
 onetime – of course, without delay; often used as a positive reply to a question.
 operate – lets perform or to have sex
 ou – a boy/man/guy, homo sapiens
 Charr Ou/Charou/charo – Charr is from charring from the sun like charcoal (burnt wood) derogatory term for an Indian, Bangladeshi or Pakistani person
 Bruin Ou – a Coloured person – mixed race
 Wit (pronounced as vit) Ou – a White person
 Correct Ou – a good guy
 Gorra Ou – a White person (insulting usage)
 Darkie ou/ darky ou – a derogatory term for African/black person
 Pekkie Ou – a Black African person (derogatory; from the Zulu word for "cook")
 Slum Ou – a Muslim person (derived from the words Islam/Muslim)
 Exploding Ou – a Muslim person (insulting, derogatory usage)
 boss – a salute to a person, usually of higher authority or status (usually to a male), as in "you know what it is boss".
 bra – a way of addressing a friend, as in 'Howzit my bra'. 'bra' derived from 'brother'
 bung – (from Afrikaans 'bang' – to be scared) to be afraid of someone.
 condai – bus conductor.
 graft – work, e. "hey kazzie, I'm grafting at coconut grove, lakkaz ekse"
 kêrel – boyfriend
 hit a luck – expression, to meet with good fortune, as in, "hey my bru hit a luck, eee got graft at the Casino".
 choon/tune – talk/to tell someone something.
 clips – Money, 1 clip = R100
 laanie – From the Afrikaans word meaning "fancy", but used by Indian people to mean "smart guy" ("Smart" as in "well-to-do") or, more frequently, "boss". Compare larnie.
 lakkaz – meaning lekker from the Afrikaans language.
 late – A euphemism for dead/deceased; as in 'My daddy is two years late'. (Unconnected with the idea of tardiness.)
 let's vye – let's go; (waai pronounced as vuy, same like buy) (From Afrikaans, "kom ons waai") Used mostly by Durban Indians. "Dave let's vye sook a betters.""
 maader – excellent, very good (used especially by KZN people of Indian origin)
 min-rill – from the English word "mineral", meaning mineral water; taken to mean any fizzy drink in a bottle, normally Coke, Fanta, etc.
 plot – pursue romantically, courting
 poke – stab
 pozzy – house or home; place where one lives or hangs out.
 perrie – paranoid; "He is moerse perrie"
 pehrer – a fight. (Often heard as "Who's gunning a pehrer?" meaning "Who's looking for a fight?")
 slaan – wear (as in clothes), ex "He is ge (prefix) slat (slaan) clothingwise"; meaning "He's dressed well"
 Vrou – my wife, as in 'Ek sê, I must first ask my Vrou'; from the Afrikaans word for 'wife"/"woman".
 vying – going, as in we vying to the soccer
 vriete – "food" from the Afrikaans word "Vreet" – "to eat like an animal". Used as a noun, ex: He must kyk(look) sy(his) eie(own) vriete(food) translated: He must find his own food
 dite  – food(noun), ex: "i smaak(like to) a dite(food) kry(to get)"
 dite  – food(verb), ex: "ek(i) gaan(to go) eers (firstly) dite(to eat)"
 speech – an argument/fight 
 stekie – girl/girlfriend
 swaai – to dance. (For example: "Lets vaai (go) swaai.")
 swak – bad or weak 
 what kind – Greeting, similar to Howzit
 what what – mostly used in arguments, meaning "this and that". Often heard as what you say what what
 spiet – to fight
 slow boat – Splif/joint – normally related to marijuana
 para/pareh – to fight/argument
 pulling moves – related to doing some sort of crime or fraud
 100's / hundreds – relating to being ok, for example: "I am hundreds today after last night's jol"
 bust up – a big party involving abundant drugs and booze
 pull in – literally means to come; example: "Pull in to my pozzy tonight, gona have a bust up"
 benou – (pronounce BER-NOW) – marijuana or dagga. Commonly used by Indians in Gauteng. "no benou there?"-do you have any dagga?
 sharp – goodbye, ("shap im out" – goodbye I'm l