[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas Devin

officer ranks of the new infantry and cavalry regiments be filled by a certain percentage of officers from the Volunteer regiments raised during the Civil War. Ending the war as a Brigadier General and Brevet Major General, Devin became a Lieutenant Colonel and was assigned to the 8th U.S. Cavalry. 

Initially serving with part of the regiment in New Mexico, Devin assumed command of the Subdistrict of Prescott in Arizona in late 1867. In October 1877, he was one of the eight pallbearers at the funeral of George Armstrong Custer, along with Joseph B. Kiddoo and Randolph B. Marcy.

Devin died of stomach cancer and exposure at his home in New York City, on sick leave from active duty, as Colonel of the 3rd U.S. Cavalry. Devin was initially interred in Calvary Cemetery on Long Island, but upon his wife's death in 1897, both were interred in West Point Cemetery (West Point, New York), near his old friend and commander John Buford.

Memorialization

On June 30, 1878, the United States Army established a temporary camp in southeastern Montana Territory during the building of the Fort Keogh-Deadwood Telegraph Line. The post was named "Camp Devin." It served as a base for part of the 9th U.S. Infantry until being abandoned later that year.

In popular media
Devin was portrayed by David Carpenter in the 1993 film Gettysburg, based on Michael Shaara's novel, The Killer Angels.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)

Notes

Further reading
 Boatner, Mark Mayo, III. The Civil War Dictionary. New York: McKay, 1988. . First published 1959 by McKay.
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher. Civil War High Commands. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Petruzzi, J. David, 
 Tagg, Larry. The Generals of Gettysburg. Campbell, CA: Savas Publishing, 1998. .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Blue: Lives of the Union Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1964. .

External links

1822 births
1878 deaths
Military personnel from New York City
People of New York (state) in the American Civil War
Union Army generals
United States Army personnel of the Indian Wars
United States Army colonels
Burials at West Point Cemetery