[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Naturalization Act of 1906

ty and descent), although the exact wording of the various statutes was not always the same. If Congress in 1906 desired to alter a rule so well and so long established it may be assumed that its purpose would have been definitely disclosed and its legislation to that end put in unmistakable terms."

The decision goes on to deny that the common population could construe Ozawa, a man of Japanese descent, as white (thus, making him ineligible under section 2169 of the Revised Statutes of the United States). Thus he could not be naturalized, under the current laws, in 1922.

Factors leading to passage of the law

Since 1802, states had been tasked with determining procedures for the American naturalization process.  State level courts were responsible for cases relating to naturalization.  The standards across all the various states were often unique and carried out inconsistently.  The 1906 legislation that established a uniform standard procedure was a direct reaction to the inconsistencies across the United States.  Federal officials also distrusted state-level judges to handle the process properly.  The federal government believed county judges were manipulating the naturalization process for their own electoral benefit.

Another factor leading to its passage was initiated by the presidential administration of the time.  The Roosevelt administration assembled a commission to examine the naturalization laws of the time, and to make recommendations on how to avoid the abuses that led to inappropriate granting of citizenship. The lack of regulatory oversight regarding naturalization of foreigners was a topic that commanded concern for the Roosevelt administration. This commission went on to suggest an English literacy requirement for the naturalization of American citizens.  Additionally, the commission "recommended classifying and summarizing naturalization laws into a code (re-codification), the creation of a federal agency to oversee naturalization procedures, and standard forms for all U.S. naturalizations, including a form for the oath of allegiance."

Future amendatory legislation

This legislation's establishment of the Bureau of Naturalization and Immigration was ended by the act of Nov. 25, 2002 (116 Stat. 2205) and its functions were transferred to Homeland Security Department.

The Immigration Act of 1990 revised many of the naturalization requirements contained in the Naturalization Act of 1906. One alteration was an establishment of certain exceptions to the English language requirement.

References

External links
 Naturalization Information for Genealogists, by Ilene Kanfer Murray, St. Louis Genealogical Society. (Archive.org, July 8, 2011)

1906 in American law
United States federal immigration and nationality legislation