[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Institute for Information Infrastructure Protection

The  Institute for Information Infrastructure Protection (I3P) is a consortium of national cyber security institutions, including academic research centers, U.S. federal government laboratories, and nonprofit organizations, all of which have long-standing, widely recognized expertise in cyber security research and development (R&D).  The I3P is managed by The George Washington University, which is home to a small administrative staff that oversees and helps direct consortium activities.

The I3P coordinates and funds cyber security research related to critical infrastructure protection and hosts high impact workshops that bring together leaders from both the public and private sectors.  The I3P brings a multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional perspective to complex and difficult problems, and works collaboratively with stakeholders in seeking solutions.  Since its founding in 2002, more than 100 researchers from a wide variety of disciplines and backgrounds have worked together to understand better and mitigate critical risks in the field of cyber security.

History
The I3P came into existence following several government assessments of the U.S. information infrastructure's susceptibility to catastrophic failure. The first study, published in 1998 by the United States President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST), recommended that a nongovernmental organization be formed to address national cyber security issues.  Subsequent studies–by the Institute for Defense Analyses, as well as a white paper jointly produced by the National Security Council and the Office of Science and Technology Policy, agreed with the PCAST assessment, affirming the need for an organization dedicated to protecting the nation's critical infrastructures.

In 2002, the I3P was founded at Dartmouth College through a grant from the federal government. Martin Wybourne chaired the I3P from 2003 to 2015. Since its inception, the I3P has:
 coordinated a national cyber security research and development program
 built informational and research bridges among academic, industrial, and government stakeholders
 developed and delivered technologies to address an array of vulnerabilities
Funding for the I3P has come from various sources, including the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the National Science Foundation (NSF).

Member Institutions 
The I3P consortium consists of 18 academic research centers, 5 national laboratories, and 3 nonprofit research organizations.
 Binghamton University
 Carnegie Mellon University, H. John Heinz III College of Public Policy and Management
 Carnegie Mellon University, Software Engineering Institute
 Dartmouth College
 George Mason University
 George Washington University
 Georgia Institute of Technology
 Idaho National Laboratory
 Indiana University
 Johns Hopkins University
 Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
 MITRE Corporation
 New York University
 Oak Ridge National Laboratory
 Pacific Northwest National Laboratory
 Purdue University
 RAND Corporation
 Sandia National Laboratories
 SRI International
 University of California, Berkeley
 University of California, Davis
 University of Idaho
 University of Illinois
 University of Massachusetts, Amherst
 University of Tulsa
 University of Virginia
Each member institution appoints a primary and secondary representative to attend regular consortium meetings.

Research areas

2011-2014 Research Projects

Advanced Technological Education

The I3P has partnered with the Community College System of New Hampshire (CCSNH) on an educational project, “Cybersecurity in Healthcare Industry: Curriculum Adaptation and Implementation.” Funded by the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Advanced Technological Education (ATE) program, the goal of the project is to produce well-qualified technicians to serve the healthcare information technology needs of rural northern New England.

Improving CSIRTs

The I3P launched a project called "Improving CSIRT Skills, Dynamics, and Effectiveness." This effort, funded by the United States Department of Homeland Security's Science and Technology Directorate, aims to explore what makes and sustains a good CSIRT. The results should help organizations ensure that their CSIRTs fulfill their maximum potential and become invaluable tools in securing cyber infrastructure. The interdisciplinary team working on the new project will include cyber security and business researchers from Dartmouth College, organizational psychologists from George Mason University, and researchers and practitioners from Hewlett-Packard.

Usable Security