[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pizza, Beer, and Cigarettes

uez as Rengo
 Tony Lestingi as Passenger
 Alejandro Pous as Megabom
 Marcelo Videla as Cop 1
 Gustavo Saenz as Cop 2
 Claudia Moreno as Prostitute
 Roberto Alvarez as Security Guard

Distribution
The producers used the following tagline to promote the film:
Four friends. One city.  Only one way out.

The film first opened in Argentina on January 15, 1998.

The film was shown at various film festivals, including: the Fribourg International Film Festival, Switzerland; the Toulouse Latin America Film Festival, France; the Montevideo Film Festival, Uruguay; the Gramado Film Festival, Brazil; and the Torino International Festival of Young Cinema, Turin, Italy.

In the United States it was not released as a feature film, but rather it was released in DVD format on December 27, 2005.

Accolades
Wins
 Argentine Film Critics Association Awards: Silver Condor; Best Film; Best First Film; Best New Actor, Héctor Anglada; Best Original Screenplay, Bruno Stagnaro & Adrián Caetano; 1999.
 Fribourg International Film Festival, Fribourg, Switzerland: FIPRESCI Prize, Israel Adrián Caetano and Bruno Stagnaro, for a first feature by two young directors who dramatize with force and without sentimentality the predicament of the teenage marginals of Argentina; and Grand Prix; 1998.
 Gramado Film Festival: Golden Kikito—Best Director; Best Film, Best Screenplay; Israel Adrián Caetano and Bruno Stagnaro; 1998.
 Toulouse Latin America Film Festival: Israel Adrián Caetano and Bruno Stagnaro; 1998.

Nominations
 Torino International Festival of Young Cinema, Torino, Italy: Prize of the City of Torino Best Film - International Feature Film Competition, Adrián Caetano and Bruno Stagnaro; 1998.
 Argentine Film Critics Association Awards: Silver Condor; Best Director, Bruno Stagnaro and Adrián Caetano; Best Editing, Andrés Tambornino; Best New Actor, Jorge Sesán; 1999.

References

External links
 
 Pizza, birra, faso at cinenacional.com 
 Pizza, birra, faso review at Cineismo by Guillermo Ravaschino 
 Pizza, birra, faso review at Leer Cine by Santiago García 
 

1998 films
1998 drama films
Films directed by Israel Adrián Caetano
Argentine independent films
1990s Spanish-language films
Films shot in Buenos Aires
Films set in Buenos Aires