[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Yoshihide Suga

and politicians and had happened after his decision to suspend 'GoTo Travel', was deprecated by the public; all attendees were over 70, a high-risk age group for the virus. At the time, the government was advising people to avoid dining in groups of more than five. Suga has subsequently apologized.

In January 2021, Suga declared a state of emergency in the Greater Tokyo Area and the three surrounding prefectures, which was Japan's first such declaration since April 2020. The emergency included  restrictions on daily life, with remote work encouraged and residents being urged to avoid non-essential outings; however, schools remained open. While the state of emergency carries no legal power, Suga has stated the government will consider amending the law to allow local authorities to penalize businesses that do not comply with official requests. Suga also pledged to provide up to ¥1.8 million per month to each restaurant that complies with a request to shorten its operating hours.

Approval rating 
Suga's cabinet has seen fluctuating approval since Abe's resignation. The cabinet's approval rating dropped from 74 percent in September 2020 to 42 percent in January 2021. Shigeru Omi, the COVID-19 task force chief, said that this was due to Suga's GoTo promotions. It has also been attributed to his rejection of scholars on a science advisory panel. The drop in approval for Suga's cabinet proved the largest since October 2010, following the Senkaku boat collision incident. Approval bounced from 38 percent in February to 42 percent in March 2021. The cabinet's approval hit a record low in May 2021, hitting 33 percent after having again dropped to 40 percent the previous month. Amidst rising coronavirus cases in the community in the Greater Tokyo area, Suga's approval rating dwindled to a record lows of 31% in July and 28% in August while hosting the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games during a pandemic. In an election widely seen as a referendum on the ruling LDP's Coronavirus response, the candidate that Suga endorsed lost the Yokohama mayoral race in August by a considerable margin putting considerable pressure on Suga's reelection chances in the upcoming national election, as an MP representing Kanagawa.

Resignation 
On 3 September 2021, Suga announced that he would not seek re-election as the head of its governing party. This announcement followed his approval ratings being at an all-time low (below 30% in recent polls) as the nation struggled with its worst wave of COVID-19 infections ahead of the general election that year. His resignation would become effective on 30 September 2021, a day after the Liberal Democratic leadership election. Suga's announcement came at a press conference where a LDP leadership reshuffle was to be announced; although Suga had reportedly been fully intent on running as of the day before, both Shinzo Abe and Taro Aso refused to cooperate further with Suga's leadership in conversations on the evening of the 2nd, leading to Suga's surprise announcement the next morning.

On 29 September 2021, the LDP elected former foreign minister Fumio Kishida as new leader of the party and virtually making the prime minister-designate of Japan. Kishida replaced Suga on 4 October 2021.

Personal life 
Suga is married and has three sons. His wife, Mariko, is the sister of one of his former co-workers in the office of Hikosaburo Okonogi. Seigoh, eldest son is former director of Tohokushinsha Film (discharged on Feb. 2021).

Suga has a daily fitness routine that includes doing 100 situps and 40 minutes of walking each morning, and 100 situps each night. He started this routine after a doctor advised him to lose weight, and he lost  in four months. He is also known as a voracious reader, and is known for reading all major newspapers daily despite his busy schedule.

Suga practiced karate when he was a college student. He holds the third dan black belt.

Suga is known to have a sweet tooth. His favorite food is pancakes. His lunch is almost always soba. He neither smokes nor drinks.

See also 
 Tohokushinsha Film and Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications scandal

References

External links 
 
  
 Prime Minister of Japan and His Cabinet Official website

 
1948 births
People from Akita Prefecture
Politicians from Akita Prefecture
Living people
Prime Ministers of Japan
Ministers of Internal Affairs of Japan
Members of the House of Representatives (Japan)
Japanese municipal councilors
Politicians from Kanagawa Prefecture
Politicians from Yokohama
Liberal Democratic Party (Japan) politicians
Members of Nippon Kaigi
Hosei University alumni
Knights Grand Cross of the Order of Orange-Nassau
Recipients of the Olympic Order
Recipients of the Paralympic Order
20th-century Japanese politicians
21st-century Japanese politicians
21st-century prime ministers of Japan
People from Yuzawa, Akita
Chief Cabinet Secretaries of Japan