[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Francis Lewis High School

tions between different country leaders.
 The Computer Science Program allows students to learn how to code on a computer and improve their programming skills.

In May 1995, the debate team won the New York City Championship in the annual Lincoln-Douglas debates for the first time in school history.

Before students enter sophomore year, Francis Lewis High School offers students the chance to switch into different programs. Several three-year programs become available, including the following:
The Dance Academy allows students to take a dance class in addition to the physical education class. Students learn how to do classical dances and modern dances. As of the 2018–2019 school year, students are able to audition to join the academy in their freshman year through orientation in June.
School of Design allows students classes to further their art skills.
The Graphic Design Academy allows students to pursue interests in graphic design.
The Journalism Academy offers students a classes to better understand news writing, reporting, and production. Students learn to produce a news story, learn to photojournalism skills, and broadcast and report through multimedia. The program has garnered multiple awards from the Newsies! Awards, run by Baruch College.
 The Sports and Medicine Academy teaches students necessary skills for working in the medical field. Students study human anatomy, medicines, and medical conditions.
The Music Program allows students to further their music skills with different types of instruments and through voice, taking any of the music electives for most of their high school tenure.
 The Virtual Enterprise International Academy allows students to learn the basis of designing and selling a product. Student learn marketing techniques, and they use these skills to try to sell a product to real investors. The program has garnered honors with top ranking companies in citywide competitions making nationals.

Academics
In order to give students high school credit and Regents credit, Francis Lewis offers numerous classes such as integrated algebra, geometry, trigonometry/algebra II, pre-trigonometry, English, living environment/biology, chemistry, physics, earth science, global history and geography, U.S. History and geography, U.S. government and economics, health, forensic science, sports medicine, literature, music appreciation, art, and graphic design.

As physical education classes, Francis Lewis High School offers frisbee, racket sports, soccer, basketball, yoga and dance, walking, weight training and conditioning, and volleyball.

The school offers music electives including chorus, concert choir, honors concert band, jazz ensemble, guitar, keyboard, marching band, and string orchestra. Students may take music electives for as long as their high school tenure. Music appreciation is offered as a one-year class for art/music credit.

Language studies 
In keeping with the school's diversity, Francis Lewis High School teaches several foreign languages, including Chinese (Mandarin), French, Greek (for the fourth year of the University Scholars program), Italian, Japanese, Korean, Latin, and Spanish. Classes for native speakers in Chinese, Korean, and Spanish are also available for students satisfying the NYCDOE's foreign language requirement. The school previously taught Arabic and Hebrew, but those classes ended due to declining interest.

English as New Language (ENL) is also available for English learners.

Advanced Placement courses 
In 1978, Francis Lewis High School was the first public high school to achieve certification to the International Baccalaureate, but stopped offering it in the 1990s. Advanced Placement (AP) courses are also available, offering college credit for work done during high school (based on the final test score).  Students may choose the full program to get a full years' college credit, or simply courses of interest (for credit towards single college courses such as math or humanities). Sixty-six percent of twelfth graders take at least one Advanced Placement exam at any time during high school; of these, 50% earned at least a 3 on at least one Advanced Placement exam.

Students may choose from 20 AP courses offered at Francis Lewis, including Biology, Calculus AB, Calculus BC, Capstone, Chemistry, Chinese Language and Culture, Computer Science A, English Language and Composition, English Literature and Composition, Environmental Science, Japanese Language and Culture, Latin, Macroeconomics, Microeconomics, Physics 1, Physics 2, AP Physics C: Mechanics, Psychology, Spanish, Statistics, United States Government and Politics, United States History, and World History.

Francis Lewis High School was ranked 29th out of the 520 public high schools in New York City, according to U.S. News & World Report.