[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Confederation of Indian Industry

lopment procedures in India, identifying best practices, and creating access to foreign markets. Such activities include meeting with the Heads of State and Government, decision-makers, networking with counterpart organisations, multilateral and academic institutions, and other policy-making bodies.

CII's international engagement journey started with the opening of its first overseas office in 1977 in Dammam, Saudi Arabia. This endeavour helped to place the organisation on a high pedestal of relationship with the government, diplomatic missions, and international agencies. AIEI organised the very first international trade mission to Africa in 1975, covering Kenya, Zambia, Egypt, and Libya. In 1976, a Mission went to Iran, Iraq, and Kuwait. These initiatives of AIEI helped explore business opportunities in African and middle-east markets.

From 2013, CII has broadened its focus of work through more Regional and Country Committees like: Africa, ASEAN + ANZ, East Europe, GCC, LAC, Bangladesh, Canada, China, Germany, Italy, Japan, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Russia, South Korea and Sri Lanka.
CII's International work is backed by 9 overseas offices in Australia, China, Egypt, Germany, Indonesia, Singapore, UAE, UK, and the US that helps propagate important information pertaining to markets and joint venture possibilities to both Indian and global companies.

CII has been appointed as the B20 Secretariat by the Government of India to lead the B20 India process during India's G20 Presidency in 2023.

Community development
CII undertakes a series of focused interventions to ensure the inclusive and social development of economically and socially challenged groups through corporate engagement. For bettering the lives of citizens, CII's long-standing work in the social sector was formalised through the establishment of the CII Foundation in 2011. The Foundation provides a meaningful bridge between marginalised communities and donors, especially the corporate sector. The core areas of intervention include CSR and ethical conduct, education, public health, skill development, affirmative action, women empowerment, people with disabilities, climate change, and disaster relief & rehabilitation.

In the year 2000, CII set up the Indian Business Trust for HIV/AIDS to engage the industry in meeting the challenges of the deadly virus. This Trust helped formulate ISO 9002 workplace policy and protocols for industry. More than 2000 companies in India joined this campaign to provide a safe and healthy work environment for their employees.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, CII extended its support to a large number of affected people to mitigate the global crisis. Synergizing the efforts of Indian industry and engaging with the Government of India, CII reached out to various sections of the society, providing immediate relief and strategic long-term rehabilitation support.

To tackle the unexpected and immense challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, CII formed a high-level task force to find possible solutions to issues faced by Indian industry. CII made immediate policy interventions and representations at both the state and central government levels for macroeconomic management, monetary measures, and ease of doing business. It came out with an impact assessment on industry and economy with an exit strategy to sustain continuity.

Initiatives
CII has undertaken various initiatives: India@75, Young Indians, and Indian Women Network.

India@75
India@75 is a CII initiative that envisions how India should be in 2022 – the 75th year of India's independence. The idea of India@75 was conceptualised at the Incredible India@60 celebrations in New York in 2007, where Professor C.K. Prahalad, management professor at the University of Michigan, shared his vision of India@75.

CII adopted his vision of India@75 on 8 May 2008. After consultations, a national vision document - India@75 – The People’s Agenda was released. It was structured around the ten broad themes - Education & Skill Development, Technology & Innovation, Agriculture, Businesses, Infrastructure & Urbanization, Health, Environment, Arts, Sports & Literature, Governance & Public Administration and Moral Leadership.

To turn this vision into reality, CII set up the India@75 Foundation. This initiative of CII has also found resonance with the Government of India, as in the Strategy for New India@75 document released by the NITI Aayog in 2018.

The CII Annual Meeting 2021 was organised on 11–12 August 2021 on the theme- “India@75: Government and Business working together for Aatmanirbhar Bharat.” Shri Narendra Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, was the Chief Guest and delivered the inaugural address.