[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arturo Barea

.

Barea has three Spanish streets named in his honour, in Badajoz, Mérida and Novés; and a square – Plaza de Arturo Barea – in Madrid.

He is a central figure in Amanda Vaill's non-fiction book Hotel Florida, published in 2014.

Publications
Maxim Lieber was Barea's literary agent in 1947 and 1950.

The Forging of a Rebel
His best-known work is his autobiography La forja de un rebelde (The Forging of a Rebel), published in three volumes:
 La forja (The Forge) provides a detailed and evocative account of his childhood and adolescence growing up in Madrid between 1905 and 1914. (It was reviewed favourably by George Orwell in Horizon, "a fragment of autobiography, and we may hope that others will follow it... if the Fascist powers have done no other good, they have at least enriched the English-speaking world by exiling all their best writers.") 
 La ruta (The Track) recounts his military experiences in Morocco during the Rif War from 1920 to 1925. In his foreword to this volume Barea notes that what he witnessed in that war "was the embryonic stage in the development of military fascism in Spain, more particularly the beginnings of General Franco's political career".
 La llama (The Clash, literally The Flame in Spanish) narrates his experience of the Civil War and exile between 1935 and 1940. "The book starts off in a Castilian village and ends up in Paris, but its essential subject is the siege of Madrid."—George Orwell.

The original translation of La forja was by Sir Peter Chalmers Mitchell, an English eccentric who had stayed on in Malaga after the outbreak of the civil war and was later imprisoned by Franco’s henchmen. In subsequent editions this was substituted by a new translation by Ilsa Barea, who translated all Arturo's other books. They were first published between 1941 and 1946. Orwell, in his review of the trilogy said: "An excellent book … Señor Barea is one of the most valuable of the literary acquisitions that England has made as a result of Fascist persecution”. The first Spanish language edition was published in Argentina in 1951 (by Editorial Losada), and not published in Spain until 1978. La forja de un rebelde was dramatised on TVE in 1990, directed and with screenplay by Mario Camus. Gabriel García Márquez considered it one of the "ten best books written in Spain following the Spanish Civil War" (los diez mejores libros escritos en España después de la Guerra Civil), and "One of the best novels written in Spanish".

Short stories
 Valor y miedo (Courage and Fear), Spain, 1938.
 El centro de la pista (The Center of the Path), 1960.

Biographies
 Lorca, the Poet and his People, 1944, about Federico García Lorca
 Unamuno, 1952, about Miguel de Unamuno

Novels
 La raíz rota (The Broken Root), 1955. Published in Spanish in 2009 by Editorial Salto de Página, Madrid.

Political Essays
 Struggle for the Spanish Soul, Secker & Warburg, 1941.
 Spain in the Post-War World, Fabian Publication, 1945.
 Struggle for the Spanish Soul & Spain in the Post-War World, Translated by Ilsa Barea, The Clapton Press, 2021.

References
Notes

Bibliography

Further reading
 
 

1897 births
1957 deaths
People from Badajoz
Mass media people from Madrid
Spanish emigrants to the United Kingdom
Spanish novelists
Spanish male novelists
Spanish people of the Spanish Civil War
20th-century Spanish novelists