[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Chaim Zhitlowsky

m, in particular.
 Strove to unite all elements of labor, factory workers, peasants, intellectual workers—in the struggle for socialism.
 Fought for the principles of autonomy and federalism as against centralization in the State.
 Theoretic and practical propaganda of Socialist Revolutionary ideas.

In the Jewish world:
 Fought for the secularization and separation of nationality from religion.
 Fought for progressive national culture, against assimilation and narrow nationalism.
 Theoretic proof of Galuth-nationalism.
 Synthesis of nationalism arid socialism, of Galuth-nationalism and territorialism.
 Influenced the programs of the Jewish nationalist parties.
 Interested radical Jewish intelligentsia in Yiddish cultural life and work.
 Helped to clarify and crystallize the Yiddish radical movement in America.
 Enriched Yiddish language and oratory. Propagated the idea of the new secular Yiddish school.
 Pioneer work in the field of scientific and philosophical literature in Yiddish.

This is a short summary of over a half of century of scientific, literary, journalistic work, and activity as a lecturer and publisher, all in the spirit of socialism and progressive nationalism among the Jewish masses in America and abroad.

Other information
In Yidn un Yiddishkayt (Jews and Jewishness, 1924), he sought to define the secular essence of Yiddishkeit, this time by calling forth the notions of racial contemporary theories.

Selected publications 
 Gedanken über die geschichtlichen Schicksale der Juden, 1887 (in Russian)
 Der Traum fun a Lediggeher, London 1891
 Sozialismus und Kämpfe für politische Freiheit, 1898
 Das jüdische Volk und die jüdische Sprache, 1903
 Der Sozialismus und die nationale Frage, 1907 (in Yiddish)
 Die Philosophie, was sie ist und wie sie sich entwickelt hat, 2 vols. New York 1910, in Yiddish, 2. Aufl. 1920

Sources
"Zionism or Socialism" By Chaim Zhitlovsky.
"Our Language Question" By Chaim Zhitlovsky
"The Future of Our Youth In This Country and Assimilation" (English Translation) By Chaim Zhitlovsky.
"Kant's Critical Philosophy" excerpt from "Philosophy" By Chaim Zhitlovsky.
"Hobbes and Locke" excerpt from "Philosophy" by Chaim Zhitlovsky.
"Plato and Aristotle" excerpt from "Philosophy" by Chiam Zhitlovsky
"A Short Biography of His Life and Works"
"The Assimilation" By Chaim Zhitlovsky

References

Bibliography

 Melech Epstein, Profiles of Eleven. Detroit, MI: Wayne State University Press, 1965.
 Zhitlowsky, Chaim, Collected Works. 1912 Gezamelte Shriften / Hayim Zshitlovski. Yubileum Oysgabe, V 1–4 Edition. New York: c1912-1919. 10 v, 21 cm. / 1641 (v. 1–10). 
 Kogel, Renee and Katz, Zev, eds. Judaism in a Secular Age, Intl. Institute for Secular Humanistic Judaism, 1995., pp. 90–95 (excerpts from his essays "Death and Rebirth of Gods and Religion," "The National Poetic Rebirth of the Jewish People").
 Max Rosenfeld in Jewish Currents Reader, Jewish Currents, Inc. 1996, "Zhitlovsky: Philosopher of Jewish Secularism (essay)."
 Lucy S. Dawidowicz, ed. The Golden Tradition, Beacon Press, 1967, pp. 411–422, "The Jewish Factor in My Socialism" (essay by Zhitlovsky).
 Joseph Leftwich comp. and trans., The Way We Think, A. S. Barnes & Co., 1969. pp. 76–98, Zhitlovski essays: "Job-A Poem of Jewish Free Thought," "What Is Secular Jewish Culture?"
Kay Schweigmann-Greve, Die Überführung der religiösen jüdischen Tradition in Poesie und säkulare jüdische Nationalkultur bei Chaim Zhitlowsky. In: Randfiguren, Festschrift für Manfred Walther. Hannover 2005, Seite 65–101 (in German).
Kay Schweigmann-Greve, Jüdische Nationalität aus verweigerter Assimilation. Biographische Parallelen bei Moses Hess und Chajm Zhitlowsky und ihre ideologische Verarbeitung. In: Trumah, Journal of the Hochschule for Jewish Studies Heidelberg, Vol 17, 2007 p. 91–116 (in German).

External links
Papers of Chaim Zhitlowsky.; RG 208; YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, New York, NY.

1865 births
1943 deaths
People from Ushachy District
People from Vitebsk Governorate
Belarusian Jews
Narodniks
Socialist Revolutionary Party politicians
Bundists
Jewish philosophers
Jewish Socialist Workers Party politicians