[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

iment was not identified in the citation. Corporal Emisire Shahan from CompanyA received his medal for "Capture of flag of 76th Georgia Infantry (C.S.A.)". The citation for Medal of Honor winner Private Daniel A. Woods, who was from CompanyK, says "Capture of flag of 18th Florida Infantry (C.S.A.)".

Battle of Appomattox Station
On April 8, Lee's Army of Northern Virginia continued to flee westward. Two Union army corps were following. Additional Union troops, including Sheridan's cavalry, were further west. Sheridan hoped to block Lee's retreat.  His advance force was Custer's Third Division. Custer captured Confederate supply trains and removed a few pieces of track to prevent the trains from going back to Lynchburg. However, Custer was then repelled by Confederate artillery. After two more attacks using single brigades were ineffective, Custer made a rare night attack using his entire division. Strong moonlight reduced the risk of getting lost or misidentifying friendly and enemy soldiers, and the night attack was successful. Custer's division captured 24 to 30 artillery pieces, 1,000 prisoners, and 150 to 200 wagons.

Two men from the 1st West Virginia Cavalry were awarded the Medal of Honor for actions in this battle. Corporal Thomas Anderson, from CompanyI, received his medal for capturing a Confederate flag. The flag has been, at times, displayed in Lee Chapel and Museum of Washington and Lee University. Charles Schorn, Chief Bugler from CompanyM, also received the Medal of Honor for actions in this battle after he captured the flag of the Sumter Flying Artillery. This flag, which had been carried by the Sumpter Flying Artillery since 1861, was captured in Custer's final nighttime charge.

Battle of Appomattox Courthouse

On April 9, Lee's Army of Northern Virginia continued to flee westward. Infantry led by Generals John Brown Gordon and James Longstreet, and cavalry led by Fitzhugh Lee formed a battle line near the Appomattox Court House. This was their last chance to escape to Lynchburg, as Union troops were attempting to surround them. The 1st West Virginia Cavalry's participation in this "battle" was mostly preparing to attack—but no full-fledged charges were made.

A Confederate officer approached Capehart's 3rd Brigade on horseback under a flag of truce. Capehart and the officer rode down the column to Custer, where the officer told the general that Lee and Grant were in correspondence concerning a surrender of Lee's Army. Shortly after his meeting with Longstreet's representative, Custer turned command of the division over to Henry Capehart and rode off to see Sheridan. On that day, Robert E. Lee unconditionally surrendered his starving Army of Northern Virginia to Grant. The surrender look place at the home of Wilmer and Virginia McLean in the small community of Appomattox Court House, Virginia.

War's end
The 1st West Virginia Volunteer Cavalry remained in battle line until the evening of April 9, and then went into camp.  On the next day, they marched toward Burkesville Junction, arriving on April 12. After resting for the night, they marched to Nottoway Court House, and received new clothing.  The cavalry reached Petersburg, Virginia, by April 18, and camped outside the city. On the same day, Custer sent a recommendation to Secretary of War Stanton that Colonel Henry Capehart be promoted to Brigadier General, retroactive to March 1. On April 24, the division started a march to North Carolina to join Sherman's army confronting the Confederate army of General Joseph E. Johnston. However, on April 28, they became aware that Johnston had surrendered. On the next day, the division began its return north.

Grand Review of the armies
The Grand Review of the Armies began on May 23, 1865, as a Union celebration of the end of the Civil War. Union troops paraded down Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, DC. The parade was led by Custer's Third Division, which was led by Capehart's brigade.  The New York Times described men in Custer's division as "being decorated with a scarf or tie, known as the Custer Tie, red in color ..."  It also said "Capehart's brigade of West Virginia Veterans, as trusty a body as ever drew a sabre, are singled out for their fine appearance ..."

Final muster out