[Source: Gutenberg#61 | Part 13]
# The Declaration of Independence — Jefferson

uggle against this power, was introduced into
Germany at a time when the bourgeoisie, in that country, had just begun
its contest with feudal absolutism.

German philosophers, would-be philosophers, and _beaux esprits_,
eagerly seized on this literature, only forgetting, that when these
writings immigrated from France into Germany, French social conditions
had not immigrated along with them. In contact with German social
conditions, this French literature lost all its immediate practical
significance, and assumed a purely literary aspect. Thus, to the German
philosophers of the eighteenth century, the demands of the first French
Revolution were nothing more than the demands of “Practical Reason” in
general, and the utterance of the will of the revolutionary French
bourgeoisie signified in their eyes the law of pure Will, of Will as it
was bound to be, of true human Will generally.

The world of the German _literati_ consisted solely in bringing the new
French ideas into harmony with their ancient philosophical conscience,
or rather, in annexing the French ideas without deserting their own
philosophic point of view.

This annexation took place in the same way in which a foreign language
is appropriated, namely, by translation.

It is well known how the monks wrote silly lives of Catholic Saints
_over_ the manuscripts on which the classical works of ancient
heathendom had been written. The German _literati_ reversed this
process with the profane French literature. They wrote their
philosophical nonsense beneath the French original. For instance,
beneath the French criticism of the economic functions of money, they
wrote “Alienation of Humanity,” and beneath the French criticism of the
bourgeois State they wrote “dethronement of the Category of the
General,” and so forth.

The introduction of these philosophical phrases at the back of the
French historical criticisms they dubbed “Philosophy of Action,” “True
Socialism,” “German Science of Socialism,” “Philosophical Foundation of
Socialism,” and so on.

The French Socialist and Communist literature was thus completely
emasculated. And, since it ceased in the hands of the German to express
the struggle of one class with the other, he felt conscious of having
overcome “French one-sidedness” and of representing, not true
requirements, but the requirements of truth; not the interests of the
proletariat, but the interests of Human Nature, of Man in general, who
belongs to no class, has no reality, who exists only in the misty realm
of philosophical fantasy.

This German Socialism, which took its schoolboy task so seriously and
solemnly, and extolled its poor stock-in-trade in such mountebank
fashion, meanwhile gradually lost its pedantic innocence.

The fight of the German, and especially, of the Prussian bourgeoisie,
against feudal aristocracy and absolute monarchy, in other words, the
liberal movement, became more earnest.

By this, the long wished-for opportunity was offered to “True”
Socialism of confronting the political movement with the Socialist
demands, of hurling the traditional anathemas against liberalism,
against representative government, against bourgeois competition,
bourgeois freedom of the press, bourgeois legislation, bourgeois
liberty and equality, and of preaching to the masses that they had
nothing to gain, and everything to lose, by this bourgeois movement.
German Socialism forgot, in the nick of time, that the French
criticism, whose silly echo it was, presupposed the existence of modern
bourgeois society, with its corresponding economic conditions of
existence, and the political constitution adapted thereto, the very
things whose attainment was the object of the pending struggle in
Germany.

To the absolute governments, with their following of parsons,
professors, country squires and officials, it served as a welcome
scarecrow against the threatening bourgeoisie.

It was a sweet finish after the bitter pills of floggings and bullets
with which these same governments, just at that time, dosed the German
working-class risings.

While this “True” Socialism thus served the governments as a weapon for
fighting the German bourgeoisie, it, at the same time, directly
represented a reactionary interest, the interest of the German
Philistines. In Germany the _petty bourgeois_ class, a _relique_ of the
sixteenth century, and since then constantly cropping up again under
various forms, is the real social basis of the existing state of
things.

To preserve this class is to preserve the existing state of things in
Germany. The industrial and political supremacy of the bourgeoisie
threatens it with certain destruction; on the one hand, from the
concentration of capital; on the other, from the rise of a
revolutionary proletariat. “True” Socialism appeared to kill these two
birds with one stone. It spread like an epidemic.

The robe of speculative cobwebs, embroidere