[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Patrick Chinamasa

llowing the dismissal of Samuel Mumbengegwi, who no longer held a seat in Parliament. In this position, Chinamasa took a historic step in the ongoing hyperinflation crisis in Zimbabwe, announcing that all Zimbabweans would be allowed to conduct business in any currency as of the end of January 2009.

When the ZANU-PF–MDC national unity government was sworn in on 13 February 2009, Chinamasa was retained as Minister of Justice.

Following Mugabe's victory in the July 2013 presidential election, he moved Chinamasa to the post of Minister of Finance on 10 September 2013.

Later, Patrick Chinamasa was moved to a newly created ministry of Cyber Security in 2017. The Ministry of Cyber Security, Threat Detection and Mitigation was announced and initiated by President Robert Mugabe in October 2017 to address the challenges of new generation of technologies. Patrick was reassigned to the role of Minister of Cyber Security, Threat Detection and Mitigation where he led efforts to ensure cybersecurity through various end points.

In 2017, when Zimbabwe's new president Emmerson Mnangagwa took over, he named Patrick Chinamasa as the acting Finance Minister until the appointment of a new cabinet and minister.

Farms
In February 2003, Chinamasa sent the police to arrest Peter Baker, a white farmer who had refused to vacate his farm, Rocklands, in favour of the Minister, after successfully challenging its seizure in court. Eight months after the seizure, the farm's water supply has been squandered, undermining its future productivity and that of the neighbouring farms.

In September 2003, white farmer Richard Yates was evicted from his 800-hectare tobacco farm Tsukumai Farm at Headlands, located east of Harare. Although Chinamasa paid some compensation, Yates is still awaiting final payment and said that he considers the farm his in an interview with the Daily Telegraph. The following year his wife Monica won the Zimbabwean Tobacco grower of the year award, together with a Z$24million prize and trophy as the 2004/2005 top grower at a ceremony in Harare on 29 July. British MP Kate Hoey, who made a fact-finding visit to Zimbabwe earlier in the year, said the award was shocking: "It is like someone stealing a race horse and winning the Grand National." As a result, London based British American Tobacco came under pressure to stop its Zimbabwean associate company sponsoring the award, which it did the following year.

Personal life
Chinamasa is married to Monica Chinamasa. 
His children include:   
Chengetai – although banned from travelling into the United States, he gained entry using his mother's maiden surname. He claimed his home location as Worcester, Massachusetts, where he studied and also worked for Keller Williams. He died in November 2007.
Gamuchirai - born 11 November 1991.

References

Living people
1947 births
Finance Ministers of Zimbabwe
Attorneys-General of Zimbabwe
Members of the Senate of Zimbabwe
ZANU–PF politicians
Government ministers of Zimbabwe