[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Luke Joyce

b in January after going seven games without a first-team appearance, though started against Lincoln City on New Year's Day and remained in the first-team thereafter. He became a key player under new manager John Askey in February and ended the season with 35 starts and seven substitute appearances.

On 18 September 2019, he marked his 500th appearance in a Football League fixture as Vale lost 2–0 at league leaders Exeter City; he quipped that "that probably sums up my career really, Exeter away on a Tuesday night". He scored his first goal for the club on 5 October, levelling the scores in what finished as a 3–1 win over Morecambe at Vale Park. In February 2020, it was announced that Joyce had triggered a clause in his contract to keep him at the club until summer 2021. He scored one goal in 43 appearances throughout the 2019–20 season, missing just one league game due to suspension, providing the defensive cover in the holding midfield role to allow players such as Scott Burgess, Jake Taylor and Tom Conlon to get further forward. He was a joint winner of that season's Players' Player of the Year award, along with David Worrall.

On 14 November 2020, Joyce was sent off for a high tackle when Vale were leading Tranmere Rovers 2–0, and the team went on to lose 4–3 in his absence. The team also lost the three games he missed due to suspension. The losing run continued following his return to the team, leading Joyce to say that "losing games hurts... but we just have to deal with". Joyce featured 46 times in the 2020–21 season, but was one of 15 players released by new manager Darrell Clarke in May 2021. Joyce said that he was disappointed not to be offered a new contract but that "I have taken great pride in playing for Port Vale".

AFC Fylde
On 28 June 2021, Joyce agreed a one-year deal with National League North club AFC Fylde; manager Jim Bentley stated that "this is a real big signing for the football club. Luke has proven to be one of the best midfielders in League Two over many seasons. His stats are phenomenal, he's an excellent professional and is very well respected within the game". In joining the "Coasters" he rejected the opportunity to stay in League Two with Oldham Athletic. He featured 34 times in the 2021–22 campaign as Fylde finished in third-place, but did not feature in their unsuccessful play-off campaign and was released in the summer by new manager James Rowe.

Radcliffe
On 20 June 2022, Joyce joined Northern Premier League Premier Division club Radcliffe, having previously been a teammate of manager Bobby Grant at Accrington. He made 46 appearances in the 2022–23 season, including in the Manchester Premier Cup final victory over Wythenshawe Town.

Style of play
Joyce describes himself as a "working player in midfield" who wins the ball and passes it onto more creative teammates. Port Vale manager John Askey stated that "with Luke not only is it his football, his organisation and encouragement helps the other players". His successor, Darrell Clarke, classed Joyce as a deep-lying midfielder.

Coaching career
Joyce holds a UEFA B Licence and by 2019 had set up a junior academy in Westhoughton.

Career statistics

Honours
Radcliffe
Manchester Premier Cup: 2023

References

1987 births
Living people
Footballers from Bolton
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Bolton Wanderers F.C. players
Wigan Athletic F.C. players
Carlisle United F.C. players
Barrow A.F.C. players
Northwich Victoria F.C. players
Accrington Stanley F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
AFC Fylde players
Radcliffe F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Northern Premier League players
Association football coaches