[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Swansea University Students' Union

Swansea University Students' Union () is the students' union for Swansea University and is part of the National Union of Students of the United Kingdom. The Students' Union aims to promote the interests of students at the University.

Its offices are located on both Swansea University campuses, in Faraday Tower on Singleton Park Campus and Y Twyni on Bay Campus.

Democracy
The Students' Union is a democracy governed by the articles of governance and schedules. All students of Swansea University are automatically enrolled into the Union at the beginning of each term and then have the right to propose and vote on Ideas (motions) at the Student Forums.

Representing the students are the executive committee which is made up of Full Time Officers and the Part Time Officers. The Executive sets the policy and direction of the Students' Union, and is guided through with policy proposals made at the Student Forums. Commonly referred to as the 'Exec', it is made up of the elected 6 full-time Officers and 15 part-time elected officers. The Chair of the Committee is the Union President.

Services
The Union runs a variety of services including a supermarket ("MyCostCutter"), a coffee shop (Fulton Coffee Co), and student bars (JCs, and Tafarn Tawe). There is also an Advice & Support Centre and a Nursery.

Advice and Support Centre
The Union runs the Support Centre which has 3 advisers. It is a free and confidential service that gives advice on a variety of topics, such as debt, academic problems, consumer advice, housing, contracts, personal issues, employment and health.

Swansea Accommodation Service
The Students' Union officially launched Swansea Accommodation Service (SAS) on 1 February 2007 in the Digital Technium. The Students' Union took the decision to create Swansea Accommodation Service because "it wanted to improve the standard of accommodation available to students, which in turn may help to reduce the high level of complaints made by students every year" SAS has now become a partnership company with the University recently moved offices to the Accommodation Office in Penmaen and to online resources.

Student Swansea Events
Student Swansea Events run the large-scale annual events during the academic year, including Freshers' Fortnight, for the first two weeks of term, the Swansea Summer Ball on the main campus site which event takes place on the University's Abbey Meadow.

The ents department also help run the annual Welsh Varsity between Swansea University and Cardiff University by selling and distributing tickets as well as match entertainment, merchandise and the after party.

JC's

JC's is situated on the second floor of Fulton House, and is the Students' Union's bar and coffee shop. It runs a quiz night on Sundays. A popular venue with students, the bar has recently reopened after undergoing significant renovation in time for its reopening in September 2011.

Rebound
Rebound is the student night club, previously named Divas, and DV8 before that. There was a competition in 1993 to rename the Students' Union bar after it moved from the top floor of the Students' Union building to the first floor. While on the top floor the bar had been called the "Mandela Bar" in honour of the South African freedom campaigner.

Sin City
Sin City is a nightclub and live music venue, which opened December 2006 and was originally partly owned by Swansea University Students' Union.
In 2010 Swansea University Students' Union took full ownership of the club.

Swansea Student Media
The Students’ Union provides support for print, radio and television production activities through Swansea Student Media (SSM). Although these platforms have been running for considerable time, the Swansea Student Media brand was established in 2015, allowing the media groups to grow their reputation in the University. Swansea Student Media provide a vital means of reflecting the student voice, enhancing the student experience and providing an opportunity for skill development. It is run by students, and the committee is democratically elected from the society members each year.

The Waterfront Newspaper
The Waterfront Newspaper is Swansea University's Students' Union Newspaper. The paper is part of the PR and marketing department of the Students' Union and aims to reflect students’ perspectives on a wide range of sections. Founded in September 1995, it published its 200th issue on 7 March 2011. Material for the newspaper is submitted by students, to be made available in online and printed versions. The printed editions are distributed in busy locations around campus during term time.