[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rafi Eitan

Rafael Eitan (; 23 November 1926 – 23 March 2019) was an Israeli politician and intelligence officer. He also led Gil and served as Minister of Senior Citizens. He was in charge of the Mossad operation that led to the arrest of Adolf Eichmann. He served as an advisor on terrorism to Prime Minister Menachem Begin, and in 1981 he was appointed to head the Bureau of Scientific Relations, then an intelligence entity on par with Mossad, Aman and Shabak. Eitan assumed responsibility for and resigned over the Jonathan Pollard affair, and the Bureau was disbanded. He was subject to an arrest warrant issued by the United States FBI. From 1985 until 1993, he was head of the government's Chemicals company, which was expanded under his leadership. After 1993, he became a businessman, noted for several large scale agricultural and construction ventures in Cuba. He was the chairman of the Vetek (Seniority) Association – the Senior Citizens Movement.

Biography 
Raphael (Rafi) Hantman (later Eitan) was born on Kibbutz Ein Harod during the Mandate era. His parents were Zionist immigrants from Russia who came to Palestine in 1923. His father, Noah Hantman, was a farmer and poet, and his mother Yehudit Volwelsky was a social activist. They had four children, Rafi, Oded, Rina and Ami (Yechiam) and lived in Shalom, later Ramat HaSharon, then a small settlement of 100 families. Eitan went to a regular public junior high school, but finished his high school studies at the Agricultural School in Givat HaShlosha in 1940 before going to the London School of Economics for his BSc in Economics.

Eitan was an avid sculptor. Over the 30 years that he sculpted, Eitan produced over 100 pieces. He had a one-man show at the offices of the high-tech company "Brown".

Eitan died at Ichilov Hospital in Tel Aviv on 23 March 2019, at the age of 92. His funeral took place the following day. He was buried in Netanya in a civil ceremony.

Military career
Eitan joined the Haganah and then the Palmach, the elite unit of the Haganah, upon completion of high school in 1944. Through clandestine operations, he was to assist the illegal immigration of Jewish refugees from Europe, who were fleeing Nazism, into Palestine. It was also during this time that he met Yitzhak Rabin, who would later become Israeli Prime Minister. He also took part in a raid on the Atlit detainee camp to free illegal Jewish immigrants being detained by the British, the Night of the Bridges, and the November 1946 killings of two Templers to deter the rest of the German Templer community from returning to their homes in Palestine following World War II. His most famous operation at this time was blowing up the British radar on Mount Carmel near the port city of Haifa, which was being used to track ships carrying illegal Jewish immigrants. To reach it, Eitan had to crawl underground through sewers, thus earning the name 'Rafi the Stinker', which would differentiate him in later years from the other Rafael Eitan, a well-known Israeli Chief of Staff and politician. While on an operation to assist illegal Jewish immigrants, he was injured in a mine explosion while planting mines to prevent the British from interfering and was rendered almost totally deaf. He relied on hearing aids for the rest of his life.

During the 1947-1948 civil war in Mandatory Palestine and the 1948 Arab-Israeli War Eitan served as a soldier in the Yiftach Brigade,  participating in combat operations, and was wounded in combat on the day after Israeli independence was declared. He also served as an intelligence officer.

Intelligence career  
From his service as an intelligence officer,  he was propelled to commanding posts in the internal intelligence agency (Shin Bet). Later, Eitan served as Chief of Coordination between Shin Bet and Mossad. This position would allow him the biggest triumph in a post-Holocaust Israel: the capture of Adolf Eichmann. After Mossad located Eichmann and his family living in Argentina under assumed names, Eitan and his team were sent by the Israeli government on a covert mission to capture Eichmann and extract him to Israel, as it was unlikely the Argentine government would respond favorably to an extradition request. The mission was a major success. Eichmann later stood trial in Jerusalem for atrocities against the Jewish people during World War II. After being convicted by an Israeli court, Eichmann was executed. While working to apprehend Eichmann, Eitan personally vetoed a proposal to also capture and extract Josef Mengele. Like Eichmann, Mengele fled to South America in 1945 and at the time was also living in Argentina while under Mossad surveillance. Eitan argued that redirecting the mission's focus to incorporate also capturing Mengele could jeopardize the larger goal of bringing Eichmann to justice.