[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Joint Task Force Lebanon

Joint Task Force Lebanon (JTF-L) is a U.S. European Command (EUCOM) operational unit established in 2006 and assigned responsibility for U.S. military support to the American Embassy in Beirut and to help U.S. Department of State led humanitarian assistance efforts that are providing aid to the people of Lebanon. Led by Commander, U.S. Sixth Fleet Navy Vice Admiral John "Boomer" Stufflebeem, JTF Lebanon officially accepted the mission on August 23, 2006 from U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) units, which had been operating in the region since mid-July 2006 shortly after hostilities began between Israel and Hezbollah militants based in Lebanon.

Its area of responsibility focuses on a "joint operation area" (JOA) around the country of Lebanon to include a wide portion of the eastern Mediterranean Sea. JTF-L includes numerous ships and air assets, and more than 2,400 Air Force, Army, Marine Corps and Navy active and reserve personnel. Most command element personnel are headquartered aboard the command flagship Mount Whitney (LCC/JCC 20) that is homeported in Gaeta, Italy.

Mission
Assist the U.S. government commitment to enhance regional stability by supporting U.S. joint interagency efforts involved in operations to aid Lebanon and protect American citizens.  Specifically, JTF-L was tasked to directly support the American Embassy in Beirut and to help U.S. Department of State led humanitarian assistance efforts that are providing aid to the people of Lebanon

Organization

Commander, Joint Task Force Lebanon, Vice Admiral Stufflebeem assigned two task force commanders with responsibility for the air, land and sea support to the American Embassy in Beirut and to execute the daily operations necessary to carry out the mission to assist Department of State-led efforts in the region.

JTF-L Task Force ALPHA, Air and Land Forces
Air Force Colonel Brad Webb leads Task Force “Alpha” consisting of air and land components and assigned more than 450 personnel from all branches of the U.S. military. As Commander, 352nd Special Operations Group, Colonel Webb arrived in the region on July 19, 2006 with more than 180 personnel from his home station at RAF Mildenhall, UK. Using Cyprus as a land-based headquarters, a group of MH-53M Pave Low heavy-lift helicopters completed an “air bridge” for taking people in and out of the American Embassy in Beirut, where a JTF-L Marine Corps Fleet Anti-Terrorism Security Team (FAST) is located. Task Force Alpha is also responsible for MC-130P Combat Shadow refuelers, a small logistics element, and "Big Windy" Army CH-47 helicopters based out of Ansbach, GE.

JTF-L Task Force BRAVO, Maritime Forces 
Commander, Destroyer Squadron 60, Navy Captain John Nowell leads Task Force “Bravo” consisting of maritime assets in the JOA designated around Lebanon. Although many ships have conducted "sea bridge" and "escort" operations supporting JTF-L during the course of operations, Task Force Bravo has a typical naval presence of approximately 1,800 sailors, Marines and civilian mariners aboard platforms such as Gonzalez (DDG 66), Barry (DDG 52), Hue City (CG 66), Trenton (LPD 14), Wasp (LHD 1), HSV-2 Swift, Kanawha (T-AO 196) and the JTF Lebanon flagship Mount Whitney (LCC/JCC 20).