[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Space Viking

sso and a mysterious off-stage figure known only as "the Wizard" who seems to be helping the Princely Realm of Tanith for mysterious reasons of his own.  Although Mancour didn't receive authorization by the Piper estate to continue the story, he could do so by virtue of the work's expired copyright.

To follow up, Mancour published a second sequel, Princess Valerie's War, in July 2011.  In this sequel, Princess Valerie deals with ruling her semi-barbaric Space Viking world while her husband, Lucas Trask, has been captured by agents of Aton, a "civilized" world rule by a despotic bureaucracy and in charge of a large trading empire within the Old Federation.  In addition, there seems to be some unlikely collusion on the part of Aton and some Space Viking elements.
 
Additional sequels to The Tanith Series include:
 
The Last Space Viking (2011), written by John F. Carr and Mike Robertson - Set a hundred years after Piper's original novel and marking struggles of the last Space Vikings and the fall of Trask's empire.
Space Viking's Throne (2012), written by Mike Robertson and John F. Carr - Direct sequel to Last Space Viking. The story continues the story of the aftermath of the conquest of the League of Civilized Worlds at the hands of the Mardukan Empire. Captain David Morland tries to establish a new Viking base, while trying elude Imperial hunters.
Space Viking Legacy: The Tanith Gambit (2013), by Dietmar Wehr - The book is set two hundred and fifty years after Piper's novel, and tells of struggle of the Princes of Marduk and Tanith to fight off a great Space Viking horde overrunning their worlds.

Influence 
In the Traveller role-playing game, a region of the Traveller Universe called the Spinward Marches contains a polity called the Sword Worlds, also consisting of planets named after legendary swords.

References

External links 
 
 Full text of the magazine version of Space Viking (various formats) at Project Gutenberg.
Lengthy commentary/analysis by Joseph T. Major on Space Viking.
 

1963 American novels
1963 science fiction novels
American science fiction novels
Novels by H. Beam Piper
Novels first published in serial form
Works originally published in Analog Science Fiction and Fact
Ace Books books