[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Counterterrorism Mission Center

duct a review of the CIA's operational strategy, with the aim of creating "a new, comprehensive plan of attack" against al-Qaeda. By mid-September, the result of this review, known simply as "The Plan", had been briefed to CIA operational level personnel, and to the NSA, the FBI, and other partners.

Once Cofer Black had finalized his operational plan, Charles E. Allen, associate deputy director of Central Intelligence for Collection, created a dedicated al-Qaeda cell with officers from across the intelligence community.  This cell met daily, focusing on penetrating the Afghan sanctuary, and ensuring that collection initiatives were synchronized with operational plans.  Allen met with Tenet on a weekly basis to review initiatives.

The CIA increasingly concentrated its diminished resources on counterterrorism, so that resources for this activity increased sharply, in contrast to the general trend.  At least some of the Plan's more modest aspirations were translated into action.  Intelligence collection efforts on bin Laden and al-Qaeda increased significantly from 1999.

The core 9/11 hijackers emerge
Beginning in September 1999, the CTC picked up multiple signs that bin Laden had set in motion major terrorist attacks for the turn of the year.  The CIA set in motion what Black later described as the "largest collection and disruption activity in the history of mankind".  They focused on known al-Qaeda terrorists, and on senior personnel both inside and outside Afghanistan.

Amid this activity, in November–December 1999 Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-Shehhi, Ziad Jarrah, and Nawaf al-Hazmi visited Afghanistan, where they were selected by al-Qaeda for the 9/11 operation. In late 1999, the NSA picked up traces of an "operational cadre" consisting of al-Hazmi, his younger brother Salem, and Khalid al-Mihdhar, who were planning to go to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in January 2000.  A CTC officer sought permission to conduct surveillance on the men.  At about this time the SOCOM-DIA data mining operation "Able Danger" also identified a potential al-Qaeda unit, consisting of the future leading 9/11 hijackers, and termed them the "Brooklyn cell". Altogether, the operation found five cells, including two of the three cells involved in the 9/11 attack.

The CIA erratically tracked al-Hazmi and al-Mihdhar as they traveled to and attended the al-Qaeda summit in Kuala Lumpur in early January 2000.

The Predator drone (2000–2001)

In autumn 2000, a series of flights over Afghanistan by Predator drones, under the joint control of the U.S. Air Force and the CTC, produced probable sightings of bin Laden.  CTC Director Black advocated arming Predators with missiles to try to launch a targeted killing of bin Laden, but there were legal and technical issues.  Black continued to lobby for Predators armed with adapted Hellfire anti-tank missiles under the new Bush administration in 2001.  On Black's advice, Director George Tenet raised the matter at the long-awaited Cabinet-level Principals Committee meeting on terrorism on September 4, 2001, and received authorization to deploy the system.

9/11 and the War on Terror (2001–2015)

After the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, some CTC staff were exempted from an order to evacuate the CIA headquarters building at Langley.  They included the shift of the Global Response Center on the exposed sixth floor, which Black had argued was essential to keep operating during the crisis.  Tenet finally agreed with Black that their lives would have to be put at risk.

The CTC obtained passenger lists from the planes used in the attack, and identified Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi, whose names they had first linked with terrorism in the winter of 1999–2000. Tenet later proposed inserting CIA teams into Afghanistan to assist local warlords in the fight against al-Qaeda.

The CIA geared up to take the lead in the attack on al-Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan.  The Northern Afghanistan Liaison Team (NALT) team, led by Gary Schroen, entered the country once more on September 26.  A new branch was added to the CTC, named CTC Special Operations, or CTC/SO, headed by Henry Crumpton, with the aim of locating and destroying al-Qaeda resources. Execution of this mission was nowhere more evident than at Qala-i-Jangi, a 19th-century fortress on the outskirts of the northern Afghan town of Mazar-i-Sharif, when it fell to American allies.

A CIA Directorate of Support security wing being paramilitary, under the innocuous title Global Response Staff (GRS) was created after 9/11. Scorpions known for operating in Iraq, was a creation of the CIA’s. 

Gina Haspel, who would later become CIA Director, requested a transfer to CTC in 2001. Her first day was September 11, 2001. She continued at CTC for three years following the attacks.