[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# TaxPayers' Alliance

as saying that the "scope of the investigation is to address the allegations relating to the charity's relationship with the Taxpayers' Alliance"; such cases are opened when "available information indicates misconduct or mismanagement has occurred" or otherwise when actions "may have been improper".

John Prescott, former UK Deputy Prime Minister, stated that the Charity Commission's announcement of an investigation showed the Taxpayers' Alliance was "exploiting the taxpayer rather than protecting their interests as they claim to do". He also wrote to Dame Suzi Leather, the Commission's chairwoman, requesting that the Alliance's charitable status be immediately suspended; he has in the past called the Alliance "a Conservative Party front".

According to another report, Americans for Prosperity, another Tea Party group which claims to have 1.5m activists and is headed by oil billionaires, Koch brothers of Koch Industries, was also represented at the London conference, and helped fund it.

Illegal overspending, illegal dismissal and vilification, concealment of funding
In 2018, the TaxPayers' Alliance conceded that it illegally vilified and sacked the whistleblower Shahmir Sanni, on the BBC and on the website "Brexit Central", for revealing unlawful overspending in the Brexit referendum campaign. Elliott had called Sanni a "Walter Mitty fantasist" and claimed that Sanni was guilty of "completely lying". The Alliance also did not contest the statement that they are responsible for Elliott's Brexit Central website and that they coordinated their actions with Downing Street and with nine "linked" rightwing "thinktanks" that operate in and around offices at 55 Tufton Street in Westminster. The network includes the Adam Smith Institute, the Centre for Policy Studies, the Institute of Economic Affairs, and Leave Means Leave. 

A barrister commented that, "It is incredibly unusual for a respondent to make a complete concession on liability as the respondent has here. To wave a white flag to avoid disclosing documents and giving evidence in court is really unusual. They conceded everything. How does an ostensibly private company come to be working with Downing Street? What is their relationship? Who are their funders?"

Bibliography 
Books
Matthew Elliott and Lee Rotherham, The Bumper Book of Government Waste, 2006, Harriman House
Matthew Elliott and Lee Rotherham, The Bumper Book of Government Waste 2008: Brown’s Squandered Billions, 2007, Harriman House
David Craig and Matthew Elliott, The Great European Rip-Off: How the Corrupt, Wasteful EU is Taking Control of Our Lives, 2009, Random House
David Craig and Matthew Elliott, Fleeced!: How we've been betrayed by the politicians, bureaucrats and bankers - and how much they've cost us, 2009, Constable & Robinson
Matthew Sinclair, How to Cut Public Spending: (and Still Win an Election), 2010, Biteback

Pamphlets
Matthew Elliott, Matthew Sinclair & Corin Taylor "How cutting corporation tax would boost revenue", September 2008

See also
 Business for Britain

References

External links 
 
BBC, 3 March 2008, The campaign group: Taxpayers' Alliance
Localgov.co.uk, 2 March 2009, LGA hits out at pension claims
 Sourcewatch profile of the Taxpayers' Alliance

2004 establishments in the United Kingdom
Organizations established in 2004
Political advocacy groups in the United Kingdom
Private companies limited by guarantee of the United Kingdom
Taxation in the United Kingdom
Taxpayer groups