[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Colum McCann

storical novel anyway. But calling something a historical novel seems to put mittens on it, right? It puts manners on it. And you don't want your novels to be mannered." McCann lived just a few blocks from Senator Mitchell in New York City, but did not meet him until he finished a draft of the book.

In the summer of 2014, McCann was assaulted outside a hotel in New Haven, Connecticut, while trying to help a woman who was being beaten up on the street. McCann told The Irish Times that "The irony of it all is that I was at a conference on ’Empathy’ at Yale University with a non-profit I’m involved in, Narrative 4." At this point, he had already started writing his next short story collection, Thirteen Ways of Looking. The book contains three short stories and a novella, each beginning with a stanza from Wallace Stevens's poem, "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird". Though the titular story is about an on-street assault, he wrote it before being attacked. After Thirteen Ways of Looking's October 2015 release, it went on to win a Pushcart Prize. The story "Sh'khol" was included in The Best American Short Stories 2015. The story "What Time is it Now, Where You Are?" was short-listed for the Writing.ie Short Story of the Year 2015. and for the 
Sunday Times EFG Short Story Award 2016.

Each week throughout 2016, McCann wrote a blog post giving a piece of advice to young writers (posted on his website here). The edited collection, Letters to a Young Writer, was published by Random House in 2017.

In 2019, McCann returned to playwriting, collaborating with Aedin Moloney to write Yes! Reflections of Molly Bloom. The one-woman show is adapted from James Joyce's novel Ulysses and centers around the Molly Bloom soliloquy.  The show ran at the Irish Repertory Theatre in 2019, online in 2020, and again at the Irish Rep in 2022.

2020s: Apeirogon and upcoming works 

Throughout the late 2010s, McCann travelled to the Middle East and started work on his eighth novel, Apeirogon. In the early stages of writing, he said “I’m going to write the novel that has not the two-state solution, but the two-story solution.” Published in February 2020, the book shares the story of two men—one Israeli, and one Palestinian—whose daughters died in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Rami Elhanan, an Israeli graphic designer, lost his daughter to a Palestinian suicide bomber. Bassam Aramin, a Palestinian scholar and previous political prisoner, lost his daughter to an IDF rubber bullet. The pair met in the Parents Circle, a cross-cultural group where parents whose children died due to the conflict can come together and share their stories. McCann calls Apeirogon his “Narrative 4 novel” due to its focus on empathy and unlikely connections. Apeirogon was positively received, gaining a place on the Booker Prize longlist and winning the Prix du Meilleur Livre Étranger.

His next book, American Mother, is set to be released in January 2024. It tells the story of Diane Foley, whose son, James Foley, was captured and killed by ISIS while serving as a freelance combat reporter in Syria. Foley was once photographed while reading Let the Great World Spin, which floored McCann after Foley died: "There's a photograph of him online reading my book, Let the Great World Spin, and I was shocked by that, absolutely shocked. I was reading the news reports when he was killed, and I saw this photograph, and I looked at the book he was reading."

His next novel, Twist, is set to be released in 2025.

In popular culture 
McCann used to write in a ninth-floor apartment sitting with a computer device on his lap on the floor of a cupboard with no windows located between "two very tight walls", surrounded by messages written by himself and others.

"I believe in the democracy of storytelling", said McCann in a 2013 interview. "I love the fact that our stories can cross all sorts of borders and boundaries."

"The best writers attempt to become alternative historians", McCann said. "My sense of the Great Depression is guided by the works of Doctorow, for instance. My perception of Dublin in the early 20th century is almost entirely guided by my reading of 'Ulysses.'""I think it is our job, as writers, to be epic. Epic and tiny at the same time. If you're going to be a fiction writer, why not take on something that means something", McCann said in an interview. "In doing this, you must understand that within that epic structure it is the tiny story that is possibly more important."

Barack Obama quoted McCann in a 2013 town hall in Northern Ireland. “'Peace is indeed harder than war,' the Irish author Colum McCann recently wrote.  'And its constant fragility is part of its beauty.  A bullet need happen only once, but for peace to work we need to be reminded of its existence again and again and again.'”

Edna O'Brien told The New York Times "By The Book" that she would choose McCann to write her life story.