[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Naruto: Ultimate Ninja

games, as well as an original storyline. All 124 characters will return, along with newcomers such as Indra and Asura Ōtsutsuki. 60 FPS support is included with next-gen consoles. It is scheduled for a Japanese release on November 16, 2023, followed by its global release the next day on November 17.

Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja BlazingNaruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Blazing, known as  in Japan, is the first mobile platform game in the Naruto: Ultimate Ninja game series published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. It's a turn-based action role-playing game, and is currently available on iOS and Android.

Players engage in combat by strategically moving their characters. These characters can level up, known as ‘awakening,’ to beat stronger opponents. After that, they can ‘limit break,’ to achieve an even stronger state. The game features the following playable game modes: Story, Emergency Mission (Missions to get items that improve your ninjas or new ninjas), Trial Missions (get Trial Coins to Limit Break characters), Phantom Castle (fight against Teams of other players and ascend to Floor 100 - prices for each floor), Ninja Road (get an Acquisition Stone to unlock an ability of a character you own by beating all 20 maps in a row), Ninja World Clash (PvP: Build a Team and play against online opponents). The game is free to play, and offers in-app purchase. 

The game was removed from IOS and Android stores on February 9, 2021.

Reception

Various Ultimate Ninja games have become Namco Bandai's best-selling games with Ultimate Ninja Storm 2 being its second best-selling game from 2010 behind Tekken 6 with 1.1 million units sold. In January 2012, Namco Bandai announced that they have sold 10 million Naruto games worldwide, including 1.9 million units in Asia, 4.3 million in North America, and 3.8 million in Europe. In celebration CyberConnect2's CEO Hiroshi Matsuyama participated in the 2012 Paris International Marathon while cosplaying as Naruto Uzumaki, thanking fans. By 2016, more than 15 million units were sold. As of 2019, 20 million units have sold. In 2017, the mobile game Ultimate Ninja Blazing grossed  () in China.

Critical reception to the games has been positive. G4's X-Play gave Ultimate Ninja a three out of five for a creative comicbook feel and stylish cel-shaded graphics, but complained that the controls are too simple, and that the English voices are "slightly questionable." Both IGN and GameSpot noted the game was both accessible and enjoyable and praised the anime/manga-inspired graphics. Titles for the PlayStation Portable received considerably lower averages in gaming sites. Ultimate Ninja Storm'' was also the only video game to win the Excellent Prize in the Entertainment Division of the 13th annual Japan Media Arts Festival.

References

External links
 

3D fighting games
Video games with cel-shaded animation
CyberConnect2 games
Bandai Namco games
Bandai Namco Entertainment franchises
Ultimate Ninja series
PlayStation 2 games
PlayStation 3 games
PlayStation 4 games
PlayStation Portable games
Shueisha franchises
Xbox 360 games
Xbox One games
Video game franchises
Windows games

it:Naruto: Ultimate Ninja