[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Trịnh–Nguyễn War

The Trịnh–Nguyễn Civil War (; chữ Hán: 鄭阮紛爭) was a 17th-century lengthy civil war waged between the two ruling families in Vietnam, the Trịnh lords of Đàng Ngoài and the Nguyễn lords of Đàng Trong, centered in today's Central Vietnam. The wars resulted in a long stalemate and century of peace before conflicts resumed in 1774 resulting in the emergence of the Tây Sơn forces following Trịnh Lords at the time, Nguyễn Lords collapsed in Saigon in 1777. During the division of Vietnam, Gianh River was used as the de facto border between two regimes Đàng Ngoài and Đàng Trong in peacetime.

Origins
Both the Trịnh and Nguyễn families were descended from aides, namely Trịnh Kiểm (who is a son-in-law of Nguyễn Kim) and Nguyễn Kim himself, to the hero-Emperor Lê Lợi who liberated Đại Việt from Chinese rule of Ming dynasty and started the Lê dynasty in 1428. By 1520 a succession of weak emperors had brought the country into a state of civil war (see Lê dynasty's civil war). For the next 20 years the Trịnh and Nguyễn clans fought as allies against the usurper Mạc Đăng Dung to restore Đại Việt under rule of Lê Emperor. When Lê dynasty was restored in 1533, the Mạc dynasty had to retreat to Cao Bang. Nguyễn Kim, the father of the first Nguyễn lords, married his daughter to his subordinate Trịnh Kiểm, the first of Trịnh lords. Thus the Trịnh lords and Nguyễn lords are blood related.

Partition
The prime mover in the period from 1525 onwards was Nguyen Kim. His daughter married the young head of the Trịnh family Trinh Kiem. Around 1530, the rebels of Le dynasty royalist were forced into exile in Lan Xang (modern-day Laos) but they gathered a new army and captured some southern provinces of Dai Viet. In 1545, Nguyen Kim and subsequently his eldest son Nguyen Uong were assassinated. Nguyen Kim's son-in-law, Trinh Kiem, then took control over the Royal army. In 1558, Trịnh Kiểm gave the rulership over the southernmost province of Quang Nam to Nguyen Hoang, his wife's brother and the second son of Nguyen Kim. The suspicious causes his father's and brother's deaths, as well as his brother's subsequent takover, probably caused bitter resentment in Nguyen Hoang and the later rivalry between the two families. For the next 55 years, Nguyen Hoang ruled Quang Nam. He gradually asserted his control over the province and extended his control south into the remaining Champa lands. Periodically, he sent military forces north to help the Trinh in their long fight against the Mạc dynasty. In 1570 Trinh Kiem died and was succeeded by his second son Trinh Tung, a vigorous leader who captured Hanoi from the Mạc king in 1572. However, the Mạc emperor (Mac Mau Hop) recaptured the city the next year. 20 years later in 1592, Trinh Tung again captured Hanoi and executed Mac Mau Hop. 

In 1593, Nguyen Hoang went personally to the court, bringing money and an army to help destroy the remaining Mac armies. Once the Mạc were defeated, Nguyen Hoang held the office of Grand Vizier for the next 7 years. However, his nephew Trinh Tung became increasingly wary of Nguyen Hoang's influence in the court and kept Hoàng near him at all times for surveillance purposes. Nguyen Hoang adopted Trinh Tung's two important generals as his nephews and incited them to rebel against their commander. When the rebels stormed the court, Trinh Tung fled with the Emperor while Hoàng took to the Southern Provinces, never to return. In 1600 the old Nguyen ruler broke relations with the Trinh court and titled himself as the Vuong (a term meaning prince or king). Hoang died in 1613.
The new leader of the Nguyen, Nguyen Phuc Nguyen, continued his father's policy of defiance, but also initiated friendly relations with the Europeans sailing into the area. A foreign trading post was set up in Hoi An. By 1615 the Nguyen were producing their own bronze cannons with the aid of Portuguese engineers.

The first campaign

In 1620, Nguyễn Phúc Nguyên officially refused to send taxes to the court in Hanoi. A formal demand was made to the Nguyễn to submit to the authority of the court, and it was formally refused. In 1623 Trịnh Tùng died and was succeeded by his son Trịnh Tráng. Now Trịnh Tráng made a formal demand for submission, and again Nguyễn Phúc Nguyên refused. Finally in 1627 open warfare broke out between the Trịnh and the Nguyễn. For four months a large Trịnh army battled against the Nguyễn army but were unable to defeat them.  The result of this war was that Vietnam had effectively been partitioned into northern and southern regions, with the Trịnh controlling most of the north and the Nguyễn controlling most of the south; the dividing line was the Gianh River in Quảng Bình Province. This border was very close to the Seventeenth parallel (in actuality the Bến Hải River located just to the south in Quảng Trị Province), which was imposed as the border between North Vietnam and South Vietnam during the Partition of Vietnam (1954–75).