[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Night shark

ve coarse serrations at the base of the trailing margin. The number and size of serrations on the leading margin of the tooth cusp increase relative to those on the trailing margin as the animal grows older. The lower teeth are upright and smooth-edged. The five pairs of gill slits are rather short.

The pectoral fins are less than a fifth as long as the total body length and taper towards a somewhat rounded tip. The first dorsal fin is relatively small, triangular, and pointed, originating over the free rear tips of the pectoral fins. The second dorsal fin is much smaller than the first and originates over or slightly ahead of the anal fin. A ridge runs between the dorsal fins. The dermal denticles are not tightly packed and overlap each other minimally. Each denticle is diamond-shaped with horizontal ridges leading to marginal teeth, the number increasing from three in juveniles to five to seven in adults. The coloration is grayish blue or brown above and whitish below, without fin markings. A faint band occurs on each side and sometimes small black spots are scattered over the back. This species usually grows to  long, but has been recorded reaching a length and weight of  and , respectively.

Biology and ecology
Fast and energetic, the night shark feeds primarily on small, active bony fishes such as mullet, mackerel, butterfish, sea basses, and flyingfish. Squid and shrimp are also sometimes taken. Most feeding activity occurs at night, hence its common name, with peaks at dawn and dusk. Catch records indicate that this species is usually found in schools and conducts a diel vertical migration, spending the day at a depth of  and moving up to shallower than  at night. Ovulating and gravid females are rarely ever caught, suggesting that during this period, they may stop feeding or segregate themselves from others of their species. Potential predators of the night shark include larger sharks. Known parasites include the copepods Kroyeria caseyi, which attach to the gills, Pandarus bicolor and P. smithii, which infest the skin, and the tapeworms Heteronybelinia yamagutii, H. nipponica and Progrillotia dollfusi, which are found in the spiral valve intestine. Another parasite is an undescribed isopod similar to Aega webbii. The common remora (Remora remora) may be found attached to this species.

Like other members of its family, the night shark is viviparous; once the developing embryos exhaust their supply of yolk, the depleted yolk sac is converted into a placental connection through which the mother delivers nourishment. Adult females have a single functional ovary (on the right) and two functional uteri, which are divided into separate compartments for each embryo. Within the uterus, the embryos lie lengthwise with their heads pointing the same direction as their mother. Most information known about the night shark's life history comes from the subpopulation off northeastern Brazil, and may not hold true in other parts of the species range. Northeastern Brazilian sharks mate throughout the summer, with the male biting at the female's body and fins as a prelude to copulation.

After a year-long gestation period, females give birth to four to 18 (usually 12 or more) pups. Embryos at varying stages of development have been found in both February and June, suggesting that the parturition takes place over a span of several months. An important nursery area is believed to exist at the continental shelf break at 34°S latitude, near the southern extreme of this species' range. The newborn young measure  long, and add around  or 38% of their body length in their first year. This fast rate of growth serves to shorten the period immediately after birth when the small pups are most vulnerable to predators, a strategy similar to that employed by the silky shark (C. falciformis). By the time the sharks reach adulthood, their growth rate slows to a more modest  per year. No difference is seen in growth rate between sexes. Males mature sexually at a length of , corresponding to an age of 8 years, and females at a length of , corresponding to an age of 10 years. The oldest known individuals are 17 years old; based on growth curves, their maximum lifespan has been estimated at 28 years for males and 30 years for females.