[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Prince étranger

Prince étranger (English: "foreign prince") was a high, though somewhat ambiguous, rank at the French royal court of the Ancien Régime.

Terminology
In medieval Europe, a nobleman bore the title of prince as an indication of sovereignty, either actual or potential. Aside from those who were or claimed to be monarchs, it belonged to those who were in line to succeed to a royal or independent throne. France had several categories of prince in the early modern period. They frequently quarrelled, and sometimes sued each other and members of the nobility, over precedence and distinctions.

The foreign princes ranked in France above "titular princes" (princes de titre, holders of a legal but foreign title of prince which carried no right of succession to any sovereign realm), and above most titled nobles, including the highest among these, dukes. They ranked below acknowledged members of the House of Capet, France's ruling dynasty since the tenth century. Included in that royal category (in descending order) were:
the famille du roi ("royal family"): consisting of the sovereign, his consort, any queens dowager, and the legitimate children (enfants de France) and male-line grandchildren (petits-enfants de France) of a French king or of a dauphin;
the princes du sang ("princes of the Blood Royal": legitimate male-line great-grandchildren, and their male-line descendants, of French kings, e.g. the houses of Condé, Conti and Montpensier); and
the so-called princes légitimés ("legitimated princes": the legitimised natural children, and their male-line descendants, of French kings, e.g. Orléans-Longueville, Bourbon-Vendôme and Bourbon-Penthièvre).

This hierarchy in France evolved slowly at the king's court, barely taking into account any more exalted status a foreign prince might enjoy in his own dynasty's realm. It was not clear, outside the halls of the Parlement of Paris, whether foreign princes ranked above, below, or with the holder of a French peerage.

Deposed rulers and their consorts (e.g. King James II of England,
Queen Christina of Sweden, Duchess Suzanne-Henriette of Mantua, etc.) ranked above the foreign princes, and were usually accorded full protocolar courtesies at court, for as long as they remained welcome in France.

Foreign princes were of three kinds:
those domiciled in France but recognized by the current king as junior members of dynasties that reigned abroad
the Guise cadets of the ducal House of Lorraine
the Nevers cadets of Mantua's ducal House of Gonzaga
the Nemours cadets of the ducal House of Savoy
 rulers of small principalities who habitually sojourned at the French court
Princes of Monaco, of the House of Grimaldi
Dukes of Bouillon, of the House of La Marck and, later, of the House of La Tour d'Auvergne
 French nobles who claimed membership in a formerly sovereign dynasty, either in the male line or who claimed a foreign throne as heirs in the female line
Rohan, male-line descendants of the dukes of Brittany
La Trémoïlle, heirs of the Trastámara kings of Naples

Status
Like knights-errant of chivalric folklore, whether in exile or in search of royal patronage, to win renown at arms, international influence, or a private fortune, foreign princelings often migrated to the French court, regarded as both the most magnificent and munificent in Europe in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Some ruled small border realms (e.g., the principalities of Dombes, Orange, Neuchâtel, Sedan), while others inherited or were granted large properties in France (e.g., Guise, Rohan, La Tour d'Auvergne). Still others came to France as relatively destitute refugees (e.g. Queen Henrietta Maria of England, the Prince Palatine Eduard).

Most found that, with assiduity and patience, they were well received by France's king as living adornments to his majesty and, if they remained in attendance at court, were often gifted with high office (the princesse de Lamballe, the princesse des Ursins), military command (Henri de la Tour d'Auvergne, Vicomte de Turenne), estates, governorships, embassies, church sinecures (the Rohans in the Archbishopric of Strasbourg), titles and, sometimes, splendid dowries as the consorts of royal princesses (e.g. Louis Joseph de Lorraine, Duke of Guise).