[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rory O'Connor (Irish republican)

Roderick O'Connor (; 28 November 1883 – 8 December 1922) was an Irish republican revolutionary. He was Director of Engineering for the IRA in the Irish War of Independence.
O'Connor opposed the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1921 and was chairman of the republican military council that became the Anti-Treaty IRA in March 1922. He was the main spokesman for the republican side in the lead-up to the outbreak of the Irish Civil War in June of that year. On 30 June, O'Connor was taken prisoner at the conclusion of the attack by Free State forces on the Four Courts in Dublin. On 8 December 1922, he was executed along with three other senior members of the IRA Four Courts garrison. All four men were executed without trial or courts martial.

Background
O'Connor was born in Kildare Street, Dublin, on 28 November 1883. He was educated in St Mary's College, Dublin, and then in Clongowes Wood College, Co Kildare, a boarding school run by the Jesuit order. It was also attended by the man who would later condemn O'Connor to death, his close friend Kevin O'Higgins. O'Connor studied experimental physics, logic, and metaphysics; he also attended the College of Science, Merrion St. He took a Bachelor of Arts degrees in 1906 and received a Bachelor of Engineering in 1911, both at University College Dublin. Prominent in UCD's Literary and Historical Society, he advocated militant constitutional nationalism as one of the many society members active in the Young Ireland branch of the United Irish League. 

O'Connor went to work as a railway engineer, moving to Canada where he was an engineer for the Canadian Pacific Railway and Canadian Northern Railway, being responsible for the construction of  of railroad. O'Connor returned to Ireland in 1915 at Joseph Plunkett's request and worked for Dublin Corporation as a civil engineer. He joined the Ancient Order of Hibernians, a Catholic nationalist organisation, and served in the Easter Rising in 1916 in the GPO as an intelligence officer. O'Connor was wounded by a sniper during reconnaissance at the College of Surgeons.

War of Independence
During the subsequent Irish War of Independence from 1919 to 1921 he was Director of Engineering of the Irish Republican Army (IRA), a military organisation descended from the Irish Volunteers.  The specialist skills of engineering and signalling were essential to the development of the 5th Battalion, Dublin Brigade.  Its men were forbidden frontline duty as their contribution was regarded as vital, their number too small.  But units only expanded on an incremental local basis, disappointing Gen Richard Mulcahy.

O'Connor was also involved in the Republican breakout from Strangeways Prison in Manchester, England on 25 October 1919. Michael Collins had taken a particular interest in the escape, and actually visited Austin Stack in the prison under a false name to finalise the arrangements. IRA men held up traffic while a ladder was propped up against the outside of a prison wall. In all six prisoners were to escape, among them Piaras Beaslaí who had again been arrested.

Outbreak of civil war

O'Connor refused to accept the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1921, which established the Irish Free State. It was ratified by a narrow vote in Dáil Éireann, the Irish parliament. O'Connor and many like him felt that the Treaty confirmed the partition of the six counties of Northern Ireland and undermined the Irish Republic declared in 1916. "Oh we must work it for all its worth. If I could get enough to support me I would oppose it wholeheartedly", O'Connor said to a fellow-IRA man, Liam Archer.

On 10 January, a meeting was held at O'Connor's home in Monkstown, Dublin. In attendance were all senior anti-Treaty IRA officers except Liam Mellows. O'Connor was appointed to chair this grouping, known as the Republican Military Council. It was agreed that an IRA convention should be called without delay; failing this, a separate GHQ would be formed.

At a further meeting in O'Connor's office on 20 March, a temporary IRA GHQ staff was elected under Liam Lynch as chief of staff. O'Connor remained in charge of engineering.

On 26 March 1922, the anti-Treaty officers of the IRA held a convention in Dublin, in which they rejected the Treaty and repudiated the authority of the Dáil. However, they were prepared to discuss a way forward. The convention met again on 9 April. It created a new army constitution and placed the army under a newly elected executive of 16 men,  including O'Connor, that would choose an army council and headquarters staff. 
Asked by a journalist if this development meant the anti-treatyites were proposing a 'military dictatorship' in Ireland, O'Connor replied, "You can take it that way if you want."