[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mir-26 microRNA precursor family

Origins

The miR-26 microRNA is a small non-coding RNA that is involved in regulating gene expression. The miR-26 family is composed of miR-26a-1, miR-26a-2 and miR-26b located in chromosomes 3, 12 and 2, respectively. Pre-miR-26 with stem-loop structure is processed into mature miR-26 by a series of enzymes of intranuclear and intracytoplasm. The mature miRNA of miR-26a-1 and miR-26a-2 possesses the same sequence, with the exception of 2 different nucleotides in mature miR-26b. miR-26 appears to be a vertebrate specific microRNA and has now been predicted or experimentally validated in many vertebrate species (MIPF0000043).

Expressions
miR-26 expression is induced in response to hypoxia and upregulated during smooth muscle cell (SMC) differentiation and neurogenesis. Moreover, miR-26 is consistently down-regulated in a wide range of malignant tumors, such as hepatocellular carcinoma, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, lung cancer, and breast cancer. On the contrary, miR-26a is overexpressed in high-grade glioma and cholangiocarcinoma. Elevated expression of miR-26b has been reported in pituitary tumor and bladder cancer. miR-26 is emerging as critical regulators in carcinogenesis and tumor progression by acting either as oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes in various cancers.

miR-26a roles
Smooth muscle cell (SMC) differentiation
miRNA-26a is found to be significantly upregulated during SMC differentiation and downregulated in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) formation. Inhibition of miRNA-26a accelerates SMC differentiation, and also promotes apoptosis, while inhibiting proliferation and migration. Overexpression of miRNA-26a blunts differentiation. MicroRNA-26a targets the expression of SMAD-1 and SMAD-4, members of the TGF-βsuperfamily signaling cascade. Inhibition of miRNA-26a increases gene expression of SMAD-1 and SMAD-4, while overexpression inhibits SMAD-1.
Hepatocellular carcinoma
miR-26a has been found to induce cell cycle arrest at the G1 phase in human hepatocellular carcinoma cells, in part through direct downregulation of cyclin D2 and cyclin E2. miR-26a also directly suppresses expression of estrogen receptor alpha (Erα). Overexpression of miR-26a brings about negative regulation of both cell proliferation and of the cell cycle. Therapeutic miR-26a delivery using adeno-associated virus (AAV) is able to inhibit cancer cell formation while also inducing tumour-specific apoptosis and providing dramatic protection from disease progression without toxicity.