[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

ister Manouchehr Mottaki, referring to the 'Rome convention' of late July, said: "We consider those, who helped in preventing the Rome convention from condemning and stopping the attack, as partners to the Zionist entity in its savage crimes committed against innocent women and children in Lebanon."

Iraq 
On 14 July, Iraqi Parliament Speaker Mahmoud Al-Mashhadani condemned Israeli attacks on Lebanon and called on both the UN Security Council and the international community to act, warning against the outcome for the region. Al-Mashhadani reportedly indicated that the "attacks reflected Israel's disrespect of the international community and international agreements."

Hoshyar Zebari, the Iraqi Foreign Minister in the US-backed government, also represented Iraq at a closed session meeting in Cairo with Arab League Foreign Ministers on 15 July. The meeting was convened to discuss the possibility of a resolution on the conflict.

Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is reported to have condemned Israel during the conflict, saying: "We call on the world to take quick stands to stop the Israeli aggression" and "[Israel's] excessive use of force is to be condemned."

Saudi Arabia 
A Saudi official, quoted by the Saudi Press Agency on 13 July, was critical of Hezbollah guerrillas—without naming them—of "uncalculated adventures" that precipitated the latest Middle East crisis: A difference should be drawn between legitimate resistance and rash adventures carried out by elements inside the state and those behind them without consultation or coordination with Arab countries.... The Kingdom sees that it is time for those elements alone to shoulder the full responsibility for this irresponsible behavior and that the burden of ending the crisis they have created falls on them alone.

Syria 
Vice President Farouk al-Sharaa said that Israel is responsible for the conflict, due to the Israeli occupation of the West Bank. The Syrian Baath Party has also expressed its solidarity and support with Hezbollah. Syria's military had been put on high alert. Syria's president Bashar Assad had also released a statement, saying:The occupying enemy hasn't forgotten the humiliating defeat and its submissive exit from south Lebanon under the strikes bold resistance.… Syria, which stood by its brother (Lebanon) and sacrificed martyrs to defend Lebanon's freedom as we did for Syria's sovereignty, remains as always adamant in standing by our Arab people who's fighting in Lebanon and Palestine, and by the bold national resistance who struck the enemy. All threats voiced by powers in the world who support the enemy won't deter us from continuing to support our brothers…because we believe that falling for the sake of heaven (martyrdom) is the only way to freedom and victory. We have to make all effort in training to save every drop of blood when the hour comes. The fighting continues so long our land is occupied and our rights are denied. Victory will be achieved God willing.… [T]he Israeli enemy continues its extermination war against our proud peoples in Lebanon and Palestine. Our brothers in Lebanon are being subjected to aggression by the Israeli war machine from the air, the sea and the ground.… The aggression, killing and destruction committed by the Israelis in Lebanon are part of an operation that was planned and organized by the large forces dominating the international community.

Others 

 Jordan: A statement from the Jordanian Government said: "Jordan stands against whoever exposes the Palestinian people and their cause, Lebanon and its sovereignty to unexpected dangers. Israel's use of force against unarmed civilians and the outcome in terms of the human loss and destruction of civil institutions." Jordan has also denounced Hezbollah's actions believing them to be harmful to Arab interests in the region.
 Kuwait: After receiving Lebanese Member of Parliament and Head of Future Block Saad Rafiq Al-Hariri, Prime Minister Sheikh Nasser Al-Mohammed Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah expressed solidarity with Lebanon, and condemned what it cited as "Israeli aggression on the Lebanese people."
 Palestinian Authority: Palestinian Authority chairman Mahmoud Abbas described Israel's incursion as the start of an escalation to a large-scale Middle East war. He urged World Powers "to stop this serious deterioration."
 Yemen: The ruling party, General People's Congress strongly condemned the actions of which it considered to be aggressions against the Palestinians and the Lebanese and called for the international community to intervene. Other political parties have also condemned the Israelis, and announced their support for the Palestinian and Lebanese people "in their fight for their right of survival and defeating occupier." They also called for the closing of Israeli embassies in Arab countries.

Asia