[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Aoibhinn Ní Shúilleabháin

ddition to appointments, Ní Shúilleabháin was named as one of the "Top 100 Women in Science, Maths and Engineering" by Silicon Republic in 2014, as one of the "40 under 40 European Young Leaders" by the Friends of Europe in 2017, and on the "Top 100 Women of 2021" list by the Irish Examiner in 2021.

Publications
Ní Shúilleabháin is one of four co-compilers of a 2012 science "short facts" book, A Neutron Walks Into a Bar, published in aid of charity. She is co-author of a paper for the 2014 annual conference of the Association for Teacher Education in Europe, "Investigating Representations of Ratio among Prospective Mathematics Teachers: a Study of Student-Teachers and Students of Mathematics in an Irish University".

Personal life
Ní Shúilleabháin was in a relationship with broadcaster Ryan Tubridy from 2009 to 2014. She married Carlos Diaz in a private ceremony in 2017. As of 2020, they have two sons.

She has noted her continued interest in Irish culture and status as a Gaeilgeoir, stating "for me, Irish culture is so important. I dance, I play, I speak the language".  After living in Monkstown for more than 5 years, she moved to Inchicore in 2016.

In September 2020, Ní Shúilleabháin spoke about her experience of being harassed and stalked, even beyond Dublin, over a two-year period, from 2015 to 2017, by Hans-Benjamin Braun, a fellow professor at UCD. Despite many logged reports to the university's human resources function, and support from multiple colleagues, the problem continued and ultimately a report was made to the Garda Siochana.  A prosecution for harassment eventually followed, in 2019, and the harasser was barred from making any contact with Ní Shúilleabháin for five years. Her speaking out led to changes in UCD policy on sexual harassment and violence and to changes to national policies on this subject at Irish Higher Education Institutions. She eventually received a formal apology from the acting president of UCD in 2022; the perpetrator of the harassment had meantime left the university.

References

External links

1983 births
Living people
People from Carnacon
Alumni of University College Dublin
Alumni of Trinity College Dublin
21st-century Irish mathematicians
Irish women mathematicians
Irish schoolteachers
Academics of University College Dublin
Irish folk singers
Irish-language singers
21st-century Irish women singers
Winners of the Rose of Tralee
Scientists from County Mayo