[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Milk coffee

o the bottom. Another version of  uses fresh milk. 

In Indonesia, milk coffee with ice and palm sugar is called . Kopi tubruk is as above but uses sugar instead of milk.

Latte 

A latte is an espresso and steamed milk, generally in a 1:3 to 1:5 ratio of espresso to milk, with a little foam on top.

In Italy it is called caffè latte or caffelatte, which means 'coffee and milk'. In northern Europe and Scandinavia the term 'café au lait' has traditionally been used for the combination of espresso and milk, but this term is used in the US for brewed coffee and scalded milk. In France, caffè latte is mostly known from American coffee chains; a combination of espresso and steamed milk equivalent to a latte is in French called  and in German  or . In Portuguese it is called galão.

Variants include the chocolate-flavored mocha, or replacing the coffee with another drink base such as masala chai (spiced Indian tea), mate or matcha, and other types of milk, such as soy milk or almond milk are also used.

Latte macchiato 
Latte macchiato literally means 'stained milk'. This refers to the method of preparation, wherein the milk gets "stained" by the addition of espresso. It differs from latte firstly in that espresso is added to milk (rather than milk to espresso), secondly that it features more foam, rather than simply hot milk, thirdly in that often only ½ (or less) of an espresso shot is used, and fourthly in that it is often a layered drink, rather than being mixed as in a caffè latte. Simply, in a latte, the emphasis is on the coffee, while in a latte macchiato, the emphasis is on the milk.

Macchiato 

Macchiato, meaning 'stained', is an espresso with a dash of foamed milk. At first sight it resembles a small cappuccino, but even if the ingredients are the same as those used for cappuccino, a macchiato has a much stronger and aromatic taste. The milk is foamed directly into the espresso cup, which is then put under the coffee outlet. The espresso is then drawn into the cup. Cocoa is sometimes sprinkled over the drink. Often the process is reversed and milk foam is floated on top of extracted coffee. A long macchiato will have two shots of espresso and a small amount of hot water (as per long black). A short macchiato will usually have one shot of coffee and less water (as per short black).

Wiener or Viennese melange 

 is popular in Austria, Switzerland and the Netherlands, and is traditionally similar to latte and cappuccino. It consists of espresso, steamed milk, and milk foam served in a large cup. It is sometimes topped with whipped cream. Outside Vienna the drink is sometimes referred to as . The  originated in the 1700s as a café drink in Austria.

A  is a speciality coffee drink similar to a cappuccino. The difference is sometimes assumed to be that the  is made with milder coffee but the Viennese coffee company Julius Meinl describes a  as "One small espresso served in a large cup of coffee. Steam milk and add milk foam to coffee (=small milk coffee)". At Cafe Sperl in Vienna, the  is 1/2 cup "black coffee" and 1/2 cup creamy milk, completed by milk foam.

Splashed americano 
A splashed americano is a variation of the caffè americano with an added dash of milk. The quantity of milk or cream can be adjusted according to personal taste, but is typically a small amount, less than would be used in a latte or cappuccino. Often, the hot milk is served on the side to account for personal preferences.

White coffee 
Ipoh white coffee is a popular coffee drink originating in Ipoh, Perak, Malaysia. The coffee beans are roasted with palm-oil margarine, and the resulting coffee is served with condensed milk. The taste is smooth and sweet, and is often served iced.

White coffee (UK) 
'White coffee' is the British alternative to a 'black coffee;' it is any form of black coffee with fresh cold milk added. Sometimes, hot milk (boiled or not) is used instead of cold.

Vienna coffee 
A Vienna coffee (not to be confused with "Vienna roast" coffee), is coffee or espresso topped with whipped cream. Milk is sometimes poured into the coffee/espresso before adding the whipped cream. Vanilla, chocolate or cinnamon is sometimes sprinkled on the cream.  (or ) is the Austrian term for coffee with whipped cream. Austria has a number of coffees with whipped cream.

Coffee regular 
A "regular coffee" or "coffee regular" is a popular coffee drink in New England. In much of New England, a "regular coffee" refers to coffee with cream and sugar. The most common amount usually includes three creams and three sugars. A "coffee regular" can be had either hot or as iced coffee.

See also 

 List of coffee drinks

References

External links

Coffee drinks
Milk-based drinks