[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Grand Street station (IND Sixth Avenue Line)

ly only had the two street stairs to the northeastern corner of the intersection, but due to growing ridership over the years—mainly by commuters from various Brooklyn neighborhoods to Manhattan's Chinatown—the third staircase to the northwestern corner was added in 1999.

Second Avenue Subway plans

In addition to connecting the BMT Nassau Street and IND Sixth Avenue Lines, as well as the Sixth Avenue Line to the Manhattan Bridge, the Chrystie Street Connection is one of the few completed sections of the SAS. The Grand Street station was built to serve as a transfer point between the Sixth Avenue and Second Avenue lines. The connection was built this way because the original 1960s plans for the SAS had Second Avenue and Sixth Avenue Line trains sharing two island platforms in a four-track layout, with connections from the Second Avenue Line to the Sixth Avenue Line and the Manhattan Bridge. Because Second Avenue Subway construction was halted in 1975, this station has only served Sixth Avenue Line trains since its opening. As part of the contemporary Second Avenue Subway construction, a new station is planned for construction below the current station during the fourth and final phase of the project; Phase 1 of the project on the Upper East Side opened on January 1, 2017, with Phase 2 in planning and two other phases with no funding commitments.

During modern planning, it was considered to utilize the cross-platform provision, known as the "Shallow Chrystie Option", or to place the tracks under Forsyth Street one block east (the Forsyth Option), both of which could tie into an existing tunnel near the Chatham Square station site south of Canal Street. This tunnel, known as the Confucius Plaza Tunnel, was built in the 1970s along with several sections in Upper Manhattan used for Phases 1 and 2 of the SAS. Both these options would require extensive usage of cut-and-cover construction methods, creating large amounts of disturbances to the local community, environmental issues, and possibly requiring the demolition of existing structures.

Current plans, however, have the Second Avenue platform to be built below the current one, though a free transfer will still be provided. The "Deep Chrystie Option", as the selected proposal is called, would instead place the Second Avenue Subway platform below the Sixth Avenue Line tracks, to create the least amount of community disturbance by utilizing tunnel boring machines. Cut-and-cover methods would be utilized only at the station site. The current platforms would be widened to create space for staircases to a new intermediate mezzanine between the two levels. This new mezzanine level will also include a new fare control area with staircases, escalators and elevators leading to two new station entrances/exits, with one on either side of Grand Street between Chrystie and Forsyth Streets. Although the Second Avenue Subway platform and the new entrances/exits would be ADA accessible, it is currently unknown if the Sixth Avenue Line platforms will also become ADA accessible. However, the widening of the platforms and additional entrances would likely trigger ADA requirements for adding elevators. To the north of the station, the Second Avenue Subway tunnels would curve to travel under Sara D. Roosevelt Park rather than directly below the Sixth Avenue Line tunnels under Chrystie Street, to avoid steel piles and other obstructions dating from the construction of the Chrystie Street Connection. To the south, the unused tunnel between Pell and Canal Streets could be used as an ancillary facility with the new passenger-service tunnels located beneath and slightly to the west.

References

External links 

 
 nycsubway.org—Artwork: Trains of Thought (Andrea Gardner and Sally Heller) (unknown date)
 Station Reporter—B Train
 Station Reporter—D Train
 The Subway Nut—Grand Street Pictures
 Grand Street entrance from Google Maps Street View
 View from uptown platform from Google Maps Street View

IND Sixth Avenue Line stations
Grand Street (Manhattan)
New York City Subway stations in Manhattan
Railway stations in the United States opened in 1967
Proposed IND Second Avenue Line stations
Chinatown, Manhattan
1967 establishments in New York City