[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anthony Dryden Marshall

sixteen counts relating to the handling of Brooke Astor's will and financial affairs.  The charges included conspiracy, grand larceny and possession of stolen property. Attorney Francis X Morrissey was also charged with six counts including conspiracy, forgery and possession of a forged instrument.

At a press conference following Marshall's arrest, Manhattan district attorney Robert M. Morgenthau stated that "Marshall and Morrissey took advantage of Mrs. Astor's diminished mental capacity in a scheme to defraud her and others out of millions of dollars". He further said that "Marshall abused his power of attorney and convinced Mrs. Astor to sell property by falsely telling her that she was running out of money. He is charged with stealing money from her as well as stealing valuable art work from her Park Avenue apartment."

The trial of Marshall and Morrissey started March 30, 2009, coincidentally his late mother's birthday. On October 8, 2009, Marshall was found guilty of 14 of the 16 charges, including first-degree grand larceny. Although he had his mother's General Durable Power of Attorney since the 1970s, jurors convicted him of giving himself an unauthorized raise bringing his salary up to about $1 million for managing his mother's finances which he had managed since 1977 earning $82 million.

On December 21, 2009, Marshall was sentenced to one to three years in New York State prison. Marshall's attorneys appealed citing jury tampering but the appeal was rejected. 89-year-old Marshall reported to prison on June 21, 2013.

However, after serving just eight weeks of his sentence, the 89-year-old Marshall had grown so sick and frail that he was granted medical parole on August 22, 2013. His health problems included Parkinson's disease and congestive heart failure; his lawyers claimed he could not walk, stand or dress himself. Marshall died on November 30, 2014, at the age of 90 with his wife Charlene by his side.

References

External links
Steve Fishman, "Mrs. Astor's Baby: The Fight for A Mother's Love, And Money", New York Magazine, November 12, 2007
Indictment, New York v. Anthony D. Marshall and Francis Morrissey

1924 births
2014 deaths
Brown University alumni
American theatre managers and producers
Ambassadors of the United States to Madagascar
Ambassadors of the United States to Seychelles
Ambassadors of the United States to Kenya
Ambassadors of the United States to Trinidad and Tobago
United States Marine Corps officers
United States Marine Corps personnel of World War II
Military personnel from New York City
New York (state) Republicans
Ambassadors of the United States to the Comoros
Brooks School alumni
20th-century American diplomats