[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# 2006 Lebanon War

ies but warned that it could be revised upward in the future.

Four months after the end of the war the deputy chairman of the Hezbollah Political Council Mahmoud Qomati for the first time presented Hizbullah's official estimate of its losses. He claimed that 250 fighters had been killed in the war.

The NGO Human Rights Watch specifically studied 94 IDF air, artillery, and ground attacks during the war that claimed the lives of 561 persons. Only 51 of these victims were Hizbullah combatants and about half of them were women or children. 
HRW said it documented the identities of another 548 fatalities, bringing the total of identified Lebanese deaths in the war to 1109. It argued (as an extrapolation from those 94 attacks) that an estimated 250 of these were Hezbollah combatants and the remaining 860 were civilians.

On 6 August Haaretz reported that the IDF estimated the number of Hezbollah fighters killed to 400, but added that "armies fighting guerrilla forces tend to exaggerate the fatalities of the enemy". 
Matt M. Matthews military historian at United States Army Combined Arms Center, described these figures as "highly exaggerated".

By the end of the war, Israel claimed that more than 800 Hezbollah members had been killed in the war. In December 2006, Israeli government spokesperson Miri Eisin backed down from that claim, saying, "We think that it's closer to 600." 
The Israeli Military Intelligence (AMAN) in November 2006 estimated that some 650 Hizbullah operatives were killed, while over 800 were wounded.

Three years after the outbreak of war the Israel Foreign Affairs Ministry published a summary of the war which concluded that "over 600" Hezbollah fighters were killed in the war.

IDF Maj.-Gen. (res.) Yaakov Amidror claimed that IDF had identified the names of 440 members of Hezbollah who were killed in the war. Based on this number he estimated that the total amounted killed in the war to between 500 and 700.

According to the Yedioth Ahronoth Encyclopedia of the Second Lebanon War, the main reason for the discrepancy between Lebanese and Israeli estimates of the number of Hezbollah fatalities during the war (300 versus 700 respectively) was that the former included only Hezbollah military while the latter also included civilian members of Hezbollah.

The Amal movement, a Shiite militia that fought alongside Hezbollah, suffered 17 dead. Armed elements of the Lebanese Communist Party suffered 12 dead. The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command, a Palestinian militia, lost two fighters in an Israeli air raid.

Hezbollah commanders 

Cordesman (2007) wrote that some IDF officers claimed that "significant parts of the key [Hizbullah] leaders and cadres were killed or captured but Israel has given no details of such successes since the war".

On July 19, a suspected bunker in southern Beirut was attacked with 23 tons of bombs.
Israeli intelligence leaked that 12 senior Hizbullah members had attended a meeting in the bunker and that among those killed was military chief Imad Mughniya. 
Chairman Hassan Nasrallah himself was said to have been wounded in the attack.

The IDF also claimed to have killed Abu Jaafar, the regional commander of central sector, in a clash in or air strike on Maroun ar-Ras.
Sheikh Nabil Qaouk, commander in South Lebanon was reportedly killed in a missile strike on a building in Tyre, where 13 civilians were wounded.
All of these supposedly dead Hizbullah leaders later appeared in public seemingly unscathed. By the end of July, IDF claimed that about 40, mostly anonymous, "top-level commanders and officials" had been killed.

IDF also named a few Hizbullah commanders who could not identified after the war, such as Jihad Attiya, said to be a logistical coordinator and Nour Shalhoub, a supposed arms transporter.

In the beginning of August IDF reported that several "senior Hezbollah operatives" were killed in a commando raid on a building in Tyre.
Four years later IDF admitted that the senior Hezbollah figure, who was the target of the raid, was not killed but had escaped.

During the war, Hizbullah never commented on these issues or simply offered flat denials. But shortly after the war (August 27), Hezbollah General-Secretary Hassan Nasrallah gave an interview to New TV, In this interview he conceded that between 10 and 12 Hezbollah commanders had been killed in the war. None of the first or second levels of the leadership were harmed. But three commanders of the third level were killed; an operations officer in the Bint Jbeil axis, a logistics officer and a third commander involved in the military side of the party. In addition three or four town commanders and four or five village commanders were killed in the war.