[Source: PubMed]

24. J Psychiatr Res. 2025 Jul;187:95-100. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2025.05.023. 
Epub 2025 May 8.

Betrayal experiences among individuals living in war zones: A longitudinal 
study.

Amsalem D(1), Haim-Nachum S(2), Fisch CT(3), Lazarov A(4), Levi-Belz Y(5), 
Markowitz JC(6), Nacasch N(7), Wainberg ML(6), Lurie I(8), Mendlovic S(8), Neria 
Y(6).

Author information:
(1)New York State Psychiatric Institute and Department of Psychiatry, New York, 
NY, USA; Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons, New York, 
NY, USA. Electronic address: doron.amsalem@nyspi.columbia.edu.
(2)School of Social Work, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)New York State Psychiatric Institute and Department of Psychiatry, New York, 
NY, USA.
(4)School of Psychological Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(5)The Lior Tsfaty Center for Suicide and Mental Pain Studies, Ruppin Academic 
Center, Emek Hefer, Israel.
(6)New York State Psychiatric Institute and Department of Psychiatry, New York, 
NY, USA; Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons, New York, 
NY, USA.
(7)Division of Psychiatry, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
(8)Shalvata Mental Health Center, Hod Hasharon, Israel; School of Medicine, Tel 
Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

OBJECTIVE: Betrayal, a component of moral injury, refers to the harm caused by 
the deliberate actions or inaction of someone trusted, violating one's values 
and beliefs. This study examines the impact of betrayal experiences-specifically 
perceptions of failure by political and military leadership-on mental health 
outcomes among civilians in Israeli conflict zones, focusing on anxiety, 
depression, and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). It also explores the 
relationship between betrayal and war-related factors such as traumatic loss, 
forced displacement, and income loss, along with the roles of gender and 
ethnicity. We hypothesized that higher betrayal levels would be associated with 
more severe mental health symptoms, and war-related experiences, female gender, 
and ethnic minority status would exacerbate these effects.
METHODS: A longitudinal study was conducted with 1052 individuals (ages 18-40) 
living in northern and southern Israel, areas that were exposed to war and mass 
forced displacement of civilians. Participants were assessed at three 
time-points: February 2024, March 2024, and May 2024. Measures included the 
Moral Injury Events Scale focusing on betrayal, Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7, 
Patient Health Questionnaire-9, and Primary Care PTSD Screen for DSM-5. We 
measured changes over time using Linear Mixed Models.
RESULTS: High levels of betrayal experiences were significantly associated with 
greater symptoms of anxiety, depression, and PTSD across all timepoints. 
Traumatic loss, forced displacement, and income loss were strong predictors of 
increased betrayal experiences, with women and ethnic minorities reporting 
higher levels of betrayal experiences over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings underscore the impact of war-related stressors on the 
sense of betrayal. The study highlights the urgent need for targeted mental 
health interventions to address the psychological effects of betrayal, 
particularly among vulnerable groups. Future research should explore these 
dynamics in more diverse populations to better understand the broader 
implications of betrayal experiences.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2025.05.023
PMID: 40354692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have nothing to declare.