[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bobby Franklin

n either gold or silver.

Franklin caused controversy when he proposed Georgia House Bill One. Opponents claimed it would "require proof that a miscarriage occurred naturally." If proof could not be provided, the mother could face "felony charges". Franklin rebutted saying the claims had "no merit."

Franklin caused some controversy when he called actions made by the United States and Allied Forces in Libya "pure evil." He compared the acts of Muammar Gaddafi against his own people to American doctors providing abortions.

Personal life

Representative Franklin was a graduate of Covenant College in Lookout Mountain, Georgia, where he received a degree in both Biblical Studies and Business Administration. He and his wife, Pat, were married for over 27 years. They had three children. Franklin was an active member of the Reformed Presbyterian Church.

When a friend became concerned that he did not attend church on Sunday morning, they went to his home to check on him. Franklin was found dead in his bed on July 26, 2011.

On December 26, 2011 the Cobb Medical Examiners office announced Bobby Franklin's death was caused by heart disease. A prescription bottle of Nitrostat heart medication was found in his refrigerator. Franklin's doctor, Rhett Bergeron said Franklin had a history of coronary artery disease, high blood pressure and anxiety. A few weeks before his death Franklin had complained of chest pains, according to the medical examiner's records.

References

External links
Official Georgia House of Representative Bio, including contact information
Constitutional Tender Act
Interview with CBS Atlanta in which Representative Bobby Franklin, author of House Bill 7, makes his case against driver′s licenses
Representative Franklin′s discussion of House Bill 7 on 95.5FM News/Talk WSB
 https://web.archive.org/web/20120425123635/http://www.eastcobber.com/state-representative-bobby-franklin-died-of-natural-causes/

1957 births
2011 deaths
People from Cobb County, Georgia
Covenant College alumni
Republican Party members of the Georgia House of Representatives
21st-century American politicians