[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Privat Group

of these companies are the name of the respective oblast with the -oblenergo ending, e.g. “Poltavaoblenergo”.

Banking
Privatbank, was the core of the group, as the largest commercial bank in Ukraine. On 18 December 2016, the bank was nationalized by the government of Ukraine, taking 100% ownership.

Media
Privat Group officially controls the Privat-TV regional television channel in Dnipro. Ihor Kolomoyskyi, one of the group's co-owners, brought a court suit demanding the right to purchase a controlling stake in Channel 1+1, a popular nationwide TV company. According to media, Privat Group also controls the UNIAN news agency.

Sports
Privat Group indirectly owns FC Dnipro professional football club as well as the HC Budivelnyk hockey and BC Budivelnyk basketball teams.

Real estate
They own 2/3rd of Optima Ventures, a Miami-based real estate investment firm led by Chaim Schochet; the remaining 1/3rd is owned by Miami businessman Mordechai "Motti" Korf and Uri Laber.  Optima owns more than 5 million square feet of real estate in the United States and is the largest holder of real estate in Downtown Cleveland owning One Cleveland Center and 55 Public Square; they are previous owners of the Huntington Bank Building; and the Penton Media Building.

Relations and controversies

Privat Group is involved in a permanent and fierce business conflict with Ukrainian oligarch Viktor Pinchuk and his Interpipe Group. The groups are based in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast, sharing a long and complicated history of relations. Presently, the conflict focuses on the bilaterally owned Nikopol Ferroalloys Plant (Interpipe now controls the plant’s business). Both sides apply full-scale legal, public relations and political methods in the conflict. Ihor Kolomoyskyi (the main owner of Privat Group) and Pinchuk sometimes insult each other in their interviews.

Henadiy Korban, one of Privat Group's top managers, survived serious assassination attempts in Dnipro in March 2006, and again in September 2010.

Before the Orange Revolution, Privat Group had been widely regarded as relatively uninvolved in politics, but loyal to the Leonid Kuchma regime. After the government change, the group's owners, according to media, became close allies of Yulia Tymoshenko (although she publicly denies this). Analysts agree that some of Tymoshenko's decisions as the Prime Minister of Ukraine supported Privat side in conflicts.

Some sources state that Privat Group provided significant financial support for Viktor Yuschenko during his presidential campaign and subsequent Orange Revolution.

See also
Economy of Ukraine

References
Inline

General

 in Ukrainian, in Russian

External links
 Official Website of Privatbank (in English)

 
Conglomerate companies of Ukraine
Companies based in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast
Holding companies of Ukraine
Economy of Dnipropetrovsk Oblast