[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Basque rural sports

)

Literally hay bale lifting, this sport involves raising a hay-bale with the aid of a pulley.

The competition is usually about lifting the bale as often as possible within a given period of time, most commonly 2 minutes.  The bale weighs  in the men's competitions and  in the women's competition.

The most difficult part is to get the bale to the required height for the first time. Once that has been achieved, the competitors allow the bale to drop in free fall, grabbing the rope and jumping up at the appropriate moment to use their own body weight to lift the bale again when coming down. A lot of skill is needed to avoid rope burn. The visual appearance is not dissimilar to swinging on a church bell rope.

In Spanish this is called  and in French .

Lasto botatzea (bale tossing)

Hay bale tossing is related to . Here the hay-bales have to be thrown over a bar set a certain height with the help of a pitchfork. For men the height is normally  and for women , the bale has to hit a bell for the toss to be valid.

This sport is very similar to the Scottish sheaf toss. In Spanish this is called .

Lokotx biltzea (cob gathering)
In cob gathering competitions, also called , cobs are placed at  distances in a line, 25 in a line at the most. The game can be played to 50, 75, or 100 cobs in which case they are placed in sets of 2, 3, or 4. The competitors have to collect these in order (the nearest first) and place them into a basket at one end of the row of cobs.

It is called  in Spanish and  in French.

Ontzi eramatea (churn carrying)
The churn carrying competition usually involves milk-cans and is very similar to the  competition. Competitors have to carry a  milk-churn in each hand as far as possible. This game is also called  "milk carrying" or  "can carrying".

Orga jokoa (cart game)

The "oxcart game" is a display of strength. Contestants have to lift the back of an ox cart weighing ,  above the ground. The cart is pivoted to the ground at the front end and competitors must rotate it, trying to go around as many times as possible.

It is also called  in Basque. In Spanish this is called  and in French .

Sega jokoa (scything)
Literally "scythe game", this sport is also known as  (scythers),  (scythe test),  (scythe bet) or  (scything). The earliest record of this sport comes from a bertso dating back to 1880 about a competition in Iturriotz.

In this sport competitors (called ) either compete to cut the most grass in a given period of time (usually one hour) or they are each given plots of grass of the same size and the competition is to see who can scythe theirs the fastest. Today the competition usually lasts one hour but two-hour competitions also are still held. At the end, the grass is raked, weighed and baled to establish the winner. Traditionally, as with most Basque sports, the competitors would make a profit by betting but monetary prizes have been put up since the 1950s.

There are few actual records in this sport as it very much depends on the terrain and is thus difficult to compare. But a number of  have achieved fame nonetheless, for example the legendary Pedro Maria Otaño Ezeitza, commonly known as Santa Ageda from Beizama who was also an aizkolari and competed up until 1915. Another famed event was the competition of 1925 in Iturriotz when, before a crowd of 6,000, Pedro Mendizabal from Aia and Jose Arrieta from Urnieta battled each other. Legend has it that more than 150,000 pesetas in bets were placed. Mendizabal won, cutting  of grass in two hours against his rival's .

The use of scythes is still widespread today as many pastures are too steep for modern farm machinery so scythes are used to cut grass or bracken. Working scythes have blades between  in length, but competition scythes range from  in length. A decent  can manage some 2 in a day.

In Spanish this is simply called .

Sokatira (tug-of-war)
Tug-of-war is also traditional in the Basque Country. Usually two teams of eight compete, trying to drag the other team over a line by pulling on the rope.

There are free competitions in which the weight of the competitors is ignored and more structured events where there are weight categories of , , , and  per team. Juvenile teams are always under . Three lines are marked on the ground, a middle line and parallel to that at  distance two more. The maximum length of the rope is  with a circumference between . There are 5 markers on the rope, a red marker in the middle,  away from the red marker on either side are white markers and  on either side of those are blue markers. The aim is for a team to get the opposing team's blue marker over the team's own  line. Hands must always be on the rope and it may not be supported with any other part of the body or allowed to slacken. Only the last member of the team is allowed to wind the rope around their body.

In Spanish this is called  and in French .