[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Indigenous and Tribal Populations Convention, 1957

e employment, without fear of discrimination, and under the same conditions as of the rest of the population, and provides for the right to join legal trade unions, with access to "medical and social assistance..." and adequate housing.

PART IV. Vocational training, handicrafts and rural industries

Article 16-17
"Persons belonging to the populations concerned shall enjoy the same opportunities as other citizens in respect of vocational training facilities." If there are no vocational training programs in place for this population, the government will provide them.  After a careful study of the economic environment and the "...stage of cultural development" and practical needs of the indigenous population, the government shall provide vocational training programs for them. These special training facilities shall be provided for "...only so long as the stage of cultural development of the populations concerned requires them," until they are replaced by the facilities provided for other citizens.

Article 18
1. Handicrafts and rural industries shall be encouraged for economic development in a manner which will enable these populations to raise their standard of living, "...in a manner which preserves the cultural heritage of these populations and improves their artistic values and particular modes of cultural expression."

PART V. Social security and health

Article 19-20
Government social security programs shall be extended to all wage earners and other persons belonging to these populations.  Governments will provide adequate health services for the populations concerned, based on studies of their social, economic and cultural conditions.

PART VI. Education and means of communication

Article 21-22
Equal educational opportunities shall be available to the populations concerned at the same levels as other national citizens.  Such education programs for shall be adapted "...to the stage these populations have reached in the process of social, economic and cultural integration into the national community," and such programs shall "...be preceded by ethnological surveys."

Article 23 
"Children belonging to the populations concerned shall be taught to read and write in their mother tongue or, where this is not practicable, in the language most commonly used by the group to which they belong."  "Provision shall be made for a progressive transition from the mother tongue or the vernacular language to the national language or to one of the official languages of the country."  "Appropriate measures shall, as far as possible, be taken to preserve the mother tongue or the vernacular language."

Article 24-25 
The national state will educate the children of the populations concerned to "... become integrated in the national community..."  The national state will undertake educational measures for the national community "...eliminating prejudices that they may harbour in respect of these populations."

Article 26
The nation state "...shall adopt measures, appropriate to the social and cultural characteristics of the populations concerned, to make known to them their rights and duties, especially in regard to labour and social welfare," and, if necessary, translate such information "...by means of written translations and through the use of media of mass communication in the languages of these populations."

PART VII. Administration

Article 27
This article contains support language that gives the national state the legal, administrative responsibility to create agencies to carry out the above programs.

PART VIII. General provisions

Article 28-31
These clauses contain support language describing the UN's understanding that each nation state's situation is going to be different, that this convention will not conflict with the benefits of other conventions, and would only be considered binding if accepted by the Director-General of the International Labour Office.  This convention would come into effect after two nation states have ratified the agreement, and twelve months after the date of its registration.

Article 32
The nation state may withdraw from the convention (described as "denounce" - see below under Ratifications) ten years after the date the convention comes into force, and must be filed within a one-year period of that anniversary.  If the state does not announce its denunciation from the convention within one year of the anniversary date, ten years must pass before another denunciation can be announced.

Article 33-36
These articles contain support language that describes to whom and how the Director-General of the International Labour Office of the United Nations should register the country's admission of the convention.

Article 37
"The English and French versions of the text of this Convention are equally authoritative."

Modifications 
This Convention was subsequently revised in 1989 by Convention C169 Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989.

Ratifications