[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of warlords and military cliques in the Warlord Era

The Warlord Era was a historical period of the Republic of China that began from 1916 and lasted until the mid-1930s, during which the country was divided and ruled by various military cliques following the death of Yuan Shikai in 1916. Communist revolution broke out in the later part of the warlord period, beginning the Chinese Civil War. The era nominally ended in 1928 at the conclusion of the Northern Expedition with the Northeast Flag Replacement, beginning the "Nanjing decade".  However, "residual warlords" continued to exist into the 1930s under de jure Kuomintang rule, and remained until the end of the Communist victory in 1949.

The warlords and military cliques of the Warlord Era are generally divided into the Northern factions and the Southern factions. The following is a list of cliques within each faction, and the dominant warlords within that clique.

Northern factions
The cliques in the North emerged from the fragmentation of the Beiyang Government/Army. Most of them were generals under Yuan Shikai. After the death of Yuan, they separated and formed cliques in their own sphere of influence.

Anhui clique

The Anhui clique was so named because many of its most influential members were from Anhui, including founder Duan Qirui. It had a affiliated political party, the Anfu club, and a financial wing, the New Communications clique, under Deputy Foreign Minister Cao Rulin.

The clique had close ties to Japan, granting heavy concessions in exchange for funding and military training, and advocated war against the German Empire as part of the First World War, as well as military suppression of the Kuomintang.

The clique was removed from power after the Zhili–Anhui War and slowly faded from prominence.

Zhili clique

Zhili was the province surrounding Beijing, now the province of Hebei.

The Zhili clique was formed by officers disgruntled with the Anhui clique and rallied around Feng Guozhang. It was aligned to Western powers.

The clique took power after the Zhili–Anhui War but lost it after the Second Zhili–Fengtian War.

It was largely wiped out during the Northern Expedition.

Fengtian clique

Fengtian is the former name of Liaoning province, and was the political center of Manchuria.

The Fengtian clique controlled most of Manchuria up to Shanhai Pass and had a close relationship with Japan. Its civilian branch was the Communications Clique, under Premier Liang Shiyi.

It took power in Beijing after the Second Zhili–Fengtian War but could not stop the Kuomintang during the Northern Expedition, and was driven from Manchuria after the Mukden Incident and merged with the Kuomintang.

Shanxi clique

Formed in the aftermath of the Xinhai Revolution, the Shanxi clique was limited to Shanxi province only.

Although affiliated with the Anhui clique, Yan Xishan remained neutral until the Northern Expedition, during which he sided with the Kuomintang.

Guominjun

Also known as the Northwestern Army, it was formed from disgruntled Zhili clique officers during the Second Zhili–Fengtian War, through the Beijing Coup.

Although originally sympathetic to the Kuomintang, it rebelled in the 1930 Central Plains War and was defeated. It was aligned to the Soviet Union.

Ma clique

The "Three Mas of the Northwest" or "Xibei San Ma" originated in the Kansu Braves militia formed during the Dungan revolt. All Ma Clique Generals were Hui Chinese Muslim Kuomintang members. The Ma Clique Fought against the Guominjun during the Central Plains War, and attempted to destroy the Xinjiang clique during the Kumul Rebellion but were defeated by Soviet Red Army intervention.

Xinjiang clique

Under Yang Zengxin, the clique organized the defence against the Soviet encroachment, but later closely affiliated with the Soviet Union.

Manchu Restorationists

In July 1917 a clique of generals and officials were able to conquer and occupy Beijing, temporarily restoring the deposed child emperor Puyi for a little over a week.

Southern factions
The military cliques in the South are generally regional revolutionary leaders that took over after the fall of Qing dynasty in Xinhai Revolution.

Kuomintang

The Nationalist Party of China, derived from the Tongmenghui revolutionary organization, it established a rival government of the Republic of China in Guangzhou, Guangdong Province in the 1913 Second Revolution and in the 1917 Constitutional Protection War. Its military arm was the National Revolutionary Army.

The party nominally reunified China in 1928 after defeating most Northern factions during the Northern Expedition, governing the country from Nanjing.

Run as a Dang Guo (黨國), or Party-State, along the lines of the organisational principles of Leninism, the party's ideology was based on Socialism and Nationalism. Initially Soviet-backed, after the Shanghai massacre it allied with Germany.

Chinese Communist Party