[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dharma Raja

e Battle of Colachel had been in awe of Travancore, kept the Maharajah of Travancore informed of all developments. What Hyder wanted was a free passage to Travancore through the Dutch territories. The Dutch Governor replied that he had informed Batavia of Hyder's request and was waiting for a reply.

Soon rumours of a proposed invasion of Travancore started developing after the Maharajah refused to stop construction of the Nedumkotta, which passed near the Dutch possessions, through Cochin territories, and because he had given refuge to Hyder Ali's enemies. Hyder asked the kings of Cochin and Travancore to pay the expenses of his Malabar campaign. The tribute to be paid by Cochin was Rs. 400,000 and 10 elephants, while Travancore was asked to pay Rs. 1.5 million and 30 elephants. Hyder added that if Travancore refused, "He will pay a visit".  While the Rajah of Cochin agreed, Karthika Thirunal of Travancore replied, stating that it was "neither to please him nor in accordance with his advice that the invasion of Malabar was undertaken". But he stated that if Hyder withdrew from Malabar and reinstated the Kolathunad and Calicut Rajahs to their thrones, he would agree to a payment. This was taken by Hyder as a threat, but before he could plan an attack on Travancore, he had to return to Mysore.

Dharma Raja and Tipu Sultan

In 1788, a rebellion broke out in the territories and vassal states of Mysore, now ruled by Tipu Sultan, son and successor of Hyder Ali.  Tipu entered the regions of Malabar and Coorg to put these rebellions down, engaging in tactics that included the forced deportation to Seringapatam and the conversion to Islam by force, of Hindus. The royal families of Malabar and large numbers of Hindu and Christian families fled to Travancore, where they were received and treated hospitably by the Maharajah. Tipu Sultan now demanded that the Rajah of Cochin, who had accepted the status of a vassal, to claim Alangad and Parur so as to provide Tipu with a pretext for an invasion of Travancore. However, the Rajah diplomatically assured Tipu that he would convince the Rajah of Travancore to become a vassal of Tipu like himself.  Tipu then sent envoys to Travancore with a 'Khareeta', wherein he stated that "I have learnt that you desire to cultivate friendship with our Sircar..". The Maharajah received Tipu's envoys in the presence of an East India Company representative, which was taken as an affront by Tipu. The Maharajah also negotiated with the British for a force to assist in the defense of Travancore, anticipating an attack from Tipu Sultan. Finally in 1789, arguing that the Nedumkotta passed illegally through the territories of Cochin, his vassal state, Tipu Sultan gathered his entire force in Malabar and marched to invade Travancore.

Tipu and his forces reached the Nedumkotta line which protected Travancore's northern frontier and launched an attack in late December 1789. But a small number Travancore soldiers managed to change the course of events, by opening fire on the 14,000 Mysore infantry from a close cover that killed the Mysorean officer leading a bayonet charge. The Mysorean column, hemmed in by the confines of the wall, retreated in confusion and Tipu Sultan himself was carried away by the crowd.  His palanquin, seals, rings, sword and other personal ornaments fell into the hands of the Travancore armies under the Dewan Raja Kesavadas Pillai. Tipu fell back into the ditch twice before scrambling out and the occasional lameness which he suffered until his death was due to the contusions suffered by his fall into the ditches of Travancore.

Tippu sent a letter on 19 January 1790 to Budruz Zuman Khan. It said: