[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mercury Fur

sure in moralising about it. Ridley doesn't moralise, but he expects you to respond, and he delivers a moral shock." Some other critics also felt that the play contained moral content, such as Aleks Sierz who called it "a very moral play, in which the bad end badly, and the good go down tragically".

Some critics saw political resonances in the play along with allusions to real-world events. The Herald's Carole Woddis wrote that "Ridley’s upsetting portrayal is, I believe, an honourable response to the genocides in Rwanda and atrocities in Iraq". John Peter declared that "Philip Ridley has written the ultimate 9/11 play: a play for the age of Bush and Bin Laden, of Donald Rumsfeld and Charles Clarke; a play for our time, when a sense of terror is both nameless and precise." However, Paul Taylor found that "the political context is too conveniently hazy", and John Gross wrote that "any political arguments are lost amid the sadistic fantasies, kinky rituals, gruesome anecdotes and flights of science fiction", with similar comments coming from Brian Logan: "whatever questions playwright Philip Ridley seeks to pose are drowned out by the shrieking and bloodshed".

Critics were also split on the credibility of the play’s world and its speculative depiction of societal collapse. Michael Billington was critical, stating that he distrusted the play "from its reactionary despair and assumption that we are all going to hell in a handcart" along with writing that it succumbed "to a fashionable nihilism" and that Ridley’s portrayal of social-breakdown "flies in the face of a mass of evidence one could produce to the contrary." In contrast, Alastair Macaulay described the play as a "realistic nightmare" which portrayed "a kind of believable hell […] like the darkest parallel-universe version of the world we know". Aleks Sierz felt that the play’s conclusion was "utterly convincing, even if - in our liberal souls - it seems like a wild exaggeration." In contrast Brian Logan wrote that "I never really believed in ‘Mercury Fur’. Its futuristic setting is more hypothetical than real; it also absolves the audience of moral complicity", whilst John Peter wrote that "most science fiction is moral fiction".

Various critics went on to compare the play to other controversial works, particularly A Clockwork Orange and the plays of Sarah Kane. Some even went as far as to voice concern for the wellbeing for the young actor portraying The Party Piece or thought that the play might make audience members vomit.

Despite this, there were critics that were especially supportive. Alastair Macaulay described the play as "an amazing feat of imagination, engrossing and poetic" whilst Aleks Sierz wrote that the play "makes you feel alive when you're watching it" and declared it to be "probably the best new play of the year". John Peter urged people to see it: "It is a play you need to see for its diagnosis of a terror-stricken and belligerent civilization. I recommend it strongly to the strong in heart."

The critical discordance resulted in some critics being at odds with each other. Having enjoyed the show, critic Miranda Sawyer wrote that she felt "despair" from the negative reviews from "proper" theatre critics and wondered "Where are the theatre critics that speak for me and those like me?" She went on to say that there would be no "room for every type of play in Britain" if critics "remain fuddy-duddies [and] continue to discourage new writing that they don't understand". Sawyer’s comments were challenged by critic Ian Shuttleworth who felt that she implied that the critical divide was generational, which he disputed by citing older critics who defended the play.

In defending the production, director John Tiffany explained that although the play is full of "incredibly shocking images and stories, almost all the violence happens off stage. It is almost Greek in its ambition" and that the play is "the product of a diseased world, not a diseased mind".

Responding to the critical backlash, Ridley described the critics as "blinder than a bagful of moles in a coal cellar", a comment partially made in reference to him witnessing the critic Charles Spencer fall over furniture onstage while trying to find his seat on the play's press night. Ridley went on to argue that theatre in Britain "is the only art form that I can think of where you feel you are in direct conflict with the people who are trying to judge your work" and stated that there was "a serious disconnection between the artists who are working and are trying to move an art movement forward and those who are putting judgement of those artists […] I see it in work of other artists in which it is being inhibited, and this is sending out terrible signals". These and other comments Ridley made about his critics were condemned as "impressively bilious" and "crassly malicious" by Theatre Record editor Ian Shuttleworth.