[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of New Hope Church

ed suffering 1,665 killed and wounded. The Union troops called the battlefield the "Hell Hole". As the defeated Federals slowly withdrew, the Confederates gave a cheer. Stewart reported losing 300–400 casualties. Another source stated there were 1,665 Union and 400 Confederate casualties.

Aftermath

Johnston and Hood both commended Stewart for his successful defense. On the other hand, Sherman was badly disappointed that his maneuver was so unexpectedly blocked. Sherman hated Hooker and unfairly criticized him for not immediately pushing ahead with Geary's division. Sherman believed that by waiting for his other two divisions to arrive, Hooker allowed the Confederates time to entrench. He hoped that he was only facing Hood's corps, but it was finally beginning to dawn on him that Johnston's entire army was in front of him. The sound of fighting was heard in Atlanta and caused a minor panic among the civilians there.

During the night, the Union army entrenched, and skirmishing continued throughout May 26. McPherson's wing and Davis' division occupied Dallas in the afternoon and established a position two miles farther east. The troops of Thomas and Schofield concentrated near New Hope Church. A  gap existed between Thomas and McPherson, but it was concealed by the heavily wooded terrain. Likewise, there was a gap between Hardee's corps east of Dallas and the corps of Hood and Polk at New Hope Church. Johnston detached Cleburne's division from Hardee and added it to his right flank. Thwarted in his attempt to turn the Confederate left flank, Sherman decided to attack the Confederate right flank. His efforts resulted in the Battle of Pickett's Mill on May 27.

Battlefield
Much of the New Hope Church battlefield is today privately owned and is located at the intersection of Bobo Road and Hwy 381 (Dallas Acworth Hwy) in Dallas. The American Battlefield Trust and its partners have acquired and preserved almost five acres of the battlefield as of mid-2023.

Notes

Footnotes

Citations

References

See also
 
 
 
  
  This is an excellent map.

New Hope Church
New Hope Church
New Hope Church
New Hope Church
Paulding County, Georgia
New Hope Church
1864 in Georgia (U.S. state)
May 1864 events