[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Said Tayeb Jawad

don't really like him." he said to United Press International. Further Jawad has voiced opposition to President Obama's plan to begin withdrawing troops from Afghanistan starting summer 2011. Jawad stressed the importance of continued international presence to avoid a situation as in the early 90s.

Jawad has stressed that too much of the international aid and military effort had bypassed the Afghan government which makes it impossible to build competent government and security.  Jawad also has said that eradication of poppies is not the best solution to the Afghan narcotics problem.
In May 2005 Jawad signed a memorandum of understanding for the city of light, a large reconstruction plan for the center of Kabul.

Jawad has criticized Pakistan for not doing enough to stop the Taliban insurgency. Although he recognizes that new Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari seems much more committed to battling terrorism than his predecessor, General Pervez Musharraf.  But, according to Jawad, Pakistan's army still appears to be more preoccupied with the country's traditional nemesis, India.

In November, 2013, Jawad participated with the Loya Jirga in Kabul to discuss and offer his insights on the status and terms of the Bilateral Security Agreement, the Presidential elections and political transition, as well as the international community's level of economic assistance, military engagement and jurisdiction for operating foreign troops in the country up to and post-2014. He is also a longstanding member of India-Pakistan- Afghanistan Dialogue, a track one and half confidence building forum among diplomats and former intelligence officials.

Awards, Honorary Degrees and International Conferences 

Awards and honorary degrees granted to Jawad include the Constitutional Loya Jirga Service, Medal, Government of Afghanistan, Kabul, Afghanistan, 2003; Award of Merit for Rebuilding a Nation, American Society for Engineering Education, Washington, D.C, 2004, Honorary Doctorate Degree in Organization Leadership, Argosy University, Washington, D.C. 2007, theSpecial Award for Improving the Quality of Life, Washington, DC, 2007 and the Global Citizen Award, Roots of Peace, Washington, D.C., 2008.

In his role as Senior Political and Foreign Policy Advisor to the Chief Executive of Afghanistan,  Ambassador Jawad was a key participant in the US Afghanistan Dialogue at Camp David, which was hosted by Secretary of State John Kerry on March 23, 2015. Jawad attended the event as part of the Afghan Delegation, which consisted of Afghanistan's President, Chief Executive Officer, and other high ranking Government officials.

Ambassador Jawad was selected by the U.S Department of Commerce to participate in the World Economic Forum on the Middle East and North Africa.  He attended and contributed to the Forum in Amman, Jordan from 21–23 May 2015.

Ambassador Jawad attended the fifth anniversary of the Concordia Summit held in New York City on October 1 and 2, 2015. The Concordia Summit convened the world's preeminent leaders and decision makers to address the world's most pressing global challenges and emphasised the need for effective cross-sector collaboration to lead to a more prosperous and sustainable future. Jawad attended and contributed to the Summit as an active Concordia member.

Ambassador Jawad has attended and been a key contributor to various Halifax International Security Forums, most recently the one which convened on the 20–23 November 2015. The forum served as a platform for various international leaders, diplomats, and security professionals to comment on and assess the change in the increased threat level in the global landscape.

The International Development Law Organization (IDLO) hosted Ambassador Jawad at their headquarters in Rome, as an honored guest and key contributor to their Assembly of Parties. He contributed to the Organization's internal review regarding the best platform to approach rule of law and development in various countries, including work specifically in Afghanistan.

Ambassador Jawad participated in the NATO Summit on Afghanistan on July 8 and 9, 2016 in Warsaw, Poland, along with Afghanistan's Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah and President Ashraf Ghani. At this summit, NATO reaffirmed its commitment to and confirmed funding for the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces until at least the end of 2020.

As Senior Political and Foreign Policy Advisor, Ambassador Jawad accompanied the Chief Executive of Afghanistan, Dr. Abdullah, to the World Humanitarian Summit held in Istanbul, Turkey, May 23 and 24, 2016.

Ambassador Jawad also participated at the London Conference on Afghanistan on December 4, 2014, in London, United Kingdom, where the conference provided a platform for the government of Afghanistan to set out its vision for reform and for the international community to demonstrate enduring solidarity and support for Afghanistan.