[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 11]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ou approve of my ideas and conduct, I will
keep him as long as you desire. In the mean time, as there are, I fear,
some little circumstances which have grown up, by too much tenderness
and indulgence, to be altered in his character, I think that I shall
possess more of the necessary influence and authority, if I, for the
present, appear to him and your whole family rather in the light of a
friend than that of a schoolmaster."

However disagreeable this proposal was to the generosity of Mr Merton,
he was obliged to consent to it; and little Tommy was accordingly sent
the next day to the vicarage, which was at the distance of about two
miles from his father's house.

The day after Tommy came to Mr Barlow's, as soon as breakfast was over,
he took him and Harry into the garden; when he was there, he took a
spade into his own hand, and giving Harry a hoe, they both began to work
with great eagerness. "Everybody that eats," says Mr Barlow, "ought to
assist in procuring food; and therefore little Harry and I begin our
daily work. This is my bed, and that other is his; we work upon it every
day, and he that raises the most out of it will deserve to fare the
best. Now, Tommy, if you choose to join us, I will mark you out a piece
of ground, which you shall have to yourself, and all the produce shall
be your own." "No, indeed," said Tommy, very sulkily, "I am a gentleman
and don't choose to slave like a ploughboy." "Just as you please, Mr
Gentleman," said Mr Barlow; "but Harry and I, who are not above being
useful, will mind our work."

In about two hours, Mr Barlow said it was time to leave off; and, taking
Harry by the hand, he led him into a very pleasant summer-house, where
they sat down; and Mr Barlow, taking out a plate of very fine ripe
cherries, divided them between Harry and himself.

Tommy, who had followed, and expected his share, when he saw them both
eating without taking any notice of him, could no longer restrain his
passion, but burst into a violent fit of sobbing and crying. "What is
the matter?" said Mr Barlow very coolly to him. Tommy looked upon him
very sulkily, but returned no answer. "Oh! sir, if you don't choose to
give me an answer, you may be silent; nobody is obliged to speak here."
Tommy became still more disconcerted at this, and, being unable to
conceal his anger, ran out of the summer-house, and wandered very
disconsolately about the garden, equally surprised and vexed to find
that he was now in a place where nobody felt any concern whether he was
pleased or the contrary.

When all the cherries were eaten, little Harry said, "You promised to be
so good as to hear me read when we had done working in the garden; and,
if it is agreeable to you, I will now read the story of the 'Flies and
the Ants.'" "With all my heart," said Mr Barlow; "remember to read it
slowly and distinctly, without hesitating or pronouncing the words
wrong; and be sure to read it in such a manner as to show that you
understand it."

Harry then took up the book, and read as follows:--


"THE FLIES AND THE ANTS."

"In the corner of a farmer's garden, there once happened to be a nest of
ants, who, during the fine weather of the summer, were employed all day
long in drawing little seeds and grains of corn into their hole. Near
them there happened to be a bed of flowers, upon which a great quantity
of flies used to be always sporting, and humming, and diverting
themselves by flying from one flower to another. A little boy, who was
the farmer's son, used frequently to observe the different employments
of these animals; and, as he was very young and ignorant, he one day
thus expressed himself:--'Can any creature be so simple as these ants?
All day long they are working and toiling, instead of enjoying the fine
weather, and diverting themselves like these flies, who are the happiest
creatures in the world.' Some time after he had made this observation,
the weather grew extremely cold, the sun was scarcely seen to shine, and
the nights were chill and frosty. The same little boy, walking then in
the garden, did not see a single ant, but all the flies lay scattered up
and down, either dead or dying. As he was very good-natured, he could
not help pitying the unfortunate animals, and asking at the same time,
what had happened to the ants that he used to see in the same place? The
father said, 'The flies are all dead, because they were careless
animals, who gave themselves no trouble about laying up provisions, and
were too idle to work; but the ants, who had been busy all the summer,
in providing for their maintenance during the winter, are all alive and
well; and you will see them as soon as the warm weather returns.'"

"Very well, Harry," said Mr Barlow, "we will now take a walk." They
accordingly rambled out into the fields, where Mr Barlow made Harry take
notice of several kinds of plants, and told him the names and nature of
them. At last Harry