[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Typhoon Durian

for 65,481 metric tons of corn; 19,420 metric tons of rice were also damaged. However, the crops were already harvested, so the storm's agriculture effects were minor. The storm also wrecked 1,200 fishing boats, severely affecting the local fishing industry, and killed many livestock.

Mayon Volcano

The eye of Durian passed near Mayon Volcano as it struck the Bicol region. In the mountainous region, a process known as orographic lift produced heavier rainfall than near the coast, with totals possibly as high as 600 mm (24 in). On November 30, the rainfall became very heavy and prolonged, saturating the soil. Lahars – a type of landslide originating from a volcanic ash – formed quickly along the southern and eastern rims of Mayon Volcano, which had produced a fresh layer of ash in August 2006. The lahars destroyed dykes and dams meant to contain the debris flow, which were not designed to prevent major landslides. Warnings were issued for potential lahars, but the rapid development of the debris flows as well as power outages meant populations did not receive adequate warning. Initially, the lahars were contained by a layer of grasslands, although the unstable nature of the volcanic soil caused the grounds to collapse. Within 21 minutes, the lahars descended Mayon Volcano, quickly covering and wrecking six communities. After the initial series of lahars, further ash flow descended to the ocean to the north of Mayon Volcano. Areas around the volcano were inundated with 1.5 m (5 ft) of floodwaters. Widespread flooding was also reported in Legazpi City.

North of Legazpi, the ash flow covered or damaged portions of the Pan-Philippine Highway. In the small barangay – small town – of Maipon, nearby streams coalesced into a valley filled with muddy waters. The landslide arrived quickly and washed away or destroyed houses in the path. Several people died while attempting to cross to higher grounds. Similar conditions affected nearby Daraga, where 149 people died. Around that city, the landslide reached  deep and  wide, enough to cover 3 story buildings, while floods enlarged the nearby Yawa River by 600%. About 13,000 families had to leave their homes due to the landslides. Many roads and bridges were wrecked around the volcano, which halted transportation and impacted relief work.

In Albay province alone, there were 604 deaths and 1,465 people who sustained injuries. Damage in the province totaled $71 million (USD). The storm also damaged 702 of the 704 schools in the province.

Vietnam
Durian brought maximum 10-mins sustained winds up to 110 km/h and gusted to 150 km/h to the southern Vietnamese coastline. Strong winds capsized several boats offshore Vietnam, killing two with one missing. In Bình Thuận Province alone, 820 boats sank, and throughout the country 896 fishing boats sank.

Heavy rainfall from the typhoon destroyed 22 schools and 1,120 houses in Bình Thuận Province. Strong winds from Durian blew off the roofs of about 500 houses in Bà Rịa–Vũng Tàu province. Throughout the nation, the passage of the typhoon destroyed 34,000 homes, with an additional 166,000 damaged. Typhoon Durian killed 85 in the country and injured 1,379 others. Total damages were 7.234 trillion VND (US$450 million).

Aftermath

Philippines

On December 3, Philippine President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo declared a state of national calamity, due to the successive impacts of typhoons Xangsane, Cimaron, and Durian. Arroyo ordered the immediate release of 1 billion Philippine pesos ($20.7 million, 2006 USD) for relief in areas affected by typhoons Durian, Xangsane, and Cimaron. This relief fund was increased to 3.6 billion pesos ($74.8 million, 2006 USD) on December 6, including an additional 150 million pesos ($3.1 million) for power grid repair. The government used over ₱500 million (PHP) from their Countryside Development Fund. Soon after Durian exited the country, workers began restoring power lines and clearing debris and trees from roads, which was required before relief agencies reached the hardest hit areas. As of December 1, 3,316 families had fled their homes to storm shelters. Immediately after the storm's landfall, reports of deaths or injuries had not yet reached the media centres. As officials made contact with the hardest hit areas, the death toll quickly rose to 190 by December 1, and to 720 by two weeks later.