[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Death of Oury Jalloh

ble to say exactly when because she worked with her back facing the door. The family and supporters of Jalloh were outraged by the verdict. The family had been offered 5,000 euros by the court since it could not establish the guilt of the officers, but Jalloh's father said he did not want the money.

On January 7, 2010, exactly five years after Jalloh died in his cell, the Bundesgerichtshof federal court in Karlsruhe overturned the earlier verdict. The case was relegated to the state court of Saxony-Anhalt at Magdeburg for retrial. During the investigations the deaths of Hans-Jürgen Rose (died from internal injuries hours after being released from the same police building in 1997) and Mario Bichtemann (died from an unsupervised skull fracture in the same cell in 2002) were re-examined. In 2012, Andreas S. was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter and fined €10,800. A new trial then began in 2014 and ended without any convictions in 2017.

In August 2020 the Landtag of Saxony-Anhalt published a report by special investigators Jerzy Montag and  on the Jalloh case, calling the policemen's actions "flawed" and "contrary to the law" (). However, they concluded that the district attorney's final dismissal of the case in 2017 was "factually and legally correct in view of available evidence".

Initiative in Memory of Oury Jalloh 
The Initiative in Memory of Oury Jalloh (Initiative in Gedenken an Oury Jalloh) was set up to pursue justice for Oury Jalloh and to campaign against police violence. In 2021, the initiative commissioned a report from a fire forensics expert to assess how Jalloh died. The expert found it unlikely that someone tied to a bed could have set themselves on fire. A dummy body made from a dead pig was then attached to the mattress and set on fire. It was only when using petrol that the dummy body burnt in a way commensurate to the way the body of Jalloh was burned. The expert concluded that it was most likely petrol had been used.

Based on this opinion, the initiative and the family of Jalloh called for the murder investigation to be reopened by the Federal Prosecutor. They also announced plans to sue the Attorney General's Office of Saxony-Anhalt for obstruction of justice, because it had ceased its investigation in 2018.

In popular culture 
A television documentary entitled Tod in der Zelle – Warum starb Oury Jalloh? () was released in 2006. It went on to win the "Best professional production" award at the 2006 .

See also
 Death of Christy Schwundeck
 Killing of N'deye Mareame Sarr

References

Sources

Further reading

English

 List of articles published by Deutsche Welle about the case since 2006
 
 Video detailing late 2013 evidence which caused the reopening of the case.

German

 
 In-depth reporting on every day single day in court during the first trial (2007–2008)

Verdicts
 First verdict by the state court of Dessau-Roßlau (2008)
 Dessau-Roßlau state court's press release about the first verdict:
 2010 verdict by the Federal Court of Justice, overturning the 2008 verdict and ordering a retrial

1968 births
2005 deaths
2005 in Germany
Crime in Saxony-Anhalt
Deaths by person in Germany
Deaths from fire
Deaths in police custody in Germany
Dessau
Drug traffickers
People from Koinadugu District
Prisoners who died in German detention
Racism in Germany
Sierra Leonean emigrants to Germany
Sierra Leonean people imprisoned abroad
Sierra Leonean people who died in prison custody
Trials in Germany
Sierra Leonean refugees