[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Swinburne (New York politician)

which handed the mayoralty to the Democratic candidate, A. Bleecker Banks.  Republicans then offered him the 19th district's congressional seat and, in November, he prevailed over Democrat Thomas J. Van Alstyne, the incumbent from 16th congressional district who had been redistricted into the 19th.

Following the election, an ultimately unsuccessful movement started to nominate him for Governor of New York in the gubernatorial contest of November 1885.  In the interim, he served in the Forty-ninth Congress from March 4, 1885, to March 3, 1887, but, in November 1886, was again controversially defeated by Democrat Nicholas T. Kane with a challenged margin of 81 votes. Upon Kane's death in September, six months after taking office, Swinburne was urged to run in the special election to replace him, but declined any further participation in politics.

In the two years remaining, John Swinburne returned to his medical practice and the treatment of the indigent. Suffering from stomach cancer, he died at home in Albany eight weeks before his 69th birthday and was interred in Albany Rural Cemetery.

See also

List of mayors of Albany, New York

References

External links

 

A Typical American, or, Incidents in the life of Dr. John Swinburne, of Albany, the eminent patriot, surgeon, and philanthropist.  Citizens' Association (Albany, N.Y. 1888). Extremely complimentary biography of John Swinburne published less than a year before his death.  The Citizens' Association's possible intention may have been to promote him for future political office.

1820 births
1889 deaths
Mayors of Albany, New York
Union Army surgeons
Physicians from New York (state)
People of New York (state) in the American Civil War
People of the Franco-Prussian War
Albany Medical College alumni
People from Lewis County, New York
Burials at Albany Rural Cemetery
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from New York (state)
19th-century American politicians