[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Carbisdale

had been wounded several times and his horse shot from underneath him. He escaped on Crichton of Frendraught's horse, provided to him by Crichton himself. In all, Montrose lost 450 killed and another 200 drowned, while Buchan reports Urry was captured along with 58 officers and nearly 400 soldiers.

In contrast, Strachan lost just two men wounded and one trooper drowned. His scout had been John Munro of Lemlair while Montrose's scout had been Robert Munro of Achness and historians have therefore speculated whether Munro of Achness had lured Montrose into a trap by giving him false information. According to the Montrose Memoirs, Munro of Achness and his three sons all escaped death or capture at Carbisdale and do not appear in the Parliamentary records of proceedings against Montrose's followers. However, historian Alexander Mackenzie states that Robert Munro of the Assynt, Inveran and Achness branch of the family, along with his two nephews, Hugh and John, were banished to the New England states of North America by Oliver Cromwell for having fought as Royalists at the Battle of Worcester just one year later in 1651.

Death of Montrose

Disguised as a shepherd Montrose managed to avoid capture until he finally made it to Ardvreck Castle, seat of MacLeod of Assynt. There is a strong tradition MacLeod served with him at Inverness in 1645 and Montrose went to Ardvreck expecting to be given shelter; however, MacLeod was away and Montrose was met instead by his wife Christian Munro, daughter of Munro of Lemlair who had fought on the opposite side at Carbisdale. She therefore confined Montrose in the castle cellars along with Major Sinclair, found wandering in the hills. MacLeod was given a £25,000 reward for turning Montrose over to his enemies. He was taken to Edinburgh where he was hanged on 21 May.

After execution his body was dismembered, the quarters publicly displayed in Aberdeen, Glasgow, Perth and Stirling and the head on the Tolbooth in Edinburgh, where it remained for eleven years. After the Stuart Restoration in 1660, Montrose's remains were given one of the grandest state funerals ever held in Scotland. In 1707, Montrose's great-grandson, also called James Graham, the 4th Marquess, was created the 1st Duke of Montrose.

References

Notes

Sources

Further reading
 Cown, E., Montrose-For Covenant and King, 1995.
 Hewison, J. K. The Covenanters, 1913.
 Hutton, R., Charles the Second, King of England, Scotland and Ireland, 1989.
 Napier, M., Memoirs of the Marquis of Montrose, 1852.
 Reid, S., The Campaigns of Montrose, 1990.
 Stevenson, D., Revolution and Counter-Revolution in Scotland, 1644–1651, 1977.

External links

ScotWars.com: Battle of Carbisdale, 1650

1650 in Scotland
Battles of the Scottish Civil War
Conflicts in 1650
Inventory of Historic Battlefields in Scotland