[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lithgow railway station

m – levelled rock face (1877)
Eskbank Street Overbridge (1924)
Station Building – type 11, island-building, brick (1925)
Former Booking/Parcels office & Goods lift tower – timber (1925)
Station Master's residence – 6 Railway Parade (c.1880)
Hayley Street Footbridge and Overhead Booking Office (1993)

Island platform, erect 1925
Lithgow station is a typical island platform, curving slightly along the Up end. The platform is brick faced with concrete deck and asphalt finish. Modern light fittings, illuminated signage, timber bench seating, small planters, and a central garden bed (which appears to be the former location of the access ramp/stairs from Eskbank Street) comprise the platform furnishings. The platform is set within the rock cutting lower than the adjoining street levels and accessed from the western end via concrete stairs and U-shaped tube-like ramps leading to the footbridge linking the station to both Railway Parade and Main Street. A contemporary canopy provides weather protection between the station building and the footbridge through the stairs.

Hayley Street Footbridge and booking office, erected 1993
The Hayley Street Footbridge is a modern concrete deck footbridge suspended over steel beam and trestles over the station platform and the railway tracks to both side streets leading to the bus interchange on Railway Parade. It has a simple arrangement with the Station Master's office and the booking office on the northern half featuring a gabled corrugated metal roof with a small series of skylights. The remainder of the footbridge is covered with the same roof with no skylights and features steel pipe-rail balustrades with glazed enclosures. It is linked to the platform by the tube-like ramp and the stairs. A lift tower is located at the ramp entrance of the footbridge. The footbridge, overhead booking office and Station Master's office are typical of modern structures with simple detailing and no architectural merit. Excluded from listing.

Old Station platform, erected 1877
This former platform is evidence of the first Lithgow Station and is a levelled railway platform over the rock cutting. It is located further to the west of the present station at the southern foundation of the Sandford Avenue overbridge. Access to the redundant platform was not available for close inspection. The former station building no longer exists.

Esbank Street over bridge, erected 
Two rendered segmental arch spandrels with rock cliff abutments on both sides of the former overhead booking/parcels office structure.

Station building, erected 1925 and extended 1961
External: Constructed of face brick with a corrugated metal gabled roof extending as an awning to both platforms, the Lithgow station building is an island platform building in standard "A10" Federation style design. It features ten bays with a linear arrangement along with the platform with tuckpointed brickwork and engaged piers between the bays. The eastern (Up) end of the building has been extended approximately one bay in 1961 (formerly used as Railway Refreshment Room) with a matching gable end detailing featuring large metal box-framed window openings supported on with brick brackets with security mesh and a single door with side windows and fanlight on the east side. A narrow awning provides protection over this door. Other features to the original bays of the building include standard iron brackets over decorative corbels supporting the ample platform awnings, fretted timber work to both ends of the awnings, timber-framed double-hung vertically proportioned windows with multi-paned upper sashes, timber panelled doors with multi-paned fanlights, and a brick chimney with corbelled top and modern roof vents to toilets. The wall-mounted clock on the No.1 platform next to the Station Master's office appears original. Windows on the platform elevations of the two most eastern bays have been enlarged and covered by security mesh or grills. Another single door with windows on each side is also located on the west end of the building and provides access to the gent's toilets. There is a modern canopy extension at the western end of the station building, where the new platform canopy extends from the footbridge stairs access to the station.

Internal: Although the station building generally appears intact externally its internal room layouts and divisions have been modified. The original floor layout included (from west to east) an SM's office, telegraph office, general waiting room, ladies room & lavatory, store and gent's room. The current floor layout consists of a locked room, SM's office, waiting room, ladies toilets, staff meal room and gent's toilets. Apart from the toilets and the waiting room the rest of the rooms are kept locked. The interiors have been refurbished with only plasterboard ceiling panelling, simple moulded cornices and high wall vents appear to remain from the original phase. The floors are tiled.