[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2001 in Zimbabwe

a land scam in which resettled people paid them Z$10 million in order to be allocated plots of land in Matabeleland; the CFU withdraws all litigation against the government and announces the formation of the Zimbabwe Joint Resettlement Initiative with Z$1 billion offered in aid for resettled people.

June
 One person is murdered in political violence in June 2001.
 4 June – War veteran leader Chenjerai "Hitler" Hunzvi dies at 51.
 7 June – War veterans invade the property of black commercial farmer Philemon Matibe who was the MDC candidate for Chegutu and whose contesting of the 2000 parliamentary election results in court is due to commence within days; Mr Matibe is forced to vacate the farm and dismiss his workers.
 8 June – Twenty-seven farms in Macheke are not operating due to war veterans enforcing work stoppages.
 9 June – War veterans invade the Beatrice Country Club.  Farmers holding a cricket match are accused of celebrating the death of Chenjerai Hunzvi. War veterans chase all patrons away, consume all the food and alcohol and rename the premises the Chenjerai Hitler Hunzvi Club.
 12 June – The Bulawayo branch of the CZI reports that 400 companies have closed and 100,000 people have been made jobless due to continuing economic decline.
 13 June – War veterans vandalise Z$50 million of property on farms in Masvingo.
 14 June – Petrol, diesel, paraffin and aviation fuel prices rise by 70 per cent.
 15 June – A 50-year-old female Australian aid worker is assaulted by war veterans for walking past the house where mourners of Chenjerai Hunzvi were gathered; the Agricultural Workers Union reports that only three out of every 500 people being resettled on seized farms are farm workers and says many thousands face destitution.
 17 June – Farm worker Zondiwa Dumukani is beaten to death with golf clubs by government supporters in front of numerous eyewitnesses and a ZBC television camera crew; war veterans burn tobacco seed beds on seven properties, one of which reports loss to the value of Z$42 million.  The Tobacco Association reports that 80 tobacco farms have been prevented from planting a crop, representing a loss of 19 per cent of the country's total harvest.
 18 June – BBC documentary producer Sean Langan is ordered out of the country; eight headmen, 25 teachers and two headmasters are fired by way veterans in Buhera and ordered to leave the area.
 19 June – A BBC TV crew (Simon Finch, John Sweeney and James Miller) are ordered out of Zimbabwe by Information Minister Jonathon Moyo.
 20 June – Ministry of Education officials tell teachers fired by war veterans in Buhera that if they do not resolve their political differences with war veterans they will be struck off the payroll.
 22 June – 421 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition by government. Included is the farm belonging to murdered farmers Martin and Gloria Olds.  Also listed are missions owned by the Catholic Church, land owned by the Cold Storage Company and the National Railways.
 26 June – 35 people are injured when government supporters descend on a gold mine in Shamva, beat people and destroy property, accusing the mine owners of allowing NCA (Constitutional Assembly) meetings to be held there; scores of villagers, MDC activists and NCA members flee their homes in Guruve after being attacked by government supporters who accuse them of supporting the MDC.
 28 June – The EU gives the Zimbabwe government 60 days to end violence and farm occupations, abolish curbs on media and uphold court rulings, or face tough penalties.
 29 June – An 18-page supplement to the Herald newspaper lists another 2030 farms which have been gazetted for compulsory acquisition by the government: 90 per cent of farming properties in the country are now listed for seizure; UK Daily Telegraph journalist David Blair is ordered to leave Zimbabwe.
 30 June – Sixty war veterans armed with axes and broken bottles barricade the Marondera Hotel and prevent an NCA meeting from being held there.