[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Louisiana Democratic Party

the Great Migration, Louisiana has been majority white. Some areas have black majorities, as did New Orleans. The process of party switching appears to have been slower in Louisiana than in some other Southern states, as Democratic candidates continued to win governorships through the 20th century.

2000 to present

Hurricane Katrina
The evacuations and extensive damage to residential areas resulting from Hurricane Katrina had far-reaching political effects in the state. Because black residential areas of New Orleans were so damaged, many residents had to stay away, and some resettled in other states or cities. After the storm there was a twofold shift in the political electorate. "First, the exodus of Democratic voters to Texas, Florida and other parts of the country could affect local and statewide races in Louisiana--to the benefit of Republicans. At the same time, many of those who left New Orleans went to other parts of Louisiana, producing new micro-electorates where Democrats have moved into traditionally Republican areas."

One example of change was Baton Rouge, which gained an increase of 50,000 people after Katrina, many of them African Americans from the New Orleans area. The changes resulted in Democrat Don Cazayoux winning Louisiana's 6th congressional district "after more than three decades under Republican control."

Recent elections
The shift of the white majority in the state into the Republican Party has continued in the 21st century. Because of demographic changes and political realignment, the Democratic Party has won fewer offices at the statewide and national levels in Louisiana. In 2004 Democrats held both Senate seats as well as six statewide offices. However, in February 2011, Buddy Caldwell, Louisiana Attorney General and the only statewide elected Democrat, switched to the Republican Party of Louisiana. In September 2011, the Democratic Party did not field a major candidate for any of the statewide offices for the November elections. Despite this, the Democratic Party appears to be keeping its appeal at a local level. In November 2011, Democrats retained 45 seats in the Louisiana House of Representatives, and added five new members; the House has a total of 105 members.

First female chair
In April 2012, the party's governing Committee, the 210-member State Central Committee, elected Karen Carter Peterson as chair, ousting former party leader Claude "Buddy" Leach. Peterson was the first female, and the second African American, to serve as party chair in the Louisiana Democratic Party's long history. Peterson was a member of the Louisiana State Senate from New Orleans.

See also
Political party strength in Louisiana
Louisiana
Louisiana politics
List of governors of Louisiana
Louisiana Democratic primary, 2008
Louisiana state elections, 2010
Harvey Fields, Democratic state chairman from 1926 to 1929

References

External links

Louisiana Democratic Party

 
Democratic Party (United States) by state
Democratic Party