[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Yellow Bayou

federate casualties. Tragically, Union Colonel Hill's young son, who rode into battle in full uniform on a pony beside his father, was among the dead. Mark M. Boatner III stated total losses as 267 Union and 452 Confederate. The National Park Service listed 360 Union and 500 Confederate casualties. 

The Atchafalaya, filled with backwater from the flooding Mississippi River, was a serious obstacle to Banks' army.  Banks asked Bailey to improvise a bridge and his engineer officer succeeded in accomplishing the task. Bailey anchored 22 river transports abreast in the Atchafalaya, lashed them together, and built a roadway across their decks with gangplanks and lumber. The XIII and XIX Corps troops began crossing on May 19 and the XVI and XVII Corps troops crossed on May 20. After the bridge was dismantled, the wounded and sick Union soldiers were loaded aboard the transports while those fit for duty marched to Morganza. On May 21 at Red River Landing, A. J. Smith's troops left the army, bound for Vicksburg, Mississippi. 

On May 18, Major General Edward Canby assumed command of the Military Division of West Mississippi, making Banks his subordinate. Banks retained nominal control over the Department of the Gulf, but his future responsibilities were purely administrative. That same day, Taylor wrote, "Nothing but the withdrawal of Walker's division from me has prevented the capture of Banks' army and the destruction of Porter's fleet. I feel bitterly about this, because my army has been robbed of the just measure of its glory and the country of the most brilliant and complete success of the war." In a series of letters, Taylor lashed out at his superior until Kirby Smith relieved him of command on June 10, 1864. Taylor was reassigned to command the Department of Mississippi and East Louisiana on July 18.

Notes

References

Further reading
 

Yellow Bayou
Yellow Bayou
Yellow Bayou
Yellow Bayou
Avoyelles Parish, Louisiana
May 1864 events
1864 in Louisiana