[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Algernon Sidney Crapsey

Algernon Sidney Crapsey (1847–1927) was an American Episcopal clergyman who in 1906 was defrocked after a celebrated heresy trial.

Family
Algernon Sidney Crapsey was born in Fairmount, Ohio on June 28, 1847. His maternal grandfather Senator Thomas Morris left Virginia because he opposed slavery to help settle Ohio. Morris was an Abolitionist. He served one term in the United States Senate. Crapsey "identified deeply" with his grandfather Morris, who was to him "a seer, a prophet, a hero, and a martyr."

Crapsey's father was a lawyer whose office was in nearby Cincinnati.

Early life
When his father got into financial difficulty, Crapsey quit school at age eleven and took a job in a dry good store. When, after two years, his father recovered financially, Crapsey returned to school, but because he was the oldest boy in his class, he felt uncomfortable and quit school again and took a job in a hardware factory. After a co-worker called him "worthless," in August 1862, at age fourteen, Crapsey joined the army during the American Civil War. However, he was given a medical discharge the first winter after his enlistment and sent back to his home in Fairmount, Ohio.

Both at home and at his father's law office, Crapsey was bored. However, there was a library in the same building. Crapsey took advantage of the library to educate himself. He read Walter Scott, Charles Dickens, Washington Irving, Thomas Babington Macaulay, William Makepeace Thackeray, H. F. M. Prescott, and the Bible. One evening in Cincinnati, Crapsey attended a service at Christ Church. He later looked back on the experience "as the hour of his conversion."

In 1863, Crapsey took a job as storekeeper in a salt yard in West Virginia. By the beginning of 1864, he was back in Cincinnati. He found a job there as a bookkeeper in a printing company. To improve his qualifications for the job, he attended night classes. Nevertheless, Crapsey was fired. His next job was in the Dead Letter Office in Washington, D.C. for six months.

Crapsey's uncle persuaded him that there were more opportunities in New York City. He found a job as bookkeeper and cashier in a print shop.

Ministry in the Episcopal Church

While working in New York City, Crapsey attended services at Christ Episcopal Church. The Rev. Ferdinand Cartwright Ewer was the rector. This was another turning point in Crapsey's life. Ewer influenced Crapsey to seek ordination in the Episcopal church. To receive the education required for ordination, he attended St. Stephen's College, Annandale, New York for two years. He then attended the General Theological Seminary in New York City for three years, graduating with a degree in divinity.

Crapsey was ordained a deacon on June 30, 1872, and a priest on October 5, 1873.

After ordination, Crapsey worked in St. Paul's Chapel of Trinity Church in New York City.

During his time in St. Paul's Chapel of Trinity Church, Crapsey married Adelaide Trowbridge, whose father was a Catskill, New York newspaper man. The couple had nine children.

St. Andrew's Mission
The father of one of Crapsey's seminary friends persuaded Crapsey to leave St. Paul's Chapel to serve in St. Andrew's Mission, Rochester, New York. So Crapsey, with his wife and three small children, moved to Rochester. On June 1, 1879, he began his work in St. Andrew's mission, located in a mostly Roman Catholic neighborhood.

In St. Andrew's, Crapsey and his wife entered into the lives of the people. During the first summer, Crapsey had classes for the children in which he taught them about plants and how they grow.

For the women, Mrs. Crapsey organized women's groups.
For the men, Crapsey organized the St. Andrew's Brotherhood. The organization did charitable work and promoted religious education. The Brotherhood grew to three hundred members, but not all were members of St. Andrews. 
The Brotherhood was as a "Mutual Benefit Society."  Payments were made to sick members, to the widows of members, and to the members who lost their wives.

In addition to his work with the Brotherhood and traditional parish duties, Crapsey led retreats for the Sisters of St. Mary, an Episcopal religious order in Peekskill, NY. He lectured at black Episcopal churches, urging members to stand up for their rights. In Rochester, Crapsey was one of the founders and the first president of the Citizens Political Reform Association, which worked for civic improvement in the face of the poverty caused by the Depression of 1893.  He visited people in asylums and prisons.

Together, the Crapseys established the first training school for kindergarten teachers in Rochester. They also began a night school with classes in "domestic science and mechanical arts."