[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Distomo massacre

The Distomo massacre (;  or the Distomo-Massaker) was a Nazi war crime which was perpetrated by members of the Waffen-SS in the village of Distomo, Greece, in 1944, during the German occupation of Greece during World War II.

Background
The 2nd company of the 4th Waffen-SS Polizei Panzergrendier Division was serving in Greece in 1944, made-up of mostly of volksdeutsche (ethnic German) teenagers from Hungary and Romania. It was commanded by zealous SS officers. The heavy losses taken on the Eastern Front had caused the SS to lower its standards as the war went on and many of the teenagers in the company were underaged with some as young as 14 or 15. British historian Mark Mazower described the 2nd Company as being made up of a "lethal combination" of ill-trained volksdeutsche teenagers determined to prove their sense of deutschtum (Germanness) with fanatical SS officers. This was especially the case as almost all of the Hungarian and Romanian volksdeutsche teenagers serving in the division did not have the requisite family histories proving that they were of pure German descent, and instead had only vague written statements from their local volksdeutsche community associations attesting to their pure German descent. These statements were not considered satisfactory by the SS, which noted that though the volksdeutsche serving in the SS were German in terms of language and culture, that they suspected that many of them had Hungarian and/or Romanian blood.

The commanding officer of the division, SS-Brigadeführer Fritz Schmedes had taken part as an young Freikorps officer in the "vicious fighting" in Upper Silesia in 1921 and fought the Greeks in precisely the same manner that he had fought the Poles. The regimental commander, SS-Standartenführer Karl Schümers, was an ultra-aggressive man prone to "extremely draconian" methods, as even a sympathetic SS evaluation had put it, whose zeal and aggression had not been curbed by a serious head wound he taken on the Eastern Front in 1942. SS-Hauptsturmführer Fritz Lautenbach began his career in the elite 1st SS Panzer Division Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler and was known to be a militant Nazi. However, Mazower wrote that, though the composition of the division and its cast of commanders made it more likely to commit atrocities, the massacre should be put into context, namely it operated as part of Army Group E and the standing orders of the Wehrmacht in Greece was to use terror as a way to frighten the Greeks into not supporting the andartes (guerrillas). 

The main andarte force that fought the Germans during the war was the ELAS (Ellinikós Laïkós Apeleftherotikós StratósGreek People's Liberation Army), which was the military arm of the EAM (Ethnikó Apeleftherotikó MétopoNational Liberation Front), which was dominated by cadres of the KKE (Kommounistikó Kómma ElládasCommunist Party of Greece). Throughout the war against the Soviet Union, German propaganda portrayed the war as a noble struggle to protect "European civilization" from "Bolshevism". Likewise, German officials portrayed the Reich as nobly occupying Greece to protect it from Communists and presented EAM as a demonic force. The andartes, especially close of the ELAS, were portrayed in both the Wehrmacht and the SS as a "savages" and "criminals" who committed all sorts of crimes and who needed to hunted down without mercy.

The British engaged in numerous intelligence deceptions designed to fool the Germans into thinking that the Allies would be landing in Greece in the near-future, and as such Army Group E was reinforced to stop the expected Allied landing in the Balkans. From the viewpoint of General Alexander Löhr, the commander of Army Group E, the attacks of the andartes, which forced his men to spread themselves out to hunt them down, were weakening his forces by leaving them exposed and spread out in the face of an expected Allied landing. However, the mountainous terrain of Greece ensured that there were only a limited number of roads and railroads bringing down supplies from Germany and even the destruction of a single bridge by the andartes caused major supply problems for the German forces. The best known andarte operation of the war, namely the  blowing up of the Gorgopotamos viaduct on the night of 25 November 1942, had caused the Germans serious logistical problems as it severed the main railroad linking Thessaloniki to Athens. To secure its supply lines, Army Group E had to eliminate the andartes, but at the same time, the sweeps designed to eliminate the swift moving and lightly armed andarte bands forced Army Group E to spread out its force thin, which would have been dangerous had the Allies landed in Greece. After the failure of numerous sweeps designed to hunt down the andartes over the course of 1942–1943, Lohr in the winter of 1943–1944 started to employ what Mazower called the "indiscriminate  slaughter of civilians" as the best way to fight the andartes.