[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rodman M. Price

or $7,500. The two would split the profits of timber exports from the property. On August 6. 1851, Price bought the remainder of Revere's property for $8,000. Price's move to New Jersey later inspired Revere to purchase farm land and construct The Willows, a custom mansion in Morristown, New Jersey.

U.S. House of Representatives (1851–1853)
Having left California, Price purchased a mansion in Hoboken and entered a Wall Street partnership to manage his California holdings and speculated in Californian real estate. In 1850, Price's father and Robert Field Stockton, who was familiar with Price from Stockton's time as military governor, engineered Price's nomination for U.S. Representative from the state's fifth congressional district, which was composed of Bergen, Essex, Hudson, and Passaic counties. Owing to a division in the Whig Party following the Compromise of 1850, Price was narrowly elected in the usually Whig district.

Price was not an active member of the House and served one uneventful term in office, largely focusing on his California real estate deals and constituent services. He participated in only one House debate, speaking in favor of recodification of martial law aboard Navy vessels. He argued that traditional flogging led to a "well-ordered, well-disciplined ship," but that summary courts-martial should supersede the captain's power to punish at sea. He lost re-election in 1852 and returned home to focus on his property interests.

Governor of New Jersey (1854–1857)

1853 election

In 1853, Price was recruited to run for governor on the Democratic ticket. Whig critics attacked him for his ties to the "Joint Companies," a name given to the conglomerate formed by the merger of the Delaware and Raritan Canal Company with the Camden & Amboy Railroad which effectively had a monopoly on transportation, and his residence in California, which some argued disqualified him from office. The Democratic campaign focused on an opposition to monopoly and a general promise of "reform." Price was elected by a reduced but substantial margin.

Term in office
As governor, Price had little real influence against the county machines that dominated the Democratic Party or the large corporations that dominated the state. He hewed to standard Jacksonian democratic rhetoric, criticizing unbridled corporate consolidation, paper bank notes, and public spending. To fulfill his campaign pledge for reform, Price backed a Law Reform Commission to reorganize the state judiciary, reaching a compromise with Whigs to pass the reforms in exchange for more appointments of Whig judges to the bench.

Responding to Protestant nativism in the state, Price suggested that the legislature enact a limited moratorium on naturalization in the period preceding elections and ignored calls for the prohibition of liquor and saloons, provided that the legislature upheld "constitutional rights." Price favored local control on the question of slavery, particularly in Kansas, and campaigned on behalf of James Buchanan and Fernando Wood in 1856.

Price also established the first state geological survey at the urging of agricultural societies and North Jersey industrialists, defraying costs by selling maps of the state's soil and mineral resources to European investors.

Transportation 
Price continued to support the Joint Companies, bargaining with Stockton to extend the corporation's charter until 1869 with the option of a state takeover in twenty years, in part to avoid disrupting the $200,000 in tax revenue that the monopoly provided to the state. He continually proposed to scrap the system of town highway commissioners in favor of countywide administration but was consistently blocked by those who relied on the highway commissions as lucrative patronage positions.

In response to outcry from Jersey shippers amid the rapid expansion of the Manhattan wharves on the Hudson River, Price and Governor of New York Myron Clark established a harbor commission to investigate whether construction was obstructing river flow and to recommend official bulkhead lines, the first in interstate port regulation. He also appointed the first pilots' board to protect Newark and Jersey City operators struggling to maintain a portion of imports from Liverpool.

Education 
Price is sometimes regarded as the father of the New Jersey public school system; he responded to two decades of calls for public education by signing the first legislation establishing state normal schools, turning professional education into an important statewide lobby. His work built on the prior efforts of Democratic governors Daniel Haines and George F. Fort. Price himself participated in the 1854 Sussex Institute and urged state support for its extension to all counties. In January 1855, he called for the establishment of a state training school and drafted the bill that established the Trenton Normal School.