[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Věra Chytilová

Věra Chytilová (2 February 1929 – 12 March 2014) was an avant-garde Czech film director and pioneer of Czech cinema. Banned by the Czechoslovak government in the 1960s, she is best known for her Czech New Wave film, Sedmikrásky (Daisies). Her subsequent films screened at international film festivals, including Vlčí bouda (1987), which screened at the 37th Berlin International Film Festival, A Hoof Here, a Hoof There (1989), which screened at the 16th Moscow International Film Festival, and The Inheritance or Fuckoffguysgoodday (1992), which screened at the 18th Moscow International Film Festival. For her work, she received the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres, Medal of Merit and the Czech Lion award.

Early life and education
Chytilová was born in Ostrava, Czechoslovakia, on 2 February 1929. She had a strict Catholic upbringing, which would later come to influence many of the moral questions presented in her films.

While attending college, Chytilová initially studied philosophy and architecture, but abandoned these fields. She then worked as a draftswoman, a fashion model and as a photo re-toucher before working as a clapper girl for the Barrandov Film Studios in Prague. She then sought a recommendation from Barrandov Film Studios to study film production, but was denied. Undeterred by the rejection, she would later be accepted into the Film and TV School of the Academy of Performing Arts in Prague (FAMU) at the age of 28, the first woman to study directing at the school. While attending FAMU, she studied underneath renowned film director Otakar Vavra, before graduating in 1962. Chytilová's dedication to her artistic vision manifested early in her studies, with her graduation film's screenplay, Strop/Ceiling, being rejected by her professor for its kitschy nature. After getting her classmate Pavel Juráček to rewrite the script for their professor's approval, she defiantly shot the original script.

Career
Upon her graduation from FAMU, both of Chytilová's short films had a theatrical release throughout Czechoslovakia. In 1963 Chytilová released her first feature film entitled Something Different.

Chytilová is best known for her once highly controversial film Sedmikrásky (Daisies; 1966). Daisies is known for its unsympathetic characters, lack of a continuous narrative and abrupt visual style. Chytilová states that she structured Daisies to "restrict [the spectator’s] feeling of involvement and lead him to an understanding of the underlying idea or philosophy". The characters in Daises, Marie I and Marie II declare at the beginning of the film that since the world is spoiled, they will be spoiled too. The film is hailed as the most forefront film of the Czech New Wave.

The film was banned within Czechoslovakia upon its initial release in 1966 until 1967 due to its depictions and imagery of wasting food, but in 1966 the film won the Grand Prix at the Bergamo Film Festival in Italy. Daisies cemented Chytilová's career both nationally and internationally.

After Daisies the government made it very difficult for Chytilová to find work within Czechoslovakia, even though she was never officially classified as a 'blacklisted' director.

Her follow-up film,  Ovoce stromů rajských jíme (Fruit of Paradise; 1969), was her last film before the Soviet Union invasion of 1968. After the Soviet Union invasion it was virtually impossible for Chytilová to find work and she resorted to directing commercials under her husband's name, Jaroslav Kučera.

In 1976, due to the low cinema attendance Chytilová was approached by the government to begin directing films through one of the state run production companies, Short Film Studios. At the same time the United States was assembling a 'Year of Women' Film Festival and contacted Chytilová to gain permission to screen Daisies as their opening film.

Chytilová informed the festival that the only non-censored prints of the film could be found in Paris and Brussels. She also informed the festival that her government would not allow her to attend the festival, nor were they allowing her to direct films. The festival then began to apply international pressure upon the Czechoslovakian government by petitioning on Chytilová's behalf. In accordance with this international pressure, Chytilová wrote a letter directly to President Gustáv Husák detailing her career and her personal beliefs in socialism.

Due to the success of the international pressure, and Chytilová's personal appeal to President Husak, Chytilová began production of Hra o jablko (The Apple Game, 1976). The Apple Game was completed and then was screened at the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival, and won the Silver Hugo and the Chicago International Film Festival.

After the release of The Apple Game Chytilová was allowed to continue making films, but was continually met with controversy and heavy censorship by the Czechoslovak government. Věra Chytilová's last film was released in 2006, and she taught directing at FAMU.