[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Thomas Jefferson Randolph

sister Cornelia Randolph (1799-1871) taught painting, drawing and sculpture there before the American Civil War, during which she moved to Alexandria, Virginia to live with female relatives.

From 1857 to 1864, Randolph served as the rector of the University of Virginia, succeeding Andrew Stevenson.

Civil War and later years
Albemarle County voters also elected Randolph along with Southall and James P. Holcombe as their delegates to the Virginia Secession Convention of 1861. His youngest brother, George Wythe Randolph, a U.S. navy veteran who had formed an artillery militia unit in Richmond in 1859, became one of Richmond's delegates to the convention and spoke in favor of secession at that convention. G.W. Randolph also drew praise during the one battle his artillery fought near Yorktown, and became the Confederate States Army Secretary of War for eight months in 1862. He would resign for health reasons but win election to the Virginia Senate for the remaining years of the war, though he would late in the war run the federal blockade in order to seek medical treatment, visiting spas in England and Europe before returning in 1866. During the American Civil War, this Randolph held a colonel's commission in the Confederate Army, but likely never fought. Most planters (as owners of more than 10 slaves) were excused from active service.

Continuing his activity in politics after the war, Randolph served as the temporary chairman of the 1872 Democratic National Convention.

Death and legacy
Randolph survived his wife by several years. He died at Edgehill on October 7, 1875, following a carriage accident, and was buried beside her in the Monticello family graveyard. His Tufton estate is now part of Monticello, and hosts the Thomas Jefferson Center for Historic Plants. Some of his (and his family's letters) are now held by the University of Virginia library.

Jefferson–Hemings controversy

The historian Henry S. Randall, in an 1868 letter to James Parton, also a historian, wrote that "The 'Dusky Sally Story'--the story that Mr. Jefferson kept one of his slaves, (Sally Hemings) as his mistress and had children by her, was once extensively believed by respectable men..." According to Randall, after Thomas Jefferson had died, his oldest grandson Randolph talked with the historian and personally noted the strong resemblance of the Hemings' children to his grandfather, their master.

In the 1850s, Randolph told the biographer Henry Randall that Jefferson's nephew Peter Carr had been the father of Hemings' children.  He also said that his mother had told him that Jefferson had been absent for 15 months prior to the birth of one of Sally Hemings' children, so could not have been the father. In 1998, the Carrs were disproved as possible fathers of Eston Hemings, Sally's youngest son, by the results of a Y-DNA study of their male descendants; no genetic link existed between the Carr and Hemings lines for the descendants of Eston Hemings. The test results showed a match between the Jefferson male line and the descendant of Hemings, but they showed nothing about the descendants of Sally Hemings's other children.

The historian Andrew Burstein has said, "[T]he white Jefferson descendants who established the family denial in the mid-nineteenth century cast responsibility for paternity on two Jefferson nephews (children of Jefferson's sister) whose DNA was not a match. So, as far as can be reconstructed, there are no Jeffersons other than the president who had the degree of physical access to Sally Hemings that he did."

Notes

References

Further reading
 Freehling, William W., The Road to Disunion (1990).
 Randolph, Sarah Nicholas. The Domestic Life of Thomas Jefferson: Compiled from Family Letters and Reminiscences (1871), discusses the relationship between Thomas J. Randolph and his maternal grandfather Thomas Jefferson.

External links
 
 

1792 births
1875 deaths
American people of English descent
American people of Powhatan descent
American people of Welsh descent
American planters
American slave owners
Bolling family of Virginia
Burials at Monticello
Cary family of Virginia
Confederate States Army officers
Jefferson family
Members of the Virginia House of Delegates
Nicholas family
People from Monticello
Thomas Jefferson
19th-century American landowners
19th-century American politicians