[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Red Clay State Historic Park

John Morgan Wooten conducted research in 1934 and 1935 that established the approximate location of the council grounds; however, the Georgia chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution placed a historical marker commemorating the site less than  south of the state line on November 10, 1935.

State park history and events
In the late 1950s, an effort arose, spearheaded by a number of local historians, to preserve the land of the Red Clay Council Ground, then private land, and turn it into a state park. Local historian James F. Corn purchased 150 acres of the property on June 15, 1964, and five months later, the Cherokee-Red Clay Association was incorporated. In January 1970, Corn reached an agreement with the Bradley County Quarterly Court for them to purchase the land for the purpose of developing it into a tourist attraction. Shortly thereafter, Bill Jenkins, then the Commissioner of the Tennessee Department of Conservation, worked with then-Governor Winfield Dunn to appropriate funds for the establishment of the state park. A series of archaeological excavations of the site took place between 1973 and 1975 and uncovered a small number of artifacts, but failed to determine the location of the council house. The Red Clay Council Grounds were added to the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) on September 14, 1972, and the state of Tennessee purchased the land for the park in 1974. A dedication for the park took place on May 8, 1976, in a ceremony attended by members of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians and local and state leaders. Groundbreaking for the park occurred on April 26, 1978, and Red Clay State Park opened to the public on September 28, 1979. The southeasternmost  were added to the park on July 2, 1980. The blacksmith shop was added in June 2023.

The Eternal Flame of the Cherokee Nation, a memorial to the Cherokees who suffered and died during the removal, was placed on the site on April 6, 1984, at an event attended by both the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians and the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma. This was the first time the two tribes were reunited since the removal. Between April 17 and 19, 2009, a joint council again convened at Red Clay to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the 1984 event. On August 22 and 23, 2015, the three federally recognized Cherokee tribes; the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, Cherokee Nation, and the United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians; reconvened at Red Clay State Park for the first time since the removal. The park has also hosted a number of recurring events. Between 1982 and 2001, an event called the Cherokee Days of Celebration (known as Cherokeefest until 1986) was held at the park in August and sponsored by the state. The festival returned in 2003 as the Cherokee Cultural Celebration. The event, sponsored by the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians and other groups, features exhibitions about Cherokee culture and heritage. Friends of Red Clay was established as a nonprofit organization in 2007, and hosted an annual pow wow in October, the last of which occurred in 2019.

Description

Red Clay State Historic Park is situated on approximately  of land in a rural part of Bradley County, Tennessee, with the Tennessee—Georgia state line and the city of Cohutta, Georgia, forming the southern boundary. It is located in the Ridge and Valley physiographic province of the Appalachian Mountains. Elevations in the park range from slightly over , where the council grounds were located, to more than  atop a ridge. It is accessible via Red Clay Park Road, which traverses the park; the main entrance is on the north end, and a secondary entrance is located at the southeast boundary on the state line. A Norfolk Southern Railway mainline runs along the eastern fringes of the park.

A replica of a Cherokee farmstead, sleeping huts, blacksmith shop, and the council house where the council meetings took place prior to the removal are found on the location of the council grounds. Originals of all of these structures once stood on the site; however, the number of sleeping huts and other log structures was much greater. More recent historical investigations also suggest that the actual council house may have been much larger, with a smoke vent in the roof for the council fire. The park contains the iconic Blue Hole Spring, also known as the Council Spring, which was considered sacred to the Cherokees. The spring rises out of a bowl-like depression and takes its name from its deep blue color. It has a daily flow of , and its runoff flows into nearby Coahulla Creek, a tributary of the Conasauga River. Also located on the site is the Eternal Flame of the Cherokee Nation, which serves as a memorial to the Cherokees who suffered and died during the removal, and is permanently kept lit.