[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Suzuki RE5

, a total of some 6,000 RE5 machines had been produced.

Although the RE5 was less powerful than the contemporary Suzuki GT750, the engine had excellent torque, and was generally smooth,  but it exhibited "grinding vibration" at around 4,000 rpm. Average fuel consumption was , varying between  and .

The complex B-point system (explained below) gave smooth running on overrun and some engine braking. Suzuki stopped fitting the B points to the 1976 "A" model, and allegedly had dealers disconnect the system on remaining "M" models. The bikes sometimes exhibited a dead spot or hesitation during acceleration as the carburetor transitioned from primary to secondary throat. This was due to poor synchronization between the positions of the primary, port and the secondary carburetor throat valves. Some evidence links this to jetting, giving an excessively lean primary mixture.

Reception
Although the RE5's frame and suspension were conventional, reviewers remarked on its good steering and handling, aided by good ground clearance. Some reviewers even claimed it to be the best-handling Japanese bike, and close to European standards.   After the novelty of the RE5's rotary engine had worn off, reviewers found only its handling to be its winning factor over other bikes. In 1985 Cycle World criticised the RE5 as expensive, over-complicated, underpowered, and hideous; and they declared it  to be one of "The Ten Worst Motorcycles".

Differing design approaches
The Norton Classic was an air-cooled twin-rotor bike developed by  David Garside at BSA, with a fundamentally different design approach.  Whereas the RE5 was heavy, overcomplicated, expensive to make, and (at 60 bhp) a little short on power, Garside's design was simpler, smoother, lighter and (at 80 bhp) significantly more powerful.

Specifications
Specifications:
 Wheels: Front 3.25 × 19in, Rear 4.00 × 18in.
 Carburation: two-stage, two-barrel 18–32 mm Mikuni.
 Fuel: 85–95 octane.
 Starting system: Electric, kickstart (the latter intended to be offered only as an option).
 Performance: Top Speed (tested): .
 Standing ¼ mile: 14.02 s @ .
 Wheel Base: .
 Weight (curb with half tank of fuel): 255.4 kg (563 lb).
 Weight dry: 230 kg (507 lb).

Technical features

The engine has a single rotor with a capacity of 497 cc. The rotor spins on an eccentric shaft in a peritrochoid (Mazda uses an epitrochoid) chamber, giving three rotations of the crankshaft for every 360° of rotor travel. Compression ratio is 9.4:1. The eccentric shaft runs on plain bearings, which were better than rollers for heat dissipation. Combustion sealing utilised Apex, corner and side seals. At the three rotor apexes, tip sealing was accomplished with a three-piece seal tensioned by a blade spring. Apex seals were made of a special material known as Ferro Tic, which was a combination of sintered ferrous alloy and titanium carbide. The surface of the trochoid chamber which the apex seals rubbed along was coated with a CEM (composite electrochemical material) consisting of nickel silicon carbide. Side sealing used one blade-like seal and spring for each rotor face on each side (six side seals in total). Corner seals and springs finished the isolation of combustion. Blow-by gases are recirculated into the combustion process. The rotor spins backward in relation to the motorcycle. Primary power transfer to the clutch and transmission is by duplex chain.

Clutch and gearbox
Wet multiplate clutch, and five-speed, constant-mesh, manual. The gearbox is virtually the same as that fitted to Suzuki's GT750 water-cooled triple. RE5 final drive is by 630 chain via a 14-tooth drive sprocket and 43-tooth unit at the rear wheel.