[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mourad Meghni

ured. His contract with Lazio was mutually terminated on 10 June 2011.

Umm Salal
After a four-year stint playing for the Rome-based club, Meghni joined the Qatar Stars League outfit Umm-Salal on 11 June 2011.

Al Khor
On 29 March 2012, it was announced Meghni would join Al Khor on a temporary loan.

Lekhwiya
On 6 July 2012, Meghni moved from Umm Salal to league rival Lekhwiya SC on a free transfer.

International career
On 12 August 2009, Meghni was selected for the first time to join the ranks of the Algeria national team, in a game facing Uruguay (Algeria won on a score of 1–0).

Meghni was not be in Algeria's final World Cup squad after being informed that his knee injury had not sufficiently healed and would require surgery despite the great lengths that both the player and the Fennecs medical team had gone to give him a chance of recovering in time.

Personal life
Meghni's father, Ammi Ali, is Algerian while his mother, Anna, is a Portuguese national. He is married. His older brother, Saïd Meghni, was also a footballer and played briefly in Portugal for Tirsense and Moreirense, in the 1999–2000 season, and then in Italy for Bologna's primavera team.

Career statistics

Honours
Bologna
 UEFA Intertoto Cup: runner-up 2002

Lazio
Coppa Italia: 2008–09
Supercoppa Italiana: 2009

France U17
FIFA U-17 World Cup: 2001

References

External links
 
 UEFA profile
 

1984 births
Living people
Footballers from Paris
Men's association football midfielders
Algerian men's footballers
French men's footballers
Algeria men's international footballers
France men's youth international footballers
France men's under-21 international footballers
2010 Africa Cup of Nations players
US Torcy players
AS Cannes players
INF Clairefontaine players
Bologna FC 1909 players
FC Sochaux-Montbéliard players
SS Lazio players
Umm Salal SC players
Al-Khor SC players
Al-Duhail SC players
CS Constantine players
Ligue 1 players
Serie A players
Serie B players
Qatar Stars League players
Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1 players
French people of Portuguese descent
Algerian people of Portuguese descent
Algerian expatriate men's footballers
Algerian expatriate sportspeople in Italy
Expatriate men's footballers in Italy
Algerian expatriate sportspeople in Qatar
Expatriate men's footballers in Qatar