[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Political families of India

P Shankar, brother of K. P. P. Samy, member Legislative Assembly from the Tiruvottiyur constituency in 2021

The S. Sivasubramanian Family - DMK
S. Sivasubramanian, Member of the Legislative Assembly of Tamil Nadu from Andimadam constituency in 1989 election
S. S. Sivasankar, Minister for Transport

The Families in Congress

The Rajagopalachari Family - Congress 
Late C. Rajagopalachari, Chief Minister of Madras Presidency (1937–40), Madras State (1952–54), Governor of West Bengal (1946–48), Governor-General of India (1948–50). Union Minister in Government of India (1950–52).
 Gopalkrishna Gandhi, Governor of West Bengal.
 C. R. Narasimhan, Former Member of Lok Sabha from Krishnagiri.

The C.P.Ramaswami Iyer family - Congress
 C. P. Ramaswami Iyer, Member of Madras Legislative Council and Diwan of Travancore.
 C. R. Pattabhi Raman, Former Member of Lok Sabha from Kumbakonam.

The Bhaktavatsalam Family - Congress 
 M. Bhaktavatsalam, Chief Minister of Madras state (1962–1967).
Jayanthi Natarajan, Former Member of Indian Parliament.

The Families in AIADMK

The M. G. Ramachandran Family - AIADMK
 M. G. Ramachandran, Former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu
 V. N. Janaki Ramachandran, Former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu (Wife of Ramachandran)

The O. Panneerselvam Family - AIADMK 
 O. Panneerselvam, Former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu
 P. Ravindhranath, Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha (First son of Panneerselvam)

Families in multiparties

The Kumaramangalam Family - Multiparty
Late P. Subbarayan,  former Chief Minister of Madras Presidency (1926–1930), Member of Lok Sabha from Tiruchengode
 Radhabai Subbarayan, Famous human rights activist
 Mohan Kumaramangalam, politician and trade union leader from the Communist Party of India and later the Indian National Congress.
 Rangarajan Kumaramangalam, Indian politician. Member of Lok Sabha from Salem and later, Tiruchirapalli and Union Minister in Government of India
 Lalitha Kumaramangalam, politician and member of the BJP's national executive.
 Parvathi Krishnan, Former Member of Lok Sabha from Coimbatore.

The V. K. Sasikala Family - Multi Parties
VK Sasikala, Indian Businesswoman turned Politician 
 M. Natarajan, Sasikala's husband
 V. K. Dhivakaran, Founding General Secretary Of Anna Dravidar Kazhagam and brother of VK Sasikala               
 T. T. V. Dhinakaran,  General Secretary Of Ammk and Sasikala's elder Sister Vanimani's Son                   
 Anuradha Dhinakaran, Dhinakaran's wife.
 V. N. Sudhakaran, Jayalalithaa's foster son and brother of TTV Dhinakaran
 T. T. V. Bhaskaran, Founding General Secretary Of Anna Mgr Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and brother of TTV Dhinakaran                           
 J. Illavarsi, Sasikala's brother Jayaraman's widow                        
 Vivek Jayaraman, Sasikala's brother Jayaraman's son

Family in MDMK

The Vaiko Family - MDMK
 Vaiko, founder of the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam.
 Durai Vaiyapuri, Internet wing MDMK.

Family in PMK

The Ramadoss Family - PMK
S. Ramadoss PMK founder
Anbumani Ramadoss Member of Parliament from Rajya Sabha and former Cabinet Minister (Ministry of Health) during 2004-09

Family in TMC

The G. K. Moopanar Family - TMC 
Late G. K. Moopanar, Indian politician and founder of the Tamil Maanila Congress.
 G. K. Vasan, Former Union Minister in Government of India.

Tripura

Singh family 
 Sachindra Lal Singh - Former chief minister of Tripura 
 Asish Lal Singh - State president of Trinamool Congress (son)

Uttar Pradesh

Maurya family
Swami Prasad Maurya; former minister in Government of Uttar Pradesh, former leader of opposition in Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly, National General Secretary of Samajwadi Party
Sanghmitra Maurya; Member of Indian Parliament (Lok Sabha) (daughter of Swami Prasad Maurya)

Chaudhary Family 
  Chaudhary Charan Singh, ex-Prime Minister of India
Chaudhary Ajit Singh, founder of Rashtriya Lok Dal
Jayant Chaudhary, Member of Parliament Rajya Sabha

Gorakhnath Math family 
 Digvijay Nath, former state president of Hindu Mahasabha and MP.
 Mahant Avaidyanath, adopted son of Digvijay Nath, MP & MLA, later joined the Bhartiya Janta Party
 Yogi Adityanath, adopted son of Mahant Avaidyanath, MP & MLA, Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh

Yadav family 
Mulayam Singh Yadav – former Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, former Defence Minister of India
Akhilesh Yadav – Former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh (son of Mulayam)
Dimple Yadav – Former Lok Sabha MP (daughter-in-Law of Mulayam)
Abhay Ram Yadav (brother)
Dharmendra Yadav – Former Lok Sabha MP (nephew of Mulayam)
Shivpal Singh Yadav –  Former Minister in the  government of Uttar Pradesh (brother)
Rajpal Singh Yadav (brother)
Abhishek Yadav alias Anshul Yadav - District Panchayat Chairman of Etawah (nephew of Mulayam)
Ram Gopal Yadav – MP Rajya Sabha (cousin brother)
Akshay Yadav – Former Lok Sabha MP (son of Ram Gopal)