[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Catherine Filloux

theater object in the existential two-hander genre, takes us into disorienting territory.”

Show-Score, Kidnap Road “Intelligent, Intense, Edgy, Dizzying, Thought-provoking, Relevant, Great Staging. This is poetic and fluid in its approach to storytelling, often imaginative, beautiful yet jarring."

Sin Censura, Teatro, Hector Luis, Kidnap Road  “With exquisite poetry, Filloux covers Colombian presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt's six years of captivity at the hands of the FARC…a phenomenal night of theater.  One of very few instances where story, direction and acting are so well fused and synchronized it is impossible for the audience to ever feel disconnected.” (English Translation) 

Times Square Chronicles, Virginia Jimenez, Kidnap Road  “Every moment gives insight to her life and her torture.”

StageBuddy, Navida Stein “With poetic dialogue and powerful imagery, playwright Catherine Filloux in her new play Selma ‘65 has written a beautiful solo vehicle for actress Marietta Hedges. Showing us small ordinary details of these two people’s lives, Ms. Filloux paints intimate portraits that reveal fragile psyches and a deep desire to be a part of something greater. Ms. Filloux’s characters converse with family members and one of the most touching scenes is Tommy Rowe attempting to connect with his daughter. Mr. Rowe’s interactions at the Senate hearings after the murder are riveting as the government struggles to spin the story to their advantage.” 

Urban excavations, Martha Wade Steketee, LUZ  “The theatrical world created by Catherine Filloux’s Luz is bounded by legal papers and files addressing citizenship and deportation and immigration, and by supertitles that illuminate Spanish language dialogue as necessary to tell the stories of several women. In this world Luz (Julissa Roman) and Helene (Lynnette R. Freeman) and Zia (Kim Brockington) work with their legal advocate Alexandra (Kimber Riddle), support each other, and build a potent world of poetry, power, pain, and resolution.”

East Village Arts, Shane Reader, LUZ  “The design components are spot-on, and the woven narrative of the many characters tackles a multitude of issues from even more angles. In this way, the theatrical medium was a perfect choice for the call to action that is LUZ.”

Broadway World Reviews:  HGO’s NEW ARRIVALS, A Touching and Inspiring Opera, David Clarke “Catherine Filloux’s libretto is exceptionally well written. It effortlessly relates Yani Rose Keo’s story to the audience, delving into the emotional and psychological torment of adversity upon the soul as exemplified by the characterization of Yani Rose Keo and the three refugees she helps during the opera.  Catherine Filloux adeptly employs thematic devices to explore the human desire and need to help others, ultimately furthering humanity and leaving the audience with a craving to give back to any person or community in need.”

New York Times, ANITA GATES, ‘DOG AND WOLF’ "Wisecracking, entertainingly playful!" 

TheaterMania, PATRICK LEE, ‘DOG AND WOLF’ "A story of political intrigue" 

Theatre Is Easy, AARON BLANK, ‘DOG AND WOLF’  “A compelling, unconventional and unique love story…Catherine Filloux's writing is comical at first, then delves darker into our fears and what drives us to follow our passions, as well as how we protect ourselves…”
 
New York Times, CARYN JAMES, ‘KILLING THE BOSS’  “Ms. Filloux’s strong sense of theater and comedy are apparent…the work’s affecting quality, which sneaks up on you in this subtle production (directed by Jean Randich), is nothing to dismiss…”

Variety By SAM THIELMAN, ‘KILLING THE BOSS’ “Attains an odd kind of universality…the play makes you feel like the Boss is just next door—It helps that Filloux has written dialogue that strikes a balance between earnestness and wit, with frank declarations occasionally – enjoyably – wrong-footed by somber jokes…“Killing the Boss” achieves something odd and slightly unreal with its detailed schedule of events and dreamlike rewirings…”

BBC WORLD NEWS “Where Elephants Weep”
“The Cambodian stage hasn’t seen anything like this for decades. A rock opera that wouldn’t look out of place in London’s West End or New York’s Broadway. Audiences have been lapping it up. It could mark the rebirth of Cambodian theatre. Spare seats have been hard to come by, sold out in double quick time. A long awaited feast.” Guy DeLauney, “Where Elephants Weep,” BBC World News Accessible at: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8P23Q_KC90A&fmt=18.

CNN “Where Elephants Weep”
“The production presents Cambodia in the light that it so urgently needs to be shown in…”