[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Orangi Pilot Project

ery low over heads and very cheap and docile labour). The working family units of Orangi were completely integrated with the main Karachi markets. In fact many units are supplying goods to famous firms, who just put their labels and make big profits. What is required is to support their initiatives.

Research further revealed that the production and employment in urban as well as rural areas could easily be increased provided the credit is accessible, as there was no shortage of market demand or productive labour. But they would not get credit at reasonable rate, because banks were inaccessible to them. The lack of bank credit forced them to buy raw materials at exorbitant prices while they had to sell their products at depressed prices and forego expansion.

On the basis of the research findings, Orangi Pilot Project (OPP) decided to arrange access to credit to these micro enterprises. For this Orangi Pilot Project – Orangi Charitable Trust (OPP – OCT) was established in 1989 as an independent and autonomous institution in Orangi, a low income settlement of over one million people. The main objective is to support people effort in their economic development by providing credit in urban and rural areas."

Publications 
 Perween Rahman, 2004, Katchi Abadis of Karachi: A survey of 334 katchi abadis – Existing situation, problems and solutions related to sewage disposal, water supply, health and education. Orangi Pilot Project-Research and Training Institute. Sama Publishing. 
 Arif Hasan, 2000, Scaling Up of the Orangi Pilot Project Programs: successes, failures and potentials, City Press, Karachi.
 Arif Hasan, 1999, Akhtar Hameed Khan and the Orangi Pilot Project, City Press, Karachi.
 Akhtar Hameed Khan, 1996, Orangi Pilot Project: Reminiscences and Reflection, Oxford University Press, Karachi
 Arif Hasan, 1993, Scaling Up of the OPP's Low Cost Sanitation Program, Research Training Institute, Karachi.

See also 
 Microfinance
 Social innovation

References

External links
Orangi Pilot Project (OPP)
OPP Research and Training Institute
OPP's Microcredit Program
Orangi (self-help) Pilot Project
UNESCAP Good Practices Suite Example
Orangi Welfare Project (Trust) – A grassroots NGO inspired by the OPP
A WaterAid report describing a mapping project associated with the Orangi Pilot Project

Development in Asia
Sewerage
Appropriate technology
Orangi Town
Economy of Karachi
Rural development in Pakistan
Squatting in Pakistan