[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tombos Stela

his earth and the northern one to that water which is circumvented. Who traveled continuously downstream from the south journey; such as has not happened to the other bitis, as his name has extended to the circuit of heaven. After it reached what is known of the Two lands, one swears by him in all lands for the greatness of his majesty’s might. Nor has one ever seen it in the annals of predecessors since the Followers-of-Horus: one who always gives his breath to the one who follows him and his great offering to the one who adhered to his path. As soon as his majesty is Horus who takes possession of his kingship of million of years, the islands of the sn-wr serve him as the earth to its limits under his sandals. The son-of-re his beloved Thutmosis, living forever and ever. Amun-Re, the king of the gods-it is his father, who created his beauty. The desired one of the Ennead of gods of Karnak, given life, duration, luck, and health: he be joyous on the Horus-throne, while leading all living ones like Re eternally.

Historical textual analysis 
The text is written in poetic language, and the variations among the translations can lead to different interpretations. In the search for corresponding evidence to support the validity of the Tombos stela, it is important to note that only Egyptian accounts are available.

This inscription was a royal one glorifying the king and his exploits, not necessarily an inscription that is historical. This is seen in language that glorifies the king: "The son-of-re his beloved Thutmosis living forever and ever." The author of the inscription must have had knowledge of Thutmosis' campaign.  The text also reveals animosity towards Nubians. This is shown in the section: 
After he overthrew the chief of the Nubians, the despoiled Nubian belongs to his grip. After he had gathered the border markers of both sides, no escape existed among the evil-of-character; those who had come to support him---not one thereof remained. As the Nubian have fallen to terror and are laid aside throughout their lands, their stench, it floods their wadis. From these passages it is shown that this stela was meant to glorify the king and his achievements. It was meant to be on display so people could see it and admire it. The language was meant to show Egyptian superiority over the enemies of Egypt. The king was obligated to uphold the order of maat, which is known as “truth, order, and justice” and to destroy the enemies of Egypt. Whoever wrote the inscription may have been justifying the war in Nubia by describing Nubians as “evil-ones”. In the text there is also a justification of the actions taken by Thutmosis I by the God Horus.  Despite these interpretation of texts, it is important to note that there are different historical scholars who offer their interpretations on the Tombos stela.

Opinions of scholars 
One of the more well-supported theories is argued by Louise Bradbury, who has posited that the Tombos stela provides evidence that Thutmose I expanded Egypt's control beyond the 3rd cataract of the Nile river, into an area south of Tombos called Kurgus, located just above the 4th cataract. Her first piece of evidence is an inscription found at a site called Hagar el-Merwa, around the 4th cataract in the area of Kurgus in Nubian territory . She notes that Hagar el-Merwa and the inscription found there can offer proof of an expansion by Thutmosis I into the area around the fourth cataract. Bradbury argues that the Tombos stela was carved after Thutmose’s return trip north from Hagar el-Merwa. Previously scholars argued that the Tombos stela described Thutmose’s expansion into the area of Nubia, as well as his expansion near the Euphrates (around modern day Iraq). This is because the river described in the stela was previously believed to be the Euphrates.

Bradbury’s theory argues that the Tombos stela was a northern boundary marker for Thutmose’s expansion into Nubia and a description of his middle-east campaign. She argues that his Egyptian empire in Nubia stretched from the marker at Tombos, around the 3rd cataract, south towards Hagar el-Merwa around the 4th cataract. She does not argue that Thutmose’s encompassed Nubia, and the middle east at once.