[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# National Museum of India

clude:

 Vishnu Vaikuntha, Kashmir, Bronze, 9th century AD
 Nataraja, Chola, Tamil Nadu, 12th century AD
 Kaliya-Mardan Krishna, Early Chola, 10th century AD
 Siva- Tripurantaka, Early Chola, 9th century AD
 Svachchhanda Bhairavi, Utpala Chamba, Himachal Pradesh, 10th century AD

Manuscripts Gallery

The museum comprises over 14,000 manuscripts and texts, of which about 1000 are illustrated. The collection of manuscripts are in various languages and scripts covering a large number of subjects. They are written on different types of materials such as parchment, birch bark, palm leaf, cloth, paper and metals. All the manuscripts represent various religions and sects of the Indian Subcontinent covering the period from the 7th to the 19th centuries. Dated manuscripts elaborate the Indian history with authoritative authenticity.

Key highlights of the collections include:

 Asthasahasrika Prajnaparamita, Sanskrit, Palm Leaf, 12th century AD
 Baburnama, Persian, Paper, AD 1598
 Balabodhini, Sanskrit, Birch-bark manuscript, 12th century AD
 Gita Govinda of Jayadeva, Sanskrit, Palm leaf; 14 folios in accordion format, 18th century AD
 Jain Kalpa sutras, Prakrit, Paper, 15th century AD

Coins Gallery

The Coins Gallery of the National Museum, New Delhi has over  coins in its reserve with some of the rarest coins, ranging from sixth century BC, when coins are believed to have first appeared in the country. The gallery displays 1669 coins along with five replicas of coins, five measuring vessels and some couries and ratties that were used in ancient times as weights and measures. It has almost all Indian coins from the earliest bent bar, punch-marked coins to those of Indian Pot with Seated Monkey States, British India and post-independence coins. The entire history of Indian coinage from about 6th century BCE to the beginning of the 21st century is exhibited. There are various dioramas depicting various techniques of coin production. These coins can be considered rich and authentic source of information on various aspects of Ancient, Medieval and Modern Indian History.

Central Asian Gallery

The vast and varied collection of this gallery was excavated, explored and collected by Sir Aurel Stein, one of the major archaeological explorers of early 20th century. He collected these cultural materials from more than 100 Ancient Cities along the Silk Route during three major expeditions carried out by him in 1900–1901, 1906–1908 and 1913–1916. The collection consists of wall paintings, painted silk banners, sculptures in wood, stucco and terracotta, coins, porcelain and pottery objects, leather, grass and fiber, precious items of gold and silver, religious and secular documents.

Maritime Heritage Gallery
A Maritime Heritage Gallery is located on the first floor of the National Museum which showcases the rich maritime heritage of India through various artefacts, photographs and dioramas. The gallery was setup in 1991.

Tanjore and Mysore Paintings Gallery

This gallery exhibits the paintings from the two famous schools of South India – Tanjore and Mysore. The important themes of Tanjore and Mysore schools include paintings of Vaishnavism portraying images of Hindu Gods Krishna, Rama, Vishnu and his other incarnations and Shaivism portraying various forms of Shiva, Parvati, Kartikeya, Ganesha and other Shaiva deities; and portraits of various kings, saints and royal patrons.

Tanjore paintings, named after the ancient town of Tanjavur in Tamil Nadu employ real gold and silver foil, precious and semiprecious stones, beads, mirrors, and powdered metals besides the use of primary colours- red, green, blue, black and white to depict key figures. The Mysore school of painting sprang in south Karnataka in the reign of Maharaja Mummudi Krishnaraja Wadiyar present a wide variety, from murals to stylistic Mysore paintings on cloth, paper and wood. 88 paintings have been put on show at the gallery and some of the masterpieces include Navaneeta Krishna with Tanjore King Shivaji II (1830 CE), Nataraja Shiva early 19th century, Rama Pattabhisheikha early 19th century, Durbar of Serfoji II (1798–1833) and the Marriage ceremony of Shiva -Parvati and Sita-Rama end of18th century.

Textiles Gallery

The Textiles Gallery exhibits the collection of Indian traditional textiles of the Later Mughal period. Cotton, Silk and Woolen textiles which are woven, printed, dyed and embroidered are exhibited in the gallery.

 Royal Chamber: It is the particular area which exhibits the use of Textiles in Royal Style. The chamber has embroidered silk carpet on the floor. A cloth ceiling and printed wall clothes cover most of the area. The covers of Pillows have very minute zari and zardozi work on them.