[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Maroun al-Ras

The Battle of Maroun al-Ras was a battle of the 2006 Lebanon War that took place in Maroun ar-Ras, a small village in southern Lebanon on the border with Israel, and Jall ad-Dayr, a nearby Hizbullah stronghold. This battle was the first serious ground battle in the 2006 Lebanon war. It was fought to a large extent by elite forces on both sides and would have huge consequences for the future of the war. Although Israeli forces captured most of the town, they did not fully secure it.

The clash at the "Nature Reserve"
There are two different Israeli versions about how the battle of Maroun ar-Ras actually started. According to Gal Hirsch, commander of the 91st Division, a unit of 18 soldiers from the elite Maglan special reconnaissance were sent out to occupy a Hezbollah position on mount Jall ad-Dayr (before 2000 the place of the IDF outpost Shaked), from which the nearby IDF base of Avivim had been shelled, as well as the small nearby village of Maroun ar-Ras. If that version is true it would seem that the IDF had grossly underestimated Hezbollah strength. According to the IDF General Command however, the Maglan unit was on a reconnaissance mission and under strict orders to avoid Hezbollah strongholds or Shiite villages. According to this version the Maglan unit walked into the Hezbollah stronghold by mistake.

After a steep climb up the hill on July 19, the 18-man squad from the Maglan special reconnaissance unit finally reached the summit next to the village. The Israeli soldiers realized that they were surrounded by Hezbollah positions. The squad was instructed to make contact during daylight and a violent close range clash ensued, St.-Sgt. Yonatan Hadasi has been hit from close range and St.-Sgt. Yotam Gilboa, the squad paramedic rushed to his rescue and has also been hit from close range. Both were instantly killed and additional nine were injured. The commanding officer and some of the remaining soldiers froze out of shock. Maj. Amit Ze'evi, who took part in the mission as an outsider, took over command, slapping several soldiers into action. The unit claims to have killed five Hezbollah  fighters.

The Maglan soldiers had no idea what a Hezbollah Nature Reserve was. Even the IDF officers who ordered the operation thought that it consisted "at most of a cave or bunker". Paratrooper commander Hagai Mordechai said after the war that it was the Nature Reserves that surprised him most in the early battles. "Nature Reserves" became IDF soldiers' slang during the war for well-fortified Hezbollah strongholds, situated outside built-up areas in Southern Lebanon. They had well-protected firing positions for Katyusha rockets, as well as bunkers and tunnels to protect the  fighters, usually elite Special Force from the Nasr Unit (, Wahdat Nasr). It was surrounded by booby traps, mines and had CCTV surveillance. Uzi Mahnaimi labeled them "killing boxes". Apparently the IDF Staff tried to do away with the term for fear that the IDF would be perceived to cause some ecological damage. The Nature Reserve at Maroun ar-Ras had before the withdrawal in 2000 been an Israeli outpost, code-named "Shaked".

"We didn’t know what hit us," said one of the Maglan soldiers. "In seconds we had two dead." "We expected a tent and three Kalashnikovs – that was the intelligence we were given. Instead, we found a hydraulic steel door leading to a well-equipped network of tunnels."