[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Co-branding

use, the purpose is to respond to the changing marketplace, build one’s own core competencies, and work to increase product revenues.

One form of co-branding is ingredient co-branding.  This involves creating brand equity for materials, components or parts that are contained within other products.

Examples:
Betty Crocker’s brownie mix includes Hershey’s Chocolate Syrup
Pillsbury Brownies with Nestlé Chocolate
Dell Computers with Intel Processors 
Kellogg Pop-Tarts with Smucker’s fruit
Taco Bell Doritos Locos Tacos

Another form of co-branding is same-company co-branding.  This is when a company with more than one product promotes their own brands together simultaneously.

Examples
Kraft Lunchables and Oscar Mayer meats
Courtyard by Marriott, a hotel brand (Courtyard) operating under Marriott International's signature brand (Marriott)

National to local co-branding occurs when a local small business teams up with a national brand or network to target local audiences and interests.

Examples: 
Visa co-branding credit cards with local retailers
Auto manufacturers with local dealerships

Joint venture co-branding is another form of co-branding also knowns as composite branding, where two or more well known companies go for a strategic alliance to present a product or service that neither business could successfully launch on its own to the target audience.

Example:

British Airways and Citibank formed a partnership offering a credit card where the card owner will automatically become a member of the British Airways Executive club.

Finally, there is multiple sponsor co-branding.  This form of co-branding involves two or more companies working together to form a strategic alliance in technology, promotions, sales, etc.

Example:

Citibank/American Airlines/Visa credit card partnership

Relationship between brand equity, brand association, and co-branding
Brand name indicates the customer about their connection with the brand based on information or experience. Brand equity defines the association of consumer towards a brand name. The original brand name is familiar among the customers, whereas the co-branded brand is still new. There are plenty of associations of consumers towards co-branded products. Therefore, the customer’s use constituent brand information when there is absence of new brand formed by co-branding. When there is a negative image caused by one of the constituent brand, it also affects the other constituent brand. Brand equity can be damaged by pairing up with a brand which may have negative image in future. Brand association is developed over the years by repeated experiences and exposures. It helps customers gather information, differentiate it and come to a buying decision. Co-branding can either improve or destroy customer’s perception of each constituent brands and create a new perception for the co-branded product. Research suggests that the dissimilarity between co-branding organizations (company size, company origin country, industry scale) negatively affect the performance of co-branding organizations.

See also

 Brand
 Business partnering
 Colocation (business)
 Cross-promotion
 Marketing co-operation
 Store brand

Further reading
 Kalafatis, S., N. Remizova, D. Riley and J. Singh (2012), “The Differential Impact of Brand Equity on B2B Co-branding,” Journal of Business and Industrial Marketing, Vol. 27, Issue 8, pp. 623–634.
 Litvinov, Nikolai. Hi-level Cobranding // Identity. — 2007. — №13(4). — pp. 96–105.
 Singh, J., S. Kalafatis, and L. Ledden (2014), “Consumer Perceptions of Cobrands: The Role of Brand Positioning Strategies,” Marketing Intelligence & Planning, Vol. 32, Issue 2, pp. 145–159.
 Wei-Lun Chang, “A Typology of Co-branding Strategy: Position and Classification,” Journal of American Academy of Business, Cambridge (JAABC), Vol. 12, No. 2, March, pp. 220–226, 2008.
Jose Ignacio Monrabal, "When should you Co-Brand? Seven Questions to Help Determine In Which Cases Co-Branding Is Right for Your Organization," Ad Age, July 2016.
Inkbot Design, "Co-Branding: Benefits, Strategies and Examples," ID, February 2022.

References

Brand management
Promotion and marketing communications
Types of branding