[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# J&R

y and June 2016, J&R ceased their business relationship with Century with J&R Express being last recorded on the Century 21 website in an Internet Archive snapshot of March 14 and in the snapshot of the J&R website of May 5. By June 2, all mentions of J&R Express had been removed from both websites.

Meanwhile, some of the buildings on Park Row that formerly housed J&R were demolished, starting in January 2016. Other buildings, which were leased, were being redeveloped primarily for residential housing, such as the landmarked Park Row Building at 15 Park Row. In April 2016, it was reported in the New York real estate press that J&R filed for a building permit to build a 53 story residential building on the demolished site. By late 2018, the former 25 Park Row site had been replaced by a 50-story, 110-unit, luxury condo building with residential unit prices ranging from $1.7 million for one-bedrooms to about $7 million for four-bedrooms, or approximately , called 25 Park Row. According to the Internet Archive, the jr.com website was taken down sometime between January 5 and January 17, 2017, when Network Solutions regained control of the website for resale. The remaining website at http://jandr.com/, which has been unreachable since late 2022, formerly said, "Stay tuned for exciting updates..."

Online sales
With the main J&R location just a block from the World Trade Center site, the company lost millions of dollars of electronic equipment due to the September 11, 2001 attacks.  But, the company's growing online sales helped sustain the company. J&R had an Amazon Marketplace agreement with Amazon.com to sell merchandise through that channel, in addition to its own online store. By May 6, 2014, the firm had closed down its website but continued to sell through Amazon.com and eBay. J&R appeared to be liquidating its existing inventory via these marketplaces and did not show significant stock in major categories such as digital cameras. Both J&R storefronts on eBay and Amazon had ceased to offer any merchandise for sale by June 2014 after the series of liquidation auctions had occurred at both the former Manhattan store and the Maspeth warehouse in Queens.

Summerfest
Since the summer of 2002, J&R had sponsored an annual music festival in City Hall Park, featuring R&B and other performers.  In June 2007, Summerfest performers included Mario, Bobby Valentino, Tank, Carl Thomas, Collie Buddz, and Canadian Brass.

See also 
 B&H Photo Video

References

External links
 

2014 disestablishments in New York (state)
American companies established in 1971
Civic Center, Manhattan
Companies based in New York City
Defunct consumer electronics retailers in the United States
Retail companies disestablished in 2014
Retail companies established in 1971
Shops in New York City