[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Musa Hilal

le of African descent, and the robbery of the Central Bank of Nyala. In 2003 Musa Hilal was sent to prison in Port Sudan by the governor of North Darfur, but was released in April 2003 supposedly on Vice President Ali Osman Taha’s orders and given the authority to recruit and command militia forces.

After his release Musa Hilal settled in Kebkabiya, where he supposedly organized a meeting to recruit Arab tribesmen from Awlad Rashid, Ireqat and Um Jalul. He is the leader of the Um Jalul tribe, which plays a major role in the attacks in Darfur. He has been named by victims, witnesses of the attacks, and member of the armed force, as second in command of the Janjaweed militias, "border intelligence brigade," in Misteriya.  He was reported to have met numerous times with militia leaders to coordinate other village attacks.

Musa Hilal has also been accused of kidnapping women and keeping them imprisoned in West Misteriya, at Jebel Jur Hilal. In 2006, the United Nations imposed travel and financial bans on Musa Hilal. Musa Hilal was quoted as saying, “the travel ban – that would be a humiliation. I am a tribal leader. My reputation comes above anything and everything.”

On 27 February 2008, Mr. Reeves reported the destruction of 30 villages, the assassination of 200 people, the rape of over 200 girls and women, and the kidnapping of 150 women and 200 children. These actions, Reeves argued, were executed by Janjaweed militias under direct order of militia leader, Musa Hilal.

The international pressure that has been building up over the Sudanese government to address the attacks against civilians may force the government to give up Musa Hilal to international authorities. Musa Hilal is said to hold enough information to pose a threat to the Sudanese government if the latter were to turn against him. Thus, the Sudanese government has often dismissed international criticism regarding its decision to promote Musa Hilal to adviser to Federal Affairs Minister Abdel Basit Sabderat.  Sudanese President Al Bashir was quoted as saying, “[Musa Hilal] contributed greatly to stability and security in the region."

Influence in Chad
In December 2011 it was reported that Musa's daughter, Amani Musa, was going to marry the president of Chad, Idriss Deby. The two were married on 21 January 2012.

See also
 Darfur Conflict

Notes and references

External links
 "In Sudan, 'a Big Sheik' Roams Free" by Emily Wax, The Washington Post, 18 July 2004
 "Darfur: Militia Leader Implicates Khartoum", Human Rights Watch, 2005
 "Darfur Notebook: Death in the Desert" by Jonathan Karl, ABC News's Nightline, 2 May 2005 (with interview notes of Hilal)
 "Janjaweed 'leader' denies genocide" BBC News's Panorama, 14 November 2004

1961 births
Living people
African warlords
People from North Darfur
People of the War in Darfur
Central African Republic Bush War
Politics of Sudan