[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mike Kelly (Australian politician)

Colonel Michael Joseph Kelly,  (born 23 February 1960) is an Australian former politician who twice represented the Division of Eden-Monaro in the Parliament of Australia, from 2007 to 2013 and again from 2016 to 2020. He is a member of the Australian Labor Party (ALP).

Kelly was born in Adelaide and studied law at Macquarie University before joining the Australian Army in 1987. He went on to serve in Somalia, East Timor, Bosnia and Iraq. He was among senior Australian military personnel in the Iraq War. Kelly finished his military career in 2007 with the rank of colonel as Director of Army Legal Services.

Kelly was first elected to the House of Representatives for the Division of Eden-Monaro at the 2007 federal election and was immediately appointed as Parliamentary Secretary for Defence Support. In 2009, he was also appointed Parliamentary Secretary for Water. Following the 2010 federal election, Kelly was appointed as Parliamentary Secretary for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry. In December 2011, he was appointed as Parliamentary Secretary for Defence in a reshuffle of the Government. In a third reshuffle in early 2013, Kelly was promoted to the outer ministry as Minister for Defence Materiel, a position he held from March to September that year.

Following the 2013 federal election, Kelly lost his seat to Liberal candidate Peter Hendy but regained the seat in the 2016 federal election. He is the first person to serve in opposition as the member for the Division of Eden-Monaro since 1972. He was the shadow Assistant Minister for Defence Industry and Support.

On 30 April 2020, Kelly announced his resignation from Parliament due to personal and family health issues. Ten days later, he confirmed he had taken up a job offer with Palantir Technologies.

Early life
Kelly was born in Adelaide on 23 February 1960. He attended Asquith Boys High School in Sydney. He then studied at Macquarie University and graduated in 1983 with a Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Laws.

Military service
Kelly joined the Australian Army, specifically the Australian Army Legal Corps, in 1987.

Somalia 
Kelly was deployed and served in Operation Restore Hope in Somalia from 1992 to 1993. He was awarded the Chief of the General Staff Commendation for his service and, in 1994, was made a Member of the Order of Australia in recognition of his work in Somalia.

Trial of Hussan Gutaale Abdul
In Somalia, Kelly was actively involved in the prosecution of the warlord Hussan Gutaale Abdul. Gutaale, who among many other things had attacked and killed 16 aid workers and repeatedly driven an armoured car into emaciated refugees awaiting food distribution, was arrested by an Australian patrol, held in a cage at Baidoa airport and later flown to Mogadishu to be held by US forces. He was found guilty of 31 counts of murder by a panel of three judges and sentenced to 20 years' hard labour.

Appeals were immediately made, with the prosecution demanding the death penalty mandatory for murder under the Somali Penal Code. A panel of six judges heard the appeal, upheld the previous verdicts and imposed the sentence of death to be carried out forthwith. "The court erupted in mayhem" and Gutaale physically attacked Kelly. Eventually a group of engineers arrived, Gutaale was handcuffed and Kelly wrestled him along the roadway to his place of execution. Gutaale was handed over to the Somali police and executed on the spot. Kelly later recalled:

Bosnia-Herzegovina 
Kelly was also deployed during the Bosnian War, which occurred from 1992 to 1995. In 1996, Kelly was part of a successful hostage recovery mission in Kenya.

Following the Bosnian War, Kelly obtained a Doctorate of Philosophy from the University of New South Wales in 1997. The research work undertaken for his doctoral dissertation has subsequently formed the basis for two books: Peace Operations: Tackling the Military, Legal and Policy Challenges (1997) and Restoring and Maintaining Order in Complex Peace Operations: The Search for a Legal Framework (1999).

East Timor 
Kelly then served in the peacekeeping mission in East Timor from 1999 to 2000. He received the United Nations Force Commander's commendation in 2002 for his service there.

Iraq 
Kelly was among senior Australian personnel deployed in Iraq during the Iraq War. In June 2003, he inspected detention facilities in Iraq, including those at Abu Ghraib, and reported to the Australian Government on the treatment of detainees. He was actively involved in the prosecution of Saddam Hussein.

Retirement 
He finished his military career in 2007 with the rank of colonel as Director of Army Legal Services.

Political career

Entry into politics 
In the 2007 federal election, Kelly stood as the Labor candidate for the marginal New South Wales country electorate of Eden-Monaro, regarded as a "Bellwether seat".