[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Attan

also be seen wearing suits and ties for a more formal look. The women can be found wearing bright, colorful dresses. These dresses can be accompanied with tiny mirrors on them which are said to symbolize light. The tiny mirrors add great detail and shine under the lights as the women move and dance.

In some versions of attan, Pashtun men would flick their jet black hair in a circular motion. Men would also wear traditional turbans  called Lungee which signifies what tribes there from and holds great importance.

Styles and types
The Attan is performed differently in many of the different parts of Afghanistan and Pakistan. Some styles of Attan portray themes of war while others portray celebration, especially for events such as marriage, engagements, family gatherings and also as a prelude to the arrival of spring.

All different kinds of Attan are danced with the beats of the drums. However they all differ in style. The beater of the drum known as "Dum", who instantaneously change the rhythm, is circled by the performers.
Below is a list of common Attan styles.

 Kochai/ Kochyano - Pashtun nomadic style done in Afghanistan. Kochyano Attan literally means Attan of the Kuchi. Women usually perform this Attan during their own occasions, such as childbirth or new years (nou rooz) and coming of spring. The men usually perform with long hair, almost to shoulder length and cut straight across the back, and some may sport a very wild mustache or beard. It is usually performed with handkerchiefs, and involves many spotting movements, with multiple twists and squatting. This dance can be up to ten steps, and also involve men walking with their knees or standing erect and snapping their head in random directions to the beat of the Dhol. The depth and complexity of their Attan may be because of the wide range of valleys they trek, and many other forms may have influenced it. This dance is performed with the musician tuning the beat to the technique of the performers.
 Logarai - From the Afghan province of Logar Logari dancers have always been known for their shyness and also for their rhythmic interruptions and spins during their local dance. Their Attan also has the trademark spins of the Logari style, using the clapping and the full twists in place, as arms are usually in the air and come together medially during the circular dance with one or two claps in the center. It is not uncommon to see one ore two circles in one. This dance typically performed by men and/or women or even young boys and/or girls. The men occasionally wear Turbans and they are taken off usually during the end of the dance when the beats get faster. The sweat on their heads from wearing the Turban, puts added weight to their hair. This dance is performed either with the beat of the musician or the musician tuning the beat to the technique of the performers.
 Paktiawal / Khostai - Notable Attan style originating from the provinces of Paktia and Khost by the Pashtun tribes there, typically the Zadrans and Mangals tribe in Afghanistan Paktia/Khosti is typically a 5-7 step and can be longer. Because of the head movements the head is snapped left and right as their long jet black hair fling through the air, and eventually ends with the dancers turned medially and squatting with arms to their sides towards the center. This dance is performed with the musician tuning the beat to the technique of the performers.
 Shinwari - Done by the Shinwari tribe of the Pashtuns from the Afghan province of Nangarhar.
 Wardag/Wardaki - Da Wardag Attan, another famous style of Attan. Wardaki consists of body movements no clapping and many turns and twists, and Spotting, as well as handkerchiefs in their hands to accentuate their spins. The men usually boast wild mustaches, including hair that is greased as to accentuate the spotting and give more weight to the hair during turns. This dance is performed either with the beat of the musician or the musician tuning the beat the technique of the performers. In some regions of Wardak within the wardaki (wardagi) attan the leading men followed by the rest will sing a song at the start of the attan, while they are still moving at a slow pace. Later on as the pace is picked up and the attan gets faster, then they stop singing and they focus all of their energy on the (movement) attan.
Khattak Attan is a traditional type of attan performed by the Khattak Pashtun tribesmen in Pashtun areas of Pakistan. In this dance the tribesmen would skip in a circle with continuous drumbeats. They also commonly use swords with them  whilst dancing twisting and twirling them in a motion
Mehsud Attan. Typically performed by the Mehsud Pashtun tribe of Waziristan. The men would have long black beautiful hair and flick it around. In this version if the attan, the Mehsud would arm themselves with guns and would actually fire upwards in the air whilst kneeling during creating an echo of sounds whilst dancing proudly and fierociusly.
 Kabuli Attan