[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Fethullah Gülen

pport for Gülen.

Gülen was listed as one of the 500 most influential Muslims by the Royal Islamic Strategic Studies Centre in Amman, Jordan.

Gülen was listed on the Watkins' Spiritual 100 List for 2019 as one of the "100 Most Spiritually Influential Living People".

Rise Up (Colors of Peace) album

Rise Up (Colors of Peace) was a musical project to turn Gülen's poems and writings in Turkish language into songs. A total of 50 poems were sent to various Muslim and non-Muslim artists from various countries, who were free to pick, and then compose and vocalize the poem chosen, record it in their own country and send it back for inclusion in the planned album. Reportedly, no restrictions were put on the artists in using instrumentation, despite reservations by stricter Muslim interpretations about music and use of musical instruments. The album Rise Up (Colors of Peace) turned into an album of world music encompassing various genres like jazz, pop, flamenco, rai, Indian music among others. The artists appearing (in order of appearance on the track list) were: The Good Morning Diary, Maher Zain, Faudel, Cristelo Duo featuring Bruno Gouveia, Ryan Shaw, Natacha Atlas, Bon Bon, KK & Reet, Mazachigno featuring Ely Bruna, Bahroma, Carmen Paris, Kobi Farhi & Ruba Shamshoum. The project took more than two years to realize and the album was released in 2013 by Nil Production and Universal Music.

Further reading

Notes

References
Specific citations:

General references:

Interfaith Radio – Turkey's Champion of Interfaith Dialogue
The Economist – Global Muslim networks- How far they have travelled
The Economist - Fethullah Gulen- A farm boy on the world stage
Reuters – Turkish Islamic preacher – threat or benefactor?
The New York Times – Turkish Schools Offer Pakistan a Gentler Vision of Islam
The New York Times: Fethullah Gulen profile
Foreign Policy – Fethullah Gulen as a Top Public Intellectual
Profile on PBS show: Religion and Ethics January 21, 2011
The New Republic: The Global Imam
Qantara.de: The Fethullah Gülen Movement: Pillar of Society or Threat to Democracy?
MERIA: Fethullah Gülen and his Liberal "Turkish Islam" movement
ME Forum: Turkish Islam's Moderate Face
ME Forum: Fethullah Gülen's Grand Ambition: Turkey's Islamist Danger
The Gülen Movement: a modern expression of Turkish Islam
The Nurcu Movement in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan

External links

 
 Fethullah Gulen
 Hizment and Fethullah Gulen
 Love is a Verb  (2014), a film directed by Terry Spencer Hesser
 
 
 IMDb 
 Who Is Fethullah Gülen?
   
 Multi-media
 
 

1941 births
Living people
People from Pasinler

Turkish Sufis
Turkish anti-communists
Turkish dissidents
Turkish exiles
Turkish scholars of Islam
Turkish emigrants to the United States
Turkish male writers
Sunni Muslim scholars of Islam
Christian–Islamic–Jewish interfaith dialogue
Critics of atheism
Islam and politics
Scholars of Sufism
Stateless people
Quranic exegesis scholars
Fugitives wanted on terrorism charges
Fugitives wanted by Turkey
People involved in the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt
20th-century Muslim scholars of Islam
21st-century Muslim scholars of Islam
20th-century Turkish male writers
21st-century Turkish male writers