[Source: PubMed]

7. Torture. 2019;29(1):16-35. doi: 10.7146/torture.v29i1.114046.

Psychosocial and community assessment of relatives of victims of extra-judicial 
killings in Peru: Informing international courts.

Rivera-Holguín M(1), Pérez-Sales P(2), Hildenbrand A(3), Custodio E(4), Vargas 
G(5), Baca N(5), Corveleyn J(6), De Haene L(6).

Author information:
(1)Pontifical Catholic University of Peru Correspondence to: Correspondence to: 
mriverah@pucp.pe.
(2)Director of SiR[a]Centre, GAC Community Action Group, Hospital La Paz, Spain.
(3)University of Bern.
(4)Pontifical Catholic University of Peru.
(5)Asociación Paz y Esperanza.
(6)University of Leuven (KU Leuven).

INTRODUCTION: During the Peruvian internal armed conflict, fifteen members of 
the Santa Barbara community were collectively executed by state agents, and 
their relatives were made victims of persecution, torture, and imprisonment. The 
case, known as the Santa Barbara massacre, was brought to the Inter-American 
Court of Human Rights. The documentation of individual, family and community 
impacts for the Court became a challenge due to the need to address cultural, 
geographical, political and community aspects. This paper aims to discuss the 
complexities of forensic documentation of human rights violations using a 
psychosocial and communitarian background.
METHOD: The assessment included seven survivors from three different families. 
Both qualitative and quantitative instruments were used. A participative action 
research framework guided the design, documentation process, and discussion of 
outcomes with the survivors. Results/ discussion: The report included four 
levels of documentation exhibited in the Istanbul Protocol framework: clinical 
impacts from a western perspective, emic formulations and cultural idioms of 
distress, communitarian perspectives, and a proposal of reparation measures for 
the Court. Individual analysis revealed chronic mental health sequelae of forced 
displacement, imprisonment and torture. Local idioms of distress (in Quechuan, 
"pinsamientuwan," "llaki," "ñakary," "umananay" and "iquyay") deepened the 
understanding of the damage faced by the survivors. The analysis of the 
community uncovered three main areas of collective damage: broken social and 
cultural identity, lack of political participation, and loss of perspective on 
the future. Regarding reparations, survivors highlighted the pursuit for 
justice, the dignified remembrance of their loved ones, social re-inclusion of 
displaced persons into the community, education for offspring, and measures for 
the preservation of their community's identity and culture.
CONCLUSIONS: Psycholegal accompaniment for victims through a participatory 
research approach is essential for the proper documentation of the consequences 
of violence in complex contexts. It is also essential in guaranteeing that the 
forensic documentation of the impact of political violence can be proposed as 
reparative for the survivors in itself.

DOI: 10.7146/torture.v29i1.114046
PMID: 31264813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]