[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andreas Joseph Hofmann

clared the Rhenish-German Free State from the balcony of the Deutschhaus. Three days later, Hofmann signed the Convention's unanimously resolved decree asking for accession of the Free State to France. On 1 April 1793, Hofmann switched roles to become the president of the provisional administration.

French government official and later life 

When the republic ended after the siege of Mainz, Hofmann was able to leave the city with the retreating French troops and went into exile in Paris, where he headed a society of exiled Mainz republicans, the  and was working towards an exchange of prisoners to free the German revolutionaries captured by the authorities. After a short service in the military, where he commanded an equestrian regiment that fought against insurgent royalists in the Vendée and was wounded several times, he was sent to England on espionage missions. However, at a Joseph Haydn concert in London on 2 June 1794, he was recognized and reported to the authorities by his former student Klemens Wenzel von Metternich. Hofmann went into hiding and returned to Paris via Hamburg, where he visited Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock. In Paris, he was made chief of the bureau des étrangers by the French Directory. In his 1795 essay , he argued for the Rhine as natural Eastern border of France. When the incorporation of areas west of the Rhine into France had become a reality with the Treaty of Campo Formio, Hofmann returned to Mainz, where he became part of the government of the new  Mont-Tonnerre and was appointed by Napoleon as its  (superior tax officer) in 1797, the only non-native French holding this office. In 1801, he was elected as a member of the Mainz city council and refused an appointment as a member of the  of the French Consulate. In 1803, he was forced to resign as   after one of his subordinates had committed fraud, and 750,000 francs were missing from his coffers.

After Napoleon's defeat and the return of Mainz to German control, Hofmann moved to his late wife's estates in Winkel. While he was no longer active as a revolutionary, he was suspicious to the authorities as a Jacobin, and his house was searched in the 1830s. Hofmann spent his retirement pursuing activities such as breeding domestic canaries but became a somewhat famous figure among Vormärz liberals and was visited by intellectuals such as Hoffmann von Fallersleben and . He died on 6 September 1849, having witnessed the failure of the 1848 revolution, and was buried without a Catholic funeral.

Family and legacy 
Andreas Joseph Hofmann was the son of Anton Hofmann, a surgeon, and of Magdalena Fahrmann. In 1788, he married Catharina Josepha Rivora (1763-1799), the daughter of Peter Maria Rivora and Christina Schumann. They had three daughters, of which two died early. His daughter Charlotte Sturm died in 1850 and bequeathed most of her belongings to Charlotte Lehne, the granddaughter of Hofmann's student Friedrich Lehne. 
None of Hofmann's personal papers and correspondence have been preserved, and there is no known picture of him. Overall, there is far less known about Hofmann's life than about most of the other leading members of the Mainz Jacobin club.

In 2018, a road in Winkel was named .

Selected works

Notable students 
 (1775-1855)
 (1771-1836)
Klemens von Metternich (1773-1859)
 (1771-1837)

Notes

References

1752 births
1849 deaths
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz alumni
People from Würzburg (district)
18th-century German philosophers
German revolutionaries
Spies of the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars
German male writers
Jacobins
19th-century German philosophers