[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Yuval Steinitz

rgy. In 2011 Steinitz legislate the committee recommendations in the Knesset, raising the "government-take" on big gas fields to more than 60%. In addition, Steinitz has doubled the royalties paid by "Israel Chemicals" from using the Dead Sea natural resources and cancel its historic tax exemptions.

Two other important committees were the "Concentration Committee" (established at winter 2011 together with PM Netanyahu), which led to unprecedented steps to reduce economic concentration in Israel, like enforcing separation between significant Financial and Real holdings; And the "Investment Taxation Committee" (established in 2010 together with Minister Ben-Eliezer), which led to significant increase in Israel's investments incentives.

In 2011, a doctors' strike broke out and paralyzed all Hospitals and Clinics around the country, in what became the longest strike in Israel history. The strike ended after five months with a compromise between the Ministry of Finance and the Doctors union, which included the improvement of the doctors employment conditions, especially in peripheral hospitals, as well as Steinitz's demand that hospital doctors will be subjected to time clocks. Nevertheless, hundreds of interns and 200 senior doctors continued the strike and the protest against the deal, until eventually the protest petered out.

In the summer of 2011, and along with the doctors strike, a series of social protests against the cost of living in Israel took place. Demonstrations took place for a prolonged period of time, focusing on the high housing prices and the cost of daycare. The protesters were accompanied by doctors, teachers, students, and dairy farmers, who called for a change in the government social outlook. At the beginning Steinitz rejected the protesters' claims. But with the continuation of the protests, Steinitz began to show a more flexible attitude. One step was lowering taxes in order to reduce petrol price hike. Following the appointment of the "Trajtenberg Committee", Steinitz dealt with implementation of the committee's recommendations.

In September 2011, S&P raised Israel credit rating to A+. This decision took place in light of the fact that Israel managed to continue to reduce its debt-to-GDP ratio, and despite the global economic crisis.

During his tenure, Steinitz made efforts to develop business connections with China and India. In 2010–2011, Israeli exports to these countries increased by 35%. During his three official visits in China and India, Steinitz led negotiations for the signing a series of bilateral agreements designed to increase the volume of trade with these countries. Among other things, the agreement included specific steps to encourage young doctors from China and India to make their Postdoctoral Researches in Israel.For the first time in a decade : Indian foreign minister visits Israel Walla News, 10 January 2012 

In July 2012, Steinitz led the signing of an economic agreement between Israel and the Palestinian Authority with Prime Minister Salam Fayyad. As part of the deal, it was decided to increase joint enforcement against smuggling of goods, and Israeli assistance to the Palestinian tax collection capabilities.

In 2012 the state annual deficit reached 39 Billion NIS, almost twice as much as was predicted, but the Debt-to-GDP ratio continued to decline. The average economic growth during Steinitz's tenure as Finance Minister (2010-2012) was 4.5%, the highest economic growth in the entire developed world.

Minister of Intelligence and Strategic Affairs (2013–2015)
After the 2013 elections Steinitz was appointed Minister for Intelligence, Strategic Affairs and International Relations, and became responsible to several topics: