[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Heshui Campaign

Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade, but Li Wenbin, the new regimental commander of the 2nd Regiment of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade, was not a Muslim and thus might have difficulties in commanding the Muslim troops who were subordinates of Han Youlu, the former regimental commander.

Sixth Stage
The nationalist reinforcement of the central front under the direct command of the deputy commander of the Reorganized 82nd Division, Lieutenant General Ma Quanyi () left the town of Western Peak (Xi Feng, ), then passed the Relay Station Horse Pass (Yi Ma Guan, ), and three hours after the 1st Regiment of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade under the command of the brigade commander Ma Buluan left Qingyang for the second time, the nationalist reinforcement of the central front also reached town.  After a brief stop, the nationalist reinforcement of the central front continued its push toward Heshui by taking the road from Qingyang to Ning County.  In order to avoid mistakes made by Ma Buluan, Lieutenant General Ma Quanyi () ordered his troops to proceed along the mountain ridge after passing Banqiao.  By 6:00 PM, the nationalist reinforcement had reached the Vesper Col region, which was guarded by the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column.  At the evening, the 3rd Battalion of the 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column at the Southern Plateau on the left flank made contact with the advancing nationalist cavalry.  The 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column had defeated the 1st Regiment of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade in the morning and thus was eager to score another victory.  Cui Yongchen (), the commander of the 7th Company of the 3rd Battalion of the 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column ordered to have the advance guard of the nationalist cavalry machined, and the nationalist cavalry behind consequently retreated.  As the 2nd Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column at the Northern Plateau heard the gun shots and immediately move joined the battle, blocking the passage of the nationalists.  As the prudent Lieutenant General Ma Quanyi who was in command of the nationalist reinforcement discovered that there were enemy in three directions of the Vesper Col region in the east, south, and north, he ordered Li Wenbin (), the regimental commander of the 2nd Regiment of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade to take charge of the nationalist force in the south, and Han Youlu (), the deputy commander in charge of the nationalist reinforcement to take charge of the nationalist force in the north to check the enemy's attack.  However, the communist attack was simply too ferocious and the nationalist cavalries were forced into a disorganized retreat.  Lieutenant General Ma Quanyi personally led the Garrison Squadron to launch a counterattack, but he was shot in the leg, and was hurriedly carried away by his bodyguards, and thus was forced out of action for the rest of the campaign.