[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Far Cry 2

the game's basic combat fairly weak, but otherwise praised its design and player freedom, citing the emotional connection developed with the Buddies as a highlight. Shaun McInnis of GameSpot was positive about the amount of content and freedom offered to players when approaching different missions.

GamePro gave the title a perfect score in its review, calling it one of the best shooters on the market while noting its scale might be off-putting to genre veterans. Dave Kosak of GameSpy gave most of his praise to the open combat design, faulting the open world traversal and lack of clear character motivations. GameTrailers positively noted its ambitious design and realistic feel compared to its predecessor, noting it felt good to play on both consoles and PC. Reviewing all three versions, IGNs Charles Onyett lauded the gameplay and graphics, giving the PC version a higher score due to its better graphical performance. PlayStation Official Magazine – UKs Leon Hurley  gave high praise to its design and aesthetic despite some minor criticisms of its technical performance and lack of in-game guidance. Cameron Lewis of Official Xbox Magazine praised the variety of approaches the gameplay allowed. John Blyth for PC Zone was almost universally positive about the game's mechanics and aesthetic, but faulted the voice acting and general hostility of NPCs towards the player. Tim Edwards, writing for PC Gamer, praised its world design and open-ended gameplay despite being underwhelmed by the narrative delivery.

Reaction to the story and tone was generally positive, though several reviewers cited problems with its delivery and handling of its themes. The pace and tone of dialogue was also questioned by Miller, Onyett and Blyth. The basic combat and open gameplay approach met with a generally positive response. When mentioned, the vehicle travel and combat saw mixed reactions. The Buddies received positive comments for both their mechanical and narrative contributions. The malaria mechanic saw a mixed to negative response from some critics, though Blyth and GameTrailers praised it as an innovative mechanic. Many reviewers criticized the AI for erratic behavior. The multiplayer was generally praised as an enjoyable if standard element. The game's aesthetics were enjoyed where mentioned despite some technical issues, though Donlan was disappointed that some of the game-centered aesthetic design undermined the otherwise realistic atmosphere. The PC version met with general praise, though all reviews noted the high hardware requirements to run the game properly. The mobile adaptation met with favorable reviews, with Pocket Gamer praising it as a strong game in its own right and IGN enjoying it despite finding it inferior to the console and PC versions.

Awards and retrospective
The Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences nominated Far Cry 2 as "Action Game of the Year". It was nominated in the "Best Shooter" at the 2008 Spike Video Game Awards. Also in 2008, game was nominated in the "Graphics/Technical" category at the National Academy of Video Game Trade Reviewers ceremony. At the 2009 Game Developers Choice Awards, it was nominated in the "Game Design" and "Writing" categories. In the book Gaming and the Arts of Storytelling, Darshana Jayemanne noted the game's many thematic and narrative parallels to Heart of Darkness, citing it as a good example of interactive storytelling. Chris Remo, in an opinion piece for Gamasutra, noted that Far Cry 2 rewarded thoughtful and slower-paced gameplay, praising it for providing an environment where players could create their own experiences.

In an article ranking all entries in the Far Cry series in 2021, Game Informer ranked Far Cry 2 as eighth, with the writer calling it "black sheep of the family, beloved by just as many as those who hate it." Polygons Austen Goslin called it a game ahead of its time due to its mechanics and themes. Doc Burford of USGamer noted its ambition and cited it as an example of diegetic storytelling through its gameplay mechanics. Phil Hornshaw, writing for Digital Trends, noted its dated nature in some areas and problems with its mechanics, but found it superior to several later entries due to its immersion and tone. Marsh Davies of Rock Paper Shotgun lauded it as the best entry in the series despite its flaws, calling the journey "painful, arduous but unforgettable". Both Goslin and Davies compared the difficulty to the later Dark Souls series.

Legacy