[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Next Exit

. His pregnant wife died eighteen years prior to Next Exit. Physically he resembles Isshin Kurosaki from Bleach, Lijewski's favorite manga.  Professor Sevi could also be said to resemble Maes Hughes from Fullmetal Alchemist, whose daughter was his pride and joy, just like how Mary Alice was to Sevi.

Queenie, The Mayor She likes to wear just enough clothes to cover her breasts. She wants the head of her beloved syndoll Mortimer back.

Mortimer Queenie's Syndoll, he has the numbers 0069 on his missing head. Mary Alice names him "Holmes." He was Queenie's lover.

Mary Alice, "The Guilliotine" Professor Sevi's Daughter, a hermit girl with some mysterious happenings. She actually a syndoll, one who can perform alchemy, and the creator of Holmes and Watson, alchemic chimera or Frankenstein. She was nicknamed "The Guilliotine" because she was a murderer who beheaded syndolls for her chimeras. She wanted to make a human to replace her dead father. Mary Alice's character is based on the author's friend M. Alice LeGrow, who also works in comics (see Bizenghast).

Abraxas Arcadia First Captain of the Illuminati, an unspecified but probably combat division of LOGOS. His hair is milky white, and eyes are blue. He is Markesh's older brother. There may be bad blood in their past. It is strongly implied that he killed Mary Alice's father, Professor Sevi. His pupils become slits when he is threatening.

Ren Cobalt A Member of Illuminati, he is the shortest and youngest of the characters profiled in Volume 1. He is Abraxas' Vice Captain, implying the Illumnati as system that may be similar to the Gotei 13 in Bleach.

Franz the Cat A talking cat. His body looks like a sac because his back legs are not drawn. He is a friend of Cara. He enjoys hats and cute girls. He has a cousin who looks identical but wears a monocle instead of a hat.

Groups
LOGOS A mysterious government force that defines what is and isn't existence in Alkaline. Cara, Abaraxas, and Ren are known members and it is strongly implied that Markesh was once one as well. They seem to be powerful alchemists, and were likely the "powers that be" that destroyed the Academy. Cara seems to be inactive, but still Affiliated.

The Academy a mysterious and apparently extinct institution of Alkaline. They made among other things, all the exit maps. They were known to be alchemists.

Species
Humans Humans are the accidental creators of Alkaline. Their psychic residue (dreams, memories, perception) create the whole of existence. Some, but not all, might be Alchemists, but at this point it is unclear.

Figments/Fragments/Shadows Creatures created entirely from the matter of Alkaline. any fantasy creature or nightmare animal is here. They are made from the same matter as Syndolls, but are created subconsciously. Fragments are figments of figments, and will cease existence if the mother-figment dies. This is seen in chapter 1, with the dragon Momma and the fragment Saru. Shadow's are like figments, but loosely tied to what's real. They appear more in Doors than Next Exit.

Syndolls Human like creatures created by alchemizing and engineering the matter of Alkaline. They are marked with numbers on their foreheads and they can be as intelligent and emotional as real people. However, like Figments, their existence is dependent on the nature of Alkaline. They normally are incapable of doing alchemy, Mary-Alice being the only exception so far.

Other It is suggested that some of the sentient and humanoid beings come from other realms that are "real," but are not human. This has yet to be fully explained. It is possible that all alchemist characters fall into this category.

Alchemy
Alchemists in Alkaline seem able to transmute out of instinct alone.  Also, in Alkaline, matter may only be transmuted once, after that nothing can be done to change the object again. Organic material can be altered with alchemy, including humans, although it does seem to cause some kind of corruption. This corruption is described as "poisoning."

Only certain people can do alchemy, and it is implied that simply having the talent is not enough to do advanced work. That apparently requires study and research. It is sometimes feared by the ignorant as a form of witchcraft.

Doors
Doors, although being the basis for the series and having Markesh and Retrab as leads, is not a prequel. It can best be described as an alternate or simpler version of the same story, or a very similar story with the same characters.