[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1969 in the United Kingdom

r Nichols' black comedy The National Health is premiered by the National Theatre at the Old Vic in London.
 21 October – Led Zeppelin release Led Zeppelin II to critical acclaim and commercial success.
 27 October – A mass wildlife cull takes place in Surrey after 2 people are bitten by a rabid dog.

November
 15 November – Regular colour television broadcasts begin on BBC One and ITV.
 16 November – BBC One first broadcasts the children's television series Clangers, made by Oliver Postgate and Peter Firmin's Smallfilms in stop motion animation.
 17 November – The Sun newspaper is relaunched as a tabloid under the ownership of Rupert Murdoch.
 19 November – Ken Loach's film Kes is released at the London Film Festival.
 25 November – John Lennon returns his MBE to protest against the British Government's involvement in Biafra and support of the U.S. war in Vietnam.

December
 5 December – The Rolling Stones album Let It Bleed is released.
 10 December – Derek Harold Richard Barton wins the Nobel Prize in Chemistry jointly with Odd Hassel "for their contributions to the development of the concept of conformation and its application in chemistry".
 15 December – Martins Bank is purchased by Barclays.
 17 December – Constitutional law case of Anisminic Ltd v Foreign Compensation Commission decided in the House of Lords establishes in English administrative law the "collateral fact doctrine", that any error of law made by a public body will make its decision a nullity and that a statutory exclusion clause does not deprive the courts from their jurisdiction in judicial review unless it expressly states this.
 18 December
 The abolition of the death penalty for murder is made permanent by Parliament.
 The sixth James Bond film – On Her Majesty's Secret Service – is released in UK cinemas. Bond is played by Australian-born model George Lazenby for the only time, after Sean Connery quit the role following You Only Live Twice. Starring alongside him is Yorkshire-born actress Diana Rigg.
 26 December – A fire at the Rose and Crown Hotel, Saffron Walden, kills eleven.
 30 December – The Linwood bank robbery leaves two police officers dead.

Undated
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer Roy Jenkins introduces Mortgage Interest Relief at Source (MIRAS) to encourage home ownership; it allows borrowers tax relief for interest payments on their mortgage.
 Golden eagles are found to be nesting in England for the first time in modern history, at Haweswater in the Lake District.
 Completion of the Castle Vale estate in Birmingham, the largest postwar housing estate in the United Kingdom. The new estate predominantly consists of council housing, including 34 tower blocks – the largest number on any single British housing estate. The first residents moved onto Castle Vale in 1964 when the first houses and flats were completed.

Publications 
 Kingsley Amis's novel The Green Man.
 Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot novel Hallowe'en Party.
 John Fowles' novel The French Lieutenant's Woman.
 Antonia Fraser's biography Mary Queen of Scots.
 George MacDonald Fraser's novel Flashman.
 P. H. Newby's novel Something to Answer For.
 The anthology Children of Albion: Poetry of the Underground in Britain edited by Michael Horovitz.

Births

January – March
 1 January – Nicholas Gleaves, actor and playwright
 4 January – Mary Macleod, lawyer and politician
 12 January – David Mitchell, English author
 13 January – Stephen Hendry, Scottish snooker player
 5 February – Michael Sheen, Welsh actor
 6 February – Tim Sherwood, English football player and manager
 19 February – Stewart Faulkner, English long jumper
 20 February – Robin Ince, English comedian and writer
 21 February – James Dean Bradfield, Welsh musician (Manic Street Preachers)
 1 March – Dafydd Ieuan, Welsh drummer (Super Furry Animals)
 5 March - Paul Blackthorne, English actor 
 20 March - Yvette Cooper, politician
 March – Jez Butterworth, dramatist and screenwriter

April – June
 4 April – Karren Brady, English sporting business executive
 9 April 
 Tracie Andrews, English criminal convicted of murdering her fiancé
 Barnaby Kay, actor
 22 April – Dion Dublin, football player and commentator
 26 April – Kate Hardie, actress, director and screenwriter
 27 April
 Tess Daly, English television presenter
 Mica Paris, born Michelle Wallen, soul singer, presenter and actress
 6 May – Jim Magilton, Northern Irish footballer
 21 May – Martin Harris, English backstroke swimmer
 25 May – Dominic Mohan, journalist
 June – Emma Walmsley, English business executive
 2 June
 Cy Chadwick, English actor and producer
 Jamie Thraves, English film writer, director and music video director
 22 June – Simon Taylor, English graphic artist