[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Lawson railway station

on Station precinct featuring buildings built in the 1950s as part of the electrification of the railway to Lithgow. The substation is the last major rail electric substation built for the Sydney metropolitan network and the largest such building on the Main Western line between Penrith and Lithgow.

The place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.

Lawson Station Group is of aesthetic significance as a representative example of an intact Federation free classical style railway station, which has retained its former lamp building (Out of Shed) which is designed in the same style as the main station building. It is one of a group of stations built to the same pattern across the Blue Mountains following the duplication of the railway line.

The Station Master's residence has an unusual architectural style as it does not conform to any standard design although has similarities to a standard "J3" design. The buildings of the Electrical Depot including the former District Engineer's office and the associated stores and sheds collectively form a cohesive character within the landscape of the station precinct. The substation is a landmark in the precinct and rail corridor as well as the Great Western Highway.

The depot buildings have limited aesthetic or architectural value due to there utilitarian design.

The place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.

The place has the potential to contribute to the local community's sense of place and can provide a connection to the local community's history.

The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

Lawson Station Group has research potential for its combination of buildings and structures that would provide information on the elements of the equipment contemporary with the electrification of the Main Western line over the Blue Mountains. The Electrical Depot contains a number of technically important electrical engineering equipment such as the large rectifier. The area along the Great Western Highway has potential for surviving remnants of the former goods yard and the former Down side platform and siding.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

The Electrical Depot site is rare in the railway network, which includes the substation, one of a small number of such building and one of the largest remaining on the system.

The place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.

Lawson Station Group is a representative example of a standard design larger station building group demonstrating the construction techniques and characteristics of commonly used railway designs.

The Station Master's residence is a representative example of simple architectural forms of other similar railway residences.

The substation is a good example of rail substations built in Sydney after 1926 including Hurstville, Lewisham, Sutherland, Hornsby and Belmore.

See also 

List of railway stations in New South Wales

References

Bibliography

Attribution

External links

Lawson station details Transport for New South Wales

Railway stations in Australia opened in 1867
Regional railway stations in New South Wales
Short-platform railway stations in New South Wales, 6 cars
New South Wales State Heritage Register
City of Blue Mountains
Articles incorporating text from the New South Wales State Heritage Register
Main Western railway line, New South Wales