[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mikheyev v. Russia

prosecutor's office of the Leninsky district requiring prosecution against the police officers  who tortured her son. Criminal case No. 68241 was instituted on the signs of crime in accordance with Art. 110 of the Criminal Code (Incitement to Suicide) because of Mikheyev's falling out of the window.

In addition, Lyudmila Mikheyeva filed a complaint with the prosecutor of Bogorodsk complaining about the exceeding of official powers by the employees of the District Department of the Internal Affairs during his administrative arrest and search of his apartment and car. After a year and a half, in March 2000, a criminal case was opened in accordance with Art. 292 of the Criminal Code (Official Forgery).

In total, Mikheyev's investigation took 7 years, during which it ceased more than twenty times and was illegally held at least three times. According to the Committee Against Torture, the Russian officials set a sort of an "anti-record" in regards to the inefficiency of the investigation. In the opinion of the human rights defenders, this exhausting nature of the investigation was set up to force Mikheyev to give up on fighting against injustice.

In the case of Incitement to Suicide on November 30, 2005, the court sentenced Igor Somov and Nikolai Kosterin to four years in prison with deprivation of the right to take positions in a law enforcement agency for up to three years. Convicts were arrested in the courtroom. In 2009, the court sentenced the former police officers convicted in the case of Mikheyev to pay 8.5 million rubles (about 280,000 dollars in 2008) to the Russian Federation, the amount that the government paid Mikheyev at demanding of the European Court of Human Rights.

Making a complaint to the European court of human rights 

The prosecutor's office of Nizhny Novgorod several times refused to investigate the case. On November 16, 2001, employees of Committee Against Torture, Yuri Sidorov and Olga Shepeleva, representatives of Alexei Mikheyev, filed a complaint with the European Court of Human Rights regarding a violation by the Russian Federation of Articles 3, 5, 8 and 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights with regard to their representative. On 1 December 2001, the complaint was registered by the Court. In parallel, there were unsuccessful attempts to achieve effective interaction with the prosecutor's office of Nizhny Novgorod.

On February 26, 2003, a representative of Mikheyev submitted a request to the European Court of Human Rights to consider the complaint as priority, as Mikheyev's health was steadily worsening. Attached to the application: copy of statement from the history of Mikheyev's illness, the doctor's opinion, statement of his income, the living wage in the Nizhny Novgorod region. The notice that Mikheyev's complaint will be considered by the European Court of Human Rights as soon as possible was sent to the prosecutor of the Nizhny Novgorod region. On December 17, 2003, the commissioner of the Russian Federation at the European Court of Human Rights Pavel Laptev sent to the court the government's response memorandum. The memorandum expressed the opinion of the Russian authorities that the Court's consideration was premature as the criminal case of Mikheyev is still under investigation.

Position of the respondent government and decision of the European Court of Human Rights 

The European Court of Human Rights trialed the claim in the case of Mikheyev v. Russia substantially. On January 26, 2006, the Court established that the ill-treatment in this situation achieved "torture level" per Article 3 of the convention. Also, the court determined a violation of Article 13 of the convention, because "the plaintiff was denied a fairly effective investigation and access to other remedies at his disposal including the right to compensation". As a rule, to apply to the ECHR, the plaintiff should pass all the judiciary echelons (e.g. from district court to supreme court). The Russian authorities objected in legal proceedings due to fact that plaintiff's side did not comply with this requirement, but the court dismissed this, stating that "The verdict of November 30, 2005 referred to only fact of ill-treatment and did not consider supposed faults in investigation".

Effects 

By the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, Mikheyev was awarded a money compensation of 250,000 euros. However, journalists state that this money did not help him get back on his feet or change his residential conditions as all the money went towards paying the medical bills for Alexey's many illnesses.

Reaction of international organizations 

According to Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, torture with electric shock is common in Russia.

The Human Rights Watch wrote in a report on Russia in 1999:

The Amnesty International said: