[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sikh Light Infantry

ird, Sep. Gora Singh, was taken prisoner. In total, 29 out of the 30 troops from D Coy who landed were killed.

40 Sikh soldiers were left and fought for 4 days without food and water and they had run out of ammunition. They said the Ardas and charged at the LTTE soldiers with their batons and died.

When reinforcements reached the university after a week of heavy fighting, they found the battlefield littered with pieces of Sikh LI uniforms and equipment, along with thousands of .50 BMG shells. According to Sep. Gora Singh, the dead Sikhs were stripped of their weapons, uniforms and equipment and their bare bodies were laid out in a row at the nearby Buddhist Nagaraja Vihar temple. The corpses were then burnt with a barrel of oil. The LTTE claimed to have tried to get in touch with the IPKF HQ at Palali, but apparently their efforts to get them collect the dead bodies were in vain. The bodies had started to decompose, and they had no option but to cremate them.

Units

1st Battalion
2nd Battalion
3rd Battalion
4th Battalion
5th Battalion
6th Battalion
7th Battalion
8th Battalion
9th Battalion
10th Battalion
11th Battalion
12th Battalion
13th Battalion
14th Battalion
15th Battalion
16th Battalion
17th Battalion
18th Battalion
19th Battalion
Territorial Army (TA)
103rd Infantry Battalion Territorial Army (Sikh LI): Ludhiana, Punjab 
158th Infantry Battalion Territorial Army (Sikh LI) (Home & Hearth): Janglot , Jammu & Kashmir 
163rd Infantry Battalion Territorial Army (Sikh LI) (Home & Hearth): Hyderbeigh , Jammu & Kashmir 
Rashtriya Rifles (RR)
2 RR
19 RR
49 RR

The 9th battalion has a specialist role, as it conducts special amphibious assaults similar in nature to the Royal Marines of the United Kingdom.

Culture
 The chakram and kirpan are traditional and iconic weapons of the Akali Nihang order, a religious warrior monk order started by Guru Gobind Singh in the 18th century. The Mazhabi Sikhs dominated this order throughout the 18th and 19th centuries. The chakram and kirpan were thus combined to make the Sikh Light Infantry cap badge.

Due to the cultural origin of its recruits, the regiment maintains not only a strong Sikh culture but a strong Punjabi culture. Bhangra, a popular folk dance of the Punjab, is a regular pastime of the soldiers. Sikhism plays a strong role in the day-to-day life and functioning of the regiment and its soldiers some of which have Chakrams on their turbans. The regiment maintains its own regimental gurdwara for the daily worship for its soldiers. The religious life of the soldiers sees them conduct shabad kirtan and all other aspects of Sikh worship. The teachings of Guru Gobind Singh and the notion of sant-sipahi ("saint-soldier") play a large role in regimental life. Historically, the Mazhabi Sikhs have long served in the armies of Guru Gobind Singh and in the later Khalsa Army raised by Ranjit Singh, which forged and established the Sikh Empire. Most times before entering battle Sikh soldiers said the Ardas and then went into battle. Before the Regiment was formed it was called the Rattray's Sikhs, who notably did not tie their beards and carried 3 foot long swords into battle. 

The regimental motto, Deg Tegh Fateh ("prosperity in peace and victory in war") is also derived from Guru Gobind Singh. It incorporates his teachings of peace, tolerance and community spirit, but also the duty to unsheathe the sword when a tyrant or oppressor threatens that ethos and refuses peaceful co-existence. The battle cry of the regiment is "Jo Bole So Nihal, Sat Sri Akal!" meaning "He who recites the name of the lord, shall forever be victorious!"

Recruitment

The Sikh Light Infantry is a "single caste" regiment. Its soldiers are recruited only from Mazhabi and Ramdasia Sikhs. Mazhabi Sikhs must provide identification certificates showing their status as Mazhabi Sikhs for eligibility to join the regiment as well as meeting the other minimum standards. Like all Indian Army regiments, officers can come from all regions and communities in India.

Awards and decorations
 1 Ashoka Chakra
 15 Maha Vir Chakra
 16 Kirti Chakra
 23 Vir Chakra
 28 Shaurya Chakra
 182 Sena Medal
 14 Param Vishisht Seva Medals
 28 Ati Vishisht Seva Medals
 13 Yudh Seva Medals
 17 Vishisht Seva Medals
 109 Mention-in-Despatches
 322 COAS's Commendation Cards

Maha Vir Chakra
 Brigadier Babaji Sant Singh MVC & Bar (MVC awarded twice)
 Brigadier PK Nandagopal

See also

 List of regiments of the Indian Army

References

External links
Sikh Light Infantry DefenseIndia.com
Sikhs in British Armed Forces: Gateway to Sikhism AllAboutSikhs.com
The Sikh Light Infantry Regiments.org
The Sikh Light Infantry Bharat-Rakshak.com
History of the Sikh Pioneers - Lt-Gen Sir George MacMunn

British Indian Army infantry regiments
Infantry regiments of the Indian Army from 1947
Sikh warriors
Units of the Indian Peace Keeping Force