[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# José María Pino Suárez

Spanish hands, successfully thwarting a Spanish attempt to reconquer Mexico. Prior to his death in 1845, he served as Governor of Yucatán and is also credited with introducing the Industrial Revolution to Mexico, founding Aurora Yucateca, the first textile factory in the country to use steam power.

Pino's great-uncles were Joaquín Baranda and . Joaquín had served as Chief justice of the Supreme Court of Justice, Governor of Campeche, Senator, and was a long-serving cabinet minister (1882- 1901),being appointed as Secretary of Justice, Education and, briefly, Foreign Affairs under presidents Manuel González and Porfirio Díaz. He became one of the most powerful cabinet ministers of the porfiriato, but he resigned in 1901, after falling out with José Yves Limantour, the influnetial Secretary of the Treasury and head of the Cíentificos, a powerful group of technocrats; Limantour had demanded Baranda's resignation after the latter had successfully thwarted Limantour's candidacy for the presidency on a legal technisism, arguing his French origin. During his time in government, Joaquín Baranda was responsible for founding the Public Prosecutor's Office (Procuraduría General de la República) and the Normal school (Escuela Normal de Profesores). Meanwhile, Pedro Baranda was a General who fought for the liberal cause in the Reform Wars and the French Intervention, and participated in the constituent assembly that drafted the liberal Constitution of 1857. Later in his career, he promoted the creation of the states of Campeche and Morelos, serving as Governor of both states. In Campeche, the inflience of the Baranda brothers was such that for many years, the state capital was known as Campeche de Baranda, as noted by Rugeley:“ [Pedro Baranda] came from the highest echelons of southeastern political royalty.  [He] haled from a Campeche-based family long active in civil and military affairs. His father, Pedro Sáinz de Baranda, [...] had championed a socially conservative, gaditano independence; shortly thereafter, he founded the famous Aurora Yucateca cotton mill in Valladolid, a bold experiment in industrial revolution […] Pedro himself had fought […] to create the state of Campeche, then fought against the interventionists in Tabasco. Promoted to the rank of General by Juárez, he then served as first governor of the state of Morelos and later as senator of his home state. The honorific "Campeche de Baranda" commemorates his role there, while an enormous statue of his father don Pedro, the elder, sword tightly in hand, greets the modern day motorist along the city's malecón.Another uncle of Pino Suárez was Joaquín Casasús, a lawyer, banker and economist who served as Ambassador to the United States and managed to obtain a favorable ruling for Mexico in the Chamizal dispute.

His first cousin,  would later serve two terms as Governor of Tabasco.

Education 
Shortly after Pino's birth, his mother died. His father, a busy businessman, entrusted his education to a Private Tutor. When Pino reached adolescence, it was decided that he should study in Mérida, where he lived in the house of Raúl Carrancá, a close friend of his father, who was then the Spanish Consul. His son, Raúl Carrancá y Trujillo, would later become an outstanding criminal defense lawyer. In Mérida, Pino was admitted to the prestigious , a Jesuit-run grammar school that had a curriculum based on the French Lycées. During those years, Pino became a close friend of Norberto Domínguez, then the headmaster, who would later become Archbishop of Yucatan. Pino graduated from San Ildefonso speaking fluent French and English. He obtained his law degree from Instituto Literario de Yucatán in 1894.

Marriage and descendants 

In 1896, he married María Cámara Vales, the eldest daughter of Raymundo Cámara Luján, a business magnate and head of the House of Cámara, "a powerful clan of the high Yucatecan aristocracy." Her uncle was Agustín Vales Castillo, an industrialist and banker who served as the Mayor of Mérida between 1902 and 1907. Two of Marías brothers had political careers of their own: Nicolás Camára Vales served as Governor of Yucatán, while Alfredo Pino Cámara served as Governor of Quintana Roo.

The Pino Cámara couple had six children: Maria, Alfredo, José, Aída, Hortensia and Cordelia. When Pino Suárez died in February 1913, at the age of 43, María, the eldest of his daughters was a 14-year-old teenager while Cordelia, the youngest one, had not celebrated her first birthday.

His two sons, Alfredo and José, followed in their father's footsteps, excelling in the legal profession. Alfredo Pino Cámara, was an Associate justice of the Supreme court and is remembered for having acted as presiding judge in the criminal proceedings against Tina Modotti, the Italian actress and photographer accused of the First Degree Murder of Julio Antonio Mella, a political activist and one of the founders of the Communist Party of Cuba.