[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Yuval Steinitz

opment center. This cooperation agreement aims to accelerate development and rapid deployment of critical and innovative technologies for natural gas, cybersecurity, energy-water nexus, water storage, and other areas of energy that are needed to diversify energy supply and promote higher efficiency.

Views
He has campaigned for heightened awareness of the Iranian nuclear threat, lobbying at home and abroad to ensure that Iran does not become a nuclear power.

In 2008, when Israel refused permission for Palestinian Fulbright students to leave Gaza and study in the United States, Steinitz supported this action. He told the New York Times: "We are fighting the regime in Gaza that does its utmost to kill our citizens and destroy our schools and our colleges. So I don’t think we should allow students from Gaza to go anywhere. Gaza is under siege, and rightly so, and it is up to the Gazans to change the regime or its behavior." He disagreed with former Governor of the Bank of Israel, Stanley Fischer, on various issues, and has a complicated relationship with Netanyahu, who bypassed him several times in his first year in office.

In June 2013, when Austria planned to withdraw its UN troops (stationary since 1974) from the Golan Heights, Yuval Steinitz issued a statement expressing regret at the Austrian move, adding that the lesson for Israel was clear: "Even as part of peace agreements, Israel cannot place its security in the hands of international forces instead of relying on the presence of IDF soldiers."

In December 2015, after the assassination of Samir Kuntar, he claimed in the newspaper Haaretz that the Finnish Intelligence services was perhaps behind this affair. After contact from the Helsingin Sanomat newspaper, Haaretz claimed that it was a joke, putting to serious threat Israel's foreign policy.

On 19 November 2017, Energy Minister Yuval Steinitz said that Israel has had covert contacts with Saudi Arabia amid common concerns over Iran. This is the first public admission of cooperation between the two countries by a senior Israeli official.

On 7 May 2018, Steinitz, in an interview to Israeli news site Ynet, said that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, should be 'eliminated' by Israel for his relationship with Iran, he later clarified it was his personal opinion and not that of the government.

Family
Steinitz is married to Gila Canfy-Steinitz, a judge and the vice president of the Jerusalem District Court, with whom he has three children. They live in Mevaseret Zion.

Writings by Steinitz
 Books in English 
Invitation to Philosophy: Imagined Dialogues with Great Philosophers, Hackett Publishing house, Cambridge, USA (1994).

 Articles in English 
"Necessary beings", by Yuval Steinitz, American Philosophical Quarterly (April 1994).
"Brains in a Vat: Different Perspectives", by Yuval Steinitz, The Philosophical Quarterly (April 1994).
"Contradictions are Ontological Arguments", by Yuval Steinitz, Religious Studies (December 1994).
"A worst-case scenario: A Palestinian guerilla offensive on the outskirts of Tel-Aviv", by Yuval Steinitz, Israel and a Palestinian State Zero Sum Game? (2001).
"Israel Has Nothing to Hide", by Yuval Steinitz, The New York Times (4 May 2002).
"Israel Gaza Dilemma in the Aftermath of the War with Hizbullah", by Yuval Steinitz, Jerusalem Center of Public affairs (4 May 2002).
"The requisites of Israel Palestinian peace", by Yuval Steinitz, The Jerusalem Post (11 July 2013).
"How Palestinian Hate Prevents Peace", by Yuval Steinitz, The New York Times (15 October 2013).
"The simple, logical answer to the Iran nuclear conundrum", by Yuval Steinitz, Financial Times (13 November 2013).
"Get Off the Budget Treadmill", by Niall Ferguson and Yuval Steinitz, The New York Times (5 December 2013).
"Iran deal could encourage, rather than limit, nuclear activity", by Yuval Steinitz, The Washington Post (28 February 2014).
"Don’t Make a Bad Deal With Iran", by Yuval Steinitz, The New York Times (19 October 2014).
"Fiscal Years Should Come in Pairs", by Yuval Steinitz, The Wall Street Journal'' (30 March 2016).

References

External links

Official website

The Israeli Missile Defense Association Website: Steinitz Bio
The Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs: Yuval Steinitz articles 
English articles by Yuval Steinitz, the 
British Israel Communications and Research Centre: Steinitz on the Iranian Threat
 2001 interview segment by Leon Charney on the Leon Charney Report
 2001 full interview by Leon Charney on the Leon Charney Report
 2001 interview by Leon Charney on the Leon Charney Report
 2004 interview by Leon Charney on the Leon Charney Report
2015 interview by David Ignatius on Why Netanyahu broke publicly with Obama over Iran