[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Elliott School of International Affairs

ally.

The Institute for International Economic Policy (IIEP) is one of the Elliott School's premier research institutes, collaborating with organizations like the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund frequently, which are both headquartered across the street from the Elliott School.

Adjunct professor Alistair Millar founded and runs the Global Center on Cooperative Security in Washington, as an initiative of the Fourth Freedom Forum.

Frank Ciluffo, Director of the GW Center for Cyber and Homeland Security, serves on its advisory board, which collaborates frequently with the Elliott School.

Publications
 International Affairs Review
 The Washington Quarterly

Centers and institutes
Institute for International Economic Policy
Institute for Public Diplomacy and Global Communication
Institute for Security and Conflict Studies
Institute for International Science and Technology Policy
Institute for Global and International Studies
Institute for Disaster and Fragility Resilience
Institute for European, Russian, and Eurasian Studies
Institute for Middle East Studies
Institute for African Studies
Institute for Korean Studies
Sigur Center for Asian Studies
Space Policy Institute

Research and policy programs
The Project on Forward Engagement
Brazil Initiative
China Policy Program
Culture in Global Affairs Program
Gender Equity in International Affairs Initiative
GW Diaspora Program
GW Cold War Group
Memory and Reconciliation in the Asia-Pacific
Partnership for International Strategies in Asia
Project on Humanitarian Governance
Rising Powers Initiative
Taiwan Education and Research Program
US-Japan Legislative Exchange Program

Notable people

Notable alumni
Many of the school's former students have gone on to distinguished careers in politics, diplomacy, and journalism, among numerous other fields. Some notable alumni include Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović (current President of Croatia), Chang Dae-whan (former Prime Minister of South Korea), Michael Punke (Vice President of Amazon Web Services and former U.S. Ambassador to the World Trade Organization), Admiral John B. Hayes (16th Commandant of the U.S. Cost Guard; MA '64), General John M. Shalikashvili (Supreme Allied Commander and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; MA '70), Rose Gottemoeller (Deputy General of the NATO; MA '81), Ciarán Devane (Chief Executive of the British Council) Robert P. Jackson (U.S. Ambassador to Ghana and Cameroon), Kurt Volker (U.S. Ambassador to NATO; MA '87), David A. Nadler (vice-chairman of Marsh & McLennan Companies), K. T. McFarland (Deputy National Security Advisor; BA '73), Sam Johnson (U.S. Congressman from Texas; MS '74), Kasie Hunt (MSNBC and NBC News correspondent; BA '06), Reona Ito (The American Prize-winning orchestral conductor), and Diana B. Henriques (Pulitzer Prize finalist and The New York Times journalist; BA '69), among numerous others.

Notable faculty
Notable current faculty members include Amitai Etzioni (former president of the American Sociological Association), Thomas E. McNamara (former Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs), Marc Lynch (Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security), Scott Pace (current Executive Secretary of the National Space Council), Charles Glaser (famed Defensive Realist theorist), David Shambaugh (Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution), Lawrence Wilkerson (former Chief of Staff to United States Secretary of State Colin Powell), Michael N. Barnett (famed Constructivist theorist), James N Rosenau (former pres, Martha Finnemore (famed Constructivist theorist), Harry Harding (founding Dean of the Batten School of Leadership & Public Policy), Edward "Skip" Gnehm Jr. (former U.S. Ambassador to Jordan, Kuwait and Australia), James Foster (World Bank Board Advisor), Leon Fuerth (United States National Security Council member under President Bill Clinton), Eric Newsom (former Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs), Stephen C. Smith (current Director of the Institute for International Economic Policy), Sabina Alkire (Director of the Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative), John Logsdon (former member of the NASA Advisory Council), and Nathan J. Brown (Board Advisor to the Project on Middle East Democracy). 

Notable past faculty have included Moudud Ahmed (former Prime Minister of Bangladesh), William Luers (former President of the Metropolitan Museum of Art), Joseph LeBaron (U.S. Ambassador to Qatar and Mauritania), William J. Crowe (former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff), Thomas J. Dodd Jr. (former U.S. Ambassador to Costa Rica & Uruguay), Christopher A. Kojm (former Chairman of the National Intelligence Council), S. M. Krishna (former Foreign Minister of India), and Andrew A. Michta (Adjunct Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies)

See also
List of George Washington University alumni
List of George Washington University faculty

Notes

External links