[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Phil Powers

(with his valet Erin Angel) faced Chris Andrews in a singles match. During this match, Erin Angel tried to get involved using her own handbag to hit Andrews, but missed and hit her man Powers instead, Andrews then took the handbag only to get disqualified when the referee saw him hit Powers with it.

Powers not only wrestled, he was also a trainer running his own school with Erin Angel in Southampton. In March 2005 Power began promoting shows under the name Real Quality Wrestling. After a few months he hired Len Davies to handle production and video editing; Powers eventually left the company leaving Davies to promote shows under the RQW banner himself.

Powers went on to promote shows successfully for the next 3 years using the banner Live Wrestling Entertainment, while Len Davies paused promotions under the name RQW, concentrating on TV licensing and support of the British wrestling industry as an umbrella organisation. RQW currently operates from RQW House in Dagenham, Essex, and runs training schools as well as providing multimedia support for the revived FWA organisation. RQW Programming is currently being licensed worldwide through various agencies. Both Powers and Davies still work together on occasions.

Powers continues to compete on the independent circuit of the UK. There are rumours that Powers, Mad Dog Mcphie, Dan Berlinka and the owners of Ultimate Wrestling Alliance Andrew and Paul Martin are talking about a 10-year reunion.

Championships and accomplishments
Herts and Essex Wrestling
HEW Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Paul Tyrrell 
Premier Promotions
PWF Light Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
Ultimate Wrestling Alliance
UWA Heavyweight Championship
UWA Television Championship (1 time) 
World Association of Wrestling
WAW Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Paul Tyrrell 
Other titles
Young Wrestler of the Year 1993

References

External links
Powers heads to the ring during a RQW event (google.com)
Phil Powers VPW profile

English male professional wrestlers
People from Danbury, Essex
Living people
1978 births