[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Al-Shabaab (militant group)

nal response

Terrorist designation 
The following countries have officially listed al-Shabaab as a terrorist organization:

  (since 22 August 2009)
  (since 5 March 2010)
 
  (since 10 February 2010)
  (since 18 March 2016)
  (since 15 November 2014)
  (since March 2010)
  (since 29 February 2008)

Bounties 
In 2012, with the support of the Somali government, the United States began issuing bounties for al-Shabaab members under its Rewards for Justice Program. On June 7, the U.S. Department of State offered a total of $33 million in bounties for information leading to the capture of any of seven senior commanders, including $7 million for Godane, then the group's emir, and $5 million for Robow, then his deputy. In response, al-Shabaab's Fu'ad Qalaf issued a mock bounty of his own, promising ten camels to anyone possessing information on U.S. President Barack Obama, and a further, less valuable, reward of ten cocks and ten hens for information on Hillary Clinton, the U.S. Secretary of State. On an official state visit to Mogadishu, top U.S. envoy Johnnie Carson dismissed the counter-offer as "absurd". He also announced that the U.S. would impose sanctions, including visa and travel bans and asset freezes, on anyone attempting to thwart the ongoing political transition in Somalia.

On March 21, 2013, the U.S. Department of State offered $5 million apiece for information on two American senior al-Shabaab commanders, Omar Shafik Hammami and Jehad Serwan Mostafa. On March 15, 2014, it issued three further bounties, including one on Abdukadir Mohamed Abdukadir, who it said coordinated al-Shabaab's recruitment activities in Kenya. On September 27, 2014, after Godane's death, the Somali National Intelligence and Security Agency announced its own bounty, offering $2 million for information leading to the arrest of the new emir, Umar, and a separate $1 million reward for information leading to his killing. Several further Somali bounties were issued on April 10, 2015, with rewards ranging between $100,000 and $250,000. In a separate programme, on April 3, 2015, the Kenyan government offered KSh. 20 million ($215,000) for information leading to the arrest of Mohamed Mohamud, a commander of al-Shabaab's operations in Kenya.

List of leaders

Emirs 

 Ahmad Umar Abu Ubaidah (2014–present)
 Ahmed Godane (2007–2014)

Former members 
Former leading members of al-Shabaab include:

 Hassan Dahir Aweys
 Mohamed Said Atom
 Mukhtar Robow
 Mujahid Miski
 Abdul Qadir Mumin
 Aden Hashi Farah Ayro
 Ibrahim al-Afghani
 Hassan Abdullah Hersi al-Turki

Foreign leaders and members 
Prominent foreign al-Shabaab members have included:
 Jehad Serwan Mostafa (United States)
 Abu Musa Mombasa (Pakistan) 
 Fu'ad Qalaf Shongole (Sweden) 
 Samantha Lewthwaite (Britain) (unconfirmed)
 Fazul Abdullah Mohammed (Kenya)
 Abdukadir Mohamed Abdukadir (Kenya)
 Omar Shafik Hammami (United States)

See also

 Child soldiers in Somalia
 Drone strikes in Somalia
 Human rights in Somalia
 Islam in Somalia
 Religion in Somalia
 Freedom of religion in Somalia

Notes

References

Bibliography

Books

Articles

Reports

External links

 Al-Shabab, Counter Extremism Project profile
 Al-Shabaab: How Great a Threat?: Hearing Before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, First Session, October 3, 2013
 August 2010 letter from Osama bin Laden to Ahmed Godane 

 
Anti-Zionist organizations
Antisemitism in Africa
Factions in the Somali Civil War
Groups affiliated with al-Qaeda
Islam and antisemitism
Islam-related controversies
Islamic terrorism in Somalia
Islamist groups
Organisations designated as terrorist by Australia
Organisations designated as terrorist by the United Kingdom
Organizations designated as terrorist by Canada
Organizations designated as terrorist by Malaysia
Organisations designated as terrorist by New Zealand
Organizations designated as terrorist by the United Arab Emirates
Organizations designated as terrorist by the United States
Organizations based in Africa designated as terrorist
Organizations based in Asia designated as terrorist
Organizations established in 2007
Qutbist organisations
Rebel groups in Kenya
Rebel groups in Somalia
Rebel groups in Ethiopia
Salafi Jihadist groups