[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Wilson Palacios

Wilson Roberto Palacios Suazo (; born 29 July 1984) is a Honduran former professional footballer who played as a defensive midfielder.

Born in La Ceiba, he played for Victoria and Olimpia in Honduras before moving to England, where he played for Birmingham City and Wigan Athletic. In 2009, he joined Tottenham Hotspur, generally playing central defensive midfield as he did for Wigan, though he was occasionally used as a right midfielder for Spurs. In August 2011, Palacios joined Stoke City for an undisclosed fee believed to be around £6 million. He struggled to make an impact in his four seasons at Stoke, however, and left the club in 2015. He subsequently had a spell in the North American Soccer League with Miami, before returning to Honduras where he played for Olimpia and Real Sociedad. He retired in December 2019.

He was a regular player for Honduras from 2003 to 2014, helping them qualify for and playing at the 2010 and 2014 FIFA World Cups.

Club career

Olimpia
Palacios, along with brothers Milton, Jerry, Johnny and Edwin, started his career as a footballer with Victoria, from which all five players were later transferred to Olimpia.

Palacios made 102 appearances and scored 32 goals for Olimpia. He became one of the idols of the team and quickly started to attract international attention after winning five league titles with Olimpia in the 2002–03 Apertura tournament, as well as the 2003–04 Clausura, 2004–05 Clausura, 2005–06 Apertura and the 2005–06 Clausura tournaments. He is especially remembered for scoring a goal from the half-way line against Marathón in the final minutes of a game in 2006 to win the 2005–06 Clausura tournament to become champions of Honduras.

After having a very successful career in Honduras, Palacios looked to make his name in the European leagues. On 14 July 2007, Palacios announced that he would travel to Serbia for a couple of months for a trial with Red Star Belgrade. He stayed for less than a month and despite impressing during his stay, he did not join the club after Red Star refused to pay a salary of, reportedly, US$1.5 million for a three-year contract. Palacios also had trials with Cagliari, AS Monaco, and Arsenal.

Birmingham City (loan)

After a recommendation from Arsenal's manager, Arsène Wenger, Premier League club Birmingham City gave Palacios a trial which proved successful, and he signed a six-month loan on 31 August 2007. He made his debut on 22 September in a goalless draw with Liverpool at Anfield, and in October, manager Steve Bruce, who likened Palacios to a young Paul Ince, said that Birmingham intended to make his loan a permanent transfer. However, Bruce left for Wigan Athletic, and the player's absence following his brother's kidnap meant that new manager Alex McLeish had not seen enough of him to sign him permanently.

Wigan Athletic
On 11 January 2008, Palacios re-joined Bruce at Wigan Athletic for an undisclosed fee, and made his debut the following day against Derby County. He became an important piece in Bruce's system and was linked to the likes of Manchester United, Liverpool, Bayern Munich and Real Madrid. On 16 January 2009, Bruce stated that a deal with Tottenham Hotspur for Palacios was "virtually agreed"; he said Palacios leaving would be "like losing his right arm" and did not want to part with "one of the best midfield players in the country." The deal was confirmed five days later.

Tottenham Hotspur
Despite having reservations about moving to London from the north-west of England where he was settled, Palacios agreed personal terms on a -year contract with Tottenham Hotspur, committing his future to the club until 2014. On 21 January 2009, the club announced to the London Stock Exchange that they had agreed a fee of £12 million for Palacios and that the player had passed his medical, but that the transfer could only be completed once he received a work permit. He made his Tottenham debut in a 3–2 defeat to Bolton Wanderers on 31 January, and assisted with the second goal after Bolton goalkeeper Jussi Jääskeläinen parried Palacios' shot and Darren Bent put in the rebound.