[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dozo

heir northern successes, but on a public perception of special (even magical) abilities of Donzow.  Unemployed men from around the country came to Korhogo and Odienné, home of Benkadi leadership, to be initiated into a Donzo Ton, and thus have access to work as well-paid security guards.

Civil War 

While Donzow became guards for hire in the unstable years before the 2002–2005 Ivorian Civil War, their network became associated with northern groups who led the rebel forces. The Donzo Ton, viewed as saviours by some in the south, were also seen as unsophisticated throwbacks to a pre-modern era by many in cosmopolitan Abidjan.  The transnational and northern source of the Donzo Ton were seen to conflict with the ethnic nationalism of Ivoirité which feared the presence of Burkinabé labourers and immigrants from Mali as not being "true" Ivorians.  Politically, it was Rassemblement des Républicains (RDR) politicians from the north who first entrusted the Donzow with policing duties, and the Donzo Ton leadership became associated with the RDR.  Nationalist Presidents Henri Konan Bédié, and later Laurent Gbagbo, condemned these armed Benkadi groups as regressive, divisive and dangerous. It was not surprising, then, when the September 2002 coup began the civil war, northern forces included many identifiable Donzow. One rebel group, the Mouvement populaire ivoirien du Grand Ouest (MPIGO) was thought to be one-fifth Donzow.  This participation, while earning the enmity of many in the south, has made leaders of the Donzo Ton Benkadi network powerful figures whose support has been sought by Prime Minister (and former rebel leader) Guillaume Soro's  Patriotic Movement of Côte d'Ivoire. Kuruma Lansine, public head of the Benkadi has become a political leader for standing by and speaking for "the dozos".

While most studies stress the stabilising nature the Donzo Ton had on the country both before and after the civil war, human rights organisations have documented a pattern of lawlessness, intimidation, and extrajudicial killings by Donzow groups beginning from at least 1997, through the 1999 coup (in which Donzo Ton set up checkpoints on roads across the north),  and the 2002–2005 war.

In Mali society 
In 2017, local civilians accused the Malian government of arming groups of Dozo, who had allegedly carried out a spate of killings of nomadic Fula populations.

In June 2018, Dozo surrounded a village in the Mopti Region, separated members of the Fula ethnic group from the other villagers and killed at least 32 of them. The Fula complain that they are being regularly targeted by the traditional hunters in the name of the fight against jihadists. They accuse the Malian military of supporting such incidents.

Music
The Dozo are also known for their praise singers (see Griot) and rituals, often accompanied by the dozo n’goni, a variant of n'goni West African lute said to have originated among the Senufo hunters of Burkina Faso.

Galerie

See also 
 Caste system in Africa
 Kamajors

References 

 "The Ivory Coast: Country Profile". Travel Africa magazine. Edition 4: Summer 1998. URL accessed 2006-02-28.
 Côte d'Ivoire. Human Rights Watch. August 2003, Volume 15, No. 14 (A).
 Thomas J. Bassett. Dangerous Pursuits: Hunter Associations (Donzo ton) and National Politics in Côte d'Ivoire. Africa: Journal of the International African Institute, Vol. 73, No. 1 (2003), pp. 1–30.
 Thomas J. Bassett. Containing the Donzow: The Politics of Scale in Côte d'Ivoire. Africa Today, Summer 2004, Vol. 50, No. 4, pp. 30–49.
Hans-U. Caspary Faune sauvage et la filière viande de brousse au Sud-est de la Côte d’Ivoire. WeißenseeVerlag, Berlin 2000.
Youssouf Diallo and István Sántha. Rituals, forms of behaviour, and solidarity among hunters’ groups in West Africa and South Siberia in Max Planck Institute for Social Anthropology Report 2004-2005, ISSN 1618-8683
Sten Hagberg. Political decentralization and traditional leadership in the Benkadi hunters' association in western Burkina Faso. Africa Today,  June, 2004.
 Joseph Hellweg. "Manimory and the Aesthetics of Mimesis: Forest, Islam, and the State in the Ivorian Hunter's Association", Africa Vol. 76, No. 1 (2006): pp. 461–484.
 Joseph Hellweg. "Encompassing the State: Sacrifice and Security in the Hunters’ Movement of Côte d'Ivoire", Africa Today Vol. 50, No. 4 (2004): pp. 3–28.
Joseph Hellweg.  "Dozo Ethics and the Spirit of Nationalism: Resistance, Civility, and Sacrifice in the Benkadi Security Movement".  American Ethnologist, (2003).
François Wandji. Les dozos, guérisseurs et "chasseurs". L'Humanité:  24 July 2001.
 COTE D’IVOIRE: THE GENERAL’S NEW CLOTHES. CDD Briefing on a fact-finding trip to Côte d'Ivoire, Centre for Democracy and Development (UK), April 2000.

External links

Dozo Hunters photographed in their traditional clothing and wearing charms: BBC, No date.
Dozo hunters in traditional garb: BBC, 19 September 2005 "pictures of the day".