[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Horace Robertson

possible consequences of the loss of the 1st Battalion, the Gloucestershire Regiment, and he advised them not to endanger the rest of the I Corps line with a rescue attempt. For his services in the Korean War, he was awarded the American Legion of Merit, and the South Korean Order of Military Merit.

Later life
Robertson was recalled to Australia in November 1951, replacing Sir Edmund Herring as Director General of Recruiting. In January 1953, Robertson took over Southern Command again. This put him in uncomfortably close proximity to Rowell, however, and the two clashed over a number of minor issues. Robertson turned 60 on 29 October 1954, and retired the next day, after racking up 3,985 days of active service in 43 years in the Australian Army. From 1954 to 1960, he was honorary colonel of the Royal Australian Regiment. In retirement Robertson served on the committee of the Metropolitan Golf Club and was president of the Victorian branch of the Royal Empire Society for a time. He commenced writing his memoirs, which he promised would be "the million pound libel". The fate of the papers he gathered for it and the unfinished manuscript itself is unknown.

On 28 April 1960 he suffered a ruptured aorta and died at the Repatriation General Hospital, Heidelberg. His sudden death came as a shock to many. A funeral with full military honours was held at Scots' Church, Melbourne. For pall bearers, he had eight generals: Leslie Beavis, Allan Boase, Cyril Clowes, Hector Edgar, Ragnar Garrett, Edmund Herring, Sydney Rowell and Colin Simpson. Frank Kingsley Norris carried his decorations while the 2nd Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment and 1st Armoured Regiment provided honour guards for the largest military funeral since Blamey's in 1951. Afterwards, he was buried with his wife, who had died in 1956, at Springvale Botanical Cemetery.  The Robertson Barracks was later named in his honour.

Notes

References

 

 
 
 
 
 

|-

|-

1894 births
1960 deaths
Military personnel from Victoria (state)
Australian Companions of the Distinguished Service Order
Australian generals
Australian Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire
Australian military personnel of the Korean War
Australian military personnel of World War I
Australian Army personnel of World War II
Chief Commanders of the Legion of Merit
Graduates of the Staff College, Camberley
People educated at Geelong College
People from Warrnambool
Recipients of the Order of Military Merit (Korea)
Royal Military College, Duntroon graduates