[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Constitutional history of Turkey

Over the centuries, Turkey has had many constitutions and can be characterised by the steady establishment of a nation-state, democratisation and recognition of international law.

Turkey has a rich constitutional history, dating from 1808 to the present. Over the years, Turkey has had many constitutions and radical amendments made to those constitutions. The four main constitutions of Turkey since inception have been the Constitution of 1921, the Constitution of 1924, the Constitution of 1961 and the Constitution of 1982. Prior to these constitutions, Turkey was governed by the Ottoman Empire and other fundamental instruments such as the Sened-I Ittifak, Imperial Edict of Reorganisation, the Ottoman Reform Edict, the Ottoman Constitution of 1876.

The current 1982 Turkish constitution has been ratified nineteen times, with its most recent revision in 2017 which was aimed at improving the rights and liberties of individuals and strengthening the rule of law.

Fundamental instruments governing Turkey prior to  1921 

 1808: Charter of Alliance prepared by Alemdar Mustafa Pasha, in period of Mahmud II was signed on September 29, among Rumelian and Anatolian chief men and the Ottoman State in order to make the central authority dominant over the provinces. This Charter of Alliance was signed to regulate the powers between the local rulers and the Ottoman government.
 1839: Edict of Gülhane prepared by Mustafa Reşid Pasha on November 3, during the rule of Abdulmejid I. This document was a proclamation by Abdulmejid I which reorganised the Ottoman Empire and introduced various reforms.
 1856: Ottoman Reform Edict of 1856 that complemented and reinforced the Imperial Edict of Reorganisation. It promised equality of access to education, government appointments, military service, and administration of justice to all, regardless of religion, language, or race.
 1876: Constitution of the Ottoman Empire enacted during the First Constitutional Era (1876–78) and was viewed as a symbol of freedom for its Turkish citizens. Subsequently, the constitution was revised in 1909 during the  Second Constitutional Era of the Ottoman Empire (1908–20).

The Constitution of 1921 
The Turkish Constitution of 1921 was a fundamental law for Turkey from 1921 to 1924. It is generally accepted that the Constitution was the result of the most democratic constitution-making process in Turkish history. It was crafted by an elected constituent assembly in which different groups and ideologies were not only present, but also actively participated.  

The draft constitution was prepared by the council of ministers in the form of a legislative proposal, and sent to the general assembly. The general assembly debated legal and procedural problems related to the proposal, and decided to send it to an ad hoc special commission as a document comprising 31 articles. The commission that worked on the draft divided it into two parts: the "program of populism" and "the Basic Establishment Act (1921 Constitution)". The program of populism was a declaration of political purposes and views rather than being normative. Therefore, it was separated from the constitutional rules and declared as a government program reflecting anti-imperialist and anti-capitalist, left populist ideas, as well as civil control over the military. The latter part became the actual constitution and made the revolutionary choice of unconditional sovereignty of the nation, marking a significant break with the imperial and monarchical past.   

The 1921 constitution was very short. It contained 23 articles and an individual article, which addressed issues of power, local governments and their jurisdiction.

The Constitution was created after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire in the aftermath of the First World War. Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, who then became Turkey's first President was a key driver in preparing this Constitution. Mustafa Kemal announced the election of a new assembly to meet in Turkey's capital, Ankara. This was named the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and held both the executive and legislative powers. Article 3 of the Constitution stated that "[t]he State of Turkey is governed by the Grand National Assembly and its government is titled as the Government of Grand National Assembly." This Assembly could change ministers at will and the Council Ministers had no power to dissolve the Assembly. This was due to both the executive and legislative powers being vested in the Assembly.