[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 104]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

particular friends. The place where they assemble is generally
the middle of one of their large huts, that all the persons of their
society may be impartial spectators of their contest. When they are thus
convened, the champion, who by agreement is to begin, steps forward into
the middle of the circle, and entertains them with a song or speech,
which he has before meditated. In this performance he generally
contrives to throw all the ridicule he is able upon his antagonist, and
his satire is applauded by his own party, and excites universal
merriment among the audience. When he has sung or declaimed himself out
of breath, it is the turn of his rival to begin, who goes on in the same
manner, answering all the satire that has been thrown upon him, and
endeavouring to win the laughter over to his own side. In this manner do
the combatants go on, alternately reciting their compositions against
each other, till the memory or invention of one of them fails, and he is
obliged to yield the victory to his rival. After this public spectacle
of their ingenuity, the two champions generally forget all their
animosities, and are cordially reconciled. "This," added Mr Barlow,
"appears to me to be a much better method of answering ridicule, than by
giving way to passion and resentment, and beating those that displease
us; and one of these honest Greenlanders would be as much ashamed of
such a sudden transport of anger as a Kamtschatkan traveller would be of
managing his dogs as ill as you did yesterday."




CHAPTER VII.

     Tommy and Harry visit Home--The Fashionable Guests--Miss Simmons
     takes notice of Harry--Harry's Troubles--Master Compton and
     Mash--Estrangement of Tommy--Visit to the Theatre--Misbehaviour
     there--Card Playing--The Ball--Harry Dancing a Minuet--Story of Sir
     Philip Sidney--Master Mash insults Harry--The Fight in the
     Drawing-room--The Bull-baiting--Tommy strikes Harry--Master Mash's
     Combat with Harry--Tommy's Narrow Escape from the Bull--The
     Grateful Black.


And now the time arrived when Tommy was by appointment to go home and
spend some time with his parents. Mr Barlow had been long afraid of
this visit, as he knew he would meet a great deal of company there, who
would give him impressions of a very different nature from what he had
with much assiduity been labouring to excite. However, the visit was
unavoidable, and Mr Merton sent so pressing an invitation for Harry to
accompany his friend, after having obtained the consent of his father,
that Mr Barlow, with much regret, took leave of both his pupils. Harry,
from the experience he had formerly acquired of polite life, had no
great inclination for the expedition; however, his temper was too easy
and obliging to raise any objections, and the real affection he now
entertained for Master Merton rendered him less averse than he would
otherwise have been.

When they arrived at Mr Merton's, they were introduced into a crowded
drawing-room, full of the most elegant company which that part of the
country afforded, among whom were several young gentlemen and ladies of
different ages, who had been purposely invited to spend their holidays
with Master Merton. As soon as Master Merton entered, every tongue was
let loose in his praise; "he was grown, he was improved, he was such a
charming boy;" his eyes, his hair, his teeth, his every feature was the
admiration of all the ladies. Thrice did he make the circle, in order to
receive the congratulations of the company, and to be introduced to the
young ladies.

As to Harry, he had the good fortune to be taken notice of by nobody
except Mr Merton, who received him with great cordiality. A lady,
however, who sat by Mrs Merton, asked her in a whisper, which was loud
enough to be heard all over the room, whether that was the little
_ploughboy_ whom she had heard Mr Barlow was attempting to breed up like
a gentleman. Mrs Merton answered it was. "I protest," said the lady, "I
should have thought so by his plebeian look and vulgar air. But I
wonder, my dear madam, that you will suffer your son, who, without
flattery, is one of the most accomplished children I ever saw in my
life, with quite the air of fashion, to keep such company. Are you not
afraid that Master Merton should insensibly contract bad habits, and a
grovelling way of thinking? For my own part, as I think a good education
is a thing of the utmost consequence in life, I have spared no pains to
give my dear Matilda every possible advantage." "Indeed," replied Mrs
Merton, "one may see the excellence of her education in everything Miss
Matilda does. She plays most divinely upon the harpsichord, talks French
even better than she does English, and draws in the style of a master.
Indeed, I think that last figure of the _naked Gladiator_ the finest
thing I ever saw in my life!"

While this conversation was going on in one part of the room, a young
la