[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# USS Mound City

ken from other vessels in the expedition, and they went on for another . They then turned back without meeting the Army of the Southwest. Soon enough Curtis was able to move his army to Helena, Arkansas, where he was able to reestablish his communications without the support of the Gunboat Flotilla.

Steele's Bayou expedition
The Western Gunboat Flotilla was transferred from War Department to Navy Department control on 1 October 1862. It was reconstituted as the Mississippi River Squadron, with (Acting) Rear Admiral David Dixon Porter in command. Porter was ordered to cooperate with Major General Ulysses S. Grant's Department of the Tennessee. Relations between the commanding general and the fleet actually improved at this time, despite the altered chain of command.

Shortly after the transfer, Grant began his campaign to capture Vicksburg and open the Mississippi River. After the initial failure of his traditional overland approach, he devised several plans aimed at bypassing the fixed defenses of the city. One of these became known as the Steele's Bayou Expedition. Mound City, now commanded by Lieutenant Commander Byron Wilson, was a member of a flotilla that attempted to reach the Yazoo River through a web of bayous, sloughs, creeks, and rivers. Porter himself accompanied the expedition and made the important decisions. Progress was slow because of the tight turns in the narrow streams, the trees that overhung the channels, and willow roots that clung to the hulls of the vessels as they attempted to pass; they were brought to a complete halt by Confederate soldiers who felled trees in the intended path. Unable to dislodge the enemy, Porter ordered a retreat, but then found that a party of Rebels had circled behind him and were cutting him off. Porter sent an immediate appeal for help to Grant, and then had his subordinates prepare to destroy their vessels rather than let them fall into enemy hands. The appeal was passed on to Major General William T. Sherman, commanding the Fifteenth Army Corps and already in the vicinity. He ordered two of his regiments forward immediately, and they met up with Porter's flotilla on the afternoon of 21 March. Sherman himself accompanied a larger body of troops that arrived in the enemy's rear the next day. The surprised Confederate soldiers immediately fled. Although the expedition was no longer opposed by the Rebels, Porter and Sherman concluded that nothing would be gained by resuming the advance. Accordingly, the retreat continued, and the flotilla was back on the Mississippi on 27 March.

Grand Gulf

After the failure of the overland movements against Vicksburg, Grant decided to bypass the city on the Mississippi and attack it from the south. Porter strongly urged that the army be supported by a major part of his fleet, and Grant immediately accepted his suggestion. Mound City was one of eight gunboats, three army transports, and a tug that ran past the river batteries at Vicksburg and Grand Gulf on the night of 16 April 1863. She was struck five times by enemy shot, and four of her crew were wounded, with no fatalities. The gunboats then were in position to assist the Army of the Tennessee, which already had marched down the west bank of the Mississippi to New Carthage, Louisiana, roughly halfway between Vicksburg and Grand Gulf on the other side of the river.

Grant initially intended to cross the river at Grand Gulf, but the two Confederate batteries there would have to be eliminated before his soldiers could go ashore. Porter's gunboats attempted to do this on 29 April. Mound City and three of her sisters were assigned the task of reducing the lower battery, known as Fort Wade. Once this was accomplished, the four gunboats moved upstream to join three other members of the Mississippi River Squadron in the bombardment of the upper battery, Fort Cobun. The latter, being more favorably sited on high ground, could not be put out of action. One man was killed on Mound City, the only casualty the ship suffered during the gunfight. At the end of the day, Fort Cobun had only a single gun still operational, but it was sufficient to cause Grant to decide not to make his river crossing at Grand Gulf. He continued down the river and made an unopposed landing at Bruinsburg, Mississippi.