[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# United States rainfall climatology

in an instant, even when no storms are visible as a storm can cause a flash flood tens of miles away.  Lightning strikes are also a significant danger. Because it is dangerous to be caught in the open when these storms suddenly appear, many golf courses in Arizona have thunderstorm warning systems.

As much as 45% of the annual rainfall across New Mexico occurs during the summer monsoon.  Many desert plants are adapted to take advantage of this brief wet season.  Because of the monsoons, the Sonoran and Mojave are considered relatively "wet" when ranked among other deserts such as the Sahara.  Monsoons play a vital role in managing wildfire threat by providing moisture at higher elevations and feeding desert streams. Heavy monsoon rain can lead to excess winter plant growth, in turn a summer wildfire risk. A lack of monsoon rain can hamper summer seeding, reducing excess winter plant growth but worsening drought.

Great Plains

Downslope winds off the Rocky Mountains can aid in forming the dry line.  Major drought episodes in the midwestern United States are associated with an amplification of the upper tropospheric subtropical (or monsoon) ridge across the West and Plains, along with a weakening of the western edge of the "Bermuda high".  During the summer, a southerly low-level jet draws moisture from the Gulf of Mexico. Additional moisture comes from more local sources, especially transpiring vegetation. Maximum precipitation generally occurs in late spring and early summer, with minimum precipitation in winter.  During La Niña events, the storm track shifts far enough northward to bring wetter than normal conditions (in the form of increased snowfall) to the Midwestern states, as well as hot and dry summers.

The convective season for the Plains ranges between May and September.  Organized systems of thunderstorms known as mesoscale convective systems develop over the region during this period, with a bulk of the activity occurring between midnight and 6 a.m. local time.  The time of maximum precipitation during the day gradually varies from late afternoon near the slopes of the Rockies to early morning near the Ohio River valley, in part reflecting the west-to-east propagation of mesoscale convective systems.  Mesoscale convective systems bring 30 to 70 percent of the annual warm season rainfall to the Plains.  An especially long-lived and well-organized type of mesoscale convective system called a mesoscale convective complex produces on average 8% to 18% of the annual warm season rainfall across the Plains and Midwest.  Squall lines account for 30% of the large thunderstorm complexes which move through the region.

Gulf Coast and lower Atlantic Coast south of New England
In general, northern and western portions of this region have a winter/spring maximum in precipitation with late summer/early fall being drier, while southern and eastern portions have a summer maximum and winter/early spring minimum in precipitation.

Most locations on the East Coast from Boston northward show a slight winter maximum as winter storms drop heavy precipitation. South of Boston, convective storms are common in the hot summer months and seasonal rainfall shows a slight summer maximum (though not at all stations). As one moves from Virginia Beach southward, summer becomes the wettest season, as convective thunderstorms created in the hot and moist tropical air mass drop brief but intense precipitation. In winter these areas still sees precipitation as low pressure systems moving across the southern United States often tap moisture from the Gulf of Mexico and drop cold season precipitation from eastern Texas to the New York area. 

On the Florida peninsula, a strong monsoon becomes dominant, with dry winters and heavy summer rainfall. In winter the strong subtropical ridge creates the stable air over Florida with little convection and few fronts. Along the Gulf Coast, and the south Atlantic states, decaying tropical systems added to summers peak rainfall.

Cold season
The subtropical jet stream brings in upper level moisture from the Pacific Ocean during the cold season.  Ahead of storm systems, significant moisture becomes drawn in from the Gulf of Mexico, which increases moisture within the atmospheric column and leads to precipitation ahead of extratropical cyclones.  During the El Niño portion of ENSO, increased precipitation falls along the Gulf coast and Southeast due to a stronger than normal, and more southerly, polar jet stream.  In the area around Memphis, Tennessee and across the state of Mississippi, there are two rainfall maxima in the winter and spring.  Across Georgia and South Carolina, the first of the annual precipitation maxima occurs in late winter, during February or March.  Alabama has an annual rainfall maximum in winter or spring and a dry summer.

Warm season