[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kuala Krai District

aman Tasik Krai
 Taman Chintawangsa
 Taman Masjid Bandar
 Zoo Mini Kuala Krai
 Muzium Kuala Krai
 Tangga Bradley
 Jambatan Sultan Ismail
 Tembikar Kampung Mambong
 Kampung Lemang Manek Urai 
 Gunung Stong
 Gua Ikan
 Air Terjun Jelawang
 Lata Berangin
 Lata Chenulang
 Lata Rek
 Lata Y
 Istana Sangkut

Famous people from Kuala Krai
 Loh Sea Keong, Malaysian professional cyclist
 Mee Fong, a commercial photographer, had a studio in Kuala Krai in 1930
Mohd Khairul Anuar also known as Lan Cairo, who is a Nurse. He was born in Kuala Krai on Dragon Years 27 May 1988. He is very good personal rapport with international people as well as a representative of Malays to the worlds. 
 Datuk Rafiah Salim, is the first female Vice-Chancellor in Malaysia, posted to Universiti Malaya.
 T. Wignesan, writer, was born in Kuala Krai in the early 1930s
 Tengku Budriah binti Al-Marhum Tengku Ismail, the Raja Perempuan of Perlis, was born in Kuala Krai on 28 March 1925. Her husband, Almarhum Tuanku Syed Putra ibni Almarhum Syed Hassan Jamalullail was elected as the third King of Malaysia (known as Yang di-Pertuan Agong) from 1960 to 1965.
 Terence Fernandez, a Journalist and current deputy editor special reports & investigations of The Sun Newspaper. He was kidnapped in Iraq in 2003 but survived and currently writes a column in The Sun every Tuesday and Thursday, frequently writing on corruption and mismanagement of funds by politicians. He grew up in Kuala Krai and spent his entire childhood and teenage years there.
 Zang Toi, New York fashion designer, was born in Kuala Krai on 11 June 1961
 Muhammad Shahrol Nizam, centerback for UPNM F.C. on 3 September 2019.

Federal Parliament and State Assembly Seats 

List of LMS district representatives in the Federal Parliament (Dewan Rakyat)

List of LMS district representatives in the State Legislative Assembly of Kelantan

See also

Kuala Krai Bridge
Kuala Krai railway station

References