[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Delio Rossi

soundly defeated by Catania in the Sicilian derby later on 3 April. Following a surprising comeback, he led the club to the Coppa Italia final which the 3–1 defeat by Internazionale. During the pre-season, on 1 June 2011, Rossi resigned as Palermo manager by mutual consent with president Zamparini.

Fiorentina
On 7 November 2011, Rossi returned into management as new head coach of Serie A club Fiorentina, replacing Siniša Mihajlović, dismissed because of poor results. Rossi's debut match as Fiorentina boss ended in a 0–0 home draw against incumbent champions Milan. Afterwards, Fiorentina lost 2–0 to Delio's former club Palermo. He later beat Empoli 2–1 in the Coppa Italia. In the following weeks, he put Fiorentina up to 10th place in Seria A after they beat Roma 3–0. The following games however saw Fiorentina dropping into the table down to 17th place at some point, and thus involved in the fight to escape relegation.

Rossi's time with Fiorentina ended in shocking fashion. On 2 May 2012, during a home game against 19th-placed Novara, Rossi decided to substitute Serbian striker Adem Ljajić in the 32nd minute with Fiorentina losing 0–2. The player sarcastically applauded the substitution as he left the pitch and further gave the coach a sarcastic thumbs up from the dugout, to which Rossi reacted by physically assaulting Ljajić, pushing the youngster from above, then jumping after him into the dugout while attempting to punch him.
After the game (ended in a 2–2 draw), the club board announced to have immediately removed Rossi from his position due to his actions, with two games still to go in the league season. The incident also cost him a three-month ban from Italian football, effective from 3 May 2012.

Sampdoria
Rossi was appointed head coach of Sampdoria in December 2012 to replace Ciro Ferrara, becoming the seventh coach to work with both Genoa and Sampdoria. During his coaching tenure with the club, Rossi helped the Blucerchiati avoid relegation at the end of the 2012–13 Serie A season. On 11 November 2013, Rossi was sacked from his post, with Sampdoria in 18th position in the Serie A table having earned just 9 points and won only twice in 12 Serie A matches during the 2013–14 Serie A season.
Sampdoria had lost its last three Serie A matches, including a 2–1 defeat at Fiorentina on the day of Rossi's dismissal. Rossi hinted after the Fiorentina defeat that 'trust' between himself and the club was becoming an issue. "If there is a time where you do not feel that the trust is there, you should not wait to see how things unfold. I am a man of the world and I think that if the confidence is there, then it is normal that one continues, but if it is not, then it is better to end the rapport regardless of the results", he said.

Bologna
On 4 May 2015, Rossi was named the new manager of Bologna in Serie B replacing Diego López. He guided Bologna to win the promotion playoffs, defeating Pescara in the finals, and was confirmed for the club's successive Serie A campaign.

He was sacked by Bologna on 28 October 2015 after a string of negative results.

Levski
On 4 August 2017, Rossi was announced as the new head coach of Bulgarian club Levski Sofia. He was presented at a press conference a few days later, on 8 August 2017. After a string of 6 matches without victory, losing the final of the Bulgarian Cup and also a shock exit from Europa League at the hands of FC Vaduz, Rossi was released from his duties on 25 July 2018.

Return to Palermo
On 24 April 2019, he was appointed Palermo manager for his second time. After failing to win automatic promotion to Lecce in his four games in charge, Palermo was subsequently excluded from the subsequent promotion playoffs due to financial irregularities, and he was later not confirmed by the new ownership.

Ascoli
On 29 November 2020 he was named new head coach of Serie B club Ascoli. He was however sacked only less than a month later, on 22 December, after having achieved only one point in six games in charge.

Return to Foggia
On 30 March 2023, after three years out of football, Rossi was appointed new head coach of Foggia in the Italian Serie C league on a contract until 30 June 2024, thus marking his return with the Satanelli'' after 27 years.

After guiding Foggia to a surprise spot in the promotion playoff finals, then lost to Lecco, Rossi announced his intention to leave Foggia with immediate effect.

Managerial statistics

Honours

Manager
Lazio
Coppa Italia: 2008–09

Palermo
Coppa Italia: 2010–11 runners-up

Levski Sofia
Bulgarian Cup: 2017–18 runners-up

References