[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jeffrey D. Klein

Jeffrey David Klein (born July 10, 1960) is an American politician and a member of the Democratic Party. He represented the New York State Senate's 34th District, serving parts of Bronx and Westchester Counties from 2005 to 2018. Klein also served as Deputy Democratic Conference Leader.

Klein served in the New York State Assembly from 1994 until 2004, when he was elected to the New York State Senate. From January 2011 to April 2018, Klein led the Independent Democratic Conference (IDC), a group of Democratic state senators who formed a separate conference and allied themselves with Senate Republicans. Klein and his IDC colleagues rejoined the Senate Democratic Conference in April 2018.

In the September 2018 Democratic primary election, Klein was defeated by lawyer and first-time candidate Alessandra Biaggi in what amounted to a major upset for Klein and his former IDC colleagues. Klein remained on the general election ballot on a minor party line and was defeated by Biaggi again.

Early life and education
A lifelong resident of the northeast Bronx, son of Howard and Marilyn Klein, he was educated in Bronx public schools. Klein received his undergraduate degree from Queens College, an M.P.A. from Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs, and a J.D. from the City University of New York School of Law, where he was a member of the law review.

Career
A former chief of staff to Congressman James Scheuer, Klein served as a Democratic State Committeeman and District Leader before being elected to the New York State Assembly in 1994. During his ten years representing the 80th Assembly District in the state legislature, Klein served as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime and the Elderly, the Committee on State-Federal Relations, and the Committee on Oversight, Analysis and Investigations.

New York State Senate
In 2004, after former State Senator Guy Velella was convicted on corruption charges, Klein declined to seek reelection to the Assembly in order to run for Velella's seat in the New York Senate. In the Democratic Senate primary, Klein defeated then-Assemblyman Stephen B. Kaufman. Prior to running for the Senate, Klein was reported to be considering a race for New York Attorney General in 2006, but did not do so because Andrew Cuomo and Jeanine Pirro were competing for that position. After two years in the Senate, he abandoned plans to run for the Majority Leader position, instead opting for the Deputy Minority Leader spot.

After considering a race for New York Attorney General, Klein opted to run for re-election. In 2010, he was easily re-elected, defeating Republican Frank Vernuccio, a community activist in the Bronx.

Independent Democratic Conference

In January 2011, Klein announced that he would lead the newly formed Independent Democratic Conference (IDC), a group of breakaway New York State Senate Democrats.

Following the 2010 census, New York redistricted the Senate, expanding it from 62 to 63 seats as of January 2013. The 34th district of New York Senate where Klein was elected was gerrymandered to combine a majority white district in the Bronx with Jewish neighborhoods in Riverdale and in the East Bronx. When all election night results were tabulated on November 6, 2012, it appeared that Democrats would hold 33 seats for a three-seat majority, their third Senate majority since World War II. Yet not long after the Senate Democrats' momentous victory, on December 4, 2012, Klein and the Republican Leadership announced a power-sharing agreement between the IDC and the G.O.P. in order to govern the Senate in a bipartisan coalition. Under their power-sharing arrangement, the IDC and the Senate Republicans jointly controlled the Senate legislative calendar (determining what bills would reach the Senate floor), made assignments to Senate committees, decided appointments to government boards, and negotiated the state budget. Sens. Klein and Skelos also agreed that the title of Senate President would shift back and forth between the two of them every two weeks.

Klein was a prime sponsor of the 2013 New York Secure Ammunition and Firearms Enforcement Act (NY SAFE Act), which enacted new comprehensive gun control measures statewide in the wake of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, and in response to mass shootings nationwide.

Klein was the primary sponsor of proposed "At Rest" legislation, which would require liquor sold in New York State to be stored in warehouses located in New York State. Wine retailers, New York wine producers, and smaller wine wholesalers argue that the legislation would drive up the cost of wine and spirits in New York State and significantly benefit large New York State liquor wholesalers such as Empire Merchants, which donated over $53,000 to Klein's campaign between 2009 and 2014.