[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Religion in Portugal

o be recognized as legal entities with the right to assemble. Portuguese who were both not Roman Catholics and were conscientious objectors had the right to apply for alternative military service. The Roman Catholic Church, however, still sought to place barriers in the way of missionary activities.

Eastern Orthodoxy 
The Eastern Orthodox Church is present in small numbers in Portugal, mostly through diaspora from Eastern European countries with a native Eastern Orthodox population. Some are organised through local jurisdictions of their mother churches, most often headed from Spain or other neighbouring countries. These include:
 The , part of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople and based in Madrid. It was established in 2003 from part of the Greek Orthodox Metropolis of France.
 The Serbian Orthodox Eparchy of Western Europe, based in Paris, has one missionary parish in Portugal.
 The Romanian Orthodox Metropolis of Western and Southern Europe, based in Paris, has an auxiliary bishop in Spain and Portugal.
 The Eparchy of Central and Western Europe of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church (with seat in Berlin), has one parish in Portugal.
 The  of the Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia, headed from Geneva by Archbishop Michael (Donskoff), also has one parish in Portugal.
 The Spanish-Portuguese Exarchate of the Russian Orthodox Church, based in Madrid, claims 11 parishes in Portugal. It was established in December 2018 following the rupture of relations between Moscow and Constantinople. The latter had previously cared for Russian parishes through the Archdiocese of Russian Orthodox churches in Western Europe, based in Paris.

There is also a non-canonical jurisdiction, the Lusitanian Catholic Orthodox Church, which defines itself as both Independent Catholic and Eastern Orthodox. It does not have any recognition from the canonical jurisdictions above.

Other religions

Baháʼí Faith

The first visitor of the Baháʼí Faith to Portugal was in 1926. Its first Baháʼí Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in Lisbon in 1946. In 1962 the Portuguese Baháʼís elected their first National Spiritual Assembly. In 1963 there were nine assemblies. The population of the Baháʼí community Ain Portugal was estimated at some 2,100 members in 2010 according to the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia).

Sikhism

Many Sikhs started to emigrate to Portugal since the 1990's from Punjab, India for work in the agricultural, tourism and manufacturing sector. Many Sikhs have opened up Indian restaurants around Portugal. The Indian Embassy of Portugal has estimated there to be 35,000 Sikhs. Many of whom are currently unrecognised in the official census data due to lack of residency documentation.

Most Sikhs can be found in Lisbon, Porto and Albufeira where there are Gurdwaras (Sikh Place of Worship).

Hinduism

From the mid-1990s on there was an influx of Hindus of Nepalese origin in Portugal as a result of labour migration originated from that South Asian country. It is also possible to find in the Metropolitan Areas of all the regions several Hare Krishna communities, consisting mainly of non-Portuguese Europeans, Brazilians, US citizens and a few Portuguese. Besides this, there is a Hindu community of approximately 9,000 persons, which largely traces its origins to Indians who emigrated from the former Portuguese colonies of Lusophone Africa, particularly from Mozambique, and from the former colony of Goa and other possessions in Portuguese India. 

Hindus in Portugal are, according to the Indian Embassy in Lisbon, mainly Gujaratis (Gujarati is taught at the Hindu Community Cultural Centre in Lisbon), Punjabis and Goans. The majority of the Hindus live in the Lisbon and Porto Metropolitan areas.

Judaism

The Jewish community in Portugal numbered between 500 and 1,000 as of the early 1990s. The community was concentrated in Lisbon, and many of its members were foreigners. The persecution of Portuguese Jewry had been so intense that until the twentieth century Portugal had no synagogue or even regular Jewish religious services (the Lisbon Synagogue was founded in 1904). The few Jewish Portuguese were hence isolated from the main currents of Judaism. Their community began to revive when larger numbers of foreign Jews (embassy personnel, business people, and technicians) began coming to Portugal in the 1960s and 1970s. In northern Portugal, there are a few villages where Marranos, descendants of Jews who converted to Christianity to avoid persecution and whose religion was a mixture of Judaism and Christianity, still exist (see Belmonte Jews) numbering several thousand.

Islam