[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Star Fleet (video game series)

The Star Fleet computer games are starship tactical combat simulations originally created by Dr. Trevor Sorensen in the late 1970s.

Star Fleet I: The War Begins!

Starfleet I has a plot and gameplay inspired by the Star Trek games of the late 1960s. Starfleet I allows the player to command a United Galactic Alliance spaceship and undertake various missions to defend Earth from the Krellan and Zaldron alien invaders.

The version of the game described at Home of the Underdogs is the first official release version by Interstel, after it was incorporated by Trevor Sorensen in 1986. It was at this time that Interstel became an affiliated label of Electronic Arts. The game itself, however, began selling in 1983 by Cygnus, back when it was still a "garage sale" operation. Before being picked up by Electronic Arts, approximately 5,000 games were sold. Over 80,000 games were sold after Star Fleet I was distributed by Electronic Arts.

Empire: Wargame of the Century

Released after Star Fleet I and before Star Fleet II in 1987 and 1988 by Interstel in the Star Fleet series as "A Star Fleet Planetary Campaign", Empire: Wargame of the Century was developed by Walter Bright who invented the game in the 1970s and Mark Baldwin who later went on to publish a series of sequels Empire Deluxe and Empire II (neither of which were included in the Star Fleet series). The game centered on an alternative method of planetary conquest later featured in Star Fleet II (and planned for Star Fleet III) named "Operation Big Brother". You played as the general of a Star Fleet Special Planetary Task Force, and, starting by controlling a single city you produce armies, fighter planes and various transport and war ships, with the aim of controlling the entire planet by conquest of all its cities, and destruction of your opponent (or opponents, as the game supported up to 3 human or computer controlled sides), who in turn attempts the same. Empire: Wargame of the Century was named Computer Game of the Year for 1988 by Computer Gaming World magazine. Over 100,000 games were sold by Interstel and distributed through Electronic Arts.

Star Fleet II: Krellan Commander

This sequel to Star Fleet I was published in 1989 by Interstel Corporation, but was only in production for a few months due to internal problems at Interstel. The game was much more complex and sophisticated than Star Fleet I. It involved many different ships types, including battlecruisers, destroyers, heavy and light cruisers, frigates, troop transports, freighters, scouts, and starliners. Fleet operations were possible and the universe included hundreds of planets to utilize or conquer. It was only released for DOS.

Star Legions

This game, published by Mindcraft, another affiliated label of Electronic Arts, was released in late 1992.  Star Legions was based on the planetary assault module of Star Fleet II.  This allowed for more detail control of ground troops landing on the planet.

The player has two different kind of troops: shock-troops and regular troops. The player's task is to first put their shock-troopers down on the planet and destroy its shields.  Then they can land their regular troopers and invade the planet.  The player could also bombard the planet first and then try to invade it.

It was notable for being an early Command & Conquer-like point and click game with speech.

Troops gain names and experience; after a successful fight, they receive a legion name, such as "Silver Snakes", and improve by recovering faster  their suffered losses, because of the remaining veteran fighters.

Finally, the player gets different worlds to invade from primitive to very good developed planets who are more difficult to subdue.

The game was designed and written by Trevor Sorensen, Mark Baldwin, and Brett Keeton with artwork by Richard Launius.

Although the initial release was buggy, two patches were soon available which fixed all the known bugs.

Computer Gaming World criticized Star Legions for overly simple wargaming mechanics such as lacking air support, restoring legions' health to full between worlds, the lack of impact of the terrain on gameplay, and many serious bugs. The magazine concluded that "as a 'science-fiction wargame,' I'm afraid Star Legions does injustice to both qualifiers". A February 1994 survey of space war games gave it a grade of C, stating that the game "suffered from a high tedium factor". The game (as "Space Legions") was reviewed in 1993 in Dragon #193 by Hartley, Patricia, and Kirk Lesser in "The Role of Computers" column. The reviewers gave the game 3 out of 5 stars. A May 1994 survey of strategic space games set in the year 2000 and later gave the game two-plus stars out of five, stating that it had "an unusual number of bugs and a numbing sameness to the scenarios".