[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aeronautics Defense Systems

lds 100% of Zanzottera.
 Azad Systems: an Azerbaijani company, established in 2011 with assistance from Aeronautics Defense Systems. It is considered a joint venture with the Azerbaijani government, and Aeronautics has an option to acquire 50% of the shares.

Products

Unmanned aerial systems (UASs)

Dominator MALE UAS
The Dominator UAS is a twin-engine medium-altitude long endurance (MALE) UAS based on the Diamond DA-42 aircraft. The 1800 kg (MTOW) Dominator can stay airborne for 24 hours and carry a payload of 415 kg. Introduced in 2011, Dominator serves 2 military undisclosed customers. It is as well involved in a civil UAS program in Canada operated in cooperation by Aeronautics and CAE.
Aerostar Tactical UAS
Aerostar Tactical UAS was introduced in 2001 and operated since by some 15 customers worldwide, accumulating 130,000 operational hours (Nov. 2013). Aerostar was one of the first UAS to operate in civil missions such as an oil rigs protection program near the shores of Angola, as well as in military leasing programs in the Middle East and in Afghanistan. The 230 kg (MTOW) Aerostar can stay airborne for 12 hours, operate at the range of 250 km, and carry 50 kg of payloads.
Orbiter 3 STUAS
The Orbiter 3 Small Tactical UAS (STUAS) is an electrically powered, field deployed UAS designed for military and homeland security missions. Operated by 3 personnel, Orbiter 3 is launched from a vehicle mounted launcher and lands using a parachute and an airbag. Weighing up to 30 kg, Orbiter 3 can fly for 7 hours up to the range of 100 km. It carries a multi sensor camera with day and night channels and a laser pointer. Due to its special structure and quiet electrical motor the Orbiter has a very low electromagnetic and aquatic signature, which makes it difficult to detect in the field of battle. Orbiter 3 is operated by 6 international military customers.
Orbiter Mini UAS
The Orbiter Mini UAS is a compact and lightweight electrically powered system, operated by 2 soldiers. It is carried and deployed in backpacks or from a small vehicle. The Orbiter MUAS is launched from a miniature launcher and lands using a parachute and an airbag. Weighing up to 10 kg, Orbiter MUAS can fly for 4 hours up to the range of 80 km. It carries a multi sensor camera with day and night channels and a laser pointer. Due to its special structure and quiet electrical motor the Orbiter has a very low electromagnetic and aquatic signature, which makes it difficult to detect in the field of battle. Orbiter Mini UAS is operated by some 20 military, homeland security and civil customers worldwide.

Intelligence, surveillance, target acquisition and reconnaissance (ISTAR)
AISR 
Aerial intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance systems onboard fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft.
GISR 
Aeronautics' ground ISR (GISR) incorporates electro optical sensors, elevation systems and operator interfaces. Aeronautics GISR was delivered to several international military and HLS customers.
Skystar surveillance aerostat
The Skystar surveillance aerostat system provides its users with an "eye in the sky" at the altitude of 300–500 meters above the ground level. Tethered to the ground, the aerostat may stay airborne for long days with very short breaks for helium refill once in every 3 days. The Skystar may identify a target at the range of over 20 km. Skystar currently serves over 10 military and HLS customers worldwide.

See also
Israel Aerospace Industries

References

Defense companies of Israel
Companies established in 1997
Privately held companies of Israel
1997 establishments in Israel
Yavne
Aircraft manufacturers of Israel