[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ukrainian Sich Riflemen

e company. A similar thing happened on July 1, 1917, when, at the beginning of the Kerensky Offensive, once again almost the entire part of the Legion in action was trapped by a Russian attack near Berezhany. The German occupation of Ukraine at the beginning of 1917 led to the capture of the Legion.

With the German occupation of Ukraine in early 1918 and the establishment of the government under Hetman Pavlo Skoropadskyj, the Habsburg Monarchy was in danger of falling behind Germany. As a result, Emperor Charles created the special unit "Kampfgruppe Erzherzog Wilhelm" under the command of Archduke Wilhelm with about 4000 soldiers. This included the Ukrainian Legion. It operated in the south of Ukraine during and after the conquest of Ukraine by the Central Powers in 1918.  The Legion reached Kherson and Odessa, and because of the low resistance even the Dnieper River could be used as a transport route. The last engagement of the Legion under the Habsburg banner took place in Zaporizhzhya on April 16, 1918. The Bolsheviks had to evacuate the city.

Ranks 
Officers

Other ranks

Cultural references 

The unit is commemorated in the 1914 song "Oh, the Red Viburnum in the Meadow" ()

See also 
 Austro-Hungarian Army
 Sich Riflemen

References

Literature 
 Orest Subtelny. Ukraine. A history. University of Toronto press. 1994. .
 Paul Robert Magocsi. The Roots of Ukrainian Nationalism: Galicia As Ukraine's Piedmont. University of Toronto Press. 2002. .
 Encyclopedia of Ukraine on Line. Ukrainian Sich Riflemen.
 Stepan Ripets'ky. Ukrainian Sich Riflemen. Online version.

External links 
 Petro Sodol, Ukrainian Sich Riflemen in the Encyclopedia of Ukraine, vol. 5 (1993).

History of Ukraine (1795–1918)
Austro-Hungarian Army
Military units and formations of Austria-Hungary in World War I
Military units and formations of Ukraine
Aftermath of World War I in Ukraine
Establishments in the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria
Ukrainian independence movement
Military units and formations established in 1914
Military units and formations disestablished in 1920
1914 establishments in Ukraine
1920 disestablishments in Ukraine
Ukraine in World War I
Ukrainian military formations