[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences

The National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences is a medical institution in Bangalore, India. NIMHANS is the apex centre for mental health and neuroscience education in the country. It is an Institute of National Importance operates autonomously under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. NIMHANS is ranked 4th best medical institute in India, in the current National Institutional Ranking Framework.

History
The history of the institute dates back to 1847, when the Bangalore Lunatic Asylum was founded. In 1925, the Government of Mysore renamed the asylum as the Mental Hospital. The Mysore Government Mental Hospital became the first institute in India for postgraduate training in psychiatry.

The National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) was the result of the amalgamation of the erstwhile State Mental Hospital and the All India Institute of Mental Health (AIIMH) established by the Government of India in 1954. The institute was inaugurated on 27 December 1974, establishing it as an autonomous body under the Societies Registration Act to lead in the area of medical service and research in the country.

On 14 November 1994, NIMHANS was conferred a deemed university status by the University Grants Commission with academic autonomy. The institute has been declared as an Institute of National Importance by an act of parliament in 2012. In March 2017, the Government of India passed the Mental Healthcare Bill 2016, which also proposes to set up NIMHANS-like institutions across the nation.

Campus
NIMHANS has five campuses in the city, spread over an area of 174 acres of urban establishments, which includes 30 acres of an under-construction Bangalore North campus. The main campuses of the institute are located in Byrasandra (hospital wing) and Lakkasandra (academic and administrative wing) localities on either side of the Hosur Road. The 'Community Mental Health Center' is located in the Sakalawara area on Bannerghatta Road. The 'NIMHANS Centre for Well Being' is situated in a residential area in BTM Layout. A state-of-the-art convention centre located in the main campus frequently hosts international conferences, seminars, trade shows, expositions, and media events.

Organization and administration

Governance 

The National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences is a multidisciplinary institute for patient care and academic pursuit in the frontier area of mental health and neurosciences. The priority gradient adopted at the institute is service, manpower development and research. A multidisciplinary integrated approach is the mainstay of this institute, paving the way to translate the results from the bench to the bedside. Several national and international funding organizations provide resources for academic and research activities.

Departments

Biophysics
Biostatistics
Basic Neurosciences
Human Genetics
Neurochemistry
Neuromicrobiology
Neuropathology
Neurophysiology
Neurovirology
Mental Health Education
Clinical Psychology
Child and adolescent psychiatry
Psychiatric Social Work
Psychiatry
Nursing
Clinical Neuroscience
Neurosurgery
Clinical Psychopharmacology and Neurotoxicology
Neuroimaging and Interventional Radiology
Neurology
Epidemiology
Neurological Rehabilitation
Neuroanaesthesia and Neurocritical care
Psychiatric rehabilitation
Speech Pathology and Audiology
Transfusion Medicine and Haematology

Central Facilities

Advanced Centre for Ayurveda in Mental Health and Neurosciences
Central Animal Research Facility
Sakalwara Community Mental Health Centre
Centre for Public Health
Centre for Addiction Medicine
Biomedical Engineering 
Engineering Section
Library and Information Centre
Magneto-encephalography Centre
PET MRI Centre
Neurobiology Research Centre
NIMHANS Centre for Well Being
Virtual Learning Centre
Center for Molecular Imaging
Centre for Brain Mapping
Gamma Knife Centre
NIMHANS Health Centre
NIMHANS Integrated Centre for Yoga
NIMHANS Gymkhana
Nutrition and Dietetics Centre
Physiotherapy Centre
NIMHANS Digital Academy
NIMHANS Convention Centre
NIMHANS Gymkhana
WHO Collaborating Centre for Injury Prevention and Safety Promotion

Academics

Academic programs