[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Julián Besteiro

of the opposing sides, but no significant results followed. After the failure of his mission in London, Besteiro returned to work on the town council of Madrid but withdrew from other official public life. He stopped attending the Agrupación Socialista Madrileña and the parliamentary group meetings.

With the news of the fall of Barcelona on 26 January 1939 and Azaña's resignation as President of the Republic, Besteiro decided to work to achieve peace and stop the resistance. He contacted Colonel Segismundo Casado. On 5 March Besteiro announced the creation of the National Defence Council (Consejo Nacional de Defensa). The uprising against the government of Juan Negrín and its Communist Party of Spain allies succeeded, at the cost of nearly 2,000 lives. (See Beevor (2006), Chapter 34, passim, The Battle for Spain.)

Death
After the fall of Madrid to the Nationalists on 28 March 1939, Besteiro was arrested by Francoist forces. On 8 July he faced a court martial and was sentenced to thirty years. He was imprisoned first in the Trappist monastery in Dueñas, Palencia, until the end of August 1939. He was transferred to the prison of Carmona, Andalusia. He died in prison the following year.

Besteiro was buried in the Cementerio Civil of Madrid.

Notes

References
Comrades! Portraits from the Spanish Civil War by Paul Preston, HarperCollins Publishers 
Spain's First Democracy: The Second Republic, 1931-1936, by Stanley G. Payne, University of Wisconsin Press 
Beevor, Antony. The Battle for Spain. The Spanish Civil War 1936-1939. Penguin Books. London. 2006. 
Jackson, Gabriel. The Spanish Republic and The Civil War, 1931-1939. Princeton University Press. Princeton. 1967. 
Preston, Paul. The Spanish Civil War. Reaction, Revolution & Revenge. Harper Perennial. 2006.   
Thomas, Hugh. The Spanish Civil War. Penguin Books. London. 2003.

External links

1870 births
1940 deaths
Politicians from Madrid
Spanish Socialist Workers' Party politicians
Members of the Congress of Deputies of the Spanish Restoration
Members of the Congress of Deputies of the Second Spanish Republic
Unión General de Trabajadores members
Spanish people of the Spanish Civil War (Republican faction)
Members of the Executive of the Labour and Socialist International
Spanish philosophers
University of Paris alumni
Madrid city councillors
Presidents of the Congress of Deputies (Spain)
Spanish people of Galician descent
People from Toledo, Spain
Spanish municipal councillors
Spanish people who died in prison custody
Spanish expatriates in France