[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# USS Vicksburg (PG-11)

USS Vicksburg was a United States Navy gunboat laid down in March 1896 at Bath, Maine, launched on 5 December 1896 from the Bath Iron Works yard, and commissioned on 23 October 1897. The vessel was sponsored by Addie Trowbridge, and named after the town of Vicksburg, where her father was mayor at the time.

Service history

Spanish–American War, 1898–1899
Vicksburg left Newport, Rhode Island on 16 January 1898, sailing for Saint Thomas in the Caribbean. On 26 April, at the start of the Spanish–American War, she sailed south to join in the blockade of Cuba. For the next three months, Vicksburg patrolled the Cuban coast near Havana, returning to Key West, Florida periodically for fuel and provisions. During her tour of duty in Cuban waters, she captured three blockade runners. In May, she took Oriente, Fernandito, and Bernardico on the 5th, 7th, and 9th, respectively. The Oriente and Fernandito were small unarmed sailing ships bound from the Gulf of Campeche to Havana with cargoes of fish. Vicksburg took each to Key West where they were condemned by a prize court. Her fourth and final capture came more than a month later on 24 June when she encountered Ampala, a  sailing vessel, bound from Havana to Trujillo. Though Ampala carried no cargo save provisions for her passengers, Vicksburg took her to Key West where she, too, was duly condemned. On 7 May, Vicksburg came under the fire of the Santa Clara Battery shore battery near Havana, and again on 14 August. By then, hostilities in Cuba were ending, and the need for blockading ships diminished. Vicksburg departed Cuban waters on the 14th and, after a three-day stop at Key West, continued north to Newport where she arrived on 23 August. During the remaining months of 1898 and the first five months of 1899, she operated along the east coast and in the Caribbean. On 24 May 1899, Vicksburg was placed out of commission at Boston.

Asiatic Station, 1900–1904
Almost a year later, on 15 May 1900, the gunboat was recommissioned at Newport, R.I. After six months of operations in the Atlantic, Vicksburg stood out of Boston on 9 November for duty on the Asiatic Station. She sailed via the Mediterranean Sea and the Suez Canal and arrived at Cavite—on the island of Luzon in the Philippines—on 2 February 1901. During the first of her three years in the Far East, Vicksburg joined other Navy units in supporting the Army's campaign in the Philippine–American War which followed Spain's ceding the islands to the U.S. Vicksburg herself contributed significantly to the success of those operations when she assisted Army forces in capturing the Philippine president, Emilio Aguinaldo, at Palanan, Isabela in March 1901. She also cooperated with the Army again in June during the occupation of Puerto Princesa and Cuyo, the two major cities on the island.

In 1902, the warship moved north and, for the remaining two years of her tour, cruised the waters off the coasts of China, Japan, and Korea. She spent the entire first quarter of 1904 at Chemulpo, Korea, protecting American interests during the initial stages of the Russo-Japanese War. On 9 June 1904, Vicksburg took leave of Asia when she stood out of Yokohama, Japan, and shaped a course for home. She reached Bremerton, Washington, on 29 June but later moved south to the Mare Island Navy Yard near San Francisco, California. There, she was placed out of commission, in reserve, on 15 July 1904.

Central America, 1909–1912

After almost five years of inactivity, Vicksburg was placed back in commission at Mare Island on 17 May 1909. The gunboat departed San Francisco on 16 June and headed south to the coast of Mexico and the Isthmus of Panama. During the next four years, she cruised the western coast of Central America in an effort to support American diplomatic moves to maintain peace in the revolution-prone nations in the area. For that purpose, she made calls at ports in Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Panama. Conditions in Nicaragua were especially volatile during those years, and Vicksburg returned to Corinto and other Nicaraguan ports time and time again.

During the early summer of 1912, she began operating primarily along the California coast. In late August, she cruised south for an extended courtesy visit to Guaymas, Mexico. While there, Vicksburg was sent to assist the steam freighter Pleiades, which had reported running aground on the coast of lower California on August 16. Vicksburg sustained a hull puncture from a broken propeller while en route to provide aid, and the cruiser Cleveland was sent to escort Vicksburg back to the Mare Island Naval Shipyard. The damage was found to not be as severe as initially thought, and Vicksburg was instead led back to Guaymas, where she briefly remained for repairs before returning to duty on 2 September. The gunboat later returned to the U.S. at San Diego on 3 November.