[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Criticism of Greenpeace

mute several times a month during a two-year period between Luxembourg, his home residence, and Amsterdam, the Headquarters of Greenpeace. This is against the organisation's view that short flights add to the  emissions and internal policies regarding short flights. Pascal later apologized publicly.

Tree trunk incident
In June 1995, Greenpeace took a trunk of a tree from the forests of the proposed national park of Koitajoki in Ilomantsi, Finland and put it on exhibitions held in Austria and Germany. Greenpeace said in a press conference that the tree was originally from a logged area in the ancient forest which was supposed to be protected. Metsähallitus accused Greenpeace of theft and said that the tree was from a normal forest and had been left standing because of its old age. Metsähallitus also said that the tree had actually crashed over a road during a storm. The incident received much publicity in Finland, for example in the large newspapers Helsingin Sanomat and Ilta-Sanomat. Greenpeace replied that the tree had fallen down because of the protective forest around it had been clearcut, and that they wanted to highlight the fate of old forests in general, not the fate of one particular tree. Greenpeace also highlighted that Metsähallitus admitted the value of the forest afterwards as Metsähallitus currently refers to Koitajoki as a distinctive area because of its old growth forests

Damage to Nazca Lines

In December 2014, Greenpeace came under criticism following a publicity stunt within the Nazca lines, a UNESCO World Heritage Site inside Peru. Demonstrators entered the restricted area surrounding the Hummingbird lines and laid down banners that spelled out "Time for Change! / The Future is Renewable / Greenpeace". In doing so, they tracked multiple footprints and damaged both the line itself and the area surrounding it. Peru's deputy minister for culture criticized the actions, calling them "thoughtless, insensitive, illegal, irresponsible and absolutely pre-meditated."

Greenpeace responded with apologies, claiming that demonstrators took care to avoid damage, but this is contradicted by video and photographs showing the activists wearing conventional shoes (not special protective shoes) while walking on the site. The organization stated they were surprised that this resulted "in some kind of moral offense." Conversely, they stood by "...history of more than 40 years of peaceful activism [which] clearly shows that we have always been most respectful with people around the world and their diverse cultural legacies." Greenpeace members were allowed to leave Peru without being charged.
Despite Greenpeace offering to take "total responsibility", the president of the Maria Reiche Association Anne Maria Cogorno stated that the damage was "irreparable".

Greenpeace and Indian government controversy

The Greenpeace (NGO) India Society has been accused by the Indian Ministry of Home Affairs of a violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act. As per the FCRA act, no NGO can use more than 50% of received funds for administrative purposes, and Greenpeace India is alleged to have used 60% of these funds for administrative purposes. Greenpeace India is challenging these allegations, and specifically the inclusion of campaign staff salaries as admin expenses.

the Intelligence Bureau of India allegedly leaked a report accusing Greenpeace of anti-development activities and a threat to national economic security. IB claims the negative impact of the NGOs’ role on GDP growth to be “2–3 per cent per annum” which affects millions of people in India living below the poverty line. The report, signed by IB Joint Director S A Rizvi, accuses Greenpeace of contravening laws to “change the dynamics of India’s energy mix”. The bureau says Greenpeace's ‘superior network’ of numerous pan-India organizations has helped conduct anti-nuclear agitations and mounted “massive efforts to take down India’s coal fired power plants and coal mining activity”. Greenpeace will take on India's IT sector over e-waste among other “next targets”, the report says. The report also accuses Greenpeace, “actively aided and led by foreign activists visiting India”, of violating the provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act of 2010 (FCRA). Greenpeace has focused its attention only on Indian IT firms while staying mum on multinational IT firms, the report says.

The Delhi High Court overturned the government's decision to offload an Indian citizen from her travel to London – saying you cannot muzzle dissent.

References

Greenpeace
Greenpeace