[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Višegrad massacres

on of an eight-kilometre stretch of the lake. The institute's team members were shot at from the village of Blace, near Višegrad, about 10 days after they began the search.

The remains of at least three German Wehrmacht soldiers from World War II were also discovered during the 2010 investigations.

Amor Mašović believed there were over 2,000 bodies in the lake, making it "the largest mass grave in Europe."  As of 23 September 2010 remains of 373 bodies, believed to be mostly those of victims of the Višegrad massacres, had been retrieved from the reservoir, which was due to commence refilling on 26 September.

Many volunteers joined the official teams searching for the bodies, but the Serbian authorities, criticized by Mašović for hampering the work, were insistent that the dam be brought back into service and refilled before the recovery work was complete.

On 26 October 2010, Mašović told a press conference in Sarajevo that 396 "cases" had been discovered during the two-and-a-half-month investigation. He used the term "cases" rather than "victims" because, in some instances, only a bone, leg, arm, or rib had been found, not a complete skeleton. However, he believed that between 97 and 120 victims might be identified after forensic analysis of the remains. These included six Austro-Hungarian soldiers from World War I, but most were Bosniaks from Višegrad. Mašović noted that at least 800 people were still missing from Višegrad since the 1992-95 war. Veljko Odalović, head of the Serbian Commission for Missing Persons, told the press conference that discovering the fate of 14,500 victims of war listed as missing in the former Yugoslavia was a "civilization and humanitarian" issue and a precondition for reconciliation and the stabilization of relations.

Eliticide
Eliticide is defined as the systematic killing of a community's political and economic leadership so that the community cannot regenerate. After the Yugoslav People's Army occupied Višegrad, the Serb Crisis Committee ("krizni stab" led by the Serb Democratic Party) took control of the municipality. Leading Bosniak intellectuals, political leaders and activists, members of the Islamic Religious Community (Islamska Vjerska Zajednica) and police officers were expelled from work, arrested, jailed, called for "informative talks", or kept under house arrest. Republika Srpska police officials gave Serb paramilitary groups lists of Bosniaks who possessed firearms. The paramilitary groups then went individually man to man and asked them to turn in their firearms. Bosniak intellectuals were systematically murdered.

Trials
 
In 1996, Milan Lukić, his cousin Sredoje Lukić and Mitar Vasiljević were indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague for persecution's as a crime against humanity and the "extermination of a significant number of civilians, including women, children and the elderly." In his sentence the tribunal concluded that Lukić and his troops may have killed thousands of people in the period between 1992 and 1993.

Dragutin Dragićević is serving a 20-year sentence, Đorđe Šević was convicted to 15 years, while two others were sentences to 20 years in absentia, Milan Lukić, who was in the meanwhile arrested and extradited to the Hague Tribunal and Oliver Krsmanović, remains a fugitive. The Hague Tribunal sentenced Mitar Vasiljević to 15 years for crimes against humanity. The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina has processed the following for war crimes in Višegrad:

 Milan Lukić  (Life)
 Sredoje Lukić (30 years, 27 years upon appeal)
 Mitar Vasiljević (20 years, 15 years upon appeal)
 Boban Šimšić (14 years)
 Željko Lelek (13 years)
 Momir Savić (18 years)
 Nenad Tanasković (12 years, 8 years upon appeal)
 Novo Rajak (14 years)
 Oliver Krsmanović (charged)

In popular culture and media
An account of the massacre is depicted in the journalistic comic Safe Area Goražde by Joe Sacco.

In 2013 Bosnian film director and screenwriter Jasmila Žbanić made a feature film For Those Who Can Tell No Tales subjecting Višegrad massacres.

On 11 August 2005, journalist Ed Vulliamy described the situation of Višegrad in The Guardian:

On 8 February 2008, American Congressman John Olver, called for the remembrance of genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina and specially paid attention the war crimes in Visegrad:

See also
List of massacres in Bosnia and Herzegovina

References

Further reading
Love Thy Neighbor: A Story of War by Peter Maass
Wie der Soldat das Grammofon repariert by Saša Stanišic

External links
 Visegrad Genocide Memories 
Bloody trail of butchery at the bridge by Ed Vulliamy, The Guardian, March 11, 1996
'The river took him' by Roy Gutman, Newsday, July 3, 1992
The warlord of Visegrad by Ed Vulliamy and Nerma Jelacic, The Guardian, August