[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Aberhart High School

ssionate students desiring to make a difference in world crisis and injustice. So far the club has run campaigns on clean water, human rights in Burma, and homeless shelter relief during the 2007-2008 school year. Social Amnesty also organized and hosted a "Darfur week" in the 2008-2009 school year.

The Advocate

Aberhart's school paper that publishes bi-weekly throughout the school year. The paper mainly covers athletics, student opinions, and school events. The Advocate is the most published student newspaper in western Canada.

The Iconographer

The Advocate was Aberhart's school arts and literature magazine which was published exclusively by students on a regular basis. It featured mainly poems and photography, but also included short stories, among other things. Its publication schedule depended entirely on how many submissions they received from the student body at the school.

The Advocate was followed by "The Issue" (edited by Wendy Smith), and became focussed on education reform. Many of the people involved were part of E.Y.E. (Educational Youth Enterprises), a citywide movement to improve education practices and promote "Free Schools".

Athletics

Notable alumni
James Gosling - father of the JAVA Programming Language - Order of Canada Recipient
Paul Gowsell - Curler. 1976 and 1978 World Junior Champion and 1980 Alberta Champion
James Lawrence - Endurance athlete. First person to finish 50 Ironman triathlons in 50 days in 50 US States.
Todd McFarlane - comics artist and creator of the series Spawn.
Shannon-Ogbnai Abeda - 2018 Winter Olympian and first athlete to represent Eritrea in the Winter Olympics
David Winning - Film and television director known for his work in science fiction and thrillers.

See also
William Aberhart
Calgary Board of Education

References

External links

Official website

High schools in Calgary
Educational institutions established in 1957
1957 establishments in Alberta