[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chappaquiddick incident

After they recovered, Gargan drove Kennedy and Markham to the ferry landing. The three were all lawyers and they discussed what they should do while standing next to a public phone booth at the landing. Gargan and Markham insisted multiple times that the crash had to be reported to the authorities.

Kennedy's reaction
At the ferry landing, Kennedy dove into the water and swam  across the channel to Edgartown. He then walked to his hotel room, removed his clothes, and collapsed on his bed. He later put on dry clothes, left his room and asked someone what the time was; it was somewhere around 2:30 a.m., he recalled. Gargan and Markham had driven the rental car back to the cottage; they entered the cottage at approximately 2 a.m., but told no one what had happened. When questioned by the guests, they said that Kennedy had swum back to Edgartown and Kopechne was probably at her hotel. Gargan then told everyone to get some sleep. By 7:30 a.m., Kennedy was talking casually to the winner of the previous day's sailing race and gave no indication that anything was amiss. At 8 a.m., Gargan and Markham had crossed back to Edgartown on the ferry and met Kennedy.

Recovery of the body
A short time after 8 a.m., a man and a fifteen-year-old boy, who went fishing off Tom's Neck Point, saw Kennedy's submerged car in Poucha Pond and notified the residents of the cottage nearest the scene, who, in turn, called the authorities at about 8:20 a.m. Edgartown Police Chief Dominick James Arena arrived at the scene about 10 or 15 minutes later. He attempted to examine the interior of the submerged vehicle, then summoned a trained scuba diver and equipment capable of towing or winching the vehicle out of the water. John Farrar, captain of the Edgartown Fire Rescue unit, arrived at 8:45 a.m., equipped with scuba gear, and discovered Kopechne's body in the back seat; he extricated it from the vehicle within 10 minutes. Police checked the car's license plate, and saw that it was registered to Kennedy. Rosemary Keough's purse was found in the front passenger compartment of the car, causing Arena to misidentify Kopechne.

Meanwhile, Kennedy, Gargan, and Markham crossed back to Chappaquiddick Island on the ferry, where Kennedy made a series of telephone calls from a pay phone near the ferry crossing—the same phone that the three men had stood by approximately six hours earlier discussing Kennedy's options. Kennedy called friends and lawyers for advice, however, instead of notifying the authorities that he was the operator of the vehicle, which was still upside down in Poucha Pond. He called his brother-in-law Stephen Edward Smith, congressman John V. Tunney, and others that morning, but he still did not report the accident to authorities.

Kennedy was still at the pay phone when he heard that his car and Kopechne's body had been discovered; he then crossed back to Edgartown to go to the police station with Markham. Meanwhile, Gargan went to the Katama Shores to inform the Boiler Room Girls of the incident. Kennedy entered the police station at approximately 9:50a.m. He asked to make some telephone calls, and was told he could use Arena's office. When Arena returned to the station at 10:00, he was "stunned" to learn Kennedy already knew of the accident and the true identity of the victim, and admitted he was the driver. Arena led Kennedy to another empty office where he could privately dictate his statement to Markham, who wrote it out in long hand. Arena then typed out the statement:

Kennedy said the statement was correct as Arena typed it, but did not sign it.

As the Medical Examiner Robert Nevin had the day off, Associate Medical Examiner Donald Mills was called to the crash site to examine the body. He was satisfied that the cause of death was accidental drowning, but asked the District Attorney's office for direction on whether an autopsy was necessary, and was told it was not, as long as there were no signs of foul play and he was satisfied it was a drowning. He signed the death certificate to that effect and released the body for embalming, and directed that a blood sample be collected and sent to the State Police for analysis of alcohol content. The result was 0.09%, which Mills mistakenly thought represented only a "moderate" level, but, in fact, indicated in a person of Kopechne's weight, up to five drinks of liquor within an hour prior to death.

Kopechne's body was released to her family, and the funeral was held on Tuesday, July 22, in Plymouth, Pennsylvania.

Medical Examiner Nevin strongly disagreed with Mills' decision to forgo an autopsy, believing that ruling out foul play would work to Kennedy's advantage by laying prurient public speculation to rest.