[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Diffusion creep

e by "dry" diffusion, in pressure solution they move in solution.

Flow laws
Each plastic deformation of a material can be described by a formula in which the strain rate () depends on the differential stress (σ or σD), the grain size (d) and an activation value in the form of an Arrhenius equation:

In which A is the constant of diffusion, Q the activation energy of the mechanism, R the gas constant and T the absolute temperature (in kelvins). The exponents n and m are values for the sensitivity of the flow to stress and grain size respectively. The values of A, Q, n and m are different for each deformation mechanism. For diffusion creep, the value of n is usually around 1. The value for m can vary between 2 (Nabarro-Herring creep) and 3 (Coble creep). That means Coble creep is more sensitive to grain size of a material: materials with larger grains can deform less easily by Coble creep than materials with small grains.

Traces of diffusion creep
It is difficult to find clear microscale evidence for diffusion creep in a crystalline material, since few structures have been identified as definite proof. A material that was deformed by diffusion creep can have flattened grains (grains with a so called shape-preferred orientation or SPO). Equidimensional grains with no lattice-preferred orientation (or LPO) can be an indication for superplastic flow. In materials that were deformed under very high temperatures, lobate grain boundaries may be taken as evidence for diffusion creep.

Diffusion creep is a mechanism by which the volume of the crystals can increase. Larger grain sizes can be a sign that diffusion creep was more effective in a crystalline material.

See also
Creep (deformation)
Deformation (engineering)
Diffusion
Dislocation creep
Material sciences

References

Literature
Gower, R.J.W. & Simpson, C.; 1992: Phase boundary mobility in naturally deformed, high-grade quartzofeldspatic rocks: evidence for diffusion creep, Journal of Structural Geology 14, p. 301-314.
Passchier, C.W. & Trouw, R.A.J., 1998: Microtectonics, Springer, 
Twiss, R.J. & Moores, E.M., 2000 (6th edition): Structural Geology, W.H. Freeman & co, 

Materials degradation