[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mad Monster Party?

isible Man, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, and "It", in addition to supporting characters: Yetch, a Skeleton, Chef Mafia Machiavelli, Mr. Kronkite, the Freighter Captain, the First Mate, and the Mailman.
 Gale Garnett as Francesca
 Phyllis Diller as The Monster's Mate
 Ethel Ennis as the Title Song Singer

Crew
 Directed by Jules Bass
 Produced by Arthur Rankin Jr.
 Executive producer – Joseph E. Levine
 Associate producer – Larry Roemer
 Screenplay by Len Korobkin, Harvey Kurtzman
 Story by Arthur Rankin Jr.
 Music and lyrics by Maury Laws, Jules Bass
 Characters designed by Jack Davis
 Continuity design – Don Duga
 "Animagic" technician – Tad Mochinaga
 Assistant director – Kizo Nagashima
 Choreography by "Killer Joe" Piro
 Music composed and scored by Maury Laws
 Sound engineers – Eric Tomlinson, Peter Page, Stephen Frohock

Production
The film was created using Rankin/Bass's "Animagic" stop-motion animation process, supervised by Tadahito Mochinaga at MOM Productions in Tokyo, Japan. The process involved photographing figurines a frame at a time, then re-positioning them, exposing another frame, and so forth. Known as stop-motion animation, it was the same approach used in RKO's King Kong, Art Clokey's Gumby and Davey and Goliath, and many other films, commercials and TV specials.

Classic monster films were enjoying a resurgence in popularity in the late 1960s, along with more comedy-centered examples, The Addams Family and The Munsters. This campy film is a spoof of horror themes, complete with musical numbers and inside jokes.

Mad Magazine creator Harvey Kurtzman penned the script (with writer Len Korobkin) and Mad artist Jack Davis designed many of the characters. Davis was a natural for the job, being famous both for his humor work and his monster stories in the pages of EC Comics. It has long been rumored that Forrest J. Ackerman had a hand in the script, but while the dialogue is rife with Famous Monsters of Filmland-like puns, Ackerman's involvement has never been confirmed and his name never appeared in the on-screen credits or in original promotion for the film at the time of its release. In fact, Rankin/Bass historian Rick Goldschmidt, in liner notes accompanying the Anchor Bay DVD release, denied Ackerman was ever involved, at the same time as the DVD packaging promoted Ackerman's name. Goldschmidt repeated his claims on this in a 2006 blog entry, based on his interviews with Korobkin, who claimed to have written the original screenplay, which then was revised by Kurtzman, but never worked with Ackerman.

In addition to the famous monsters seen in the film, Mad Monster Party? also features several celebrity likenesses. Karloff and Diller's characters are both designed to look like the actors portraying them, while Baron Frankenstein's lackey, Yetch, is a physical and vocal caricature of Peter Lorre. Swift also performs impersonations when voicing his characters, such as James Stewart when voicing Felix, Sydney Greenstreet as the Invisible Man and Charles Laughton as the Freighter Captain.

Mad Monster Party? was one of several family-friendly projects Karloff lent his voice to in his final years (including the 1966 television adaptation of How the Grinch Stole Christmas!). It was his final involvement in a production connected to the Frankenstein mythos that had propelled him to stardom some three decades earlier.

Music

Although the opening credits identify Ethel Ennis as singing the opening theme song and, in the same frame, a soundtrack being available on RCA Victor, a commercially released soundtrack was never produced in any format. In September 1998, Percepto released the mono RCA recording on CD. Waxworks Records released it on vinyl on October 12, 2016.

Reception
The film holds a 70% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on ten reviews. Howard Thompson of The New York Times wrote that "this party should make everybody chuckle".

Home media
The film has been available on video for years, first on original distributor Embassy Pictures' home entertainment unit, and then on other independent labels before StudioCanal acquired some rights to the film. Currently, Lionsgate distributes the film on video under license from StudioCanal.