[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Moses in rabbinic literature

ng in the desert, Moses officiated as high priest. He was also king during this entire period. When he demanded these two offices for his descendants God told him that the office of king was destined for David and his house, while the office of high priest was reserved for Aaron and his descendants.

Inability to enter the Land of Israel
Whenever the cup is handed to Moses during the banquet of the pious in the other world, that he may say grace over the meal, he declares: "I am not worthy to say grace, as I have not deserved to enter the land of Israel". The fact that Moses, the foremost leader of Israel, who ceaselessly prayed for it and partook of its sorrows, and on whose account the manna was showered down from heaven and the protecting clouds and the marvelous well returned after the death of Aaron and Miriam, should not be allowed to share in Israel's joys and enter the promised land, was a problem that puzzled the aggadah, for which it tried to find various explanations. Moses was anxious to enter the promised land solely because many of the commandments given by God could be observed only there, and he was desirous of fulfilling all the commandments. God, however, said that He looked upon Moses as having fulfilled all the commandments, and would therefore reward him accordingly. Moses prayed in vain to be permitted to go into the promised land if only for a little while; for God had decreed that he should not enter the country either alive or dead. According to one opinion, this decree was in punishment for the words addressed by him to God: "Wherefore hast thou so evil entreated this people?" According to another version, this punishment was inflicted upon him for having once silently renounced his nationality. When Moses had helped the daughters of Jethro at the well, they took him home, letting him wait outside while they went into the house and told their father that an Egyptian had protected them. Moses, who overheard this conversation, did not correct them, concealing the fact that he was a Hebrew. There is still another explanation, to the effect that it would not have redounded to the glory of Moses if he who had led 600,000 persons out of Egypt had been the only one to enter Israel, while the entire people were destined to die in the desert. Again, Moses had to die with the generation which he took out of Egypt, in order that he might be able to lead them again in the future world.

Denying all these reasons, another explanation, based on Scripture, is that Moses and Aaron were not permitted to enter the promised land because they did not have the proper confidence in God in calling water from the rock. Moses asked that this error should be recorded in the Torah (Numbers 20:12) so that no other errors or faults should be ascribed to him. This story of his lack of true confidence in God when calling forth the water is elaborated with many details in the legends. Moses was careful not to provoke the people during the forty years of wandering in the desert, because God had sworn that none of the generation which had left Egypt should behold the promised land. When he went to call forth the water he did not know exactly from which rock it would come. The people became impatient and said that there was no difference between the rocks, and that he ought to be able to call forth water from any one of them. Vexed, he replied, "Ye rebels!" or, according to the Midrash, "fools!" (μῶροι). God therefore said to him: "As thou art clever, thou shalt not enter the land together with fools." According to another legend, Moses became angry because some of the people said that, since he had been a herdsman with Jethro, he knew, like all herdsmen, where to find water in the desert, and that now he was merely trying to deceive the people and to make them believe that he had miraculously called water from the rock.

At Aaron's Death

When Moses heard that Aaron also had to die, he grieved and wept so much as to cause his own death. This story, as well as the reference to his early death, was probably based on Deuteronomy 34:7, according to which he retained all his faculties and his full strength down to his end; but they contradict the many other versions of his death (see below). When Moses took Aaron up the mountain where the latter was to die, and announced his death to him, he comforted him, saying: "You, my brother, will die and leave your office to your children; but when I die a stranger will inherit my office. When you die you will leave me to look after your burial; when I die I shall leave no brother, no sister, and no son to bury me"—for Moses' sons died before him. When Moses witnessed the quiet and peaceful death of Aaron he desired a similar death for himself. After Aaron's death Moses was accused by the people of having killed him through jealousy; but God cleared him from this suspicion by a miracle.