[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Edward Burd Grubb Jr.

cally active and left the Republican Party to become a reformer.  He lost an election for Congress in 1908. He later actively campaigned for Woodrow Wilson when he ran for Governor two years later. Wilson and Grubb became close and the Governor often stayed at Grubb's home on the river.

Later years

While in Spain, Grubb met Violet Sopwith (1865–1958), the daughter of an English mining engineer working in Spain.  Violet's younger brother was Thomas Sopwith, who would later become a famous aviation pioneer. Burd and Violet married before their return to New Jersey and would go on to have three children, although one died young.  Their son, Edward Burd Grubb III was the President of the New York Curb Exchange during the critical period after the creation of the SEC.

Burd was especially interested in the family's history and met with his distant cousin, Delaware Supreme Court Justice Ignatius Cooper Grubb, who was the family's historian during the period.  The General made national news in 1908-1909 after meeting the commander of the 8th Alabama Regiment. Two units that once met as enemies at Salem Church, met again as friends at the "Yahoos Reunion" at Grubb's Grassmere estate.

In 1911, Grubb lost his fortune due to a bad investment and was appointed by then Governor Wilson as Superintendent of the New Jersey Home for Disabled Soldiers in Kearney, New Jersey.  He died in Newark, New Jersey, and was buried in Saint Mary's Episcopal Churchyard in Burlington. Violet moved back to "Grubb Cottage", then owned by Grubb's brother.  During the First World War, Violet chaired the British Emergency Aid Committee in Philadelphia and later retired to Maryland to live with her daughter.

See also

List of American Civil War brevet generals (Union)

References

External links
 
 
 

1841 births
1913 deaths
Doane Academy alumni
People from Burlington, New Jersey
People from Edgewater Park, New Jersey
American people of Cornish descent
New Jersey Republicans
People of New Jersey in the American Civil War
Union Army generals
Foundrymen
Ambassadors of the United States to Spain
Grubb family
19th-century American diplomats
19th-century American politicians