[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Yellow Bayou

Bayou. The wagon guard, Company E of the 92nd U.S. Colored Infantry, put up a spirited fight and the Confederates eventually fell back to Norwood's Plantation. Yager's men destroyed some wagons but were unable to remove any captured wagons because A. J. Smith's troops blocked the only road.

Battle

On May 18, Taylor tried one final attack on Banks' army before it could escape over the Atchafalaya River. He arranged all his troops in position at Norwood's Plantation. Confederate skirmishers pushed back the Union cavalry pickets toward the XVI Corps and XVII Corps infantry. In response, A. J. Smith ordered Mower to drive back the Confederates. Mower gathered about 4,500 soldiers, including the infantry brigades of Colonels Sylvester G. Hill, William T. Shaw, and William F. Lynch, and the 3rd Indiana and 9th Indiana Batteries, plus one cavalry brigade. Banks asked Mower to hold off the Confederates until the soldiers of the XIII Corps and XIX Corps at Simmesport could cross the Atchafalaya. 

Mower's force advanced west across Yellow Bayou and drove back the Confederate skirmishers for about . After struggling through a tangled thicket of woods, the Federals found themselves confronted by 5,000 Confederates in line of battle. According to William Riley Brooksher, the Confederate right wing was made up of Colonels Arthur P. Bagby Jr.'s and Debray's brigades, both from Brigadier General Hamilton P. Bee's cavalry division, and on the extreme right, Brigadier General William Steele's cavalry division which had only Colonel William H. Parsons' brigade. The Confederate left wing consisted of the 12th Texas Cavalry Regiment (detached from Parsons' brigade) on the extreme left, and Colonels William Polk Hardeman and George W. Baylor's brigades, both belonging to Brigadier General James Patrick Major's cavalry division. Wharton was in tactical command. Brigadier General Camille de Polignac's infantry division was placed on the left in reserve, from which Lieutenant Colonel Robert D. Stone's brigade was later committed to support the front line. In John D. Winters' account, Polignac's infantry division was on the left in the front line while Major's dismounted cavalry division was on the right. 

At first, the 12 Confederate artillery pieces dueled with the two Indiana batteries. Though they were positioned in an open field, at least some of the Confederates were protected by taking cover in a drainage ditch. As the cannonade tapered off, Wharton ordered an assault. Parsons warned him that it would result in serious loss of life and questioned the need, since the Union army was in retreat. Wharton ordered the attack to be made at once or Parsons would face a court-martial. Parsons' men charged on foot, but their attack faltered when threatened by Federal cavalry. Wharton's general attack began to force back the brigades of Hill on the Union right and Lynch on the left, so that Mower had to call on Shaw's brigade for support. The Union batteries began firing double canister shot. At this time, Hill's and Lynch's troops, flanked by Union cavalry, mounted a counterattack that drove Wharton's men back into the open field. 

When the Confederates threatened the Union left flank, Mower pushed them back by reinforcing it with regiments from Shaw's brigade. The Federals did not pursue their adversaries into the open field. Mower, whose soldiers began to suffer from heat exhaustion and sunstroke, withdrew his troops from the thicket for a short rest before ordering them forward again. After re-ordering their lines, the Confederates charged again and the two sides grappled in the thicket. The Union troops ousted their opponents from the thicket, but it caught fire, preventing them from following up their advantage. At sunset, both sides withdrew from the burning thicket which consisted of dead trees and heavy underbrush.

Aftermath

Mower reported losing 38 killed, 226 wounded, and 3 missing, for a total of 267 casualties. Taylor reported his losses as 30 killed, 350 wounded, and over 100 of Polignac's men captured, for about 500 casualties. The 28th Louisiana Infantry Regiment in Colonel Henry Gray's brigade, Polignac's division, "suffered numerous casualties" at Yellow Bayou. Brooksher estimated losses at 350 Union and 608 Confederate casualties. Tragically, Union Colonel Hill's young son, who rode into battle in full uniform on a pony beside his father, was among the dead. Mark M. Boatner III stated total losses as 267 Union and 452 Confederate. The National Park Service listed 360 Union and 500 Confederate casualties.