[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Loughborough Students' Union

edition, LSUTV won Best Animation and Best Live Programme, for their coverage of the Fight Night kickboxing competition held between Lougborough and Edinburgh universities, and in 2020 the station brought home six awards, including Best Documentary, Best Sport and Highly Commended Best Broadcaster.

Lens 
The photography section of LSU Media was founded in 2014, with the first Head of Lens being Isabella Piggott. Lens was introduced into LSU Media as part of VP Media Bryn Wilkes' manifesto, originally coming from the Label magazine section. There is currently a committee of six people, who manage a team of photographers providing photos for events, union nights and more. Lens exists to cover as many events involving or affecting Lougborough University and College students. The team also collaborate with Label, LCR and LSUTV to provide photography when necessary.

Match Report 
The flagship Sports brand from LSU Media, Match Report aims to showcase all Sport on campus using all four media sections. Co-created by Jack Connor-Richards, Jamie Lynch, Chris Moore and Jennifer Taylor, the show picked up 3 NaSTA Awards in its debut year including Best Sports, Best Live, Mars El Brogy Award for multi-platform content and also highly commended for Technical. After an initial run as a weekly half-hour sports roundup show, Match Report now focuses on broadcasting full live sports coverage, on matches across Loughborough, and showcases both games from BUCS and Big Matches, including fixtures against Premier League 2 sides Liverpool and Wolves.

Loughborough Students' Societies
LSU runs numerous clubs and societies catering for many different tastes including hot air ballooning, Computer Society, SCOGUI (Scout and Guide club, affiliated to SSAGO) and Labour Students. One of the oldest clubs is the university Motor Club LSUMC. In 2007, Sabrina Johnson, the first Sabbatical Officer with overall responsibility for this section, was elected. Since then, Societies has been set up, which is the collective group of societies, similar in nature to what the AU is to Loughborough Sport.

Facilities and events
There are a range of retail outlets in and around the Student Union building. The first floor incorporates the Administrative parts of the Students' Union. The ground floor of the Union building consists of three bars.

Weekly events 
At night, Loughborough Students' Union hosts various nights suitable for all students.

Happy Mondays is a weekly arts event, run in collaboration with Loughborough University Arts.

Stuesday is the union's 'silly' night, offering cheaper drink deals and cheesy music for a relaxed evening.

Hey Ewe, on a Wednesday evening, is traditionally the night to celebrate Loughborough's sporting successes from BUCS Wednesday. Three rooms of music are open all night with different events and performers frequently on offer throughout the night. Previous events include a Fifa Tournament and a Darts Competition.

FND has, for over 20 years, been Loughborough's premier night out. Every Friday, the Union opens its doors to thousands of students and frequent performers. FND is considered to be the biggest student club night in the UK.

Subversion is LSU's fortnightly alternative night. Every other Saturday, Rock, Emo, Punk, Metal music and everything in between are provided by LSU's Rock Society DJs.

Unity is a monthly event aimed at International Students. Global music is played all night and there are games on offer.

LSU Trips 
LSU run frequent trips at weekends, visiting various parts of the country. Recent trips include London, Leeds, Stratford-Upon-Avon and Manchester. Trips are frequently fully booked and offer a chance for students to explore the country.

Free Fest
Free Fest is an annual free-to-attend outdoor music concert originally organised by the Union's Musicians Society (known as Musoc), which takes place all day on the May Day bank holiday weekend.  Originally conceived in 1996 by the then editor of the student magazine Label, Emily Dubberley, as a simple May Day music festival with professional acts, it was enhanced in 1997 when Musoc began to use it as a showcase for student bands. It is now organised by the Technical Department's student production crew. Competition for inclusion in Free Fest is always high, as such it has become necessary to hold Auditions and a Fringe Festival has been added to encompass more acts, this takes place during the penultimate weekend before the main Free Fest. In 2006 around 10 bands performed at Free Fest, including the only non-student act Carlton Cole (who has become something of an institution at FreeFest) and guitarist Dave Rogers. In 2006 Post Fest, an alternative music club night held in Room 1 following the bands, which was originally conceived and run by LSU Rocksoc, was taken over as an official part of the event and featured a wide variety of music from one of LSU's resident DJ's.