[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 153]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

composed, I better understood the difficulties in which I
was involved, and the uncertainty of my escape. I was in the midst of an
immense desert, totally destitute of human assistance or support. Should
I meet with any of my fellow-creatures, I could expect nothing but
implacable cruelty; and even if I escaped their vigilance, what method
of finding subsistence, or of measuring back, without a guide, the long
and tedious march I had trodden? Hope, however, and the vigour of my
constitution, still supported me. I reflected that it is the common lot
of man to struggle with misfortunes; that it is cowardice to yield to
evils, when present, the representation of which had not deterred me
from voluntarily embracing the profession of a soldier; and that the
providence of Heaven was as capable of protecting me in the forests of
America as upon my native mountains. I therefore determined to struggle
till the last with the difficulties which surrounded me, and to meet my
fortune like a man. Yet, as I still by intervals heard the dismal cries
of the enemy, and saw their fires at a distance, I lay close till night
in the obscurity of my thicket. When all was dark and still, I ventured
abroad, and laid in my scanty provisions of fruits and herbs, and drank
again at the spring. The pain of my wounds now began to abate a little,
though I suffered extremely from the cold, as I did not dare to kindle a
fire, from the fear of discovering myself by its light.

"Three nights and days did I lead this solitary life, in continual dread
of the savage parties which scoured all the woods in pursuit of
stragglers, and often passed so near my place of retreat that I gave
myself over for lost. At length, on the fourth evening, fancying myself
a little restored, and that the activity of the enemy might be abated, I
ventured out and pursued my march. I scarcely need describe the various
difficulties and dangers to which I was exposed in such a journey;
however, I still had with me my musket, and as my ammunition was not
quite exhausted, I depended upon the woods themselves to supply me with
food. I travelled the greater part of the night, involving myself still
deeper in these inextricable forests, for I was afraid to pursue the
direction of our former march, as I imagined the savages were dispersed
along the country in pursuit of the fugitives. I therefore took a
direction as nearly as I could judge parallel to the English
settlements, and inclining to the south. In this manner I forced my way
along the woods all night, and with the morning had reason to think that
I had advanced a considerable distance.

"My wounds began now to pain me afresh with this exertion, and compelled
me to allow myself some repose. I chose out the thickest covert I could
find, and, shrouding myself as well as I was able, was soon overpowered
by sleep. I did not awake till the sun had gained the meridian, and,
creeping from my retreat, beheld, with some degree of terror, an
enormous rattlesnake that was coiled up full in my way, and seemed
determined to oppose my passage. This animal is frequent in the southern
colonies, and is the most poisonous of all the reptiles that haunt the
woods. He is in length from two to six feet, beautifully variegated with
different colours, but the most remarkable circumstance attending him is
a natural noise that he produces with every motion of his tail, and
which, too, occasions his name. I soon destroyed my hissing foe, and,
taking courage for the first time to kindle a fire, I roasted him upon
the embers, and made the most delicious meal I ever remember upon his
flesh."

"What!" exclaimed Tommy, "is it possible to eat snakes? I thought they
had been all over poison." "Master," replied the Highlander, "the want
of food will reconcile us to many meats which we should scarcely think
eatable. Nothing has surprised me more than to see the poor, in various
countries, complaining of the scarcity of food, yet throwing away every
year thousands of the carcases of horses, which are full as wholesome
and nourishing as beef, and are in many countries preferred to it; but,
in general, every animal may be eaten, and affords a salutary food. As
to snakes, the poison of them is contained in the hollow of their teeth.
When they bite, they instil their venom into the wound, which mixes with
the blood, and, without a timely remedy, destroys the sufferer; but if
you cut off the head, the rest of the body is not only wholesome but
palatable, and I have known it eaten as a delicacy by many inhabitants
of the colonies.

"Thus refreshed, therefore, I pursued my march through the same thick,
gloomy country, without meeting the least appearance of a human
creature, and at night I cut, with a hatchet that I had about me, some
boughs, with which I erected a temporary shelter. The next day, as I was
pursuing my march, I saw a deer bound by me, upon whose shoulders was
fixed a