[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Paraguayan War casualties

The number of people who died in the Paraguayan War (1864–1870) is unknown. Widely diverging estimates have been made. "Determining the size of Paraguay's population has always been an exercise in frustration." However, there is a widespread impression that the casualties (military and civilian) were immense; there was also some population loss from non-lethal causes such as migration. The Dutch human geographer Jan Kleinpenning thought that Paraguay lost between a quarter and a half of its population, but much higher and lower estimates have been made.  No academic demographic scholarship makes it less than 7% (including migration) or greater than 69%.

Traditional estimate

The traditional estimate was that the War cost Paraguay at least half its population including military and civilian casualties (the latter mainly owing to disease, dislocation and malnutrition) and that 90% of males of military age died. If that was so the Paraguayan War must have been 10 to 20 times more lethal than the slightly earlier American Civil War.  The traditional estimate was based partly on anecdotal evidence and partly on a supposed census of 1857 which gave Paraguay a prewar population of about 1.3 million, which, if correct, implied an utterly catastrophic decline in the subsequent War.  The following extract from an unsigned article in the 1911 edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica: is illustrative of the spurious precision of the era.

During this warfare every male Paraguayan capable of bearing arms was forced to fight, whole regiments being formed of boys from 12 to 15 years of age.  Even women were used as beasts of burden to carry ammunition and stores, and when no longer capable of work were left to die by the roadside or murdered to avoid any ill consequences occurring from their capture.  When the war broke out the population of Paraguay was 1,337,439; when hostilities ceased it consisted of 28,746 men, 106,254 women above 15 years, and 86,079 children.  During the retreat of the Paraguayans the dictator ordered every town and village passed through to be razed to the ground, and every living animal for which no use could be found to be slaughtered.  When the end came the country and people were in a state of absolute prostration.

On those figures, since shown to be false, Paraguay lost 84% of its population.

In the modern mainstream media, the view that the loss in life was likely around half the population has been expressed by, among others, the current Encyclopædia Britannica entry (last revised in 2001) and a 2012 article in The Economist. In 2015, the BBC and Reuters stated Paraguay "lost more than half of its population", and the Los Angeles Times stated "at least 70% of Paraguay's male population was killed". The Paraguayan war casualties have been listed in Guinness World Records as the highest percentage of a country's dead toll from war.

Modern demographic scholarship in peer-reviewed journals
The first step in modern research was realising that prewar Paraguay's population could not possibly have been 1.3 million.

John Hoyt Williams
In 1976 John Hoyt Williams published 'Observations on the Paraguayan Census of 1846'.  He analysed 20,000 pages of documentation surviving from an 1846 census of Paraguay ordered by the dictator Carlos Antonio López.  Correcting the raw figures for missing returns, he arrived at an estimated population of the order of 240,000 for the year 1846.  To estimate the population for the year before the War (1864) he assumed various growth rates, yielding a range between about 373,000 (annual growth rate 2.5%) to about 575,000 (annual growth rate of 5%). He remarked that “even the highest figure is far short of what is usually claimed by historians not utilizing hard data”.  In his opinion the most likely growth rate was 3%, implying a population of about 407,000.  He concluded:

The oft-posited figure of a million or more Paraguayans in 1864, in the absence of immigration, is absurd.

The Reber/Whigham–Potthast controversy

Vera Blinn Reber
The traditional view was challenged even more strongly by historian Vera Blinn Reber in 1988 in 'The Demographics of Paraguay: A Reinterpretation of the Great War, 1865–1870'.  Noticing that, even with the most sophisticated weapons of military destruction available after 1914, population losses in war were never remotely of the 50% order, she examined the traditional estimates with some scepticism.