[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

on of [grain] collecting." As recounted in October by Major Mihail Kovács, who had shot down five peasants near Luduș, "Comrade Minister Pintilie said that we should spare no effort for the timely discovery of conspiracies by the chiaburi against collective farms and yards".

Brainwashing experiment

At the same time, Pintile began highlighting the importance of establishing an informants' network, advising his men that delators were to a Securitate officer "what a razor is to the barber". This directive had an unintended outcome, as various Securitate agents began torturing the potential informants into compliance; Pintilie intervened to stop the practice. In February 1952, he also noted that bribing sources from the "Special Informative Expenses Fund" presented another particular challenge: Securitate cadres preferred to continue with torture, embezzling the bribes for their own benefit. In one such case, presented for his review, high-ranking Securitate officials in Stalin Region had spent Fund money on "partying and personal affairs". The Lieutenant General had relied on Saxon informants and collaborators for bringing the Evangelical Augustan Church, which was geographically folded within the Stalin Region, into the PCR orbit. This led to a kompromat operation against the Saxon bishop, Friedrich Müller, which nonetheless failed to impress his congregation.

One of Pintilie and Nicolschi's main pursuits was a round-up and annihilation of a fascist underground movement, the Iron Guard. According to historian Mihai Demetriade, Securitate leaders felt personally insulted in noting that the interwar Siguranța had "proven success" when it came to untangling Guardist networks. From 1949, Pintilie had insisted on the need to infiltrate Guardist cells formed within Romania's prisons, asking Major Ion Nemeș, and then Lieutenant Colonel Tudor Sepeanu, to oversee the operation on his behalf. As he put in one of his speeches, he knew from personal experience as a prisoner that inmates could and did organize in such a way as to undermine a government. Various researchers identify Pintilie as wholly or partly to blame for the Pitești Experiment, which had exposed political prisoners to crude brainwashing techniques, leaving many dead in its wake. Demetriade describes a "Pintilie method", which consisted in "breaking apart and compromising" the anti-communist cells through the activity of prisoners who had embraced the regime. He credits such guidelines with engendering a spiral of violence, cruelty, and eventually slaughter. 

Pintilie took personal credit for the earliest, least violent, form of the experiment, which took place in Suceava. He was not satisfied with the results, since the prison population there was too diverse, and not likely to respond identically to the stimuli. It was Pintilie who decided that the "method" needed to be applied in a penitentiary where youths, and specifically far-right students, could form the majority; he therefore handled the transfer of prisoners to Pitești. Former prisoner Georghe Boldur-Lățescu alleges that both Pintilie and Nicolschi were "directly or indirectly in contact" with the Guardsman-turned-communist Eugen Țurcanu, asking him to "impress 'reeducation' into a new format, which would be based on violence." This new stage was inaugurated on Christmas Day 1949, when Țurcanu's men and the prison guards "savagely beat up" disobedient inmates, while "making sure not to kill anyone." In February 1950, Țurcanu's beatings produced their first fatality, the 22-year-old Corneliu Niță. As confessed by Major Nemeș, both Pintilie and Nicolschi were immediately informed of this, but never intervened to reprimand Țurcanu. Troncotă likewise notes that the experiment was made possible when the DGSP director informed his peers that his only focus would be on "unmasking" and "reeducating" anti-communists, especially those who had been in the Iron Guard; he explicitly noted that he would spare no interest for the methods used to accomplish this goal.