[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Second migration to Abyssinia

This is a sub-article to Muhammad before Medina and Muhammad in Medina
Following the migration and return of the most Sahabas from the first migration to Abyssinia (Sa'd ibn Abi Waqqas and some did not return but left Abyssinia by sea for preaching overseas to east Asia), the Muslims continued to suffer Persecution by the Meccans. This time, in  almost one hundred Muslims made a second migration back to Abyssinia where they stayed protected.

After the Muslims in Arabia had migrated to Medina in   and attained security, the Muslims in Ethiopia migrated back to Arabia and reunited with them in Medina  after six years absence.

History
Following the first migration to Abyssinia, the  Meccan polytheists were on the alert for a second migration, however they were not able to stop the Muslims' escape.

Second migration
The second migration took place in 615 CE. The group of emigrants this time comprised eighty three men and eighteen to nineteen women.

Delegation from Mecca
The Meccan polytheists did not appreciate that the Muslim had found a refuge, so they equipped ‘Amr ibn al-‘As and ‘Abdullahi bin Abi Rabi‘a with valuable gifts and sent them to the court of Aksum. They became successful in winning some of the courtiers over to their side and argued that the King should expel the Muslims back to Mecca and made over to them, on the grounds that they had apostated and preached a religion alien to both the Meccan religion and Christianity, the official Aksumite religion.

First meeting
The king of Abyssinia, Ashama ibn Ajbar in the Muslim tradition (Ella Seham and variants in the Ethiopian), summoned the Muslims to the court and asked them to explain the teachings of their religion. The Muslim emigrants had decided to tell the whole truth whatever the consequences were. Ja'far ibn Abu Talib, the son of Abu Talib ibn ‘Abd al-Muttalib, the powerful Banu Hashim leader, stood up and addressed the king in the following words: 

Ashama was impressed by the speech and asked for some of God's Revelations. Ja‘far recited the opening verses of Surah Maryam. The chapter is about the birth of John and Jesus, and Mary having been fed with the food miraculously. The story moved to tears the bishops and king who exclaimed: "It seems as if these words and those which were revealed to Jesus are the rays of the light which have radiated from the same source." Turning to the crest-fallen envoys of Quraish, he said, "I am afraid, I cannot give you back these refugees. They are free to live and worship in my realm as they please."''.

Second meeting
The following day, the ‘Amr ibn al-‘As and ‘Abdullahi bin Abi Rabi‘a went to the king and said that Muhammad and his followers blasphemed Jesus. Ja‘far again stood up and replied: "We speak about Jesus as we have been taught by our prophet, that is, he is the servant of Allâh, His Messenger , His spirit and his word breathed into Virgin Mary." The king replied, "Even so do we believe. Blessed be you, and blessed be your master." The king turned to the two frowning Meccan envoys and to his bishops who got angry, he said: "You may fret and fume as you like but Jesus is nothing more than what Ja‘far has said about him."

The King assured the Muslims full protection and returned the gifts to the envoys of Quraish and sent them away.

Return to Arabia
The Muslims lived in Abyssinia (Ethiopia) unmolested for a number of years. During this period were the Muslims in Arabia subjected to the Meccan boycott of the Hashemites (617), the Year of Sorrow (619), Muhammad's visit to Ta'if (620), the Isra and Mi'raj (621) and finally the Migration to Medina (622). The Muslims in Ethiopia would not return to Arabia and reunited with their fellow Muslims in Medina until in .

The emigrants returned to Arabia in three groups.

This first return was in the period of the boycott of the Hashimites, i.e. between September 616 and April 619. Thirty-three men and six women plus children "heard that the Meccans had accepted Islam and they set out for the homeland. But when they got near Mecca they learned that the report was false, so that they entered the town under the protection of a citizen or by stealth."

The second return was "after the Battle of Badr" (i.e., March 624) but before Khaybar (May–July 628). Twenty-eight men and three women plus children returned to Medina. As there is no record of a large-group return, it is probable that each family travelled separately and at different times.

The third return consisted of all the Muslims who were still living in Abyssinia: seventeen men, seven women and seven children. The Negus sent them to Medina "in two boats", presumably at his own expense, in June or July 628. Ibn Ishaq records that one woman and three of her children died on the return journey "from drinking foul water".

Ibn Ishaq also names seven men and three women who died in Abyssinia.