[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chris Brandon

Torquay finished the season only two places higher than their previous campaign, but 15 points above relegated Halifax Town. During his disrupted three seasons with Torquay, Brandon amassed 83 appearances with ten goals to his credit, before he moved to Chesterfield in July 2002 on a free transfer.

Chesterfield
Brandon signed a two-year contract with Division Two side Chesterfield, and made his debut against Queens Park Rangers on the first day of the 2002–03 season. Chesterfield lost the game at Loftus Road 3–1. Brandon's first goal for Chesterfield came a week later when he scored a 12-yard overhead kick to give them a late 2–1 victory over Port Vale. He scored again just ten days later as Chesterfield defeated Northampton Town 4–0. His third goal was another volley during a 1–0 victory over Stockport County. However, he was substituted at half-time, and he did not play for another two weeks because of suspension, until he scored again in a League Cup game against West Ham United live on television, which Chesterfield lost on penalties. He scored in both the first and second rounds of the Football League Trophy, but Chesterfield were defeated on penalties by Port Vale in the second round. He finished the season with ten goals but also 11 yellow cards. However, he played only one game during the final month, with his last game coming on 21 April 2003, when Chesterfield finished with just nine players because of serious injuries to Brandon and striker Caleb Folan. Chesterfield picked up four points in their final two games without Brandon, and avoided relegation by just one position, finishing two points above Cheltenham Town. Brandon's ten goals meant he finished as Chesterfield's top goalscorer and also helped Brandon win three awards at the club's end of season awards, as well as reported interest from nearby Nottingham Forest, who had missed out on promotion to the Premier League.

Brandon overcame his hamstring problems to return before the start of the following season, at the start of which he maintained his goalscoring form, scoring twice within the space of three days, as Chesterfield drew 3–3 with Wycombe Wanderers, then 1–1 with Plymouth Argyle. He only managed another four goals all season, but they included two against Lincoln City in a Football League Trophy defeat and one goal to help Chesterfield's fight to avoid relegation in a 3–1 victory over local rivals Sheffield Wednesday. He finished the season with six goals, which took his tally for Chesterfield to 16 goals from 88 games. Chesterfield again finished just one place above the relegation zone, and Brandon left in July 2004 to sign for Huddersfield Town under manager Peter Jackson on a free transfer.

Huddersfield Town
Huddersfield had been one of the teams relegated below Chesterfield in 2002–03, but had been immediately promoted back to League One. Brandon made his debut for Huddersfield on the opening day of the 2004–05 season in a 3–2 victory over Stockport County. Chesterfield goalkeeper Carl Muggleton twice denied him a goal in his first home game three days later, but Brandon only had to wait until the following month when he scored in a 4–0 victory against Hull City. Brandon scored a total of six goals in his first season with Huddersfield, but also received the first red card of his professional career in a 1–0 win over Blackpool for a professional foul. Two of Brandon's goals came as Huddersfield pushed for a play-off place with a run of five successive victories, but they could only finish ninth, just one point behind Hartlepool United in the final play-off spot. Jackson praised Brandon for his "workrate and skill" and offered him and captain Jon Worthington each new two-year deals.

Huddersfield started the 2005–06 season in the same form. Brandon scored his first goal of the season during a 2–1 win over Doncaster Rovers on 29 August 2008, which gave them their fifth win from seven games during the month. In mid-November, Brandon signed the two-year contract extension, which kept him at Huddersfield until June 2008, and instantly targeted promotion. The following month Brandon scored the only goal of a 1–0 win over non-league Worcester City in the FA Cup second round to earn Huddersfield a tie with Premiership champions Chelsea at Stamford Bridge. Two days later, Brandon received another red card, as both he and David Mirfin were sent off in the final minute of a 2–2 draw with Milton Keynes Dons. Brandon returned to the side following his suspension and helped Huddersfield to win a place in the play-offs. He was an unused substitute in the first leg 1–0 victory over Barnsley, and he played just eight minutes of the second leg, as Huddersfield lost 3–1 to again miss out on promotion.