[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Shaki, Oyo

Shaki (also Saki) is a city-town situated in the northern part of Oyo State in western Nigeria.

Location
The terrain is hilly. The town lies near the source of the Ofiki River, the chief tributary of the Ogun River, about 40 miles (60 km) from the Benin border. It is referred to as the food basket of Oyo State because of its agricultural activities. It is the headquarters of Saki West local government authority.

Culture

Originally part of the Oyo Empire, Shaki became a Yoruba refugee settlement after the destruction in 1835 of Old Oyo (Katunga), 70 miles (113 km) east-northeast, by Fulani conquerors. By the early 1860s the Yoruba Mission had established an Anglican church in the town.

The traditional ruler is the Ọ̀kẹ̀rẹ̀ of Shaki town, Oba Khalid Olabisi Oyeniyi, the newly installed Ọ̀kẹ̀rẹ̀ of Shaki-Okeogun, Oyo State after the demised of Ọba Kilani Olarinre Olatoyese Ilufemiloye who died on Friday, 5 April 2013, 2 days to the first anniversary of his coronation. Since the death of Kilani Olatoyese Ilufemiloye Olarinre, the town has been without a Traditional Ruler as the process of selecting a new traditional ruler has been stalled by court litigation. However, the new king finally emerged on 18 December 2019 after due consultation by the King makers and the state government. 
 

Ogun (god of Iron) is from this town. Traditionally, the work of inhabitants in the olden days were blacksmith, goldsmith, farming, hunting and clay pot molding.

Traditional Symbols
The crown: This is only for the king, it shows authority over all citizens of the kingdom.

The kings staff: This is used to stamp a declaration at a meeting.

The red beads: It was traditionally used by only the royal family, it was made with washed up red clay and tree stems. Now, it is just a traditional symbol worn by everybody.

The throne: This is the kings seat, it is seated in the kings chamber. Anybody that seats on the throne except the king, dies of skin illness.

The crown ring: this is given to the last prince. In the past it was given to the bastard prince to lay claim to the throne if all other heirs to the throne are dead. This ring as only been used twice.

The throne/heir ring: It is given to the first prince to lay claim to the throne. The first prince given the ring to his immediate brother has automatically passed on all claims to his birthright.

Commerce
Shaki is an exporter of cotton, swamp rice, teak, and tobacco. The flue curing of tobacco has been important in the area since 1940. Indigo is grown in the area for local dyeing, and the town is a centre of cotton weaving. Yams, cassava, corn (maize), sorghum, beans, shea nuts, and okra are grown for subsistence. Cattle raising is increasing in importance, and there is a government livestock station. Shaki has a government Hospital, many Private Hospitals and branch of UCH is under construction.

A 1,600-foot (490-metre) inselberg rises above the surrounding savanna.

The town is prominent in the production of aluminum pots (Ikoko) for cooking. Users of pots and sellers from far and near visit the town to purchase the product. Shaki Sango Market has also brought the town into limelight as buyers and sellers attend the market every Thursdays.

Public institutions
Shaki is the location of a Baptist Hospital and a Muslim hospital. The Muslim Hospital was commissioned by M.K.O Abiola in 1987.