[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Yujiro Takahashi

four wins and five losses, failing to advance to the finals. On October 14 at King of Pro-Wrestling, Takahashi unsuccessfully challenged former partner Tetsuya Naito for the NEVER Openweight Championship and the number one contendership to the IWGP Heavyweight Championship.

Bullet Club (2014–2021)

In April 2014, after being left off the Wrestle Kingdom 8 in Tokyo Dome, Invasion Attack 2014 and Wrestling Dontaku 2014 cards and losing in the first round of the 2014 New Japan Cup, Takahashi began portraying a new disgruntled character, walking out on his Chaos partners either during a match or immediately afterwards. On May 3 at Wrestling Dontaku 2014, Takahashi turned on Chaos and jumped to Bullet Club by helping A.J. Styles defeat Kazuchika Okada for the IWGP Heavyweight Championship. Takahashi wrestled his first match as a member of Bullet Club on May 25 at Back to the Yokohama Arena and, later that same event, entered the NEVER Openweight Championship picture by attacking the reigning champion, former Chaos stablemate Tomohiro Ishii. On June 29, Takahashi defeated Ishii with help from the rest of Bullet Club to become the fourth NEVER Openweight Champion. From July 21 to August 8, Takahashi took part in the 2014 G1 Climax, where he finished tied sixth in his block with a record of four wins and six losses. It has been speculated that Takahashi's poor performances in the tournament led to his status in NJPW plummeting in comparison to the likes of Tomoaki Honma and Tomohiro Ishii. On September 23 at Destruction in Okayama, Takahashi made his first successful defense of the NEVER Openweight Championship against former Chaos stablemate Yoshi-Hashi. On October 13 at King of Pro-Wrestling, Takahashi lost the title back to Ishii in his second defense. The following month, Takahashi entered the 2014 World Tag League, alongside A.J. Styles. Despite a win over the reigning IWGP Tag Team Champions, Bullet Club stablemates Doc Gallows and Karl Anderson, Takahashi and Styles failed to advance from their block with a record of four wins and three losses due to losing to Kazuchika Okada and Yoshi-Hashi on the final day. During 2015, Takahashi took part in the 2015 New Japan Cup and 2015 G1 Climax tournaments, making it to the second round in the former and finishing the latter with a record of three wins and six losses.

On January 4, 2016, at Wrestle Kingdom 10 in Tokyo Dome, Takahashi took part in a match to determine the inaugural NEVER Openweight 6-Man Tag Team Champions, where he and his Bullet Club stablemates Bad Luck Fale and Tama Tonga were defeated by Jay Briscoe, Mark Briscoe and Toru Yano. On February 11 at The New Beginning in Osaka, Takahashi, Fale and Tonga defeated the Briscoes and Yano in a rematch to win the NEVER Openweight 6-Man Tag Team Championship. After a three-day reign, the three lost the title back to the Briscoes and Yano at The New Beginning in Niigata. Takahashi unsuccessfully tried to regain the title with Fale and Kenny Omega, but the three were defeated by Hiroshi Tanahashi, Michael Elgin and Yoshitatsu on April 23. On August 14, Takahashi teamed with Bullet Club's newest member, Hangman Page, to unsuccessfully challenge Jay and Mark Briscoe for the IWGP Tag Team Championship. From November 18 to December 7, Takahashi and Page participated in the 2016 World Tag League, where they finished second in block A with record of four wins and three losses, thus failing to advance to the final. On January 4, 2017,at Wrestle Kingdom 11 in Tokyo Dome, Takahashi, along with Fale and Page, participated in the first NEVER Openweight 6-Man Tag Team Championship gauntlet match representing Bullet Club, however, the team was unsuccessful in winning the title after Takahashi was submitted by Sanada, who would go on to win the match along with Los Ingobernables de Japón. On March 12, 2017, Takahashi entered the 2017 New Japan Cup, facing Juice Robinson, where he was defeated, failing to advance into the second round. In September 2017, Takahashi would begin to feud with Beretta, who had recently announced that the Roppongi Vice tag team with partner Rocky Romero would be disbanded and the former would graduate to the heavyweight division soon. The two would face of in tag matches throughout the Destruction 2017 tour, with Takahashi emerging victorious after each match. On September 16, 2017 at Destruction in Hiroshima, Takahashi along with Bullet Club stablemate Chase Owens were defeated by Roppongi Vice in their final match together. Post-match, Takahashi took to the mic, telling Beretta to return to the junior heavyweight division, claiming that the heavyweight division was too tough for him, and challenged him to a singles match, which was accepted by Beretta. The match took place one week later at Destruction in Kobe on September 24, 2017, where Beretta defeated Takahashi, culminating their feud in the process. From November 18 to December 11, 2017, Takahashi teamed up with Page once again for the 2