[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of slavery in Kentucky

laves revolted and killed the five white men and threw their bodies overboard. The 75 slaves, males and females of various ages, attempted to escape into Indiana, which had become a state in 1816 with a constitution that prohibited slavery, though there were both free Blacks and slaves in the state.

There were also active Underground Railroad stations in Indiana, two of which were along the Ohio River bordering Kentucky and near Breckinridge County, Kentucky. In 1824, Indiana passed one of the earliest forms of a fugitive slave law. The slaves who had escaped from the flatboat were fugitives, property that could be reclaimed. Fifty-six of the slaves were captured and returned to Kentucky to be lodged in the Hardinsburg (Breckinridge County) jail. A Baltimore newspaper reported that some of the slaves were brought to Maryland and sold. Three of the slaves supposedly admitted taking part in the revolt. Nothing is known or has ever been written about the 19 slaves who escaped, nor has it been acknowledged that there were slaves on the flatboat who made their way to freedom. Five of the captured slaves were hanged: their names, the only names given to any of the slaves in the newspapers, were Jo, Duke, Resin, Stephen, and Wesley. One other slave named Roseberry's Jim is mentioned in the Village Register newspaper. According to the article, five of the slaves were hanged; forty-seven were sold; the remainder was brought back to Bourbon County.

Later, in August 1848, a group of 55 to 75 armed slaves fled from Fayette County and the surrounding areas in what is considered one of the largest coordinated slave escape attempts in American history. A white man named Patrick Doyle was suspected to have agreed to guide the slaves to freedom in Ohio in exchange for payment from each slave.  The slaves made their way through Kentucky until they reached Bracken County, where they were stopped by around 100 armed men with General Lucius B. Desha (1812–1885) from Harrison County leading them.

As a result of the altercation, around 40 of the escaped slaves fled to the woods while the rest, including Patrick Doyle, were arrested. The slaves were subsequently returned to their enslavers while Doyle was sent to a state penitentiary for 20 years by the Fayette Circuit Court.

Abolitionism

The abolition movement developed in the state by the 1790s, when Presbyterian minister David Rice unsuccessfully lobbied to include a slavery prohibition in each of the state's first two constitutions, created in 1792 and 1799. Baptist ministers David Barrow and Carter Tarrant formed the Kentucky Abolition Society in 1808.  By 1822, it began publishing one of America's first anti-slavery periodicals.

Conservative emancipation, which argued for gradually freeing the slaves and assisting them in a return to Africa, as proposed by the American Colonization Society, gained substantial support in the state from the 1820s onward. Cassius Marcellus Clay was a vocal advocate of this position. His newspaper was shut down by mob action in 1845. The anti-slavery Louisville Examiner was published successfully from 1847 to 1849.

Politics

In Kentucky as was common in other parts of the Upper South, slavery was not as integral to the economy as it developed in the Deep South. The small-farm nature of much of Kentucky and whose plantations were based around tobacco like those in Virginia and North Carolina instead of cotton, meant that slave labor was not so critical to profits as it was for the labor-intensive crops of the Deep South, such as cotton, sugar, and rice farming. But Louisville became a major slave market in the South, which generated considerable profits.

Controversial laws in 1815 and 1833 limited the importation of slaves into Kentucky, which created the strictest rules of any slave state. The Nonimportation Act of 1833 banned any importation of slaves for commercial or personal purpose. The ban was widely violated, especially in counties near the Tennessee border.

Slavery was the principal issue that led to the third constitutional convention held in 1849. While the convention was convened by anti-slavery advocates who hoped to amend the constitution to prohibit slavery, they greatly underestimated pro-slavery support.  The convention became packed with pro-slavery delegates, who drafted what some historians consider the most pro-slavery constitution in United States history. It repealed the prohibition on bringing slaves into the state.