[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# American Miners' Association

rade was easily controlled through organization without assistance from other districts.  Secondly, each district had its own market and therefore created no competition.   Although easily accomplished, these unions only lasted a short period of time due to public scrutiny and internal difficulties.

The need for local organization was a result of several factors. First, because the only means of transportation for coal during this period was river transportation, mining was a seasonal occupation. Coal mining was generally done by experienced hands in the spring and fall, and was transported in the summer. During the winter season, however, the only work for miners was domestic coal. In order to cut wages, employers employed inexperienced and unskilled farm hands in the mines. This resulted in competition within the mining workforce because farm hands were paid less, which resulted in starvation of miners.

Another reason for the failure of local unions was due to a policy that required corporations to eliminate labor leaders from their ranks.  They did this by offering incentives to labor leaders. These included higher wages and promotions to superintendents. This method was successful in several localities and played a prominent role in the dismantling of local unions.

The final reason for the failure of local unions was still relevant during the organization of the national union. Public scrutiny made it almost impossible for miners to take a step forward in industrial advancement because they were always faced with adverse public opinion that was generated by the corporate employers that employed them. This section will be further explained in the “Fall of the Organization” section of this wiki.

Formation of the American Miners' Association

The formation of the American Miners’ Association was largely the work of British miners who were accustomed to better work conditions and labor rights than their American counterpart. When Daniel Weaver and Thomas Lloyd, two Chartist veterans, immigrated into the United States, they quickly attempted to build a national organization in Belleville Tract, Illinois. These former Chartist's discussed the benefits that were to be derived from the organization and urged representatives of miners from Illinois and Missouri to join in the formation.  The initial success of this national union was largely due to Daniel Weaver's To the Miners of the United States, in which he laid out several arguments in favor of unionism and provided a date and location for the January 1861 Convention. It was during this convention that Daniel Weaver showcased his constitution for the union, which was adopted and printed, and maintained the rules and laws of the organization, as well as the duties of the executive officers to protect the miners from their employers.

To the Miners of the United States

To the Miners of the United States was a call for representatives, mainly from Illinois and Missouri, to meet at a convention in St. Louis, Missouri, on January 28, 1861, with the goal to organize a national union. Daniel Weaver made several arguments in favor for a union, but most of them had one common theme, which was that unity was essential for the attainment of rights and to improve and alleviate their current condition.  By using the union as a “fundamental principle,” the address argued that men could do more together united, than alone.  This was well displayed in the preface of the constitution, which will be provided in the following section. Along with labor rights and legislative protection for their safety, interest, and well-being of their families, the address also provided a section that urged individuals of the important to mutually instruct and improve their own knowledge.  By arguing that knowledge is power, the address argued the importance for individuals to study the law of life, relations of capital to labor, politics, municipal affairs, literature, science, and other subject relating to the general warfare of their craft. This was perhaps a mechanism to alleviate the public scrutiny that labeled them as ill-mannered individuals, and as a result, achieve support from the public.

Constitution

The preface of the constitution included a poem that demonstrated helplessness and the sentiments that ran through the mineworkers and demonstrated how a strong organization would support them.

“Step by step, the longest march
Can be won, can be won; 
Single stones will form an arch, 
One by one, one by one, 
Andy by union, what we will
Can be all accomplished still. 
Drops of water turn a mill--
Singly none, singly none.”