[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# 1928 Democratic National Convention

The 1928 Democratic National Convention was held at Sam Houston Hall in Houston, Texas, June 26–28, 1928. The keynote speaker was Claude G. Bowers. The convention resulted in the nomination of Governor Alfred E. Smith of New York for president and Senator Joseph T. Robinson of Arkansas for vice president.

The convention was the first held by either party in the South since the Civil War. It was also the first to nominate a Roman Catholic for president, Al Smith. The Texas delegation, led by Governor Dan Moody, was vehemently opposed to Smith. Therefore, when Smith was nominated, they rallied against his anti-prohibition sentiment by fighting for a "dry", prohibitionist platform. Ultimately, the convention pledged "honest enforcement of the Constitution".

Smith became the first Democrat since Reconstruction to lose more than one southern state in the general election, due to his "wet" stance, his opposition to the Ku Klux Klan, and his Catholicism.

The election was held in very hot summer weather in a venue without air conditioning.

Presidential nomination

Presidential candidates 

Other candidates for the nomination possibly included:
 James T. Heflin, U.S. senator from Alabama
 William G. McAdoo, former Treasury Secretary from California
 Edwin T. Meredith, former Agriculture Secretary from Indiana
 Henry T. Rainey, U.S. representative from Illinois
 Thomas J. Walsh, U.S. senator from Montana

Presidential Balloting / 3rd Day of Convention (June 28, 1928)

Vice Presidential nomination

Vice Presidential candidates 

Joseph T. Robinson was chosen as the vice presidential nominee.

Other candidates for the nomination possibly included:
 Gilbert Hitchcock, former senator from Nebraska
 Joseph Reed, senator from Missouri
 Atlee Pomerene former senator from Ohio
 Cordell Hull, Congressman from Tennessee
 John H. Taylor

Vice Presidential Balloting / 3rd Day of Convention (June 28, 1928)

See also
Democratic Party presidential primaries, 1928
List of Democratic National Conventions
U.S. presidential nomination convention
1928 United States presidential election 
1928 Republican National Convention
History of the United States Democratic Party

References

External links 
 Governor Moody and the "Dry" Platform
 Democratic Party Platform of 1928 at The American Presidency Project
 Smith Nomination Acceptance Speech for President at DNC (transcript) at The American Presidency Project

Democratic National Conventions
Democratic
Conventions in Houston
Conventions in Texas
Political events in Texas
Texas Democratic Party
1928 United States presidential election
1928 in Texas
1928 conferences
June 1928 events
Al Smith
1920s political conferences