[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Battle of Lima Site 85

llivan considered evacuating all US personnel from the facility at first light. However, officers of the Seventh Air Force contacted the US Embassy in Laos and indicated that evacuation should only occur as the last resort, when the situation on top of Phou Pha Thi was no longer under their control.

At 21:21 the PAVN resumed their artillery attack on Phou Pha Thi, followed by several infantry assaults by the PAVN 766th Regiment, which prompted Sullivan to order the evacuation of six technicians by 08:15 the next morning, from a contingent of 19 US personnel. Starting at 01:00 on 11 March, the PAVN moved into their assigned positions to launch their attack. About 02:00, a US adviser at the airstrip reported to Secord and CIA officers at Udorn that he heard gunfire on top of Phou Pha Thi, and communication with US technicians at Lima Site 85 was cut off. Afterwards, Secord briefed US A-1 Skyraider pilots in Thailand on the situation at Lima Site 85, to familiarize them with friendly positions around the facility, so they could cover the evacuation of US personnel and support the Hmong counterattack.

About 03:00 Cell 1 moved to within  of their objective, with Cell 5 positioned behind them. At the same time, the commander of Cell 4 decided to maneuver his unit to the west side of the airstrip instead of the east side as originally planned, because the terrain on the east side was higher and was covered by buildings. Precisely at 03:45, Cell 1 moved to within  of the communications center, when they bumped into a Hmong outpost. Both sides exchanged fire, and the outpost was destroyed by a grenade while the Hmong soldier guarding the post retreated. Shortly after, a soldier from Cell 1 fired an RPG-7 grenade which destroyed the TACAN antenna. Within 15 minutes, Cells 1 and 2 had secured the communications site. Signaled by the explosion of Cell 1's RPG-7 round, Cell 3 immediately attacked the TACAN installation by firing one of their own RPG-7s, which destroyed the electric generators.

Upon hearing the noise of explosions, the on-duty US technicians rushed out the front door of their operations building where they were met by PAVN gunfire. Blanton, the US commander at Lima Site 85, was killed alongside two other US technicians. Those who were not killed retreated to the west side of the mountain, where they hid on the edge of the cliff. From their hideout, the US technicians fired on the North Vietnamese with their M16s and hand grenades. At 04:15, in response to the gunfire from the US technicians, Muc ordered Cell 5 to reinforce Cell 3, and they captured the TACAN installation at 04:30 after 45 minutes of fighting. Meanwhile, Cell 4 had great difficulties in their attempt to seize the airstrip, where they were blocked by a Hmong mortar position. Le Ba Chom, the commander of Cell 4, was isolated from the other three soldiers of his cell. To avoid being captured alive by the numerically superior Hmong forces, Chom and his soldiers held onto their position and fought till daybreak.

Raven Forward Air Controllers at Lima Site 20A, being the nearest available American support, were awakened by a radio call about 04:00. They flew in the dark to Lima Strip 36 at Na Khang to position themselves at the airstrip closest to Lima Site 85. The Ravens took up station over Lima Site 85 at dawn. At 05:15 Sullivan, from the US Embassy in Vientiane, decided to evacuate Lima Site 85. He gave a signal to US pilots at Udorn to begin the operation, which was due to start at 07:15. Sullivan did not realize that US technicians were no longer in control of their TSQ-81 equipment. Starting around 06:00, Pao's Hmong soldiers launched a counterattack against PAVN positions at the communication center, which was guarded by Cells 1 and 2, but their attacks were repelled and the PAVN held their positions. With the final Hmong counterattack on the communication site defeated at 06:25, Cell 2 was ordered to support Cells 3 and 5 in their fight at the main TACAN installation. By 06:35, the PAVN fully controlled the TACAN site. At the airstrip, Cell 4 was encircled by an estimated two Hmong platoons, but Chom and his unit were able to fight their way out by taking full advantage of rough terrain which favored them. Later, Cell 4 linked up with other units at the TACAN site.