[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Martin Agronsky

on multiple occasions, with King notably outlining his nonviolence beliefs and faith in God on Look Here. Also speaking on God, an answer Kennedy gave to Agronsky on his faith – that he would "uphold the Constitution" above all – became a prolific quote he used throughout his presidential campaign.

Agronsky covered the Eichmann trial, of Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann, in Jerusalem in 1961 for nine months from start to finish, for which he won the Alfred I. duPont–Columbia University Award. Agronsky's reports were broadcast daily in a segment of the Huntley-Brinkley Report at 6:30a.m. as special reports; he interviewed Holocaust survivors as well as figures of interest in Israel and Germany. There was much media attention given to the trial, but typically on the wider implications, with little focus on the case of Eichmann: Agronsky's updates, including a verdict interview on the Today show, were atypical in their regularity. Agronsky called the assignment the "most moving" story of his career. While in Jerusalem, he spoke to friend Richard C. Blum, expressing his stress; Blum said that Agronsky was the go-to reporter in D.C. for Israel affairs. Also in 1961, Agronsky interviewed Freedom Riders in the United States as the group was formed, and covered the Vienna summit.

In December 1962, Agronsky and a film crew underwent Navy training and joined the submariners of the USS George Washington, part of the American Polaris program, undersea for almost three weeks during operational duty to film the documentary Polaris Submarine: Journal of an Undersea Voyage. It won a variety of awards, including a documentary award, the St Mark's Plaque – First Prize, at the 1963 Venice Film Festival.

Agronsky began television coverage of the March on Washington in August 1963, at 8:30a.m. on Today, giving a half-hour report. Coverage then continued in different bursts across networks; Agronsky reported with Nancy Dickerson from the Washington Monument during the day. This same month, NBC wrote that Agronsky's "incisive questioning of Cabinet members[,] Congressmen and other
Washington [D.C.] officials, as well as visiting statesmen from abroad, often results in important newsbreaks in the next day's papers." Later in 1963, Agronsky was given special permission to travel to Moscow to report on nuclear discussions, after NBC had been banned. Upon his return, he gave audiences his opinions on US foreign policy based on what he had witnessed, saying in such a global political climate, no country could remain a bystander, encouraging the general population to not be apathetic.

1963: Assassination of John F. Kennedy
In the four-day aftermath of the assassination of president John F. Kennedy, Agronsky was one of the senior journalists to lead the large television news coverage. The coverage invented the breaking format of modern television news. Sociologists from Columbia University, led by Herbert Gans, interviewed a selection of the on-air journalists covering the assassination shortly afterwards to assess its affects; many were questioned about showing emotion. Agronsky's response, saying a journalist cannot show emotion as it would be imposing feelings on the viewer, was later said to typify the view of the issue at the time. When pressed further on the matter by Gans, Agronsky added: "I wanted to cry, but you don't". He was reported to be smoking as he delivered reports from Washington, D.C., during the coverage, while hiding his cigarettes from the camera.

Historian William Manchester wrote that shortly after the shooting, Agronsky telephoned Ted Kennedy to ask if he would be flying from D.C. to Dallas, one of limited communications Ted Kennedy received in the aftermath of his brother's assassination due to telephone lines overloading as people tried to call others to talk about the news. Agronsky covered Kennedy's lying in state on the Today show. He noted that he had also covered the funeral of Franklin D. Roosevelt, describing the different mood by explaining that people mourning Kennedy seemed moved by his unfulfilled potential. On November 27, 1963, five days after the assassination, Agronsky conducted an interview with Texas governor John Connally from his bedside in Parkland Memorial Hospital. Connally, to whom Agronsky was a good friend, had been riding in the seat ahead of Kennedy and was wounded. As Connally recovered, the press were desperate to hear his story, but his aides deemed him too weak to face a conference. Instead, the combined press accepted the proposal to use a single reporter as a pool, with all networks carrying the interview live. Connally's office chose Agronsky to be their reporter; he was found in Arlington National Cemetery late the night before and took a midnight flight to Dallas.