[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Port Militarization Resistance

tempting to block the convoys leaving the port grounds.  Protest participants reported police used excessive force that evening.  On the evening of November 8, another individual was arrested, this time for trespassing after he had successfully bluffed his way past the Port of Olympia security gate.

Beginning 3:00 pm on Friday, November 9, around 40 protesters established a human blockade of all traffic in and out of the port for the rest of the day and into Saturday.  This traffic included at least two trucks with military equipment. One truck driver reportedly tried to push his way through the line of protesters, but was unable.  Protesters began erecting physical barricades on the roads, using fences, signs, garbage bins and cinder blocks, in an attempt to continue the blockade of the port through the night.  The Olympia police, citing lack of personnel, did not respond until the next morning.

At 9:45 am on Saturday, November 10, Olympia police began to clear the front gate of protesters.  Police began deploying pepper spray, pushing people with batons, and at times even picked up and threw people out of the road.  Activists reported police sprayed people directly in the eyes, and even removed protesters' goggles to do so.  Reports indicate several bystanders were also hit with pepper spray for law-abiding behavior.  Protest participants reported police covered their badge numbers, and taunted protesters as they deployed pepper spray.  Police claim several warnings to disperse were given, citing their actions as their last resort.

Once the protest was broken up at the port gate, many participants took up similar tactics in intersections in downtown Olympia.  Protesters clogged the intersection of 4th and Plum with dumpsters, cinder blocks, garbage cans, and newspaper boxes.  Other intersections were similarly blocked as well.  The debris was eventually cleared by Olympia police, and the trucks were able to reach the Interstate.  During this time, several protesters locked down in PVC pipes at the onramp to Interstate 5.  While the activists sat, locked down, Olympia police shot pepper balls at them.  Police later sawed through the PVC pipes and cleared the road.  12 people were arrested.

Sunday, November 11, brought more pepper spray and three more arrests.  Members of PMR attempted to lay flowers at the port gate in honor of the 48 soldiers from the Stryker division who had died during their deployment, but were shoved back with police batons.  That evening, the Olympia City Council hosted a standing-room-only public forum on the police response to the protests.

On or around November 12, an unidentified individual poured concrete over the only rail line leading out of the Port of Olympia.  An anonymous individual posted a warning of the concrete, recommending all rail traffic out of the port be suspended until the concrete is removed.  Olympia police report the concrete was cleaned up without incident.

At 9:00 am on Tuesday, November 13, convoys attempted to resume leaving the port grounds.  A truck carrying military equipment, attempting to elude waiting protesters, drove so close behind another truck with non-military cargo that it nearly rear-ended it.  Demonstrators were still able to obstruct the truck, and it was forced to return to the port grounds.  Demonstrators maintained this road blockade throughout the day.

That evening, the blockade was maintained by the Women's Caucus of Port Militarization Resistance.  While 39 women maintained the roadblock, men in PMR reportedly defended them from verbal assaults from counter-demonstrators.  During this blockade, one soldier assigned to drive the convoys refused to do so, and asked demonstrators to drive him back to Fort Lewis.

When police arrived to break up the blockade that evening, they began by pulling participants away one by one, but then began to use pepper spray to force the crowd to disperse.  Reports also indicate two concussion grenades were thrown into the crowd.  43 protesters were arrested.

Once the protest at the port gate was dispersed, protesters again took their efforts to downtown Olympia.  Protesters again attempted to blockade the convoys in downtown with dumpsters and newspaper boxes.  Some participants threw rocks through windows of police cars and banks.  One police officer was struck in the knee with a rock by a protester.

No convoys left the port on November 14.  The final trucks left the port on November 15.  5 more demonstrators were arrested that day, and several others were pepper sprayed.  PMR concluded the evening with a 100-person candlelight vigil in downtown Olympia.  The final event of the protests was a 350-person march through downtown Olympia on November 17. Rail cars containing the final equipment from the shipment left the port on November 28 without further incident.