[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jean Lee (murderer)

Jean Lee (10 December 1919 – 19 February 1951) was an Australian murderer who, together with her lover Robert Clayton and accomplice Norman Andrews, was convicted for the 1949 killing of William 'Pop' Kent, an SP bookmaker from the Melbourne suburb of Carlton. The victim was bound to a chair, tortured with the aim of finding hidden money, and finally strangled. All three were convicted and sentenced to death in March 1950. They were hanged eleven months later at Pentridge Gaol. Lee was the last woman to be executed in Australia.

Biography

Early life
Jean Lee was born Marjorie Jean Maude Wright in Dubbo, New South Wales, on 10 December 1919, the youngest child of Charles Wright and Florence (née Peacock). Marjorie's father was a railway worker and the Wright family was described as "highly respectable". In 1927, the family re-located to the Sydney suburb of Chatswood, where Marjorie attended Chatswood Public School, a convent in North Sydney and Willoughby Central Domestic High School.

Marjorie learned shorthand and typing in her last few years at school, though she did not sit her Intermediate certificate examinations. Her first job was as an office junior at a motor company on William Street in Chatswood. She had a number of subsequent jobs as a milliner, a stenographer and a labourer in a canned-goods factory.

Marriage
In March 1938 Marjorie, aged 18, married a house-painter named Raymond Brees, who was seven years her senior and had reportedly known her "since girlhood". The marriage was beset by financial difficulties, as Brees was regularly unemployed and drinking heavily. In July 1939, several months after Marjorie had given birth to a daughter, Brees was convicted of auto theft and received three months' suspended sentence, subject to a two-year good behaviour bond. Following the start of Second World War, Brees enlisted in the Second Australian Imperial Force, serving in the 1st Australian Heavy Anti-Aircraft Artillery Training Regiment. He was subject to court-martial proceedings in August 1944.

Between 1942 and 1943, Marjorie and Brees separated. As a single mother, Marjorie struggled to provide for herself and her daughter; she eventually entrusted the care of the child to her mother. Towards the end of 1942, Marjorie travelled by overnight train to Brisbane and found a job as a waitress at Lennon's Hotel.

Prostitution

In late 1943, towards the end of her period in Brisbane, Marjorie met a man named Morris Dias, described as "a superficially charming but vicious petty criminal". She lived "precariously" with Dias for about three years, moving with him to Sydney and then Adelaide. In February 1944, the couple flew to Perth and booked into a hotel under the surname 'Pearce'.

On 8 March 1944, two detectives interviewed Marjorie at a house on Newcastle Street in Perth. She initially told them her name was 'H. Pearce', but when further questioned she divulged her true identity; she was subsequently charged with using a false name and fined two pounds. Dias was himself prosecuted for using a false name and an older charge of vagrancy, from when he had brought a prostitute named Wilson from Queensland to Western Australia in late 1939 and stayed in Kalgoorlie for three months. He was convicted of the old charge, but released on a £50 good behaviour bond.

Marjorie and Dias remained in Perth for about eleven months, a period in which she "first began to take to drink" and Dias started occasionally "bashing her about". When later asked why she didn't leave Dias, she responded: "It wasn't easy during the war to get away from Perth."  When they eventually left in 1945, they travelled to Sydney. Soon after their arrival, Dias was arrested on outstanding charges. Marjorie was forced to work as a prostitute to pay for her lover's "bails and other things".

Marjorie worked in the Kings Cross and Darlinghurst areas of Sydney, with Dias as her protector or 'bludger' (Australian underworld slang for a person who lives on the earnings of a prostitute). She worked on the streets, or occasionally in a brothel, and was earning between £15 and £20 a night. She used numerous aliases in multiple encounters with police for 'offensive behaviour' (prostitution), including 'Jean Lee'. Between May 1945 and July 1948, she appeared at Sydney's Central Police Court on twenty-three separate occasions.

In 1946, Lee and Dias left Sydney for Tasmania, probably in an effort to escape police attention. There, Lee ended her relationship with Dias and returned to Sydney. She resumed working as a prostitute and was drinking heavily. In August 1946, she got a job as a barmaid in the Liverpool Arms Hotel, at the corner of Pitt and King streets, and was working behind the bar during the day and in a brothel at night. It was during this period of her life that she met Robert Clayton.