[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Museum of Nuclear Science & History

The National Museum of Nuclear Science & History (formerly named National Atomic Museum) is a national repository of nuclear science information chartered by the 102nd United States Congress under Public Law 102-190, and located in unincorporated Bernalillo County, New Mexico, with an Albuquerque postal address. It is adjacent to both the Albuquerque city limits and Kirtland Air Force Base.

"The mission of the National Atomic Museum is to serve as America's resource for nuclear history and science. The museum presents exhibits and quality educational programs that convey the diversity of individuals and events that shape the historical and technical context of the nuclear age."

History 

The museum was initially sited in 1969 on the grounds of Sandia Base (now Kirtland Air Force Base) in an old 90 mm anti-aircraft gun repair facility, and named "Sandia Atomic Museum". It was the result of a six-year effort to establish a museum to tell the story of the base and the development of nuclear weapons. It was staffed by United States Air Force (USAF) personnel with help from Sandia National Laboratories (SNL). In 1973, the museum's name changed to "National Atomic Museum", but it did not yet have a national charter.

In 1985, the United States Department of Energy (DOE) became responsible for the museum, and the staff became DOE employees. In 1991 the museum received its charter as a national museum, and its mission expanded to include aspects of nuclear science and history beyond manufacturing nuclear weapons. The museum also became affiliated with the Smithsonian Institution. In 1992 the National Atomic Museum Foundation (NAMF) was a non-profit organization created to run and fund the museum and reduce the financial burden on taxpayers.
DOE transferred the museum operation to SNL in 1995, and Museum staff became SNL employees.

After the terror attacks in September 2001, increased security restricted public access to the museum's on-base site and forced relocation to a former REI store in Old Town Albuquerque's museum district. In 2005, SNL transferred operational responsibility to NAMF. SNL employees working as museum staff moved to other positions within Sandia. The museum hired new staff who became employees of NAMF.

When the museum relocated to Albuquerque's museum district, the site had inadequate space for outdoor exhibits. In January 2005, NAMF asked DOE/NNSA (National Nuclear Security Administration) for 12 acres (4.9 ha) of land at the intersection of Eubank and Southern Boulevards in southeast Albuquerque for construction of a new museum. In October 2006, a formal Land Use Agreement was signed with SNL as Grantor and NAMF as Grantee. The museum broke ground and began construction, with staff documenting its construction project via a blog and a Flickr gallery where photos were posted weekly to show the building's progress.

The new museum opened on April 4, 2009, in its new location under the new name National Museum of Nuclear Science & History.

Funding for construction came from multiple sources, including:
 $5 million in Federal funds for design and construction
 $1 million transferred from the State of New Mexico to the City of Albuquerque for infrastructure
 $2.63 million from corporations
 $25,000 from foundations
 $500,000 from individual contributions

The new facility incorporates 16 permanent indoor exhibit areas, two classrooms, a theater, a combined library and conference room, a gallery for temporary exhibits, and the Museum's store in 30,000 sq ft (0.28 ha). of space. The site provides nine acres (3.6 ha) of outdoor space for exhibits of military aircraft, missiles, vehicles, and the sail of the  nuclear submarine.

Museum operating costs of approximately $1.8M annually are provided by NAMF through earned and contributed revenues associated with the operation of the museum from admissions, NAMF memberships, grants, summer camps, events/rentals, and Museum store proceeds. A contract for services between Sandia National Laboratories and NAMF exists as well.

Exhibits and displays 

Section source: NMoNSH

The Museum is dedicated to preserving and presenting information about scientific, historical, and cultural aspects of the Atomic Age. Permanent exhibits focus on the following:

Pioneers of the Atom – An interactive display that introduces the individuals who questioned and defined the matter which makes up the universe. Visitors can use the interactive kiosk to trace the study of the atom.

World War II – A display that teaches the history leading up to the creation and use of the atomic bomb and the countries that became involved.