[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Desert Punk

ich he recently procured as part of a mercenary contract. Despite this and other similar actions, she remains an object of Kanta's desires, which she uses to further manipulate him. Despite often working closely together, the series never confirms if she and Desert Punk become romantically intimate.

A male rival of Desert Punk, he is depicted as an equal match for him in combat. He is renowned as a fearsome debt collector who is rumored to collect even the souls of his targets. While he has earned his reputation through forceful tactics, he is not against running away when he is at a disadvantage, however often his seeming retreats are merely feints from which he soon unexpectedly returns.

Sister of the Machine Gun Brothers, she was a childhood friend of Kanta. She is a proficient hand-to-hand combatant and the current idol of Kosuna.

Media

Manga
Desert Punk, written and illustrated by Masatoshi Usune, began serialization in Enterbrain's Comic Beam manga magazine on August 5, 1997. Twenty-two bound volumes have been released in Japan as of November 2020. In June 2020, it was revealed that Desert Punk would end in two chapters. In August 2020, it was announced that the final chapter would be published in October. On October 12, 2020, Desert Punk finished after 23 years of publication.

Anime
A 24-episode anime television series adaptation produced by Gonzo was broadcast in Japan from October 5, 2004 to March 29, 2005. In North America, Funimation acquired the series in 2005. From episodes 1-12, the first opening theme is "Sand Mission" by Hideaki Takatori while the English version is by Gary Eckert. The first ending theme is "Sunabōzu Ekaki Uta" ("How to Draw Sunabōzu") by Hideaki Takatori. From episodes 12-23, the second opening theme is "Destiny of the Desert" by Yuka while the second ending theme is # "Shinkirō" ("Mirage") by Yuka. The third opening theme is "Shinkirō" ("Mirage") by Yuka while the third ending theme is "Sand Mission" by Hideaki Takatori. The English version is by Gary Eckert.

References

External links
Funimation's official English website

1997 manga
2004 anime television series debuts
Adventure anime and manga
Anime series based on manga
Comedy anime and manga
Comics set in deserts
Enterbrain manga
Funimation
Gonzo (company)
Kadokawa Dwango franchises
Odex
Post-apocalyptic anime and manga
Seinen manga