[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# İbrahim Hakkı Erzurumi

Ibrahim Hakki Erzurumi (18 May 1703 – 22 June 1780), a popular Turkish Sufi saint of the Ottoman Empire from Erzurum in eastern Anatolia who was a polymath, mystic, poet, author, astronomer, physicist, physician, psychologist, sociologist, philosopher, Hanafi Maturidi Islamic scholar and encyclopedist.

Life and Works

Having lost his mother and later his father at an early age, Ibrahim Hakkı was raised by his uncle who educated him for a while. He met the Ottoman Sultan Mahmut I at istanbul in 1747. He returned to Erzurum, and was continuously interested in religious and scientific matters. Having written 15 books in the manzum and regular styles and a great number in Turkish, Arabic, and Persian languages, amongst Ibrahim Hakki's most important works are the Divan and Marifetname.

In 1756 he published Marifetname (Book of Gnosis), a compilation and commentary on astronomy, mathematics, anatomy, psychology, philosophy, and Islamic mysticism. It is famous for containing the first treatment of post-Copernican astronomy by a Muslim scholar ('ālim). Marifetname contains tasawwuf knowledge along with a wide range of general scientific and encyclopedic knowledge. Completed in 1757, the book was written in the language of the layman. According to the author, it was compiled from 400 books. 

Marifetname is a first in the explanation of observational astronomy of the Solar System by a scholar in a book. An English translation was published in 2010.

He died and was buried in Tillo of Siirt Province.

Theology
Core to Erzurumi's philosophy is that self-examination is absolutely necessary as part of the process of discovering God: 

He is widely quoted for saying, "If we take one step towards Allah, He will come running to meet us," which is derived from a hadith qudsi.

Notes
 Hadith Qudsi 15. On the authority of Abu Hurayrah, who said that the Prophet, Allah bless him and give him peace, said: Allah the Almighty said: "I am as My servant thinks I am. I am with him when he makes mention of Me. If he makes mention of Me to himself, I make mention of him to Myself; and if he makes mention of Me in an assembly, I make mention of him in an assembly better than it. And if he draws near to Me an arm's length, I draw near to him a fathom's length. And if he comes to Me walking, I go to him at speed." Narrated by al-Bukhari, Muslim, al-Tirmidhi and Ibn Majah.

References

External links
İbrahim Hakkı Erzurumi (in Turkish)

 https://plus.google.com/collection/YNLbsB

Encyclopedists from the Ottoman Empire
Scientists from the Ottoman Empire
Philosophers from the Ottoman Empire
Astronomers from the Ottoman Empire
Sufi saints from the Ottoman Empire
Islamic mysticism
Islamic philosophers
1703 births
1780 deaths
18th-century astronomers
Hanafis
Maturidis
18th-century physicians from the Ottoman Empire