[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Russian military presence in Transnistria

Moldova once the problem of liquidating the 14th Army's armament depots was solved. Complicating the withdrawal is the necessity to transit the armaments through Ukraine, which has had a hostile relationship after the Russian annexation of Crimea and the Russian invasion of eastern Ukraine in 2014.

On 27 June 2016, a new law entered in force in Transnistria, punishing actions or public statements, including through the usage of mass media, networks of information and telecommunications or internet criticizing the so-called peacekeeping mission of the Russian Army in Transnistria, or presenting interpretations perceived to be "false" by the Transnistrian government of the Russian Army's military mission. The punishment is up to three years of jail for ordinary people or up to seven years of jail if the crime was committed by a person of responsibility or a group of persons by prior agreement.

On 22 June 2018, UN General Assembly adopted resolution (document A/72/L.58), which urged the Russian Federation to unconditionally withdraw its troops and armaments without delay from the territory of the Republic of Moldova.

To this day, Moldova continues to request the withdrawal of the Russian troops from Transnistria, having done so as recently as in 2021. Furthermore, in 2022, amid an increase in tensions between Ukraine and Russia which served as a prelude to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, allegations by Ukrainian intelligence appeared that said Russia was trying to prepare "provocations" against the Russian soldiers in Transnistria in order to create a pretext for an invasion of Ukraine.

See also
 Military history of the Russian Federation
 Russian people's militias in Ukraine
 Russian-occupied territories
 Russian-occupied territories in Georgia
 Russian-occupied territories of Ukraine

References

 Dnestriansky, I. The 14th Russian Army in the Transnistria Conflict. "Art of War". 26 April 2011

Transnistria War
Transnistria conflict
Politics of Moldova
Transnistria
Politics of Transnistria
Transnistria
Transnistria
History of Transnistria since 1991
Moldova–Russia relations
Russia–Transnistria relations