[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tianjin Massacre

to the port. It further said that Consul Fontanier and his aide M. Simon had been killed when the mob stormed the French consulate. The mob then proceeded to the mission property next door, which housed the recently completed Church of Our Lady of Victory, the presbytery, the convent, and orphanage.

The riot only ended after a number of Catholic institutions and foreign buildings, including the Tientsin Cathedral and four British and American churches, were burned down. As well as the two French Consular officials, two Lazarist priests, and approximately 40 Chinese Christians were killed, as were three Russian traders assumed by the mob to be French.  A jar of pickled onions found was claimed to be the eyes torn from children. Ten nuns of the Daughters of Charity were raped and mutilated by the crowd before being killed. The final death toll of the riot was given at around 60.

Aftermath
The Chinese government immediately condemned the riot. Foreign gunboats were sent to restore order to the legations of Tianjin, with reparations and reprisals demanded by the European governments. Chinese negotiations to mitigate the damage were led by the aging statesman Zeng Guofan. The situation was more complex than Zeng originally thought; he interrogated the orphans, who denied they had been kidnapped, and proclaimed the nuns innocent. Foldable hand fans began to appear depicting the murder of the French Consul near the door of the church as political propaganda expressing resistance to Western countries and their religions. Europeans were incensed and demanded punishment against the riot's ringleaders. Zeng had eighteen Chinese instigators (or scapegoats, depending on who tells the history) executed and removed both the magistrate and much of his staff. A Chinese mission of apology sailed to France, under Imperial Commissioner Chonghou. A formal apology was presented to the provisional French Head of State Adolphe Thiers in November 1871. China paid France the large sum of 400,000 taels as compensation.

The Tientsin Incident was far-reaching politically and culturally. Before 1870 the French and Chinese had been negotiating a clause to bring Western missionaries under the same guidelines as Chinese Buddhist and Taoist religious institutions, in the hope it would stop such situations as occurred at Tientsin. Afterwards, however, the French and Americans refused to allow Chinese control or protection over the spread of Christianity in the country. The Qing government replied in turn by refusing to either proscribe or endorse foreign missionaries.  For Europeans, the riot and loss of life was further proof that the  Chinese government could not be trusted to protect foreigners or their investments. For many Chinese, the fact Europeans and missionaries continued to be an elite outside the realms of Chinese law, and seemingly able to engage in actions through military force without serious repercussions, directly led to anti-foreign feeling which led to the Boxer Rebellion of 1900.

See also
 Anti-missionary riots in China
 Chonghou, (1826-1893) a key diplomat
 Yangzhou riot, of 1868

References

Further reading
 Bays, Daniel H. : Christianity in China: From the Eighteenth Century to the Present (1996) online review 
 Barend,  J. Ter Haar.   Telling Stories: Witchcraft and Scapegoating in Chinese History, (Brill, Leiden: 2006) chap. 4, ‘Westerners as Scapegoats’ pp. 154–201.
Cohen, Paul A. China and Christianity: The Missionary Movement and the Growth of Chinese Anti-Foreignism, 1860–1870. (Harvard University Press, Cambridge: 1963)
Fairbank, John King. "Patterns Behind the Tientsin Massacre." Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies 20, no. 3/4 (1957): 480–511. online
 Harrison, Henrietta "'A Penny for the Little Chinese': The French Holy Childhood Association in China, 1843–1951." American Historical Review 113.1 (2008): 72–92. online
 Thin, George.  The Tientsin massacre, the causes of the late disturbances in China and how to secure permanent peace (1970) online, primary sources
 The Tientsin massacre: being documents published in the Shanghai Evening Courier, from June 16th to Sept. 10th, 1870 (1870); primary sources  online

Conflicts in 1870
Massacres in 1870
Foreign relations of the Qing dynasty
1870 in China
History of Tianjin
History of Christianity in China
Racially motivated violence in Asia
Massacres of Christians in China
Orphanages
1870 murders in China
Events in Tianjin