[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# March 1973

anese harbor of Beirut.
Born: Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister of Luxembourg since 2013; in Luxembourg City
Died: 
Louis Prosper Gros, 79, French flying ace
Nikolai Nikitin, 65, Soviet structural designer and construction engineer
Antanina Vainiūnaitė-Kubertavičienė, 76, Lithuanian—Soviet stage actress

March 4, 1973 (Sunday)
Elections were held in Chile for the 150 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and for 25 of the 50 seats in the Chilean Senate. The opposition Confederation of Democracy won 30-19 control of the Senate and 87–63 in the House against President Salvador Allende's leftist Popular Unity alliance, but still lacked a two-thirds majority necessary for impeaching Allende or blocking his policies. The parliament's activities would be suspended almost four months later after the Chilean Armed Forces staged a coup d'état.
The first round of voting took place in France the elections for the 490-seat National Assembly, with followup voting on March for races where no candidate had initially received a majority. 
The British yacht Auralyn was struck by a whale off of the coast of Guatemala and sank in the Pacific Ocean. Sailors Maurice and Maralyn Bailey would drift for 117 days later on a life raft before being rescued on June 30.
The release of a large group of American prisoners of war took place, including (from the U.S. Air Force) Colonel Norman C. Gaddis; Major Leo K. Thorsness, awarded the Medal of Honor on his return; Captain Douglas "Pete" Peterson, who would later return to Hanoi as the first U.S. Ambassador to the Democratic Republic of Vietnam; Major James H. Kasler; First Lieutenant Edward L. Hubbard; First Lieutenant Leroy W. Stutz  and from the Navy, Lieutenant Commander Richard A. Stratton; Lieutenant Commander John H. Fellowes; and Captain Eugene McDaniel; Commander William P. Lawrence (later Superintendent of the U.S. Naval Academy); Lieutenant George Coker; Naval Aviator Edward H. Martin
Born: 
Penny Mordaunt, British politician, Leader of the House of Commons since 2022, former Secretary for Defence; in Torquay, Devonshire
Chandra Sekhar Yeleti, Telugu language Indian film director; in Tuni, Andhra Pradesh
Died: 
Adi Bitar, 48, Palestinian Dubaian judge who authored the first constitution of the United Arab Emirates, died of colon cancer. 
Elamkulam Kunjan Pillai, 68, Indian historian

March 5, 1973 (Monday)
The crash of Iberia Airlines Flight 504 after a mid-air collision in France killed all 68 people aboard after the DC-9 was struck by another airliner in an accident which happened while both were flying over La Planche in the Loire-Atlantique département, near Nantes. The Iberia DC-9, with 61 passengers and nine crew, was returning mostly passengers to London after a holiday on the Mediterranean island of Mallorca. Spantax Flight 400 was a Convair CV-990 on its way to London from Madrid. Both aircraft had been cleared for an altitude of  by substitute air traffic controllers who were filling in during a strike. Without clearance from any controller, the crew of the Spantax began a 360 degree turn and its left wing struck the Iberia plane, which went out of control. The Spantax airliner was able to make an emergency landing at Cognac-Châteaubernard Air Base.
The Pacific Legal Foundation was incorporated in Sacramento, California, making it the first and oldest conservative/libertarian public interest law firm in the United States.
The "Great Michigan Pizza Funeral" was held by the frustrated owner of a food processing factory, Mario Fabbrini of Fabbrini Family Foods, near Ossineke, Michigan. The company had been ordered by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to recall the pizzas on suspicion that the mushroom pizzas had botulism-causing bacteria. The pizzas were tipped into an 18-foot (5.5 m) deep hole in the ground before a crowd of onlookers, who were addressed by Michigan governor William Milliken. 
Donald DeFreeze, who would co-found the U.S. Symbionese Liberation Army (SLA) terrorist group, escaped from Soledad Prison in California, where he was two years away from completing a 6-year sentence. After his escape, he met Patricia Soltysik and the two created the SLA.
Died: Michael Jeffery, 39, English music business manager, was killed in Nantes mid-air collision.