[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2002 BDO World Darts Championship

er, which Monk won 3–2 to progress to the second round after a 116 checkout and a double 10 finish. Walton said afterwards he was uncertain whether the strain of attempting to win the tournament for a second time or a minor repetitive strain injury on his wrists contributed to his loss against Monk.

Nagy won the first set against Mardle. It appeared he would take the second when the score was 2–2 before Mardle equalled the scoreline. Mardle subsequently entered the quarter-finals with a 3–1 victory. King compiled the tournament's maximum checkout of 170 in the third leg of the third set of his match between Suljović and a 161 finish. Suljović won the first set before King won three in a row to secure a 3–1 victory. Hankey won the first two sets without a challenge from Jones, who took sets three and four from checkouts of 121 and 80. Hankey commenced the final set with a maximum score in the first leg before Jones took the following three legs to win by 3–2.

The second round's sixth match was contested by Taylor and Stompé. Taylor won the first set 3–2. He then missed achieving a 138 checkout and allowed Stompé to complete a 135 checkout and tie at 1–1. Three maximum scores and a dart landing in the double 10 ring put Taylor ahead. He took the fourth set to win 3–1. Adams lost the first set to Coote before he secured the next two with scores of 3–1. Both players levelled the score at 2–2 in the fourth set before Adams attained his only maximum score of the game to win 3–1. In the final match of the second round David played Pusa. David used Pusa's low scoring performance to win the first two sets. Pusa claimed the third set 3–2 and was unable to replicate this performance; David won all three legs of the third set for a 3–1 victory.

Quarter-finals

The four quarter-finals were played to the best-of-nine sets between 10 and 11 January. Monk, who treated his match against Mardle as the final, won 5–4 in a closely contested game. Monk took a 4–1 lead before Mardle replied by winning twelve consecutive legs to level the score at 4–4 and required the game to conclude with a ninth set. Monk took the deciding frame to enter the semi-finals, saying afterwards, "At 4–1 I was thinking it was happy days, but next thing I had the world on my shoulders. My arm was shaking and my knees rattling – I was worn out." Later that day, in a match that saw 27 maximum scores, King led Van Barneveld 2–0 with scores of 3–1 in the first two sets. Van Barneveld took the third set 3–1; a 160 checkout and a maximum score put King 3–1 in front. He compiled a 156 checkout before King won the fifth set. After a dart thrown by Van Barneveld missed the bullseye ring in an attempt to achieve a 170 checkout, he took the following two sets. Before Van Barneveld could force a final set decider King completed a 131 checkout to win 5–3.

Adams defeated Jones 5–1 to reach the semi-finals of the tournament for the first time since the 1995 edition. He moved 2–0 in front, which included a 121 checkout. Jones claimed the third set to be one set behind. Adams restored his lead by another two sets. During set six Jones threw four darts at striking a double ring while 2–1 behind Adams to which his opponent responded with a double top finish to complete a victory. Against Taylor, David went 2–0 behind until he won the match's third set with a finish on the double 16 ring. He lost a closely contested fifth and sixth sets to Taylor before David forced a final set decider with victories in the next two sets. The final set went to a fourth leg after Taylor could not complete checkouts of 116 and 125. David claimed a 5–4 win with a finish on the double ten ring on his final dart throw. David's victory allowed him to become the first Australian to reach the semi-finals of the BDO world championship.

Semi-finals

Both of the semi-finals were played on 12 January. The first semi-final was played between King and Monk. Both players had been at this stage of the event before; King was defeated 5–3 by Les Wallace in the 1997 tournament and Monk lost to Van Barneveld in the 1998 competition. King won a tightly-contested first set after he could not complete a 170 checkout. Monk subsequently defeated King 3–2 in the following set. King made checkouts of 116 and 153 to lead 3–1 at the mid-session interval. A 121 checkout and two maximum scores from King increased his lead over Monk to 4–1. He then achieved another maximum score and hit the double four ring to win 5–1 and become the first player to earn a berth in the final.