[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bob Geren

y Royals. The Royals eventually won the 2015 World Series in five games. During his time with the Mets, Geren was praised for his "statistical aptitude" and "strong working knowledge of advanced analytics." Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson also complimented Geren for being "tuned into analytics."

Los Angeles Dodgers
On December 2, 2015, it was reported that the Los Angeles Dodgers hired Geren to be the team's new bench coach serving under new manager Dave Roberts and replacing former bench coach Tim Wallach. Geren said his decision to leave the Mets for Los Angeles was fueled by a desire to be closer to his family in Southern California. During the 2016 season, his first with the Dodgers, Geren coached under manager Dave Roberts, who would go on to win the 2016 National League Manager of the Year Award. In 2017, the Dodgers won the National League Championship Series and played against the Houston Astros in the World Series. In 2018, the Dodgers appeared in their second straight World Series and played against the Boston Red Sox. Geren won his first World Series in the 2020 season, as the Dodgers defeated the Tampa Bay Rays in six games.

For the 2023 season, Geren stepped down as bench coach to take on the new position of major league field coordinator.

Personal life
Geren and his wife, Pam, reside in Southern California. Geren has two sons, Bobby and Brett, who both played NCAA Division I baseball at Princeton University.

Geren's personal life has been featured on several episodes of Spectrum SportsNet LA's television show "Backstage: Dodgers." In 2019, the program featured Geren's longtime hobby of racing cars and included footage of Geren's ride along with former racing driver Mario Andretti before the 2019 Acura Grand Prix of Long Beach. In 2016, Geren, known as an avid cyclist, was interviewed while riding his bicycle to work at Dodger Stadium for a Dodgers home game.

While with the Yankees, he appeared on the CBS daytime version of Family Feud hosted by Ray Combs with other members of his family late in 1988.  The Gerens appeared on 5 episodes and won a total of $7,666.

Managerial record

See also

References

External links

Bob Geren at Baseball Almanac

  

1961 births
Living people
Minor league baseball managers
Oakland Athletics managers
Oakland Athletics coaches
Major League Baseball catchers
San Diego Padres players
New York Yankees players
Walla Walla Padres players
Reno Silver Sox players
St. Petersburg Cardinals players
Springfield Cardinals players
Louisville Redbirds players
Arkansas Travelers players
Albany-Colonie Yankees players
Columbus Clippers players
Winter Haven Red Sox players
Pawtucket Red Sox players
Baseball players from San Diego
Major League Baseball bullpen coaches
Major League Baseball bench coaches
New York Mets coaches
Sportspeople from Danville, California
Baseball players from Contra Costa County, California
Los Angeles Dodgers coaches
American expatriate baseball people in the Dominican Republic