[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hiyō-class aircraft carrier

The two  were built for the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) during World War II. Both ships of the class,  and , were originally laid down as luxury passenger liners before being acquired by the IJN for conversion to aircraft carriers in 1941. Jun'yō was the first of the sister ships to be completed in May 1942 and the ship participated in the invasion of the Aleutian Islands the following month. Both ships participated in several battles during the Guadalcanal Campaign in late 1942. Their aircraft were disembarked several times and used from land bases in a number of battles in the South West Pacific.

Hiyō was torpedoed in June 1943 and Jun'yō in November; both ships spent about three months under repair. They spent most of the time after their repairs training and ferrying aircraft before returning to combat. Hiyō was sunk by a gasoline vapor explosion caused by an American aerial torpedo hit during the Battle of the Philippine Sea in mid-1944 while Jun'yō was damaged by several bombs. Lacking aircraft, she was used as a transport in late 1944 and was torpedoed in December. The ship was under repair until March 1945 when the repairs were deemed uneconomical. Jun'yō was then effectively hulked for the rest of the war. After the surrender of Japan in September, the Americans deemed the ship not worth her repair costs; she was broken up in 1946–1947.

Design and description
The ships were ordered as the fast luxury passenger liners Izumo Maru and  Kashiwara Maru by Nippon Yusen Kaisha (Japan Mail Steamship Company-NYK) in late 1938. In exchange for a 60% subsidy of their building costs by the Navy Ministry, they were designed to be converted to aircraft carriers. To facilitate this process, they were fitted with a double hull, additional fuel oil capacity, provisions for the fitting of additional transverse and longitudinal bulkheads, installation of a longitudinal bulkhead to separate the turbine rooms, a strengthened main deck, more height between decks, rearrangement of the superstructure and passenger accommodations to facilitate the installation of aircraft elevators and hangars, more space for additional wiring, installation of a bulbous bow and the addition of aviation gasoline storage tanks fore and aft of the machinery spaces. NYK was only interested in a maximum speed of  to save fuel, but the Navy wanted a maximum speed of no less than  so they compromised by limiting the performance of the turbines to 80% of maximum power during peacetime.

The ships had a length of about  overall. They had a beam of  and a draft of . They displaced  at standard load. Their crew ranged from 1,187 to 1,224 officers and enlisted men.

Both ships were fitted with a pair of Mitsubishi-Curtis geared steam turbine sets with a total of , each driving a  propeller. Steam was provided by six water-tube boilers; Jun'yō had Mitsubishi three-drum boilers that operated at a pressure of  and temperature of  while Hiyō had Kawasaki-LaMont boilers. Their machinery, designed for merchant service, was over four times heavier than that of the purpose-built aircraft carrier . The ships had a designed speed of 25.5 knots, but both exceeded that by small margins during their sea trials. They carried  of fuel oil which gave them a range of  or more at .

Flight deck arrangements
The flight deck was  long and had a maximum width of . A large island was fitted on the starboard side that, for the first time in a Japanese carrier, was integrated with the ship's funnel. This was angled 26° outwards to help keep its exhaust from interfering with flight operations. The ships were designed with two superimposed hangars, each approximately  long,  wide and  high. Each hangar could be subdivided by four fire curtains and they were fitted with fire fighting foam dispensers on each side. The hangars were served by two square elevators with rounded corners,  on each side. The elevators had a maximum capacity of  and took 15 seconds to go from the lower hangar to the flight deck. The ships were fitted with electrically operated Kure type model 4 arresting gear with nine cables. They also mounted two Type 3 crash barricades. No aircraft catapult was fitted. The ships mounted a crane on the port side of the flight deck, just aft of the rear elevator. When collapsed, it was flush with the flight deck.