[Source: PubMed]

9. Int Rev Psychiatry. 2026 Feb 16:1-21. doi: 10.1080/09540261.2026.2629463.
Online  ahead of print.

Cumulative war-related trauma in the MENA region: a systematic review.

Abi-Habib R(1)(2), Chahine M(3), El-Khoury J(4), Choucair N(3), Badr E(2), Abele 
M(3), El Moujabber J(3), Mansour Jamaleddin J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Education, Lebanese American University, Beirut, 
Lebanon.
(2)Institute of Psychotraumatology, Lebanese American University, Beirut, 
Lebanon.
(3)Qualisus Consulting, Byblos, Lebanon.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, Abu Dhabi, 
United Arab Emirates.

The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region has endured decades of conflicts, 
civil wars, political instability, and socio-economic challenges. This study 
systematically reviews qualitative and quantitative evidence on cumulative and 
war-related trauma among MENA populations. We systematically searched for 
relevant literature through multiple databases and regional resources for 
studies and reports on civilians and refugees from MENA countries with multiple 
or chronic traumatic experiences. We included quantitative, qualitative, and 
mixed-methods studies reporting psychological outcomes (e.g. post-traumatic 
stress, depression, anxiety) related to cumulative trauma exposure. Evidence was 
synthesized narratively, and integration mapped with a joint-display logic. 
Sixty-seven studies met inclusion criteria across multiple MENA contexts 
including Lebanon, Palestine, Syria, and Iraq. Quantitative findings 
consistently associated multiple or chronic exposure to traumatic events with 
higher rates of post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, and anxiety, with 
clear exposure-response gradients. Qualitative findings yielded seven analytical 
themes: perpetual threat, family fragmentation and bereavement, 
intergenerational trauma, moral injury and humiliation, coping through faith and 
collective meaning, community erosion and reconstruction and barriers to care. 
This review revealed that psychological distress in the MENA region is 
widespread and enduring, with its severity and persistence closely linked to the 
cumulative and repeated nature of traumatic exposures. This review consolidates 
evidence on the complexity and chronicity of cumulative trauma outcomes across 
diverse MENA populations, contexts, and research methodologies. It provides a 
foundation for advancing research, assessment approaches, and culturally and 
contextually grounded psychosocial and mental health interventions, while also 
identifying key gaps for future research.

DOI: 10.1080/09540261.2026.2629463
PMID: 41697043