[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor

handling of votes and promotional activities in non-canvassing areas. Some election representatives reported that the process of ballot boxes sealing and vote counting could not be observed. As a reaction to the complaints, HKHRM urged Electoral Affairs Commission to investigate the reported issues.

HKHRM sometimes co-operates with international organisations in promoting human rights and observing the human rights condition in Hong Kong.
When the Alliance for Reform and Democracy in Asia (ARDA) visited Hong Kong for a pre-election assessment in August 2004, the Monitor helped them organise meetings with representatives from different parties and sectors in Hong Kong. On 3 August, the Monitor and ARDA co-organized a press conference and briefing session in the Monitor’s Office to talk about the operation of the Electoral Affairs Commission (EAC) and the political and legal condition of Hong Kong. On the next day, ARDA and HKHRM met with the EAC together to scrutinise the election arrangements for the election in September.

Researches and reports
HKHRM regularly carries out investigations and generates reports about issues that are closely linked to human right issues.

Formerly, the HKHRM has also conducted reviews on issues such as the Hong Kong immigration law and the Hong Kong legal aid system and practice.

In July 2006, HKHRM submitted the second periodic report on the HKSAR of the People’s Republic of China in light of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) to the United Nations. The report provides a background of the general political structure in Hong Kong and gives an overview of women's substantive rights in Hong Kong. It discusses issues like equality in employment and labour rights, domestic violence in ethnic minority families and split families and right of abode.

In 2000, HKHRM interviewed staff and residents in eight children's homes run by Social Welfare Department and obtained its findings from unannounced visits. Then, the Monitor presented press reports claiming that little has been done to improve the service of children’s home since a study in the early 1980s. Although the Department has reservations on some of the investigations and criticisms of the Monitor, the Department has planned further improvement measures for the two areas which the Monitor has commented, i.e. education service for residents and training for staff.

In February 1999, HKHRM submitted a report in respect of the HKSAR's initial report on herself under Article 18 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. The report concerns many aspects of women's substantive rights including politics and female participation, education, welfare system, employment and health of women.

Meetings
HKHRM frequently meets with government officials and international organisations.

In the past, the HKHRM has called for human rights awareness using various resources and by contacting diverse and highly posted authorities concerned with human rights. In dealing with international organisations such as the United Nations, the HKHRM submitted reports calling for the UK and Hong Kong governments to refer to the treaties in which there is mention of certain territories whom should qualify to fall under international human rights.

In terms of the Hong Kong authoritative sphere,  Monitor members have previously met with the Chief Executive of Hong Kong (Donald Tsang) and Governor to discuss a re-examination of police interrogation and complaint procedures.

In 2005, HKHRM formed a four-person delegation to the 34th session of the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR) held in the United Nations Headquarters in Geneva. Together with other non-government organisations, HKHRM attended the hearing of China's report submitted in accordance with the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. During the hearing, it expressed strong opposition to the exclusion of mainland Chinese new immigrants from the government's proposed Racial Discrimination Act. Besides, members elaborated their concern on issues such as the obstruction to democratic progress, polarisation of rich and poor and the slow progress of legislation against age discrimination and sexual orientation discrimination.

In 2002, HKHRM Director Mr Law Yuk Kai and the Democratic Party Chairperson Lee Chu Ming went on a one-week visit to the United States. They had meetings with a number of government officials and some non-governmental organisations. In the meetings, they explained the Article 23 legislation and its impact on the life and human rights of Hong Kong citizens. The media and government officials expressed understanding and concerns on the anxiety of the Hong Kong public.