[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Holographic interferometry

d the hologram itself were rotated slightly between exposures.  (3) Recording holograms of the bottom of a 35 mm film can while it was vibrating.  Later, in April 1965, Stetson and Powell obtained real-time interference patterns between a real object and its holographic reconstruction.

Applications

Laser vibrometry
Since its introduction, vibrometry by holographic interferometry has become commonplace. Powell and Stetson have shown that the fringes of the time-averaged hologram of a vibrating object correspond to the zeros of the Bessel function , where  is the modulation depth of the phase modulation of the optical field at  on the object. With this method, the local vibration amplitude can be assessed by fringe counting. In the work reported by Aleksoff, the reference beam was shifted in frequency to select one sideband of order . In that case, the fringes for sideband  correspond to the zeros of the Bessel function . By sequential imaging of frequency sidebands, the issue of fringe counting has been alleviated. The side band order is a marker of the local amplitude of sinusoidal out-of-plane motion. Multiplexed measurements of optical sidebands enable quantitative measurements of out-of-plane vibration amplitudes much smaller than the optical wavelength.

Laser Doppler imaging

In off-axis configuration, with a slow camera and a laser diode, holographic interferometry is sensitive enough to enable wide-field, laser Doppler imaging of optical fluctuations in amplitude and phase, either with a slow or a fast camera. A slow (e.g. video rate) camera will record time-averaged holographic interferograms which will result in lowpass filtering of the optical fluctuation signal. By shifting the frequency of the reference beam, the lowpass filter becomes a bandpass filter centered at the detuning frequency, and selective narrowband detection and imaging can be performed. This method permits microvascular blood flow imaging, and wide-field measurement of photoplethysmograms by detection of out-of-plane tissue motion. The wide temporal bandwidth of a high throughput camera can enable wideband detection and analysis of optical fluctuations. It can be used for pulsatile blood flow imaging.

See also 
 Electronic speckle pattern interferometry
 Holography
 Interferometry

References

External links 
 Holographic Interferometry (University of Edinburgh)
 Holographic Interferometry (University of Warwick)
 Holographic Interferometry (Rice University) 
interferometry
Holovibes Real-time hologram rendering software

Holography
Interferometry