[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Local service district (New Brunswick)

ke Elgin, most decentralised communities or groups of communities (which could approach the size of parishes), and two resulted from mergers in 1996 (Chaleur) and 1999 (Allardville) that included three (two parish) and two (one parish) LSDs respectively.

LSDs by county as of 1 June 2019

Other uses

The number of LSDs is sometimes misstated, due to the existence of three units that can be confused with official LSDs: areas with increased or decreased services, Taxing Authorities, and Census Designated Places that are called Local Service Districts.

 Special service areas (39 current plus 35 former) have been defined for different services than the parent LSD; with increasing regionalisation of services this has become limited to street lighting and/or community & recreation services. There does not seem to be an official term for such areas. Because the published descriptions of LSDs are only updated when voluntary services are added, many of these special service areas no longer serve any purpose.
 
 Taxing Authorities (280 in 2019) usually match LSDs and special areas, but can also be subdivisions of LSDs that do not differ in services or groupings of special areas. Names can also vary from the appropriate LSD or special area, with "the parish of" typically dropped from the names of parish LSDs and "Parish" sometimes appended for clarity. The taxing authorities of Calhoun Road, Havelock Inside, and Saint-Grégoire cross LSD boundaries.
 Incorporated rural communities and the Regional Municipality of Tracadie continue to receive some LSD services from the provincial government. These former LSDs serve as TAs (21 in RCs, 21 in Tracadie) and are sometimes referred to as LSDs when discussing the provision of those services.
 
 Census Designated Places (DPL; 157 units in the 2016 census, including 34 parts of 16 divided DPLs) include current LSDs and special areas, as well as some former LSDs that have been incorporated into municipalities. The boundaries of DPLs don't always match those in Regulation 84-168, sometimes including isolated parts of parish LSDs bordering non-parish LSDs. The most pronounced variation from actual boundaries was with the local service district of the Parish of Saumarez, which consisted of the special area of Canton-des-Basques and five scattered pieces; the special area was classed as a DPL, and three other parts of the LSD were included in bordering LSDs for population counts and maps.

Operation 
A business-like approach guides property taxation and local service provision administration in the local service district, with a manager and staff looking after any number of LSD units, including the private ballot advisory committee elections. It is therefore limited in its democratic function.
 
All properties are assessed for value by an arm of the provincial services corporation, Service New Brunswick, on behalf of the finance department, and taxed on the assessed value a local and provincial rate.

Local rates in unincorporated areas, known as the L.S.D. rate, are determined by a provincial Local Services Manager in order to pay for local services and are levied on all properties. These assessments may be for facilities situated in the LSD, services provided locally, cost-sharing between LSDs or purchased from a neighbouring municipality, or shared costs of operation of facilities in a municipality. The base rate, which includes fire protection, is $0.6315 per $100 of assessed value for owner-occupied residential properties.

A provincial levy called the Provincial amount is applied to all properties at a fixed rate for general provincial revenues. Non owner-occupied residential properties pay "double" provincial tax, and a variety of schemes are in place for non-residential properties such as businesses, farm timberland, private timberland, not-for-profits, golf courses, etc. Businesses pay 50% more than the total rate for non owner-occupied residential properties.

Advisory committees may function to assist with the LSD Manager and staff and also elected local government officials. Committees do not have decision-making powers and are not required to take procedural accountability measures.

Services 

Originally all services within LSDs were voluntary, administered by area citizens and paid for by local property taxes. The provincial government has gradually taken over the administration of some services at the provincial level, with regional service commissions taking over many others. Regulation 84-168 has not kept up with these changes in administration, updating listed services only when boundary changes or addition of new services have taken place. Fire protection and recreational facilities are often paid for through cost-sharing with municipalities or other LSDs.