[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Death of Slobodan Milošević

impossible by severe heart defects, that can only be established by a careful analysis of the heart, and one would have thought that if this had been done, someone would have mentioned it. According to Stuttaford, using rifampicin might have been a cunning way to kill a man that needs no expertise.

5 April
The conclusions of the Dutch investigation into Milošević's death were finally announced. Investigators concluded that Milošević had died of natural causes, and final toxicological studies had confirmed there were no traces of poisoning or substances which could have triggered the heart attack. Tribunal prosecutors also announced that although non-prescribed medicines had been found in Milošević's cell three months earlier, no such medicines were found in his cell on the day he died. The president of the UN Yugoslav war crimes tribunal welcomed the final report that formally closed the Dutch investigation, but he said that the Tribunal will continue to investigate the medical treatment Milošević had received during his five-year detention.

 Political reactions 

ICTY
ICTY Chief Prosecutor Carla Del Ponte deplored Milošević's death, saying that it had "deprived victims of justice". Concerning the causes of Milošević's death, she concluded that suicide could not be ruled out and declined to comment on speculation that Milošević may have been poisoned. In an interview with the Rome newspaper, La Repubblica'', Del Ponte stated:

Serbian reactions
In Serbia, tens of thousands of Milošević's supporters criticized the Tribunal for allegedly being more or less responsible for his death. Members of his Socialist Party advisors were particularly harsh - for example, senior official Ivica Dačić said that "Milošević did not die in The Hague, he was killed in The Hague". President Boris Tadić, who was an opponent of Milošević and the Socialist Party, said that in his opinion the U.N. war crimes tribunal was responsible for Milošević's death, but he added that it would not hamper Serbia's future cooperation with the court.

Milošević family reactions 
Most notable was a letter Marko Milošević, son of Slobodan Milošević, sent to The President of the ICTY, The Chairman of the Security Council of the OUN, The Secretary General of the OUN, and to Judge Parker who led the investigation into Slobodan Milošević's death. In his letter, Marko Milošević accuses the Hague Tribunal for negligence and for the death of his father.
In one part of the letter, Milošević agrees that his father was not poisoned and accuses the ICTY for being misleading:

  
Marko Milošević then continues about the logic of the investigation into his father's death:

  
The Milošević family raised questions about the legitimacy of the ICTY conducted investigation:

Marko Milošević then concludes that the ICTY is playing on "straw man" policy:

Marko Milošević doubted the intentions of the ICTY:

As (one of the) conclusion(s), Marko Milošević offers:

Funeral and burial
There was a strong controversy across Serbia regarding on Milošević's funeral, as the Socialist Party and nationalist leaders demanded that it should be state-sponsored and high-profile. In particular, it was argued that Milošević ought to have a prominent resting place in the "Alley of the Greats," where other Serbian leaders are buried, which the Tribunal rejected. As a result, the Socialist Party threatened to withdraw its support, which was essential for the ruling coalition. Finally, the Tribunal decided that Milošević should have a private burial in his hometown, Požarevac. Nevertheless, a farewell ceremony was organised by the Socialist Party outside the federal parliament in Belgrade. About 50,000 of Milošević's supporters attended the ceremony, which turned into a mass demonstration, with a succession of fiery speeches by prominent supporters. Afterwards, Milošević's coffin was taken to his hometown for burial in the backyard of his family home. Milošević's family and close friends pulled out of his funeral, citing anonymous threats and contradictory statements from Serbian authorities regarding the requested guarantees that they would not be arrested. Milošević's daughter Marija stated that the Socialist Party had hijacked the funeral for political ends.

References

External links

The Milosevic medical file and autopsy report (scanned and downloadable)

2006 in Serbia
Milosevic, Slobodan
Milosevic, Slobodan
Death
March 2006 events in Europe
21st century in The Hague
2006 in the Netherlands