[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sirkazhi

m Sirkazhi. The municipality operates a B-Class bus stand with 36 bays that accommodate local and intercity buses. The buses are operated by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, connecting the town to Mayiladuthurai, Kumbakonam, Nagapattinam, Chidambaram, Karaikkal and other cities in Tamil Nadu.

Nearest major junction of Mayiladuthurai, the Sirkazhi's railway station is on the main line between Chennai and Trichy via Cuddalore and Chidambaram. Daily express trains connect major cities in Tamil Nadu like Chennai, Madurai and Trichy, and weekly express trains connect Tirupathi, Varanasi, Tiruchendur and Bhubaneswar. There are also daily passenger trains to Mayiladuthurai, Salem, Villupuram and Bangalore daily. The nearest airport is Tiruchirapalli Airport which is  from Sirkazhi.

Education and utility services

The first English school in the town was the Leipzig Evangelical Lutheran Mission School, which was opened by the Lutheran Mission in 1896. The Lutheran mission was the earliest Protestant mission founded in Tanjore (present-day Thajavur) by Rev. C.V. Schwartz in 1778 to promote Christian knowledge in the region. Of the 32 schools in Sirkazhi, there are nine municipal schools. There are three higher secondary schools, three middle schools, fourteen primary schools and three matriculation schools in the town. There are two arts and science colleges, BEST College of Arts and Science and Vivekananda College of Arts and Science. Srinivasa Subbaraya Polytechnic College (locally called Puttur Polytechnic) is located in Puttur,  from Sirkali.

Electricity supply to the town is regulated and distributed by the Sirkazhi Circle of Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB). Water supply is provided by the Sirkazhi municipality from the Kollidam river; it is distributed through five water tanks which supply 2 million (two million) litres a day. Push carts and tricycles are used to collect solid waste, which is deposited in marsh lands located outside the town. Sirkazhi municipality is implementing underground drainage and the current sewerage system is through septic tanks and public conveniences. Roadside drains carry away untreated sewage, which is released into the sea or accumulates in low-lying areas.

Sirkazhi comes under the Sirkazhi Telecom Circle of the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), India's state-owned telephone and internet services provider. BSNL also provides a broadband internet service The town has a government hospital, 12 private hospitals, clinics and medical shops.

Municipal administration and politics

During the British Raj, Shiyali (present-day Sirkazhi) was the headquarters of a separate administrative division, or taluka. In 1972 the town was declared a third grade municipality, and was upgraded to a second grade municipality in 1980. The municipality has 24 wards, each of which has an elected councillor. The functions of the municipality are devolved into six departments: general administration/personnel, engineering, revenue, public health, town planning and IT, which are controlled by a Municipal Commissioner, who is the supreme executive head. Legislative powers are vested in a body of 24 members, one for each of the 24 wards. The legislative body is headed by an elected chairperson, who is assisted by a deputy. On the revenue administration side, Sirkazhi is a taluka headquarters having three revenue villages: Kavilancheri, Sirkazhi and Thadalan.

For the purposes of state government, Sirkazhi is part of the Sirkazhi assembly constituency, which elects a member to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly once every five years. The constituency is reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates. Since 2011 the MLA of the constituency is M. Sakthi from the ADMK.

In the national parliament, Sirkazhi is a part of the Mayiladuthurai (Lok Sabha constituency).

Law and order in Sirkazhi is maintained by the Mayiladuthurai sub-division of the Tamil Nadu Police, headed by a Deputy Superintendent of Police. There is a police station in the town. There are special units like prohibition enforcement, district crime, social justice and human rights, district crime records and special branch that operate at the district level police division, headed by a Superintendent of Police.

Culture