[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Hezbollah armed strength

ween 1995 and 2002, The Iranian Revolutionary Guards claim to have equipped Hezbollah with 400 short and medium range artillery pieces. The Israeli think tank MEMRI makes a different estimate, saying that Hezbollah received four hundred short- and medium-range artillery pieces between 1992 and 2005.

Assessment of Hezbollah's indirect fires ability varies. Some studies say that indirect fire is a Hezbollah weakness, while others say that Hezbollah's indirect fires deserve "high marks" and the LA Times claims that Hezbollah has "well-trained artillerymen." The party's fire discipline is reportedly much better than that of Palestinian groups. A US Army publication explains this disagreement by saying that although some indirect fire support components like mortar marksmanship were strong, Hezbollah was rarely able to mass indirect fire, and overall Hezbollah was "far short of contemporary Western standards." Iran has transferred to Hezbollah some old artillery fire-control, targeting, and damage assessment systems. Hezbollah artillery participated in the battle of Salma, the battle of Zabadani, and the Battle of al-Qusayr along with other groups' artillery.

Armoured vehicles

Although there are reports of Hezbollah sporadically capturing tanks and armored personnel carriers in the 1980s and 1990s, Hezbollah did not start to seriously operate armored vehicles until its involvement in the Syrian Civil War. Since Hezbollah was operating against non-state actors and had air superiority, using heavy weapons and vehicles made tactical sense. However, Hezbollah's armored vehicles are universally described as far inferior to the IDF's, and would not be useful in a war against Israel.

Hezbollah fighters and operatives use civilian vehicles systemically for day-to-day transport and combat.
Hezbollah's logistics teams transport arms and ammunition in pickup trucks, while individuals commonly use dirt bikes for off-road travel. Once arriving at a battlefield, Hezbollah fighters generally discard their vehicles and fight on foot. Israel has accused Hezbollah of using ambulances and Red Cross vehicles to move weaponry, which is a war crime.

Naval assets 

On 14 July 2006, Hezbollah forces fired a C-802 anti-ship missile at the Israeli corvette INS Hanit, killing four sailors and inflicting substantial damage. A second missile missed its target and destroyed a civilian merchant vessel. Sources disagree on whether the missile used was an OEM Chinese-made missile or an Iranian-made clone. Sources disagree on who was responsible for firing the missiles, with Hezbollah, the Syrian Army, or the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps being implicated. Iran denied involvement in the incident while others disagree. The same year, Israel destroyed ten Lebanese Armed Forces radar stations along the coast, possibly  because Hezbollah gained access to them to launch anti-ship missiles. In a May 25, 2010 speech, Hassan Nasrallah promised to attack Israeli naval ships and Israeli-bound commercial shipping. Some have speculated that Hezbollah has semi-submersibles, swimmer delivery vehicles, or even submarines, though these are not confirmed.

There are disputed reports that Hezbollah has acquired large, advanced Yakhont anti-ship missiles from Syria, by smuggling them into Lebanon in parts.

Hezbollah established an amphibious warfare unit in the 1990s, which trains in Lebanon and Iran. Little is known about it.

Unmanned aerial vehicles 

Like many of its other weapons systems, Hezbollah's UAV capacity is more advanced than any other non-state actor, while being much less capable than a typical nation state. In particular, Hezbollah's UAV systems are much inferior in both quantity and capability to Israel's. Hezbollah operates both military drones, believed to be acquired from Iran, and improvised commercial off-the-shelf models. There is substantial disagreement over what models and quantities of drones Hezbollah possesses. Hezbollah has no manned aircraft.

Hezbollah first acquired UAVs in 2002 and their first known use of a drone came on November 7, 2004. The party has continued to use UAV technology. The organization used drones in the 2006 Lebanon War and lost several. Since 2014, Hezbollah drones have also been involved in reconnaissance over the porous Lebanese-Syrian border. Hezbollah has demonstrated weaponized civilian drones, and claims to have first used them in September 2014. In 2015 Hezbollah was using COTS quadrocopter UAVs to spot artillery fire in Syria. Syria is the party's first intensive use of drones.