[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Martin Agronsky

ference. Instead, the combined press accepted the proposal to use a single reporter as a pool, with all networks carrying the interview live. Connally's office chose Agronsky to be their reporter; he was found in Arlington National Cemetery late the night before and took a midnight flight to Dallas.

Agronsky had interviewed John F. Kennedy in life, with segments re-run on the 20th anniversary of the assassination in television documentary Thank You, Mr. President, and co-authored and edited the 1961 book Let Us Begin: The First 100 Days of the Kennedy Administration.

1964–1969: CBS
Agronsky moved to CBS in 1964. While there he held positions as the CBS bureau chief in Paris and moderator of Face the Nation. In 1969 he won an Emmy Award for his CBS News Special Reports television documentary Justice Black and the Bill of Rights or Justice Black and the Constitution, the first television interview with Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black, about Black's views on incorporation of the Bill of Rights. This was rebroadcast in 1971.

From 1968 to 1969, Agronsky was the Paris bureau chief for CBS.

1969–1988: Eponymous programs

Agronsky & Company

Agronsky became a news anchor for WTOP-TV in Washington, D.C., in 1969, and in 1970 became host of the political discussion television program Agronsky & Company, produced by the same station. The format had Agronsky introduce a short segment on the news with political reporters. Shortly afterward, Agronsky left the local evening news and Agronsky & Company became a stand-alone weekly show produced and syndicated by Post-Newsweek stations (WTOP's then-owner). The show was syndicated nationally by Post-Newsweek to local stations and the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) nationally, including WETA in D.C. It was syndicated, in 1981, to twenty-five television stations, and Mutual Broadcasting System began carrying a radio format of the show in October 1981.

In the 1970s and 80s, Agronsky also moderated a radio show, European Perspectives, tackling international news with foreign correspondents based in Washington on the panel.

Broadcasting magazine noted in 1981 that Agronsky "still finds himself in the center of most of the biggest stories of the day." He hosted Agronsky & Company until he retired in January 1988, and it proved to be one of the biggest successes of his career. It was renamed Inside Washington upon Agronsky's retirement, and was hosted by Gordon Peterson until it ended in 2013.

The show generally is credited as having invented the preeminent roundtable ("Talking Heads") discussion format for public affairs and political television shows that feature prominent journalists discussing current events and offering their opinions about them. Agronsky & Company did not have the spirited arguments and shouting that came to characterize many of its imitators, however. Its regular panelists included Hugh Sidey of Time magazine, Peter Lisagor of the Chicago Daily News, and columnists Carl Rowan, James J. Kilpatrick, Elizabeth Drew, and George Will. Although some of the liberal-versus-conservative argumentation now common on American public affairs shows began with pointed arguments between Agronsky & Company panelists, Agronsky himself always exerted a calming influence. The show was held in generally high regard; Ted Kennedy once said that "everybody who is in public life watches Agronsky." In a celebrated essay for The New Republic, liberal pundit Michael Kinsley lampooned the program as "Jerkofsky and Company."

It had been at the forefront of the changing face of journalism in format and in terms of personalities, particularly the rise of "buckraking", with its panelists becoming national figures and often sought-after as public speakers in later years. In 1986, it was overtaken in ratings by John McLaughlin's copycat show The McLaughlin Group; the major difference was said to be that "the pace of McLaughlin and its air of personal enmity give viewers the sense that they are watching genuine insider banter."

After Agronsky's death, Agronsky & Co. commentator Hugh Sidey told the American Journalism Review of the show:

Martin Agronsky's Evening Edition
In 1970, in addition to hosting Agronsky & Company once a week, Agronsky started a five-night-a-week half-hour interview show, Martin Agronsky's Evening Edition, produced by Eastern Educational Network. An early daily news program, it became much-viewed during the Watergate scandal. Richard Nixon reportedly watched the show avidly, sending Agronsky notes on his coverage. Evening Edition extensively covered Nixon's presidency, including the Cold War détente and Vietnam War. Evening Edition aired nightly and was on before, during and after the Watergate break-in hearings broadcast on PBS that led, ultimately, to Nixon's resignation on August 9, 1974. Evening Edition went off the air in late 1975. Due to PBS experiencing "escalating program costs", it cut many shows going into 1976, including Evening Edition.