[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Josh Low

Joshua David Low (born 15 February 1979) is a retired professional footballer who played as a midfielder. Born in England, he represented Wales at youth level.

Career
After spells at Bristol Rovers, Farnborough Town and Leyton Orient he made his name at Cardiff City, before being transferred to Oldham Athletic, where he spent one season before becoming Northampton Town's record signing, costing the club £165,000 in July 2003.

Low became a popular figure amongst the Northampton fans, who gave him the nickname J-Lo. Predominantly a right winger, he can also play in defence or central midfield. He scored 5 goals in 29 League Two appearances in the 2005/06 season.

In the summer of 2006, Low was signed by Leicester City manager Rob Kelly, after his contract expired at Northampton.

Low made his debut for the Leicester City first team as a substitute in the 1–0 home defeat to Burnley.

After struggling to adapt to Championship level football, Low was sold to Peterborough United for a fee that could have risen to £100,000, but was released at the end of the 2007–08 season

However, after Cheltenham Town came calling, he quickly moved on, signing a two-year deal with the Robins. After failing to make an impact at his new club, on 23 September, Low was one of six squad members placed on the transfer list by manager Martin Allen.

In November 2008 Low signed on a months loan with Conference National side Forest Green Rovers. He scored in Forest Green's FA Cup second round giant killing of Football League side Rochdale on 29 November 2008. After a month at Forest Green, Low returned to first team action at Cheltenham, eventually featuring in more than 100 games for the club.

In May 2012, Low was released by Cheltenham after the expiry of his contract. He joined part-time Bath City in June 2012 so he could balance playing football with his work in law.

In June 2014, he announced his retirement from football to focus on his professional career outside football.

Personal life
Josh Low is the father of the professional footballer Joe Low.

Honours
Individual
PFA Team of the Year: 2000–01 Third Division, 2005–06 Football League Two

References

External links

Josh Low's bio on the official Peterborough United website

1979 births
Living people
Footballers from Bristol
Welsh men's footballers
Wales men's youth international footballers
Wales men's under-21 international footballers
English men's footballers
English people of Welsh descent
Men's association football midfielders
Bristol Rovers F.C. players
Farnborough F.C. players
Leyton Orient F.C. players
Cardiff City F.C. players
Oldham Athletic A.F.C. players
Northampton Town F.C. players
Leicester City F.C. players
Peterborough United F.C. players
Cheltenham Town F.C. players
Forest Green Rovers F.C. players
Bath City F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players