[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Theta criterion

me death was died by John.
      
As we can no longer consider verbs that take cognate objects the same as potentially transitive verbs,  argues, based on the framework of , that cognate objects are adjuncts rather than arguments, having the same meaning and structure as the manner adverbs in (12b).

Such an analysis restores cognate objects to the group of arguments satisfying the theta-criterion, as adjuncts, by definition, are not counted as arguments and therefore need not be restricted by theta criterion. The tree form (11c) shows the adjunct DP in its relative position.

Deverbal nouns 

Deverbal nouns are derived from verbs and thus assign theta-roles as their verb stems do. For example,

 (12) (i) the barbarians' destruction of Rome
     (ii) Rome's destruction (by the barbarians)
    (iii) the destruction of Rome (by the barbarians)
     (iv) *the barbarian's destruction
    ()

According to , the constructions in (12) are analogous to "the barbarians destroyed Rome" and destruction needs to assign theta-roles in line with theta-criterion. It assigns "agent" to the barbarians and "theme" to Rome so (i) is fine. The verb "destroy" alone doesn't obligatorily assign theta-role to its subject so (ii) and (iii) is well-formed, too. However, "destroy" must assign a "theme", so (iv) is ruled out.

Alternative approaches 
Theta-criterion experienced its golden age in the 1980s when people discussed its application to various languages and structures and developed many other theories from it. However, after the minimalist program challenged some cornerstones of government and binding theory, people started to question the validity of this criterion, especially the number of theta-roles allowed to be taken by an argument. Hornstein and Boeckx, for example, proposed that there is no upper limit on the number of theta-roles an argument can receive during derivation. In their theory, the function of selecting correct number of arguments is shouldered by case theory, and theta-roles are just features on verbs that needs to be checked .

See also

Notes

References 

Linguistics
Generative syntax
Thematic roles