[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David A. Granger

eld the chairmanship of the Central Intelligence Committee; co-chairmanship of the Border and National Security Committee; and was a member of the Guyana Defence Board, National Drug Law Enforcement Committee, and the Disciplined Forces Commission. Granger has served in several public organisations.

Academic/Historian
He was elected to the presidencies of the History Society, the Guyana Heritage Society, the University of Guyana Guild of Graduates; and the Guyana Chess Federation. He was also a member of the University of Guyana Council, Association of Caribbean Historians, Caribbean Studies Association, Guyana Press Association, Guyana Book Foundation, and is currently a member of the Guyana Legion and the Board of Trustees of the Guyana Veterans Foundation.

Author
Granger has written extensively on national defence and public security issues. He is the author of National Defence: A Brief History of the Guyana Defence Force, 1965 – 2005; Public Security: Criminal Violence and Policing in Guyana; and Public Policy: The Crisis of Governance in Guyana.

He wrote several monographs, including Five Thousand Day War: The Struggle for Haiti's Independence, 1789–1804; The British Guiana Volunteer Force, 1948–1966; The Guyana National Service, 1974–2000; The Guyana People's Militia, 1976–1997; The Queen's College Cadet Corps, 1889–1975; Guyana's Coinage, 1808–2008; The Era of Enslavement, 1638–1838; and The Village Movement, 1839–1889. He was co-editor, with Winston McGowan and James Rose, of Themes in African–Guyanese History, and was publisher of the Guyana Review and Emancipation magazines.

Awards

Granger has received various academic awards, including the President's Medal for the best graduating student; Dennis Irvine Prize for the student who has made the greatest contribution to all cultural life of the university; Council of the University Prize; Elsa Goveia Medal of Excellence; Guy de Weever History Prize; Earl Attlee History Prize; Mary Noel Menezes Award for History; Department of History Prize and others, from the University of Guyana.

He also holds three national awards: the Military Efficiency Medal (1976), the Military Service Medal (1981), and the Military Service Star (1985) for distinguished military service.

Personal life
Granger is married to Sandra Granger (née Chan-A-Sue) and has two daughters, Han and Afuwa.

In November 2018, Granger was diagnosed with Non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

References

External links

1945 births
Afro-Guyanese people
Graduates of the Mons Officer Cadet School
Guyanese writers
Guyanese military personnel
Living people
Members of the National Assembly (Guyana)
People from Georgetown, Guyana
People's National Congress (Guyana) politicians
Presidents of Guyana