[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# St. Thomas More Collegiate

ms which include instrumental and choral music, vocal jazz, drama, visual arts, and media arts.

Clubs & groups
With more than 20 clubs, STMC offers a wide variety of clubs and extracurricular activities. STMC is mainly known for their football and basketball clubs, winning several rewards for both.

Student government
Every year, students from each grade level are elected to a student council for the following school year by their peers. The student government organizes school events, such as dances, pep rallies, and fundraisers.

Notable alumni

A. J. Buckley - Actor best known for playing the part of Adam Ross on the hit crime drama CSI: NY.
David Bowman - Former lead singer for the Canadian band soulDecision
Kris Chucko - Professional hockey player for the NHL's Calgary Flames
Jon Cornish - Professional football player for the CFL's Calgary Stampeders
Tyson Craiggs - Former professional football player for the CFL's British Columbia Lions
Anthony DesLauriers - Former professional football player for the CFL's Montreal Allouettes
Curtis Hodgson - Professional lacrosse player for the New Westminster Salmonbellies and the Washington Stealth of the NLL.
Brett Kelly - Actor best known for playing the part of Thurman Merman in Bad Santa.
Adam Krajewski - Former professional football player for the Canadian Football League's Winnipeg Blue Bombers
Calvin McCarty - Professional football player for the CFL's Edmonton Eskimos
Peter Ogilvie - Retired Canadian sprinter who competed at the 1992 and 1996 Summer Olympics.
Richard Stewart - Former British Columbia MLA and currently the Mayor of Coquitlam, British Columbia.
David Sylvester - President and Vice Chancellor of St. Michael's College at the University of Toronto
Kyle Turris - Professional hockey player for the NHL's Nashville Predators.

References

External links
 St. Thomas More Collegiate
STMC Athletics Program

Congregation of Christian Brothers secondary schools
High schools in Burnaby
Catholic secondary schools in British Columbia
Educational institutions established in 1960
1960 establishments in British Columbia