[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# LGBT rights in Costa Rica

acion y Prevencion en Salud, filed a complaint with the Ministry of Education, they were unable to come up with a specific example of the university's policy being enforced, but the Ministry stated that if the policy was enforced it would probably violate Articles 20, 33, and 70 of the Constitution.

In the late 1990s, the Costa Rica Catholic Church organized protest against LGBT tourism, often arguing that it was a cover for sex tourism. In 1998, a planned LGBT pride festival was cancelled out of concern of the possibility of violence. During the initial planning of the event, President Miguel Ángel Rodríguez publicly opposed granting permits for the event to occur. In 1999, San José, Costa Rica's capital city, attempted to close down a gay sauna, but the Supreme Court in 2000 ordered the city to allow the sauna to remain open, stating, "subjective criteria of morality and proper behaviour have no legal basis ... and represent a violation of the fundamental rights granted by our Constitution".

On 27 March 2008, President Oscar Arias Sanchez signed an executive order designating 17 May as the National Day Against Homophobia, committing Costa Rica to join others around the world in working to eradicate bias against gays and lesbians.

In 2008, the Costa Rican Supreme Court ruled against a gay prison inmate receiving conjugal visits from his partner. In October 2011, the Supreme Court reversed its ruling and now allows equality for same-sex couples in receiving conjugal visits.

In 2012, the Citizens' Action Party presented a bill to declare the Legislative Assembly a "homophobia-free space" which later passed by a majority of votes, being opposed only by the Christian parties. On 21 April 2013, Carmen Muñoz (PAC) became the first openly lesbian member of Costa Rica's Legislative Assembly. On 1 May 2018, Enrique Sánchez became the first openly gay congressman in Costa Rica.

On 15 May 2014, the International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia, President Luis Guillermo Solis placed a rainbow flag in the Presidential House. According to Guillermo Solis, this was "a symbolic act in support of all kinds of diversity, particularly for a group that has been severely discriminated". The act generated mixed reactions and was criticized by religious sectors of the country.

In December 2018, President Carlos Alvarado signed a number of executive decrees relating to housing rights for LGBT people, immigration rights for binational same-sex couples, and funding hormone replacement therapy through the state health system, among others.

In June 2019, President Carlos Alvarado Quesada became the first Costa Rican President to march at the annual gay pride parade in San José, a march that saw the participation of about 100,000 people. The early events in late 2000s saw the participation of about 20 people who received insults from bystanders.

Political party views
Recognition of same-sex unions under a different name than marriage (i.e. as civil unions) is supported by some of the main parties including the National Liberation Party (PLN), the Social Christian Unity (PUSC) and the now-defunct Libertarian Movement (ML). Left-wing party Broad Front was the first main party to support same-sex marriage. In December 2016, the Citizens' Action Party (PAC) officially announced its support of same-sex marriage and adoption. Some figures of PLN also support same-sex marriage, including some lawmakers. PUSC is opposed to same-sex marriage as a whole, while ML's presidential candidate, Otto Guevara, said during the 2014 presidential campaign that although he supports recognition for same-sex couples it is not a priority for him.

Opposition is frontal from a group of Christian parties; the National Restoration Party and its splinter, the New Republic Party, having between them a total of fourteen seats in the Assembly. They generally use filibusters to delay discussions on LGBT rights.

In 2012, controversy erupted when Justo Orozco, president of the Costa Rican Renewal Party, was head of the Legislative Assembly's Human Rights Committee. Protesters were upset that Orozco expressed support for the belief that homosexuality is a "sin" and a "treatable disease". As a result of the protests, future Vice President Ana Helena Chacón, then a PUSC member, moderated an official government meeting with protesters seeking to expand legal equality for same-sex couples.

The effect of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights's ruling on same-sex marriage caused uproar in the country and is often signaled and one of the main causes behind the divisive 2018 Costa Rican general election, in which the two main candidates were Fabricio Alvarado Muñoz (PRN), a conservative Evangelical and staunch opponent of same-sex marriage, and Carlos Alvarado Quesada (PAC), a liberal and staunch supporter.