[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 85]
# Politics — Aristotle

so
long; and the Lacedaemonians from their government's being from the
beginning divided into two parts, and also by the moderation introduced
into the other parts of it by Theopompus, and his establishment of the
ephori; for by taking something from the power he increased the duration
of the kingdom, so that in some measure he made it not less, but bigger;
as they say he replied to his wife, who asked him if he was not ashamed
to deliver down his kingdom to his children reduced from what he
received it from his ancestors? No, says he, I give it him more lasting.
Tyrannies are preserved two ways most opposite to each other, one of
which is when the power is delegated from one to the other, and in this
manner many tyrants govern in their states. Report says that Periander
founded many of these. There are also many of them to be met with
amongst the Persians. What has been already mentioned is as conducive
as anything can be to preserve a tyranny; namely, to keep down those who
are of an aspiring disposition, to take off those who will not submit,
to allow no public meals, no clubs, no education, nothing at all, but
to guard against everything that gives rise to high spirits or mutual
confidence; nor to suffer the learned meetings of those who are at
leisure to hold conversation with each other; and to endeavour by every
means possible to keep all the people strangers to each other; for
knowledge increases mutual confidence; and to oblige all strangers to
appear in public, and to live near the city-gate, that all their actions
may be sufficiently seen; for those who are kept like slaves seldom
entertain any noble thoughts: in short, to imitate everything which the
Persians and barbarians do, for they all contribute to support slavery;
and to endeavour to know what every one who is under their power does
and says; and for this purpose to employ spies: such were those women
whom the Syracusians called potagogides Hiero also used to send out
listeners wherever there was any meeting or conversation; for the people
dare not speak with freedom for fear of such persons; and if any one
does, there is the less chance of its being concealed; and to endeavour
that the whole community should mutually accuse and come to blows with
each other, friend with friend, the commons with the nobles, and the
rich with each other. It is also advantageous for a tyranny that all
those who are under it should be oppressed with poverty, that they may
not be able to compose a guard; and that, being employed in procuring
their daily bread, they may have no leisure to conspire against their
tyrants. The Pyramids of Egypt are a proof of this, and the votive
edifices of the Cyposelidse, and the temple of Jupiter Olympus, built by
the Pisistratidae, and the works of Polycrates at Samos; for all these
produced one end, the keeping the people poor. It is necessary also to
multiply taxes, as at Syracuse; where Dionysius in the space of five
years collected all the private property of his subjects into his own
coffers. A tyrant also should endeavour to engage his subjects in a war,
that they may have employment and continually depend upon their general.
A king is preserved by his friends, but a tyrant is of all persons the
man who can place no confidence in friends, as every one has it in his
desire and these chiefly in their power to destroy him. All these things
also which are done in an extreme democracy should be done in a tyranny,
as permitting great licentiousness to the women in the house, that they
may reveal their husbands' secrets; and showing great indulgence to
slaves also for the same reason; for slaves and women conspire not
against tyrants: but when they are treated with kindness, both of them
are abettors of tyrants, and extreme democracies also; and the people
too in such a state desire to be despotic. For which reason flatterers
are in repute in both these: the demagogue in the democracy, for he is
the proper flatterer of the people; among tyrants, he who will servilely
adapt himself to their humours; for this is the business of [1314a]
flatterers. And for this reason tyrants always love the worst of
wretches, for they rejoice in being flattered, which no man of a liberal
spirit will submit to; for they love the virtuous, but flatter none. Bad
men too are fit for bad purposes; "like to like," as the proverb says. A
tyrant also should show no favour to a man of worth or a freeman; for he
should think, that no one deserved to be thought these but himself; for
he who supports his dignity, and is a friend to freedom, encroaches upon
the superiority and the despotism of the tyrant: such men, therefore,
they naturally hate, as destructive to their government. A tyrant
also should rather admit strangers to his table and familiarity than
citizens, as these are his enemies, but the others have no design
against him. These and such-like are the supports of a tyranny, fo