[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

t occurred amid international calls on Israel to exercise self-restraint. We call on the parties concerned to make a cease-fire, while seeking sincere and utmost efforts by all countries concerned to resolve the problem in order to prevent civilian casualties and not to further worsen the situation.

Kazakhstan 
Kazakh officials have called upon the UN Security Council to adopt a consolidated resolution on the escalation of conflict in Lebanon. Press Secretary of the Kazakh Foreign Ministry Ilyas Omarov stated:Kazakhstan calls the conflicting parties to an immediate ceasefire and considers it necessary that the UN Security Council adopt a consolidated resolution on the escalation of conflict in Lebanon.… We deeply regret about the continuing escalation of the conflict causing sufferings of the peaceful population of Lebanon, Palestine, and Israel. Kazakhstan believes that military actions should not cause casualties among peaceful population or demolition of social infrastructure, as well as a humanitarian crisis.… A decision of Israel to suspend the air strikes for 48 hours must become a first step on the way to cessation of military actions in the region.

Malaysia 
Dato' Seri Syed Hamid Albar, Malaysia's Minister of Foreign Affairs, condemned "the unlawful airstrikes by Israel" and "the irresponsible use of force by Israel on Lebanon" causing "hardship and suffering to [Lebanon's] people." Malaysia urged Israel to "cease all military action," and called "upon the international community to intervene." On 20 July, Albar told the press that Malaysia was considering plan to deploy peacekeepers to Lebanon.

During an emergency meeting of Muslim leaders by the Organisation of the Islamic Conference on 3 July, chairman Dato' Seri Abdullah Ahmad Badawi called for the convening of the United Nations General Assembly in 'emergency special session', under the terms of the "Uniting for Peace" resolution, if the Security Council failed to act immediately in the crisis.

On 5 August, Malaysia rejected plans for a dialogue with Israel to resolve the crisis on grounds of no diplomatic ties between the two nations.

Pakistan 
Pakistan's Foreign Ministry has expressed outrage over "Israeli aggression against Lebanon and Palestine," releasing the following statement: This attack is a flagrant violation of Lebanese sovereignty and contravenes the norms and principles of the UN charter. The aerial bombardment of Beirut airport and the naval blockade of Lebanese waters announced by the Israeli government represents a dangerous escalation.  We have also watched with deep concern the Israeli attacks on Gaza that have resulted in enormous losses in life and property.The statement also said that "the latest Israeli aggression against Palestinian territories and Lebanon have undermined hopes and efforts for peace in the region," arguing that "the situation demands restraint and a return to diplomacy and negotiations."

On 16 July, Pakistan condemned the violence being committed by Israel against Lebanon and urged that attacks resulting in loss of life and property must be stopped immediately. Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz expressed these views while talking to his Lebanese counterpart Fouad Siniora: "Pakistan appeals to the world community, the permanent members of the Security Council, the UN and other international bodies to intervene," Aziz said, adding that Pakistan stood by the people of Lebanon and respected their sovereignty and territorial integrity.

Tajikistan 
Tajikistan denounced Israel's attacks on Lebanon on 27 July, together with Iran and Afghanistan. Tajik President Emomali Rahmonov stated:We are seriously concerned about the deteriorating security conditions in the Middle East, particularly more so due to Israel's attack against Lebanon that has claimed the lives of hundreds of innocent civilians so far.… We hereby ask for an immediate end to those attacks, and the solving of the dispute through negotiations.… According to latest reports, most of the victims of Israeli attacks are the Lebanese children, youngsters, women, and elderly folks.

Others