[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Human rights in Oman

le defendants accompany them to the courtroom.

Rights of prisoners

As a rule, prisons meet international standards. Prisoners are allowed to receive visitors and practice their religion. Prison conditions are monitored, and complaints of abuse are addressed by the national human-rights commission.

Employees' rights
Government employees and domestic workers cannot join unions, but most others can. The government must be notified a month in advance of union meetings. The right to strike is subject to several conditions, one of them being that employers must be informed of planned strikes three weeks in advance. Collective bargaining is allowed. Forced labor is illegal, although some foreigners are apparently engaged in involuntary servitude. Children under 15 are not allowed to work, and there are limits on work by those under 18, although some children work in small family businesses. There is a low minimum wage that does not apply in a number of sectors, and there are various restrictions on working conditions that are not uniformly enforced. Occupational health and safety codes are generally enforced, however.

Rights of speech and freedom of movement 
February 2017, Human Rights Watch released a report about the violation of the right of speech and freedom of movement in Oman. In June 2012, Al-Fazari, the founder and editor-in-chief of Mowatin magazine was arrested by Omani authorities, and held in a solitary confinement. The charges included "gathering with the intent of rioting" and "insulting the Sultan", yet he was freed, then. On August 30, 2014, he was arrested again, held incommunicado for six days, and then released without charges. In spite of being banned from travelling abroad, he left the country seeking asylum in the United Kingdom on July 17. As a result, his brother, Mahmoud Al-Fazari, was arrested and detained for three weeks but then released without charges as well as his wife, his 3-year-old daughter and his 1-year-old son were prevented going out to the United Arab Emirates.

See also

LGBT rights in Oman
Human rights in Muslim-majority countries

References

External links
Oman - U.S. State Department's 2005 Country Report on Human Rights Practices 
Oman at Human Rights Watch
Censorship in Oman - IFEX

 
Society of Oman
Politics of Oman
Government of Oman
Law of Oman
Oman