[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Stelio Savante

South African actor Stelio Savante  is a filmmaker   known for his roles as a South African/Israeli journalist and undercover Mossad agent opposite Jim Caviezel and Claudia Karvan in the political thriller Infidel, a Portuguese mayor opposite Matt Dillon in the Hawaiian drama Running for Grace, a small town deputy directly opposite Cress Williams, Kellan Lutz and Anne Heche, in her final film performance in the noir What Remains, and a rogue policeman in the South African epic drama Colors of Heaven. In 2007 he became the first male South African-born Screen Actors Guild award nominee (Best Ensemble in a Comedy) for his recurring role on Ugly Betty followed by  roles in the studio films My Super Ex-Girlfriend and Starship Troopers 3: Marauder. He is also known for the roles of Moses in the biblical series The Chosen, and the voice of Ajax in the popular video games Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 and Call of Duty: Mobile.

Early life
A Capetonian of Greek, Italian, British, Ashkenazi, and Anatolian descent, his grandfather was a racing driver who placed and won medals at the 1955 Monte Carlo Rally. Fluent in Afrikaans and Greek, he graduated from Camps Bay High School, immigrated from South Africa to the United States when he was offered an international tennis scholarship by the University of West Alabama and relocated again to New York City in 1992 to pursue an acting career.

New York
His prime-time debut came in Law & Order: Special Victims Unit as a Bosnian–Muslim fundamentalist. Directed by Academy Award winner Juan Jose Campanella and also starring Bradley Cooper and Alfred Molina, the episode was nominated for an Emmy. Further television credits include Law & Order: Criminal Intent opposite Chris Noth and Annabella Sciorra, The Sopranos, Guiding Light, All My Children, as Dan 'Schaffy' Schaffner in Jim Breuer's pilot for Pulp Comics on Comedy Central and recurring as Antonio on Late Night with Conan O'Brien.

Film credits include the comedy My Super Ex-Girlfriend directed by Ivan Reitman, starring opposite Anna Faris, Eddie Izzard, Uma Thurman, Luke Wilson, and Rainn Wilson, and in Ron Howard's Academy Award winner A Beautiful Mind opposite Russell Crowe.

Theater credits include lead roles in the American and New York premiers of Arnie Sieren's award-winning Belgian play, My Blackie, Belgian playwright Jean-Yves Picq's The Case Of Kaspar Meyer, German playwright Roland Schimmelpfennig's Arabian Night directed by Trip Cullman, Dan Gordon's Murder in the First directed by American Theatre Wing alumni Michael Parva, and Mortal Coils directed by Actors Studio lifetime member Ed Setrakian.

Los Angeles
Savante relocated to Los Angeles in 2006 for recurring role of Steve on Ugly Betty, produced by Salma Hayek. He received a Screen Actor's Guild nomination along with the lead ensemble cast in 2007.

Savante's Los Angeles television credits also include a recurring role on My Own Worst Enemy, guest star lead roles in J. J. Abrams' Undercovers opposite Boris Kodjoe and Gugu Mbatha-Raw, The Suite Life on Deck, Person of Interest opposite Jim Caviezel, Without a Trace opposite Marianne Jean-Baptiste and Ivana Milicevic, Breakout Kings opposite Jimmi Simpson, and NCIS. He portrayed Joe Masseria in the eight part mini-series The Making of the Mob: New York for AMC and David Sarnoff in American Genius for National Geographic.

He received positive reviews for his role in the feature A Million Colours, which screened at the Montreal World Film Festival, Pan African Film Festival, Atlantic Film Festival, and was also awarded two South African Film and Television Awards.

His film credits include an ensemble leading role in Sony Pictures Entertainment Starship Troopers 3: Marauder produced by Academy Award nominee David Lancaster , a supporting role in Movieguide award winner What If, and a lead role opposite Isaach De Bankole and Juliet Landau in Rudolf Buitendach's Where the Road Runs Out, the first feature to ever be filmed in Equatorial Guinea, winner of the Best Narrative Feature Award at the 2014 San Diego Film Festival and a Black Reel Award for Outstanding World Cinema in 2017.

Savante starred in Peter Greenaway's Eisenstein in Guanajuato which was nominated for the Golden Bear at the 2015 Berlin International Film Festival. He also starred in the independent film Pacific Standard Time opposite Alex Russell and Willa Holland, as well as in the HBO series Togetherness directed by Mark Duplass and Jay Duplass, and the sex trafficking film Selling Isobel, winner of the 'Indie Award' at the Raindance Film Festival in 2016. He guest starred in The Chosen by Dallas Jenkins and on Tyler Perry's The Haves and the Have Nots.