[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hellig Usvart

n crushing'?" Sherlock responded, "No I do not. The lyrics on 'Hellig Usvart' were written 12 years ago. I'm sure that if another Horde album was written today, the themes would be quite different and much more mature, to counteract the poetic and intelligent (albeit misguided) lyrics of modern BM."

After the release, magazines such as HM gave Hellig Usvart positive reviews, and later critics such as Matt Morrow of The Whipping Post gave the album a 10/10 score, writing "...this album was made more than anything, to make a point. It made that point loud and clear, and it also kicked the door wide open and paved the way for many Christian black metal bands in the future to bring the light of Christ to an extremely dark music scene." Rock Hard said about the album, "It takes courage to release such a disc". In 2010, HM Magazine listed Hellig Usvart #63 on its Top 100 Christian Rock Albums of All Time list stating that it "kicked off a Christocentric infiltration of black metal culture" and it "holds up as a righteously furious assault".

Track listing
All songs written and composed by Anonymous (Jayson Sherlock).

2006 live recording appears on The Day of Total Armageddon Holocaust – Alive in Oslo (2007)

Personnel
Horde
 Anonymous (aka Jayson Sherlock) – vocals, lead, rhythm and acoustic guitars, bass guitar, keyboards, drums

Production
 Markus Staiger – executive producer
 Anonymous – arrangement, layout, logo, mixing, photography, production
 Rusty Scott – layout (original Rowe Productions release)
 Unblack Mark – engineer, recording

Notes
1. Mistitled "Drink From the Chalice of Love" on some digital releases.

2. Mistitled "Sinlence the Blasphemous Chanting" on the original Rowe Productions CD release.

3. Alternatively titled "Weak, Feeble and Dying Anti-Christ" on certain pressings.

4. Track name is unlisted on the back of the original Rowe Productions pressing, but is included on the disc.

References

External links
Hellig Usvart at Discogs: link

Horde (band) albums
1994 debut albums
Nuclear Blast albums