[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Immigration New Zealand

gration New Zealand had initially assigned two staff members to process their visas following the court ruling but subsequently assigned nine personnel to processing Afghan visas. Community Law CEO Sue Moroney criticised the Government for preventing Afghan applicants from resettling in New Zealand.

Dawn raids
On 2 May 2023, Immigration New Zealand confirmed that it had visited 623 visa overstayers in the period between July 2022 and April 2023. While the vast majority of these visits were carried out between 7am and 9pm, the agency acknowledged that it had conducted 18-19 visits (roughly 3%) "outside of hours" including dawn. According to Immigration Minister Michael Wood's office, these 19 cases consisted of 10 Chinese, four Indians, two Tongans, one Samoan, one Malaysian and one Indonesian. This acknowledgement came in response to media coverage of a joint Immigration-Police "dawn raid" conducted against a Pasifika overstayer between 5am and 6am in late April. During the raid, immigration officials and Police had surrounded the exits of the overstayer's rental property, traumatising his wife and young children. The father was subsequently taken to Manukau police station. Immigration New Zealand stated that it was rare for the department to conduct early morning operations and that this operation had been approved by the national manager of compliance. 

In response to the raid, Prime Minister Chris Hipkins confirmed that Associate Immigration Minister Rachel Brooking was investigating the Pasifika overstayer's case. In addition, Immigration Minister Wood sent a letter of expectations to Immigration NZ's chief executive emphasising the Government's expectation that deportations should only occur in extreme cases and that the agency's operational policy should reflect the Government's 2021 apology for the 1970s dawn raids. Deputy Prime Minister Carmel Sepuloni, the first Pasifika office holder in that role, criticised Immigration NZ for "re-traumatising" the Pasifika community and reiterated that raids should only be carried in cases of threats to public security.

The April raid was also criticised by the Pasifika overstayer's lawyer Soane Foliaki former Polynesian Panther Tigilau Ness, lawyer Soane Foliaki, Green Party co-leader Marama Davidson, and ACT Party leader David Seymour for traumatising the overstayer's family and evoking memories of the controversial dawn raids of the 1970s which disproportionately targeted Pasifika New Zealanders. The Green Party also reiterated its calls for an amnesty for overstayers. While National Party leader Christopher Luxon acknowledged the historical sensitivity around the dawn raids, he argued that Immigration New Zealand needed to "reserve the option" to use dawn raids against individuals involved in serious criminal offending or who posed a security risk to New Zealand.

In late May 2023, a Chinese overstayer known by the alias "Chen" (or "Feng") and his lawyer Tuariki Delamere claimed that Immigration compliance officers and the Police used "unnecessary force" when arresting Chen during a raid on six Chinese and Malaysian overstayers sharing a flat in 2022. Chen claimed that he had mistaken the Immigration compliance officers and Police for robbers since he and none of his flatmates spoke English. Chen had jumped over a balcony railing on the second floor. Chen says that he was tackled by several Immigration compliance officers and sustained a broken left wrist. Delamere complained about Chen's treatent to the Police, Independent Police Conduct Authority and MBIE. Immigration NZ disputed Chen's version of events and claimed that Chen had jumped off the deck, moved his left arm in an attempt to break his fall, and physically resisted Immigration compliance officers. Delamere disputed Immigration NZ's account of events. In addition to overstaying his visa, Chen was also charged with being linked to an organised fraud group that was involved in organising travel plans and visa applications. Chen disputed the charges and unsuccessfully applied for refugee status with Immigration NZ's Refugee Protection Unit in February 2023, claiming that he risked arrest if deported to China. Chen subsequently appealed the Protection Unit's decision to the Immigration Protection Tribunal.