[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Finland Plot

ize state-owned assets, while at the same time establishing a single-party dictatorship, all in order to create a socialist dictatorship.

The allegations were roundly denied by Thaksin Shinawatra and the leadership of his Thai Rak Thai party, including Surapong Suebwonglee and Prommin Lertsuridej. 

On 30 May, Thaksin Shinawatra and Thana Benjathikul, a lawyer from the Thai Rak Thai party, sued Sondhi, editor Khunthong Lorserivanich, columnist Pramote Nakhonthap, executive Saowalak Thiranujanyong, and webmaster Panjapat Angkhasuwan for libel.  The lawsuit alleged that the articles were intended to ruin Thai Rak Thai and Thaksin's political future by making the public believe the party was planning to overturn the constitutional monarchy.  Thaksin's lawsuit attracted criticism and claims that Thaksin was trying to censor the media.

Impact of the allegations 
  
The allegations damaged the popularity of Thaksin and his government.  Thaksin was forced to expend a significant amount of time and political capital on damage control, explaining his position and swearing his loyalty to the monarchy.

In an editorial, the influential anti-Thaksin newspaper The Nation noted:

The Nation noted that the actual existence of the Plot was not important—the mere invocation of royalty would be enough to damage the Thai Rak Thai party.  Many commentators noted the similarity between the Finland Plot allegations and the allegations used justify the massacre of students on 6 October 1976, which in the context of the Thailand political crisis, might justify a military coup.  The Thai military eventually successfully executed a coup against the Thaksin government on 19 September 2006.  One of the junta's stated rationales for the coup was that Thaksin had insulted the King.

References 

Politics of Thailand
Conspiracy theories in Asia
Conspiracy theories in Thailand
2006 in Thailand
Anti-communism in Thailand
Political career of Thaksin Shinawatra
Republicanism in Thailand