[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Cobra Verde (band)

Cobra Verde is an American rock band formed in Cleveland, Ohio. Founded in 1994, the group has released six albums, including the acclaimed Nightlife, Easy Listening, and Haven't Slept All Year.

Cobra Verde's music has been featured on television programs such as True Blood, Entourage, The OC, Shameless, and Sons of Anarchy. In addition, the group performed on The OC as a Foreigner tribute band at a birthday party held at the show's fictional club, "The Bait Shop."

Cobra Verde includes singer-guitarist John Petkovic, Mark Klein (drums-vocals), Tim Parnin (guitar), Ed Sotelo (bass-vocals), and Frank Vazzano. This has been the longest-running line-up for the band, its origins going as far back as 1998.

The band's sound has been described as post-punk, glam rock, hard rock, and garage rock. In a review of the band's 2003 album, Easy Listening, the Boston Phoenix compared Cobra Verde to the MC5, due to lyrics and guitars that "blur the line between revolution and hedonism."

Salon.com compared Cobra Verde to glam-rock, and specifically compared the band's 1999 album, Nightlife, to director Todd Haynes' film, Velvet Goldmine. "Haynes would have fared far better if he had consulted John Petkovic and his band Cobra Verde."

The band has drawn comparison to '70s glam-rock because of the art work for Nightlife by noted photographer Mick Rock, who chronicled David Bowie, Queen, Lou Reed, and Iggy Pop in the 1970s.

History
Cobra Verde started as a one-off studio project for Scat Records, a St. Louis-based imprint responsible for releasing records by seminal Cleveland bands such as electric eels and Dayton, Ohio band Guided by Voices.

Petkovic, the sole continuous member throughout Cobra Verde's 20-year history, enlisted guitarist Doug Gillard and drummer Dave Swanson, with whom he had played in Death of Samantha. Studio engineer Don Depew played bass.

To reflect the one-off nature of the project, Petkovic named the ensuing album Viva La Muerte (meaning "long live death"), after the battle cry of the Spanish Foreign Legion. The album was subtitled "death in small doses." The project lacked a name, however.

"I didn't even have a name for the thing until the cover art for the record was being sent off," said Petkovic, in a 1996 interview with Flipside magazine. "So I had a friend call me who happened to be hanging out with Werner Herzog – so he asks Herzog to suggest a name. So he says Cobra Verde -- the name of the last film he shot with Klaus Kinski – in honor of Klaus."

Rolling Stone called the Viva La Muerte album "provocative grime, like Diamond Dogs sabotaged by Final Solution-era Pere Ubu."
The same line-up also recorded Vintage Crime (an EP that included an appearance of Chris Brokaw, of the Boston band Come) before being recruited to play in Guided by Voices, backing Robert Pollard on the 1997 album Mag Earwhig!

A breakup of the GBV lineup led to a shake-up in Cobra Verde with the entry of Klein (of the Cleveland heavy-metal band Breaker) and Vazzano (of the Cleveland rock band Quazimodo) in 1998. The following year saw the addition of keyboardist and theremin player Chas Smith and bassist Dave Hill. Smith, who died in 2007, was a member of noted Cleveland bands the Pagans and Radio Alarm Clocks, and served as a board member for the parody cult known as the Church of the Subgenius. Hill played in the band until 2002, leaving to pursue comedy and acting. Hill was replaced by Edward Angel Sotelo, an Argentine-born musician who had played in Cleveland-based post-punk Proletarian Art Threat. At this point, Cobra Verde included guitarist Derek Deprator who was replaced by Jovan Karcic (of noted Columbus group Gaunt). Karcic was replaced by J Mascis of Dinosaur Jr., who toured with Cobra Verde and played on "Easy Listening." (Petkovic and Mascis would later go on to play together in the band Sweet Apple.) Tim Parnin (of Cleveland band Sons of Elvis) joined in 2004, taking Mascis' spot and filling out the longest-running line-up for Cobra Verde.

Releases

Nightlife

The 1999 album marked the beginning of Cobra Verde as an ongoing touring band. The 12-song disc earned four-star review by Rolling Stone, which called it "a treatise on fidelity and illusion, cold ambition and betrayal." "Nightlife" was widely acclaimed, receiving praise from the Los Angeles Times, The Washington Post, Alternative Press, The Onion, The New York Times, and Village Voice.

TimeOut New York wrote that "CV explores of rock music's classic themes: love, revolution, self-destruction and identity" and called the album "a stunning display of everything that makes rock music vital."

Nightlife received comparisons to glam-rock, in part because of Rock's artwork, but also because the album cover features model Lisa Ronson, the daughter of glam-rock guitarist and Bowie collaborator Mick Ronson.