[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Madhu Koda

da won from his constituency Jaganathpur from Jai Bharat Samanta Party, the results of which were declared on 23 Dec. 2009. In 2014 Jharkhand Assembly Election, Madhu Koda lost from the Majhgao constituency. Koda was defeated by Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) candidate Nial Purty by over 20,000 votes.

Mining scam conviction 
It was alleged that Madhu Koda was involved in a mining scam that occurred in Jharkhand in India. It was alleged by investigative agencies that Madhu Koda took huge bribes for illegally allotting iron ore and coal mining contracts in Jharkhand when he was the chief minister of the state. As per estimates, Koda and his associates collected over  by allotting mines to business houses. On orders of Jharkhand High Court CBI is investigating the scam.

Koda was arrested by state police's vigilance wing on 30 November 2009 in connection with the mining scam. On 31 July 2013, he was released on bail from Birsa Munda Prison in Ranchi.

A Special money-laundering court in Delhi attached Koda's properties worth  in a disproportionate assets case against his alleged associates. It found that the properties were involved in the offence of laundering under the provisions of The Prevention Of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in a case probed by Enforcement Directorate (ED). Some of the attached assets also belonged to Anil Adinath Bastawde, who was arrested by the ED in January 2013 from Jakarta and Manoj B Punamiya, an associate of Koda and an accused in the case. ED sources had said the amount of scam, which had allegedly taken place during Koda's regime between 2006 and 2008 had gone up to  in the course of investigation and the amount excluded Bastawde's assets, who was an absconder for long time. In December 2017, the court of justice Bharat Parashar convicted Madhu Koda and awarded him a three-year jail term and imposed a fine of .

References

1971 births
Living people
Chief Ministers of Jharkhand
India MPs 2009–2014
People from West Singhbhum district
Indian prisoners and detainees
Lok Sabha members from Jharkhand
Indian National Congress politicians
Bharatiya Janata Party politicians from Jharkhand
Independent politicians in India
Coal block allocation scam
Corruption in Jharkhand
All Jharkhand Students Union politicians
Adivasi politicians
Jharkhand MLAs 2000–2005
Jharkhand MLAs 2005–2009
Indian politicians convicted of corruption
People convicted of corruption