[Source: PubMed]

26. Global Health. 2021 Oct 29;17(1):126. doi: 10.1186/s12992-021-00777-2.

A scoping review on the measurement of transnationalism in migrant health 
research in high-income countries.

Kim YN(1), Urquia M(2), Villadsen SF(3), Merry L(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, University of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Manitoba Centre for Health Policy, Department of Community Health Sciences, 
Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Public Health, Univeristy of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Faculty of Nursing, University of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
lisa.merry@umontreal.ca.
(5)SHERPA University Institute, West-Central Montreal CIUSSS, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada. lisa.merry@umontreal.ca.
(6)InterActions Centre de recherche et de partage des savoirs, CIUSSS du 
Nord-de-l'île-de-Montréal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. lisa.merry@umontreal.ca.

BACKGROUND: Migrants commonly maintain transnational ties as they relocate and 
settle in a new country. There is a growing body of research examining 
transnationalism and health. We sought to identify how transnationalism has been 
defined and operationalized in migrant health research in high income countries 
and to document which populations and health and well-being outcomes have been 
studied in relation to this concept.
METHODS: We conducted a scoping review using the methodology recommended by the 
Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI). We searched nine electronic databases; no time 
restrictions were applied. Studies published in English or French in 
peer-reviewed journals were considered. Studies were eligible if they included a 
measure of transnationalism (or one of its dimensions; social, cultural, 
economic, political and identity ties and/or healthcare use) and examined health 
or well-being.
RESULTS: Forty-seven studies, mainly cross-sectional designs (81%), were 
included; almost half were conducted in the United States. The majority studied 
immigrants, broadly defined; 23% included refugees and/or asylum-seekers while 
36% included undocumented migrants. Definitions of transnationalism varied 
according to the focus of the study and just over half provided explicit 
definitions. Most often, transnationalism was defined in terms of social 
connections to the home country. Studies and measures mainly focused on contacts 
and visits with family and remittance sending, and only about one third of 
studies examined and measured more than two dimensions of transnationalism. The 
operationalization of transnationalism was not consistent and reliability and 
validity data, and details on language translation, were limited. Almost half of 
the studies examined mental health outcomes, such as emotional well-being, or 
symptoms of depression. Other commonly studied outcomes included self-rated 
health, life satisfaction and perceived discrimination.
CONCLUSION: To enhance comparability in this field, researchers should provide a 
clear, explicit definition of transnationalism based on the scope of their 
study, and for its measurement, they should draw from validated items/questions 
and be consistent in its operationalization across studies. To enhance the 
quality of findings, more complex approaches for operationalizing 
transnationalism (e.g., latent variable modelling) and longitudinal designs 
should be used. Further research examining a range of transnationalism 
dimensions and health and well-being outcomes, and with a diversity of migrant 
populations, is also warranted.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12992-021-00777-2
PMCID: PMC8555176
PMID: 34715897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.