[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Igal Roodenko

, and otherwise if we don't learn to deal with our conflicts in a non-lethal manner, we stand a very good chance of destroying ourselves, perhaps destroying all life on this planet. To me, the key word is non-violence. It is a much misused word, but until we find a better word, I am addicted to it."

Journey of Reconciliation 
In April 1947, eight black and eight white men set out on a 2 week interstate bus trip from Washington, D.C. into the upper South called The Journey of Reconciliation, sponsored by the FOR (Fellowship of Reconciliation), and CORE (Congress of Racial Equality). Sitting Black and white side-by-side, they sought, in areas where local statues still upheld segregation, to test the new Supreme Court Morgan v. State of Virginia decision, which ruled that segregation on interstate travel was unconstitutional. 4 riders were arrested in Chapel Hill, NC - Bayard Rustin, Igal Roodenko, Joe Felmet and Andrew Johnson. At their trial, Rustin and Roodenko were both convicted. Rustin was sentenced to 30 days on a North Carolina chain gang. The judge said to Roodenko, "Now, Mr. Rodenky (sic), I presume you're Jewish." "Yes, I am," Roodenko replied. "Well, it's about time you Jews from New York learned that you can't come down bringing your nigras with you to upset the customs of the South. Just to teach you a lesson," the judge sentenced him to 90 days on a chain gang - three times the length of Rustin's sentence.

On June 17, 2022, Judge Allen Baddour, with full consent of the State and Defense, dismissed the charges against the four Freedom Riders, with members of the exonerees’ families in attendance.
After 75 years the North Carolina court, vacated the convictions of four freedom fighters from the Journey of Reconciliation. Renee Price, chair of the Orange County Board of Commissioners, learned that the charges against these men arrested in Chapel Hill, in what many Civil Rights historians consider the first Freedom Ride, had never been dropped. "They were arrested and convicted for violating laws that were in fact a violation to humanity, a violation to human dignity and a violation to freedom and justice for all," said Price. She reached out to Orange County Superior Court Judge Allen Baddour, whose office researched the incident and legal cases. After 75 years, on June 17, 2022, Superior Court Judge Allen Baddour vacated and dismissed the charges in a Special Court Session which drew over 100 people into the very courtroom where the men were sentenced. 

“We failed these men in Orange County, in Chapel Hill,” said Judge Baddour. “We failed their cause and we failed to deliver justice in our community. And for that, I apologize. So we’re doing this today to right a wrong, in public and on the record because these offenses, these events happened all over the country and very little documented evidence of the court process exists. I do not want to erase history, but we must shine a light on it.”
Along with Judge Baddour and Renee Price, speakers included Woodrena Baker-Harrell, Public Defender, Orange & Chatham Counties; Jim Woodall, District Attorney, Orange & Chatham Counties; Chief Chris Blue, Chapel Hill Police Dept.; Pam Hemminger, Mayor Chapel Hill; LaTarndra Strong, President North Orange NAACP; Dr. Freddie Parker, Professor Emeritus of History, North Carolina Central Univ.; Walter Naegle, partner of Bayard Rustin; and Amy Zowniriw, niece of Igal Roodenko.
“The 1947 Journey of Reconciliation was about speaking truth to power and confronting injustice nonviolently…. Their faith and their consciences compelled them to act,” said Naegle.

Zowniriw said, “He Roodenko devoted his life to changing the world for the better, sometimes one person at a time, and sometimes, at great risk to his own personal well-being. He told me many times that his favorite thing to do was to give a speech. So today I am honored both to speak to you and to speak for him.”

You Don't Have To Ride Jim Crow, Documentary: Seven of the original riders joined for a series of reunions in the production of this documentary. The program captures them as they retrace their steps to stand at the exact sites of events nearly 50 years before. At a former bus station in North Carolina, the riders recall a mob’s attack on them and the backroads on which they were spirited away. They visit the chain gang site and jails where they served time for the crime of sitting together on a bus. They also meet, for the first time, Mrs. Irene Morgan Kirkaldy, whose courage was the impetus for their Journey. Additionally, the program looks at the contributions of the participants beyond the Journey, including the March on Washington and scores of nonviolent actions that have changed the racial landscape of America.