[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Castellgalí

family. It is a coat of arms cut in stone, of a noble type with a central circle with two hands clasped in friendship. The outer part of the coat of arms is surrounded by scrolls that frame it, taped at the top by a standing human figure holding a feather in one hand and a wooden stick in the other.

Castle and chapel of Santa Maria 
This castle had under its jurisdiction a term that must correspond to the current municipality, as even the area between the rivers Llobregat and Cardener already depended on it. The hilltop occupied by the castle had already been occupied previously, as fragments of Iberian pottery were found. The castle is documented as far back as924, when it was built by a character called Galí (Galindo), who would have owned the property in allodio. There is a documentary gap until 178, when we have a document that refers directly to the castle, the sale of the castle to King Alfonso I by Sibila, who had the castle as an inheritance from her ancestors. The king granted the castle in fief to a family whose surname was Castellgalí and who kept it until 130 when King Peter III sold several rights over the castle to his advisor Bernat de Torres de Manresa. Later, the King himself sold the charter of grace to Torres himself and all the jurisdiction of the castle, except criminal jurisdiction. The Torres family sold it to the Rajadell family in 1413, who kept the castle until 1563, when they sold it to the Amigant family. Josep d'AmigantIi Ferrer took possession of the castle of Castellgalí on October 5, 1673, with a public signing ceremony that took place in the town square, which was curious, given that feudalism, as a political and even social factor, had lost much of its importance at a time when all the inhabitants made the sacrament of fealty. The Amigants held the domain until the disappearance of the jurisdictional lordships in 1812. In 1970, a few amateurs and holidaymakers from the nearby housing estate carried out excavations without any method. They exhumed the remains of the castle which are still visible today. It seems that it was around 1473 that the castle was already in a bad state, as it was not inhabited and had been badly damaged after the Remença war. When it passed to the Amigants, instead of restoring the castle, they converted a house in the village, ca l'Amigant, formerly the Hostel, into a manor house, which they enlarged. The small church was located in the grounds of the castle of Castellgalí. It is mentioned in 1292, in the will of Berenguer Amatller written on December 27, 1292. It is not clear whether this chapel originally acted as a parish church or whether it only had the function of a castle chapel, which is why it is often called San Michael of the castle, with the same dedication as the parish church. In 1970, amateurs from the village also excavated the hill of the castle where the church is located and discovered the remains of the church. No archaeological material has been preserved. As a curious fact, we should mention that at the beginning of 1348, Guillema, wife of Berenguer of Castellgalí, died in the castle; she would have wanted to be buried in the convent of the Virgin of Carmen, in the city of Manresa but, because of the “mortalities and pestilentias multas” (it means: “the great mortality and pestilence”), she was buried in the castle church.

Church of Saint Michael of Castellgalí 
In the centre of the old town. It is a church with two aisles, the central one wider and larger than the side one on the right-hand side. They are covered with an imitation ogival vault made of brick. At the point where the ribs of the vaults cross, there are six keystones with an ornamental function. Four pillars, supported by segmental arches, separate the central nave from the side nave. Below the roof, there are a series of rounded windows that, together with the porthole in the façade, contribute to the illumination of the building. A moulding below the windows runs along all the walls of the nave. On the left side there are four chapels, defined by pilasters that protrude slightly from the wall. The doorway is in the Neo-Gothic style with pointed archivolts. The church has a quadrangular bell tower with a square ground plan and a belvedere at the top. The façade is plastered, but has a well-cut stone plinth; the rest of the structure is made of rather irregular ashlars. The main door opens to the west, at the crossroads of Saint Anthony, Manresa and Saint Margaret street. The doorway has a pointed arch sculptural decoration on the tympanum and double archivolt, and above it is a porthole. On the ceiling of the lateral nave there is a medallion with the two patron saints, Saint Honest and Saint Repelion.

Local festivals