[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# T.I. vs. T.I.P.

T.I. vs. T.I.P. is the fifth studio album by American rapper T.I., released on July 3, 2007 through Grand Hustle Records, Asylum Records and Atlantic Records. Recording sessions for the album took a year and a half to record towards early 2007, as T.I. stated and confirmed in an interview with MTV News. Production was handled by several record producers, including Kannon "Caviar" Cross, Just Blaze, Mannie Fresh, Lil' C, Wyclef Jean, Jerry 'Wonder' Duplessis, Sedeck "All Hands on Deck" Jean, Keith "Lil' Wonda" Duplessis, Kevin "Khao" Cates, Timbaland, Bao Quoc Pham, Steve Holdren, Nate "Danja" Hills, The Runners, Tony Galvin, Eminem, Jeff Bass, and Keith Mack, among others. Notably, it is also his first album not to feature production from his frequent collaborator DJ Toomp.

Upon its release, T.I. vs. T.I.P. received mixed reviews from music critics, but was a commercial success, debuting at number one on the US Billboard 200 chart and selling over 470,000 copies in its first week. It also achieved nearly respectable international chart placements, produced three singles that attained chart success (including the lead single "Big Things Poppin' (Do It)"), and was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).  T.I. vs. T.I.P. was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Rap Album, losing to Kanye West's Graduation at the 50th Annual Grammy Awards. The album won the American Music Award for Favorite Rap/Hip-Hop Album at the American Music Awards of 2007, with T.I. also winning the American Music Award for Favorite Rap/Hip-Hop Artist that year.

Background
Shortly after the release and major success of his 2006 efforts (his big screen acting debut ATL and his critically acclaimed fourth studio album King), T.I.'s friend, personal assistant, and an employee of his Grand Hustle Records, Philant Johnson was shot dead after a nightclub brawl between T.I.'s entourage and some Cincinnati thugs. After Johnson's death, T.I. mentioned that the business of rapping no longer felt good and admitted that he was seriously considering quitting music altogether. In the leaflet included with the album, T.I. dedicates the album to Philant "Big Phil" Johnson as well as his daughters Leiah Amoré Harris (who was born stillborn) and Deyjah Princess Harris; his three sons Messiyah, Domani, and Clifford Harris, and the mother of his children Tameka "Tiny" Cottle.

Recording
On March 19, 2007, via phone from Atlanta with MTV News, T.I. revealed some of the album's collaborators. T.I. stated that he was anticipating going in recording with Eminem. He also stated that he and Eminem had a hot concept that they spoke about over the phone. T.I. stated "It's gonna be on some real creative shit. JT, Justin Timberlake, we're just waiting on the proper song to get him on my album as well." That's just the beginning, the two-time Grammy Award winner said that he had about 60 songs in the can and will again be working right up to the deadline to turn the album in. T.I. stated that he was working with everybody who he had an opportunity to work with, he added, He confirmed that he was working with Timbaland working with Danja Timbaland protégé Nate Hills on that same day. Scott Storch, Mannie Fresh, and he stated that Wyclef Jean came through with some real worldly music and great vocals. Nelly, Lil Wayne, R. Kelly. T.I. stated that he reached out to R&B singer Ciara.

He confirmed that Akon had contributed to the album, along with most of the Grand Hustle Records producers including Kevin "Khao" Cates, Black Mob and others.  T.I. confirmed that Just Blaze, did a song called 'Help Is Coming.' T.I. stated that the song was basically talking about how they say the industry is suffering. Well, help is on the way. Fret not." T.I. vs. T.I.P. is undoubtedly the film/mic star's most conceptual album to date. T.I. is the persona we hear in songs like "My Love" and "Why You Wanna". T.I.P., on the other hand, takes care of the much more gutter material like "Bring Em Out" and "You Don't Know Me". T.I. stated that the LP would give you doses of T.I. and T.I.P. solo records as well as the two collaborating on the same track. There will be interlude's throughout the LP, telling a story — and don't be surprised if more than one single from the project is released at once. T.I. stated "I'm not just making an album, I'm making f---in' opera here," he chuckled. With such a high concept, he says that he's making sure to take extra time and critique every song to be sure he doesn't lose anyone, it'd be easy for me to go over people's heads," he rationalized. "Sometime people might see me act a certain way one time and another way one another time. They might not believe the same cat you see dressed so sharp and winning awards and speaking eloquently is the same cat you see fist-fighting with hoodlums outside a nightclub. This album will be an explanation of all of this" he states.