[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Poor Nastya

Poor Nastya (, Bednaya Nastya) is a Russian telenovela originally aired in the Russian Federation from 31 October 2003 to 30 April 2004 on  STS, and in Ukraine from 10 November 2003 to 7 May 2004 on 1+1. Set in 19th century imperial Russia, the series achieved international success and was shown in China, Israel, Serbia, Kazakhstan, Georgia, Greece, Bulgaria and more than twenty countries worldwide. With a budget of $11.8 million, it is the most expensive Russian television project so far. A sequel was planned, but never produced.

Cast

Fictional characters 
 Elena Korikova as Anna Platonova, the female protagonist. Anna is the illegitimate daughter of Prince Pyotr Mikhailovich Dolgoruky and his servant Marfa and was hidden in the house of her father's old friend, Baron Ivan Ivanovich Korff. Baron Korff brought her up like his own daughter, much to the seeming displeasure of his son Vladimir. Anna falls in love with Vladimir's best friend Mikhail Repnin, but their relationship is constantly disturbed by Vladimir, who has also fallen for Anna. Finally, it is discovered Anna's real name is actually Anastasia Petrovna Dolgorukaya and she marries Vladimir.
 Daniil Strakhov as Baron Vladimir Ivanovich Korff, the male protagonist, sometimes shown as antagonist. In the beginning, he is attracted by Princess Liza Dolgorukaya, but then becomes involved with Olga Kalinowska, lady-in-waiting. He has a duel with Tsarevich Alexander and is condemned to death, but later saved by the Tsarevich. Vladimir is jealous of Misha's relationship with Anna, but finally marries her.
 Pyotr Krasilov as Prince Mikhail Alexandrovich Repnin, Vladimir's best friend. He falls in love with Anna, but their relationship is constantly disturbed by Vladimir, who also loves Anna. Misha eventually falls in love with Liza Dolgorukaya and marries her.
 Ekaterina Klimova as Princess Natalia Alexandrovna Repnina, Misha's sister and the fiancée of Andrey Dolgoruky. She leaves him after finding out he is the father of Tatyana's child. During the series, it is indicated Natalia has fallen in love with Prince Alexander, who has previously fallen in love with her and tried to seduce her. After Andrey is killed by accident, Natalia ends up alone, as Alexander decides to marry Princess Maria Alexandrovna.
 Emmanuil Vitorgan as Prince Pyotr Mikhailovich Dolgoruky, the husband of Maria Alexeevna and Anna's (Nastya) biological father, who is believed to be dead.
 Olga Ostroumova as Princess Maria Alexeevna Dolgorukaya, the antagonist of the series. She is the mother of Andrey, Liza and Sonya and the wife of Anna's (Nastya) biological father Pyotr Mikhailovich Dolgoruky. Maria is aware of Pyotr's relationship with servant Marfa and despises Ivan Ivanovich Korff, who helped them to hide their relationship. After Ivan Ivanovich dies, Maria Alexeevna continues a dispute with his son Vladimir.
 Aleksandr Filippenko as Andrey Platonovich Zabaluev, the male antagonist. Liza is forced to marry him, but they eventually divorce.
 Larisa Shakhvorostova as Marfa, the lover of Pyotr Mikhailovich Dolgoruky and the biological mother of Anna (Nastya).
 Anton Makarskiy as Prince Andrey Petrovich Dolgoruky, the son of Maria Alexeevna Dolgorukaya and the fiancée of Natalia Repnina. He, however, sleeps with his servant Tatyana and finds out she is pregnant. Andrey is accidentally killed by his mother, who wanted to kill Vladimir.
 Anna Tabanina as Princess Elizaveta "Liza" Petrovna Dolgorukaya, the daughter of Maria Alexeevna Dolgorukaya. She is in love with her childhood sweetheart Vladimir, but is forced to marry an old aristocrat, Andrey Platonovich Zabaluev. The two later divorce and Liza falls in love with Misha and marries him.
 Lyudmila Kurepova as Princess Sonya Petrovna Dolgorukaya, the youngest daughter of Maria Alexeevna Dolgorukaya. She has a brief romance with Nikita.
 Albert Filozov as Baron Ivan Ivanovich Korff, Vladimir's father who raised Anna as his own daughter. He is poisoned by Maria Alexeevna, Zabaluev and Karl Modestovich.
 Igor Dmitriev as Prince Sergey Stepanovich Obolensky, the manager of the Imperial Theatre in St. Petersburg.
 Svetlana Toma as Sychikha, Vladimir's aunt who lives in the wood and is believed to be a witch. Vladimir despises her, as he believes she is responsible for the death of his mother.
 Nina Usatova as Varvara, the servant in the Korff Manor.
 Dmitriy Shevchenko as Karl Modestovich Schüller, the steward of the Korff Manor, and one of the antagonists. He helped Maria Alexeevna and Zabaluev to appropriate the Korff Manor.
 Anna Gorshkova as Polina Penkova, the servant in the Korff Manor, jealous of Anna.
 Alexei Osipov/Ilya Sokolovskiy as Nikita Khvorostov, the servant in the Korff Manor, in love with Anna. He later has a brief romance with Sonya Dolgorukaya.
 Olga Syomina as Tatyana "Tanya" Veryovkina, the servant in the Dolgoruky Manor. She is in love with Andrey Dolgoruky and eventually gives birth to his child.
 Alexander Dzyub