[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ella Baker Center for Human Rights

a youth fellowship program focusing on policy advocacy. #Soul of the City – a program to bring Oakland residents together to address their deepest concerns and build their highest hopes through learning, service and leadership – launched on the day of President Obama's inauguration in January 2009.

Campaigns
The Ella Baker Center works toward its goal of "justice in the system, opportunity in our cities and peace on our streets" through four campaigns which promote alternatives to violence and incarceration: Books Not Bars, Soul of the City, Green-Collar Jobs Campaign, and Heal the Streets.

Books Not Bars
Books Not Bars works to close California’s current youth prison system and replace it with effective, rehabilitative alternatives and community-based centers.

Books Not Bars targets California's youth prisons, which are frequently described as "draconian lockup units" under the authority of the California Division of Juvenile Justice, or DJJ. The campaign focuses on the fact that inside the DJJ, formerly known as the California Youth Authority (CYA), young people are subjected to unusually harsh conditions, as instances of 23-hour-a-day solitary confinement for months at a time, lock-ups in small cages during class time and denial of basic medical care are common. At least five young people have died since 2004 in these prisons.

Books Not Bars criticizes the DJJ not only as an abusive system, but also an ineffective one. The existing system costs California $160,000 a year for every young person behind bars. Even so, the rate of recidivism is 75%.  By these standards, California has the nation's most expensive, least effective juvenile justice system.

Books Not Bars uses a number of different tactics to achieve its goals.  It works to:
Advocate for policy reforms that place young people in appropriate rehabilitation programs instead of youth prisons.
Educate the public with rallies and events, media work, a website, and documentary screenings.
Organize parents and families of incarcerated youth through local chapters of "Families for Books Not Bars", the state's only network of families with incarcerated children.
Unite prosecutors, judges, business leaders and teachers calling for reform.

In 2008, Books Not Bars celebrated success as two youth prisons, El Paso de Robles and Dewitt Nelson Youth Correctional Facilities, were officially closed. In the same year, Books Not Bars helped get the Family Communications Act signed into law. This act is a huge step toward better communication between youth behind bars and their families.

Soul of the City
Soul of the City is the most recent Ella Baker Center endeavor. It is a "hands-on, hands-together" campaign to create a community that is safe, healthy, and balanced. The program is working to transform Oakland into a socially just, spiritually connected, ecologically sustainable city with shared prosperity for all. Soul of the City brings residents together to address community concerns and build on hopes through learning, service, and leadership.

The staff and volunteers of Soul of the City:

Provide political education. "Reclaim the Future" workshops teach interconnectedness and connect with shared purpose to transform the city.
Lead community service and community solutions programs. Soul of the City believes that solutions are found neighborhood by neighborhood. The project's "Serve Our City" community service projects are member-led initiatives that bring people together to share resources, build mutual prosperity, and improve the environment. Serve Our City projects emphasize interconnectedness, healing, and hope.
Offer new leadership. Soul of the City attempts to engage residents in the political process to shape policy and programs that lift up all communities. Soul of the City aims to create an invested voter base that transforms the capacity of all neighborhoods to achieve sustainability and prosperity.

Green-Collar Jobs Campaign
The Green-Collar Jobs Campaign addresses the lack of meaningful work opportunities for at-risk youth and the formerly incarcerated. The campaign catalyzes workforce opportunities in the burgeoning green economy, creating dignified jobs for low-income families. It is working to "build a green economy that is strong enough to lift people out of poverty" through policy advocacy, public outreach, and an employment pipeline called the Oakland Green Jobs Corps.