[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# 1929 Bahamas hurricane

roofs and blew down fences. Citrus unshiu'' branches bearing fruit were torn from trees. Pecans suffered the same fate, though their quality remained at market-grade. While most cotton in Alabama's southeastern counties had already been harvested, extensive damage was wrought to the remaining crops.

Crops and property sustained considerable damage along the central and southern U.S. Atlantic coasts. The storm supplied a continuous stream of moisture and rainfall into the region from September 20 to October 1, causing rivers to flood their banks. The first part of this heavy rainfall event was attributed to a convergence zone that remained over the southeastern U.S. from September 23–28, repeatedly drawing moisture from the hurricane. Rains between September 30–October 1 was associated with the interaction of tropical moisture and an eastward-moving cold front over the Southeastern U.S. The maximum rainfall total during the entire event was  in Glennville, Georgia. Flooding in Georgia occurred in two episodes, with one on September 25 and the other from October 1–2. Two people were killed in the state. Flooding was widespread in Georgia's Lower Coastal Plain. Crops, especially cotton and corn, suffered a heavy blow in this region. The floods blocked highways and washed out railroads. One train engineer was killed after his train fell into a washout along the Central of Georgia Railway between Almira and Davisboro.

The Savannah River was subject to a record flood. An average of  of rain fell across its watershed in 34 hours. At Augusta, the river set a record river stage of  on September 27. At this point, the river flow rate was also a record  per second, 37 times greater than the river's flow rate at the onset of the rains. While most of Augusta was protected by a levee, a  break  south of the city led to the inundation of several streets and 40 city blocks to a depth of around . In lower areas the flooding was up to  deep. The break occurred as the river was descending from its crest, lessening the potential damage; the flooding was relieved further by the opening of flood gates at Butlers Creek and a secondary levee breach nearby. Most homes in the flood zone were elevated and avoided significant damage. With the onset of the second episode of floods towards the beginning of October, police and fire departments ordered the evacuation of residents in low-lying areas, fearing that the earlier floods had significantly weakened flood mitigation systems. A crew of conscripts and volunteers was assembled to fortify the levees, successfully repairing broken segments before the Savannah River's second crest. Manufacturing and oil plants in low-lying areas north of Augusta were damaged by the floods. Much of the floodplain towards South Carolina was submerged by the swollen Savannah. Farms suffered a total loss of crops and farm equipment. Numerous heads of cattle, hogs, and mules drowned. The total cost of damage within a  radius of Augusta was estimated at over $1 million, with $275,000 in damage in the city proper. In Columbia County, located north of Augusta, agricultural losses exceeded $200,000. Floods classified as "dangerous" by the Weather Bureau occurred along the Altamaha, Ocmulgee, and Oconee rivers; more moderate floods befell areas along the Aplachicola, Chattahoochee, and Flint rivers. Total losses in the Altamaha River basin amounted to $500,000. In the southwestern part of Georgia, damage from the storm was primarily wind-driven, and many pecans were blown from trees. A conservative estimate from the Weather Bureau appraised damage to agriculture, highways, and railroads at $3 million.