[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Owen Sheehy-Skeffington

ved him to be veering towards Trotskyism. Others, such as Noel Browne, suggested he had been expelled for "simply being too liberal". Sheehy-Skeffington did refer him to himself as a "Liberal Socialist", which in more present times might be best understood to mean a proponent of Left-libertarianism.

In 1954 Sheehy-Skeffington moved into formal parliamentarian politics when was elected as a member of the 8th Seanad Éireann by the Dublin University constituency, thus beginning a long career as one of the leading lights of the Irish Senate.  He was re-elected in 1957, but lost his seat in 1961. He was returned to the 11th Seanad in 1965 and was re-elected for a final time in 1969. In the Seanad he was known as a champion of civil liberties and an opponent of authoritarianism.

Amongst many issues, he campaigned for an end to corporal punishment in Irish schools, an end of control by the Catholic Church of government-funded schools, stood against censorship, denounced terrorism, championed women's rights and opposed Apartheid.

On matters of the "Irish Question", Sheehy-Skeffington cited James Connolly's analysis and suggested both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland each needed political reform first, then merged, rather than the other way around. Still citing Connolly, he also voiced the view that Irish Independence from the United Kingdom meant nothing if all it amounted to was to change the colour of the flag flying over its institutions, and instead, the change must also be a meaningful change in conditions for the people of Ireland.  He also noted that at least 4 of the 6 counties which made up Northern Ireland were made up of solid majorities of Protestant Unionists who he argued could not be coerced, by violence or otherwise, into the Irish state and that Republicans needed to accept this reality and alter their tactics accordingly, with more emphasis given to social conditions.

He was an atheist and helped set up the Humanist Association of Ireland. He was also a co-founder and active member of the Irish Association for Civil Liberty, which he co-founded in 1948 with the writer Seán Ó Faoláin and others.

In the late 1950s the memorialist Peter Tyrrell began a long-lasting correspondence with him. Sheehy-Skeffington encouraged Tyrrell to write his autobiography, which was published posthumously and helped to expose the brutal conditions in Irish Industrial schools, and in Letterfrack in particular. After Tyrrell committed suicide in 1967 the only clue to his identity was a card addressed to Sheehy-Skeffington.

On the eve of Sheehy-Skeffington's death the Arms Crisis was beginning to play out and one of Sheehy-Skeffington's final acts was to send a letter to Taoiseach Jack Lynch expressing support for his actions taken against Charles Haughey and Neil Blaney, dismissing them from cabinet.

Death and legacy
Sheehy-Skeffington died suddenly on 7 June 1970 as a result of a heart attack. Numerous tributes were paid to him from across the Irish political spectrum; Thomas Mullins, the Leader of the Seanad at the time, paid tribute to Sheehy-Skeffington by stating 

Professor George Dawson, Charman of the Academic Staff Association at Trinity, said of him

Sheehy-Skeffington's death triggered a by-election for his senate seat; on 19 November 1970 Trevor West was elected to Sheehy-Skeffington's vacant seat. Befitting Sheehy-Skeffington's legacy, in his own time Senator West was considered one of the few "liberal" voices in the Senate during the 70s and early 80s.

Memorial Award
Since 1973, Trinity College Dublin has offered the Owen Sheehy-Skeffington Memorial Award - a bursary worth 1,500 euros awarded annually - as a maintenance grant or as a travel award in alternate years. The criteria for the award include a combination of academic promise and financial need. The maintenance grant is available to senior freshmen or junior sophisters studying French at Trinity College, while the travelling scholarship may be granted to any student attending a centre of higher education in Ireland.

Misc
The National Library of Ireland houses Sheehy-Skeffington's papers. His daughter, Micheline Sheehy-Skeffington, challenged perceived gender inequality at NUI Galway. She was one of 46 people from across the campus to apply for a post of senior lectureship in 2008, was shortlisted for interview, was interviewed, but - upon being unsuccessful - took a case which pressured Galway to introduce gender quotas for promotion schemes and "inclusivity and unconscious bias training programmes" for workers.

Sources
 Andrée Sheehy-Skeffington: Skeff: The Life of Owen Sheehy-Skeffington, 1909-1970 [biography written by his widow] (Dublin: Lilliput Press, 1991).
 Lilliput Press website page for Skeff

Notes

References