[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Thornton Chase

of Chase's presents his life. Another mention came a month later by alumnus Wilfred H. Munro commenting on the incompleteness of a text of Brown university students who had served in the Civil war by adding that Chase was Captain of Company D of the 104th US Colored Infantry.

Legacy

Early period 

The October issue of Star of the West made room for remembering him while news continued of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá's travels and speeches and dedication of the cite for the Baháʼí House of Worship near Chicago. It included a long poem Chase composed. This poem arrived in Egypt and was read to ʻAbdu'l-Bahá July 4, 1913. The Star of the West edition also published letters from various communities memorializing him. Tributes from Portland, OR and Chicago were also published, followed in March, 1913, by one from Beirut which included remembrance of those who were on pilgrimage and met him in 1907. A letter/poem/ode from him to ʻAbdu'l-Bahá was published in September, 1913 dated from August, 1912, published as a one year anniversary of the visit of ʻAbdu'l-Baha to his gravesite and was re-printed in 1922. The editors noted the observance held for what was called "The day of Thornton Chase". It also reported more of the words ʻAbdu'l-Bahá had said on the visit to the gravesite:"…During his lifetime he bore many trials and vicissitudes, but he was very patient and long-suffering. He had a heart most illuminated, a spirit most rejoiced; his hope was to serve the world of humanity; during the days of his life he strove as much as he could – he never failed…" There was an article then published including a picture marking Chase among the people standing at a Ridván meeting in May, 1909, who lead the services that day and compared the tent raised as a precursor to the eventual building. It also included a short article by Chase "The Greatest Name". An account of that first anniversary followed in the November edition. 10 Baháʼís attended the gravesite Sep 30th with flowers and prayers for an hour and a service was held the following Sunday in a hall which was also the anniversary of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá's visit and the assemblage again returned to the gravesite at sunset. A memorial comment was then published from Thomas Kelly Cheyne. In February 1914, an excerpt from Chase's book The Bahai Revelation was published in Star of the West. The anniversary was noted again in 1914, and then an article briefly reviewing the history of the religion in America by Chase was published in early 1915, and again noted the anniversary in September. A more enduring gravestone was placed in 1918. A memoriam article in 1918 noted 21 Baháʼís attended the anniversary meeting which also saw the new stone marker. Mrs. Chase attended and shared anecdotes of his life. A picture of the gravestone was published in 1920.

In 1920 Martha Root refers to distributing Chase's book The Bahai Revelation in various libraries on her tour around South America. Memorials of others began to be published in 1922 recalling the contact they had had with Chase.

Later period