[Source: PubMed]

29. BMC Int Health Hum Rights. 2019 Dec 16;19(1):32. doi:
10.1186/s12914-019-0216-4.

Protocol of a longitudinal study on the specific needs of Syrian refugee 
families in Switzerland.

El Ghaziri N(1), Blaser J(2), Darwiche J(3), Suris JC(4), Sanchis Zozaya J(2), 
Marion-Veyron R(5), Spini D(6), Bodenmann P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vulnerabilities and Social Medicine, Center for Primary Care 
and Public Health (Unisanté), University of Lausanne, Rue du Bugnon 44, CH-1011, 
Lausanne, Switzerland. nahema.elghaziri@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Vulnerabilities and Social Medicine, Center for Primary Care 
and Public Health (Unisanté), University of Lausanne, Rue du Bugnon 44, CH-1011, 
Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Family and Development Research Center, Faculty of Social and Political 
Sciences, Institute of Psychology, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Health Systems, Center for Primary Care and 
Public Health (Unisanté), University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Ambulatory Care, Center for Primary Care and Public Health 
(Unisanté), University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(6)Swiss National Centre of Competence in Research: LIVES, and Institute of 
Social Sciences, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The ongoing Syrian civil war has led to massive population 
displacements, leading to the reorganization of the asylum policies of several 
countries. Accordingly, like other European countries, the Swiss government has 
recently chosen to implement a specific resettlement program. This program is 
characterized by the fact that the whole nuclear family is granted a work and 
residence permit upon arrival, and benefits from enhanced integration services. 
The aim of the present project is to evaluate the effects of the Swiss 
resettlement program, with a special focus on mental health, while adopting a 
family perspective.
METHODS: The outcomes of 15 Syrian families taking part in this program will be 
compared to those of 15 Syrian families that came to Switzerland through other 
means (i.e., following the usual asylum procedure, which is much more stressful 
and time consuming). Each family member above 8 years old will be invited to 
participate to a 3-wave longitudinal survey concerning the resettlement process: 
upon arrival in the collective shelters, six and 12 months later. Questionnaires 
will be used for the evaluation of participants' mental health, risk behaviors, 
general health, romantic relationship, parent-child relationship, family 
functioning, parentification, social support, and social identities related to 
group belongingness.
DISCUSSION: The findings of the present project will provide longitudinal 
information on Syrian refugees. A comprehensive approach will be adopted by 
screening potential difficulties that the sample may be faced with and potential 
strengths that participants may rely on. Accordingly, physical and mental 
health, as well as the quality of family functioning, the feeling of support and 
of belongingness to different groups will be evaluated. We will also compare the 
results of families who had the chance to immigrate through the Swiss 
resettlement program, to the results of families that did not. This comparison 
will allow the elaboration of hypotheses regarding adjusted asylum policies. 
Furthermore, it will enhance our knowledge regarding the impact of displacement 
on the family system. Indeed, although the role of the family for the well-being 
of adults and children has been established, surprisingly few studies have 
adopted this focus in the asylum field.

DOI: 10.1186/s12914-019-0216-4
PMCID: PMC6916107
PMID: 31842865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.