[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Montreux–Glion–Rochers-de-Naye railway line

the Glion - Rochers-de-Naye climbs  in .

The line uses track of  gauge and the rack and pinion system devised by Roman Abt. It is electrified using 850 V DC supplied by overhead lines. Passing loops are situated in the stations at Glion, Caux, Paccot and Jaman.

Rolling stock

Locomotives

Railcars

Abbreviations.
(b) Fitted for multiple unit with two or three double headed motor coaches serie Bhe 4/8 301-305.
(c) Carries "Marmot Paradis" livery
(d) Carries "Pere Noel" livery, (marking the visit of Santa to Rochers de Naye).
(e) No.302 carries "Veytaux" nameplate low down on cab side on front (uphill) cab. Name removed from locomotive No.3 which is now unnamed.
(f) Painted in new  "Golden Pass" gold/white livery from new.
BBC :  Brown, Boveri & Cie
SLM :  Swiss Locomotive and Machine Works, Winterthur
MFO :  Maschinenfabrik Oerlikon

Rotary Snowplow

Preserved Coaches

Coaches of the Montreux-Glion Railway are restored to original red livery, usually kept at Glion and work with Locomotive No.2. During its time at the line also worked with steam locomotive No.1.
Coach No.16 is painted a dark blue livery with lighter blue panels. Also worked with steam locomotive No.1.

Services
The line operates throughout the year, and provides an hourly service in each direction between Montreux and Rochers de Naye from around 09:00 to dusk. Additional services between Montreux and Caux operate in the early morning, in the evenings, and during peak periods. The trains are timed to offer connections at Montreux with main line services of the Swiss Federal Railways and the Montreux–Lenk im Simmental line.

See also
List of mountain railways in Switzerland
List of heritage railways and funiculars in Switzerland

References

External links 
 
 Official web site of the Montreux–Glion–Rochers-de-Naye railway

800 mm gauge railways in Switzerland
Mountain railways
Rack railways in Switzerland
Railway lines in Switzerland
Railway lines opened in 1892
Transport in the canton of Vaud
Heritage railways in Switzerland
Transports Montreux–Vevey–Riviera lines
850 V DC railway electrification