[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Albert Henry (politician)

e South Pacific Commission which saw island countries take control and elect Harry Moors as secretary-general. In 1970 he advocated for the creation of a political forum to operate alongside the Commission and provide a voice for Pacific nations, which led to the creation of the South Pacific Forum.

At the 1972 election Henry faced fresh opposition from the Democratic Party of Tom Davis. Despite this, the CIP managed to win 15 of the 22 seats. During the election campaign Henry accused public servants of "obstructionism", and following the election 44 public servants were fired for supporting the opposition. The decision was overturned by the High Court and the fired public servants reinstated and compensated. Despite streamlining government ministries, his government continued to run large deficits, and continued to be financially dependent on New Zealand. In 1973 he introduced a new national flag for the Cook Islands, consisting of a circle of 15 gold stars on a green ensign. In 1974 he hosted a royal visit from Elizabeth II, during which he was knighted.

In September 1974 Henry suddenly declared that his government was planning a referendum on independence from New Zealand, and that he would call a snap-election to do so. The referendum never happened, as both the government and the opposition supported the status quo, and in the resulting 1974 election the Cook Islands party lost its two-thirds majority, though Henry retained power. During the campaign Henry once again threatened public servants who supported the opposition and threatened to become a dictator. Following the election he announced plans for a constitutional amendment to repatriate the functions of head of state (then performed by New Zealand's High Commissioner), but this was delayed due to his lack of the required two-thirds majority. In 1976 he suffered a heart attack while attending the South Pacific Forum in Rotorua, New Zealand, but said he had no plans to retire. In April 1977 he claimed in the New Zealand press that he had uncovered an opposition plot to overthrow the government by force and assassinate him. Later that year he personally supported Czech-born "cancer therapist" Milan Brych and allowed him to practice in the Cook Islands.

1978 election and downfall
In January 1978 Henry called elections six months early in an effort to capitalise on a leadership struggle within the opposition Democratic Party. Prior to the elections, three prominent CIP members, William Estall, Raui Pokoati and Joe Williams, left the party. The 1978 election was fiercely contested, and due to restrictions on overseas voting, both parties flew in supporters from New Zealand to vote. The result was a victory for Henry, with the Cook Islands Party regaining its two-thirds majority, and opposition leader Tom Davis losing his seat. The result was challenged in the courts, and in July 1978 Chief Justice Gaven Donne found that Henry had corruptly used government money to fly in voters and secure a majority. The votes of CIP fly-in voters were annulled, resulting in Henry and seven other CIP MP's losing their seats and being replaced by the losing Democratic Party candidates. Henry was ousted from power and Davis was asked to form a government and was sworn in as Prime Minister.

On 16 August 1979, Henry pleaded guilty to two charges of conspiracy and one charge of corruption relating to the use of $337,000 of Cook Islands Government money to fly hundreds of supporters from New Zealand to the Cook Islands in order to vote. He was fined the maximum of $1,400, ordered to pay $2,000 in court costs. A further sentence of three years' probation, imposed solely to bar him from running for political office or participating in political life for that period, was overturned on appeal.

Sport
In 1924 the New Zealand All Blacks team called at Rarotonga en route to their tour of the United Kingdom and France. Wanting a local team to train against, Albert Henry, 17 years old and just returned from New Zealand, was asked to get some boys together. A scratch team was put together and the game was played on the Takamoa Grounds. The game ended in a scoreless tie. Henry was very active in forming rugby clubs, first with Tupapa, later with Arorangi where he was a teacher.

Personal life
Henry married Elizabeth Connal in 1927, when both were schoolteachers in Rarotonga.

He was the father of MP Tepui Henry and the uncle of Geoffrey Henry, who later served as Prime Minister.

Death
Henry died of a heart attack in Rarotonga hospital on 1 January 1981, aged 73. His body was taken around Rarotonga on the back of a pickup truck, and the road was lined with mourners. His grave can be found at the Avarua CICC Church.

Recognition
Henry was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 1974 New Year Honours. His knighthood was stripped in April 1980 after his conviction for electoral fraud.