[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Caryn Franklin

Caryn Franklin MBE (born 11 January 1959) is a British fashion and identity commentator and visiting professor of diverse selfhood. She was former fashion editor and co-editor of i-D magazine in the 1980s and long-time presenter of BBC television's The Clothes Show from 1986 to 1998. She has been a commentator on fashion, image and identity politics for more than 40 years. She regularly blogs from her website.

Background

Franklin has always been interested in the politics of image and self-esteem as well as straight fashion. Her reporting has involved refugees in battle zones, workers in free-trade-zone slums as well as high end creators. In a variety of projects she has collaborated with mental health experts, MPs and government ministers as well as fashion industry innovators. She has contributed to many national newspapers and magazines. She has four books to her name, including a novel. A broadcaster, writer, director and producer, she has worked with many major networks to produce TV shows and documentaries. This included The Clothes Show, which ran for 12 years (1986–98) and Style Challenge, which ran for three years, from 1996 to 1999, both on the BBC. Other shows included, Swank (Channel 4), The Frock and Roll Years (Channel 4), Style Bible (Granada), Well Woman (Granada) and The All New Clothes Show (UKTV Style). She also created documentary tributes for ITV featuring designers such as Vivienne Westwood, Matthew Williamson, Philip Treacy and Agnes B.

She has acted as a silent partner consultant, for a range of commercial companies, as well as debating and deconstructing fashion for a variety of audiences, along with hosting or compering events. She has given after-dinner speeches, mentoring presentations, chaired panels and facilitated initiatives for brands and organisations as diverse as Coca-Cola, Merrill Lynch, Wella, L’Oreal, government minister Jo Swinson's Press Office, Graduate Fashion Week, National Portrait Gallery, Cambridge University, SHOWstudio and the V&A Museum.

Collaborating with her business partner Jane Galpin from 1999 to 2016, Franklin worked with many mainstream retailers to create consumer live events large and small. Clients include Clothes Show Live, hosted annually at the NEC, and National Wedding Show. A highlight for Franklin was hosting the Guinness World Record-breaking "Most Models on the Catwalk" event in Liverpool in 2015, conceived by Wayne Hemingway. The event took a new world record with more than 3,600 models appearing on stage, and prioritised diversity within the community, reaching out to a wide variety of marginalised groups and identities as well as known fashion talent.

Franklin has worked in education throughout her career, as an external assessor and lecturer for several colleges, including the Royal College of Art, Central St Martins and the London College of Fashion. She was Education Director at Clothes Show Live and is Global Ambassador at Graduate Fashion Week. She continues to lecture in a wide variety of universities.

She collected an Honorary Fellowship from The Arts University College at Bournemouth, and held a visiting Fellowship at London College of Fashion. She has an Honorary Doctorate from both Kingston School of Art and Southampton Solent. She has been as a visiting professor at Kingston since 2016.

Education
Franklin was educated at Feltham Comprehensive, leaving with A levels in Art and Law, Kingston School of Art, in Kingston upon Thames, graduating BA (Hons) in Graphic Design. She then completed a postgraduate year at Central St Martins on typography and photography, and in later life, graduated with distinction after studying an MSc in Applied Psychology at the London College of Fashion under Dr Carolyn Mair.

Activism

As a fashion activist, Franklin has been vocal about unachievable body image ideals since the early 1990s working with the Eating Disorders Association (later to become Beat). Collaboration with BEAT ended in 2010. She has co-created a variety of campaigns, from Fashion Cares in the 1980s, which addressed AIDS fundraising, to co-chairing Fashion Targets Breast Cancer since 1996 with designer Amanda Wakeley, a campaign that has helped spread the important message of "early detection saves lives", and contributed to the building and maintenance of Britain's first ever Breast Cancer Research Centre.

Also important for Franklin is promoting the debate for ethical sourcing and supply as well as promoting Fair Trade ideals. Having visited a variety of garment worker projects abroad, as well as meeting survivors from the collapsed Rana Plaza factory as part of a fact-finding mission organised by People Tree Founder Safia Minney MBE, Franklin is a supporter of sustainable fashion business and has made regular contributions to many slow fashion campaigns, collaborating with charities such as Oxfam and supporting initiatives including Extinction Rebellion Boycott Fashion.