[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jawad Jabbar Sadkhan Al-Sahlani

Jawad Jabber Sadkhan is a citizen of Iraq who was held in extrajudicial detention in the United States Guantanamo Bay detainment camps, in Cuba.
Sadkhan's Guantanamo Internment Serial Number was 433.

Jawad's lawyers dispute that Jawad should have been held a single day, because he was a political refugee from Iraq and a Shi'a Muslim – whereas the Taliban and al-Qaeda were Sunni Muslims.

Identity
Captive number 433 wrote a letter on behalf of Abbas Habid Rumi Al Naely, to his Administrative Review Board.  He signed himself Abu Fatima Al Iraqi.

Combatant Status Review Tribunal

Initially the Bush administration asserted that they could withhold all the protections of the Geneva Conventions to captives from the war on terror.  This policy was challenged before the Judicial branch. Critics argued that the USA could not evade its obligation to conduct competent tribunals to determine whether captives are, or are not, entitled to the protections of prisoner of war status.

Subsequently the Department of Defense instituted the Combatant Status Review Tribunals.  The Tribunals, however, were not authorized to determine whether the captives were lawful combatants—rather they were merely empowered to make a recommendation as to whether the captive had previously been correctly determined to match the Bush administration's definition of an enemy combatant.

Sadkhan chose to participate in his Combatant Status Review Tribunal.

Witness and evidence requests
Sadkhan made requests for the testimony of three off-Island witnesses, on his behalf.
He requested a document from an Afghan police station.
And he requested a United Nations document that he knew should already have been in the Guantanamo evidence locker, because his interrogators had it in their possession during his interrogations.  UN officials had issued him this document in 1998.

Sadkhan's Tribunal's President informed him that requests were made, through the US State Department, 
on November 9, 2004, November 22, 2004, and November 30, 2004.  
There was no reply, so, the witnesses were ruled "not reasonably available".

Sadkhan's Personal Representative informed him he could not locate the documents he had seen in the possession of his interrogators.

Sadkhan's Tribunal's President informed him that a fourth witness, who was also a Guantanamo captive, had been contacted, and had declined to testify on his behalf.

Sadkhan told the Tribunal that this witness had agreed to testify and explain about the animosity between Shiite and Sunni Muslims in Afghanistan. Sadkhan said he was a Shiite.

Allegations

Witness detainee 758

Sadkhan had a statement from detainee 758 submitted as evidence at his Tribunal.
In his statement detainee 758 identified himself as "Shaker Al Iraqi (Abass Abdou Erromi)".  

The official record identifies him as Abbas Habid Rumi Al Naely.

He testified that he suspected the accusation against him and detainee 433 were the result of animosity from detainee 111, Ali Abdul Motalib Awayd Hassan Al Tayeea.
who he identified as "Ali Abdou Ahtaleb Al Iraqi" and detainee 252, who he identified as "Yassin Basro Al Yamani".

The official record shows detainees 111 and 262 as Ali Abdul Motalib Awayd Hassan Al Tayeea and Yasim Muhammed Basardah.

Al Naely says he knew Sadkhan in Afghanistan, and he knew him as a good, peaceloving, family man.  Al Naely said that the two men he identified as Sadkhan's accusers did not know him in Afghanistan, and their accusations were complete fabrications.

Jowad Jabar v. George W. Bush

A petition of habeas corpus, Jowad Jabar v. George W. Bush was filed on Jowad Jabar's
behalf.
In response, on 22 December 2005
the Department of Defense published a dossier of 24
pages of unclassified documents from his Tribunal.

In September 2007, the Department of Defense published the unclassified dossiers arising from the Combatant Status Review Tribunals of 179 captives.

The documents record Captive 433 requested witnesses.  However different documents in his dossier state he requested two, three, four, and five witnesses.

Tribunal panel 19 convened on 2004-12-03 and confirmed his enemy combatant status.

Administrative Review Board hearings

Detainees who were determined to have been properly classified as "enemy combatants" were scheduled to have their dossier reviewed at annual Administrative Review Board hearings.  The Administrative Review Boards weren't authorized to review whether a detainee qualified for POW status, and they weren't authorized to review whether a detainee should have been classified as an "enemy combatant".

They were authorized to consider whether a detainee should continue to be detained by the United States, because they continued to pose a threat—or whether they could safely be repatriated to the custody of their home country, or whether they could be set free.

First annual Administrative Review Board hearing