[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 Arizona's 8th congressional district election

islative record. She also gained some beneficial publicity when it was revealed that she was engaged to space shuttle astronaut Mark Kelly.  Her only serious competition was longtime KVOA television newscaster Patty Weiss, who ran as a more liberal alternative to Giffords.

Results

General election

Candidates
Gabby Giffords (Democratic), former state senator
Randy Graf (Republican), former state representative
David F. Nolan (Libertarian), co-founder of the Libertarian Party
Jay Quick (Independent), geologist and businessman
Russ Dove (Write-in), militiaman and convicted felon
Leo F. Kimminau (Write-in)
Paul Price (Write-in)

Campaign
Graf's campaign got off to a rough start in mid-September when outgoing Republican incumbent Jim Kolbe withheld his endorsement, citing "profound and fundamental differences" between their views.  The Arizona Republic wrote that a "victory by Graf would in effect repudiate much of Kolbe's work on what has come to be known as 'comprehensive' immigration reform. In contrast with 'enforcement only,' Kolbe’s plan would create a guest-worker program and an opportunity for undocumented residents to become citizens eventually."

In mid-August CQPolitics changed their rating of the race from "Leans Republican" to "No Clear Favorite".

By late September, Graf's position had continued to deteriorate. The Cook Political Report changed their rating from "Toss Up" to "Leans Democratic", and the national Republican Party cancelled about $1 million in advertising support. Two days later, in what was seen as a diminished level of national influence and interest in what had long been considered a competitive race, the national Democratic party also pulled their financial support.

Debates

Polling
On September 20, 2006, Gabby Giffords' campaign released an internal poll that showed her leading Republican candidate Randy Graf by 19 percentage points. The poll showed Giffords with 54% of the vote and Graf with 35%. The poll was based on responses from 500 likely general election voters and had a +/-4% margin of error.

Results from a second poll conducted during the same time period confirmed a Giffords lead while suggesting a slightly tighter race. This independent poll, conducted by 1 to 1 Direct and Marketing Intelligence, showed Giffords with a 12-point lead (Giffords [48], Graf [36], +/-4% MoE).

On October 4, Zogby released a poll showing Giffords with a 45–37 percent lead.

Endorsements

Results 
Giffords was declared the winner 37 minutes after the polls closed. Graf conceded defeat at 10:08 P.M. EST.

References

External links 
Giffords campaign website
Graf campaign site 
Nolan campaign site

Arizona 8
2006 8
United States House of Representatives 8
Gabby Giffords