[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Mass in the Catholic Church

rist's passion, death, and resurrection, is called the Anamnesis.

Intercessions for both the living and the souls in Purgatory follow. When there are priests concelebrating the Mass they join the main celebrant in the central prayers, up to the intercessions, which they may divide among themselves.

The Antiphon ends with an emphatic doxology for which the priest elevates the paten with the Host and the deacon (if there is one) elevates the chalice, and the priest(s) proclaim of Christ that "through him, with him, in him, in the unity of the Holy spirit, all glory and honor is yours, Almighty Father, for ever and ever," to which the faithful sing or chant the great Amen. This Amen is the faithful's assent to all that God has wrought through the consecration and representation of the sacrifice of Christ.

Both the doxology and Great Amen are preferably sung or chanted. This is in line with the Instruction on Music in the Liturgy which says: "One cannot find anything more religious and more joyful in sacred celebrations than a whole congregation expressing its faith and devotion in song. Therefore the active participation of the whole people, which is shown in singing, is to be carefully promoted. ...It should first of all include acclamations, responses to the greetings of the priest and ministers and to the prayers of litany form, and also antiphons and psalms, refrains or repeated responses, hymns and canticles."

Communion rite

The communion rite begins with a number of preparatory rites, of which the singing or recitation of the Our Father is the first. In the context of this preparation, the petitions for the daily bread and the forgiveness of trespasses gain particular significance. After an invitation by priest to do so, priest and people together recite the Lord's Prayer. The priest adds to it a development of the final petition, known as the embolism: "Deliver us, Lord, we pray, from every evil, graciously grant peace in our days, that, by the help of your mercy, we may be always free from sin and safe from all distress, as we await the blessed hope and the coming of our Savior, Jesus Christ." The faithful then recite the doxology, "For the kingdom, the power, and the glory are yours, now and forever".

During the joint recitation of the Lord's Prayer the priest is exceptionally directed to extend his hands in the orans position. In the liturgy, the priest normally adopts this posture only when praying aloud and alone while the congregation is silent. Other prayers said by the priest with the people, like the Holy, Holy in every Mass, are said with joined hands. This exception was introduced by Pope Pius XII, who only in the context of his Holy Week liturgical reforms permitted the congregation to join the priest in praying the Pater noster, provided that they could pray it in Latin. In some locations members of the congregation have either adopted the orans posture like the priest or have held each other's hands. The United States bishops conference states: "No position is prescribed in the Roman Missal for an assembly gesture during the Lord's Prayer." Some recognized experts on the rubrics of the Roman Rite, the liturgists Edward McNamara and Peter Elliott, deplore the adoption of either of these postures by the congregation as a body, and both are subject to controversy.

The Rite of Peace, the pax, is the second preparatory rite for reception of Holy Communion. After praying: "Lord Jesus Christ, who said to your Apostles: Peace I leave you, my peace I give you; look not on our sins, but on the faith of your Church, and graciously grant her peace and unity in accordance with your will.  Who live and reign for ever and ever," the priest wishes the faithful the peace of Christ: "The peace of the Lord be with you always." The deacon or, in his absence, the priest may then invite those present to offer each other the sign of peace. The form of the sign of peace varies according to local custom for a respectful greeting (for instance, a handshake or a bow between strangers, or a kiss/hug between family members).

The third preparatory rite is that of fraction and commingling. The priest breaks the host and places a piece in the main chalice; this is important as it symbolizes that the Body and Blood of Christ are both present within one another. Meanwhile, the "Lamb of God" ("Agnus Dei" in Latin) is sung or recited.