[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# USS William H. Standley

USS William H. Standley (DLG/CG-32) was a Belknap-class destroyer leader / cruiser. She was named for Admiral William Harrison Standley, former Chief of Naval Operations and ambassador to the Soviet Union. She was launched as DLG-32, a frigate, and reclassified Cruiser on 30 June 1975.

Construction
The contract to construct William H. Standley was awarded on 16 January 1962. Her keel was laid down at Bath Iron Works on 29 July 1963. Launched 19 December 1964, and sponsored by Mrs. Charles B. Wincote, daughter of the late Admiral Standley. The vessel was delivered 28 June 1966, and commissioned on 9 July 1966.

Service history

1964-1972
Following fitting-out and ship's qualification trials, William H. Standley spent the holiday season in Boston before heading for Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in January 1967. After a two and one-half month shakedown period, William H. Standley became flagship for Rear Admiral E. R. Bonner, Commander, Cruiser Destroyer Flotilla 6, during a "Springboard" exercise in the Caribbean Sea. After port visits to San Salvador and San Juan, Puerto Rico, the ship returned to Boston in April for post-shakedown availability.

On 12 June 1967, William H. Standley departed Boston and spent five weeks on operations with the Operational Test and Evaluation Force. During that voyage, she touched at Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Canary Islands. Subsequently, arriving at her first home port, Mayport, Florida, United States, on 14 July 1967, William H. Standley became the flagship for Commander, Destroyer Squadron (ComDes Ron) 8 the following week.

Following an underway period on the Atlantic Fleet Weapons Range and a visit to Frederiksted, U.S. Virgin Islands, William H. Standley prepared for her first deployment to the Mediterranean Sea. On 6 October 1967, the ship left Mayport for the ship's first tour of duty with the United States Sixth Fleet.

Transiting the Atlantic in company with  and , William H. Standley joined Task Group (TG) 60.2 as flagship for ComDesRon 8 upon her arrival in the Mediterranean. While attached to the 6th Fleet, the ship witnessed the rapid build-up of Soviet naval strength in the Mediterranean basin and visited the ports of Palma de Mallorca, Spain; Valletta, Malta; Naples, Italy; and Souda Bay, Crete.

For the first three months of 1968, William H. Standley participated in a bilateral exercise with French naval units, "Phiblex 10-68," and conducted picket duty in the eastern Mediterranean, before she sailed for home late in March 1968.

Arriving back at her home port on the 28th, William H. Standley spent a month undergoing post-deployment upkeep, before she conducted planeguard duty for the aircraft carrier  in May. Soon thereafter, she responded to an emergency recall and got underway to search for the missing submarine , that had disappeared somewhere south of the Azores while en route back to the United States from a Mediterranean deployment.

William H. Standley conducted an Atlantic transit with ComDesRon 8 embarked and, in company with five submarines and four destroyers, took part in the extensive hunt for the missing submarine. The U.S. Navy officially declared Scorpion as lost on 5 June and William H. Standley returned to Mayport the following day.

Vietnam War
Later in June, the ship embarked 40 midshipmen and took those officers-to-be on their summer cruise before disembarking them at Norfolk, Virginia, late in July 1968. William H. Standley entered the Charleston Naval Shipyard early in August for restricted availability and received alterations that would permit her to function as a PIRAZ (Positive Identification Radar and Advisory Zone) ship to conduct operations in the Gulf of Tonkin.

After sea trials and a final in-port period at Mayport, William H. Standley departed her home port on 2 December for her first deployment to the Western Pacific area. After a brief stop at the Atlantic Fleet Weapons Range at Vieques, Puerto Rico, William H. Standley proceeded onward, transiting the Panama Canal for the first time on 9 December.

Reaching Hawaii in time for Christmas, William. H. Standley subsequently departed Naval Station Pearl Harbor after the Yuletide holidays and reached Subic Bay, Philippines, early in January 1969 to receive new equipment and run sea trials.

Departing Subic Bay on 23 January for the Gulf of Tonkin, William H. Standley arrived on station and relieved  as PIRAZ ship. During her month on station, the ship maximized the use of her communications systems and her tactical data collection facilities, contributing significantly to United States Seventh Fleet operations off the coast of Vietnam.

Relieved by Mahan on 25 February, William H. Standley sailed for Japan and reached Sasebo five days later for upkeep and recreation. Departing that Japanese port on 14 March, the ship arrived at Subic Bay on the 17th for three days of training.