[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Al-Shaykh Muwannis

sidential areas in January and February 1948, there were no casualties, and the Abu Kishk abided by their promise to keep out ALA irregulars. The emissary of the ALA was informed by the Abu Kishk that "the Arabs of the area will cooperate with the Jews against any outside force that tries to enter."

Some intelligence reports, which were never corroborated, suggested that in early 1948 the village, which overlooked both the Sde Dov Airport and the Reading Power Station, was being infiltrated by heavily-armed Arab irregulars. On 7 March, the Haganah's Alexandroni Brigade imposed a 'quarantine' on the village by closing off all access roads to it and the two smaller satellite villages of Jalil al Shamaliyya and Jalil al Qibliya and may even have occupied houses on the edge of the village. The underground Stern Gang (LHI) maintained one of its encampments in the village, and, five days later, on 12 March, militants from either  the Irgun or Lehi groups kidnapped five village notables. The Jewish Intelligence Services noted that "many of the villagers ... began fleeing following the abduction of the notables of Sheikh Muwannis. The Arab learned that it was not enough to reach an agreement with the Haganah and that there were 'other Jews' of whom to beware, and possibly to be aware of more than the Haganah, which had not control over them."

The villagers then  protested that Jewish forces in the area were subjecting them to intimidation, looting and shooting at them randomly. Though the notables were turned over to the Haganah on the 23 March and returned to Shaykh Muwannis, most of the villagers there and in other villages north of the Yarkon River continued to leave, as their confidence had been "mortally undermined". Tawfiq Abu Kishk threw a large parting 'banquet' for the remaining villagers and their Jewish friends on the 28 March 1948. After their departure, the village lands were promptly allocated for Jewish use by the Yishuv leaders, and were ultimately incorporated into the municipality of Tel Aviv. 
 
In the days following, the Abu Kishk leaders attributed their abandonment of the village to: "a) the [Haganah] roadblocks ... b) the [Haganah] limitations on movement by foot, c) the theft [by Jews?] of vehicles, and d) the last kidnapping of Sheikh Muwannis men by the LHI." The villagers of Shaykh Muwannis became refugees, with the majority taking up residence in Qalqilya and Tulkarem.

According to the Palestinian historian Walid Khalidi, the village's remaining structures in 1992 consisted of several houses occupied by Jewish families and the wall of a house. Soon after the war, it was used to accommodate members of the new Israeli Air Force and men from Mahal units. It was initially repopulated, from 1949 onwards, by Jews from North Africa, called "Moroccans" by other Jews in the area, and much of its land, as the North African Jews were relocated, was taken over for the development of Tel Aviv University,  and the former home of the village sheikh, known as the 'Green House', serves as the University's faculty club.

In a right of return march organized by the Israeli group Zochrot on Nakba Day in 2004, participants called upon the Tel Aviv municipality to name six streets in the city after Palestinian villages that had existed there until 1948, among them, Al-Shaykh Muwannis.

See also
 Depopulated Palestinian locations in Israel

References

Bibliography

External links
Welcome to al-Shaykh-Muwannis,
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 13: IAA,  Wikimedia commons 
  Shaykh Muwannis, from Zochrot
, Zoroch
Tel Aviv University is asked to acknowledge its past and to commemorate the Palestinian village on which grounds the university was built, 2003, Zochrot
 2003.
Map, 1946

District of Jaffa
Arab villages depopulated prior to the 1948 Arab–Israeli War