[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Central African Republic

nal airport. As of June 2014 it had regularly scheduled direct flights to Brazzaville, Casablanca, Cotonou, Douala, Kinshasa, Lomé, Luanda, Malabo, N'Djamena, Paris, Pointe-Noire, and Yaoundé.

Since at least 2002 there have been plans to connect Bangui by rail to the Transcameroon Railway.

Energy 

The Central African Republic primarily uses hydroelectricity as there are few other low cost resources for generating electricity. Access to electricity is very limited with 15.6% of the total population having electrification, 34.6% in urban areas and 1.5% in rural areas.

Communications 

Presently, the Central African Republic has active television services, radio stations, internet service providers, and mobile phone carriers; Socatel is the leading provider for both internet and mobile phone access throughout the country. The primary governmental regulating bodies of telecommunications are the Ministère des Postes and Télécommunications et des Nouvelles Technologies. In addition, the Central African Republic receives international support on telecommunication related operations from ITU Telecommunication Development Sector (ITU-D) within the International Telecommunication Union to improve infrastructure.

Culture

Sports 

Football is the country's most popular sport. The national football team is governed by the Central African Football Federation and stages matches at the Barthélemy Boganda Stadium.

Basketball also is popular  and its national team won the African Championship twice and was the first Sub-Saharan African team to qualify for the Basketball World Cup, in 1974.

See also

 Outline of the Central African Republic
 List of Central African Republic–related topics

Notes

References

Citations

Bibliography 
 
 
 
 Balogh, Besenyo, Miletics, Vogel: La République Centrafricaine

Further reading 

 Doeden, Matt, Central African Republic in Pictures (Twentyfirst Century Books, 2009).
 Petringa, Maria, Brazza, A Life for Africa (2006). .
 Titley, Brian, Dark Age: The Political Odyssey of Emperor Bokassa, 2002.
 Woodfrok, Jacqueline, Culture and Customs of the Central African Republic  (Greenwood Press, 2006).

External links

Overviews
 Country Profile from BBC News
 Central African Republic. The World Factbook. Central Intelligence Agency.
 Central African Republic from UCB Libraries GovPubs
 
 
 Key Development Forecasts for the Central African Republic from International Futures

News
 Central African Republic news headline links from AllAfrica.com

Other
 Central African Republic at Humanitarian and Development Partnership Team (HDPT)
 Johann Hari in Birao, Central African Republic. "Inside France's Secret War" from The Independent, 5 October 2007

 
French-speaking countries and territories
Landlocked countries
Least developed countries
Member states of the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie
Member states of the African Union
Member states of the United Nations
Republics
States and territories established in 1960
Central African countries
1960 establishments in the Central African Republic
Countries in Africa
Observer states of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation