[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Reuben H. Walworth

rkersburg, Bellaire and Steubenville. A truss pivot drawbridge across the Mississippi River between Davenport, Iowa and Rock Island, Illinois was completed in 1856.

Returning to private legal practice, Walworth grew wealthy representing railroads in other litigation. He expanded the family mansion.

As the American Civil War neared, Walworth advocated peace and conciliation. A delegate at the Peace Conference of 1861 after the election of President Abraham Lincoln, his speech was published and circulated. As discussed below, his son Mansfield Walworth failed to receive a deferment from conscription during the American Civil War and was imprisoned for three month in 1864 as a suspected Confederate spy until released and restricted to the Saratoga Springs vicinity. However, his stepson Martin Davis Hardin (1837-1892), a West Point graduate, remained in the Union Army, distinguished himself in battle, and was promoted to General.

Personal life

Walworth married twice. On January 16, 1812, Reuben Walworth married Maria Ketchum Averill (1795–1847). They had four daughters and two sons. Both sons initially became lawyers and then writers, but also created widely different scandals of their era, as discussed below. After mourning Maria's death for four years, Walworth in Harrodsburg, Mercer County, Kentucky in 1851 married Sarah Ellen (Smith) Hardin, widow of Congressman John J. Hardin (1810–1847) who had died in the Mexican American War and whose daughter Ellen Hardin  was then 19. Walsworth's eldest son, Clarence A. Walworth (1820–1900) was admitted to the New York bar in 1841, and after studies at the General Theological Seminary in New York, converted from the Protestant Episcopal Church to Catholicism, a scandal in the era of the Know Nothing party. Rev. Walworth became a missionary within the United States, and his brother and wife were among those he converted to Catholicism. He also published books about his new faith as well as history (including his family), and became one of the five founders of the Paulist Fathers. His temperamental brother, Mansfield Tracy Walworth (1830–1873), after graduation from Harvard Law School became a novelist. In 1852 he married his stepsister, and had several children. Mansfield Walworth never completed the legal history his father wanted, but instead wrote lurid novels, and was ultimately disinherited by his father in favor of his wife/step-sister and progeny. During the American Civil War, he failed to receive a deferment from conscription, but secured a staff position in 1863, only to be imprisoned for three months in Capitol Prison as a suspected Confederate spy in 1864, before being released on orders of Gen. Fremont but restricted to the Saratoga Springs vicinity. To his father's dismay, Mansfield Walworth regularly abused his wife. In 1873 their son Francis Hardin "Frank" Walworth (1853-1883), invited his father to a New York City hotel room, then shot him four times, killing him. The trial caused a sensation, his lawyers arguing for acquittal by reason of insanity and the judge allowed Mansfield's abusive letters to his wife into evidence. Convicted of a lesser charge, his mother secured his release in 1877.

A devout Presbyterian, Walworth became an elder and known for charity toward the poor. A Freemason, he rose to Grand Master in the Grand Lodge of New York in 1853. He was also vice-president of the Bible Society and the Tract Society, and for a long period president of the American Temperance Union. Walworth also wrote Hyde Genealogy (2 vols., 1864), and was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1865.

Death and legacy
Walworth died in Saratoga Springs on November 28, 1867.

Walworth County, Wisconsin and Walworth, New York were named for him. His stepdaughter inherited the family mansion, Pine Grove, which the Chancellor had expanded to 55 rooms (including a courtroom). It survived a century, but was torn down after his granddaughter died, Saratoga Springs having become a racing and gambling center. Several rooms are recreated in the Saratoga Springs History Museum. A Christian campground open from May to November for more than 80 years has the name.

See also 
 Frances Fuller Victor, pioneering historian of the Pacific Northwest, who was a "close relative" of Walworth.

References

 The Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States, Kermit L. Hall ed., New York, 1992.

Further reading 
 Reuben Hyde Walworth: Chancellor of New York, 1828-1847

Sources

 Political Graveyard

The New York Civil List compiled by Franklin Benjamin Hough (pages 71, 353, 356; Weed, Parsons and Co., 1858)
Hyde Genealogy by Reuben Hyde Walworth (published by Joel Munsell, Albany, 1863; pages 533ff)

|-

|-

|-