[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Separation of isotopes by laser excitation

plant is faster and cheaper to build, and consumes considerably less energy. Scientists therefore expressed their concerns repeatedly that SILEX could create an easy path towards a nuclear weapon (see e.g.). The model calculations of Ryan Snyder substantiate these warnings.

Security classification

SILEX is the only privately held information that is classified by the U.S. government. In June 2001, the U.S. Department of Energy classified "certain privately generated information concerning an innovative isotope separation process for enriching uranium". Under the Atomic Energy Act, all information not specifically declassified is classified as Restricted Data, whether it is privately or publicly held. This is in marked distinction to the national security classification executive order, which states that classification can only be assigned to information "owned by, produced by or for, or is under the control of the United States Government". This is the only known case of the Atomic Energy Act being used in such a manner.

Popular culture
The 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation drama The Code uses "Laser Uranium Enrichment" as a core plot device. The female protagonist Sophie Walsh states that the technology will be smaller, less energy-intensive, and more difficult to control once it is a viable alternative to current methods of enrichment. Ms. Walsh also states that the development of the technology has been protracted, and that there are significant governmental interests in maintaining the secrecy and classified status of the technology.

See also
Atomic vapor laser isotope separation
Molecular laser isotope separation

References

External links
 Silex Systems Limited: http://www.silex.com.au/
 Snyder, R., "A Proliferation Assessment of Third Generation Laser Uranium Enrichment Technology", Science & Global Security: https://doi.org/10.1080/08929882.2016.1184528

Isotope separation
Nuclear proliferation