[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Jewish Underground

s, and with time off for good behavior, they were released on December 27, 1990, and hailed as "heroes" by leaders of the Gush Emunim movement. Major Rehavam Ze'evi was killed by a Palestinian terrorist in 2001, while Shaul Nir was shot and critically wounded in a drive-by attack on 9 December 2015.

The Jewish Underground caused a rift in Gush Emunim. The existence of a violent underground had, until the mass arrests, been dismissed by most Gush Emunim members as falsehood circulated by Peace Now to discredit the movement. Reports from the terrorists' release suggest tremendous support for them by their fellow settlers. However, the majority of Israelis condemned the Underground's unprovoked killing of innocent civilians and contempt for secular law.

Aftermath
Yehuda Etzion has since been active in pressing for the construction of the Third Temple in place of the Dome of the Rock on the Temple Mount. Though said to be not exactly repentant for his own past, he did make a public protest over the Duma arson attack, in which all but one member of a Palestinian family died when their home was fire-bombed by settlers. At the same time, he expressed sympathy for the motives governing the arsonists.

Livni was convicted on a charge of reckless endangerment for shooting at a Palestinian truckdriver in 2003, and sued by the victim. An out-of-court settlement awarded the Palestinian 15,000 shekels in 2014. In the same year, 2003, he founded the Livni Winery and produces Cabernet Sauvignon in the West Bank settlement of Kiryat Arba.
It was revealed in 2015 by Israeli investigative reporter Uri Blau that Menachem Livni has since received a monthly salary from the Brooklyn-based Hebron Fund, a practice of using U.S. tax deductible donations to support Jewish terrorists that is, according to Blau, verified in several other cases.

See also
 Moshe Zar

References

External links
 List of underground members with comparison of their sentences and the time they spent in prison.  Haaretz, February 11, 2016.

Anti-Palestinian sentiment in Israel
Jewish religious terrorism
Zionist political violence
Anti-Arabism in Israel
Far-right politics in Israel
Organizations based in Asia designated as terrorist
Organizations designated as terrorist by Israel
Jewish nationalism
Jewish Underground