[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rawatbhata

e Kota Barrage, the first three have electricity generation capacity while Kota Barrage is for irrigation.

The Rana Pratap Sagar Dam facilitates fishing activities in the nearby villages and is also responsible for supplying water to the Rajasthan Atomic Power Station for generation of electricity.

Bhainsrorgarh Wildlife Sanctuary
Bhainsrodgarh Wildlife Sanctuary is located at Saddle Dam Rawatbhata Chittorgarh. It has an area of 229.14 km2. The principle species are dhokra and khair. other species include babool, ber, salar, khirni etc. the fauna includes: panther, wild boar, chinkara, fox, four horned antelope, civet hyena, the sambhar,  the cheetal, chinkara, jackal, crocodiles etc. flora are dhok, salar, churel, butea. Many migratory birds are also spotted during the season.

Rajasthan Atomic Power Station
The Rajasthan Atomic Power Station is located at Rawatbhata. it currently has six pressurised heavy water reactor (PHWR) units operating with a total installed capacity of 1,180 MW.

The Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL), the operator of the plant, is increasing the existing capacity by constructing two more reactors known as Units 7 and 8. (2×700MW=1400MW)

Heavy Water Plant
Owned and operated by the Department of Atomic Energy's (DAE) Heavy Water Board (HWB), the heavy water plant is integrated with the Rajasthan atomic power station for its supply of power and steam. An oil-fired steam generation plant was also added to ensure uninterrupted supply of steam during the shutdown periods. Canada began construction on the plant but ceased cooperation on the project after India's May 1974 test of a nuclear device. The Bhabha Atomic Research Centre(BARC) then completed designing the plant, which was originally expected to start operations in 1976. Problems associated with the accumulation of toxic chemicals created during the production of hydrogen sulphide gas, however, delayed commissioning until April 1985. These problems resulted in a cost escalation from 1.94 billion rupees to at least Rs. 7.2 billion rupees. Inadequate and unreliable supplies of power and steam from the RAPS reactors also plagued the plant and contributed to its low output. The two oil-fired boilers of the steam generation plant were added to alleviate the power supply problem. The heavy water plant uses the hydrogen sulphide water exchange process to produce up to 100mt of heavy water per year.

Nuclear Fuel Complex
Nuclear Fuel Complex, Hyderabad is setting up a green-field project Nuclear fuel Complex at Rawatbhata, Chittorgarh District, Rajasthan. This plant will meet the fuel requirements of 4 No 700 MWe PHWR reactors planned at Rawatbhata. The complex is spread over 190 hectares located on the banks of Rana Pratap Sagar, beside HWP-Rawatbhata. This plant is designed to produce 500 tonnes of 37 element PHWR fuel bundles per year. The project has received environmental clearance from MoEF (Ministry of Environment and Forest) in January 2014, financial clearance from the Union Cabinet in March 2014 with a sanctioned cost of INR 2,400 crores and siting clearance from AERB in May 2014, and construction work started in 2017

Kalakhet And R.A.P.S / H.W.P Colonies
The city of Rawatbhata is located in the lap of Aravali, surrounded by the forest.
RAPS/HWP Colony, is divided into Vikram Nagar Township, Anu Asha, Anu Bhagya, Anu Chhaya, Anu Kiran, Anu Pratap, Anu Deep Anu Tara, Santab Colony. 
There are all facilities; street lights, electricity, water, parks, community centres, schools, hostel, shopping complex, sports complex, playgrounds, Post Offices, banks, dispensary, etc.

There is a private farm house Kalakhet 35 minutes from Rawatbhata, with many gardens and entertainment places.
There are many types of trees and types of farming and a big swimming pool.  The facilities attract a considerable number of tourists in the rainy season.

Parajhar Waterfall

Parajhar is a nearby waterfall. The underground water flowing in caves has carved statues and figures on the stones in the cave.
Many people have died due accidents near the waterfall. It is near to village called Parajhar gaon. This place is also known for historic cave-temple of Lord Shiv. During Mahashivratri a large festival is organised here. water-fall and green surrounding is the attraction for peoples.

Saddle Dam

Saddle dam is a non-gated stone and mud dam to direct the water towards the main Rana pratap sagar dam and away from some villages, the catchment area of this dam fosters crocodiles and alligators.

References

External links

[https://www.facebook.com/RawatbhataOfficial/ Rawatbhata on Facebook

Cities and towns in Chittorgarh district
Company towns in India