[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of political scandals in Chile

ia.
Piñeragate (1992) – political espionage and eavesdropping
Eugenio Berríos (1995) – assassination of a DINA biochemist
Illegal sales of weapons to Ecuador during the Cenepa war
Augusto Pinochet's arrest and trial (1998)
Libro negro de la justicia chilena is prohibited by the Chilean Supreme Court

2000s
Inverlink case (2003) – 79 billion pesos swindle against CORFO, a government organization in charge of promoting economic development
MOP-Gate case (2003) –  triangulation of public money to finance payolas to government employees
 (2004) – pedophilia case allegedly involving congressmen and businessmen
Tragedy of Antuco (2005) – the death of at least 45 soldiers in a military exercise in the mountains that went tragically wrong.
2006–2007 Chilean corruption scandals
Colonia Dignidad – a sect with a history of criminal activity directed by child molester Paul Schäfer
Empresa de los Ferrocarriles del Estado – questionable management that led to the near bankruptcy of the State Railway Company

2010s
 2010 Santiago prison fire killed 81 inmates in Chile's deadliest prison incident
 Karadima case (2010-ongoing) – pedophilia case involving Catholic priest Fernando Karadima and an alleged protection network which includes Cardinal Francisco Javier Errázuriz and businessman Eliodoro Matte.
 Kodama case (2010–11) – The Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning was ready to pay 17,000,000,000 Chilean Pesos (approximately 24,000,000 Euro in 2011) to a building contractor "Kodama" for works that were valued in maximal 3,000,000,000 Chilean Pesos.
 7.926 students displaced with the closing of Universidad del Mar
 Pedro Velásquéz, second vice president of the Chamber of Deputies of Chile, was suspended by the Ethics Committee  after the discovery of a debt of CLP 280-million (roughly US$593,427) that Velásquez owes the commune of Coquimbo via tax fraud.
 Larraín case: Martín Larraín Hurtado, son of Carlos Larraín (senator and president of the right-wing party National Renewal), was acquitted after killing a man in a DUI hit and run. The scandal inspired the film Much Ado About Nothing and the political thriller telenovela Juegos de poder.
 Penta case: irregular financing of political candidates by means of 258 fake records, among them IVA (value-added tax) receipts and payments for fictitious services, adding up to a total of some US$1.2 million. The probe evolved from the FUT-gate
 Caval case: a real estate company, owned to 50% by Michelle Bachelet's daughter-in-law, made US$5,000,000 profit in a transaction based on classified information and influence peddling.
 SQM case SQM Lithium mining company facilitated the payment of campaign contributions by persons submitting false invoices to the tax authorities for work not done.  Same legal issues as the Penta Case.
  Corpesca is an ongoing investigation into payments made by the industrial fishery Corpesca to certain politicians to influence the distribution of quotas to each fishing company.
 Milicogate
 Pacogate

2020s
 Sierra Bella case: purchase of a clinic by the municipality of Santiago at alleged overcharge prices. Additional suspicions of crime have been raised once it became known that the appraisers of the clinic and a high-ranking civil servant of Santiago were both part of a WhatsApp group. The case has been judicialized with of charges of fraud against the treasury () being pressed against mayor Irací Hassler. 
 Democracia Viva case is an ongoing scandal revolving around possible influence peddling and conflict of interests among people with overlapping membership in the non-governmental organization Democracia Viva, the political party Democratic Revolution and the Ministry of Housing and Urbanism. Frauds such as embezzlement and misuse of funds have also been added to the investigation.

References

See also 
 Politics of Chile
 History of Chile
 List of Chilean coups d'état
 List of massacres in Chile

 
Scandals
Scandals
Chile