[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# List of Shaman King characters

e Myooh are defeated by Ren's team, they are assigned to send Ren's team to Hell and protect their bodies until they return. Yainage later defeats Anubis, one of the four kings of Hell, to retrieve the Spirit of Rain. He enjoys birdwatching in his spare time and is named for the Inageya supermarket.

 
 The third member of the Myooh, who possesses a cheerful and calm temperament. While he is the most easy-going member of his team, he is not to be taken lightly given his speed in combat in spite of his strange movements in battle. Cado is defeated by Horohoro, the last member of Ren's team to remain standing against their battle with the Myooh. With the other Myooh, the group protects the bodies of Ren's team while they train in Hell. He is later seen battling Mephistopheles, one of the kings of Hell, with some difficulty before obtaining the Spirit of Wind, as tasked by Lady Sati. He likes chicken curry and creating new fighting techniques. Cado is named for Ito-Yokado.

Ten
Also known as the Deva, they are a faction of Gandhara:

 
 Formally known as , Mamy is a young woman with freckles whose eyes are usually closed.  Once an aspiring writer, she joined Gandhara after they saved her while she was traveling in India and teaches Japanese at Gandhara's schools.  When she forms an Over Soul with her spirit Ashura, they wield the other seven Devas as weapons in combat.  She is named for the Mammy Mart Corporation.

 
 Formally known as , Samy is a young woman with long hair and glasses.  Like Mamy, she was saved by Gandhara while traveling in India. Once an aspiring soprano singer, she teaches music at Gandhara's schools. Her spirit partner is also Ashura and she forms the Over Souls required for the other seven Devas to transform into weapons for Ashura and Mamy to wield. Her name is a reference to Summit, INC.

 
 Formally known as , Ozam is an extremely large and towering man who wears a mask. He works as a security guard and physical education teacher at the Gandhara school, but apparently was a professional wrestler in the past and still competes on occasion in Japan. His spirits are the Nio, which use vajras as mediums.  He is named for OZAM Co., Ltd.

Bodhisattva

 
 A bald monk who has trained in martial arts as part of his family's tradition and is very protective of Lady Sati. Though he is a member of Gandhara, he is not a member of the participating teams in the tournament phase of the Shaman Fight. He descends from Taiwanese people whose paternal ancestors have included a Japanese priest in each generation. Along with performing covert activities while aided with spirits, he serves as a site manager for the Gandhara. His spirit is the Boddhisattva Marishiten and Seikyou uses a mirror as the spirit's medium. Seikyou is named for the Japanese term for Consumer co-op.

 
 A Gandhara shaman who wears a suit and tie, Aeon is a businessman who runs an advertising agency. Often seen riding an elephant that has accompanied Gandhara throughout the Shaman Fight, he is not one of the participating members of the group in the tournament round. Like the other members of Gandhara, he will not hesitate to do anything to protect Sati and will accompany her wherever she goes. He is named for AEON MALL Co., Ltd.

Antagonists

Hao's followers
Consisting of powerful shaman recruited by Hao, they loyally follow him and his intention to create a world exclusively composed of the shaman. None of them will hesitate to eliminate any of Hao's opponents, though they will not oppose Hao's orders, especially if they attempt to kill Yoh and fear his ruthlessness. Most are killed when Peyote betrays them, though they are resurrected shortly before the end of the Shaman Fight.

Team Star
 is the faction of Hao's followers that Hao personally leads.