[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# TransAfrica

mmunity awareness campaigns and training programs to sensitize the public and policy makers. This includes the Cabral/Truth Circles, film series, lecture series, book club and a writer's forum for authors to discuss their work. They co-sponsor the annual New African Film Festival in Washington, D.C.

Free South Africa Movement
TransAfrica was a founding member of the Free South Africa Movement. It is a grassroots organization that laid the foundation for the taking the anti-apartheid movement in the U.S. to mainstream politics and lobbying for change. They were at the forefront of the sensitizing U.S. policy makers, students and the public about the anti-apartheid efforts in a strategic move. On November 21, 1984, a day before Thanksgiving, Randall Robinson, Congressman Walter Fauntroy and Mary Frances Berry were arrested for a sit-in staged at the South African embassy. This brought the Anti-South African movements to the national stage. It sparked the formation of the Free South Africa Movement in the U.S. which TransAfrica was a founding member of. Within a few days, there were more sit-ins and demonstrations against South Africa were held nationally. More than 3,000 people were arrested by 1985. TransAfrica exposed the secret strategy meetings between the South African government and the Ronald Reagan administration. TransAfrica worked with the Congressional Black Caucus in formulating legislative strategy for the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986. In May 2012, the organisation received the Mandela Freedom Statuette for "exceptional contribution to the struggle for the attainment for non-racial, free and democratic South Africa" from the South Africa government.

Organization and structure
TransAfrica is run by a board of directors, administered by staff and supported by members. The current chairman of the board is Danny Glover. Past board members have included activists Arthur Ashe, Chuck D and Harry Belafonte. The former Director is Nicole Lee. Past Directors have included Bill Fletcher Jr.

See also

 Diaspora politics in the United States
 Ethnic interest groups in the United States

References

External links
 Official site this website has expired
TransAfrica Records Archival Collection Moorland Spingarn Research Center
 The African Activist Archive Project includes a description of TransAfrica and more than 200 documents, photographs and other related material of the organization and TransAfrica Forum.

Foreign policy political advocacy groups in the United States
African-American organizations
Anti-Apartheid organisations
Organizations established in 1977
1977 establishments in Washington, D.C.
African diaspora