[Source: PubMed]

12. Infant Ment Health J. 2020 Mar;41(2):246-263. doi: 10.1002/imhj.21841. Epub
2020  Feb 14.

Caregiving representations in war conditions: Associations with maternal trauma, 
mental health, and mother-infant interaction.

Isosävi S(1)(2), Diab SY(3), Qouta S(4), Kangaslampi S(1), Sleed M(5), 
Kankaanpää S(6), Puura K(7), Punamäki RL(1).

Author information:
(1)The Faculty of Social Sciences, Tampere University, Tampere, Finland.
(2)Traumacentre Finland, Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Al-Quds Open University, Gaza, Palestine.
(4)Islamic University of Gaza, Gaza, Palestine.
(5)University College London & Anna Freud Centre, London, United Kingdom.
(6)The Outpatient Clinic for Multicultural Psychiatry, Helsinki University 
Hospital District, Helsinki, Finland.
(7)University Hospital of Tampere, Tampere, Finland.

Risk features in mothers' caregiving representations remain understudied in 
dangerous environments where infants most urgently need protective parenting. 
This pilot study examines the feasibility of a novel coding system for the 
Parent Development Interview (PDI) interview (ARR, Assessment of 
Representational Risk) in assessing 50 war-exposed Palestinian mothers' 
caregiving representations. First, we explored the content and structure of 
risks in the representations. Second, we examined associations between the 
high-risk representations, mothers' pre- and postnatal exposure to traumatic war 
events (TWE), depressive and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms, and 
self-rated emotional availability (EA) with their 1-year-old infants. Following 
three dimensions of high-risk caregiving representations were identified: 
self/dyadic dysregulation, unavailable, and fearful. Mothers' prenatal 
depressive symptoms were associated with dysregulating and fearful 
representations, and their postnatal PTSD with fearful representations. TWE were 
not associated with the high-risk representations. Moreover, mothers of boys 
reported more fearful representations, and mothers with financial difficulties 
reported more unavailable representations. TWE and high-risk representations 
were not associated with EA. However, qualitative analysis of the 
representations indicated risks in the mother-infant relationship. Further, 
older mothers and mothers with postnatal PTSD reported lower EA. Cultural 
variance in caregiving representations and the use of self-report measures among 
traumatized mothers are discussed.

© 2020 Michigan Association for Infant Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1002/imhj.21841
PMID: 32057130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]