[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# January 1973

The following events occurred in January 1973:

January 1, 1973 (Monday)
The United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and Denmark entered the 'European Economic Community (EEC, generally referred to as "the Common Market", a predecessor to the European Union. The addition of the new members brought the number of Common Market nations from six to nine.
Exxon Corporation, the largest oil company in the world at the time, was created by the merger of Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and Humble Oil.  The gasoline stations of the merged companies, operating under the names Esso, Enco and Humble, would all be rebranded as Exxon stations during the year 1973.
In the 59th Rose Bowl college football game, the #1-ranked USC Trojans of the Pacific 8 conference defeated the #3-ranked Ohio State Buckeyes of the Big Ten conference, 42–17.  The #2-ranked team, the Oklahoma Sooners, had beaten the #5-ranked Penn State Nittany Lions the night before in the Sugar Bowl.  The University of Southern California team, unbeaten and untied in 12 starts, would be voted #1 in both the Associated Press and United Press International polls, gaining recognition by the NCAA in the era before playoffs as the unofficial national champion of American college football.
Hitachi SC and Yanmar Diesel SC, who had finished 1st and 2nd in regular play in the Japan Soccer League, met in the championship game of the 24-team playoff, the Emperor's Cup.  Hitachi won, 2 to 1.
A new constitution went into effect in the southern African nation of Zambia, declaring the republic to be a "one-party participatory democracy", with the lone political organization being the ruling United National Independence Party (UNIP) of President Kenneth Kaunda.  Zambia continued as a one-party participatory democracy until becoming "a unitary, indivisible, multi-party and democratic sovereign state" when a new constitution would take effect in 1991.
The west African nation of Nigeria, the last on earth to use the non-decimal "£sd" system of "pounds, shillings and pence", introduced a new currency, the naira (₦) to replace the Nigerian pound that had been used since independence, at the rate of £1 = ₦2. Under the new decimal system, one naira was worth 100 kobo.
The University of Passau was established in West Germany's state of Bavaria in the city of Passau on the German-Austrian border.
Born: 
Juan Gabriel Vásquez, Colombian novelist, in Bogotá
Jimi Mistry, English film and TV actor known for EastEnders and Coronation Street; in Scarborough, North Yorkshire
Rabaki Jérémie Ouédraogo, Burkina Faso road cycling champion; in Kokologo, Republic of Upper Volta
Died: 
Sergei Kourdakov, 21, a Soviet Russian KGB agent who had defected to Canada on September 3, 1971, was found dead in his motel room at the ski resort town of Running Springs, California, from a gunshot to the head. 
Walter E. "Jack" Rollins, 66, American lyricist who wrote the words for more than 500 songs, and was best known for "Frosty the Snowman" (1950) and "Here Comes Peter Cottontail" (1949)
Jeffrey Carp, 24, American blues harmonica artist, by drowning
Tsuneo Mori, 28, Japanese terrorist and member of the Japanese Red Army until his arrest in 1972, by hanging in his jail cell in Tokyo.

January 2, 1973 (Tuesday)
The asteroid 11785 Migaic was discovered by N. S. Chernykh at the Crimean Astrophysical Observatory.
Rafael Hernández Colón began his first term as Governor of Puerto Rico.
Born: Lucy Davis, English TV actress; in Solihull, West Midlands
Died: 
Eleazar López Contreras, 89, President of Venezuela 1935–1941
Nirmal Munda, 79, Indian agrarian leader and independence fighter known for leading the Munda agitation from 1937 to 1939 against extortion
Speckled Red (stage name for Rufus Perryman), 80, African-American comedian, blues singer and musician known for his recordings of the improvised insult exchanges known as "The Dozens"