[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Peking (1900)

his son Ma Qi took over his posts. Ma Fuxing also served under Ma Fulu to guard the Qing Imperial court during the fighting. The Muslim troops were described as "the bravest of the brave, the most fanatical of fanatics : and that is why the defence of the Emperor's city had been entrusted to them."

The relief of the siege at the Peitang did not take place until 16 August.  Japanese troops stumbled across the Cathedral that morning but, without a common language, they and the besieged were both confused.  Shortly, however, French troops arrived and marched into the cathedral to the cheers of the survivors.

On 17 August, the representatives of the foreign powers met and recommended that "as the advance of the foreign troops into the Imperial and Forbidden Cities had been obstinately resisted by the Chinese troops", the foreign armies should continue to fight until "the Chinese armed resistance within the City of Peking and the surrounding country was crushed". They also declared "that in the crushing of the armed resistance lies the best and only hope of the restoration of peace".

On 28 August, the foreign armies in Peking swelled in numbers by the arrival of soldiers from Germany, Italy and Austria and additional troops from France marched through the Forbidden City to demonstrate symbolically their complete control of Peking.  Chinese authorities protested their entry.  Foreigners and most Chinese were prohibited from setting foot in the Forbidden City.  However, the Chinese gave way when the foreign armies promised not to occupy the Forbidden City but threatened to destroy it if their passage was disputed.

Occupation

Peking was a battered city after the siege.  The Boxers had begun the destruction, destroying all Christian churches and homes and starting fires that burned throughout the city.  The Chinese artillery aimed at the Legation Quarter and Peitang during the siege had destroyed nearby neighborhoods.  Unburied bodies littered the deserted streets. The foreign armies divided Peking into districts.  Each district was administered by one of the occupying armies.

The occupation of Peking became, in the words of an American journalist, "the biggest looting expedition since Pizarro". Each nation accused the others of being most responsible for the looting. American missionary Luella Miner claimed that "The conduct of the Russian soldiers is atrocious, the French are not much better, and the Japanese are looting and burning without mercy". Gaselee, noting the "unavoidable necessity" of looting, established a system whereby all loot was auctioned off at the British Legation every afternoon except Sunday, with the proceeds being distributed by a prize committee to the remaining British troops in the city. Chaffee banned American soldiers from looting, although U.S. troops frequently violated that order to engage in pillaging around the city, which led an Army chaplain to complain that "Our rule against looting is totally ineffectual".

The civilians and missionaries who had been besieged were some of the most prolific looters, as they were familiar with Peking. Some of the looting was justified as being done so for humanitarian reasons, such as the case of Catholic Bishop Pierre Favier and American Congregationalist William Scott Ament who had hundreds of starving Chinese Christians to care for and needed food and clothing.  However, looting for necessities quickly became superseded by looting for profit, widely publicized by journalists—many indulged in looting on their own while condemning it when done by others. Chinese citizens in Peking also indulged in looting and set up markets to sell the proceeds of their efforts.

The Eight-Nation Alliance proceeded to dispatch punitive expeditions to the countryside to capture or kill suspected Boxers. During these expeditions, indiscriminate killings were frequently carried out by the soldiers. Chafee commented that "It is safe to say that where one real Boxer has been killed since the capture of Peking, fifty harmless coolies or laborers on the farms, including not a few women and children, have been slain". The majority of the punitive expeditions were conducted by the French and Germans.

A peace agreement was concluded between the Eight-Nation Alliance and representatives of the Chinese government Li Hung-chang and Prince Ching on 7 September 1901.  The treaty required China to pay an indemnity of $335 million (over $4 billion in current dollars) plus interest over a period of 39 years. Also required was the execution or exile of government supporters of the Boxers and the destruction of Chinese forts and other defenses in much of northern China. Ten days after the treaty was signed the foreign armies left Peking, although legation guards would remain there until World War II.