[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bruno Ribeiro

2016, Ribeiro returned to Portugal and signed a contract at LigaPro side Académico de Viseu to run until the end of the 2016–17 season. However, he resigned from the club on 10 March after failing to win any of his five matches in charges, citing dissatisfaction with the way the club was being run.

Port Vale
In June 2016, he was appointed manager of English League One club Port Vale on a three-year contract. He oversaw a complete overhaul of the playing staff, signing an influx of foreign talent including Rigino Cicilia, Anthony de Freitas, Kjell Knops, Calvin Mac-Intosch, Quentin Pereira, Kiko, Carlos Saleiro, Paulo Tavares, Chris Mbamba, Sébastien Amoros, Miguel Santos, and Gëzim Shalaj; as well as British players Anton Forrester and Jerome Thomas, Nathan Ferguson, and Martin Paterson; with Alex Jones and Sam Hart also joining on loan. However it would be 20-year old centre-back Nathan Smith who would prove to be the club's best player; Riberio handed him his debut on the opening day of the season, and Smith would retain his first-team place long after Riberio's departure. He appointed Jak Alnwick, Ben Purkiss and Anthony Grant as joint-captains, and got off to a good start by winning his first six home games at Vale Park. He was named as the Football League Paper's League One Manager of the Day after Vale defeated Scunthorpe United 3–1 on 27 August. However they entered Christmas in 17th-place, leaving chairman Norman Smurthwaite to declare that 'Plan B' had been triggered, meaning the signing of "seasoned, higher grade" players, whilst he admitted he felt "a little bit hoodwinked" as Ribeiro's friends in the game (José Mourinho, Aitor Karanka, and Carlos Carvalhal) had provided him with glowing references but had thus far failed to lend any of their players to the Vale. Ribeiro resigned as manager of Port Vale on 26 December, hours after witnessing his side lose 1–0 at home to Walsall. Assistant manager Michael Brown took charge on a caretaker basis, but could not arrest the decline as the club went on to be relegated at the end of the 2016–17 season.

Return to Portugal
Ribeiro was appointed head coach at Campeonato de Portugal club Salgueiros on 6 April 2017 following the sacking of Filipe Cândido. The contract was to cover only the final five games of the 2016–17 season. Salgueiros finished third in the North zone Promotion group, missing out on a place in the promotion play-offs on goal difference.

On 14 November 2017, Ribeiro was appointed as the new head coach at Cova da Piedade, who were in the relegation places of the LigaPro after picking up only 13 points from their first 13 games. On 6 December, he led the team to a penalty shoot-out victory over top-flight Marítimo following a 0–0 draw after extra time in the Fifth Round of the Taça de Portugal at the Estádio do Marítimo. The "Rapazes de Azul-Grená" ended the 2017–18 season in ninth-place and he was reported to have agreed a new one-year contract in May 2018. However he left the club the following month. On 7 October, he was appointed as manager of former club Salgueiros, now in the Porto FA Elite Division (fourth tier), until the end of the 2017–18 season. He left this post after just two games when was appointed as head coach of the Vitória Setúbal junior team.

Interclube
In January 2019, Ribeiro signed an 18-month contract with Angolan Girabola side Interclube. "Os Polícias" finished fifth at the end of the 2018–19 season.

Return to Portugal
On 31 December 2019, Riberio returned to Portuguese football as the new manager of Campeonato de Portugal side Olhanense. The "Leões de Olhão" were top of Serie D when the 2019–20 season was ended prematurely due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Portugal, with no clubs promoted from Serie D. On 8 September 2020, Ribeiro returned to manage Moura in the Campeonato de Portugal. Moura picked up just four points from 20 games as they were relegated in the 2020–21 campaign.

Style of management
Ribeiro has stated that 90% of his training ground work is based on José Mourinho's ideas, using possession play, building from the back – instructing his players not to play long balls, and maintaining a fixed shape. He prefers to play with a 4–3–3 formation, utilising a lone striker. Andy Smith, Ribeiro's close friend and preferred coach, has said that Ribeiro is "class" and that "the coaching sessions, the way he prepares" means that "we have a plan A, B and C". Ribeiro prefers staff, such as Smith, to conduct media duties on his behalf. He likes to create a "family" feeling in the dressing room.

Career statistics

Playing statistics

Managerial statistics

Honours

as a Player
Vitória de Setúbal
Segunda Divisão de Honra second-place promotion: 1995–96
Segunda Liga second-place promotion: 2003–04
Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira runner-up: 2005
Taça de Portugal: 2005; runner-up 2006
Taça da Liga: 2008

as a Manager
Ludogorets
Bulgarian Supercup runner-up: 2015

References