[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Serena Deeb

rtia Perez, who was the only other woman on the tour. After two losses, Serena managed to pick up a victory but would only gain one more from their eight singles matches. On the final night, she teamed up with Scotty The Hotty to gain a third victory over Perez and Chris Masters in a tag team match.

In November 2010, Serena debuted for Women Superstars Uncensored (WSU) and established herself as a villainess by cutting a promo stating that she should be handed a title shot because she was in WWE. Serena would later gain a victory over Traci Brooks on WSU's first internet pay-per-view (iPPV). Serena followed up by winning a Four Way match over Alicia, Portia Perez and Jana to become number one contender to the WSU Championship. Deeb would target WSU Champion Mercedes Martinez by attacking her after a title defense late that evening and cutting some of Martinez's hair. Serena received her title shot in the main event of WSU's 4 Year Anniversary show where she was defeated by Mercedes. On June 25, 2011, at The Uncensored Rumble IV event Serena defeated Nikki Roxx but was eliminated from the eponymous match by Lexxus, having made it to the final two.

In January 2011, Serena made her first excursion to Japan. While working for Yoshihiro Tajiri's promotion Smash, she wrestled Syuri at Smash.12 and won the match. She remained undefeated by beating Makoto on Smash.13, Kana on Smash.17, Tomoka Nakagawa on Smash.19 in the first round and Syuri on Smash.20 in the semifinals of a tournament for the Smash Diva Championship. On September 8, Serena suffered her first loss in Smash, when she was defeated by Kana in the finals of a tournament to crown the first ever Smash Diva Champion.

On April 19, 2011, Deeb wrestled a dark match in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, however she lost to Winter.

On October 22, 2011, Deeb announced that she was taking an indefinite break from wrestling, following her doctor's instructions after suffering a serious concussion. Her break ended up lasting eighteen months.

On March 17, 2013, Deeb returned to TNA to take part in the tapings of the Knockout Knockdown pay-per-view, where she was defeated by Mickie James. On July 25, Deeb returned to Japan to work for Smash's follow-up promotion, Wrestling New Classic (WNC), unsuccessfully challenging Lin Byron for the WNC Women's Championship in the main event of a show at Shinjuku Face. Three days later, Deeb made her debut for the JWP Joshi Puroresu promotion, teaming with Hanako Nakamori and Morii in a six-woman tag team match, where they were defeated by Kayoko Haruyama, Leon and Tsubasa Kuragaki. On August 3, Deeb entered a three-woman round-robin tournament for the vacant WNC Women's Championship, defeating Makoto in her first match. On August 8, Deeb defeated Syuri in her second round-robin match, advancing to the finals of the tournament. On August 10, Deeb defeated Syuri in the finals to win the tournament and become the new WNC Women's Champion. Continuing her tour of Japan, Deeb made her debut for the World Woman Pro-Wrestling Diana promotion on September 8, teaming with Makoto in a tag team match, where they were defeated by Crazy Mary and Mima Shimoda. On September 18, Deeb lost the WNC Women's Championship to Syuri in her first defense.

On January 24, 2014, Deeb made her debut for Shine Wrestling, defeating Santana Garrett in a singles match. Following the main event, Deeb joined the promotion's top villainous stable, Valkyrie. Deeb challenged for the Shine Championship against Ivelisse at Shine 20, with their match ending in a time-limit draw.

On March 21, 2014, Deeb debuted for Queens of Combat as a villainess at the promotion's first show, competing in a losing effort to Taeler Hendrix.

 Semi-retirement (2015) 
On June 17, 2015, the Japanese Reina Joshi Puroresu promotion announced that Deeb would be wrestling her retirement match for the promotion on July 10 in Korakuen Hall. Deeb confirmed this would be her final match on July 9. The following day, Deeb was defeated by Syuri in her retirement match.

Despite her retirement, Deeb made an appearance for TNA on the June 25, 2015, episode of Impact Wrestling in an intergender tag team match. She teamed with James Storm in a losing effort against Mickie James and Magnus.

 Return to WWE (2017–2020) 
Deeb returned to WWE as part of the first Mae Young Classic on July 13, 2017, defeating Vanessa Borne in the first round. This was Deeb's first match since 2015. The following day, Deeb was eliminated from the tournament in the second round by Piper Niven. It was announced on February 8, 2018, that Deeb has been signed by WWE to become a coach at the Performance Center in Orlando, Florida. She was released on April 15, 2020, amid company-wide cutbacks due to the COVID-19 pandemic.