[Source: PubMed]

3. J Migr Health. 2023 Mar 11;7:100174. doi: 10.1016/j.jmh.2023.100174.
eCollection  2023.

Climate change and the public health imperative for supporting migration as 
adaptation.

Marcus H(1), Hanna L(2), Tait P(3), Stone S(4), Wannous C(5); A product of the 
World Federation of Public Health Associations Environmental Health Working 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Co-Chair, Environmental Health Working Group, World Federation of Public 
Health Associations, Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Environmental Health Working Group, World Federation of Public Health 
Associations, Honorary Australian National University Co-Chair, Canberra, 
Australia.
(3)Senior Clinical Lecturer, member, Environmental Health Working Group, World 
Federation of Public Health Associations, Australian National University, 
Canberra, Australia.
(4)Member, Environmental Health Working Group, World Federation of Public Health 
Associations, Member, Alliance of Nurses for Healthy Environments, USA.
(5)Chair, Health Emergencies Working Group and member, Environmental Health 
Working Group, World Federation of Public Health Associations, Sweden.

In an era of accelerating global climate change, human mobility has reached 
unprecedented levels. While it is acknowledged that many cases of human 
migration in the context of climate change are forced or involuntary, 
particularly where adaptation measures have failed to achieve sufficient 
resiliency of communities against impending slow- and sudden-onset disasters. 
There are also many cases where migration is, itself, a voluntary adaptive 
measure to secure otherwise unattainable physical safety and life-sustaining 
resources. It is in these cases that migration can be viewed as adaptation. 
Under the right policy conditions, it is possible for such adaptive migration to 
save countless lives. Moreover, it can achieve remarkable health and well-being 
gains for otherwise vulnerable communities residing on environmentally degrading 
lands and disproportionately suffering from the health impacts of climate 
change. While several activists have spoken loudly on the topic of climate 
migration, emphasizing the human rights imperative for supportive global policy 
action, the public health community has not been equally vocal nor unanimous in 
its stance. This paper, a product of the World Federation of Public Health 
Associations (WFPHA) Environmental Health Working Group, aims to rectify this 
gap, by analyzing adaptive climate migration through a public health lens. In 
doing so, it argues that creating an enabling environment for adaptive climate 
migration is not just a human rights imperative, but also a public health one. 
This argument is supported by evidence demonstrating how creating such an 
enabling environment can synergistically support the fulfillment of key public 
health services and functions, as outlined under the internationally endorsed 
Global Charter for the Public's Health of the WFPHA.

© 2023 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmh.2023.100174
PMCID: PMC10034433
PMID: 36968560

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.