[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Reading (legislature)

of the bill. Notably, only constitutional amendment bills, money bills, electoral law bills, and law code bills have their first reading at a plenary session of the Sejm; all other bills have their first reading occur in committee, unless the Marshal of the Sejm decides to refer them to the plenum.

Russia
In the Russian State Duma, the first reading includes a debate on the general outlines of the bill followed by a vote on whether or not to send it to committee.

United Kingdom
In both Houses of the British Parliament, Bills introduced by the Government or by MPs and Lords who won the Private Members' Ballot automatically receive a first reading without the need of being discussed or voted on; the same applies for Bills brought from the other House (for example, a Bill which has completed all its stages in the House of Lords is immediately brought to the House of Commons, where it receives a first reading). 

Bills introduced under the Ten Minute Rule are subject to a debate lasting not more than ten minutes (equally divided between a supporter and an opponent), followed by a vote is held on the motion "That leave be granted to bring in" the Bill; the latter receives a first reading only if the motion is carried.

After a Bill has been read a first time, it is ordered to be printed.

Second reading 

A second reading is the stage of the legislative process where a draft of a bill is read a second time. 

In most Westminster-style legislatures, a vote is taken on the general outlines of the bill before being sent to committee. In most non-Westminster-style legislatures, the bill's detailed provisions are considered in the second reading, and then voted on clause by clause.

Republic of Ireland
In the Oireachtas, the second reading is referred to as "second stage", though the subheading "second reading" is used in Dáil standing orders, and the motion at second stage is still "that the Bill is to be read a second time". A bill introduced in one house enters the other house at second stage, except that the Seanad second stage is waived for Dáil consolidation bills. Once the bill passes second stage it is referred to a select committee of that house or taken in committee stage by the whole house.

Israel
In the Knesset, the bill's detailed provisions are considered in the second reading, and then voted on clause by clause. However, continuous stretches of clauses without any proposed amendments (which includes different wordings for the same clause written in the original bill), are voted as a single bloc. The starting point for the bill considered in second reading is its post-committee consideration text, which can vary widely from the bill voted on in first reading, even to the point of mergers and splits.

New Zealand
In New Zealand, once a bill passes a second reading it is then considered clause-by-clause by the whole Parliament. If a majority of Parliament agree, the bill can be considered part-by-part, saving considerable time.  Because most bills must have majority support to pass a second reading, it is now very rare for a bill to be considered clause-by-clause.

Poland
In the Polish Sejm, the second reading comprises a consideration of the committee's report on the bill (as committee consideration between first and second readings), and an introduction of any proposed amendments, although the Sejm's standing orders do not provide for a clause by clause vote on the bill itself, or on any amendment, during the second reading. If amendments are introduced to a bill, it is returned for further committee consideration between second and third readings unless the Sejm decides otherwise.

Russia
In the Russian State Duma, the bill's detailed provisions are considered in the second reading, and then voted on clause by clause.

United Kingdom
In both Houses of the British Parliament the second reading includes a debate on the general outlines of the bill, followed by a vote on the motion "that the Bill be now read a second time" (or sometimes on a wrecking amendment to that motion). If the motion is carried, the Bill is then sent either to a Standing Committee or to a Committee of the Whole House, where it is considered and voted on clause by clause.

United States
In the United States Senate, a bill is either referred to committee or placed on the Calendar of Business after second reading. No vote is held on whether to read the bill a second time. In U.S. legislatures where consideration in committee precedes second reading, the procedure varies as to how a bill reaches second reading. In Illinois, for example, legislation is automatically read a second time, after which amendments are in order.

Third reading

A third reading is the stage of a legislative process in which a bill is read with all amendments and given final approval by a legislative body.