[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Theta criterion

be treated the same as transitive verbs. The theta-roles of "agent" and "theme" can be assigned:

In summary, by assigning the correct theta-roles, theta-criterion is able to tell the real intransitive verbs, such as "arrive" apart from verbs that can appear intransitive, such as "eat."

PRO and pro

PRO 
PRO (pronounced 'big pro') is a null pronoun phrase that occurs in a position where it does not get case (or gets null case) but takes the theta-role assigned by the non-finite verb to its subject. PRO's meaning is determined by the precedent DP that controls it . As theta criterion states that each argument is assigned a theta-role, and those theta-roles must consist of a syntactic category that the verb selects even when there is no overt subject. This is where PRO comes in to help satisfy theta-criterion by appearing as the null subject attaining the appropriate theta role .
Below is an example containing PRO in a sentence:

 (5) a. Jeani is likely  [ti to leave].
     b. Jean is reluctant [PRO to leave].
        

Example (5a) is a raising sentence, and in contrast, (5b) is a control sentence, meaning it does not involve any DP movement. The PRO, which is a "null DP" is in the subject position of the embedded clause.

 (6) a. Jean wants Briani [ti to leave].
     b. Jean persuaded Brian [PRO to leave].
       

Similarly, example (6a) is a raising-to-object sentence; "Brian" raises to the object position of the verb want. In contrast, (6b) is an object control sentence. The verb persuade has three theta-roles to assign: "agent" to Jean, "theme" to Brian, and "proposition" to the clause [PRO to leave]. There is no raising, but there is a PRO in the subject position of the embedded clause that takes the verb leave's only theta-role, "agent". Since Brian does not receive theta-role from leave, it only bears one theta-role, nor does PRO receive a second theta-role from persuade. Every argument only receives one theta-role, and every theta-role of the two predicates is assigned to only one argument. The sentence is thus grammatical.

pro 
pro, also known as little pro, is an empty category that occurs in a subject or object position of a finite clause (finite clauses must contain a verb which shows tense) in languages like Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Chinese, and some Arabic dialects (; ). pro differs from PRO in that it contains case. The meaning of pro is determined not by its antecedent but by verb agreement in the sentence. The DP is 'dropped' from a sentence if its reference can be recovered from the context. For example:

The verb restituire 'give back' assigns three theta-roles, but there are only two overt arguments in the sentence. It ultimately satisfies theta-criterion because the role, theme, is taken by a pro, whose existence can be proved by the properly bound reflexive pronoun se stessi. Compare (7a) with (7b) below:
 (7b) *Un bravo psicanalista può dare aiuto a  se stessi.
       A  good  psychoanalyst can give help  to oneself.
       'A good psychoanalyst can give help to themselves'.
      (Adapted from )
When the reflexive pronoun se stessi 'themselves' doesn't have a proper antecedent to co-refer to, the sentence can't be grammatical. This indicates that in (7a) se stessi must have a proper antecedent in the sentence—the pro that takes the theme role.

Cognate object 
Cognate objects are nominal complements of their cognate verbs that are normally intransitive. For example,
 (8) John died a gruesome death.
      
Such a structure posed a problem for theta-criterion because normally the verb assigns only one theta-role, theme, which is already taken by the DP, "John." The sentence should be thus predicted ill-formed. To explain the phenomenon, one way is to re-categorize such a verb as "die" so as to change the way it assigns theta-roles. For that purpose, (8) can be interpreted as follows:
 (9) John met a gruesome death.
      
Or John underwent a gruesome death. If the verb "die" is essentially similar to the operation-verb "meet," the cognate objects should be assigned a theta-role—one restricted to the nominal form of the verb head . In other words, "die" is now classified as a potentially transitive verb, assigning two theta-roles, agent to "John" and theme to "a gruesome death." Such a possibility is falsified, however, because cognate object constructions cannot be passivized .

 (10) a. A gruesome death was met by John.
      b. *A gruesome death was died by John.
      
As we can no longer consider verbs that take cognate objects the same as potentially transitive verbs,  argues, based on the framework of , that cognate objects are adjuncts rather than arguments, having the same meaning and structure as the manner adverbs in (12b).