[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Washington, D.C., in the American Civil War

e population at just over 75,000 persons, but by 1870, the district's population had grown to nearly 132,000. Warehouses, supply depots, ammunition dumps, and factories were established to provide and distribute material for the Union armies, and civilian workers and contractors flocked to the city.

Slavery was abolished throughout the district on April 16, 1862, eight months before Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, with the passage of the Compensated Emancipation Act. Washington became a popular place for formerly enslaved people to congregate, and many were employed in constructing the ring of fortresses that eventually surrounded the city.

Defense

At the beginning of the war, Washington's only defense was one old fort, Fort Washington,  away to the south, and the Union Army soldiers themselves. When Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan assumed command of the Department of the Potomac on August 17, 1861, he became responsible for the capital's defense. McClellan began by laying out lines for a complete ring of entrenchments and fortifications that would cover  of land. He built enclosed forts on high hills around the city and placed well-protected batteries of field artillery in the gaps between these forts, augmenting the 88 guns already placed on the defensive line facing Virginia and south. In between the batteries, interconnected rifle pits were dug, allowing highly-effective co-operative fire. That layout, once complete, would make the city one of the most heavily defended locations in the world and almost unassailable by nearly any number of men.

The capital's defenses, for the most part, deterred the Confederate Army from attacking. One notable exception was during the Battle of Fort Stevens on July 11–12, 1864 in which Union soldiers repelled troops under the command of Confederate Lieutenant General Jubal A. Early. That battle was the first time since the War of 1812 that a U.S. president came under enemy fire in wartime when Lincoln visited the fort to observe the fighting.

By 1865, the defenses of Washington were most stout and amply covered both land and sea approaches. When the war ended,  of line included at least 68 forts and over  of rifle pits and were supported by  of military-only roads and four individual picket stations. Also, 93 separate batteries of artillery had been placed on this line, comprising over 1,500 guns, both field and siege varieties, as well as mortars.

Military formations
Owens Company, District of Columbia cavalry {3 months unit-1861}
8 Battalions, District of Columbia Infantry {3 months unit-1861}
1st Regiment, District of Columbia Infantry
2nd Regiment, District of Columbia Infantry
Unassigned District of Columbia Colored
Unassigned District of Columbia Volunteers

Hospitals
Hospitals in the Washington area became significant providers of medical services to wounded soldiers needing long-term care after they had been transported to the city from the front lines over the Long Bridge or by steamboat at the Wharf.

The following hospitals were located in the District of Columbia:
 Armory Square General Hospital,
 Carver General Hospital
 Campbell General Hospital
 Columbia General Hospital
 Columbian General Hospital
 Douglas General Hospital
 Emory General Hospital
 Finley General Hospital
 Freedman General Hospital
 Harewood General Hospital
 Judiciary Square General Hospital
 Kalorama General Hospital
 Lincoln General Hospital 
 Mount Pleasant General Hospital
 Ricord General Hospital
 Stanton General Hospital
 Seminary General Hospital
 Stone General Hospital

More than 20,000 injured or ill soldiers received treatment in an array of permanent and temporary hospitals in the capital, including the U.S. Patent Office and for a time the Capitol itself. Among the notables who served in nursing were the American Red Cross founder Clara Barton as well as Dorothea Dix, who served as superintendent of female nurses in Washington. The novelist Louisa May Alcott served at the Union Hospital in Georgetown. The poet Walt Whitman served as a hospital volunteer, and in 1865, he published his famous poem "The Wound-Dresser." The United States Sanitary Commission had a significant presence in Washington, as did the United States Christian Commission and other relief agencies. The Freedman's Hospital was established in 1862 to serve the needs of the growing population of freed slaves.