[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mass media in Bhutan

The various mass media in Bhutan have historically been government-controlled, although this has changed in recent years. The country has its own newspapers, television and radio broadcasters and Internet Service Providers.

Journalism 
Kuensel, a newspaper of a government-owned corporation, circulates six days a week in Dzongkha and English. In  2006 two privately owned, independent newspapers were launched as part of preparation for the country's move to democracy: Bhutan Times, and Bhutan Observer, which also produced a Dzongkha edition. Bhutan Today, an English daily newspaper launched in October 2008. The Journalist established in 2009 is a privately owned weekly English Language newspaper published on Sundays.  In late September 2009, the first Financial Newspaper of Bhutan was launched with the name Business Bhutan.

According to Freedom House, private newspapers in Bhutan face "financial fragility" and rely on government advertisements for approximately 80 percent of their income. Since private media outlets were made legal in 2006, the number of private media outlets has grown, reducing the access of each outlet to that revenue. In 2012, a financial crisis occurred and the government chose to only run advertisements for the then-upcoming 2013 elections on state media outlets. Due to their financial condition, newspapers cut their staff, and some implemented additional cost-cutting measures such as switching from publishing daily to publishing bi-weekly and temporarily ceasing to produce a print edition. The government was accused of intentionally reducing advertising revenue to retaliate against The Bhutanese'''s reporting on governmental corruption. Some of the newspapers folded in this process. Today Kuensel is the only newspaper in the country published daily with two language editions, Dzongkha and English. Currently there are only five private newspapers in the country. 2008 the Bhutan Centre for Media and Democracy was launched to "nurture democracy in Bhutan through civic engagement, public discourse and media literate citizens".

 Radio and television 
The Bhutan Broadcasting Service was established in 1973 as a radio service, broadcasting all over the country in short wave and on the FM band in Thimphu. The service started television broadcasts in 1998, making Bhutan the last country in the world to introduce a local television service. As part of the King's modernization program, cable television was introduced shortly after. By 2002, however, the crime rate had increased appreciably, and the introduction of cable television is alleged to be responsible for the spurt in crime. The Bhutan Broadcasting Service (BBS) has been expanded and will be available in Bhutan and will also be available in the region. The signal can be received in almost forty other countries, including Turkey to Indonesia. The Bhutan Broadcasting Service has now assumed the role of a true national broadcaster said the minister of information and communications. In 2008 the adoption of the constitution by Lyonpo Leki Dorji meant that the BBS would now be taking on a more pivotal in educating the public. When they took the role to educate the public this meant they had to improve the quality of news and programs because it became imperative. Sudhir Vyas, ambassador of Bhutan, thinks India is privileged to be associated with the development of media in Bhutan. The launch was a true testimony and the support the government had for the media. This symbolized the role that the government played in the development of Bhutan. The Bhutan Broadcasting Service has also been said to be the cheapest and easiest way to educate people. Privately owned FM radio stations include Kuzoo FM and Radio Valley FM.