[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Topographic map (neuroanatomy)

s that are tonotopically organized, the frequency varies systematically from low to high along the surface of the cortex, but is relatively constant across cortical depth.  The general image of topographic organization in animals is multiple tonotopic maps distributed over the surface of the cortex.

Somatosensory system

The somatosensory system comprises a diverse range of receptors and processing centers to produce the perception of touch, temperature, proprioception, and nociception.  Receptors are located throughout the body including the skin, epithelia, internal organs, skeletal muscles, bones, and joints. The cutaneous receptors of the skin project in an orderly fashion to the spinal cord, and from there, via different afferent pathways (dorsal column-medial lemniscus tract and spinothalamic tract), to the ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus and the primary somatosensory cortex. Again, adjacent areas on the skin are represented by adjacent neurons in all aforementioned structures.  This projection pattern has been termed somatotopy.

One common diagram of the somatotopic map is the cortical homunculus.  This illustration is a fairly accurate representation of how much cortical area represents each body part or region.  It also maps what part of the cortex represents each region of the body.

Motor system
Unlike the topographic maps of the senses, the neurons of the motor cortex are efferent neurons that exit the brain instead of bringing information to the brain through afferent connections.  The motor system is responsible for initiating voluntary or planned movements (reflexes are mediated at the spinal cord level, so movements that associated with a reflex are not initiated by the motor cortex).  The activation from the motor cortex travels through Betz cells down the corticospinal tract through upper motor neurons, terminating at the anterior horn of the grey matter where lower motor neurons transmit the signal to peripheral motor neurons and, finally, the voluntary muscles.

Movements not requiring use of topographic maps
There are several instances of movements that do not require the participation of topographic maps, or even the participation of the brain.  One instance would be (as already stated) in some reflexes.  Reflexes usually are mediated at the level of the spinal cord through reflex arcs.  In humans, mono-, oligo-, and poly-synaptic reflex arcs, propriospinal interneuron systems, and internuncial gray matter neurons collectively participate continuously to produce spinal cord reflex that activates muscle.

The higher motor centers of octopuses (large brained  invertebrates) are notable for organizing (unlike vertebrates) highly skilled movements without the use of somatotopic maps of their bodies.

Olfactory system
The olfactory system is the sensory system used for olfaction, or the sense of smell.  It detects volatile, airborne substances.

Most sensory systems spatially segregate afferent input from primary sensory neurons to construct a topographic map that defines the location of a sensory stimulus within the environment, as well as the quality of the stimulus itself.  Unlike other sensory systems, the topography in the olfactory system is not dependent on spatial properties of the stimuli.  Relieved of the requirement to map the position of an olfactory stimulus in space, the olfactory system employs spatial segregation of sensory input to encode the quality of an odorant.

The topographic map revealed in the olfactory system differs in quality from the orderly representation inherent in the retinotopic, tonotopic, or somatotopic sensory maps.  Olfactory neurons differ from one another by the nature of the receptor that they possess. However, the olfactory sensory neurons to which olfactory bulb neurons are connected are also distributed across the receptor sheet (the olfactory epithelium) depending on their chemical preferences. Locations on the olfactory epithelium and the olfactory bulb are correlated  so, as with other sensory systems, the topographic map in the brain is linked to the structure of the peripheral organ. This principle is called rhinotopy.

Individual olfactory sensory neurons express only one of the thousand receptor genes, such that neurons are functionally distinct.  Cells expressing a given receptor in the olfactory epithelium are randomly dispersed within 1 of 4 broad zones.  Sensory neurons extend a single unbranched axon to the olfactory bulb such that the projections from neurons expressing a specific receptor converge on 2 out of the 1800 glomeruli.  The pattern of convergence is absolute and invariant in all individuals in a species.  The bulb therefore provides a spatial map that identifies which of the numerous receptors have been activated within the sensory epithelium so that the quality of an olfactory stimulus is encoded by specific combination of glomeruli activated by a given odorant (combinatorial code).