[Source: PubMed]

21. Int J Equity Health. 2021 Mar 31;20(1):89. doi: 10.1186/s12939-021-01429-y.

Using a biopsychosocial approach to examine differences in post-traumatic stress 
symptoms between Arab and Jewish Israeli mothers following a child's traumatic 
medical event.

Hussein S(1), Sadeh Y(2)(3), Dekel R(2), Shadmi E(4), Brezner A(3), Landa 
J(3)(5), Silberg T(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(2)The Louis and Gabi Weisfeld School of Social Work, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(3)Department of Pediatric Rehabilitation, The Edmond and Lily Safra Children's 
Hospital, Sheba Medical Center, Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(4)The Cheryl Spencer Department of Nursing, Faculty of Social Welfare & Health 
Sciences, University of Haifa, Haifa, Israel.
(5)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(6)Department of Psychology, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat-Gan, Israel. 
tamarsilberg@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Pediatric Rehabilitation, The Edmond and Lily Safra Children's 
Hospital, Sheba Medical Center, Ramat-Gan, Israel. tamarsilberg@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Parents of children following traumatic medical events (TMEs) are 
known to be at high risk for developing severe post-traumatic stress symptoms 
(PTSS). Findings on the negative impact of TMEs on parents' PTSS have been 
described in different cultures and societies. Parents from ethnic minority 
groups may be at particularly increased risk for PTSS following their child's 
TME due to a host of sociocultural characteristics. Yet, differences in PTSS 
manifestation between ethnic groups following a child's TME has rarely been 
studied.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to examine: (1) differences in PTSS between Israeli-Arab 
and Israeli-Jewish mothers, following a child's TME, and (2) risk and protective 
factors affecting mother's PTSS from a biopsychosocial approach.
METHODS: Data were collected from medical files of children following TMEs, 
hospitalized in a Department of Pediatric Rehabilitation, between 2008 and 2018. 
The sample included 47 Israeli-Arab mothers and 47 matched Israeli-Jewish 
mothers. Mothers completed the psychosocial assessment tool (PAT) and the 
post-traumatic diagnostic scale (PDS).
RESULTS: Arab mothers perceived having more social support than their Jewish 
counterparts yet reported higher levels of PTSS compared to the Jewish mothers. 
Our prediction model indicated that Arab ethnicity and pre-trauma family 
problems predicted higher levels of PTSS among mothers of children following 
TMEs.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite reporting higher social support, Arab mothers reported 
higher levels of PTSS, as compared to the Jewish mothers. Focusing on ethnic and 
cultural differences in the effects of a child's TME may help improve our 
understanding of the mental-health needs of mothers from different minority 
groups and aid in developing appropriate health services and targeted 
interventions for this population.

DOI: 10.1186/s12939-021-01429-y
PMCID: PMC8011398
PMID: 33789674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests.