[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Center for International Policy

GFI), a non-profit, research and advocacy organisation focused on the role of illicit financial flows.

In June 2007, the Americas Program joined CIP after the dissolution of the International Relations Center. The Americas Program continues as the TransBorder Project and the Americas Project today.

Current Programs 
The center currently operates nine programs including the Arms & Security Project, Security Assistance Monitor, and the Foreign Influence Transparency Initiative among others. In its capacity, the center also fiscally sponsors the environmental protection organization, Mighty Earth, and Freedom Forward.

Security Assistance Monitor 
Led by director Christina Arabia, Security Assistance Monitor (SAM) tracks and analyzes U.S. security and defense assistance programs worldwide. By informing policymakers, media, scholars, NGOs and the public in the United States and abroad about trends and issues related to U.S. foreign security assistance, their aim is to enhance transparency and promote greater oversight of U.S. military and police aid, arms sales and training.

The SAM database compiles all publicly available data on U.S. foreign security assistance programs worldwide from 2000 to the present. Collected from a wide range of government documents, the database provides detailed numbers on U.S. arms sales, military and police aid and training programs. Users can search these numbers by country, region, program and assistance type.

Arms & Security Project 
The Arms and Security Project engages in media outreach and public education aimed at promoting reforms in U.S. policies on nuclear weapons, military spending and the arms trade. It seeks to advance the notion that diplomacy and international cooperation are the most effective tools for protecting the United States. According to program director William D. Hartung, "the use of military force is largely irrelevant in addressing the greatest dangers we face, from terrorism, to nuclear proliferation, to epidemics of disease, to climate change, to inequities of wealth and income. The allocation of budgetary resources needs to be changed to reflect this reality."

Hartung's research is most frequently sited in publications such as the Hill, Defense News, the Washington Post among others.

Foreign Influence Transparency Initiative 
The Foreign Influence Transparency Initiative (FITI) "believes that promoting transparency is the best tool for highlighting the impact – potentially for both good and ill – of foreign influence on American democracy." Directed by Ben Freeman, the program "works to devise policy solutions to increase the incentives for agents to properly register and report the work they are doing on behalf of foreign powers and to make the details of such contracts and work publicly available." Most recently, FITI is heavily critical of the Pentagon budget and the Saudi Arabian lobby in Washington.

Sustainable Defense Task Force 
The Sustainable Defense Task Force (SDTF) is a "bipartisan group of experts from academia, think tanks, government, and retired members of the military." CIP launched the Sustainable Defense Task Force (SDTF) in November 2018 to strategize a 10-year budget plan for the Pentagon. In June 2019, the task force published a report stating the Pentagon could save $1.2 trillion in projected spending over the next decade "while providing a greater measure of security." The report was featured in The Hill, the Washington Post, Defense News, and other news sources.

Full list of current CIP programs 
 Security Assistance Monitor
 Arms & Security Project
 Foreign Influence Transparency Initiative
 Sustainable Defense Task Force
 Cuba Project
 Americas Program
 Africa Program
 Mighty Earth (fiscally sponsored)
 Freedom Forward (fiscally sponsored)

References

External links 
 Center for International Policy

Peace organizations based in the United States
Foreign policy and strategy think tanks in the United States
Non-profit organizations based in Washington, D.C.
Think tanks established in 1975