[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Temporary Law of Deportation

The Temporary Law of Deportation, also known as the Tehcir Law (;  in Ottoman Turkish), or officially by the Republic of Turkey, the "Sevk ve İskân Kanunu" (Relocation and Resettlement Law) was a law passed by the Ottoman Council of Ministers on May 27, of 1915 authorizing the deportation of the Ottoman Empire's Armenian population. The resettlement campaign resulted in the deaths of anywhere between 800,000 and over 1,500,000 civilians, in what is commonly referred to as the Armenian genocide. The bill was officially enacted on June 1, 1915, and expired on February 8, 1916.

Issues 

The Tehcir Law was part of the euphemistic  "special measures" against the Armenian population taken by the Ottoman Empire during World War I. This was coupled with a second set of orders given to the "Special Organization" for the systematic elimination of the evacuated population during the death marches, and the appropriation of their vacated properties.

The Ottoman archives document that the Armenian deportations started as early as March 2, 1915. After the expiration of the Tehcir Law, deportations and massacres continued. On September 13, 1915, the Ottoman parliament passed the "Temporary Law of Expropriation and Confiscation," stating that all property, including land, livestock, and homes belonging to Armenians, was to be confiscated by the Ottoman authorities.

Background 
Before the Ottoman parliament implemented the "Tehcir Law", there was a circular by Talaat Pasha. In the night of April 24, 1915, Talaat, who was the minister of interior at the time, ordered 250 Armenian intellectuals to be deported from Constantinople.

In May 1915, Mehmed Talaat Pasha requested that the Ottoman Cabinet and the then Grand Vizier Said Halim Pasha legalize a measure for relocation and settlement of the Armenians to other places. Talaat's words were "the Armenian riots and massacres, which had arisen in a number of places in the country are a threat to national security."

The nature of the law 
Tehcir Law was officially a "temporary" law that expired on February 8, 1916. It was a civil law, planned, implemented and enforced with an office (created by the law) to coordinate the activities under the name of "Migrant General Directorate" (Ottoman Turkish: Muhacirin Müdüriyet-i Umumîyesi). The civil law gave the military an enforcing power only if there were parties opposing the implementation. The rules and regulations of the law, as published in the Takvim-i Vekayi (Ottoman official newspaper), were public and they were shared with all the political parties.

Contents 
Turkish transliterationMadde 1—Vakti seferede ordu ve kolordu ve fırka kumandanları ve bunların vekilleri ve müstahkem mevki kumandanları ahali tarafından herhangi bir suretle evamiri hükümete ve müdafaai memlekete ve muhafazai asayişe müteallik icraat ve tertibata karşı muhalefet ve silahla tecavüz ve mukavemet görürlerse kuvayı askeriye ile şiddetli surette tedibat yapmaya ve tecavüz ve mukavemeti esasından imha etmeye mezun ve mecburdurlar.Madde 2—Ordu ve müstakil kolordu ve fırka kumandanları icabatı askeriyeye mebni veya casusluk ve hıyanetlerini hissetikleri kurâ ve kasabat ahalisini münferiden veya müstemian diğer mahallere sevk ve iskan ettirebilirler.Madde 3—İş bu kanun tarihi neşrinden muteberdir.
English translationArticle 1—During war time, army and corp commanders and their deputies and commanders of fortified posts are obliged to destroy any assault or resistance and violently restore order with military forces in the case of opposition, armed attacks or resistance directed against the government orders, the defense of homeland and the preservation of public order.Article 2—Army, independent corp and division commanders are allowed to transfer and relocate the village and town population in matters related to the military affair or if they feel there is an activity of espionage and treason.Article 3—This law is effective from the date of its publication.

One Ottoman Archival material, dated from July 12, 1915, suggests that massacres were part of those measures implemented against the Armenians. The Turkish Martial Court supports this by referring to documents that claim that the main reason for the evacuation was annihilation.

Although this law was directed against one particular ethnic group (the Armenians), the Assyrian population of the Ottoman Empire also fell victim as did some other Christians from the East.

In the text of the law, there is no explicit mention of the Armenian Question, and the text contains that: (1) the ill, (2) the blind, (3) Catholics, (4) Protestants, (5) the soldiers and their families, (6) the officers, (7) merchants, some workers and masters were not subject to evacuation. If conditions got worse, these groups are ordered to be settled in the city centers.