[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# July 1976

wife and two children, and departed at 10:30 in the morning.  About 250 American military advisers remained as part of military aid agreement between the U.S. and Thailand.  At the height of the American presence in Thailand, 48,000 troops were stationed in 93 installations around the Asian kingdom.

July 21, 1976 (Wednesday)
A bomb placed by the Irish Republican Army killed Christopher Ewart-Biggs, the British Ambassador to Ireland, as well as his secretary, Judith Cooke. Ewart-Biggs had been picked up at the British ambassador's official residence on the south outskirts of Dublin and was  from home when the vehicle ran over the mine packed with at least  of explosives at 9:32 in the morning. The Ambassador and Britain's Under Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Brian Cubbon, were on their way to a meeting with Irish Foreign Minister Garret FitzGerald.  The bomb itself had been placed in a culvert beneath the road and was detonated from  away by three men.  Cubban and the chauffeur of the Jaguar limousine, Brian O'Driscoll, were injured.  Ewart-Biggs had become the Ambassador only two weeks earlier and was only 54 years old at the time of his assassination.

The first ever color photographs of Mars (as opposed to the black and white pictures sent the day before) were transmitted from the Viking 1 lander the day after its arrival on the planet, and confirmed that the soil and rocks were a reddish color, similar to rust.  The more surprising discovery was that the sky on Mars was light blue, which American scientists believed was from a high amount of dust and water vapor in the thin Martian atmosphere.
Born: 
Kang Sung-yeon, South Korean film and TV actress
Jaime Murray, English TV actress;  in Hammersmith, London
Died: 
Colonel Frédéric Geille, 79, French Air Force officer who developed the first French paratrooper unit
Earle Combs, 77, American major league baseball outfielder enshrined in the Baseball Hall of Fame
Lieutenant Colonel Abu Taher, 37, Bangladesh Army officer, was hanged for treason for attempting a coup d'etat in November.

July 22, 1976 (Thursday)
Japan made its last payment of war reparations to the Philippines for its actions during World War II. On May 9, 1956, Japan had signed an agreement to make payments for 20 years to the Philippine government for 198 billion Japanese yen, equivalent to $550,000,000.
Born: Yu Bo, Chinese film actor; in Shenyang, Liaoning province
Died: Mortimer Wheeler, 85, British archaeologist

July 23, 1976 (Friday)
The last Chicago College All-Star Game, a once-popular exhibition matchup between a team of college football all-stars against the defending National Football League champion, was played at Soldier Field in Chicago and ended by a massive downpour after less than three quarters had been played.  Many of the fans in attendance rushed onto the field in a riot and caused sufficient damage that the annual game— which the All-Stars had not won in the past 13 years— was never played again.
Mário Soares took office as the first Socialist Prime Minister of Portugal, after nearly two months of attempting to form a coalition government following the April 25 election for the Assembly of the Republic.
Born: Judit Polgár, Hungarian chess grandmaster with the highest ever ranking for a female; at age 15 in 1991, she was the youngest-ever grandmaster, female or male
Died: 
Basil Hopko, 72, Slovak Greek Catholic Church bishop who was persecuted after the Communist takeover of Czechoslovakia in 1950.  In 2003, he would be beatified by Pope John Paul II and is under consideration for canonization as a Roman Catholic saint.
Martin Wickramasinghe, 86, Sri Lankan author and poet

July 24, 1976 (Saturday)
South Africa's national rugby league team, nicknamed the Springboks, defeated New Zealand's team, the All-Blacks, 16 to 7 in the first match of the Springboks' controversial tour of New Zealand.  In protest over South Africa's discriminatory apartheid policy and its recent suppression of the Soweto Uprising that had killed 178 people in June, thirty African nations had withdrawn from the 1976 Summer Olympic games.
A 20-year-old park ranger at the Kings Island "Lion Country Safari" wildlife preserve in Ohio was killed by a lion.  John McCann was found more than 15 feet away from his vehicle, having gotten out while on duty.
Died: 
Afro Basaldella, 64, Italian artist generally referred to as "Afro"
Paul Morand, 88, French short-story author and novelist