[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wallenquist Organization

ats her, breaking her nose in the process. She works for Wallenquist and she managed to escape from Liebowitz's assault on the factory. She was seen later asking to go after Wallace, which she is denied with Wallenquist saying there is no profit in revenge. Has a penchant for leopard print clothing.

Gordo, The Colonel's muscle. Works alongside Delia to try and set-up Wallace's death. He serves as the muscle and can push a car and shoot a gun but seemed to barely be able to carry Wallace. He seems to has limited intelligence and speaks in the third person. On a humorous note he once commented Wallace had a big penis. He was killed by Wallace after he mortally shot Captain.

Others
Bruno, a former hitman and politician on Wallenquist's payroll. His murder at the hands of the Mafia, and the collateral damage that ensued, set Dwight on a mission to find his murderer.

Becky, a young Old Town prostitute who is instrumental in getting Jackie Boy killed by Miho. She also works for the Colonel as a spy, mainly because she didn't want her mother to discover that she was a prostitute, partly because he offered her a considerable sum of money and a new life. She's shot along with Manute during 'The Big Fat Kill'. In the epilogue of the movie adaptation, it is implied she is killed by the Salesman while leaving the hospital.

Maxine, a psychopharmacologist who works alongside Delia. She administers a strong hallucinogen into Wallace's system, and later gives him the antidote at gunpoint, but she is killed when Wallace accidentally shoots her. She was also involved in Esther's attempted brainwashing.

Dr. Fredric, a doctor in league with the Colonel. Kidnaps and overpowers Esther under the Colonel's orders after incapacitating Wallace with narcotics in Hell and Back. Mariah kills him and his companion, Orrin, to make sure that Wallace doesn't extract any valuable information from him.

Orrin, Doctor Fredric's assistant and lover. Shoots and incapacitates Wallace with a strong tranquilliser whilst he and Fredric abduct Esther. Mariah kills him before killing Doctor Fredric.

Fictional companies
Fictional assassins in comics
Sin City characters
Fictional organized crime groups
Fictional characters from Washington (state)
Characters created by Frank Miller (comics)