[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jewish Territorial Organization

ist Socialist Workers Party
In pre-1917 the Zionist Socialist Workers Party also took up the idea, combining it with a strong Socialist Revolutionary orientation, and for a time had a considerable influence among Russian Jews. The party supported Herzl during the debate over the Uganda Scheme.

USSR

After the October Revolution there was in the USSR a Territorialist effort in Ukraine, the Crimea (see: Jewish autonomy in Crimea), and then in a region surrounding Birobidzhan, where a Jewish Autonomous Region was established in 1934. The Jewish Autonomous Oblast or JAO for short (, Yevreyskaya avtonomnaya oblast; ) is still today an autonomous oblast situated in Russia's far east; where both Russian and Yiddish are its official languages. In the United States, the Organization for Jewish Colonization in Russia worked to encourage the emigration and settlement of Jews there, likewise with the Gezerd in Australia. Territorialist projects in the USSR ended mostly with the advent of the Great Purge (which saw the dissolution of the Territorialist KOMZET and its agitprop counterpart OZET), and then in their totality following the Holocaust; which saw the destruction of Jewish agircultural colonies in Ukraine and the Crimea. There were attempts to establish Crimea as a Jewish Homeland following World War II, which had some support from Vyacheslav Molotov, however such plans were rejected by Stalin who went on to recognise Israel, along with launching another series of political purges against Jewish organisations within the USSR.

Freeland League for Jewish Territorial Colonization
In the face of the looming Nazi genocide, Isaac Nachman Steinberg established the Freeland League for Jewish Territorial Colonization (Frayland-lige far Yidisher Teritoryalistisher Kolonizatsye) in London in 1935. This organization attempted, unsuccessfully, to pursue Jewish autonomy by obtaining a large piece of territory in sparsely populated areas in Ecuador, Australia, or Suriname. One of the more well-known ventures was the Kimberley Plan, to secure land in Australia. The Kimberley Plan was officially vetoed on 15 July 1944 by Australian Prime Minister, John Curtin, who informed Steinberg that the Australian government would not "depart from the long-established policy in regard to alien settlement in Australia" and could not "entertain the proposal for a group settlement of the exclusive type contemplated by the Freeland League".

After the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Steinberg criticized the exclusivist politics of the Israeli government and continued his attempts to create a non-nationalist Jewish settlement in some other region of the world. After Steinberg's death in 1957 the Freeland League was led by Mordkhe Schaechter, who gradually changed the focus of the organization to more cultural, Yiddishist goals.

See also

 Colonia Lapin
 Free State Project
 Jewish Colonization Association
 Kiryas Joel, New York
 New Square, New York
 Organization for Jewish Colonization in Russia
 Proposals for a Jewish state

References

External links
 Israel Zangwill's Challenge to Zionism

Defunct Jewish organizations
Political movements
Zionist organizations
Organizations established in 1903
1925 disestablishments
Jewish settlement schemes
Territorialism
Jewish nationalism
Jewish self-rule