[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dragan Primorac

Dragan Primorac  (born June 7, 1965) is a Croatian physician, geneticist, and forensic scientist. He is the first recipient of the title "Global Penn State University Ambassador." He was the chair of the International Affairs Committee of the American Academy of Forensic Sciences. He is the Founder and President of the International Society for Applied Biological Sciences and the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of St. Catherine Hospital, Zagreb, Croatia. In addition, he is a member of the International Consortium for Personalised Medicine Executive Committee (IC PerMEd) established by The European Commission. In November 2015, he was elected to lead the State competitiveness cluster in personalized medicine, while in 2018, he was elected to lead the Croatian Society for Human Genetics and, in 2019, the Croatian Society for Personalised Medicine. In March 2021. he is appointed as Professor Emeritus at National Forensic Sciences University in India. Primorac is a member of the Executive Committee of the Croatian Olympic Committee (2020-2024) and a member of the Medical team of the European Olympic Committees as well as the Vice President of the Croatian Taekwondo Federation.

Early life and career 

He was born in Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina. His family is originally from the region between Ljubuški and Vrgorac. Soon they moved to Croatia, to near-border Split, where Primorac spent his childhood, graduated from elementary and high school

Education 

Dragan Primorac graduated from the University of Zagreb, Split Medical School in 1991. The same year he emigrated to the United States where he worked several years as a postdoctoral fellow and later also as an instructor at the University of Connecticut Medical School. He defended his doctoral dissertation, entitled "Osteogenesis Imperfecta as a Result of Faulty Processing of Messenger RNA", in 1997 at the University of Zagreb, Medical School (results were obtained at the University of Connecticut Medical School in Farmington, CT, USA). He was also trained at the Connecticut State Police Forensic Science Laboratory, Meriden, the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (AFIP), Rockville, the Analytical Genetic Testing Center, Inc., Denver, the university hospital St. Christopher's, Allegheny University, Philadelphia, and the Roche Molecular Systems, Alameda, all in the United States.

Career in science and education 

Primorac serves as an adjunct professor at Eberly College of Science, The Pennsylvania State University, and Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences, University of New Haven,  and as a professor at School of Medicine, University of Split and School of Medicine, University of Osijek as well as at Department of Biotechnology, University of Rijeka, in Croatia.  In 2016 he was appointed as a visiting professor at the College of Medicine and Forensics, Xi’an Jiaotong University, People’s Republic of China. Primorac is a fellow of the American Academy of Forensic Science, a member of the American Society of Human Genetics, Honorary member of International Crime Analysis Association and the Croatian Society for Osteogenesis Imperfecta.

Primorac was a longtime member of the Government Office for Detained and Missing Persons and served as a member of the Council for Technology at the previous Ministry of Science and Technology of the Republic of Croatia before 2003 when he became a government minister. For two years (2000–2002) he was the main coordinator of an international project supported by Promega, which brought together six European countries with the aim of applying and analyzing new DNA methods for the purpose of identification. Primorac is the founder of the American-European School for Clinical and Forensic Genetics which is being held bi-annually in Croatia and co-founder of the International Society of Applied Biological Sciences. Moreover, for the years 2003, 2005, 2011, 2013, 2015, 2017, 2019 the U.S. Mayo Clinic, is actively participating in the work of this Congress as a co-organizer (until now about 5700 scientists from nearly 74 countries have participated in the work of the Congress. Since 2007 ISABS (International Society of Applied Biological Sciences) become the organizer of the Congress, whose official journal is Croatian Medical Journal.