[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Maging Sino Ka Man (2006 TV series)

rs. Don Fidel is later rushed to the hospital, and Jackie is seen crying. Doña Corazon (JB's mother) visits him and tells him that because of ill will he deserved everything that's happened. Monique later takes care of Fidel, who tells her he is sorry for everything. Mamu G told Eli to let Fidel go.

Part 10: An Unfortunate Accident
Eli and Jackie fight about what happened to Fidel. A few hours later, Jackie and Celine go out to eat. While there Oca calls Eli that he'll do something bad to Jackie and Celine. So Eli and Brian tries to save Jackie and Celine, they get picked up. Oca catches up with Eli and tries to ram their car. Soon Eli's car tips over 4 times and Brian, Celine, Jackie, and Eli are left bleeding. For a while, Celine and Brian wake up and talk about they love each other and will miss each other. Soon the ambulance comes and takes them to the hospital. Meanwhile, Oca committed suicide by drowning himself. 
They recovered from their accident and Celine wakes up and starts to ask about Brian. She learned that Brian's dead and that she's pregnant. She asks the doctor how it was possible that she did not lose the baby during the accident the answer was that Brian moved to the back seat to protect Celine.
On Brian's funeral, Jackie tries to talk to Celine, but is ignored.  Eli suffered 2 fractured legs from the accident
JB wants to have some time with Celine's daughter to try to get Celine.
Eli wants to separate with Jackie in which she doesn't want to happen.
About a week, Corazon confronts Celine and gets into a fight causing Celine to bleed. Celine is  taken to the hospital by Jackie and is given the news that she had a miscarriage. Imelda confronts JB about how Corazon caused Celine's miscarriage. Then, JB starts a fight with Corazon and tells her he hated her. Corazon tells JB that she was the one that had Eli almost killed as a baby and caused Gloria to become ill. JB left his mother soon afterwards.  
About a half a year later, it was Jackie's birthday, which Eli forgot.  While Jackie was riding home, she saw JB walking and greeted her "Happy Birthday."  Eli spied to see JB and Jackie talking.

Part 11: New Lives
JB left home to work as a miner. During his break, he heard something in the woods and saw a girl swimming while JB hides so that the mystery girl won't see him.
He then found a job as a singer in a beach bar owned by Amang, whose right hand was disfigured. Amang and JB developed a father-son relationship as JB shared his knowledge on taxes and business. JB, here, is a humbled man, often calling Mommy G and sending Celine letters while she still struggles to move on from Brian's death.

Eli, meanwhile, thought Tomas Arroyo was his long lost father but was mistaken. He stopped looking for his father, when he learned that it was hurting his mom. Mommy G revealed that she was not able to tell Eli's father that she was pregnant with him.

Celine had a hard time dealing with the loss of her husband which puts her in a fight against Jackie. Celine then realized her mistake and made amends with Jackie by bringing a bucket of ice cream. Celine, in an effort to move on, sold her house and left Marsha to the care of her mother-in-law.

Eli also learned that Jackie greatly misses her parents. After receiving a letter from Oca [written before he dies] it is revealed that Jackie & Eli's wedding was fake and he let go of her. Jackie left for US but still obviously in love with Eli.

Months after, Jackie's mom, Monique felt Jackie's emptiness. She let her daughter go back with Celine to take care of what was disturbing her. Upon arriving, Jackie and Celine learned that Eli went to a remote farm owned by them. There, they meet Eli again and renew their relationship, though still seemingly platonic.

Corazon suffered embarrassment as she could not pay her bills plus the fact that she could not get along well with her neighbors. She was rescued financially by Tomas Arroyo who's in love with her but appears to be excessively possessive of her.

Celine and JB were able to finally resolve their conflicts and found the strength to love each other again. Eli learns of the identity of his father, Samuel. He was denied recognition but still felt complete. Eli proposes marriage to Jackie and he was shot by his secret enemy, bringing his life on the line. Eli sought enlightenment in the spirit world, thanks to Dadoods and found a new energy to live again, after a long-fought battle against death.