[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Tsubasa Oozora

time Tsubasa faces Misaki. In the five-part story Captain Tsubasa 25th Anniversary, Japan's team plays against a team composed of famous international players. In the one-shot Captain Tsubasa: Golden-23 - Japan Dream 2006, Tsubasa is a part of a Japanese team that plays against a team from Germany.

In 2008, Takahashi wrote the one-shot Captain Tsubasa: Endless Dream that is set after the franchise's first story arc; Tsubasa is depressed because Roberto has left him. His friends and rivals cheer him up by telling him he still has comrades thanks to football. In the one-shot Captain Tsubasa Tokubetsu Hen: Live Together 2010, a test match between Japan and Argentina takes place. A trilogy of light novels written by Hitomi Wada based on Captain Tsubasa retell the events of Tsubasa's childhood depicted in the series' first story arc. Another one-shot, Captain Tsubasa Boyhood Arc, focuses on Tsubasa's teenage years. Outside the franchise, Tsubasa has been mentioned in Hungry Heart: Wild Striker, another manga by Takahashi.

Reception

Popularity

Tsubasa has been popular with Japanese readers of the series. In 1985, he topped the series' popularity poll with 11,740 votes. His rank fell in 2005 to fifth position with 1,123 votes. In a Newtype poll, Tsubasa was voted the 21st-most-popular male anime character from the 1980s. During the 2006 World Cup. Tsubasa was depicted on the new bottle design for Kirin Nuda, the official drink of Japan's soccer team. Tsubasa and Misaki appeared in a video promoting the Tokyo 2020 Olympics that was presented at the closing ceremony of the 2016 Summer Olympics.

Several statues of Tsubasa have appeared in Katsushika, Tokyo; the first one was placed in a park in March 2013. By March 2014, two statues of Hyuga and Misaki were added; Takahashi said, "The captain [Tsubasa] must be happy to have his teammates around". The panel showing Tsubasa and Misaki simultaneously kicking a football— known as the "Twin Shot"—was depicted in a bronze statue that was created in 2018 and sited in Katsushika. In 2014, another statue of the Twin Shot was sponsored by Adidas and sited in displayed in Hysan Place to commemorate that year's World Cup in Brazil. In a match from Japan for the 2018 FIFA World Cup, the Japanese fans held a tifo featuring an illustration from the manga with multiple message that supported the team.

Barcelona FC expressed delight at Tsubasa's joining of its fictional counterpart because of the impact the character had. The translator of the manga's Arabic edition, Kassoumah Mhd Obada, said he wanted its readers to be inspired by Tsubasa's hard work to live a healthy life despite their country's problems.

Critical response
Tsubasa is one of the most popular manga and anime characters in Japan's history. According to the book American Soccer: History, Culture, Class, Tsubasa was an inspiration throughout the world due to his portrayal in the story. The book Sport, Literature, Society: Cultural Historical Studies calls him one of "Japan's greatest soccer heroes" because of his characterization and skills but because the series was not published in North America, few people from the United States are familiar with him, which led to Tsubasa being called a "tried-and-true, full-fledged fictional cartoon". According to Huffington Post, because Captain Tsubasa spawned multiple manga series, Tsubasa and Wakabayashi have been regarded as icons for multiple generations.

In The Imperial Sportive: Sporting Lives in the Service of Modern Japan, Sandra Collins stated the series was successful because of the lead character's intense discipline within social groups and his rivalries. Hobby Consolas enjoyed Tsubasa's struggle against the strongest players from Thailand during a PlayStation game. THEM Anime Reviews wrote that Tsubasa obtained an international reputation despite being better known in Western countries as "Oliver Atom". Tsubasa's debut in the 2018 anime was praised by Zona Freak because of the way he engaged Wakabayashi in a challenge involving kicking a ball under a truck. Mouse agreed the scene in which Tsubasa bonds with his football after he almost dies in a road accident is faithful to the first anime. While noting similarities between the lives of Tsubasa and Kazuyoshi Miura, the book The Blizzard - The Football Quarterly: Issue Twenty Seven noted a major contrast between them; while Tsubasa is usually cheerful and proves himself as a skilled player despite his move to Brazil, Miura's life was far more challenging in his early years and his life in Brazil. In a review of the New Captain Tsubasa OVAs, THEM Anime Reviews noted that while the voice actor Akari Hibino is using a high-pitched voice for Tsubasa, the voice sounded strange and comparing it with Goku, the main character of the anime Dragon Ball because both characters are played by women regardless of their growth.