[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Michael Cherney

ding Interpol arrest warrant means he would be detained if he visited the UK. In late July 2011, the High Court ruled that Cherney may give evidence at the trial by video link from Israel and set trial for April 2012. The case was settled out of court between Cherney and Deripaska in September 2012.

Illegal wiretaps
On 13 January 2010, a Tel Aviv Court handed down its first verdict in the case of illegal eavesdropping on Cherney. Aviv Mor, a private investigator was found guilty of illegally gathering information of personal nature - in particular, tapping the phones of Cherney and sentenced to a plea bargained result which handed down a 14-month sentence to Mor. Part of the sentence will be in the form of community service and the rest will be a suspended sentence. The District attorney's office stated in court that the cases of other suspects in the illegal data collection case "are at an advanced stage and close to indictment ." In February 2008 Cheney filed a suit in a Tel Aviv court that alleged the illegal spying was commissioned by a Russian citizen, Alexei Drobashenko who at the time was the head of the External Relations department at Basic Element, a financial and industrial group that belongs to Oleg Deripaska. Cherney claimed that it was this Russian oligarch, acting through Drobashenko, who had hired Eskin, Pridan and Mor. In his claim, Cherney accused a group of 10 plotters, including Oleg Deripaska, Alexei Drobashenko and the already sentenced Aviv Mor, of illegal wiretapping, hacking the computers of his charity fund, publishing slanderous articles, and harassing him with insulting graffities and leaflets.

Personal life
Cherney was in a relationship with   Business woman Nicol Raidman until they got engaged in 2019 later that year they broke up . They have two children, Michelle (born 2010) and Richie (born 2014). He lives in Herzliya.

Cherney shared a house in Moscow with Igor Putin, Vladimir Putin's cousin, and Berel Lazar, Putin's Rabbi who is the Chief Rabbi of Russia.

References

External links
 Michael Cherney / Mikhail Chernoy website

1952 births
Businesspeople from Tashkent
Living people
Soviet Jews
Uzbekistani Jews
Russian businesspeople
Israeli businesspeople
Russian emigrants to Israel
Uzbekistani emigrants to Israel
Israeli people of Uzbekistani-Jewish descent
Businesspeople in metals
Soviet businesspeople
Russian businesspeople in Israel