[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Cedric Prakash

Cedric Prakash, (born 3 November 1951), is a Catholic priest and a member of the Society of Jesus (Jesuits) of Gujarat in India. He is currently based in the city of Ahmedabad, Gujarat  in Western India. He is well known for his work on human rights, reconciliation, and peace activism, with a focus on advocacy. He is also a prolific writer on subjects related to social justice, peace, communal harmony, environment, contextual spirituality, and the Constitution of India. His articles are regularly published in newspapers, magazines, and journals in India and abroad. He is also a visiting faculty in some colleges, universities, and seminaries in India, Europe, and the USA. Fr. Prakash speaks four languages - English, Gujarati, Hindi and French.

Life
Prakash was born on 3 November 1951, to Cynthia Lobo and Conrad Lobo in Mumbai, India. He was the youngest of four children.  His father was an Engineer in a sister company of Siemens and his mother was a teacher at St. Joseph's Convent, Umerkhadi, Mumbai. Prakash is a direct descendant of the well-known Mascarenhas family of Kankanady, Mangalore. His great-grandfather Dr. Simon Mascarenhas was a reputed physician of the town. His great-granduncle Msgr. Raymond Francis Camillus Mascarenhas ( today a Servant of God) was the Vicar General of the Diocese of Mangalore and also the founder of the Congregation of the 'Sisters of the Little Flower of Bethany’ (Bethany Sisters).

Prakash received his early education from Antonio D'souza High School (ANZA), Mumbai, and completed his B.A. (Hons.) in Economics and Political Science from St. Xavier's College, Mumbai in 1972.

Work 
After graduation, Prakash worked full-time as the National Programme Secretary of the All India Catholic University Federation (AICUF) in Madras for one year. During that period he traveled the length and breadth of the country encouraging youth to serve the poor and marginalized through 'Project Know India'.

For a year after that he was based in TAIZE, ( the Ecumenical Christian community)France, as part of a 14-member intercontinental team (equipe) to help prepare the ‘World Council of Youth’ of 1974. He traveled to several European Countries for this preparatory process interacting and encouraging youth towards a more meaningful life in the service of others.

On 16 July 1974, Prakash entered in Ahmedabad, the Jesuit Novitiate of the Gujarat  province of the Society of Jesus. Two years later, on 31 July 1976, he pronounced his First Vows  (of poverty, chastity and obedience) in the Society of Jesus. From April 1977 to May 1979, Prakash as a Jesuit scholastic, did his regency in the tribal area of Bhiloda, North Gujarat. Here he worked extensively in helping to improve literacy levels, health facilities, and the cultural upliftment of the Adivasis who lived in the area. In June 1979, he began his Studies in Philosophy at the Sacred Heart College in Shembaganur (Kodaikanal). The following year (1980) this College was shifted to its current location at Satya Nilayam in Chennai, from where Prakash obtained his degree in Philosophy. For one year, Prakash then served as a warden of a residential technical school for boys run by Jesuits in Sevasi, Baroda. From 1982 to 85, Prakash did his studies in Theology.; part of these studies was also held at Vidya Jyoti (VJ), a Jesuit Theology Institute in Delhi. In the aftermath of the targeted violence against the Sikh community in November 1984, Prakash was one of the coordinators from VJ for relief and rehabilitation work for the affected/displaced Sikhs; he was also involved in reconciliation and peace work at that time.

On 27 April 1985, Fr. Prakash was ordained a priest in St. Peter’s Church, Bandra, Mumbai by Bishop Ferdinand Fonseca, the Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of Bombay.

In May 1985, Prakash was appointed to work in the remote areas of Umarpada, South Gujarat among the Vasava and Chaudhary Adivasi communities. He worked here for the rights of the tribals and their socio-cultural empowerment. In April 1987, Fr. Prakash was appointed the Director of St. Xavier’s Social Service Society (SXSSS). In this capacity, together with a dedicated team he was involved in the inter-related areas of Innovative Education, Community Health, the Organization of people and on environmental issues. He also initiated the Centre for Orientation, Documentation and Research (CORD) and SHANTI, an initiative for inter-religious dialogue, communal harmony and peace. The activities of SXSSS were in the slums of Ahmedabad and in the rural areas of North and Central Gujarat. Prakash was for several years a Counterpart of the US-based Catholic Relief Services (CRS) for North and Central Gujarat.