[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Hoodoo Mountain

cholls of the University of Calgary, Jeff Schmok and Guy Cross of Golder Associates, Alison Rust, Ben Edwards and Kelly Russell of the University of British Columbia, and Trevor Page of Lancaster University. By 2002, Hoodoo Mountain was no longer the least studied volcano of the Stikine Subprovince.

Mining
The Hoodoo Mountain area contains several large mining camps within the floodplain of the Iskut River. Prospecting in Bronson Creek commenced as early as 1907, during which time several mining claims had been staked. This was followed by drifting, trenching and stripping of several gold-bearing veins between 1910 and 1920. A drilling program conducted by the Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Company from 1954 to 1960 identified copper prospects. In 1964, Cominco optioned claims from Jodi Explorations and the Tuksi Mining Company. A drilling program to test copper mineralization on the Red Bluff claim was completed by Cominco in 1965. Texas Gulf Sulphur examined the area for its copper and base metal content from 1973 to 1974.

Exploration of the Pickaxe Vein by Skyline Gold began in 1980 to define its gold potential. This was followed by the discovery of the Discovery Vein in 1981, which led to further drilling and the discovery of a high-grade gold vein in 1982 that became known as the 16 Vein. Surveying, drilling and trenching was carried out by Skyline Gold, Placer Development and Anaconda Canada Exploration between 1982 and 1988.
The Johnny Mountain Mine commenced production in November 1988 after having been engaged in pre-production since January of that year. This small underground mine operated until August 1990 when high operating costs and low gold prices forced it to shut down. This was followed by closure of the ore mill in September of that year. The mine remained closed until 1993 when further mining and milling took place. A total of 196,358 tonnes of ore was mined from 1988 to 1993, from which  of copper,  of silver and  of gold was recovered. Intermittent mineral exploration has taken place at the Johnny Mountain Mine since its closure in 1993.

In 1982, Cominco staked two mining claims over their Red Bluff property and adjacent ground near the junction of the Craig and Iskut rivers. A geochemical survey consisting of 26 rock and 36 soil samples was completed by Cominco in 1985. Exploration work from 1986 to 1987 included geochemical soil surveys, trenching and  of diamond drilling in 86 holes. The Snip Mine began as an underground exploration program in March 1988; three levels were established ,  and  underground. About  of underground diamond drilling and  of underground work was completed between August 1988 and October 1989. By mid-1990,  of surface and underground diamond drilling had been completed.

The Snip Mine, owned jointly by Cominco and Prime Resources, began production in January 1991. An airstrip was used continuously to ship ore concentrate from the mine until May 1999 when all mining operations ceased. Production throughout the mine's lifespan amounted to  of copper,  of gold, and  of silver from 1.2 million tonnes of ore mined. Mineral exploration has occurred at the Snip Mine intermittently since its closure in 1999.

Accessibility
Hoodoo Mountain is in a remote location with no established road access. The closest point accessible by road is Bob Quinn Lake about  northeast of Hoodoo Mountain along the Stewart–Cassiar Highway. From there the mountain can be reached by charter helicopter or by trekking across mountainous terrain with extreme difficulty. Alternatively, fixed-wing aircraft landings can be made on the Bronson Creek runway immediately south of Hoodoo Mountain. The mountain can also be approached from the Alaskan community of Wrangell by boating up the Stikine and Iskut rivers.

See also

 List of Northern Cordilleran volcanoes
 List of volcanoes in Canada
 Volcanism of Western Canada

Notes

References

External links

 
 

Boundary Ranges
Holocene stratovolcanoes
Ice caps of Canada
Northern Cordilleran Volcanic Province
One-thousanders of British Columbia
Pleistocene stratovolcanoes
Potentially active volcanoes
Stikine Country
Stratovolcanoes of Canada
Subglacial volcanoes of Canada
Volcanoes of British Columbia
Pleistocene British Columbia
Holocene British Columbia