[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 173]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

er."

He grasped his head in his hands; then suddenly, he broke out into
another paroxysm. "The feminine nature always the same, always, always;
infinitely charming and infinitely volatile. Delicious, and oh how
instructive!"

He slowly recovered calmness, and remained leaning on the gravestone.

"May I ask when this little change began to occur!" he asked presently.

"If you will ask in a less insolent fashion."

He drew himself up from his leaning attitude, and repeated the question,
in different words.

Hadria answered it, briefly.

"Oh, I see," he said, the savage gleam coming back to his eyes. "The
change in your feelings began when Fortescue appeared?"

Hadria flushed.

"It was when he appeared that I became definitely aware of that which I
had been struggling with all my might and main to hide from myself, for
a long time."

"And that was----?"

"That there was something in you that made me--well, why should I not
say it?--that made me shrink."

He set his lips.

"You have not mentioned the mysterious something."

"An element that I have been conscious of from the first day I saw you."

"Something that _I_ had, and Fortescue had _not_, it would seem."

"Yes."

"And so, on account of this diaphanous, indescribable, exquisite
something, I am to be calmly thrown over; calmly told to go about my
business!" He began to walk up and down the pathway, with feverish
steps, talking rapidly, and representing Hadria's conduct in different
lights, each one making it appear more absurd and more unjust than the
last.

"I have no defence to make," she said, "I know I have behaved
contemptibly; self-deception is no excuse. I can explain but not justify
myself. I wanted to escape from my eternal self; I was tired of fighting
and always in vain. I wanted to throw myself into the life and hopes of
somebody else, somebody who _had_ some chance of a real and effective
existence. Then other elements of attraction and temptation came; your
own memory will tell how many there were. You knew so well how to
surround me with these. Everything conspired to tempt me. It seemed as
if, in you, I had found a refuge from myself. You have no little power
over the emotions, as you are aware. My feeling has been genuine, heaven
knows! but, always, always, through it all, I have been aware of this
element that repels me; and I have distrusted you."

"I knew you distrusted me," he said gloomily.

"It is useless to say I bitterly regret it all. Naturally, I regret it
far more bitterly than you can do. And if my conduct towards you rankles
in your heart, you can remember that I have to contend with what is far
worse than any sense of being badly treated: the sense of having treated
someone badly."

He walked up and down, with bent head and furrowed brows. He looked like
some restless wild animal pacing its cage. Intense mortification gave
him a strange, malicious expression. He seemed to be casting about for a
means of returning the stunning blow that he had received, just at the
moment of expected triumph.

"Damn!" he exclaimed with sudden vehemence, and stood still, looking
down into Hadria's face, with cruel, glittering eyes.

He glanced furtively around. There was no one in sight. Even little
Martha was making mud-pies by the church door. The thick yew trees shut
in the churchyard from the village. There was not a sound, far or near,
to break the sense of seclusion.

"And you mean to tell me we are to part? You mean to tell me that this
is your final decision?"

She bowed her head. With a sudden strong movement, he flung his arms
round her and clasped her in an embrace, as fierce and revengeful as the
sweep of the wind which sends great trees crashing to the ground, and
ships to the bottom of the sea.

"You don't love me?" he enquired.

"Let me go, let me go--coward--madman!"

"You don't love me?" he repeated.

"I _hate_ you--let me go!"

"If this is the last time----"

"I wish I could _kill_ you!"

"Ah, that is the sort of woman I like!"

"You make me know what it is to feel like a murderess!"

"And to look like one, by heaven!"

She wrenched herself away, with a furious effort.

"Coward!" she cried. "I did right to mistrust you!"

Little Martha ran up and offered her a wild heartsease which she had
found on one of the graves. Hadria, trembling and white, stooped
instinctively to take the flower, and as she did so, the whole
significance of the afternoon's revelation broke over her, with fresh
intensity. His child!

He stood watching her, with malice in his eyes.

"Come, come, Martha, let us go, let us go," she cried, feverishly.

He moved backwards along the path, as they advanced.

"I have to thank you for bestowing a mother's care on my poor child. You
can suppose what a joy the thought has been to me all along."

Hadria flushed.

"You need not thank me," she answered. "As you know, I did it first for
h