[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Freedom of education

hrough a belief outside the Christian faith still remains a contested issue throughout South America.

Africa
The South African Charter of Religious Rights and Freedoms section 15 allows for observance of religious observances in State or private schools, provided they are compliant with other laws.

Australia
There is legal support for free and open religious education within the Australian public schooling system, but its actual application is very rare.  However, there is also support for a "confessional" method of religious education which has been commonplace since the 19th century. This method lets churches visit to give religious lessons in schools. There are also many Islamic and Jewish schools throughout the country, with a strong presence in New South Wales and Victoria. The Australian government provides funding to private schools, over half of which are faith based.

Asia

Israel
Israel currently offers a growing number of Haredi and Arab schools, as well as special private schools that reflect certain beliefs of parents, or are based around a foreign country curriculum, for example, Jerusalem American International School. Despite this, the success rate of Haredi students at the national level is significantly low. Israel also operates an Arab education system for their minority, including lessons on their own culture and history to support Arab parents. However,  there have been allegations of better funding directed towards the Jewish education system. One report suggested that the Israeli government spends $192 per year on each Arab student, compared to $1,100 per Jewish student. A 2001 Human Rights Watch report claimed Arab school students were getting an inferior education from fewer resources and poorly constructed institutions.

Arab countries
Women in the Arab world may still be denied equality of opportunity, although their disempowerment is a critical factor crippling the markets of the Arab nations to return to the first pitch of global leaders in star commerce, teenage learning and pop culture, according to a new United States-sponsored report in 2012. Education in the Arab World has made progress over the past decade. However, the quality of education remains poor, many children still leave primary education prematurely and illiteracy rates are relatively high, according to a new United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) report.

Educational and academic freedom 
The Right to Education initiative described educational freedom as the "liberty of parents to ascertain religious as well as moral education of their children in accordance with their beliefs to choose schools aside from public institutions." The State must respect this freedom within public education. Educational freedom includes the right of all people to institute and guide institutions that adhere to the State’s minimum standards in learning. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (General Comment 13) stipulates that the State must guarantee this right does not cause excessive disparities of educational opportunity for certain groups in society. Academic freedom pertains to the autonomy of academic community members to practice, develop, and communicate knowledge and ideas through research, teaching, dialogue, documentation, production, and writing either jointly or individually. Academic freedom calls for the independence of higher education entities. A contemporary interpretations of 18th-century political philosophers have argued that freedom in education indicates the need for parents to become accountable for the education of their children and that governments do not possess authority or capability to force families and individuals or finance the education of students directly or indirectly. These concepts have been used by self-claimed parents rights groups to ban certain books or prohibit discussion of certain topics in public schools or to call for the government to give families money to send their kids to private school if they don't like something that is being taught in the public school.

See also 
 Academic freedom
 Alternative education
 Convention against Discrimination in Education
 Discrimination in education
 School choice
 Religious education
 Religious education in primary and secondary education
 Right to education

References 

Human rights by issue