[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# StandWithUs

s. In 2012, the program included 54 students from southern Californian universities. Unlike Emerson Fellows, Shagririm was open only to Israeli-Americans. The program was sponsored and run by the Milstein Family Foundation's Israel Leadership Council, later rebranded as the Israeli-American Council.

Campaigns and activities
SWU is a campus-oriented advocacy group and is heavily invested in the recruitment and training of students in pro-Israel advocacy and in media. The organization is active on American, Canadian, British, and Brazilian campuses. It has also run programs in Australia for more than a decade and plans to officially open an Australian office. SWU has also worked with the Israeli government. In 2011, Danny Ayalon said SWU created leverage for the Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Opposition to the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement 
SWU has organized a number of anti-BDS conferences, and has pushed for anti-BDS legislation in various U.S. states, including a Texas bill passed in 2017. It has condemned various divestment resolutions passed by universities, calling them discriminatory and hateful.

In 2011, SWU helped organize the Olympia Food Co-op lawsuit. In 2010, the Olympia Food Co-op's board of directors instituted a boycott of Israeli goods. Five co-op members, aided by SWU, sued, alleging that the board had acted beyond the scope of its authority and breached its fiduciary duties. According to Mondoweiss and Ali Abunimah, SWU denied running the case on behalf of the plaintiffs. The court ruled in 2012 that the lawsuit was an illegal Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation (SLAPP), a decision upheld by the appeals court. In 2015, the Washington Supreme Court ruled that the state's anti-SLAPP law was unconstitutional and returned the case to the lower courts. In 2018, the court gave summary judgment finding the plaintiffs had no standing to bring a case because they failed to show the co-op was injured.

In 2015, SWU condemned The United Church of Christ, one of the United States' largest Protestant denominations, for calling for "divestment from companies that profit from Israel's occupation or control of Palestinian territories and boycott of products produced in such territories by Israeli companies". The group called those who promoted the resolutions "anti-Israel extremists within the U.C.C." and said they had "severely damaged the U.C.C.'s relationship with the vast majority of the Jewish community, promoted hatred and discrimination against Israelis, and undermined efforts to achieve a just peace between Israelis and Palestinians."

In 2016, over 350 people attended a conference SWU organized with the purpose of devising strategies to combat the BDS movement. The group was also involved in the Maccabee Task Force, an eight-college-campus initiative by Sheldon Adelson with the goal of finding effective ways to combat BDS and antisemitism.

Billboard and ad campaigns 
In various countries, SWU has promoted billboard and poster campaigns for solidarity with Israel, often in opposition to ads run by other organizations. These include a campaign depicting Palestinian leaders and institutions as tutoring children to be terrorists.

In May 2007, the pro-Palestinian U.S. Campaign to End the Israeli Occupation placed 20 poster ads in the Washington, D.C. subway system showing a tank with its turret pointing at a child with a school bag. The text on the poster read: "Imagine if this were your child's path to school. Palestinians don't have to imagine." SWU in response launched its own ad campaign with posters showing Palestinian children with military gear, with one ad reading "Teaching children to hate will never lead to peace."

In August, the group launched a one-year campaign running pro-Israel ads in 98 buses in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. The campaign was meant to counter an anti-Israel ad placed on the buses by the Church of Reconciliation calling for the end of U.S. military to Israel. In October, SWU launched a transit campaign in Vancouver buses and light rail stations, running two pro-Israel ads in opposition to ads run by the Palestine Awareness Committee. The ads depicted three maps purporting to show "Jewish Loss of Land" dated from 1000 BCE until "today", and another showed smiling Israeli and Canadian children alongside the statement "Shared Values & Freedom." The ads run by Palestine Awareness Committee had depicted "Disappearing Palestine" on a series of maps, illustrating Palestine shrinking through the years 1946 to 2012.

In May 2019, SWU placed a billboard advertisement on a main Israeli highway in opposition to ads put up by Breaking the Silence. The Breaking the Silence ads targeted tourists visiting Israel to attend Eurovision, and juxtaposed an image of an Israeli beach with the West Bank security barrier.