[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Franz Schwede

ding the area he controlled. During the Reichskristallnacht on 9 November 1938, Schwede oversaw the destruction of the Pomeranian synagogues. The next day, all male Stettin Jews were deported to Oranienburg concentration camp and kept there for several weeks in order to increase the level of terror.

World War II and war crimes
At the outbreak of World War II, Hitler gave some Gauleiters increased power over civil defense matters and Schwede was appointed Reich Defense Commissioner () for Wehrkreis (Military District) II, which included his Gau Pomerania in addition to neighboring Gau Mecklenburg. Civil administration and important industrial sectors were now subject to his direct control. Starting in October 1939, Schwede – or "Nero" as the Pomeranians nicknamed him – used this position to sweep Pomerania with an iron broom. He worked closely with the SS to make way for the resettlement of ethnic Germans arriving from the Baltic States. 

After learning of the Aktion T4 program, Schwede immediately ordered the evacuation of psychiatric hospitals and nursing homes in Treptow, Ueckermünde, Lauenburg, Meseritz-Obrawalde and Stralsund. Some 1400 patients were transported to Neustadt in Westpreußen to be shot by SS-Kommando Eimann or murdered by Sonderkommando Lange in gas vans.
The mental sanitorium in Meseritz-Obrawalde then was converted into an Aktion T4 center and it is estimated that over 10,000 handicapped persons were killed there. The Director of the facility, , was appointed to his post by Schwede in November 1941. On 12 and 13 February 1940, the remaining 1,000 to 1,300 Pomeranian Jews, regardless of sex, age and health, were deported from Stettin and Schneidemühl to the Lublin-Lipowa Reservation that had been set up following the Nisko Plan, to their ultimate demise.

On 16 November 1942, the jurisdiction of the Reich Defense Commissioners was changed from the Wehrkreis to the Gau level, and Schwede remained Commissioner only for Gau Pomerania. In 1943 Pomerania became a target of allied air raids and throughout 1944 and early 1945 Stettin's industrial and residential areas were hit. Despite this, the province was regarded as "safe" compared to other parts of the Third Reich and it became a shelter for evacuees from hard hit Berlin and the industrial areas of western Germany. On 25 September 1944, Schwede was made commander of the Nazi Volkssturm forces in his Gau. Hastily organized and poorly equipped, his units had the third worst casualty figures in the Reich.

Pomerania finally turned into a battlefield on 26 January 1945, when Red Army tanks entered the province near Schneidemühl during the East Pomeranian Offensive. Schwede believed in victory up until the very end, so evacuation orders for the civilian population were issued either too late or not at all. He even ordered authorities to repel any flight attempts as "defeatist". However, even as the Soviets advanced, he managed to get himself onto a ship out of Sassnitz on 4 March 1945 in time to escape towards the direction of Schleswig-Holstein. The official post-war West German Schieder commission estimated civilian losses in Schwede's province at 440,000 dead.

Imprisonment and death
On 13 May 1945, Schwede was captured by the British Army and once again ended up in custody as a prisoner of war. Interned until 1947, he underwent denazification procedures. He was tried for war crimes in a Bielefeld court and on 25 November 1948 sentenced to nine years in prison for membership in the SA-Führerkorps. On 7 April 1951 a court in Coburg sentenced him to another ten years' imprisonment on 52 counts of abuse of power and grievous bodily harm that he participated in during the terrors of March, 1933. His sentence was commuted to probation on 24 January 1956 on grounds of ill health and he died four years later at the age of 72 in Coburg.

See also
 History of Pomerania (1933–1945)

References

Sources
 Carl-Christian H. Dressel: Anmerkungen zur Justiz in Coburg von der Errichtung des Landgerichts Coburg bis zur Entnazifizierung. In: Jahrbuch der Coburger Landesstiftung 1997, Coburg 1997.
 Kyra T. Inachin: Der Gau Pommern. Eine preußische Provinz als NS-Gau. In: Jürgen John, Horst Möller, Thomas Schaarschmidt (Hrsg.): Die NS-Gaue. Regionale Mittelinstanzen im zentralistischen "Führerstaat“. München 2007, S. 280–293.
 Joachim Lilla, Martin Döring, Andreas Schulz: Statisten in Uniform Droste, Düsseldorf 2004, .

External links