[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 36th Iowa Infantry Regiment

with the regiment at Mark's Mills. When Steele abandoned Camden therefore, these 36th Iowa remnants were assigned to a Casual Detachment under the command of Captain Marmaduke Darnall of the Forty-third Indiana, and these men fought bravely with the Casual Detachment in the Battle of Jenkins' Ferry.

Prisoners of war at Camp Ford 
Some 240 men of the 36 Iowa Infantry Regiment were captured at Mark's Mills.  In the aftermath, those too seriously wounded to be moved were left under guard at the home of the Marks Family on whose property the battle had taken place, and in the care of the regiment's medical aides. Lieutenant Colonel Drake, who had been seriously wounded by a bullet to the hip, was held only a week before being paroled and released. Drake returned to Iowa for treatment and convalescence. Meanwhile, several of the regiment's battle dead were interred on the Marks Family property. The wounded and regimental medical aides were left under the supervision of Lieutenant Benjamin Pearson, B/36th.   The Confederate soldiers assigned to remain at Marks Mills to guard the wounded federal soldiers had no medical supplies and, after a few days, they asked Lt. Pearson to travel into the Union lines at Pine Bluff and bring back food and medicine for the wounded.  Pearson succeeded in this task, but he did not return to Marks Mills, instead sending the supplies back to Marks' Mills by a courier and then re-joining the federals and eventually making his way back to Little Rock.  Pearson had not been wounded in the battle, and his selection as officer to remain behind with these seriously wounded soldiers may have been due to the fact that Pearson had served as a second chaplain with the regiment since its days at Helena.

The Confederate victors of Marks Mills robbed the survivors of every valuable item they possessed, including hats, boots, watches, money and in some cases, the clothes on their backs.  Overall, they were very roughly handled by their captors, according to Captain Swiggett. They were force-marched to the rebel prison at Camp Ford in Tyler, Texas, where dozens of them perished from disease over the next 12 months. Conditions at Camp Ford were primitive. Although a good spring provided cool clean water, and while the Confederate guards slaughtered cattle to supply the prisoners fresh beef regularly, the prisoners had no shelter from the sun or rain except improvised huts or blankets, and as the numbers of prisoners rose, the sanitary conditions declined precipitously, leading to many deaths from exposure, chronic diarrhea and disease.  A number of the 36th Iowa's officers escaped. Captain Swiggett twice escaped but was recaptured on both occasions and was rewarded for his bad behavior by being one of the last prisoners exchanged.

Those who survived the horrors of Camp Ford were paroled on 25 February 1865, and exchanged at New Orleans on 28 February. After several days of recuperation there, the former prisoners were granted 30 days home leave, and started for Iowa. Those who were still deemed fit for duty returned to join the rest of the regiment—five small companies consisting of men not taken prisoner—at DeValls Bluff, Arkansas by 1 April 1865. In the months after Marks Mills and Jenkins Ferry, some 237 officers and men not captured at Marks Mills carried out garrison duty at Little Rock and later St. Charles Arkansas until the Confederacy surrendered. With more than a month left to serve, the reconstituted regiment—fortified with recently recruited volunteers—was sent as garrison troops at DeValls Bluff—the primary Federal supply depot on the upper White River.

The regiment was mustered out of federal service at DeValls Bluff 24 August 1865. The veterans returned north to Davenport, Iowa, where they received their final Army pay and were dismissed from state service.

Postscript 
The Union Army never controlled the territory of Southern Arkansas, but it occupied the capital and effectively took the state out of the war for all practical purposes and contained the threat to Missouri from Sterling Price in October 1864 and for the remainder of the war.