[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nels Ackerson

in's partners in successful class action litigation, but the firm recruited him for a bigger role – to open the first American law firm office in Egypt. Ackerson opened the office with a distinguished Egyptian lawyer and former diplomat, Gamal Naguib, and the firm was named Sidley & Austin & Naguib.

Sidley & Austin & Naguib: Ackerson and Naguib staffed the new Egyptian office with distinguished lawyers who had served as judges in Egypt's highest courts, prominent retired diplomats, professors from Cairo University Law School, well educated young Egyptian lawyers and lawyers from England, Sweden and the United States.  was managing partner of the office which took on national and international significance, representing American, European Egyptian, Middle Eastern and Asian clients, along with prominent investors, contractors international organizations. Ackerson's practice included international arbitration in Europe and the Middle East, international investment and trade advice and disputes and diplomatic assignments. Egyptians lawyers in the office practiced in those international areas and also in Egyptian courts and regulatory matters.

Egyptian-American Responsibilities: Ackerson became well known in Egyptian legal, business and governmental circles.  He was a founder of the American Chamber of Commerce in Egypt and held the offices of Vice President for Legal Affairs, and then President. AmCham Egypt, as it was called, became actively involved in the progress of the private sector in Egypt. The organization held monthly meetings that attracted prominent speakers, including members of the Cabinets of both Egypt and the United States, as well as prominent business leaders and innovators from the U.S., Egypt and elsewhere. Ackerson also served on the board of the Bilateral Fulbright Commission.

1985 – 1991: Sidley & Austin in the U.S. 
	In 1985 Ackerson returned to the United States and continued his practice as a Sidley & Austin partner. He continued his international practice and also returned to litigation of substantial cases  in federal and state courts across the country. Among his successful cases were the largest patent infringement cases at the time in terms of potential damages; highly controverted international trade disputes, litigation arising from a corporate acquisition between two Fortune 500 companies, federal regulatory litigation and appeals, litigation to save the 37 banks in the Farm Credit System during the Farm Credit financial crisis of the 1980s, continuing into the early 1990s, and human rights litigation.

1991 – Present: The Ackerson Group—Ackerson Kauffman Fex:
In 1991 Ackerson left the big firm practice to form the law firm that continues to bear his name.   The name has changed to include his valued colleagues and is now Ackerson Kauffman Fex. Despite its size as a small firm, Ackerson Kauffman Fex has taken on some of the nation's and the world's giants – including governments and governmental bodies and some of the nation's largest companies.

Ackerson Kauffman Fex has been most widely recognized for its successful litigation on behalf of property owners whose land has been taken or used in violation of the law or those who have been threatened with unlawful or unjustified assertions of the power of eminent domain. 
Ackerson and his firm have been involved in landmark cases in Federal Courts of Appeal and the U.S. Supreme Court and have successfully litigated class actions on behalf of landowners in 46 six of the 50 states. Newspapers and magazines, including the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times and others across the nation have reported on the Firm's cases, and both the National Law Journal and American Lawyer have featured the firm's cases on their cover pages. [2]

International development:
Among Ackerson's professional interests are constitutional issues, civil rights, and human rights, examples of which appear above. He also has a long interest in international development and cooperation, and some of his experiences in those areas are the following:
U.S. Trade and Development Missions: Ackerson has participated in United States sponsored and U.S. based international trade and development missions. He was a member of a U. S. Department of Agriculture Trade and Development Mission to several countries in the Middle East, including Egypt and Yemen, and proposed new investment laws that were adopted by subsequently adopted. 
		U.S. Market Economy Advisory Mission: He also was a member of a U.S. Advisory Delegation that had been invited to the former Soviet Union by Secretary General Mikhail Gorbachev to advise Russian and Soviet lawyers on the application of market principles to advance Gobachev's plan for transition to a market economy. Ackerson and others in the U.S. Government supported delegation spoke to hundreds of  lawyers from across the Soviet Union.