[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Castle Airport

ry agencies, and appointed representatives from the governing bodies of surrounding communities. In 1994 a Restoration Advisory Board had been established on behalf of the former Castle Air Force Base, and reviewed Federal cleanup methods and efforts. It was officially adjourned on January 16, 2007.

Air National Guard
In 2004, recommendations were made to relocate the 129th Rescue Wing (129 RQW) of the California Air National Guard and its associated HC-130, MC-130 and HH-60 aircraft from Moffett Federal Airfield (formerly Naval Air Station Moffett Field) to the former Castle Air Force Base, now Castle Airport.  Rationale for this move was the high cost of living in the Sunnyvale/Mountain View/San Francisco Bay Area for full-time Active Guard and Reserve (AGR) and Air Reserve Technician (ART) personnel assigned to the unit, and the travel time and non-reimbursed expenses cost for "traditional" part-time air national guardsmen serving in the unit, most of whom reside in the San Joaquin Valley region due to lower cost of living.

It was estimated that the cost to relocate the 129 RQW to Castle, to include associated military construction (MILCON) costs, could be recouped in seven (7) years.  This would result in the reestablishment of an Air Force cantonment area at Castle that would be renamed either Castle Air National Guard Base or Castle Air National Guard Station.  However, likely due to organizational restructuring currently occurring in the Air National Guard nationwide and higher priority defense spending requirements for the U.S. Air Force, the National Guard Bureau and the Air National Guard since September 2001, this initiative has been placed on indefinite hold and the 129 RQW remains at Moffett.

California High-Speed Rail
With its location on the route of the proposed California High-Speed Rail system, and with a large, underdeveloped site, Castle Airport has been submitted as a possible location for the central maintenance facility for the system.

Accidents
On September 19, 1979, a USAF Boeing KC-135 Stratotanker crashed during a touch-and-go exercise after a training flight. Five out of the 7 occupants were killed.

See also
Castle Air Museum
United States Penitentiary, Atwater
Riverside Motorsports Park, a proposed motorsports facility close to the airport
California World War II Army Airfields

References
 Castle Air Force Base: Department of the Air Force, Administrative Record File #2925
 Compass Maps: Merced, Atwater, Merced County
 City of Atwater -- Approved Annexations
 US Environmental Protection Agency
 EPA Superfund Record of Decision, September 9, 2002

Footnotes

External links
 Castle Airport official website
 Castle Airport Aviation and Development Center
 Merced County Department of Commerce, Aviation, and Economic Development
 Castle Air Museum

Airports in Merced County, California

de:Castle Air Force Base