[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Telerehabilitation

e directed by a remote therapist. The National Rehabilitation Hospital in Washington DC and Sister Kenny Rehabilitation Institute in Minneapolis provided assessment and evaluations to patients living in Guam and American Samoa. Cases included post-stroke, post-polio, autism, and wheel-chair fitting.

An argument can be made that "telerehabilitation" began in 1998 when NIDRR funded the first RERC on tele-rehabilitation. It was awarded to a consortium of biomedical engineering departments at the National Rehabilitation Hospital and The Catholic University of America, both located in Washington, DC; the Sister Kenny Rehabilitation Institute in Minnesota; and the East Carolina University in North Carolina. Some of this early research work, and its motivation, is reviewed in Winters (2002). The State of Science Conference held in 2002 convened most of military and civilian clinicians, engineers, and government officials interested in using telecommunications as a modality for rehabilitation assessment and therapy; a summary is provided in Rosen, Winters & Lauderdale (2002). The conference was attended by the incoming president of the American Telemedicine Association (ATA). This led to an invitation by ATA to the conference attendees to form a special interest group on telerehabilitation. NIDRR funded the second 5-year RERC on telerehabilitation in 2004, awarding it to the University of Pittsburgh. This RERC was renewed in 2010.  The 21-chapter book Telerehabilitation (2013) provides a good summary of the work of these RERCs and various colleagues, covering a wide variety of tele-applications in various rehabilitation fields plus policy issues.  

In 2001, O. Bracy, a neuropsychologist, introduced the first web based, rich internet application, for the telerehabilitation presentation of cognitive rehabilitation therapy. This system first provides the subscriber clinician with an economical means of treating their own patients over the internet. Secondly, the system then provides, directly to the patient, the therapy prescription set up and controlled by the member clinician. All applications and response data are transported via the internet in real time. The patient can login to do their therapy from home, the library or anywhere they have access to an internet computer. In 2006, this system formed the basis of a new system designed as a cognitive skills enhancement program for school children. Individual children or whole classrooms can participate in this program over the internet.

In 2006, M.J. McCue and S.E. Palsbo published an article in the Journal of Telemedicine and Telecare that explored how telemedicine can become a profitable business for hospitals. They argue that telerehabilitation should be expanded so that people with disabilities and people in pain (perhaps after hip-replacement surgery or people with arthritis) can get the rehabilitative therapy they need. It is unethical to limit payments for telerehabilitation services only to patients in rural areas.

Research in telerehabilitation has evolved beyond its infancy, with many studies, but most are demonstration projects of smaller size.  Rehabilitation researchers need to conduct many more controlled experiments and present the evidence to clinicians (and payers) that telerehabilitation is clinically effective. The discipline of speech-language pathology is ahead of occupational therapy and physical therapy in demonstrating equivalence over various types of telecommunications equipment.  One area with dozens of research studies that often involve a telerehabilitation component relates to home telesupported neurorehabilitation therapy for stroke survivors (see sections on Physical Therapy, Stroke Survivors).  These employ a suite of interactive goal-directed tasks, tunable by a therapist, that make use of simple robots or devices using game ports (e.g., Feng and Winters, 2007).

Related organizations
 American Telemedicine Association (ATA)
 American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA)
 National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR)
 Rehabilitation Engineering and Assistive Technology Society of North America (RESNA)
 Special Interest Group on Telerehabilitation (SIGOT)

See also 
 Rehabilitation (neuropsychology)

References

External links 

 
Rehabilitation medicine