[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Paulette Cooper

n church leadership created a push to settle all outstanding lawsuits and charges. In February 1985, Cooper finally settled with the church for an undisclosed amount. On a couple of occasions, even after the settlement, the church strangely tried to bribe Cooper to spy for them.

Clearwater Hearings

The Church of Scientology had been plotting to take over the city of Clearwater, Florida, since 1975, looking to establish a literal safe harbor for L. Ron Hubbard. The citizenry pushed back. Cooper was one of the speakers at an anti-Scientology rally in Clearwater that drew 10,000 local residents.

On June 1, 1980, the news magazine program 60 Minutes aired a segment about Scientology's takeover of Clearwater. Cooper was interviewed for the story and described her indictment ordeal. In the same program, Scientology leader David Gaiman claimed that Cooper's harassment was the fault of "overzealous" Scientologists and that Hubbard had not been involved in it—despite Hubbard's own policy letters encouraging such activity.

On May 8, 1982, Cooper testified at the Clearwater Hearings, held by city officials over five days to investigate the Scientology takeover. She detailed her history with the church, describing a more than a decade of harassment, lawsuits, and threats. "It was an incredible vindication to look at these [FBI-seized] documents and see that everything I had said about Scientology since 1968 was true, and that they had turned out to be worse than anything I had said or imagined."

Activism
During the 1970s, some former Scientologists and distraught family members sought out Cooper for help. She connected them with newspaper reporters and magazine writers and encouraged them to tell their stories. She also encouraged fellow journalists to cover the church critically.

In the early 1980s, Cooper published a newsletter entitled "Scientology Clearing-House: A Quarterly Summary of Scientology news (non-objectively) edited by Paulette Cooper".

After the final legal settlement with the church in 1985, Cooper went silent about Scientology for a while. The church's litigious response to a 1991 TIME magazine article caused the mainstream media to avoid stories about Scientology for about fifteen years.

During this time, though, alt.religion.scientology (ARS) formed on Usenet and began publishing secret church teachings. In 1995, an ARS regular posted the complete text of The Scandal of Scientology online. After this, Cooper would occasionally contribute to ARS (and elsewhere online) and she started reaching out again to journalists writing about Scientology.

In the 2000s, mainstream media interest in Scientology began growing again, in part due to the antics of celebrity adherent Tom Cruise. Cooper wrote an article entitled "The Scandal of the Scandal of Scientology", published in 2007 in Byline magazine, the publication of the New York Press Club. In 2011, The Village Voice wrote at length about Cooper's ordeal with Scientology. This article, plus subsequent writing about her early life in Belgium, garnered additional media interest. Also in 2011, Cooper learned that a Vanity Fair journalist she considered a friend had been secretly working for the church for two decades; among other services, he had spied on Cooper.

In May 2015, Tony Ortega, a writer for The Village Voice, published a biography of Cooper entitled The Unbreakable Miss Lovely: How the Church of Scientology tried to destroy Paulette Cooper.

Cooper continues to speak out about the Church of Scientology, enjoying high regard from online activists, ex-Scientologists, and others.

Career
As a journalist, Cooper has written hundreds of stories on a variety of subjects. She produced many of these for the National Enquirer, which employed her beginning in 1974; though she avoided assignments that invaded the privacy of celebrities, she pursued Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis for years, once ending up in the foreground of a photo of Onassis published by the New York Post. On one occasion, she visited Africa as part of her travel writing and investigated the history of the slave trade. She currently writes a column about pets for the Palm Beach Daily News.

Cooper has also authored or co-authored nearly two dozen books, covering a wide range of topics including travel, missing persons, psychics, and her favorite subject, pets. Her 1973 book The Medical Detectives, an early and thorough exploration of forensic science, earned Cooper an Edgar Award in nonfiction from Mystery Writers of America. She has also ghost-written several books, including one for Margaret Truman, daughter of President Harry S. Truman.

Cooper wrote a one-act, one-woman play about her Church of Scientology frame-up entitled "The Perils of Paulette". Staged in 1997, it garnered a Chicago Dramatist Award.