[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of social nudity places in North America

d retreat with hot spring pool and spa.
 Living Waters Spa in Desert Hot Springs. This swimsuit optional spa has hot spring water pools, and the spa is an easy introduction to social nudity. TripAdvisor named them as one of the Top 25 Small Hotels in the US for 2013, 2014, and 2015.
 Glen Eden Nudist Resort – One of the largest membership-owned clubs in the country, Glen Eden, located in Corona, is Southern California's premier nudist destination.
 Sea Mountain Couples Nude Resort and Spa Hotel. Four diamond hotel and resort and lifestyles club with mineral water pools and celebrity clientele ranked best of the US by Los Angeles Times.
 Desert Sun Resort One of the premier nudist resorts in North America. Located in Palm Springs.
 Sea Mountain Nude Resort and spa hotel Clothing Optional Resort and Spa in Desert Hot Springs is a popular nudist vacation resort. It is perfect for couples trying nude vacations for the first time. They won the Best of the Palm Springs Valley award in December 2017 for being the best Boutique hotel. Featuring a unique tobacco-free experience, they have one of the highest repeat guest rates in the travel industry.
 Tuscany Manor Clothing Optional Resort in Palm Springs. It is for couples and singles at the age 21+.
 Sacramento County
 Laguna del Sol – Clothing-optional resort in Wilton, near Sacramento, featuring camping and RV spots, a lake, heated swimming pools, spas, walking tracks, stores, restaurant and event center.
 San Bernardino County
 Deep Creek Hot Springs – Clothing-optional hot spring in the San Bernardino National Forest near Apple Valley
 Olive Dell Ranch – Naturist resort in Colton, a few miles from San Bernardino and Riverside. Olive Dell Ranch is southern California's favorite nudist resort for families and couples.
 Silver Valley Sun Club – was a small clothing-optional resort located in Newberry Springs, about  east of Barstow. As of 2016 it is permanently closed.
 Starland – a clothing optional campground and retreat, located near Joshua Tree.
 San Diego County
 Black's Beach in La Jolla, San Diego, is one of the largest and most-visited nude beaches in the United States. The northern part of the beach is in a state park where nudity is officially permitted, while the southern part is on city property where nudity is illegal but somewhat tolerated.
 San Francisco City and County

 San Francisco has traditionally tolerated public nudity to a greater degree than anywhere else in California. A law passed by the city council in the fall of 2012 and which went into effect in February 2013 made public nudity an infraction outside of a few designated areas. Female toplessness remains legal throughout the city.
 Baker Beach is a beach of the National Park Service in San Francisco. The north end of the beach (closest to the Golden Gate Bridge) is officially sanctioned as clothing-optional.
 Land's End – Within the Golden Gate National Recreation Area, Land's End beach is a beautiful and legal nude beach in the San Francisco area. It is reached only by a steep, difficult trail.
 San Luis Obispo County
 Pirates Cove near San Luis Obispo
 San Mateo County
 San Gregorio nude beach might be the oldest continuously active nude beach in the United States. It dates to 1967 and is  of public beach which can be reached only by a private road near the town of San Gregorio on the San Mateo County coast, south of San Francisco. San Gregorio beach is the largest of about 20 clothing-optional beaches along the coast between San Francisco and Santa Cruz.
 Devil's Slide or Gray Whale Cove is the only officially sanctioned nude state-owned beach in California. Run for years by a private concessionaire who provided the only access to this remote beach, the State of California took over its operation. NOTE: The California State Park system officially outlaws nudity unless the area is specifically set aside for such use (e.g., dressing areas).
 Santa Barbara County
 Bates Beach in Carpinteria was formerly clothing optional, but nudity is now banned. Santa Barbara Based Nude Beach Alliance is fighting a legal battle to bring back clothing optional.
 More Mesa Beach – Considered one of the most pristine and picturesque clothing-optional beaches in California, More Mesa has been a destination for nudists since at least the late 1960s. Located between Hope Ranch Beach and Goleta Beach, this County beach is accessible by following a footpath through the meadow and down a steep but well-maintained staircase carved into the cliffside. The clothing optional area begins to the immediate right of the staircase and continues for approximately a third of a mile to the westernmost point.
 Montecito Hot Springs - natural hot springs accessed via Hot Springs Trail in Montecito.
 Santa Clara County
 Lupin Lodge – Naturist resort in Los Gatos. Memberships available as well as day/night passes. Camping available. Just south of Silicon Valley, off Highway 17 (Idylwild Road exit).
 Santa Cruz County
 Laguna