[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# List of retronyms

Before four-door cars started to have coupe-like styling in recent years, coupes mostly referred to 2-door cars. Examples of 4-door cars that have used coupe as a marketing term are the BMW X6 SUV and the Dodge Charger sedan which reuses the name of a 1970s 2-door car.
 Ultimate Doom: Before Doom II, Ultimate Doom was originally just simply Doom.  Doom was originally just a mail-order game, then when Doom II sold successfully in stores, Doom was re-released as a retail product, it was dubbed Ultimate Doom to differentiate from Doom II.  It added a new episode called Thy Flesh Consumed.
 Uncontrolled road (or uncontrolled highway) : Before the concept of controlled-access roads, which some call expressways came along, even predating automobiles, all roads had direct access to private property or public event or government grounds.  When the controlled-access roads came along, they helped to virtually eliminate direct driveway access to private property or parking lots with only select crossroads for direct access.  One had to use the term uncontrolled road to differentiate.  However, the introduction of freeways (which other countries referred to as autoroutes, motorways and whatnot) further complicated matters by necessitating the use of the term at-grade expressway (see above).  Recent uncontrolled roads have even adopted qualities of freeways and expressways such as paved shoulders (sometimes with rumble strips), freeway speed limits, and grade-separated ramp junctions (though most are just the at-grade "guest" of diamond junctions).
 Unstyled John Deere tractor: After industrial design was applied to the sheet metal styling of John Deere tractors, the distinction unstyled was retronymously applied to earlier models whose model name was the same, for example, styled Model A versus unstyled Model A Upright bicycle: The advent of the Recumbent bicycle sometimes requires a speaker to make the distinction between that and the conventional "upright bicycle".
 Vanilla Doom: The advent of source ports for Doom have altered gameplay behavior.
 Viennese waltz : The original waltz, as distinct from other styles of waltz that have since developed.
 Visible light : Before the discovery of invisible wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation, all light was considered visible.
 Water-activated stamps (gummed stamps) : The predominant kind of postage stamp before self-adhesive stamps became popular.
 Web 1.0 : a term used from the mid-2000s onward to refer to the World Wide Web / Internet of the 1990s and early 2000s.  At the time, it was referred to simply as "the web" or (less accurately) "the internet" or "the net".
 Whole milk : Milk was formerly available in just one version, with the cream included, and benefited eventually by pasteurization and homogenization. But it was still called simply milk.  This variety of milk is now referred to in the U.S. as whole milk (3.25% milkfat) to distinguish it from 2% (reduced fat) milk, 1% (low fat) milk, and skim milk (nearly no fat).  In the UK, the terms whole milk (also full-cream milk or full-fat milk) (3.5%), semi-skimmed milk (about 1.5%) and skimmed milk (almost no fat) are commonly used.
 Whole wheat : All flour, bread, pasta, etc. consisted of some combination of endosperm, germ and bran before white flour was created in the mid 19th century and became the more dominant variant when referring to flour.
 Windows 10, version 1507 Win16 : The original, 16-bit Windows API, as distinguished from the newer Win32 and Win64.
 Windows 8.0 Zune 30 : Used to describe the first-generation Zune device; the "30" was added after the release of the Zune 4, 8, and 80