[Source: PubMed]

12. Health Promot Perspect. 2024 Mar 14;14(1):9-18. doi: 10.34172/hpp.42744. 
eCollection 2024 Mar.

Pandemic treaty as an instrument to strengthen global health security: Global 
health diplomacy at its crux.

Chattu VK(1)(2)(3), Mol R(4), Singh B(4), Reddy KS(5)(6), Hatefi A(7).

Author information:
(1)Center for Global Health Research, Saveetha Medical College and Hospitals, 
Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Saveetha University, 
Chennai 600077, India.
(2)Department of Occupational Science & Occupational Therapy, Temerty Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5G 1V7, Canada.
(3)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Datta Meghe Institute 
of Medical Sciences, Wardha-442107, India.
(4)Department of South and Central Asian Studies, School of International 
Studies, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, India.
(5)School of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, 
Canada.
(6)Center for Evidence-Based Diplomacy, Global Health Research and Innovations 
Canada (GHRIC), Toronto, ON, Canada.
(7)Institute for Global Health Sciences, School of Medicine, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94117, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The World Health Assembly (WHA), on 1st December 2021, unanimously 
agreed to launch a global process to draft and negotiate a convention, 
agreement, or other international instrument under the World Health 
Organization's (WHO's) constitution to strengthen pandemic prevention, 
preparedness, and response. We aimed to explore the role of global health 
diplomacy (GHD) in pandemic treaty negotiations by providing deep insight into 
the ongoing drafting process under the WHO leadership.
METHODS: We conducted a narrative review by searching Scopus, Web of Sciences, 
PubMed, MEDLINE, and Google Scholar search engine using the keywords "Pandemic 
Treaty," OR "International Health Regulations," OR "International conventions," 
OR "International treaties" in the context of recent COVID-19 pandemic. Besides, 
we included articles recommending the need for GHD, leadership and governance 
mechanisms for this international treaty drafting approved by the WHA.
RESULTS: Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the concept of GHD bolstered the 
international system and remained high on the agendas of many national, regional 
and global platforms. As per Article 19 of the WHO constitution, the Assembly 
established an intergovernmental negotiating body (INB) to draft and negotiate 
this convention/ agreement to protect the world from disease outbreaks of 
pandemic potential. Since GHD has helped to strengthen international cooperation 
in health systems and address inequities in achieving health-related global 
targets, there is a great scope for the successful drafting of this pandemic 
treaty.
CONCLUSION: The pandemic treaty is a defining moment in global health 
governance, particularly the pandemic governance reforms. However, the treaty's 
purpose will only be served if the equity considerations are optimized, 
accountability mechanisms are established, and a sense of shared responsibility 
is embraced. While fulfilling treaty commitments might be complex and 
challenging, it provides an opportunity to rethink and build resilient systems 
for pandemic preparedness and response in the future.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.34172/hpp.42744
PMCID: PMC11016140
PMID: 38623344

Conflict of interest statement: Vijay Kumar Chattu is one of the editorial board 
members of Health Promotion Perspectives. He is also the Founder and CEO of 
Global Health Research and Innovations Canada (GHRIC), Toronto. Other authors 
declare no competing interests.