[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1960 Louisiana gubernatorial election

ent.  He remained on the defensive throughout the runoff campaign.  The political liabilities of being an urbanite, a Catholic, and a perceived integrationist cost Morrison any support he might have expected in conservative, Protestant, segregationist northern Louisiana.

Results

Republican primary

Candidates 
Francis Grevemberg, former State Superintendent of Police and Democratic candidate for Governor in 1956

Results 
Grevemberg was unopposed for the Republican nomination.

General election

Campaign 
In 1959–1960, former State Police Superintendent Francis Grevemberg rejected cries of "It can't be done" and switched parties to run for governor as a Republican. He faced Jimmie Davis in the general election. Grevemberg called for abolition of useless positions in state government and industrial recruitment efforts. His candidacy offered the state something that it had not seen before, a contested general election for governor. "Never before have the voters in this state been given such an opportunity for self-expression", opined Alexandria Daily Town Talk, "It is a rare opportunity for us to take part in an advanced course in government and politics."

Democrats were sufficiently confident of overwhelming victories to restrict their general election activities to a few party harmony speeches. Davis had stopped campaigning after he defeated Mayor Morrison and did not return to active campaign status until a few weeks prior to the general election.

Grevemberg was outraged at newspaper editorials against him. "My main purpose for entering this race was toward a two-party system ... I hope I have convinced a sizeable number of people we do need two parties." Grevemberg was particularly hostile toward the Times-Picayune (New Orleans), which called him a "turncoat" after he left the Democratic party, adding: "I risked my life and those of my family in attempts to rid this state of racketeers ... These newspapers have lived up to the reputation given them by Huey Long that they were yellow journals."

Results 

Grevemberg scored his highest percent, 39.9 in Terrebonne Parish, and his second-best showing was the 27.2 percent in his native Lafayette Parish. In several parishes, Grevemberg polled less than 2 percent of the ballots.

Significance of the election
In a time of growing support for the civil rights movement, the 1959–60 election was the first since the advent of Jim Crow in which race became the central issue of a Louisiana campaign. This election also marked the definitive end of the Long era in Louisiana politics. For the first time since 1928, no candidate backed by Huey or Earl Long made the runoff; Noe finished a distant fourth.

References

Sources
Jeansonne, Glen.  "Racism and Longism in Louisiana: The 1959-60 Gubernatorial Election."  Louisiana History 11, 1970.
Liebling, A. J.  The Earl of Louisiana.   LSU Press, 1970.
Louisiana Secretary of State.   Primary Election Returns, 1960.
Public Affairs Research Council of Louisiana.  Voters' Guide to the Elections, '59-'60.

1959-60
1959 United States gubernatorial elections
Gubernatorial
1960 United States gubernatorial elections
Gubernatorial
December 1959 events in the United States
January 1960 events in the United States