[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Nebojša Radmanović

Nebojša Radmanović (, ; born 5 February 1949) is a Bosnian Serb politician who served as the 5th Serb member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina from 2006 to 2014. He has been serving as member of the national House of Representatives since 2018.

Radmanović is a member of both the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats and of the Academy of Sciences and Arts of the Republika Srpska as well.

Education
Radmanović finished his schooling in Banja Luka, before going on to study at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy.

Career

Early career
Prior to entering politics, Radmanović was the first director of the Archives of Republika Srpska.

Political career
Radmanović served as member of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska from 1998 to 2002. He also briefly served as Minister of Administration and Local Self-Government of Republika Srpska in the government of Milorad Dodik from February to November 2006.

Radmanović was elected in the 2006 general election to a four-year term as Serb member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and assumed office on 6 November 2006, alongside Haris Silajdžić and Željko Komšić. He was re-elected in the general election on 3 October 2010 to a second term, which ended on 17 November 2014.

Following his presidency, Radmanović was appointed to the national House of Peoples for the 2014–2018 term. In the 2018 general election, he was elected to the national House of Representatives. Radmanović was re-elected as member of the House of Representatives in the 2022 general election, obtaining over 34,000 votes.

Awards
Radmanović was awarded the Medal of Pushkin for the development and expansion of international cultural cooperation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Russian Federation.

Orders

International

References

External links

1949 births
Living people
People from Gračanica, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina
University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy alumni
Politicians of Republika Srpska
Alliance of Independent Social Democrats politicians
Members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Chairmen of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Members of the House of Representatives (Bosnia and Herzegovina)
Chairmen of the House of Representatives (Bosnia and Herzegovina)
Members of the Academy of Sciences and Arts of the Republika Srpska