[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Robert Maxwell

in criminal sexual activity, and conspiracy to entice children to engage in illegal sex acts, allegedly linked to a sex trafficking ring with Jeffrey Epstein (who had already died in jail the previous year). She was convicted on 29 December 2021, and sentenced to 20 years in prison on 28 June 2022.

In popular culture
 In the 1992 final series of the British sitcom The New Statesman, a recurring joke is Alan B'Stard's knowledge that Maxwell faked his death and is still alive. In the fifth episode, B'Stard visits war-torn Herzegovina, ostensibly to negotiate a peace treaty, but his plan all along has been to smuggle Maxwell out of the country to a luxury hideaway, in return for a handsome slice of the Mirror Group funds. It transpires, however, that Maxwell has already spent the money, and the episode ends with a vengeful B'Stard giving him "an amazing deja-vu experience" by pushing him over the side of his yacht, where he presumably dies.
 The Fourth Estate, a 1996 novel by Jeffrey Archer, is based on the lives of Robert Maxwell and Rupert Murdoch.
 Maxwell, in addition to Ted Turner and Rupert Murdoch, was used as inspiration for the villainous media baron Elliot Carver in the 1997 James Bond film Tomorrow Never Dies, as well as its novelisation and video game adaptation. At the film's conclusion, M orders a story spun disguising Carver's demise at Bond's hands, saying that Carver is believed to have committed suicide by jumping off his yacht in the South China Sea.
 A one-person show about Maxwell's life, Lies Have Been Told, written by Rod Beacham, was performed by Phillip York at London's Trafalgar Studios in 2006.
 Max, a 2006 novel by Juval Aviv, is based on Aviv's investigation into the death of Robert Maxwell.
 A BBC drama, Maxwell, covering his life shortly before his death, starring David Suchet and Patricia Hodge, was aired on 4 May 2007. Suchet won the International Emmy Award for Best Actor for his performance as Maxwell.
 Maxwell pressured Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to cancel the contract between Elorg and Nintendo concerning the rights to the game Tetris, as he believed that his software company Mirrorsoft already owned the rights. In the 2023 film Tetris, which deals with the legal battles surrounding the game, Maxwell is portrayed by Roger Allam.
 Succession creator Jesse Armstrong has stated that Maxwell's biography Maxwell: The Final Verdict was an influence in creating the series.

See also
 Daily News (Perth, Western Australia) §1980–1990
 List of people who disappeared mysteriously at sea
 Maxwellisation
 Scottish Daily News

Notes

References

Further reading
 Short BBC profile of Robert Maxwell
 
 Biography Ketupa.net, a media industry resource
 
 

 
 
 
 Henderson, Albert, (2004) The Dash and Determination of Robert Maxwell, Champion of Dissemination, LOGOS. 15,2, pp. 65–75.
 
 Robert N. Miranda (2001) Robert Maxwell: Forty-four years as Publisher, in E. H. Frederiksson ed., A Century of Science Publishing, IOS Press 
 
 Thomas, Gordon and Dillon, Martin. (2002). Robert Maxwell: Israel's Superspy: The Life and Murder of a Media Mogul, Carroll and Graf,

External links
 
 FBI Records: The Vault – Robert Maxwell
 Opinion piece about the pension fund in the Independent in 1996
British Army Officers 1939–1945

 
1923 births
1990s missing person cases
1991 deaths
1991 in the United Kingdom
20th-century English businesspeople
British Army personnel of World War II
British mass media company founders
British newspaper chain founders
Burials at the Jewish cemetery on the Mount of Olives
Czechoslovak emigrants to the United Kingdom
Czechoslovak Jews
Czechoslovak military personnel of World War II
Deaths by drowning
Derby County F.C. directors
English football chairmen and investors
Formerly missing people
Jewish British politicians
Jews from Carpathian Ruthenia
Jews who immigrated to the United Kingdom to escape Nazism
Labour Party (UK) MPs for English constituencies
Maxwell family
Missing person cases in Spain
North Staffordshire Regiment soldiers
Oxford United F.C. non-playing staff
People lost at sea
People who died at sea
Queen's Royal Regiment officers
Recipients of the Military Cross
Royal Pioneer Corps soldiers
UK MPs 1964–1966
UK MPs 1966–1970