[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stewart Talbot

end of the season.

In 2003–04 he made 28 appearances, in which he was booked seven times and sent off once, including a run of four yellow cards in four games. By January time he was dropped yet again, in February he dropped down a division, joining Brentford on a -year contract on a free transfer.

Later career
Talbot's 37 League One appearances helped his new club to the play-off places in 2004–05, though they were bettered by Sheffield Wednesday in the semi-finals. Talbot told manager Martin Allen that he wanted to return to the North, he joined League Two side Boston United on a free transfer in June 2005. By now a veteran, he played 36 games in 2005–06. However he hated working under manager Steve Evans, who he felt to be a bully.

In 2006–07 Boston lost their Football League status, Talbot making twenty appearances in his final season in the Football League. Only Talbot and Paul Ellender stayed beyond the summer. In 2007–08, the club were playing in the Conference North because of their financial difficulties. They were promptly kicked out of that division at the end of the season, leaving them with an intolerable fall from grace – effectively three relegations in just two seasons. So they started the 2008–09 season in the Northern Premier League. Talbot briefly managed United for one game against Nantwich Town on 5 January after manager Steve Welsh became ill. The team capitulated 5–0. Welsh released Talbot soon after, and the player signed for Kidsgrove Athletic (one level below in the Division One South). He left Kidsgrove in the summer of 2009.

Style of play
The Rotherham United website states that Talbot was a "midfield dynamo" with "powerful tackling".

Post-retirement
Since leaving the professional game, Talbot took up a position in child care in North Staffordshire. By 2015 he quit child care to become an overhead linesman with Network Rail in Crewe.

Career statistics
Source:

Honours
Port Vale
Anglo-Italian Cup runner-up: 1996

Rotherham United
Football League Second Division second-place promotion: 2000–01

References

1973 births
Living people
Footballers from Birmingham, West Midlands
Men's association football midfielders
English men's footballers
Moor Green F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Rotherham United F.C. players
Shrewsbury Town F.C. players
Brentford F.C. players
Boston United F.C. players
Kidsgrove Athletic F.C. players
Southern Football League players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Northern Premier League players
English football managers
Boston United F.C. managers
Northern Premier League managers