[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alaskan Command

r Force radar sites throughout Alaska.

When mobilized, the state's Air National Guard becomes an integral part of Pacific Air Forces and Alaskan Command. The Alaska Air National Guard maintains KC-135 Tankers (168th Air Refueling Wing), C-130s and air rescue HH-60 Pavehawk helicopters (176th Wing).

11th Airborne Division
Previously known as United States Army Alaska (USARAK), 11th Airborne Division is a subordinate element of I Corps, headquartered at Joint Base Lewis–McChord. The division's mission is to be prepared to deploy rapidly in the Arctic as well as the Pacific Theater as directed in support of contingency operations, U.S. Pacific Command objectives and United States national interests.

11th Airborne commands two brigade combat teams, an Aviation Task Force, the United States Army garrisons and tenant organizations in Alaska, the NCO Academy and Reserve Component units:
 1st Infantry Brigade Combat Team, 11th Airborne Division at Fort Wainwright
 2nd Infantry Brigade Combat Team (Airborne), 11th Airborne Division at Fort Richardson
 11th Airborne Aviation Task Force at Fort Wainwright

Tenant organizations are located at each of the division's installations and include the USA Medical Department Activity-Alaska, USA Dental Activity-Alaska, a signal battalion, and the Bureau of Land Management. The Reserve Component units located throughout the state include a National Guard Regional Support Group (RSG) and Aviation Battalion, and a United States Army Reserve Engineer Company (B-411, whose battalion headquarters are in Hawaii) and a Reserve Hospital.

United States Naval Forces Alaska
There are no major naval ports in Alaska. The commander of the 17th Coast Guard District, United States Coast Guard, commands U.S. Naval Forces Alaska, accomplishing both the peacetime and wartime naval tasks in the state. Major peacetime responsibilities include search and rescue, law enforcement of territorial waters, maintenance of navigational maritime aides and ensuring maritime safety. Naval Forces Alaska has the task force designator Task Force 91.

District 17 forces are located at Petersburg, Juneau, Ketchikan, Homer, Seward, Tok, Anchorage, Kenai, Valdez, Nome, St. Paul, and three air stations at Kodiak, Sitka and Cordova (seasonal). The district uses a wide variety of vessels, including tenders, patrol boats and medium endurance cutters. During wartime, Coast Guard forces provide the majority of naval forces in Alaska for the defense of the state's  of shoreline.

Due to budget constraints and warming relations with former adversaries, the Adak Naval Air Station was closed in March 1997. Prior to the deactivation, Adak's mission had shifted from providing support to air operations for antisubmarine warfare forces to one of providing short term support of transiting aircraft and ships. The island's population had shrunk to approximately five hundred unaccompanied personnel residents – down from a peak of nearly 5000 active duty and family members.

See also
 Alaska Defense Command, February 1941 –  October 1943
 Northern Edge

References

External links
 
 United States Army, Alaska (official site)

Commands of the United States Armed Forces
Military in Anchorage, Alaska
Military units and formations in Alaska