[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# ITV Studios

s founded in 1989 by Charles Wace, a former BBC news producer. With headquarters in Plymouth, Twofour has offices across the globe including London and Los Angeles.

On 24 June 2015, Twofour Group was acquired by ITV Studios.

Melanie Leach was named Chief Executive for Twofour Group in summer 2014.

Twofour is an international award-winning television production company, producing programming for the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, Channel 5, UKTV and a variety of other British and foreign broadcasters. Twofour was awarded Broadcast's "Best Indie Production Company" title in 2010 and 2014, with titles including The Jump (Channel 4), multi award-winning The Real Marigold Hotel (BBC One/BBC Two) and the fastest selling format of the year, This Time Next Year (ITV) and Channel 5's longest running series, The Hotel Inspector.

The company produces ob-doc and fixed rig shows such as Channel 4's International Emmy winning Educating Yorkshire, Educating the East End and 2011's Educating Essex. In May 2012, Series Director David Clews was awarded a BAFTA Television Craft Award for his work directing Educating Essex.

Twofour has produced a range of adventure documentaries such as Harry's Arctic Heroes for BBC One and Harry's Mountain Heroes for ITV, both featuring Prince Harry and a group of wounded soldiers as they attempt to reach the North Pole and Mount Everest respectively.

On 9 September 2020, Twofour, along with Boom Cymru, took over production of some series from sister label Boomerang when ITV shut the label down.

World Productions
World Productions is a television production company founded on 20 March 1990 by acclaimed producer Tony Garnett and owned by ITV Studios since May 2017. The company's first major series was the police drama Between The Lines (BBC One, 1992–1994), and throughout the decade they went on to produce a succession of drama series. The most notable of these include This Life (BBC Two, 1996–1997), about a group of young law students in London; vampire thriller Ultraviolet (Channel 4, 1998) and police drama The Cops (BBC Two, 1998–1999), which was so controversial in its depiction of the police force that official police advice was withdrawn for the second series. More recently, the company has made the series No Angels for Channel 4 (2004–2006), a drama based around the lives of young nurses, and also Goldplated and for Channel Five it has produced the Perfect Day trilogy and Tripping Over, a co production with Network Ten in Australia. It also co-produced, with BBC Cymru Wales, a one-off This Life reunion special, which aired in early 2007.

In 2018, the company produced the hit TV series Bodyguard, which achieved the highest viewing figures for a new BBC drama in the multichannel era and the highest BBC viewing figures since 2008.

International operations

ITV Studios have a number of formats broadcasting on various networks around the world. These include franchises for the Love Island and The Voice formats, as well as Let Love Rule, a programme known in the UK as The Cabins and broadcast in a number of territories including as commissions from Discovery in Denmark, TV3 in Latvia, and TV JOJ in Slovakia (where it will be known as Laska na chate).

ITV Studios America or ITV America

Co-headquartered in North Hollywood, California, New York City, and in Stamford, Connecticut, ITV Studios US produces programming primarily for US networks, such as: Fox's Hell's Kitchen, Kitchen Nightmares, Sit Down, Shut Up, and Nanny 911; NBC's Hit Me, Baby, One More Time, The Wall, The Voice, Prime Suspect, and Little Friends; CBS' Eleventh Hour; VH1's But Can They Sing? and Celebrity Fit Club; A&E's Airline, The First 48 and House of Dreams; and MTV's Room Raiders.

The company had its origins in 1988 as World International Network, a consortium of companies like Central Independent Television, which was rebranded into Hamdon Entertainment when the remaining two partners (Carlton and ARD/Studio Hamburg) bought it in 1995, before taking it outright as Carlton America in 1999, and Granada Entertainment USA, which was formed by Granada Media Group in 1997, before eventually took on the Granada America moniker when Granada and Carlton merged in 2003.

In 2006, Granada, in association with FremantleMedia North America, produced Gameshow Marathon, an American version of Ant & Dec's Gameshow Marathon for CBS.