[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Ștefan Voitec

ged for Papacostea's daughter, historian Cornelia Papacostea-Danielopolu, to be granted a Romanian passport, which allowed her to visit France. By 1970, Voitec was openly demanding that the PSDR and PSU membership be recognized by the PCR as a pedigree similar to that of first-generation communists.

In old age, Voitec also maintained a correspondence with his old political friend, Gheorghe Cristescu, who had since been imprisoned and rehabilitated by the communist regime. As noted by historian Corneliu C. Ilie, the letters display Cristescu's "uncanny mental frailty". In March 1968, Voitec reportedly intervened to prevent Cristescu from publicly marking the golden jubilee of the Romanian–Bessarabian union. As he argued, this celebration, organized by Pan Halippa, would have drawn negative coverage in the Soviet Union. Voitec attended the funeral of Cristescu's wife Aneta Victoria, which witnessed another one of Halippa's attempts at a protest. Also in 1968, Voitec reputedly hinted to the exiled writer Otto Eduard Marcovici that he could return home and resume work in the communist press. 

As an Education Minister, Voitec had an ambiguous legacy. According to writer Felix Aderca, his reform of the gymnasiums was a positive measure, which could civilize Romanian youths. For this reason, Voitec's name "shall never be forgotten." By contrast, the anti-communist educationist Onisifor Ghibu defined his tenure as engendering "the corruption of youth, the betrayal of religion, without even an effort to justify these". Later in life, one of Voitec's main cultural achievements was his successful attempt to obtain posthumous recognition for Dobrogeanu-Gherea, who had been the heterodox doyen of Romanian Marxism. As a cultural aficionado and MAN deputy, he also played a major part in approving and constructing the new National Theater Craiova (1966–1973). Voitec cultivated Craiova historian Titu Georgescu, with whom he would discuss affairs in "our native city." According to Georgescu, in 1967 Voitec helped convince hardliner Leonte Răutu to allow the publication of a popular history review, Magazin Istoric. Its very first issue featured a history of the Singular Workers' Front, which was partly based on Voitec's oral testimony.

Voitec was additionally remembered for his Van Dyke beard, which reportedly made him a "pleasant figure", but also exposed him to further ridicule. Lucrețiu Pătrășcanu once referred to Voitec as "that beard", while Pandrea records that he was universally known as the "bearded lady". From 1948, Voitec was the only Romanian communist leader to go unshaven, his style appearing especially "strange" by 1957. In 1959, the authorities clamped down on beatnik lifestyles, including by having Militiamen forcefully shave non-compliant youth. According to historian Matei Cazacu, those beatniks who complained that Voitec was bearded, as an attempt to litigate the issue, "were reserved the harshest punishments".

Notes

References

1900 births
1984 deaths
Deputy Prime Ministers of Romania
State Council of Romania
Romanian Ministers of Education
Presidents of the Great National Assembly
Titular members of the Romanian Academy
Recipients of the Order of the Star of the Romanian Socialist Republic
Members of the Chamber of Deputies (Romania)
Heads of Centrocoop
Romanian Trotskyists
Leaders of political parties in Romania
Romanian Social Democratic Party (1927–1948) politicians
Romanian Communist Party politicians
Romanian delegation to the Paris Peace Conference of 1946
Romanian human rights activists
Romanian activist journalists
Romanian Marxist journalists
Romanian newspaper editors
Romanian war correspondents
War correspondents of World War II
Romanian censors
Romanian librarians
Romanian encyclopedists
Romanian book publishers (people)
Romanian travel writers
Romanian schoolteachers
Romanian educational theorists
University and college founders
People from Corabia
Romanian people of Italian descent
Carol I National College alumni
University of Bucharest alumni
Politehnica University of Bucharest alumni
Romanian people of World War II
Deaths from cancer in Romania
Deaths from colorectal cancer