[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pat Partridge

the mass of Celtic supporters showed their frustration to such a degree that Partridge led off both sets of players. Only a plea to the crowd from Kindon and Celtic manager Billy McNeill, at the referee's suggestion, allowed the game to resume. When it did, the score remained the same until the end.

Partridge was chosen as a FIFA representative to officiate during the 1978 World Cup Finals in Argentina. He was linesman for two matches, both in Group A: Argentina v. Hungary, which Argentina won 2–1; and France v. Hungary, which France won 3–1. He refereed just the one match in the Finals, the Second Stage Group B match between Peru and Poland, which finished 1–0 to Poland through a goal by Andrzej Szarmach.

In his book, Partridge remarked at length as to the antics of the Peruvian goalkeeper, Ramon Quiroga, during that match. Having earlier executed two perfect tackles on outfield players during the match, on or near the halfway line, Quiroga then pulled down Grzegorz Lato in his opponents' half in the second period, earning himself a caution, despite standing and bowing apologetically towards the referee after the misdemeanor. 

The 1980 European Championships in Italy (the last tournament of his career) ended in his officiating in only one match throughout its duration. This was the encounter between Greece and Czechoslovakia on 14 June at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome. The Greeks lost by 3 goals to 1, finishing bottom of Group A. Partridge should have retired from refereeing directly after the Championships. However, the Football League had decided that the retirement age be raised to forty eight on an experimental basis (since confirmed).† This allowed him one final season (1980–81) on the List.

Life outside football

Before
Upon leaving school, he had started his professional life as an electrician, meeting his future wife Margaret at the one firm he worked for in that capacity, Head Wrightson Ltd, which operated from Thornaby at the time. They married on 11 March 1961, and by 1973 had moved to the farm in Cockfield, County Durham, which was run by Margaret's father. He and Margaret then took a full role in the running of the farm. In time, they renamed the farmhouse "Law One". 

He was able to devote much more of his time to the farm business after being compulsorily required to end his involvement in football at the age of 48. He became Chairman of the Referees' Association and of the Association of Football League Referees and Linesmen, eventually taking up the position of President for the latter organisation.

He was able to concentrate on his golf as a major hobby, and joined the Celebrity Golf Tour to help raise money for charity. He also became a local magistrate and prison visitor after his refereeing career ended, but has since retired from both occupations.

In December 2002, however, he was stricken with pneumonia - a potentially fatal condition at the age of 69. Fortunately for him, he was able to fully recover. Enough, in fact, to come out of football retirement on 19 October 2003.

As a spectator at the Northern Premier League match between Bishop Auckland and Prescot Cables, he watched as the match referee suffered an injury, causing one of his assistants to take his place in the middle. The replacement with the flag was deemed not up to the league standard, putting the future of the game in jeopardy. Having overheard all this, Partridge put himself forward to fulfill the assistant referee's duties as he had done many years ago, and ran the line in a 1–1 draw, at the age of 70 years and 4 months. This curiously mirrored the occasion in September 1972 when he refereed a match between Arsenal and Liverpool at Highbury. One of his linesmen tore a muscle and the flag was taken by TV expert, former player and, crucially, qualified referee Jimmy Hill.¶

Honours
On 11 May 2004, Partridge attended a North Riding FA dinner, at which he was honoured for 50 years membership of the Referees' Association.

He was awarded the British Empire Medal (BEM) in the 2014 Birthday Honours for services to football.

Death
He died on 31 October 2014.

References

Print

Football League Handbooks
Rothmans Football Yearbooks, 1970–1981
‡Rothmans Football Yearbook, 1971, Queen Anne Press, p. 469
¶Rothmans Football Yearbook, 1973, Queen Anne Press, p. 29
†Rothmans Football Yearbook, 1980, Queen Anne Press, p. 15
Oh, Ref!, by Pat Partridge & John Gibson, (Souvenir Press Ltd 1979);

Internet

English football referees
FA Cup final referees
People from Billingham
1933 births
2014 deaths
1978 FIFA World Cup referees
Recipients of the British Empire Medal
Sportspeople from Yorkshire
UEFA Euro 1980 referees
People from Cockfield, County Durham
Sportspeople from County Durham