[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# George Washington in the French and Indian War

he "mutual Regard that has always subsisted between you and your Officers."  Biographer James Ferling characterizes as their highest tribute the statements that Washington "heightened our natural Emulation, and our Desire to excel" and "In you we place the most implicit confidence."

Lessons learned

Although Washington never gained the commission in the British army he yearned for, in these years the young man gained valuable military, political, and leadership skills, and received significant public exposure in the colonies and abroad.  He closely observed British military tactics, gaining a keen insight into their strengths and weaknesses that proved invaluable during the Revolution. He demonstrated his toughness and courage in the most difficult situations, including disasters and retreats. He developed a command presence—given his size, strength, stamina, and bravery in battle, he appeared to soldiers to be a natural leader and they followed him without question. Washington gained connections because of his popularity, which would serve him well later in the Revolution. His involvement in the war, given the circumstances, was just enough for him to be able to craft his own idea of what a leader looked like. Washington learned to organize, train, and drill, and discipline his companies and regiments. From his observations, readings and conversations with professional officers, he learned the basics of battlefield tactics, as well as a good understanding of problems of organization and logistics.  Historian Ron Chernow argues that his frustrations in dealing with government officials during this conflict led him to advocate the advantages of a strong national government and a vigorous executive agency that could get results; other historians tend to ascribe Washington's position on government to his later American Revolutionary War service.  His dealings also gave him the diplomatic skills necessary to negotiate with officials at the local and provincial levels.  He developed a very negative idea of the value of militia, who seemed too unreliable, too undisciplined, and too short-term compared to regulars. On the other hand, his experience was limited to command of about 1,000 men, and came only in remote frontier conditions that were far removed from the urban situations he faced during the revolution at Boston, New York, Trenton and Philadelphia.

Later life

On January 6, 1759, Washington married Martha Dandridge Custis, a wealthy Virginia widow.  He had already won election to the Virginia House of Burgesses during the summer of 1758.  For the next 16 years he lived the life of a Virginia plantation owner and politician.  As tensions rose between the British parliament and the colonies, he gradually adopted positions in opposition to the parliament's policies.  When the American Revolutionary War broke out in April 1775, Washington arrived at the Second Continental Congress in a military uniform, and was chosen as Commander-in-chief of the Continental Army.  After leading American forces to victory, he chaired the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution, and was then elected the first President of the United States, serving two terms.  He briefly saw additional military service during a threatened war with France in 1798, and died in December 1799.  He is widely recognized as the "Father of his country".

See also

 List of George Washington articles
 Great Britain in the Seven Years' War
 France in the Seven Years' War

Notes

Endnotes

References

 Single-volume condensation of Flexner's popular four-volume biography.
 Seven volumes scholarly biography, winner of the Pulitzer Prize.
 Abridgement of Freeman's multivolume biography.

Further reading
See George Washington bibliography for a listing of general works about Washington. See French and Indian War and Seven Years' War for general bibliographies about the war. Works specifically about Washington and Virginia in this time period include:

 Anderson, Fred. The war that made America: A short history of the French and Indian War (Penguin, 2006).
 Brumwell, Stephen. George Washington: Gentleman Warrior (Quercus, 2013).
 Fowler Jr, William M. Empires at War: The French and Indian War and the Struggle for North America, 1754–1763 (Bloomsbury, 2009).

 Misencik, Paul R. George Washington and the Half-King Chief Tanacharison: An Alliance that Began the French and Indian War (McFarland, 2014).
 Way, Peter. The cutting edge of culture: British soldiers encounter Native Americans in the French and Indian war (Routledge, 2020).
 Wood, Douglas McClure. "" I Have Now Made a Path to Virginia": Outacite Ostenaco and the Cherokee-Virginia Alliance in the French and Indian War." West Virginia History 2.2 (2008): 31–60. online