[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Yitzhar

munity and its surroundings won't end with a barrage of stones", says a reserve officer who served there. "And the most irritating thing is that later on in the army, and in the community, they'll feed you with the Shabbat cakes they bring and tell you to let it be, because it's just a few psychos."

1998 
Two Yitzhar residents, Harel Bin-Nun, 18, and Shlomo Liebman, 24, were shot and killed while patrolling a track newly dug to expand the settlement, in an ambush by Arabs on 5 August 1998. Yitzhar settlers reacted by leading an armed funeral cortege past local Palestinian villages, and stating they would expand the settlement in two divisions named after the dead residents, a proposal that received the backing of Binyamin Netanyahu.<ref name="Demick" >Barbara Demick,[http://articles.philly.com/1998-08-06/news/25727021_1_palestinian-leader-yasir-arafat-itzhar-settlers 'At Funeral For 2 Settlers, Call To Rethink Peace Talks There Were Shouts Of ``revenge. Settlers Vowed To Expand Itzhar After The Attack,'] The Philadelphia Inquirer 6 August 1998.</ref>

 2002 
In September 2002, a Palestinian militant shot and injured four soldiers during an attempt to infiltrate Yitzhar. He was shot and killed by security forces.

 2004 
On 9 June 2004, a Palestinian goatherd complained that a resident of Yitzhar had stolen his goats. The police escorted him to the settlement, and returned the goats to him, but when he was getting back to his village, he was attacked by settlers, who once again took the goats from him. A police unit rushed down to arrest the settlers, while members of Yitzhar's readiness unit went down in the direction of the assault. The police claimed that the members of the readiness group blocked their way and interfered with their actions, and arrested the four men, accusing them of armed robbery, assault, stealing goats from a Palestinian, and preventing the police from doing their job.

The four settlers filed a lawsuit that was partially accepted in March 2010 by the Jerusalem Magistrate's Court which ruled that the police had presented false and misleading testimony by declaring that the four men were involved in the assault and had stolen "the sheep", while they had not witnessed the attacks against the goatherd. The judge ordered the state to pay NIS 10,000 to each of the four plaintiffs, and to their lawyer.

 2008 
On 13 September 2008, a Palestinian entered the Yitzhar-outpost Shalhevet, set fire to an family's house who were away for the weekend, and stabbed a nine-year-old boy who had spotted him and tried to call for help, wounding him lightly. Dozens of settlers from Yitzhar responded by marching through the adjacent Palestinian village of Asira al-Qibliya, where the attacker was thought to live, using live fire and wounding eight people, and torching dozens of Palestinian homes and buildings, with Israeli soldiers present, in what then-Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert called a "pogrom". One week later, a fourteen-year-old teenager from Asira al-Qibliya, was shot dead by Israeli border police while walking toward Yitzhar, intending to throw a Molotov cocktail at the settlement. Police later said they had identified him as the attacker of the boy, thanks to forensic evidence. The teenager was also confirmed to have been the brother of the 2002 shooter.

 2011 
In 2011, UNOCHA reported 70 attacks by Yitzhar settlers on Palestinians.

Four inhabitants of Yitzhar were arrested on 13 June 2011 on suspicion of incitement and attacks on public order, including a minor suspected of setting fire to Palestinian property, after Israeli police raided the "Hakol Hayehudi" (The Jewish Voice) news site run from Yitzhar.

On 2 August 2011, Israel Defense Forces' GOC Central Command issued administrative restraining orders against 12 settlers from Yitzhar and nearby outposts, and a student at the local yeshiva on suspicions that they were involved in attacks on Palestinians. Nine of the settlers were ordered to stay out of the West Bank, and three to leave the settlement. 
In response, the Israeli NGO B'Tselem issued a statement condemning the use of administrative orders which are issued without charges being filed, without trial and without judicial sanction, stating "the move is an unacceptable means of dealing with lawbreakers in the West Bank. Firm action must be taken against settlers who harm Palestinians and Palestinian property, but this must be carried out through the criminal-justice system and not by issuing administrative orders based on classified material."