[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Venezia Giulia Police Force

rms during night shifts.

The newly formed Police Force also had a chaplain Service, and a trade union. The Roman Catholic Mons. Mario Novach  served as corps chaplain from 1948 until its dissolution in 1961, as most of the Corps member were Roman Catholic and Willy Marcocci was the union secretary.

Transport service, or truck pool, whose trucks were provided by the military authorities, also included the communication and Road Police Unit. The communication section was in charge of all type of communications, radio, teletype and telephones, including the management of the emergency number phone number, 223. The radio center was located into the Local Government House in Piazza/Square Unita' d'Italia. Road Police Unit was responsible for patrolling the roads. In addition to their general road policing duties, they assisted with various operations aimed at improving road safety by promoting campaign for the Road-safety aimed to reduce the rate of road collision in Trieste, and were also in charge to draft reports in case of vehicle collisions. The Civil Police were equipped with Morris cars.

The Police Force had its own gazette, Il Eco della Polizia ("The Echo of the Police") whose last issue was on October 25, 1954. The newspaper ha d its typography located in Via dell 'Istria n.54 in Trieste the present seat of the Provincial Carabineers HQ of Trieste.   

The V.G.P.F was also involved in the recovering of the corpses from the Foibes, deep karst sinkhole, and the V.G.P.F Criminal Investigation Division was in charge of the investigation. The "Corpse Recovering Squad" was part of the forensic section and was led by the Inspectors Umberto De Giorgi and Oronzo Rizzo. The long report  drafted by Inspector De Giorgi, pertaining the operation of the corpses recovering from foibes, is available online, in Italian language. During the November 1951 Polesine flooding, when two thirds of the Polesine Italian geographical region was flooded, the V.G.P.F organized a relief party commanded by Superintendent May, a former Metropolitan Police Superintendent, with more than 150 men equipped with: 11 heavy trucks, 10 motorcycle, 11 jeeps, a mobile radio station, 5 light trucks, a water supply truck, an ambulance and a searching-light truck.

Commissioner 

The Police Commissioner was the British Army Colonel CMG, OBE, Gerald Richardson. A  Scotland yard Officer, from Nottingham, he had his first experience as Police Officer, when himself and other members of a local rowing club decided to volunteer, for the Special Constabulary in Nottingham, when a general strike broke out. The strike lasted 9 days, from  May 3, 1926 to May 13, 1926. At the end of the strike, he had realized that Law enforcement would have been his future career. He applied for the London Metropolitan Police where, after having passing the tests, he was admitted in 1927, and entered in the Police Training School at the Peel House in Westminster. After the graduation he spent 12 months on the beat, and then requested the assignment to the Criminal Investigation department; in August 1929 he was appointed Detective Constable. On July 13, 1943 he was Commissioned into the British Army. He would spend the rest of the war as law enforcement officer in the territories occupied by the British Forces. From London he was initially sent to Tangier, and after the landing in Italy he was in Sicily and Naples where for 18 months, he was Chief Public Safety Officer. At the end of the war he was serving in Northern Italy. It was during a period of rest on lake Maggiore, that an urgent telephone call summoned him, to report immediately, to the 8th Army HQ, where he received a new assignment as Director of the Public Safety of the City of Trieste. His task was not an easy one since there was no existing police force in the city. Among the reasons which had made the allied to take the direct rule of the area was that of, avoiding future confrontation between Italy and Yugoslavia who were still struggling for the possession of the border regions and the Port of Trieste. The port was a strategic hub to supply the allied forces in the occupied Austria. Colonel Gerald Richardson, has been described as a worthy gentleman always well dressed, and with the typical English trait. He tried to infuse the esprit de corps, and to create a cohesion into the newly formed unit. When creating the V.G.P.F, He abolished disciplinary code in use in the Royal Carabineer Corps, judging it too harsh and vicious, encouraged the development of, the new force traditions, personal responsibilities, and the concept of impartiality. Police Force personnel welfare was one of his priorities; he made sure that they all received an adequate salary, appropriate lodging, family allowances, and sickness benefits. However, when a regrettable incident occurred at a village outside Trieste, where a political demonstration had later developed into a riot, was taking place, and three demonstrators were shot de