[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Griffin

n January 1866 and was given the regular army rank of colonel in command of the 35th US Infantry. He briefly commanded the Department of Maine before being sent west to Galveston, Texas. He served as assistant commissioner of the Freedmen's Bureau for Texas in 1867, serving under Philip H. Sheridan.

He became entangled in political issues and registered both black and white voters under the Reconstruction Acts in the spring of that year. He strictly enforced the ironclad oath of allegiance (forcing men to publicly swear that they had never served the Confederacy) as the basis for jury selection. Dissatisfied with the performance of appointed Governor James W. Throckmorton, Griffin persuaded General Sheridan to remove him from office and replace him with a Republican and loyal Unionist, Elisha M. Pease. Together, they used their power and position to remove several Democratic antebellum state officeholders who had supported the Confederacy, replacing them with other Unionists.

Griffin was assigned command of the Fifth Military District, replacing Sheridan, and was ordered to report to New Orleans. However, before he could leave for Louisiana and his new headquarters, he died in September 1867 when Texas was struck by a yellow fever epidemic. He is buried at Oak Hill Cemetery in Washington, D.C.

Fort Griffin on the Texas frontier was later named in his honor.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Union)

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H., and Eicher, David J., Civil War High Commands, Stanford University Press, 2001, .

External links

 Antietam on the Web
 History Central
 

1825 births
1867 deaths
Deaths from yellow fever
People from Granville, Ohio
United States Military Academy alumni
United States Army colonels
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
People of Ohio in the American Civil War
Union Army generals
Texas in the American Civil War
Infectious disease deaths in Texas
Kenyon College alumni
Texas Republicans
Burials at Oak Hill Cemetery (Washington, D.C.)