[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# In the Beauty of the Lilies

lso makes an appearance.  At age 29, just when she is fearing her career is starting to decline, Alma becomes pregnant and gives birth to a son she names Clark, in honor of Clark Gable who is recently deceased.  She makes a successful comeback in a series of musicals, but her son grows up neglected.

Part IV
The final section focuses on Clark and jumps ahead to the late 1980s when he is an aimless young man halfheartedly working as a ski lift operator for his great uncle Jared in Colorado.  The evening after an altercation with another employee, he meets a young woman called Hannah who invites him home with her.  It turns out she lives in a religious commune, similar to that of the Branch Davidians.  Clark agrees to stay on, partially out of aimlessness and attraction to Hannah, but also because the group's puritanical stance on modern American pop culture, particularly movies, appeals to him (reversing the stance of his great grandfather who abandoned religion and embraced the newly born film industry).  The group consists of several young adults and their children, led by the charismatic but controlling Jesse.  Turning more and more away from modern American life, the group grows increasingly paranoid and isolated, refusing to send its children to school and shooting at a school bus driver.  This eventually leads to a siege similar to that at Waco.  Jesse orders Clark and the other adult male followers to shoot all the women and children; Clark however rebels and shoots Jesse instead.  This action ends up saving most of the women and children, although Clark is shot and killed himself soon afterward. A number of Clark's relatives, including Ted (now a widower in his nineties) view the siege on the television news.  Despite their shock and grief they are proud that the young man most of them had dismissed years ago as a loser has saved so many lives.

Reception

Writing in The New York Times, Michiko Kakutani called the novel “dazzling”. An attempt “to chart the fortunes of an American family through four generations and some 80 years, and in doing so, create a portrait of the country, from its nervous entry into the 20th century to its stumbling approach to the millennium,” writes Kakutani in her assessment. “‘In the Beauty of the Lilies’ is not only Mr. Updike's most ambitious novel to date, but arguably his finest: a big, generous book, narrated with Godlike omniscience and authority and populated by a wonderfully vivid cast of dreamers, wimps, social climbers, crackpots and lost souls, a book that forces us to reassess the American Dream and the crucial role that faith (and the longing for faith) has played in shaping the national soul.”

Critic James Wood called it a "complacent historical saga". Writer and critic Joseph Bottum wrote in Commentary,  "The story is perhaps a little sketchy, as though the book were an abstract for a novel rather than the finished thing, but it is a thoughtful and serious book, in places funny and in places sad, by a thoughtful and serious man, the prose master of his generation".

In The New Yorker, critic George Steiner called the novel “awesome,” concluding, “Updike’s genius, his place beside Hawthorne and Nabokov have never been more assured.”

In 2015, Publishers Weekly ranked the novel among its “Ten Best John Updike Books”.

Honors

The novel received the 1997 Ambassador Book Award for Fiction, presented by the English-Speaking Union.

References 

1996 American novels
Ambassador Book Award-winning works
Novels by John Updike
Alfred A. Knopf books
Family saga novels
Novels set in New Jersey
Novels set in Delaware