[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Original Keetoowah Society

1, 1900; the 1906 Act and the virtual political dissolution of the corrupt Cherokee government as of 4 March 1906, presidential approval for all tribal ordinances affecting tribal or individual lands after allotment, and the allotment in severalty [the condition of being separate] of Cherokee lands.

1930s and tribal reorganization
"John Smith, the most influential Nighthawk leader among Redbird Smith's sons, had lost virtually all credibility among Keetoowahs by the 1930s." He had supported Chester Polk Cornelius, an Oneida who had "engaged them in speculative schemes", leading to splintering of the religious group into multiple factions. As a result, two different and opposing ceremonial grounds were established by the Keetoowah Society, although each was run by members of Redbird Smith's family: at the grounds of Redbird and Stokes Smith. Other related groups claiming Keetoowah status were known as the Goingsnake "Seven Clans" fire, the Medicine Springs Fire or Medicine Society, and the Four Mothers Nation.

Keetoowah Society divergence 
Other political factions arose among the Keetoowah. During the 1930s, the majority of Keetoowah factions supported the idea of reorganizing the Keetoowah Cherokee in all the old clan districts to apply for self-government as a united Band under the proposed 1934 Indian Reorganization Act. The United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians gained federal recognition as a tribe in 1950. 

The Cherokees by Blood, representing all Cherokee descendants, rather than Keetoowah alone, failed in 1932 to obtain standing as a party to the Cherokee claims litigation. The Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma gained federal recognition in 1970 and has by far the larger membership.

References

Further reading
  Book length (292 page) record of testimony given at 1994 oversight meeting that brought together Oklahoma tribal leaders with Oklahoma legislators, and Bill Richardson and representatives of the Department of Interior and the Bureau of Indian Affairs. (If used, page numbers must be given to point where information is drawn.)
  Text from R.J. Conley, accompanying D. Fitzgerald's photographs.

External links
"Spirit of the Fire" Video
Original Keetoowah Society Website
United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians
Cherokee Nation

Cherokee culture
Native American organizations
Native American religion