[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# March 1973

province
Died: 
Evelyn Baring, Baron Howick, 69, British colonial official who served as Governor of Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) 1942 to 1944 and Governor of Kenya 1952 to 1959.
General Li Mi, 70, Nationalist Chinese officer who had fought in the Chinese Civil War against the Communist Chinese

March 11, 1973 (Sunday)
In the first free elections in Argentina since 1963, dentist Héctor Cámpora was elected the first civilian president of the South American nation after nearly a decade of military rule. Running on the premise of being a caretaker, he would serve only four months before relinquishing the position in favor of former dictator Juan Perón. Cámpora received almost 50 percent of the vote to defeat eight other challengers, including second-place finisher Ricardo Balbín and Francisco Manrique. In the Argentine Congress, Cámpora's Partido Justicialista won 146 of the 253 seats in the Chamber of Deputies of the Nation and 45 of the 69 seats in the Senate of the Argentine Nation. General Alejandro A. Lanusse, president of the military regime the governed Argentina, reluctantly confirmed the Peronist candidate's victory and said "The popular mandate will be inexorably carried out."
In the second round of voting for France's national assembly, the left won an increased number of votes and MPs, but the majority party of President Georges Pompidou won the election.
The Soviet Union's lunar rover Lunokhod 2 began its third round of activity on the moon's surface.
The Broadway play 42 Seconds from Broadway, written by Louis Del Grande, opened at the Playhouse Theatre in New York City and closed after one performance. 
Born: Lilí Brillanti, Mexican television hostess; in Mexico City 
Died: 
Tim Buck, 82, General Secretary of the Communist Party of Canada from 1929 to 1962 and its honorary chairman since 1962.
Manuel Rojas, 77, Chilean novelist and journalist

March 12, 1973 (Monday)
John T. Downey, the longest-held prisoner of war in United States history, was released after more than 20 years in prison as a humanitarian gesture by the People's Republic of China. Downey crossed over the Sham Chun River bridge from Shenzhen into British Hong Kong. Downey, a pilot for the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), had been captured in Manchuria on November 29, 1952, along with Richard Fecteau while on a mission to extract a CIA courier. Fecteau had been set free on December 13, 1971. Downey's release came after U.S. President Nixon had publicly admitted that Downey had been a CIA agent, and after a personal request by Nixon to China's Premier Zhou Enlai following a stroke suffered by Downey's mother.
U.S. President Richard Nixon announced that he was expanding the protection of executive privilege, the means in which the U.S. president and staff were immune from having to testify or answer questions about White House events while in office, and said that it applied to former staff members as well.
The Italian ore freighter Igara sank one day after striking a rock near Merdarik Island after passing through the Sunda Stait in the South China Sea. Although her 38-man crew was all rescued, the ship was a total loss with a value of US$25 million, the largest marine insurance payout up to that time. While part of the stern of the ship stuck out of the water, the bow section went down in the  deep section of sea and has remained there for more than fifty years.
In Chachoengsao Province, Thailand, an unidentified soldier threw a grenade into a large crowd at a temple fair, killing one person and injuring 25 when he got upset over music being played.
The final episode of U.S. comedy series Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In, at one-time the most popular show on television but the victim of declining ratings, aired on NBC.
Ben Villaflor of the Philippines, the World Boxing Association (WBA) super-featherweight champion, lost to Japanese challenger Kuniaki Shibata in 15 rounds in a bout in Honolulu, Hawaii. In a rematch on October 17, he would win back his title by defeating Shibata.