[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Martin Wong

12, 1999. Miguel Piñero, Wong's former partner, died a decade earlier in 1988 from cirrhosis.

Wong's aunt, Eleanor "Nora" Wong, was an active participant in the San Francisco Chinese nightclub scene in the 1940s. She most notably had a host of duties, including principal singer, at Forbidden City.

Legacy 
Wong was acknowledged in a New York Times obituary as an artist "whose meticulous visionary realism is among the lasting legacies of New York's East Village art scene of the 1980s". Critical esteem has sustained since his death, and Wong's works can be found in collections worldwide, including the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the de Young Museum, the Bronx Museum of the Arts, the Syracuse University Art Collection and in the cities of New York and San Francisco. The Martin Wong Papers reside at the Fales Library, New York University, and include among other things sketchbooks, correspondence, biographical documents, videocassette recordings, photographs, graffiti-related materials, and parts of Wong's personal library.
The catalog of a joint exhibition of Wong's work at the New Museum of Contemporary Art and the Illinois State University Galleries was published by Rizzoli in 1998 in Sweet Oblivion: The Urban Landscape of Martin Wong.

Two of Martin Wong's paintings are in the collection of the Whitney Museum in New York City. The Museum of Modern Art has three of Wong's works in its permanent collection. One of his paintings is in the collection of the state of California and displayed permanently at the California State Building in San Francisco. The Society of Contemporary Art at the Art Institute of Chicago acquired the painting "Sweet Oblivion" in May 2012.

Martin Wong has had collaborations with the clothing brand Supreme, which released a number of items such as an 8 ball shirt, with some of his art as a graphic on the piece, and an 8 ball hoodie of the same design, among many other pieces.

Founded by his mother in 2001, the Martin Wong Foundation was created to help fund art programs and young artists through collegiate art scholarships, art publications and active art education programs. Since 2003, the scholarships have continued to be offered at Humboldt State University, Wong's alma mater, San Francisco State University, New York University, and Arizona State University.

The exhibition Martin Wong: Malicious Mischief, Curated by Krist Gruijthuijsen and Agustín Pérez Rubio, is being presented at the Museo Centro de Arte Dos de Mayo in Spain from November 2022 to January 2023. After Museo CA2M, the exhibition will travel to KW Institute for Contemporary Art in Berlin, from 25 February to 14 May 2023; Camden Art Centre in London from 7 July to 17 September 2023; and Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam from November 2023 to February 2024.

See also
 Julie Ault
 American Sign Language
 List of LGBT people from Portland, Oregon

References

External links
 Martin Wong Foundation

1946 births
1999 deaths
20th-century American painters
20th-century American male artists
American male painters
California State Polytechnic University, Humboldt alumni
American people of Chinese descent
American gay artists
Artists from Portland, Oregon
Painters from San Francisco
American LGBT people of Asian descent
LGBT people from Oregon
AIDS-related deaths in California
20th-century American LGBT people