[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kevin Gaughan

arty Committeeman Mark William Webb, took a visible stand against what they felt was an intrusion into their government from external forces. Webb argued, "It's much harder to corrupt four men in a room than two", adding, "[W]e're a very strong community. We're a proud community. We love this town."

The village of Farnham, New York had a dissolution vote September 28, 2010. Farnham Mayor Terry L. Caber Sr. said he believes that village government is most efficient. "The bottom line is, I just want to make sure the residents really understand the full picture, the full impact, and let them make the decision". Voters rejected the Farnham dissolution referendum.

The towns of West Seneca and Alden revisited the downsizing and voted to keep their downsized boards in 2012.

In 2015 the town of Hamburg voted to return to a 5 member Town Board.

The voters of the town of West Seneca will determine whether or not to return to a 5 member town board in the 2018 general election after a petition was filed calling for the vote by the Committee to Restore Representation in West Seneca.

In 2019 an Orchard Park group headed by Nan Ackerman petitioned to have the board upsized to five members.  Voters approved the referendum and on January 1, 2022 Orchard Park returned to a five member board.

The Gaughan Plan
Gaughan presented his "Gaughan Plan" on regionalism to the Erie County Legislature Government Affairs Committee on April 27, 2005. The plan is as follows:

See also
Unigov
Council of Governments

References

Sources
 Gaughan, Kevin P. At First Light: Strengthening Buffalo Niagara in the New Century. Buffalo, New York: Canisius College Press, 2003.

External links
Gaughan's Personal website
"The Cost" study website
Clip of Gaughan speaking on the history of Buffalo-Niagara
Canisius College Press "At First Light" page
Buffalo News Editorial Discussing The Cost
Article about "The Cost"
Concerned Citizens for Responsible Growth in West Seneca's website

1954 births
Lawyers from Buffalo, New York
People from Erie County, New York
American urban planners
Harvard University alumni
Georgetown University Law Center alumni
Alumni of the London School of Economics
Living people
Activists from New York (state)