[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Catholic Church in Malaysia

rime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak and Pope Benedict XVI in Rome. Najib was accompanied by the Archbishop of Kuala Lumpur, Murphy Nicholas Xavier Pakiam. Archbishop Pakiam went to Vatican not as part of Malaysian Government, but was asked by Vatican to join the delegation as Church representative.

The first resident ambassador of Malaysia to the Holy See, Tan Sri Bernard Giluk Dompok, was elected in October 2015 by Pope Francis. The year 2017 marked the opening of the official chancery of the Holy See in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Following the change of government from Barisan Nasional to Pakatan Harapan after the 14th general election, Bernard Giluk Dompok was terminated of his service on 30 June 2018.

Westmoreland Edward Palon, who was named by Wisma Putra as Malaysia's second ambassador to the Vatican on 21 March, is a Bidayuh who hails from Kampung Duras, Kuching.

The Apostolic Nunciature in Malaysia was established on the 27 July 2011 through an official act of the Holy See Acta Apostolicae Sedis. The current nuncio is Archbishop Wojciech Zaluski.

21st century 

As of 2020, half of Malaysian Christians were Catholic; this was 4.63% of the country's population.

The country is divided into nine dioceses including three archdioceses:
 Archdiocese of Kuala Lumpur
Diocese of Malacca Johore
 Diocese of Penang
 Archdiocese of Kuching
 Diocese of Miri
 Diocese of Sibu
 Archdiocese of Kota Kinabalu
 Diocese of Keningau
 Diocese of Sandakan

Catholic publications
The Catholic Church in Malaysia has its own weekly newspaper, The Herald, distributed to all Catholic churches throughout Malaysia. Sabah and Sarawak also have their own local newspapers, such as Catholic Sabah (fortnightly), and Today's Catholic (monthly).

Notable people
 Sebastian Francis – Malaysia's second Roman Catholic cardinal, elevated on 30 September 2023.
 Anthony Soter Fernandez †- Malaysia's first Roman Catholic cardinal, elevated on 19 November 2016. 
Tan Sri Datuk Seri Panglima Bernard Giluk Dompok – the first Ambassador of Malaysia to the Holy See (Vatican City). 
 Dato' Hans Isaac – Actor, producer, director and former model.
 Kasthuriraani Patto – politician and former Member of Parliament (MP) for Batu Kawan.
 Dato Pandelela Rinong Pamg – national diver and a two-time Olympic medalist. 
 Yang Amat Berbahagia Tun Datuk Seri Panglima Richard Malanjum – the 9th Chief Justice of Malaysia.
Teresa Kok – Member of Parliament for Seputeh and former Minister for Primary Industry.
 Dato Westmoreland anak Edward Palon – the second Ambassador of Malaysia to the Holy See (Vatican City).

See also
 Christianity in Asia
 Christianity in Malaysia
 Religion in Malaysia
 Freedom of religion in Malaysia

References

External links
 Website of the Archdiocese of Kuala Lumpur
 Malaysian Catholic Christians Facebook group
 Malaysia Herald Catholic Newspaper
 Catholic Hierarchy for Malaysia

Further reading
 Khabar Gembira: History of the Catholic Church in East Malaysia and Brunei, 1880–1976 by John Rooney
 The Journey of the Catholic Church in Malaysia, 1511–1996 by Maureen K. C Chew
 The Founding of the Roman Catholic Church in Melanesia and Micronesia, 1850–1875 (Princeton Theological Monograph) by Ralph M. Wiltgen
 "The Roman Catholic Church" in Robert Hunt, Lee Kam Hing and John Roxborogh, Christianity in Malaysia: A Denominational History, Pelanduk, 1992, 1–33

 
Catholic Church by country
Catholic Church in Asia