[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Orbital blowout fracture

the orbit but results in the most visible scar.

2. Transconjunctival 
The advantage to this approach is direct access to the orbit and there is no skin incision. The disadvantage to this a purported decreased view of the orbit which can be offset with a canthotomy to increase the view of the orbit.

3. Endosocpic Approaches
Endoscopically, transnasal and transantral approaches had been used for reduction and support of fractured medial and inferior walls, respectively enophthalmos was improved in 89% of the endoscopic group and 76% of the external group (NS). The endoscopic group had no significant complications. The external group had ectropions, significant facial scars, extrusion of inserted Medpor, and intra-orbital hematoma.Disadvantage is working towards the globe rather than away with instruments.

Materials for Implant
- Nylon suprafoil 
- Titanium mesh 
- Bone Graft 
- Porous Polyethylene sheets 
- Reservable materials 
- Preformed orbital implant

Epidemiology 
Orbital fractures, in general, are more prevalent in men than women. In one study in children, 81% of cases were boys (mean age 12.5 years). In another study in adults, men accounted for 72% of orbital fractures (mean age 81). 
It has also been shown in the literature that put orbital medial wall fractures are more common in African Americans due to the increased density of their bone minerals compared to other ethnicities. However the lamina papyrcea is the same in all ethnicities so this is more commonly broken in African Americans

Clinical Pearl

History
Orbital floor fractures were investigated and described by MacKenzie in Paris in 1844 and the term blow out fracture was coined in 1957 by Smith & Regan, who were investigating injuries to the orbit and resultant inferior rectus entrapment, by placing a hurling ball on cadaverous orbits and striking it with a mallet.In the 1970s an occuplastic surgeon named Putterman described the first recommendations for surgery. In the 1970s Putterman advocated for repair of virtually no orbital floor fractures and instead promoted watchful waiting for up to six weeks. At the same time the Plastic surgeons put out literature recommending repair of every orbital floor fracture. Now there has been a softening from both sides and an agreeance in the middle.

References

External links 

 CT Scans of Blowout Fracture from MedPix

Bone fractures