[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ban Non Wat

re 162 burials found in Ban Non Wat dating to Phase 4. It is at this time that the people of Ban Non Wat are being buried into specific groupings however there is no data supporting what these groups represent. Phase 4 also marks the dramatic decrease in grave goods as previously seen in Phases 1–3.

Phase 5 occurred from 700 to 420 BC. There is no clear date for the end of the Bronze Age and the beginning of the Iron Age at Ban Non Wat. Many of the burials for this phase rely on the presence of bronze grave goods instead of iron as well as the law of superposition. Phase 5 continues the practice of decreased grave goods as seen in Phase 4.

One example of a unique burial at Ban Non Wat comes in the form of a dog burial that was found with two bowls, believed by archaeologists to be for food and water.

Iron Age 
With the Iron Age, a new range of exotic ornaments accompanied the dead, including carnelian, agate, and glass. Later in the Iron Age, the site was surrounded by banks and two moats, which involved the reticulation of water from the adjacent river round the site. The rice fields surrounding the village, although yet to be exhaustively studied, are thought to have been irrigated thousands of years ago, and preliminary dating has supported this theory. In contrast with the Bronze Age, the Iron Age provided significantly fewer burial goods.

Burials during the Iron Age at Ban Non Wat are divided into two phases. Phase 1 Iron Age burials contents are very similar to Phase 5 Bronze Age burials grave goods, with the presence of Iron goods often being the only distinguishing factor between the two. Phase 2 Iron Age burials are often noted by the presence of Phimai Black pottery in addition to iron works and exotic goods. However the amount of grave goods is still dramatically reduced compared to some Bronze Age burials.

Many of the artifacts recovered have suggested an ongoing link with the Khmer culture, unsurprising given the site's proximity to one end of the Ancient Khmer Highway, at the Phimai Historical Park.

Evidence for metal working 
While excavations at Ban Non Wat are primarily about burials, recent excavations show that the residents of Ban Non Wat were likely producing their own metalworks. Archaeologists were able to uncover about a dozen working floors dating to the Iron Age. These floors were made of baked clay varying in color and texture. In addition to the floors, artifacts associated with metal working such as crucibles and bronze and iron fragments were also found at the site.

Complications 
The site of Ban Non Wat has accrued significant questioning that concerns several results including the Bayesian analysis, as well as the significance of the burial goods and their meanings. There is also argument on the importance of the bronze grave goods found in the burials; due to the fact that the introduction of metal had a significantly different social construct when compared to other cultures. Additionally, the soil in the area has a higher acidity due to the environment which can interfere with both digs and scientific analysis.

There is some conversation concerning the occupation of Ban Non Wat. The site has been continuously occupied since the Bronze Age, during the neolithic age the site could have been less densely populated and used as a seasonal occupation site until the Bronze Age.

References

Archaeological sites in Thailand
Geography of Nakhon Ratchasima province
Prehistoric Thailand