[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2008 Bangladeshi general election

the highest in the history of Bangladeshi elections. This was the first time elections used national ID cards with photographs to avoid fake voting, which was an UN-funded initiative to create a digital electoral roll. Prior to the elections, 11 million false names were removed from the voter lists.

About 50,000 soldiers of Bangladeshi Army and 600,000 police officers were deployed to guard against election fraud and violence. However, two people were killed in post election violence. 200,000 electoral observers, including 2,500 from outside Bangladesh, monitored the elections and confirmed their free and fair nature. Before the elections, the army-backed caretaker government took measures to eliminate corruption from the process.

By division

Reactions

  Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh congratulated Sheikh Hasina on the landslide victory. Singh conveyed the message "I look forward to working with you towards this end for the mutual benefit of our two people". India's External Affairs Minister Pranab Mukherjee said, "I do hope that once the new government comes, we will discuss the existence of the problem (terrorism emanating from Bangladesh) with them and we will see what best can be done". Other political parties of India, such as Bhartiya Janata Party, Trinamool Congress and CPI(M) also congratulated Sheikh Hasina.
  President of United States George W. Bush phoned Sheikh Hasina and congratulated her on assuming the office of Prime Minister of Bangladesh. President Bush, who made the phone call at 6:40 pm Bangladesh time on 11 January, termed Hasina's success in the parliamentary election a "landslide victory", an official handout said. He said the verdict of the people of Bangladesh to establish non-communal democracy is notable. Prime Minister Hasina thanked the US President on behalf of the government and people of Bangladesh and her party. She said the support and cooperation of the US, along with other countries, toward holding a free, fair and neutral election in Bangladesh was commendable. The principal enemy of Bangladeshi people was poverty, she said and hoped for US cooperation to build a poverty-free Bangladesh. The Prime Minister told the US President that terrorism was one of the main problems in South Asia. She stressed the need for taking an effective joint initiative to fight terrorism in the region.
  The British prime minister Gordon Brown congratulated Sheikh Hasina on the election victory and her swearing-in as Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, said a release of the British High Commission in Dhaka. Brown said, 'My congratulations on your victory. The UK values its close ties with Bangladesh and we look forward to working with your government to help you meet the expectations of your people. I hope that you will work with all parties to create a brighter future for Bangladesh.
The UK's secretary of state for foreign and commonwealth affairs David Miliband, in the statement, urged the ruling party and the opposition to work together for nation building, shunning politics of confrontation and violence. "The Election Commission, caretaker government and observers have worked hard to create conditions in which free, fair and peaceful elections can take place. "The people of Bangladesh have spoken in huge numbers and they can be proud of the manner in which the elections were conducted", Miliband said in a statement released by the local British high commission. "This is a historic moment for Bangladesh to cast aside the politics of confrontation and violence, in favour of inclusive and consensual democracy", he added. Terming Britain as Bangladesh's friend, he said, "We urge the next government and opposition to work together to meet the expectations of the people in the days and years to come."
Cherie Blair, wife of former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, also greeted Sheikh Hasina for becoming Prime Minister of Bangladesh.
  German Chancellor Angela Merkel has congratulated newly elected Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. In a message of felicitation, the chancellor said she looks forward to further developing the relationship of trust and cooperation between Bangladesh and Germany, reports UNB. Merkel said Germany will continue to be a reliable partner of Bangladesh as it works to strengthen democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao has congratulated Sheikh Hasina on her assumption of office of the Prime Minister, expressing the hope that a comprehensive partnership between Dhaka and Beijing would be raised to a new level, reports UNB. In a message of felicitation, Jiabao said Bangladesh and China are intimate and friendly close neighbours. He said since establishment of diplomatic relations 34 years ago, the two countries always maintain mutual understanding, trust and support to each other, and developed fruitful cooperation in every field. This cooperation, he said, has brought substantial benefits to the people of both th