[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kaye Academic College of Education

ng. Parallel courses in sport and health club- administration and aerobic dance instruction, are also offered. 
 Training courses for art counselors. 
 The Center for Parenting and Family - the center deals with the training of moderators for various local groups that deal with parenting and family.

Projects  
 P.A.C.T.: This is an educational intervention program whose aim is to promote language competency and Mathematics amongst kindergartens children of Ethiopian origin in Beer Sheva. 
 P.A.C.T+: This is an educational intervention program whose aim is to promote language competency and Mathematics amongst school children of Ethiopian origin. 
 Readiness for the first grade: This is an educational intervention program whose aim is to promote learning skills leading to success at school. 
The Center for Educational Growth: This program is run in conjunction with Ben-Gurion University and Kaye College. Its purpose is to lead to changes in the education system. 
 The Sports Center: The center has facilities including a treadmill, a fitness room, physiological laboratories and more.
Visual Arts: The Center for Art Studies in the Negev, also known as the "Visual Arts Center", is a cultural and art institute that is run by the Association for Projects under the auspices of Kaye College, in conjunction with the Beer Sheva Municipality.
 The "Visual Arts Center" was founded in 1976, with the aim of meeting a wide range of social and cultural needs in Beer Sheva and the Negev.
The center is housed in a new building on the college campus. Areas of study include painting, drawing, sculpture, ceramics, photography and lithography. Three tracks are offered in the "Visual Arts Center": 
 Certified art counselor (two years) 
 Senior art counselor (three years) 
 Creative workshops in the morning and the evening for the general public.

See also
Education in Israel
Maimon Cohen

References

External links
 Official site of Kaye Academic College of Education in Hebrew
 Office of International Academic Relations in English
 Distance learning at Kaye College in Hebrew
 Kaye Pedagogical Center's Site map

Colleges in Israel
Universities and colleges established in 1954
1954 establishments in Israel
Education schools in Israel