[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Two Flags West

icted, until September 1862, when that regiment was sent east to fight against the Confederacy. Although Fort Thorn was probably not occupied after that time, the 5th Infantry remained in New Mexico throughout the Civil War, and in theory its forces could have been augmented by "Galvanized Yankees".

The 5th Georgia Cavalry was an actual unit of the Confederate Army of the Tennessee but saw service exclusively in the war's Western Theater, not with Jeb Stuart as depicted. Satank was an actual person but his notoriety was primarily post-bellum of the Civil War, and in Texas. The only officer commissioned from the ranks of the "Galvanized Yankees" was John T. Shanks, born in Texas, who had been a supply captain of the Tennessee Volunteers captured with Morgan's Raiders. Characterised as an adventurer, con man, and criminal, he was awarded command of a company of the 6th U.S.V.I. for his assistance in thwarting a breakout at the Camp Douglas prison camp. A detachment of Company H of the 5th U.S.V.I. escorting a wagon train in June 1865 is the only known unit of Galvanized Yankees to venture into New Mexico.

The plot scenario of the Confederacy attempting to militarily link Texas to California was attempted in 1862. In the film, when Confederate agent Ephraim Strong enlists Tucker into participating in the scheme, Tucker alludes to the unsuccessful New Mexico Campaign by saying, "You mean what General Sibley had in mind three years ago?"  Historically the strategy remained a proposed contingency until late in the war, although it was never again attempted.

Reception
Two Flags West opened October 14, 1950, at the Rivoli Theater in New York City, to a favorable review from New York Times critic Bosley Crowther.

References

External links 
 
 
 
Review of film at Variety

1950 Western (genre) films
1950 films
American black-and-white films
Western (genre) cavalry films
American Civil War films
Films directed by Robert Wise
American Western (genre) films
20th Century Fox films
Films scored by Hugo Friedhofer
1950 drama films
1950s English-language films
1950s American films