[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yona Bogale

s from Addis Ababa to Jerusalem.

Yona Bogale died in 1987 at his home in Petah Tikva. His funeral was attended by over 4,000 mourners, including the Speaker of the Knesset, Shlomo Hillel. He was buried in Har Hamenuchot, Jerusalem, near the grave of his teacher, Professor Tamrat Emmanuel .

Legacy 

Because of his devotion to his people and his persistence in freeing them from oppression, Bogale has often been compared to Mahatma Gandhi, Nelson Mandela, Martin Luther King Jr. and Theodor Herzl.  In addition to his life's work of returning the Beta Israelis to their homeland in Israel, he was a prolific author, editor and translator. Among other works, he published A "Falasha" Book of Jewish Festivals, an Amharic translation of portions of Pirke Avot and other prayer books, a Hebrew-Amharic dictionary, and translations of two 16th Century history books—all intended to give those Ethiopian Jews who were not proficient in Hebrew access to books in their native tongue, as well as the means to learn the language of their religion. Fluent in Hebrew, Yiddish, English, French, Italian, German, Tigrinya, Oromia, Geez and Amharic languages, he introduced the Beta Israel community to the first Hebrew-English-Amharic calendar, published every year from 1954 to 1978. Bogale was an early proponent of Ethiopian Jews praying in Hebrew instead of the ancient Semitic language, Ge'ez, as he felt that it was no longer appropriate for those seeking to be a part of the broader Jewish community. However, he did think that Hebrew prayers could be set to Ethiopian Jewish melodies to preserve some liturgical traditions of the Beta Israel community. Examples of Bogale's work and one of his awards appear below:                            

___

Bogale's life and work are depicted in a 2009 Israeli documentary I had a Dream - The Story of Yona Bogale by Tizita Germany. He is the subject of many articles, essays and other publications, including two biographies by his son, Zecarias Yona: Yona Bogale and the Case of the Beta Israelis (Amharic), and Yona Bogale: Hero and Savior of the Ethiopian Jews (English)

 1985 recipient of the Oat Hanegid , the Israeli Knesset's highest award, for service to Beta Israel, presented by Shlomo Hilel, Knesset president. (As Minister of the Interior in 1977, Hilel was instrumental in passing the resolution that Ethiopian Jews can emigrate to Israel under the Law of Return.
2020 proclamation, dedicating streets named for Yona Bogale in Rishon LeZion, Israel.
 2007, the Rehovot City Council voted to name a local school after Bogale.
 During the celebration of Israel's 60th Anniversary in 2008, a special tribute paid by Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to Yona Bogale and the Ethiopian community.

References 

Beta Israel
Ethiopian Jews
Ethiopian emigrants to Israel
Biography/Politics and government articles needing expert attention
1908 births
1987 deaths
People from Amhara Region
Ethiopian human rights activists
Jewish human rights activists
Faitlovitch students
Heidelberg University alumni
Ethiopian translators
Jewish educators
Education in Ethiopia
Ethiopian expatriates in Germany
People from Wolleka
Burials at Har HaMenuchot