[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Victor Odlum

Victor Wentworth Odlum, CB, CMG, DSO (21 October 1880 – 4 April 1971) was a Canadian journalist, soldier, and diplomat. He was a prominent member of the business and political elite of Vancouver, British Columbia from the 1920s until his death in 1971. He was a newspaper publisher, a Liberal MLA from 1924–1928, co-founder of the Non-Partisan Association in 1937, temperance advocate, one of the first directors on the board of governors that oversaw the new Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, and a Canadian ambassador. He fought in the Second Boer War, World War I and World War II.

Early life
Odlum was born in Cobourg, Ontario, the son of Edward Odlum (1850–1935), a historian and supporter of British Israelism. (A small street in Vancouver is named after the senior Odlum). When Victor was 6, his family moved to Japan for four years before moving to Vancouver, British Columbia in 1889.

At age 19, Odlum fought in the Boer War with The Royal Canadian Regiment; upon his return, he became a newspaperman, serving as a reporter and then editor-in-chief of the Daily World. By the time he was 25, he was editor of the Vancouver Daily World.

First World War
With the outbreak of World War I in 1914, Odlum received a commission as major of the 7th Battalion of the First Canadian Division of the Canadian Expeditionary Force, second-in-command under Lieutenant-Colonel William Hart-McHarg.

Second Battle of Ypres
Odlum's battalion moved into the front lines in April 1915, and only days later was subjected to the first gas attacks on the Western Front that heralded the Second Battle of Ypres. Odlum showed great personal bravery during the battle. On a reconnaissance with Hart-McHarg, the two suddenly came under heavy small arms fire from a concealed group of Germans. They took cover in a shell-hole, Hart-McHarg seriously wounded. Realizing Hart-McHarg needed immediate medical attention, Odlum left the safety of the shell hole and zig-zagged up a hill under heavy fire in order to locate a medical officer. Despite Odlum's bravery, Hart-McHarg's wound proved fatal, and Odlum was subsequently promoted to command of the 7th Battalion, reporting to Brigadier-General Arthur Currie, commander of the 2nd Brigade. Odlum's battalion was almost immediately transferred to the 3rd Brigade under Brigadier-General Richard Turner and moved to the vicinity of St. Julien. The next day, the entire 3rd Brigade came under intense attack. After repulsing several attacks, Odlum's battalion desperately needed reinforcements and ammunition, but calls and messages to Turner's headquarters went unheeded. An ammunition party composed of Odlum's brother Joseph and several others attempted to resupply the front-line trenches; Odlum, from his command post, watched with shock as a shell landed in the midst of the party, killing his brother and several others. Odlum eventually was forced to withdraw his brigade before it was completely overwhelmed, but organized the withdrawal so well that his men suffered minimal losses.

He was later awarded the Distinguished Service Order, the citation for which reads:

Remainder of the war

Odlum's abilities under fire were noted by General Arthur Currie, and Odlum was promoted regularly, eventually attaining the rank of Brigadier General by the end of the war. He often was in the front lines with his men, personally led several attacks with pistol drawn, and was wounded three times during the war. Because he was a strict teetotaller, he insisted on non-alcoholic substitutes for his troops' traditional daily rum ration, earning him the derisive nicknames "Pea Soup Odlum" and "Old Lime Juice".

In 1917, Odlum and fellow officer David Watson helped their commanding officer Arthur Currie avoid charges of embezzlement by loaning Currie enough money to repay a large sum he had borrowed from regimental funds before the war.

Prominent citizen of Vancouver
After the war Odlum returned to Vancouver, where he became a prominent financier, founding the investment firm Odlum Brown in 1923 with Colonel Albert "Buster" Brown. Odlum and fellow soldiers of his old 7th Battalion erected a memorial tablet in Christ Church, Vancouver, to perpetuate the memory of their original commanding officer, William Hart-McHarg, killed during the Second Battle of Ypres.  Odlum also served as a member of the Provincial Legislature from 1924–1928. At the same time, he returned to the world of journalism, becoming the owner of the Vancouver Daily Star.