[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mount Meager massif

and North American plates remains locked for periods of roughly 500 years. During these periods, stress builds up on the interface between the plates and causes tectonic uplift of the North American margin. When the plate finally slips, it releases 500 years of stored energy in a massive earthquake.

Unlike most subduction zones worldwide, there is no deep oceanic trench present along the continental margin in Cascadia. The mouth of the Columbia River empties directly into the subduction zone and deposits silt at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean, burying this large depression, or area of sunken land. Massive floods from prehistoric Glacial Lake Missoula during the  also deposited large amounts of sediment into the trench. However, as with other subduction zones the outer margin is slowly being compressed like a giant spring. When the stored energy is suddenly released by slippage across the fault at irregular intervals, the Cascadia subduction zone can create enormous earthquakes such as the magnitude 9.0 Cascadia earthquake of January 26, 1700. However earthquakes along the Cascadia subduction zone are uncommon, and there is evidence of a decline in volcanic activity over the last few million years. The probable explanation lies in the rate of convergence between the Juan de Fuca and North American plates, which converge at  to  per year, about half the rate of convergence from seven million years ago.

Local geography

Six main summits constitute the Mount Meager massif. The highest and northernmost summit is  with an elevation of . Mount Meager itself is  in elevation. Capricorn Mountain west of Mount Meager rises with an elevation of . Just west of Capricorn Mountain lies Mount Job,  in elevation. Pylon Peak with an elevation of  is south of Capricorn Mountain and Mount Meager. Devastator Peak, also known as The Devastator, has an elevation of  and is the lowest and southernmost summit of the massif.

Streams and glaciers have played a significant role in dissecting the massif, and its upper slopes are covered with snow and ice. Numerous feeder dikes to older units, formed when magma intrudes into a crack then crystallizes as a sheet intrusion, are exposed by deep erosion. Perkin's Pillar, a vertical tower of brecciated lava, represented an erosional remnant of the massif until its collapse in June 2005. More than 10 streams drain meltwater from the Mount Meager massif, including , Job Creek, No Good Creek, Angel Creek, Devastation Creek, Canyon Creek and . The massif is located within one of British Columbia's many territorial divisions known as the Lillooet Land District.

Local geomorphology
The geomorphology of the Mount Meager massif resembles that of Glacier Peak, another Cascade Arc volcano in the U.S. state of Washington. It consists of at least four overlapping stratovolcanoes that are younger from south to north. With a total volume of , the massif is older than most volcanoes in the Cascade Arc, tracing its history back to 2,200,000 years ago. In the Cascade Range, the oldest volcanoes are generally no more than a million years old. This includes Mount Rainier (500,000 years old), Lassen Peak (25,000 years old), Mount Jefferson (290,000 years old) and Mount St. Helens (50,000 years old). However, portions of the massif formed in the last million years. The volcano is made of volcanic rocks ranging from rhyodacite to basalt. Rhyodacite forms a series of eroded volcanic plugs which form the highest peaks. Their slopes are covered with their eruptive products and serve as the surface expressions of intrusions. As a result, they provide a unique opportunity to study the relationships between magma chambers and their lavas. The mafic (rich in magnesium and iron), intermediate (between mafic and felsic) and felsic (rich in feldspar and quartz) volcanic rocks of the massif were erupted from at least eight volcanic vents.

Bridge River Vent

The Bridge River Vent is a relatively young volcanic crater that formed during an eruption about 2,400 years ago. This eruption ranged in character from explosive to effusive and involved lava dome extrusion, pyroclastic flows, lahars and lava flows. Eastward migration of the  spread material across Western Canada to deposit the Bridge River Ash. In the  and Lillooet River area the ash occurs as a coarse-textured deposit with blocks of pumice up to  in diameter. The texture rapidly becomes finer eastward from the Bridge River. At Big Bar on the Fraser River pellets are up to  in diameter while pellets in the Messiter area have a maximum diameter of .