[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Celtic languages

d depends on which hypothesis is used:

"Insular Celtic hypothesis"
 Proto-Celtic
 Continental Celtic †
 Celtiberian †
 Gallaecian †
 Gaulish †
 Insular Celtic
 Brittonic
 Goidelic

"P/Q-Celtic hypothesis"
 Proto-Celtic
 Q-Celtic
 Celtiberian †
 Gallaecian †
 Goidelic
 P-Celtic
 Gaulish †
 Brittonic

Eska (2010) 
Eska evaluates the evidence as supporting the following tree, based on shared innovations, though it is not always clear that the innovations are not areal features. It seems likely that Celtiberian split off before Cisalpine Celtic, but the evidence for this is not robust. On the other hand, the unity of Gaulish, Goidelic, and Brittonic is reasonably secure. Schumacher (2004, p. 86) had already cautiously considered this grouping to be likely genetic, based, among others, on the shared reformation of the sentence-initial, fully inflecting relative pronoun *i̯os, *i̯ā, *i̯od into an uninflected enclitic particle. Eska sees Cisalpine Gaulish as more akin to Lepontic than to Transalpine Gaulish.

 Celtic
 Celtiberian
 Gallaecian
 Nuclear Celtic?
 Cisalpine Celtic: Lepontic → Cisalpine Gaulish†
 Transalpine–Goidelic–Brittonic (secure)
 Transalpine Gaulish† ("Transalpine Celtic")
 Insular Celtic
 Goidelic
 Brittonic

Eska considers a division of Transalpine–Goidelic–Brittonic into Transalpine and Insular Celtic to be most probable because of the greater number of innovations in Insular Celtic than in P-Celtic, and because the Insular Celtic languages were probably not in great enough contact for those innovations to spread as part of a sprachbund. However, if they have another explanation (such as an SOV substratum language), then it is possible that P-Celtic is a valid clade, and the top branching would be:

 Transalpine–Goidelic–Brittonic (P-Celtic hypothesis)
 Goidelic
 Gallo-Brittonic
 Transalpine Gaulish ("Transalpine Celtic")
 Brittonic

Italo-Celtic 
Within the Indo-European family, the Celtic languages have sometimes been placed with the Italic languages in a common Italo-Celtic subfamily. This hypothesis fell somewhat out of favour after reexamination by American linguist Calvert Watkins in 1966. Irrespectively, some scholars such as Ringe, Warnow and Taylor have argued in favour of an Italo-Celtic grouping in 21st century theses.

Characteristics 
Although there are many differences between the individual Celtic languages, they do show many family resemblances.

 consonant mutations (Insular Celtic only)
 inflected prepositions (Insular Celtic only)
 two grammatical genders (modern Insular Celtic only; Old Irish and the Continental languages had three genders, although Gaulish may have merged the neuter and masculine in its later forms)
 a vigesimal number system (counting by twenties)
 Cornish  "fifty-six" (literally "sixteen and two twenty")
 verb–subject–object (VSO) word order (probably Insular Celtic only)
 an interplay between the subjunctive, future, imperfect, and habitual, to the point that some tenses and moods have ousted others
 an impersonal or autonomous verb form serving as a passive or intransitive
 Welsh  "I teach" vs.  "is taught, one teaches"
 Irish  "I teach" vs.  "is taught, one teaches"
 no infinitives, replaced by a quasi-nominal verb form called the verbal noun or verbnoun
 frequent use of vowel mutation as a morphological device, e.g. formation of plurals, verbal stems, etc.
 use of preverbal particles to signal either subordination or illocutionary force of the following clause
 mutation-distinguished subordinators/relativisers
 particles for negation, interrogation, and occasionally for affirmative declarations
 pronouns positioned between particles and verbs
 lack of simple verb for the imperfective "have" process, with possession conveyed by a composite structure, usually BE + preposition
 Cornish  "I have a cat", literally "there is a cat to me"
 Welsh  "I have a cat", literally "a cat is with me"
 Irish  "I have a cat", literally "there is a cat at me"
 use of periphrastic constructions to express verbal tense, voice, or aspectual distinctions
 distinction by function of the two versions of BE verbs traditionally labelled substantive (or existential) and copula
 bifurcated demonstrative structure
 suffixed pronominal supplements, called confirming or supplementary pronouns
 use of singulars or special forms of counted nouns, and use of a singulative suffix to make singular forms from plurals, where older singulars have disappeared

Examples:
 
 (Literal translation) Do not bother with son the beggar's and not will-bother son the beggar's with-you.
  is the genitive of . The  the result of affection; the  is the lenited form of .
  is the second person singular inflected form of the preposition .
 The order is verb–subject–object (VSO) in the second half. Compare this to English or French (and possibly Continental Celtic) which are normally subject–verb–object in word order.