[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# History of the North Sea

han a hundred thousand tons of munitions were sunk.

The Maunsell Sea Forts were small fortified towers built in the Thames and Mersey estuaries during the Second World War to help defend the United Kingdom. One of which on HM Fort Roughs is now occupied by the controversial Principality of Sealand.

Cold War
Post Second World War period, the North Sea, bounded entirely by NATO allies became completely peaceful whilst significant Cold War confrontation began in the Baltic.
Its economic importance grew in the 1960s as surrounding countries began to exploit oil and gas resources. The largest environmental catastrophe in the North Sea was the destruction of the Occidental Petroleum offshore oil platform Piper Alpha in 1988 in which 167 people lost their lives.

Political status
Although de facto control of the North Sea played a decisive role in the political power relationships in north-west Europe since the time of the Vikings, and became a question of world politics after the First Anglo-Dutch War, until after the Second World War the bordering countries officially claimed no more than narrow coastal waters.  In the last few decades things have changed.

The countries bordering the North Sea all claim the twelve nautical miles (22 km) of territorial waters within which they have, for example, exclusive fishing rights. Iceland, however, as a result of the Cod Wars has exclusive fishing rights for  from its coast, into parts of the North Sea.  The Common Fisheries Policy of the European Union exists to coordinate fishing rights and assist with disputes between EU states and the EU border state of Norway.

After the discovery of mineral resources in the North Sea, Norway claimed its rights under the Continental Shelf Convention and the other countries on the sea followed suit.  These rights are largely divided along the median line, defined as the line "every point of which is equidistant from the nearest points of the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea of each State is measured."
Only for the border between Germany, the Netherlands, and Denmark was the ocean floor otherwise divided after protracted negotiations and a judgment of the International Court of Justice
according to which Germany, by reason of its geographic position, received a smaller section of the ocean floor in relation to its coastline, than the other disputants.

In relation to environmental protection and marine pollution the MARPOL 73/78 Accords created 25- and 50-mile (40 and 80 km) zones of protection.  Furthermore, the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic concerns itself directly with the question of the preservation of the ocean in the region. Germany, Denmark, and the Netherlands have a trilateral agreement for the protection of the Wadden Sea, or mudflats, which run along the coasts of the three countries on the southern edge of the North Sea.

The European Maritime Safety Agency has monitored and coordinated all sea traffic through the sea since its inception in 2003.  While the Agency is part of the EU, non-member states Norway and Iceland have seats in the agency as they are directly affected.

See also
Battle of the Atlantic
Battle of Dogger Bank (1781)
Battle of Camperdown – French revolutionary wars
Battle of Dover -First battle of First Anglo-Dutch War
Battle of Marston Moor
Battle of the Somme – World War I battle
Battle of Schooneveld – Franco-Dutch War of 1672–1678
Campaigns of World War II – Battle of the Atlantic 
Frisians – Mare Frisia first North Sea naming.
History of Germany – World War I blockade
History of the Netherlands – Roman era and Frisian realm Greater Frisia or Frisia Magna
History of Scotland – Exodus of Norwegians in WWI
History of Sweden (1772–1809) – 1794 Scandinavian wars
History of whaling
Invasion of Poland (1939) – Polish Navy joined with the British Royal Navy.
Lotharingia – Medieval short-lived kingdom in western Europe
Maritime history
Namsos Campaign – World War II
Nine Years' War – (1688–97) Dutch convoy struck in the North Sea
Operation Sea Lion – cancelled World War II operation
The Edge of the World (book) - "a cultural history of the North Sea and the transformation of Europe"

References