[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Washburn High School

Washburn High School is a four-year public high school serving grades 9–12 in the Tangletown neighborhood of Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States. By enrollment, Washburn is the second-largest high school in Minneapolis Public Schools.

History 
Washburn High School was built in 1925 to meet the demands of the growing South Minneapolis neighborhood. Construction for the new three-story building began in 1924 after the Minneapolis Board of Education purchased unused land in Washburn Park. Land next to the school was occupied by the Washburn Memorial Orphan Asylum, now torn down and replaced with Justice Page Middle School (formerly Ramsey Middle School). Washburn is in southern Minneapolis's Tangletown neighborhood, at 201 West 49th Street.

Washburn opened on September 8, 1925, to 1,031 students. When it opened, it served grades 7–10 and added one year each year for the next two years. It served middle school and high school students until 1929. It became very popular, and by 1931, 2,370 students attended the school built for 1,500. The school has been expanded several times to meet the high enrollment.

The school is conventionally named after Cadwallader C. Washburn. When the school was presented to the school board it was called William D. Washburn High School, in reference to Cadwallader's brother, but naming the school after William is thought to be an error. The school has been heavily influenced by Minneapolis's milling empire. Its newspaper, The Grist, involves milling terminology; the school's colors, blue and orange, were those of Gold Medal Flour, a company partly run by the Washburn family and a predecessor to General Mills; and the athletic teams' nickname is the Millers.

Campus 

Washburn is on a 4½-city block parcel bordered by West 49th and 50th streets on the north and south and Nicollet Ave. S. and Pleasant Ave. S on the east and west. Justice Page Middle School shares this parcel of land, with Washburn taking 2/3 of the space. In between the schools is A. E. MacQuarrie Field, which hosts football, soccer, lacrosse, and track and field competitions. In addition, the area between the school and field is a green space known as The Mall. Youth soccer teams, specifically the Fuller Soccer program from a neighboring park, use The Mall for games on weekends.

A tunnel under MacQuarrie Field connects the east side of Washburn and the west side of Page. It transports heating and air conditioning between the schools. During the winter, snow melts directly above the tunnel due to the steam pipes within showing the tunnel's location. Decades ago, students used the tunnel during the winter when overcrowding forced Washburn to hold classes in Ramsey.

Demographics
The demographic breakdown of the 1,960 students enrolled in 2021-22 was:
Male – 53%
Female – 47%
Native American/Alaskan – 0.9%
Asian/Pacific islanders – 3.5%
Black – 20.5%
Hispanic – 14.7%
White – 58.1%
Multiracial – 2.3%

31% of the students were eligible for free or reduced cost lunch. This is a Title I school.

Staff 
Emily Lilja Palmer, formerly of Sanford Middle School, was named the principal on July 2, 2018.

During the 2020–21 school year, Washburn employed 139 staff members, of whom 81 were teachers. The student to teacher ratio was 20:1, with an October 1 student count of 1,689.

Past principals

Curriculum

College-credit opportunities 
Washburn has an International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (IBDP) for juniors and seniors. It also offers Advanced Placement (AP) and Career and Technical Education (CTE) classes for 9th- through 12th-grade students to earn college credit free of charge. It uses schoolwide advisory programs to form relationships for each student. In addition, Washburn students can apply for and enroll in PSEO classes at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis Community and Technical College, Concordia University, Normandale Community College, Dunwoody College of Technology, and North Central University.

Bilingual support

Washburn offers bilingual support for students and families in Spanish and Somali, and English as a Second Language (ESL) support is also available.

World languages and fine arts

Washburn offers four world languages: Arabic, American Sign Language (ASL), French, and Spanish. The school also offers jazz band, concert band, orchestra, concert choir, and pop choir, as well as its varsity choir, Miller Voices.

Extracurricular activities 
In line with Washburn's three pillars of academics, arts and athletics, there are many opportunities in these areas in and beyond the classroom.

Athletics

Washburn is a member of the Minnesota State High School League and offers Boys and Girls varsity level sports, including: