[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Noise regulation

fringe on Constitutionally protected free speech. Illinois h(720 ILCS 5/26 6)has a comprehensive provision covering more aspects of this event than noise.  They failed to use “plainly audible” which is narrower than “audible”.  Utah(Section 76-9-108) restricts disruptive activity to beyond 200 feet.

Loading and unloading operations
This provision is a subjective immission control with a curfew.  Operations in commercial facilities can impact adjacent residential zones. Los Angeles, CA (Section 114.03) places a curfew on such operations between 10pm and 7am but only if the source is within 200 feet of a residence. Chicago, IL (Section 11-4-2830) permits night operations unless they create a noise disturbance. Hammond, IN (Section 6.2.6) prohibits noise disturbance between 7pm and 7am.

Maximum permissible sound pressure levels
This provision is an objective immission control.  It requires the measurement of sound levels at or beyond a property line and its vertical extension. There are several methods for implementing such a provision:
 It may not permit any exceedence or may permit exceedence only for a percentage of the measurement period. 
 It may require the measurement method to be instantaneous, such as dB(A) or time-averaged, such as Energy Equivalent Level (Leq).
 It may be a fixed level limit, such as 55 dB(A), or it may be a level relative to the ambient sound, such as 5 dB(A) above the ambient.
 It may require measurement of the frequency spectrum, such as one octave bands, or A-weighting, such as dB(A).
 It may define different maximum levels based on zoning criteria, such as residential, commercial, or industrial.
 It may define different maximum levels based on time-of-day or day-of-week, such as reduced maxima during night hours or on weekends.
 It may require reduction of maximum levels based on the character of the sound, such as intermittent or impulsive.
 It may exempt certain classes of sound sources, such as shooting ranges, farm equipment, emergency equipment, railroads, or licensed activities.
Most noise ordinances set maximum levels for two time periods: Day (7am to 10pm) and Night (10pm to 7am). San Diego (Article 9.25)sets three periods:  Day (7am to 7pm), Evening (7pm to 10pm), and Night (10pm to 7am) and exempts industrial zones from time based restrictions.  Seattle, WA (Chapter 25.08) sets two time periods but changes 7am to 9am on weekends and holidays.  Several states have maximum permissible land use sound levels in dB(A). Most have Day and Night periods and three use categories: residential, Commercial and Industrial. Washington (Chapter 70.107) sets maximum levels in dB(A) but allows 5 dB(A) more if the sound is only 15 minutes in an hour, or 10 dB(A) for 5 minutes in an hour.  Numerous cities have fixed levels, permitting excess levels for short times (e.g., Dallas, TX, Chapter 30) while others use Leq (Lincoln, NE, Chapter 8.24). Los Angeles, CA (Chapter XI) uses a relative level with a stated but presumed ambient.  New York City, NY (Chapter 19) requires Leq measurements to be made over one hour.  Atlanta, GA () limits impulsive sound to 100 dB(C) at property lines, while most reduce the maximum level by 5 dB for pure tones and impulsive sounds.

Motor vehicle or motorboat repairs and testing
This provision is a subjective immission control with a curfew.  If the activity is done in a residential zone, the Domestic Tools provision can be applied for the repairs, but this provision also is used for the testing phase of any repairs. Los Angeles, CA (Section 114.01) covers this violation in three ways.  The first is application of the noise disturbance provision in residential districts between the hours of 8 pm to 8 am.  The second is being plainly audible at a distance of 150 feet or more in residential districts between the hours of 8 pm to 8 am.  The third is exceeding the presumed ambient by 5 dB.  Hammond, IN (Section 6.2.7) prohibits this activity as a noise disturbance at any time.

Noise disturbance prohibited
This provision is a subjective immission control. This provision is generic in that it covers all events that are considered disturbing by a listener, with or without measurement.  The strength of this provision is that it covers situations not contemplated in a noise ordinance and can be used as backup for more specific provisions. The weakness is that it may not give fair warning, may lead to arbitrary enforcement on the part of the regulator, or permit unreasonable demands by a listener.