[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Adlington Hall

ing on a pair of circular steps, it consists of an octagonal base with a partly fluted baluster supporting an octagonal moulded capstone. The capstone carries a copper plate inscribed with Roman numerals and the initials "TL", and has a simple triangular gnomon.  The sundial is also listed Grade II.

Leading south from the lawn is a walk known as the Lime Avenue, which is entered through gates dated 1688.  The gates are in wrought iron and the piers in ashlar buff gritstone; these are again listed Grade II.  The avenue leads to another Grade II listed building, a structure known as the Shell House, so-called because its interior is decorated with shells and coloured mirrors.  It is a single-storey cottage constructed in red brick with buff sandstone dressings.  The roof is in stone-slate and the chimney is brick.  The wall is in brick with a stone coping.  In front of Shell Cottage another sundial, also listed Grade II.  This was probably built in the early 18th century for John Legh, and moved to its present position in the middle of that century.  It is thought that the pillar on which it stands was originally a Saxon cross base.  The octagonal copper plate is inscribed with Roman numerals, the longitude of Adlington, and John Legh's initials.  To the front of the Shell House is another walk, known as the Yew Walk.  At the back and side of the house is a rockery.

To the south and west of the Shell House is a wooded area known as the Wilderness, through which runs the River Dean (or Dene).  Many of the winding paths created by Charles Legh in the Wilderness are now overgrown, and some of the buildings are in a poor condition, or have collapsed into ruin.  One building still in good condition is the Tig House, a small square pavilion overlooking the river, an early example of a building in the Chinoiserie style.  It is constructed in red brick and partly clad in black and white timber framing.  It has a stone-slate pyramidal roof with a wooden finial, and is listed Grade II.  Near to this is a bridge known as the Chinese Bridge crossing the river, but the summerhouse which once stood on the bridge is no longer present.  Another structure in the Wilderness is the Temple of Diana.  This is a circular temple with a dome constructed in ashlar buff sandstone.  It stands on a stylobate which supports six Doric columns and an entablature.  The structure is listed Grade II.  This appears to be in good condition, but in the early 2000s was said to be suffering from damp.  Other buildings known as the Rathouse and the Hermitage, have been damaged by falling trees.  At the north entrance to the grounds is a pair of gate piers that are listed Grade II.  The piers are in rusticated ashlar sandstone and are surmounted by ball finials. The gates are iron and are similar to those at the end of the lime avenue.  At the other end of the grounds, at the site of the former south approach, is a pair of sandstone gate piers dating from the middle of the 18th century.  They originally carried the carved unicorn heads that are now in the formal garden, and were left isolated when the route of the turnpike road was moved.  They are listed Grade II.

Present day
Adlington Hall stands in open countryside to the west of the village of Adlington, Cheshire, England.  It was designated a Grade I listed building on 25 July 1952.  Grade I listing means that the building is acknowledged to be "of exceptional interest, sometimes considered to be internationally important".  The hall is still privately owned by the Legh family, who live in the hall.  It is open to the public and for guided tours for groups at advertised times. The Great Hall and the Hunting Lodge are available to be hired for weddings and social functions.  The south wing of the stable block has been converted into eight flats and is known as The Mews.  It has been designated as a Grade II* listed building.  Grade II* listing applies to "particularly important buildings of more than special interest".  The east wing is listed Grade II and has been converted into two flats and tea rooms. The landscape park has been registered at Grade II* in the National Register of Historic Parks and Gardens.  Designation as Grade II* on the Register means that the site is "particularly important, of more than special interest".

The Hall was used as the location for Stoke Moran, home of Dr Grimesby Roylott, in the episode "The Speckled Band" (1984) of the Granada TV series Sherlock Holmes.

See also

Grade I listed buildings in Cheshire
Listed buildings in Adlington, Cheshire

Notes
A spere is a fixed structure at the lower end of a great hall, screening it from the screens passage behind it.

References

External links

Official website