[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gideon Koren

h Amichai, Leah Goldberg, Rachel, Amir Gilboa, and Ze’ev Jabotinsky.

Professional career
In 1985, Koren founded The Hospital for Sick Children's Motherisk Program in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, which he directed until his retirement in June 2015. The program has since been shut down amid controversy.

Publications
Koren has published 15 medical books, among them:
 Retinoids in Clinical Practice: The Risk-Benefit Ratio (Medical Toxicology). New York: M. Dekker, 1993. ()
 The Children of Neverland: The Silent Human Disaster. Toronto: Kid in Us, 1997. ()
 The Complete Guide to Everyday Risks in Pregnancy & Breastfeeding: Answers to Your Questions About Morning Sickness, Medications, Herbs, Diseases, Chemical Exposures & More. Toronto: R. Rose, 2004. ()
 Medication Safety in Pregnancy and Breastfeeding. New York: McGraw-Hill, Health Professions Division, 2007. ()
 Medication Safety in Pregnancy and Breastfeeding: The Evidence-Based, A to Z Clinician's Pocket Guide. New York: McGraw-Hill Medical, 2007. ()

Deferiprone controversy

In 1996, a controversy erupted about the safety and effectiveness of deferiprone. Koren believed the drug was effective for certain patients. Nancy Olivieri of Toronto believed the drug was unsafe and ineffective. Following the initial controversy surrounding this drug trial in Toronto, Koren sent five anonymous harassing letters to colleagues and later denied having done so. Two independent inquiries by the CAUT and CPSO found that Koren had lied about sending the anonymous letters and only admitted guilt when confronted with DNA evidence against him. Both also found academic misconduct with respect to the way in which Koren published the research article cited above on the safety and effectiveness of deferiprone. CAUT accepted "the parties’ submissions that this misconduct should not be represented as fraudulent" and further remarked that "It was the behaviour that preceded the research misconduct that the Committee found most unsettling."

Koren was officially reprimanded by the Ontario College of Physicians and Surgeons for writing harassing anonymous letters to Nancy Olivieri and three other colleagues, about which he then lied repeatedly to conceal his responsibility. The Ontario College of Physicians and Surgeons also cited him for additional misconduct in research.

Scientific misconduct 
On December 16, 2018, an investigative article in The Toronto Star reported apparent problems in more than 400 papers coauthored by Koren, including that the papers "[were] inadequately peer-reviewed, fail to declare, perhaps even obscure, conflicts of interest and, in a handful of cases, contain lies about the methodology.” In 2019 Koren threatened a defamation lawsuit against the editor of Therapeutic Drug Monitoring for retracting one of Koren's papers.

In February 2019, Koren agreed to relinquish his licence to practice medicine in Ontario in the face of an investigation by the College of Physicians and Surgeons into whether he committed “professional misconduct or was incompetent” while he was in charge of the Hospital for Sick Children’s Motherisk laboratory. He also agreed never to re-apply for a medical licence in the province.

As of 2022, Koren has had six of his research publications retracted, three others have received an expression of concern, and four others have been corrected.

See also 
 List of scientific misconduct incidents

References

External links
 
 
 

1947 births
Living people
Canadian medical researchers
Canadian toxicologists
Canadian pediatricians
Canadian pharmacologists
Israeli songwriters
Israeli emigrants to Canada
Jewish Canadian musicians
Jewish Canadian writers
Jewish songwriters
Jews from Mandatory Palestine
People from Tel Aviv
Academic staff of the University of Toronto
Academic staff of the University of Western Ontario