[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Velanai

Velanai (; ) is a small village in Velanai Island off the coast of Jaffna Peninsula in the North of Sri Lanka.

The majority of the people are Hindus along with a minority of Christians. There are number of Hindu temples along with few churches. The village is also served by a dozen schools. Sir Vaithilingam Duraiswamy, a well known member of parliament during the British colonial period, and his son Yogendra Duraiswamy, a Hindu activist and well known diplomat, were born in Velanai.

Since 1983, Velanai has also been the scene of violence as part of the Sri Lankan civil war including the Allaipiddy massacre.

Also, during the civil war, Velanai housed one of the heroes' cemeteries built by the Tamil Tigers for their dead fighters in a place called Chaaddi. This cemetery was destroyed by the Sri Lankan Army in the 1990s, but then was rebuilt during the 2002 ceasefire period. However, the occupying Sri Lankan Navy once again destroyed the cemetery after the end of the civil war leaving no traces behind. This land is now occupied by John Keells, a Sinhalese-owned hotel corporate having business in the island and in the Maldives.

Etymology

The name Velanai is believed to have been derived from 2 terms combined into one word.  The first phrase name of the Vel which means spear. The second phrase Anai means ashore. It is believed that the god Murugan's spear landed ashore of this island. Hence the name Velanai. God Murugan is worshiped as a popular god among all the peoples in Velanai.

History

Archaeological evidence
Received per-historic archaeological evidence of ancient life in Chaaddi () sea side suggested that there was a well-organized civilization emerged in this island. Chaaddi is an important archaeological site. Artefacts ranging from protohistoric and early historic period to the times of medieval Chinese trade were found at this place.

Geography and climate
Velani is located at . It is surrounded by the Palk Strait and at a distance of  south-west of Jaffna town. Though most of Velani district is a level plain and also has maximum elevation of  above mean sea level. The total area of this island is nearly 36 km2.

Places of interest
 Vangalavadi Murugan Temple
 Velanai Perunkulam Muththumaari Amman Temple
 Periyapulam Maha Ganapathy (Mudippillaiyar) Temple - Velanai West
 Puliyankoodal Seruththanaipathi Sri Raja Mahamary Amman Temple
 Saatti Sea side
 Velanai ayyanar Kovil
 Velanai Central College

Gallery

References

External links
 Velanai website
 Velanai website

Towns in Jaffna District
Island South DS Division