[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# Admission to practice law

must pass the qualification exam for lawyers and the bar exam. A person who has ten years of experience working as a judge or ten years of experience working as a prosecutor outside Lithuania or holds a doctoral degree in law is exempt from the qualification exam and only needs to pass the bar exam.

Luxembourg
Lawyers must register with a bar association in Luxembourg (). Admission to a bar association has character, language, citizenship requirements. Applicants must also complete an apprenticeship or aptitude test, depending on the list to which one wants to register.

Malta
Malta's legal practice is fused and legal practice is regulated by the Chamber of Advocates (). Licence to practice law is granted by way of a warrant issued on completion of the Master of Advocacy (M.Adv) programme from Malta University (or a comparable international programme) and an admission exam in Maltese. Lawyers holding rights to practice in other jurisdictions can apply for an exemption from local practice prohibitions allowing them to offer services under their foreign title though permission is issued by discretion and requires three years' local legal practice and a comparable licence elsewhere.

Moldova
Moldova requires an undergraduate law degree and passage of the state examination.

The Bar Association of Moldova () regulates the profession of a lawyer in Moldova.

Monaco
In Monaco, advocates should be members of the local bar association ().

Montenegro
Montenegro Bar Association () regulates the profession of a lawyer in Montenegro.

Netherlands
In the Netherlands, to be a licensed lawyer (Advocaat), one must complete an undergraduate law degree (Bacheloropleiding or LL.B., which is three years of study), the master of law degree (doctorandus in law before implementation of the Bologna Process and conferring the meester title, which is a one-year LL.M. program), and a three-year apprenticeship.

Only holders of a law degree with civiel effect (i.e. a qualifying law degree) are admitted to regulated legal professions (juridische togaberoepen). Qualifying law degrees in the Netherlands must cover the four foundations of legal knowledge: Dutch private law, Dutch criminal law, Dutch administrative and constitutional law and international/European law.

Dutch advocates should be members of the Netherlands bar association ().

North Macedonia
In North Macedonia, advocates should be members of the local bar association ().

Norway
Lawyers (advokat) have to be licensed in Norway. To become licensed by the authorities, one must provided an LL.M (master of law)(before 2008- cand. jur.-- candidatus juris) and two years' practice as assisting lawyer (advokatfullmektig), two years' practice as a police prosecutor (politiadvokat or politifullmektig) or deputy judge (dommerfullmektig) and some minor formalities. In addition, one must pass the permanent lawyer's bar exam in order to obtain full access to the profession.

Whilst the earlier cand. juris was normally a 6-year degree, the LL.M. is a 5-year degree.
Membership of the bar association () is optional.

Poland
In Poland, a lawyer (adwokat or radca prawny) must complete a magister's degree in law (which lasts five years) and be admitted to the Polish Bar Council (). There are several ways to gain admission to the bar, including: three years of training followed by the bar exam; five years of legal professional experience followed by the bar exam; a Ph.D. in law followed by either the bar exam or 3 years of legal professional experience; or possession of high academic qualifications in legal sciences (e.g., habilitated doctor or professor). Once admitted to the bar association of one occupation, a lawyer can move to another occupation with little hassle.

Portugal
In order to register as a lawyer (advogado) in Portugal with the Bar Association (), one must have a law degree, complete an 18-month legal traineeship, and pass the bar exam.

Romania
The Romanian National Union of Bar Associations () regulates the profession of a lawyer (avocat) in Romania. A graduate of a Romanian law school with a bachelor's degree must pass the bar exam to obtain the status of a probationary lawyer. After practicing law under the supervision of another lawyer for two years as a trainee lawyer, one can pass the permanent lawyer's bar exam to obtain full access to the profession. Law No. 51/1995 provides paths for lawyers already educated or admitted in another EU member state to work as lawyers in Romania.