[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C.

matches Be'er Sheva was in 14th place in the league, but as the league progressed, it improved and finished the season in seventh place in the table. In addition, the team reached the quarter-finals of the State Cup, in which it lost 1–3 to Hapoel Petah Tikva in summing up two games.

First honours

In the 1974–75 season, Amazia Levkovich was appointed coach of the team when he was 37, and was considered a young coach in relation to the leading and leading coaches in Israel. Levkovich was the first coach to introduce the style of the attacking defenders in Israel, a style taken from German football. Levkovich combined young players, among them 20-year-old Uri Benjamin as a right-wing defender and 18-year-old Jacob Cohen as a left-wing defender. The team was one of the young players in the league, and included only four players who had reached the age of 25. The team started the season with three wins, including a victory over last season champions Maccabi Netanya, without conceding a single goal. During the season she competed for the championship against Maccabi Netanya, and the decision came one season before the end of the season. Be'er Sheva played against Maccabi Jaffa, with one point separating it from Maccabi Netanya from the second place, and winning 1–0 from the gate of Efraim Zvi Hapoel Be'er Sheva was crowned the country's Liga Leumit champion for the first time in its history, with most of the players being home players. Efraim Zvi finished the season as the team's top scorer with 10 conquests, and Uri Benjamin won the title Footballer of the Year in Israel.

In the summer 1975 the team participated in the Super Cup game for the first time in its history, and won the title after a 2–1 victory over Hapoel Kfar Saba.

In the 1975–76 season, Be'er Sheva opened the league in a disappointing way when it finished twice in the first two rounds, but in the following rounds improved, and in the fifth round it was ranked first in this season in the first place in the table. During the season she fought for the first place against Beitar Jerusalem, and in the closing round Be'er Sheva again met Maccabi Jaffa for a decisive game. This time Jaffa fought against the decline and had to win to stay in the Liga Leumit, while Be'er Sheva wanted to win to secure the championship Beitar Jerusalem met Maccabi Tel Aviv, which also fought against the decline, and had to win. Maccabi Jaffa won 1–0, but after the defeat of Beitar Jerusalem, Be'er Sheva won a second consecutive championship. Shalom Avitan, who returned to the team at the beginning of the season, finished him as the team's top scorer with 11 conquests.

In the summer of 1976 Be'er Sheva and Beitar Jerusalem were the first teams in the history of Israeli football to play in a UEFA Intertoto Cup. Be'er Sheva was drawn to Group 2 and held six games in a "home-away" Against the groups Køge BK from Denmark, Herta Berlin from (Germany) and Standard Liège from Belgium The balance of the team in the factory was one victory, 2–1 on Køge BK at Vasermil Stadium, three draw results and lost 2 consecutive wins for the second time in a row, losing to the Beitar Jerusalem Super Cup holder 2–3 after the extension.

The late 1970s
In the 1976–77 season, Be'er Sheva almost became the first champion team to go down in the league. Under the guidance of Eli Fuchs, who returned to coaching the team, Be'er Sheva opened the season badly and fell to the bottom. As a result, after 16 rounds Fuchs resigned from the coaching team, and Eliyahu Offer, who retired from regular activity as a player during the season and also served as Fuchs's assistant, was named coach. Two rounds to the end of the season the team met outside with Maccabi Haifa for a survival game, with only a goal difference separating the two teams in the table. Be'er Sheva won 1–0 and managed to stay in the league while Maccabi Haifa dropped to the second division. In addition, the team reached the quarterfinals of the Israeli Cup again after beating Maccabi Haifa 2–0 in the eighth-finals and was eliminated after losing 0–3 to Beitar Tel Aviv.

In the 1977–78 season, the team displayed a good offensive ability throughout the season, led by its top scorer Shalom Avitan, with 12 goals and his deputy Victor Seroussi, with 10 goals, but at the same time showed less defensive ability. Be'er Sheva finished the season in fifth place in the table with 43 goals, the highest in a single season in the history of the team in the first division until then (except for the double season of 1966–68, which scored 71 goals).

In the 1978–79 season, the team finished ninth. In addition, she reached the quarter-finals of the State Cup for the sixth time in her history, following a 2–1 win over Hapoel Kfar Saba in the eighth-finals. In the quarterfinals she lost to Beitar Tel Aviv with a penalty kick.