[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ego-dystonic sexual orientation

hat criminalize homosexuality, and none of them argued against the working group's recommendations. The draft ICD-11 was then extensively field tested in countries including Brazil, India, Lebanon, Mexico, and South Africa, and voted on by ministers of health from more than 170 WHO member countries.

Ultimately, the WHO accepted the working group's recommendations and deleted section F66, including ego-dystonic sexual orientation. The ICD-11, which was approved in 2019 and went into effect in January 2022, does not include any diagnostic categories that can be applied to people on the basis of sexual orientation, bringing the ICD in line with the DSM-5.

Inclusion in the CCMD-3 
The current Chinese Classification of Mental Disorders (CCMD-3), which is styled after the DSM-IV and ICD-10, includes ego-dystonic sexual orientation, with the note that "a person could be conflicted or suffering from mental illness because of their sexuality, and that condition could be treated." Homosexuality and bisexuality were eliminated from the CCMD in 2001.

Treatments 
There are no evidence-based treatments for ego-dystonic sexual orientation. As part of its assessment of the ICD-10's diagnostic categories related to sexual orientation, the World Health Organization's Working Group on the Classification of Sexual Disorders and Sexual Health conducted a thorough literature search and found no evidence that a person's concern about their sexual orientation requires any unique therapeutic interventions other than common treatments for distress, anxiety, depression, and other conditions.

For people who are uncomfortable with or distressed by their sexual orientation or by experiencing same-sex attraction, evidence-based strategies for alleviating distress include "challenging negative stereotypes, seeking social support, and self-acceptance." Supportive interventions include gay affirmative psychotherapy, which helps lesbian, gay, and bisexual people examine and accept their sexual orientation and related sexual relationships, and lesbian, gay, and bisexual support groups, which can help counteract and buffer minority stress, marginalization, and isolation.

The current guidelines of many mental health associations direct therapists to recognize that non-heterosexual orientations are not disorders; to understand the effects of stigma on lesbian, gay, and bisexual people; and to recognize that "sexual orientation change efforts" are ineffective and often harmful. In 2009, an American Psychological Association task force reported that offering appropriate therapeutic interventions to individuals who wish they could change their sexual orientation requires "therapist acceptance, support, and understanding of clients and the facilitation of clients' active coping, social support, and identity exploration and development, without imposing a specific sexual orientation identity outcome."

Negative impacts of the diagnosis 

The ego-dystonic sexual orientation diagnostic category legitimized controversial sexual orientation change efforts, most notably the practice of conversion therapy, even as such practices were being increasingly scientifically debunked. In 2009, a research study revealed that 1 in 6 psychological therapists in the UK had helped clients in reducing their feelings of same-sex attraction or attempting to change their sexual orientation at some point in their career. The same year, an American Psychological Association task force conducted a systematic review of all available English-language peer-reviewed research literature on sexual orientation change efforts from 1960 to 2017 and found that such efforts are ineffective and likely to cause harm.

Researchers have noted that even the ongoing existence of conversion therapy is partly due to the legacy of diagnostic criteria that allowed a pathological view of same-sex desire to persist long past the point when the international scientific community had concluded that such desires are a normal variant of human sexuality, and that any ability to diagnose people with a disorder related to their sexual orientation, even if "distress" is the presenting problem, incorrectly implies that in some cases it might be reasonable to help a person attempt to develop heterosexual desires.