[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Allen (American politician)

e Courts of Justice Committee
 House General Laws Committee
 House Health Welfare and Institutions Committee
 House Militia and Police Committee
 House Mining and Mineral Resources Committee

Caucus memberships
 Regional Party Whip
 House Legislative Caucus

U.S. House of Representatives (1991–1993)

Elections

1991
Incumbent Republican U.S. Representative D. French Slaughter Jr., of Virginia's 7th congressional district, decided to resign because of a series of strokes. Allen faced Slaughter's cousin, Kay Slaughter, who was also a Charlottesville City Councilor. Allen defeated her 64%–36%.

1992

In the 1990s round of redistricting, Allen's district, which stretched from the fringes of the Washington suburbs through the outer portions of the Shenandoah Valley to Charlottesville, was eliminated, even though Virginia gained an 11th district as a result of the 1990 U.S. Census.  The Justice Department had mandated Virginia create a new black-majority district in accordance with the Voting Rights Act. The Democratic-controlled legislature decided to dismantle the 7th and split it between three neighboring districts.

Allen's home in Earlysville, near Charlottesville, was placed in the 5th district, represented by Lewis F. Payne Jr. However, the largest slice of his old district was placed in the newly redrawn 10th district, represented by fellow Republican Frank Wolf. Allen moved to Mount Vernon and prepared to challenge Wolf in a primary. However, state Republican leaders had let it be known that he could not expect any support for his planned run for the governorship in 1993 if he made such a challenge. Allen decided not to run in either district. After Democratic U.S. Representative James Olin of the 6th district decided to retire, there was speculation Allen could run there. He decided not to move his family and run in the 6th district either.

Committee assignments
 United States House Committee on Small Business
 United States House Committee on Science
 United States House Committee on the Judiciary

Governor of Virginia (1994–1998)

In November 1993, Allen was elected the 67th Governor of Virginia, serving from 1994 to 1998. His opponent in the 1993 election, Attorney General Mary Sue Terry, had an early 29-point lead in public opinion polls and a million-dollar fundraising advantage; his other opponent was Independent Nancy B. Spannaus. However, Allen's campaign proposal to abolish parole may have resonated during a surge of crime in the state. More importantly, he was running at the start of what would become the 1994 Republican Revolution. Allen overcame the deficit and won with 58.3% of the vote, the largest margin (+17.4 points) since Albertis S. Harrison Jr. defeated H. Clyde Pearson with a margin of +27.7 points in 1961.

Allen could not run for re-election because Virginia's constitution does not allow a governor to succeed himself; Virginia is the only state that has such a provision.

Welfare reform
During his 1993 campaign for governor, Allen vowed to reform Virginia's welfare system, stating that "Our obligation as a society is to provide a hand up to those in need, rather than a handout ... Welfare is not to be a permanent status for anyone in life."  At the time welfare caseloads climbed 36 percent from 1988 while one out of twelve Virginians were receiving food stamps.  In March 1995, after an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of support, Allen signed his welfare reform bill propelling Virginia ahead of the national welfare reform effort,  Among the key provisions outlined in the bill, the Virginia Initiative for Employment Not Welfare (VIEW) limited Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) benefits for welfare recipients to two years while recipients are required to work within ninety days of receiving benefits.  Following VIEW's implementation, welfare caseloads decreased 33 percent, from 73,926 families in March 1995 to 49,609 families in July 1997.  In areas where VIEW existed for twelve months, 74 percent were employed versus only 31 percent nationally,.  According to the Virginia Department of Health and Human Resource's 1996 annual report, VIEW saved taxpayers 24 million dollar in its first year of existence; with an addition to federal welfare money, the savings total over the following two years comes to just over $70 million