[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina

sion to Iraq in August 2008, their mission being to protect/guard Camp Victory in Baghdad.

Structure 

The Military units are commanded by the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina Joint Staff in Sarajevo. There are two major commands under the Joint Staff: Operational Command and Support Command.

There are three regiments that are each formed by soldiers from the three ethnic groups of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs and trace their roots to the armies that were created during the war in BiH. These regiments have their distinct ethnic insignias and consist of three active battalions each. Headquarters of regiments have no operational authority. On the basis of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the regimental headquarters have the following tasks: to manage the regimental museum, monitor financial fund, prepare, investigate and cherish the history of the regiment, the regiment publish newsletters, maintain cultural and historical heritage, give guidance on holding special ceremonies, give guidance on customs, dress and deportment Regiment, conduct officer, NCO and military clubs. Each regiments' three battalions are divided evenly between the three active brigades of the Army.

Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Operational Command 

Overall the brigades are multinational with over 50% Bosniaks, 30% Serbs, 15% Croats and about 4% of other ethnic groups.

 Operational Command, in Sarajevo
 4th Infantry Brigade, in Čapljina
 1st Infantry Battalion, in Livno (Croat troops)
 2nd Infantry Battalion, in Bileća (Serb troops)
 3rd Infantry Battalion, in Goražde (Bosniak troops)
 Artillery Battalion, in Mostar
 Reconnaissance Company, in Čapljina
 Signals Platoon, in Čapljina
 Military Police Platoon, in Čapljina
 5th Infantry Brigade, in Tuzla
 1st Infantry Battalion, in Zenica (Bosniak troops)
 2nd Infantry Battalion, in Kiseljak (Croat troops)
 3rd Infantry Battalion, in Bijeljina (Serb troops)
 Artillery Battalion, in Žepče
 Reconnaissance Company, in Tuzla
 Signals Platoon, in Tuzla
 Military Police Platoon, in Tuzla
 6th Infantry Brigade, in Banja Luka
 1st Infantry Battalion, in Banja Luka (Serb troops)
 2nd Infantry Battalion, in Bihać (Bosniak troops)
 3rd Infantry Battalion, in Orašje (Croat troops)
 Artillery Battalion, in Doboj
 Reconnaissance Company, in Banja Luka
 Signals Platoon, in Banja Luka
 Military Police Platoon, in Banja Luka
 Tactical Support Brigade, in Sarajevo
 Armored Battalion, in Tuzla
 Engineer Battalion, in Derventa
 Military Intelligence Battalion, in Sarajevo
 Military Police Battalion, in Sarajevo
 Demining Battalion, in Sarajevo
 Signal Battalion, in Pale
 CBRN Defense Company, in Tuzla
 Air Force and Air Defense Brigade, at Sarajevo Air Base and Banja Luka Air Base
 1st Helicopter Squadron, at Banja Luka Airport
  2nd Helicopter Squadron, at Sarajevo Airport
 Air Defense Battalion, at Sarajevo Airport
 Surveillance and Early Warning Battalion, at Banja Luka Airport
 Flight Support Battalion, at Sarajevo Airport and Banja Luka Airport

Brigades under the Support Command control

Within the armed forces, there are a number of services. These include a Technical Service, Air Technology service, Military Police service, Communications service, Sanitary service, a Veterans service, Civilian service, Financial service, Information service, Legal service, Religious service, and a Musical service.

Uniform and insignia 

Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina were unified in 2005 and at that time they needed a uniform for the newly founded Armed Forces. MARPAT was designated as the future camouflage pattern to be used on combat uniforms of the AFBiH.

Insignia is found on military hats or berets, on the right and left shoulder on the uniform of all soldiers of the Armed Forces. All, except for generals, wear badges on their hats or berets with either the land force badge or air force badge. Generals wear badges with the coat of arms of Bosnia surrounded with branches and two swords. All soldiers of the armed forces have on their right shoulder a flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All members of the three regiments wear their regiment insignia on the left shoulder. There are other insignias, brigades or other institution are worn under the regiment insignia. The name of the soldiers is worn on the left part of the chest while the name "Armed Forces of BiH" is worn on the right part of the chest.

Equipment

References

Further reading
Dorschner, Jim (18 April 2007), "Endgame in Bosnia", Jane's Defence Weekly, pp. 24–29

External links
 Ministry of Defense of Bosnia and Herzegovina
 MILITARY INDUSTRY – Bosnia and Herzegovina
 European Union Force in Bosnia and Herzegovina – EUFOR 
 OSCE Mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 NATO Headquarters Sarajevo Security Sector Reform information