[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# ISO/IEC 27002

ecurity reviews

Controls
Within each chapter, information security controls and their objectives are specified and outlined. The information security controls are generally regarded as best practice means of achieving those objectives. For each of the controls, implementation guidance is provided. 

Specific controls are not mandated since:
 Each organization is expected to undertake a structured information security risk assessment process to determine its specific requirements before selecting controls that are appropriate to its particular circumstances. The introduction section outlines a risk assessment process although there are more specific standards covering this area such as ISO/IEC 27005. The use of information security risk analysis to drive the selection and implementation of information security controls is an important feature of the ISO/IEC 27000-series standards: it means that the generic good practice advice in this standard gets tailored to the specific context of each user organization, rather than being applied by rote. Not all of the 39 control objectives are necessarily relevant to every organization for instance, hence entire categories of control may not be deemed necessary. The standards are also open ended in the sense that the information security controls are 'suggested', leaving the door open for users to adopt alternative controls if they wish, just so long as the key control objectives relating to the mitigation of information security risks, are satisfied. This helps keep the standard relevant despite the evolving nature of information security threats, vulnerabilities and impacts, and trends in the use of certain information security controls.
 It is practically impossible to list all conceivable controls in a general purpose standard. Industry-specific implementation guidelines for ISO/IEC 27001:2013 and ISO/IEC 27002 offer advice tailored to organizations in the telecomms industry (see ISO/IEC 27011) and healthcare (see ISO 27799).

Most organizations implement a wide range of information security-related controls, many of which are recommended in general terms by ISO/IEC 27002.  Structuring the information security controls infrastructure in accordance with ISO/IEC 27002 may be advantageous since it:
 Is associated with a well-respected international standard
 Helps avoid coverage gaps and overlaps
 Is likely to be recognized by those who are familiar with the ISO/IEC standard

Implementation example of ISO/IEC 27002
Here are a few examples of typical information security policies and other controls relating to three parts of ISO/IEC 27002.  (Note: this is merely an illustration.  The list of example controls is incomplete and not universally applicable.)

Physical and Environmental security 

 Physical access to premises and support infrastructure (communications, power, air conditioning etc.) must be monitored and restricted to prevent, detect and minimize the effects of unauthorized and inappropriate access, tampering, vandalism, criminal damage, theft etc. 
 The list of people authorized to access secure areas must be reviewed and approved periodically (at least once a year) by Administration or Physical Security Department, and cross-checked by their departmental managers.
 Photography or video recording is forbidden inside Restricted Areas without prior permission from the designated authority.
 Suitable video surveillance cameras must be located at all entrances and exits to the premises and other strategic points such as Restricted Areas, recorded and stored for at least one month, and monitored around the clock by trained personnel.
 Access cards permitting time-limited access to general and/or specific areas may be provided to trainees, vendors, consultants, third parties and other personnel who have been identified, authenticated, and authorized to access those areas.
 Other than in public areas such as the reception foyer, and private areas such as rest rooms, visitors should be escorted at all times by an employee while on the premises.
 The date and time of entry and departure of visitors along with the purpose of visits must be recorded in a register maintained and controlled by Site Security or Reception.
 Everyone on site (employees and visitors) must wear and display their valid, issued pass at all times, and must present their pass for inspection on request by a manager, security guard or concerned employee.
 Access control systems must themselves be adequately secured against unauthorized/inappropriate access and other compromises.
 Fire/evacuation drills must be conducted periodically (at least once a year).
 Smoking is forbidden inside the premises other than in designated Smoking Zones.

Human Resource security