[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut

Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut ( Mōdīʿīn-Makkabbīm-Rēʿūt) is an Israeli city located in central Israel, about  southeast of Tel Aviv and  west of Jerusalem, and is connected to those two cities via Highway 443. In  the population was . The population density in that year was 1,794 people per square kilometer.

The modern city was named after the ancient Jewish town of Modi'in, which existed in the same area. Modi'in was the place of origin of the Maccabees, the Jewish rebels who freed Judea from the rule of the Seleucid Empire and established the Hasmonean dynasty, events commemorated by the holiday of Hanukkah. The modern city was built in the 20th century. A small part of the city (the Maccabim neighborhood) is not recognized by the European Union as being in Israel, as it lies in what the 1949 Armistice Agreement with Jordan left as a no man's land, and was occupied in 1967 by Israel after it was captured from Jordan together with the West Bank proper.

Etymology
The name "Modi'in" () derives from the village "Modi'im" of the high priest Mattathias and his five sons, which was located in the same area as the modern city. The name "Maccabim" is Hebrew for the Maccabees and is a common nickname given to Mattathias and his five sons.

History

Antiquity
In Ancient Israel, a town named Modi'in (, Mōdeeim) existed in the general area the modern city is located in. It was the place of origin of the Maccabees, a group of Jewish rebel warriors who started and led the Jewish revolt against the Seleucid rule over Judea and the Hellenisation of its Jewish population. The revolt succeeded in driving out the Selucids, and the rededication of the Second Temple at the end of the revolt is commemorated by the Jewish holiday of Hanukkah. After expelling the Selucids, the Maccabees formed the Hasmonean dynasty, which ruled Judea in the 2nd and 1st centuries BCE.

Ancient Jewish artifacts believed to date to the First Temple and Hasmonean periods have been found in the area.

Umm el-Umdan in an archaeological hilltop site near the southern Moriah (Buchman) neighbourhood of Maccabim Reut, towards Latrun Junction. The six main settlement strata excavated date to the Persian, Hellenistic, Roman, Byzantine, and Early Muslim periods. However, the main findings are from a rural settlement from the Hasmonean through to the Early Roman periods. It contains the remains of a synagogue dated to the end of the 2nd-beginning of the 1st century BCE (Hasmonean period), in use till 132 CE (Bar Kokhba revolt). It has a 1st-century CE mikveh standing next to it.

Modern Modi'in is located near the site of the ancient Modi'in described in the Talmud, though the specific location is uncertain. Possibilities are Suba, Umm el-'Umdan near Route 20 to Canada Park and Latrun, al-Midya, and Khirbet el-Burj (Titura/Horbat Tittora).

Horbat Tittora, located on a hill at Modi'in, shows signs of habitation from the Chalcolithic to the Ottoman period, with continuous habitation from the Iron Age II through to the Byzantine period and some traces from the Early Muslim, Mamluk and Ottoman periods. Under Justinian, the Byzantine town in the area was known as Moditha (, Mōditha).

The ruins of a Crusader castle have been excavated at Titura/Tittora. The findings from the castle's courtyard, which has also been used as a kitchen, include various kitchenware as well as bronze and silver jewelry lost by the medieval female kitchen staff.

Modern era

The modern city was founded in the late 20th century. The city of Modi'in was built in the 1990s, and it was later merged with the nearby towns of Maccabim and Re'ut, which had been founded in the 1980s, to create the unified municipality of Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut. Modern Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut's municipal boundary encompasses a number of depopulated Palestinian villages: Ajanjul, Barfiliya, Bayt Shanna, Bir Ma'in, Al-Burj, Innaba, Khirbat al-Buwayra, Kharruba, and Al-Kunayyisa.

In 1985, the construction of the town of Maccabim, which was led by the International Maccabi organization began, and the project of founding nearby Re'ut, led by an association of Israeli army officers, started in 1987. The towns were united into Maccabim-Re'ut in 1990.

According to ARIJ, Israel confiscated land from two Palestinian villages for the construction of Maccabim, presently part of Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut: 1,499 dunams from Beit Sira and 471 dunams from Saffa.

The cornerstone of Modi'in was laid in 1993. It was built as a modern planned city with high standards of urban planning. Environmental issues and future growth were taken into consideration from the early design stages. Large greenspaces were incorporated into the city's layout and comprise 50% of the area within the city limits. The city was opened for residency in 1996.

In 2003, the Israeli Interior Ministry unified Modi'in and Maccabim-Reut into a single city.

Demography