[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kirra, Phocis

n had hoped to thus defeat the Kirreans by thirst, but the enemy were able to get enough water from their wells and rainwater collection. Solon then added a great quantity of hellebore to the water of the Pleistos and let it flow into Kirra. The poisoning then allowed the allies to destroy the city.

Archaeological remains
Archaeological excavations proved that the first settlement in Kirra dates to the 3rd millennium B.C. and was located close to the present-day church of the Dormition of Mary. The settlement, inaugurated in the Early Helladic Period, thrived throughout the Middle Helladic period and in the early Mycenaean era. Archaeological sections throughout the modern settlement revealed houses, streets and several tombs as well as a pottery kiln. 
In the historic era, Kirra was referred to in the ancient authors as port of Delphi. Port infrastructure, part of which is still visible, protected the city from the sea, whereas a sturdy wall, with rectangular towers, built probably in the mid-4th century B.C. protected the settlement from inland attacks. 
The shipyards, the best preserved monument, were built in the 5th century B.C. They consisted of at least five rectangular and long compartments, in which small ships and boats could be dragged from the sea for repairs. At the back of the complex lay two rooms,  probably used by the travelers as storage space or for their own rest. 
An important sanctuary, dedicated to Apollo, Artemis and Leto was also extant in Kirra. Next to the modern Church of the Dormition of Mary a rectangular area was discovered, measuring 160 x 130 meters and surrounded by porticoes giving to the interior open-air rectangle, where the temple building was erected. A number of clay figurines were discovered here and displayed nowadays in the Archaeological Museum of Amphissa.

Modern Kirra

Kirra is part of the regional unit of Phocis. It is known for its beaches, camping and water sports. Excavations in the region have revealed traces of habitation since the Early Helladic period with a prosperity period in the Middle Helladic period. A sanctuary, possibly dedicated to Poseidon, has been excavated close to the beach of the modern town. The Medieval tower on the seaside as well as some traces of port infrastructure attest to the prosperity of Kirra in the Byzantine and Frankish period.

Name
Cirrha (Kirra) was a nymph from whom the town of Cirrha in Phocis was believed to have derived its name.
Kirra is another name for the nymph Adrasteia. At Cirrha, the port that served Delphi, Pausanias noted "a temple of Apollo, Artemis and Leto, with very large images of Attica workmanship. Adrasteia has been set up by the Cirrhaeans in the same place, but she is not so large as the other images. She was sometimes called Nemesis (mythology), probably meaning "one from whom there is no escape"; her epithet Erinys ("implacable") is specially applied to Demeter and the Phrygian mother goddess, Cybele.

Cultural references
On the popular TV series Xena: Warrior Princess, the character Callisto was born in this city (named Cirra in the show) and Xena's army burned it when Callisto was a small girl, killing her family. This sparked Callisto's hatred of Xena, and she grew up to become one of Xena's worst enemies.
The village of Kirra is featured in the 2013 PlayStation 3 game, God of War: Ascension.
Kirrha also appears in the game Assassin's Creed: Odyssey where the player docks their ship on their way to visit the Oracle Of Delphi.

References

Sources
 Pausanias, Description of Greece, 10.37.8.

External links

Travel Information at PlanetWare
Travel information at Greek Travel Pages
Encyclopedic information at Greek Travel Pages
Around Greece - Parnassos

Populated places in Phocis
Delphi
Gulf of Corinth