[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Protais Mpiranya

soldiers why they were keeping them. Shortly afterwards, both were killed in the camp.

After the genocide 
Mpiranya fled Rwanda after the RPF victory.

For several years Mpiranya was still at large and believed to be with other Rwandan émigrés in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or in Zimbabwe.

On 25 September 2002, Mpiranya was indicted by the U.N.'s International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR). He was charged with genocide, conspiracy to commit genocide, complicity in genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. Mpiranya remained at large and was one of the most wanted men by the Tribunal. The US government put a prize on his head in the Rewards for Justice Program.

Shelter in Zimbabwe 
In February 2010, Mpiranya was reported by Belgian authorities to be sheltered by the Zimbabwean government, operating businesses in Harare, on top of acting as mercenary for the ruling party ZANU-PF to silence the opposition.

In August 2010, Rwanda appealed for United Nations intervention in its diplomatic row after the Zimbabwean government refused to extradite Protais Mpiranya to the ICTR. Mpiranya allegedly stayed in Norton, about 40 km west of the capital Harare, where he allegedly stayed since his arrival in Zimbabwe in 2001. Security sources said that the Harare authorities were not keen on giving up the fugitive to whom they feel indebted over his reconnaissance role during the 1998–2001 Democratic Republic of Congo civil war. Mpiranya was instrumental during the DRC war after he worked side by side with southern African Allied forces, which included Zimbabwe, Angola and Namibia. He is believed to have supplied strategic information about the Rwandan military and also mobilised and trained Rwandans in refugee camps in eastern DRC to fight against the Rwandan army. Rwanda's Prosecutor General Martin Ngoga said the International Criminal Tribunal of Rwanda (ICTR) should move and bring Proitas Mpiranya to book. The two nations backed opposite sides in the DRC war. The row escalated after Zimbabwe accused Rwandan secret agents of illegally entering the country in pursuit of Mpiranya. Kigali denied the allegations, saying it would follow proper procedures to seek the extradition of Mpiranya. This was the second time that Zimbabwe has refused to extradite African officials accused of genocide in their own countries. It has refused to hand over former Ethiopian dictator Mengistu Haile Mariam who is wanted in his country for mass murder.

Despite a Zimbabwean official denying he was in the country in 2011, Zimbabwe's police announced in September 2012 that they had commenced a manhunt for Mpiranya. The UN's war crimes tribunal on Rwanda offered a 5 million reward for his capture.

Discovery of death 
In April 2022, Mpiranya's body, conclusively identified by DNA testing, was exhumed from a grave in Harare, Zimbabwe at the request of UN investigators; it had been buried under the name "Sambao Ndume". He had died in October 2006 of a heart attack. Zimbabwe's foreign affairs minister, Frederick Shava, denied any involvement of Zimbabwe in harbouring Mpiranya and any other criminals, and highlighted the Zimbabwe's cooperation with UN investigators regarding the Mpiranya's case.

See also
List of fugitives from justice who disappeared

Notes

External links 
 TRIAL International: Protais Mpiranya
 U.S. State Department press release about Mpiranya
 

1960 births
2006 deaths
Fugitives wanted by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda
Fugitives wanted on crimes against humanity charges
Fugitives wanted on genocide charges
Fugitives wanted on war crimes charges
Hutu people
Rwandan soldiers
People from Southern Province, Rwanda