[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pete von Reichbauer

d of directors for Sound Transit. He formerly served as Chair of the Regional Transit Committee.

Since 2006, von Reichbauer has served as chair of the King County Regional Policy Committee. Since 2013, he has also served as chair of the King County Government Accountability and Oversight Committee.

In 2008, von Reichbauer spearheaded a movement to make the King County Council, the County Executive, and the Assessor nonpartisan offices.  On November 4, 2008, voters supported the measure, and all elective offices of King County became nonpartisan. Due in no small part to this change, von Reichbauer is currently the longest serving member of the Council, with nearly 30 years of public service in this role.

Seattle Seahawks

In addition to his service as an elected official, von Reichbauer played a key role in keeping the Seattle Seahawks in Seattle. In late 1995, then-Seahawks owner Ken Behring told von Reichbauer privately that he wanted to sell the team and asked von Reichbauer to gauge interest in potential buyers. But publicly, Behring insisted he would not sell the team and began the process of moving the team to Los Angeles. By early 1996, von Reichbauer had identified Microsoft co-founder and Seattle-area resident Paul Allen as a potential buyer of the team. Von Reichbauer met with Allen's inner circle and convinced Allen that Behring was sincere about selling the team. As Allen became more serious about purchasing the team, he never negotiated directly with Behring; instead, von Reichbauer acted as an intermediary between Behring and Allen. Allen eventually agreed to purchase the team, contingent upon approval of a new stadium. For his efforts, the Seattle Times called him "one of the heroes in this fight," while former King County Executive Ron Sims has said that von Reichbauer "did a fantastic job keeping the Seahawks in Seattle. I don't believe it would've happened without his intervention."

Personal life
In addition to his positions in public office, Pete von Reichbauer served as a founding board member the Boys and Girls Club of Federal Way, a board member of St. Francis Hospital, and President of the Kiwanis Club. Public directory listings indicate he maintains a residence in Scottsdale, Arizona and PubliCola editor Erica Barnett has indicated that von Reichbauer has resided there since "well before" the outbreak of the Covid pandemic.

References

External links

Living people
People from Federal Way, Washington
Politicians from Seattle
Republican Party Washington (state) state senators
King County Councillors
1944 births