[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alexander Goldfarb (biologist)

would also "cost him his job with George Soros."

When Litvinenko was poisoned in London in 2006, Goldfarb was his unofficial spokesman during the two last weeks of his life  On the day of Litvinenko's death, Goldfarb read out his deathbed statement accusing Vladimir Putin of ordering the poisoning.

Goldfarb later explained in interviews that he had drafted the statement at Litvinenko's request and that Litvinenko had signed it in the presence of a lawyer. With Berezovsky, Litvinenko's widow Marina, and the human rights lawyer Louise Christian, Goldfarb founded the Litvinenko Justice Foundation to campaign for the truth about his murder, and for the perpetrators to be brought to justice.  He later testified in a libel suit, in which Berezovsky successfully contested the claim by Russian state television station RTR (now Russia 1) that he had murdered Litvinenko.

Libel lawsuit against Russian TV channels 
Following the attack on Sergei Skripal in Salisbury, UK on March 4, 2018, Russian TV network coverage of the incident named Goldfarb as the murderer of Alexander Litvinenko in 2006. Goldfarb sued two Russian TV channels, Channel One Russia and RT, for libel in US. The case is pending in US District Court for the Southern District of New York. On March 4, 2020, U.S. District Judge Valerie Caproni denied a motion to dismiss the case, ruling that New York had personal jurisdiction over the matter because Channel One Russia maintains a Manhattan studio where correspondent Zhanna Agalakova interviewed Goldfarb in relation to the allegedly defamatory story.

Writings
Goldfarb has written for the editorial pages of The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, The Daily Telegraph, and The Moscow Times. He helped Litvinenko to prepare his book Lubyanka Criminal Group for publication. With Marina Litvinenko, he later co-authored the book "Death of a Dissident: The Poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko and the Return of the KGB", published in Russian as "Sasha, Volodya, Boris....The Story of a Murder." (Russian)Александр Гольдфарб – о Путине и Литвиненко, Алекс Гольдфарб представляет книгу “Саша, Володя, Борис. История убийства”.

His books
Alex Goldfarb and Marina Litvinenko. Death of a Dissident: The Poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko and the Return of the KGB. Free Press, New York, 2007. .

Appearances on TV 

 Charlie Rose – A conversation with Marina Litvinenko and Alex Goldfarb
 BBC Hardtalk – Marina Litvinenko

In popular culture
In the 2022 ITVX miniseries Litvinenko, Goldfarb was portrayed by Mark Ivanir.

References

1947 births
Living people
Scientists from Moscow
Russian Jews
Russian microbiologists
Russian political activists
Israeli emigrants to the United States
Jewish American writers
Jewish American activists
Moscow State University alumni
Columbia University faculty
American microbiologists
Soviet emigrants to Israel
Russian dissidents
21st-century American Jews