[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# CIM-10 Bomarc

ed. Each site was programmed for 28 IM-99B missiles:
 Camp Adair, Oregon 
 Charleston AFB, South Carolina
 Ethan Allen AFB, Vermont 
 Paine Field, Washington 
 Travis AFB, California 
 Truax Field, Wisconsin 
 Vandenberg AFB, California 

Reference for BOMARC units and locations:

Surviving missiles

Below is a list of museums or sites which have a Bomarc missile on display:
 Air Force Armament Museum, Eglin Air Force Base, Florida
 Air Force Space & Missile Museum, Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida.  It is on display Hangar C.
 Alberta Aviation Museum, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
 Canada Aviation and Space Museum, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
 Hill Aerospace Museum, Hill Air Force Base, Utah
 Historical Electronics Museum, Linthicum, Maryland (display of AN/DPN-53, the first airborne pulse-doppler radar, used in the Bomarc)
 Illinois Soldiers & Sailors Home, Quincy, Illinois
 Keesler Air Force Base, Biloxi, Mississippi
 Museum of Aviation, Robins Air Force Base, Warner Robins, Georgia
 National Museum of Nuclear Science & History, Kirtland Air Force Base, Albuquerque, New Mexico

 Octave Chanute Aerospace Museum (former Chanute Air Force Base), Rantoul, Illinois; the museum closed on December 30, 2015
 Peterson Air and Space Museum, Peterson Air Force Base, Colorado
 Strategic Air and Space Museum, Ashland, Nebraska
 USAF Airman Heritage Museum, Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas
 Vandenberg Air Force Base (Space and Missile Heritage Center), California. Bomarc not for public access.

Impact on popular music
The Bomarc missile captured the imagination of the American and Canadian popular music industry, giving rise to a pop music group, the Bomarcs (composed mainly of servicemen stationed on a Florida radar site that tracked Bomarcs), a record label, Bomarc Records, and a moderately successful Canadian pop group, The Beau Marks.

See also

References

Bibliography

 Clearwater, John. Canadian Nuclear Weapons: The Untold Story of Canada's Cold War Arsenal. Toronto, Ontario, Canada: Dundern Press, 1999. .
 Clearwater, John. U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Canada. Toronto, Ontario, Canada: Dundern Press, 1999. .
 Cornett, Lloyd H. Jr. and Mildred W. Johnson. A Handbook of Aerospace Defense Organization 1946–1980. Peterson Air Force Base, Colorado: Office of History, Aerospace Defense Center, 1980. No ISBN.
 Gibson, James N. Nuclear Weapons of the United States: An Illustrated History. Atglen, Pennsylvania: Schiffer Publishing Ltd., 1996. .
 Jenkins, Dennis R. and Tony R. Landis. Experimental & Prototype U.S. Air Force Jet Fighters. North Branch, Minnesota: Specialty Press, 2008. .
 Nicks, Don, John Bradley and Chris Charland. A History of the Air Defence of Canada 1948–1997. Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: Commander Fighter Group, 1997. .
 Pedigree of Champions: Boeing Since 1916, Third Edition. Seattle, Washington: The Boeing Company, 1969.
 Winkler, David F. Searching the Skies: The Legacy of the United States Cold War Defense Radar Program. Langley Air Force Base, Virginia: United States Air Force Headquarters Air Combat Command, 1997. .

External links

 RCAF 446 SAM Squadron
 BOMARC Missile Sites
 Boeing Company History, Bomarc
 Astronautix.com
 Bomarc pictures
 Bomarc Video Clip
 SAGE-BOMARC risks – Oral history: Les Earnest talks about air defense system called SAGE and a ground-to-air missile called BOMARC.

Cold War surface-to-air missiles of the United States
Nuclear anti-aircraft weapons
Ramjet-powered aircraft
Nuclear weapons of Canada
Nuclear weapons of the United States
Military equipment introduced in the 1950s