[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Domari language

yzantine Greek.

Phonology

Vowels 
There are five main vowel sounds, however this inventory shows the variation and quantity of short vowels. Most are interchangeable with a vowel sound next to it, however all of the sounds produced above are identical to the local Palestinian Arabic (Matras 1999).

Consonants 
Most of these consonants are influenced by Palestinian Arabic such as gemination; however, consonants such as [p], [g], [tʃ] and [h] are not found in the local dialect. There is speculation among linguists that these sounds are considered a part of the pre-Arabic component. Alveopalatal affricates such as [tʃ] and [dʒ] are also consonants that differ in sound from Arabic.

Stress 
The biggest difference in expression of language between Arabic and Domari is where the stress is placed. Arabic has phoneme-level stress while Domari is a language of word-level stress. The Domari language emphasizes stress on the final syllable, as well as grammatical markers for gender and number. Most nouns, besides proper nouns, adopted from Arabic sound distinct because of the unique stresses in Domari (Matras 1999). Domari is thought to have borrowed a lot of words and grammatical structure from Arabic; however, this is not entirely true. Complex verbs and most core prepositions did not transfer into the realms of grammar of the Domari language. The syntactic typology remains independent of Arabic influence. It also important to note that the numerals used by the Doms were inherited from Kurdish. Even though Domari was influenced by local Arabic, the language also felt the impacts of Kurdish and certain dialects of Iranian in the grammar of the language.

Numerals 
Here is a table of the numerals (1-10, 20, and 100) in Hindi, Romani, Domari, Lomavren, Kurdish and Persian for comparison.

References

Further reading
Herin, B. (2012). "The Domari language of Aleppo (Syria)" Linguistic Discovery 10 (2), 1-52.
Herin, B. (2014). "The Northern Dialects of Domari," Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenländischen Gesellschaft 164 (2): 407–450.
Matras, Y. (1999). "The state of present-day Domari in Jerusalem." Mediterranean Language Review 11, 1–58.
Matras, Y. (2002). Romani: a linguistic introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Matras, Y. (2012). A grammar of Domari. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton (Mouton Grammar Library).

External links
 Windfuhr Gernot L. Gypsy ii. Gypsy Dialects in Encyclopædia Iranica, Online Edition. 2002.
Description of Domari from the Romani Project
Learning Domari  - from the Dom Research Centre
More Information and Official Website of the Dom People

Indo-Aryan languages
Language
Languages of Azerbaijan
Languages of Sudan
Languages of Morocco
Languages of Algeria
Languages of Egypt
Languages of Iran
Languages of Iraq
Languages of Israel
Languages of Jordan
Languages of Libya
Languages of the State of Palestine
Languages of Syria
Languages of Turkey
Severely endangered languages