[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thin-film bulk acoustic resonator

(279 MHz). This was an enabler for tighter frequency control, for needs to use higher frequencies and utilising FBAR resonators. With the development of thin film technologies it was possible to keep the Q factor high enough, leave out the crystal and increase resonance frequency.

Application areas

Most of smartphones in 2020 include at least one FBAR-based duplexer or filter and some 4/5G products may even include 20–30 functionalities based on FBAR technology mainly due to the increased complexity of radio frequency front end (RFFE, RF front end) electronics – both receiver and transmitter paths – and the antenna/antenna system. Trends to utilize RF spectrum more efficiently with higher frequencies than roughly 1.5–2.5 GHz and in some cases also simultaneously with increasing RF output power have supported FBAR technology to become one of the key enabling technologies in telecommunication realisations. FBAR technology complements and in some cases competes with surface acoustic wave (SAW) technology and FBAR resonators can replace crystals in crystal oscillators and crystal filters at frequencies more than 100 MHz.

Sensory is a developing area for FBAR resonators and structures based on them. Targets to measure and also possibly control small amount of materials/liquids/gas, and replacing  as miniaturized in various sensing and actuation tasks like in micro mirror displays (DMD)s are under research and development as well as energy harvesting by utilizing nanogenerators.

Basic structures 
 As of 2022 there are two known structures for thin-film bulk acoustic wave (BAW) resonators: free-standing and solidly mounted (SMR) resonators. In a free-standing resonator structure air is used to separate the resonator from the substrate/surrounding. The structure of a free-standing resonator is based on some typical manufacturing steps used in micro-electromechanical systems MEMS. In an SMR structure acoustic mirror(s) providing an acoustic isolation is constructed between the resonator and the surrounding like the substrate. The acoustic mirror (such as a Bragg reflector) typically consists of an odd total number of materials with alternating layers of high and low acoustic impedance materials. The thickness of the mirror materials must also be optimized to be the quarter wavelength for maximum acoustic reflectivity. The basic principle of the SMR structure was introduced in 1965.

Schematic pictures of thin film resonators show only the basic principles of the potential structures. In reality some dielectric layers may be needed for other functions, such as for strengthening various parts of the structure. Additionally if needed – for simplifying the final filter layout in the application – resonator structures can be stacked e.g. built on top of each other, as in certain filter applications. However this approach increases the complexity of manufacturing.

Some performance requirements, such as tuning of the resonance frequency, may also require additional process steps, such as ion milling, which complicates the manufacturing process.

The newest approach for developing better performing FBARs is to utilize single crystal AlN instead of polycrystalline AlN, and to place electrodes on the same side of the piezolayer.

In order to realize FBAR structures, many precise simulation steps are required during the design phase in order to predict the purity of the resonance frequency and other performance characteristics. At an early phase of the development, basic finite element method (FEM) based modelling techniques that are used for crystals can also be applied and modified for FBARs. Several new methods, such as scanning laser interferometry, are needed to visualise the functionality of the resonators and for helping to improve the design (layout and cross-sectional structure of the resonator) so as to achieve purity of the resonance and the desired resonance modes.

Application drivers 

In many applications temperature behavior, stability vs. time, strength and purity of the wanted resonance frequency are forming the base for the performance of the applications based on FBAR resonators. Material choices, layout and design of resonator structures are contributing to the resonator performance and the final performance of the application. Mechanical performance and reliability are determined by the packaging and structure of the resonators in the applications.