[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# USS Mound City

asualty the ship suffered during the gunfight. At the end of the day, Fort Cobun had only a single gun still operational, but it was sufficient to cause Grant to decide not to make his river crossing at Grand Gulf. He continued down the river and made an unopposed landing at Bruinsburg, Mississippi.

Red River expedition
Following the opening of the Mississippi that followed the capture of Vicksburg, Mound City had mostly small-scale operations to perform. The only exception was the Red River Expedition, described by one historian as the "largest combined [i.e. joint] operation to that point in U.S. military history, it was also one of the war's major military fiascoes." Most of the Mississippi River Squadron were involved, but little naval action transpired. The most memorable incident concerning the Navy was the near-stranding of several of the ironclads owing to low water in the Red River. The operation had already been canceled and the fleet was in retreat down the river when Mound City, two of her sisters, three other ironclads, and two tugs were almost trapped at rapids above Alexandria, Louisiana. They were saved only by an impressive engineering feat, the construction of wing dams to raise the water level high enough that the vessels could pass through. The man responsible for building the dams was Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Bailey, whom Admiral Porter credited with saving a fleet worth nearly $2,000,000.

Decommissioned
The Mississippi River Squadron was rapidly eliminated after the end of hostilities. Mound City was already being stripped at the end of July 1865, and on 2 August she was out of commission. She was sold to private interests in November.ORN ser. I, v. 27, pp. 309, 328.

See also

 Anaconda Plan

Notes

Bibliography

Gibbons, Tony, Warships and naval battles of the Civil War. Dragon's World, Ltd., 1989. U.S. ed., Gallery books, 1989. 
Joiner, Gary D., Mr. Lincoln's brown water navy : the Mississippi Squadron.  Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2007. 
Konstam, Angus, New Vanguard 56, Union River Ironclad 1861-65, Osprey Publishing, 2002. 
Milligan, John D., Gunboats down the Mississippi. Annapolis, U.S. Naval Institute, 1965.
Tucker, Spencer,  Blue & gray navies : the Civil War afloat. Annapolis, Md. : Naval Institute Press, 2006.
 (ORN)  Official records of the Union and Confederate Navies in the War of the Rebellion.'' Series I: 27 volumes. Series II: 3 volumes. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1894–1922.

External links
Building the City Class Ironclads Documentary

Ships built in Mound City, Illinois
Ships of the Union Navy
Steamships of the United States Navy
1861 ships
Riverine warfare
Shipwrecks of the Mississippi River
Shipwrecks of the American Civil War
Maritime incidents in May 1862
Maritime incidents in May 1864
Battle of St. Charles