[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Patricia McKissack

wrote up the research. They worked together to make manuscripts that suited them both, and together they aimed to make history come alive in stories for children. She and Fredrick believed strongly in the contributions of African Americans, and it showed in many of the stories they created together.

Patricia and Fredrick co-authored many books together, starting in 1984, with a biography of Paul Laurence Dunbar entitled Paul Laurence Dunbar: A Poet to Remember. McKissack went on to write many more biographies, some with Fredrick and some by herself, about prominent African American figures, including Frederick Douglass, Langston Hughes, and Sojourner Truth.

McKissack wrote mostly non-fiction and focused on issues such as racism and African American history. She wrote several non-fiction books before her first picture book, Flossie & the Fox, which was eventually published in 1986 at Dial Press. This was soon followed by Mirandy and Brother Wind (1988) and Nettie Jo's Friends (1989), all of which focused on Southern African American girls, and were written in an old style of African-American Vernacular English.

The Dark-Thirty: Southern Tales of the Supernatural (1992) is McKissack's work most widely held in WorldCat participating libraries. It is a book she wrote from childhood memories, describing the 30 minutes before dark on a summer night when her grandmother would tell spooky stories to her grandchildren.

Patricia and Fredrick worked collaboratively on many works including A Long Hard Journey: The Story of Pullman Porter, which won the Coretta Scott King Award in 1990. They also were the authors of Sojourner Truth: Ain't I a Woman, which also won the Coretta Scott King Award in 1993. Patricia is also a recipient of a Newbery Honor Book citation (Newbery Medal runner-up), the National Council of Teachers of English's Orbis Pictus Award, the Boston Globe–Horn Book Award, and an NAACP Image Award. After Fredrick's death the McKissacks jointly received the Coretta Scott King – Virginia Hamilton Award for Lifetime Achievement.

Awards 

 1990 Coretta Scott King Award, winner, A Long Hard Journey: The Story of the Pullman Porter (Fredrick & Patricia)
 1990 Jane Addams Children's Book Award, winner, A Long Hard Journey: The Story of the Pullman Porter (Fredrick & Patricia)
 1993 Carter G. Woodson Book Award, winner, Madam C.J. Walker (Fredrick & Patricia)
 1993 Coretta Scott King Award, winner, The Dark-Thirty: Southern Tales of the Supernatural
 1995 Coretta Scott King Award, winner, Christmas in the Big House, Christmas in the Quarters (Fredrick & Patricia)
 2012 PEN/Steven Kroll Award, winner, Never Forgotten
 2014 Virginia Hamilton Award for Lifetime Achievement  (Fredrick & Patricia)

Beside the three Coretta Scott King Award winners listed here, six other books by McKissack were runners-up or Coretta Scott King Honor Books (all in the writers category). All nine of those books are marked in the list of works immediately below (‡).

Other runners-up:

 1993 Horn Book Award, runner-up, Sojourner Truth: Ain't I a Woman? (Fredrick & Patricia)
 1993 Newbery Medal runner-up, The Dark-Thirty: Southern Tales of the Supernatural
 1995 Orbis Pictus Award, honor book, Christmas in the Big House, Christmas in the Quarters (Fredrick & Patricia)

Selected books