[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Jilu

n his travels in Germany. As Lalayan had learned from a German Consul he knew, the German Government arrested Malik Khālil since they suspected him of fraud, i.e. collecting money for himself in the name of the Church, and he had requested the Consul to introduce him personally to German Government!

Lalayan (Assyrians of the Van District, 1914), also recounts the oral legend concerning the origins and history of the Maliks of Lesser Jīlū. It narrates that Malik Zāmū, considered the head of his clan, along with his brother Bayrijjé and their relatives, had come from the village of Ţirnākhīr in the Bohtān region and settled in the village of Ţelānā in Greater Jīlū. They had been exiled from their former homes by Kurds. Several Maliks inherited his position. One of the Maliks made strong kinship ties with one of the well-known families of Ţelānā by giving his daughter in marriage to one of their sons. It is not known when they settled in Zīr. From this clan was born a strongman named Aro, who later brought Ţelānā under his rule, and assumed the title and authority of Malik. He was succeeded by his son Malik Gewargīs, and then his grandson Malik Khammū, of whom nothing particular is known.

Notable Jīlū Assyrians
Margaret George Shello (1942–1969)
 Peshmerga combat woman, Kurdistan Democratic Party Activist, and commander of a guerrilla unit during the First Kurdish Iraqi War (1961-1970). Also known as "Daya Kurdistan" (the mother of Kurdistan).

Fadi Merza Be-Gulawi
 World champion Muay Thai kickboxer

Malik Andrious
Malik of Greater Jilu in the early 1920s. He was deported with Catholicos-Patriarch Shimun XXI Eshai of the Assyrian Church of the East to Cyprus in 1933 after the Simele massacre.
Malik Qambar
Malik Qambar was a Catholic-Assyrian national leader and general of the Assyro-Chaldean battalion formed in 1920 as part of the French Foreign Legion.

See also
 List of Assyrian tribes
 List of Assyrian settlements
 Assyrian Church of the East
 Dioceses of the Church of the East to 1318
 Dioceses of the Church of the East, 1318–1552
 Dioceses of the Church of the East after 1552
 Tyari
 Gawar
 Nochiya
 Arosh and Halmon
 Öveç, Şemdinli
 Beyyurdu, Şemdinli

References

Sources
 
 

Assyrian tribes
Hakkari