[Source: PubMed]

43. J Migr Health. 2024 Jul 26;10:100259. doi: 10.1016/j.jmh.2024.100259. 
eCollection 2024.

Myanmar migrants living along the Thailand-Myanmar border: Experiences related 
to pandemic and migration decisions.

Chen WT(1), Shiu C(1)(2), Arbing RH(1), Myint KM(3), Oo KM(3), Lai SS(4), Tanoko 
D(1), Oung S(1), Yamada P(5), Moolphate S(6), Aung TNN(7), Aung MN(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
(2)School of Social Work, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Women's Studies, Chiang Mai University, Chiangmai, Thailand.
(4)Glocal Action Association, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Nursing Program, Santa Monica College, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Public Health, Chiangmai Rajabhat University, Chiangmai, 
Thailand.
(7)Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University, Thailand.
(8)Faculty of International Liberal Arts and Department of Global Health 
Research, Graduate School of Medicine, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan.

IMPORTANCE: In Myanmar, amid political and civil unrest, droves of Burmese are 
displaced to neighboring countries including Thailand. Since the COVID-19 
pandemic, little is known about the available healthcare services and health and 
well-being among refugees and migrant workers within resettlement areas along 
the Myanmar-Thailand border.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the unmet needs of migrants along the Thailand-Myanmar 
border during the COVID-19 pandemic and their reasons for leaving Myanmar.
DESIGN: A qualitative study that used focus groups with migrant schoolteachers 
and school masters was undertaken. An interpretative analysis approach was used 
to analyze the data from the focus group sessions. The study followed the COREQ 
(COnsolidated criteria for REporting Qualitative) checklist.
SETTING: In July 2022, community stakeholders from migrant schools located in 
the vicinity of Mae Sot, Thailand were referred to the study team.
PARTICIPANTS: A purposive sample of 17 adult participants was recruited from 4 
migrant schools. The participants were schoolteachers and schoolmasters who had 
traveled from Myanmar to Thailand 1 to 20 years ago.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Thematic analysis was used to scrutinize qualitative 
data for the outcomes of health and well-being, barriers, and reasons for 
migration.
RESULTS: Three main themes were identified: "issues related to the pandemic", 
"teenage marriage and pregnancies" and "migration decisions". The issues related 
to the pandemic included behavior changes in children, a diminished quality of 
education, and barriers to receiving COVID-19 vaccines and accessing other 
health care. There were more dropouts due to teenage pregnancy/marriage during 
the shelter in place mandate. Migration decisions were affected by concerns over 
health, civil unrest, and military harassment.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This study presented the difficulties experienced by 
Myanmar migrants currently living along the Thailand-Myanmar border. The reasons 
for leaving Myanmar included health and safety. Suspending education during the 
pandemic caused more school dropouts due to teenage pregnancy/marriage. 
Additionally, behavioral changes in children, a diminished quality of education, 
barriers to receiving COVID-19 vaccines and access to other health care services 
were reported. Future studies should focus on how migration stress and access to 
mental health care impact the migrant population.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmh.2024.100259
PMCID: PMC11359983
PMID: 39211311

Conflict of interest statement: None reported.