[Source: PubMed]

94. Vaccine. 2025 Aug 13;61:127399. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2025.127399. Epub 2025
 Jun 19.

A tale of two U.S. Global health security futures-withdraw or evolve?

Bhadelia N(1), Spencer C(2), Cameron E(2).

Author information:
(1)Boston University Center on Emerging Infectious Diseases, Boston, MA, United 
States of America. Electronic address: nbhadeli@bu.edu.
(2)Pandemic Center of the Brown University School of Public Health, Providence, 
RI, United States of America.

Rapid detection and response to biological threats are critical to global health 
security. For decades, the United States has played a leading role in 
international outbreak response. However, recent U.S. policy shifts, including 
deep cuts to global health programs, reductions in personnel, and withdrawal 
from key institutions like the World Health Organization, are weakening disease 
detection and response systems worldwide. These actions threaten outbreak 
preparedness, data sharing, research collaboration, and frontline response 
capabilities, increasing the risk of uncontrolled epidemics with potentially 
catastrophic consequences. Diminished U.S. engagement in global health security 
has created a critical void, weakening disease surveillance, biosecurity, 
biosafety, outbreak control, and the development and distribution of medical 
countermeasures. The erosion of American leadership undermines global capacity 
to detect and respond to emerging threats, increasing the risk of epidemics and 
pandemics. Rather than retreating, the United States must sustain and strengthen 
its global health programs, integrating efforts to enhance efficiency and 
effectiveness, to safeguard both international stability and American pandemic 
preparedness.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2025.127399
PMID: 40540781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.