[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sun Qian

es to tell Zhang Fei and is rather surprised by Zhang Fei's response to arm himself and seek a fight with Guan Yu. Once Zhang Fei is calmed down, via the slaying of Cai Yang, Sun Qian goes with Guan Yu to Runan to see Liu Bei then Sun Qian goes north to see Liu Bei who had gone to talk to Yuan Shao.

Liu Bei is reunited with his officers and his family but in 201 is driven out of Runan by Cao Cao's forces. Comforts a despairing Liu Bei that fortunes can turn and he could go to his well placed kinsman Liu Biao. Sent as envoy, he praises Liu Bei as a Han loyalist and hero in need of support and that Liu Bei, a kinsman famed for his courtesy, was where Sun Qian had advised Liu Bei to go rather than Sun Quan. Is met by strong objections by Cai Mao who is wary of Liu Bei's track record with other lords and that inviting Liu Bei would invite an attack from Cao Cao so suggests executing Sun Qian as a signal. Sun Qian says he is prepared to die for his lord and accuses Cai Mao of slander of a virtuous man, Liu Biao sides with Sun Qian and invites Liu Bei.

After an attempt by Cai Mao to kill Liu Bei, it is Sun Qian who spots Liu Bei has been out of sorts and suspects some plot occurs, inquiries as to what has happened so Liu Bei reveals all. After another plot by Cai Mao at a festival, sent to bear a letter setting out what Cai Mao had done, argues against execution of the powerful Cai Mao for fear it would make Liu Bei's life difficult in Jing. Concerned when Liu Bei's first strategist Xu Shu is going to Cao Cao, due to mother being at court, as Xu Shu's knows their secrets so suggests forcing Xu Shu to stay so the mother will be killed and Xu Shu would desire revenge on Cao Cao, Liu Bei refuses.

During the flight at Changban Sun Qian is tasked with overseeing the evacuation of the populace that had chosen to follow Liu Bei then sent with Guan Yu and an escort to deliver message to Liu Biao's eldest son Liu Qi seeking help which duly arrives. After the allied victory at Chibi, sent to the victorious Eastern Wu commander Zhou Yu to congratulate him and bring presents but Zhou Yu is able to learn from him where Liu Bei is positioned and anticipates Liu Bei is planning to take Nanjun which Zhou Yu also has an eye on. When Zhou Yu seeks to inveigle Liu Bei into a trap by arranging a marriage, Sun Qian is chosen as the envoy from Liu Bei's side and tries to reassure Liu Bei that rival ruler Sun Quan's intent is genuine (it was not), later pushes through the marriage as an early date as he can arrange to prevent mishaps and schemes.

Zhang Fei is sent to investigate news of Pang Tong getting drunk as head of Leiyang, Liu Bei also sends Sun Qian to act as a cooler head, Sun Qian persuading Zhang Fei to look deeper into the matter rather than just dismissing Pang Tong. Zhang Fei is won over when Pang Tong sorts out a hundred days of neglected work by mid-day and thanks Sun Qian for preventing a loss of such a talent. During the conquest of Yi, Liu Bei admires Ma Chao who had been sent by the theocratic warlord of Hanzhong Zhang Lu to help Liu Zhang, so Zhuge Liang sends Sun Qian. First to bribe the corrupt adviser Yang Song to get an audience then persuade Zhang Lu to order Ma Chao to stand down in exchange for backing Zhang Lu's claim to be Prince of Hanzhong. Ma Chao's refusal to obey the order to stand down leads to a split between Zhang Lu and Ma Chao with the latter alienated enough to soon join Liu Bei.

See also
 Lists of people of the Three Kingdoms

References

 Chen, Shou (3rd century). Records of the Three Kingdoms (Sanguozhi).
 Pei, Songzhi (5th century). Annotations to Records of the Three Kingdoms (Sanguozhi zhu).

214 deaths
2nd-century births
Generals under Liu Bei
Year of birth unknown
Place of birth unknown