[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tarlochan Singh

her languages, so that the other MPs can understand the speech.
 He demanded in the Parliament that the Nankana Sahib Sikh pilgrims should be given the same facilities as the Haj pilgrims get.
 He moved a calling attention notice in Rajya Sabha on the progress of relief to the victims of 1984 riots.

Accomplishments
 As Chairman National Commission for Minorities
 He got maximum facilities for refugees from Afghanistan. He got them permissions to travel to India from US & UK & also got special papers issued for working in India.
 He got a bill passed in Haryana Assembly for granting second language status to Punjabi in 2004 by Shri Om Prakash Chautala. On his request a meeting was held in Home Ministry in 2004 which was presided by Shri L.K.Advani & Punjabi & Urdu were granted second language status in Delhi.
 He got visas to hundreds of Sikhs who were in the black list in Canada, US & UK. He has been advocating for abolishing the black list.
 After Kargil war in 1999 all movements between India & Pakistan were stopped. He got sanction of the Sikh Jattha to go for pilgrimage from the Prime Minister.
 He brought sanction for the Sikhs living in Pakistan to come to India for pilgrimage as a group. This was not allowed for fifty years.
 It was his efforts that Government of India honored Air Chief Marshal Arjan Singh DFC with the title of Marshal of the Air Force. Field Marshal Madappa Cariappa OBE and Sam Manekshaw were the only other field marshals in the history of India.(Marshal of the Air Force, Marshal of the Fleet  and Field Marshal are highest ranks of IAF, Indian Navy and Army awarded for the lifetime to the retired Chiefs of the Services for exceptional service to the nation. only 03 officer were awarded this five star general rank in the history of India)
  He intervened as Chairman National Commission for Minorities when there was a move to form Defense services supreme counsel in 2004. By this move General Joginder Jaswant Singh, popularly known as J.J. Singh would have retired as lieutenant general. He succeeded in getting consent of the prime minister to scuttle the move. General J.J. Singh was promoted as Army Chief subsequently.
 As chairman and managing director of the Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation
 Developed Hauz Khas Tourist Complex
 Dilli Haat.
 Started annual festivals in Delhi
 Qutub Festival.
 International Mango Festival.
 Garden Festival.
 As the Additional Director, Department of Tourism, Culture, Museum and Government of Punjab.
 Established the Guru Teg Bahadur Museum in Anandpur Shahib in 1978.
 The Maharaja Ranjit Singh Museum Amritsar in 1980.
 Shaheed Bhagat Singh Museum in Khatkar Kalan in 1988.
 As Director Public Relations Department.
 He acquired a lithograph of Golden Temple, Amritsar – 1834 from London & got published from Public Relation Department, Punjab in 1978. This picture is displayed all over the world in Sikh houses.
 He brought about 20 Sikh Relics from Victoria Museum, London for display in Amritsar in 1980.
 As Director Markfed, Government of Punjab
 Published the first Sikh art calendar in 1971. The second calendar in 1972 on Sikh Martyrs was banned by the Parliament but later on was allowed to be released. SGPC copied this calendar for worldwide distribution.
 He organized special editions of the Marg magazine edited by Mulk Raj Anand, the world-famous writer. One issue was on Amritsar, and the second on Maharaja Ranjit Singh.
 He prepared a catalogue of Sikh Relics lying in UK in 1975 with the help of Dr. W.C. Archer, who was responsible for locating Guru Gobind Singh's arms in 1966 in UK.