[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Quantum nonlocality

e are none for nonlocality. Finally, reasonably simple examples of Bell inequalities have been found for which the quantum state giving the largest violation is never a maximally entangled state, showing that entanglement is, in some sense, not even proportional to nonlocality.

Quantum correlations

As shown, the statistics achievable by two or more parties conducting experiments in a classical system are constrained in a non-trivial way. Analogously, the statistics achievable by separate observers in a quantum theory also happen to be restricted. The first derivation of a non-trivial statistical limit on the set of quantum correlations, due to B. Tsirelson, is known as Tsirelson's bound.
Consider the CHSH Bell scenario detailed before, but this time assume that, in their experiments, Alice and Bob are preparing and measuring quantum systems. In that case, the CHSH parameter can be shown to be bounded by

The sets of quantum correlations and Tsirelson’s problem
Mathematically, a box  admits a quantum realization if and only if there exists a pair of Hilbert spaces , a normalized vector  and projection operators  such that

 For all , the sets  represent complete measurements. Namely, .
 , for all .

In the following, the set of such boxes will be called . Contrary to the classical set of correlations, when viewed in probability space,  is not a polytope. On the contrary, it contains both straight and curved boundaries. In addition,  is not closed: this means that there exist boxes  which can be arbitrarily well approximated by quantum systems but are themselves not quantum.

In the above definition, the space-like separation of the two parties conducting the Bell experiment was modeled by imposing that their associated operator algebras act on different factors  of the overall Hilbert space  describing the experiment. Alternatively, one could model space-like separation by imposing that these two algebras commute. This leads to a different definition:

 admits a field quantum realization if and only if there exists a Hilbert space , a normalized vector  and projection operators  such that

 For all , the sets  represent complete measurements. Namely, .
 , for all .
 , for all .

Call  the set of all such correlations .

How does this new set relate to the more conventional  defined above? It can be proven that  is closed. Moreover, , where  denotes the closure of . Tsirelson's problem consists in deciding whether the inclusion relation  is strict, i.e., whether or not . This problem only appears in infinite dimensions: when the Hilbert space  in the definition of  is constrained to be finite-dimensional, the closure of the corresponding set equals .

In January 2020, Ji, Natarajan, Vidick, Wright, and Yuen claimed a result in quantum complexity theory that would imply that , thus solving Tsirelson's problem.

Tsirelson's problem can be shown equivalent to Connes embedding problem, a famous conjecture in the theory of operator algebras.

Characterization of quantum correlations

Since the dimensions of  and  are, in principle, unbounded, determining whether a given box  admits a quantum realization is a complicated problem. In fact, the dual problem of establishing whether a quantum box can have a perfect score at a non-local game is known to be undecidable. Moreover, the problem of deciding whether  can be approximated by a quantum system with precision  is NP-hard. Characterizing quantum boxes is equivalent to characterizing the cone of completely positive semidefinite matrices under a set of linear constraints.

For small fixed dimensions , one can explore, using variational methods, whether  can be realized in a bipartite quantum system , with , . That method, however, can just be used to prove the realizability of , and not its unrealizability with quantum systems.

To prove unrealizability, the most known method is the Navascués–Pironio–Acín (NPA) hierarchy. This is an infinite decreasing  sequence of sets of correlations  with the properties:

 If , then  for all .
 If , then there exists  such that .
 For any , deciding whether  can be cast as a semidefinite program.

The NPA hierarchy thus provides a computational characterization, not of , but of . If Tsirelson's problem is solved in the affirmative, namely, , then the above two methods would provide a practical characterization of . If, on the contrary, , then a new method to detect the non-realizability of the correlations in  is needed.

The physics of supra-quantum correlations

The works listed above describe what the quantum set of correlations looks like, but they do not explain why. Are quantum correlations unavoidable, even in post-quantum physical theories, or on the contrary, could there exist correlations outside  which nonetheless do not lead to any unphysical operational behavior?