[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Texas (novel)

ned and prone to vengeance against Mexicans.
 Loyalties - Covers the late period of the Antebellum South to the end of the American Civil War. It highlights the fundamental influence that the Old South had on the "New South" (including Texas), from agriculture (cotton), the export economy, to labor (slavery), and social and political attitudes. It also outlines the impact of the Vicksburg campaign and Union blocade on families and increasing tensions due to the Emancipation Proclamation. 
 The Fort - Highlights the shift in focus in post-war Texas to the frontier and conflicts with native tribes over land and resources (such as water and buffalo). As settlers moved increasingly to the west, forts followed to provide security. The book introduces Buffalo Soldiers of the 10th Cavalry and Benjamin Grierson, cultural prejudices, and the slow erosion of native resistance and inevitable resettlement.
 The Frontier - Covers the late 1870s–1880s as attention turned to developing settlements and land holdings. Cattle drives and droving became a significant way to profit from the extension west of railroad heads (primarily Abilene and Dodge City), as did the cross breeding of longhorns with imported herefords to increase sale values. The introduction of barbed wire, to enclose land and water resources, led to several range wars. 
 The Town - Moves the narrative to 1900 and the devastating arrival of the boll weevil. It explains the particularly strong and local nature of Protestantism in Texas. It also highlights voter fraud and collusion as an element in local politics as well as the revival of the KKK as a local moral force. The discovery of oil changes the nature of the Texas economy while the development of high school football affects local sports culture. 
 The Invaders - The focus of the novel moves to the 1960s and illegal immigration (and border patrol) along the Mexican border alongside the regional economic activity supported by immigrants. It contrasts with internal migration and relocation from declining economic regions such as Detroit. The inevitable spread north of the nine-banded armadillo is also detailed as another 'invader'. The rise of seasonal hunting and aquifer irrigation is also explained. 
 Power and Change - Covers the first half of the 1980s, including the early 1980s recession, where oil prices fell and office space in major cities became over supplied. Other themes include Texas' influence on national politics, the Ogallala Aquifer depletion, regular regional droughts, and longhorn sales. The ongoing changes in Texas universities are covered as is the establishment of notable art museums (e.g., Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth).

Reception
Texas Monthly did not like the novel, awarding Michener its 'Bum Steer of the Year Award' (given to people who have done something to merit ridicule or embarrassment) for the work's "hackneyed dialogue" and "tendency to resort to stereotypes". The magazine, however, made peace with Michener later.

Adaptations
The novel was adapted as a 1994 made-for-TV movie of the same name, directed by Richard Lang and featuring actors Stacy Keach, Benjamin Bratt, Rick Schroder, and Patrick Duffy.

References

External links

1985 American novels
Novels by James A. Michener
American historical novels
Texas literature
Random House books
Novels set in Texas
American novels adapted into films