[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Harold O. Levy

ct who now works in the Urban Future Lab at New York University. They have two children, Hannah and Noah. Hannah is a sculptor in New York City who graduated from Cornell and the Staedelschule fine arts academy, having held a German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) fellowship, in Frankfurt, Germany.

In April 2018, Levy announced that he had Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in an Op-Ed arguing for educational reforms for college admissions, including the ending of legacy admissions and increased financial aid. He died at his Manhattan home on November 27, 2018.

Bibliography 
 Harold O. Levy. "We need poverty-based affirmative action at America's colleges," The Washington Post.
 Harold O. Levy. "Talented Low-Income Students Belong at Top Colleges. Why Aren't We Helping Them Get there?" Fox News Channel
 Harold O. Levy. "Education Officials Flunk Statistics 101," The Wall Street Journal.
 Harold O. Levy. "Why China and India Love U.S. Universities," Scientific American.
 Harold O. Levy. "Why Schools Make Bad Buying Decisions," Edsurge.
 Harold O. Levy. "Educated nation?," The Hechinger Report.
 Harold O. Levy. "Mayoral Control: No Going Back," New York Post.
 Harold O. Levy. "Five Ways to Fix America's Schools," The New York Times.
 Harold O. Levy. "The Great Truancy Cover-Up," The Yale Review.
 Harold O. Levy. "Charters & Accountability," New York Post.
 Harold O. Levy. "Mistaking Attendance," The New York Times.
 Harold O. Levy. "How Do You Spend $1.93 Billion," The New York Times.
 Harold O. Levy. "How to Fix Albany: An Independent Budget Office," The New York Times.
 Harold O. Levy. "What a Chancellor Needs Most," The New York Times.
 Harold O. Levy. "The Schools Need $7 Billion," The New York Times.
 Harold O. Levy. "Science Teaching vs. Aircraft Carriers," The Daily Beast.
 Harold O. Levy. "Report of the Commission on School Facilities and Maintenance Reform."
 Harold O. Levy. "The Commercialization of Higher Education: A for-Profit Perspective CHEA International Commission Meeting," Kaplan, Inc.
 Harold O. Levy. "Chancellor's Report on the Education of English Language Learners," New York City Board of Education.

References

External links
Harold O. Levy  at the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation
New York City Department of Education

1952 births
2018 deaths
Businesspeople from New York City
Lawyers from New York City
Writers from New York City
New York City School Chancellors
Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations alumni
Cornell Law School alumni
Neurological disease deaths in New York (state)
Deaths from motor neuron disease
American people of German-Jewish descent
Educators from New York City
The Bronx High School of Science alumni
20th-century American businesspeople
20th-century American lawyers
Kaplan University people