[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2006 ICC Champions Trophy

The 2006 ICC Champions Trophy was a One Day International cricket tournament held in India from 7 October to 5 November 2006. It was the fifth edition of the ICC Champions Trophy (previously known as the ICC Knock-out). The tournament venue was not confirmed until mid-2005 when the Indian government agreed that tournament revenues would be free from tax (the 2002 tournament had been due to be held in India, but was switched to Sri Lanka when an exemption from tax in India was not granted). Australia won the tournament, their first Champions Trophy victory. They were the only team to get one loss in the tournament, as all other teams lost at least two matches. West Indies, their final opponents, beat Australia in the group stage but were bowled out for 138 in the final and lost by eight wickets on the Duckworth–Lewis method. West Indies opening batsman Chris Gayle was named Player of the Tournament.

English writer Tim de Lisle said the tournament "had been fun" because "it had been unpredictable." The unpredictability was in part shown by the fact that no Asian side qualified for the semi-final, for the first time in a major ICC tournament since the 1975 World Cup. De Lisle also claimed that "the pitches" had been the "tournament's secret," saying that they were "sporting and quixotic" and "quite untypical of both one-day cricket and the subcontinent." His viewed were echoed by panelists in a roundtable discussion organized by Cricinfo, "who hoped that the tournament would not be a one-off in a batsman-dominated game," according to news site rediff.com. The tournament recorded five of the 10 lowest team totals in the tournament's history, and totals of 80 (for West Indies v Sri Lanka) and 89 (for Pakistan v South Africa) were the lowest recorded in matches involving the top eight ranked One-day International sides of the world.

Qualifying
The Ten full member teams competed in the tournament and were seeded according to the ICC ODI Championship standings on 1 April 2006.  Bangladesh became the last team to qualify, claiming tenth place ahead of Kenya on 23 March 2006. The first six teams on the ICC ODI table (Australia, South Africa, Pakistan, New Zealand, India, and England) qualified automatically; the next four teams (Sri Lanka, the defending champions West Indies, Zimbabwe and Bangladesh) played a pre-tournament round-robin qualifying round from 7 to 14 October to determine which two will proceed to play in the tournament proper.

Tournament structure
Two teams from the qualifying round, plus the other six teams, played in a group stage, split into two groups of four in a round-robin competition, played from 15 to 29 October.

The top two teams from each group qualified for the semi-finals played on 1 November and 2 November. The final was played on 5 November.

Venues 
Matches in the preliminary round and the group round were played in the Punjab Cricket Association Stadium in Mohali, Sardar Patel Stadium in Ahmedabad, the Sawai Man Singh Stadium in Jaipur, and the Brabourne Stadium in Mumbai. The matches in Mumbai were the first ODIs at Brabourne Stadium for 11 years.

The semi-finals are played in Mohali and Jaipur.  The final was played in Mumbai.

Participating teams

The 10 Test-playing nations had taken part.

Umpires and match referees
Three match referees and eight umpires were named for the tournament. Of the ten umpires on the ICC elite panel, neither Darrell Hair, who was not nominated due to security concerns, nor Billy Doctrove was employed for the tournament. Those were two umpires calling Pakistan for ball tampering in August. An ICC spokesman said, "this didn't mean Billy Doctrove is a bad umpire," and that there was "nothing sinister" about the decision.

Match referees

  Mike Procter
  Jeff Crowe
  Ranjan Madugalle

Umpires

  Aleem Dar
  Asad Rauf
  Mark Benson
  Billy Bowden
  Steve Bucknor
  Daryl Harper
  Rudi Koertzen
  Simon Taufel

Qualifying round

West Indies and Sri Lanka had qualified with a game to spare, and their match only determined position on the ICC ODI Championship table as well as group opposition in the main stage.

Group stage

Group A

Group B

Knock-out stage

Semi-finals

Final

Tournament statistics
Statistics include performances in preliminary round matches.

Batting

Bowling

Records
Records broken during the tournament: