[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Bilingual Lover

orld Film Festival, where it was well received. El Amante Bilingüe was then released in Spain on 1 April 1993.

Cast
 Imanol Arias as Joan Marés/Juan Faneca
 Ornella Muti as Norma Valenti
 Loles León as Griselda
 Javier Bardem as Shoeshiner
 Joan Lluis Bozzo as Valls Verdú
 Blanca Apilánez as Carmen

Imanol Arias was launched to star status in Spain by his work with Vicente Aranda in El Lute, a film that was a critical and commercial success. Arias came to see his role in El Amante Bilingüe as a turning point in his career, a triumph after two years of relative inactivity. There are similarities between his own life and that of his character: he had a first failed marriage with a rich woman, and was an immigrant from modest background. He recalls that the role in El Amante Bilingüe was an exciting challenge in that he had to play a character with dual personalities and different registers.

El Amante Bilingüe was co-produced with Italian investors, and the role of Norma was given to Ornella Muti, an Italian actress famous for her beauty. Muti first gained attention in the English-speaking world as the princess in Flash Gordon (1980). Here, she played the suggestive role of a wealthy woman with unusual sexual fantasies.  Aranda recalled: 'I was very pleased with Ornella; she did as much as she could to adjust to the requirements of the film, but she is extremely beautiful, and perhaps, another less attractive actress might have better suited the dark tone of the film.'

In supporting roles are Javier Bardem, one of Spain’s best known actors, here in one of his first roles; and Loles León, who had appeared in Pedro Almodóvar's Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down! and Aranda's La Pasión Turca (1994) and Libertarias (1996). Maribel Verdú also has an uncredited role in El Amante Bilingüe, as the 'violin girl'.

Analysis
El Amante Bilingüe is a ruthless satire on Catalan linguistic policies, exacerbated by social and class differences. The film is a painful reflection on the human desire to be someone else. The film is clearly marked by its geographical context: the normalization of the Catalan language and the re-establishment of Catalonia as a strong national identity in the context of Spain as a nation.  Despite its support from the government of Catalonia, the film frames Catalanization comically, associating popular Catalan culture with xenophobia, anti-immigrant sentiment, and a rescue of self-identity that excludes others. The film portrays Norma ("Norma" also means "(linguistic) norm", "standard" in Catalan and Spanish), representing the intellectual force of Catalan government policies of linguistic change, as haughty, obsessive and cold, while Juan Marés's disfigurement marks his alignment with the culture of his perfidious wife, whom he wants to regain sexually.

The film does not escape the overblown qualities, thin characterization and inherent simplistic sexual politics of Marsé's novel. However, it skilfully points out the layered construction of a second identity, that of Juan Faneca, whose black cloak, wide-brimmed hat, scars and eyepatch stand for a grotesque masculine self-image of sexual predominance based on outmoded forms of seduction. What starts as an unbelievable adventure gradually develops into an ironic criticism of the dual social and linguistic policies of Catalonia. The film is a dark reflection about personal identity and alienation, through which Aranda is also able to make the viewer feel alienated. Aranda became known as a film director skillful in handling erotic scenes. In El Amante Bilingüe, the director parodies such scenes, as in a scene in which Faneca and Norma turn and levitate to express their sexual ecstasy.

Reception
El Amante Bilingüe enjoyed neither commercial nor critical success. According to Aranda, 'The film suffered from the producer's lack of enthusiasm, of which I was aware and which I tried to resolve. Producer Gómez, explained, “El Amante Bilingüe was liked neither by the public nor by the novelist, nor even by the actors who made it; I did not like it either. I also think that Aranda was not very happy with the film; nevertheless, we went on to make another movie together.”

Aranda explained: 'I think I did not exaggerate enough. I should have used a cruder brush. Above all, I am not defending my own mistakes. I would have been more satisfied with the film if I had employed an uglier and more extreme style. It was a mistake to center the plot of the film in dialectic between two languages that were so close — Catalan and Spanish. I stated often that the dialectic should have established between English and Spanish, which would have made the film more universal. The plot could have remained the same, just changing the scenery from Barcelona to Los Angeles or New York City and, instead of a xarnego, some other type of foreigner — the rest working the same.'