[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richard Rainwater

futures. He saw the peak oil phenomenon as an investment opportunity after reading Beyond the Limits, a 1992 book that detailed the consequences of a rapidly growing world population. During the 1997 Asian financial crisis, Rainwater lost $400 million on paper, which prompted him to reread the book.

Personal life
Rainwater's first marriage, to his high school sweetheart, Karen, ended in divorce in October 1991, after 25 years. They had three children: Matthew, Todd, and Courtney.

In December 1991, 2 months after his divorce was finalized, Rainwater married financier Darla Moore and moved to Manhattan. At that time, he took a year off. Most of the time, he lived apart from his wife.

Rainwater often visited Canyon Ranch and acquired the spa via Crescent Real Estate. Rainwater owned a mansion in Montecito, California. He also invested in the Pebble Beach Golf Links along with Clint Eastwood.

Rainwater was a fan of The Road Less Traveled, a spiritual book by M. Scott Peck.

Rainwater was a self-described "fitness fanatic" and ran marathons. He loved motorsports and sponsored cars in competitions. He owned a souped-up 1970 Chevrolet Camaro that a professional friend would race.

George W. Bush invested along with Rainwater and Rainwater donated $100,000 to Bush for the 1994 Texas gubernatorial election. Bush was criticized for favoring policies that benefited Rainwater's investments. Rainwater also donated $100,000 to the 2010 Florida gubernatorial election campaign of Rick Scott, who oversaw HCA Healthcare, a major Rainwater investment.

In 2009, he was diagnosed with progressive supranuclear palsy, with a few years to live. Rainwater spent over $20 million on research trying to fight the disease. In 2010, he was awarded the Arbuckle Award at Stanford University. In accepting the award, he began to cry, showing the effect of his disease on his emotions. That year, he made his last public appearance. In March 2011, a court declared him incapacitated, and his youngest child, Matthew, became his legal guardian. Rainwater died on September 27, 2015.

By the time he died, Rainwater had donated more than $380 million to organizations working for the benefit of higher education, at-risk children, and research associated with neurodegeneration. He left nearly all of his estate for charitable purposes, primarily through the Rainwater Charitable Foundation. In 2019, the Rainwater Charitable awarded its two first prizes: one for outstanding innovation in neurodegenerative disease research to Dr. Michel Goedert (MRC, Cambridge, UK) and one for innovative early-career scientist to Dr. Patrick Hsu (Univ. California, Berkeley, USA). Rainwater also left $5 million to UT Austin for the study of American music. His will and testament also provided $60 million to his wife, Darla Moore.

Awards and honors
1992 - Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement
2010 - GSB Alumni Association's 2010 Arbuckle Award

References

External links 
 Rainwater Charitable Foundation

1944 births
2015 deaths
American financial businesspeople
American investors
American money managers
American billionaires
American people of Lebanese descent
Businesspeople from Fort Worth, Texas
University of Texas at Austin College of Natural Sciences alumni
Stanford Graduate School of Business alumni
American investment bankers