[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Joshua Simon

ols and art festivals, theatres and schools. Out of these initiatives came out a travelling poetry reading program that Simon and Arad initiated, which in turn morphed into Guerilla Culture – a platform of poets and activists who organized poetry demonstrations and publications throughout the 2000s.

Parallel to these projects in poetry, since the 2000 Simon has been writing and directing short films as a member of the group of filmmakers Baboon, together with Tom Shoval, Daniel Adar, Michael Hanegbi, Adam Sanderson and Oren Shay. Simon's films were shown among other places on Arte/ZDF, Israeli channel 1 and channel 2, and in Anthology Film Archives, NYC, and in The Berlinale Film Festival, Mar Del Plata, Argentina, Rencontres Internationales Paris and Berlin, FIDMarseille France, Oberhausen IFF Germany, INVIDEO and Milan Short Film Festival, among other places. For his film The Radicals (2001), Simon was awarded The Jerusalem Cinematheque Award for Young Filmmaker.

In 2005 Simon and Arad formed Maayan Publishing, which publishes Maayan Magazine for Poetry, Literature and Ideas which they co-edit; Western (Maarvon) – New Film Magazine (which Simon edits); The New and Bad Contemporary Art Magazine (which they edit together with Natalie Levin); and a series for poetry books and original theatre plays.
Simon is the author of the poetry book National Citizens. In the first issue of Maayan he published a list called "The Prince", exploring his life and views on the world from A to Z. Since then he wrote essays for the magazine and translated for it songs by Woody Guthrie and Pete Seeger among others. Simon translated Mierle Landerman Ukeles "Maintenance Art Manifesto" (1969) into Hebrew on its 40th anniversary for The New and Bad Contemporary Art Magazine

Maarvon (Western) – New Film Magazine
Originally, Maarvon was intended as an extended supplement to Maayan Magazine dedicated to cinema and film, but eventually it grew to become an independent film magazine. On its board are key filmmakers, programmers and scholars such as Dan Shadur, Adam Aboulafia, Laliv Melamed, Dani Rosenberg, Nimrod Kamer, Ari Libsker, Tom Shoval, and Karin Rywkind Segal. The magazine also included a column by artist and filmmaker Roee Rosen (issues 1–6). While expanding the writing on contemporary cinema in Hebrew, the magazine made it its goal to look carefully into Israeli film history and present, with essays on sub-genres and rediscovered figures, funding conditions and theoretical blind spots, films by female filmmakers, overview of themes and styles. In recent issues the magazine has been focusing more and more on the shift from montage to the digital. It has dedicated special issues to filmmakers such as Jean Luc Godard, Alexander Kluge, Hito Steyerl, Harun Farocki and others, as they have portrayed the shift from visualising the totality of the social through montage to an exploration of the totality of capital in the digital. Parallel to these filmmakers, the magazine highlighted the work of Albert Serra, Jia Zhangke, Amos Guttman, Abderrahmane Sissako, Scandar Copti, Lisandro Alonso, Barry Jenkins, Apichatpong Weerasethakul, Keren Yedaya, Hagar Ben-Asher, Pedro Costa, Adam Sandler, Rob Schneider, Avi Mograbi, Peter Watkins, Roberto Rossellini, Sasha Grey, Russ Meyer, Pier Paolo Pasolini, Miguel Gomes, Dušan Makavejev, Matías Piñeiro, Ellida Geira, Kendrick Lamar, Claire Denis, Michal Bat-Adam. Simon also contributed to the magazine essays on Israeli cinema, on finance and psychosis, and on contemporary romantic comedies of the 2000s and Bromance movies, among other subjects.

Journalism
In the media magazine Firma (a supplement of Globes Financial News), Simon has published articles from 2000 to 2009 on various issues. Simon contributed to the culture section of the daily newspaper Globes with art reviews and interviews and was the newspaper's art critic and contributor to the paper's Op-Eds. In Firma, Simon served as editorial board member, ran a column "Reading the News" which was a focused on media critique, interviewed key figures of the local political scene such as Benjamin Netanyahu (Minister of Finance at the time), Ehud Olmert (Minister of Industry, Trade and Labor at the time), Avigdor Lieberman (Minister of Strategic Affairs at the time), Amir Peretz (Chairman of the General Organization of Workers in Israel at the time), Akiva Orr (key political figure of anti-Zionist Left in Israel since the 1960s), Shimshon Bichler (world renowned scholar of the political economy of Israel's military-financial complex), filmmaker Menachem Golan, as well as International philosopher Slavoj Zizek and many others.