[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

ed in the Four Courts in July, Rory O'Connor, Liam Mellows, Dick Barrett and Joe McKelvey are executed by the Free State in revenge for the killing of Seán Hales. This is an illegal act, as the four were captured before the Dáil passed its emergency legislation.
Two Anti-Treaty fighters are killed in an action at Kealkill, County Cork.
9 December – Republican raid on the barracks in Sligo town. One Free State soldier is killed.
10 December – Anti-Treaty IRA members burn down the house of TD Seán McGarry, his seven-year-old son dies in the blaze.
Two prisoners attempt to escape from Drumboe Castle, County Donegal. They are shot by Free State troops under Major Glennon, and one Gallagher is killed.
A civilian, James Malone, is shot dead at his home in Garald Griffin Street, Cork city by unidentified gunmen.
13 December – 100 Republican fighters under Tom Barry take Carrick-on-Suir in a surprise attack, capturing 107 rifles, two Lewis Guns and two armoured cars. They do not attempt to hold the town however.
An Anti-Treaty column of ten men at Moore's Bridge, County Kildare is surprised by a National Army raid and captured. One of the Anti-Treaty men is killed, allegedly due to a beating with rifle butts, though the troops claim he was shot trying to escape. Seven of the others are executed in Dublin on 19 December. They had ambushed a Free State patrol on 25 November and derailed two trains on 11 December.
14 December – Free State garrisons at Thomastown and Mullinavat in County Kilkenny surrender to the Republican column under Tom Barry, which took two other towns the day before. The Free State troops hand over their arms and in some cases join the Republicans.
15 December – 
70 Anti-Treaty IRA fighters ambush a Free State patrol between Rathmore and Barraduff. There is a gun battle of several hours, in which one National Army soldier is fatally wounded. The Army claims that the Republicans took "heavy casualties" in the action. The local priest tries to prevent the ambush and mobilises local people to remove a roadblock. The IRA in response seize four of his cattle.
A National Army officer is accidentally shot in Ballina. He survives the accident but loses his leg.
16 December – the Free State post in Carrick-on-Shannon is attacked and taken by anti-Treaty fighters. One FS soldier and one civilian, are killed. Four Lorries and a large quantity of arms are taken.
Two anti-Treaty fighters are killed in County Carlow.
A civilian Eric Wolfe, is taken from his trap by unknown gunmen near Kinsale, County Cork and killed by multiple gunshots. 
Free State troops come upon what they describe as a 'large body of Irregulars' near Ballingarry, County Tipperary. They report that two killed and eleven taken prisoner, with two of their troops wounded.
Free State troops near Carrick on Suir shoot dead a civilian, Patrick Martin, who approaches them with a revolver.
Free State troops retake Clifden.
17 December – the last British troops leave the Free State. They are the remnants of a 5,000 strong garrison maintained up to that point in Dublin, commanded by Nevil Macready.
Two National Army soldiers (a Sergeant and an officer) are killed.  Lt. John Keogh is killed in an ambush on his patrol in Naas, County Kildare, Sgt Thoma Walsh is killed when his armoured car crashed in Phoenix Park, Dublin.
18 December – Armed raiders kill a father and son named Dennison at Drumkeeran, County Leitrim. 
19 December – Seven Republican fighters, all from County Kildare, are executed in the Curragh. They had been captured on 13 December.
Four National Army soldiers are killed in action
20 December – Pro-Treaty politician Séamus Dwyer is shot dead at his shop in Rathmines, Dublin by Anti-Treaty fighters.
An anti-Treaty fighter, T Beehan, is shot dead after capture in county Kildare by Free State troops.
22 December – A CID Assistant Inspector is wounded in an attack at Ellis Quay, Dublin and dies of his wounds on 29 December.
23 December – There are gun and grenade attacks on National Army troops in Dublin, one Free State soldier is killed, Paddy Ftizgerald, shot at close range on Granby Row another soldier and two civilians are wounded.
The Free State releases 300 Republican prisoners who are no longer considered a threat to national security.
An IRA column, 60 strong from the Arigna mountains raids the town of Blacklion, County Cavan, looting shops and homes and taking a Free State supporter, Doctor Hamilton captive before they return to the mountains.
Free State troops in Clones shoot dead a civilian, James Murphy, who failed to stop at roadblock. 
A Free State soldier, Volunteer Fergusson from Cavan, is killed in action in County Kerry.
24 December – A priest in Curragheen, County Kerry, alerts the local Free State garrison to the presence of the local Anti-Treaty guerrilla column at Midnight Mass. 22 of them are captured when National Army troops raid the church.
25 December – Christmas Day – Joseph MacDonagh, TD, who had been deputy Min