[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Police tactical group

ented training practices. These are designed to allow national interoperability of the PTGs if required. An example of such interoperability was the Port Arthur massacre in which the Victoria Police Special Operations Group deployed to Tasmania to assist the Tasmania Police Special Operations Group.

The Australian PTGs undertake training with their New Zealand counterpart the Special Tactics Group. Australian police taking part in a sniping course in Christchurch responded to the Christchurch mosques terrorist attack providing first aid to the victims and carried firearms for self protection.

Roles
Police Tactical Groups are responsible for a few of the following:

 Resolving siege and hostage situations;
 Arrest of armed and dangerous offenders;
 High risk vehicle intercepts;
 Counter-terrorism and hijacking operations;
 The escort and security of VIPs, internationally protected persons, Heads of State;
 Undertaking searches of premises in high risk situations (high risk search warrants);
 Suicide intervention/rescue;
 Escorting and securing dangerous prisoners in high risk situations;
 Providing operational support for major law enforcement operations.

Specialist positions include snipers, method of entry specialist, explosive breachers, tactical swimmers, tactical ropers, tactical coxswains, medics and advanced drivers.

Equipment

All groups are jointly funded and equipped by both their respective state or territory police and federal government. Federal government funding allows purchases for more expensive equipment such as Lenco BearCat armoured rescue vehicles. The Australian Government has purchased eight ‘BearCats’ at a cost of approximately $400,000 each—one for each state and territory police tactical group.

Skills Enhancement Courses

Each year Police Tactical Group operators attend Skills Enhancement Courses with the Tactical Assault Groups of the Special Air Service Regiment and 2nd Commando Regiment.

 Advanced breaching
 Advanced explosive breaching
 Advanced close quarters tactics
 Advanced sniping

State, territory and federal units

Australia
 Australia - Australian Federal Police - Specialist Response Group
 New South Wales - Tactical Operations Unit
 Northern Territory - Territory Response Group
 Queensland - Special Emergency Response Team
 South Australia - Special Tasks and Rescue Group
 Tasmania - Special Operations Group
 Victoria - Special Operations Group
 Western Australia - Tactical Response Group

New Zealand
 New Zealand - New Zealand Police - Special Tactics Group

Police or ADF responsibility for terrorist incidents 
In a 2017 article in the Australian Defence Force Journal, Captain John Sutton argued that the Australian Defence Force (ADF) should be responsible for responding to domestic counter terrorism incidents instead of the police tactical groups. Sutton raised concerns that military-style training and collaboration with the ADF by police tactical groups could filter down to general duties officers. However, the article also raised concerns that if the ADF was given powers to respond to domestic counter terrorism incidents those powers may be abused by the ADF.

See also
Australian Defence Force Special Operations Command
Tactical assault group
List of police tactical units

References

Police units of Australia
Police tactical units