[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Washington Report on Middle East Affairs

The Washington Report on Middle East Affairs (also known as The Washington Report and WRMEA)  is an American foreign policy magazine that focuses on the Middle East and U.S. policy in the region. 

It has been characterized as "critical of United States policies in the Middle East". and "a non-partisan publication that has been critical of Bush's policies". Pro-Israel organizations accuse the magazine of being anti-Israel and conspiratorial in its criticism of Israel.

American Educational Trust
The Washington Report is published by the American Educational Trust (AET), a non-profit founded in 1982 in Washington, D.C. by Edward Firth Henderson, former British Ambassador to Qatar, Andrew Killgore, who was U.S. Ambassador to Qatar when he retired from the United States Foreign Service in 1980, and Richard Curtiss, a former head of the Arabic Service of the Voice of America. Killgore is the publisher and Curtiss was the Executive Editor until his death in 2013. Delinda C. Hanley, Curtiss's daughter, is the current editor.

AET's Foreign Policy Committee has included former U.S. ambassadors, government officials, and members of the United States Congress, including Senators J. William Fulbright and Charles Percy, both former chairmen of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Members of its board of directors and advisory committees "receive no fees for their services".

The Washington Report began in 1982 as a bi-weekly eight-page newsletter and today is a 76-page full-color magazine. It is recognized worldwide as a leader in its field, publishing a wide variety of views from and about the Middle East by Muslim, Jewish and Christian writers, many of whom live or have lived in the region.

AET Book Club
Early in AET's development, its founders established the AET Book Club "to meet the recognized need for quality books about the region and U.S. policies there". AET began importing thousands of titles about the Middle East from Europe. AET claims "Years later, American publishers began to recognize the market for quality, objective books about the Middle East, and began printing thousands of titles in the United States." To counteract what the magazine's publishers viewed as a "pro-Zionist bias" in libraries, AET donated 3,200 free subscriptions and dozens of books "from its approved list" to libraries.

PACT
In August 2003, AET partnered with Celebrate Presence, a project in Hereford, MD selling Palestinian arts and crafts, to create International Marketing for Middle Eastern Artisans (IMMEA). In 2005, AET assumed responsibility for a large portion of the project, and these products were officially incorporated into the organization as the Palestinian Arts & Crafts Trust (PACT).

Letter to President Bush
In 2004, AET’s Andrew Killgore spearheaded a letter to President Bush signed by a number of former British and U.S. diplomats objecting to US policy towards Israel and the Palestinians, especially then Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's plan to leave Gaza without bothering to negotiate with Palestinian representatives.

Political positions

The Washington Report on Middle East Affairs states its position as follows:
The Washington Report on Middle East Affairs does not take partisan domestic political positions. As a solution to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, it endorses U.N. Security Council Resolution 242's land-for-peace formula, supported by seven successive U.S. presidents. In general, the Washington Report supports Middle East solutions which it judges to be consistent with the charter of the United Nations and traditional American support for human rights, self-determination and fair play. 

According to the BBC, the AET's reporting is meant to counter what it considers the "too pro-Israeli stane of the U.S. media".

The Washington Report carries articles with perspectives ranging from the Israeli left (e.g., Uri Avnery, Ilan Pappe), to libertarian (e.g., Sheldon Richman and Leon Hadar), to the isolationist U.S. right (e.g., Robert Novak, Pat Buchanan). As long ago as 1990, the publication argued that criticism of Israel (generally defined as Anti-Zionism) should not be equated with antisemitism.

The Washington Report publishes listings of pro-Israel political action committee contributions to congressional candidates for each Congress, as well as elected representatives' voting records during each Congress. This resource has been quoted by a number of publications over the years.