[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Principles of intelligent urbanism

on.  Intelligent urbanism recognizes that ‘urbanity’ emerges where people mix and interact on a face-to-face basis, on the ground, at high densities and amongst diverse social and economic groups. Intelligent urbanism nurtures ‘urbanity’ through designs and plans that foster human scale interaction.

Principle seven: opportunity matrix
The PIU envisions the city as a vehicle for personal, social, and economic development, through access to a range of organizations, services, facilities and information providing a variety of opportunities for enhanced employment, economic engagement, education, and recreation. This principle aims to increase access to shelter, health care and human resources development. It aims to increase safety and hygienic conditions. The city is a place of economic opportunity. This is generally said with regard to urban annual net product, enriched urban economic base, sustained employment generation and urban balance of trade.  More significantly this is true for the individuals who settle in cities.  Moreover, cities are places where individuals can increase their knowledge, skills and sensitivities.  Cities provide access to health care and preventive medicine.  They provide a great umbrella of services under which the individual can leave aside the struggle for survival, and get on with the finer things of life.

The PIU sees cities as catalysts for personal definition and self-discovery. In cities people get inspired, build a drive to achieve, discover aspects of their personalities, skills and intellectual curiosity which they use to craft their identity.

The city provides a range of services and facilities, whose realization in villages are the all-consuming struggle of rural inhabitants.  Potable water; sewerage management; energy for cooking, heat and lighting are all piped and wired in; solid waste disposal and storm water drainage are taken for granted.  The city offers access through roads, public transit, telephones and the Internet.  The peace and security provided by effective policing systems, and the courts of law, are just assumed to be there in the city.  Then there are the schools, the recreation facilities, the health services and a myriad of professional services offered in the city market place.

Intelligent urbanism views the city as an opportunity system.  Yet these opportunities are not equally distributed.  Security, health care, education, shelter, hygiene, and most of all employment, are not equally accessible.  Proponents of intelligent urbanism see the city as playing an equalizing role allowing citizens to grow according to their own essential capabilities and efforts.  If the city is an institution, which generates opportunities, intelligent urbanism promotes the concept of equal access to opportunities within the urban system.

Intelligent urbanism promotes a guaranteed access to education, health care, police protection, and justice before the law, potable water, and a range of basic services.  Perhaps this principle, more than any other, distinguishes intelligent urbanism from other elitist, efficiency oriented urban charters and regimes.

Intelligent urbanism does not say every household will stay in an equivalent house, or travel in the same vehicle, or consume the same amount of electricity.

Intelligent urbanism recognizes the existence of poverty, of ignorance, of ill health, of malnutrition, of low skills, of gender bias and ignorance of the urban system itself.  Intelligent urbanism is courageous in confronting these forms of inequality, and backlogs in social and economic development.  Intelligent urbanism sees an urban plan, not only as a physical plan, but also as a social plan and as an economic plan.

The ramifications of this understanding are that the people living in intelligent cities should not experience urban development in “standard doses".   In short, people may be born equal or unequal, but they grow inequitably.  An important role of the city is to provide a variety of paths and channels for each individual to set right their own future, against the inequity of their past, or the special challenges they face.  According to proponents of this principle this is the most salient aspect of a free society; than even voting rights access to opportunity is the essence of self-liberation and human development (Sen:2000).