[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rory O'Connor (Irish republican)

nder a newly elected executive of 16 men,  including O'Connor, that would choose an army council and headquarters staff. 
Asked by a journalist if this development meant the anti-treatyites were proposing a 'military dictatorship' in Ireland, O'Connor replied, "You can take it that way if you want."

On 14 April 1922 O'Connor was one of a number of IRA leaders in a 200-strong force of that occupied the Four Courts building in the centre of Dublin in defiance of the Provisional Government. They intended to provoke the British troops (who were still in the country) into attacking them, which they thought would restart the war with Britain and re-unite the IRA against their common enemy. They also occupied other smaller buildings regarded as being associated with the former British administration, such as the Ballast Office and the Freemasons' Hall in Molesworth Street, but the Four Courts remained the focus of interest. On 15 June, O'Connor sent out men to collect the rifles that belonged to the mutineers of the Civic Guards.

Michael Collins tried desperately to persuade the IRA men to leave the Four Courts. At the Third IRA Convention on 18 June, the Executive was split over whether the Irish Government should demand that all British troops leave within 72 hours. A motion to this effect, opposed by Lynch, was narrowly defeated, whereupon O'Connor and others left the meeting to set up a separate GHQ. The IRA had split into two factions opposed to the government.

On 22 June 1922 Sir Henry Wilson was assassinated in London by two IRA men, Reginald Dunne and Joseph O'Sullivan, each a former British soldier. Some now argue that this was done on the orders of Michael Collins, who had been a close friend of Dunne's in the London IRB. Lloyd George wrote an angry letter to Collins, which included the line "...still less can Mr. Rory O'Connor be permitted to remain his followers and his arsenal in open rebellion in the heart of Dublin... organizing and sending out from this centre enterprises of murder not only in the area of your Government..."

On 28 June 1922, after the Four Courts garrison had kidnapped Ginger O'Connell, a general in the National Army, Collins gave orders for the shelling of the Four Courts with borrowed artillery lent by Winston Churchill. The shelling led to the Four Courts catching fire, damaging parts of the building in addition to destroying numerous government documents. O'Connor was one of 130 men that surrendered on 30 June; some of these were arrested and imprisoned in Mountjoy. This incident marked the official start of the Irish Civil War, as fighting broke out openly around the country between pro- and anti-Treaty factions.

Execution
On 8 December 1922, along with three other republicans Liam Mellows, Richard Barrett and Joe McKelvey captured with the fall of the Four Courts, Rory O'Connor was executed by firing squad in reprisal for the anti-treaty IRA's killing of Free State TD Sean Hales. The execution order was signed by Kevin O'Higgins. O'Connor had been best man at his wedding on 27 October 1921. Their deaths remain a symbol of the bitterness and division of the Irish Civil War. O'Connor, one of 77 republicans executed by the Provisional Government, is seen as a martyr by the Republican movement in Ireland.

Commemoration
"Rory O'Connor Place" in Arklow is named in his honour.  There is also a pub in Crumlin, Dublin named after him and a housing estate near Dún Laoghaire (County Dublin), called "Rory O'Connor Park".

On his execution, the equestrienne Joan de Sales La Terriere, a close friend of O'Connor, named her son in his honour.

A Sinn Féin cumann (UCD) is named after him.

Sources
 
 Foster, G, 'Republicans and the Irish Civil War', New Hibernian Review (2012) p. 20–42.
 Hart, P, IRA at War 1916-1923 (OUP 2005)
 Hopkinson, Michael, Green against Green: the Irish Civil War (Dublin 1988)
 Hopkinson, M, The Irish War of Independence (Dublin and Montreal 2002)
 Macardle, Dorothy, The Irish Republic 1911-1923 (London 1937)
 O'Malley, Ernie, The Singing Flame (Dublin 1963)
 Purdon, Edward, The Irish Civil War 1922-23 (The Mercier Press Ltd 2000)

Notes

1883 births
1922 deaths
Executed people from County Dublin
Irish Republican Army (1919–1922) members
Irish Republican Army (1922–1969) members
People executed by Ireland by firing squad
People executed by the Irish Free State
Politicians from Dublin (city)
People killed in the Irish Civil War
People of the Easter Rising
People of the Irish Civil War (Anti-Treaty side)