[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Garry Bocaly

match, and produced what UEFA's match reporter called an "exquisite sliding tackle" with his goalkeeper beaten to deny the opponents a second goal. Bonnart was preferred for the next league match, and Bocaly made just four Ligue 1 appearances before returning to Montpellier on loan in January 2010.

Return to Montpellier
On 28 January 2010, Bocaly returned to Montpellier on loan to the end of the season, with an option to purchase. Illness delayed his second Montpellier debut until 13 February, when he started in a 1–0 win over Grenoble. Surgery on a broken hand kept him out until 7 March, when he returned to action as a late substitute against Bordeaux. He made twelve appearances by the end of the season, helping Montpellier finish fifth in the league and qualify for the 2010–11 UEFA Europa League.

Montpeller took up their option to sign Bocaly on a permanent basis. His opening-day performance against Bordeaux, in which his headed goal, his first in Ligue 1, won the match, earned him a place in L'Équipe Team of the Week, and he helped the team go through August without conceding a goal. He was yellow-carded on 28 August for an offence that was retrospectively ruled to have been serious foul play, and received a two-match ban plus a suspended one-match ban. He returned to the starting lineup in a 2–0 win over Sochaux on 16 October. After missing a month with a thigh problem, he returned as a late substitute on 4 January and fit to start against hot favourites Paris St Germain (PSG) in the semi-final of the Coupe de la Ligue, a competition in which Montpellier had never reached the final. The match was goalless when PSG's Clément Chantôme was sent off for a heavy tackle on Bocaly after 88 minutes; in the last minutes of extra time, Olivier Giroud headed home to take Montpellier through to face Olympique Marseille at the Stade de France. The Final was disappointing for club and player: the only goal came after Bocaly fouled Mathieu Valbuena, the resulting free kick was partly cleared, and Taye Taiwo shot home.

When availableas well as his mid-season injury, a lack of discipline brought a series of suspensionsBocaly was a regular in the starting eleven; he finished with 31 appearances in all competitions. He scored twice more: he "found the bottom corner from the edge of the area and could not have caught it any better, with the ball fizzing, staying at a constant height above the ground" to complete a 2–1 win at Nancy at the end of January and produced a "spectacular long-range strike" in Montpellier's heaviest home defeat of the season, against Lens in March. The league season ended badly for Montpellier: one win in the last nine matches left them 14th, just three points clear of relegation.

Head coach René Girard saw Bocaly as a right-sided defender who liked to go forward; he was certainly productive at both ends of the pitch in the early part of the 2011–12 season. While helping the defence keep three clean sheets in the first five matches, he set up Montpellier's second goal of a 3–1 win over Auxerre in the opening game, was fouled for a penalty to open the scoring in a 4–0 defeat of Rennes on matchday three, and crossed for Souleymane Camara to score the only goal against Nice on matchday five. In the first half of the season, after which they lay second in the table, three points behind big-spending Paris Saint-Germain, who reportedly paid €6 million more for one player than Montpellier's entire €36m budget. Bocaly started 13 of the 19 matches; in the second half, all but one. A run of four wins in January and February without conceding a goalin the second of which, against Nice, Bocaly assisted Giroud's last-minute winnertook them top, at least until PSG played their game in hand. They remained contenders. At the beginning of April, Bocaly told the press he thought the title race was between Montpellier, PSG and Lille, the reigning champions; with two matches left, this was still the case, but a stoppage-time winner against Lille left Montpellier needing only to draw at Auxerre, whose relegation was already confirmed. Bocaly said it would be difficult, but he had "every faith in the spirit of this team to be champions". His faith was justified: against a background of home supporters protesting by throwing tennis balls, toilet rolls and firecrackers onto the pitch, causing twenty minutes' worth of delays, a 2–1 win confirmed Montpellier's first ever league title.