[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Santaji Ghorpade

efugee at Basavapatan(40 miles west of Dodderi) . Santaji Killed Himmat Khan in a sanguinary action at Basavapatan.

These two dazzling victories of Dodderi and Death of Himmat Khan Further raised Santaji's reputation for his invincibility and made him the dread of even the greatest Mughal Generals.

Santaji is now considered as the Architect of "Modern Maratha Cavalry Tactics". The Kind of Adverse conditions he Faced both from enemies and Also from Maratha courtiers and seeing his outstanding victories over Greatest Mughal generals Undoubtedly Makes him the Greatest Cavalry General of Marathas After Chhatrapati Shivaji himself, only rivaled by Bajirao.

His eldest son became a general and he died in a battle in 1701. Santaji's son Yeshoji & Tukoji continued his military activities by shifting their base to Sandur near Bellary & Guti in Karnataka.With help of Telangi-Berads, they sided with Tarabai faction of Kolhapur during Maratha war of succession fought between Shahu & Tarabai. After the Peshwa of Pune obtained additional powers in 1749, Ghorpades concentrated their activities in Karnataka.

Murarrao Ghorpade, a grandnephew of Santaji, made an alliance with Muhammad Ali and helped him to defeat Chanda Sahib in famous Battle of Arcot fought in 1751. This battle is known in history of British East India Company as part of the Carnatic Wars fought between Robert Clive led forces of British East India Company and Dupleix led French East India Company between 1751 and 1758, also known as 7 years war. English historians tend to highlight & threat from Nizam of Hyderabad-Hyder Ali-Tipu Sultan kept them engrossed in Karnataka-Tamil Nadu away from politics of Pune Darbars. Ghorpades maintained working relationship with British East India Company in their Karnataka-Tamil Nadu operations maturing from the cordial relationship established with Robert Clive during siege of Arcot in 1751. Descendants of Santaji still live in (Sidhojirao Bahirjee branch) Sandur & Guti, Karnataka. His descendants are also part of the families of Mudhol, Bedag Thane, Madhabhavi Thane, Khemlapur Thane, of state Datwadd, Bahadurwadi, Satave, Bhadale, Ashta, Khanapur, Nandgao in Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli districts of Maharashtra. One branch of descendants of Rajeghorpade continued to serve under Kolhapur Princely State of Bhosale. Ramchandra Babaji Ghorpade of this branch held feudal estate near Satave of Panhala. Later after independence of India his grandson Nivruti Vithoji Ghorpade co-founded Warana Sugar and allied industries. He remained Vice-chairman/ Director of Warana industries for 35 years.

Jadunath Sarkar the noted historian writes in his famous book namely military history of India about Santaji:

References

Indian military leaders
People from the Maratha Empire
1697 deaths
1660 births