[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Project Mercy

to broccoli, carrots, tomatoes, kale, spinach, etc.  The seeds of some of the new vegetables were also dried for the next planting and shared with those in the community who were interested.  The Project Mercy gardens are also used to provide a large portion of the food for the School Meal Program.

Drip Irrigation 
Depending solely upon their small one acre farms for sustenance was something disastrous for farmers due to long periods of no rain or torrential rains that would wash out their crops.  Project Mercy began experimenting with drip irrigation within its own gardens to manage the effects of the weather cycles.  After it proved to be successful in the demonstration gardens, the drip irrigation program expanded through the dispersion of drip irrigation bucket kits.

Fruit Trees 
ECHO (Educational Concerns for Hunger Organization) has been extremely helpful and gracious in supplying expertise along with a variety of fruit tree seedlings, including avocado, mango and papaya seeds.  Once the trees reach a certain growth stage, they can be used for grafting.  The avocado, mango and papaya survive well with little water and are excellent sources of nutrition.  Once the root stock is built up and growing strong, grafts will be provided to local residents.  These trees will generate nutritious fruit at home sites throughout the community to produce a cash crop in good times and serve as a buffer in times of scarcity.

Dairy Cattle Breeding 
Additional funding and expertise continues to be invested in a Dairy Cattle Breeding Program, which hopes to dramatically increase the milk production through successful crossbreeding and artificial insemination.  The number of new calves born under the program continues to grow.  Barns have been constructed on the 350 acre site in Cha Cha, Ethiopia and new equipment is in place to also plant and assist with crop management.

Citations 

Personal letter from Marta Gabre-Tsadick, December 13, 2005.
 Charity Navigator Rating – Project Mercy at www.charitynavigator.org
 New Hospital at Project Mercy at cindybeads.com
 Share Our Strength – Ending Childhood Hunger in America at www.strength.org
 https://marriottschool.byu.edu/alumni/portal/featured/index.cfm?siteareaid=14

External links 
 Project Mercy – Home at www.projectmercy.org
 Share Our Strength – Ending Childhood Hunger in America at www.strength.org
 The Project Mercy Story at www.youtube.com

Organizations established in 1977
Refugee aid organizations
Medical and health organisations based in Ethiopia