[Source: PubMed]

45. Soc Sci Med. 2018 Mar;200:19-26. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.01.009. Epub
2018  Jan 10.

Pathways linking war and displacement to parenting and child adjustment: A 
qualitative study with Syrian refugees in Lebanon.

Sim A(1), Fazel M(2), Bowes L(3), Gardner F(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Policy & Intervention, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
England, United Kingdom. Electronic address: Amanda.Sim@wolfson.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford, England, United 
Kingdom.
(3)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford, Oxford, England, 
United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Social Policy & Intervention, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
England, United Kingdom.

Forcibly displaced children are at risk of a range of negative outcomes, yet 
little is known about how to support war-affected caregivers in promoting 
children's psychosocial resilience. The current study uses qualitative methods 
to examine the mechanisms underlying the effects of war and displacement on 
parenting and child adjustment in order to inform intervention development. In 
April and November 2016, group and individual interviews were conducted with 39 
Syrian parents and 15 children in partnership with a humanitarian organization 
in Lebanon. Interviews were transcribed and analyzed using a grounded theory 
approach. Results show three interrelated pathways linking daily displacement 
stressors to various dimensions of parenting: (1) economic hardship prevents 
parents from meeting their children's basic needs and forces adaptation 
strategies that impair positive parent-child interactions; (2) parental 
psychological distress contributes to harsh parenting; and (3) perceptions and 
experiences of insecurity in the community results in increased parental 
control. Greater economic resources and social support emerged as potential 
protective factors for maintaining positive parenting despite exposure to war 
and displacement-related adversity. Our findings suggest that implementation of 
policies and programs to remove structural barriers to refugees' physical and 
economic security can have tangible impacts on parental mental health, parenting 
quality, and child psychosocial outcomes. Future research priorities include a 
stronger focus on the effects of war and displacement on family processes, 
taking into account interactions with the broader social, economic and political 
context.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.01.009
PMID: 29355827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]