[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Israeli–Lebanese conflict

019, Arabic media claimed Israeli aircraft had carried out an airstrike on a base belonging the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command (PFLP-GC), a Syria-based Palestinian militant group. The base is located in the Bekaa Valley in eastern Lebanon, near the border with Syria.

Aerial activity 
 On 6 October 2012, a UAV allegedly operated by Hezbollah from Lebanon was shot down by the Israeli Air Force near Yatir Forest.
 On 11 July 2015, an Israeli Hermes 450 drone crashed near Tripoli port, the drone was located 8 meters below the waterline and was retrieved by the Lebanese Army.  
 On 31 March 2018, an Israeli Hermes 450 drone crashed due to a technical failure. An additional Israeli drone bombed the crashed drone. The Lebanese Army issued a statement saying that the crashed drone was found to be equipped with four unexploded ordnance. A technical unit of the Lebanese Army detonated it.
 On 31 October 2019, an Israeli drone was targeted by anti aircraft missile fired by Hezbollah in Souther Lebanon, officials in both countries said. According to Hezbollah the drone was shot down, a claim denied by Israel.
 On 26 July 2020, an Israeli drone crashed in Lebanon amid fears of an escalation with Hezbollah.
 On 22 August 2020, Hezbollah said it shot down an Israeli drone in Ayta ash Shab Southern Lebanon. Later the IDF acknowledged that a drone was lost and fell in Hezbollah hands.
 On 18 February 2022, Israel's Iron Dome fails to intercept a Hezbollah-operated military drone from Lebanon that penetrated seventy kilometers into Israeli airspace. The drone flew for forty minutes before returning to Lebanon. Israeli jets fly at very low altitude over Beirut in response to the incident.

Other incidents 
 On 4 December 2013, a Hezbollah Commander, Hassan al-Laqqis was assassinated in Beirut. Israel denied any involvement.
 On 5 September 2014, the official Lebanese news agency reported that an Israeli surveillance device was detonated in the area of the village of Aadloun, in the Sidon area. According to the report, the device was planted in the garden and Hezbollah was the one who detonated it, with increased security measures in the background. On the Lebanese news website "Al-Nashra", however, it was claimed that an Israeli drone had detonated the device after it was discovered. Hezbollah-affiliated channels Al Mayadeen and Al-Manar claimed that a surveillance aircraft detonated the device from a distance.

Issues during the conflict

Israeli incursions into Lebanon
Since the civil war, Israel has routinely breached Lebanese airspace, waters, and borders, which is illegal since it violates Lebanon's territory and United Nations Security Council Resolution 425 and 1701.

The most frequent breaches are overflights by Israeli war planes and drones; such violations have occurred since the inception of the Israeli–Lebanese conflict, and have happened continuously and almost daily since the 2006 Lebanon war, being the source of much conflict between Lebanon and Israel. Israeli warplanes sometimes stage mock attacks on Lebanese cities, and emit sonic booms that frighten civilians.

In 2007 the Lebanese government complained that Israeli planes had flown into Lebanese airspace 290 times within four months, and that Israeli troops had crossed the border 52 times.

In 2006 French Defense Minister Michele Alliot-Marie stated: "I remind that the violations of the airspace are extremely dangerous, they are dangerous first because they may be felt as hostile by forces of the coalition that could be brought to retaliate in cases of self defense and it would be a very serious incident." US officials on visit in Israel also demanded that Israel stop the overflights since they undermined the standing of Lebanese Prime Minister Fouad Siniora.

On 19 August 2010, the Lebanese military reported that 12 aircraft belonging to the IDF entered into Lebanese territory, which they claim is a violation of Resolution 1701. In the three incidents, the IDF planes made circle maneuvers, fired no shots and left Lebanese airspace soon after.

The UN has continuously protested the repeated Israeli overflights. Lebanese officials fear the escalation in overflights heighten tensions and could lead to war.

Israel rejects such criticism, and claim the overflights are necessary. In spite of this, a leaked US cable shows that Israel offered to stop such violations.

On land, the Blue Line is often crossed, as well as incursions into the Shebaa Farms (which Israel considers Israeli territory as part of Golan Heights, which it captured from Syria in 1967, but which Lebanon claims is Lebanese territory). The 2010 Israel–Lebanon border clash was also performed on the basis of claims of such violations.

At sea, Israeli gunboats have shot into Lebanese territorial waters, and there have been Lebanese claims that Israel is breaching the law of the sea and might lay claim on Lebanese natural resources through the Tamar gas field.