[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Democratic Republican Alliance

of the Workers' International and the French Communist Party)

Party platform 
Its creation reflects the will to oppose the polarization due to the progressive division during the Dreyfus affair and impose a three-party system leading to the Republic of the just-middle theorized by François Guizot.

The ARD was created by the progressives who supported Captain Alfred Dreyfus and opposed those who followed Jules Méline in opposition to the President of the Council Pierre Waldeck-Rousseau. At the instigation of the latter, the Democratic Republican Alliance was founded on 23 October 1901 by engineer Adolphe Carnot (brother of former French President Sadi Carnot), the deputies Henry Blanc, Edmond Halphen and publicist Charles Pallu de la Barrière. The Alliance built strong support networks with the Ligue des droits de l'homme (including Paul Stapfer), the League of Education and former political networks around Jules Ferry, Léon Gambetta and Léon Say.

Its initial recruitment is that of the Parisian elite (including scientists) and the provincial notables. Even if the party's principal leaders were often related to business, the majority of its elected officials opposed the wishes of businessmen, in particular on social policies.

Names 
 Democratic Republican Alliance (, ARD): 1901–1911
 Republican Democratic Party (, PRD): 1911–1917
 Democratic Republican Alliance (, ARD): 1917–1920
 Democratic, Republican, and Social Party (, PRDS); 1920–1926
 Democratic Alliance (, AD); 1926–1949

See also 
 Liberalism and radicalism in France
 France in the twentieth century
 Independent Radicals
 Radical Party (France)
 Sinistrisme

References

Bibliography 
 Rosemonde Samson (2003). L'Alliance républicaine démocratique, une formation de centre. Presses universitaires de Rennes, coll. Carnot.

1901 establishments in France
Centre-right parties in Europe
Conservative liberal parties
Defunct political parties in France
Defunct liberal political parties
Liberal parties in France
Liberal conservative parties
Republican parties
Republicanism in France
Political parties of the French Third Republic
Political parties established in 1901
Opportunist Republicans