[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# João de Deus Mena Barreto

, he was forced to face the 18 of the Copacabana Fort revolt that broke out on 5 July 1922 in Rio and Mato Grosso. The first of a series of tenente revolts, Mena Barreto personally headed a detachment with the purpose of halting the advance of Military School cadets in the Rio neighborhood of Méier.

In July 1924, another revolt broke out in São Paulo. This was accompanied by uprisings in Amazonas and Sergipe. Mena Barreto was made commander-in-chief of the Detachment of the North, made to fight the 27th Battalion of Hunters led by Lieutenants Joaquim de Magalhães Cardoso Barata and Alfredo Augusto Ribeiro Júnior and other young officers. Mena Barreto arrived on 11 August in Belém, Pará after a revolt there had already been put down, though he still took control of the 8th Military Region and took measures to consolidate the military situation there. On their way to Manaus, Amazonas, loyalist troops occupied the city of Santarém, Pará, on 23 August and made arrests. Meanwhile, the state government in Amazonas had been deposed by rebels and a governing junta was established there led by Ribeiro Júnior. On 28 August, the loyalists arrived in Manuas and arrested members of the junta. Mena Barreto appointed Colonel Raimundo Barbosa as military governor after the deposed state president refused to return. In October, though effective December 1924, Mena Barreto took command of the 1st Military Region. This was just after he achieved the rank of divisional general. The next year, at his suggestion, Soldier's Day was created to celebrate the birthday of the Duke of Caxias on 25 August. He resigned in March 1926 and was replaced by Otávio de Azeredo Coutinho. He took two more positions in 1926. Mena Barreto was elected president of the , where he normalized the club's activities after it was banned in 1922, and reelected the subsequent year. The other position was inspector of the 1st Group of Military Regions, appointed in November.

Military junta and later years

Revolution of 1930 and the military junta 

At the outbreak of the Revolution of 1930 against President Washington Luís, Mena Barreto was still inspector of the 1st Group of Military Regions. Though his son João de Deus claims his father had no foreknowledge of the revolution, other sources say Mena Barreto was informed of the revolution in advance by emissaries from Rio Grande do Sul. With the situation across Brazil turning favorable to revolutionaries, and Colonel Bertoldo Klinger, Mena Barreto's Chief of Staff, having asked the general on the behalf of a group of young officers to intervene in the revolution to end hostilities, Mena Barreto, alongside other generals in the Federal District, began to support a military coup.

Mena Barreto's sons, Lieutenants Valdemar and João de Deus, made contact with the officialdom as signatures were being collected for a manifesto to force Luís's resignation. Mena Barreto contacted Rear Admiral José Isaías de Noronha as the latter was a relative of his wife. In order to respect the military hierarchy, Mena Barreto had requested two generals superior to him, Augusto Tasso Fragoso and Alexandre Henrique Vieira Leal, to lead the movement. With both declining, Mena Barreto and his son Paulo Emílio again asked Tasso Fragoso on the morning of 23 October. Tasso Fragoso, agreeing, convened with Mena Barreto that night at Fort Copacabana to make the final preparations for their uprising. On 24 October, Mena Barreto and Tasso Fragoso went to the Guanabara Palace and demanded Luís resign, guaranteeing respect for his integrity. After initially refusing, Luís was taken to Fort Copacabana after Cardinal Sebastião da Silveira Cintra acted as an intermediary. Meanwhile, a provisional governing junta composed of Tasso Fragoso as head, Mena Barreto, and Noronha was established in place of the deposed president. During their brief time in power, the junta began to demilitarize Brazil, appointed a provisional ministry, and authorized banking operations to resume among other measures.