[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Moroccan Association for Human Rights

human rights or civil society organizations, trade unions, democratic associations and official bodies like the Ministry of Justice or the National Council of Human Rights.

External relations 
For the same reason the Moroccan Association for Human Rights has expanded its partners abroad, which are:

EU: European Union.
OXFAM-NOVIB: Dutch NGO.
A.C.C.D. : Catalan Agency for Cooperation and Development.
A.E.C.I.D. : Spanish Agency for International Cooperation and Development
A.C.SUR: Spanish Association of Cooperation with the South.
SODEPAU: Solidarity, Development and Peace (Catalan NGO).*FDHM: Fund for Global Human Rights.
FES: Frederic Ebert Foundation (Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung or FES)
Embassies of democratic countries, for instance, Finland, Norway and the Kingdom of the Netherlands.The AMDH is also a member of international organizations and networks:
FIDH: (Fédération internationale des ligues des droits de l'homme) International Federation of Human Rights Leagues.
EMHRN: Euro-Mediterranean Network of Human Rights, also called EuroMed Rights.
AOHR: Arab Organization for Human Rights.
Inter-African Union for Human Rights.
CMODH: (Coordination Maghrébine des Organizations des Droits Humains) Maghreb Coordination of Human Rights Organizations.
Habitat International Coalition
IADL: International Association of Democratic Lawyers.
OMCT: (Organisation Mondiale Contre la Torture) World Organization against Torture.
ECOSOC: United Nations Economic and Social Council. The AMDH is an observer member.

Funding 
The majority of the funds come from the contribution of its members. The membership is 100 dirhams (dh) annually ($8,81 ), 50 dh ($4,40) for incomes below 2.000 dh and for Moroccans living in Europe 30 euros, 10 if student. The AMDH, however, accepts other sources of financing provided that they do not compromise their goals and identity, following the logic of its principle of independence. For example, in 2007 the then President, Abdelhamid Amine, stated that the association was unwilling to accept American or British funds to finance the network of NGOs responsible to monitor the elections, of which the AMDH was part. Amine made special emphasis in refusing United States financing since the government had systematically carried out human rights violations under political pretexts. He also established that if the funds were accepted, the AMDH would withdraw from the network.

Nevertheless, associations in Morocco lack sufficient funds and resources, thus, there is a high risk to lose independence in favor of financing, changing the association's goals for the donor's goals. In 2016 Abdel-Elah Abdelsalam, deputy head of the AMDH, explained that the association does not receive general funds rather the donors direct their money to projects that the AMDH is already implementing. Therefore, it is not influenced to take any particular decision and the financing can be considered more of a partnership with the donor.

Tactics and activities 
The association pursues its objectives by undertaking a number of different legitimate activities, either on its own or in collaboration with other organizations. These activities are mainly focused on women's rights, justice, youth, laborers, freedom of association and speech, economic and social rights, migration and refugees.

Information dissemination and communication activities 
The AMDH releases monthly the specialized Arabic newspaper "Attadamoune" (solidarity), which includes sections in French. Other examples include the publication of brochures and books including information about their work and the results, internal bulletins about the discussions that have taken place inside the organization, the issuing of annual reports about the situation of human rights in the country and protest memoranda.

World Days celebrations 
In order to reach the broad public it organizes activities on occasion of, for instance, World Human Rights Day on December 10, International Migrants Day on December 18, International Women's Day on March 8, International Workers Day on May 1, International Day in Support of Victims of Torture on June 26, World Day of the Abolition of death penalty on October 10 or the anniversary of the creation of the AMDH on June 24.

Training and awareness activities 
For example, conferences, round tables, symposiums.

Artistic, cultural, sportive and other leisure activities 
They are also organized by the AMDH to spread human rights norms and values among all citizens and in particular among the youth, women and workers. For instance, through recreational and educational camps or human rights clubs.