[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Burmese invasions of Assam

invaders did. The population of Assam was greatly reduced by 2/3 and 1/3 of the men and boys were killed during this period. 

Major John Butler who came to Assam in 1837 and met many survivors of the Burmese rule recorded the story of a massacre committed in 1819-20 on the bank of the Kalang river.

"After having decapitated 50 persons in one day, the Burmese placed a large number of men, women, and children on a, bamboo platform inside a house erected of bamboo and thatch. They then set fire to the fuel placed round the building. In a few minutes 200 persons were consumed in the flames. “ All who were suspected of being inimical to the reign of terror, were seized and bound by Burmese executioners, who cut off the lobes of the poor victims’ ears and choice portions of the body, such as the points of the shoulders, and actually ate the raw flesh before the living sufferers. They then inhumanly inflicted, with a sword, deep but not mortal gashes on the body, that the mutilated might die slowly, and finally closed the tragedy by disembowelling the wretched victims."

The Burmese incursions in Manipur are said to have depopulated the country and removed all traces of Manipuri civilization. The period of seven year devastation in Manipur from 1819 to 1826 is known as 'Chahi Taret Khuntakpa.'The ravages of Bodawpaya and his predecessors had reduced parts of Siam into a desert, for years the fields round Tavoy were white with human bones. To escape from Burmese oppressions the greater part of the population of Arakan had deserted their country and taken shelter in British territory “ where taxation was reasonable, and a man could go to bed at night without wondering whether his throat would be cut in the morning by order of some official“ The Muslim Pangal of Manipur too were devastated and taken as slaves by the invading Burmese armies.

Notes

References

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

19th-century conflicts
History of Assam
Military history of Myanmar
19th century in Burma
First Anglo-Burmese War
1810s in Asia
1820s in Asia
1810s in Burma
1820s in Burma
Military history of India
1810s in India
1820s in India
1817 in Burma
1825 in Burma
1826 in Burma