[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Savely Kramarov

Savely Viktorovich Kramarov (; 13 October 1934 – 6 June 1995) was a Russian–American actor. He acted in at least 42 Soviet films, and later appeared in several more after his immigration to the United States.

Early life 
Savely Kramarov was born 13 October 1934 to Jewish parents: father Viktor Savelyevich Kramarov (Виктор Савельевич Крамаров), a prominent Moscow attorney, and mother Benedikta Solomonovna "Basya" Kramarova (née Volchek) (Бенедиктa Соломоновнa "Бася" Крамарова (Волчек)). When young Savely was only three years old, the elder Kramarov represented some defendants in a widely publicized Soviet secret police case. Within a year Kramarov's's father was himself the victim of a "Stalinist purge"—his crime, representing his clients too vigorously. Arrested and tortured to confess, Kramarov's father was sentenced to a term of eight years in the Soviet Gulag. Savely's mother was forced to divorce his convict father, and mother and son lived for a time in a communal apartment. Before Viktor Kramarov's prison term was up, young Savely's mother died, leaving him effectively an orphan. By a stroke of luck, she had managed to register him as Russian, not Jewish, on his domestic Soviet passport. Savely was once allowed to see his father prior to the elder Kramarov's exile in Biysk. During this meeting, his father, practically a stranger to him, told Savely of his Jewish faith that had sustained him in prison. In the 1950s, the once prominent attorney died in exile. Kramarov spent the remainder of his childhood in poverty, living with relatives, mainly his maternal uncles. During this time, he was diagnosed with tuberculosis; a Jewish physician helped him back to health.

Education
Seeking to follow in his father's footsteps with a career in law, Kramarov quickly found that door closed for the son of an enemy of the people. Instead Kramarov accepted an offer to technical school for forestry science. It was around this time Kramarov started acting. Kramarov did not attend formal acting school, at the State Theatre Art Institute, until 1972, well after achieving film stardom. At the same time as his late schooling for acting, he took up yoga, which attracted negative attention from the Soviet authorities.

Soviet stage and film career 
Kramarov's first serious acting work was on stage in the late 1950s, in the lead role of Vasily Shukshin’s Vanka, How are You Here. Soon Kramarov was invited to act in Soviet cinema. His first film role was as Soldier Petkin in They Were Nineteen (Im bilo devyatnadtsat) (1960). By his second film My Friend, Kolka!, Kramarov was well on his way to Soviet stardom. His goofy persona (in part a natural result of his being cross-eyed) delighted audiences. And he was a director's dream, dependably turning his lead roles into film-making gold. At the end of his life, Kramarov was asked to identify his favorite films he made; he named My Friend, Kolka!, The Elusive Avengers, The Twelve Chairs, Gentlemen of Fortune, It Can't Be!, and Big School-Break.

But for all his fame and wealth, Kramarov recalled, his life was not whole. His religious identity learned from his family, which he had to hide in the Soviet Union, weighed on him. In 1979, he became a practicing Orthodox Jew; and he actively practiced his faith the rest of his life.

Emigration application and end of his Soviet career 
It was at the height of his Soviet fame and fortune when Kramarov, in 1979, startled the Soviet authorities with his application for emigration. By this time he had made 42 films and was one of the Soviet Union's most popular film stars. His application rejected, Kramarov's films were suppressed nationwide; his film career was dead. He found his only outlet to continue acting was a theatre of refuseniks, where the passports of prospective audience members were checked on arrival at a performance.

Not giving up hope, Kramarov next took up a campaign in Western news media to secure his coveted exit visa, going so far as to write to then-U.S. President Ronald Reagan, as from "one actor to another." The Reagan letter was read multiple times on Voice of America radio.

Upon finally being allowed to leave on 31 October 1981, Kramarov became persona non grata in the Soviet Union, like all celebrities considered traitors or enemies of the state. His name was removed from credits of all the films that he made so successful. Recalling a newly Kramarov-less Soviet Union, Oleg Vidov, another Russian actor who emigrated after Kramarov, noted: "The government took all of his posters down from the walls. They didn't want to have to explain why he left; it was easier just to forget."