[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public and International Affairs

The Graduate School of Public and International Affairs (GSPIA) is one of 17 schools comprising the University of Pittsburgh. Founded in 1957 to study national and international public administration, GSPIA prides itself on its "Local to Global" distinction. As of 2018, it is one of only two policy schools with programs in the top 20 for both International Relations (Foreign Policy, 2015) and City Management and Urban Policy (U.S. News & World Report, 2018). The former mayor of Pittsburgh, Bill Peduto, is a GSPIA alumnus.

GSPIA is accredited by the Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration (NASPAA), and is a member of the Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs (APSIA). The school is located in Wesley W. Posvar Hall on the University of Pittsburgh campus in the Oakland neighborhood of Pittsburgh. In July 2007, John T. S. Keeler took over as dean, replacing Carolyn Ban, who resigned in August 2006.

History

In 1957, GSPIA was founded by Donald C. Stone in an effort to promote the study of national and international public administration, and to recognize the growing significance of public policy in the global context, and was soon after noted for its breadth and scope.  Stone's philosophy included promoting the notion of "citizenship" and encouraged his colleagues, students, and friends to make government better, to make administrations more effective, and to provide responsible leadership and stewardship for future generations. Stone's  public service career included developing procedures for the Civil Works Administration and planning and implementing the Works Progress Administration. He helped draft the United Nations Charter and his efforts were instrumental in the success of the Marshall Plan in rebuilding Europe after the Second World War.

Demographics
GSPIA employs over 33 full-time, 70 adjunct faculty members, 32 staff members, and has an 11:1 student/faculty ratio. Currently, there are over 8,000 GSPIA alumni working in more than 100 countries around the globe, 1,400 of which are in the Greater Pittsburgh Area.
Entering Class Bio-Demographics (Fall 2017):
400 total students 
69% full-time, 31% part-time
61% female, 39% male
41% out-of-state, 59% in-state (Pennsylvania)
15% U.S. minority
20% international, representing the countries of Argentina, Australia, China, Colombia, Brazil, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, India, Indonesia, Japan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Nicaragua, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, South Korea, Vietnam, and others.

Academics
GSPIA offers several degree and certificate programs.

Degree programs
GSPIA offers several graduate degrees relative to public affairs. Full-time students can complete most master's degree programs within 16 months of study, however, programs can be completed on part-time basis. The MPPM degree is designed for mid-career professionals, and can usually be completed in one year of full-time study. The following is a list of degrees and focuses currently available through GSPIA.
MPA - Master of Public Administration
Public and Nonprofit Management
Urban Affairs and Planning
Policy Research and Analysis
Energy and Environment
Governance and International Public Management
MPIA - Master of Public & International Affairs
Security and Intelligence Studies
Human Security
International Political Economy
MID - Master of International Development
Nongovernmental Organizations and Civil Society
Urban Affairs and Planning
Human Security
Energy and Environment
Governance and International Public Management
MPPM - Master of Public Policy & Management (Mid-Career)
Individualized

PhD - Doctor of Philosophy
International Development (ID)
International Affairs (IA)
Public Administration (PA)
Public Policy & Management (PPM)

GSPIA has recently added the Peace Corps Master's International (MI) track that enables students to earn a master's degree in public health and also volunteer with the Peace Corps. This program blends classroom learning with real-world experience for students interested in a career in global health.

Additionally, GSPIA offers several joint degree programs with other schools within the University of Pittsburgh, as well as with universities within the Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education. The following are a list of available joint degree programs available to students at GSPIA.
MPA, MPIA, or MID & Master of Public Health (MPH)
MPIA or MID & Master of Business Administration (MBA)
MPA, MPIA, or MID & Master of Science in Information Science (MSIS)
MPA, MPIA, or MID & Juris Doctor (JD)
MPA, MPIA, or MID & Master of Social Work (MSW)

Certificate programs