[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Vlastimir

lthough Vlastimir's elevations of titles were merely symbolic, rather than a reflection of administrative-political relations, it does show that he had the right to act this way, which undoubtedly puts him at the head of all Serbian archontes—viz., the leading ruler among the Serbian principalities.

Soon after 846, with the end of the thirty-year-truce, Malamir (or Presian) invaded the regions of the Struma and the Nestos, and Empress-Regent Theodora (r. 842–855, the wife of Theophilos) answered by attacking Northern Thrace. A brief peace was concluded, then Malamir proceeded to invade Macedonia. Bulgaria also imposed rule on the Morava region, a frontier region with the Serbians; in 844, an anonymous Bavarian geographer mentions the Merehani as the people that bordered the Franks furthest away. They lived in the valleys of the present-day Morava river basin, and were still unconquered by the Bulgarians. However, after 845, Bulgaria added these Slavs to their societas; they are last mentioned in 853.

The Byzantines were also active in the hinterland of Dalmatia, to the west of Serbia; the strategos of the cities of Dalmatia came into conflict with a Frankish vassal, Duke Trpimir I of Croatia, in 846/848, who defeated the strategos.

Vlastimir was succeeded by his three sons about 851.

Family

Vlastimir had three sons and one daughter:

Mutimir, Prince, 851–891
Strojimir, Prince (co-ruler), 851–880s
Gojnik, Prince (co-ruler), 851–880s
Unnamed daughter, married Krajina Belojević

Aftermath
Vlastimir's three sons successfully fought off an onslaught by Boris I of Bulgaria in 853 or 854 (shortly after the death of Vlastimir), when they captured 12 great boyars and the commander himself, Vladimir, the son of Boris. The Bulgarians had sought to avenge the previous defeat of Presian in 842. The two sides made peace, and possibly an alliance.  The two younger brothers later revolted against Mutimir for undisclosed reasons. Mutimir sent them as prisoners, a guarantee of peace, to the court of Boris I at Pliska. After Mutimir requested that Emperor Basil I (867–886) baptize his lands, Constantinopolitan priests were sent and a Serbian bishopric was founded.  The Christianization is evident in the tradition of theophoric names found in the next generation of Serbian monarchs (e.g., Petar Gojniković, Pavle Branović). The three branches of Vlastimir's sons continued a succession war over the decades.

The Bulgars under Boris I were persuaded by Moravian Prince Rastislav to attack Louis the German of East Francia. The Bulgar-Slav campaign ended in disaster, and a peace was signed in 855. The following year, the Byzantine army, led by Michael III and caesar Bardas, recaptured Philippopolis (Plovdiv), the region of Zagora and the ports around the Gulf of Burgas on the Black Sea. In 863, the Byzantines invaded the Khanate once again, during a period of famine and natural disasters. Boris I was forced to sign a peace and to convert to Christianity, in return for which he was gifted Zagora. The cradle of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church was founded about 870 in Pliska.

On July 11, 2006, A golden seal of Strojimir, dated to 855-896, was acquired by the Republic of Serbia at auction in Munich, Germany, for 20,000 €, beating a Bulgarian bid of 15,000 €. The seller was an unknown Russian. The seal is of Byzantine handcraft (from Athens, Thessaloniki or Constantinople), weighs 15.64 g, and has a patriarchal cross and a Greek inscription that reads: "Strojimir" and "God, Help Serbia".

A street in Novi Sad is named after Vlastimir (Ulica Kneza Vlastimira).

See also
List of Serbian monarchs
Serbia in the Middle Ages
De Administrando Imperio

Annotations

References

Sources
Primary sources
 
 
 
 

Secondary sources

 
 Runc

External links
 Steven Runciman, A History of the First Bulgarian Empire, London 1930.

9th-century Serbian monarchs
Vlastimirović dynasty
Medieval Serbian military leaders
851 deaths
People of the Bulgarian–Serbian Wars
Slavic warriors