[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 1929 Bahamas hurricane

ere organized by various groups, including the Bahamas Humane Society, Daughters of the Empire, Infant Welfare Association, and Wesleyan Methodist Missionary School.  Aid from the central and southeastern islands in the Bahamas less seriously affected by the storm was hindered by an ongoing drought.

New building codes were enacted to better withstand the effects of hurricanes. Compliance with these codes was intended to secure buildings against winds up to 185 mph (300 km/h), mandating hurricane straps, tar paper, and vertical columns of steel-reinforced concrete on new construction. A new Ministry of Education building in Nassau was constructed on the grounds of the one destroyed by the storm. The Government House was repaired and remodeled following the storm. Wild birds were brought to the Bahamas from Jamaica to repopulate avian life on New Providence Island. The Board of Agriculture requested early-maturing vegetables from Jamaica and Trinidad. Legislation was passed that standardized procedures for hoisting hurricane signal flags, issuing a set of flags to all lighthouses of the British Imperial Lighthouse Service. Along with a fungal disease that killed 99% of sponges in the Bahamas, the storm precipitated the demise of the sponging industry in the colony, leading to tourism becoming the islands' chief industry. The song "Run Come See Jerusalem" by calypso artist Blake Alphonso Higgs, recorded in 1951 and one of the most recognized and recorded folk songs from the Bahamas, recalls the events concerning three ships that were caught in the storm, including the sinking of the Pretoria.

 Effects in the United States and Canada 
 Preparations 
The U.S. Weather Bureau began issuing advisories on the storm on September 23, and continued warning on the storm at least twice daily until September 30 after it moved ashore a final time. Storm bulletins were broadcast every 30 minutes by local radio stations. Storm warnings were first issued on the afternoon of September 24 for areas between Miami, Florida, and Charleston, South Carolina. Weather Bureau forecasters were forced to frequently change the scope of their warnings due to the hurricane's slow movement, unusual southwesterly track, and lack of observations in the region. The bureau stated it was "impossible to locate the exact center or direction of movement" on September 26, with their storm bulletins communicating this uncertainty. Hurricane warnings were ultimately issued for the Florida Keys once the hurricane reached the Florida Straits on September 27. Additional hurricane warnings were later issued for coastal extents between Mississippi and Apalachicola, Florida, in advance of the storm's final landfall.

American and Cuban meteorologists initially anticipated the hurricane to strike Florida north of Miami. Although the storm was often erratic and difficult to precisely locate, its slow movement allowed for ample warning of potentially affected areas in Florida and time for storm preparations to be completed. In many Florida towns, all precautionary measures were in place by the night of September 25.p. 1
p.2 The Florida Department of Health prepared to dispatch health specialists in the risk area. The 124th Infantry Regiment, serving as the Florida National Guard, was mobilized to assist in the hurricane aftermath if necessary. Emergency relief groups were formed in Broward, Dade, Okeechobee, and Palm Beach counties. The windows of homes and businesses along the coast were boarded up. Storeowners moved vulnerable awnings and signage away to safeguard their stores. Pan American Airlines suspended service between Miami and Havana, Cuba, and also evacuated ten planes from Miami worth $700,000 total to Havana. A partial evacuation of the Everglades was conducted on September 25; several hundred people sought refuge in West Palm Beach while others fled to Arcadia and Sebring. Free travel on railroads was arranged for Pahokee residents evacuating to Fort Myers, Tampa, and Sebring. Evacuees also left West Palm Beach for points farther north. Residents lining the coasts of Lake Okeechobee evacuated for higher ground, with Sebring serving as their most common haven.