[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Juansher

bania through Adurbadagan (in present-day northwestern Iran), most likely due to losing faith in the Sasanian Empire, realizing its impending downfall. While he was still in Adurbadagan, Juansher alienated Farrukhzad by turning down a marriage alliance. After that, he rebelled against the Sasanians.

Although the Albanian lowlands and its capital, Partaw, were swiftly taken back by Sasanian forces, Juansher's guerrilla warfare proved to be extraordinarily effective, especially after he won the support of prominent figures in the neighbouring Principality of Iberia. Farrukhzad was thus forced to pursue a more accommodative course of action. With the help of Juansher's father-in-law, the prince of Siwnik, they came to an agreement that gave Juansher considerable autonomy. The quick military response Juansher gave to a later Sasanian attempt to regain control over Albania demonstrated that the balance of power was still shifting in his favour. During this period (most likely during the end of the 640s), as other  gained more control over their own territories, the Sasanian Empire was fragmenting into a network of regional rulerships that would not necessarily form a united front against the Muslim invaders. In 651, Yazdegerd III was killed by a local miller, thus marking the end of the Sasanian Empire.

Under the Byzantine Empire 

Following the fall of the Sasanian Empire, the local rulers in the Southern Caucasus had to choose whether to cooperate with the nascent, but possibly momentary Rashidun Caliphate, or the Byzantine Empire, which had survived the Muslim conquests. Juansher's father seemingly became the leader of Albania once more, due to his seniority. He took the safe route by acknowledging the suzerainty of the caliph, but also instructed Juansher to establish contact with the Byzantine emperor and offer his services. Juansher sent a letter to the Byzantine emperor Constans II (), in which he offered to become his vassal. The latter accepted his offer, bestowing Juansher with the high-ranking title of protopatrikios. Juansher was also given the authority to assign a number of Roman titles to his subjects, and a piece of the True Cross. Juansher's submission to the Byzantines most likely took place before Constans II's campaign to Armenia in the autumn of 653, but was first really implemented during the civil war in the caliphate between 656–661, when Constans II managed to exert his influence over all of the Southern Caucasus. The civil war ended with the dissolution of the Rashidun Caliphate, now replaced by the Umayyad Caliphate.

Movses depicts Juansher as a prominent local ruler during this period. When Juansher visited to see Constans II in person twice during his Southern Caucasian advance in 660–661, he received clear signs of favor on both occasions. He was officially anointed as king of "all the eastern peoples" at his second audience in the spring of 661, making him a client ruler comparable to Hamazasp IV Mamikonian in Armenia. After the Muslim civil war ended, it took some time before the caliphate established its authority once again north of the Zagros Mountains. Throughout this period, Juansher and the other Southern Caucasian rulers maintained their dominion as Byzantine subjects. Movses praises Juansher for launching a construction initiatives and winning the admiration of the adjacent rulers. However, the Byzantine-supported peace in the area was short-lived.

The Khazars, who were expanding their dominance in the Kuban and Terek steppes, launched a series of raids into the Caucasus in 662. In 665, the Caucasus was attacked again, this time by the North Caucasian Huns, who were likely proxies of the Khazars. The Huns planned their invasion to coincide with the winter solstice in order to ambush flocks and herds from Ayrarat and Siwnik on the winter pastures of the Araxes and Kura rivers. They gained much loot from the attack, which their king later returned after making peace with Juansher during a summit meeting.

Under the Umayyad Caliphate