[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Arthur Kroeger College of Public Affairs

The Arthur Kroeger College of Public Affairs, colloquially known as Arthur Kroeger College or AKC, is a specialized institute within the Faculty of Public Affairs at Carleton University in Ottawa, Ontario. The College offers undergraduate and graduate programs in the fields of public policy, international studies, and political management. These include the Bachelor of Public Affairs and Policy Management (BPAPM), the Bachelor of Global and International Studies (BGInS), the Master of Political Management (MPM), and the MA in Migration and Diaspora Studies (MDS). 

The College was established in 1999 and is named for the late Arthur Kroeger, a senior Canadian public servant and former Chancellor of Carleton University.

History 
Prior to the formation of the Arthur Kroeger College of Public Affairs, Carleton University had an established reputation for studies in public policy and administration. As the Canadian government became increasingly focused on reintegrating veterans into civilian life toward the end of World War II, a need arose to meet the needs of an expanding federal public service. The university, then called Carleton College, introduced a Bachelor of Public Administration (B.P.A.) degree under the Institute of Public Administration in 1944, becoming the first category of undergraduate degree issued by the university. Initial coursework covered a broad spectrum of disciplines, including public finance, statistics, political science, and organizational management.

In 1999, Carleton created the new Bachelor of Public Affairs and Policy Management (B.P.A.P.M.) The degree was housed in the new Arthur Kroeger College of Public Affairs. The program was conceived to prepare students for leadership roles at the nexus of the private, public, and non-profit sectors, providing students with strong foundations in the theory and application of public policy, with the College serving as its intellectual home. A fundraising steering committee, led by prominent Toronto businessman George Anderson, embarked on an ambitious campaign to raise $1.5 million to support the College’s activities, including an endowment fund, visiting fellowships, and leadership conferences to enhance student experience The College's namesake, Arthur Kroeger, was a reputed public servant who held a number of senior positions within the Canadian public service prior to his appointment as Chancellor of Carleton University in 1993.  The College formally opened on October 2, 1999 with a reception attended by then-leading figures in Canadian public affairs, including former NDP leader Ed Broadbent, journalist Trina McQueen, and former Clerk of the Privy Council Gordon Robertson.  During its first year, the B.P.A.P.M. program received nearly two hundred applications for its first class, with 67 students admitted to the program that year  The program produced its first cohort of graduates in 2003.

From 1999 to 2011, the Bachelor of Public Affairs and Policy Management was the sole program housed in the Arthur Kroeger College of Public Affairs, until a $15 million donation from petroleum magnate Clayton Riddell helped establish a Master in Political Management program, a graduate degree focusing on strategic planning, communications, government relations and public opinion research related to managing political offices and campaigns.

In 2015, the College received an additional undergraduate program, the Bachelor of Global and International Studies (BGInS) program, focusing predominantly on academic disciplines related to international affairs, ranging from political science, economics, anthropology, and sociology.  Unlike the other two programs associated with Arthur Kroeger College, the Bachelor of Global and International Studies received its own office and administrative staff separate from Arthur Kroeger College housed in Richcraft Hall.

College 
Since its inception in 1999,  Arthur Kroeger College has had a dedicated space on the first floor of the Loeb Building housing the College's administrative offices and other student spaces. The College is used largely by students in the Bachelor of Public Affairs and Policy Management and Master of Political Management program. The College contains a reception area for visitors, as well as the private offices of the Director and other administrative staff. Copies of leading news magazines, periodicals, and academic journals are available for students to peruse in this area.  The College contains a computer lab reserved for use by students in the Public Affairs and Policy Management program, containing several computer stations and a complimentary printer.  The computer lab is accessible through a secured exterior door outside of business hours.  The College is also home to the Donald J. Carty Boardroom, which hosts meetings of the College administration and seminars for Public Affairs and Policy Management courses.