[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Arab Gas Pipeline

nt to supply disruptions. As of 2022, Egypt and Israel are also discussing the possibility of constructing a 70 km-long overland pipeline connecting from the existing Israeli gas grid at Ne'ot Hovav south of Beersheba to the Nitzana Border Crossing and from there to the Arish–Aqaba section in Sinai.

Timeline
On 5 February 2011, amidst the 2011 Egyptian protests an explosion was reported at the pipeline near the El Arish natural gas compressor station, which supplies pipelines to Israel and Jordan. As a result, supplies to Israel and Jordan were halted.

On 27 April 2011, an explosion at the pipeline near Al-Sabil village in the El-Arish region halted natural gas supplies to Israel and Jordan. According to the Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources unidentified saboteurs blew up a monitoring room of the pipeline.

On 4 July 2011, an explosion at the pipeline near Nagah in the Sinai Peninsula halted natural gas supplies to Israel and Jordan. An official said that armed men with machine guns forced guards at the station to leave before planting an explosive charge there.

An overnight explosion on 26–27 September 2011 caused extensive damage to the pipeline at a location  from Egypt's border with Israel. As the pipeline had not been supplying gas to Israel since an earlier explosion in July, it did not affect Israel's natural gas supply. According to Egyptian authorities, local Bedouin Islamists were behind the attack.

On 14 October 2014, an explosion targeted the pipeline for the 26th time near Al-Qurayaa region south east of El-Arish city.

On 31 May 2015, the pipeline was targeted by unknown attackers for the 29th time.

It was targeted by unknown assailants again on 7 January 2016, and Wilayat Sinai claimed responsibility.

Between 2013 and 2018, the Aqaba–El Rehab section was the only section of the Arab Gas Pipeline outside Egypt that was in operation. It transported gas domestically within Jordan, mostly from an LNG reception terminal in Aqaba built after the discontinuation of gas imports from Egypt.

Starting in 2015 Egypt also occasionally used the Aqaba LNG terminal to import gas which was transported to Egypt in the reverse direction through the Arish–Aqaba section.

In 2018, Egypt resumed gas exports through the pipeline.

In 2020, exports of gas from Israel to Jordan through the Israel-Jordan pipeline connection in northern Jordan commenced. An agreement was also reached to allow gas from Israel to flow to Egypt over the Arab Gas Pipeline fed by the Israel-Jordan connection via Jordan and Sinai.

Exports of gas from Israel to Egypt through the Arish–Ashkelon pipeline began in 2020.

On 24 August 2020, an attack on a section of the pipeline north of Damascus caused widespread power outages in Syria.

On 8 September 2021 it was announced that Egypt agreed to assist Lebanon during its ongoing economic and energy crisis by attempting to resume exports of gas to Lebanon through the section of pipeline that reaches Tripoli. This section however has not been operative since the early 2010s and may require significant repairs.

See also
 Energy in Egypt
Energy in Jordan
Energy in Israel
Energy in Syria

References 

Energy infrastructure completed in 2003
Economy of the Arab League
Natural gas pipelines in Egypt
Natural gas pipelines in Jordan
Natural gas pipelines in Lebanon
Natural gas pipelines in Syria
Natural gas pipelines in Israel
Pipelines under the Mediterranean Sea
2003 establishments in Asia
21st-century architecture in Egypt