[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Battle of Charleston (1862)

ry during the campaign, wrote that Lightburn's retreat was "disastrous and demoralizing". He believed that Loring could have been stopped at Fayetteville or Gauley if Union troops had been concentrated at those places—also implying that the Battle of Charleston could have been avoided.

Preservation

The battlefield at Charleston is now covered by a modern town. Some of events and places are memorialized with historical markers. Not far from Charleston is a historical marker for Camp Piatt, near Belle, West Virginia, posted by the West Virginia Department of Culture and History. In Charleston, the restored Ruffner Log House (a.k.a. Rosedale), used by Lightburn as a headquarters, has been moved to a new location adjacent to the Craik-Patton House. Colonel George S. Patton Sr., commander of the 22nd Virginia Infantry Regiment that fought at Charleston and grandfather of World War II General George S. Patton, owned what is now called the Craik–Patton house when he was an attorney prior to the American Civil War.

Two historical markers commemorate the invasion of Ohio by Jenkins that was a byproduct of Jenkins being sent to a position between Lightburn and Ohio. In West Virginia, a highway marker titled "Ohio River Ford" marks the spot at Ravenswood where Jenkins crossed into Ohio. On the Ohio side, a historical marker titled "First Ohio Invasion" discusses the invasion, and is placed at Buffington Island north of the actual crossing point. A historical marker in Gallipolis, Ohio, (indirectly across the Ohio River from Point Pleasant) commemorates the African Methodist Episcopal Church, and it mentions that it was a place of refuge for soldiers "during the time of Lightburn's Retreat".

See also
 List of West Virginia Civil War Confederate units
 List of West Virginia Civil War Union units
 West Virginia in the Civil War

Notes

Footnotes

Citations

References

External links

 Battle of Fayetteville Historical Marker - (mentions Charleston)
 Camp Piatt Highway Historical Marker
 List of West Virginia Civil War Battles - National Park Service

Charleston 1862, Battle Of
Charleston 1862, Battle Of
Kanawha County, West Virginia
Charleston 1862
1862 in the American Civil War
1862 in Virginia
September 1862 events