[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hok Yau Club

is the first person applies for the membership in December 2006 at Head Office, then the number issued to him will be K0612001. The next one will be K0612002, and so on.  Therefore, upon the annual renewal of the membership, a new number will be issued, and the previous one will no longer be in use.

For voting membership, the alphabets assigned, and the formation are different. Head Office is assigned as A, while Island Centre is B and SGC is C. The annual renewal of membership has no effect on the number. Each voting member is given a designated member number. He can retain the number for life (with annual renewal of membership).

A life member is identified as P, regardless of his location, and a designated number is assigned to him for life.

Relationship to the Chinese Communist Party
The club is an underground branch of the Chinese Communist Party in Hong Kong. It was reportedly one of the chief organisers of the Hong Kong 1967 riots and organised over 100,000 student demonstrators. One of the club's venues was, and still is, located in Kiu Kwan Mansion, North Point, serving as the command centre and arms/weapon storage at the time of the riots.

Florence Leung Mo-han, Hok Yau Club president from 1962 to 1974, was a Communist Party member. She has since immigrated to Canada and published Chinese-language memoirs in 2012 titled My Time in Hong Kong's Underground Communist Party. She admitted that the club operated under the guidance of the CCP and served to recruit young people. She later stated, "Their futures are ruined. That was the biggest mistake of my life which I regret the most." For this, Leung was subsequently denounced by pro-Beijing newspaper Ta Kung Pao.

In 1975 the Hong Kong Standard described the Hok Yau Club as "pro-Peking" and "Maoist".

In his book "Song of the Azalea: Memoir of a Chinese son", Kenneth Ore(), one of the club's former members (so as he has claimed), has described himself as "underground recruiter" and uncovered his participation to the underground activities of the Chinese Communist Party in Hong Kong through the club in the 1960s and 1970s, such as bribery, money laundering, arms trafficking, and support of terrorism..

Just before the handover of Hong Kong, the club was once again openly accused as an underground branch of the Chinese Communist Party and under the control of the Party's Hong Kong and Macau Working Committee (). The Club officially denied this relationship in its newsletter in March 1997. Several media reports also have come into light regarding the relationship between the Club and the underground Communist activities.

Honorary Patron
The Honorary Patron of the club is Regina Leung, wife of Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying. Former Honorary Patrons include Selina Tsang, wife of former Chief Executive Donald Tsang, and Betty Tung Hung-ping, wife of then Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa, who resigned after her husband had stepped down from power in 2005.

References

External links
 

Education in Hong Kong
Charities based in Hong Kong
Hong Kong voluntary organisations
Organizations associated with the Chinese Communist Party