[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mike Jones (footballer)

re being substituted by former Bury teammate Ryan Lowe. After promotion to the Football League Championship with Sheffield Wednesday, Jones became out-of-favour and eventually joined Crawley Town on the summer transfer deadline day, after being with Sheffield Wednesday for only just over six months.

Crawley Town
Mike Jones joined Crawley Town for an undisclosed fee on 31 August 2012. He made his debut on 1 September in a 1–0 win against Leyton Orient, and assisted the only goal of the game scored by Nicky Ajose. He scored his first goal for the club on 23 April 2013, scoring in a 1–0 win against Preston North End. Jones turned down the offer of a new contract from Crawley, in favour of joining Oldham Athletic despite being a firm favourite of boss John Gregory.

Carlisle United
On 22 June 2016 Mike Jones joined Carlisle United on a two-year contract. He scored his first goal for Carlisle in an EFL Cup tie against Derby County which Carlisle lost on penalties on 23 August 2016.

He was offered a new contract by Carlisle at the end of the 2018–19 season and signed a one-year extension. Jones left Carlisle in May 2020 at the end of his deal after the league season was brought to an early close due to the coronavirus pandemic.

Barrow
On 20 July 2020 Jones joined Barrow on a two-year contract, leaving upon its expiry in May 2022.

Chesterfield
On 2 August 2022, Jones signed for National League club Chesterfield on a one-year deal having impressed on trial.

Career statistics

Honours
Bury
 League Two runners up: 2010–11

Sheffield Wednesday
 League One runners up: 2011–12

References

External links

Mike Jones profile at the Sheffield Wednesday website.

Living people
1987 births
Footballers from Birkenhead
People from Chirk
Footballers from Wrexham County Borough
English men's footballers
Men's association football wingers
Tranmere Rovers F.C. players
Shrewsbury Town F.C. players
Bury F.C. players
Sheffield Wednesday F.C. players
Crawley Town F.C. players
Oldham Athletic A.F.C. players
Carlisle United F.C. players
Barrow A.F.C. players
Chesterfield F.C. players
English Football League players