[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Rajinder Sachar

ar was a signatory to a statement that condemned the US-led invasion of Iraq, calling it "unprovoked, unjustified, violates international law and constitut[ing] an act of aggression".  Other signatories included Shanti Bhushan, Pavani Parameswara Rao, Rajeev Dhavan, Kapil Sibal and Prashant Bhushan.

Commenting on the rise of crime against women, Sachar has stated that reservations for women in parliament could help eliminate gender bias in legal cases. He has said "There are about 200 OBC candidates in the Lok Sabha. It is not their public service, but merely the caste configuration that has preferred them.  Similar results will follow even after the reservation for women".

Sachar has said: "I have deep faith in the judiciary ... like any other institution the judiciary may not have come up to the expectation; but that does not mean that the entire judiciary should be accused".
However, he has also spoken in favour of a national Judicial Commission, including members other than lawyers and judges, that would investigate issues concerning the administration of justice including the conduct of judges.
In 2003 he said: "There is an insistent public demand now that matters connected with appointments and misdemeanours of the higher judiciary need to be dealt with by an independent body using transparent means instead of the present unsatisfactory mechanism shrouded in secrecy".

Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code outlaws disaffection against the state, and allows for penalties of life imprisonment.
Jawaharlal Nehru told the Indian parliament in 1951 that "the sooner we get rid of it the better".
In January 2012 Rajinder Sachar said "It seems tragic that we should be asking the government to redeem the pledge of Nehru. For having a democratic society, it is necessary that these laws go".

Death
Sachar was suffering from ischemic heart disease and had an artificial cardiac pacemaker implanted. In April 2018, he was admitted to the Fortis Hospital in New Delhi, following complaint of recurrent vomiting. During the course of his treatment he contracted pneumonia and died on 20 April, Friday midnight. He was 94 years old. Sachar's body was cremated at Lodhi Road.

Bibliography

References
Notes

Citations

Sources

1923 births
2018 deaths
20th-century Indian judges
Indian human rights activists
Members of the Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights
Judges of the Sikkim High Court
Judges of the Rajasthan High Court
Judges of the Delhi High Court
Chief Justices of the Delhi High Court
Indian officials of the United Nations