[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Great Southwest railroad strike of 1886

mobilized the state militia; the governor of Texas mobilized both the state militia and the Texas Rangers. The governor of Kansas refused after local officials reported no incidents of violence, despite claims by railway executives that mobs had seized control of trains and rail yards were burning.

On April 26 sabotage caused the derailment of a freight train near Wyandotte, Kansas, where two non-striking crewmembers were buried in wreckage and the mud of the Kaw River.  Six Knights were charged with the crime on the evidence of an informer. And on April 8 a striker named John Gibbons was fatally shot by a "non-union switchman and private watchman" in St. Louis.

The exercise of state police power on behalf of the railways led union members to retaliate.  As the violence spread, public opinion turned against the workers. The physical attacks by the Pinkerton agents scared thousands of workers into returning to work.  The strike was officially called off on May 4.

Collapse of the Knights of Labor

The failure of the great Southwest railroad strike represented the first major defeat sustained by the Knights of Labor. When the strike did not draw the support of the engineers and other industrial workers, the Knights' vision of an industrial union withered as well. Internal conflict broke out between various factions within the Knights, paralyzing the union.

The great Southwest railroad strike, the Haymarket affair, and the collapse of the 1887 sugar strikes in Louisiana demoralized the Knights of Labor and energized management. By 1890, membership in the Knights of Labor had plummeted by 90 percent. Employers adopted a model for stamping out strikes that called for holding firm and calling for government troops.

While the collapse of the railroad strike set the American labor movement back, alleged organizational problems within the Knights of Labor also became apparent. This led Samuel Gompers of the cigar makers union, Peter J. McGuire of the carpenters union and others to organize what he considered a more effective labor organization.  On December 8, 1886, they and a few other delegates met in Columbus, Ohio, to create the American Federation of Labor.

References

1880s strikes in the United States

Further reading
Allen, Rith A. The Great Southwest Strike. Austin: University of Texas, 1942.
 Case, Theresa A. The Great Southwest Railroad Strike and Free Labor (Texas A&M University Press, 2010); online review
Dulles, Foster Rhea and Dubofsky, Melvyn. Labor in America: A History. 7th ed. Arlington Heights, IL: Harlan Davidson, 2004. 
 Taussig, Frank W. "The South-Western Strike of 1886." The Quarterly Journal of Economics 1.2 (1887): 184-222; detailed coverage by a leading scholar; online

Walker, Edith. 'Labor Problems During the First Year of Governor Martin's Administration.' Kansas Historical Quarterly. February 1936 (vol. 5, no. 1). pp. 33–53.

1886 in the United States
1886 labor disputes and strikes
Labor disputes in Texas
Rail transportation labor disputes in the United States
1886 in rail transport