[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Don Farrell

rnals at the expense of what is going on out there in the electorate and what is expected." Wong later expressed favourable sentiments about Farrell after his decision to stand aside:"Throughout his career, Don has always put the Labor Party first and he has demonstrated that principle again today."

Time in opposition
Farrell was defeated at the 2013 federal election and his term in the Senate ended on 30 June 2014.

In January 2014, it was announced that Michael O'Brien offered Farrell his state seat of Napier, so that Farrell could contest the 2014 South Australian election, representing Labor. Premier Jay Weatherill threatened to resign if Farrell was successfully preselected. A few hours later, Farrell withdrew his nomination.

In 2016 Farrell was endorsed as a Labor candidate for the Senate in South Australia in the 2016 federal election, and was subsequently re-elected. He was elected and returned to the Labor frontbench in October 2016.

Farrell opposed same-sex marriage and supported the view of "traditional marriage as being between a man and a woman". He said he would only vote for marriage equality after the 2019 election. He had publicly stated that he would vote against marriage equality in the parliament regardless of the results of the Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey. When the Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious Freedoms) Act 2017 bill was voted in the senate, Farrell abstained from voting.

Ministry in Albanese Government
After the ALP's victory at the 2022 federal election, Farrell became the deputy leader of the government in the Senate. He was appointed to cabinet in the Albanese ministry, becoming Special Minister of State and Minister for Trade and Tourism. In the role, Farrell has kept pressure on his China counterparts to lift their trade sanctions against Australian exports, saying, "Things aren’t going to get back to normal until they lift those bans." A key priority has been diversifying trade risk away from China, beginning new free trade agreements with the UK and India. On New Year's Day 2022, Farrell's free trade agreement with India became active, with tariffs being removed on 85% of Australia's exports to India.

Personal life and health
In 2014, following the end of his first Senate term, Farrell established Farrell Wines, a vineyard in the Clare Valley.

In December 2021, Farrell caught COVID-19 after attending a wedding in Melbourne.

References

External links
"Burying the hatchet", The Advertiser (Adelaide). 25 March 2006
Branches, Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association. Accessed 25 August 2006
Division of Adelaide 1988 by-election results, Psephos. Accessed 25 August 2006
"The Don", Sunday Mail (Adelaide). 20 August 2006
"Don Farrell", The Advertiser (Adelaide). 6 July 2002
First Speech to Parliament, Kate Ellis MP. Accessed 25 August 2006
"Labor powerbroker endorsed for top spot on SA Senate ticket", ABC News Online. 9 June 2007. Accessed 12 June 2007.
Senator Don Farrell profile: APH
Senator Don Farrell profile: ABC Q&A

 

1954 births
Living people
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Australia
Labor Right politicians
Members of the Australian Senate for South Australia
Members of the Australian Senate
Australian people of Irish descent
Politicians from Adelaide
Adelaide Law School alumni
21st-century Australian politicians
Members of the Cabinet of Australia
Albanese government