[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Definitions of Japanese war crimes

e were killed and the murder of Empress Myeongseong are considered war crimes in Korea. By comparison, the United States did not come into military conflict with Japan until 1941, and thus Americans may consider "Japanese war crimes" as encompassing only those events that occurred from 1941 to 1945.

A complicating factor is that a minority of people in every Asian and Pacific country invaded by Japan collaborated with the Japanese military, or even served in it, for a wide variety of reasons, such as economic hardship, coercion, or antipathy to other imperialist powers. Many Koreans served in the Imperial armed forces. The Formosan Army, which was part of the Imperial Japanese Army, was recruited from ethnic Chinese men on Formosa. The Indian National Army, under Subhas Chandra Bose, is perhaps the best-known example of a movement opposed to European imperialism, which was formed during World War II to assist the Japanese military. Prominent individual nationalists in other countries, such as the later Indonesian president, Suharto, also served with Japanese imperial forces. The Burmese nationalist leader Aung San initially sided with the Japanese, forming the Burma National Army, but turned against them in early 1945. In some cases such non-Japanese personnel were also responsible for war crimes committed by the Empire of Japan. B. V. A. Roling, the Dutch justice at the Tokyo trials, noted how "many of the commanders and guards in POW camps were Koreans [as] the Japanese apparently did not trust them as soldiers."  Korean guards, he added, were often said to be "far more cruel than the Japanese." One Korean described abject Allied POWs: "now I have seen how depraved and worthless the white man is." For political reasons, many non-Japanese personnel in the Imperial armed forces were never investigated or tried after 1945. In South Korea especially, it is alleged that such people were often able to acquire wealth by participating in exploitative activities with the Japanese military. It is further alleged in South Korea that some former collaborators have covered up "Japanese" war crimes in order to avoid their own prosecution and/or exposure.

It was widely agreed that acts committed by Japan against people subject to its sovereignty in the context of civil wars (such as the 1930 Musha Incident) and interstate conflicts between 1895 and 1945 were not war crimes, because international humanitarian law didn't have any rules in place for the former during these years and only stipulates the protection of enemy and neutral nationals in the latter. The issue of Japan's de facto or de jure sovereignty over places such as Ryukyu (1879–1945), Taiwan (1895–1945), and Korea (1910–1945) prior to 1945, is a matter of controversy. Japanese control was accepted and recognized internationally and was justified by instruments such as the Treaty of Shimonoseki (1895, which included China's cession of Taiwan) and the Japan–Korea Annexation Treaty (1910). The legality of the Japan–Korea Annexation Treaty, in particular, is in question because it was not signed by the Korean head of state; it was signed by government ministers. The native populations were not consulted on the changes in sovereignty and there was ongoing resistance to Japanese rule; under current international law, the subjects can considered to be under belligerent military occupation in which the rules applicable to interstate conflicts apply (see Korea under Japanese rule and Taiwan under Japanese rule for further details).

Notes

References 

Japanese war crimes
 Defin
Historiography of Japan
Military historiography
Historical negationism
Military history of Japan
Imperial Japanese Army