[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ahmed III

h has a face-to-face with its architectural and valuable manuscripts.

Family 

Ahmed III is known to be the Sultan with the largest family (and harem) of the Ottoman dynasty. The hostess of his harem was Dilhayat Kalfa, known to be one of the greatest Turkish composeress of the early modern period.

Consorts 
Ahmed III had at least twenty-one consorts: 
 Emetullah Kadın. Baş Kadin (first consort) and her first concubine, she was the mother of the firstborn, Fatma Sultan, the Ahmed's favorite daughter. She was Ahmed's most beloved consort, who dedicated a mosque, a school and a fountain to her. Very devoted and active in charity, she died in 1740 in the Old Palace.
 Emine Mihrişah Kadın. She was the mother of four sons including Mustafa III, 26th Sultan of the Ottoman Empire, but she premorted at her son's rise and therefore was never Valide sultan. She died in April 1732. Her son built the Ayazma Mosque in her honor in Üsküdar.
 Rabia Şermi Kadın. She was the mother of Abdülhamid I, 27th Sultan of the Ottoman Empire, but she premorted at the rise of her son and therefore was never Valide Sultan. In 1728, a fountain was dedicated to her in Üsküdar. She died in 1732. Her son built the Beylerbeyi Mosque in her honor.  
 Ayşe Mihri Behri Kadın. Before she became a consort, she was treasurer of the harem.
 Hatem Kadın. Mother of twins, she died in 1772 and was buried in Eyüp cemetery.
 Emine Musli Kadın. Also called Muslıhe Kadın, Muslu Kadin or Musalli Kadın. She mother of two daughters, she died in 1750 and was buried with them in the Yeni Cami.
 Rukiye Kadın. Mother of a daughter and a son, she built a fountain near the Yeni Cami. She died after 1738 and was buried with her daughter in the Yeni Cami.
 Fatma Hümaşah Kadın. She died in 1732 and was buried by the Yeni Cami.
 Gülneş Kadın. Also called Gülnuş Kadın. She is listed in a document naming her consorts exiled to Old Palace after the deposition of Ahmed III whose jewels were confiscated. She died after 1730.
 Hürrem Kadın. Listed in a document that names the consorts exiled to Old Palace after the deposition of Ahmed III whose jewels were confiscated. She died after 1730.
 Meyli Kadın. Listed in a document that names the consorts exiled to Old Palace after the deposition of Ahmed III whose jewels were confiscated. She died after 1730.
 Hatice Kadın. She died in 1722 and was buried in the Yeni Cami.
 Nazife Kadın. Listed in a document that names the consorts exiled to Old Palace after the deposition of Ahmed III whose jewels were confiscated. She died after 1730, perphaps the 29 December 1764.
 Nejat Kadın. Listed in a document that names the consorts exiled to Old Palace after the deposition of Ahmed III whose jewels were confiscated. She died after 1730.
 Sadık Kadın. Also called Sadıka Kadin. Listed in a document that names the consorts exiled to Old Palace after the deposition of Ahmed III whose jewels were confiscated. She died after 1730.
 Hüsnüşah Kadın. She died in 1733 and was buried in the Yeni Cami.
 Şahin Kadın. She died in 1732 and was buried in the Yeni Cami.
 Ümmügülsüm Kadın. She died in 1768 and was buried in the Yeni Cami.
 Zeyneb Kadın. Mother of a daughter, she died in 1757 and was buried by the Yeni Cami.
 Hanife Kadın. Mother of a daughter, she died in 1750 and was buried in the Yeni Cami.
 Şayeste Hanim. BaşIkbal. She died in 1722 and was buried by the Yeni Cami.