[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Kelly Ayotte

tance with Russia.

Israeli–Palestinian conflict
In October 2014, Ayotte wrote an op-ed in The Hill criticizing Mahmoud Abbas, writing that the Palestinian Authority president "has embarked on a destructive course harmful to the prospects for rebuilding Gaza and achieving Israeli–Palestinian peace."

Defense spending
In October 2011, Ayotte sponsored a bill with Senator John McCain to control costs associated with major defense acquisition programs. Ayotte opposes the Defense Department's wishes to retire the U.S.'s fleet of Cold War-era A-10 Thunderbolt II jets and redirect those funds elsewhere. Ayotte argues that there is no adequate replacement for the plane and citing her husband's experiences flying the A-10 while in the Air Force.

Iraq, Syria, and ISIL
Ayotte has criticized President Obama for withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq in 2011.

In July 2016, Ayotte released a comprehensive plan to defeat ISIS, including a "more aggressive" campaign of U.S. airstrikes against ISIS in Iraq and Syria.

Guantanamo Bay prisoners
Ayotte fought attempts by the Obama administration to try terrorism suspects in civilian federal courts. She opposed the closure of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp and introduced a bill in the Senate that would block the closure of the prison and ban any transfer of detainees to the United States.

Ayotte criticized the August 2015 transfer of 15 prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay detention camp to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), saying that she believed the released prisoners had dangerous ties to terrorism and would return to terrorist activity. She said that the Pentagon told her in 2015 that 93 percent of the detainees in Guantanamo Bay were considered "high risk" for returning to terrorist activities.

Ayotte authored and released an unclassified report that summarized information about the 107 original detainees at Guantanamo Bay, including the detainees' affiliations and terrorist activities prior to their detention. Ayotte has pushed for the Pentagon to publicly disclose more details about the detainees; the Pentagon currently releases only detainees' names and countries where they are transferred.

Personal life
In 2001, Ayotte married Joseph Daley, an Iraq War veteran and former A-10 pilot who flew combat missions in Iraq. Daley is retired from the Air National Guard and owns a small landscaping and snow plow business in Merrimack. They have two children.

Electoral history

See also
 List of female state attorneys general in the United States
 Women in the United States Senate

References

External links

 
 
 

|-

|-

|-

1968 births
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
American people of French-Canadian descent
American women lawyers
Female United States senators
Living people
New Hampshire Attorneys General
New Hampshire Independents
New Hampshire Republicans
Politicians from Nashua, New Hampshire
Pennsylvania State University alumni
Republican Party United States senators from New Hampshire
Villanova University School of Law alumni
Women in New Hampshire politics