[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# David Parker Ray

or his daughter. Prosecutors stated that the surviving victims had approved of the deal. Ray's daughter, Glenda Jean "Jesse" Ray, was charged with kidnapping and criminal sexual penetration. She pled no contest and received a 30-month sentence with an additional five years to be served on probation.

In 1999, 27-year-old accomplice Dennis Roy Yancy pleaded guilty to the 1997 murder of 22-year-old Marie Parker in Elephant Butte. Yancy confessed to helping Jesse Ray lure Parker into captivity in her father's trailer. Yancy said that Parker was tortured and that Ray forced him to strangle the woman to death. Prosecutors noted that no forensic evidence was found to tie Parker to the Rays. Yancy was also charged with kidnapping, two counts of conspiracy to commit a crime, and tampering with evidence. He was sentenced to 30 years. The Rays were not charged in Parker's murder. In 2010, Yancy was paroled after serving 11 years in prison, but the release was delayed by difficulties in negotiating a plan for residence. Three months after his release in 2011, Yancy was charged with violating his parole. He was remanded to custody, where he remained until 2021, serving the rest of his original sentence.

In 2000, Cindy Hendy, an accomplice who testified against Ray, received a sentence of 36 years for her role in the crimes. She was scheduled to receive parole in 2017. She was released on July 15, 2019, after serving the two years of her parole in prison. On May 28, 2002, Ray was taken to the Lea County Correctional Facility, in Hobbs, New Mexico, to be questioned by state police. He died of a heart attack before the interrogation took place. Cynthia Vigil later founded Street Safe New Mexico, a volunteer harm reduction nonprofit that works with sex workers and other vulnerable people living on the street, with Christine Barber.

References

External links

Transcripts of David Parker Ray's audiotapes to his victims
Videotape shown in David Parker Ray retrial Associated Press
The Toy Box Killer Criminal Minds
Famous Serial Killer Profiles  Roy Whyte
The Toy Box (Part 1, Part 2, Part 3) - Casefile True Crime Podcast
True Consequences interview with Cynthia Vigil Jaramillo (Episode 5) 

1939 births
2002 deaths
20th-century American criminals
American kidnappers
American male criminals
American people convicted of torture
American people who died in prison custody
American rapists
American Satanists
Filmed killings
People from Belen, New Mexico
People from Sierra County, New Mexico
Prisoners who died in New Mexico detention
Suspected serial killers
Torture in the United States
Violence against women in the United States