[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maccabi Netanya F.C.

finished in fourth place when they shared the same number of points as the runners-up. This was quite an achievement considering the fact that the club did not have a stable budget behind them or an owner to invest in the club. They were relegated again in 2012–13 after finishing second from bottom.

In August 2013 Eli Segav and Yossi Maor took over as the new owners of the club. Netanya made an immediate return to the top division after finishing as the champions of Liga Leumuit in the 2013–14 season, a season in which they also reached the State Cup final, losing 1–0 to Ironi Kiryat Shmona in front of more than 22,000 supporters of Netanya.

The club got relegated again at the end of the 2015–16 season. This season is regarded as the worst season the club has ever had in the first tier of Israeli football and most have said it was the worst in the history of the club. Doron Osidon was appointed the chairman of the club by the mayor of Netanya. Shlomi Dora was signed as the manager of the club. At the start of the season five players got severely injured (including the main goalscorer and captain Eran Levy) which caused for many problems. Dora got sacked after the club did not do well, Reuven Atar got called to replace him. After three months of no real change and barely winning any points, Atar was sacked as well. Guy Tzarfati was called up to be the caretaker manager and after he lost a State Cup game against Sektzia Nes Tziona of the third division he was sacked and was replaced by Meni Koretski who could not save the sinking ship. Koretski decided to quit on 26 March. Omer Peretz who retired at the start of the season (after he was one of the players that got injured), became the manager of the club.

In June 2016 Eyal Segal (a known die hard supporter of Maccabi Netanya) took over as the new owner of the club and declared the goal is to get promoted at the end of the season. The club started the 2016-17 season with a deduction of 9 points, but still managed to do the unthinkable as they got promoted back to the top flight of Israeli football as the Leumit champions. In the 2018–19 season, the club reached the State Cup final in a replay of the 1978 final against Bnei Yehuda, only this time Netanya lost 4–5 in penalties.

Rivalry
There is a strong rivalry between Netanya and Beitar Nes Tubruk Netanya. Originally, there were hopes of the two clubs uniting so as not to split allegiances of kids in the city. The merger never came to fruition and since, the two clubs have been at each other's throats both claiming that the other has forced a child not to switch clubs, which is illegal in Israel.  On one occasion when two Tubruk players came to shake hands with Netanya players after a derby match in Liga Leumit LeNoar, they were subsequently left out of the team for the club's next league match
 .
The senior derby only took place a handful of times when both clubs played in the second tier, in the 1939 season, 1940 season, 1941–42 season, 1962–63 season and in the 1963–64 season. The 1986–87 season was the only season the two teams played in the top division at the same time. The first game took place in Tubruk Stadium with 9,000 people in attendance, Yigal Menahem scored the only goal for Maccabi. The derby also took place in the State Cup during the 1947 first round and the 1984 seventh round.

There's also a strong rivalry between Netanya and Hapoel Kfar Saba, games between the two are often called "Derby HaSharon" because the two clubs are known to be the major teams from the Sharon plain. The rivalry was at its peak in the 1981–82 season which saw the two clubs going head to head for the championship with Netanya losing the title in the final game of the season.

And there's a rivalry between Netanya And Maccabi Herzliya because both clubs are from the Sharon District and in the 1994/95 season, Maccabi Herzliya defeated Maccabi Netanya and dropped Netanya to the second division.

Since the late 1990s, the strongest rivalry has probably been Hapoel Be'er Sheva.

Fans
The current Maccabi Netanya's organization fans are "VATOS LOCOS".

Maccabi Netanya audience is the audience who most frequently named public value of the first round of the Premier League – Plan for kicking the violence and racism of the lots. The organization fans have three wins title seasons 2009/2010, 2011/2012 and 2012/2013.

Stadium
The club plays its home matches at the 13,610-capacity Netanya Stadium, which was opened in October 2012. The club former stadium was the 7,500-capacity Sar-Tov Stadium, which was commonly known as HaKufsa (lit. The Box). It was named after Yosef Sar-Tov, who was amongst the club's founders, and was its first chairman.