[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Daniela Santanchè

Daniela Garnero Santanchè (; ; born 7 April 1961) is an Italian politician. Between 2010 and 2011 she served as Undersecretary to the Ministry for the Implementation of the Government Program in the Berlusconi IV Cabinet. She is currently the regional coordinator of Brothers of Italy in Lombardy and the Minister of Tourism in the Meloni Cabinet.

Biography

Studies and personal life
Christened Daniela Garnero, Santanchè was born in Cuneo, Piedmont, Italy. She moved to Turin to study political science, and at 21 married Paolo Santanchè, a plastic surgeon. She was employed by his company in an administrative role.

After studying political science, in 1983 she founded a company that focused on marketing. She later acquired shares of the Billionaire company, along with Flavio Briatore, Lele Mora, Paolo Brosio and Marcello Lippi.

In 1995, she left her husband, Paolo Santanchè, and began a relationship with Canio Mazzaro, a pharmaceutical entrepreneur from Potenza. Her marriage to Paolo Santanchè was declared void by the Roman Rota. In politics she has continued to use the Santanchè surname, despite an unsuccessful court case by her ex-husband to try to stop her. Her current partner is Dimitri Kunz d'Asburgo Lorena.

Local politics with National Alliance
In the 1990s, Santanchè became an assistant of Ignazio La Russa, and in 1995 joined the right-wing National Alliance.

Santanchè worked as a consultant for the Milan Municipality Board led by Gabriele Albertini, and in June 1999 was elected councillor of the Council of the Province of Milan.

In 2001, Santanchè unsuccessfully ran for a seat in the Italian Chamber of Deputies, but instead took up a seat vacated by her colleague Viviana Beccalossi.

From 2003 to June 2004, Santanchè served as assessor of the Municipality of Ragalna, a town in the province of Catania, dealing with sports and events.

National politics with National Alliance
Santanchè held the position of chief of the department for equal opportunity for the National Alliance from 2005 to 2007.

In 2005, Santanchè was harshly criticised when she showed her middle finger, in a gesture of insult, towards a student protest against the Moratti school reform.

In 2005, Santanchè was nominated to hold the discussion of the annual Financial Law, the first woman in Italian history in such a role. In 2006, she was re-elected to the Italian Chamber of Deputies with National Alliance in the constituency of Milan.

The Right
More than a year later, on 10 November 2007, Daniela Santanchè resigned from the National Alliance party to join Francesco Storace's new party The Right. The same day, she was appointed official speaker for the party

Santanchè was then the Prime Minister candidate for The Right in the 2008 Italian general election. Along with Flavia D'Angeli (Critical Left) and Fabiana Stefanoni (Communist Alternative Party), she was the first woman to be a candidate for Italian prime minister.

The Right did not acquire the necessary share of votes (4% for the Chamber, 8% for the Senate) to enter the Parliament and Daniela Santanchè therefore ended her parliamentary mandate. After seven years as deputy, she received €65,534 as termination indemnities (trattamento di fine rapporto), and €3,605 monthly as lifetime allowance. She declared that she will donate this to charity.

Movement for Italy
On 28 September 2008, after arguing with party secretary Francesco Storace, Santanchè left the party. Shortly afterwards, with Diego Zarneri and other former La Destra politicians, she founded the Movement for Italy (MpI) political movement, in order to come closer to Silvio Berlusconi's People of Freedom.

Brothers of Italy
On 3 December 2017, Santanchè joined Fratelli d'Italia and attended the party congress in Trieste. During the 2018 General Election she was elected as a Senator in the Cremona constituency, and was re-elected in 2022 with 52.17% of the votes.

On 22 October 2022, she was sworn in as the Minister of Tourism in the Meloni government.

Controversies

Positions on the Islamic veil and alleged assaults
On 22 October 2006, while she was participating in a live show, Controcorrente, to discuss matters regarding the Islamic veil, Santanchè was criticized by the Imam of Segrate. The prefect of Milan stated that her safety was at risk and he would consider the possibility of taking security measures to protect her.