[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Susan George (political scientist)

ntiwar lectures and protests in France. Shortly after, P.A.C.S. was dismantled by the French government. She then collaborated with the directors of the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington, D.C., to form a new NGO devoted to social justice, which, in 1973, became the Transnational Institute .

Anti-hunger activism 
In 1974 she attended the World Food Conference in Rome, but was disillusioned due to her feeling that agribusiness representatives dominated the proceedings, saying in an interview that "no one who counted took the real reasons for hunger—power and control in the wrong hands—into account." In 1976 her first book was published: How the Other Half Dies: The Real Reasons for World Hunger. In 1984 she helped in organizing the World Food Assembly, a meeting held in Rome, Italy.

Organizational involvement 
From 1990 to 1995 she served on the board of conservation group Greenpeace International, as well as that of Greenpeace France. George opposed the OECD's proposed Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI) in the 1990s, and the ill-fated "Millennium Round" objectives of the World Trade Organization at Seattle in 1999. From 1999 to 2006 she was vice-president of ATTAC France (Association for Taxation of (financial) Transactions to Aid Citizens) and remains a member of the scientific council. She was awarded the title of honorary president in 2008. In 1999 she also participated in the Helsinki Process.

Susan George was involved with the World Social Forum since its inception in 2000, and the spin-off European Social Forum. Though she was critical of the forums' initial structure, and believed that more action outside of forums was needed to bring about change, she applauded the steps they made towards changing "the political landscape".

In 2004 she supported John Kerry for president. She canvassed for Kerry in Pennsylvania, but wrote for in a piece for OpenDemocracy "we all thought [Kerry] had a very good chance, even though everyone admitted it was hard to get really enthusiastic about him.... The man isn't the most charismatic ever to walk the earth. But at least he's not a proto-fascist or a go-it-aloner, and that's what we seem—apart from a last-minute miracle—to be stuck with now. With four years clear ahead of him and no re-election to worry about, I fear Bush and the ghastly neo- con/neo-liberals around him will now go on the rampage. They can continue with impunity their attacks on the Constitution and on hard-won freedoms...".

Throughout the latter half of the 2000s, George continued making appearances, such as partaking in the 2006 Table of Free Voices conference, and appearing in the 2008 documentary film, The End of Poverty?.

George is the honorary president of ATTAC France.

Honors
 Honorary president ATTAC
 Mentioned as honorary advisor of The Other Economic Summit

Bibliography
 How the Other Half Dies: The Real Reasons for World Hunger (Penguin), 1976. Reprinted 1986, 1991, . (An analysis of the real reasons for world hunger.)
 Ill Fares the Land (Penguin), 1984. Revised and expanded 1990 . (Essays on food, hunger and power.)
 A Fate Worse Than Debt (Penguin), 1988, . (An analysis of the reasons for Third World debt.)
 The Debt Boomerang (Pluto Press), 1992, . (Continuing the theme of Third World debt and its harmful effects.)
 Faith and Credit: The World Bank's Secular Empire (with Fabrizio Sabelli) (Westview Press), 1994, 
 The Lugano Report: On Preserving Capitalism in the 21st Century, 1999, 
 Another World Is Possible If (Verso Books), 2004, 
 Hijacking America: How the Secular and Religious Right Changed What Americans Think (Polity), 2008,  
 We the Peoples of Europe, 2008, 
 Whose Crisis? Whose Future?, 2010 (Polity), 
 How to Win the Class War – The Lugano Report II, 2013, 
 Les Usurpateurs (The usurpers, in French), 2014, 
 Shadow Sovereigns: How Global Corporations Are Seizing Power, 2015 (Polity),

References

External links 

Susan George's home page at Transnational Institute.
Full biography at Transnational Institute
Another world is possible, if... Interview with Caspar Henderson of openDemocracy, 12 October 2004.

1934 births
20th-century American women
20th-century American writers
21st-century American women
21st-century American writers
Activists from Ohio
American expatriates in France
American political scientists
American political writers
American socialists
American women political scientists
American writers in French
Living people
People associated with Greenpeace
People with acquired French citizenship
Smith College alumni
University of Paris alumni
Writers from Akron, Ohio