[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Isidore Godfrey

conducted all the extant Gilbert and Sullivan operas plus Cox and Box, in performance and for recordings, except Utopia Limited and The Grand Duke, though he recorded excerpts from the former. (Rupert D'Oyly Carte had considered reviving Utopia in the 1920s, but abandoned the idea as too expensive.)

Godfrey conducted most of the company's performances during his four decades as musical director, except for a few London seasons, when Malcolm Sargent was guest conductor, and brief periods in the summers of 1947 and 1948, when Boyd Neel was guest conductor. Godfrey's assistant musical directors included Alan E. Ward (1930–49), William Cox-Ife (1951–61) and James Walker (1961–68). During Godfrey's long reign as musical director, he conducted artists who had worked under the direction of W. S. Gilbert, such as Henry Lytton, Leo Sheffield and Sydney Granville, and those who were performing at the last night of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company in 1982, such as John Reed and Kenneth Sandford. In his early years in charge, Godfrey, with Rupert D'Oyly Carte's backing, gradually cut down the number of encores routinely given at the company's performances. The stars and the audiences both resisted, but Godfrey eventually made progress, particularly after the outbreak of World War II, when it was important to keep running times down to a reasonable length.

Touring and later years
During his four decades as musical director, Godfrey took the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company on many tours, including eleven to America. The company did not travel with a band but instead used orchestra players hired locally.  He recalled, "We would pick up perhaps eight orchestral players in the first town, take them with us on the tour and make up the orchestra with local players from each of the towns we visited....  On one occasion, I was rehearsing the Mikado overture when I noticed that one of the double-basses was plucking the strings in the opening bars.  I pointed out that it was not to be played pizzicato but arco, with the bow. 'Yeah', he said. 'But I haven't got a bow.' That's how it was sometimes!"

In wartime Britain, the orchestral situation on tour sometimes verged on collapse. Godfrey's weekly reports to the company office in London included wry accounts of drummers in Oxford who could not read music, a nervous cellist in Liverpool who played on three strings at once and a bass player in Wimbledon who took a night off and sent an inebriated substitute. Even in peacetime Godfrey was not lavishly provided for in the orchestra pit. In the 1950s, the magazine The Gramophone commented: "Whenever Mr. Isidore Godfrey enters the orchestra pit to direct an opera by Sullivan, to whose music he has devoted much of his life, he must presumably steel his aesthetic sense to doing justice to the composer with the tiny forces at his disposal. ... One presumes that an opera company with a repertory of ten operas, playing to capacity without expensive stars and only repairs to scenery and costumes and with royalties pouring in from all over the country, could afford a permanent orchestra of reasonable strength."

In June 1965 Godfrey was awarded the OBE; The Gramophone commented that "nothing short of a dukedom" could adequately reward him. In 1966, he conducted a film version of The Mikado, one of only a few films ever made by the company. He retired from the D'Oyly Carte company in February 1968 and was succeeded as musical director by his deputy, James Walker, formerly of Decca Records.  Godfrey married two members of the company – first, a soprano chorister, Marguerite Kynaston, about 1919 (they later divorced), and, in 1940, the soprano (later contralto) principal Ann Drummond-Grant. After Drummond-Grant died in 1959, Godfrey married a third time, in 1961, to Glenda Gladys Mary née Cleaver. After retirement, when he held the honorary position of President of the associate members of the D'Oyly Carte Trust, ill-health prevented him from making many guest appearances, but he conducted H.M.S. Pinafore during the company's centenary season at the Savoy in 1975.

Godfrey died in London in 1977 just short of his 77th birthday.

Reputation
Godfrey was widely admired for his consistent skill in giving Arthur Sullivan's scores their essential joie de vivre.  As early as 1926, Malcolm Sargent joining the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company found "a brilliant young assistant named Isidore Godfrey whom I realised at once was made of the right stuff for Sullivan". In the 1930s, Neville Cardus praised Godfrey's musicianship and commanding presence, adding, "Mr Godfrey deserves a bigger band":