[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 93]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

adria.

Professor Theobald grinned. "You don't appear to take a keen interest in
my blossoming."

Why in heaven's name _should_ she?

"I cannot naturally expect it," Professor Theobald continued, reading
her silence aright, "but I should be really obliged by your counsel on
this matter. You know the village; you know from your own experience
whether it is a place to live in always. Advise me, I beg."

"Really, Professor Theobald, it is impossible for me to advise you in a
matter so entirely depending on your own taste and your own affairs."

"You can at least tell me how you like the district yourself; whether it
satisfies you as to society, easy access of town, influence on the mind
and the spirits, and so forth."

"We are considered well off as to society. There are a good many
neighbours within a radius of five miles; the trains to town are not all
that could be wished. There are only two in the day worth calling such."

"And as to its effect upon the general aspect of life; is it rousing,
cheering, inspiring, invigorating?"

Hadria gave a little laugh. "I must refer you to other inhabitants on
this point. I think Lady Engleton finds it fairly inspiring."

"Lady Engleton is not Mrs. Temperley."

"I doubt not that same speech has already done duty as a compliment to
Lady Engleton."

"You are incorrigible!"

"I wish you would make it when she is present," said Hadria, "and see us
both bow!" The Professor laughed delightedly.

"I don't know what social treasures may be buried within your radius of
five miles, but the mines need not be worked. An inhabitant of the
Priory would not need them. Mrs. Temperley is a society in herself."

"An inhabitant of the Priory might risk disappointment, in supposing
that Mrs. Temperley had nothing else to do than to supply her neighbours
with society."

The big jaw closed, with a snap.

"I don't think, on the whole, that I will take the Priory," he said,
after a considerable pause; "it is, as you say, large."

Mrs. Temperley made no comment.

"I suppose I should be an unwelcome neighbour," he said, with a sigh.

"I fear any polite assurance, after such a challenge, would be a poor
compliment. As for entreating you to take the Priory, I really do not
feel equal to the responsibility."

"I accept in all humility," said the Professor, as he opened the gate of
the Red House, "a deserved reproof."




CHAPTER XXVI.


"A singular character!" said Professor Theobald.

"There is a lot of good in her," Lady Engleton asserted.

Lord Engleton observed that people were always speaking ill of Mrs.
Temperley, but he never could see that she was worse than her
neighbours. She was cleverer; that might be her offence.

Madame Bertaux observed in her short, decisive way that Craddock Dene
might have settled down with Mrs. Temperley peaceably enough, if it
hadn't been for her action about the schoolmistress's child.

"Yes; that has offended everybody," said Lady Engleton.

"What action was that?" asked Theobald, turning slowly towards his
hostess.

"Oh, haven't you heard? That really speaks well for this house. You
can't accuse us of gossip."

Lady Engleton related the incident. "By the way, you must remember that
poor woman, Professor. Don't you know you were here at the school-feast
that we gave one summer in the park, when all the children came and had
tea and games, and you helped us so amiably to look after them?"

The Professor remembered the occasion perfectly.

"And don't you recollect a very pretty, rather timid, fair-haired woman
who brought the children? We all used to admire her. She was a
particularly graceful, refined-looking creature. She had read a great
deal and was quite cultivated. I often used to think she must feel very
solitary at Craddock, with not a soul to sympathize with her tastes.
Mr. and Mrs. Walker used to preach to her, poor soul, reproving her love
of reading, which took her thoughts away from her duties and her
sphere."

Madame Bertaux snorted significantly. Lady Engleton had remarked a
strange, sad look in Ellen Jervis's eyes, and owned to having done her
best to circumvent the respected pastor and his wife, by lending her
books occasionally, and encouraging her to think her own thoughts, and
get what happiness she could out of her communings with larger spirits
than she was likely to find in Craddock. Of course Mrs. Walker now gave
Lady Engleton to understand that she was partly responsible for the poor
woman's misfortune. She attributed it to Ellen's having had "all sorts
of ideas in her head!"

"I admit that if _not_ having all sorts of ideas in one's head is a
safeguard, the unimpeachable virtue of a district is amply accounted
for."

Professor Theobald chuckled. He enquired if Lady Engleton knew Mrs.
Temperley's motive in adopting the child.

"Oh, partly real kindness; but I think, between ourselves, that Mrs.
Temperley likes to be a