[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Watkins (diplomat)

r the leadership of First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union Nikita Khrushchev, and he had a fondness for befriending Soviet officials and was able to develop a large number of contacts. To his detriment, this would prove costly and allow him to become a target of Soviet espionage.

In the fourth quarter of 1954, Watkins met a young man named Kamahl in a Muslim area of one of the southern republics of the Soviet Union and invited him back to his hotel room. The hotel staff likely observed the pair entering Watkins' room. A few months later, Watkins received a postcard from Kamahl who stated he would be visiting Moscow. Watkins entertained Kamahl in Moscow, and the two men engaged in a brief romantic affair consummated in the younger man's hotel room. As he did with every other encounter, Watkins dutifully reported to Quebec his encounters with Kamahl and described him as a young man who had doubts about the Soviet system. The only thing he failed to report was the homosexual aspect of their relationship. Unbeknownst to Watkins, Kamahl's visit was staged by the KGB and the two men were photographed together in Kamahl's room. The KGB sought to exploit Watkins' indiscretion not by blackmailing him, but rather by manipulating him to become an agent of influence by enveloping him in a "debt of gratitude". In contrast to his first post in Moscow, he found himself enjoying access to top officials within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and invitations to social events that other Western Bloc ambassadors could not get. All of this was planned by the KGB.

In April 1955, Watkins met then befriended "Aloysha", who introduced himself as Alexei Mikhailovich Gorbunov, a historian and consultant to the Soviet foreign ministry. Watkins also described him as his best Soviet informant. Watkins also met Anatoly Nitkin, who introduced himself as a professor of history at the Moscow Academy of History. Watkins did not know that "Aloysha" was actually KGB officer Oleg Mikhailovich Gribanovthe second-highest-ranking official within the Second Directorate and the mastermind of the entrapment operation against Watkins involving Kamahland Nitkin was Anatoly Gorsky, a KGB official senior to Gribanov and a former handler of Kim Philby. The three spent much time together, including a weekend at "Aloysha's" dacha in the Crimea in June. "Aloysha" would soon play an important role in Secretary of State for External Affairs Lester Pearson's visit to the Soviet Union.

After a meeting in San Francisco that same month, Pearson was invited by Soviet foreign minister Vyacheslav Molotov to visit the Soviet Union. Pearson had expressed his interest in visiting the USSR to Watkins the previous November, and it is likely that Watkins had relayed that to Soviet officials with whom he had established close contact. Watkins reported in July that "Aloysha" had close contacts with Molotov, Khrushchev, and Nikolai Bulganin, and by August he was Watkins' main informant on the Soviet's views of the visit pending with Pearson. In planning the meeting, Pearson advised Watkins not to show the Soviets too much enthusiasm for their interest in a trade agreement. The official Canadian delegation included Pearson, Holmes, Watkins, George Ignatieff, Mitchell Sharp, and Raymond Crépault; Pearson's wife, Maryon, and journalists René Lévesque and Richard J. Needham accompanied them. On 5 October 1955, Molotov led the Soviet dignitaries in meeting the Canadians arriving at the Moscow airport. What has been described as the most memorable event of the trip is a drinking party that occurred when Pearson, Watkins, Ignatieff, and Crépault visited Khrushchev and Nikolai Bulganin at the Yusupov Palace in Yalta on 11 October. "Aloysha"/Gribanov also attended the party and was understood by the other Canadians to be Watkins' friend; Ignatieff apparently believed him to be a MVD official. It is at this party that Khrushchev was alleged by a KGB defector Yuri Nosenko to have taunted Watkins about his homosexuality during a toast. In his memoirs, Pearson noted that Watkins looked "less and less happy" as the evening progressed; however, Ignatieff, who understood Russian, denied that he heard the remark and Watkins' account of the meeting expressed no concerns.