[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Simonas Daukantas

ania in 1918. He further held liberal ideas that people were born with inalienable rights and that there was a social contract between a nation and the state. He thought that peasants and other commoners were the core of a nation thus going against the Polish trend to emphasize the nation of nobles.

His primary goal was to inspire love of the homeland and Lithuanian national pride among the common folk. He used poetic and lively descriptions, rhetorical elements, monologues and dialogues, and emotional language that brought his history works closer to a literary work. Particularly artistic are wild forest and battle scenes. Daukantas painted an idealized image of ancient Lithuanians who embodied stoic values and lived peacefully in their vast forests until the nobility adopted foreign customs, became lazy, and started exploiting the common folk. This depiction echoed ideas of Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Johann Gottfried Herder that the savage, unspoiled by the civilization, was inherently noble and good. He depicted Grand Duke Vytautas as the great Lithuanian hero while King Jogaila, who initiated the Polish–Lithuanian union in 1385, was a symbol of all ills and evils that later befell Lithuania. He blamed Poland and Polish nobility for Lithuania losing its statehood, moral enslavement of Lithuanians, and falsification and distortions of Lithuania's history. Poland brought economic decline and moral decay to Lithuania – the opposite of the common Polish claim that they "civilized" the pagan barbarians. Such strong anti-Polish sentiment was a radical and daring development among Lithuanians at the time when Polish intellectuals considered the Polish–Lithuanian union to be sacred, but it paved the way for separating the dual Polish-Lithuanian identity into the modern Polish and Lithuanian national identities. Daukantas identified language as the determining factor of nationality. After the publication of Aušra in 1883, such anti-Polish attitudes became increasingly common among Lithuanian activists.

Daukantas idealized and idolized the past. Virgil Krapauskas asserted that Daukantas' letters to Narbutt showed Daukantas to be a better scholar than his works – in the letters Daukantas emphasized the need for better methods of collecting, publishing and analyzing primary sources, though his works remained highly romantic and didactic. Daukantas spent considerable effort in tracking down various historical documents, but he believed that where historical records are missing, historians should use their imagination to fill in the gaps. If a source was favorable to Lithuania, he did not evaluate it critically and readily accepted a number of legends. For example, he elaborated on the theory that Lithuanians were descendants of Herules that he took from Albert Wijuk Kojałowicz (though he rejected the legend about Roman Palemonids), praised ancient democracy of Prussian king Widewuto, and used a loose translation of the short story Żiwila by Adam Mickiewicz. But he was critical of sources that portrayed Lithuania in a negative light. For example, he was one of the first to criticize the Teutonic account of the Battle of Strėva as a crushing defeat of Lithuanian forces or argue that the Lithuanian returned to the Battle of Grunwald and continued to fight. While Daukantas' scholarship was poor and does not stand up to modern standards, it was on par with his contemporaries.

Sources cited

Overall, Daukantas' historical works were mostly influenced by the two-volume Historiae Lituanae by Albert Wijuk Kojałowicz (published in 1650 and 1669) from which he borrowed the structure, content, rhetorical and stylistic elements. He also borrowed poetic elements from Kristijonas Donelaitis Daukantas cited his sources erratically and inconsistently. Darbai senųjų lietuvių ir žemaičių had 254 references: 89 to works by August von Kotzebue, 62 to Albert Wijuk Kojałowicz, 29 to Nikolay Karamzin, 15 to , and 10 to Teodor Narbutt, in total 31 authors. Istorija žemaitiška cited 320 references; the number of different authors grew to about 70, mostly German historians. There was a shift in references used: von Kotzebue (18 references) fell out of favor and was replaced by Johannes Voigt (75 references) while Hlebowicz was not cited at all. At times, he went beyond citing sources and outright plagiarized works by Kojałowicz, Kotzebue, Voigt. Daukantas also added a number of citations to primary sources, including the Lithuanian Chronicles, Livonian Rhymed Chronicle, chronicles by Wigand of Marburg, Peter von Dusburg, Lucas David. Towards the end of the manuscript, the citations became scarcer and rarer. There were only five references, including two to Jan Łasicki, for 227 pages covering the period from 1440 to 1572.