[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Internet censorship in Pakistan

ideos on YouTube urging Pakistanis to speak up against this ban. Millions of social media users of Pakistan have flooded sites like Facebook, Twitter and have shown overwhelming support for PUBG (PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds). In response, PTA lifted ban on the popular online game.

Pornography ban

Other notable bans 
 Richard Dawkins's website and the Internet Movie Database (IMDb) were blocked for brief periods in 2013.
 Xbox Live and GameRanger were blocked accidentally on 7 February 2013 by the Pakistan Telecom Authority.
 Major Torrenting Websites. In July 2013, Pakistani ISPs banned 6 of the top 10 public Torrent sites in Pakistan. These sites include Piratebay, Kickass torrents, Torrentz, Bitsnoop, Extra Torrent and Torrent Reactor. They also banned the similar site Mininova. However proxies for these torrent sites are still active and P2P connections are working normally. This move lead to a massive public backlash, especially from the Twitter and Facebook communities of Pakistan. In the aftermath of such critique, the IT Minister of Pakistan, Anusha Rahman, deactivated her Twitter account. Popular BitTorrent client μTorrent is also banned in Pakistan, it gives an "ERR_SSL_PROTOCOL_ERROR", but with a virtual private network (VPN), the site works, users are facing this issue from few years, still facing in 2022.
 Pouet, a website about demoscene was banned as of 19 June 2015.
 Imgur, a website about image sharing/hosting was banned in December 2015. Reddit (NSFW content only) was also banned in 2019. No reason have been given for these bans.
 An extreme form of word censorship is effective on all website's URLs. URLs containing words like sex, porn are blocked, this includes pages on medical information sites like WebMD, MedicineNet about sexual health and couples therapy. This is similar to word censorship in effect for SMS and text messages.

See also 
 Censorship in Pakistan
 Censorship in South Asia
 Constitution of Pakistan
 Freedom of speech in Pakistan
 Freedom of the press in Pakistan
 Information technology in Pakistan
 Internet in Pakistan
 Pornography in Pakistan

References

External links 
 "Ban on the web in the national interest" (Urdu), Reba Shahid, BBC Urdu.com, 29 July 2006, (English translation)
 Karachi Union of Journalists, website

 
Mass media in Pakistan
Law of Pakistan
Pakistan
Pakistan
Censorship in Pakistan
Censorship
History of mass media in Pakistan