[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ministry of Railways (Pakistan)

ealing the original Railway Board Ordinance of 1959. The presidential order also reinstated the formerly discarded Separation Convention, whereby the railway finances were ultimately separated from the general finances for the fiscal year 1961–62 and thereafter, giving each board increased autonomy.

In transferring the jurisdiction of the railways to their respective provincial governments, the resulting provincial Railway Boards exercised all the powers and functions of the former Railway Board (as established in 1959) with the exception of a few responsibilities. To address these exceptional responsibilities, the Central Government established a Central Railway Division which retained certain powers and functions not completely dissolved to the provincial boards. These included the responsibilities of:

 Dealing with international organisations and foreign countries;
 Implementing agreements with such organisations and countries;
 Coordinating rail movements to and from ports; and,
 Coordinating Development Programmes of each railway as part of the National Development Programmes.

Furthermore, the provincial governments were refrained from altering the priority of movement of defence traffic, close or dismantle any railway line, or modify any Ministry of Defence lines, without the prior approval of the Central Railway Division.

1970–present
With the succession of East Pakistan, the Eastern Railway was inherited by Bangladesh, while the Pakistan Western Railway was taken under control of the President who created the Ministry of Railways in 1974 to look after the planning and policy-making, technical advisory service and management of the railway. The PWR railway was then renamed Pakistan Railways in May 1974. In 1982, the Ministry of Railways was merged with the Railway Board under a presidential order, resulting in the federal ministry as it stands to date. The ministry has since been tasked with administering the various railway junctions and stations in rural, insular and urban areas of Pakistan. Declining passenger numbers and financial losses in the late 1980s to early 1990s prompted the closure of many branch lines and small stations. The 1990s saw severe cuts in rail subsidies and mismanagement within the company. Due to falling passenger numbers, rail subsidies from the government are necessary to keep the railways financially viable.

Railway Board 
The Railway Board (RB) is the highest governing body for technical matters for Pakistan Railways and the MoR. The highest form of bureaucrats in the railways consisted the government appoint bureaucrat who is the Chairman of Pakistan Railways- The following list includes the officers and government appoint bureaucrats reporting directly to the Secretary Railways who also serves as chairman of the Board:-
i).  Secretary Railway Board, MoR, Islamabad.
ii)  Member Finance, Railway Board, MoR, Islamabad.
iii)  Director General (Operations) MoR, Islamabad.
iv) Director General (Technical) MoR, Islamabad.
v)  Director General (Planning) MoR, Islamabad.

 Chief Executive/Sr. General Manager of Railway, PR.Headquarters, Lahore.(CEO/Sr.GM )
 Managing Director, PRACS.Rawalpindi.
 Chief Executive (CEO), PRFTC, Rawalpindi.
 Managing Director, REDAMCO, Rawalpindi.
 Managing Director, Railcop, Lahore
 Federal Government Inspector of Railways (FGIR)
 Director-General of Vigilance Department (DG Vigilance)

Functions 
 All matters pertaining to Pakistan Railways. 
 Movement and priority in respect of Defence traffic. 
 Maintenance of Railway lines for strategic reasons. 
 Negotiations with International Organizations and other Countries and implementation of agreements, with them. 
 Coordination of Development Projects of Railways as a part of the National Development Programme. 
 Standardization and specifications of materials and stores. 
 Overall efficiency and safety of Railways. 
 Coordination of Rail movements into and from Ports.

Divisions

Pakistan Locomotive Factory Risalpur

The Pakistan Locomotive Factory was established in Risalpur at a total cost of . Its function is to manufacture indigenous diesel electric and electric locomotives, thus allowing Pakistan Railways to have less dependency on foreign technology. The factory has capacity to manufacture 25 locomotives per year. Technology for manufacturing of locomotives has been acquired from Hitachi Japan, General Electric, ADtranz Germany and Dalian Locomotives & Rolling Stock Works, China.

Carriage Factory Islamabad
Pakistan Railways Carriage Factory, Islamabad was set up in 1970 under the technical collaboration of LHB, Germany for manufacture of passenger carriages. The capacity of the Factory is 150 passenger coaches per year on single shift basis.