[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Per Hüttner

Per Hüttner (born 11 February 1967) is a Swedish visual artist who lives and works in Paris. He is mostly known for his photographic work and for his interactive, changing and travelling exhibition projects. A number of monographs about his practice has been published including Per Hüttner, 2003; I am a Curator, 2004; Repetitive Time 2006, Xiao Yao You2006, Democracy and Desire 2007. The Imminent Interviews 2010 and The Quantum Police 2011.

Biography

Hüttner was born in Oskarshamn, Småland on 11 February 1967. His father Bengt, who was Jewish, died in a car accident in 1971 and he was brought up by his Protestant mother with his sister. He moved around Sweden until the age of 24 when he moved to Berlin to study. He studied at Hochschule der Künste in Berlin 1991 to 1992. He graduated from Konsthögskolan in Stockholm 1993.

His life has since been marked by nomadism and constant movement where travel and international dialogues are core to his life and practice. He lived in London and Los Angeles until he created his base in Paris in 2002. Hüttner was one of the founders of the non-profit galleries Konstakuten in Stockholm (1996–2001) and The Hood Gallery in Los Angeles (2001–2003), the former was one of the first artist initiated galleries in the country and was important in creating a culture of self-organisation of artists in Sweden. He is also one of the founders of the residency programs Norrköping AIR  and initiator of the experimental research group Vision Forum.

Works

Hüttner's work investigates impermanence as a global principle, especially how ideas of permanence and purity are used to perpetuate social, political and economical structures and how that influences human communication and interaction. The work often deals with transformation, change or various forms of transgressions of boundaries or borders. The artist is inspired by French philosopher Gilles Deleuze and particularly interested in how the relationship between larger political, economical and social structures affect the individual and vice versa. His work dialogues with the history of performance and explores the genre in innovative ways by provoking the curiosity and imagination of the visitor as well as by reflecting on notions about time, knowledge and the human body.

In the late 1980s and 1990s much of Hüttner's installations used computers, video and other new media. He was one of the first artists to create installations that used computers as a sculptural element and at the same time allowing them to present vast and complex information. The artist also used contemporary medical science to develop work based on research on the human brain at the Pitt Rivers Museum in Oxford, England - looking at how the brain remains in a constant state of change and regeneration. He also created exhibitions, publications and lectures with biochemist Elias Arnér that dealt with the relationship between art, science and the human body in Stockholm. In Begrepp - En Samling (Concepts a Collection) they brought together artists and scientists to dialogue about metaphysical questions.

In the late 1990s Hüttner took his interdisciplinary experiences and implemented these into a series of exhibitions investigating the relationship between the art object and the exhibition. In 2001 he co-curated an exhibition at Nylon with Goshka Macuga and Gavin Wade. Other noteworthy exhibitions that dealt with these issues and that engaged the audience in continuously reshaping the exhibition include: I am a Curator at Chisenhale Gallery in London, Repetitive Time at The Art Museum in Gothenburg and Participate? at CEAC in Xiamen, China, and at Basekamp in Philadelphia.

Parallel to this activity Hüttner created a photography project entitled "Jogging in Exotic Cities" where the artist went jogging repeatedly in far away cities that remain exotic to a western audience. In the photographs we see the artist dressed in white clothes as he makes his way through bustling cities like Chennai, Mexico City and Lusaka. The project remains one of Hüttner's most well known to date. It has been shown in museums in the US, Spain Poland, Romania, Austria, China and Sweden.