[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Radislav Krstić

he following year there was a significant effort by the Eastern Bosnia Corps to break through the Kladanj front to capture Vlasenica and link up from the direction of Kladanj with the forces within the protected area of Žepa. The offensive lasted for about 20 days, and it was crushed on 20 May 1994.

UN "Safe Area" warnings 
On 15 August 1994, Krstić was appointed Chief of Staff of the Drina Corps.  Krstić worked with his replacement to familiarize him with his roles and function until 1 September, and then worked with the former Chief of Staff whom he would be replacing to learn his new post until 28 September.  He was then briefed about Bosnian operations coming from the direction of Tuzla, Živinice, Kladanj, and Olovo against Serbian civilians.  His predecessor also briefed him and told him that, despite the status of the safe area accorded to Srebrenica and Žepa and the obligations stemming from agreements on demilitarization, the forces of the 28th Mountain Division of the Eastern Bosnia Corps in Srebrenica and Žepa were, in fact procuring from Tuzla and Kladanj or directly from Sarajevo more weapons in addition to the light or infantry weapons they already had.

There were numerous reports from Serb intelligence sources of the BiH Army troop movements in and out of protected enclaves carrying arms, reconnoitering Serb positions, and other military actions against Tuzla, Živinice, and Kladanj, all using UN protectorates as a base of operations in the region and operating under the radar so as to avoid notice by UNPROFOR. Krstić stayed at his post at the Corps Command until 1 November 1994, whereupon he established a brigade which was deployed at the area of the Herzegovinian Corps to combat the offensive which was mounted by the Eastern Bosnia Corps from the area of Bjelašnica and Igman towards Treskavica and Trnovo. He remained in the area of Treskavica and Trnovo until mid-December 1994, whereupon he returned to his post as the commander of the Corps in Vlasenica.

He was again briefed about the situation with respect to operations that the Bosniak command of the 28th Division in Srebrenica, acting upon orders from the Main Staff of the 2nd Corps in Tuzla, was conducting towards the positions of the Drina Corps, in particular, at the Milici municipality, Han Pijesak, and the Vlasenica municipality. He was also briefed about intel on the continuation of the army, weapons and ammunitions supply to the members of the 28th Brigade at the protected area. They began intercepting communications indicating an attempt by the BiH Army to conduct supply chain operations from Tuzla to link up with their forces in Srebrenica in an operation named "Skakavac" (grasshopper).

Landmine injury 
On 29 December 1994, while inspecting force deployment at Kladanj and Olovo, Krstić stepped on a landmine and was seriously wounded.  He was taken to a military hospital in Sokolac where, on 3 January, his right leg below his knee was amputated. He stayed in the military hospital in Meljine until the end of March 1995 when he was transferred to the Military Medical Academy in Belgrade, where he remained until the end of April 1995.  He was discharged from the military hospital at his request and stayed for a couple of days with his family in Kosovska Mitrovica, before returning to Bosnia with his wife to report to his doctors in Sokolac and Vlasenica for further treatment.  He underwent therapy alternately in Sokolac and Vlasenica until the middle of May 1995, when he returned to his official post.

The Bosnian Army offensive 
Upon returning to his official duties, Krstić was again briefed that activity by Bosnian Muslim forces between Tuzla and the UN protectorates was increasing, and Serb forces were suffering heavy losses to infiltrators. Serb intelligence reported that, despite a no-fly order on much of the area, BiH military helicopters were landing in protected areas daily with munitions and supplies.  Noting the buildup toward a major offensive by the BiH Army, the Drina Corps began preparations for a counter-offensive.