[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Kevin-Prince Boateng

Cup in Brazil.

On 2 June 2014, Boateng was named in Ghana's squad for the World Cup finals. In the team's opening match, he came on as a second-half substitute against the United States in a 2–1 defeat. He was then selected to start against Germany in a 2–2 draw, playing against his brother again.

On 26 June, Boateng was sent home and suspended from the Ghana squad for disciplinary reasons, only hours before the final group match against Portugal, after he was alleged to have verbally abused former manager James Kwesi Appiah during a team meeting. Boateng was sent home along with midfielder Sulley Muntari. On 29 June, Boateng had hit back at the Ghana Football Association, describing the Black Stars organisation during the tournament as "amateurish".

Style of play
Boateng is a quick, dynamic, physically strong and well-rounded midfielder, known for his aggression, eye for goal, long-range shooting ability, flair, footspeed, ball-juggling tricks, and dribbling skills. A versatile and tenacious player, his game has a particular dependence on "sheer strength, power and energy." He can produce the work rate, ball retrieval and attacking willingness of the box-to-box midfielder. He combines technical skill with speed of action which makes him more dangerous. A 2014 profile on FIFA's official website described Boateng as being "blessed with strength, speed, killer instinct in front of goal, and an uncommon flamboyance in the attacking third."

Boateng has been utilised in many midfield positions throughout his career, but usually plays either in the centre in a box-to-box role, or as an attacking midfielder or forward; he has also been deployed as a false-attacking midfielder, as a second striker, or even as a winger on occasion during his time with Milan. With Las Palmas and Sassuolo, he was also deployed in a more advanced, central attacking role, essentially positioned as a lone striker, but effectively functioning as a false-9, due to his ability to drop deep, link-up with midfielders, and create space for his other attacking teammates with his movement off the ball. In addition to his playing ability, Boateng is known for his acrobatic goal celebrations, and often celebrates scoring goals with a backflip. His former Hertha BSC teammate Niko Kovač has also praised Boateng for his leadership, stating: "Kevin gives the team a sense of stability, both mentally and physically," also describing him as a "warrior."

 Outside football 

Personal life

Boateng was born in Berlin. His mother, Christine Rahn, is German and his father is from Ghana. He is the older, paternal half-brother of fellow professional footballer Jérôme Boateng. He is divorced from his first wife Jenny. He became engaged to Italian model Melissa Satta in 2011, and the pair have a child, Maddox Prince, born 15 April 2014. The couple were wed on 25 June 2016 in Porto Cervo, Sardinia. Their marriage ended in December 2020 after a separation. Boateng says he speaks Turkish, German, English and Italian, and understands French and Arabic. Boateng is the nephew of Yaw Boateng Gyan who is the former National Organizer of the NDC.

Tattoos
Boateng has a tattoo of the map of Ghana and the country's name on his arm. Across his ribs, he has the Chinese words for clan, health, love, success and trust, and he has other tattoos on his upper body.

 Anti-racism 
In February 2013, Boateng was appointed as the first global ambassador for the FIFA anti-discrimination taskforce, to work alongside FIFA Vice-president Jeffrey Webb at FIFA headquarters. In March, Boateng presented FIFA President Sepp Blatter with his first phase of solutions to ending global racism in football, as requested by Blatter. In March 2013, Boateng was named as the United Nations (UN) ambassador for anti-racism. He delivered his first speech in that role accompanied by UN human rights chief Navi Pillay at the United Nations Office at Geneva.

Music
Boateng is a keen singer and dancer, and has said that his singing and dancing idol is Michael Jackson. He enjoys choreography, and singing. As such, Boateng performed a dance routine involving Michael Jackson's trademarked Moonwalk for a packed-out San Siro of 88,000 spectators upon Milan celebrating their 18th Scudetto, and sang an a cappella live on beIN Sports television to celebrate their eighth birthday.

In August 2018, he released a rap song under the alias PRIN$$ Boateng named King on the World Star Hip Hop channel. Boateng released his second single, Bella Vita, in July 2019.

Career statistics
Club

International

Ghana score listed first, score column indicates score after each Boateng goal.

HonoursAC MilanSerie A: 2010–11
Supercoppa Italiana: 2011
Coppa Italia runner-up: 2015–16Eintracht FrankfurtDFB-Pokal: 2017–18BarcelonaLa Liga: 2018–19Individual'
Fritz Walter Medal U18 bronze: 2005
Fritz Walter Medal U19 gold: 2006
Das Erste Goal of the Month: 2005
Serie A Team of the Year: 2010–11

References

External links