[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# FACTNet

mmary judgment after FACTnet challenged the church's claim of ownership of the copyrights of the documents. A settlement was later reached in 1999, whose terms were that if FACTnet is ever found guilty of violations of Church copyrights, they are permanently enjoined to pay the Church 1 million USD.

The 2000 film Battlefield Earth starring John Travolta stirred up controversy because it was based on a book by L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of the Church of Scientology, and Travolta was a well-known Scientologist. The Guardian reported on FACTnet's claims that the film was a proselytism piece for Scientology, noting: "FACTnet suggested that subliminal messages had been cunningly inserted by Scientologists to win over new converts to join the church." The filmmakers asserted that it had nothing to do with the Church of Scientology, but The New York Times reported on FACTnet's assertions that: "the film was secretly financed by Scientology, and that Scientology plans recruiting efforts to coincide with the movie's release." Sociology professor James T. Richardson did not agree with FACTnet's claims, stating: "I seriously doubt that someone is going to go out and join Scientology just because they see this movie."

In 2002, Lawrence Wollersheim won an $8.7 million judgement in his lawsuit Wollersheim v. Church of Scientology, and FACTnet posted a statement from him on the site, saying: "The cult that vowed it would never pay me one thin dime has now paid over 86 million thin dimes."

FACTnet spoke out in support of an episode of the TV show South Park, awarding their staff the "FACTnet Person(s) of the Year for 2005" for the satirical episode on Scientology, "Trapped in the Closet".

In 2006, FACTnet director Wollersheim was consulted for the 48 Hours documentary series story on the death of Scientologist Elli Perkins, "Scientology – A Question of Faith". Wollersheim was quoted in the piece, stating: "Scientology. They are the worst example of mind control in a religious setting that has ever existed." The program also noted that the Church of Scientology characterizes him as a "liar and a fraud", and asserts that most of its members live happy and fulfilled lives.

Legal cases involving the internet 

Legal cases involving the organization and the Religious Technology Center are cited in analysis of fair use law. The book Internet and Online Law noted that "reproduction in computer format of plaintiff's entire copyrighted texts for defendants' private use and study falls well within the fair use exception." The work Cyber Rights: Defending Free Speech in the Digital Age characterized FACTnet as part of the "publishers and posters" group, when analyzing Scientology-related legal cases  The author also placed two former Scientologists, Dennis Erlich and Arnie Lerma, in this classification, while analyzing actions taken by the Church of Scientology, which the author calls a "famously litigious organization". Erlich and Lerma had criticized the church and posted material on the internet that the church asserted was protected by copyright.

See also 

Anti-cult movement
Copyright infringement
Scientology and the legal system
Scientology controversy

References

Further reading

External links
 
 EFF Electronic Frontier Foundation "Legal Cases - Church of Scientology" Archive

Critics of Scientology
Anti-cult organizations
Scientology and the Internet