[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# China Merchants Group

e involved in Djibouti in 2013, when it acquired a 23.5% stake in the Doraleh container terminal. In January 2021, Djibouti and CMG signed a deal for the Chinese conglomerate to expand the Port of Djibouti at a cost of $350 million. The development plan will follow the Shekou Zone model.

House flag

Structure 
China Merchants Group Limited owns 12 main subsidiaries across its core business sectors, employing 230,000 people: 

 China Merchants Ports Holdings Company Limited (CMPort)
 China Merchants Finance Holdings Co., Ltd (CMF)
 China Merchants Energy Shipping Co., Ltd (CMES)
 China Merchants Industry Group Co., Ltd (CMI)
 China Merchants Hoi Tung Trading Company Co., Ltd (CM Hoi Tung)
 China Merchants Investment Development Co., Ltd (CMID)
 China Merchants Shekou Holdings (CM Shekou)
 China Merchants Expressway Network ＆ Technology Co.,Ltd (CMET)
 China Merchants Logistics Holding Group Co., Ltd (CML)
 Zhangzhou China Merchants Economic and Technological Development Zone (CMZD)
 China Merchants Chongqing Communication Research and Design Institute Co., Ltd (CMCT)
 China Merchants Venture Capital Management Co., Ltd

Controversies

Port of Djibouti 
Controversy surrounds the way in which CMG acquired the 23.5% stake in the Doraleh terminal. CMG was sold the stake after Djibouti's government seized the facilities from Dubai-based port operator DP World, co-manager of the facilities since a concession agreement in 2004. One year later, CMG got authorization to construct another port facility, the Doraleh multi-purpose port located within the Chinese military support base. This coincided with Djibouti and CMG establishing the International Free Trade Zone. 

In 2018, Djibouti terminated DP World's concession rights, nationalized its shares in the terminal and handed them on to China Merchants Group. Although the Djibouti government has stated it alone controls the port, media reports indicate that CMG is directing day-to-day activities. 

DP World sued CMG in 2019 in Hong Kong for allegedly causing Djibouti to revoke its concession rights. The London Court of International Arbitration ruled in 2020 that Djibouti's actions constituted a breach of contract and ordered Djibouti to return the concession to DP World, but the country rejected the ruling. Thus far, there have been seven rulings in DP World's favor in the matter, most recently in July 2021, all of which have been rejected by the Djibouti government.

Hambantota Port development 
In 2017, Sri Lanka approved an agreement with CMG regarding the Hambantota port, according to which the company would take a majority stake in the port. This had caused concern that the facilities could be used for Chinese military vessels and that such a large-scale transfer of land could adversely impact Sri Lanka's national sovereignty.

In the years since, the port has been referred to as a "Chinese colony" by critics and an example of China's "debt diplomacy", because CMG provided $1.1 billion in funds to the highly indebted government for the port in exchange for an 85% stake and a 99-year lease. This allowed China to gain a geostrategic foothold in close proximity to India, one of its main rivals in the Indo-Pacific, India, as well as to important commerce and military waterways.

Special investigation by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection 
In 2014, the Hong Kong media reported that the CCP's Central Commission for Discipline Inspection was conducting a special investigation into CMG, along with several other SOEs, on corruption claims.

References

Further reading
 Lai, Chi-Kong. "China's First Modern Corporation and the State: Officials, Merchants, and Resource Allocation in the China Merchants' Steam Navigation Company, 1872–1902." Journal of Economic History 54.2 (1994): 432–434. online
 Liu, Kwang-ching. "Steamship enterprise in nineteenth-century China." Journal of Asian Studies 18.4 (1959): 435–455.
 Feuerwerker, Albert. "China's Early Industrialization - Sheng Hsuan-Huai (1844-1916) and Mandarin Enterprise". Harvard University Press 1958.

External links

China Merchants Group website—
China Merchants Group—
 scholarlyarticles

 01
Conglomerate companies of China
Holding companies of China
Shipping companies of China
Government-owned companies of China
Conglomerate companies of Hong Kong
Holding companies of Hong Kong
Holding companies established in 1872
Financial services companies established in 1872
Transport companies established in 1872
Chinese companies established in 1872
1872 establishments in Hong Kong
Shipping companies of Hong Kong