[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Sami Frashëri

. Frashëri moved socially and intellectually through various communities of Istanbul while having an appreciation of Islam and traditions originating from Arabs and the Ottoman sociopolitical and cultural systems. Along with other Albanians, Albanianism with Ottomanism were seen as being compatible.

As a cultural and political activist Frashëri however ran into trouble with the Ottoman government. Over time he developed a disillusionment with the regime of sultan Abdul Hamid II and increasingly turned to Albanianism. Being an Albanian Tosk he felt frustration with his fellow Albanian Ghegs and other conservative and traditionalist Albanians who he thought were more preoccupied with regional and local matters than with the national issues. Frashëri did not want Albanians to be confused for Turks and he worked to foster the national identities of both ethnic groups. At times tensions existed for him when the categories of Ottomanism and Albanianism and of Turk and Albanian were not in balance. As scholar Francis Trix put it he was "an Ottoman reformer [who] could be both an Albanian patriot and, at the same time, a cultural Turk of the highest order".

After his death individuals and diverse groups both honoured and claimed him as theirs. Among Turkish circles, the Young Turk newspaper Osmanlı published in Geneva described him in their full front-page obituary as a scholar and great humanitarian that "honored Ottomanism (Osmanlılık)." Yusuf Akçura, an advocate of Turkism and contemporary of Frashëri considered him as a Turkish nationalist. Albanians of the era regarded Frashëri as a patriot, while due to his contributions toward developing a national Albanian literature modern Albanian historians view him as an Albanian nationalist. As the works of Frashëri contain nationalistic discourse, following his death they have retained the attention of the public during different time periods and governments in Albania and Turkey. Within Turkish literary history Frashëri is revered as being a forefather of Turkish literature and a significant innovator for the Turkish language. In Albanian collective memory he is cherished as a founding father of Albanian literature and as one of the rilindjas (national awakeners) of the Albanian nation. An Ottoman historian Kemal Karpat summed up his complex identity as "Sami considered himself a 'Turk' because he was a member of the Ottoman state, and he saw no conflict between his Ottoman political identity and his Albanian ethnicity."

The four surviving children of Frashëri remained in Turkey and due to their commitment to the republic Turkish authorities decided in the 1950s not to allow the remains of Sami to leave the country for Albania. His son, Ali Sami Yen (1886–1951), was a footballer and founder of Galatasaray SK and chairman of Galatasaray between 1905–18 and 1925–6.

Nowadays, a lot of schools bear his name, i.e. Sami Frashëri High School is one of the most well-known gymnasium in Prishtina and another in Tirana, and in other localities like Bogovinje, North Macedonia and so on.

The Frashëri brothers have been commemorated in Albanian folk songs.

Work
Sami is the author of around 50 works. Some of his most important writings are:

Novels
 Ta'aşşûk-ı Tal'at ve Fitnât (Albanian: Dashuria e Talatit me Fitneten -English: The Love Between Talat and Fitnat, 1873)
The story carries a sentimental subject of love between Talat and Fitnat. Generally, the novel consists of a combination of Oriental and Western writing styles. Also, this novel is commonly mistaken to be the first novel written in Turkish.

Drama
 Besâ yâhut Âhde Vefâ (Albanian: "Besa ose Mbajtja e Fjalës" - English: Besa or The Given Word of Trust, 1874).
Is a melodrama aiming Besa as a subject, but in a very tragic situation; the father kills his son to keep the given word.
 Seydi Yahya (1875)
 Gâve (1876)
 Mezalim-i Endülûs (Never printed)
 Vicdân (Never printed)

Dictionaries and encyclopedical works
 Kâmûs-ı Fransevî (1882–1905, French-Turkish dictionary)
 Kâmûs-ı Fransevî (1885, French-Turkish dictionary)
 Küçük Kâmûs-ı Fransevî (1886, French-Turkish dictionary)
 Kâmûsü'l-A'lâm (6 volumes, 1889–1898, Encyclopedia of General Science, known to be the first Encyclopedia printed in Turkish)
 Kâmûs-ı 'Arabî (1898, Arabic-Turkish dictionary, unfinished)
 Kâmûs-ı Türkî (2 volumes, dictionary of the Classical Ottoman Turkish language, still widely used as a reference as of today, 1899–1900, reprints and facsimiles in 1978 and 1998)

Scientific writings
Şemseddin Sami also did a series of scientific writings in Albanian such as Qielli (Sky), Toka (Earth), Njeriu (Human Being), Gjuha (Language), and many more.

Educational writings in Albanian
Allfabetarja e Stambollit (Alphabet of Istanbul, 1879),
Abetarja e Shkronjëtoreja (Grammatical Work, 1886).