[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Integrin-linked kinase

it is linked to a yet identified K+/Ca2+ influx channel.  While interactions are known to occur between CML9 and ILK1, ILK1 Is not a direct phosphorylation target of CML9. With the addition of CML9, autophosphorylation of ILK1 is diminished, the present irrespective of calcium available for uptake.

ILK1 is also affected by presence or absence of manganese (Mn2+). Autophosphorylation and substrate phosphorylation occurred when exposed to both Mn2+ and Mg2+. Mn2+ and was dose dependent where Mg2+ was not. Specific ILK autophosphorylation sites were found in the presence of Mn2+ but not in the presence of Mg2+ which supports the ILK1 dependent phosphorylation suggested above. Mass spectrometry revealed no other kinases were present to trigger this response.

Pathogen detection 

ILK1 has been found to promote resistance in bacterial pathogens. ILK1 is required for flg22 sensitivity in seedlings. A catalytically inactive version of ILK1 was compared with catalytically active versions of ILK1 to see the level of resistance when challenged with bacterial pathogens. Plants inoculated with inactive ILK1 were more susceptible to bacterial infection than active ILK1 suggesting that ILK1 is needed for bacterial pathogen detection. While ILK1 is involved in bacterial pathogen detection it is not used for effect induced defenses.

ILK1 increases PAMP response and basal immunity through phosphorylation of MPK3 and MPK6 and operates independently in reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. High Affinity Potassium uptake mediators such as HAK5 have also been found to be integral in the signaling of flg22. HAK5 function when potassium levels are low. Flg22 has been shown to depolarize the cell's plasma membrane with HAK5 and ILK1 working together to mediate ion homeostasis to assist with both short and long term actions such as growth and suppression thereof.

References

Further reading 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Proteins