[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Angus Peter Campbell

h illuminating a specific island in the mythic Invisible Islands archipelago. The work draws heavily on Hebridean mythology and folklore and Scottish history, magic realism and a number of other influences. He also wrote a short English language novel 'Archie and The North Wind' (Luath Press; 2010).

His latest work is a collection of poetry, Aibisidh, published Polygon (Edinburgh) in 2011. It is nominated as the Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust's Scottish Book of the Year 2012, having won in the poetry category.

Campbell writes frequently about the Catholic Church in his work. In a 2009 interview, however, Campbell described himself as a Christian socialist.

Acting career
In 2006, Campbell expanded his acting career, starring in the Scottish Gaelic feature film Seachd: The Inaccessible Pinnacle. Although the film was warmly received and drew comparisons to both Big Fish and The Princess Bride, BAFTA refused to submit Seachd, the Welsh-language film Calon Gaeth, or any other British film, to compete for Best Foreign Language Film at the 2008 Academy Awards. Christopher Young, Seachd's producer, accused those responsible for the decision of being "anti-Gaelic" and resigned his BAFTA membership in protest. Questions about the controversy were also raised in the Scottish Parliament.

Personal life
He lives on the Isle of Skye with his wife and six children, and is now a full-time writer, journalist, broadcaster, actor. He is the father of piper Brìghde Chaimbeul.

References

External links
 Angus Peter Campbell official website
 Brave new words - November 2003 interview by Highlands and Islands Arts Journal
 Scottish Book Awards website
 CLAR - publisher website

Caimbeul, Aonghas Phadraig
Scottish Gaelic writers
Alumni of the University of Edinburgh
Date of birth missing (living people)
Living people
People from the Outer Hebrides
People from Uist
Caimbeul, Aonghas
Scottish Gaelic novelists
Scottish Catholic poets
Scottish novelists
Year of birth missing (living people)