[Source: PubMed]

13. Health Policy Plan. 2019 Apr 1;34(3):207-215. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czz024.

Advocacy coalitions and the transfer of nutrition policy to Zambia.

Harris J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Development Studies, Library Road, University of Sussex, 
Brighton, UK.

Stunted growth in children and multisectoral action to address it are dominant 
ideas in the international nutrition community today, and this study finds that 
these ideas are increasingly evident over time in nutrition policy in Zambia, 
with stunting largely displacing other framings of nutrition. This study is 
based on key informant interviews (70 interviews with 61 interviewees), policy 
document review, and social network mapping, with iterative data collection and 
analysis taking place over 6 years (2011-2016). Analysis was based on two 
established political science theories: policy transfer theory and the Advocacy 
Coalition Framework. Policy changes in Zambia are shown to result from the 
international community's nutrition agenda, transferred to national policy 
through the normative promotion of certain ways of understanding the issue of 
malnutrition, largely propagated through advocacy, technical assistance and 
funding. With its focus on multisectoral action to reduce stunting, the recent 
nutrition policy narrative impinges directly on an existing food security 
narrative as it attempts to alter agriculture policy away from maize reliance. 
The nutrition policy sub-system in Zambia is therefore split between an 
international coalition promoting action on child stunting, and a national 
coalition focused on food security and hunger, with implications for both sides 
on progressing a coherent policy agenda. This study finds that it is possible to 
understand policy processes for nutrition more fully than has so far been 
achieved in much nutrition literature through the application of multiple 
political science theories. These theories allow the generalization of findings 
from this case study to assess their relevance in other contexts: the study 
ultimately is about the transfer of policy being explained by the presence of 
advocacy coalitions and their different beliefs, resources and power, and these 
concepts can be investigated wherever the nutrition system reaches down from 
international to national level.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press in association with 
The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czz024
PMCID: PMC6528744
PMID: 31006019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]