[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Architecture of Hungary

bbey of Bélapátfalva have survived, but in the end they remained almost intact after the Mongol invasion. The Cistercian influence is also reflected in the lower church of the Pannonhalma Archabbey, founded during the reign of Grand Prince Géza, and in this style was built the Royal Castle of Óbuda.

Impact of the Premonstratensians 
According to tradition, the first monastery of the Premonstratensian canons in Hungary was founded in 1130 in Váradelőhegy (near present-day Oradea) and its presence before 1135 is demonstrated by documents. The Árpád age Provost 39 was created, including Adony, Csorna, Hatvan, Kaposfő, Majk, Türje, the Nyulak Island (today Margaret Island of Budapest) and Zsámbék and the Female Santiago Apostle monastery of Mórichida also worked in Somlóvásárhely and Szeged. The monks outside the monastic and pastoral life dealt with place of authentication activities, assumed an important role in the manuscript culture dissemination in Hungary. During the Turkish occupation, the domestic operation of the Premontre Order almost ceased. Its properties became property of the Austrian provinces in the 18th century.

National monasteries
The 13th century also wanted to express its consciousness in the construction of a layer of land, which had grown strong by the end of the century. In the centre of their estates, churches serving as burial places were built, usually with a small number of monasteries. The first national monastery was built in the 11th century, but the building type has a flowering age of the 13th century. Its basic form is the three-nave system established at the Pécs Cathedral, which is closed by semi circle apse, but the location of the towers varies. In Boldva had a tower pair with an eastern orientation, but in Acâș (current Romania) has already abandoned its eastern construction and built a Western one. In the inner space, there is always a room for the Lord's choir. The most mature memories of the National monasteries -forming a School- remained in Transdanubia. First the Abbey church of St. James in Lébény was built in 1208, then the Abbey church of St George of Ják in 1220. The construction was interrupted by the Mongol invasion. The type is followed by the Premonstratensian church of Türje, the Premontre monastery of Ócsa, the Arača in current Serbia, the Sopronhorpács Parochial Church, the Premontre monastery church of Zsámbék and the Upper castle church of Felsőörs. The church of Zsámbék it already shows Gothic marks in its form.

The clerical churches were built in a more modest version. According to St. Stephen's law on the construction of ten churches, the villages were united. However, their temples were not made of durable material, but made of wood, apothecary, cane. On the basis of these churches we know the center of the villages, because the law also stipulated that the village should not be away from the church (such as Himesháza or Kiskunfélegyháza). Between the remaining churches, there are also central and long-term types. Common on the outside with a circular wall, on the inside with a pearly solution (Горяни in current Ukraine, Karcsa, Pápoc). This purely circular layout was just a solution to cemetery treatments. There's not much to know about secular architecture at this age. The place of residence must have been a tent or a wooden house, the stone house only appears as a rarity. We don't know much about the castle building either. The chronicler Anonymus refers to hillforts with elements of Slavic origin, fortifications made of twigs and mud. The tower of Esztergom, which formed the core of the castle, suggests that this type of building has already appeared.