[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andrew Driver

, it was announced that Driver would join Aberdeen on a short-term deal until the end of the season. He made his Aberdeen debut on 21 March, starting a 1–1 draw with Dundee.  On 14 May Aberdeen announced that Driver would not be offered a new deal and would leave the club at the end of his contract.

De Graafschap
In July 2015, Driver signed a one-year deal with the Doetinchem club, who had returned to the Eredivisie following promotion in the 2014–15 season. He made his debut in a 3–0 away defeat against Excelsior Rotterdam. He signed a two-year extension with the club on 30 May 2016, even with the club on the verge of relegation to the Dutch second tier.

International career
Driver was previously a Scotland schoolboy international, scoring a goal in a 2–1 Victory Shield defeat by England on 22 November 2002.

England U21 manager Stuart Pearce called the uncapped Driver up for a friendly match against Azerbaijan. He was then called up for the 2009 European Championships. He made his debut and only appearance at the tournament in the 1–1 draw against Germany on 22 June 2009 during the group stages.

He was thought to be eligible to play for the Scotland senior team because of the new residency ruling recently introduced. He was not called up by then-manager George Burley as Burley stated that it was Driver's choice to officially make himself available for selection. On 4 February 2010, Driver committed his international future to Scotland after face-to-face talks with Scotland manager Craig Levein. Only one week after opting to represent Scotland, the Scottish FA informed Driver he was not eligible to play for the national team, as he had not been schooled in Scotland for the requisite period of time. This rule was subsequently altered to allow Driver to play for Scotland, although he did not do so.

Personal life
Driver holds a U.S. green card which qualified him as a domestic player for MLS roster purposes.

Career statistics

Club

Honours
Heart of Midlothian
Scottish Cup: 2011–12

Individual
Scottish Premier League Young Player of the Month: September 2007

See also
List of sportspeople who competed for more than one nation

References

External links
 

1987 births
Living people
Sportspeople from East Lothian
People from Saddleworth
Footballers from Greater Manchester
Sportspeople from the Metropolitan Borough of Oldham
Scottish men's footballers
Scottish expatriate men's footballers
Scotland men's youth international footballers
English men's footballers
English expatriate men's footballers
England men's under-21 international footballers
Footballers from Oldham
Men's association football midfielders
Lothian Thistle Hutchison Vale F.C. players
Heart of Midlothian F.C. players
Houston Dynamo FC players
De Graafschap players
Scottish Premier League players
Major League Soccer players
Eredivisie players
People educated at North Berwick High School
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States
Aberdeen F.C. players
Footballers from Yorkshire
Scottish expatriate sportspeople in the United States
English expatriate sportspeople in the United States
Anglo-Scots