[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mediatization (media)

distribution of cheap radio receivers (Volksempfänger) which enabled Adolf Hitler to reach a large audience through his frequent propaganda speeches, while it was illegal for the Germans to listen to foreign radio stations. 
In Italy, Benito Mussolini used the radio for similar propaganda speeches.

Television 
The social impact of radio was reduced after the war when television outcompeted the radio. 
Kent Asp, who studied the interaction of television with politics in Sweden, has identified a history of increasing mediatization. The politicians recognized in the 1960's that television had become a predominant channel for political communication. A process of gradual acclimatization, adjustment, and finally adoption of media logic in political communication took place through the following decades. By the 2000's, the political institutions had almost completely integrated the logic of television and other mass media into their procedures.

Television has not only outcompeted newspapers and radio, but also crowded out other activities such as play, sports, study, and social activities. This has led to lower school performance for children who have access to entertainment TV programs.

TV viewers tend to imitate the lifestyle of role models that they see on entertainment shows. This has resulted in lower fertility and higher divorce rates in various countries.

Television is delivering strong messages of patriotism and national unity in China where the media are state controlled.

Toys/Play 
Although children still have access to and use physical toys within their play, this way of growing up is perishing. Due to play becoming mediatized, many children and even parents now, will resort to sources of entertainment in the form of a screen or software.

Internet 
The advent of the internet has created new opportunities and new conditions for the traditional newspapers as well as online-only news providers. Many newspapers are now publishing their news not only on paper but also online. This has enabled a more diverse assembly of both breaking news, longer reports, and traditional magazine journalism. The increased competition on a diversified media market has led to more human interest and lifestyle stories and less political news, especially in the online versions of the newspapers.

Social media 
Social media, such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, etc., have enabled a new form of mass communication that is more interactive. The new form of internet media that allow user-generated content has been called Web 2.0. The possibilities for user involvement has greatly increased the possibilities for networking, collaboration, and civic engagement. Protest movements, in particular, have benefited from an independent communication infrastructure.

The circulation of messages on social media relies to a great extent on users who like, share, and re-distribute messages. This kind of circulation of messages is controlled less by the logic of market economics, and more by the principles of memetics. Messages are selected and recirculated based on a new set of criteria that are very different from the selection criteria of newspapers, radio, and television. People tend to share the messages that are psychologically appealing and attention-catching. 
Social media users are remarkably bad at evaluating the truth of the messages they share. In fact, studies show that false messages are shared more often than true messages because the false messages are more surprising and attention-catching. This has led to the proliferation of fake news and conspiracy theories on social media. 
Attempts to counter misinformation by fact checking has had limited effect.

People prefer to follow the internet forums, pages, and groups that they agree with. At the same time, the media prefer topics that are already popular. 
This has led to the large scale occurrence of echo chambers and filter bubbles. 
A consequence of this is that the political arena has become more polarized because different groups of citizens are attending to different news sources, 
though the evidence of this effect is mixed.