[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Treaty of Tartu (Finland–Russia)

Whites in cooperation with the German forces. Casualties of Finnish Civil War were according to a Finnish Government project: Died in battle: "whites" 3414, "reds" 5199; Missing: whites 46, reds 1767; Executed: whites 1424, reds 7370; Died in prison camps: whites 4, reds 11652 - total deaths 36640.

Following the civil war, the Finnish government sought to seek additional security by forming ties with the Germans. This alliance was short lived with the defeat of the central powers during World War I. With Imperial Germany’s demise, the Finnish government realized that it would have to accept the necessity of forming relations with the nascent Bolshevik Russian government, due to the developments of the Russian Civil War, even though their recent support for Red revolutionaries in Finland made the government very wary of the Bolsheviks. As other countries were now making similar treaties with Russia, such as Treaty of Tartu (Russian–Estonian), the voices questioning the legality and honor of dealing with the violently established Bolshevik government were also diminishing. Especially, the large, moderately socialist Social Democrat party was willing to finally normalize the relations with the greater neighboring state. Nevertheless, some nationalistic and rightist elements in Finnish Parliament still considered the planned treaty as  going too far, even shameful, by giving up some of the initial negotiation goals and shattering their ideals of a greater national state including also eastern territories settled from ancient times by Finnic Karelian people, which never belonged to the Autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland.  Some of those districts  were annexed from Russia  by Finnish military expeditions in 1918 shortly  after Russian soviet government granted  independence to Finland. In hindsight, the treaty was rather good to Finland, especially compared to the treaties made at the end of Second World War.

Contents

The treaty confirmed that the Finnish-Soviet border would follow the old border between the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland and Imperial Russia. Finland additionally received Petsamo, with its ice-free harbour on the Arctic Ocean - the  district  that  Finland had already  annexed from Russia several years  before. As far back as 1864, Tsar Alexander II had promised to join Petsamo to Finland in exchange for a piece of the Karelian Isthmus. Finland also agreed to leave the joined and then occupied areas of Repola (annexed  by Finland during the Viena expedition) and Porajärvi (annexed by Finland during the Aunus expedition) in Russian East Karelia. The treaty also included Finland handing over the contested region of North Ingria to Russia, thereby disbanding the short-lived Republic of North Ingria. The treaty also had some articles besides area and border issues, including Soviet guarantee of free navigation of merchant ships from the Finnish ports in Lake Ladoga (Laatokka in Finnish) to the Gulf of Finland via the River Neva. Finland guaranteed land transit from the Soviet Union to Norway via the Petsamo area. Also, Finland agreed to disarm the coastal fortress in Ino, opposite the Soviet city Kronstadt located on the island of Kotlin. The Finnish outer islands in the Gulf of Finland were demilitarized.

The treaty was subject to controversy first during the East Karelian Uprising 1921–1922 when the Finnish government allowed volunteers to take part in the conflict.

The treaty was finally broken by the Soviet Union in 1939, when it started the Winter War against Finland.

Delegations

Finnish 
 Juho Kusti Paasikivi, leader
 Juho Vennola
 Alexander Frey
 Rudolf Walden
 Väinö Tanner
 Väinö Voionmaa
 Väinö Kivilinna

Soviet 
 Jan Antonovich Berzin
 Platon Kerzhentsev
 
 Alexander Samoylo
 Yevgeny Berens

See also 
 List of Finnish treaties
 Treaty of Tartu (Russian–Estonian)
 Moscow Peace Treaty of 1940
 Moscow Armistice of 1944
 Soviet–Lithuanian Peace Treaty
 Latvian–Soviet Peace Treaty

References

External links 

 Text of the treaty

Tartu (Russian-Finnish)
Tartu (Russian-Finnish)
Tartu (Russian-Finnish)
Finland–Soviet Union relations
1920 in Finland
Finland–Russia relations
Tartu (Russian-Finnish)
Tartu (Russian-Finnish)
Tartu (Russian-Finnish)
October 1920 events
Peace treaties of the Soviet Union