[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Lorna Arnold

hausted, the UKAEA Council decided that Arnold should retire in 1996. She loaded her notes into her car and took them home. Sympathetic friends at the Ministry of Defence found some money to cover her expenses, and she doggedly worked on it from home. Britain and the H-Bomb finally appeared in 2001.

Later life
Arnold was a Fellow of the Institute of Physics, a rare accolade for a non-physicist, and was a recipient of an Honorary Fellowship of the Society for Radiological Protection. In 2009, she received an honorary Doctorate of Letters from the University of Reading for her work in nuclear history. She was introduced to Scilla Elworthy, one of the leaders of the Oxford Research Group, one of the UK's leading advocates for alternatives to global conflict, in the 1980s by her friend, physicist Rudolf Peierls. Through Elworthy, Arnold became active in the movement for nuclear disarmament.  She participated in a series of video presentations on issues of nuclear weapons and nuclear energy for Talkworks, an organisation that focused on dangers associated with nuclear weapons. She also worked with television productions, including two BBC television documentaries on Windscale in 1990 and 2007, and a six-part documentary The Nuclear Age. which was cancelled by the BBC. In an episode of the BBC radio programme A Room with a View, she visited the room at the University of Birmingham where Peierls had worked on the Frisch–Peierls memorandum.

Arnold became legally blind in 2002, but in 2012, aged 96, published her memoirs, entitled My Short Century, in which she described her life from living on a farm, and friendships with noted figures in the world of nuclear research and development; "but also", noted the Daily Telegraph, "chronicled the life of one of the many thousands of women denied greater eminence because of their sex." She died at Oxenford House care home in Cumnor, Oxfordshire, on 25 March 2014 after suffering a stroke. She was survived by her two sons.

Published works
 (1974). Independence and Deterrence: Britain and Atomic Energy, 1945–52: Volume 1: Policy Making. (With Margaret Gowing).   London: Macmillan. .
 (1974). Independence and Deterrence: Britain and Atomic Energy, 1945–52: Volume 2: Policy Execution. (With Margaret Gowing). London: Macmillan. .
 (1987). A Very Special Relationship: British Atomic Weapon Trials in Australia. London: HMSO Books. .
 (2001) Britain and the H-Bomb. London: Palgrave Macmillan  (with Katherine Pyne)
 (2005) Britain, Australia and the Bomb: The Nuclear Tests and Their Aftermath. (International Papers in Political Economy) (with Mark Smith) London: Palgrave Macmillan 
 (2007)  Windscale 1957: Anatomy of a Nuclear Accident. London: Palgrave Macmillan 
 (2012)  My Short Century. Palo Alto, California: Cumnor Hill Books

Notes

References

External links
  Lorna Arnold web site Includes pictures from her memoir.
 
 

1915 births
2014 deaths
Alumni of Bedford College, London
Alumni of Hughes Hall, Cambridge
British people of World War II
British military historians
British women diplomats
British women historians
British diplomats
Fellows of the Institute of Physics
Historians of nuclear weapons
Officers of the Order of the British Empire
People associated with the nuclear weapons programme of the United Kingdom
People educated at Guildford High School