[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 114]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

wicked yourself, although you don't admire our nice, well-behaved,
average woman."

"Oh, the mere opposite of an error isn't always truth," said Hadria.

"The weather has run to your head!" cried Henriette.

Hadria's eyes kindled. "Yes, it is like wine; clear, intoxicating
sparkling wine, and its fumes are mounting! Why does civilisation never
provide for these moments?"

"What would you have? A modified feast of Dionysius?"

"Why not? The whole earth joins in the festival and sings, except
mankind. Some frolic of music and a stirring dance!--But ah! I suppose,
in this tamed England of ours, we should feel it artificial; we should
fear to let ourselves go. But in Greece--if we could fancy ourselves
there, shorn of our little local personalities--in some classic grove,
on sunlit slopes, all bubbling with the re-birth of flowers and alive
with the light, the broad all-flooding light of Greece that her children
dreaded to leave more than any other earthly thing, when death
threatened--could one not imagine the loveliness of some garlanded
dance, and fancy the naïads, and the dryads, and all the hosts of Pan
gambolling at one's heels?"

"Really, Mrs. Temperley, you were not born for an English village. I
should like Mrs. Walker to hear you!"

"Mrs. Walker knows better than to listen to me. She too hides somewhere,
deep down, a poor fettered thing that would gladly join the revel, if it
dared. We all do."

Lady Engleton dwelt joyously on the image of Mrs. Walker, cavorting,
garlanded, on a Greek slope, with the nymphs and water-sprites for
familiar company.

Lady Engleton had risen laughing, and proposed a stroll to Hadria.

Henriette, who did not like the tone the conversation was taking,
desired to join them.

"I never quite know how far you are serious, and how far you are just
amusing yourself, Hadria," said Lady Engleton. "Our talking of Greece
reminds me of some remark you made the other day, about Helen. You
seemed to me almost to sympathize with her."

Hadria's eyes seemed to be looking across miles of sea to the sunny
Grecian land.

"If a slave breaks his chains and runs, I am always glad," she said.

"I was talking about Helen."

"So was I. If a Spartan wife throws off her bondage and defies the laws
that insult her, I am still more glad."

"But not if she sins?" Henriette coughed, warningly.

"Yes; if she sins."

"Oh, Hadria," remonstrated Henriette, in despair.

"I don't see that it follows that Helen _did_ sin, however; one does not
know much about her sentiments. She revolted against the tyranny that
held her shut in, enslaved, body and soul, in that wonderful Greek world
of hers. I am charmed to think that she gave her countrymen so much
trouble to assert her husband's right of ownership. It was at _his_
door that the siege of Troy ought to be laid. I only wish elopements
always caused as much commotion!" Lady Engleton laughed, and Miss
Temperley tried to catch Hadria's eye.

"Well, that _is_ a strange idea! And do you really think Helen did not
sin? Seriously now."

"I don't know. There is no evidence on that point." Lady Engleton
laughed again.

"You do amuse me. Assuming that Helen did not sin, I suppose you would
(if only for the sake of paradox) accuse the virtuous Greek matrons--who
sat at home, and wove, and span, and bore children--of sinning against
the State!"

"Certainly," said Hadria, undismayed. "It was they who insidiously
prepared the doom for their country, as they wove and span and bore
children, with stupid docility. As surely as an enemy might undermine
the foundations of a city till it fell in with a crash, so surely they
brought ruin upon Greece."

"Oh, Hadria, you are quite beside yourself to-day!" cried Henriette.

"A love of paradox will lead you far!" said Lady Engleton. "We have
always been taught to think a nation sound and safe whose women were
docile and domestic."

"What nation, under those conditions, has ever failed to fall in with a
mighty crash, like my undermined city? Greece herself could not hold
out. Ah, yes; we have our revenge! a sweet, sweet revenge!"

Lady Engleton was looking much amused and a little dismayed, when she
and her companions rejoined the party.

"I never heard anyone say so many dreadful things in so short a space of
time," she cried. "You are distinctly shocking."

"I am frank," said Hadria. "I fancy we should all go about with our hair
permanently on end, if we spoke out in chorus."

"I don't quite like to hear you say that, Hadria."

"I mean no harm--merely that every one thinks thoughts and feels
impulses that would be startling if expressed in speech. Don't we all
know how terrifying a thing speech is, and thought? a chartered
libertine."

"Why, you are saying almost exactly what Professor Theobald said the
other day, and we were so shocked."

"And yet my meaning has scarcely any relation to his," Hadria hastened
to say