[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bone density

Bone density, or bone mineral density, is the amount of bone mineral in bone tissue. The concept is of mass of mineral per volume of bone (relating to density in the physics sense), although clinically it is measured by proxy according to optical density per square centimetre of bone surface upon imaging. Bone density measurement is used in clinical medicine as an indirect indicator of osteoporosis and fracture risk. It is measured by a procedure called densitometry, often performed in the radiology or nuclear medicine departments of hospitals or clinics. The measurement is painless and non-invasive and involves low radiation exposure. Measurements are most commonly made over the lumbar spine and over the upper part of the hip. The forearm may be scanned if the hip and lumbar spine are not accessible.

There is a statistical association between poor bone density and higher probability of fracture. Fractures of the legs and pelvis due to falls are a significant public health problem, especially in elderly women, leading to much medical cost, inability to live independently and even risk of death. Bone density measurements are used to screen people for osteoporosis risk and to identify those who might benefit from measures to improve bone strength.

Testing
A bone density test may detect osteoporosis or osteopenia. The usual response to either of these indications is consultation with a physician. Bone density tests are not recommended for people without risk factors for weak bones, which is more likely to result in unnecessary treatment rather than discovery of a true problem.

Indications for testing
The risk factors for low bone density and primary considerations for a bone density test include:

females age 65 or older.
males age 70 or older.
people over age 50 with:
previous bone fracture from minor trauma.
rheumatoid arthritis.
low body weight.
a parent with a hip fracture.
 individuals with vertebral abnormalities.
 individuals receiving, or planning to receive, long-term glucocorticoid (steroid) therapy.
 individuals with primary hyperparathyroidism.
 individuals being monitored to assess the response or efficacy of an approved osteoporosis drug therapy.
 when androgen deprivation therapy is being planned for prostate cancer.
 individuals with a history of eating disorders.

Other considerations that are related to risk of low bone density and the need for a test include smoking habits, drinking habits, the long-term use of corticosteroid drugs, and a vitamin D deficiency.

Test result terms
Results of the test are often reported in three terms:

 Measured areal density in g cm−2.
 Z-score: the number of standard deviations above or below the mean for the patient's age, sex and ethnicity.
 T-score: the number of standard deviations above or below the mean for a healthy 30-year-old adult of the same sex and ethnicity as the patient.

Types of tests

While there are many different types of bone mineral density tests, all are non-invasive.  Most tests differ according to which bones are measured to determine the test result.

These tests include:
Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA or DEXA)
Trabecular bone score
Dual X-ray Absorptiometry and Laser (DXL)
Quantitative computed tomography (QCT)
Quantitative ultrasound (QUS)
Single photon absorptiometry  (SPA)
Dual photon absorptiometry  (DPA)
Digital X-ray radiogrammetry (DXR)
Single energy X-ray absorptiometry (SEXA)

DXA is currently the most commonly used testing method. The DXA test works by measuring a specific bone or bones, usually the spine, hip, and wrist.  The density of these bones is then compared with an average index based on age, sex, and size.  The resulting comparison is used to determine the risk for fractures and the stage of osteoporosis (if any) in an individual.

Quantitative ultrasound (QUS) has been described as a more cost-effective approach for measuring bone density, as compared to DXA.

Average bone mineral density = BMC / W [g/cm2]
BMC = bone mineral content = g/cm
W = width at the scanned line

Interpretation
Results are generally scored by two measures, the T-score and the Z-score. Scores indicate the amount one's bone mineral density varies from the mean. Negative scores indicate lower bone density, and positive scores indicate higher.

Less than 0.5% of patients who underwent DXA-scanning were found to have a T- or Z-score of more than +4.0, often the cause of an unusually high bone mass (HBM) and associated with mild skeletal dysplasia and the inability to float in water.