[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Taliban insurgency

headquarters in the north of Kabul resulting in at least two deaths.
 July 9 – Seventeen people are killed by a roadside bomb.
 July 23 – A bomb kills eight people in Awardak Province, including three United States Army soldiers, four Afghan National Army soldiers and an Afghan interpreter.

August 

 August 3 – Nine children die in a suicide bombing near the Indian consulate in Jalalabad.
 August 5 – A bomb explodes at a market in Kandahar, killing at least four people.
 August 8 – A bomb explodes at a cemetery in Nangarhar Province, killing at least 14 people.
 August 11 – Three U.S. soldiers are killed in an attack in Paktia province.
 August 17–10 people are killed in a camp by insurgents in western Afghanistan.
 August 23 – A routine joint patrol composed of British paratroopers, US Marines and Afghan soldiers targeted a village to search for illegal weapons in Helmand Province. After insertion by a Chinook helicopter, the patrol was ambushed by the Taliban, the resulting skirmish lasted approximately 45 minutes which killed 11 insurgents and wounded four more, a US Marine officer was also wounded, one soldier was awarded the Victoria Cross.

September 

 September 8 – The Taliban kills four Afghan National Army troops in an attack on an intelligence office near Kabul.
 September 13 – Taliban insurgents attack the United States consulate in Herat, with two members of the Afghan National Police reported as killed and about 20 civilians injured.
 On 13 September, Taliban gunmen and bombers killed eight security guards and a policeman in Herat. All seven attackers were killed.

October 

 October 15 – A bomb in a mosque in Logar Province kills the governor Arsala Jamal and results in other injuries.
 October 27 – A roadside bomb in eastern Afghanistan kills 18 people.

November 

 November 16 – Suicide car bombing in Kabul kills six people and injures twenty.

December 

 December 23 – Captain Richard Holloway of the Special Boat Service was killed by Taliban gunfire whilst on a joint SBS-Afghan forces raid (with air support) on Taliban insurgents in a valley east of Kabul, ahead of the Afghanistan elections.
 December 27 – A suicide bomber attacks a foreign military convoy on the eastern outskirts of Kabul, killing at least three foreign soldiers, police and the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force.

2014

As the American troops began to depart, and the number of Taliban attacks increased, there was speculation that the Taliban were waiting for an American withdrawal before launching a major offensive.

Timeline

January

 January 6 – A suicide car bomber detonates at a police checkpoint in Ghazni Province, killing three police officers.
 January 8 – A book released by former U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates criticizes President Barack Obama for his handling of the War in Afghanistan.
 January 9 – The government of Afghanistan announces the release of 72 Taliban fighters from jails, despite American objections that they pose a security threat.
 January 11 – A four-year-old Afghan boy is killed by U.S. troops.
 January 17 – Twenty-one people are killed in a suicide bombing attack on a Kabul restaurant.
 January 26 – A suicide bomber attacks an army bus in Kabul, killing two soldiers and two civilians.

February 

 February 10 – A car bomb detonates in Kabul, killing two contractors working with ISAF.
 February 18 – A suicide bombing attack in Kabul kills at least two people.
 February 24 – Senior Taliban commander Asmatullah Shaheen Bhittani is killed in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

March 

 March 11 – Gunmen in Kabul kill Swedish Radio foreign correspondent Nils Horner.
 March 12 – Three Taliban insurgents are killed by a team of Afghan police and private commandos after attacking a former National Directorate of Security headquarters in Kandahar. The Taliban claims they killed four commandos and five policemen, which police deny.
 March 18 – A suicide rickshaw bomber detonates in a marketplace in Maymana, killing 15 people and wounding dozens.
 March 20 –
 Four suspected Taliban members attack the luxurious Kabul Serena Hotel, killing at least nine people, including four foreigners.
 Suicide bombers attack a police station in the city of Jalalabad resulting in at least 11 deaths and 22 people being injured.

April 

 April 2 – A suicide bomber wearing a military uniform strikes a voter registration office in Kabul, killing six police officers.
 April 4 – Two members of the Associated Press are shot by an Afghan wearing a police uniform in Khost. One of them, Pulitzer Prize winner and photojournalist Anja Niedringhaus, is killed. The other is seriously injured.

May 

 May 8 – A roadside bomb near the Afghan border in North Waziristan, Pakistan, kills eight Pakistani soldiers.
 May 21 – The Taliban launch attacks in Badakhshan and Laghman provinces, killing 10 policemen and three civilians.
 May 23 – Gunmen attack the Indian consulate in Herat Province.

June