[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rob Wolleaston

h.

Manager Rob Newman rewarded Wolleaston's good form by offering him a new contract to stay with Cambridge for the 2006–07 season. Wolleaston scored only one goal during his second season, in 35 league games for Cambridge, as they finished in 18th place, just four points above the relegation zone.

He was rewarded with another one-year deal by new manager Jimmy Quinn, who called him "as good a midfielder as you'll see in this division." Wolleaston showed his best goal-scoring form during the 2007–08, recording five goals during the league campaign. His goals helped Cambridge to two five-goal defeats of first Farsley Celtic, then Droylsden. He played 44 league games during the season to help Cambridge both to the third round of the FA Cup, where they lost to Wolverhampton Wanderers, and the play-offs of the Conference National. The first leg of the semi-final against Burton Albion ended in a 2–2 draw, before Wolleaston scored twice in the second leg to help Cambridge to a 2–1 victory, and a 4–3 win on aggregate. Cambridge faced fellow league-side Exeter City in the final, but were unable to win promotion back into The Football League, falling to a 1–0 defeat at Wembley Stadium. Despite signing a contract with Cambridge in January 2008 keeping him at the club until 2010, Wolleaston signed for Conference rivals Rushden & Diamonds for an undisclosed fee on 2 June 2008, with Cambridge manager insisting finances would be tight following a series of departures. Wolleaston had played 92 league games for Cambridge, scoring nine goals.

Rushden & Diamonds
Wolleaston made his debut for Rushden in a 1–0 victory against newly promoted Eastbourne Borough on the opening day of the 2008–09 season. His first goal for his new club came in his ninth game, on 20 September 2008, to help Rushden defeat Burton 2–1. Wolleaston's second goal for Rushden was the sixth of a 9–0 victory against Weymouth, who had been forced to field a youth team because of the club's financial problems which lead to the first team going unpaid for two months. The scoreline was Rushden's record-breaking victory. Wolleaston spent much of his final season with Rushden on the sidelines with a knee and calf injuries.

Farnborough
Wolleaston moved onto Farnborough on a month-by-month contract, but left in September 2010.

Weymouth
Along with Courtney Pitt, Wolleaston signed for Southern League Premier Division side Weymouth in September 2010 on a non-contract basis. He made his debut against league leaders Cambridge City on 18 September, with his new side losing 3–0. Both he and Pitt were reported to have made "polished displays in midfield". Wolleaston was rewarded with a contract keeping him at Weymouth until May 2012. Wolleaston was released by Weymouth on 5 September 2011, joining Harrow Borough soon after. In total, Wolleaston played 27 times in the league for Weymouth, netting four goals.

Harrow Borough
Having joined Harrow Borough in September 2011, Wolleaston became an integral part of the side making over 100 appearances in all competitions (98 in the league up to the end of the 2013–14 season). Wolleaston left Harrow Borough in the summer of 2014.

Personal life
Wolleaston has two sons and a daughter. Mason, Bay and Freya

References

External links

1979 births
Living people
People from Perivale
Footballers from the London Borough of Ealing
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Cambridge United F.C. players
Chelsea F.C. players
Bristol Rovers F.C. players
Nottingham Forest F.C. players
Portsmouth F.C. players
Northampton Town F.C. players
Bradford City A.F.C. players
Oxford United F.C. players
Rushden & Diamonds F.C. players
Farnborough F.C. players
Weymouth F.C. players
Harrow Borough F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Southern Football League players
Isthmian League players