[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys

arriage/Union
 Sexual Behaviour
 HIV/AIDS
 Circumcision
 Tobacco and Alcohol Use
 Life Satisfaction

Questionnaire for Children Age 5-17
 Child's Information Panel
 Child's Background
 Child Labour
 Child Discipline
 Child Functioning
 Parental Involvement
 Foundational Learning Skills

Other tools 

The MICS package also includes data entry program (in CSPro) catering for paper-based or tablet-based data collection, standard tabulation plan (in Excel) and syntax (in SPSS), workshop training programmes, in-country capacity building and technical assistance, data dissemination templates, as well as various online resources, such as a survey data compiler (MICS Compiler).

The tools are all compiled on the MICS website, which was launched in an modernized format in March, 2015.

Current status 

The 6th round of MICS commenced in October 2016 with the initiation of the Programme's Survey Design Workshops and was scheduled to run to 2021 (this has since been extended to 2022, mainly due to COVID-19 related delays of face-to-face surveys). The content is expanded to cover new priorities, including adjustments to cover approximately half of the survey-based SDG indicators (about 40 of about 80).

The 6th round's tools were piloted in Costa Rica in mid-2016, and was preceded by a field test of new or refined questionnaire modules and tools for data collection and processing in Belize end of 2015. In November 2017 additional questionnaire modules were tested in Malawi. A similar exercise was conducted in Belize in April 2019.

The MICS Programme is participating in the methodological development of new data collection tools, such as on water quality testing, child disability, external economic support, and impact of emergencies. A methodological paper series was launched in 2012.

The programme has been evaluated following rounds 1, 3, and 4.

Funding

The total cost for MICS3 was about $18.6 million (and about $356,000 per country) according to a 2008 MICS evaluation.

MICS4 was estimated to cost $31.3 million.

Countries 
The countries listed below have conducted (or plan to conduct) a MICS survey. Reports and data are available on the MICS website.

X: National Survey
S: Sub-national Survey

Note: Only countries from UNICEF's official list are included. It appears that some surveys are based on the MICS tools, but not included in the list, e.g. Botswana 2007-08 Family Health Survey and Bangladesh 2009 Progotir Pathey (MICS).

The total number of countries having ever conducted a MICS (or plan to do so) is 119. This includes Yugoslavia, which at the time of MICS1 and MICS2 was the territory now split into Kosovo, Montenegro, and Serbia. In MICS5, five countries were new to the programme: Benin, Congo, El Salvador, Mexico, and Paraguay. In MICS6, eight additional countries have conducted or are planning surveys: The Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Honduras, Kiribati, Nauru, Samoa, Tonga and Tuvalu, as well as the British Overseas Territory of Turks and Caicos Islands.

Use of survey data
Survey data are widely used, predominantly in multi-country analyses, but also often for simple trend analyses in single countries. An example of use of MICS data is provided by Monasch et al. (2004).

Due to the near perfect comparability between MICS and DHS, much analysis draws on multiple data sets of both programmes. However, each survey programme have modules specific to their mandates and not often used in both programmes. For example, a recent compilation of evidence on child discipline makes use of surveys that included the Child Discipline Module; these were all MICS.

Most global statistics, such as on the indicators of the MDGs rely heavily on data collected through MICS (and other household surveys), particularly for countries where administrative reporting systems are not entirely adequate. Other global statistics rely on only household survey data, such as the Multidimensional Poverty Index developed by OPHI and reported by UNDP.

Examples of recent publications are listed under external links.

References

External links

Recent examples of use of MICS data 
 Takeuchi, LR (2015), "Intra-household inequalities in child rights and wellbeing: a barrier to progress?". ODI Development Progress, Research Report 02, March 2015
 Arabi, M., Frongillo, E. A., Avula, R. and Mangasaryan, N. (2012), "Infant and Young Child Feeding in Developing Countries". Child Development, 83: 32–45.
 Sipsma et al. (2012), "Female genital cutting: current practices and beliefs in western Africa". Bull World Health Organ 2012;90:120–127F
 Cappa, C. and Khan, SM (2011), "Understanding caregivers’ attitudes towards physical punishment of children: Evidence from 34 low- and middle-income countries". Child Abuse & Neglect. Volume 35, Issue 12, December 2011, Pages 1009–1021