[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# May 1965

ventilation control module, the extravehicular umbilical assembly, and the hand-held maneuvering unit, had been qualified. The flight hardware was at the launch site ready for flight at the end of May.
Died: Tu'i Malila, 188, a tortoise that Captain Cook had given to the Tongan royal family in 1777.

May 20, 1965 (Thursday)
Pakistan International Airlines Flight 705, a Boeing 720 airliner with 127 people on board, crashed in a desert area in Egypt as it was approaching the Cairo airport on arrival from Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.  All 13 members of the crew and 121 of the passengers were killed when the plane came in too low during its approach, and impacted about six miles south of Cairo.  The plane was making the inaugural flight in PIA's new service from Karachi to London, and nearly all of the victims had been invited as guests, including 21 members of the Pakistani press who were assigned to cover the story.
The De Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otter made its first flight.

May 21, 1965 (Friday)
The largest ever teach-in began at Berkeley, California, attended by 30,000 people who gathered at the University of California campus for "Vietnam Day".  "This brilliantly provocative event”, an historian would observe later, "organized by the Vietnam Day Committee (VDC), a collection of students and protesters disenchanted with liberal America and frightened by the South-East Asian conflict, stunned the University authorities and caused concern in Washington."
Pitcher Ron Herbel of the San Francisco Giants, described by one author as the player who "deserved to be the poster child for the designated hitter rule", got his first hit in a major league baseball game, after going hitless in his first 54 at bats.  Herbel, who pitched the Giants to an 8–1 win over the Houston Astros, was playing his first indoor game, at the Astrodome.  He would finish his career in 1971 with the lowest batting average (.029) of any career major leaguer, as well as a career ERA of 3.83.

May 22, 1965 (Saturday)
The new sport of skateboarding received its first wide recognition as the First Annual National Skateboard Championships were conducted, in Anaheim, California, and videotaped for nationwide broadcast on ABC's Wide World of Sports the following Saturday.  The two-day event, which attracted contestants "from as far away as Japan, Mexico, New York, Texas and Washington" featured a downhill and a flatland slalom, trick performances, and a figure-eight skating event, and took place at La Palma Stadium in Anaheim.
Died: 
Christopher Stone, 72, British broadcaster who, in 1927, became the first disc jockey when he hosted a program for BBC radio for introducing and playing songs on the air.
Frans-Henri van den Dungen, 66, Belgian physicist and co-author, in 1926, with Ernest De Donder, of findings that "the gravitational interaction in general relativity might be described by an integral equation of the Fredholm type (in a generalized space due to the number of degrees of freedom of the system of particles considered), whose solution seemed to imply a periodic phenomenon that exhibited similarity to the undulatory behaviour of microscopic particles in Schrödinger's wave mechanics."