[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 262]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

to Stone him; but still the hand of the Witnesse throweth
the first stone. This is not Private Zeal, but Publique Condemnation. In
like manner when a Father hath a rebellious Son, the Law is (Deut. 21.
18.) that he shall bring him before the Judges of the Town, and all the
people of the Town shall Stone him. Lastly, by pretence of these Laws
it was, that St. Steven was Stoned, and not by pretence of Private Zeal:
for before hee was carried away to Execution, he had Pleaded his Cause
before the High Priest. There is nothing in all this, nor in any other
part of the Bible, to countenance Executions by Private Zeal; which
being oftentimes but a conjunction of Ignorance and Passion, is against
both the Justice and Peace of a Common-wealth.

In the 36th Chapter I have said, that it is not declared in what
manner God spake supernaturally to Moses: Not that he spake not to him
sometimes by Dreams and Visions, and by a supernaturall Voice, as
to other Prophets: For the manner how he spake unto him from the
Mercy-seat, is expressely set down (Numbers 7.89.) in these words,
"From that time forward, when Moses entred into the Tabernacle of the
Congregation to speak with God, he heard a Voice which spake unto him
from over the Mercy-Seate, which is over the Arke of the Testimony, from
between the Cherubins he spake unto him." But it is not declared in
what consisted the praeeminence of the manner of Gods speaking to Moses,
above that of his speaking to other Prophets, as to Samuel, and to
Abraham, to whom he also spake by a Voice, (that is, by Vision) Unlesse
the difference consist in the cleernesse of the Vision. For Face
to Face, and Mouth to Mouth, cannot be literally understood of the
Infinitenesse, and Incomprehensibility of the Divine Nature.

And as to the whole Doctrine, I see not yet, but the principles of
it are true and proper; and the Ratiocination solid. For I ground the
Civill Right of Soveraigns, and both the Duty and Liberty of Subjects,
upon the known naturall Inclinations of Mankind, and upon the Articles
of the Law of Nature; of which no man, that pretends but reason enough
to govern his private family, ought to be ignorant. And for the Power
Ecclesiasticall of the same Soveraigns, I ground it on such Texts, as
are both evident in themselves, and consonant to the Scope of the whole
Scripture. And therefore am perswaded, that he that shall read it with
a purpose onely to be informed, shall be informed by it. But for those
that by Writing, or Publique Discourse, or by their eminent actions,
have already engaged themselves to the maintaining of contrary opinions,
they will not bee so easily satisfied. For in such cases, it is naturall
for men, at one and the same time, both to proceed in reading, and to
lose their attention, in the search of objections to that they had read
before: Of which, in a time wherein the interests of men are changed
(seeing much of that Doctrine, which serveth to the establishing of a
new Government, must needs be contrary to that which conduced to the
dissolution of the old,) there cannot choose but be very many.

In that part which treateth of a Christian Common-wealth, there are
some new Doctrines, which, it may be, in a State where the contrary were
already fully determined, were a fault for a Subject without leave to
divulge, as being an usurpation of the place of a Teacher. But in this
time, that men call not onely for Peace, but also for Truth, to offer
such Doctrines as I think True, and that manifestly tend to Peace and
Loyalty, to the consideration of those that are yet in deliberation, is
no more, but to offer New Wine, to bee put into New Cask, that bothe may
be preserved together. And I suppose, that then, when Novelty can breed
no trouble, nor disorder in a State, men are not generally so much
inclined to the reverence of Antiquity, as to preferre Ancient Errors,
before New and well proved Truth.

There is nothing I distrust more than my Elocution; which neverthelesse
I am confident (excepting the Mischances of the Presse) is not obscure.
That I have neglected the Ornament of quoting ancient Poets, Orators,
and Philosophers, contrary to the custome of late time, (whether I have
done well or ill in it,) proceedeth from my judgment, grounded on many
reasons. For first, all Truth of Doctrine dependeth either upon Reason,
or upon Scripture; both which give credit to many, but never receive it
from any Writer. Secondly, the matters in question are not of Fact, but
of Right, wherein there is no place for Witnesses. There is scarce any
of those old Writers, that contradicteth not sometimes both himself,
and others; which makes their Testimonies insufficient. Fourthly,
such Opinions as are taken onely upon Credit of Antiquity, are not
intrinsically the Judgment of those that cite them, but Words that
passe (like gaping) from mouth to mouth. Fiftly, it is many times with a
fraudulent Designe that m