[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bowes Castle

under the custody of Vieuxpont. Henry III granted it briefly to William de Blockley and Gilbert de Kirketon, until it was given to Duke Peter of Brittany in 1232, and then to William de Valence. In 1241 Peter II, the Count of Savoy was made the Earl of Richmond and was then given Bowes by the king.

The castle remained in the hands of the Earls of Richmond until 1322, by when it was in a poor state of repair. Edward II then gave Bowes Castle to John de Scargill instead; the local tenants of the Earl of Richmond rebelled and attacked the castle. The lord of the castle was away at the time, and the attackers burnt part of a hall, drank four tuns of wine and stole armour, springalds and other goods. Conflict with Scotland led to further raids against the castle and the surrounding manor; the neighbouring fields were abandoned as a result and by 1340 the castle was in ruins and the manor worth nothing.

Later history 
Still ruined, Bowes Castle was reclaimed by the Crown in 1361; between 1444 and 1471 it was controlled by the Neville family, powerful regional landowners, before reverting to the Crown once again. James I sold the castle in the early 17th century and most of the remaining fortifications were dismantled in the mid-17th century after the English Civil War. By 1928, the castle was in a poor condition, with little interest being shown in it from locals or its owner, Lady Lorna Curzon-Howe. Facing death duties on her estate, Curzon-Howe agreed to pass the castle into the care of the Office of Works in 1931.

In the 21st century, the castle is controlled by English Heritage and operated as a tourist attraction. The ruins of the keep survive, largely intact, and are protected as a Grade I listed building and as a scheduled monument.

See also 
Castles in Great Britain and Ireland
List of castles in England

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links 

Bowes Castle, English Heritage

Castles in County Durham
English Heritage sites in County Durham
Ruins in County Durham
Scheduled monuments in County Durham
Grade I listed buildings in County Durham
Bowes