[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of Leon County, Florida

northeastern Leon County.

Territorial Florida
See also History of Tallahassee, Florida

In 1821, Florida became a territory of the United States. Both St. Augustine and Pensacola competed to become the capital city. Legislators alternated sessions. Travel was hazardous and took almost twenty days.

General Andrew Jackson served as military governor of the newly acquired territory and appointed two commissioners to find a suitable new location for the state capitol. One rode on horseback from St. Augustine and the other sailed by boat from Pensacola. They met at the port of St. Marks, Florida, about  south of present-day Tallahassee, halfway between St. Augustine and Pensacola. They discovered a place north of St. Marks. They reported, “A more beautiful country can scarcely be managed;Imagined? it is high, rolling, and well watered, the richness of the soil renders it perfectly adapted to farming."

On March 30, 1822, the United States merged East Florida and part of West Florida into the Florida Territory. Originally part of Escambia and later Gadsden County, Leon County was created in 1824. It was named for the Juan Ponce de León, Spanish explorer who was the first European to reach Florida.

Territorial Governors from Leon County
Richard Keith Call served from 1836 to 1839 and 1841 to 1844. Though not a native, Call came to Florida in 1814 and was a land owner in Leon County as early as the 1820s. He established Orchard Pond Plantation and The Grove Plantation.
John Branch served from 1844 to 1845. Also not a native, Branch moved to Leon County in the 1830s purchasing land on which he would establish Live Oak Plantation.
 See also List of governors of Florida

The Plantations of Leon County

Leon County in the 1820s and 1830s was the destination of a number of northern planters. Besides the aforementioned R.K. Call and John Branch, names such as Francis W. Eppes, William Bailey, the Chaires brothers, the Bradford brothers, George Taliaferro Ward, and many others began large cotton plantations in Leon County. At the center of what was then called Middle Florida, there was much less population than in East Florida and West Florida, and no problem with the memories of the more lenient treatment of slaves under Spain. Building a plantation, slave-based economy in Middle Florida was much easier.

Second Seminole War
The Second Seminole War of 1835-1842 touched Leon County as it would most of Florida when family members and slaves of Green A. Chaires were massacred on his first plantation on Lake Lafayette.

In 1837, the Tallahassee Railroad was completed linking Tallahassee to the Gulf port of St. Marks to the south.

Forts of Leon County
During the Seminole Wars, 5 forts were constructed for the protection of settlers.
1839-1842 - Ft. Braden was named after the commander's wife who died of yellow fever. Fort Braden was located on the Ochlockonee River.
1840 - Fort Harriet near the head of the Sopchoppy River,  northwest of St. Marks.
1839-1842 - Fort Macomb or Fort Number One M was located  north of St. Marks.
1839 - Fort Number Two (M) was located on the St. Marks River just south of the unincorporated area of Rose, Florida.
1839 - Fort St. Augustine was located  northeast of Fort Macomb.

Early Statehood
On March 3, 1845, Florida joined the Union as the 27th state and Leon County became the capital county of Florida.

Antebellum

From 1850 to 1865, Leon County was the wealthiest county in Florida, a "cotton kingdom"; it ranked 5th out of all of Florida and Georgia counties in the production of cotton from the 20 major plantations growing 200 bales or more. Another source states that Leon County led the state in cotton production. In the 1840, 1850, and 1860 censuses, Leon County had the highest population in Florida, followed by adjacent Gadsden, Jefferson, and Madison counties; this was documented slightly earlier, in the Florida Constitution of 1838, which gave Leon County 6 electors, more than any other county. (Adjacent Gadsden County was second, with 4.)

Leon County's population in 1860 was 73% African American, almost all of them slaves. (Starting in 1861, all free blacks had to register with the county and pay $1 for a permit; each required a local white sponsor, who could be sued for actions of the negro, as negroes could not be sued.) As was true elsewhere in the South, the value of those slaves far exceeded the value of all the land in the county. Leon County had more slaves than any other county in Florida, and therefore it was the wealthiest county in Florida. Leon County was the center of the slave trade in Florida.

1860s