[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Subic Bay

people. The term "Pamulaklakin" derives from a word for an herbal vine in the native Ambala language.

Shipwrecks of Subic Bay
The majority of the wrecks in Subic Bay are a result of either the Spanish–American War in 1898 or of World War II, when American aircraft sank a number of Japanese vessels.

 El Capitan (former USS Majaba) was a freighter of nearly 3,000 tons just under  long. In 1946, she sank in Subic Bay where she rests on a sloping bottom.
 Hell ship Oryoku Maru: On 15 December 1944, she had 1,619 American, British and Czech prisoners of war on board when she was sunk under heavy bombardment by American fighters while on her way from Subic Bay to Japan. She was less than half a kilometer off the Alava Pier when attacked. About 300 prisoners died during the short voyage from Manila and during the attack.
 Seian Maru: During an air raid on Subic Bay, the 3,712-ton freighter Seian Maru was bombed and sunk. This was only four days after the sinking of Oryoku Maru on 19 December 1944.
 Landing Ship, Tank LST-559: She was scuttled in the middle of Subic Bay between the runway's southern tip and Grande Island.
 The old , which had been renamed USS Rochester in 1917. At the onset of the Japanese invasion of the Philippines, this ship was acting as a floating workshop and storehouse. The decommissioned cruiser's armored hull was considered too valuable to allow Japanese forces to capture it, so American forces scuttled the ship in December 1941.
 San Quentin: During the Spanish–American War in 1898, the Spanish scuttled their San Quintín (now often called San Quentin) in hopes of blocking the passage between Grande Island and Chiquita Islands near the mouth of Subic Bay.
USS Lanikai, a schooner-rigged diesel powered yacht that served in the U.S. Navy during both World War I and World War II before being transferred to the Royal Australian Navy.
Japanese auxiliary minesweeper Banshu Maru No. 52
Japanese subchaser Kyo Maru No. 11
Unidentified Japanese patrol boat: although some sources identify this wreck as the Japanese converted gunboat Aso Maru, Japanese and American naval sources indicate that the Aso Maru was torpedoed and sunk on 9 May 1943 by the US submarine USS Gar off Negros Island's south-west coast.
The USS Frank E. Evans was decommissioned at Subic Bay and stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 1 July 1969 after a collision with HMAS Melbourne. The stern section was sunk as a target in Subic Bay on 10 October 1969.

See also
Port of Subic
Subic Bay International Airport
Subic, Zambales

References

External links

The Official Tourism Website for Subic Bay, contains visitor and accommodation information (Authorized by SBMA)
Official website of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (Govt)
News Source

 
Bays of the Philippines
Landforms of Zambales
Landforms of Bataan
Underwater diving sites in the Philippines
Olongapo
Subic Special Economic and Freeport Zone