[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nuclear power in Japan

pending with an estimated 12 units to come back in service by 2025 and 18 by 2030.

The total cost of implementing safety measures, maintaining facilities, and decommissioning of commercially operated nuclear power plants in Japan is estimated at ¥13.46 trillion ($123 billion).

History

Early years

Overcoming popular resistance
In 1954, the Operations Coordinating Board of the United States National Security Council proposed that the U.S. government undertake a "vigorous offensive" urging nuclear energy for Japan in order to overcome the widespread reluctance of the Japanese population to build nuclear reactors in the country. Thirty-two million Japanese people, a third of the Japanese population, signed a petition calling for banning hydrogen bombs. Journalist and author Foster Hailey wrote an op-ed piece published in The Washington Post where he called for adopting a proposal to build nuclear reactors in Japan, stating his opinion that: "Many Americans are now aware...that the dropping of the atomic bombs on Japan was not necessary. How better to make a contribution to amends than by offering Japan...atomic energy." For several years starting in 1954, the United States Central Intelligence Agency and other U.S. government agencies ran a propaganda war targeting the Japanese population to vanquish the Japanese people's opposition to nuclear power.

In 1954, Japan budgeted 230 million yen for nuclear energy, marking the beginning of Japan's nuclear program. The Atomic Energy Basic Law limited activities to only peaceful purposes.  The first nuclear power plant in Japan, the Tōkai Nuclear Power Plant, was built by the UK's GEC and was commissioned in 1966.

Light water reactors
In the 1970s, the first light water reactors were built in cooperation with American companies. These plants were bought from U.S. vendors such as General Electric and Westinghouse with contractual work done by Japanese companies, who would later get a license themselves to build similar plant designs. Developments in nuclear power since that time have seen contributions from Japanese companies and research institutes on the same level as the other big users of nuclear power. From the early 1970s to the present, the Japanese government promoted the siting of nuclear power plants through a variety of policy instruments involving soft social control and financial incentives. By offering large subsidies and public works projects to rural communities and by using educational trips, junkets for local government officials, and OpEds written as news by pro-nuclear supporters, the central government won over the support of depopulating, hard-on-their-luck coastal towns, and villages.

Later years

Japan's nuclear industry was not hit as hard by the effects of the Three Mile Island accident (TMI) or the Chernobyl disaster as some other countries. 
Construction of new plants continued to be strong through the 1980s, 1990s, and up to the present day. 
While many new plants had been proposed, all were subsequently canceled or never brought past initial planning. 
Cancelled plant orders include:
 The Hōhoku Nuclear Power Plant at Hōhoku, Yamaguchi1994
 The Kushima Nuclear Power Plant at Kushima, Miyazaki1997
 The Ashihama Nuclear Power Plant at Ashihama, Mie2000 (the first Project at the site in the 1970s was completed at Hamaoka as Unit 1&2)
 The Maki Nuclear Power Plant at Maki, Niigata (Kambara)Canceled in 2003
 The Suzu Nuclear Power Plant at Suzu, Ishikawa2003

However, starting in the mid-1990s there were several nuclear-related accidents and cover-ups in Japan that eroded public perception of the industry, resulting in protests and resistance to new plants. 
These accidents included the Tokaimura nuclear accident, the Mihama steam explosion, cover-ups after an accident at the Monju reactor, among others, more recently the Chūetsu offshore earthquake aftermath. 
While exact details may be in dispute, it is clear that the safety culture in Japan's nuclear industry has come under greater scrutiny.

2000s