[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Andrew Moravcsik

Andrew Maitland Moravcsik (born 1957) is professor of politics and international affairs, director of the Liechtenstein Institute on Self-Determination, and founding director of both the European Union Program and the International Relations Faculty Colloquium at Princeton University. He holds a lifetime appointment as distinguished affiliated professor at the Technische Universität München, in Munich, Germany, where he is affiliated with its Hochschule für Politik.

Moravcsik is known for his academic research and policy writing on European integration, international organizations, human rights, qualitative/historical methods, and American and European foreign policy, for developing the theory of liberal intergovernmentalism to explain European Union (EU) politics, and for his work on liberal theories of international relations. He is also active in teaching and developing qualitative methods, including the development of "active citation": a standard designed to render qualitative social science research transparent. 

Moravcsik is also a former policy-maker who currently serves as book review editor (Europe) of Foreign Affairs magazine. He was previously nonresident senior fellow of The Brookings Institution, contributing editor of Newsweek magazine and held other journalistic positions.

Academic career

Academic positions
In 1992 Moravcsik began teaching at Harvard University's Department of Government. During his 12-year tenure in the department, Moravcsik became a full professor and founded Harvard's European Union program. He left the school in 2004 to assume a post at Princeton University, where he again founded an EU program. As of 2019, he directs the Liechtenstein Institute on Self-Determination at Princeton University, a research institute that focuses on questions of globalization, sovereignty and self-determination, with special attention to Europe, the European Union, and Eurasia. He has also been affiliated with the University of Chicago, Columbia University, New York University, and the University of Pennsylvania, as well as various French, British, German, Italian and Chinese research institutes.

During the academic year 2007–2008 he was affiliated with the Shanghai Institute for International Studies. During the academic year 2011–2012, he was visiting fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey. In the 2015-2016 year, he was senior fellow at the German Marshall Fund in Washington, DC. Also, during the 2019-2020 year, he was distinguished fellow at Perry World House, University of Pennsylvania.

Academic publications
With nearly 40,000 academic citations, Moravcsik is the most cited US-based political scientist of his cohort. These writings include one book, titled The Choice for Europe: Social Purpose and State Power from Messina to Maastricht, three edited volumes, and over 150 academic book chapters, journal articles, and reviews. The book, which the American Historical Review called "the most important work in the field" of modern European studies, attempts to explain why the member states of the European Union agreed to cede sovereignty to a supranational entity. 

Moravcsik's "liberal intergovernmentalist" theory of European integration is widely regarded as a plausible account of the emergence and evolution of the European Union. It stresses the issue-specific functional national interests of member states and goes on to analyze the interstate bargains they strike among themselves and the rational incentive to construct institutions to render enforcement and elaboration of those bargains credible. Quantitative studies of research citations in EU studies conclude that liberal intergovernmentalism currently serves as the "baseline" academic theory of European integration, that is, it is the theory that most often confirmed and taken as a baseline for further extensions or for identification of anomalies.  A recent restatement of liberal intergovernmentalism, published in 2018, elaborates a future research agenda.

Regarding international relations theory more generally, Moravcsik adheres to "liberal" theory in the sense that he seeks to explain state behavior with reference to variation in the underlying social purposes (substantive "preferences" or "fundamental national interests," material or ideational) that states derive from their embeddedness in an interdependent domestic and transnational civil society. In contrast to realist, institutionalist, and various types of "constructivist" or "non-rational" theory, liberal theory privileges and directly theorizes social interdependence and globalization as the dominant force in world politics, past and present. Liberal theory, Moravcsik maintains, is not empirically sufficient to explain all of international relations, but it is analytically more fundamental than other types of international relations theory.