[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of S.H.I.E.L.D. members

the ability to generate seismic vibrations. Leader of the Secret Warriors. Former executive director of S.H.I.E.L.D.
 Alphonso "Mack" Mackenzie – Mechanic and field agent; founding member of the "Real S.H.I.E.L.D." and new executive director of S.H.I.E.L.D. handpicked by Daisy after Coulson retired.

Notable agents
 Agent 60 – In contact with Coulson's team.
 Barbour – Stationed at the Hub.
 Baylin – Stationed at the Hub.
 Tomas Calderon – Member of the "Real S.H.I.E.L.D."
 Goodman – Doctor; participated in experiments on GH-325 and in Phil Coulson's resurrection.
 Billy Koenig – Stationed at secret base Playground.
 Sam Koenig – Stationed at secret base Playground.
 Jazuat – Doctor; stationed at S.H.I.E.L.D. Trauma Zentrum in Zurich, Switzerland.
 Jones – Stationed at the Hub.
 Mack – Undercover trucker.
 Mike Peterson / Deathlok – Former test subject for Project Centipede and slave of John Garrett and Hydra. Now a member of S.H.I.E.L.D.
 Elena "Yo–Yo" Rodriguez – Inhuman field agent with ability to move at super speed for the duration of one heartbeat before returning to her starting point. Member of the Secret Warriors.
 Katherine Shane – Undercover specialist.
 Shade – Stationed at the Hub.
 Shaw – Undercover specialist; stationed at the Hub.
 Streiten – Doctor; participated in Phil Coulson's resurrection.
 Tyler – Mechanic aboard helicarrier; later field agent.
 Anne Weaver – Director of the S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy of Science and Technology; member of the "Real S.H.I.E.L.D."

Former agents
 Akela Amador – Undercover operative prior to being kidnapped by Project Centipede/Hydra organization. Freed from their control by Phil Coulson's group. Incarcerated.
 Linda Avery – Field agent who discovered Skye as an infant. Deceased.
 Clint Barton / Hawkeye – Assassin and skilled marksman with an exceptional ability in archery; founding member of the Avengers. Level 7 Security Clearance. 
 Laura Barton – Espionage agent. 
 Felix Blake – Espionage agent; went rogue after S.H.I.E.L.D.'s collapse and joined the Watchdogs. Status Unknown.
 Roger Browning – Stationed at a S.H.I.E.L.D. containment facility; went freelance after S.H.I.E.L.D.'s fall; killed by Carl Creel while trying to sell classified information.
 Lincoln Campbell – Inhuman doctor and field agent with ability to generate electrical charges; member of the Secret Warriors. Deceased.
 Mitchell Carson – Former Head of Defense at S.H.I.E.L.D.; now a member of Hydra.
 Sharon Carter / Agent 13 – Espionage agent; now a member of the CIA.
 Chaimson – Stationed at the Hub. Deceased.
 Sebastian Derik – Assassin; test subject for GH-325; arrested after killing other GH-325 test subjects.
 Leopold "Leo" Fitz – Weapons, gadgets, and cutting-edge technology, Level 5 Clearance; Engineer
 Bill Foster – Scientist; fired by Hank Pym.
 John Garrett – Field operative; Hydra double agent known as the "Clairvoyant"; prototype Deathlok. Deceased.
 Robert Gonzales – An elderly high-ranking S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent, tactician, commander of the Iliad, and founder of the "Real S.H.I.E.L.D."; Deceased.
 Franklin Hall – Former S.H.I.E.L.D. instructor; discovered gravitonium.
 Joey Gutierrez – Inhuman construction worker and field agent with ability to manipulate metal objects; member of the Secret Warriors.
 Victoria Hand – Director of the Hub. Deceased.
 Isabelle "Izzy" Hartley – Undercover specialist; member of "Real" S.H.I.E.L.D. Deceased.
 Hauer – Hydra double agent in 1989; freed Werner Reinhardt from custody.
 Lance Hunter – Decorated former member of SAS who joined his old friend Agent Hartley in doing mercenary work for Coulson's reconstituted S.H.I.E.L.D.; formally joined S.H.I.E.L.D. after avenging Hartley's death. Disavowed status.
 Kaminsky – Helicopter pilot; Hydra double agent. Presumed deceased after being buried in a collapsing Hydra base by May.
 Cameron Klein / Hank Thompson – Field agent; test subject for GH-325; had memories erased and retired to civilian life.
 Eric Koenig – Communications agent; stationed at hidden base Providence. Deceased.
 Jacobson – Stationed at the Hub. Deceased.
 Richard Lumley – Field agent who discovered Skye as an infant; faked death and went off the grid.
 Melinda May – Ace pilot and weapons expert, Level 7 Security Clearance, a.k.a. "the Cavalry".; Retired. Administrator
 Barbara "Bobbi" Morse – Espionage agent; founding member of the "Real S.H.I.E.L.D."; a.k.a. Mockingbird. Disavowed status.
 Oliver – Member of the "Real S.H.I.E.L.D." Deceased.
 Kara Lynn Palamas / Agent 33 – Espionage agent; brainwashed by Daniel Whitehall. Deceased.
 Benjamin "Benny" Pollack – Bank robber recruited into S.H.I.E.L.D. R&D Think Tank. Whereabouts unknown.
 Prescod — Field agent who uncovers the Skrulls' invasion. Deceased.
 Hank Pym / Ant-Man – Scientist and field operative.
 Quan Chen – Field agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. Deceased.
 Jack Rollins – Member of S.T.R.I.K.E.; Hydra double agent. Whereabouts unknown; presumed deceased.
 Natasha Romanoff / Black Widow – A