[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# List of governors-general of New Zealand

The following is a list of the governors and governors-general of New Zealand. As the viceregal, personal representative of the New Zealand monarch, the governor-general performs many of the functions vested in the Crown, such as summoning and dissolving Parliament, granting or withholding the Royal assent, making state visits and receiving ambassadors. These functions are performed on the advice of the head of government, the prime minister.

From William Hobson's appointment in 1841 onward, a total of 37 individuals have served as governor, governor-in-chief (1848–1853), or governor-general (since 1917). Sir Arthur Porritt was the first New Zealand-born governor-general, although he had been living in Britain for 31 years at the time of his appointment. All governors-general since Sir Denis Blundell in 1972 have been New Zealand residents and, with the exception of Sir David Beattie, New Zealand-born. The list does not include lieutenant-governors of the provinces of New Ulster and New Munster that existed between 1848 and 1853. The table also does not include administrators of the government, who fulfil viceregal duties between the terms of governors-general, or at other times when the governor-general is overseas or otherwise unable to carry out the role. The role of administrator is normally undertaken by the chief justice.

Overview
Governors-general have been appointed under letters patent issued in 1917 and the current letters patent issued in 1983.

Historically, governors and governors-general were generally British aristocrats, a reflection of colonial-era affiliations. From the 1970s onward, however, a significant shift occurred, aligning with a more inclusive approach that mirrored New Zealand's diverse population. All governors-general since 1972 have been New Zealand residents. Sir Paul Reeves, in office from 1985 to 1990, was the first Māori governor-general. Dame Catherine Tizard, who served from 1990 to 1996, was the first female governor-general. The trend continued with the appointment of Sir Anand Satyanand, who held the position from 2006 to 2011, and was the first governor-general of Indian and Pasifika ancestry. Governors-general have had a range of backgrounds, encompassing judges, a mayor, archbishop, surgeon, diplomat, general, farmer, and prime minister.

List

Notes

References

Sources

External links
Official Website of the Governor-General of New Zealand
A history of the Governor-General in New Zealand
Rulers.org: Extensive list of Governors-General of New Zealand

New Zealand, Governor-General
Government of New Zealand
Constitution of New Zealand
Monarchy in New Zealand
Governor-General
 
Lists of office-holders in New Zealand