[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Nikos Gatsos

Nikos Gatsos (; 8 December 1911 – 12 May 1992) was a Greek poet, translator and lyricist.

Biography

According to Harvard, he "had a profound influence on the post-war generation of Greek poets. Writing of both loss and hope, Gatsos’s unique blend of surrealism, symbolism and folk song created intense admiration and assured his place alongside his friends, Nobel laureates Odysseas Elytis and George Seferis, as one of the great twentieth-century Greek poets".

Nikos Gatsos was born in 1911 in Asea in Arcadia,
 a district of the Peloponnese, where he finished primary school (dimotiko). He attended high school (gymnasio) in Tripoli, where he became acquainted with literature and foreign languages. Afterwards, he moved to Athens, where he studied literature, philosophy, and history at the University of Athens for two years only.   His knowledge of English and French was quite good and he was already familiar with Kostis Palamas, Dionysios Solomos, Greek folk songs, and recent trends in European poetry. In Athens, he came in contact with the literary circles of the day becoming one of the lifelong friends of fellow poet Odysseus Elytis  and published his poems, small in extent and in a classic style, in the magazines Nea Estia (1931–32) and Rythmos (1933). During that period he also published criticism in Makedonikes Imeres (Μακεδονικές Ημέρες), Rythmos (Ρυθμός), and Nea Grammata (Νέα Γράμματα) (for Kostis Bastias, Myrtiotissa, and Thrasos Kastanakis, respectively).

In 1935 he lived in Paris and the South of France.

In 1936 he met Odysseus Elytis, and became his literary "brother" in poetry.

In 1943, Aetos published his long poem Amorgos, a major contribution to contemporary Greek poetry  notable especially for its combination of surrealism with traditional Greek folk poetry motifs. He subsequently published three more poems: "Elegeio" (1946) in Filologika Chronika, "The Knight and Death" (Ο ιππότης κι ο θάνατος) (1947), and "Song of Old Times" (Τραγούδι του παλιού καιρού) (1963), dedicated to Yorgos Seferis, in Tachydromos magazine.
   
After World War II, he worked with the Greek-British Review as a translator and with Ellinikí Radiofonía as a radio director. During that period he also began writing lyrics for Manos Hadjidakis.  In due course, he also collaborated with Mikis Theodorakis and other notable composers.

His work is inspired, by universal poetic themes, such as the problems of evil, injustice, sacrifice, and the pains of love, and more specifically Greek concerns about Country "nostalgia" (many Greeks, after WWII, immigrated abroad).

His hard and language skills were noticed by the "Art Theatre", the "Greek National Theatre" and the "Popular Theatre" of Greece, and entrusted him to translate various plays - his magnum opus was the translation in Greek of the spanish tragedy "Blood Wedding" by Federico Garcia Lorca.

He was close to Manos Hadjidakis and Nana Mouskouri. His British friends were Philip Sherrard, Peter Levi and Peter Jay, and his Irish friend, Desmond O'Grady.

He died in Athens on 12 May 1992.

Amorgos poems

The poems in Amorgos are marked by their atmospheric qualities, as the poet seeks to capture the unique beauty and character of the island through vivid imagery and emotional depth. Gatsos' poetic language is rich with metaphors and allusions, creating a dream-like quality that is both haunting and evocative.

The collection has been praised for its poetic grandeur, as well as its ability to convey deep emotions and themes, such as love, loss, and the fragility of human existence. Gatsos' work is noted for its originality, as he pushes the boundaries of traditional poetic forms and styles.

Overall, Nikos Gatsos' Amorgos is an essential work in modern Greek literature, offering readers a powerful and moving experience that showcases the beauty and complexity of human emotions.

"From Amorgos
I

With their country tied to their sails and their oars hung on
      the wind
The shipwrecked slept tamely like dead beasts on a bedding
      of sponges
But the eyes of seaweed are turned toward the sea
Hoping the South Wind will bring them backwith their
      lateen-sails new-painted
For one lost elephant is always worth much more than the
      quivering breasts of a girl
Only if the roofs of deserted chappels should light up with the
      caprice of the Evening Star
Only if birds should ripple amid the masts of the lemon trees
With the firm white flurry of lively footsteps
Will the winds come, the bodies of swans that remained im-
      maculate, unmoving and tender
When steamrollers rolled through shops, when hurricanes
      whirled through vegetation
When the eyes of women became coal and the hearts of the
      chestnut hawkers were broken
When the harvest was done and the hopes of crickets began.