[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Antandrus

city's Anatolian origins (e.g. in Alcaeus, Herodotus, Demetrius of Scepsis) may indicate that its Anatolian population remained independent of Mytilene until later in the 6th century BC; the little archaeology which has been done on the site suggests Greek occupation at no earlier a date than this.

The first event of which we hear in Antandrus' history is when in 512 BC Otanes, the Persian satrap of Hellespontine Phrygia, captured the city while subduing north-west Asia Minor. Antandrus had access to large amounts of timber from Mount Ida as well as pitch, making it an ideal location for the construction of large fleets, giving the city strategic importance. In 424 BC during the Peloponnesian War when the city had been captured by exiles from Mytilene, the historian Thucydides explains that:

This importance is likewise attested by Xenophon later in the Peloponnesian War in 409 and 205 BC, and is perhaps reflected in Virgil's choice of the city as the place where Aeneas builds his fleet before setting off to Italy. As late as the 14th century we hear of Antandrus being used by an Ottoman admiral to construct a large fleet of several hundred ships. Having joined the Delian League in 427 BC, when Antandrus first appears in the Athenian tribute lists in 425/42BC, it has an assessment of 8 talents, again indicating the city's relative prosperity.

In 411/10 BC Antandrus expelled its Persian garrison with the help of Peloponnesian troops who were stationed at Abydos on the Hellespont. Having briefly won its freedom, it quickly returned to Persian control, and in 409 BC the Pharnabazus constructed a fleet for the Peloponnesians here using the abundant timber of Mount Ida. We do not know how the Persians regained Antandrus, but in 409 BC the Syracusans gained the Antandrians' friendship by helping to rebuild their fortifications, suggesting that a siege had taken place in the previous year. In the summer of 399 BC Xenophon's Ten Thousand passed through on their way home from Persia, and he later wrote in his Hellenica of the city's continuing strategic importance during the Corinthian War (395-387 BC).

After the Classical period, references to Antandrus become scarce in surviving sources. The next reference to events at Antandrus comes several centuries later c. 200 BC, when Antandrus was on the route of Delphic thearodokoi, and in the 2nd century BC an inscription from Antandrus tells us that the city sent judges to Peltai in Phrygia to arbitrate a dispute. From c. 440 - c. 284 BC, Antandrus had minted its own coinage; this began again in the reign of the Emperor Titus (AD 79-81) and continued until the reign of Elagabalus (AD 218-222). In the Byzantine period Antandrus was an episcopal see in the metropolis of Ephesus.

Archaeology 

In 2018, archaeologists unearthed Pithos burials. The Antandrus necropolis served from the eighth century B.C. to the first century A.D. Same year a stele was discovered, dating back to the 2nd century BC. It includes a statement related to the commendation of a commander, who was sent to Antandrus by the King of Pergamon Eumenes and his brother Attalus. In 2021, new Pithos burials were discovered. In 2022, tombs from the 3rd, 4th and 5th centuries BC were discovered.

See also 

 Ancient sites of Balıkesir

References

Bibliography
 O. Hirschfeld, RE I (1893) s.v. Antandros (1), col. 2346.
 A. Plassart, ‘Inscriptions de Delphes: la liste de théorodoques’ BCH 45 (1921) 1-85.
 J.M. Cook, The Troad (Oxford, 1973) 267-71.
 J.M. Cook, ‘Cities in and around the Troad’ ABSA 56 (1988) 7-19.
 C. Carusi, Isole e Peree in Asia Minore (Pisa, 2003) 31-2.
 S. Mitchell, 'Antandrus' in M.H. Hansen and T.H. Nielsen (eds.), An Inventory of Archaic and Classical Poleis (Oxford, 2004) no. 767.

External links

Antandrus (Altınoluk)
Antandrus Ancient City

Ancient Greek archaeological sites in Turkey
Aeolian colonies
Populated places in ancient Troad
Former populated places in Turkey
History of Balıkesir Province
Members of the Delian League
Greek city-states