[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Far Cry 2

ers and NPCs would have worked better. Due to the complexity of the game, this change could not be implemented. The narrative was cited as an example of the all or nothing approach to design, citing the Buddy dynamics only working properly with all twelve being alive as an issue tackled by the team.

The script was written by Susan O'Connor, who worked on other notable video games including BioShock, along with Armand Constantine and Ubisoft staff member Kevin Shortt. Redding described O'Connor as the principal writer for the project, saying she understood the difficulties of writing for video games compared to film and television. A common part of their interaction was each pushing back against the other on obtuse or behind-the-scenes motivations for characters that players would either never find or not understand. To aid in creating the Buddies, Ubisoft brought in Malcolm Clarke, a filmmaker known for his work on documentaries surrounding African mercenaries in the 1970s and 80s. A key part of the world and narrative design was giving the different faction leaders and lieutenants personality and narrative weight, allowing their deaths to have an impact on the world. Due to its central narrative of hunting down a target and fighting trained soldiers, the team made sure players would not be able to open fire on civilian targets, which would have undermined the narrative's themes. The strong focus on narrative stood in contrast to the original game, which was criticized for having a weak storyline. Redding described the Far Cry series as a "Trojan Horse brand" with low player expectations that allowed the team to be more experimental in their narrative approach.

Original Far Cry protagonist Jack Carver was not featured, as during test interviews players either did not remember or disliked him, so Hocking felt no need to bring him back. The player character was designed to be a blank slate through which players could become immersed, similar to Gordon Freeman from the Half-Life series. In line with this approach and out of a desire to promote immersion, the mercenary lead was made a silent protagonist. There was some discussion around incorporating more surreal elements, such as questioning the mercenary's grip on reality and memory of events, but these were never implemented. The Buddies were deliberately varied in age and ethnicity, reflecting real mercenaries. The Jackal was written as a contrast to the more simplistic antagonist of Far Cry, being an amoral pragmatist who would eventually understand the damage caused by his actions and take extreme measures to rectify it. He was later described as a MacGuffin character who provided a central goal and theme for the narrative without being very personable. A further thematic element was the mercenary's morality potentially falling towards or below that of the Jackal's. While never communicated in-game, Hocking later revealed the Jackal was intended to be a version of Carver, disturbed by the trauma he suffered and turned into a major smuggler who has seen many more terrible things.

Game design
The aim of the game design, as with the narrative, was to maintain a realistic tone and style through the experience, contrasted against the original game's shift into more outlandish elements later in the narrative. Hocking wanted to incorporate the African environment, found guns jamming during combat, and show a realistic version of the land that was not clean and sterile. The development team also wanted to show a life beyond standard combat, including scenes of normal living, farming, and livestock around settlements. The player mercenary's body is kept hidden except during key scenes such as healing animations, a request from Hocking to promote player immersion in the world. The minimal tutorial section was a deliberate choice, with lead designer Pierre Rivest saying the team wanted players to naturally learn the systems and combine them in their own way. Effort went into making the controls easy to use even within the planned innovative game design. Similar to the original, the team wanted an advanced and reactive artificial intelligence (AI) for enemies and other creatures within the environment. When designing the missions to work in an open world environment, main missions were made simple and easy to understand, with only optional sub routes unlocked through other characters having fail states outside a game over.