[Source: PubMed]

16. Confl Health. 2018 Feb 19;12:12. doi: 10.1186/s13031-018-0143-3. eCollection 
2018.

Responding to chemical weapons violations in Syria: legal, health, and 
humanitarian recommendations.

Brooks J(1), Erickson TB(2), Kayden S(3), Ruiz R(4), Wilkinson S(1), Burkle FM 
Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Humanitarian Initiative, Cambridge, MA USA.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital; Harvard 
Medical School, Harvard Humanitarian Initiative, Cambridge, MA USA.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School; and Core Faculty, Harvard Humanitarian Initiative, Cambridge, MA 
USA.
(4)4U.S. House of Representatives for California's 36th congressional district, 
Washington, D.C. USA.

BACKGROUND: The repeated use of prohibited chemical weapons in the Syrian 
conflict poses serious health, humanitarian, and security threats to civilians, 
healthcare personnel, and first responders. Moreover, the use of chemical 
weapons constitutes a clear and egregious violation of international law-likely 
amounting to a war crime-for which continued impunity is setting a dangerous 
precedent in relation to current and future conflicts. This debate article calls 
upon concerned states, organizations, and individuals to respond urgently and 
unequivocally to this serious breach of international legal and humanitarian 
norms.
MAIN BODY: Based on health, humanitarian, and legal findings, this article calls 
for concrete action to: 1) reduce the risk of chemical weapons being used in 
current and future conflicts; 2) review and support the preparedness equipment 
and antidote supplies of first responders, humanitarian organizations, and 
military forces operating in Syria; 3) support international mechanisms for 
monitoring and enforcing the prohibition on chemical weapons, including through 
criminal accountability; 4) support civilian victims of chemical weapons 
attacks, including refugees; and 5) re-commit to the complete elimination of 
chemical weapons in compliance with the Chemical Weapons Convention (1993), a 
comprehensive treaty that bans chemical weapons and requires their complete 
destruction.
CONCLUSION: All involved states and organizations should take urgent steps to 
ensure the protection of the most vulnerable victims of conflict, including 
victims of chemical weapons attacks in Syria, and to reinforce international law 
in the face of such serious violations.

DOI: 10.1186/s13031-018-0143-3
PMCID: PMC5817898
PMID: 29479374

Conflict of interest statement: The authors are affiliated with the Harvard 
Humanitarian Initiative (HHI), an interfaculty initiative with the mission to 
advance the science and practice of humanitarian response worldwide through 
research and education. Based at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 
HHI serves as the humanitarian arm of Harvard University and brings an 
interdisciplinary approach to building the evidence base of humanitarian studies 
and professionalizing the field of humanitarian aid.Not applicableNot 
applicableThe authors declare that they have no competing interests.Springer 
Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps 
and institutional affiliations.