[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Armored Corps (Israel)

e) Armor Brigade
 8th (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 10th "Harel" (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 14th "Machatz/Bison" (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 37th "Ram" (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 205th "Iron Fist" (Reserve) Armor Brigade 
 679th "Yiftah" (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 847th "Chariots of Steel" (Reserve) Armor Brigade

Unit histories 
 252nd "Sinai" (Reserve) Armor Division This division is stationed in the South of Israel and under Southern Command. It includes the 10th and 14th Armor Brigades:
 10th "Harel" (Reserve) Armor Brigade The brigade was established as a division of the Palmach on 16 April 1948, immediately after Operation Nachshon. Yitzhak Rabin was appointed as its first commander. During the Suez Crisis (Kadesh Operation) in 1956, the brigade fought as an infantry brigade commanded by Shmuel Gudar. In 1959, the brigade was made into a reserve unit of the Armored Corps. In the Six-Day War, the brigade fought in the battles for Jerusalem under the command of Uri Ben Ari. Today, the brigade is part of Uzvat Amud ha-Esh ("Pillar of Fire").
 14th "Machatz" (Reserve) Armor Brigade The brigade was active during the War of Attrition when it split to provide the basis for the 401st Armoured Brigade. During the Yom Kippur War, it was initially an armored reserve supporting the infantry brigades holding the Bar-Lev Line. It suffered terrible casualties during the war but was rebuilt afterwards.
 319th "Ha-Mapatz" (Reserve) Armor Division This division is stationed in the North of Israel and under Northern Command. It includes the 4th and 205th Armor Brigades:
 4th "Kiryati" (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 205th "Iron Fist" (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 340th "Idan" (Reserve) Armor Division This division is stationed in Central Israel and under Central Command. It includes the 847th Armor Brigade:
 847th "Merkavot HaPlada/Chariots of Steel" (Reserve) Armor Brigade Recently, the brigade took part in the 2006 Lebanon War, most notably in the Battle of Bint Jbeil and battle of Yaroun; during the war, the brigade killed approximately 60 Hezbollah fighters.

Selection and training
All recruits must have a minimum Medical Profile of 72. Cadets first undergo eight weeks of basic training, which is classed as Rifleman 04 level in the Tironut system. They train in light weapons,  field training, first aid, and physical fitness.

Following the end of basic training, the cadets train for six weeks in one of three specialties: gunner,  loader, and driver.  They engage in theoretical and practical exercises during this period. After completing this training,  the cadets are granted their beret and move on to complete 10 weeks of exercises during which they practice engaging in combat and functioning as tank crews.

At the end of the course,  some soldiers are selected to attend the tank commander's course. The tank commander's course lasts about three and a half months,  during which cadets train in the two other specialties that they did not train in earlier, and in the principles of command,  control,  navigation,  and assessment of situations. Following the end of the course,  exceptional soldiers are offered the opportunity to attend the officer's course,  which lasts 7 months, during which they learn to command an armored platoon in close cooperation with other field units.

After Armored Corps soldiers complete their active service,  they are moved into reserve units. Active reservists in the Armor Corps attend training exercises once a year.

Disbanded units
 211th Brigade
Also known as the Yishai (acronym for "Guardians of Jerusalem Unit"), during the Lebanon War of 1982, it was famously led by Colonel Eli Geva, who, during the Siege of Beirut, refused to lead his soldiers into the city for moral reasons. He was dismissed from the army, and the brigade itself was dissolved in the early 1990s.
 500th Brigade
Also known as the Kfir ("Young Lion") Formation, this was a regular armor brigade that operated from 1972 until 2003. During the Yom Kippur War, it participated in the Battle of Suez. During the Lebanon War of 1982, it fought in the framework of the Eastern force and participated in the Eyn Zhalata battle. In 2003, due to changes in the IDF structure, and the lessening of the threat from the eastern front (due to the USA war in Iraq), the brigade was dissolved.

See also
 Yad La-Shiryon

References

Nationstate armoured warfare branches
Corps of Israel
Military units and formations established in 1948