[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War

on: "Declaring a cease-fire is not the concern of the people of Lebanon as long as there is one Israeli soldier on Lebanese soil – even one meter (into Lebanon).. We will not accept any (Israeli) soldier staying on Lebanese territory, and it is the right of every Lebanese to fight until liberation."

Israeli Defense Minister Peretz announced that he had instructed the IDF to prepare for "a swift takeover of the entire area south of the Litani [River]" and to operate in all the areas where rockets had been launched.  An incursion to the Litani would represent a distance of 18 miles (29 km) into south Lebanon.  IDF said its soldiers have taken up positions in or near 11 towns and villages in south Lebanon, a zone reaching from the coast to the 'Galilee Panhandle' eastwards.  Estimates of IDF forces in S.Lebanon were six brigades approximately 10,000 soldiers.

IDF bombers, reportedly fired two rockets at a house in Baalbek. One woman died and three people were wounded, IDF officials stated.

Calls for a ceasefire demanded that Israel stops its revenge attacks against Lebanese civilians and that Hezbollah lay down its arms.

Friday, August 4
It was estimated in a Haaretz analysis piece that the total number of rocket launchers that had been destroyed by IDF forces in Lebanon was "ten" and an estimate of Hezbollah killed given by IDF was "380".
33 civilian farm workers are killed and 20 wounded after Israeli airstrike in a farm near Qaa in Lebanon, close to the Lebanon-Syria border in the Beqaa valley A hospital official and the mayor said all the casualties were Syrian workers, and security forces said most of the casualties were employees or truck drivers. The IDF said it targeted two buildings that contained weapons. The Israeli government has accused Hezbollah of using civilians as shields.
Israeli aircraft destroyed four bridges on the main coastal highway north of Beirut, disrupting efforts to aid civilians displaced or trapped by the conflict. After bombing the last land routes into Beirut, and effectively cutting off the Lebanese capital from relief supplies, Israel issued a statement saying the attacks were designed to thwart Syrian attempts to arm Hezbollah." "Syria is determined to continue rearming Hezbollah and supply it with weaponry used to attack Israel", said an IDF statement. "The IDF is determined to stop this flow of arms to Hezbollah. The attacks on the bridge last night, which connect Syria and Lebanon, were to this end."
The IDF said the two or three rockets were among more than 200 that landed across northern Israel. The most deadly attack came in Tiberias, where three civilians were killed. The IDF put the Israeli death toll at 74, including 30 civilians. Israeli authorities say more than 600 people have been injured.
Across Lebanon, dozens died in Israeli attacks, as Hezbollah rockets struck Hadera, the southernmost point the Islamic militia has reached with its attacks thus far in the conflict. No injuries were reported, police said. Hadera is about 25 miles (40 kilometers) north of Tel Aviv, which Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah threatened August 3 to strike in retaliation for Israeli attacks on Beirut. On the Lebanese side of the border, AP quoted Lebanese security officials as saying that Israeli airstrikes buried 57 people under rubble after flattening homes in two villages near the Israeli border, Taibeh and Ayta ash Shab. No other details were immediately available.

Sunday, August 6
Twelve IDF reservists are killed by a Katyusha rocket explosion in Kfar Giladi, in the single deadliest strike on Israeli soldiers during the 2006 Lebanon War.

Thursday, August 10
By this time, nine IDF brigades of both regular and regular troops were operating in Southern Lebanon, about 12 kilometers (8 miles) into Lebanon.

IDF troops kill three Hizbullah fighters in Ayta ash-Sha'ab, and four others in another village. Israeli commandos also destroyed a rocket launcher on a beach south of Tyre, and another rocket launcher was destroyed north of Bint Jbeil.

Post-ceasefire events

Just hours after the beginning of the ceasefire on August 14, 2006, about four mortars were fired inside southern Lebanon. An Israeli military spokesman said that Israel would not respond to their firing. On that day four more incidents were recorded when armed Hezbollah members said to have approached Israeli positions were killed.

The day after, on August 15, 2006, Israeli soldiers opened fire when four Hezbollah fighters approached them, killing three. The same day, about 10 rockets were fired by Hezbollah inside southern Lebanon. Israel reiterated it wouldn't respond since the rockets did not cross border.