[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Loudoun County in the American Civil War

eader of the 35th Battalion Va Cav.; last leader of the famed Laurel Brigade
Samuel C. Means – Prominent Loudoun Unionist, founder and 1st commander of the Loudoun Rangers
John S. Mosby - Colonel, leader of the 43rd Battalion Va. Cav.
John Mobberly – Infamous partisan

Loudoun in the Eastern Theater

The passing of the armies
Loudoun served initially as an outpost of the Confederate army based out of Winchester. From the garrison at Leesburg, the Confederates conducted raids and recruitment drives into central Maryland, carting away men and supplies, as well as threatening the C&O Canal, B&O Railroad and Washington.  To meet this threat, Federals deployed along the Loudoun-Maryland border, leading to many skirmishes at the strategic river crossings.  Later, after that post was abandoned, Loudoun served as point of crossing between the Piedmont and the Shenandoah Valley, as well as between Virginia and Maryland.  All of the Army of Northern Virginia passed through the county on its way to Antietam, while the Army of the Potomac crossed the county on its way back from that battle.  Again in 1863 the Army of the Potomac used Loudoun to get to and return from Gettysburg.  Finally, in 1864, Jubal Early and his Federal pursuers used Loudoun to pass from the D.C. environs to the Shenandoah Valley after the Battle of Fort Stevens. In all, the county changed hands six during the course of the war, and the passing of the armies led to many small conflicts in the county.

The Confederate occupation June 1861 - March 1862
Rockville Expedition
Skirmish at Conrad's Ferry, June 17, 1861
Skirmish at Edward's Ferry, June 18, 1861; July 29, 1861
McClellan's operations in Northern Virginia
Battle of Ball's Bluff and Edwards Ferry, October 20–23, 1861
Battle of Dranesville, December 21, 1861
Border skirmishes
Skirmish at River Mill, September 15, 1861

The Federal invasion by Colonel John Geary March 1862 - August 1862

In early 1862, the Union army began amassing at Harper's Ferry in preparation for operations in the Shenandoah Valley. Part of this force, under the command of Col. John W. Geary, was charged with the undertaking of securing Loudoun County and the army's left flank from across the Blue Ridge as it operated in the Valley. On February 24, Geary set out across the Potomac from Harpers Ferry, but high water delayed his crossing, and it was not until the 27th that his force was fully across into Loudoun. Geary placed his artillery atop an eminence of Short Hill Mountain and proceeded with his main force to occupy Lovettsville, a German settlement in the heart of Unionist Loudoun, where he established his headquarters.

On March 6, Brigadier General D.H. Hill was ordered to abandon Loudoun County to join with Gen. Joseph E. Johnston in Richmond to halt McClellan's drive up the Virginia Peninsula. The following day, Geary's force left its camp at Lovettsville. As Hill retreated, his forces set fire to Confederate supplies, nearby forage and the Carolina Road's bridge over Goose Creek. By the end of the day, Union forces occupied Leesburg, establishing headquarters at Fort Johnston, rechristened Fort Geary, and imposing martial law on the secessionist town. Leaving a small garrison at Leesburg, Geary set out the following day to pursue the retreating Confederates.

By the 15th, Geary's men had traversed the county and reached Upperville, and all of Loudoun County was under Federal occupation. Two weeks later, E.V. White's Confederate cavalry challenged Geary's force near Middleburg. In the engagement, Federals brought out the newly developed coffee mill gun, a forerunner to the modern machine gun. The results were devastating—the Confederate line was cut to pieces after being fired upon from 800 yards, and those not immediately cut down retreated, unsure of what had just hit them. The gun, however, was deemed to unsafe to operate and never used widely in the war.

Skirmish at Loudoun Heights - February 27, 1862
Skirmish at Lovettsville - February 28, 1862
Skirmish at Wheatland and Waterford - March 7, 1862
Skirmish at Middleburg - March 26–28, 1862
Skirmish at Loudoun Heights - May 27, 1862