[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Insurgency in the Preševo Valley

d in Bujanovac
 March – bomb found in school in Preševo

Several attacks on army were recorded in this period, such as: attack on watchtower in Čarska kula, sabotage on the pillar through which is powered the base of near Dobrosin and the stoning of a military motor vehicle in the village of Lučane.

2009 attacks 
On 9 July 2009, two members of Serbian Gendarmery were wounded after unnamed 'terrorists' attacked their Land Rover near the village of Lučane. On 14 July bomb exploded near the entrance of a building in Preševo where ethnic Albanian member of Gendarmery lived with his family. His wife and son were injured. Minister of Internal Affairs Ivica Dačić described this attacks as a terrorist act. Same night police conducted an operation on a border with Kosovo, cutting illegal arms smuggling to central Serbia. Minister Dačić also said they found large amounts of weapons and ammunition in village Norča near Preševo. The Government of Serbia accused former Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac high-ranking member Lirim Jakupi, known as "Commander Nazi". He was also wanted by Macedonia for attacks on police in 2005.

2012–2013 monument crisis 

In November 2012, a monument dedicated to the 27 killed PMBLA fighters, was erected in Preševo's main square. The Government of Serbia was against it, therefore, they enforced an ultimatum to the local government to remove it. On 16 May the deadline expired. On 20 May, the Serbian Gendarmery surrounded the city with 200 men, backed up by heavily armored vehicles and bulldozers, started removing the monument with a bagger at 7:00 AM. At least 2,000 ethnic Albanians protested in the southern Serbian town of Preševo to protest against the removal of a memorial to fallen Albanian guerrillas. The operation was led by general Bratislav Dikić. This crisis raised the tension in the Preševo Valley once again.

2014 attack on the Gendarmery 
On 25 January 2014 a Norwegian citizen suspected to be a Wahhabi member attacked Gendarmery in Preševo. He was killed in a crossfire with the police. His motive was unknown.

Illegal logging 
During the last years, numerous incidents of illegal logging have been registered in Ground Safety Zone, reportedly involving armed groups from the territory of Kosovo. One of the incidents occurred during August 2021 when a patrol of the Serbian Army in the area called Ugljarski krš spotted a group of 12 people illegally cutting down the forest. Upon the arrival of the military patrol, the forest thieves fired a bullet into the air. The patrol reacted–it fired a warning shot and headed towards the group

The forest thieves then ran away in the direction of the Kosovo side of the administrative line, but two more bursts were heard in the immediate vicinity. There were no injuries in the incident, but, as announced by the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army was put on high alert in that area.

Attacks by forest thieves on army and police patrols in the administrative zone of the Kuršumlija municipality especially intensify at the end of summer and the beginning of autumn, when Albanians from Kosovo illegally cut down the forest in this area. To steal the forest, as the residents of the sparsely populated Kuršumlija villages in this area point out, forest thieves usually come armed.

During 2021 alone, 56 occurrences of illegal logging have been recorded by Serbian authorities.