[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Charlemagne Tower

ssful, and the business incorporated under the name of Minnesota Iron Company. The ore was mined on site, then loaded to the railroad and delivered to Two Harbors, where it was loaded on ships for iron and steel factories in Ohio. A settlement near the mines was named Tower in the landowner's honor.

By 1887, iron ore was discovered in lands north of the town of Tower, which were purchased by a syndicate of East Coast financiers. This syndicate, which included H.H. Porter of the Union Steel Works and the Rockefeller family, wanted to purchase Tower's railroad in order to extend it to their lands. Tower initially refused. The syndicate implied that they would construct a second railroad alongside that of Tower and compete directly. Tower had no control over the shipping lines that carried his ore from Two Harbors to points east, and many of these companies were under the control of the same East Coast iron and steel magnates who were involved in the Minnesota syndicate. Faced with these challenges, Tower divided his properties into two parts, the mine and the railroad. He said that any potential buyers had to purchase both. In late 1887, Tower sold his Minnesota Iron Company holdings to the syndicate, retaining a small interest in the subsequent company, called the Minnesota Mining and Railroad Syndicate.

Death
After retirement, Tower returned to his country residence in Waterville, New York, where he died on July 25, 1889. His death was, as reported in his obituary, attributed to a "paralysis".

Legacy

Charlemagne Tower is credited with creating the mining industry in Minnesota, as well as attracting settlers to the area. He was deeply involved in the mining industry in Pennsylvania, and was part of the ascension of the Reading Railroad. Towns in three states are named after him. He served on the board of overseers for Harvard University, and was involved in many business ventures, many of them successful.

Tower was also a collector of rare and valuable books. His particular interest was in American colonial laws. At the time of his death, he had the most complete collection of these books in the world. After his death, the Tower family bequeathed this collection to the Historical Society of Pennsylvania.

Tower had a deep interest in the genealogy of his family, going back to their Massachusetts Puritan roots. He amassed a large amount of information on the Tower family of Hingham, Massachusetts, and Hingham, England, and had it published. The resulting book, Tower Genealogy: An Account Of The Descendants Of John Tower Of Hingham, Mass., was released in 1891 after Tower's death.

Tower's son, Charlemagne Tower Jr., was appointed as Minister to Austria-Hungary for President William McKinley. He next served as Ambassador to the Russian Empire.

Works
Tower, Charlemagne. The Charlemagne Tower Collection of American Colonial Laws, Littleton, CO: F.B. Rothman, 1990, 1890.

Further reading

Bridges, Hal. Iron Millionaire: Life of the Charlemagne Tower, Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1952.

Footnotes

History of Minnesota
People from Pottsville, Pennsylvania
History of North Dakota
Harvard University alumni
People of Pennsylvania in the American Civil War
American financiers
American book and manuscript collectors
1809 births
1889 deaths
People from Paris, New York
People from Waterville, New York
19th-century American lawyers
19th-century American businesspeople