[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of Honey Springs

gnating the Honey Springs Battlefield as a U.S. National Battlefield Park.
In 2013 the battlefield was named a National Historic Landmark by the National Park Service.

The American Battlefield Trust and its partners have acquired and preserved more than  of the battlefield as of mid-2023.

See also

List of battles fought in Oklahoma
List of National Historic Landmarks in Oklahoma
National Register of Historic Places listings in McIntosh County, Oklahoma
National Register of Historic Places listings in Muskogee County, Oklahoma

Notes

References

Sources
 Epple, Jess C., "Honey Springs Depot, Elk Creek, Creek Nation, Indian Territory" 1964, reprint/revised 2002 and 2019 ()
 Mark A. Lause, Race and Radicalism in the Union Army
 National Park Battle Summary
 War in the Indian Nations 1861–1863 – extensive bibliography 
 CWSAC Report Update and Resurvey: Individual Battlefield Profiles
 The Battle of Honey Springs: The Civil War Comes to the Indian Territory, a National Park Service Teaching with Historic Places (TwHP) lesson plan
 Honey Springs Battlefield Park – 1997 Master Plan Report. Hama, Karen and R. Brian Culpepper. Prepared by: The Center for Advanced Spatial Technologies, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, Arkansas. 1997. Retrieved August 26, 2014.
Honey Springs Battlefield Park  1997 Master Plan Report – Appendix.

External links

 Encyclopedia of Oklahoma History and Culture – Honey Springs, Battle of
 Fischer, LeRoy H.  Oklahoma Historical Society. "The Battle of Honey Springs," (1988) Retrieved February 4, 2014.
 The Battle of Honey Springs – July 17, 1863

McIntosh County, Oklahoma
Muskogee County, Oklahoma
Honey Springs
Honey Springs
Honey Springs
Honey Springs
Protected areas of McIntosh County, Oklahoma
July 1863 events
National Register of Historic Places in McIntosh County, Oklahoma
National Register of Historic Places in Muskogee County, Oklahoma
National Historic Landmarks in Oklahoma
American Civil War orders of battle