[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# World War III in popular culture

a new world arms race after the discovery of time travel and would eventually envelop the planet in a global war over the technology. Another anime, AKB0048 (2012–2013), takes place 48 years after an interplanetary war destroyed all on Earth and forced humanity to flee to other inhabitable planets.

World War III scenarios have also been seen in certain TV shows. Salvation depicts a moment in which a meteor is about to hit Earth and a brief fight occurs between the United States and Russia. The Last Ship depicts a global pandemic wiping out over 80% of the world's population and the crew (consisting of 218 people) of a lone unaffected US Navy Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer, the fictional USS Nathan James, must try to find a cure, stop the virus, and save humanity while it fights many nations in the "Immune Wars", including Russia and China. Occupied is a Norwegian TV series that depicts a fictional future in which Russia, with support from the European Union, occupies Norway to restore its oil and gas production. SEAL Team has an episode in which the Navy SEALs must avert war with Russia and China after trying to extract a Russian defector inside Chinese borders.

Alien invasions have become a popular topic as a conflict like World War III, with the alien invaders portrayed similarly to human military invaders, as seen in the films Skyline (2010), Battle: Los Angeles (2011), Pacific Rim (2013) and the TV series Falling Skies (2010).

The science fiction novel Sing Goddess The Wrath of the Fonz; Smokepit Fairytales Part II by Tripp Ainsworth centers around the Iliad in eastern Europe during a fictional third world war.

 2020s 
Shortly after the airstrike in which US forces killed the Iranian Quds Force commander Qassem Soleimani and the Iraqi militia commander Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis in January 2020, Internet memes regarding a third World War (which technically would have been an American-Iranian War) and the draft procedure began to spread on various social media platforms. Similar memes about World War III and the draft emerged on Twitter in reaction to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine. The prevention of World War III
is the premise of the film Tenet, which was released on August 26, 2020, after it had been delayed three times by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The 2020 novel Rogue Flag deals with the premise of a micronation starting a war between NATO and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.

In the first episode of Star Trek: Strange New Worlds'', Captain Pike addresses a species which is like ours and nearing its own destruction in war. He shows them a video of a World War III on Earth as an example of what to avoid.

See also 
Nuclear weapons in popular culture
Survivalism in fiction

References

William Jackson, "The Alternative Third World War: 1985-2035"

External links
 Nuclear Holocausts: Atomic War in Fiction, By Paul Brians, Professor of English, Washington State University, Pullman, Washington.

Fictional wars
War in popular culture