[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

ER and Hașmonea youth movements, they were voluntarily absorbed into the National Federation of Democratic Youth (FNTD). The latter acted as a front for the PCR until March 1949, when it was altogether absorbed by the Union of Working Youth—presided upon by the last FNTD chairman, Gheorghe Florescu.

Final purges
Over those months, a propaganda and intimidation campaign was taken up by the CDE and the PCR. There followed clashes between the pro-communists and religious groups such as the Bnei Akiva, which led to the Zionist issue being assigned directly to the Securitate secret police. At a communist party summit in October 1948, Luca issued an order barring all categories of Zionists from attending CDE meetings, defining the Committee as an "instrument of the Party for the recruitment of the Jewish masses"; this proposal was endorsed by Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, who equated Zionism with fascism and American spy rings. Arrested in 1949, Orenștein passed through the infamous Sighet, Pitești, and Jilava prisons. Until 1953, he was discreetly allowed to survive by communist leader Ana Pauker, who knew him from her days as a Hebrew-language teacher. He died in jail in 1955, a result of having been tortured by Eugen Țurcanu during a reeducation experiment on behalf of the Securitate. Some former Zionists had by then joined the Communist Party. In 1950, they were singled out among the 5.6% undesirables whom the party wanted purged from its ranks.

In May of that year, the PCR Central Committee ruled that Zionism, including in its leftist forms, was "counterrevolutionary", and promised to deal with the WJC as an organ of the "internationally Jewish grand bourgeoisie". This decision came with mass arrests of Zionist militants, followed by their torturing and nine separate waves of show trials, lasting to 1959. The first such group, comprising Revisionists Kanner, Șlomo Șinovitzer, Marcel Tăbăcaru and Pascu Schechter, was sentenced in July 1953; in November, sentences were also handed down to Litman and to Benvenisti's wife Suzana. Ebercohn, Iakerkaner, Cornel Iancu, Rohrlich and Tumarkin were sentenced, alongside Theodor Loewenstein-Lavi and Menahem Fermo, in May 1954; this affair was closely followed by Itzacar's prosecution. Another trial staged in 1954 for thirteen Zionist leaders, including Zissu, Benvenisti, and Moscovici.

In previous interrogations, the Securitate had confronted Zissu and Benvenisti, who still resented each other. According to Benvenisti's deposition, Zissu had been removed from the PER "for his systematic and spiteful refusal of any collaboration with the Jewish Democratic Committee". Zissu himself noted that he intended to settle in Israel and for a "Biblical socialist" party, which he opposed to all forms of Marxism, whereas Benvenisti looked forward to joining the Israeli Communists. In 1956, Zissu and Benvenisti received permission to emigrate from Deputy Premier Emil Bodnăraș; Zissu died soon after settling in. Benvenisti returned to public life as an Israeli diplomat with the Jewish Agency for Israel. Before his death in 1977, he set up a fund for the study of Romanian Jewish history. Chief Rabbi Moses Rosen also obtained that other former prisoners be given the right to sail for Israel in 1957. His list included Ebercohn, Iakerkaner, Iancu, Itzacar, Kanner, Litman, Rohrlich, Tumarkin, and Orenștein's widow Mina. Cohen was similarly allowed to travel with Zissu, and was reportedly the last Romanian Jew to be able to leave the country with his books. A member of the Knesset, in 1963 he was attempting to set up a special Romanian Israeli lodge of the B'nai B'rith.

Before Zissu and Benvenisti's arrival, an Israeli Romanian Association (Hitachdut Olei Romania) had been established, with Mizrachi serving as its chairman in 1944–1946. Their former PER colleague Rosenthal took over in later years, drawing the Association into an alliance with the Israel Workers' Party. Meanwhile, Marton, praised for his humanitarian work with deportees regaining republican Hungary, had also moved to Israel, and was putting out a new edition of Új Kelet. In late 1948, Sami Stern also began putting out Renașterea Noastră from Tel Aviv; around that same time, Weissman was serving as Israel's diplomatic agent in Belgium.