[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fort Howell

d (1818-1893), had been renamed for United States Secretary of State William H. Seward (1801-1872) by the Federals after the Battle of Port Royal Sound. On 8 June Suter had reported to Foster's predecessor Hatch that Fort Seward then held 13 guns, but his report did not specify their types or sizes.

Foster suggested turning the fort over to Dahlgren and the Navy after removing the guns and carriages, which he believed “will be of value to me in arming the new field forts at this place [Forts Howell and Sherman] and Beaufort [Fort Stevens].”  Dahlgren quickly agreed to Foster's proposal, and Foster indorsed it with the comment, “The guns are to be used to arm Forts Sherman, Howell, and Stevens, the selection of the guns for each being made by Captain Suter. The present garrison of Fort Seward will help dismount and load the guns, and will then rejoin their regiment.”

By mid-October the 32nd United States Colored Infantry was split up, with its companies ordered to various points on Hilton Head Island and elsewhere in the Department of the South. Companies began leaving Camp Baird and Fort Howell on 14 October, and by 31 October regimental headquarters was at Seabrook's Plantation, overlooking Skull Creek between Hilton Head Island and Pinckney Island, northwest of Fort Howell and near Fort Mitchel / Battery Mitchel.

On 28 October Foster reported to Halleck, “matters remain about the same. The works on the fortifications are being pushed forward as rapidly as possible.” On 8 November, he reported, “everything remains in a quiet state, the troops being occupied in strengthening and improving the defenses and drilling.”  

Fatigue details from the 144th New York Infantry, which had been ordered to report to the “camp for instruction for colored troops” on Hilton Head Island on 9 June, completed the fort from mid-October to late November 1864, also under the supervision of the 1st New York Engineers. There is also some evidence that the regiment was camped near, or perhaps at, the completed fort, and guarding a camp of Confederate prisoners of war in the vicinity of Fort Howell in the winter of 1864–1865.

Fort Howell never saw action, for by the time it was completed near the end of 1864 the Confederate Department of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida lacked the forces to offer much of a significant threat to the Federal presence on Hilton Head Island—or elsewhere in the state, for that matter. One of the last engagements of any real note in the South Carolina lowcountry occurred on 30 November 1864 at Honey Hill, in present-day Jasper County, when a Federal expedition—including both the 32nd United States Colored Infantry and the 144th New York Infantry—attempted to cut the Charleston and Savannah Railroad but was repulsed by Confederate defenders.

Engineering 
Fort Howell is one of the most intact and best preserved Civil War field fortifications in South Carolina, and is particularly significant as a fine example of a sophisticated Federal earthwork built in an area occupied by the United States Army for an extended period.  Federal field fortifications of this size and complexity are rare in a state in which most surviving earthworks, whether temporary or semi-permanent, were constructed by the Confederate States Army near the coast, either on major sea islands near Charleston such as James Island or John's Island in present-day Charleston County, or in the interior protecting the line of the strategic Charleston and Savannah Railroad in present-day Beaufort, Charleston, Colleton, and Jasper Counties.

This fort is an outstanding example of the larger semi-permanent earthworks designed by United States Army engineers and intended to be significant defensive positions, usually standing alone but sometimes built in conjunction with and cooperating with a system of linear field fortifications manned by infantry. The standard field fortification of the war followed a pattern established by Professor Dennis Hart Mahan of the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, who was considered the leading American authority on military engineering. Mahan's A Complete Treatise of Field Fortifications, first published in 1836 and revised and reprinted several times before and during the Civil War, was based in part on European models, most of them French, of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.

While its method of construction—built-up earth, reinforced by wooden timbers and supplemented by wooden platforms as necessary—was typical of field fortifications for infantry and artillery alike, its design was necessarily more elaborate than those manned by infantry, as it was intended to maximize the effectiveness of an artillery fortification whose guns were fixed, or essentially so. Though designed by engineers, it was constructed by infantrymen under their supervision.