[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jonny Quest vs. The Cyber Insects

st Team's first encounter with the Assassinoid has it getting frozen and shattered when Race shoots it, and Bandit grabs a piece. The other pieces thaw and regrow into more Assassinoids as the group finds Quest Station in the hangar and take refuge aboard, finding and freeing the captive scientists.

Eve's assistant Mylana cryogenically freezes the piece of Assassinoid Bandit grabbed, and then Jonny and Race fight their way past the insects to reach Zin's unoccupied control room. They learn from 4-DAC that the only way to kill the insects is a nuclear bomb or a sufficiently large, fiery explosion. They open the hangar doors, allowing Quest Station to be sucked harmlessly back out into outer space. Jonny and 4-DAC upload Zin's own virus into his computer, bringing it under 4-DAC's control. Benton and Eve are freed, allowing Jonny to rescue them. Zin flees. Jonny transfers control of the weather satellite to Intelligence 1, and Harris orders it turned against the asteroid base. It begins to be destroyed as Jonny, Benton, Race and Eve try to reach Zin's escape ship, but it is damaged by an Assassinoid. Instead, the four are rescued when Hadji and Jessie arrive flying Quest Shuttle 1 (which was docked on Quest Station).  They escape just as the base explodes.

Back on Earth, Jonny and Hadji retake the Orinoquian test of manhood and passes, making both Benton and Chief Atacama proud; Jonny then beckons Jessie into the circle since she's earn the right to be within it too. 4-DAC has also been restored to a duplicate robot body. Meanwhile, in space, Eve is keeping the piece of Assassonoid that Mylana froze in her lab aboard Quest Station, as she and Mylana tend to the station's onboard garden, which is revealed to be named E.D.E.N. ("Environmental Diversity Experimental Nucleus"). Not far away, it is revealed that Dr. Zin made it to a different escape ship and has survived...

Cast
Kevin Smets - Jonny Quest
Don Messick - Dr. Benton Quest, Bandit
Granville Van Dusen - Race Bannon
Rob Paulsen - Hadji, 425
Anndi McAfee - Jessie Bannon
Jeffrey Tambor - Dr. Zin
Theresa Saldana - Dr. Eve Belage
Tim Matheson - 4-DAC
Héctor Elizondo - Chief Atacama

Additional voices
Victor Love - Commander Harris
Robert Ito - 427
Olivia White - 426

Production
The film is produced in association with Hanna-Barbera's overseas subsidiary, Fil-Cartoons in Manila, Philippines, with the animation work being handled by production executive Bill Dennis and overseas animation director Chris Cuddington, a former animator from Hanna-Barbera's defunct Australian studio in Sydney, New South Wales.

Home media
On March 19, 1996, Turner Home Entertainment released the film on VHS in the Cartoon Network Video line.

On August 9, 2011, Warner Home Video released Jonny Quest versus The Cyber Insects on DVD in region 1 via their Warner Archive Collection.  This is a Manufacture-on-Demand (MOD) release, available exclusively through Warner's online store and only in the U.S.

References

External links

1995 television films
1995 films
1990s adventure films
TNT Network original films
Jonny Quest
1990s American animated films
Hanna-Barbera animated films
South America in fiction
Films about Native Americans
American children's animated adventure films
1990s English-language films
Films directed by Mario Piluso
Animated films about orphans