[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Myanmar Navy

addy Regional Command (headquarters in Mawlamyine)
 Tanintharyi Regional Command (headquarters in Myeik)
 Zadetkyi Island Naval Base
 Mali (Tavoy) Naval Base
 Palai Island Naval Base
 Kadan Naval Base
 Sakanthit Naval Base
 Lambi Naval Base
 Pearl Island Naval Base
 Zadetkale Naval Base (Radar Unit)

Naval infantry 
The Myanmar Navy formed a naval infantry battalion of 800 men in 1964, and a second battalion in 1967. They battalions traditionally are deployed mainly in the Arakan, Tenasserim, and Irrawaddy delta coastal regions primarily to assist in the army's counter-insurgency operations (COIN).

Navy SEALs
The Myanmar Navy Sea, Air and Land (SEAL) Teams, commonly known as Myanmar Navy SEALs () were probably formed in the early 2010s. The Myanmar Navy SEALs are particularly trained for special operation missions such as Hostage rescue, Counter-terrorism and Counter narcotic operations. The selection process and training curriculum is claimed be similar to United States Navy SEAL selection and training.

Naval base air defence force
Previously, Myanmar Naval air defence forces used Bofors 40mm & ZPU-2 AAA for naval bases.

Rank structure

Commissioned officer ranks
The rank insignia of commissioned officers.

Other ranks
The rank insignia of non-commissioned officers and enlisted personnel.

Equipment

Modernisation 
The Myanmar Navy has undertaken a modernisation program since the early 2000s. It has added larger and more advanced ships, mostly by constructing them locally with foreign supplied equipment.

Frigates 

The Myanmar Navy started its modernization program in 2001 in an attempt to replace older ships and equipment. In 2012, the navy took delivery of two Type 053H1-class frigates from China. These two ships were upgraded extensively. Upgrades included the replacing of HY 2 anti-ship missiles by C-802 missiles and installing new sensors. The first indigenous frigate, the Aung Zeya entered service in 2011 and took part in a joint exercise with Indian Navy ships off Visakhapatnam in early 2013. A second ship, Kyan Sittha entered service in 2012 and is the navy's first stealth frigate. The navy plans to build six indigenous frigates; combining Russian, Indian, Chinese, and Western weapons systems. These ships are equipped with Kh-35E anti-ship missiles, OTO Melara 76 mm Super Rapid Cannons, AK-630 6-barrel 30mm close-in weapon system (CIWS) and Chinese ASW rockets and torpedoes. Radars and electronic systems are mainly from Bharat Electronics of India. Myanmar acquired surface-to-air missiles and anti-ship missiles from China for its newly built frigates and OPVs. Myanmar Navy Shipyard built with Chinese assistance in the late 1990s is one of the most modern shipyards in the region. Many Burmese naval engineers underwent shipbuilding training in China and Russia.

Submarines 
In 2020, the navy acquired its first submarine, a Soviet era Sindhughosh/Kilo-class submarine, from India. The former INS Sindhuvir (S58) was refitted by Hindustan Shipyard Limited before the handover. Now renamed UMS Minye Theinkhathu, the submarine is to be used for training. It was first seen publicly on 15 October 2020 as part of a naval fleet exercise (‘Bandoola 2020’). The Indian Navy is going to assist in training Myanmar to operate the submarine effectively.

On 24 December 2021, Myanmar Navy has commissioned its second submarine the UMS Minye Kyaw Htin, a type 35B Ming-class submarine from China.

Others 
Between 2015 and 2017, the Myanmar Navy procured two Super Dvora Mk III patrol boats from Israel. Next, under a US$37.9 million deal signed in March 2017, the Myanmar Navy received the advanced anti-submarine torpedo Shyena units from India. Moreover, the Myanmar Navy acquired a new landing platform dock (LPD) from South Korea in 2019.

Gallery

See also 

 Myanmar Army
 Myanmar Air Force
 Military intelligence of Myanmar
 Myanmar Police Force

References

Further reading 
 )

External links 
 The Naval Institute Guide to Combat Fleets of the World: Their Ships By Eric Wertheim
 pageMyanmar Navy.html - complaints, reviews & rating

Military of Myanmar
Navies by country
 
Defence agencies of Myanmar

ja:ミャンマー海軍艦艇一覧