[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Constitution

supranational entity. For example, the countries constituting the European Union have agreed to abide by some Union-wide measures which restrict their absolute sovereignty in some ways, e.g., the use of the metric system of measurement instead of national units previously used.

State of emergency 

Many constitutions allow the declaration under exceptional circumstances of some form of state of emergency during which some rights and guarantees are suspended. This provision can be and has been abused to allow a government to suppress dissent without regard for human rights – see the article on state of emergency.

Facade constitutions

Italian political theorist Giovanni Sartori noted the existence of national constitutions which are a facade for authoritarian sources of power. While such documents may express respect for human rights or establish an independent judiciary, they may be ignored when the government feels threatened, or never put into practice. An extreme example was the Constitution of the Soviet Union that on paper supported freedom of assembly and freedom of speech; however, citizens who transgressed unwritten limits were summarily imprisoned. The example demonstrates that the protections and benefits of a constitution are ultimately provided not through its written terms but through deference by government and society to its principles. A constitution may change from being real to a facade and back again as democratic and autocratic governments succeed each other.

Constitutional courts

Constitutions are often, but by no means always, protected by a legal body whose job it is to interpret those constitutions and, where applicable, declare void executive and legislative acts which infringe the constitution. In some countries, such as Germany, this function is carried out by a dedicated constitutional court which performs this (and only this) function. In other countries, such as Ireland, the ordinary courts may perform this function in addition to their other responsibilities. While elsewhere, like in the United Kingdom, the concept of declaring an act to be unconstitutional does not exist.

A constitutional violation is an action or legislative act that is judged by a constitutional court to be contrary to the constitution, that is, unconstitutional. An example of constitutional violation by the executive could be a public office holder who acts outside the powers granted to that office by a constitution. An example of constitutional violation by the legislature is an attempt to pass a law that would contradict the constitution, without first going through the proper constitutional amendment process.

Some countries, mainly those with uncodified constitutions, have no such courts at all. For example, the United Kingdom has traditionally operated under the principle of parliamentary sovereignty under which the laws passed by United Kingdom Parliament could not be questioned by the courts.

See also
 Basic law, equivalent in some countries, often for a temporary constitution
 Apostolic constitution (a class of Catholic Church documents)
 Consent of the governed
 Constitution of the Roman Republic
 Constitutional amendment
 Constitutional court
 Constitutional crisis
 Constitutional economics
 Constitutionalism
 Corporate constitutional documents
 International constitutional law
 Judicial activism
 Judicial restraint
 Judicial review
 Philosophy of law
 Rule of law
 Rule according to higher law

Judicial philosophies of constitutional interpretation (note: generally specific to United States constitutional law)
 List of national constitutions
 Originalism
 Strict constructionism
 Textualism
 Proposed European Union constitution
 Treaty of Lisbon (adopts same changes, but without constitutional name)
 United Nations Charter

Further reading
 Zachary Elkins and Tom Ginsburg. 2021. "What Can We Learn from Written Constitutions?" Annual Review of Political Science.

References

External links

 Constitute, an indexed and searchable database of all constitutions in force
Amendments Project
 Dictionary of the History of Ideas Constitutionalism
 Constitutional Law, "Constitutions, bibliography, links"
 International Constitutional Law: English translations of various national constitutions
 United Nations Rule of Law: Constitution-making, on the relationship between constitution-making, the rule of law and the United Nations.
  
 constitution | Theories, Features, Practices, & Facts | Britannica
 Constitutionalism | Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
 Constitutions and Constitutionalism | Encyclopedia.com

 
Sources of law