[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# 2006 United States immigration reform protests

als, and who must remain in the US. In the case, Samson Dada, a Nigerian citizen, overstayed beyond the expiration of his tourist visa in 1998. Immigration authorities ordered him to leave the country as he agreed to leave voluntarily, but to allow his legal re-entry, unlike if he had been deported.

Organizations 
The following organizations mobilized from hundreds (FAIR) to millions of people (Great American Boycott) around immigration reform in the United States during 2006.
 May 1, 2006  'A Day Without Immigrant' National Mobilization Endorsers' – national coalition of 215 organizations that mobilized one million protesters across the U.S. on May 1, 2006, for the Great American Boycott.
 We Are America Alliance – national network of hundreds of regional coalitions that mobilized 2 million protesters across the U.S. on April 10, 2006, and coordinated protests in the May 1 national protests
 El Paro and the Day Without and Immigrant Coalition (Philadelphia Region) Philadelphia regional coalition of dozens of organizations invited and mobilized thousands of protesters in 7 marches from February 14 to April 10, 2006.
 Kentucky Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights – Kentucky coalition that mobilized an estimated 10,000 people in downtown Lexington, Kentucky on April 10, 2006, with other mobilizations around the state.
 March 25 Coalition – Southern California-based coalition that mobilized 750,000 protesters in Los Angeles on March 25, 2006
 Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) – mobilized dozens of people in various counter-protests
 Minuteman Project – held sporadic counter-protests in some major US cities

Recruiting methods
Typically anti-illegal immigration movements focus on grassroots recruiting tactics; the Minutemen Civil Defense Corps and Minuteman Project use these methods to boost membership. After the 2006 immigration reform protest, anti-immigration movement participation increased by 600%.

Cooperation between anti-illegal immigration groups
Anti-illegal immigration groups often do not pursue the same agenda in the same ways; however, they do form coalitions when their agendas match other movements. One of the major joint efforts that these groups engage in is access to mailing lists for individuals who have donated money in the past to support the movement; Federation for American Immigration Reform and Minutemen Civil Defense Corps have shared lists of mailers with one another in recent years.

See also
 H.R. 4437
 Immigrant Nation! The Battle for the Dream, documentary movie
 March 2006 LAUSD student walkouts
 S. 2611
 United States immigration debate

References

External links
 Immigration Debate Resources – A website with education facts concerning the immigration debate

Conflicts in 2006
Immigration reform protests
Immigrant rights activism
Civil disobedience
Immigration to the United States
Mexican-American history
Protests in the United States
United States immigration reform
Protest marches in Chicago
Immigration-related protests
Hispanic and Latino American-related controversies