[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Independent Jewish Voices Canada

adians to discuss Israeli policies without fear of being accused of anti-Semitism
 To promote contacts with Muslims and Arabs in Canada and to demonstrate that we can work together for peace
 To oppose wars of aggression
 To work in solidarity with the peace movements and war resisters within Israel

Controversies
In 2009, a minor controversy ensued when the National Post publicized former IJV co-ordinator Diana Ralph's contribution of a chapter to The Hidden History of 9-11, in which she wrote that the attacks of September 11, 2001, were being used by the United States government as a pretext to "seize control of Eurasia, and thereby the entire world." She also wrote that "It is difficult to draw another conclusion than that Bush's associates organized the 9/11 attacks to kick-start popular support for this war" and that "The 'war on terror' is a concept modelled on Israel's assaults on Palestinians to provide a cover for campaigns of territorial conquest."

Howard Davidson, a member of the IJV steering committee, stated that Ralph's past has "nothing to do with the IJV" and that "The positions of Diana Ralph stated in those articles do not represent the positions of the IJV."

Shortly after the National Post article, Ralph stepped down as IJV's co-ordinator. She wrote a rebuttal to the allegations directed at her.

In February 2015, IJV linked to an article by anti-Zionist writer Alan Hart on its official Facebook and Twitter accounts. The link was to a version of the article that had been reposted on the far-right website Veterans Today, with an editor's note that contested the numbers of Jews that were killed in the Holocaust. B'nai Brith Canada accused IJV of thereby promoting Holocaust denial. IJV apologized, condemning the charge of Holocaust denial, and writing that they had been careless in not examining the editor's note and the Veterans Today website.

See also
Independent Jewish Voices (UK)
Independent Australian Jewish Voices

References

Further reading

Canadian Jewish News article
True Patriot Love - Jewish Dissent in Canada by ACJC founder Michael Benazon, Outlook, Nov/Dec 2005
Alliance of Concerned Jewish Canadians, The Jewish Grassroots Revolt.  Canadian Dimension. February 19, 2007.
 Jewish Canadian Coalition
 

Jewish anti-occupation groups
Non-governmental organizations involved in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict
Political advocacy groups in Canada
Jewish political organizations
Jewish organizations based in Canada