[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Deep Throats

"Deep Throats" is the 23rd episode of season four  of the television series Family Guy. It was written by Alex Borstein and directed by Greg Colton. Appalled at parking charges introduced by Mayor West, Brian decides to expose the corruption of the Mayor, despite the prospect of potentially destroying Meg's new career as the Mayor's intern. Meanwhile, Peter and Lois decide to participate in the Quahog community talent show with a folk singing act, as they did in the 1980s, but the couple becomes largely reliant on marijuana for inspiration and eventually fail the competition for their poor performance, despite their beliefs they were singing well when under the influence of the drugs.

Plot
Meg is employed as an intern for Mayor West after doing an interview with him. The family is impressed by this news, and Brian feels pressured that he is becoming the "new Meg" due to him not having a job. Brian decides to become a taxicab driver, but soon becomes intent on exposing the corruption of Mayor West after receiving a $400 parking ticket for parking his taxi in a handicapped zone. When discussing his corruption beliefs with Meg, she argues that Mayor West is a nice person and that Brian should drop it. Stewie, after learning of Brian's intentions, decides to help. After meeting in a parking lot with a whistleblower, Kermit the Frog, Brian discovers where Mayor West will be that night, and follows him to a motel with Stewie.

Spying on West through the motel wall, they discover he's in a romantic relationship with Meg. Seeing this as an ideal opportunity to take West down, Brian photographs the two together in romantic scenes and threatens to reveal them to the press. After Meg finds out, she confronts West, who says he and Meg should separate due to the negative press which will follow - because even though he's used to it, he does not want Meg's life to be ruined, stating how much he really cares about her. They separate, with Mayor West telling Meg that even though he's leaving her, he'll always love her. Brian, having secretly heard this, realizes he has made a mistake, destroys the images, and apologizes to Meg that he lost sight of what was really important. His taxicab, however, is destroyed by Cleveland, believing Brian refused to give him a ride.

Meanwhile, Peter and Lois decide to participate in a community talent show with a folk-singing act they did in the 1980s. They have a hard time, however, writing new songs and start to smoke marijuana for inspiration, annoying the family. At one point, Peter rips out a piece of his guitar with his teeth and eats it, and him and Lois lie on the sofa naked in front of Brian and Stewie. At the show, they initially appear to wow the entire crowd with their performance, but, later, they realize that they lost. Chris reveals he was in the audience and then explains that they were completely high and they just shouted "Aah!" to the crowd while plodding chords on the guitar before preaching the dangers of marijuana to Lois and Peter.

Production
It was originally intended for Mayor West to beat Meg up when she is applying for a job within his office, but the scene was never used. The clay cars sketch was not animated by the regular show producers, rather it was drawn by Eileen Colehep, a woman who attended college with show producer Seth MacFarlane. The voice of Bruce the performance artist was performed by Mike Henry, and was originally scheduled to last longer, but it was reduced for unknown reasons. The concept behind the storyline of Peter and Lois performing in pubs when they were younger relates to MacFarlane's father, who used to do stage performances in bars. When he was performing, the woman who was to be MacFarlane's mother, came into the bar and tracked his father down, asking for guitar lessons once she had found him. The song which Peter and Lois were singing when remembering their performances they hosted in their earlier years was created by Alec Sulkin and Patrick Megan, producers of Family Guy. Alex Borstein, voice actor of Lois Griffin had originally wanted Meg to be wearing a business outfit in the episode during her employment by Mayor West, but it was not used.

The episode marks the first time in the series that Stewie has expressed an attraction for Brian. The name of Peter and Lois' band was originally intended to be "Mouthful of Peter," but broadcasting standards insisted that the show producers change the name to "Handful of Peter." In response to this, MacFarlane comments that "a handjob is more acceptable than a blowjob." When performing for the Quahog Talent Competition, one of the lyrics to Peter and Lois' song was scheduled to be "God would do her from behind, even do it a second time," but it was never used. Sound mixer Patrick Clark organized the format of the credits, which were different from the regular set.