[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shanghai Campaign

In case of the defenders were successful in transferring materials away from the city, the attackers also prepared large amount of food and coal for the civilian population, and over 5,000 communist civilian cadres were also drafted to take over the administrative functions after the city was taken.

Order of battle 
Defenders: Republic of China Armed Forces order of battle:
 The 21st Army
 The 51st Army
 The 52nd Army
 The 54th Army
 The 75th Army
 The 123rd Army
 The 12th Army
 The 35th Army
 The 1st Naval District
 Air Force units
 5 Traffic Police Divisions

Attackers: People's Liberation Army order of battle:
 The 20th Army of the IX Corps
 The 23rd Army of the VII Corps
 The 25th Army of the VIII Corps
 The 26th Army of the X Corps
 The 27th Army of the IX Corps
 The 28th Army of the X Corps
 The 29th Army of the X Corps
 The 30th Army of the IX Corps
 The 31st Army of the IX Corps
 The 33rd Army of the X Corps
 The Artillery Column

First stage 
The campaign began on May 12, 1949, when the planned assaults on the outer defense perimeters of the city had begun.  Two days later, the communist IX Corps succeeded in taking regions included Pinghu, Jinshanwei (金山卫), Fengxian, Nanhui, Qingpu, Songjiang, threatened the flank of the defenders at Chuansha.  The nationalist 51st Army was forced to be redeployed from the city to strengthen the defense of Bailonggang (白龙港), Lin's Family's Pier (Linjia Matou, 林家码头) and other positions at outer defensive zones.  Meanwhile, the communist X Corps succeeded in taking Taicang, Kunshan, Jiading, and Liuhe, and continued their attack on Yuepu, Yanghang, and Liuhang.  However, from their concrete bunkers and with the help of naval and air support, the defenders held on and when the nationalist 99th Division of the 21st Army was redeployed from the city to Yuepu, Yanghang, and Liuhang for reinforcement, the defenders was able to beat back the attackers.

After the setback, the Communists adjusted their tactic by adopting small formations to take one bunker at a time, and with the rapid utilization of the experienced gained in fighting against the fortified positions consisted of concrete bunkers, the speed of attack was greatly accelerated.  By May 19, 1949, the communist X Corps had managed to take Yuepu and the International Broadcasting Station, and annihilated the defenders stationed at Liuhang.  Meanwhile, the communist IX Corps had managed to take Zhoupu (周浦) and Chuansha, and completely annihilated the nationalist 51st Army defending Bailonggang, and isolated the nationalist 12th Army at Gaoqiao, while cutting off the links between the nationalist 37 Army at Pudong with other nationalist units via land.

Second stage 
To secure the escape route via sea, the nationalist 75th Army was redeployed from the city to reinforce Gaoqiao, but after two armies and a division were withdrawn from the city to reinforce the positions of outer defensive perimeters, there was not enough force within the city to suppress the civilians who vehemently opposed the destruction of the city and organized themselves to protect infrastructure facilities within the city.  As a result, the nationalist plan of destroying the city and transferring the wealth was not carried out fully as it had planned.  The defenders' naval assets also faced great difficulties in that it was forced to fight on the attacker's turf: the inland riverine navigational channels were simply too narrow for the naval vessels to maneuver and they become sitting ducks for the communist's long range shore batteries.  After many extraordinarily brave but completely futile engagements by the outgunned nationalist naval assets which resulted in seven nationalist naval vessels damaged, it was painfully obvious that the naval asset must withdraw in the hopeless fights.  When the nationalist naval fleet was forced to withdraw on May 23, 1949, the communist's attempt to cut off the defenders' maritime escape route succeeded, and the sea to the east of Gaoqiao was blockaded by the PLA.

After ten days of fierce fighting, the defenders suffered more than 20,000 casualties and lost all of the positions in the outer defensive perimeters.  However, this might not be a bad thing because the defenders were able to concentrate their force in the city.  The attacking army was well aware of this situation and adjusted their tactic once again:  the 23rd Army of the communist VII Corps and the 25th Army of the communist VIII Corps were assigned to help the communist IX Corps and X Corps to take the city.