[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# George Boyd (footballer)

ub's regular season; playing in a 2–2 draw away at Scunthorpe United and scoring Forest's second goal. It was to be Boyd's last appearance of the season for Forest, as he did not play in the club's unsuccessful play-off campaign. He made six appearances during his time at the club, scoring one goal.

Return to Peterborough
Boyd returned to his parent club ahead of the 2010–11 season, with Peterborough competing in League One following the club's relegation from the Championship the previous season. Boyd agreed a new three-year contract with Peterborough on 10 July 2010. He scored in Peterborough's first match of the 2010–11 season, a 3–0 win against Bristol Rovers on 7 August 2010. He went on to score five goals in five matches throughout February and March, scoring once against Colchester United. This goal was followed by braces against Exeter City and Carlisle United respectively, although Boyd missed the chance to complete his hat-trick in the latter match when he missed a 90th-minute penalty. Three days later, on 15 March 2011, Boyd scored twice against Sheffield Wednesday in a 4–1 victory at Hillsborough. He made it eight goals in eight matches when he scored in Peterborough's 2–2 away draw at Bristol Rovers. Boyd played in all three of Peterborough's play-off fixtures, which included the whole match in the 2011 League One play-off final at Old Trafford as Peterborough beat Huddersfield Town 3–0 to earn promotion back to the Championship. During the club's campaign, Boyd scored 17 goals in 51 appearances.

Ahead of the 2011–12 season, Peterborough rejected two bids for Boyd from Burnley. He played in the club's first match of the season on 6 August 2011, playing the whole match as Peterborough secured a 2–1 victory over Crystal Palace on their return to the second tier of English football. He went on to score eight times during the season, making 48 appearances in all competitions, as Peterborough consolidated their position in the Championship. At the end of that season, Boyd rejected the offer of a contract extension at Peterborough with one year remaining on his current deal. Consequently, he was placed on the transfer list as part of the club's new transfer policy. Boyd remained transfer-listed for the remainder of his time at Peterborough. Despite this, he continued to play regularly, opening the 2012–13 season by scoring two goals in his first three appearances. In October 2012, Boyd scored his fourth and fifth goals of the season in a 3–1 home win over Huddersfield Town on 23 October 2012. His second goal during the match was a dipping volley from just inside the Huddersfield half, a goal that was described as "world-class".

In January 2013, Peterborough rejected a transfer bid from Nottingham Forest for Boyd, an offer that club chairman Darragh MacAnthony described as "derisory". Eight clubs had enquired about Boyd during the transfer window. Towards the end of the 2013 January transfer window, on 29 January 2013, Peterborough accepted an offer for Boyd from fellow Championship club Crystal Palace. A day later, several other Championship teams had improved transfer bids accepted, including Nottingham Forest, who met Peterborough's £500,000 valuation. Boyd opted to speak to Forest and agreed terms with them on 31 January 2013, only for the club to pull out of the deal two hours before the transfer deadline, stating Boyd had failed a medical due to an "inconclusive eye test". Peterborough's Director of football Barry Fry criticised Nottingham Forest's owners for pulling out of the deal to sign Boyd, and chairman MacAnthony said, "He's played 300 matches and scored from the halfway line the other month, but Forest say he has an eyesight problem. The whole thing stinks. Alex McLeish wanted to sign him. It's the most ridiculous thing that's happened to me." Peterborough subsequently said that with Boyd's contract expiring in the summer, they would be prepared to offer him a new contract or let him leave on loan when the emergency loan window opened, with at least one club having signalled their interest in signing him on a loan agreement.

Hull City