[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Lowry War

blacks. But this effort failed. It appears to have failed, furthermore, to a great extent because of the bold deeds of the Lowrys, which filled the Lumber River Indians with a new pride of race, and a new confidence that despite generations of defeat, revitalized their will to survive as a people."

Commemoration and remembrance 
The release of The Swamp Outlaws spurred numerous retrospective features on the Lowry War in books and newspapers throughout the late 1800s. Lowry is remembered by many Lumbee people as a folk hero and a Robin Hood-like figure, and his exploits have a prominent place in Lumbee folklore. As late as the 1930s, some Lumbees claimed he was living far away in Florida, Arizona, or Oklahoma but would occasionally visit Robeson County. Communications scholar Lorraine Ahearn wrote that the portrayal of the Lowry War in the confines of the "outlaw tropes" of the 1870s by the media helped establish its modern "mythic narrative" in the Lumbee community as a story of "Native American resistance to white supremacy". The Lumbee Tribe annually accords a person with the Henry Berry Lowry Award for distinguished community service.

The life of Henry Berry Lowry and the events of the war have been subject to fictional portrayal in several books and plays. In 1976 the Robeson County Historical Drama, Inc. produced a play dramatizing the life of Lowry, Strike At The Wind. Performances were conducted annually throughout the 1970s and 1980s in Pembroke as well as at the 1982 World's Fair in Knoxville, Tennessee. In the late 1990s and early 2000s shows became more sporadic due to financial costs. In 2007, North Carolina erected a highway historical marker in Pembroke to commemorate Lowry.

Notes

References

Bibliography 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Lumbee
Robeson County, North Carolina
1860s in North Carolina
1870s in North Carolina
Native Americans in the American Civil War
Aftermath of the American Civil War
Gangs in North Carolina
History of racism in North Carolina
North Carolina folklore
Riots and civil disorder in North Carolina
Riots and civil disorder during the Reconstruction Era
Feuds in the United States
Native American history of North Carolina