[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Luke Joyce

ge United. He scored two goals in 12 games for Andy Preece's side, who ended the 2008–09 season being relegated out of the Conference Premier. Nevertheless, he said he enjoyed his time at the Victoria Stadium, and upon returning to Carlisle he found that he was to be released by manager Greg Abbott.

Accrington Stanley
On 25 June 2009, Joyce signed with League Two club Accrington Stanley. He made 50 appearances in the 2009–10 season, scoring one goal. He featured 32 times in the 2010–11 campaign, helping "Accy" to reach the League Two play-offs for the first time, before they were beaten by Stevenage at the semi-final stage. He scored three goals in 47 matches as Stanley finished in 14th-place under the stewardship of Paul Cook at the end of the 2011–12 season; Joyce took over as captain following the departure of Andrew Procter in January 2012. He made 48 appearances across the 2012–13 campaign, with Stanley ending up in 18th-place under new boss Leam Richardson. Joyce played 49 games in the 2013–14 season as Accrington posted a 15th-place finish under the stewardship of rookie manager James Beattie. When the club were bottom of the English Football League in November after failing to win in their first 12 league games, Joyce stood by Beattie, calling him a "good manager and a good bloke". Two months later Beattie returned the favour by calling Joyce an "unsung hero" after he scored his first goal in 22 months to help secure a 2–1 victory over Cheltenham Town. John Coleman returned as manager early in the 2014–15 campaign and kept Joyce as captain, with the midfielder scoring four goals from 50 appearances. Joyce said "it has been an up and down season... overall, I guess it has been a decent season, we have secured our tenth season in the Football League and that's a massive achievement for the club the size of ours, but we are disappointed we haven't finished further up the league".

Return to Carlisle United
On 21 May 2015, Joyce turned down a two-year contract with Accrington to rejoin former club Carlisle United on a two-year deal. He made 42 appearances as United posted a tenth-place finish in League Two at the end of the 2015–16 season, though was booed and criticised by some supporters after suffering from poor form in March, which manager Keith Curle blamed on a "nervous period". He helped Carlisle to record a 2–1 win at Queens Park Rangers in the League Cup, before he missed a penalty in Carlisle's penalty shoot-out defeat to Liverpool at Anfield in the Third Round. Joyce went on to miss just one of Carlisle's 56 games during the 2016–17 season, as the club secured a play-off place with a sixth-place finish before losing to Exeter City in the play-off semi-finals. In the Second Round of the EFL Cup he helped Carlisle to secure a 1–1 draw at Derby County, and then remarkably converted two penalties as Carlisle were beaten 14–13 following 11 rounds of sudden death in the resulting penalty shoot-out. On 29 October, he scored with a long-range strike in a 3–1 home win over Crawley Town, which ended up winning him that month Goal of the Month award for League Two. In April 2017, it was confirmed that Joyce would remain at the club after triggering a one-year extension to his contract. He scored two goals – adding a tap in at Newport County to his strike against Crawley – in 46 appearances during the 2017–18 as Carlisle went on to finish in tenth-position, before leaving the club after rejecting a new 12-month deal on reduced terms offered to him by the managerless club.

Port Vale
On 17 May 2018, Joyce signed a two-year contract with League Two side Port Vale; manager Neil Aspin said that "he is comfortable in possession and was impressive against us for Carlisle". He chose to join the "Valiants" despite receiving a better contract offer from a club playing below the English Football League. He started the 2018–19 season in a central midfield partnership with Manny Oyeleke. However he lost his place to Tom Conlon after Conlon returned to fitness in September, and Joyce went on to admit that "I have not quite performed as well as I would like to and had the influence on games". He continued in indifferent form for the rest of Aspin's tenure and was given permission to look for a new club in January after going seven games without a first-team appearance, though started against Lincoln City on New Year's Day and remained in the first-team thereafter. He became a key player under new manager John Askey in February and ended the season with 35 starts and seven substitute appearances.