[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of the North Sea

c power and tied itself to Denmark.  After the so-called Count's Feud, a war of succession in Denmark, the Dutch were able to encroach upon the League's monopoly on Baltic trade and the reign of the Hanseatic League was at an end as the Netherlands became the center of the Northern European economy.

Renaissance
The Renaissance, a period of great cultural change and achievement in Europe that spanned the period from the end of the 14th century to about 1600, marking the transition between Medieval and Early Modern Europe.  The majority of commerce took place via maritime shipping due to undeveloped roadways between the 16th and 18th centuries.  The east coast of Great Britain operated several ports for intercontinental trade.  The European coastal ports supplied domestic goods, dyes, linen, metal products, salt and wine.  The Scandinavian and Baltic shoreline provided fish, grain, naval goods, and timber.  The Mediterranean area traded dyes, premium cloths, fruits and spices.  The Burgundian Netherlands, French Netherlands, Spanish Netherlands and Austrian Netherlands and German lands were a central focus situated on the banks of the North Sea or the English Channel. Antwerp experienced three booms during its golden age, the first based on the pepper market, a second launched by American silver coming from Seville (ending with the bankruptcy of Habsburg Spain in 1557), and a third boom, after the stabilising Treaty of Cateau-Cambresis, in 1559, based on the textiles industry becoming the second largest European city north of the Alps by 1560.

Early modern history

The Netherlands

In the 16th century, the Dutch Republic became the preeminent economic power in the world.  For the Dutch merchant marine the North Sea served more as a starting point for their oceanic voyages.  It had become the gateway and crucial outlet allowing Dutch merchants direct access to world markets.

During the Eighty Years' War, the Dutch Empire began a heavily invested worldwide trade – hunting whales around Svalbard, trading spices from India and Indonesia, founding colonies in Brazil, South Africa, North America (New Netherlands), and the Caribbean. The empire, which they accumulated through trade, led to the Dutch Golden Age in the 17th century. The Dutch fishing industry peaked in the early 17th century.  The Herring Buss improved harvest of herring, and the Dutch also expanded to cod and whale fisheries.

In 1651, England passed the Navigation Acts, which damaged Dutch trade interests. The disagreements concerning the Acts led to the First Anglo–Dutch War, which lasted from 1652–1654 and ended in the Treaty of Westminster (1654), whereby the Dutch were forced to recognize the acts.

In 1665 the English declared war on the Dutch once again, beginning the Second Anglo-Dutch War.  With the support of the French, who, between the war, had marched into the Spanish Netherlands—present day Belgium, the Dutch gained the upper hand.  In 1667, following Admiral de Ruyter's destruction of a large part of the British fleet on the Medway, the English and the Dutch signed the Treaty of Breda  The peace dictated that the English would take over administration of Dutch possessions in North America (present day New York City) while the Dutch would get Suriname from the English and were able to amend the Navigation Acts.

1672 is known in the Netherlands as "Rampjaar," the year of disaster.  England declared war on the Netherlands once again, beginning the Third Anglo-Dutch War, and were quickly followed by France, the Prince-Bishopric of Münster, and Electoral Cologne in an alliance against the Dutch.  The three continental allies advanced on the Netherlands while the landing of English Army troops along the coast was only barely prevented.  By flooding parts of the country, which lie below sea level, William of Orange was able to hold off further advances and a Dutch victory in the Battle of Solebay enabled the Dutch to sue for peace.  However, the ascension of the Dutch Prince William to the English throne, after overthrowing the Catholic Stuart dynasty, in the Glorious Revolution caused a dramatic shift in commercial, military, and political power from Amsterdam to London.
This shift combined with constant wars against a variety of foes and economic recession pushed the Netherlands out of the top tier of European powers by the end of the War of Spanish Succession.

England
England's climb to the pre-eminent sea power of the world began in 1588 as the attempted invasion of the Spanish Armada was defeated by the combination of outstanding naval tactics by the English under command of Sir Francis Drake and the breaking of the bad weather.  The strengthened English Navy waged several wars with their neighbors across the North Sea and by the end of the 17th century had erased the Dutch's previously world-spanning empire.