[Source: PubMed]

25. Global Health. 2026 Feb 7;22(1):28. doi: 10.1186/s12992-026-01192-1.

Addressing global health equity through Global Collaborative Evidence Networks: 
a narrative literature review of governance models, power and participation.

Pilla B(1), Porritt K(2), Jordan Z(2).

Author information:
(1)JBI, School of Public Health, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia. 
bianca.pilla@adelaide.edu.au.
(2)JBI, School of Public Health, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Global Health Equity is increasingly threatened by interconnected 
global crises that expose systemic inequities in health systems, global health 
governance and evidence infrastructures. Global Collaborative Evidence Networks 
have emerged as mechanisms for mobilising knowledge, fostering interdisciplinary 
collaboration, and supporting decision-making across diverse contexts to address 
Global Health Equity. However, their potential is constrained by persistent 
challenges related to governance, inclusion, and power asymmetries. This review 
critically examines the conceptual, structural, and governance dimensions of 
Global Collaborative Evidence Networks to assess their potential and limitations 
in advancing Global Health Equity.
METHODS: A narrative literature review was conducted in July 2024, searching 
PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, Embase, CINAHL, and grey literature sources. A 
thematic analysis of 162 included studies was conducted using Braun and Clarke's 
reflexive approach to identify themes and sub-themes.
RESULTS: The review found that while Global Health Equity has emerged as a key 
normative framework shaped by historical, political, and socio-economic 
structures, its operationalisation remains fragmented, particularly in global 
governance and research systems. Global Collaborative Evidence Networks, 
positioned as vehicles to advance Global Health Equity, demonstrate considerable 
potential yet often reproduce entrenched power asymmetries. Substantial gaps 
remain in how equity, diversity, and inclusion are conceptualised and 
operationalised within these networks. Although many promote shared purpose and 
trust-based collaboration, participation and influence often concentrated in 
high-income institutions, reinforcing systemic and resource asymmetries. Key 
tensions, such as between efficiency and inclusiveness, unity and diversity, and 
centralisation and decentralisation, shape governance dynamics and impact who 
benefits from network participation. Despite the proliferation of equity-focused 
frameworks in global health partnerships, none have been adapted for networks, 
and accountability mechanisms remain weak. Theoretical perspectives from network 
typologies and governance modes offer valuable perspectives but require 
integration with intersectional and decolonial approaches to address persistent 
power imbalances.
CONCLUSION: Global Collaborative Evidence Networks are a powerful mechanism for 
supporting and strengthening evidence-based decision-making to address global 
health inequities. However, they risk replicating existing inequities without 
deliberate, equity-centred governance. This review calls for the development of 
empirically grounded, context-sensitive frameworks to guide the equitable, 
diverse and inclusive design, evaluation, and governance of Global Collaborative 
Evidence Networks.

© 2026. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12992-026-01192-1
PMCID: PMC12977543
PMID: 41654843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.