[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 28]
# John F. Kennedy

was posthumously awarded the Pacem in Terris Award (Latin: Peace on Earth). It was named after a 1963 encyclical letter by Pope John XXIII that calls upon all people of goodwill to secure peace among all nations. Kennedy also posthumously received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1963.

Camelot

The term "Camelot" is often used to describe his presidency, reflecting both the mythic grandeur accorded Kennedy in death, and the powerful nostalgia that millions feel for that era of American history.  According to Richard Dean Burns and Joseph M. Siracusa, the most popular theme surrounding Kennedy's legacy is its replay of the legend of King Arthur and Camelot from medieval England. In the days after JFK's death, his widow Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy, who herself would play a central role in the myth, approached journalist Theodore H. White. Mrs. Kennedy emphasized an image that would shape the adoring memory of JFK and his administration, highlighting the president's love for the popular Broadway musical Camelot. She emphasized how her husband loved the music of Alan Jay Lerner, a former classmate of his. Mrs. Kennedy claimed that JFK admired heroes like King Arthur, presenting him as an idealist, although White knew this to be untrue. In her attempt to convey a positive message during a tragic event, she quoted her husband as repeating the end of the "Camelot" show: said, "There will be great presidents again, but there will never be another Camelot." White's influential essay, which included the Camelot story, was published in a special commemorative issue of Life magazine on December 3, 1963, reaching over 30 million people. To the grieving public, this uplifting message seemed logical. After all, JFK, the youngest person to enter the White House, displayed intelligence, articulation, and humor. Furthermore, his young, beautiful wife, who was revered internationally, along with his famous family, made it easy to associate Kennedy with the legend of King Arthur. Later, White expressed regret for his role in popularizing the Camelot myth. Over the years, critics, especially historians, have mocked the Camelot myth as a distortion of JFK's actions, beliefs, and policies. However, in the public memory, the years of Kennedy's presidency are still seen as a brief, brilliant, and shining moment.

Memorials and eponyms

A small sample of the extensive list at the main article (link above) includes:
 Idlewild Airport in Queens, New York City, nation's busiest international gateway, renamed John F. Kennedy International Airport on December 24, 1963
 NASA Launch Operations Center in Merritt Island, Florida named the John F. Kennedy Space Center on November 29, 1963.
 , U.S. Navy aircraft carrier ordered in April 1964, launched May 1967, decommissioned August 2007; nicknamed "Big John"
 Kennedy half dollar, first minted in 1964
 John F. Kennedy School of Government, part of Harvard University, renamed in 1966
 John F. Kennedy Federal Building in the Government Center section of Boston, opened in 1966
 John Fitzgerald Kennedy Memorial, opened in 1970 in Dallas
 National cultural center was named John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in 1964, opened in 1971 in Washington, D.C.
 John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum on Columbia Point in Boston; opened in 1979
 Statue of John F. Kennedy by Isabel McIlvain on the grounds of the Massachusetts State House in Boston; dedicated on May 29, 1990.
 , U.S. Navy aircraft carrier that began construction in 2011, and was scheduled to be placed in commission in 2020

Works

Books

Select speeches

See also

 Cultural depictions of John F. Kennedy
 Presidential transition of John F. Kennedy
 Electoral history of John F. Kennedy
 1960 United States presidential debates
 Kennedy Doctrine
 Lincoln–Kennedy coincidences urban legend
 List of memorials to John F. Kennedy
 "Senator, you're no Jack Kennedy" retort by Senator Lloyd Bentsen, 1988 VP debate
 Timeline of the presidency of John F. Kennedy
 Zapruder film

General

 History of the United States (1945–1964)
 List of United States presidential assassination attempts and plots
 Presidents of the United States on U.S. postage stamps

Notes

References

Citations

Works cited

Further reading