[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Proposed states and union territories of India

egion, the state government has established a Western Odisha Development Council (WODC). A significant budget is allotted to this council from the total budget of Odisha. However, the WODC headquarters is located in the state capital Bhubaneswar rather than in Western Odisha.

Punjab

Greater Punjab

There have been continuous demand raised by Punjab mainstream Akali Dal politicians to Central Government of India to merge the neighbouring Punjabi-speaking areas of Himachal Pradesh (most particularly Una, Kangra, Solan), Haryana's (Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Sirsa, Fatehabad), and Chandigarh city to current Punjab, India. Akali Dal leaders have further demanded the neighbouring Punjabi-speaking areas of Rajasthan as well (most particularly the Hanumangarh and Sri Ganganagar districts).

Rajasthan

Maru Pradesh 

Maru Pradesh
 (मरुप्रदेश) is a proposed desert state in North West India, to be carved out from the state of Rajasthan. The proposed state consists of the Barmer district, Jaisalmer district, Bikaner district, Churu district, Ganganagar district, Hanumangarh district, Jhunjhunu district, Jodhpur district, Nagaur district, Pali district, Jalore district, Sirohi district, and Sikar district.

When the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee created three new states in the year 2000, Bhairon Singh Shekhawat wrote a letter saying that for the development of the state of Rajasthan and the internal security of the country, two parts of the state were go done.

Tamil Nadu

Kongu Nadu

There have been demands for the formation of a Kongu Nadu state by bifurcating Tamil Nadu. In 2021 the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Coimbatore North district demanded separate statehood to Kongu Nadu. Kongunadu Munnetra Kazhagam party has supported the statehood demand. The DMK has opposed the move. Though it haven't got any momentum from general public of Kongu nadu region

Tripura

Tipraland

Tipraland is the name of a proposed state in India. The formation of "Tipraland", a state within the TTAADC, under articles 2 and 3 of the Indian Constitution, is demanded by the Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT) as part of their political agenda. Another registered regional political party, Tipraland State Party (TSP) also demanded statehood for Tipraland.

The Kingdom of Tripura was a kingdom ruled by the Manikya Dynasty. Its first king was Maha Manikya, who ruled the kingdom in the early 15th century. The earlier kings are partly mythological and partly legendary or semi-legendary. The penultimate king was Maharaja Bir Bikram Kishore Debbarman Manikya Bahadur. After his death in 1947, the princely state of Tripura joined India as a Part C State on 15 October 1949 under the name Tripura, and later achieved statehood on 21 January 1972.

Historically, the rulers of Tripura's Manikya dynasty had always encouraged the immigration of and settlement of non-tribals to Tripura, especially Bengalis. Rajmala authenticates the fact that Ratna Manikya (1464-1468) was the first to "settle 4,000 Bengalis in four places" in Tripura. During the Noakhali riots in 1946, many Bengali Hindu survivors were sheltered in temporary relief camps in Comilla, Chandpur, Agartala (the present capital of Tripura), and other places. A large migration of Bengali Hindus and Muslims took place in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, and other places during the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971. The indigenous Tipra people demanded an autonomous district, which they finally achieved on 23 March 1979 in the form of the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC).

Uttar Pradesh
At least four states have been proposed to be carved out of Uttar Pradesh.

Awadh Pradesh
The population of a proposed Awadh state, consisting of Awadhi-speaking districts of central Uttar Pradesh, would be approximately 50 million people with an area of approximately 75,000 km2 and Lucknow as the capital.

Braj Pradesh and Harit Pradesh/Pashchim Pradesh
Harit Pradesh is a proposed state with Meerut as proposed capital. Even B.R. Ambedkar proposed Uttar Pradesh to be split in 3 separate states, with Meerut as capital for western Uttar Pradesh. Ambedkar proposes that the state of U.P. must be divided into three states, with each region having the centrally located Meerut, Cawnpore (now Kanpur), and Allahabad in these regions as their respective capitals. The states would thereby have an estimated population of 2 crores each, facilitating smoother administration.