[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arthur Kroeger College of Public Affairs

ations and a complimentary printer.  The computer lab is accessible through a secured exterior door outside of business hours.  The College is also home to the Donald J. Carty Boardroom, which hosts meetings of the College administration and seminars for Public Affairs and Policy Management courses.

Leadership 
College Director
 Eileen Saunders (1999–2007)
 Christopher Dornan (2007–2013)
 J. Barry Wright (2013–2018)
 Mary Francoli (2018–present)
Program Director, Bachelor of Global & International Studies
Chris Brown (2015–2018)
Neil Gerlach (2018–present)
Program Director, Bachelor of Public Affairs & Policy Management
Lisa Mills (2018–present)
Program Director, Master of Political Management
Stephen Azzi (2012–present)
Program Director,  Migration and Diaspora Studies
James Casteel (2019–present)

Undergraduate programs

Bachelor of Public Affairs and Policy Management 
The Bachelor of Public Affairs and Policy Management (BPAPM) is a competitive, specialized four-year Honours degree that focuses on studying public policy and public administration through an interdisciplinary framework. For much of the College's existence, the BPAPM has been its flagship program. Compared to similar programs at Carleton, the program has higher admission requirements and limited enrollment, with typical first year cohorts not exceeding 120 students.

Academics 

Students completing a Bachelor of Public Affairs and Policy Management are required to complete core courses throughout their undergraduate career. Course content covers topics such as political and economic theory, public policy analysis, program evaluation, research methods, and organizational theory. Depending on a student’s specialization, other coursework encompasses fields such as law, political science, business, economics, sociology, and political science. Students must complete courses in French language reflecting an intermediate proficiency in the language by their graduation.

In their fourth year, students must complete a semester-long (0.5 credit) Capstone Seminar, in addition to an Honours Research Essay (HRE) in order to graduate. Students typically conduct research in a field related to their specialization to complete their HRE.

Areas of specialization

Former specializations
Prior to September 2016, the Public Affairs and Policy Management offered seven specializations to students:. Students admitted prior to the 2016-17 academic year retain these specializations throughout their courses and during graduation.

Communication and Information Technology Policy
Development Studies
Human Rights
International Studies
Public Policy and Administration
Social Policy
Strategic Public Opinion & Policy Analysis

Current specializations
Beginning in the 2016-17 academic year, upon entering their second year, students in the Public Affairs and Policy Management program are required to choose a specialization, in addition to a narrower Policy Stream within their specified field of study. This change was prompted by a growing desire among students for a more personalized learning experience better suited toward their career needs and research interests within the program.

Communication and Policy Studies
Communication Technologies Regulation
Strategic Public Opinion
Development Policy Studies
Rights and Human Development
Global Economic Relations
International Policy Studies
International Relations & Conflict
Security and Intelligence
Public Policy & Administration 
Economic Policy
Social Policy
Environmental & Sustainable Energy Policy

Experiential learning 
Students can complete a co-op designation as a part of their degree. This offers students the ability to gain valuable experience working directly in public policy and administration. Carleton's location in Ottawa ideal for allowing students to access opportunities within the Government of Canada, non-profit organizations, research firms, and consulting groups. Many students, following the completion of their summer terms, are occasionally retained for part-time work during study terms. To graduate with co-op designation, it requires three four-month work terms, with the option for a fourth term. With the work-study schedule for B.PAPM, graduating with the co-op designation can take an additional 1-3 semesters to complete the program, dependent on course requirements and the number of work terms.

Student experience and alumni 
The Bachelor of Public Affairs and Policy Management is consistently regarded as one of Carleton's top undergraduate programs, alongside Journalism, Architecture, Global and International Studies, and International Business. Students in the program continue to be recognized for their academic merit. Since 2012, six PAPM students have been awarded the prestigious Killam Undergraduate Fellowship by Fulbright Canada for academic exchange in the United States.