[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

just in case they do". Meanwhile, he kept informed about the round-up of former Romanian Police cadres, including old prison guards. By September 1949, 870 of them had been sent to Târgșor Prison, where they maintained fervent (but unrealistic) beliefs about a coming American liberation of Romania.

From September 15, 1949, Pintilie was also a junior minister at Internal Affairs. The focus of is preoccupation soon turned back to cadre policy. During April, he had expelled Sublieutenant Ioan Moldovan, whose issues with alcohol and violence had become public and embarrassing after his drunken assault on a member of the Workers' Youth. Faced with various other such cases, in February 1951 Minister Georgescu authorized Pintilie to carry out all screening for ranks below that of Major. As Pintilie had explained the previous year, the inner-Securitate crackdown was also directed toward manifestations of spirituality: "We should look into all cases, the cross-wearers and so on, and then we, as well as the rest of our comrades, we should let these other comrades know that, well okay, we won't hold this against you, but [...] the Securitate has no place for you." In October 1951, he sacked Securitate officer Gheorghe Șendroiu, who had been exposed as a former affiliate of the Christian missionary group Oastea Domnului. The matter of dealing with religious organizations fell on DGSP Major Heinz Stănescu, one of the few educated officers in the force. The Directorate suffered an embarrassment in May 1952, when Stănescu was caught attempting to have unconsensual sex with a male civilian. Pintilie had him demoted and sent to work as a foreman at Bicaz; Stănescu was released in 1953, and began his academic career as a philologist (while serving Pintilie as an informant). 

Accolades received by General Pintilie included Ordinul Muncii, First Class, in 1949. In late May 1952, shortly before taking over as Interior Minister, Drăghici deplored the ill-preparedness of Securitate officers, though also noting that Pintilie, "sent to us from the outside", was a laudable exception. As the DGSP's junior Director of Inquiries, Tudor Dincă was disconcerted by his own staff's "frightful" linguistic and literary incompetence—however, as noted by historian Florian Banu, Pintilie displayed similar clumsiness, addressing his colleagues in ungrammatical sentences. As recounted by one of the young Securitate cadres who underwent training during that year, Soviet advisers instructed them to view Pintilie as the organizational "father", showing them pictures of his face. The same source reports that meeting Pintilie in person was disappointing: speaking a language that was "archaic, uneducated, riddled with vulgarities", he also looked "prematurely aged" by chain-smoking and continuously binging on vodka, never going home to his wife before 2 AM. Rumor had it that the Lieutenant General had once commandeered a boxcar-load of Plugar cigarettes for his personal use.

Pushing for atrocities

According to various accounts, Pintilie was by then tasked with carrying out some of the major terror campaigns and political purges that reshaped Romanian society between 1948 and 1964. In 1950, shortly after taking over as junior minister, he signed Order 100, which established a nation-wide system of labor camps, designed to "reeducate inimical elements", preparing them for "social life within a people's democracy". The order specifically targeted members of those churches and new religious movements that still refused to recognize communist supremacy (see Anti-religious campaign of Communist Romania). As historian Doina Jela notes, he was personally invested, "from the shadows", in "destroying Romania's democratic institutions, as well as in the physical liquidation of its political, economic, cultural and social leaders." 

Ion Mihai Pacepa, the Securitate spy master and anti-communist defector, reflects that: "Pantiușa's signature was enough grounds for authorizing the Securitate to arrest any person, to confiscate assets, to deport, to sentence, to execute any person that they labeled a 'counterrevolutionary'. Pantiușa's two subordinates could send anyone into the labor camps." He notes that Pintilie countersigned most deportations on the Danube–Black Sea Canal, as well as the "infamous judicial travesties [...] that have seen the near-liquidation of the Romanian intelligentsia". The Lieutenant General put in place a commission which both proposed and reviewed terms of imprisonment in the labor camps, on a weekly basis, resulting in the geographic "dislocation" of some 11,000 "undesirables" during 1952–1953. In July 1952, after consulting with Nicolschi, Pintilie issued arrest warrants for 417,916 people (some of whom were no longer alive or present in the country); over 130,000 of these were solely targeted for their membership in religious organizations, while 100,000 more were divided between the old regime's political parties.