[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ashok Gehlot

The scheme was made available to two animals per family, taking total benefits to ₹ 80,000. This scheme, like many others were distributed at the instance of Gehlot through 2,500 Inflation relief camps running across the state, aiming to deliver ten flagship scheme of Gehlot's government to people.

Leadership
Gehlot is known for his political acumen and most often, he is referred to as magician (jadugar) by his party colleagues. In 2022, Gehlot was reported to have ensured victory of three Indian National Congress candidate in Rajya Sabha polls, which were being conducted on four seats in the state. While ensuring that horse trading couldn't happen, he also cornered votes of some of the independent electors, who didn't share affiliation with any political party, to vote in favour of Congress candidates. Pramod Tiwari, the Rajya Sabha member from Rajasthan, credited Gehlot for his political acumen after his victory in 2022 polls. In 2023, prior to Rajasthan Legislative Assembly elections, Gehlot claimed in a public address at Dholpur, that three Bharatiya Janata Party MLAs, which included former Chief Minister of Rajasthan, Vasundhara Raje and Dholpur MLA, Shobha Rani Kushwaha, helped him save his government from being toppled down in 2020, by some rebel leaders of his own party. However, Raje responded to Gehlot's claim by accusing him of plotting conspiracy against her to create distrust between herself and BJP leadership of state. Gehlot's first stint as Chief Minister was witnessed in 1998, the year, which also saw rise of Sonia Gandhi to the presidency of Indian National Congress. In the election held that year, Jat community is reported to have thrown its weight behind Indian National Congress, as the face of party was veteran leader Parasram Maderna, a member of Jat community. Maderna was also one of the contender for the post of Chief Minister then and Jat community had supported Congress, in a bid to get a Chief Minister from their own community. However, Gehlot was able to sideline Maderna, to create a space for him for the premiership of state. Decades later, Gehlot faced similar situation in his political career, when next generation Congress leader, Sachin Pilot opposed him and tried to assume leadership, like Gehlot did to Maderna. However, according to senior journalist and political analyst, Rajendra Bora: " It was Gehlot's political manoeuvre, which helped him save his position, and he refused to give way to next generation leaders to rise up in state politics." It is opined by political analysts that post his rise in Rajasthan as face of Indian National Congress, Gehlot never allowed alternative leadership to develop in the party.

Veteran journalist and political analyst, Narayan Bareth believes that Gehlot is considered as their biggest political adversary by the Jat leadership of the state of Rajasthan. Ever since his appointment as Chief Minister of State, the political future of two biggest Jat families, which had considerable say in the state's politics, was foredoomed. The Mirdha and Maderna political families, which belonged to Jat community were reduced to insignificant position in the politics of state. While the Mirdhas over the time became non important political entity, Maderna family's political clout was destroyed due to Mahipal Maderna's sex scandal, after which he was sacked from ministry by Gehlot. Gehlot however claims that he has no role in political future of Jat leadership of state. It is also admitted by some political analysts that Gehlot, besides playing political manoeuvre, is apt at handing the crisis situation through deliberations. During Gurjar agitation in state, when Gurjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla came to meet him, Gehlot gave him a portrait of Martin Luther King and persuaded him that the law and order situation shouldn't be distributed during the agitation. It is also alleged that in the Bhanwari Devi murder case, despite knowing that she was blackmailing the Water Resource minister of state, Mahipal Maderna, Gehlot didn't take any step, which resulted in murder of Devi and Maderna along with other convicts were sacked; his conviction, further led to fall in his political graph. Gehlot's political opponent, Vasundhara Raje have also exploited the anguish of Jats against him, as Raje herself is married into Dholpur royal family, which belonged to Jats. It is opined that Congress failed to repeat the electoral victory like 1998 as the support of Jat community to it ceased to exist like earlier, due to Gehlot becoming the Chief Minister in 1998, after sidelining Parasram Maderna.