[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Naka-Meguro Station

is a railway station in Meguro, Tokyo, Japan, jointly operated by Tokyu Corporation and Tokyo Metro. Despite its name, the station is not located in Nakameguro, but in the neighboring Kamimeguro district.

Lines 
Naka-meguro Station is served by the following lines:
 Tōkyū Tōyoko Line
 Tokyo Metro Hibiya Line

Naka-meguro Station serves as the transfer point between the Tōkyū Tōyoko Line and the Tokyo Metro Hibiya Line, connecting Yokohama with the districts of Roppongi, Akihabara, Ginza, and Tsukiji in Tokyo, and beyond. The Tōyoko Line continues towards Yokohama, to the districts of Minato Mirai 21, Chinatown, and Motomachi via the Minato Mirai Line.

Station layout 
The station is composed of two island platforms serving a total of four platforms. Tokyu and Tokyo Metro share the same station grounds and platforms. Trains bound for the Hibiya Line use the inner two platforms and tracks, while Tokyu Toyoko Line trains use the outside two platforms and tracks.

Platforms

History 

 The station opened on 28 August 1927. It has always been elevated.
 On 22 July 1964, the Hibiya Line was extended to Naka-meguro Station as the terminus of the line at the time from Kasumigaseki.
 Services between  and  (on the Tobu Skytree Line) began on 29 August that year. At the same time, the station became an express stop.
 The Naka-Meguro train disaster occurred on 8 March 2000.
 The station became a limited express and commuter limited express stop on 19 March 2003.
 On 16 March 2013, the Tokyu Toyoko Line began through services with Tokyo Metro Fukutoshin Line. Consequently, Tokyu Toyoko Line's through service with Tokyo Metro Hibiya Line at this station was discontinued. All Hibiya Line trains now terminate at this station.

References

External links 

 Tokyu Naka-meguro Station 
 Tokyo Metro Naka-meguro Station 
 Tokyo Metro Naka-meguro Station 

Railway stations in Japan opened in 1927
Railway stations in Tokyo
Stations of Tokyo Metro
Stations of Tokyu Corporation
Tokyo Metro Hibiya Line
Tokyu Toyoko Line