[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Soraya Serajeddini

time, Soraya began to understand the reality of the Kurdish condition in Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Turkey. This perspective, combined with the ambition and intelligence nurtured in her childhood, would become the foundation for her later career as an advocate for the Kurdish people.

Arrival to the USA

Soraya was the first of her immediate family to leave Iraq and pursue an education in the West. She decided to move to San Francisco due to the amount of her extended family that was already living there. She moved there in 1982 to attend San Francisco State University where she lived for two years before transferring to Northeastern University of Boston in 1984, where in 1987 she graduated with a BS in Electrical Engineering. Her mother is quoted as saying, upon Soraya's graduation, that “now that you have a trade, you can begin your education”.

	During her time in San Francisco, she met Thomas Ver Ploeg. The two of them moved to Boston together, and were married in September 1987. Both of Soraya's parents insisted that she finish her education regardless of marital status, and also urged Thomas to travel to Istanbul to seek a blessing for the marriage from Sheikh Osman, which he did by himself shortly before their wedding.

	Once married, Thomas and Soraya spent several years in Boston before moving back to California in 1990, this time to the city of San Jose. Their first son, Aveen, was born on October 12, 1994. Their second son, Daryan, was born on July 11, 1996. The family lived in San Jose until 2004 when they moved to a home in Maryland, close to Washington, D.C., for political proximity.

Political Career and the KNC

	Since she was 17, Soraya had been involved in political movements whenever they defended human rights. After experiencing the trauma of her family escaping prosecution in Iran, she began to understand the need for advocacy on behalf of the Kurds. In 1988, Saddam Hussein massacred the Kurdish village of Halabja, using chemical weapons to kill more than 5,000 civilians, including at least 30 of Soraya's relatives. Their only crime, according to Soraya, was “being born with the curse of Kurdish identity”. Having spent her entire life watching the persecution and marginalization of her people, Soraya and Thomas began their lives as advocates by attending the Kurdish National Congress beginning in 1990.

	Initially, both of them held relatively low-profile positions within the KNC, as Soraya did not want to draw unnecessary (and possibly dangerous) attention to herself or her family. However, both Thomas and Soraya began to become more involved in the early 2000s and by the time of her death Soraya served as the Executive Vice President of the organization.

	During this period of time, Soraya also became a more vocal advocate for her cause, often appearing on television news and other outlets as a speaker. By 2002, she was frequently meeting with various media sources to discuss Kurdish matters. She was known as an extremely eloquent speaker who would leave an impression on any audience, and so was often picked as a spokesperson for various KNC functions.

	In November 2005, Soraya traveled to Kurdistan of Iraq in order to chair a conference on the topic of Kurdish independence. She served as vice chair for the 4 day conference in which the North American KNC met with local politicians to discuss prospects for an independent Kurdistan. Then, in January 2006, she contributed to the creation of a committee entitled “Democracy and Freedom for All Iranian and Kurdish Human and National Rights”. Due to her efforts, this committee was able to hold its first meeting in the US Congress building. In March 2006, she was instrumental in organizing a conference entitled “Democracy and Freedom in Syria and Syrian Kurdish Human and National Rights”.

Legacy

	On the 24th of July 2006, Soraya died suddenly of a severe asthma attack. At the time, the only one present was her sister Shawnem. 
	On the 29th of July both a private, traditionally Islamic service in Falls Church, Virginia, and a memorial service in Millersville, Maryland were held. These services were attended by friends and family from all levels of society, and the procession included taxi drivers alongside presidential families. The funeral was accompanied by worldwide memorials, internet traffic, and Kurdish news coverage while constant phone calls from around the world rang at their Maryland home with messages of sympathy and condolences.

	In the words of a colleague of Soraya's, Professor Asad Khalainy, “the departure of Soraya is not only a great loss for her family, KNC, and Kurdish people but also for all peace-loving people, and all those seeking equal rights for women and justice, democracy, human rights, and national rights for all”.