[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Halhul

tribes families, Al Saadeh, Karjah, Al Zma'ra, and Al Doudah, in addition to Palestinians who settled in Halhul as a result of forceful dislocation in 1948 and 1967, from surrounding villages and towns.

The health of the city residents and local villagers is serviced by many hospitals and clinics.

Government 
In 1976 an election held and lead to the election of Mohammad Milhem as Mayor of Halhul, who served around 28 years.  In 2004 new election held under Palestinian Authority, lead to the election of 13 Council members who elected Raed A Al Adarsh as the new Mayor of Halhul, who managed to restructure and modernize the municipality, After Raed Al Atrash's resignation, the council elected his deputy Zeyad Abu Yousef as new Mayor. Lately, In 2017, an election lead to the election of Hijazi Moreb as the new Mayor who is still serving, Hijazi is a long-serving council member since 2004.

Notable people 
Ali Abu Awwad, peace activist and pacifist
Mohammed Milhim, former mayor

References

Bibliography 

 
Chomsky, N., "Scenes from the Uprising" . Z Magazine, July 1988

 

 

 

 
  (p. 186)
 (pp. 278)
 (Sharon, 2013, p.  278)

External links
www.halhul-city.ps
 Welcome To The City of Halhul
Halhul, Welcome to Palestine
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 21:  IAA, Wikimedia commons 
Halhul Town (Fact Sheet), Applied Research Institute–Jerusalem (ARIJ)
Halhul Town Profile, ARIJ
Halhul Town aerial photo, ARIJ
The priorities and needs for development in Halhul town based on the community and local authorities’ assessment, ARIJ
Nebbi Yunas photo (black and white) by Nissim Krispil
The priorities and needs for development in Halhul town based on the community and local authorities’ assessment
images of Halhul town in the 1920s
Fi Filastin: Madinat Halhul. A video showing the ancient remnants and beautiful nature surrounding Halhul, and complaining against the remains of past Israeli presence. (Arabic)
Driving through Halhul video on YouTube
Halhul panoramic video including a bit on recent history. From a house in Halhul you can see The Dead Sea, Hebron, Kiryat Arba, Bethlehem, Jerusalem, Tel Aviv-Yafo and Gaza. 
Israeli rubbish sold at Halhul flea market. About the financial situation in the Middle East as seen in Halhul (YouTube, Israel TV, Arabic with Hebrew narration and subtitles)
April 2009 activities of Taayush for tilling land near Karmei Tzur.

Ancient Jewish settlements of Judaea
Cities in the West Bank
Hebron Governorate
Historic Jewish communities
Canaanite cities
Hebrew Bible cities
Municipalities of the State of Palestine