[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# City and Town Hall (Rochelle, Illinois)

r elevations have decorative metal brackets and a brick entablature with dentils beneath the metal eaves. Each of the exterior corners of the building are adorned with white brick quoins. The City and Town Hall's original hip roof was metal, it has since been replaced with asphalt roofing materials.

The first floor's north facade is adorned with two double-hung windows with projecting segmented arch crowns and stone sills. Also on the north facade is the original main public entry door and an arched transom window. The window and door treatments throughout the exterior are similar to those found on the first floor's north facade. The fire station doors, which were replaced after the fire station first moved from the building in 1931 and again in 1954, were eventually restored.

On the rear (south) facade is an attached one story structure that housed the men's jail cells. On its west facade the original steel and wood door is still extant and on its south facade there are three windows complete with metal bars. All of the jail building's windows and doors feature arched brick crowns, a theme repeating from the two-story portion of the structure. While the brick entablature and dentil work both reflect the main two-story building, the jail building lacks the overhanging eaves and brackets. The rear elevation of the main building has one second floor window.

The original first floor layout contained room for the police station, fire station and, in 1891, the library. The building's vault was, and is, located near-center of the first floor. The original fire station occupied the entire east half of the building. At the rear (south) elevation is a one-story attached structure with its own entrance. It housed the jail cells in the original building and two cells are still intact. The entire second floor in the original 1884 floor plan was occupied by a meeting room save space for two small closets and the stairwell.

Significance
The City and Town Hall is most significant for its use as a public, governmental building. The period of greatest significance for the City and Town Hall is 1885–1942, between those years the building housed numerous governmental and political entities, at the local, state and national levels. Besides serving as the Rochelle City Council chambers from 1884 to 1968, the building housed many entities including: the fire station (1884–1930), police station and jail (1884–1931), township board and meeting rooms (1884–1968), and the library (1891–1912). Offices in the building have been utilized by a mayor, a federal marshal, a driver's license examining facility, a Social Security office, the Works Progress Administration office, probation officers and the unemployment office, among others.

In 1972, the Illinois Historic Sites Survey Inventory cited the building for its significance in two areas, architecture and education. The May 1972 survey form stated that its use as a public building from 1884 to 1970 and its current use as a museum justified its significance in these areas.

See also
Flagg Township Public Library
William H. Holcomb House

Notes

External links

Flagg Township Museum
Property Information Report: City and Town Hall, Illinois Historic Preservation Agency

Government buildings completed in 1884
National Register of Historic Places in Ogle County, Illinois
Works Progress Administration in Illinois
City and town halls on the National Register of Historic Places in Illinois
City and town halls in Illinois
Rochelle, Illinois