[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Presbyterian Church (USA) disinvestment from Israel controversy

ility Through Investment named five companies for initial focus and that it would engage in "progressive engagement" with the companies' management.  The five companies, all based in the United States, were the following: Caterpillar Inc., Citigroup, ITT Industries, Motorola and United Technologies.

General Assembly Council response to criticism
In response, the PC(USA) General Assembly Council claimed that the PCUSA has "approved numerous resolutions on Israel and Palestine, repeatedly affirming, clearly and unequivocally, Israelis right to exist within permanent, recognized, and 'secure' borders". The PC(USA) was not founded until 1983, but its predecessor denominations, the UPCUSA ("Northern" church) and PCUS ("Southern" church) made several official statements on the issue. The Northern church recognized Israel's right to exist occurred in 1974. Both the PCUS and UPCUSA expressed their official support of the two-state solution in 1978 in response to the Sadat/Begin/Carter negotiations. Since then, the General Assembly of the reunited PC(USA) reaffirmed its support of a two-state solution in 1983, 1984, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1990, 1992, 1995, 1998, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003. Of concern to some were calls by the PC(USA) for the Israeli government "to address justly the issue of the right of return for Palestinian refugees", which is a controversial issue. Resolutions endorsing a Palestinian right of return also passed the PC(USA) General Assembly in 2003 and 2004. A former Moderator of the General Assembly, Dr. Fahed Abu-Akel, has long endorsed a Palestinian "right of return".

Change of policy in 2006
In June 2006, the Presbyterian Church (USA) 217th General Assembly overwhelmingly (483–28) replaced language adopted in 2004 that focused on the "phased, selective divestment" specifically on companies working in Israel. The new language clarified that the church should pursue its aims through the customary engagement process of its Committee on Mission Responsibility Through Investment, which can include divestment but only as a last resort. The new resolution required the consideration of "practical realities", a "commitment to positive outcomes", and an awareness of the potential impact of strategies on "both the Israeli and Palestinian economies". The 2006 resolution also recognized Israel's right to build a security barrier along its pre-1967 boundaries. The General Assembly acknowledged the "hurt and misunderstanding among many members of the Jewish community and within our Presbyterian communion" that resulted from the 2004 resolution and stated that the Assembly was "grieved by the pain that this has caused, accept responsibility for the flaws in our process, and ask for a new season of mutual understanding and dialogue".

Reaction to change in policies
After the 2006 Presbyterian Church (USA) General Assembly in Birmingham, advocacy groups on differing sides of the Israel-Palestine issue praised the resolution.  Groups supporting the Israelis, who had written General Assembly commissioners to express their concerns about a corporate engagement/divestment strategy focused on Israel,  praised the new resolution, saying that it reflected the church stepping back from a policy that singled out companies working in Israel.  Groups supporting the Palestinians said that the church maintained the opportunity to engage and potentially divest from companies that support the Israeli occupation, because such support would be considered inappropriate according to the customary MRTI process.

Vigilance against anti-Jewish ideas and bias

In May 2008, the Interfaith Office of the PC(USA) issued a statement titled Vigilance against anti-Jewish ideas and bias. This document stated that "Once again, many Presbyterians have become aware that strains of an old anti-Jewish tradition are present in the way we ourselves sometimes speak and in the rhetoric and ideas of some writers that we may read regarding" the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The statement reports that examples of "anti-Jewish theology can unfortunately be found in connection with PC(USA) General Assembly overtures".

In June 2008 the church revised the document extensively. This resulted in a rebuke from the major Jewish denominations in a June 13, 2008 letter to the head of the PCUSA and a similar condemnation in the form of a statement from the denominations and ten other organizations.

See also
Disinvestment from Israel
Academic boycotts of Israel
Disinvestment
Presbyterian Church (USA) Hezbollah controversy
Presbyterian Peace Fellowship

References

Presbyterian Church (USA)
Disinvestment
International sanctions
Economy of Israel
Boycotts of Israel