[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Stephen Dawson

son regained his first team place and played a vital role for the side as captain throughout the season. In his first season at Scunthorpe United, Dawson went on make the total of 25 appearances in all competitions. Nevertheless, at the end of the season, he was awarded the Dave Hardy Special Award.

In the 2016–17 season, Dawson was given a number 8 shirt for the new season. At the start of the season, he continued to be in the first team, having to kept himself fit in the club's pre–season tour and was featured in every match until he suffered an injury in late–November. After returning to the first team from injury, He then scored his first goal for Scunthorpe in a 3–2 win over future club Bury on 7 January 2017. His second goal came in a play-off semi final defeat to Millwall on 7 May 2017. Despite the club's failure to reach the play–offs final, Dawson won both the Players' Player of the Year and the Disabled Away Travel accolade. At the end of the 2016–17 season, he made the total of 49 appearances and scoring 2 times in all competitions. During his time at Scunthorpe United, Dawson was the club's fan favourite.

Bury
Despite Scunthorpe United offered a new contract to him, Dawson announced on 16 May 2017 that he was returning to Bury on a free transfer, signing a three–year contract. Bury gave him back his old number 8 shirt.

At the start of the 2017–18 season, Dawson was given the captaincy and led the team in the opening game of the season, a 1–0 win over Walsall. In a 1–0 loss against Sunderland in the first round of the League Cup, he tore a knee cartilage and was afterwards declared unfit to play for five months. Dawson has continued to suffer with injury problems and has played in only seven of Bury's 43 matches to date in 2018–19.

Hereford
He signed for National League North side Hereford in 2019.

Radcliffe
In February 2020 he joined Radcliffe.

International career
Dawson represented the Republic of Ireland at Under-21 level twice. He also represented the country at under-17, 18 and 19 levels.

Personal life
His younger brother Kevin plays for National League North side Gloucester City A.F.C. In May 2013, Stephen became a father when his girlfriend gave to birth to a baby daughter, Alexis.

During his time at Leyton Orient, Dawson began to write his own column in The Local Guardian Series. Growing up in Dublin, Ireland, Dawson said he supports Manchester United.

Career statistics

Honours
Individual
 PFA Team of the Year: 2009–10 Football League Two

References

External links

 
 Stephen Dawson profile Rochdale AFC.co.uk

1985 births
Men's association football midfielders
Barnsley F.C. players
Bury F.C. players
Republic of Ireland expatriate men's association footballers
Irish expatriate sportspeople in England
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Leicester City F.C. players
Leyton Orient F.C. players
Living people
Mansfield Town F.C. players
Republic of Ireland men's association footballers
Republic of Ireland men's under-21 international footballers
Rochdale A.F.C. players
Association footballers from County Dublin
English Football League players
Hereford F.C. players
Radcliffe F.C. players