[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Utilization behavior

with frontal lobe abnormalities and with the knowledge that UB involves the frontal lobe, researchers have started to form a connection between the two. Archibald et al. found that those with ADHD exhibited UB that was more common with those objects familiar and in the field of view of the patient.

Related disorders

Environmental dependency syndrome
Environmental dependency syndrome (EDS) illustrates an overreliance on environmental stimuli to guide behavior in social experiences. A person with EDS would change their actions if told of a change in the surrounding environment. For example, if the patient was told that they were in an art gallery, they would start to look at pictures hung on the wall and interpret them as if in an actual art gallery. EDS is known as a more context based form on UB as it involves more complex involvement of motor behavior.

Grasp reflex
Grasp reflex (GR) is the tendency to seize objects that are usually presented between the patient's thumb and index finger. The patient would grasp the stimulus in tonic flexion, a brief limb extension, and draw the object towards the body thus increasing the strength of the grip. The patient seems to not be able to let go of the object. This behavior is normal in infants but abnormal in older children and adults. A video is included below portraying GR in a baby.

Manual groping behavior
With manual groping behavior (MGB), the patient's hand or eye is attracted to an object and follows it in a magnetic manner while manipulating the object. This behavior is involuntary and occurs constantly except for the brief stops due to diverted attention.  Similar to the grasp reflex, MGB is normal in infants but presents as a symptom in adults.

Imitation behavior
Imitation behavior (IB) is another behavior established by Lhermitte (1983) and it explains a patient's replication of the examiner's movements. This may be seen if for example, the experimenter claps their hands and yawns, the patient would do the same in the same order. The behavior is still present even when the patient is told not to follow the actions of the experimenter resulting in the belief that a patient with IB cannot stop the involuntary response. IB is important in the development of children but if it is present in adulthood, it is an abnormality.

See also
 Impulse control disorder

References

Impulse-control disorders