[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fort Phantom Hill

ld Overland Mail along its route through Texas until it moved out of the state with the beginning of the Civil War in 1861. Jones County was established on February 1, 1858, and during the Civil War it suffered from raids by indigenous peoples that halted white settlement in the county for 15 years.

After the Red River War, a settlement was formed on Fort Phantom Hill's grounds that primarily serviced buffalo hunters roaming the region. The town grew to a population of 546 and briefly was the Jones County seat in 1881, but when the Texas and Pacific Railway bypassed Phantom Hill in favor of Abilene,  to the south, the town began a rapid decline. By 1900, the town had ceased to exist, though the fort continued to be inhabited until at least 1913. From July 1918 to August 1919, test wells were dug near the fort by the Fort Phantom Hill Oil Company following the discovery of oil to the south in 1915.

Preservation

In 1928, the grounds of Fort Phantom Hill were purchased by John Guitar, who then sold the land in 1969 to his grandson, Jim Alexander. Guitar's purchase of the fort attracted the attention of Carl Coke Rister, a historian, professor at Hardin-Simmons University, and secretary of the West Texas Historical Association, who wrote extensively about the fort to promote its preservation. In 1970, the fort was excavated by the Texas state archaeologist, Curtis Tunnell, and on September 14, 1972, it was included on the National Register of Historic Places following its nomination by the Texas Historical Commission on January 31, 1972. The Alexanders opened the fort to the public in the same year and in 1997 they gifted its grounds to the Fort Phantom Foundation. Another, more complete excavation of the fort's grounds was carried out in 1998 by Texas Tech University. The Texas Department of Transportation constructed a rest stop along the southern edge of the fort's grounds in 2012.

, Fort Phantom Hill consists of three stone structures and 12 stone chimneys standing on a  site.

Four historical markers have been placed on the grounds of Fort Phantom Hill or its vicinity by the state of Texas. The first, placed in 1936, generally commemorated the fort and was replaced with another marker after the original disappeared in 2010. Another marker, commemorating the fort's use by Confederate forces, was placed on the grounds of the Jones County Courthouse in 1963. A marker for the fort's graveyard was placed in the graveyard in 2019.

See also

National Register of Historic Places listings in Jones County, Texas
Texas Forts Trail

Notes

References

Sources

Books and articles

Texas State Historical Association

External links

Reservoirs in Texas
Phantom Hill
Protected areas of Jones County, Texas
Butterfield Overland Mail in Texas
Texas in the American Civil War
Buildings and structures in Jones County, Texas
National Register of Historic Places in Jones County, Texas
Stagecoach stops in the United States