[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Foreign relations of the Axis powers

apanese and renamed Maiko. At the end of World War II, after the Japanese surrender, Macau returned to its previous normality.

Tibet
Tibet's economic and foreign policy was influenced by Japan, and Japan sought admission of Tibet into the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.

Americas

Argentina

During the early years of World War II, Argentina maintained close relations with the Axis powers while officially remaining neutral. These close relations with the Axis irritated the United States, which cancelled weapons shipments to the country while increasing shipments to Argentina's neighbour, Brazil, in an attempt to pressure the Argentine government to abandon its ties with the Axis.  Newly elected president Ramón Castillo drew Argentina closer to the Axis; in 1942 Argentina approached Germany with a request to purchase airplanes, weapons, and other equipment.  Argentine General Domingo Martínez claimed that President Castillo was concerned over the country's relations with Brazil, with Argentina facing an ultimatum from the US.  The Argentine government feared a potential invasion by Brazil, Chile and Uruguay backed by the US.  Castillo was initially determined to resist, and openly joined the Axis, believing that Argentina's geography would allow it to withstand war.  Upon Brazil joining the Allied powers in August 1942, Argentina declared itself a non-belligerent, while still negotiating with Germany for weapons.  Castillo believed that the Axis would triumph in World War II. 

In 1943 a military coup overthrew the Argentine government. A military junta was established, led by Pedro Pablo Ramírez. In 1944 the United States government labelled the Argentine government as "fascist" and enacted financial and trade restrictions against the country, urging other countries to do the same.  British officials captured Argentina's envoy to Germany, creating a diplomatic disaster for Argentina.  In January 1944, under pressure from Britain and the United States, Ramírez agreed to break all ties with the Axis powers.  Argentine nationalists were alarmed by this concession and forced Ramírez to resign.  For the remaining year of the war, the United States continued to maintain sanctions against Argentina due to its pro-Axis leanings.  Argentina only declared war on Germany in 1945, about a month before the end of the war.

The close ties between Argentina and Nazi Germany proved controversial near the end of the war and afterwards, as Nazi personnel and capital began to arrive in Argentina in 1944.

Bolivia and Peru
Bolivia and Peru during the 1930s had some commercial links with Germany and Italy; these countries acquired a number of Focke-Wulf Fw 44 Stieglitz, Junkers Ju 86Ks, Junkers K 43s, and CV-33 tankettes, as well as other military and civilian equipment in first case, and examples of Caproni-Bergamaschi Ca.135 P.XI (Ca.135bis) in the latter case.

Brazil
Brazil, before and during the war, had commercial ties with Germany and Italy; for example, the country acquired German aircraft and weapons including Focke-Wulf Fw 200 B-1s, Focke-Wulf Fw 58 Weihes, Focke-Wulf Fw 44 Stieglitz, Junkers Ju 86Ks, CV-33 tankettes, Sd.Kfz. 6s, Sd.Kfz. 7s, and Sd.Kfz. 8s armoured vehicles. Brazil also acquired licenses for manufacturing some of these aircraft.

The Brazilian government of Getúlio Vargas was a totalitarian dictatorship of fascist inspiration. Brazil's biggest economic partner at the time was Nazi Germany, which was admired by many members of the government and the Armed Forces. Brazil's relations with Germany were so strong that, along with its strategic position in the Atlantic and its abundance of natural resources, the country was invited to officially join the Axis powers in 1937, to which it was denied fearing blockades and even an American invasion.

Before and during the war, there were some Brazilian political groups with native fascist doctrines like the Brazilian Integralist Action. The country as a whole declared war on the Axis in 1942 and sent the Brazilian Expeditionary Force to fight with the Allies in Europe..

Canada
Canada, though it entered the war in 1939 and was one of the first nations to declare war on the Axis, had a fascist movement throughout the 1930s through to 1940.

The Parti national social chrétien (known in English as the Christian National Socialist Party) was a Quebec-based fascist and anti-semite party founded in February 1934. The party was  led by Canadian Adrien Arcand. An admirer of Adolf Hitler, Arcand referred to himself as the "Canadian führer". In October 1934, the party merged with the Canadian Nationalist Party, which was based in the Prairie provinces. In June 1938, it merged with Nazi and other racist clubs in Ontario and Quebec,  many of which were known as Swastika clubs, to form the National Unity Party at a national convention held in Kingston, Ontario.