[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tropical Storm Chris (1988)

Tropical Storm Chris caused minor flooding in the Greater Antilles and the Eastern United States in August 1988. The seventh tropical cyclone and third named storm of the annual hurricane season, Chris developed from a tropical wave while roughly midway between Africa and the Lesser Antilles on August 21. Forming as a tropical depression, it remained weak for several days, crossing the Lesser Antilles, Hispaniola, and The Bahamas during this time. While offshore the coast of Florida on August 28, the depression intensified into Tropical Storm Chris. Thereafter, the system tracked rapidly north-northwestward and came ashore near Savannah, Georgia later that day. Once inland, Chris quickly weakened, and by early on the following day, it weakened to a tropical depression over South Carolina. Six hours later, Chris was absorbed by a cold front while over North Carolina, though the remnants of the system tracked across the Eastern United States and Atlantic Canada before dissipating on August 30.

In the Leeward Islands and U.S. Virgin Islands, Chris produced only light rainfall, that caused no damage or fatalities. Heavy rainfall occurred in Puerto Rico, which damaged 100 homes and caused three fatalities. Large amounts of precipitation also fell in Hispaniola, though no damage was reported. In the United States, much of the damage occurred due to tornadoes, especially in The Carolinas. A tornado in South Carolina destroyed at least 15 mobile homes, caused one fatality, and resulted in a brief shutdown of U.S. Route 301. Flooding was minimal, as rainfall totals amounted to  or less, though standing water was reported on Interstate 26. Another destructive tornado occurred in Virginia. Two additional deaths were reported in New York, two from drowning and one from a tree falling onto a car. Although winds were light, at least 118,000 people from South Carolina to Maine were left without electricity. The dissipating storm produced light winds and precipitation in Nova Scotia. Overall, Tropical Storm Chris was attributed to four fatalities and $2.25 million (1988 USD) in losses.

Meteorological history

A tropical wave emerged into the Atlantic from the west coast of Africa on August 15. Six days later, the system developed into Tropical Depression Seven while centered halfway between the Lesser Antilles and Africa. The depression tracked west-northwestward around the periphery of a subtropical surface high pressure ridge. After strengthening minimally, the depression struck Guadeloupe late on August 23 and entered the Caribbean Sea shortly thereafter. Although satellite intensity estimates indicated tropical storm status, 13 reconnaissance flights conducted by the National Hurricane Center between August 23 and August 27 indicated winds were less than . By August 25, the depression made landfall near Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. Despite the mountainous terrain of Hispaniola, the depression did not weaken and re-emerged into the Atlantic from the northern coast of Haiti early on August 26. The depression curved northwestward and did not strengthen. On August 27, the depression made another landfall near Andros Town on Andros, Bahamas. Later that day, the depression passed less than  east of West Palm Beach, Florida. Thereafter, the depression curved north-northwestward and remained offshore of Florida.

At 0600 UTC on August 28, a ship located about  from the center of the depression reported tropical storm force winds. As a result, the depression was finally upgraded to Tropical Storm Chris. Tracking rapidly north-northeastward, Chris attained its peak intensity about six hours later, with maximum sustained winds of  and a minimum barometric pressure of . The storm made its final landfall near Savannah, Georgia with winds of  at 1500 UTC on August 28. After moving inland, Chris quickly weakened and was downgraded to a tropical depression near Columbia, South Carolina on August 29. Shortly thereafter, Chris merged with a cold front over North Carolina. The remnants of Chris tracked east-northeastward across the Eastern United States. Eventually, the remnants briefly re-emerged into the Atlantic from New England, then moved across Nova Scotia before dissipating near Cape Breton Island on August 30.

Preparations
In preparation of the tropical depression, officials in Puerto Rico closed public schools and sent federal workers home early. At 1000 UTC on August 28, a tropical storm watch was issued for Edisto Beach, South Carolina, to Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. Two hours later, areas from Savannah, Georgia, to Cape Hatteras North Carolina, were placed under a tropical storm warning. They were later discontinued at an unknown time. Residents of Charleston, South Carolina, complained of little warning in advance of the storm. However, as Chris moved ashore only nine hours after becoming a tropical storm, there was minimal time for preparations.

Impact