[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alex Sink

r phone from a campaign official instructing Sink as to debate strategy, contrary to the rules of the debate. Sink fired the adviser who sent the text message.

After a close election, Sink conceded, giving victory to Scott.  He scored 49% of the vote, and she scored 48%.

2014 campaign for Congress

Republican Bill Young, who had represented the 13th District and its predecessors since 1971, died on October 18, 2013. On October 30, Sink told the Tampa Bay Times that she would run in the special election to replace him. She quickly gained support from national Democratic power brokers. The only other declared Democratic candidate, Jessica Ehrlich, who had faced Young in the 2012 general election, dropped out of the race on November 6, effectively handing the nomination to Sink. Sink faced David Jolly, Young's former general counsel, in the March 11 election.

A longtime resident of Thonotosassa in eastern Hillsborough County, Sink told the Times that she would move to Pinellas County as soon as possible. Although members of the House are required only to live in the state they represent, it has become a very strong convention that they live in the district they represent. She signed a one-year lease for an apartment near her campaign headquarters in Clearwater to establish residency in the district, with plans to buy a house in the district later.

The 13th and its predecessors had been in Republican hands since William Cramer won the seat in the 1954 election; he was succeeded by Young in 1971.  It had been one of the earliest districts in the South to turn Republican.  It was widely thought that Sink had a chance of winning; Obama had carried the district twice, and Sink had carried the district in her gubernatorial campaign against Scott.     The race was close, with Sink taking 46.6 percent of the vote to Jolly's 48.4 percent.

Political positions

Health care
Sink supported the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3020) passed by the United States Congress and enacted on March 30, 2010.

Adoption
Sink believes in the placement of children in a home where it is in the best interests of children regardless of gender preference. She addressed a group of 300 gay and lesbian advocates at the Museum of Art Fort Lauderdale. She said, "We need a system in which all of our children are assured that they live in a healthy, loving home -- a home that's determined not by any law." "The decision has to be made by the judge, in consultation with the experts, to determine what is the best for that individual child."

Ruth's List Florida 
In 2008, Sink founded Ruth's List Florida, named in honor of United States Representative Ruth Bryan Owen, the first woman to be elected to the United States House of Representatives from Florida and the second to be elected from the American south. The organization aims to elect more Floridian women into public office.

Post-political career
Since her two unsuccessful electoral campaigns, Sink has become involved in mentoring tech startups in the Tampa Bay area. On whether she would run for public office again, she said "I've learned to never say never, but I don't think it will happen."

Alex worked to launch the Florida Next Foundation in 2011 - a non-profit, non-partisan policy foundation.

In 2017, Sink was elected a Life Trustee of Wake Forest University. In 2018, she was named as a member of Tampa Bay Wave's Board of Directors, after having been a past chair, and she is still listed on the 2023 Board of Directors.

In 2020, Sink was named 2020 Citizen of the Year by University of Florida's Bob Graham Center for Public Service, where she was awarded in an online ceremony due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As of April 2023, she is serving as a co-chair of the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition's Florida Advisory Committee. and on the boards of The Dali Museum, Junior Achievement, United Way Suncoast and Tampa Bay Wave.

Electoral history

References

|-

 

1948 births
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
American educators
American politicians of Chinese descent
American people of Thai descent
American Presbyterians
American women of Chinese descent in politics
Asian-American people in Florida politics
Bank of America executives
Candidates in the 2010 United States elections
Chief Financial Officers of Florida
Florida Democrats
Living people
People from Clearwater, Florida
People from Hillsborough County, Florida
People from Mount Airy, North Carolina
Wake Forest University alumni
Women in Florida politics