[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carlo Rosselli

together social democracy, bourgeois liberalism and fascism. It was not surprising, therefore, when one of the most important Italian Communists, Togliatti, defined "liberal Socialism" as "libellous anti-socialism" and Rosselli "a reactionary ideologue who has nothing to do with the working class".

Giustizia e Libertà joined the Concentrazione Antifascista Italiana (The Italian Anti-Fascist Concentration), a union of all the non-communist anti-fascist forces (republican, socialist, nationalist) trying to promote and coordinate expatriate actions to fight fascism in Italy. They also first published a weekly political magazine entitled Giustizia e Libertà. Rosselli was the founding editor of the weekly and served in the post from 1934 to 1937. Following his assassination in 1937 Alberto Cianca replaced him in the post.

After the advent of Nazism in Germany (1933), the paper began to call for insurgency, revolutionary action, and military action in order to stop the Italian and German regimes before they plunge Europe into a tragic war. Spain, they wrote, seems the destiny of all fascist states.

Spanish Civil War 
In July 1936, the Spanish Civil War erupted as the fascist-monarchical led army attempted a coup d'état against the republican government of the Popular Front. Rosselli helped lead the Italian anti-fascist supporters of the republican forces, criticizing the neutrality policy of France and Britain, especially as Italy and Germany sent arms and troops in support of the rebels. In August, Rosselli and the GL organized their own brigades of volunteers to support the Spanish Republic.

With Camillo Berneri, Rosselli headed the Matteotti Battalion, a mixed volunteer unit of anarchist, liberal, socialist and communist Italians. The unit was sent to the Aragon front, and participated in a victory against Francoist forces in the Battle of Monte Pelato. Speaking on Barcelona Radio in November, Rosselli made famous the slogan: "Oggi in Spagna, domani in Italia" ("Today in Spain, tomorrow in Italy").

After falling ill, Rosselli was sent back to Paris, from where he led support for the anti-fascist cause, and proposed an even broader 'popular front' while still remaining critical of the Communist Party of Spain and the Soviet government of Joseph Stalin. In 1937, Berneri was killed by Communist forces during a purge of anarchists in Barcelona. With the fall of the Spanish Republic in 1939, Giustizia e Libertà partisans were forced to flee back to France.

Murder 
In June 1937, Carlo Rosselli and his brother visited the French resort town of Bagnoles-de-l'Orne. On 9 June, the two were killed by a group of "cagoulards", militants of the Cagoule, a French fascist group, with archival documents implicating Mussolini's regime in authorizing the murder. The two brothers were buried in the Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris but in 1951 the family moved them to Italy into the Monumental Cemetery of Trespiano, a frazione of Florence.

His British-origin wife Marion Catherine Cave, their three children, Giovanni Andrea "John", Amelia "Melina", and Andrew, and his mother Amelia Pincherle Rosselli survived him.

Thought
Carlo Rosselli published only one book, Liberal Socialism. This work marked Rosselli out as a heretic in the Italian left of his time (for which Karl Marx's Das Kapital, albeit variously understood, was still regarded as the only reliable source of political analysis and guidance). Undoubtedly the influence of the British labour movement, which he knew well, is visible. As a result of the electoral successes of the Labour Party, Rosselli was convinced that the 'norms' of liberal democracy were essential, not only in building Socialism, but also for its concrete realization. This stands in contrast to Leninist tactics which prioritize organizational power over democratic procedures. This 'Rossellian' synthesis is that "[parliamentary] liberalism is the method, Socialism is the aim".

The Marxist–Leninist idea of revolution founded on the dictatorship of the proletariat (which he felt, as in the Russian case, was synonymous with the dictatorship of a single party) he rejected in favour of a revolution that—as famously put in the GL program—is a coherent system of structural reforms aimed at the construction of a Socialism; that does not limit, but indeed exalts, freedom of personality and of association. Writing in his final years, Rosselli became more radical in his libertarian positions, defending the social organization of the CNT-FAI he had seen in anarchist Catalonia and Barcelona during the civil war, and informed by the rise of Nazi Germany.

Works
 Carlo Rosselli, Liberal Socialism. Edited by Nadia Urbinati. Translated by William McCuaig (Princeton: Princeton University Press 1994).

References

Bibliography 
 
 
 Pugliese, Stanislao G. (1999), Carlo Rosselli: Socialist Heretic and Antifascist Exile, Harvard University Press,

Further reading

External links