[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Fourth Ward, Houston

uses, nothing fancy, nothing special" but "just by surviving, they became special." The houses were listed under the National Historic Register of Historic Places and the Houston Architectural Guide, but the City of Houston law did not protect the buildings from demolition under historic ordinances.

In April 2007 the owners of the houses asked the final residents to move out because the municipal government had cited some of the houses for violations of municipal code. The violations included a failure to maintain clean conditions and problems with the electrical systems. The final resident was scheduled to move out in June of that year. Jill Jewett, the assistant for cultural affairs of Mayor of Houston Bill White, said that the city government wants the community to preserve the 1500 block of Victor houses. Thuong Tran, a member of the family who owned the houses, said that she hoped to lease the property and the houses to a nonprofit that would repair the houses. She said that the family planned to restore the houses, but they were not sure if they would remain at that location, or if the family will sell the land and move the houses themselves to an area outside of the 610 Loop. In 2011 the Harris County Appraisal District stated that the houses were together worth fewer than $750 while the land they stood on was worth over $500,000 more than the house value. The district referred to the houses as an "economic misimprovement." That year, the owners of the ten houses, Kimsu and Kimberly Hoang, filed a demolition permit with the City of Houston.

Culture
Mike Snyder of the Houston Chronicle said that "the politics of race have been a potent force in the Fourth Ward." In the 1920s African-American tenants said that they were paying very high rent for poorly maintained buildings owned by white landlords. After flooding occurred in the neighborhood in one period, an African-American newspaper said that neglect from the city government was responsible. Jesse Jackson toured the Fourth Ward during his 1988 presidential campaign; Jackson accused the city of neglecting the community.

In 2007 David Ellison of the Houston Chronicle wrote that "there is some friction between new and longtime residents, some of whom complain that the redevelopment benefits the newcomers, not them" and that "the two groups seem to lead separate lives, with many newer residents sticking to themselves and longtime people, such as those on Victor Street, trying to continue life as it was." The New Fourth Ward Homeowners Association represents the owners of the newer subsidized houses. Its president, Christine Diaz, said the organization is working to bridge the gap between the old and the new while Mayor of Houston Bill White said that he is trying to bring people together by making improvements to the Fourth Ward that most of its residents want.

Education

Primary and secondary schools

Area students attend schools in the Houston Independent School District, including Gregory-Lincoln Education Center for K-8 and Heights High School (formerly Reagan High School). Carnegie Vanguard High School, a magnet high school, is in the Fourth Ward.

At Gregory Lincoln for the 2006-2007 school year, the student body was 68% African-American, 31% Hispanic, and less than 1% white.  Also, 94% of the school's 211 students qualified for free or reduced-price lunch, while 78% of Gregory-Lincoln's attendants are classified as being “at risk." As part of the Houston Independent School District, schools like Gregory Lincoln have around the city average per pupil spending of $5,558 for the 2001-2002 school year, which is considerably lower than that of the state of Texas at $6,850 and the United States average of $7,548 for 2002.

The Freedmen's Bureau opened schools for children in the area after the establishment of Freedmen's Town. The Texas Legislature authorized the creation of public schools for Freedmen's Town by 1870. By 1872 most of the students and teachers who were at the bureau schools, which were closing, left them to attend the state-managed Gregory Institute, named after Edgar M. Gregory, an officer in the Union army in the U.S. Civil War and the assistant commissioner of the Texas area's Freedmen's Bureau. The school, which first opened in 1872, was the first school for freed slaves in Houston. Mike Snyder of the Houston Chronicle said that it was "perhaps" the first school for freed slaves in the State of Texas. By 1876 the school became a part of the Houston public school system.