[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 226]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

heir Rods to Serpents, and the Water into Bloud, are
thought but to have deluded the senses of the Spectators by a false shew
of things, yet are esteemed Enchanters: But what should wee have thought
of them, if there had appeared in their Rods nothing like a Serpent, and
in the Water enchanted, nothing like Bloud, nor like any thing else but
Water, but that they had faced down the King, that they were Serpents
that looked like Rods, and that it was Bloud that seemed Water? That
had been both Enchantment, and Lying. And yet in this daily act of
the Priest, they doe the very same, by turning the holy words into the
manner of a Charme, which produceth nothing now to the Sense; but they
face us down, that it hath turned the Bread into a Man; nay more, into
a God; and require men to worship it, as if it were our Saviour himself
present God and Man, and thereby to commit most grosse Idolatry. For if
it bee enough to excuse it of Idolatry, to say it is no more Bread, but
God; why should not the same excuse serve the Egyptians, in case they
had the faces to say, the Leeks, and Onyons they worshipped, were
not very Leeks, and Onyons, but a Divinity under their Species, or
likenesse. The words, "This is my Body," are aequivalent to these,
"This signifies, or represents my Body;" and it is an ordinary figure of
Speech: but to take it literally, is an abuse; nor though so taken, can
it extend any further, than to the Bread which Christ himself with his
own hands Consecrated. For hee never said, that of what Bread soever,
any Priest whatsoever, should say, "This is my Body," or, "This is
Christs Body," the same should presently be transubstantiated. Nor did
the Church of Rome ever establish this Transubstantiation, till the time
of Innocent the third; which was not above 500. years agoe, when the
Power of Popes was at the Highest, and the Darknesse of the time grown
so great, as men discerned not the Bread that was given them to eat,
especially when it was stamped with the figure of Christ upon the
Crosse, as if they would have men beleeve it were Transubstantiated, not
onely into the Body of Christ, but also into the Wood of his Crosse, and
that they did eat both together in the Sacrament.




Incantation In The Ceremonies Of Baptisme

The like incantation, in stead of Consecration, is used also in the
Sacrament of Baptisme: Where the abuse of Gods name in each severall
Person, and in the whole Trinity, with the sign of the Crosse at each
name, maketh up the Charm: As first, when they make the Holy water, the
Priest saith, "I Conjure thee, thou Creature of Water, in the name of
God the Father Almighty, and in the name of Jesus Christ his onely Son
our Lord, and in vertue of the Holy Ghost, that thou become Conjured
water, to drive away all the Powers of the Enemy, and to eradicate, and
supplant the Enemy, &c." And the same in the Benediction of the Salt
to be mingled with it; "That thou become Conjured Salt, that all
Phantasmes, and Knavery of the Devills fraud may fly and depart from the
place wherein thou art sprinkled; and every unclean Spirit bee Conjured
by Him that shall come to judge the quicke and the dead." The same in
the Benediction of the Oyle. "That all the Power of the Enemy, all the
Host of the Devill, all Assaults and Phantasmes of Satan, may be
driven away by this Creature of Oyle." And for the Infant that is to be
Baptized, he is subject to many Charms; First, at the Church dore the
Priest blows thrice in the Childs face, and sayes, "Goe out of him
unclean Spirit, and give place to the Holy Ghost the Comforter." As
if all Children, till blown on by the Priest were Daemoniaques: Again,
before his entrance into the Church, he saith as before, "I Conjure
thee, &c. to goe out, and depart from this Servant of God:" And again
the same Exorcisme is repeated once more before he be Baptized. These,
and some other Incantations, and Consecrations, in administration of the
Sacraments of Baptisme, and the Lords Supper; wherein every thing that
serveth to those holy men (except the unhallowed Spittle of the Priest)
hath some set form of Exorcisme.




In Marriage, In Visitation Of The Sick, And In Consecration Of Places

Nor are the other rites, as of Marriage, of Extreme Unction, of
Visitation of the Sick, of Consecrating Churches, and Church-yards, and
the like, exempt from Charms; in as much as there is in them the use of
Enchanted Oyle, and Water, with the abuse of the Crosse, and of the holy
word of David, "Asperges me Domine Hyssopo," as things of efficacy to
drive away Phantasmes, and Imaginery Spirits.




Errors From Mistaking Eternall Life, And Everlasting Death

Another generall Error, is from the Misinterpretation of the words
Eternall Life, Everlasting Death, and the Second Death. For though we
read plainly in Holy Scripture, that God created Adam in an estate of
Living for Ever, which was conditionall, that is to say