[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Somali National Front

nt (SSDF) led by Abdulahi Yusuf Ahmed. In response, SNF forces under the command of Morgan entered the Galguduud region to support the SSDF. At around the same time fighting broke out between Morgan's forces at the strategic port city of Kismayo and the American and Belgian UN forces deployed there.

1994 to 2001 
Following a series of clashes with the Somali Democratic Movement (SDM) in early 1994, a conference was organized by communities in the Gedo and Bay regions. The conference was attended by representatives of the SNF and the SDM, as well as a large number of community elders, clan leaders, and intellectuals from both regions. The purpose of the conference was to reconcile the SNF and the SDM and to unite the peoples of the two communities, and it was largely successful in achieving these goals.

Governance 

For most of the civil war, the SNF governed and conducted operations in the Gedo region of southern Somalia. In an effort to restore order in the area, the SNF supported the creation of an Islamic Sharia court to resolve disputes and a police force to maintain order. As a result, a relatively effective governing administration was established in the region. The SNF's political leadership, led by former Defense Minister General Omar Haji Masallah, was based in Nairobi, Kenya, while the military wing was led by General Mohammed Hashi Ghani based in the city of Luuq, Gedo. The organization would be consistently represented at all major national reconciliation and peace conferences over the 1990s.

Although the SNF was primarily made up of members of the Marehan sub-clan of the Darod, it reportedly had significant support in the region, despite the presence of non-Darod and non-Somali minority groups in the Juba and Dawa river basins. Initially, the SNF had tried to use Siad Barre's name and legacy to rally for support, but found that this was generally counterproductive to their efforts among Somalis outside the Marehan clan.

In 1991, a faction of the Somali Democratic Movement (SDM) broke away and merged with the SNF. Later, under General Omar Haji Masallah, the SNF achieved some of its major political goals by uniting the Marehan with other Darod clans led by General Mohammed Said Hersi Morgan.

Conflict with Al-Itihaad al-Islamiya and early Sharia Courts (1994 - 1996) 
Like Aidids SNA and Ali Mahdi's SSA, the SNF also began opposing the rising strength of the Islamic courts appearing in southern Somalia. A sharia court established in Luuq District of Gedo region by Sheikh Mohamed A. Nuur in 1992 (with the blessing and support of the SNF) reportedly had more success than the courts appearing in Mogadishu at addressing lawlessness. Consequently Luuq district was considered to be one of the safest places in Somalia. Concerned with the sharia courts rising popularity and authority, the SNF and the Ethiopian military collaborated to destroy the Gedo Islamic Court, resulting in an increase of inter-clan warfare in the region.

On 10 August 1996 heavy fighting erupted near Kenya's border city of Mandera during clashes between Al-Itihaad al-Islamiya (AIAI) and the SNF, backed by Ethiopian Air Force helicopter gunships. While pursuing AIAI, SNF and Ethiopian forces had allegedly crossed the border and Mandera was inadvertently bombed three times during the battle resulting in the death of a Kenyan soldier. This would lead to the imposition of a curfew on the North Frontier District and the Kenya Defence Force being put on full alert.

Creation of Autonomous state of Jubaland 
Following a two month long conference in July 1998, Mohammed Siad Hersi Morgan (head of the SNF at the time) announced in September that he planned to set up an autonomous state of Jubaland, with the port of Kismayo as its capital. The objective of the movement was not to break away from Somalia, but rather to search for a "bottom up" solution to the country's issues through a new approach.

Fracture, Ethiopia and conflict with Jubba Valley Alliance 
In the late 90s the SNF had fractured into pro and anti-Ethiopian factions. In 1999, Ethiopia made another incursion into Somalia in support of a breakaway faction within the SNF in conflict with the original SNF led by General Omar Haji, which Ethiopia had previously supported against AIAI and the Islamic courts.

That same year, the SNF would entirely lose control of Gedo region when a military coalition united under the banner of the Allied Somali Force (later named the Jubba Valley Alliance) launched an offensive in the area.

Merger with Somali government (2001) 
In June 2001, SNF would merge into the Transitional National Government of Somalia (TNG).

References

Bibliography 

  

Communism in Somalia
Factions in the Somali Civil War
Political parties established in 1991
Rebel groups in Somalia
1991 establishments in Somalia