[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# RCTV

rnational channel of Chilean state television network TVN, had failed to respond to a January 14 deadline for clarifying the nature of its content.

RCTV later registered as a domestic media provider as ordered, and promised that it would follow the media law. However, its registration was rejected.

2010-present – Other media 
After RCTV's registration as a domestic media provider was rejected, RCTV continued to produce live action shows for other companies. In 2012, RCTV co-produced La CQ, which was recorded at RCTV's studios, with Televisa and Cartoon Network Latin America, and La mujer de Judas, which was based on RCTV's telenovela of the same name, with TV Azteca. On December 10, 2014, Empresas 1BC announced that it would create a new division for TV program production and distribution called RCTV Producciones.

On September 7, 2015, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights ruled that the Venezuelan government must restore the concession for RCTV and for channel 2 in Caracas, noting that the refusal to renew the concession was an "indirect restriction on the exercise of freedom of expression [...] aimed at impeding the communication and circulation of ideas and opinions" and that the government violated the right to due process. The court also ordered a series of economic reparations to be paid by the state to RCTV and an open process to restore the concession to RCTV. Before the decision was handed, the network began its online blog in 2014 and within months began online broadcasting through the Internet, with a mix of program reruns and new programming.

On July 5, 2020, RCTV announced that its programming would return that same day as a streaming app. RCTV president Marcel Granier stated that the project was started because they knew the content produced by RCTV throughout its history had "outstanding" value, which let make over 22,000 hours of telenovelas, 13,000 hours of entertainment/variety programs and 7,000 hours of news/opinion programs available at launch, and they would continue adding new original content. It uses Streann Media's content streaming solution, and it's available on Android and iOS/iPadOS phones and tablets, Roku devices and desktop web browsers as a free service with no geoblocking.

On December 23, 2021, RCTV president Eladio Lárez announced that the company's programming content was available on the ad-supported Prende TV, Vix, Tubi and Canela TV streaming services. RCTV's own streaming service was shut down after the announcement.

News and broadcasts

El Observador was RCTV's main newscast. It was broadcast three times a day, except for Sundays, when it only came on during important events such as elections.

Some of RCTV's programs could be seen in other countries on various channels, including TV Venezuela, a premium subscription channel available on DirecTV and their YouTube channel.

See also 
List of telenovelas of Radio Caracas Televisión
Media of Venezuela
Censorship in Venezuela
2007 Venezuelan RCTV protests
BBC One
1939 Temporary shutdown of BBC Television Service
ABS-CBN
1972 Martial law under Ferdinand Marcos
Rede Tupi
Banahaw Broadcasting Corporation
Seven TV
ATV
ABS-CBN franchise renewal controversy
"Death on the Rock" - documentary broadcast about Operation Flavius by Thames Television that led to the loss of their ITV franchise due to an alleged political motivations against airing it

References

External links
  
 Free RCTV – Campaign in support of RCTV and the freedom of the press
 The Economist – Chávez changes channels (May 29 2007)
 AM NewYork (July 5, 2007)
 
 Latin American CATV penetration rates. CableLabs (2003). Retrieved on 2007-07-10.

 
Television stations in Venezuela
Spanish-language television stations
Television networks in Venezuela
Mass media in Caracas
Empresas 1BC subsidiaries
Television channels and stations established in 1953
Entertainment companies established in 1953
Mass media companies established in 1953
1953 establishments in Venezuela
Human rights abuses in Venezuela