[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Monica McWilliams

endations from the Panel report.

She chaired the Governing Board of Interpeace, an international NGO based in Geneva, until July 2021 and is Emeritus Professor in the Transitional Justice Institute at Ulster University. Monica helped establish Politics in Action  and is on their board of directors.

McWilliams has co-authored two books and three government-published research studies: Bringing It Out in the Open: Domestic Violence in Northern Ireland (1993, with Joan McKiernan) and Taking Domestic Violence Seriously: Issues for the Civil and Criminal Justice System (1996, with Lynda Spence) and 'Intimate Partner Violence in Conflict and Post-Conflict Societies Insights and Lessons from Northern Ireland' (2017 with Jessica Doyle). 

Her research in the 1990s led to the first government policy on domestic violence and was followed up twenty five years later as the first longitudinal study on domestic violence during and post conflict.  She has published several articles on the impact of political conflict, on conflict resolution and women's rights. She has facilitated workshops with women in conflict regions including Columbia, Myanmar, Uganda, DRC, Syria, Yemen, Afghanistan, Iraq, Israel and Palestine.  She was one of nine signatories of the Northern Ireland peace process jointly awarded the John F. Kennedy Library Profile in Courage Award in 1998. She was a joint recipient of the Frank Cousins Peace Award in 1999 (commemorating a British trade union official). She has received honorary doctorates from Lesley College (Massachusetts),  Mount Mary College (Milwaukee), University of York, Queen's University Belfast, Dublin City University and Trinity College Dublin.

In 2018, in recognition of her life work and in celebration of the 100 Anniversary of Suffrage, Women in Business awarded Monica with a Special Lifetime Achievement Award. Also in 2018 Monica McWilliams was inducted into The Irish Tatler Hall of Fame.

On 9th June 2019 she was a 'castaway' guest on Desert Island Discs on 9 June 2019. She was featured in the documentary "Wave Goodbye to Dinosaurs", a history of the Northern Ireland's Women's Coalition. 

Her book Stand up Speak Out: My Life working for women's rights, peace and equality in Northern Ireland and beyond was published in 2021.

In 2023 she was elected a member of the Royal Irish Academy.

See also
 List of peace activists

References

External links 

Ulster University

1954 births
Living people
20th-century women politicians from Northern Ireland
21st-century women politicians from Northern Ireland
Politicians from Belfast
Academics of Ulster University
Alumni of Queen's University Belfast
University of Michigan alumni
Female members of the Northern Ireland Assembly
Human rights activists from Northern Ireland
Leaders of political parties in Northern Ireland
Members of the Northern Ireland Forum
Members of the Royal Irish Academy
Northern Ireland Women's Coalition MLAs
Northern Ireland MLAs 1998–2003
People educated at Loreto College, Coleraine
Women academics
British political party founders