[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shadrach (film)

s a documentarian, writer and as an assistant to Ken Russell on Altered States and Luis Buñuel on That Obscure Object of Desire.  That she herself has a Southern heritage, adapting (with Bridget Terry) her own celebrated father's story, surely gives the period-perfect Shadrach its special resonance.

A sympathetic New York Times review by Lawrence Van Gelder posited that "[I]n films like The Grass Harp and today's arrival, Shadrach, a generation raised in prosperity turns to a difficult past, suffuses it with a romantic glow and gazes with something like envy on its simple ways while tapping its people for insights into life's eternal verities, like death. On more than one level, the slight, sweet, sentimental Shadrach is a labor of love by Susanna Styron, the film's director and co-writer, from an autobiographical tale by her father, William Styron, published in Esquire in 1978."Variety magazine film critic Emanuel Levy had problems with the screenplay in his review, writing, "Susanna Styron and Bridget Terry's script, which extends to the limits a narrative that is basically a small, simple and poignant story, suffers from being both literal and literary. Indeed, were it not for the foul language used by the white trash but decent father, Shadrach is the kind of well-intentioned picture that could easily have been made by Disney and comfortably play as an after-school special."Reel Talk reviewer Donald Levit referred to the film's length as well as Martin Sheen's narration, "[R]unning times vary, from eighty-six to a hundred ten minutes, but even the latter, European print does not need this unseen presence looking back, setting scenes, and drawing a lesson learned (or not)."

Evaluation in film guidesVideohound's Golden Movie Retriever (2011 edition) throws Shadrach 2½ bones (out of possible four), giving a plot overview and opining that "[D]irector Susanna Styron's lethargic adaptation of her father William's 1978 short story proves that the story should have stayed shorter than 90 minutes. Although the relatively small budget shows, the cast provides good performances".Leonard Maltin's Movie Guide (2014 edition) has a higher opinion, giving the production 3 stars (out of 4) describing it as a "[N]icely realized film set in Virginia in 1935". Following a brief description of the plot, Maltin says of the title character, "[T]hough he's a stranger—and a strange presence indeed—the family feels compelled to help him. Kudos to first-time director Styron; the film is adapted from a short story by her father William".

Mick Martin's and Marsha Porter's DVD & Video Guide (2007 edition) goes still higher, dispensing 3½ stars (out of 5), describing it as a "[N]otable debut for filmmaker Susanna Styron, who coadapts father William Styron's short story…" The write-up ends with "[E]ven though the film never lacks sincerity, it does tend to skirt several important issues".

Release and distribution
The film, originally distributed by Columbia Tri-Star Pictures, was initially released on September 23, 1998 on a limited basis with four showings in Wilmington, North Carolina, then quickly released to VHS home video and DVD by Sony Pictures. It was also shown at the Los Angeles Film Festival on April 16, 1998, and released internationally with showings in France, Finland, Spain and the United Kingdom, to generally positive critical reviews. Australian writers Paul Fischer and David Edwards were highly complimentary, with Fischer calling it "a beautifully complex masterpiece that has resonances with the likes of Grapes of Wrath, concluding that "Shadrach'' is an exquisite, detailed drama, beautifully made", and Edwards continuing in much the same vein, "[Lyrical and beautiful, it's one of those minor masterpieces that comes along all too rarely".

References

External links

William Styron discusses, among other things, his short story "Shadrach"

1998 films
1998 drama films
American drama films
Films about race and ethnicity
Films set in 1935
Films set in Virginia
Films shot in North Carolina
American independent films
Films scored by Van Dyke Parks
Columbia Pictures films
Films based on short fiction
1998 directorial debut films
1998 independent films
1990s English-language films
Films produced by Boaz Davidson
1990s American films