[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lev Tahor

Lev Tahor (,  "pure heart") is an extremist Jewish sect founded by Shlomo Helbrans in 1988. Often described as a cult, it consists of about 200–300 members. The group follows a fundamentalist form of Jewish practice and adheres to its own atypical interpretations of Jewish law, including practices such as lengthy prayer sessions, arranged marriages between teenagers, and head-to-toe black coverings for girls and women beginning at the age of three. The group has faced allegations of kidnapping, sexual abuse, and child abuse.

The group has moved frequently, being located in Israel from 1988 to 1990, the United States from 1990 to 2000, Israel again from 2000 to 2003, Canada from 2003 to 2013, Guatemala in 2013 (after fleeing Canada), Mexico since around 2017, and since late 2021, Romania and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since February 2022 they are present in North Macedonia as well. They often move in an attempt to flee government child welfare agencies.

History
The group was formed in the 1980s by Israeli leader Shlomo Helbrans. Helbrans moved to the U.S. in the early 1990s, and settled in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York. While there, he served time in prison for kidnapping a 13-year-old Israeli boy who was sent to study with him in preparation for the boy's bar mitzvah. Helbrans was released after serving two years, allegedly after receiving preferential treatment by New York governor George Pataki. He then ran a yeshiva in Monsey, New York, and was eventually deported back to Israel. Soon afterwards, Helbrans moved to Canada, where he received political asylum under Canada's Immigration and Refugee Protection Act, to which he claimed he was entitled due to perceived persecution by Israeli authorities for his anti-Zionist teachings. Helbrans may have used false evidence to obtain refugee status, paying the kidnapped boy to testify on his behalf.

Helbrans and his followers settled in Sainte-Agathe-des-Monts, but the members of the group with children left Quebec in November 2013 for Chatham-Kent amid allegations of child neglect. Child protection authorities sought to place the children in the care of Jewish foster families, and had been taking steps to prevent the 127 children from leaving Canada.

On 5 March 2014, after the Ontario Superior Court of Justice effectuated a ruling of the Superior Court of Quebec as to the disposition of their children under Quebec child-protection law, nine members of the group, including six children, left for Trinidad and Tobago in an attempt to flee to Guatemala. They were returned to Canada days later. The six children were taken into foster care, four of them were later returned to the group, while the hearing for the other two children was scheduled for 27 May 2014. A majority of the group's members subsequently settled in the tourist town San Juan La Laguna. The group refused to send their children to local schools or participate in the community, according to a local resident. In August 2014, a group of elders of the indigenous Tz'utujil population issued an edict stating that the group was not welcome to stay, citing a need to protect the local culture, which is protected under the Constitution of Guatemala. A spokesman for the indigenous council said, "We act in self-defence and to respect our rights as indigenous people."

In July 2017, Mexican media outlets reported that Helbrans had drowned in a river while participating in a ritual immersion. A Mexican Foreign Ministry spokesman stated that an official from the Israeli consulate in Mexico headed to the southern state of Chiapas to confirm the death and to identify Helbrans's body. Control of Lev Tahor was left in the hands of Helbrans' son Nachman, said to be "more extreme" than his father. Nachman Helbrans and four other leaders of Lev Tahor were arrested in Mexico in December 2018 in a joint operation between Interpol and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Members of Lev Tahor applied for political asylum in Iran in 2018, and swore allegiance to the state's supreme leader Ali Khamenei. In November 2021 a group of about 70 members reached Kurdistan in an attempt to make their way to Iran, but were detained by Iraqi officials and deported to Turkey. From there they left for Bucharest, Romania.