[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Juan José Torres

budget and call for the closure of the United States Strategic Communications Centre (known as Guantanamito).

In 1970, Torres attended a conference of the Non-Aligned Movement, a first for a Bolivian leader.

He nationalized the some American-owned and ordered the US Peace Corps out of the country.

His government was quickly subjected to external pressure. US Ambassador Ernest V. Siracusa (who participated in the coup d'état against Jacobo Arbenz in Guatemala in 1954, then was expelled from Peru in 1968, accused of being a CIA man) ordered him to change his policy, threatening him with financial blockage. The World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank refused to grant Bolivia the loans necessary to pursue industrial development work. But his government was not stable, because it was supported only by a minority of the army and the country's middle class. The wealthy classes, part of the army, the right wing of the MNR and the Phalangist party plotted against him. When he cut military spending to finance education, this increased resentment within the army.

Exile and murder 
After less than a year in power, Torres was overthrown in a bloody coup d'état, which was led by the colonel Hugo Banzer and supported by the Brazilian military regime. Despite massive resistance — both civilian and military — the conservative forces had learned the lessons of the failed October, 1970 uprising, and applied brutality without compunction. Hugo Banzer became President and ruled the country for the next seven years.

When Banzer came to power, Torres fled the country and settled in Buenos Aires. He remained there even after the March 1976 coup that brought General Jorge Videla to power in Argentina.
In early June 1976, Torres was kidnapped and shot to death. His assassination was most likely directly carried out by right-wing death squads associated with the Videla government, but also — it has been argued — with the acquiescence of Hugo Banzer and as part of the broader US-backed Operation Condor. His body was left under a bridge about 100 kilometers east of Buenos Aires.

Despite the short duration of his government, Torres' memory is still revered by the poorest strata of Bolivian society. He is remembered as the smiling general who dared to break the expected norm of a Bolivian military leader. In 1983, his body was repatriated to Bolivia, where it received a massively-attended state funeral.

See also 
Government of Juan José Torres, 1970-1971
Operation Condor

References

External links

Bolivian government profile of President Juan José Torres 
Official Website  

1920 births
1976 deaths
1976 murders in Argentina
20th-century Bolivian politicians
Ambassadors of Bolivia to Uruguay
Assassinated Bolivian politicians
Bolivian exiles
Bolivian expatriates in Argentina
Bolivian generals
Bolivian people murdered abroad
Bolivian people of Aymara descent
Deaths by firearm in Argentina
Government ministers of Bolivia
Leaders ousted by a coup
Leaders who took power by coup
Finance ministers of Bolivia
People from Cochabamba
People killed in Operation Condor
People murdered in Argentina
Presidents of Bolivia
Assassinated presidents of Bolivia
1970s assassinated politicians in South America