[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Việt Tân

The Vietnam Reform Revolutionary Party or the Việt Tân () is an organisation that aims to establish liberal democracy and reform Vietnam through peaceful and political means.

The organization was founded on September 10, 1982, with Vice-admiral Hoàng Cơ Minh elected as chairman, which operated underground for two decades. On September 19, 2004, then-chairman Nguyễn Kim introduced Viet Tan as a public organization. Viet Tan's activities are rooted in the promotion of non-violent political change in Vietnam. 

The organization is outlawed in Vietnam and the government of Vietnam considers it "a terrorist force". The Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has described Viet Tan as "a peaceful organization advocating for democratic reform". The U.S. government has stated that there is 'no evidence' that it is a terrorist organization.

The current executive director is Hoang Tu Duy.

Objectives
The Viet Tan aims to establish democracy and reform Vietnam through peaceful means, focusing on empowering the Vietnamese people, supporting the development of civil society, and promoting pluralism in Vietnam. Viet Tan sees the strength and resources of the Vietnamese people as the impetus for achieving political change and restoring civil rights.

Non-violent struggle
Viet Tan embraces the non-violent struggle approach to reform. The organization believes that change has to come from within Vietnam and come from the bottom up. Human Rights Watch have repeatedly stated that the organization "has worked for peaceful political reform, democracy, and human rights in Vietnam".

The organization has outlined the following steps to democratizing Vietnam:

Improving Social Welfare & Restoring Civil Rights
Promoting Pluralism
Building Collective Strength
Expanding the Knowledge Base
Investing in the Future Generation
Lobbying International Support
Strengthening the Overseas Vietnamese Community
Building the Foundation to Reform Vietnam
Protecting National Interests and Territorial Integrity
Restoring Truth to Recent History

In a statement released in 2013 following the conviction of Vietnamese dissidents accused of being members of Viet Tan, the organization states that it "believes that gaining an understanding of nonviolent civil resistance, digital security and leadership skills are both empowering and the right of every free individual."

Reactions
The Vietnamese government has never found Viet Tan members carrying weapons. The U.S. government, most notably former U.S. Ambassador Michael Michalak, has stated that there is 'no evidence' that it is a terrorist organization.

Membership
While membership is by-invitation-only, Viet Tan does send out mass emails to people in Vietnam to recruit potential members.

Going public in 2004

On September 19, 2004, in a highly publicized event in Berlin, Germany, the organization stepped out as a public organization, announcing the dissolution of the NUFRONLIV, and a recommitment to establish democracy in Vietnam through peaceful means.

On May 29, 2007, chairman Đỗ Hoàng Điềm was invited by US president George W. Bush together with three other Vietnamese-American activists to the White House on a meeting about Vietnam's increasingly harsh treatment of anti-government activists and an upcoming visit by Vietnam's president Nguyen Minh Triet to the United States.

Arrests

2007 arrests

On November 17, 2007, three Viet Tan members, US citizens Nguyen Quoc Quan, a mathematics researcher, and Truong Van Ba, a Hawaiian restaurant owner, and Frenchwoman Nguyen Thi Thanh Van, a contributor to Viet Tan's Radio Chan Troi Moi radio show, were arrested in Ho Chi Minh City. when 20 security officers raided the house. In addition, Thai citizen Somsak Khunmi and two Vietnamese nationals, Nguyen The Vu, a trader, and his brother Nguyen Trong Khiem were also arrested. Three days later, on November 20, 2007, Vietnamese security police arrested Nguyen Viet Trung, a Vietnamese citizen, in Phan Thiết. Born 1979, Nguyen Viet Trung is a businessman and younger brother of Nguyen The Vu.