[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 30]
# List of coups and coup attempts

resident in less than 2 years. Due to broadly interpreted wording in the 1993 Constitution of Peru, the Congress can impeach the President of Peru for "moral incapacity", among other causes, while the president can legally dissolve congress only if two cabinets have been denied a vote of confidence.

2023
 2023 Brazilian Congress attack: Supporters of former president Jair Bolsonaro storm the National Congress, Supreme Federal Court and Planalto Palace in Brasília, in an effort to overturn the result of the 2022 Brazilian general election and claim for a military coup against President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva.
 2023 Moldovan coup d'état attempt: Plans were unveiled by the president of Moldova, Maia Sandu, that showed Russian efforts to overthrow the Moldovan government.
2023 Sudan conflict: Clashes broke out between the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces, and the Sudanese Armed Forces. The fighting began with attacks from the Rapid Support Forces on key government sites, and both forces dispute control between the Presidential Palace, Khartoum International Airport, the Army chief's official residence, and several different military bases located around the country.
 On 6 May 30 people were arrested in Kyrgyzstan for an attempted coup d'état.
 2023 Nigerien coup d'état: On 26 July 2023, President Mohamed Bazoum was overthrown in a coup plot led by Niger Air Force Colonel-Major Amadou Abdramane. The reasoning for the coup announced by Abdramane via national broadcast was dissatisfaction was "due to the deteriorating security situation and bad governance." The coup would lead to the 2023 Nigerien crisis.
 2023 Sierra Leone coup plot: The police arrested 19 people, including fourteen serving personnel of the Republic of Sierra Leone Armed Forces, two officers of the Sierra Leone Police and one retired chief superintendent of police who were allegedly planning a coup between August 7 and 10. In addition, five military officers and three police officers have a search and capture warrant.
 2023 Gabon coup: Following the 2023 Gabonese general election, and president of Gabon's Ali Bongo Ondimba's declaration of victory, soldiers from the presidential guard announced the cancellation of the election, and the "dissolution of the regime".
 2023 Burkina Faso coup d'état attempt: An attempted overthrow of the ruling junta by members of the military failed

See also

 Attempts to overturn the 2020 United States presidential election
 List of coups and coup attempts by country
 List of coups and coup attempts since 2010
 List of invasions
 List of revolutions and rebellions – chronological listing
 Soft coup

References

External links
Scholarly databases and lists of coups include the following:
Jonathan Powell and Clayton Thyne, “Coups in the World, 1950–Present” .  
Regular updates from Jonathan Powell and Clayton Thyne to their database.
Monty G. Marshall and Donna Ramsey Marshall, “Coups d'État, 1946–2015”. 
 John J. Chin, David B. Carter & Joseph G. Wright. Colpus Dataset on all military and non-military coup attempts in the world since 1946. 
 Cline Center Coup D’état Project Dataset. 
 Bjørnskov-Rode regime data.

 
History-related lists
Lists of military conflicts
Politics-related lists