[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# University College Dublin Students' Union

o remain outside of USI. Issues for un-affiliating and continuing to remain outside of USI cited included the ineffectual leadership of USI, transparency in USI operations and the large cost of affiliation which would amount to over €100,000.  UCDSU ceased being a member organisation on 1 July 2013.

Structure
The main governing body of UCDSU, subject only to referendums and general meetings of the members of the Union, is the Union Council, which meets every second week of term. The Union Council is composed chiefly of class representatives elected in their respective constituencies. These constituencies are elected at a flexible ratio, far lower than a previously arbitrary ratio of one representative per 125 students. The power of Union Council is conferred in a de facto manner on the Union Executive outside of term. The Union Executive, composed of elected sabbatical and non-sabbatical officers as well as the Union secretary, meets weekly during term and fortnightly outside of it. There are several sabbatical officers, who are involved in the day-to-day running of the Union. The president and two nominated vice-presidents, as agreed by the executive, are student representatives on the UCD Governing Authority. A sabbatical term of office is twelve months in duration and commences on 1 July each year, although the incoming officers are, in accordance with the UCDSU constitution, given job training by the incumbents from 15 June. Sabbatical elections take place in late February–early March of each year. Sabbatical officers take a year out from academic studies and work full-time for the Union.

The composition of the Union's Council includes a number of full-time elected sabbatical executive officers, elected non-sabbatical executive officers, class representatives, campaign coordinators and an entertainments forum.

References

External links
University College Dublin Students' Union — the official website of UCDSU.
Union of Students in Ireland — the website of the Union of Students in Ireland
University College Dublin Students' Union Constitution — The most recently amended form of the Union's Constitution.

Students' unions in Ireland
University College Dublin