[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Goodhart

d the results published in the Bank of England's Quarterly Bulletin in a paper called 'The Importance of Money'. During this time Goodhart served as the first secretary of the Monetary Review Committee, who provided summarised views of monetary developments to the Chancellor and Treasury of England.

Whilst attending a conference held by the Reserve Bank of Australia in 1975, Goodhart wrote in his footnotes "whenever a government seeks to rely on a previously observed statistical regularity for control purposes, that regularity will collapse". This quote became known as Goodhart's Law. Goodhart's Law is commonly expressed as: "When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure". In 1979, Goodhart jointly wrote a paper which was published in the Bank of England's Quarterly Bulletin. This paper advised the new Thatcher government against implementing monetary base control. In the early 1980's, Goodhart joined the home finance division of the Bank of England, under John Fford. In 1980 he was promoted to Senior Adviser at the Bank of England and stayed at this role until 1985. Following the events of Black Saturday (1983), Goodhart travelled to Hong Kong to assist in implementing a currency board system that was linked to the United States dollar. This system helped solve the Hong Kong monetary crisis. Goodhart served on the Hong Kong Exchange Fund Advisory Council (an advisory board for the Hong Kong Monetary Authority) for more than a decade (1983–1997).

London School of Economics (1986–2002) 
Following Goodhart's departure from the Bank of England, he re-joined the London School of Economics as the Norman Sosnow Professor of Banking and Finance. He co-founded the Financial Markets Group alongside Prof. Mervyn King, in 1986. In late 1987, he gave his first lecture; 'The foreign exchange market: a random walk with a dragging anchor', which was reprinted later in Economica. During this period (1988 – 1995) his work focused on foreign exchange markets, specifically analysing the efficient-market hypothesis. To help with this research, Goodhart (with the help of Reuters) built his own data series. He then collaborated with Swiss firm Olsen and Associates to lead conferences about the importance of high speed data analysis and collection. His results from his work were published in his book: 'The Foreign Exchange Market: Empirical Studies With High-Frequency Data'.

Goodhart helped advise and publicly supported the Reserve Bank of New Zealand Act (RBNZ) 1989, which permitted the Reserve Bank of New Zealand to vary interest rates to help meet agreed inflation targets. In 1990, Goodhart was elected as a Fellow of the British Academy. In 1997 he was awarded the CBE for services to monetary economics. From late 1997 until May 2000, he was a member of the Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee. 

He retired from the London School of Economics in 2002 at which point he was appointed the Emeritus Professor of Banking and Finance. Following his retirement, Goodhart continued to write academic articles and books. He assisted in the English Parliament's review of approaches to monetary policy in 2007. Four years prior to the Global Financial Crisis, Goodhart identified how the global economy was financially unstable in his Per Jacobsson lecture 'Some New Directions for Financial Stability?'. In the years following the Global Financial Crisis, much of his work has focused on fixing regulation to provide financial stability for the economy, specifically providing reforms that "diminish the extent and volatility of the credit and leverage cycles". In an article included as part of the South African Reserve Bank Conference, Goodhart assessed the actions taken to provide global financial stability and concluded: "proposed reforms are incomplete and/or partially misdirected". In 2015, Goodhart critiqued the Warsh Review of the Bank of England's policy on monetary process. 

He was also an economic consultant at Morgan Stanley from 2009 until 2016, when he retired at the age of 80. At the 2021 Central Banking Awards, Goodhart was awarded the Central Banking Lifetime Achievement Award for his work on monetary frameworks, risk management and foreign exchange markets as well as his involvement in the Hong Kong peg, the independence of the Royal Bank of New Zealand and the creation of Goodhart's Law.

Influence