[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Human rights in Singapore

ecords will still be added and updated to the electronic system. While the authorities have asserted that only relevant healthcare workers will have access to the patients' data, it was noted that there have been cases of illegal access of patients' records even with the privacy safeguards in place.

Law dean Simon Chesterman brought up the need for greater transparency on the surveillance in smart cities to ensure that state powers are not being abused.

LGBT rights 

Singaporean law dating from 1938 until 2023 (Penal Code, s. 377A) banned sexual relations between men, but no prosecutions for private sexual activity have taken place since 1999. Since a May 2009 rally at Speaker's Corner at Hong Lim Park, gay-rights supporters have participated in the annual Pink Dot SG rally at Speaker's Corner, without government interference. The 2009 event was deemed significant enough to be included in the US Department of State's human rights reports for 2009. On 21 August 2022, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong announced during the annual National Day Rally that the government intended to repeal Section 377A, effectively ending criminalisation both de facto and de jure. On 29 November 2022, the Parliament of Singapore passed a bill to repeal Section 377A. The bill was assented by President Halimah Yacob on 27 December 2022 and gazetted on 3 January 2023, thus Section 377A was struck off the books.

Immigrant workers' rights 
According to Amnesty International one quarter of Singapore's population were immigrants at the end of 2009.

The Employment of Foreign Workers Act excludes domestic workers (2009). Singapore does not provide basic protection for foreign domestic workers, such as a standard number of working hours and rest days, minimum wage and access to employment benefits. The recruitment fees of domestic workers can be up to 40% of the workers salary in a two-year contract.

As of the end of 2010, Singapore's government had refused to regulate the recruitment fees.

In 2010 two workers from Burma, after 11 years' work in Singapore, did not receive new work permits, following their active support for Burma's pro-democracy movement.

Human trafficking 

The US Trafficking in Persons 2019 report listed Singapore on Tier 2 with 32 victims.

The 2020 report listed Singapore on Tier 1.

Caning

Singapore also employs corporal punishment in the form of severe caning on the bare buttocks for numerous criminal offences if committed by males under 50, and this is a mandatory sentence for some 30 offences. Some international observers, including Amnesty International, maintain that corporal punishment is in itself contrary to human rights, but this is disputed. Caning is never ordered on its own in Singapore, only in combination with imprisonment. There is mandatory caning of at least three strokes, combined with a minimum of three months' imprisonment, for foreign workers who overstay by more than 3 months. The government argues that this is necessary to deter would-be immigration offenders, as Singapore remains an attractive destination for illegal immigrants; experience prior to 1989 had shown that imprisonment was not alone a sufficient deterrent. It feels that long-term overstayers who are not able to work legitimately pose social problems and may turn to crime.

Corporal punishment may also be ordered for various sexual offences, rioting, the possession of weapons, violence of all kinds, illicit drug use, and vandalism of public property. Male members of the armed forces are liable to a less severe form of caning for breaches of military discipline.

Death penalty

Singapore enforces the death penalty by hanging. It is mandatory for premeditated and aggravated murder and for the possession or trafficking of more than  of heroin in its pure form (diamorphine). According to Amnesty International, Singapore has one of the world's highest execution rates relative to its population. Some 400 criminals were hanged between 1991 and 2003, for a population of 5 million.

The government argues that death penalty is meted out for the most serious crimes to curb "the drug menace" as Singapore is particularly vulnerable due to its small size and location near the Golden Triangle.

International agreements 
According to Amnesty International, Singapore has signed the following international agreements relating to human rights:

 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW)
 Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC)
 Optional Protocol to the CRC on the involvement of children in armed conflict in 2008
 International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination