[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

hey coalesced into a "parliamentary club" with Ebner and the Bessarabian Zionist Michel Landau, calling themselves segments of a "country-wide Jewish party". Lawyer Mișu Benvenisti, previously affiliated with the Hatalmid organization in Bucharest, was assigned as general secretary of their faction.

Their calls for the establishment of a registered party were not welcomed by the governing Democratic Nationalists; Jewish deputies accused the authorities of "inertia" and unwillingness to confront LANC antisemitism, and registered with the opposition. Constantin Argetoianu, the Minister of the Interior, opined: "Beyond equality as citizens, the Israelites cannot state any demand. Those of an ethnic nature, as taken up by a national Jewish party, would trap the Israelites in a political ghetto and would render difficult the matter of their integration." Columnist Constantin Bacalbașa also reacted against plans to create a "party of the Zionist Jews", noting: "Romania's parliament is a national parliament, it may only include parties that represent currents born within the country itself. But as long as the basis and rationale of the Zionist party is the Palestinian agenda, what logical purpose is there for it to be represented in a Romanian chamber? [...] I venture to believe that many Jews, who are now Romanian citizens, hold the same opinion as me."

Original PER

Creation

The Jewish political movement remained factionalized, including when it came to its Zionist sub-current. At the Sixteenth Zionist Congress of July 1929, seven of fifteen Romanian delegates were "centrists", and announced their intention of forming a separate party, under Adolf Bernhard; "radical" Zionists, which stood in opposition to this initiative, counted on two delegates—Benvenisti and I. Schechter (both of them from the "Old Kingdom"). In the Jewish center of Iași, Ilie Mendelsohn had controversially formed his own "Jewish Party" and "Israelite Community", which functioned as satellites of the PNȚ. A Bucharest-based Jewish National Party was ultimately established in March 1930. Active members included Benvenisti, Ozias Copel, Lupu Haimsohn, Iosif Ioil, Lazăr Lăzărescu, and Sami Stern; Adolphe Stern was a recipient of their pledges. It presented its own list for Sector II (Black) during the local elections of August, using the menorah as a logo. The list also included Pincu Blumenfeld, Aron Goldstein, Leon Mizrachi, Moți (or Motti) Moscovici, and Leon B. Wexler.

The PER was formally the fusion of the Bucharest radicals' fusion with another short-lived Jewish National Party, formed in Transylvania around the Fischers. The latter traced its existence to May 1930, when early talks with the UER for the formation of a national communitarian party had broken down, resulting in a separate organization for Transylvania. The resulting unified Jewish Party was established on May 4, 1931 in Bucharest. It took over the menorah as a national symbol, but also used "two small convex arcs joined together by a horizontal line", described in party propaganda as "the symbol of Jewish solidarity connected by a straight line". It published as its central organ Tribuna Evreiască of Bucharest, and its regional newspapers were the EZNSz/UNET's Új Kelet of Cluj and Neue Zeit–Új Kor of Timișoara. Its first-ever conference elected Tivadar Fischer as party president. He was seconded by an eight-member committee, while Adolphe Stern was honorary president, and József Fischer led the Transylvanian wing.

As argued by PER recruit Benvenisti, the group was reliant on its regional networks of "trusted men", since both the PNL and the PNȚ resented it for drawing away some of their votes. The PER would not openly campaign in the provinces, but its local bosses managed to submit electoral lists, which Jews could then vote for on the basis of ethnic affiliation. Benvenisti notes that such figures included Bernard Rohrlich of Botoșani and Carol Reiter of Timișoara. In Chișinău, Landau was putting out and "writing almost entirely by himself" two Yiddish newspapers, Der Yid and Unser Zeit. Throughout the 1930s, lawyer Isaia Tumarkin was president of the PER's section in the Bessarabian city of Bălți. In Bukovina, where the PER was foremost known as the Jüdische Reichspartei, its chapter came to include, alongside Ebner, the unorthodox Zionist Max Diamant, formerly of the Jewish National People's Party, and Karl Klüger, Saul Klüger, Josef Mann, Mizrachi, Benedikt Kaswan, Manfred Reiffer, and Leon Schmelzer. Ernő (Ernest) Marton, Mișu Weissman, and Landau were other prominent members of the PER. Lawyer Eugen Kertész headed the PER chapter in Cluj, later joined by the UER defector Miksa Klein.