[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 11]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

le me in the least, that _all_ the foxes are without
tails," she went on, taking short cuts to her meaning, in her
excitement. "I am going to London with Mrs. Trevelyan, to help her in
her work."

"By _Jove_!" exclaimed Fred. Ernest whistled. Austin stared, with
open mouth.

Having recovered from the first shock of surprise, the family plied
their sister with questions. She said that she had long been thinking of
accepting the post offered her by Mrs. Trevelyan last year, and now she
was resolved. The work was really wise, useful work among the poor,
which Algitha felt she could do well. At home, there was nothing that
she did that the housekeeper could not do better. She felt herself
fretting and growing irritable, for mere want of some active employment.
This was utterly absurd, in an overworked world. Hadria had her music
and her study, at any rate, but Algitha had nothing that seemed worth
doing; she did not care to paint indifferently on china; she was a mere
encumbrance--a destroyer, as Hadria put it--while there was so much, so
very much, that waited to be done. The younger sister made no comment.

"Next time I meet Harold Wilkins," said Fred, drawing a long breath, "I
will tell him that if a girl does not marry, she can devote herself to
the poor."

"Or that she can remain to be the family consolation, eh, Hadria? By
Jove, what a row there will be!"

The notion of Hadria in the capacity of the family consolation, created
a shout of laughter. It had always been her function to upset foregone
conclusions, overturn orthodox views, and generally disturb the
conformity of the family attitude. Now the sedate and established
qualities would be expected of her. Hadria must be the stay and hope
of the house!

Fred continued to chuckle, at intervals, over the idea.

"It _does_ seem to indicate rather a broken-down family!" said Ernest.

"I wish one of you boys would undertake the position instead of laughing
at _me_," exclaimed Hadria in mock resentment. "I wish _you_ would go to
eternal tennis-parties, and pay calls, and bills, and write notes, and
do little useless necessary things, more or less all day. I wish _you_
had before you the choice between that existence and the career of Mrs.
Gordon, with the sole chance of escape from either fate, in ruthlessly
trampling upon the bleeding hearts of two beloved parents!"

"Thank you kindly," said Fred, "but we infinitely prefer to laugh at you."

"Man's eternal reply to woman, admirably paraphrased!" commented Hadria.

Everyone was anxious to know when Algitha intended to go to London.
Nobody doubted for a moment that she would hold to her purpose; as Fred
said, she was so "beastly obstinate."

Algitha had not fixed any time. It would depend on her mother. She
wished to make things as little painful as possible. That it was her
duty to spare her pain altogether by remaining at home, Algitha refused
to admit. She and Hadria had thought out the question from all sides.
The work she was going to do was useful, but she did not justify herself
on that ground. She claimed the right to her life and her liberty, apart
from what she intended to do with either. She owed it to her own
conscience alone to make good use of her liberty. "I don't want to pose
as a philanthropist," she added, "though I honestly do desire to be of
service. I want to spread my wings. And why should I not? Nobody turns
pale when Ernest wants to spread _his_. How do I know what life is like,
or how best to use it, if I remain satisfied with my present ignorance?
How can I even appreciate what I possess, if I have nothing to compare
it with? Of course, the truly nice and womanly thing to do, is to remain
at home, waiting to be married. I have elected to be _un_womanly."

"I wonder how all this will turn out," said Ernest, "whether you won't
regret it some day when it is too late."

"Don't people _always_ regret what they do--some day?" asked Hadria.

"Perhaps so, especially if they do it sooner than other people."

"When are you going to make the announcement at head quarters?" asked
Fred.

There was a pause. The colour had left Algitha's cheeks. She answered at
length with an effort--

"I shall speak to mother to-day."




CHAPTER IV.


Mrs. Fullerton had gone to the study, to consult with her husband on
some matter of domestic importance. It was a long, low-pitched room,
situated in the part of the house that stood at right angles to the
central block, with long, narrow windows looking on to a rough orchard.
A few old portraits, very yellow and somewhat grotesque, hung on the
walls; a wood fire burnt on the hob-grate, and beside it stood a vast
arm chair, considerably worn, with depressions shewing where its owner
had been leaning his head, day after day, when he smoked his pipe, or
took his after-dinner nap. The bookshelves were stocked with scientific
works, and some volumes on philosophy of a ma