[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Occupational hazard

ionment about one's occupation.

Physical hazards 
Physical hazards are a subtype of occupational hazards that involve environmental hazards that can cause harm with or without contact. Physical hazards include ergonomic hazards, radiation, heat and cold stress, vibration hazards, and noise hazards.

Heat and cold stress 
Heat and cold stress occur when the temperature is significantly different from room temperature (68-74 degrees Fahrenheit). When the body is exposed to heat stress, excess sweating can lead to a range of heat-related illnesses. Excessive cold can also lead to several cold-related illnesses like hypothermia, frost bite, etc.

Vibration hazards 
Occupational vibration hazards most often occur when a worker is operating machinery that vibrates as a symptom of its functioning (e.g., chainsaws, power drills, etc.). The most common type of vibration syndrome is Hand Arm Vibration Syndrome (HAVS). Long-term exposure to HAVS can lead to damage occurring in the blood vessels, nerves, muscles, and joints of the hand, wrist, and arm.

Noise 
Each year in the US, twenty-two million workers are exposed to noise levels that could potentially harm their health. Occupational hearing loss is the most common occupational illness in the manufacturing sector. Workers in exceptionally high noise environments, such as musicians, mine workers, and even those involved with stock car racing, are at a much higher risk of developing hearing loss, when compared to other workers (e.g., factory workers, etc.).

While permanent noise-induced hearing is often preventable through proper hearing protection, limiting the amount of time one is exposed to high levels of noise is still required. As such a widespread issue, NIOSH has been committed to preventing future hearing loss for workers by establishing recommended exposure limits (RELs) of 85 dB(A) for an 8-house time-weighed average (TWA). The Buy Quiet program was developed by NIOSH to encourage employers to reduce workplace noise levels by purchasing quieter models of tools and machinery. Additionally, a partnership with the National Hearing Conservation Association (NHCA) has resulted in the creation of the Safe-in-Sound Award to recognize excellence and innovation in the field of hearing loss prevention.

Furthermore, OSHA's development and implementation of the Hearing Conservation Program (HCP) has required employers to more effectively protect their workers against noise levels that are too high. The HCP empowers workers to not only receive noise exposure testing, as well as audiometric testing, but also to have access to noise protection devices adequate for the noise levels they are being exposed to.

See also 
 Health hazards in semiconductor manufacturing occupations
 Health and safety hazards of nanomaterials
 Health and safety hazards of 3D printing
 Hazards of synthetic biology
 Occupational hazards in dentistry
 Occupational hazards of fire debris cleanup
 Occupational hazards of grain facilities
 Occupational hazards of human nail dust
 Occupational hazards of solar panel installation

References