[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# List of smoking bans

om schools and playgrounds.  Citizens are encouraged to help apprehend violators. Those who violate the ban could face up to four months in jail and a fine of  (around US$100).  As of 2017, a pack of cigarettes is still cheap, costing about  (54 U.S. cents) and more than 74 percent of that is taxes.

Poland
Smoking is prohibited in schools, hospitals or other medical facilities and public transport (including the vehicles such as train or bus and bus stops, train stations, etc. within the  radius).

Since 8 April 2010  it is forbidden to smoke in indoor workplaces, and all public indoor spaces, including public offices, museums, bars, cafés, discos, shops or restaurants smaller than 100 square metres. In larger restaurants enclosed smoking areas are permitted, provided they are physically separated and properly ventilated. Smoking is also prohibited in venues for cultural and sporting events.

Portugal
Portuguese Law 37/2007 (in force since 1 January 2008) governs various aspects of the consumption, sale and control of tobacco in Portugal, and lists a large number of enclosed spaces where smoking is not permitted, including such obvious cases as schools, hospitals and theatres. The law states that exceptions to the no-smoking rule may be made in the cases, inter alia, of enclosed eating and drinking establishments (i.e. restaurants, cafes and bars) not frequented by under-18s if the smoking area is physically separated from the non-smoking area or where ventilation and air extraction systems directed towards the exterior are effective to the point of preventing smoke from entering the non-smoking area, and that in the case of establishments with a floor area of more than 100 square metres no more than 40% (if physically separated) or 30% otherwise may be designated a smoking area.
In effect, restaurants are almost always smoke-free as are most cafes whose trade is mainly for food, whereas in bars the law is ignored by customers and bar owners alike. A study published in 2011 by the Ministry of Health showed 90% compliance with the law in establishments with a total smoking ban, but only 50% compliance in establishments where smoking is partly or wholly permitted (i.e., most bars).

Qatar
The capital of Qatar, Doha, restricted smoking in public or closed areas in 2002. The law discouraged shopkeepers from selling to under-aged people and completely banned tobacco advertisements in the country and punished violaters with hefty fines. However, the law is openly flouted especially by the youth.

Romania

Smoking is banned in "indoor public places" such as schools, office buildings and public institutions, though specially designed smoking areas may be established on the premises under certain conditions. Hospitals, CFR passenger trains and the Bucharest Metro, among others, are completely smoke-free. Since 2011, bars and restaurants may be designated either as smoke-free or exclusively for smokers.
On 15 December 2015, the Romanian Parliament adopted a law banning smoking in public areas. The law, that came into effect in March 2016 forbids smoking in any closed environment for public use, defining a closed environment as one having at least two walls.

Turkey
Turkey had been highly tolerant of smoking for a long time, with almost no regulation. However, the Soviet Union had approved countrywide campaigns against smoking.
The law "on the protection of the population from the harmful effects of cigarette smoke and the consequences of tobacco consumption" has passed the third and final vote in the State Duma and has been effective partly from 1 July 2013 and has completely from 1 July 2024.
Starting 1 June 2023, smoking in workplaces, on aircraft, trains and municipal transport as well as in schools, hospitals, cultural institutions and government buildings has been restricted and tobacco advertising and sponsorship forbidden. Graphic warnings have become compulsory.
Starting 1 June 2024, smoking has also been prohibited in restaurants and cafés.
Smokers will also be fined for smoking within a distance of 15 meters in front of entrances of subway stations, the airport or in children playgrounds and parks, as well as places and squares that attract many people.

Rwanda
The law prohibits smoking in all indoor public places, indoor workplaces, and on public transport, but permits the owner or manager of the premises to create a designated smoking area within the premises. Designated smoking areas must meet certain technical requirements, including separate ventilation. Starting Friday 15th of December 2024, Rwanda banned the smoking of water-pipe tobacco popularly known as shisha countrywide.