[Source: Semantic Scholar | Fields:  | Year: 2025 | Citations: 0]

Title: Belt, Road, and Resistance the Political Economy of China's Global Infrastructure Diplomacy

Abstract:
Background: The BRI is a global development strategy that was adopted by the Chinese government in 2013, and it focuses on infrastructure development and investments in countries and international organizations in Asia, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, and the Americas. While the BRI promised win-win cooperation, BRI projects have raised worries over debt sustainability, opacity and local hostility in a number of host countries.
Aim: This article seeks to interrogate China’s infrastructure diplomacy under the BRI through an analysis on how countries where BRI projects are located, such as Pakistan, Kenya, and Laos accommodate, contest, and relate to BRI projects. It examines the relationships of structural power, governance and local stakeholder reactions.
Method: The study uses a qualitative comparative case study design and methods, which draws on document analysis, stakeholder reports, government publications and secondary literature for 2021-2025. The study focuses on the adoption, absorption, and counteraction around three BRI key projects: China–Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Kenya Standard Gauge Railway, and Laos–China Railway.
Results: There are significant differences in host country reactions. National governments may see BRI straightforwardly as a strategic, economic and development opportunity, but local communities or civil society actors may see degradation based on debt bondage, marginalisation and exclusion from laying down BRI-ties. BRI projects’ success or failure may depend less on the completion of materialist plans than on institutional adjustment, inclusive governance, and sociopolitical compatibility.
Conclusion: China’s BRI is driven by not just geopolitical ambition but complicated local dynamics. On the one hand, a realization of host country agency is essential for the assessment of the initiative’s long-term success and legitimacy.