[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Typhoon Chanchu

ne, another was killed, and the third remained missing as of May 23. The remnants of Chanchu produced  of rainfall in Gifu Prefecture in combination with a nearby cold front, causing one landslide. A fallen tree in Nagasaki Prefecture caused a small power outage, and nearby there was a damaged home.

The trough that engulfed Chanchu drew moisture from the typhoon, leading to heavy rainfall in portions of South Korea that reached  on Jeju Island. Along with strong winds, the rains caused ferry and flight cancelations.

Aftermath
In the days after Chanchu moved through the Philippines, then-President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo ordered that the country's National Disaster Coordinating Council help all towns affected by the storm. The agency helped coordinate search and rescue missions. Several areas were declared a state of calamity, mostly on Mindoro, Samar, and Batangas. The Tzu Chi Foundation visited islands in eastern Samar, providing money to the families whose houses were destroyed. Towns in the region also assisted by supplying thatch to rebuild homes. In Oriental Mindoro, the Philippine Red Cross provided food and relief items to families in Calapan. The Adventist Development and Relief Agency also provided building materials for 200 families in Mindoro. Ultimately, the government provided storm victims with ₱415.1 million (PHP, US$7.6 million) worth of relief supplies. Rainfall from the storm caused a red tide in Taal Lake, after dispersing a Ceratium bloom.

Immediate after Chanchu's China landfall, officials began distributing tents, quilts, water purification tablets, and disinfectant. The government of Fujian set up a ¥8.5 million yuan (RMB, $1.06 million) relief fund. In the months after Chanchu, China suffered from several other damaging tropical cyclones, including Tropical Storm Bilis and Typhoon Saomai. Damage from Chanchu forced the China National Offshore Oil Corporation to shut down for a time, which contributed to an annual decrease in its oil output. The Chinese government recognized 50 people who assisted in the South China Sea search and rescue mission, and two vessels were declared "hero ships".

Vietnamese president Trần Đức Lương expressed his thanks to the Chinese government on May 22 for rescuing the Vietnamese on the imperiled ships. Residents and industries in Vietnam raised ₫360 million (VND, US$36,000) for the families of the deceased fishermen, as well as providing 1 ton of rice. Trade unions encouraged workers to donate one day's salary to help storm victims. The Vietnamese embassy in India raised about US$1,000 and Vietnamese people living in Greece raised ₫26 million (VND, €1,300 Euros) for storm victims. Ultimately, 43 different organizations and people donated $29,000 (USD) to the Vietnam Red Cross. The country's Ministry of Labour, Invalids and Social Affairs presented an award to the Vietnam News Agency in June 2006 for its charitable donations, which included the distribution of ₫112 million (VND, US$11,200) to storm victims. One fisherman claimed to survive for two weeks in the open seas before being rescued, although he later confessed that he was safely on another boat, and wanted his family to retain the disaster compensation; after the man revealed that he had lied, his family was able to retain the relief funds due to their poverty. The head of the Vietnam Institute of Meteorology, Hydrology and Environment resigned two weeks after Chanchu killed many fishermen because of inadequate warnings. Then-Deputy Prime Minister Nguyễn Tấn Dũng ordered a review of the meteorological agency as a result. Within a few years after the typhoon, the meteorological agency began issuing more accurate and timely forecasts. After the many deaths of fishermen from Chanchu, the Vietnam government prevented any fishermen from leaving harbor during the passage of Typhoon Durian in November.

After the season ended, members of the 39th meeting of the Typhoon Committee of the World Meteorological Organization met in Manila in December 2006. They discussed retiring the name "Chanchu", along with four other names from the season. During the 40th meeting in November 2007, the Typhoon Committee approved the retirement, announcing that the name "Sanba" would replace Chanchu on the basin name lists beginning in 2008.

See also

Typhoons in the Philippines
 Other typhoons that impacted the Philippines in 2006:
 Typhoon Xangsane
 Typhoon Cimaron
 Typhoon Chebi
 Typhoon Durian
 Typhoon Utor
 Typhoon Megi (2010) – Stronger storm that took a similar track through the Philippines before turning north and striking China
 Typhoon Kammuri (2019) – A late-season powerful Category-4 that strucked almost the same areas throughout its path in the Philippines. Also had a similar track and intensity.
 Typhoon Molave and Goni (2020) – A pair of typhoons that both devastated Bicol Region with the latter one became the strongest landfall on record.

Notes

References

External links