[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Guy Boutilier

that ever happened to me in my political career.”

Boutilier was joined by fellow former Tories Heather Forsyth and Rob Anderson. As an Opposition MLA, Boutilier was a vocal critic of the PC government’s handling of education, health care, transportation, infrastructure and housing in Fort McMurray.

He continued to demand a long-term care centre project and progress on twinning Highway 63, which had been announced and was scheduled to be finished in 2012. The highway between Fort McMurray and Atmore would not be twinned until 2016.

In the 2012 Alberta election, Boutilier ran for re-election as a Wildrose candidate in the new electoral district of Fort McMurray-Wood Buffalo. He was defeated by PC candidate Mike Allen.

Return to municipal politics

In July 2013, Allen was arrested in a prostitution sting during a government trip to St. Paul, Minnesota. Boutilier remained silent on a possible political comeback, but in October, announced he would be seeking a Ward 1 municipal council seat in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo.

When it came to local governance, Boutilier commented that residents were beginning to feel that "the inmates are running the asylum." Boutilier won one of six seats representing the urban Ward 1 covering Fort McMurray. He quickly earned a reputation on council as a strong fiscally conservative voice who frequently criticized past administrations for hiring companies and consultants based outside Alberta.

Residency controversy 
In May 2014, Fort McMurray Today discovered Boutilier did consultant work for the municipality prior to being elected to council. After the 2012 provincial election, he was working as an urban planning and political consultant and submitted a "strategic roadmap" for projects approved by the previous council administration.

Boutilier was paid $2,957.58 for his two-page report. This included a $1,050 expense for two round trips from Edmonton to Fort McMurray. The report and invoice was leaked to the newspaper and showed Boutilier ran his consulting business out of a residential home in Edmonton.

The address and the expenses raised questions regarding Boutilier's residency and his eligibility to hold a council seat. Boutilier said he owned an Edmonton home because his son regularly had treatments related to his autism at the Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital and he lectured part-time at the University of Alberta.

In November 2014, a Fort McMurray business owner named Robert Vargo, who supported Boutilier's Wildrose campaign, filed a legal challenge questioning Boutilier's residency. Vargo wrote in his affidavit that Boutilier had moved to Edmonton shortly after Stelmach expelled him from the Progressive Conservative Party's caucus. Three more people filed separate affidavits claiming they rented Boutilier's Fort McMurray home and rarely saw him. They also claimed Boutilier was claiming a northern living allowance, despite allegedly living in Edmonton.

Boutilier's lawyer dismissed the affidavits as "a frivolous application" and said a defence was being prepared. At the same time, Fort McMurray Today reported Boutilier had started looking for new jobs in the private sector as questions about his eligibility to sit on council were raised in the community.

Resignation from council 
The claims made by Vargo and the three individuals never went to court. In January 2015, Boutilier resigned from council one day after Vargo dropped the challenge. Boutilier denied his resignation was related to the dropped case. The lawyers for Vargo and Boutilier said the motivations behind dropping the challenge would remain a private matter between the two men.

On the same day as his resignation, Boutilier purchased a membership with the Progressive Conservative Party's riding association for Fort McMurray-Wood Buffalo, leaving many to believe he would attempt to run as an MLA in the 2015 Alberta general election. Boutilier said he was returning to the party because of the leadership of Premier Jim Prentice. He said his expulsion from the PC caucus was "water under the bridge."

The PC nomination in Fort McMurray-Wood Buffalo went to incumbent MLA Mike Allen and was not challenged by Boutilier.

Post-Politics

Boutilier now works for Edmonton-based lobbying firm Alberta Counsel. The firm includes Shayne Saskiw, former Wildrose MLA for Lac La Biche-St. Paul-Two Hills, as principal. In October 2021, Mayor Don Scott of the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo awarded Boutilier and 12 other residents the Key to the Region.

Election results

References