[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stoneman's 1863 raid

heir way slowly back to HQ at Falmouth where they returned to picket duty and recovered from the previous weeks exertions. Buford's enterprise provided one of the few bright moments in what was a less damaging campaign than expected, although the Northern press hailed the incursion in glowing terms.

Postscript
During the Chancellorsville Campaign, Stoneman accomplished little and Hooker considered him one of the principal reasons for the Union defeat at Chancellorsville. Hooker needed to deflect criticism from himself and relieved Stoneman from his cavalry command, sending him back to Washington, D.C., for medical treatment (chronic hemorrhoids, exacerbated by cavalry service), where in July he became a Chief of the U.S. Cavalry Bureau, a desk job.

Buford was soon elevated to the command of a cavalry division but was quick to laud the performances of his seven staff in his official report of the raid:

Regardless of the success or failure of the daring operation, what it did install was a growing sense of confidence among the men of the Federal cavalry. While Captain Merritt of the 1st Maine may be slightly overstating the legacy of that campaign when he termed it—"one of the most remarkable achievements in the history of modern warfare"—one of his troopers probably best summed up the new-found confidence when he recorded:

See also

References
 General
 
 U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, U.S. Government Printing Office, 1880–1901.
 Sears, Stephen W., Chancellorsville, Houghton Mifflin, 1996, .
 Myles Keogh: The Life and Legend of an "Irish Dragoon" in the Seventh Cavalry, John P. Langellier, Kurt Hamilton Cox, Brian C. Pohanka, 1998, 

 Specific

External links 
  Official Civil War Records
 Stoneman's 1865 Raid

Chancellorsville Campaign
Battles of the Eastern Theater of the American Civil War
Confederate victories of the American Civil War
Cavalry raids of the American Civil War
Spotsylvania County in the American Civil War
Conflicts in 1863
1863 in Virginia
Military operations of the American Civil War in Virginia
April 1863 events
May 1863 events