[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bharat Mandapam

s, over 70 companies from 14 countries set up shop. The 2003 IITF saw 25 lakh visitors to Pragati Maidan. Today, Northern Railways runs special trains to Pragati Maidan during the annual fair, as does the Delhi Metro, which handled an average daily ridership of 50,000 commuters during the 2008 fair.

At a corner of Pragati Maidan, on Mathura Road lies "Matka Peer" or the dargah shrine of Hazrat Sheikh Abubakr Tusi Qalandari, a mystic who came to Delhi from Iran, around the 1260s CE. Further down on Bhairon road, lies the National Handicrafts and Handlooms Museum and further down stands the National Science Centre. The Pragati Maidan Delhi Metro station which is the largest station on the section built over an area of 6,800 square metres, opened in November 2006, during the ongoing India International Trade Fair, and on the eight day, over 2 lakh passenger used the facility.

Each year, the Income Tax Department opens over 150 counters for filing Income Tax returns. It also hosted Wills Lifestyle Indian Fashion Week (WIFW) of the Fashion Design Council of India (FDCI), in 2008 and 2009., apart from exhibitions of almost all major industries, from toys, leather, lifestyle products and services, exports to medical equipment and sports equipments, and even a job fair.

Accessibility
Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station is 3 km from Pragati Maidan.
The best way to reach Pragati Maidan is by Delhi Metro. Get down at the Supreme Court metro station which is located at gate number 10.

During the exhibitions, entry of visitors is also allowed through Gate No 4 on Bhairon Road.

See also
Hall of Nations - Demolished in 2017
Neighbourhoods of Delhi
Auto Expo
Pragati Maidan railway station

References

External links
 Pragati Maidan Events Information
 Indian Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO), website
 Indian Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO) Official Video Channel On Veblr
 CII India Trade Fair

Convention centres in India
Buildings and structures in New Delhi
Buildings and structures completed in 1982
Maidans in India
Government buildings in Delhi
1982 establishments in Delhi
20th-century architecture in India