[Source: PubMed]

18. Soc Sci Med. 2020 Aug;258:113070. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2020.113070. Epub 
2020 May 21.

Forced migration experiences, mental well-being, and nail cortisol among 
recently settled refugees in Serbia.

Jankovic-Rankovic J(1), Oka RC(2), Meyer JS(3), Gettler LT(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, USA; 
Kellogg Institute for International Studies, University of Notre Dame, Notre 
Dame, IN, USA; Nanovic Institute for European Studies, University of Notre Dame, 
Notre Dame, IN, USA. Electronic address: jjankovi@nd.edu.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, USA; 
Eck Institute for Global Health, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, USA.
(3)Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts- Amherst, MA, 
USA.

Refugees are exposed to a wide breadth of traumatic and psychosocially stressful 
experiences that have long-term implications for their health and resilience. 
Most prior research on this topic has focused on long-settled refugee 
populations, as opposed to those who find themselves in more intermittent 
transitional stages of the forced migration process. Specifically, few studies 
have explored how refugees' experiences during their recently completed journeys 
correlate with their mental well-being or physiological profiles that are 
responsive to psychosocial stress and trauma. Using data from recently settled 
refugees in Serbia (n = 111), our study helps address this existing gap by 
examining the associations between refugees' experiences during their arduous 
journeys, fingernail cortisol concentrations (CORT), and self-reports of 
psychosocial stress and PTSD symptomology. We found that refugees who reported 
experiencing longer journeys had higher recent perceived stress as well as 
poorer well-being and physical health. Refugees who experienced trauma during 
their journeys also reported higher recent perceived stress and tended to have 
higher CORT than those who did not experience trauma. In addition, we also 
observed sex differences in mental health and CORT profiles. Women tended to 
report poorer mental well-being and physical health and also had lower CORT 
compared to men. While longitudinal research is needed, our correlative findings 
are consistent with the notion that reducing exposure to extreme trauma and 
stress by establishing safe migration pathways for people fleeing hardship could 
potentially help attenuate forced relocation-related illnesses and improve 
health outcomes among refugees as they await resettlement.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2020.113070
PMID: 32526598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]