[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Augustine Mahiga

nd prolong it. Additionally, political analysts have suggested that the Kampala agreement presents other potential long-term issues, such as facilitating intervention and meddling by neighbouring countries, with the Ugandan government's role as the final arbiter, in particular, cited as problematic.

Responding to the Kampala decision, the Al-Shabaab insurgent group's head of policy and regions, Sheikh Hussein Ali Fidow, told reporters on 22 June 2011 that the accord ended in failure since it was "an example [of how] the country is managed by Uganda" and that "it is clear for the Somali people and the international community that [the] Kampala meeting [on] Somalia was aimed to coerce the Prime Minister Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed to step down". In addition, the spokesman suggested that Somalia's citizenry was aware of what was going on and that it did not recognise President Sharif Ahmed and the Parliament Speaker Sharif Hassan as legitimate governmental authorities. He also reiterated his group's call for Ugandan troops to withdraw from the country.

On 24 June 2011, lawmakers reaffirmed their opposition to and intention of repealing the Kampala decision. The chairman of the federal Information, Public Awareness, Culture and Heritage Committee, Awad Ahmed Ashareh, indicated that 165 legislators had tendered a motion in Parliament opposing the agreement, but the Speaker rebuffed it. Ashareh also stated that MPs would issue a vote of no confidence vis-a-vis the Speaker Hassan if he continued to refuse to permit debate to take place, suggesting that Hassan's refusal "contravenes the Charter and rules of procedure."

Following talks with parliamentarians, President Sharif Ahmed asserted on 28 June 2011 that, on account of opposition amongst legislators to the Kampala decision, the accord would be brought before Parliament for deliberation. He also indicated that the agreement would not be implemented unless approved by lawmakers.

End of term and extended career
Mahiga's term as the UN Special Representative for Somalia ended on 3 June 2013. Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon commended him on his close work with the Somali authorities, which saw the end of the transitional period and the establishment of a permanent Federal Government of Somalia. UK diplomat Nicholas Kay was concurrently appointed as Mahiga's replacement.

After his retirement, he joined the Chama Cha Mapinduzi presidential nomination ticket in 2015, but lost to current President John Magufuli.

As Minister of Foreign Affairs, he addressed climate change as "an existential challenge to the planet", saying that it was "disheartening" to see melting ice from the Kilimanjaro. In the same address, he acknowledged the threat of terrorism in Africa, noting the killing of a Tanzanian soldier in the Democratic Republic of the Congo by the Allied Democratic Forces insurgents and said that while his country was receiving refugees from that country, they would implement the peace agreement with the promise of timely elections in that country. As Foreign Minister, he also expressed the position of Tanzania on nuclear weapons, commending the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and condemning North Korea for its tests.

In 2019, after a cabinet reshuffle, he was appointed to the Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs. As Minister of Justice and Constitutional Affairs, he blocked the right of individuals and NGOs to directly file cases against the country at the African Court on Human and People's Rights (AfCHPR). Amnesty International condemned the move by saying that "the withdrawal of rights will rob people and organizations in Tanzania a vital avenue to justice". In that decision, Tanzania became the second country after Rwanda to withdraw the right of individuals and NGOs to directly access the African Court.

Death
Mahiga died, after a short illness, believed to be COVID-19, while being taken to medical facilities from his Dodoma home on 1 May 2020.

See also
 List of foreign ministers in 2017

References

External links
 Biography of Ambassador Mahiga
 Interview with Augustine Mahiga – Radio France Internationale

1945 births
2020 deaths
Permanent Representatives of Tanzania to the United Nations
Tanzanian diplomats
University of Dar es Salaam alumni
University of Toronto alumni
Tanzanian MPs 2015–2020
Foreign ministers of Tanzania
People from Dar es Salaam
Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Tanzania