[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of Irgun members

g of the Goldschmidt Officer's Club, and the attack on the Schneller Camp. Arrested in March 1947, exiled to Eritrea, and returned to Israel in July 1948.
 Avni, Yosef – took part in a bombing of the British intelligence offices in Jerusalem, the King David Hotel bombing (where he  commanded the first group ("the porters") that arrived at the King David Hotel prior to Yisrael Levi's "strike force"), and the attack on the Schneller Camp. Arrested in 1947 and detained in Latrun, he was released in March 1948 and took part in the attack on Deir Yassin (where he was wounded during an attack on the Mukhtar's house).
 Ben-Eliezer, Aryeh (1913–1970) – co-founder, Committee for the Rescue of European Jewry and later on the Committee for National Liberation.  Elected to the Knesset as a Herut member and served as Deputy Speaker.
 Cohen, Dov ("Shimshon") (1915–1947) Served in the British army until 1945. Joined the Irgun and took part in a large number of actions, including an attack on the Lydda military airfield and a major railway sabotage operation. Commanded the Acre Prison break while dressed as a Royal Engineers captain, in which he was killed while trying to save his men.
 Cohen, Ben-Zion ("Giora") – Served in the British Army and joined the Irgun after demobilization in 1946. Participated in actions against the British and battles against the Arabs. He served as a senior commander in the capture of Deir Yassin and was deputy commander in the capture of Malha.  Later joined the IDF and attained the rank of Major, and "participated in various security projects within the framework of Raphael (The Authority for Development of Weapons)."
 Cohen, Rahamim ("Gad"); commanded the Fighting Force in Jerusalem in early 1944, and led the first attack on the British intelligence offices in Jerusalem's Russian Compound. While leading a September 1944 attack against a police station in Haifa, his hand was shattered while holding a live grenade. He continued to lead the operation, and following its completion, was taken to hospital, where he was arrested and exiled to Africa, returning in 1948.
 Corfu, Haim (1921–2015) – joined the Irgun in 1937 and built explosives and mines for Irgun use. He took part in the assassination of CID officers Ralph Cairns and Ronald Barker, personally detonating the remotely-controlled mine that killed them. In 1944, he was responsible for the bombing of the Income Tax Offices, and was subsequently arrested and interned in Africa, returning to Israel in 1948. Later became an Israeli politician.
 Efrat, Dov; became deputy district commander of Jerusalem in 1944, and then district commander. In August 1945, he was arrested and found to be carrying a parcel containing detonators. He was sentenced to seven years in prison, but was freed in the Acre Prison break.
 Eliav, Yaakov ("Yashka") (1917–1985) – was in charge of the Irgun's Jerusalem operations in 1938. During the split within the Irgun, sided with Avraham Stern and became one of the founders of the Lehi, and later, its Chief Operating Officer for several years.
 Elis, Shraga (1921–2014) – commanded the Irgun's Fighting Force in Jerusalem from 1944–45 and took part in numerous operations, among them an attack on British intelligence offices which he commanded. In June 1945, he was transferred to the Planning Division in Tel Aviv. He took part in planning the King David Hotel bombing and performed a reconnaissance mission inside the hotel as part of the preparations. He also had a part in the attack on the British officers club at Goldschmidt House, the Acre Prison break, and the Battle of Jaffa.
 Fallan, Chaim
 Franckel, Isidore – Irgun French National Commander; founding leader of the Revisionist Movement Herut of France; President of the Zionist Federation of France and one of the founders of Hatzohar - Union of Zionists-Revisionists.
 Germant, Natan-Niko ("Shimshon")
 Gershoni, Shalom ("Nachum") (1916–1991)
 Globman-Naot, Yehuda ("Avitagar")
 Goldshmid, Yehoshua ("Gal") (1925–1948) – took part in King David Hotel bombing, commanded the attack on Camp Schneller, planned the attack on Deir Yassin, and led the capture of the police academy at Sheikh Jarrah in Jerusalem on May 14, 1948. Killed in action on May 19, 1948, during an Arab Legion counterattack on the police academy. The youngest Irgun member to be commander of Jerusalem. 
 Grosbard, David (1915–1990) – was a member of the Irgun High Command and the Planning Division. He set up the Irgun's clandestine radio service, medical service, and workshops for the production of mortars, Sten guns, and explosives. Took part in a 1947 arms raid against an RAF base. He later served as a member of the central institutions of the Herut movement and manager of the Herut newspaper.
 Heichman, Aharon – listed by other sources as a High Commander; later a manager of ZOA House in Tel Aviv.
 Hillel, Yaakov ("Asher") – according to the Irgun website, "took part in reprisals against Arabs rioters", in th