[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

ich, ironically, had been given to Childers by Michael Collins (Irish leader). There are attacks that night on Protobello and Wellignton attacks in Dublin but inflicting no casualties.
25 November – The Anti-Treaty IRA mount an attack on Oriel House, Dublin. Several IRA fighters are captured at nearby Harcourt Street and one Anti-Treaty fighter is shot and killed.
29 November – A Free State soldier is killed in an ambush at Rearcross, County Tipperary.
30 November – In reprisal for the executions, Liam Lynch, Anti-Treaty IRA Commander, issues a general order to his forces to kill members of the Dáil (T.D.s) and senators who had voted for the Emergency Powers legislation. He also orders the killing of hostile judges and newspaper editors.
Three Anti-Treaty IRA prisoners are executed by firing squad in Dublin for possession of arms.
Anti-Treaty IRA officer Patrick Lynch is killed in a Free State raid on his home in Moyrisk, County Kerry.
Two National Army soldiers are killed in an action at Ballinamult, Woodhouse, County Waterford.
Anti-Treaty fighters ambush Free State troops near Tubbercurry, County Sligo. Two National Army soldiers are killed.
November – members of the South Wexford Brigade I.R.A. (Anti-Treaty) ambush a Lorry near Begerin, Old Ross, carrying Free State soldiers, killing one and wounding seven others.
November – In several 'sweep' operations, National Army troops capture over 200 Anti-Treaty fighters (including 8 women) in County Kerry in this month, along with a substantial quantity of arms and explosives.

December 1922
1 December – After a skirmish on the border of County Kildare and County Meath, the Meath Anti-Treaty IRA column, consisting of 22 men under Patrick Mullaney is captured. The Republicans attack a Free State supply truck near Leixlip. One Republican and one Free State soldier are killed in the action and three Republicans are wounded. Five of the Anti-Treaty men, who had previously deserted from the National Army, are executed in Dublin on 8 January 1923 for 'treachery'.
Several hundred National Army troops mount a major operation in Dublin, setting up checkpoints at all major roads in an effort to halt the daily small scale ambushes in the city. They stop and search all in-coming traffic and male civilians for arms. Three men are found carrying weapons and detained. The military barracks at Tallaght, County Dublin is attacked that night. Four Free State soldiers are wounded by gunfire.
Dublin Guard troops end a week of sweeps in Kerry, having raided Rathmore, Killcummin and Barraduff, capturing 39 Anti-Treaty IRA men as well as arms and equipment. A separate sweep in the Currow/Scartaglen area takes another 15 prisoners and 4 more are captured elsewhere in the county.
4 December – A party of 60 Republican fighters ambushes a Free State convoy of two lorries on Drimoleague Road, near Dunmanway in West Cork. One National Army sergeant is killed. The National Army troops call for air support and an aeroplane bombs and machine guns the Anti-Treaty fighters before they disperse. Press reports say they suffered, 'many casualties'.
5 December – In County Mayo, a National Army soldier – Vol. John Moyles from Crossmolina – is shot dead by a sniper in Ballyhaunis. His body was taken to Claremorris barracks where hundreds of local people paid their respects.
Early December – Kenmare, County Kerry (captured by Republicans on 9 September) is re-taken by Free State troops under General Murphy.
6 December – The Irish Free State is formally established by the British House of Commons.
National Army troops encounter 80 Republicans at Kilcash, County Tipperary occupying a hill top position. A fire fight breaks out that lasts for three hours. Two Republicans are killed, four wounded and eleven captured. The remainder of their column gets away by burning the furze bushes to cover their retreat. Free State troops have three men wounded.
7 December – Former IRA men in the War of Independence and pro-Treaty TD, Seán Hales is shot dead by Anti-Treaty gunmen on Ormonde Quay as he set out for Leinster House. Another TD, Pádraic Ó Máille is also shot and wounded in the incident.
One Anti-Treaty fighter, Hugh O'Donnell, a native of the Caherconlish district, is killed in a skirmish in Ballintubber, Kilfinane, in County Limerick.
A Free State patrol is ambushed on Harcourt Street, Dublin, one civilian, a waitress in a hotel, is shot dead in the crossfire.
Free State soldier Thomas Leahy, was accidentally shot dead by one of his comrades while guarding Cahir Castle in County Tipperary.
A Free State soldier, Charles Glass is killed at his home in Dundalk by two gunmen.
8 December – 
Anti-Treaty leaders captured in the Four Courts in July, Rory O'Connor, Liam Mellows, Dick Barrett and Joe McKelvey are executed by the Free State in revenge for the killing of Seán Hales. This is an illegal act, as the four were captured before the Dáil passed its emergency legislation.
Two Anti-Treaty fighters are killed i