[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ego-dystonic sexual orientation

s (APA) board of trustees voted unanimously in December 1973 in favor of this compromise, and in 1974 the seventh printing of the DSM-II in 1974 included "sexual orientation disturbance" in place of "homosexuality" and a note that homosexuality "by itself does not constitute a psychiatric disorder."

That same year, a task force was appointed to develop the DSM-III, led by Robert Spitzer, the psychiatrist who had originally drafted the proposal to replace homosexuality with sexual orientation disturbance. Spitzer felt that it was important to take "a middle position regarding the pathological status of homosexuality"; nine members of the task force agreed with him and five disagreed, leading to a deadlock. Classifications of "homodysphilia," "dyshomophilia," and "homosexual conflict disorder" were discussed, until finally, the invented term "ego-dystonic homosexuality" was proposed, along with a barely perceptible conceptual shift: instead of distress about being homosexual, the new classification was about a desire to be heterosexual and distress at one's inability to achieve that desire. A proposal to include additional information such as a note about how internalized homophobia can be a contributing factor eventually swayed enough critics; others, including Richard Green and Richard Pillard, remained opposed to including homosexuality in the DSM in any form, but they were eventually overruled.

The diagnostic criteria listed in the DSM-III for ego-dystonic homosexuality were:

Removal from the DSM 
Leading up to the publication of the DSM-III-R, it had become clear to more and more people that the inclusion of "sexual orientation disturbance" and later "ego-dystonic homosexuality" in the DSM was the result of political compromises rather than scientific evidence, and that neither diagnosis actually met the definition of a disorder. Critics pointed out that by the same logic, short people unhappy with their height could be considered mentally ill.

As the DSM-III revision process neared its completion, a growing number of APA members began advocating for deleting the category of ego-dystonic homosexuality, arguing that it was incompatible with the structure of the manual, had not proved useful in research, represented a "value judgment" that homosexuality was a pathology, and contributed to anti-gay stigma. Terry Stein, a member of APA's Committee on Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Issues, noted that there was a "vast amount of psychological, sociological and historical literature that documents the fact that the wish not to have a pattern of homosexual arousal can be a normative stage for many individuals who are developing a gay or lesbian identity," rather than such feelings being indicative of a mental disorder, and further noted that such an erroneous diagnosis could hinder treatment of the distress. Robert Cabaj, president of the Association of Gay and Lesbian Psychiatrists, named how refusal to delete the category could contribute to harmful policies: "With the AIDS crisis and the growing attempts by the military and insurance companies to screen out gay people, the diagnosis has very frightening potential for abuse."

Eventually, a new compromise was reached: ego-dystonic homosexuality would be deleted from the DSM-III-R. In its place, "persistent and marked distress about one's sexual orientation" would be added to the description of the category "sexual disorder not otherwise specified" as an example of the disorders that this category could be used to diagnose. What was notable about this change was that it no longer singled out same-sex attraction as the only form of sexuality that might cause distress worthy of a mental health diagnosis. "Persistent and marked distress about one's sexual orientation" remained in the DSM-IV and DSM-IV-TR but was deleted from the DSM-5 in 2013.

Addition to the ICD 
The ninth edition of the ICD (ICD-9), published in 1975, retained homosexuality as a category of mental disorder under "Sexual Deviations and Disorders," in contrast with the APA's 1973 decision to remove homosexuality from the DSM, and the authors seemingly rationalized this decision by way of a confusingly worded disclaimer in the introduction to the section: "The limits and features of normal sexual inclination and behaviour have not been stated absolutely in different societies and cultures but are broadly such as serve approved social and biological purposes." The description of homosexuality also included the line, "Code homosexuality here whether or not it is considered as a mental disorder," which acknowledged the lack of professional consensus on homosexuality as a mental disorder.