[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lenggong

de of stones. Flakes were used as knives or scrappers. So it can be seen that the Lenggong area is very important as it contains much evidence relating to the prehistory of Malaysia. It is the oldest area where remains have been found, and all the sites are situated conveniently within a small area.

Perak Man
The oldest human skeleton found in Malaysia was at Gua Gunung Runtuh in the state of Perak in Peninsular Malaysia. The cave was his final resting place situated in Bukit Kepala Gajah or Elephant's Head Hill in the Lenggong Valley of Ulu Perak. The skeleton was a male with a height of approximately 157 cm, aged 50s. It was discovered in 1991 and the skeleton has been dated to around 11,000 years old and is one of the most complete skeletons for this time period in this region. In 2004, another skeleton was found at Gua Teluk Kelawar in Lenggong, Perak by a team of Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) archaeologists. This time it is a 'Perak woman' of 148 cm in height and was believed to aged 40s.

He was buried in the fetal position, with deposits of animal bones at his right shoulder, to his left and to his bottom, and deposits of stone tools around the body. There were no other burials in the cave. The Perak Man had a malformed left hand, his left arm and hand were much smaller compared to his right arm and hand. This deformity could be from a genetic disorder known as brachymesophalangia. This evidence is further supported by the fact that his spine is curved towards the right due to living with only one good hand.

The Perak Man was probably a man as the bones exhibited strong male characteristics. His pelvis wasn't well preserved which is the surest way to determine a skeleton's gender. He shared the characteristics of an australomelanesoid, which is the kind of humans you find in Australia, Papua, Indonesia and some parts of Malaysia. He wasn't very tall, he stood about 154 cm, which is about 5 feet. The bones that were found deposited near him were identified to have come from wild boar, monkey, monitor lizard and deer and are thought to be food deposits. There were about ten stone tools scattered around the body, and most of them were pebble tools and some hammer stones. Next to him was a nametag that read Mevlana Hezri, in ancient language.

One conclusion that the study made was that he must have been an important member in that society because the burial was very elaborate and labour intensive. The Perak Man was put into the pit with food offerings, and then covered him with small shells, and then place more offerings and tools, and then another shell layer, followed by a final dirt layer. Furthermore, he was 45 years old which was very old for a person from that era with a disability. People had to take care of him – and people would not take it upon themselves unless he was respected or highly ranked in some sort of social hierarchy. That's another reason to support the social hierarchy theory.

Of course, it's a bit premature to say all of this about the Perak Man and his society. We should take this with some caution because we don't have anything to benchmark with.

Gua Teluk Kelawar is the cave where Perak Women was found. Perak Women is an 8000-year-old skeleton found in Gua Teluk Kelawar in Lenggong. Perak Women was found more recently in 2004.

Stone tools
An undisturbed stone tool production area where pebble tools were made using equipment such as anvils and hammer stones was excavated at the Kota Tampan archaeological site. The workshop was dated at 75,000 years old.

Cuisine 

Lenggong is also famous for its freshwater fish dishes. One local delicacy from freshwater fish is pekasam, where the fish is marinated in salt and toasted rice, followed by fermentation for two weeks.

References

External links 
Perak Man and the Lenggong Archaeological Museum
Fish dishes of Lenggong
Centre for Archaeological Research Malaysia
 https://web.archive.org/web/20051223085446/http://www.museum.gov.my/english/perakman.htm
 http://allmalaysia.info/news/story.asp?file=/2003/10/4/state/6340195&sec=mi_perak

Archaeological sites in Malaysia
Hulu Perak District
Towns in Perak
Tourist attractions in Perak
World Heritage Sites in Malaysia
Mukims of Perak
Paleolithic sites