[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Scarlet Traces

of veterans to Earth, in case they are in fact disguised Martians.

Spry's government is about to deliver a coup de grace in some unknown form, and destroy all the remaining Martians - as well as an expendable rearguard left behind when the main body of the expeditionary force is secretly evacuated.

The expected doomsday weapon is delivered, and turns out to be modified Cavorite in capsule form, which sticks to anything it touches, and lifts it off the planet into the vacuum of space.  Hemming is amongst those who survive, but they discover that humanoid Martians have taken control of the Lunar colony, and turned its mass driver into a weapon targeted on Earth. The bulk of the returning expeditionary force has been ambushed and destroyed.

Ultimately the Martians are defeated when a Commonwealth space fleet, originally intended to evacuate their own troops, arrives and with the surviving British ships engage the Martians in a crossfire.

Earth is saved, and the British government falls, with Spry being amongst those killed in the mass driver attacks which have devastated London and much of southern England. Some years later, a retired Hemming is approached by officials of the new government who are worried she will expose the truth, which has been repressed. She assures them that she has no intention of upsetting the status quo, and returns to her garden - which contains several Triffids.

Allusions and cameo appearances

References within the story
In The Great Game, when Charlotte reaches the cavern with the glyphs, the original inhabitants of the Solar System are revealed to be:
Mercury: Mercurians from Dan Dare
Venus: A Treen and a Theron from Dan Dare.
Earth: Silurians and Sea Devils from Doctor Who.
The Moon: The Watcher from Marvel Comics and a Selenite from H.G. Wells' The First Men in the Moon.
Mars: A Green Martian from Barsoom (a fictional version of Mars) and a hrossa, séroni, and pfifltriggi from Out of the Silent Planet by C.S. Lewis.
Asteroid belt: The "Martian" invaders from The War of the Worlds.

In The Great Game issue 1, Carl Kolchak makes a cameo appearance. In issue 2, Autumn's bookshelf includes a work entitled The Perils of Andrea, a reference to Perelandra. Both references were made by D'Israeli. The fictional Hobbs End underground station is a reference to Quatermass and the Pit.

Captain Haddock, Tintin and Snowy (from The Adventures of Tintin) can be spotted on page 42. There is a cameo by Dan Dare and Digby.

References in other works by Edginton and D'Israeli
The War of the Worlds adaptation by Dark Horse Comics contains several references to Scarlet Traces. Autumn and Currie can be seen in a newspaper as having saved Emperor Menelik of Abyssinia from an assassin. Ned Penny can be seen on the Thunder Child. An Archie the dog look-alike appears in the ruins of London. An official figure supervising the removal of Martian tripods after the end of the war resembles a young Dr. Spry, while the two army sergeants awaiting his orders reappear as Coughly and Dravott in Scarlet Traces. The adaptation ends with the narrator reflecting that it may be possible for humans to spread throughout the solar system also.
In Kingdom of the Wicked, also by Edginton and D'Israeli, the main character's wife is seen reading Scarlet Traces.

Publication history
The original Scarlet Traces was conceived as a partially animated serial, intended for the now-defunct website Cool Beans World. In an interview for 2000AD Review, Edginton said "The Cool Beans version was to have been like a little movie in many ways. It had music, sound effects, zooms, pans and dissolves. There was even going to be some limited animation of the War Machines. A lot of the work was done and in the can when Cool Beans shut down production..."

The website ceased operation after only a fraction of the serial had been published.
D'Israeli wrote in his blog:

D'Israeli reworked Scarlet Traces as a traditional comic book story. This version was serialised in 2002 in the British anthology Judge Dredd Megazine (vol 4) issues 16 to 18. In 2003 it was collected in its own 4-issue limited series (with minor revisions) by US publisher Dark Horse Comics, and subsequently collected into one hardcover volume by Dark Horse Comics in August 2003 ().

The Great Game was first published in a four-issue mini-series by Dark Horse Comics in 2006. The War of the Worlds was published in the same year. Cold War appeared in 2000 AD #1988–1999 in 2016.

Bibliography
Scarlet Traces (in Judge Dredd Megazine (vol 4) #16-18, 2002)
H. G. Wells's War of the Worlds (in a trade paperback, Dark Horse, 2006, )
The Great Game (in a trade paperback, Dark Horse, May 2007, )
Cold War (in 2000 AD #1988–1999, 2016)
Cold War Book 2 (in 2000 AD #2023–2034, 2017)
Home Front (in 2000 AD #2126–2129 and 2131–2138, 2019)
Storm Front (in 2000 AD #2250–2255 and 2257–2261, 2021) (At the end of the story, text says "Scarlet Traces will return".)