[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Malvan

Malvan (also written as Malwan)  is a town and taluka in Sindhudurg District, the southernmost district of Maharashtra State, India, well known for the historically important Sindhudurg Fort. Malvan taluka consists of villages such as Angane Wadi, Masure, Achra, Khalchi Devli, Jamdul, Juva, Pankhol, Talasheel and Sarjekot. The main occupation here is fishing and agriculture. The staple diet of the local people is fish curry and rice. The town produces Alphonso mangoes and is also known for sweets such as Malvani Khaja made from gram-besan flour and coated jaggery as well as Malvani Ladoos. Other sweets that attract tourists are Konkani Meva, Aambawadi, Fanaspoli, Kajuwadi, and Naralachya Wadya. 

Dashavtar (the ten incarnations of Lord Vishnu), a drama-play based on mythological stories, is an important cultural element of the area. Several apocryphal and some more credible stories related to the name Malvan exist. Salt producers use term 'Mahalavan' to describe a region rich in salt, a compound word from "maha" meaning great, and "lavan" meaning plantation (or salt). Another possibility is a phonetic derivative of the compound of "Mad" and "Ban", Malvani for coconut trees and garden, respectively, relating to the many coconut trees in the region. Malvani, a dialect of Konkani is the local language.

Geography and climate 
Malvan is a compact town situated on the coast of Western India. The area's beaches, Sindhudurg Fort, Tarkarli Beach, Mobar Point, Chivla Beach, Tondavali Beach, are all attract tourists. Malvan  is bound by three small creeks: Karli, Kolamb and Kalavali.

The climate of Malvan can be generally classified as warm and moderately humid. Average temperatures range between 16 and 33 °C while relative humidity ranges from 69 to 98%. The annual average rainfall of Malvan is 2275 mm.

Transport links 
Malvan is easily accessible by road, being  from Mumbai and  from Ratnagiri.  National Highway NH-66 from Mumbai and Goa runs as far as Kasal, after which Malvan is a State Transport bus or rickshaw ride of approximately  away.

The nearest railway station is at Kudal and Kankawali and the nearest airport is at Sindhudurg. Overnight trains depart daily from Mumbai for Kudal.

There are M.S.R.T.C bus services to Malvan, Kadamba Transport Corporation bus services from Goa. There are buses from Kasal.

Also, there are plenty of buses heading towards Goa which go via Kasal. Malvan can be reached from Kolhapur by any MSRTC or KSRTC bus. Kudal is the centre point for the buses heading towards Sindhudurg, Goa. Buses coming from Pune as well as Sangli, Solapur and Barshi Belgave, Tuljapur have to go via Kolhapur to enter Konkan.

People / Demography 
Malvan is a Municipal Council city in district of Sindhudurg, Maharashtra. The Malvan city is divided into 17 wards for which elections are held every 5 years.  India census, the Malvan Municipal Council has population of 18,648 of which 9,663 are males while 8,985 are females as per report released by Census India 2011.

Population of Children with age of 0-6 is 1364 which is 7.31% of total population of Malvan (M Cl). In Malvan Municipal Council, Female Sex Ratio is of 930 against state average of 929. Moreover, Child Sex Ratio in Malvan is around 876 compared to Maharashtra state average of 894. Literacy rate of Malvan city is 93.00%, higher than state average of 82.34%. In Malvan, male literacy is around 94.76% while female literacy rate is 91.11%.

Malvan Municipal Council has total administration over 4,620 houses to which it supplies basic amenities like water and sewerage. It is also authorized to build roads within Municipal Council limits and impose taxes on properties coming under its jurisdiction.

This area of the Konkan is predominantly Hindu and the majority of these Hindus are Kshatriya Marathas, Bhandaris, Gabits and Kudaldeshkar Gaud Brahmins, Rajapur Saraswat Brahmins. Anganewadi Jatra and 'Bramhan Dev Jatra' are the major fairs in the region. A number of Malvani emigres return to their native place every year during the months of August–September to attend Ganeshotsav, Ram Navmi, and various other local festivals.

Much of population, specially Bhandaris, Gabits, Konkani people are found on the Konkan coast. Especially in Karwar, Ankola, Kumta, Honavar (Karnataka) & Goa, these people have migrated from Malvan way back in the 17th century. They have their ancestral Kuldevatas at Malvan (Dev Rameshwar) etc.