[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Integrated multi-trophic aquaculture

the water, producing a clear effluent. The farm sells the fish, bivalves and Artemia.

The Netherlands
In the Netherlands, Willem Brandenburg of UR Wageningen (Plant Sciences Group) has established the first seaweed farm in the Netherlands. The farm is called "De Wierderij" and is used for research.

South Africa
Three farms grow seaweeds for feed in abalone effluents in land-based tanks. Up to 50% of re-circulated water passes through the seaweed tanks. Somewhat uniquely, neither fish nor shrimp comprise the upper trophic species. The motivation is to avoid over-harvesting natural seaweed beds and red tides, rather than nutrient abatement. These commercial successes developed from research collaboration between Irvine and Johnson Cape Abalone and scientists from the University of Cape Town and the University of Stockholm.

United Kingdom
The Scottish Association for Marine Science, in Oban is developing co-cultures of salmon, oysters, sea urchins, and brown and red seaweeds via several projects. Research focuses on biological and physical processes, as well as production economics and implications for coastal zone management. Researchers include: M. Kelly, A. Rodger, L. Cook, S. Dworjanyn, and C. Sanderson.

Bangladesh

Indian carps and stinging catfish are cultured in Bangladesh, but the methods could be more productive. The pond and cage cultures used are based only on the fish. They don't take advantage of the productivity increases that could take place if other trophic levels were included. Expensive artificial feeds are used, partly to supply the fish with protein. These costs could be reduced if freshwater snails, such as Viviparus bengalensis, were simultaneously cultured, thus increasing the available protein. The organic and inorganic wastes produced as a byproduct of culturing could also be minimized by integrating freshwater snail and aquatic plants, such as water spinach, respectively.

Gallery

See also 

Agribusiness
Extensive farming
Factory farming
Genetically modified organism
History of agriculture
Industrial agriculture
Industrial agriculture (animals)
Industrial agriculture (crops)
Intensive farming
Organic farming
Sustainable agriculture
Zero waste agriculture

Notes

References
 Neori A, Troell M, Chopin T, Yarish C, Critchley A and Buschmann AH. 2007. The need for a balanced ecosystem approach to blue revolution aquaculture. Environment 49(3): 36–43.

External links 
AquaNet IMTA
www.sams.ac.uk
World Aquaculture Conference 2007: IMTA session
Chopin lab
The Comparative Roles of Suspension-Feeders in Ecosystems The use of bivalves as biofilters and valuable product in land based aquaculture systems - review.
Seaweed Resources of the World Algae: key for sustainable mariculture.
Ecological and Genetic Implications of Aquaculture Activities Evaluation of macroalgae, microalgae, and bivalves as biofilters in sustainable land-based mariculture systems.

Hydrography
Physical oceanography
Aquaculture