[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# ICLEI

ICLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability (ICLEI, originally International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives) is an international non-governmental organization that promotes sustainable development. ICLEI provides technical consulting to local governments to identify and meet sustainability objectives.
It has a strong focus on biodiversity and has worked across local, national, and global levels.
ICLEI was the first and is the largest transnational network of local governments engaging in climate action. 

ICLEI is considered a bridging organization, playing important roles in knowledge sharing and in intermediation processes between local initiatives and regulatory actors.  It has recognized the significance of cities for urban sustainability and helped to support their activities for over three decades.

The international association was established when more than 200 local governments from 43 countries convened at its inaugural conference, the World Congress of Local Governments for a Sustainable Future, at the United Nations in New York in September 1990.
As of 2020, more than 1,750 cities, towns, counties, and their associations in 126 countries are a part of the ICLEI network.
As of 2023, over 2,500 cities towns and regions were listed as members.

Membership 
According to the organization's website, the ICLEI members "steer the direction of our work, shape our strategy and support the mission, mandate and principles set in our statutes. They are eligible to vote and take part in our network-wide governing bodies." 
The only requirements for ICLEI membership are a self-defined commitment to climate protection and the payment of annual membership dues. Dues are determined through a fair share model, based on the type of organization and its population size and income level.
 
Cities and municipalities are recognized as key stakeholders with a significant role to play in implementing climate change policies and reducing emissions, through energy, transportation, land use, construction, waste management and education. Participation in city networks like ICLEI, with their potential for sharing of best practices, peer exchange, and joint projects, rose significantly in the 2000s.
, ICLEI counted more than 1,750 local governments within its network.
As of 2023, over 2,500 cities towns and regions were listed as members.

History and structure 
ICLEI was founded in September 1990 as the "International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives" when over 200 local governments from 43 countries met at the inaugural World Congress of Local Governments for a Sustainable Future at the United Nations in New York.
ICLEI's World Secretariat headquarters were initially located in Toronto, Canada.  
ICLEI went on to create an international training center in Freiburg, Germany and has added further secretariats such as the Latin America and the Caribbean Secretariat in Brazil in 2001. ICLEI now has more than 20 offices around the world.  The ICLEI World Secretariat is located in Bonn, Germany.

The United States branch, ICLEI USA, is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit membership organization of the international organization of the same name. The U.S. office opened formally in 1995.
ICLEI USA's Executive Office is based in Denver, Colorado.
U.S. local government members include cities, towns, and counties of all sizes, from New York City and Los Angeles County to Dubuque, Iowa, Austin, Texas, Oberlin, Ohio and Burlington, Vermont.

In 2003, ICLEI's local government members voted to revise the organization's mission, charter and name to better reflect the current challenges local governments face, and the broader topic of sustainability. The "International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives (ICLEI)" was renamed "ICLEI - Local Governments for Sustainability", with a broader mandate to address sustainability issues, not only environmental issues.
For its 30th anniversary, ICLEI adopted a new logo (released officially in February 2021) which emphasizes the organization's connections in terms of its members, offices and elements (represented by the logo's colors: water, air and climate (blue), nature (green) and cities (yellow)).

Programs
ICLEI promotes programs for local-level adoption and implementation, providing tested, practical advice for connecting international agreements and targets with initiatives and actions at local levels.  The network develops and shares operational manuals, guidelines, best practices, and methods for monitoring and assessing progress.
ICLEI is unique in having held observer status as a local government network for all three of the Rio Conventions. This contributed to the formation of 
the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change,
the UN Convention on Biological Diversity, 
and the UN Convention to Combat Desertification.