[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Masque of the Red Death (1964 film)

where she's attacked by figures while on a slab was in every print seen in the UK, including one Robertson saw as early as the 1960s. British and UK censors required different cuts, which weren't restored until the 2018 restoration by Martin Scorsese's film foundation.

Corman recalled years later:

From the standpoint of nudity, there was nothing. I think she was nude under a diaphanous gown. She played the consummation with the Devil, but it was essentially on her face; it was a pure acting exercise. Hazel fully clothed, all by herself, purely by acting, incurred the wrath of the censor. It was a different age; they probably felt that was showing too much. Today, you could show that on six o’clock television and nobody would worry.

Reception
Eugene Archer of The New York Times wrote, "The film is vulgar, naive and highly amusing, and it is played with gusto by Mr. Price, Hazel Court and Jane Asher ... On its level, it is astonishingly good." Variety declared, "Corman in his direction sets a pace calculated to divert the teenage taste particularly, and past experience with Poe makes him a worthy delineator of this master of the macabre. In Price is the perfect interpreter, too, of the Poe character, and he succeeds in creating an aura of terror." The Monthly Film Bulletin wrote, "Unquestionably Roger Corman's best film to date, The Masque of the Red Death has passages of such real distinction that one wishes he could be persuaded to take himself more seriously ... Where most films of this nature tend simply to pile on the blood, here there is a genuine chill of intellectual evil, because Vincent Price, initiating horrible tortures with a characteristic air of sadistic glee, also conveys a genuine philosophical curiosity as to the unknown territories into which his quest for evil may lead him."

The film was not as successful as other Poe pictures, which Sam Arkoff attributed to it being "too arty farty" and not scary enough. Corman later said, "I think that is a legitimate statement. The fault may have been mine. I was becoming more interested in the Poe films as expressions of the unconscious mind, rather than as pure horror films."
Nonetheless, Corman says the film is one of his favourites. Andrew Johnston, writing in Time Out New York concluded: "Elaborate sets and costumes and Nicolas Roeg's lush technicolor photography make this as close as Corman ever came to real greatness."

Preservation
The Masque of the Red Death was preserved by the Academy Film Archive in 2019.

Merchandise
 Dell Comics published a comic book adaptation of the film.
 A novelization of the film was written in 1964 by Elsie Lee, adapted from the screenplay by Charles Beaumont and R. Wright Campbell, and published by Lancer Books in paperback.
 David Lee's soundtrack of the film was finally released on CD in 2012 by Quartet Records.

Use in music
A dialogue from the film appears in both the song "And When He Falleth" by Theatre of Tragedy, on the album Velvet Darkness They Fear, and in the song "Dopethrone" by Electric Wizard, on the album Dopethrone.

In the intro to "Beneath the Mask" by the doom metal band Bell Witch, dialogue from the scene in which Prospero meets the Red Death in the Black Room was sampled.

The movie was also sampled by Entombed, in their song "Living Dead".

Remake 
A 1989 remake was written and directed by Larry Brand. The cast included British actors Patrick Macnee and Adrian Paul.

See also
 Edgar Allan Poe in television and film

References

External links

 
 
 
 
 
 The Masque of the Red Death – A Hollywood Gothique Retrospective
 Article on film at Senses of Cinema

1964 films
1964 horror films
1960s fantasy films
American International Pictures films
British horror films
Films shot at Associated British Studios
Films about viral outbreaks
Films based on works by Edgar Allan Poe
Films directed by Roger Corman
American supernatural horror films
Gothic horror films
Films based on short fiction
Films based on multiple works
Films with screenplays by Charles Beaumont
Films set in castles
Films set in the Middle Ages
Films set in Italy
Films produced by Roger Corman
Films with screenplays by Robert Wright Campbell
Films about personifications of death
Films adapted into comics
Films about Satanism
Works based on The Masque of the Red Death
1960s English-language films
1960s American films
1960s British films
Adaptations of works by Auguste Villiers de l'Isle-Adam