[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Meital Dohan

The series was a big hit in Israel, winning a number of awards. It won the Israeli Oscar Best Comedy Series award in 2003, and Dohan won an Israeli Tony Award for her work in the series for her lead role. Later in the same year, Dohan co-wrote a movie script, Orgy by Heart, along with Maayan Keret.

In 2003, Dohan secured her first role in the United States. She was invited by Karen Shefler to play the role of the Blood Wedding by Lorca. Dohan then announced she was working on the one-woman comedy show, Bath Party. It was created by Dohan along with Karen Shefler and Ayelet Dekel and it was performed Off-Broadway at the HERE Arts Center. The theatrical performance was Dohan's big break in US-theatre, receiving positive reviews from New York-based media, including the New York Times. Village Voice praised Dohan's work in the play, writing "What saves the piece from being a purely wandering, aimless morass is the droll humor and keen comedic timing of Dohan and her associates. Dohan has a sharp wit and notable ability to find the unlikely joke". In 2004, she starred in the feature film To Dance. In speaking toward her work with her co-stars, they wrote "Their quick banter and easy back-and-forth are polished and at times charming, and together they make even the most disjointed material a pleasure to watch". The New York Times also spoke well of Bath Party, comparing Dohan to "a younger, prettier, blonder Rosanna Arquette", noting it as an essentially a one-woman show which "focuses on her not particularly interesting efforts to jump-start an American career, complete with film and television clips, circumlocutory monologues and, perhaps most important for this particular performer, multiple opportunities to reveal her appealing anatomy", and also praising the work of the few others in the cast. Later, Dohan co-wrote Love and Sex on the High Holidays with Israeli singer Ivri Lide.

Major US roles & music (2006-present)
In 2006 came Dohan's biggest break in the United States to date. After the first season of the television show Weeds, Dohan secured the role as Yael Hoffman, an Admission director of Ha Midrash L’Torah, the rabbinical school that main character Andy Botwin attended. She appeared in every episode of season 2.

In 2008, she appeared in both the Off-Broadway and Los Angeles productions of the play Stitching by controversial British playwright Anthony Neilson and directed by Timothy Haskell, an example of "in-yer-face" theater. The play seeks to confront the audience with shocking and sometimes vulgar depictions of human behavior. The Forward said Dohan "Shines on the New York Stage". Of Dohan's work in the Neilson play, The New York Times wrote "With an actress as extremely gorgeous as Meital Dohan and a script that requires her to thrash around in ways most often seen in straight-to-video steamers, you would think that Stitching would be heating up the Wild Project theater to the boiling point." They found that it did not, blaming the Neilson script for working "so hard at being gimmicky that it doesn't give Ms. Dohan and her co-star, Gian Murray Gianino, a chance to find real chemistry. No chemistry, no combustion."  They granted that the two leads "give energetic, bruise-inducing performances under Timothy Haskell's direction", but that the script's manner of ricocheting "from comedy to pathos to psychosis without ever really providing the starting point that any play needs" placed too many demands on them.

In 2009, she appeared in two episodes of the online series Woke Up Dead. The series follows a young man who wakes up in a bath tub and has no heartbeat, making friends believe he became a zombie. Dohan plays the character Aurora in the online series, which received positive reviews, including one from the Los Angeles Times. In 2010, Dohan became the official Spokesperson for "Artists 4 Israel" and their mural project "Paint Israel". Paint Israel aimed to paint the bomb shelters in Sderot and show that America's young, graffiti community supports the people of Israel.

Dohan returned to theatre in January 2011, headlining the Alan Bowne stage play Beirut in a limited revival directed by Andrew and Zach Zoppa in New York City. Later in the year, Dohan starred in the dramatic thriller Monogamy directed and written by Academy Award nominee Dana Adam Shapiro. The film centers on the strained relationship of a Brooklyn couple, Theo (Chris Messina) and Nat (Rashida Jones). The film won "Best Narrative" at the Tribeca Film Festival.

Dohan has authored the book Love and Other Bad Habits, and in January 2011, she launched the webcast talk radio show, Loud Miracles which airs on Women's Radio. On her show Dohan declared "I am fascinated by Transcendental Meditation and the effects of it. I was so taken by this technique that now we are talking about bringing more awareness to it and bringing it to people that serve in the Israeli Army."