[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jan Mazurkiewicz

ld Town borough when further defense in Wola became impossible. In the areas of Wola that Reinefarth's and Dirlewanger's troops recaptured from the insurgents, at least 40,000 civilians and prisoners of war were murdered in the Wola massacre. On 11 August he was seriously wounded during the fighting

On 15 September 1944, he sent his liaison officer to the east bank of the Vistula in order to establish contact with the troops of the First Polish Army. In the absence of sufficient assistance on their part, on 20 September he ordered his decimated units to leave Czerniaków and pass through the sewers to Mokotów. He left his soldiers a free hand - they could decide whether they would go to German captivity or leave the city with the civilian population. Shortly before the order was signed, Mazurkiewicz was officially promoted to the rank of colonel, by general Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski, the commander of the uprising.

He did not go into captivity, he left the ruins of the destroyed capital with his wife. He continued his underground activity in Częstochowa, where the headquarters of the Home Army was located.

In post-war Poland
After the dissolution of the Home Army on 19 January 1945 and the liberation of Częstochowa by the Red Army, he took the leadership of the Central Area of the NIE. Later he became a delegate to the Central Area of the Armed Forces Delegation for Poland, under which he conducted further underground activities against communist authorities.

In the end, he gave up further conspiracy, considering the resistance pointless. On 1 August 1945, he and his wife were arrested by officers of the Ministry of Public Security. He was released after a month, he headed the so-called Central Liquidation Commission of the Home Army. On 8 September he turned to former Home Army soldiers and people remaining in the underground to call for disclosure and amnesty. For some officers, this was disapproved and even accused of treason. As a result of his appeal, about 50,000 former members of the armed underground were revealed. On 12 September captain Stanisław Sojczyński, the leader of the Underground Polish Army, sent an open letter to colonel Mazurkiewicz, in which he criticized him and called him a "traitor".

Mazurkiewicz established the Committee for the Care of the Graves of Fallen Soldiers of the Radosław Group. He was in constant contact with his former soldiers, whom he helped find in the difficult post-war years. Through his extensive contacts, he sought employment for his former soldiers - often war invalids. Later, the Stalinist authorities accused him that they were "secret underground meetings aimed at overthrowing the power of the Polish People's Republic".

On 4 February 1949, he was arrested again. Throughout the investigation, he was forced to testify incriminatingly against the first head of Kedyw, general August Emil Fieldorf, but his relentless attitude resulted in the resignation from attempting to use him as a prosecution witness in the political trial against General. On 16 November 1953, his main trial took place before the Military District Court in Warsaw. On the same day, based on crafted evidence, without admitting defense witnesses, he was convicted for life imprisonment. He served his sentence in Wronki Prison, from where he was released as a result of amnesty for political prisoners in May 1956. In 1957 he was rehabilitated.

After being released, he took up craft. In 1958, he opened (formally registered to his wife) the "Wiklina" cafe, which he ran until the 1970s. Later he handed it over to the Trade Cooperative of Invalids. By resolution Polish Council of State in October 1980, he was promoted to the rank of brigadier general. He solemnly received his general nomination in Belweder from the professor Henryk Jabłoński.

After 1956, he was active in the veterans' right activism. From 1964 he was vice-president of Society of Fighters for Freedom and Democracy.

In August 1981, on the occasion of the 37th anniversary of the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising, Telewizja Polska broadcast a documentary in which Mazurkiewicz talked about the real "Soviet assistance to insurgent units of the Home Army". From 1981 to 1983 he was a member of the presidium of the Front of National Unity. In 1983 he was elected a member of the Patriotic Movement for National Rebirth. From 1981 he was the chairman of the commission for the Warsaw Uprising Cross. In the second half of the 1980s, general Jan Mazurkiewicz, then the highest-performing and functioning former Home Army officer in Poland, became part of the Social Committee for the Construction of the Warsaw Uprising Monument, which was unveiled on 1 August 1989, after his death.

He died in May 1988 and was buried at Powązki Military Cemetery. His funeral was attended by representatives of the highest state authorities, including generals Wojciech Jaruzelski and Florian Siwicki, professor Henryk Jabłoński and Jan Dobraczyński.