[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alon Ben-Meir

the UN; ambassador Gabriela Shalev of Israel to the UN; ambassador Bashar Jaafari, PR of Syria to the UN; ambassador Khalid al-Nafisee, former PR of Saudi Arabia to the UN; ambassador Riyad Mansour, Permanent Observer of Palestine to the United Nations; and president Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia.

Arab Peace Initiative
Ben-Meir is a passionate proponent of the Arab Peace Initiative (API), which aims to create a lasting Israeli-Palestinian peace. In early 2007, he launched a comprehensive campaign to promote the goals and ideas of the Initiative. He frequently speaks at international conferences, dedicates much of his writing to API matters and regularly meets with policy makers from around the world to find allies in an effort to push forward the plan laid out in the API.

Track II Diplomacy
Ben-Meir regularly engages in Track II diplomacy to enable negotiations between Israeli, Arab, and Turkish officials to achieve greater peace and prosperity. Also, he has actively participated in Israeli-Syrian and Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, and he remains a committed and engaged advocate of the Arab Peace Initiative.

Center for Strategic Development
Ben-Meir founded the Center for Strategic Development. The center dedicates a large part of its work to the promotion of the Arab Peace Initiative.

Journalism and media

Published books
Ben-Meir, Alon. Lost Perspectives. 2009.
Ben-Meir, Alon. The Last Option. 2004.
Ben-Meir, Alon.A War We Must Win. 2004.
Ben-Meir, Alon.A Framework for Arab-Israeli Peace. 1993.
Ben-Meir, Alon. In Defiance of Time. 1980
Ben-Meir, Alon. Israel - the Challenge of the Fourth Decade. 1978.
Ben-Meir, Alon. The Middle East: Imperatives and Choices. 1975.

References

External links
Official website
New York University faculty biography

1937 births
Living people
Alumni of The Queen's College, Oxford
Iraqi emigrants to the United States
American columnists
American political scientists
American political writers
American male non-fiction writers
New York University faculty
Writers from Baghdad
American people of Iraqi-Jewish descent
Iraqi Jews
Political philosophers
Tel Aviv University alumni