[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jiaganj Azimganj

of Debipur Mahanta Ganapati Das High School and Debipur Sub-Post office.

Azimganj

Azimganj is situated at the west bank of river Bhagirathi. There are two railway stations Azimganj city and Azimganj junction. The old and historic city of Nawab period is situated near Azimganj city railway station.

Azimganj Rajbari
In 18th century, “Sheherwalis” community of businessman from Rajasthan migrated to Murshidabad. They worked tirelessly to create their empires in textile and banking and went on to become Zamindars. The Sheherwalis adapted to the then prevalent cultural influences in the region namely, Mughal, British, Bengali and European and as such created their own unique culture over generations. They settled in the twin cities of Azimganj-Jiaganj. The most notable Sheherwali was Jagat Seth (literally, ‘universal banker’, title accorded by the Mughal empire).

The sheherwalis are known to have their own dialect, cuisine, culture and lifestyle. A typical picture of early 1900s of a Sheherwali will showcase a Rajasthani turban, a Bengal influenced dhoti, a British walking stick and a Mughal kurta-styled upper wear. Like the melange of cultures in their clothing, Sheherwali cuisine is also deeply influenced by Rajasthani, Mughal and Bengali flavours and ingredients. Being staunch Jains, the cuisine only uses non-root vegetables and has strong Gujarati influence in its dishes. The architecture in Sheherwali palaces (nowadays as Azimganj Rajbari) also reflected this melange - you would find a British room right across a Rajasthani Gaddi Ghar all housed in a building having European pillars.

Azmiganj is also home to the Bari Kothi Heritage Hotel, a restored palace belonging to the Dudhoria family. This is one of many palaces that belonged to the aristocratic merchant families of Murshidabad.

Nehalia
One of the most famous place in Jiaganj. It is the birthplace of freedom fighters. Durgapada Singha, Shyamsundar Singha Choudhury, Anil Singha, Umapada Ghosh, Ashit Ghosh, Kalinarayan Singha are few of them. These people played a very vital role in the famous Nashhipure incident.

Nehalia is renowned for its Historical Museum, Roybahadur's Palace, "Hat" (A local fair arranged on every Wednesday).

Education 
Notable Schools: St.Joseph's School,Jiaganj; Raja Bijoy Singh Vidyamandir (old name Edward Coronation Institution), Azimganj Rai Budh Singh Bahadur High School, Azimganj Keshore Kumari Balika Vidyalaya, Birendra Singh Singhi High School, Surendra Narayan Girls High School, Amaipara High School, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose DAV School, Debipur High School, Sadhakbag High School

Sripat Singh College was established in 1949 at Jiaganj. The Svetambara Jain zemindar of Jiaganj, Sripat Singh Dugar, gifted the palatial out-house of his palace and a handsome sum in cash for the college. Affiliated with the University of Kalyani, it offers honours courses in Bengali, history, philosophy, political science, economics, physics, chemistry, mathematics and botany, and post graduation in Bengali.

Rani Dhanya Kumari College was initially started as an evening college in the premises of Sripat Singh College in 1962 at Jiaganj. It shifted to its present premises in 1972. Affiliated with the University of Kalyani, it offers honours courses in Bengali, English, sociology, political science, history, geography and BCom.

Rajmati Parichand Bothra Memorial Jiaganj College of Engineering and Technology at Jiaganj offers diploma courses in engineering.

Jiaganj Institute of Education & Training, Baluchar PTTI, Vivekanada Teachers' Training Institute, Jiaganj School of Nursing Training