[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Dead Man

xposed to such peril. Dredd is remorseful, realising too late that he should have done more to stop Yassa from following him in the first place. However he must travel to Mega-City One to investigate what is happening there, since if the evil Dark Judges have returned then the whole city is at risk.

Left behind, Yassa struggles to cope not only with his blindness, but also with the nightmares about that fateful encounter which wake him screaming every night. Unable to forget that terrible day, he becomes envious of the Dead Man's loss of memory, wishing that he could forget too.

Significance

The Dead Man was a major event in the history of the Judge Dredd strip, as it heralded the onset of the 26-episode epic "Necropolis" in 1990. As the story would introduce major changes in the strip, writer John Wagner used a pseudonym, Keef Ripley, to impede readers in guessing the answer, reasoning that readers would assume that a new and unknown writer would not be allowed to make such major changes in the continuity of 2000 AD'''s star character.  2000 AD had already published several spin-offs from the Judge Dredd strip before, without Dredd appearing in them, so the fact that the story was set in Dredd's universe was not the give-away it might otherwise have been.The Dead Man was immediately followed in the regular Judge Dredd strip by a prequel, "Tale of the Dead Man", told almost entirely in flashback, which recounted how and why Dredd resigned and took the Long Walk. This was then followed by the five-episode "Countdown to Necropolis" which set the scene for "Necropolis" proper. "Necropolis" and its numerous prologues and epilogues brought together and resolved hitherto separate plot threads that had been running through the Judge Dredd strip for the preceding four years, and collectively had repercussions that were still being felt another four years later, ending at the conclusion of the "Mechanismo" storyline.The Dead Man contained a rare depiction of Judge Dredd in which he is not wearing his features-obscuring helmet, although he is instead disfigured by his earlier falling into an acid river.

Tale of the Dead Man

As soon as The Dead Man finished, "Tale of the Dead Man" began in the same issue (by John Wagner and artists Will Simpson and Jeff Anderson). It was preceded by a one-episode prologue, "A Letter to Judge Dredd" by Wagner and Simpson, a story which also had a significant impact on the events which unfolded in the "Tale of the Dead Man".

Besides its immediate importance in the build-up to "Necropolis", the story also features Dredd's resignation from the force, and the death of his mentor, Judge Morphy. It significantly developed the supporting character Judge Kraken, who was to have a major role in "Necropolis". Its epilogue, "By Lethal Injection", saw Kraken being ordered to impersonate Dredd to cover up Dredd's resignation, a deception which ultimately was instrumental in bringing about the conquest of Mega-City One and the deaths of over 60 million people.

Follow-up stories
Following "Necropolis", the Judge Dredd story "Nightmares" (2000 AD progs 702-706) saw Yassa Povey brought to Mega-City One by Judge Dredd, where Dr Zilton Northgate, the city's best eye surgeon, fits him with bionic eyes, while Judge Anderson uses her telepathic abilities to ease his mental trauma. During his treatment, Yassa is kidnapped and rescued by Dredd. In the later story "Death Aid" (2000 AD progs 711-715, 719-720), Yassa is almost assassinated by a sniper as he boards his flight home; Dr Northgate intercepts the bullet and is killed.

PublicationThe Dead Man first appeared in 2000 AD #650-662. It has been collected in trade paperbacks three times:
By Titan Books, 1991 ()
By Rebellion Developments, 2009 ()
 By Hachette Partworks in volume 21 of Judge Dredd: The Mega Collection, 2015Judge Dredd: "Tale of the Dead Man" first appeared in 2000 AD #662-668. It was collected in Necropolis Book One and Judge Dredd: The Complete Casefiles 14, but it has also had its own release:Judge Dredd: Tale of the Dead Man (by John Wagner, Fleetway, July 1991, ):
 "A Letter to Judge Dredd" (with Will Simpson, in 2000 AD #661, 1990)
 "Tale of the Dead Man" (with Will Simpson (1-4) and Jeff Anderson (5-7), in 2000 AD'' #662-668, 1990)
 It was also collected in volume 21 of the Mega Collection (see above).

External links

The Dead Man
Official 2000 AD website

Tale of the Dead Man
2000 AD's Judge Dredd timeline summary
2000 AD reprint profile

Judge Dredd characters