[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michael Flynn (footballer)

t.

In January 2017 whilst first team coach at Newport Flynn registered as a player. He made his fourth debut for Newport in the League Two match on 28 January 2017 versus Hartlepool United as a second-half substitute.

Coaching career
He earned his UEFA Pro Licence at the same time as Mikel Arteta.

Flynn worked as academy manager for Newport County, before being released (as both player and coach) by Terry Butcher. In 2015 he then joined Welsh Football League Division Two side Undy Athletic as player-coach, intend to combine this part-time role with a job as an estate agent or a publican.

In August 2015, Newport County Supporters Trust took over interim control of the club, and appointed Flynn on a voluntary basis as club ambassador. He would later serve in other roles including marketing until October. On 8 October 2015 Flynn rejoined Newport County as first team coach under new manager John Sheridan. In January 2016 Warren Feeney was appointed team manager and Flynn was retained as first team coach. In July 2016 Newport County appointed Flynn to a newly created role as Football and Business Development Director. In October 2016 Flynn again rejoined the Newport County coaching staff under newly appointed manager Graham Westley.

Managerial career

Newport County
On 9 March 2017 Flynn was appointed caretaker manager of Newport County for the remainder of the 2016–17 season following the sacking of Graham Westley with Newport 11 points adrift at the bottom of League Two. Flynn said his wife didn't want him to take the job. Wayne Hatswell returned to the club as Assistant Manager to Flynn. Flynn led the team to Football League survival, avoiding relegation with a win in the final match of the season and confirming the second 'great escape' in the club's history. On 9 May 2017 Flynn was appointed permanent team manager on a two-year contract.

On 7 January 2018 a 2–1 home win over Championship club Leeds United in the FA Cup third round meant Newport progressed to the FA Cup fourth round for the first time since 1979 and they were drawn at home to Premier League club Tottenham Hotspur. On 27 January 2018 Newport achieved a 1–1 draw to force a replay at Tottenham's temporary home ground of Wembley Stadium. Tottenham won the replay 2–0. In Flynn's first full season in management Newport County finished the 2017–18 season in 11th place in League Two.

The following season, Flynn led Newport to another major FA Cup upset, with a 2–1 victory over Premier League side Leicester City to send them through to the fourth round of the competition. In the FA Cup fourth round Newport drew the away match 1–1 against Championship club Middlesbrough on 26 January 2019  and on 5 February 2019 County won the replay at home 2–0. The match provided the only managerial meeting of Flynn and fellow Pillgwenlly-born manager Tony Pulis. Pulis spoke highly about Newport's achievement after previous turmoil, describing Flynn as having achieved a "fantastic job" and also praising Newport's team management consultant Lennie Lawrence.

County progressed to the FA Cup fifth round for the first time since 1949 and were drawn at home against reigning Premier League champions Manchester City. County lost the match 4–1. Before and after the match, Flynn received praise from a number of managers across the business, including his former UEFA pro-licence classmates Mikel Arteta and Thierry Henry, for progressing to the late stages of the competition. Flynn, a Liverpool fan, was also later invited by manager Jurgen Klopp to join a coaching session at Liverpool's Melwood ground.

Newport finished the 2018–19 season in seventh place in League Two, thus qualifying for the League Two play-offs. In the semi-final against Mansfield Town, Newport drew the first leg 1–1 at home, drew the second leg 0–0 at Mansfield and then won the semi-final penalty shoot-out. In the League Two play-off final at Wembley Stadium on 25 May 2019 Newport lost to Tranmere Rovers, 1–0 after a goal in the 119th minute.