[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Gerak Khas (Malaysian Army unit)

Gerak Khas (, Jawi: ڬرق خاص), or Grup Gerak Khas, also spelled Gerakhas, is a Malaysian Army special forces unit that performs special operations missions such as direct action, unconventional warfare, sabotage, counter-terrorism, and intelligence gathering. Gerak Khas was founded in 1965 during the Indonesia-Malaysia conflict, and they gained worldwide fame and recognition after successfully pacifying the communist insurgency in Malaysia's jungles between 1968 and 1989.

The majority of Gerak Khas commandos are assigned to the 21st Special Service Group, but they are also attached to other units such as the 91st Intelligence Operations Group, Defence Special Operations Division, Special Warfare Training Centre and the Malaysian Army Ready Battalion ().

History

Malaysian Special Service Unit 
Gerak Khas which was founded on 7 May 1965 as the Malaysian Special Service Unit (MSSU), is the successor to the Malayan Special Forces. This unit started as a special operations task force, with all of its members receiving commando training from the Royal Marines' 40 Commando.

Nucleus team 
The Ministry of Defence invited volunteers from the Malaysian Army and Royal Malaysian Navy for commando training in 1965. The 40 Commando of the Royal Marines conducted introductory training at Majidee Camp in Johor Bahru on 25 February 1965. Only 15 people were chosen from the initial 300 who volunteered to attend the six-week Basic Commando Course at the British Army Jungle Warfare Training School. Only four officers and nine other ranks were successful. The following men were members of the nucleus team that later became the MSSU:
 Major Abu Hassan Bin Abdullah (Colonel retired)
 Lieutenant Mohd Ramli Bin Ismail (Major General retired)
 Second Lieutenant Ghazali Bin Ibrahim (Major General retired)
 Second Lieutenant Hussin Bin Awang Senik (Colonel retired)
 4861 Staff Sergeant Zakaria Bin Adas
 6842 Sergeant Ariffin Bin Mohamad
 300152 Sergeant Anuar Bin Talib
 201128 Sergeant Yahya Bin Darus
 202072 Corporal Silva Dorai
 203712 Corporal Moo Kee Fah
 13852 Lance Corporal Johari Bin Haji Morhd Siraj
 10622 Lance Corporal Sabri Bin Ahmad
 10773 Lance Corporal Muhammad Shah Izwan Bin Hanafi

Six more Basic Commando courses were held after the first batch, and the MSSU finally reached its full strength. At the time, the MSSU was stationed at Sebatang Karah Camp in Port Dickson, Negeri Sembilan.

13 May incident 
The MSSU was on the verge of being disbanded by the brass after the Indonesia–Malaysia conflict officially ended in 1966. The Communist insurgency occurred in 1968, but at the time, all military units in Malaysia were trained in jungle warfare, and Malaysia was assisted by special forces from the Commonwealth of Nations for special operations. Malaysian police, in addition to the military, had their own jungle squads (now known as General Operations Force) to assist in combating communists at the time. A special operations task force did not appear to be required.

The 13 May incident occurred in major cities throughout Peninsular Malaysia in 1969, and the MSSU was dispatched from Sebatang Karah Camp to defend the Mindef Camp in Kuala Lumpur. MSSU also collaborated with the Royal Malaysia Police's Special Branch to apprehend leaders of gangsters and triads who contributed to the incident's racial tensions behind the scenes. As a result, the incident was short-lived, and the brass decided not to disband the MSSU.

1st Malaysian Special Service Regiment 
The MSSU, as a task force, was made up of commando-trained soldiers and sailors from various regiments and corps of the Malaysian Army and Royal Malaysian Navy. This creates a problem because the soldiers and sailors are also responsible for their original units. On 1 August 1970, army command relocated the MSSU to Sungai Udang Camp in Malacca and established a new unit as the MSSU's successor. The regiment is known as the 1st Malaysian Special Service Regiment. Soldiers and sailors who wanted to serve as special forces had to resign from their original units and volunteer to join the 1 MSSR by 1973.

Due to expansion, the 1st Malaysian Special Service Regiment became the 21st Special Service Group.

Bases

The Gerak Khas has occupied various camps since its founding. Among the camps are the following:

 Majidee Camp in Johor Bahru
Sebatang Karah Camp in Port Dickson, Negeri Sembilan
 Imphal Camp in Kuala Lumpur
 Sungai Udang Camp in Malaccca
 Slim Camp in Cameron Highlands, Pahang
 Erskine Camp in Kuala Kubu Bharu, Selangor
 Iskandar Camp in Mersing, Johor

Only two are still under the command of the 21st Special Service Group. The camps are as follows: