[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1992 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1992 in New Zealand.

Population
 Estimated population as of 31 December: 3,552,200.
 Increase since 31 December 1991: 37,200 (1.06%).
 Males per 100 females: 97.0.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
Head of State – Elizabeth II
Governor-General – The Hon Dame Catherine Anne Tizard, GCMG, GCVO, DBE, QSO

Government
The 43rd New Zealand Parliament continued. Government was The National Party, led by Jim Bolger. National controlled nearly seventy percent of the seats in Parliament.

Speaker of the House – Robin Gray
Prime Minister – Jim Bolger
Deputy Prime Minister – Don McKinnon
Minister of Finance – Ruth Richardson
Minister of Foreign Affairs – Don McKinnon
Chief Justice — Sir Thomas Eichelbaum

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition –  Mike Moore (Labour).
Alliance – Jim Anderton

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland – Les Mills
Mayor of Hamilton – Margaret Evans
Mayor of Wellington – Jim Belich then Fran Wilde
Mayor of Christchurch – Vicki Buck
Mayor of Dunedin – Richard Walls

Events
6 February – Ruby Jubilee of Elizabeth II's accession as Queen of New Zealand
15 June – A by-election is held in the Tamaki electorate after the resignation of former Prime Minister Robert Muldoon. Clem Simich wins the seat and retains it for the National Party.
19 September – An indicative referendum on the voting system is held, with 85% of voters voting to change from the existing First Past the Post system, and 70% voting for Mixed Member Proportional as the replacement system.
27 October – New Zealand is elected to the United Nations Security Council for two years (1993–94) on the third ballot
12 December – A by-election is held in the Wellington Central electorate after Fran Wilde resigns to become Mayor of Wellington. Chris Laidlaw wins the seat and retains it for the Labour Party.
 The country experiences an electricity crisis after drought conditions result in low South Island hydro lake levels.
 Kapiti Marine Reserve is established

Arts and literature
Owen Marshall wins the Robert Burns Fellowship.

See 1992 in art, 1992 in literature, :Category:1992 books

Music

New Zealand Music Awards
Winners are shown first with nominees underneath.
Album of the Year: Headless Chickens – Body Blow
Midge Marsden – Burning Rain
MC OJ & The Rhythm Slave – What Can We Say
Single of the Year: The Exponents – Why Does Love Do This To Me
Headless Chickens – Cruise Control
Push Push – Trippin
Best Male Vocalist: Jordan Luck – (The Exponents)
Mikey Havoc (Push Push)
Shayne Carter (Straitjacket Fits)
Best Female Vocalist: Fiona McDonald – (Headless Chickens)
Moana
Ngaire
Best Group: Push Push
 The Exponents
Headless Chickens
Most Promising Male Vocalist: David Parker – (Parker Project)
Jon Toogood (Shihad)
James Gaylyn
Most Promising Female Vocalist: Teremoana Rapley – (Moana & the Moahunters)
Christina Fuemana (House Party)
Lorina Harding
Most Promising Group: Shihad
The Exponents
These Wilding Ways
International Achievement: Crowded House
Jenny Morris
Straitjacket Fits
Best Video: Mauger Bros – Trippin' (Push Push)
Moana & The Moahunters – AEIOU
Headless Chickens – Cruise Control
Best Producer: Steve Garden – Burning Rain (Midge Marsden)
Rex Visible/ Headless Chickens – Body Blow
Carl Doy – Standing Ovation
Best Engineer: Nick Morgan – Burning Rain (Midge Marsden)
Tony Moan /Steve Smith – World Gone Wild
Ian Morris/ Tim Farrant – What's The Time Mr Wolf
Best Jazz Album: Various / Broadbent / Chisholm / Gibson / Brown – Fine & Dandy
Nairobi Trio – Nairobi Trio
Liz Braggins – Liz Braggins
Best Classical Album: Mcintyre / Doig / Marc – Wagner
Dorian Choir – Images of Light
Viva Voce – Sounds & Sweet Airs
Best Folk Album: Lorina Harding – Lucky Damn Woman
Angela Dixon – Takin A Chance
Martin Curtis – The Daisy Patch
Best Country Album:  John Grenell – Windstar
Barbie Davidson – Borderline
Renderers – Trail of Tears
Best Gospel Album: Pacific Island Choir – O Mai Ia Ia Iesu
Congregational Christian Church – Oe Le Faitoaga Moi
Ambassador Gospel Singers – Hear The Call
Best Polynesian Album: Charles & Andre – CÉst Toi Ma Vie
The Five Stars – Children of Polynesia
Tumuenua Dance Group – Drums, Songs And Chants
Best Māori Album: Moana & The Moahunters – AEIOU
John Rowles – E Te Tamaiti
The Whanau Funksters – Funky Whanau Feeling
Best Songwriter: Neil Finn – Fall at Your Feet (Crowded House)
Jordan Luck – Why Does Love Do This To Me
Neil & Tim Finn – It's Only Natural
Best Cover: Hamish Kilgour – Pink Flying Saucers Over The Southern Alps (Various Artists)
Richard Gourley -'Hold Onto Your Face
Dick Frizzell -What Can We Say?

See: 1992 in music

Performing arts

 Benny Award presented by the Variety Artists Club of New Zealand to Carl Doy ONZM.

Radio and television
25 May: Shortland Street first airs.