[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Liberty City Seven

lowed by 10 years of supervised release.

Press coverage of the arrests
The arrests were announced on 23 June at a high level press briefing in Washington D.C. by the Attorney-General Alberto Gonzales, the Deputy Director of the FBI John S. Pistole, and an Assistant Attorney-General Alice S. Fisher.

At the press conference, the Attorney-General and the Deputy Director took questions from reporters:
Question: Did any of the men have any actual contact with any members of al-Qaeda that you know of?
Attorney-General: The answer to that is "No".
Question: Did they have any means to carry out this plot? I mean, did you find any explosives, weapons?
Attorney-General: You raise a good point ... We took action when we had enough evidence.
Question: Was there anything against the Sears Tower other than this one apparent, just, kind of mention of the Sears Tower? It doesn't look like they ever took pictures or ... 
Deputy Director of the FBI: One of the individuals was familiar with the Sears Tower, had worked in Chicago, and was familiar with the tower. But in terms of the plans, it was more aspirational than operational.

He assured the public that the men posed no actual danger because their plot had been caught in "its earliest stages", and that the group's only source of money and weapons would have been the undercover FBI agent.

The following week the incident was featured on The Daily Show, where Jon Stewart quipped: "Now, I am not a general. I don't have any association with any military academy. But I believe that if you are going to wage a full ground war against the United States, you need to field at least as many people as, say, a softball team."

Democracy Now interviewed two community activists in Miami on 26 June who summed up local reaction to the indictments:

In his afternoon speech, the Director of the FBI, Robert Mueller, cited the case to illustrate how his department's policies were working. He also made reference to the case of Kevin James, the Toledo terror plot, and the 2006 Toronto terrorism case.

FBI payments
 The first informant, CW1, received $10,500 for his services and $8,815 in expenses.
 The second informant, CW2, received $17,000 and approval of his petition for political asylum in the United States.
 Expenses for Charles James Stewart and his wife to travel from Chicago to Miami came to $3,500
 Rent paid on the warehouse used for training from January to June.

The trial information revised these figures
 First informant, Abbas al Saidi, received $40,000.
 Second informant, Elie Assad, received $80,000.

Media
The case was one of a type that inspired Chris Morris in the making of the 2019 film The Day Shall Come.

References

External links

June 2006 crimes in the United States
American prisoners and detainees
Quantified groups of defendants
Prisoners and detainees of the United States federal government
21st-century American trials