[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Min Ko Naing

cy Provisions Act for instigating "disturbances to the detriment of law and order, peace and tranquility". His sentence was commuted to 10 years under a general amnesty in January 1993. He was considered a prisoner of conscience by Amnesty International, which intensively campaigned for his release.

According to Amnesty International, Min Ko Naing was severely tortured and ill-treated during the early stages of his detention. His health suffered as a consequence. During his interrogation he was reportedly forced to stand in water for two weeks until he collapsed, and as a result, his left foot became completely numb. On 19 November 2004, he was released from prison after being held for 15 years.

Second imprisonment
Min Ko Naing was rearrested in late September 2006. Htay Kywe, Ko Ko Gyi, Pyone Cho and Min Zeya were arrested along with him, in advance of Burma's 2006 national convention. In January 2007, they were released, without official explanation for either their original arrest or their sudden release.

Campaigns
Following his release from prison, Min Ko Naing helped to found the 88 Generation Students Group, which continued to fight for democracy in Burma. From 10 October 2006 to 18 October 2006 (his 44th birthday), some of the "88 generation" students organized a nationwide campaign, "White Expression" to pressure the military government to release him and all of political prisoners. Participants wore white clothing in a show of support for the release of all political prisoners. They also organized the signature campaign to pressure the junta to release him and all political prisoners. It was started a week after Min Ko Naing and four colleagues were arrested. Many well-known artists from Myanmar (such as Ludu Daw Amar and Zarganar) signed the petition.

On 4 January 2007, the 88 Generation Students organized the "Open Heart Campaign". He said to the Irrawaddy Magazine that the campaign was to encourage the people to exercise freedom of expression. People could write to State Peace and Development Council leader senior general Than Shwe about their feelings under the military government.

The 88 Generation Students Group also conducted a "White Sunday" campaign from 11 March 2007 to 20 May 2007 to express support for family members of political prisoners. They visited the families of political prisoners in Yangon every Sunday during this period.

Political imprisonment in 2007
He was arrested again around midnight on 21 August 2007, with other 13 leaders of the 88 Generation Students for organizing peaceful demonstrations. United States Government condemned the Burmese junta's arrest of them. On 11 November 2008 Min Ko Naing was sentenced to 65 years imprisonment, as 22 others had been for their role in the August 2007 demonstrations.  On 15 November 2008 Min Ko Naing was transferred to Kengtung prison in Shan State, where isolated, bleak cells were constructed in mid-2000 for solitary confinement.

Release and political career
Min Ko Naing was released along with numerous other activists on 13 January 2012, as part of a mass presidential pardon for political activists.

It was believed that he would contest the 2015 general elections for a seat in Assembly of the Union, but he did not. Many observers have said that beyond Aung Sann Suu Kyi, he and his colleagues are best suited to steer the country's political landscape.

He has been on the run following the military coup on February 1, 2021. He has urged the public to take a "no recognition, no participation" approach to the new military regime and called on people to work together to protest against the coup.

On 13 February 2021, in the aftermath of the 2021 Myanmar coup d'état, Min Ko Naing and six other high-profile individuals, namely Kyaw Min Yu, Myo Yan Naung Thein, Insein Aung Soe, Mg Mg Aye, Pencilo, and Lynn Lynn were charged and issued arrest warrants under section 505 (b) of the Myanmar Penal Code by the State Administration Council for inciting unrest against the state and threatening "public tranquility" through their social media posts.

International recognition
Min Ko Naing has won numerous international awards for his activism. These include the 2009 Gwangju Prize for Human Rights; the 2005 Civil Courage Prize, which he shared with Anna Politkovskaya and Munir Said Thalib; the 2000 Homo Homini Award of People In Need; the 2001 Student Peace Prize; and the 1999 John Humphrey Freedom Award, which he shared with Cynthia Maung of the Mae Tao Clinic.

In 2012, he was announced the winner of an award from the US National Endowment for Democracy, but stated his intention not to attend the ceremony in solidarity with other Burmese activists who had been denied visas.