[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richard Butcher (footballer)

y for a third spell, he was Peter Jackson's first signing of the summer. However the club soon after parted company with manager Peter Jackson and his replacement Chris Sutton rarely used him in the first team. Butcher was made available for loan in the new year and departed Sincil Bank in February.

Macclesfield Town
He re-joined Keith Alexander in February 2010 for a third spell this time with Macclesfield Town, scoring on his debut in a 2–1 defeat to Bury. On 3 March 2010 Alexander suddenly died at home following the club's away match with Notts County. This had come little over a month since Alexander had brought Butcher to Macclesfield. The Silkmen appointed Gary Simpson as manager, who had previously been Alexander's assistant at Lincoln and Peterborough. Butcher signed permanently with Macclesfield in July 2010 following his official release from Lincoln. On 20 May 2010 Butcher signed a two-year deal at Macclesfield Town. The final match of his career was on 3 January 2011 when Macclesfield were beaten 0–2 by Rotherham United.

Death
Butcher died aged 29 at his Swinton, Salford home on 9 January 2011. After Butcher had failed to turn up for training on Monday morning, club manager Gary Simpson found out after an investigation that Butcher's wife had been away and that he had died overnight. Butcher's death came less than a year after the death of Macclesfield manager Keith Alexander, who had also managed Butcher at both Lincoln City and Peterborough United.

The next match for Macclesfield Town, an away game at Burton Albion originally scheduled for 15 January was then postponed in respect to Butcher and Macclesfield Town.
Butcher's shirt number, 21, has been retired as a mark of respect. On 22 January 2011 at Macclesfield's next home game a minute's applause was heard before the game and 30 white doves released (to represent Butcher's 30th birthday as it would have been on the day).

Family, friends and fans paid tribute to Butcher at Lincoln City's Sincil Bank stadium on Wednesday 2 February 2011, the service was attended by fellow footballers and close friends Simon Yeo, Ben Futcher, Paul Morgan and Alan Marriott as well as former Macclesfield teammates and Peterborough United director Barry Fry. A private service was held at Lincoln Crematorium service following the thanksgiving service at the stadium.

A coroner's verdict delivered in June 2011 determined Butcher's death to have been caused by the heart condition cardiac arrhythmia.

References

External links

Rushden & Diamonds F.C. Official Profile
Lincoln City F.C. Official Archive Profile
Profile at UpThePosh! The Peterborough United Database

1981 births
2011 deaths
Footballers from Northampton
Men's association football midfielders
English men's footballers
Northampton Town F.C. players
Rushden & Diamonds F.C. players
Kettering Town F.C. players
Lincoln City F.C. players
Oldham Athletic A.F.C. players
Peterborough United F.C. players
Notts County F.C. players
Macclesfield Town F.C. players
English Football League players