[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 2007 NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament

t on ESPN for the sixth consecutive year.

Radio
Westwood One once again had the live radio coverage. Kevin Harlan once again served as the play-by-play man at the Final Four with Bill Raftery and John Thompson on color. Thompson the elder is the father of current Georgetown coach John Thompson III.

Basketball courts
During the first- and second-round games in New Orleans, as part of the continuing recovery process from Hurricane Katrina, the NCAA allowed an additional floor decal recognizing the work of Habitat for Humanity's Collegiate Challenge and the NCAA Home Team program through the subregional's host institution, Tulane University. This marked the first time that a logo other than that of the NCAA or an NCAA member school has been allowed at an NCAA-sanctioned championship event. In addition, Tulane student athletes and athletic department personnel built a new house, valued at $75,000 (US), which was paid for by the NCAA and their corporate partner Lowe's, on Girod Street between the New Orleans Arena, site of the games, and the Louisiana Superdome, which has hosted four Final Fours.

Also, for the first time, custom-made, identical courts were used at all four regional sites in San Jose, St. Louis, San Antonio and East Rutherford. Starting in 2010, all tournament games would have the same identical courts.

See also 
 2007 NCAA Division II men's basketball tournament
 2007 NCAA Division III men's basketball tournament
 2007 NCAA Division I women's basketball tournament
 2007 NCAA Division II women's basketball tournament
 2007 NCAA Division III women's basketball tournament
 2007 National Invitation Tournament
 2007 Women's National Invitation Tournament
 2007 NAIA Division I men's basketball tournament
 2007 NAIA Division II men's basketball tournament
 2007 NAIA Division I women's basketball tournament
 2007 NAIA Division II women's basketball tournament
 Bracketology

References 

Ncaa
NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament
Basketball competitions in Atlanta
NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament
NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament
NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament
College basketball tournaments in Georgia (U.S. state)