[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 59]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

he monkey gave her
a pat with his paw, chattering all the time, and making the most
ridiculous grimaces; and when she was quiet, he applied himself to his
bottle, and continued the operation. But I have heard a more tragic
story of the imitative genius of these animals. One of them lived in a
fortified town, and used frequently to run up and down upon the
ramparts, where he had observed the gunner discharge the great guns that
defended the town. One day he got possession of the lighted match with
which the man used to perform his business, and, applying it to the
touch-hole of a gun, he ran to the mouth of it to see the explosion; but
the cannon, which happened to be loaded, instantly went off, and blew
the poor monkey into a thousand pieces."

When they came back to Mr Barlow's they found Master Merton's servant
and horses waiting to bring him home. When he arrived there he was
received with the greatest joy and tenderness by his parents; but
though he gave them an account of everything else that had happened, he
did not say a word about the money he had given to the farmer. But the
next day, being Sunday, Mr and Mrs Merton and Tommy went together to the
parish church, which they had scarcely entered when a general whisper
ran through the whole congregation, and all eyes were in an instant
turned upon the little boy. Mr and Mrs Merton were very much astonished
at this, but they forbore to inquire until the end of the service; then
as they were going out of the church together, Mr Merton asked his son
what could be the reason of the general attention which he excited at
his entrance into church? Tommy had no time to answer, for at that
instant a very decent-looking woman ran up and threw herself at his
feet, calling him her guardian angel and preserver, and praying that
heaven would shower down upon his head all the blessings which he
deserved. It was some time before Mr and Mrs Merton could understand the
nature of this extraordinary scene; but, when they at length understood
the secret of their son's generosity, they seemed to be scarcely less
affected than the woman herself, and, shedding tears of transport and
affection, they embraced their son, without attending to the crowd that
surrounded them; but immediately recollecting themselves, they took
their leave of the poor woman and hurried to their coach with such
sensations as it is more easy to conceive than to describe.

The summer had now completely passed away, and the winter had set in
with unusual severity; the water was all frozen into a solid mass of
ice; the earth was bare of food, and the little birds, that used to
chirp with gladness, seemed to lament in silence the inclemency of the
weather. As Tommy was one day reading the Life of Napoleon Bonaparte,
particularly the famous anecdote of the fortress of snow, in which
Napoleon is described as undertaking the siege, and giving directions to
his school-fellows how to make the attack, he was surprised to find a
pretty bird flying about the chamber in which he was reading. He
immediately went down stairs and informed Mr Barlow of the circumstance,
who, after he had seen the bird, told him that it was called a robin
redbreast, and that it was naturally more tame and disposed to cultivate
the society of men than any other species; "but at present," added he,
"the little fellow is in want of food, because the earth is too hard to
furnish him any assistance, and hunger inspires him with this unusual
boldness." "Why then, sir," said Tommy, "if you will give me leave, I
will fetch a piece of bread and feed him." "Do so," answered Mr Barlow;
"but first set the window open, that he may see you do not intend to
take him prisoner." Tommy accordingly opened his window, and scattering
a few crumbs of bread about the room, had the satisfaction of seeing his
guest hop down and make a very hearty meal; he then flew out of the
room, and settled upon a neighbouring tree, singing all the time, as if
to return thanks for the hospitality he had met with.

Tommy was greatly delighted with his new acquaintance, and from this
time never failed to set his window open every morning and scatter some
crumbs about the room, which the bird perceiving, hopped fearlessly in,
and regaled himself under the protection of his benefactor. By degrees
the intimacy increased so much that little robin would alight on Tommy's
shoulder and whistle his notes in that situation, or eat out of his
hand--all which gave Tommy so much satisfaction that he would frequently
call Mr Barlow and Harry to be witness of his favourite's caresses; nor
did he ever eat his own meals without reserving a part for his little
friend.

It however happened that one day Tommy went upstairs after dinner,
intending to feed his bird as usual, but as soon as he opened the door
of his chamber he discovered a sight that pierced him to the very heart.
His little friend and innocent companion la