[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frederick Jacobi

h as of the 19th century."

Awards and honors
Honorable mention in the Elizabeth Sprague Coolidge Competition, 1924
Two-time winner of the award of the Society for the Publication of American Music
David Bispham Medal awarded by The American Opera Society for The Prodigal Son.
Source: New York Times

Quotes on musical composition and anecdotes
"I am a great believer in melody; a believer, too, that music should give pleasure and not try to solve philosophical problems."
"The surest way to kill whatever originality one possesses within himself is to try to be original!"
Irene was in a box near the Metropolitan Opera stage one evening when Frederick Jacobi was the prompter. After the performance she said, "Darling, you were wonderful. I heard every word you said!"

Discography
RCA Victor Red Seal, M 782, 1-5 (78rpm, late 1930s)
Hagiographia: Three Biblical Narratives for String Quartet and Piano. Irene Jacobi, piano; with the Coolidge Quartet: William Kroll, 1st violin; Nicolai Berezowsky, 2nd violin; Nicholas Moldavan, viola; Victor Gottlieb, cello

SPA [Society for Participating Artists] Records 7 Saratoga Springs, NY
Concerto for Violin and Orchestra. Andre Gertler and the Orchestra of the Institut Nationale Belge de Radiodiffusion, Franz Andre, conductor.
Two pieces for Flute and Orchestra: Night Piece and Dance. Francis Stoefs, flute and the Orchestra of the Institut Nationale Belge de Radiodiffusion, Franz Andre, conductor.
Concertino for Piano and String Orchestra. Irene Jacobi, piano and the Orchestra of the Institut Nationale Belge de Radiodiffusion, Franz Andre, conductor.

CRI [Composers Recordings Inc.] 146 (LP)
Ballade for Violin and Piano. Fredell Lack, violin; Irene Jacobi, piano
Fantasy for Viola and Piano. Louise Rood, viola; Irene Jacobi, piano
String Quartet No. 3. Lyric Art Quartet: Fredell Lack and George Bennett, violins; Wayne Crouse, viola; Marion Davies, cello

CRI 174 (LP)
Concerto for Cello and Orchestra. Guido Vecchi with members of the Oslo Philharmonic Orchestra, William Strickland, conductor.
Hagiographia: Three Biblical Narratives for String Quartet and Piano. Irene Jacobi, piano; with the Claremont String Quartet: Mark Gottlieb and Vladimir Weisman, violins; Scot Nickrenz, viola; Irving Klein, cello.

CRI 703 (CD)
Digitally remastered contents of CRI 146 and CRI 174, with the exception of the Fantasy for Viola and Piano.

NAXOS AMERICAN CLASSICS: Milken Archive of American Jewish Music (CD)
Concerto for Violincello, and Orchestra. Alban Gerhardt, cello; Barcelona Symphony/National Orchestra of Catalonia, Karl Anton Rickenbacher, conductor.
Sabbath Evening Service (excerpts). Patrick Mason, baritone; Academy of St. Martin in the Fields Chorus, Joseph Cullen, conductor.
Hagiographia for String Quartet and Piano. Brian Krinke, violin; Perrin Yang, violin; George Taylor, viola; Stefan Reuss, cello; Joseph Werner, piano.
Ahavat Olam. Cantor Robert Bloch; New York Cantorial Choir; Aaron Miller, organ; Samuel Adler, conductor.
Two Pieces in Sabbath Mood. Slovak Radio Symphony Orchestra; Samuel Adler, conductor

Compositions