[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ayoob Kara

Ayoob Kara (, ; born 12 March 1955) is an Israeli Druze politician. He has served as a member of the Knesset for Likud in four spells between 1999 and 2021, and as Minister of Communications.

Biography
Kara was born in Daliyat al-Karmel, a Druze town near Haifa, in 1955. He went to an agricultural high school in Kfar Galim. He spent a year playing professional football as a defensive back for Bnei Yehuda Tel Aviv. He later served in the Israel Defense Forces reserve and attained the rank of major before being discharged for post-traumatic stress disorder. Serving alongside Jews before and after the establishment of Israel has been a source of family pride; his uncle was killed during the Arab revolt in 1939 and his father served in the IDF during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. Another uncle was also killed by Arabs then and two of his brothers were killed in action in the 1982 Lebanon War. Following his national service, Kara studied Business Administration. Today, he lives in Daliyat al-Karmel with his wife and five children.

Political career
Kara was placed 35th on the Likud–Gesher–Tzomet list that won 32 seats in the 1996 elections. He urged Likud party chairman Ariel Sharon to campaign for the Arab vote. Sharon agreed on the importance of it and the need for an Arab minister in government. Kara was elected in 1999, becoming the third Druze Likud MK in history, after Amal Nasser el-Din and Assad Assad. He was appointed Deputy Speaker of the Knesset and served as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Workers. He retained his seat in the 2003 elections and became chairman of the Anti-Drug Committee. Speaking out during the Second Intifada, he condemned Arab MKs for incitement.

Kara opposed the Gaza disengagement plan championed by prime minister Ariel Sharon, and was almost ejected from Knesset with Michael Ratzon for "repeated disturbances". When Sharon announced plans to break from Likud, Kara refused to defect to Kadima in 2005 and criticized other MKs that did, including Shaul Mofaz. He praised Likud's "glorious past" and said it will return stronger, despite the split. He lost his seat in the 2006 elections, when Likud dropped to 12 seats.

Nevertheless, he remained active in politics. He met with Hebron residents and criticized the demolition of a Jewish home there, calling Kadima chairman Tzipi Livni as "good for Hamas".

Deputy Minister for the Development of the Negev and Galilee
Announcing his intention to run in the Likud primary for the 2009 elections, Kara called for unity between Druze and Jews, "to strengthen the Zionist connection...that has been damaged in recent years." He reminded voters of his opposition to the disengagement, making it an important part of his campaign. He was placed 23rd on the party's list, and returned to the Knesset when Likud won 27 seats. Kara sought and received a ministerial post: becoming Israel's new Deputy Minister of the Development of the Negev and Galilee. He is the first non-Jewish nationalist to receive a portfolio. Kara opposed the inclusion of Kadima in Netanyahu's government, saying that Likud had "no room for traitors".

As Deputy Minister, Kara cited demographic issues as a growing threat to Israel. He promoted development of the two regions to encourage Jews to stay and work there. He worked to help former soldiers to study for free at colleges in the Negev and Galilee, as well as a new college of medicine in the latter. He also supported the building of casinos in the Negev. In addition, he promoted a program in Knesset to train Druze firefighters that will serve in Jewish towns in the West Bank. Later, with Kara's help, ZAKA volunteers began to establish volunteer rescue services in northern Druze and Arab towns in September 2010, starting with Beit Jann and Yirka.

Foreign relations
Shortly after the election, the family of Ouda Tarabin, an Israeli Bedouin  convicted of espionage in absentia by Egypt, enlisted Kara's support to gain Tarabin's release. Tarabin entered Egypt in 2000 illegally, and was arrested and sentenced to 15 years in prison. Kara also led a group of Druze, Bedouins, and Muslims that met with the family of Gilad Shalit to show support for his release from Hamas, who kidnapped Shalit in a 2006 raid.

Kara met with Turkish ambassador to Israel, Ahmet Oğuz Çelikkol, to improve Israel–Turkey relations, citing Turkey as a "proven" ally to Israel. However, relations deteriorated after the Gaza flotilla raid. Kara has also been instrumental in improving relations with Syria and Lebanon. Just before the 2009 election, he claimed to have met with Syrian officials in Washington, D. C., who said Syria was interested in revisiting talks to improve relations. However, the Syrian embassy in Washington denied the meeting took place, as did a spokesman for Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu. He has also been outspoken in his opposition to proposed divisions of the border village of Ghajar, comparing it to the Berlin Wall.