[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 84]
# Politics — Aristotle

, he should think his death sufficiently
glorious. A tyranny also is exposed to the same destruction as all other
states are, from too powerful neighbours: for it is evident, that an
opposition of principles will make them desirous of subverting it;
and what they desire, all who can, do: and there is a principle of
opposition in one state to another, as a democracy against a tyranny, as
says Hesiod, "a potter against a potter;" for the extreme of a democracy
is a tyranny; a kingly power against an aristocracy, from their
different forms of government--for which reason the Lacedaemonians
destroyed many tyrannies; as did the Syracusians during the prosperity
of their state. Nor are they only destroyed from without, but also
from within, when those who have no share in the power bring about a
revolution, as happened to Gelon, and lately to Dionysius; to the first,
by means of Thrasybulus, the brother of Hiero, who nattered Gelon's
son, and induced him to lead a life of pleasure, that he himself might
govern; but the family joined together and endeavoured to support the
tyranny and expel Thrasybulus; but those whom they made of their party
seized the opportunity and expelled the whole family. Dion made war
against his relation Dionysius, and being assisted by the people, first
expelled and then killed him. As there are two causes which chiefly
induce men to conspire against tyrants, hatred and contempt, one of
these, namely hatred, seems inseparable from them. Contempt also is
often the cause of their destruction: for though, for instance, those
who raised themselves to the supreme power generally preserved it; but
those who received it from them have, to speak truth, almost immediately
all of them lost it; for, falling into an effeminate way of life, they
soon grew despicable, and generally fell victims to conspiracies. Part
of their hatred may be very fitly ascribed to anger; for in some cases
this is their motive to action: for it is often a cause which impels
them to act more powerfully than hatred, and they proceed with greater
obstinacy against those whom they attack, as this passion is not under
the direction of reason. Many persons also indulge this passion through
contempt; which occasioned the fall of the Pisistratidae and many
others. But hatred is more powerful than anger; for anger is accompanied
with grief, which prevents the entrance of reason; but hatred is free
from it. In short, whatever causes may be assigned as the destruction
of a pure oligarchy unmixed with any other government and an extreme
democracy, the same may be applied to a tyranny; for these are divided
tyrannies.

Kingdoms are seldom destroyed by any outward attack; for which reason
they are generally very stable; but they have many causes of subversion
within; of which two are the principal; one is when those who are
in power [1313a] excite a sedition, the other when they endeavour to
establish a tyranny by assuming greater power than the law gives them.
A kingdom, indeed, is not what we ever see erected in our times, but
rather monarchies and tyrannies; for a kingly government is one that
is voluntarily submitted to, and its supreme power admitted upon great
occasions: but where many are equal, and there are none in any respect
so much better than another as to be qualified for the greatness and
dignity of government over them, then these equals will not willingly
submit to be commanded; but if any one assumes the government, either by
force or fraud, this is a tyranny. To what we have already said we shall
add, the causes of revolutions in an hereditary kingdom. One of these
is, that many of those who enjoy it are naturally proper objects of
contempt only: another is, that they are insolent while their power is
not despotic; but they possess kingly honours only. Such a state is soon
destroyed; for a king exists but while the people are willing to obey,
as their submission to him is voluntary, but to a tyrant involuntary.
These and such-like are the causes of the destruction of monarchies.




CHAPTER XI


Monarchies, in a word, are preserved by means contrary to what I have
already mentioned as the cause of their destruction; but to speak to
each separately: the stability of a kingdom will depend upon the power
of the king's being kept within moderate bounds; for by how much the
less extensive his power is, by so much the longer will his government
continue; for he will be less despotic and more upon an equality of
condition with those he governs; who, on that account, will envy him the
less.

It was on this account that the kingdom of the Molossi continued so
long; and the Lacedaemonians from their government's being from the
beginning divided into two parts, and also by the moderation introduced
into the other parts of it by Theopompus, and his establishment of the
ephori; for by taking something from the power he increased the duration
of the k