[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians

Offices currently exist, the Portland Stark Building which was purchased in August 2007, which is the site of the tribe's Portland Area Office, the Eugene Elks building which houses the Eugene Area Office, the Siletz Gas & Mini Mart, the old Toledo Mill site, and a commercial building in Depoe Bay.

The tribe also owns and runs the Siletz Community Health Clinic. A $7.5 million plan is underway to expand the clinic.  $2 million of the funding will come from the Federal government's IHS Small Ambulatory Grant funding. The clinic is currently  but will grow to  between 2006-2016.

The Siletz Tribal Police department was discontinued, but the tribe now contracts with the nearby Lincoln County Sheriff's Office to provide law enforcement services to the Siletz area.

The tribe is gradually accumulating additional property into the reservation, as part of its Comprehensive Plan. This includes  entrusted to the tribe in 2007 by the state and federal governments as part of the New Carissa oil spill settlement, on the condition that the Confederated Tribes will manage it as a marbled murrelet habitat.

The tribal government is attempting to get its 1850's treaties with the United States recognized by referencing them in the tribe's constitution, and also by mentioning the treaties in a work by Charles Wilkinson, who was hired by the Tribal Council to write a history of the Siletz.  There have also been attempts to retrieve the remains of tribal ancestors from the Smithsonian Institution, and to retrieve various other tribal artifacts distributed throughout the United States of America.

The current Tribal Council includes Chairman Delores Pigsley, Vice Chairman Bud Lane, Secretary Sharon Edenfield, Treasurer Robert Kentta, Reggie Butler, Sr., Lillie Butler, Loraine Butler, Angela Ramirez and Selene Rilatos.

The tribal government's Public Information Office publishes the monthly Siletz News.

Cultural activities
Artifacts and historical documents are stored and displayed at the Siletz Tribal Cultural Center, located on Government Hill, under the care of Cultural Programs Staff.

Tolowa is taught as a common tribal language. Beginning Athabaskan language has been taught at the Siletz Valley Charter School, which opened in the fall of 2006.

The second weekend in August of every year the tribe is host to its annual Nesika Illahee Pow-wow.

Every summer and winter solstice for hundreds if not thousands of years, a dance has been held, called the Feather Dance (or Nee-dash), for 10 nights.

In recent years a new tradition has been started. During the winter solstice, dancers, singers, and tribal members from the Confederated Tribes visit the Tolowa's cedar plank dance house near Smith River, California. During the summer solstice, dancers, singers, and tribal members of the Tolowa tribe visit the peoples of the Confederated Tribes of Siletz's cedar plank dance house.

Population
Finding records of the ethnic and cultural history of the Confederated Tribes of Siletz is somewhat difficult. A partial attempt at the tribal population makeup before it was forced on reservation lands in the mid-19th century is as follows:

Upper Rogue River or Shasta Tribe:
John's Band           172
George's Band         222
Joseph James's Band   160
Coastal Tribes:
Joshuas's Band        179
Choallie's Band       215
Totoem's Band         202
Macanotin's Band      129
Shasta Costa 110
Port Orford (a Qua-to-mah band) 242
Upper Coquille 313

Language
The ancestors of the Confederated Tribes spoke at least 11 different languages.

 Salishan languages
 Tillamook
 Shastan languages 
 Shasta
 Penutian languages (proposed grouping)
 Chinookan languages
 Lower Chinook
 Kalapuyan languages
 Takelma
 Plateau Penutian languages
 Sahaptian languages
 Sahaptin (Klickitat dialect)
 Molala 
 Coast Oregon Penutian languages (proposed)
 Alsea
 Siuslaw 
 Coosan languages
 Na-Dene languages
 Athabaskan languages
 Lower Rogue River (or Tututni)
 Upper Rogue River (or Galice-Applegate)
 Upper Umpqua (or Etnemitane)
 Tolowa (or Siletz Dee-ni)

According to a report by the National Geographic Society and the Living Tongues Institute for Endangered Languages, Siletz Dee-ni is the last of many tribal languages spoken on the reservation. In 2007 only one living fluent speaker remained. However, according to a later report in The Economist, the language has since been at least partially revived thanks to an on-line dictionary project; in some areas, "many now text each other in Siletz Dee-ni." The tribe has a language revival program with classes in three area offices and Siletz Valley school.  As of 2020, a number of younger conversant speakers have learned the language.