[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Highway 50 (Israel–Palestine)

Highway 50 (formerly Route 404), officially called Begin Boulevard (, Sderot Begin) and also referred to as Menachem Begin Expressway or Begin Highway, is a north-south urban freeway, through western Jerusalem, named after Israel's sixth Prime Minister, Menachem Begin. Local Jerusalemites simply refer to it as 'Begin' (). It enters Area C of the West Bank on the north end and East Jerusalem on both ends.

Route
The road follows a south-north path that connects key neighborhoods and commercial areas, as well as several city arteries and national routes. Beginning at the Rosmarin Interchange (formerly the Tunnels Junction) of the Gush Road in Gilo, the road arcs north-westward through Gilo, Beit Safafa, and Sharafat turning northward through Malha.  Passing Golomb Blvd, the road travels below a high ridge to the west on which sits the Holyland Park building complex. To the east is Emek Hatzva'im (Gazelle Valley), a green zone that was previously leased to Kiryat Anavim and Ma'ale HaHamisha and used for agricultural purposes. Further on, the path was excavated to create a depressed roadway between Bayit Vegan, Givat Mordechai, Ramat Beit HaKerem and Givat Ram. This section is equipped with noise barriers and speed cameras.

The road then passes through two tunnels under Jaffa Road and the busy western entrance to Jerusalem. Winding down the western and northern slopes below Romema, the road steeply descends 150 meters into Emek HaArazim (Valley of Cedars) with interchanges at Golda Meir Blvd (Route 436) and Yigal Yadin Blvd (Highway 1). Passing between Ramot and Ramat Shlomo, the road continues through the West Bank passing Beit Hanina, Bir Nabala and Atarot. Finally at Atarot Junction, Highway 50 officially becomes Highway 45 providing a continuous connection to Route 443 to Modi'in and the Tel Aviv area.

History

Begin Boulevard is made of the central section, which was completed two years ahead of schedule in June 1998, and the northern extension completed in late 2002

Since its construction, the road was called national Route 404. In internal Jerusalem Municipality documentation, it was known as Jerusalem Road 4. In 2012, the Israel Ministry of Transport and the Jerusalem Municipality began using the designation 50. New blue "Highway 50" signs were posted by the National Roads Company of Israel to reflect this change. The Moriah-Jerusalem Development Corporation, responsible for road construction in Jerusalem also uses the designation, 50.

50/20
In the north, the "50/20 Interchange Project" was approved in 2010 along with the new Jerusalem Road 20 through Beit Hanina following Abdul Hamid Shomaan St. and Hizma Rd. to Sayeret Duchifat Blvd. Construction was begun in 2011. This route alleviates heavy traffic at Sha'ar Mizrach Junction (Highway 1 and Route 60) by providing an alternative route via Begin to central Jerusalem and Route 443 to Tel Aviv for residents of Beit Hanina, Shuafat, Pisgat Ze'ev and Neve Ya'akov. The preliminarily named "50/20 Interchange" was officially opened on 5 May 2013 and renamed after Benzion Netanyahu, the Israeli historian and father of Benjamin Netanyahu.

Begin South

The "Begin South Project", first planned in 1990, involved widening Begin Boulevard from 4 to 6 lanes and extending it as a freeway past Golomb Boulevard to connect with Route 60 at the Tunnels Road in Gilo to Gush Etzion. Construction proceeded in stages beginning in 2010 to widen the highway between Givat Mordechai Interchange and Golomb Junction. At the same time, reconstruction of sewer lines further south was completed in order to accommodate the lowering of the highway to pass under Golomb Boulevard and local streets next to the Malha Mall, Teddy Stadium and the Jerusalem Malha Railway Station with interchange access to these locations. In 2013, a tunnel was built creating the new Golomb Interchange, and work proceeded to lower the road past the Malha Mall and Teddy Stadium with service roads on either side. This first stage was completed at the end of 2014.

Further south, past the Malha Railway Station, work continued through the neighborhood of Sharafat with the completion of the second stage and the opening of the Dov Yosef Interchange in March 2015.