[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mexican Liberal Party

confusion caused by counterproductive tactics. Although for some, Maderism represented the most viable political alternative; for others, supporting Madero was simply the only way to escape alive from Mexican prisons. However, there were others who preferred jail or death to betraying their ideals.

Final years
After the raid on Baja California, and with Ricardo Flores Magón, Librado Rivera and Anselmo Figueroa in jail, there were other armed uprisings on behalf of the PLM. Such was the case of Primitivo Gutiérrez who on 9 February 1912, on behalf of the PLM, repealed the Constitution and declared anarchist communism in the town of Las Vacas, Coahuila. In 1913 PLM groups attempted to launch themselves back into the armed struggle. While attempting to enter Mexico from Texas, they faced a group of rangers, were defeated and sentenced to 50 years or more of prison. However, these actions had no major impact on the development of events in Mexico, the PLM's role in the Mexican Revolution drew to a close.

In 1915, after the death of Anselmo L. Figueroa and the lack of resources to continue Regeneration, a small group of the PLM moved to a farm located in Edendale, Los Angeles. There they lived and worked communally, raised chickens and grew vegetables that they sold for support, while carrying out the political work of the PLM, now renamed the Revolutionary Workers Union (UOR).

In February 1916, Enrique and Ricardo Flores Magón were arrested at their home in Edendale, accused of defaming Venustiano Carranza. They were released months later, when a committee promoted by Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman collected the bail money demanded by the Los Angeles court. Shortly after leaving prison, Enrique Flores Magón left the UOR, along with most others. Librado Rivera and Ricardo Flores Magón remained, and together they published a manifesto in Regeneration addressed to anarchists of the world. In 1918, they were arrested, accused of conspiracy by the United States government, and sentenced to 15 and 20 years in prison respectively.

Flores Magón died in prison in 1922. Rivera was released and deported to Mexico where he continued denouncing the governments emanating from the revolution, he was imprisoned during the mandate of Plutarco Elías Calles and died in 1932.

Legacy 

The PLM slogan "Tierra y Libertad" (Land and Liberty) also appeared in the group's Regeneración newspaper illustrations. Ricardo Flores Magón used it as the title of a play and William C. Owen used it as the title of an American anarchist newspaper.

See also 

Liberalism in Mexico

References

Further reading

Ricardo Flores Magón: Dreams of Freedom : A Ricardo Flores Magón Reader, Ak Press, 2005,  
Javier Torres Pares: La revolucion sin frontera: El Partido Liberal Mexicano y las relaciones entre el movimiento obrero de Mexico y el de Estados Unidos, 1900–1923, Ediciones y Distribuciones Hispanicas, 1990,  
Juan Gomez-Quiñones: Sembradores: Ricardo Flores Magón y el Partido Liberal Mexicano: A Eulogy and Critique, 1973, Chicano Studies Center Publications, 
Jeffrey Kent Lucas, The Rightward Drift of Mexico's Former Revolutionaries: The Case of Antonio Díaz Soto y Gama.  Lewiston, NY: Edwin Mellen Press, 2010.  .

1905 establishments in Mexico
1918 disestablishments in North America
Agrarian parties
Agrarian socialism
Anarchist political parties
Anarcho-communism
Communist parties in Mexico
Defunct anarchist organizations in North America
Defunct political parties in Mexico
Far-left politics in Mexico
Jacobinism
Left-wing populism
Magonism
Political parties established in 1905
Political parties disestablished in 1918
Porfiriato
Radical parties