[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Bo Pelini

y would consider how to respond to the matter, and subsequently decided to move on from the incident. Tom Osborne, former coach and athletic director at Nebraska, then announced that he had heard the tape in 2012 (about a year earlier) and talked to Pelini about it but did not tell Perlman about it.

Some observers and members of the media believed that Pelini would have a difficult time winning back fan support. Pelini believed that he had built up enough "points" for at least partial forgiveness for his statements from the fans. He said he enjoyed his job at Nebraska, had had great support, and had turned down job offers from other schools. Sports media reactions to the audio tape ranged from calls for Pelini to be fired to the view that what Pelini said was nothing more than what other coaches have likely said in the past.

On-field conduct
Pelini's behavior was again called into question during Nebraska's nationally televised loss to the Iowa Hawkeyes at the end of the 2013 regular season. At halftime, the coach snapped at ESPN on ABC reporter Quint Kessenich when asked about a pair of Cornhusker turnovers, responding with "What kind of question is that?" Later, in disagreement with a call made on the field, Pelini swung his hat within inches of an official's face, drawing a 15-yard penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct. Pelini remained defiant in the post game press conference, referring to his personal foul call as "chicken shit" and declaring, "If they want to fire me, go ahead...I don't apologize for anything I have done." Pelini subsequently apologized for his behavior after the Iowa game.

During the November 14, 2015 game against the North Dakota State Bison in the 4th quarter, Pelini engaged the referees in several heated arguments for penalties they called including two unsportsmanlike conduct penalties on Pelini. He was reprimanded by the Missouri Valley Football Conference for his on field conduct.

Second audiotape leak
Following his firing on November 30, 2014 Pelini met with his (former) team at a local high school on December 2. Leaked audio of the meeting revealed that the coach verbally attacked University of Nebraska administration. At one point Pelini said:

It wasn't a surprise to me. It really wasn't. I didn't really have any relationship with the AD. The guy — you guys saw him (Sunday) — the guy's a total p----. I mean, he is. He's a total c---.

After the leak, the Nebraska administration released a statement, saying:

If these comments were, indeed, spoken by Mr. Pelini, we are extremely disappointed, but it only reaffirms the decision that he should no longer be a leader of young men at Nebraska. His habitual use of inappropriate language, and his personal and professional attacks on administrators, are antithetical to the values of our university. His behavior is consistent with a pattern of unprofessional, disrespectful behavior directed by Mr. Pelini toward the passionate fans of Nebraska, employees of the university and, most concerning, our student-athletes. This behavior is not tolerated at the University of Nebraska and, among many other concerns, played a role in his dismissal.

Youngstown State, who had already hired Pelini stated:

"Coach Pelini's remarks as reported are inappropriate and unfortunate. We have discussed the report with Coach. We are confident that Coach will conduct himself accordingly moving forward. We will not be commenting any further on this issue."

Head coaching record

See also
 List of college football head coaches with non-consecutive tenure

References
Explanatory notes

Citations

External links

 Youngstown State profile
 Nebraska profile

1967 births
Living people
American football safeties
Green Bay Packers coaches
LSU Tigers football coaches
Nebraska Cornhuskers football coaches
New England Patriots coaches
Ohio State Buckeyes football players
Oklahoma Sooners football coaches
San Francisco 49ers coaches
Youngstown State Penguins football coaches
High school football coaches in Ohio
Players of American football from Youngstown, Ohio
Ohio State University Fisher College of Business alumni