[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# France and the United Nations

e at the United Nations 
As a charter member of the United Nations and one of the five permanent members of the Security Council, France plays an active and integral role in many areas of UN activity. Further, French is one of the two working languages of the UN Secretariat, the other being English.

Security Council and Peacekeeping 
As part of the UN Security Council, France is heavily involved in influencing the debate on various issues threatening international peace and security and drafting various documents, such as resolutions, adopted by the Security Council. In its role at the UNSC and maintaining peace and security, France plays a key role in disarmament in particular, working to advance various treaties and enforce non-proliferation. France’s permanent seat on the UNSC also grants it veto power which it has used and threatened to use several times since the foundation of the International organization to show its disagreement on various resolutions, though notably much less than the other veto-power-holding states (see: ).

Veto power in the UN Security Council
France has used its veto power sparingly, vetoing 18 resolutions from 1949 to 2007, compared with 82 by the United States and 123 by the Soviet Union and Russia, 32 by Britain, and 6 by China. France used its veto power along with the United Kingdom, to veto a resolution to resolve the Suez Crisis in 1956. France also used a veto in 1976 on the question of the Comoros independence, when the island of Mayotte was kept in French territory due to the vote of the local population. In 2002, France threatened to veto Resolution 1441 on the then-upcoming 2003 Iraq war.

List of all French vetoes
June 26, 1946:	Spanish Question
August 25, 1947: Indonesian Question
October 30, 1956 (twice): Palestinian Question: Steps for the Immediate Cessation of the Military Action of Israel in Egypt
October 30, 1974: South Africa (Representation in the UN)
June 6, 1975: Namibia Question
February 6, 1976: Dispute between the Comoros and France on Mayotte
October 19, 1976: Situation in Namibia
October 31, 1977 (three times): Situation in South Africa
April 30, 1981 (four times) : Question of Namibia
April 21, 1986: Libyan Complaint against US Attack
January 11, 1989: Complaint by Libya against US Downing of Aircraft
December 23, 1989: Situation in Panama

Contributions to UN Budget 

France is also a significant financial contributor to UN activities. Regarding the UN’s 'general budget' which finances personnel, investment, the Secretariat, and other UN field offices, France’s 2019 contribution was 123 million dollars ($USD), a 4.43% share making it the 6th highest contributor. The other mandatory contribution for UN member states to undertake is to the Peacekeeping Operations budget. Along with the other permanent member of the UN Security Council, France is required to take on a more significant share of financial contributions due to their increased involvement in peacekeeping. In the 2019 Peacekeeping operations budget, France was the 6th highest contributor, accounting for a 5.61% share or 381 million dollars ($USD). In addition to these, France also makes voluntary contributions which can be made at the discretion of each member state to UN funds and programs of which they are particularly supportive.

Organisational structure 
France has a Permanent Mission to the UN set up in New York. Their main role lies in the research, preparation, and negotiation of texts, such as Security Council resolutions, which are then debated over and adopted by various UN bodies. The Mission is headed by the Permanent Representative of France to the United Nations who sits on the Security Council, within the general assembly and all the other bodies where France is represented at the UN, speaking on behalf of France and defending the Nation’s position and foreign policy at these forums. The current Permanent Representative of France to the UN is Nicolas de Rivière who took office as ambassador on the 8th of July 2019.

Environment and Climate Change 

One issue France is extremely active in within the UN is environmental justice and climate change. France hosted the 2015 UN Paris Climate Conference or COP21 and played a driving role in developing and enacting the Paris Climate Agreement. Beyond specifically climate change, France is also leading the fight for international environmental law, working with experts from 40 countries from around the world in different stages of development and presenting the “Global Pact for the Environment” to the UN. A resolution was adopted by the General Assembly on 10 May 2018.