[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 1. FC Union Berlin

loan

Notable former players

 Jörg Heinrich
 Robert Huth
 Torsten Mattuschka
 Marko Rehmer
 Karim Benyamina
 Sergej Barbarez
 Daniel Teixeira
 Sebastian Polter   
 Bobby Wood
 Max Kruse
 Christian Gentner
 Taiwo Awoniyi
 Sebastian Andersson
 Julian Ryerson

All-time top scorer
 Karim Benyamina (87)

The number 22 will not be worn on the back of a Union shirt until someone breaks the all-time Union scoring record of Karim Benyamina, who scored 87 goals in 213 appearances for the club. "This is a great gesture by president Dirk Zingler. That is the reward for six successful years," he said in 2016. Over 14,000 fans turned out to give Benyamina his career send-off alongside another legend, Torsten Mattuschka, who is often seen as the face of that particular era for Union.

Reserve team
The club's reserve team, 1. FC Union Berlin II, most recently played in the tier four Regionalliga Nordost, having won promotion to the league in 2012. Previous to this it spent two seasons in the NOFV-Oberliga Nord. At the end of the 2014–15 season the club withdrew the team from competition.

Women
Union Berlin's women's team was formed in September 1969, becoming the first women's team in Berlin and one of the first in East Germany. The women's team initially competed against Union Berlin's youth teams due to a lack of opponents, playing their first game on 17 January 1970, losing 7–1. In 1971, the team were amalgamated into KWO Berlin's women's team, before KWO merged with Union Berlin in June 1990 following German reunification. The team currently compete in the Regionalliga Nordost.

Coaching staff

Managerial history

European record

Overview

Matches
Union Berlin score listed first.

UEFA club coefficient ranking
As of 18 September 2023Source:

Player records

Most appearances
Competitive, professional matches only.
Up to date as of 24 January 2023

Top goalscorers
Competitive, professional matches only.
Up to date as of 24 January 2023

Club culture

1. FC Union Berlin is recognized as one of Europe's "cult" clubs, based on many unique fan and club initiatives over the last two decades.

The nicknames of the club are Eiserne (the Iron Ones) or Eisern Union (Iron Union). These nicknames evolved from the earlier sobriquet Schlosserjungs (metalworker boys), a reference to the blue kit the Union played in, as it was reminiscent of the overalls worn by local workers.

In May 2004, the supporters raised enough money to secure the club's license for fourth-division football through a campaign called 'Bleed for Union'. This catchphrase was not meant metaphorically. One element of the campaign was that fans donated blood to Berlin hospitals and then gave the money they received from the blood bank to their club.

After 2010, Union Berlin became increasingly attractive for new Berliners, even internationals, who were drawn to the atmosphere at the club.

Rivalries

During the East German era, 1. FC Union Berlin was known for a rivalry with BFC Dynamo, which was reputedly affiliated with the powerful state security service of East Germany (Stasi). Union on the other hand, was supported by the regional district administration of the governing SED party and sponsored by local state-owned enterprises. The club played some identificatory role in the unofficial opposition against the authorities of the communist system. Between 1979 and 1988, BFC Dynamo won ten consecutive East German league titles, with popular allegations of sporting misconduct helping to fuel the rivalry, and clashes between both sets of fans occurred. BFC Dynamo was seen as the supreme representative of the security agencies, with advantages in the recruitment of players and financial support as well as the political clout of Erich Mielke. An expression among the supporters of Union Berlin was: "Better to be a loser than a stupid Stasi pig". Supporters of Union cultivated the image of their club as the eternal underdog that was firmly rooted in the working class. Union became the most popular club in East Berlin.