[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# January 1973

Lewiston, Idaho
Arben Bajraktaraj, Kosovo-born Fench film actor; in Isniq, SR Serbia, Yugoslavia
Died: 
Caryl Jenner (stage name for Pamela Ripman), 55, British children's theatre director, died of lung cancer.
Ludwig Stossel, 89, Austrian-born American character actor on stage, film and television

January 30, 1973 (Tuesday)
Bass guitarist Gene Klein and rhythm guitarist Stanley Eisen, members of the heavy metal band Wicked Lester, introduced their reimagined format, wearing face makeup and playing before a group of 10 customers Popcorn Club, a bar located in the borough of Queens in New York City.  Klein renamed himself Gene Simmons while Eisen became Paul Stanley.  With drummer George Peter Criscuola (Peter Criss) and lead guitarist Paul "Ace" Frehley, the band played for the first time under the name KISS.
India nationalized its remaining private coal mines, bringing 184 under control the government company, Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) and 527 others under the Coal Mines Authority. 
The crash of a train into a bus killed 37 people and injured 18 others in the Hungarian city of Kecskemét.
The U.S. Department of Defense announced that the list of 555 prisoners of war included a U.S. Marine, Private First Class Ronald L. Ridgeway of Houston, Texas, who had been listed as killed in action on February 25, 1968. Ridgeway had been on patrol with eight other Marines during the Battle of Khe Sanh when the group was ambushed, and a group burial had been made in the Jefferson Barracks National Cemetery in St. Louis, Missouri. After more than five years as a prisoner of war in the "Hanoi Hilton", Ridgeway was released with the other listed POWs on March 16, 1973 and would work in administration with the Veterans Administration and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs after returning to civilian life.
G. Gordon Liddy and James W. McCord Jr., both former officials in the Committee to Re-Elect the President that had coordinated U.S. President Nixon's re-election campaign, were convicted by a federal jury in Washington on charges of conspiracy to spy on Democratic Party officials at the Watergate Hotel.  Unlike the other five persons charged, Liddy and McCord had declined to enter a plea bargain, and the jury returned guilty verdicts after less than 90 minutes of deliberation.
U.S. Senator John C. Stennis of Mississippi was shot and wounded in front of his Washington, D.C. home in an armed robbery "by two young men who took his wallet, 25 cents and his watch."  The shooting did not appear to be politically-motivated.  Despite a wound to the chest, Senator Stennis recovered after undergoing surgery at the Walter Reed Hospital. Six weeks later, on March 12, three young men were arrested by the FBI and charged with assault on a member of Congress under a 1971 federal law, and one pleaded guilty.
The first 125 officers and enlisted men out of 37,000 Republic of Korea troops who were still remaining in South Vietnam returned home to Seoul as South Korea's pullout from the Vietnam War began.
Born: 
Jay Manalo, Vietnamese-born Filipino actor, in Saigon, South Vietnam
Jordan Prentice, Canadian actor; in London, Ontario
Died: 
Titina Silla, 29, Guinea-Bissau freedom fighter, in an ambush by Portuguese authorities.  The anniversary of her death would later come to be celebrated as National Women's Day in Guinea Bissau.
Jack MacGowran, 54, Irish stage and film actor, died of complications from influenza. MacGowran, who had recently finished filming an appearance in The Exorcist, had been on leave from starring in the Broadway production of The Plough and the Stars at the Vivian Beaumont Theater at the Lincoln Center.
James Barlow, 51, British novelist

January 31, 1973 (Wednesday)
Rioting began in Syria when President Hafez al-Assad announced a new constitution that did not require the president to be a Muslim.  Within a few weeks, Assad amended the constitution to restore the requirement and approval would come on March 13.
Pan American and Trans World Airlines canceled their options to buy 13 Concorde airliners.
Born: Baciro Djá, Prime Minister of Guinea-Bissau in 2015 and 2016.
Died: 
Ragnar Frisch, 77, Norwegian economist and winner of the 1969 Nobel Prize for Economics. 
Dewey Barto (stage name for Stewart Swoyer), 76, American comedian who was half of the team of Barto and Mann

References

1973
1973-01
1973-01