[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Dan Cronin

ave other jobs or business interests. Cronin won the primary, and faced Democratic candidate Carole Cheney, an attorney from Aurora. By then, countywide elections would depend more on support from independent voters. Cheney ran a positive campaign, though she labeled Cronin as a "career politician".

In September 2010, Cronin opposed the county board's decision to issue a large amount of bonds. At the time, Cronin's relationship with the county board was perceived to have been "icy" for a long time. Later that month, the board voted to take away several powers from the chairman, which Cronin saw as a reaction to the possibility of him winning the election. The board, seeking more checks and balances between the county executive and legislature, gave itself more oversight over the hiring of staff members, the ability to conduct decennial redistricting via a board committee, and the authority to determine its own committee assignments and appoint committee chairs.

Cronin subsequently won the general election after receiving nearly 63 percent of the vote.

First term 

Shortly after taking office, Cronin appointed Robert Berlin, chief of criminal prosecutions in the county, to succeed Birkett as DuPage state's attorney. The appointment was regarded as Cronin's "first major decision" as board chairman, due to the perceived high profile and powerful position of the state's attorney.

In January 2011, the board approved a $125,000 contract for a law firm based in Itasca to redistrict the county's electoral boundaries. The law firm had donated nearly $16,000 to the campaign funds of nine board members, and $500 to Cronin's campaign fund, drawing accusations from the Democratic board members of pay to play politics. The DuPage County Republican Party's campaign committee, which he also oversaw, had received $9,500 over the past few years. Cronin, who does not vote unless there is a tie, raised unrelated concerns, criticizing the no-bid contract as "open-ended" and in excess of the original budgeted amount. Nonetheless, he succeeded in removing a confidentiality provision from the contract. In April 2011, Cronin formed a committee to review the county's pension benefits and reduce potential abuse by employees and officials. By August, the board agreed to reduce time-off benefits. Amidst these reforms, over 100 county employees retired in 2011, compared to 25 the previous year.

In July 2011, Cronin stepped down as chairman of the DuPage County Republican Party, citing his heavy workload as county board chairman. He was succeeded by Ramey. For the November 2012 elections, Cronin submitted an advisory referendum question to ask voters whether state law should allow a person to hold more than one elected office at the same time, amidst a controversy over whether two candidates could retain their incumbent positions as mayor and village president if they were also elected to the county board. Cronin was against allowing county officials to hold another office at the same time.

According to an investigation published by the Better Government Association (BGA) in 2013, Cronin's administration signed contracts with four firms connected to state legislative leaders, including House Speaker Michael Madigan, Senate President John Cullerton, Senate President pro tempore Don Harmon, and House Minority Leader Tom Cross. The BGA speculated that these contracts were intended to bolster a potential run for higher office in the future, along with an aggressive legislative agenda that supported Cronin's efforts to consolidate governmental agencies in DuPage.

In April 2014, Cronin claimed that labor and pension costs of the CTA were a "drag" on the entire Regional Transportation Authority. He also lamented that CTA was getting a greater share of discretionary funds compared to the region's other transit agencies, including Metra, echoing concerns that he had previously raised in 2012.

Government consolidation 

In 2011, Cronin launched efforts to consolidate units of government in DuPage. His efforts were labelled the "ACT Initiative", where "ACT" stands for "Accountability, Consolidation, Transparency". Cronin worked with State Senator Tom Cullerton and other legislators to propose bills in the General Assembly that would have granted DuPage more authority over agencies whose officers are appointed by the county board. In 2011, after Cronin faced difficulties inspecting the finances of various agencies under his purview, Cullerton sponsored a bill requiring such agencies to provide documents and certain information to the county board. In 2014, Cronin helped form Transform Illinois, a statewide collaboration of elected officials, private organizations, and civic activists. Transform Illinois advocated for legislation favoring government efficiency, though the organization became inactive in 2020 amid the COVID-19 pandemic.