[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# December 1977

e will be a new translator tomorrow," while a State Department official made an official apology to the Polish government.
Pakistan's President Zia ul-Haq announced the release of 11,109 political prisoners who had been detained by Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, who had been overthrown in July.

 December 30, 1977 (Friday)
The government of Spain, led by Prime Minister Adolfo Suarez, announced that the kingdom's three predominantly Basque provinces— Álava, Biscay, and Gipuzkoa— would be granted self-government. The Basque Autonomous Community (Euskal Autonomia Erkidegoa or Comunidad Autónoma Vasca) would be formally established in 1979.Born: Laila Ali, U.S. professional boxer, daughter of Muhammad Ali and holder of the WBC and WBA women's super middleweight titles; in Miami Beach, Florida
Kenyon Martin, U.S. basketball player

 December 31, 1977 (Saturday)
Prime Minister Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah became the new Emir of Kuwait upon the death of his father, Sabah Al-Salim Al-Sabah, who had ruled the nation since 1965.
Prime Minister Süleyman Demirel of Turkey lost a vote of confidence by 10 votes, when members of his Justice Party joined with the rival Republican People's Party voted no confidence in the Demirel government, 228 to 218. President Fahri Korutürk named Demirel's predecessor, Bülent Ecevit as the new Premier.
Canada's Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau told an interviewer for the CTV Television Network that he would invoke the War Measures Act if the province of Quebec attempted to secede."There cannot be any unilateral declaration of independence," Trudeau (a native of Quebec) told a reporter on December 20, adding "I'm not going to be shy about using the sword if something illegal is attempted in the province of Quebec."
U.S. President Carter and First Lady Rosalynn Carter celebrated New Year's Eve outside of the United States, as guests of the Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Shah of Iran and the Empress Farah Diba, in the last visit by a U.S. president to Iran, and the first time an American president ended the year in another nation. The Carters were treated to a "sumptuous state dinner" in the "splendid Niavaran Palace" in Tehran.Born: '
Psy (stage name for Park Jae-sang), South Korean singer, songwriter and comedian; in Seoul
Donald Trump Jr., American political activist and businessman, son of Ivana Trump and former U.S. president Donald Trump; in New York City

References

1977
1977-12
1977-12