[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS Johnston (DD-821)

rning to the United States 4 October, it steamed on 19 November for patrol duty off the Dominican Republic. During this brief but important duty its presence did much to stabilize a situation "which had threatened to plunge the country into bitter fighting and a return of the Trujillo dictatorship."

Johnston returned to Charleston on 26 November; and following coastal operations, she steamed to Boston, Massachusetts, where she underwent Fleet Rehabilitation and Modernization (FRAM I) overhaul from 4 January to 31 October 1962. During this time she received the latest equipment, including ASROC system and QH-50 DASH facilities, to prepare her for new assignment in the modern Navy. Departing Boston on 2 November, she arrived Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, via Charleston on 10 December for Caribbean operations. While steaming near Mona Island on 1 February 1963, it rescued sinking Honduran freighter Kirco and towed her to Mayaguez, Puerto Rico. Continuing her Atlantic operations, she supported Polaris missile firing tests. As  fired two underwater missiles off the Florida coast on 14 March, Johnston became the first destroyer to serve as "primary support ship for an underwater firing of a Polaris missile."

After more than four months of ASW tactical operations, Johnston departed Charleston on 6 August for her ninth deployment to the Mediterranean. While operating with the 6th Fleet, she steamed the length and breadth of the Mediterranean and entered the Black Sea on 27 September. During the cruise to Turkish Black Sea ports she served as a symbol of America's determination to safeguard peace on land through strength on the sea. Following two months of ASW operations, Johnston departed Cannes, France, for the United States on 7 December and arrived Charleston on 23 December for coastal operations through 1964.

The veteran destroyer departed Charleston on 6 January 1965 for the Mediterranean to resume peace-keeping operations with forces of other NATO countries. She returned to Charleston on 7 June, and devoted the rest of the year to operations with Polaris submarines, amphibious exercises, and overhaul to prepare for future service.

Johnston began New Year 1966 as sonar school training ship at Key West, Florida During this period of training she visited Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for refresher training; and in February while Johnstons crew was spending weekend liberty at Kingston, Jamaica, her sailors swiftly answered a call for help on the 27th. The famous Myrtle Bank Hotel had caught fire and threatened the whole waterfront. Johnston sailors rushed to the fire and averted disaster.

Johnston operated off the East Coast until departing Charleston on 29 September for Mediterranean and Middle East deployment. After operating on the far side of the Suez Canal, she again transited the Suez Canal to rejoin the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean. There her exercises with this powerful deterrent force helped to stabilize the area while bringing her to peak readiness for any emergency which might threaten the peace. She returned to Charleston on 9 February 1967 and operated on the East Coast through mid-year.

5 years later, she finally arrived into Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, after her engine room was dismantled and then being towed from Charleston, SC., for decommissioning. After refurbishing she served for the U.S. Naval Reserve Unit there, before being sold to ROCN (Taiwan).

On 27 February 1981, Johnston was stricken from the Naval Vessel Register and transferred to the Republic of China.

Service in the Republic of China Navy 
She was commissioned with the Republic of China Navy as the ROCS Chen Yang (DD-928).

Chen Yang was subject to a major modification and complete rearmament to a guided missile destroyer with the pennant number DDG-928 under the Wu-Chin III program, with the upgrade completed by 1998. All 5 inch guns were removed, with 10 box launchers for SM-1 Standard surface to air missiles fitted, four ahead of the bridge and six right aft on the ship's fantail. A single Otobreda 76 mm gun was mounted forward, with two Bofors 40 mm/L70 guns amidships and a Phalanx 20 mm Close-in weapon system aft. The ships ASROC launcher was retained, although the reload capability was removed. The ship's sensors were also refurbished, with the radar suite changed to a HSA DA-08 air search radar and an AN/SPS-58 air/sea search radar, with HSA STIR-18 and Westinghouse HW-160 fire control radars. The sonar was upgraded to the Raytheon DE-1191, a digital upgrade of the SQS-23 sonar installed as part of the FRAM upgrade. A quadruple mounting for the Hsiung Feng II anti-ship missile was added amidships by 1995.

Chen Yang served as part of the 146th Frigate squadron. She was decommissioned on 16 December 2003.

On 20 July 2006, she was towed out to sea to be sunk as a target ship off Hualien.

Citations

References

External links