[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Terminator (wrestler)

ounty Hunters won the Florida tag team titles in November, but when one of the Bounty Hunters was injured Marcus stepped in and teamed up with the other Bounty Hunter to defend the tag team titles. The team held the gold until the Nasty Boys beat them on a card in Nassau, Bahamas on January 6, 1990.

The Wrecking Crew
While competing in Florida Marcus ended up teaming with Al Green (who was known as “The Bounty Hunter”), initially as a makeshift team because Green’s other partner got injured but soon the two started teaming regularly first under the name The Terminators then later on as The Wrecking Crew where Laurinaitis became known as "Fury" and Green was renamed “Rage”. The team competed for the International Wrestling Federation based in Florida showing themselves to be a force in the tag team division. On May 28, 1992, the duo beat IWF Tag Team Champions The Long Riders (Brett Colt and Kip Winchester). By late 1992 the Wrecking Crew got signed by World Championship Wrestling, making their debut in January 1993. Shortly after their debut the Wrecking Crew got national exposure by competing at Clash of the Champions XXII on January 13 where they defeated Tom Zenk and Johnny Gunn. After their success at the clash the team rode on a wave of success defeating Gunn and Zenk repeatedly as well as looking impressive against temporary teams such as 2 Cold Scorpio & Johnny B. Badd and Marcus Bagwell & Joey Maggs. By March the team was contesting a series of matches with future WCW World Tag Team Champions 2 Cold Scorpio and Marcus Alexander Bagwell as well as feuding with the identical twin duo known as The Cole Twins (Keith and Kent Cole). The feud with the Cole Twins was soon expanded to also include Bagwell and Scorpio as well as Tex Slazenger and Shanghai Pierce. As the feud wore on the Cole Twins got the upper hand in the feud over the two big men. The Wrecking Crew also faced ”Cactus” Jack and The Barbarian in a series of house show matches. As summer turned to fall, the Wrecking Crew’s time with WCW ended, returning to the independent scene. In 1994 the Wrecking Crew traveled to Europe to work for Otto Wanz’ Catch Wrestling Association. On July 24 they defeated David Finlay and John Hawk in the finals of a tournament to crown new CWA Tag Team Champions after Larry Cameron had died during a match. Rage & Fury held the belts for only 3 weeks before being unseated by CWA regulars August Smisl and Ulf Herman in Vienna, Austria. The Wrecking Crew also worked in South Africa at this time for promoter Paul Lloyd touring through Johannesburg, Durbin and Cape Town. In 1995 the Wrecking Crew toured with All Japan Pro Wrestling over the summer being put over young teams like Kentaro Shiga and Maunakea Mossman. The highlight of their summer tour was a clash with multiple time All Asia Tag Team Champions Doug Furnas and Dan Kroffat which the Wrecking Crew lost.

Championships and accomplishments
 Catch Wrestling Association
 CWA World Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Rage
 International Championship Wrestling Association
 ICWA Tag Team Championship (3 times) - with Al Green
 International Wrestling Association
 IWA Tag Team Championship (2 times) - Sunny Beach and Rage
 International Wrestling Federation
 IWF Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Rage
 Championship Wrestling from Florida
 NWA Florida Tag Team Championship (3 times) - with Johnny Ace (2) and the Bounty Hunter (1)
 NWA Florida Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
 Pro Wrestling Federation
 PWF Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with the Bounty Hunter
 Windy City Pro Wrestling
 WCPW Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Rage

References

External links 
 

1965 births
1987 professional wrestling debuts
20th-century professional wrestlers
Living people
American male professional wrestlers
American people of Lithuanian descent
Entertainers from Philadelphia
Professional wrestlers from Illinois
Professional wrestlers from Pennsylvania
Sportspeople from Philadelphia
NWA Florida Heavyweight Champions
NWA Florida Tag Team Champions
Professional wrestlers who use face paint