[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Professor Ivo

e a toast.

Years later, the time-manipulating Hourman android seeks out Anthony Ivo to discuss the deeper nature of androids. In exchange for this talk, Ivo asks to know whether he will one day actually die. Hourman tells him but the reader is not privy to the answer. Ivo decides to meditate on it.

Anthony Ivo returns in Infinite Crisis as a member of the Secret Society of Super Villains. Later on, in Justice League of America (vol. 2) #4, he attempts to create a new Amazo body that can be inhabited by the mind of the villain Solomon Grundy.

The Secret Society of Super Villains later assigns Ivo to collect soil samples in Auschwitz, Nazi German-occupied Poland which will be used to create the Wonder Woman villain Genocide. He does not care to create the villain, but agrees to do so in hopes that the Society's resources can cure his disfigurement at last. Anthony Ivo brings along his newest android Red Volcano as an aid.

Maxwell Lord later approaches Anthony Ivo with a job to reprogram the Metal Men and to help Lord build OMAC Prime, an android who, like Amazo, can copy super powers.

The New 52
In 2011, The New 52 presents a reboot of the DC Comics universe. During the New 52 origin of the Justice League, in Justice League (vol. 2) #4, S.T.A.R. Labs Employee files revealed Anthony Ivo as a 37-year-old male who serves as Head of the Cellular and Structural Biology department at Ivy University for over a decade before joining and becoming director of the S.T.A.R. Labs project known as the Red Room (tasked with collecting and analyzing foreign, extraterrestrial and sentient technology deemed dangerous). Anthony Ivo pioneers the "organic pattern process", technology that mimics organic life down to a cellular level, which leads to the creation of the A-Maze Operating System. A parallel support program based on Ivo's design, the B-Maze Operating System, is built without Ivo's knowledge. It has showed results comparable to those of A-Maze OS. The same files note that Ivo is unpredictable, disappearing for days at a time and often consumed by personal projects not authorized or approved by S.T.A.R. Labs. Ivo's thanatophobia manifests in panic attacks and drug use, and leads to several confrontations with Ivo's fellow team members.

Year later, Amazo fights and is defeated by the Justice League, apparently the result of further development of the A-Maze OS. Ivo fakes his death, then teams up with a mysterious villain known as the Outsider to establish a new Secret Society of Super Villains. It is also revealed that he created his version of Shaggy Man.

In the pages of Dark Nights: Metal, Anthony Ivo appears as a member of the Science Squad at the time of Barbatos' invasion.

Powers and abilities
Anthony Ivo is a criminal mastermind and a scientific genius, skilled in genetics, biology, programming, robotics, artificial intelligence, and engineering. According to JLA: Year One, he was able to obtain some of his knowledge and expertise by studying the technology and biology of aliens and super-villains. He is responsible for the creation of various artificially intelligent androids including Amazo and, with help from T.O. Morrow, the Tomorrow Woman. Ivo has intense thanatophobia, with the one exception being a short time when he believed suicide was preferable to increasing pain and immobility (though even then, his fear prevented him from attempting the act himself).

As a result of his immortality elixir, Ivo's skin seems to be invulnerable to conventional weapons, fire, and most forms of energy attack. It is not known if his aging has been completely halted, but Ivo himself believed his first elixir would extend his life for five hundred years and that he could consume more elixir when it wore off. The elixir presumably makes him immune to all disease and poison as well. Ivo has never succeeded in making a version that didn't cause disfigurement or mutation, and has never been able to remove the disfigurement without also removing his immortality.

Ivo's androids
The following androids were created by Anthony Ivo:

 Amazo - Android capable of mimicking physical abilities, superpowers, and creating copies of weapons.
 Amazoid - Androids similar to Amazo, but each can only duplicate the abilities of one superhuman.
 Composite Superman - In one version of Anthony Ivo's origin, his android Composite Superman is an early attempt to duplicate the Justice League's powers before later creating Amazo.
 Kid Amazo - The "Son" of Amazo, a techno-organic being created with Amazo technology and manipulation of human biology.
 Red Volcano - An android with great speed and heat-based abilities.
 Tomorrow Woman - An artificial life-form with telekinetic powers, artificial respiration and pulse, and false memories of a human life; co-created by T.O. Morrow and originally designed to infiltrate and eventually destroy the Justice League.

In other media