[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Maria Komnene, Queen of Jerusalem

phrey's mother sent dishes from the wedding banquet to Saladin in return for his promise not to bombard the newlywed's lodgings. King Baldwin had meanwhile fallen out with Guy; he disinherited him and Sibylla, had Sibylla's son, Baldwin V, crowned as co-king, and led his army to the relief of Kerak.

In 1184, Saladin again besieged Kerak and once more fled before Baldwin IV's army. Knowing that all the king's troops were at Kerak, he attacked Nablus between 8 and 10 September. As Balian was at Kerak too, it was presumably Maria who conducted the defence. The city was unwalled and she could do nothing to prevent Saladin from sacking it, but no Franks were killed because she took the entire population inside the citadel.

Succession dispute

Completely disabled due to leprosy, Baldwin IV lay on his deathbed in early 1185. He arranged for Sibylla's son, Baldwin V, to undergo a crown-wearing ceremony after which Maria's husband, Balian, expressed their family's support for the boy by carrying him to banquet on his shoulders. The High Court awarded regency to Raymond of Tripoli. Raymond demanded that, in the case of Baldwin V's death, the decision of whether the crown should pass to "Sibylla, who was the daughter of Countess Agnes" or "Isabella, who was the daughter of Queen Maria", would be made by the pope, the Holy Roman emperor, and the kings of England and France. Baldwin died after the barons promised to uphold this condition.

Baldwin V died in mid-1186. Sibylla hurried to Jerusalem to claim the throne. She and her supporters secured most of the royal domain while Raymond summoned the High Court to Nablus. The meeting was attended by Maria, Isabella, Humphrey, the Ibelins, and likely Raymond's stepsons. When news of Sibylla and Guy's coronation in Jerusalem reached them, Raymond suggested crowning Isabella and Humphrey as rival monarchs. The argument that Isabella had a better claim than Sibylla because she was born in their father's reign while Sibylla had been born earlier probably came from Maria and the Byzantine tradition of porphyrogeniture. Humphrey was unwilling to cause a civil war, however, and foiled the plan by sneaking out of Nablus and submitting to Sibylla. The rest of the nobility convened in Nablus then arrived to submit as well, except Baldwin of Ibelin and Raymond.

Third Crusade
Saladin took advantage of the discord between the nobles. He invaded the kingdom in April 1187 and won the Battle of Hattin on 4 July, which proved to be decisive. King Guy was captured, Lord Raynald executed, and Count Raymond died of an illness soon afterwards. Queen Maria and her children left Nablus and joined her stepdaughter, Queen Sibylla, in Jerusalem. After besieging the capital, Saladin arranged for Maria, her children, household, and possessions to be escorted to Tyre. Jerusalem fell on 2 October. Maria reunited with Sibylla in Tripoli. Guy, who was released in 1188, decided to besiege Acre. The queens, Balian, Isabella, and Humphrey accompanied him, and the Third Crusade ensued.

Unity appeared to have been restored during the crusade until Sibylla and her daughters died of an epidemic in mid-1190. Isabella was Sibylla's heir, but Guy attempted to retain the throne. The unpopularity of her husband, Humphrey, weakened Isabella's chances of supplanting Guy. Humphrey had alienated Guy's opponents by refusing to oppose him in 1186, while Maria had not forgiven him for his role in separating her from Isabella. Maria immediately allied with Conrad of Montferrat, the leader of the defence of Tyre who desired the kingship. With her party, which included Balian, Reynald of Sidon, and Pagan II of Haifa, she abducted her daughter from her tent next to Humphrey's. Isabella was happy with Humphrey, and Maria had to browbeat her into agreeing to have their marriage annulled, arguing that her succession rights could not otherwise be enforced. Maria then stated before the papal legate, Archbishop Ubaldo Lanfranchi of Pisa, and the bishop of Beauvais, Philip of Dreux, that Isabella had been forced by Baldwin IV to marry Humphrey and that she was underage at the time. Isabella was subsequently crowned and married to Conrad.

Last years
The Third Crusade brought the reconquest of a strip of coast from Jaffa to Tyre in 1192, but the kingdom remained without Jerusalem itself. Balian died in 1194 and Maria did not remarry again. She retained an active role in family affairs. Isabella I married twice more and died in 1205. Maria's native Byzantine state, which had ceased to be a great power in the 1180s, was all but destroyed in the Fourth Crusade, while the Kingdom of Jerusalem was reduced to a rump state centred in Acre; yet, Maria's influence only increased.