[Source: PubMed]

33. Eur Psychiatry. 2019 Feb;56:51-59. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2018.11.005. Epub
2018  Nov 28.

A systematic review on the relationship between mental health, radicalization 
and mass violence.

Misiak B(1), Samochowiec J(2), Bhui K(3), Schouler-Ocak M(4), Demunter H(5), 
Kuey L(6), Raballo A(7), Gorwood P(8), Frydecka D(9), Dom G(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Wroclaw Medical University, Wroclaw, Poland; 
Department of Psychiatry, Wroclaw Medical University, Wroclaw, Poland. 
Electronic address: mblazej@interia.eu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Pomeranian Medical University, Szczecin, Poland. 
Electronic address: samoj@pum.edu.pl.
(3)Head, Centre for Psychiatry, Wolfson Institute of Preventive Medicine Barts & 
The London School of Medicine & Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, 
United Kingdom; East London NHS Foundation Trust, United Kingdom. Electronic 
address: k.s.bhui@qmul.ac.uk.
(4)Psychiatric University Clinic of Charité at St. Hedwig Hospital, Berlin, 
Germany. Electronic address: meryam.schouler-ocak@charite.de.
(5)University Psychiatric Center KU Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
hella.demunter@upckuleuven.be.
(6)Istanbul Bilgi University, Istanbul, Turkey. Electronic address: 
levent.kuey@bilgi.edu.tr.
(7)Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway. 
Electronic address: andrea.raballo@ntnu.no.
(8)CMME, Hopital Sainte-Anne, Université Paris Descartes, INSERM U894, Paris, 
France. Electronic address: p.gorwood@ch-sainte-anne.fr.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Wroclaw Medical University, Wroclaw, Poland. 
Electronic address: dfrydecka@gmail.com.
(10)Antwerp University (UA, CAPRI), Antwerp University Hospital (UZA), Antwerp, 
Belgium. Electronic address: geert.dom@uantwerpen.be.

Radicalization is a process, by which individuals adopt extreme political, 
social and religious ideation that leads to mass violence acts. It has been 
hypothesized that mental health characteristics might be associated with a risk 
of radicalization. However, a qualitative synthesis of studies investigating the 
relationship between mental health and radicalization has not been performed so 
far. Therefore, we aimed to perform a systematic review of studies examining the 
association between mental health characteristics and the risk of 
radicalization. Two reviewers performed an independent search of online 
databases from their inception until 8th April 2018 and 12 publications met 
eligibility criteria. There were several methodological limitations across the 
majority of eligible publications, including doubtful sample representativeness, 
use of diagnostic procedures without personal assessment of mental health status 
or lack of standardized tools for assessment of mental health. Representative 
cross-sectional studies revealed that depressive symptoms might be associated 
with radicalization proneness. However, it remains unknown whether depressive 
symptoms are associated with resilience or vulnerability to radicalization. 
Another finding from our systematic review is that several personality traits 
might predispose to develop extreme ideation. Finally, there is some evidence 
that lone-actors might represent a specific subgroup of subjects with extreme 
beliefs which can be characterized by high prevalence of psychotic and/or mood 
disorders. In conclusion, this systematic review indicates that caution should 
be taken on how the association between 'mental health' and 'radicalization' is 
being claimed, because of limited evidence so far, and a number of 
methodological limitations of studies addressing this issue.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2018.11.005
PMID: 30500571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]