[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Missouri Constitutional Convention of 1861–1863

y. However, on 13–14 April, Confederate forces bombarded and captured Fort Sumter in South Carolina. The following day Abraham Lincoln declared a state of rebellion existed and called for the states to provide troops to put down rebellion. This included a request for several regiments from Missouri.

Governor Jackson rejected the request, declaring it to be illegal, arguing that the constitution gave no authority to the federal government to make war on the states. On 20 April secessionist militia companies seized the U.S. Arsenal in Liberty, Missouri. Governor Jackson plotted to seize the St. Louis Arsenal. He called out the state militia, appointed pro-secession officers to command it, and obtained artillery from the Confederacy.

Union forces under U.S. Army Captain Nathaniel Lyon reacted on 10 May surrounding the militia and taking them prisoner in the Camp Jackson Affair.

This drastic action prompted the General Assembly to pass a military bill proposed by Governor Jackson, which reorganized the militia as the Missouri State Guard. Jackson appointed Sterling Price as commander of the Guard.

Price and General William S. Harney, the top Union commander in Missouri, agreed to the Price-Harney Truce, which lasted until Lyon replaced Harney. Lyon met with Governor Jackson and General Price. He gave them one hour to leave the city, telling them he intended to seize control of the state from them.

Lyon then marched his forces on Jefferson City, entering the undefended state capital on 15 June. The executive committee of the convention called a new session to meet on July 22. Twenty of the members were now in retreat with Jackson and Price (the original chairman). Pro-Union vice chairman Robert Wilson became the chairman.

The remaining convention members declared all of the state's elective offices to be vacant and appointed pro-Union provisional officers, some of whom were not even in the state at the time. These included:

Governor - Hamilton Rowan Gamble
Lt. Governor - Willard P. Hall
Secretary of State - Mordecai Oliver
Treasurer - George Caleb Bingham

The convention also declared all offices of the Missouri General Assembly vacant, and ordered an election to be held in November to fill the executive and legislative offices.

The convention adjourned on July 31.

Third session
The constitutional convention met for the third time in St. Louis on 10 October 1861. It abolished many state offices, cut the salaries of state employees by 20 percent, postponed the planned state election to August 1862, created provisions for a new pro-Union state militia, and enacted a loyalty oath requirement for all state officials.

Fourth session
The convention held its fourth session time in Jefferson City in June 1862. In this session, the convention imposed its loyalty oath on teachers, attorneys, bank officers, and preachers, and on voters, thereby ensuring a strong Union vote in future elections. (Lincoln, who had received 10.3% of the Missouri vote in the 1860 election, received 70% in the 1864 election.)

In 1861, General John C. Frémont had issued an emancipation decree for Missouri. Lincoln rescinded it as a dangerous measure that would alienate Unionists in Missouri and Kentucky. In 1862, the convention tried unsuccessfully to abolish slavery in Missouri.

Fifth session
Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation declared free all slaves in Confederate-held territory, but not those in Union-held territory such as states that had not seceded. The final session of the convention met in June 1863 with the aim of eliminating slavery in the state. The major obstacle was a provision in the constitution that required consent of the slave's owner and payment of compensation. The state did not have enough money to do so. Therefore, the convention passed an ordinance for gradual emancipation with compensation, a process to be completed on 4 July 1870.

Constitutional convention of 1865
This plan for gradual emancipation infuriated the Radical Republicans, who wanted slavery abolished immediately. They took their grievances to Lincoln, who refused to take sides in the dispute. Provisional governor Gamble offered to resign, but the convention would not accept it. He died in office on 31 January 1864.

Lincoln's inaction became a grievance for the Radicals, and in the election of 1864, they nominated John C. Frémont for President, hoping to replace Lincoln. (Frémont dropped out of the campaign a few weeks later).

The Radicals also arranged for elections to a new constitutional convention. In November 1864, the Radicals won two-thirds of the seats to the convention, which elected Radical leader Thomas Clement Fletcher as governor of Missouri.