[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Glandular odontogenic cyst

A glandular odontogenic cyst (GOC) is a rare and usually benign odontogenic cyst developed at the odontogenic epithelium of the mandible or maxilla. Originally, the cyst was labeled as "sialo-odontogenic cyst" in 1987. However, the World Health Organization (WHO) decided to adopt the medical expression "glandular odontogenic cyst". Following the initial classification, only 60 medically documented cases were present in the population by 2003. GOC was established as its own biological growth after differentiation from other jaw cysts such as the "central mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC)", a popular type of neoplasm at the salivary glands. GOC is usually misdiagnosed with other lesions developed at the glandular and salivary gland due to the shared clinical signs. The presence of osteodentin supports the concept of an odontogenic pathway. This odontogenic cyst is commonly described to be a slow and aggressive development. The inclination of GOC to be large and multilocular is associated with a greater chance of remission. GOC is an infrequent manifestation with a 0.2% diagnosis in jaw lesion cases. Reported cases show that GOC mainly impacts the mandible and male individuals. The presentation of GOC at the maxilla has a very low rate of incidence. The GOC development is more common in adults in their fifth and sixth decades.

GOC has signs and symptoms of varying sensitivities, and dysfunction. In some cases, the GOC will present no classic abnormalities and remains undiagnosed until secondary complications arise. The proliferation of GOC requires insight into the foundations of its unique histochemistry and biology. The comparable characteristics of GOC with other jaw lesions require the close examination of its histology, morphology, and immunocytochemistry for a differential diagnosis. Treatment modes of the GOC follow a case-by-case approach due to the variable nature of the cyst. The selected treatment must be accompanied with an appropriate pre and post-operative plan.

Signs and Symptoms 
The appearance of a protrusive growth will be present at their mandible or maxilla. The expansive nature of this cyst may destruct the quality of symmetry at the facial region and would be a clear physical sign of abnormality. The area of impact may likely be at the anterior region of mandible as described in a significant number of reported cases. At this region, GOC would eventually mediate expansion at the molars. A painful and swollen sensation at the jaw region caused by GOC may be reported. Detailing of a painless feeling or facial paraesthesia can be experienced. Alongside GOC, "root resorption, cortical bone thinning and perforation, and tooth displacement may occur". Experience of swelling at the buccal and lingual zones can occur. Usually, the smaller sized GOCs present no classical signs or symptoms to the case (i.e. "asymptomatic"). GOC is filled with cystic a fluid that differs in viscosity and may appear as transparent, brownish-red, or creamy in colour.

Causes 

The GOC can arise through a number of causes:

The origin of the GOC can be understood through its biological and histochemistry foundations. It has been suggested that GOC can be a result of a traumatic event. The occurrence of GOC may be from a mutated cell from "the oral mucosa and the dental follicle" origin. Another probable cause is from pre-existing cysts or cancerous constituents. A potential biological origin of GOC is a cyst developed at a salivary gland or simple epithelium, which undergoes maturation at the glandular. Another origin is a primordial cyst that infiltrates the glandular epithelial tissue through a highly organised cellular differentiation. Pathologists discovered a BCL-2 protein, commonly present in neoplasms, to exist in the tissue layers of the GOC. The protein is capable of disrupting normal cell death function at the odontogenic region. The analysis of PTCH, a gene that specialises in neoplasm inhibition, was carried out to determine if any existing mutations played a role in the initiation of the GOC. It is confirmed that the gene had no assistance in triggering cystic advancement.

Diagnosis