[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Peace Mala

ce Mala.

Applicants for accreditation are judged against seven key criteria:

 Community cohesion and global citizenship
 Needs and human rights
 Interdependence
 Active compassion
 Celebrating diversity
 Environmental responsibilities and sustainable change
 Conflict resolution and peace education

Interfaith engagement
Along with education and youth engagement, with the religious nature of its founding, Peace Mala engages regularly with interfaith and diversity engagement and occasions. Awareness events and fundraisers are regular occurrences.

Pilgrimages
Pilgrimages have been used by Peace Mala as a means of promotion, but also as a means to engage communities in interfaith involvement and raise awareness of local areas of interest and community diversity.

Santiago de Compostela

Gower
In May 2011, volunteers discovered a route map which may have been a pilgrimage path linking the Celtic churches of the Gower Peninsula, as well pre-Christian sites such as holy wells and cromlech stones. A pilgrimage was organised, therefore, the next year to celebrate Peace Mala's first decennial year. The pilgrimage included one pilgrim who was joined at different legs of the pilgrimage culminating in a ceremony at St. Rhidian's Church in Llanrhidian. For the pilgrimage, Pam Evans travelled to Kildare to receive the flame of Brigid of the Brigidine Sisters of the Solas Bhríde hermitage; she then received the World Peace Flame at the Dru International Training Centre for Education and Wellbeing in Snowdonia National Park; finally, various faith representatives attended a ceremony where a flame was blessed at the shrine of St David at St David's Cathedral by The Very Revd Jonathan Lean. These three flames were used during the start of the pilgrimage, where the lights were blessed by The Rt Revd John Davies, Bishop of Swansea and Brecon; as well as at the end, where the flames were blessed by numerous faith representatives including Muslim, Druid and Buddhists, as well as ISKCON sannyasa who greeted the pilgrims with kirtan.

At each of the sites visited, the main pilgrim lit votive candles and recited a prayer composed for the pilgrimage. She was joined on various days by school children as well as fellow pilgrims.

Llangyfelach "Forgotten" Monastery
On Thursday 9 May 2013, Ascension Day, Peace Mala led a one-day pilgrimage as means of a revival of a postulated pilgrimage route to a now-defunct early Celtic monastery founded by St David on the site of the current parish Church of St David and St Cyfelach in Llangyfelach.

The participants in the pilgrimage included pupil from St John Lloyd Catholic School in Llanelli, Hafod Primary School in Swansea and Catwg Primary School. Also in procession were dignitaries from numerous faith, including The Rt Rev'd John Davies, Bishop of Swansea and Brecon, as well as representatives from the Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual University, the Catholic Church, Anglican Communion and Kagyu Tibetan Buddhism among many others.

Travelling Doves of Peace
Peace Mala released 14 small symbolic doves made from wood painted in the Peace Mala colours and each carrying a Peace Mala bracelet (along with other items) during a ceremony that took place in the Peace Mala peace garden on 30 April 2015. The Deputy Lord Mayor of the City and County of Swansea, the Mayor and Mayoress of Neath Port Talbot, Regional Chief of Police, Bishop Tom Burns of Menevia, representatives of several faith communities and pupils and teachers from some of Peace Mala Accredited schools were all in attendance.

The founder aims that as the Doves of Peace (also known as 'Peace Doves') travel the UK and across the world, they will raise awareness of the work of Peace Mala with schools, youth groups and community groups. Within the first few months after the launch, three of the doves travelled to the US, Ireland, Holland, Italy, Cyprus, Israel, Africa, Hong Kong and Japan. The journeys of the 14 doves are being tracked to provide a geography project for schools and youth groups. This information is published on social media.

Each dove is being sponsored on its travels, thereby also bringing financial support and security for the future work of the Peace Mala educational charity. One doves in particular, number 13, is known as the Inter-Faith Dove of Peace. Information on how to sponsor the doves is available on the Peace Mala website.

Festival of Interfaith and Culture for Education
The Peace Mala Festival of Inter-Faith and Culture for Education was held at The Monastery Manchester in Gorton on 4 October 2010.  The festival was organised by Laura Daniels, Head Teacher of Woodheys Primary School in Sale Greater Manchester, one of the first accredited schools in the UK.  Daniels came on board as an educational ambassador for Peace Mala in 2008.