[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Haegemonia: Legions of Iron

Haegemonia: Legions of Iron, or Hegemonia: Legions of Iron, is a 3D real-time strategy game developed by Digital Reality for Microsoft Windows, and by Microïds for OS X, iOS, and Android.

Storyline 

Haegemonia takes place in the distant future where humanity has colonized the Solar System and tensions are high between the World Government of Earth and colonial Mars. A summit on Earth's Moon is planned to ease tensions, but the Martian representative's shuttle is destroyed en route by a third, currently unknown, party. The two sides blame each other and this one event sparks off the civil war between the colonists and Earth.

The player can side with Captain Jack Garner of Earth to quell the colonial uprising, or join Captain Nilea Cortilliari and the Martian colonists on their campaign for independence.

Earth campaign 
The Earth Campaign of Haegemonia is treated more like a basic training campaign. It teaches the players the basic interface of gameplay and then thrusts them into battle. The first Act the player has to escort a research vessel to the sun. As the players progress through the missions they learn more about how to play the game, gain new units and the ability to build them. The campaign then enters the "high" point of the Earth-Mars War. During the last part of the act, they have to prepare for the final assault on Mars. On the last mission, the player is thrust into a tough final battle with Mars, regardless of whether the player is ready or not. Winning the battle will always result in the same situation, a unified Solar System and the forming of the Legions of Iron. After this the acts between Earth and Mars are almost exactly the same.

Mars campaign 
The Mars campaign begins with intercepting trade ships which are supplying Earth's installations. Following this mission are some other missions which contain fights on the outer regions of Sol, between colonies of Mars and Earth. At the end of this episode, the players have to attack Earth, by destroying all units around Earth. These consist of some fighter squads and two (indestructible) military bases. First off, the players kill the fighter squads, then HQ comes in play and sends two kamikaze ships at the military bases. These must be protected by putting the forces between the line of fire from the military bases and the kamikaze ships.

Legions of Iron 
Once the outcome of the war is decided, be it Earth or Mars, humanity unites under the new Unified Government and forms the Legions of Iron, its vanguard of expansion into the unknown, commanded by the player.

As the human race expands outward from Sol, mysteries are solved and new ones are created as they encounter new worlds and alien civilizations. The humans encounter a race called the Kariak and become embroiled in a war with them. The player discovers that the Kariak are being manipulated into fighting with humanity by another species named the Darzok. The Kariak then ally with humanity and they jointly defeat the Darzok, foiling their plan to annihilate both races.

Gameplay 
Haegemonia allows the player to create a multi-system empire. At first, only the planets similar to Earth can be colonized. After advanced terraforming and colonization techniques are researched or stolen from enemies, almost any planet can be colonized and, eventually, terraformed into Gaia-class worlds (gas giants are uninhabitable).

There are several ways of getting money to fund planetary projects and space construction: tax colonies, steal money from enemies with spies, mine resource-rich asteroids, receive tribute from other races/factions, and other ways (e.g. aid from Earth).

Research system is based on research points (RPs) which are allocated at the beginning of each mission. Most of the time, that is the maximum for the mission; however, certain random events may also increase that amount. During the campaign, all researched technologies are transferred from mission to mission, and the player can choose a certain number of ships and heroes to bring along to the next mission.