[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yehezkel Kaufmann

eation of the religion of Israel de novo (since this had already existed, and had facilitated their own emergence), but rather the unique focus on the ethical aspect of religion, the shift in primacy from cult to morality and the insistence that the fulfillment of God's will lay in the moral domain.

Biblical authorship
Kaufmann regards the non-prophetic parts of scripture as reflecting an earlier stage of the Israelite religion. While he accepts the existence of the three primary sources JE, P, and D, he claims – in opposition to Wellhausen and others – that the P-source significantly predates the Babylonian exile and Deuteronomy. Supporting this view, according to Kaufmann, is that the P-source does not recognize centralization of the cult, and deals only with issues related to the local sacrificial rituals. He suggests that the historiographical parts of Scripture did not receive the heavy editing that was posited by biblical criticism of the time.

Translations
Kaufmann's Toldot Ha'Emunah Ha'Yisraelit is a massive, 4-volume work, written, of course, in Hebrew. A well-written and highly accessible alternative is the one-volume English language translation and abridgement by Prof. Moshe Greenberg, entitled The Religion of Israel, by Yehezkel Kaufmann, published by the University of Chicago, 1960.

Biblical commentaries
Kaufmann wrote commentaries on the Book of Joshua and the Book of Judges.

Other works
 Jesekiel Kaufmann (German name variant), Eine Abhandlung über den zureichenden Grund: Erster Teil: Der logische Grund (lit. 'A Treatise on the Sufficient Reason: Part One: The Logical Reason'), Berlin: Ebering, 1920, in German (PhD thesis, see Biography section).

Awards and recognition 
In 1933, Kaufmann was awarded the first Bialik Prize for Jewish thought. He was awarded the prize again in 1956.

In 1958, he was awarded the Israel Prize, in Jewish studies.

See also
List of Israel Prize recipients
List of Bialik Prize recipients
Umberto Cassuto scholar of Hebrew bible and Ugaritic literature
Cyrus Gordon scholar of Near Eastern history and ancient languages, Hebrew bible
Abraham Yahuda scholar of Ancient Egyptology and Hebrew bible

References

Further reading 

 

 {de} Kaufmann, Yehezkel (Jecheskel): Die nationale Bewegung in dieser Stunde. Ed. Comité für ein Ungeteiltes Erez Israel, Jerusalem 1938, 28 pp
 Jacques Berlinerblau, Official Religion and Popular Religion in Pre-Exilic Ancient Israel, an academic paper discussing Kaufmann's hypothesis.

Jewish historians
Jewish biblical scholars
Philosophers of Judaism
Historians of Jews and Judaism
Historians of Israel
Academic staff of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
Israel Prize in Jewish studies recipients
Israel Prize in Jewish studies recipients who were historians
Israel Prize in Jewish studies recipients who were philosophers
Members of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities
Ukrainian Jews
Ukrainian emigrants to Mandatory Palestine
University of Bern alumni
1889 births
1963 deaths
20th-century Israeli historians
20th-century Jewish biblical scholars
20th-century Israeli philosophers