[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eastern Anatolia Region

The Eastern Anatolia Region () is a geographical region of Turkey. The most populous province in the region is Van Province. Other populous provinces are Malatya, Erzurum and Elazığ.

It is bordered by the Black Sea Region and Georgia in the north, the Central Anatolia Region in the west, the Mediterranean Region in the southwest, the Southeastern Anatolia Region and Iraq in the south, and Iran, Azerbaijan and Armenia in the east.

The region encompasses most of Western Armenia () and had a large population of indigenous Armenians until the Armenian genocide. The Anatolia peninsula historically never encompassed what is now called "Eastern Anatolia" which was, instead, referred to as the Armenian highlands. It was renamed by the newly founded Turkish Republic in the 1920s. This has been seen as an attempt by Turkey to erase the Armenian history of the region.

It has the highest average altitude, largest geographical area, and lowest population density of the seven Turkish regions.

Etymology 

The English-language name Anatolia () derives from the Greek  () meaning "the East" and designating (from a Greek point of view) eastern regions in general. Traditionally, Anatolia was considered to be a peninsula the eastern boundary of which was a line from the Black Sea to the Gulf of Alexandretta, which is to the west of what is now the Eastern Anatolia Region. As a geographical term, this definition continues to be used.

Historically, the region was referred to as the Armenian highlands or Western Armenia. In 1923, the newly founded Republic of Turkey renamed the territory  "Eastern Anatolia" as part of a wider policy of removing all non-Turkish names of places following the Armenian genocide. Beginning in 1880, the name Armenia was forbidden to be used in official documents of the Ottoman Empire, in an attempt to play down the role of Armenians in the region. The government of Sultan Abdul Hamid II replaced the name Armenia with such terms as "Kurdistan" or "Anatolia". The Sublime Porte believed there would be no Armenian question if there was no Armenia. The process of "nationalization" of toponyms was continued and gained momentum under the Kemalists after the foundation of the Republic of Turkey.

The region encompasses most of Western Armenia () and had a large population of indigenous Armenians until the Armenian genocide. The Anatolia peninsula never encompassed what is now called "Eastern Anatolia", which has been seen as an attempt by Turkey to erase the Armenian history of the region.

Subdivision 
Eastern Anatolia Region has four subdivisions:
 Upper Euphrates division ()
 Erzurum-Kars division ()
 Upper Murat-Van division ()
 Hakkari division ()

Provinces 
Provinces that are entirely in the Eastern Anatolia Region:

 Ağrı
 Bingöl
 Elazığ
 Malatya
 Hakkari
 Iğdır
 Kars
 Tunceli
 Van

Provinces that are mostly in the Eastern Anatolia Region:
 Ardahan
 Erzurum
 Şırnak

Location and borders
The Eastern Anatolia Region is located in the easternmost part of Turkey. It is bounded by Turkey's Central Anatolia Region to the west; Turkey's Black Sea Region to the north; Turkey's Southeast Anatolia Region and Iraq to the south; and Iran, Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia to the east, where Eastern Anatolia overlaps and converges with the South Caucasus region and Lesser Caucasus mountain plateau.

The area of the region is , which comprises 20.9% of the total area of Turkey.

Population
The total population of the region is 5,966,101 (2019 estimate), down from 6,100,000 at the 2000 census. The population density () is lower than the average for Turkey (). The region has the second most rural population in Turkey after the Black Sea region. Migration, especially to Marmara Region, is high. Migration to other regions and abroad is higher than the natural population increase. Until the Armenian genocide, the region also had a large population of indigenous Armenians, when it was also known as Western Armenia, and in addition had significant minorities of Georgians, Pontic Greeks and Caucasus Greeks.

Geography
The average altitude is . Major geographic features include plains, plateaus and massifs. There is some volcanic activity today.