[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mark Landers

up.

Landers made four appearances for Cork during the 2000 National League, however, he failed to secure a place on the starting fifteen. On 3 July, he won a second successive Munster Championship medal, albeit as a non-playing substitute, when Cork defeated Tipperary by 0-23 to 3-12 in the final. 

Cork qualified for the 2002 National League final on 5 May, with Landers starting on the bench after making only a handful of cameo appearances throughout the campaign. In the week leading up to the game there had been speculation that Gaelic Players Association members from both teams would stage a protest during the parade before the match with their socks down and jerseys out - offences punishable by fine under the GAA's match regulations. At the last training session before the final, Cork selector John Meyler is alleged to have told Landers, a prominent GPA member and one of the Cork players in favour of the protest, to " take a good look around Páirc Uí Chaoimh because he'd never see it again." Meyler dismissed this comment as "banter." The Cork players went ahead with their pre-match protest before losing the final by 2-15 to 2-14. On 29 November, Landers and six of his teammates from the Cork hurling panel held a press conference at the Imperial Hotel to announce that all 30 members of the panel were withdrawing their services from the county in the hope of better treatment from the county board. He remained a high-profile representative at the negotiations over the following two weeks and was one of five Cork hurling representatives who agreed to a settlement with the county board on 13 December.

Landers played his last game for Cork on 7 January 2003 in a 4-12 to 1-07 defeat of Blackrock in a challenge match at Páirc Uí Rinn. He was subsequently dropped from the panel by new manager Donal O'Grady, a move which effectively ending his inter-county career.

Coaching career

University College Cork

Landers was appointed coach of the University College Cork senior hurling team for the 2007 season. His sole season in charge saw the team enjoy some early victories before making their exit from the Fitzgibbon Cup.

Cork

Minor

On 22 October 2013, Landers was confirmed as coach of the Cork minor hurling team. During his sole season as coach, Cork enjoyed a 5-26 to 0-09 opening round defeat of Kerry in the Munster Championship before exiting at the semi-final stage following a 0-23 to 2-15 defeat by Limerick.

Senior

On 19 November 2014, Landers joined Jimmy Barry-Murphy's Cork senior management team as coach following the departure of Kieran Kingston. On 3 May 2015, he guided Cork to the National League final where the team suffered a 1-24 to 0-17 defeat by Waterford. Cork later exited the Munster Championship following a five-point defeat by Waterford before being beaten by Galway in the All-Ireland quarter-final. The management team subsequently stepped down following this defeat, with Landers touted as a possible successor to Jimmy Barry-Murphy as manager.

Killeagh

Landers had been involved as a coach and selector at all different levels with Killeagh before being appointed manager of the club's senior team prior to the start of the 2016 Cork Senior Championship. His first championship season as manager saw Killeagh record victories over Muskerry and University College Cork, before exiting following a Round 3 defeat by Imokilly.

Landers and his management team returned for a second championship season in 2017. After an opening round defeat by Erin's Own, Killeagh later recorded wins over Douglas and Carbery before a Round 4 defeat by Sarsfields.

For the third year in succession, Landers took charge of the Killeagh senior hurling team. Opening round defeats by Douglas and St. Finbarr's sent Killeagh into the relegation play-offs where the club suffered defeats by Ballyhea and Kanturk. In spite of these defeats Killeagh were not relegated and retained their senior status for 2019. Landers subsequently stepped down as manager.

Bride Rovers

Landers was confirmed as the new coach of the Bride Rovers senior hurling team in December 2018.

Career statistics

Club

Division

Inter-county

Honours

Killeagh
Cork Intermediate Hurling Championship (1): 2001
Cork Junior Hurling Championship (1): 1995
East Cork Junior A Hurling Championship (2): 1988, 1995

Imokilly
Cork Senior Hurling Championship (2): 1997, 1998

Cork
All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship (1): 1999 (c)
Munster Senior Hurling Championship (1): 1999 (c)
National Hurling League (1): 1998
All-Ireland Intermediate Hurling Championship (1): 1998
Munster Intermediate Hurling Championship (1): 1998
Munster Minor Hurling Championship (1): 1990

References

1972 births
Living people
Killeagh hurlers
Imokilly hurlers
Cork inter-county hurlers
All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship winners
Hurling managers
People educated at St Colman's College, Fermoy