[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Movses Silikyan

preventing the total destruction of the Armenian nation at the hands of the Ottoman army. On 28 May 1918, the First Republic of Armenia was declared, which soon after signed the Treaty of Batum with the Ottoman Empire, putting an end to the hostilities at the cost of severe territorial concessions.

On 26 June 1918, Silikyan was appointed commander of the sole Armenian division allowed to be maintained according to the conditions of the Treaty of Batum. He participated in the Armeno-Georgian War of December 1918. On 25 March 1919, the Military Council of the Armenian Army was created with General Nazarbekyan as its chairman; Silikyan was appointed a member of the council on April 24. On June 1 he received the rank of lieutenant general of the Armenian Army. In April 1920 Silikyan was appointed Governor-General of the provinces of Nor Bayazet and Daralagyaz. The main purpose of his appointment was to provide support to Drastamat Kanayan's expedition to Mountainous Karabagh. During the Bolshevik-led May Uprising in 1920, Silikyan was taken prisoner by the Bolshevik rebels, but was freed after the suppression of the uprising.

In September 1920, Turkish nationalist forces loyal to the Government of the Grand National Assembly started the Turkish–Armenian War in order to capture territory from Armenia and prevent the cession of four Ottoman provinces to Armenia according to the Treaty of Sèvres. During the war, Silikyan commanded the Kars-Alexandropol front from his headquarters in Alexandropol. On 4 November 1920, Silikyan was ordered by General Nazarbekyan to request a ceasefire from the Turkish forces.

Later life and death
Following the Armenian defeat in the Turkish–Armenian War and the Sovietization of Armenia, Silikyan was arrested along with other high-ranking Armenian military officers and forced to walk from Yerevan to Aghstafa, whence they were taken by train to Ryazan. He was allowed to return to Armenia in September 1921. Silikyan first found work as an accountant at a Swedish company's branch in Alexandropol, then began working for the American Committee for Relief in the Near East, which provided humanitarian relief for survivors of the Armenian genocide. Silikyan also maintained correspondence with his old commander Tovmas Nazarbekyan in Tiflis and helped the latter compile his memoirs.

Silikyan was arrested by the Soviet authorities in 1927 and sent into internal exile in Rostov-on-Don by administrative decision, but was allowed to return to Armenia the same year. He was arrested again in November 1935 and accused of holding monarchist views, persecuting communists during his time as Governor-General of Nor Bayazet, and maintaining contacts with members of the outlawed Armenian Revolutionary Federation. Silikyan was released in February 1936 after signing an affidavit not to leave Yerevan.

The criminal case against Silikyan was dropped in April 1936. However, in 1937, during Joseph Stalin's Great Purge, Silikyan was arrested once again and sentenced to death by decision of an NKVD troika on 16 November 1937. Silikyan and another former Armenian general, Christophor Araratov, were accused of being members of a "counterrevolutionary officers' organization" involving multiple high-ranking officers of the Red Army (these accusations also formed the basis of the Tukhachevsky case). Silikyan was executed on 22 November 1937. He was rehabilitated on 10 November 1987 by decision of the Supreme Court of the Armenian SSR.

Ivan Bagramyan, who served under Silikyan and later became Marshal of the Soviet Union, described him as "the most talented out of all the Armenian commanders" of the period of World War I and the First Republic of Armenia. Silikyan's contemporary, the historian Hovhannes Ter-Martirosyan (A-Do), described him as "a short, humble man with a kind face who did not know Armenian, but was an exemplary Armenian person."

Legacy and honors
 Order of Saint Stanislaus, 2nd class (1910)
 Order of St. George (1916)

These were restored to him (his descendants) after rehabilitation.

See also
First Republic of Armenia

Bibliography

Notes

External links
Hayazg.info 

1862 births
1937 deaths
Armenian generals
Silikov, Movses
Armenian people of World War I
Russian military personnel of World War I
Recipients of the Order of Saint Stanislaus (Russian), 2nd class
Recipients of the Order of St. George
Great Purge victims from Armenia
Soviet rehabilitations
Udi people