[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Vampire Earth

doing so begins a rebellion that soon envelopes all of Haiti.He finds out when he leaves that Carrasca is pregnant with his child but she thinks that the rebels need him more than she does.

The book concludes with an ambush in Texas that destroys much of the stock of Quickwood.

Valentine's Rising 

The book begins with Valentine and his men learning of an invasion. Southern Command, once a bastion of freedom, has had its military strength broken and much of its territory overrun by a formidable army of soldiers borrowed from various Kurian Lords, all led by Consular Solon. Valentine encounters General Martinez, a Southern Command leader that hides away from fights, and acts like a mob warlord, and likely collaborates with the Kurians. Martinez orders Ahn-Kha's remaining two Grogs killed, which precipitates Valentine to draw his own firearm on Martinez. A Mexican standoff occurs, which ends with Martinez being tried for a court martial by Styachowski, an officer. In the end, the court martial falls apart as the armed men outside begin to mob the court. Valentine reaches an agreement with Martinez to allow himself, Styachowski, a team of Bears and roughly half of Martinez's regular forces to leave the camp.

Valentine and his men are unable to escape Solon's long-reaching grasp and choose instead to undertake a massive intelligence operation. They pose as a Quisling group sent to reinforce Solon's already impressive army. This leads to many tests of Valentine's faith as he is forced to make horrific decisions. He and his men are forced to work under Brigadier General Xray Tango and work for the betterment of the Kurian Order. Soon, Valentine and his men prove themselves to Solon and are granted access to arms and munitions.

The finale of the book comes as Valentine launches a crippling attack from within Fort Scott, taking and holding the area around it and completely halting Solon's forces and their ability to move while broadcasting a message to the scattered remnants of Southern Command, informing them that the mobility of Solon's forces was crippled and urging them to rise up and fight, which they do. Thus begins a long last stand effort as Valentine and his forces (now dubbed the "Razorbacks") hold the area and prevent Solon's forces from effectively countering the actions of Southern Command's forces elsewhere.

Valentine leads a team of Bears (including Styachowski, now dubbed "Wildcard") into the Kurian fortress to kill the Kurian Lords within, which they are mostly successful at doing. The book ends as forces from Texas come to reinforce Valentine and break him and his men free of the trap they'd willingly allowed to set around them. When a bewildered Valentine asks why the Texans would journey from another fort they were trapped in a siege to rescue him and his men, he is told: "That could wait. You couldn't. We remember the Alamo".

Valentine's Exile 

Valentine's Exile begins with the Razorbacks as they continue to lay siege to the desperate remnants of Solon's forces. The Kurians attempt a breakout, which is stopped at great cost by the Razorbacks leaving William Post injured, but winning the day for the free territories.

Valentine is informed he has some time off and agrees to track down Post's wife. He learns that some women were given tests while Solon's forces occupied the Ozarks, and that Post's wife Gail was one of those who tested positive and was taken. While visiting Molly Carlson in an attempt to learn more about the tests, he is detained by Southern Command and informed that he is facing a court martial for the murder of Quisling prisoners.

While in detainment, Valentine learns that some Quislings are in the process of negotiating a truce, and that many of the more recent courts martial have been a way of showing the Quislings that Southern Command doesn't encourage murder and looting. Valentine is also offered a deal that will see him in prison for several years in exchange for a confession of guilt. He learns that the deal is false and instead escapes with the help of some sympathetic guards.

Valentine, free of the prison (though knowing he will be judged guilty in absentia), decides to continue his search for Gail Post. This takes him to meet Eveready, who helps him with supplies, and allows Valentine to infiltrate the Kurian facility where Gail Post is being held. After spending weeks in the facility, Valentine is able to escape with a pregnant Gail, though it requires Ahn-Kha to draw off their pursuit.

The child is delivered, and everyone is horrified to discover that Gail has given birth to a Reaper. The book ends as Valentine wonders whether the newborn creature has a soul, or if it's already a mindless killing machine.

Valentine's Resolve