[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joint Expedition Against Franklin

lry and dismounted and positioned them behind the trees and bushes along the banks of the Blackwater, under the command of a Lieutenant Ruffin.  According to a Union naval officer later, the Confederate's forces along the Blackwater also included "some nonuniformed irregulars and even 'some negroes.

At 7:00 a.m., approximately  from Franklin, Commodore Perry came under fire from the Confederate forces along the river and atop the bluffs. As Perry was too close to bring its large-bore guns to bear, Commander Flusser ordered his sailors to shelter themselves as best they could while the ship tried to steam past the enemy.  Due to the narrowness of the bend, Commodore Perry ran aground; Lt. Ruffin and his men were so close to the grounded riverboat, they later claimed to have heard Perry officers cursing the enlisted sailors.  Freed, Perry rounded the bend and maneuvered to provide suppressive fire to allow Hunchback and Whitehead to follow; the combined shelling of all three ships forced Lt. Ruffin and his detachment to withdraw from the banks of the river.  However, all three ships' progress was soon halted by a barricade in the river.  While the barricade was removable with Commander Flusser's available manpower, he could not attempt to do so due to the "terrible fire to which [they] were exposed."  While continuing to assault the Confederacy with their "IX-inch grape and shell" guns, "32-pounder" guns, field gun, and muskets, the three ships waited at the barricade hoping to hear the gunfire of General Dix's infantry forces.

At 10:15 a.m., Commander Flusser ordered retreat from the river barrier.  All three ships remained under heavy fire by enemy forces from multiple angles until between 2:30 and 3:30 p.m.  An incomplete rear barricade of felled trees failed to stop the ships which "[pushed through] with a heavy head of steam."  Flusser later opined that this new barricade would have been impassable had the ships remained north of it for several more hours, waiting for General Dix's quiescent forces.

Meanwhile, Colonel Spear arrived around 1:00 p.m. and anticipating support from the now-retreating naval gunships, his Union infantrymen conflicted with the Confederates in Franklin.  After six hours of combat, running low on ammunition, realizing that he only had 1,300 men (not the 1,700–2,000 he'd thought), and losing two riflemen to Confederate defection, Spear withdrew the Union forces around Franklin, and returned to Suffolk abandoning one brass field piece, a few overcoats, and a horse.

Aftermath
Upon return to Ablemarle Sound, Commander Flusser sent Hunchback on to Plymouth to bury their dead sailors; at Roanoke Island, Flusser was lent  to carry the wounded to Norfolk Hospital.

Outcome
The Confederate forces around Franklin held back the Navy and ultimately forced them, and the Army reconnaissance team, to retreat.  While the Union Navy lost no ships, they suffered four casualties and 15 wounded; the Army suffered one fatality and six wounded, although General Dix believed the infantry to have robbed the enemy of 70–100 in return.  For the Confederates, this was the 4th NC Cavalry's first combat action of the war, and gave Colonel Ferebee and his men confidence in their abilities; they and the other Confederate forces in Franklin spent the rest of October 1862 surveilling the Union forces across the river.  After the Union shelling, most of Franklin's civilians left the town, leaving it in the hands of the Confederate soldiers there; they did not return until after the April 1865 surrender of General Lee.  The Joint Expedition has been described as the only fighting of significance to occur in Southampton County, Virginia during the war.

For their distinguished services in the battle, Union servicemen Thomas Barton, John Breen, James H. Burbank, Daniel Lakin, Alfred Peterson, Edwin Smith, and John Williams were all awarded the Medal of Honor.  In his summation of the Joint Expedition Against Franklin, Acting Rear-Admiral Lee said, "The Department will perceive that Lieutenant-Commander Flusser (senior officer present) displayed his usual gallantry, and that the officers and crews of the three gunboats did their parts well, under very trying and difficult circumstances."

In his After Action Report to Admiral Lee of , Lieutenant Commander Flusser described his losses as heavy and opined that it was "folly to fight these people on the banks, where they have every advantage", and that he could not be of any further service to the Army forces.  In the aftermath of the failed mission, both Navy and Army flag officers implied that the cause was attempting to cooperate with the respective sister service.  Admiral Lee wrote to Naval Secretary Gideon Welles that "where the situation does not allow [...] gunboats to take care of themselves, they can not assist the army."  Further, General Peck wrote to General Dix saying, "there is great uncertainty in operations with gunboats."

References