[Source: PubMed]

53. Front Public Health. 2021 Apr 20;9:612541. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.612541. 
eCollection 2021.

Barriers Influencing Vaccine Development Timelines, Identification, Causal 
Analysis, and Prioritization of Key Barriers by KOLs in General and Covid-19 
Vaccine R&D.

Janse M(1), Brouwers T(1), Claassen E(1), Hermans P(2), van de Burgwal L(1).

Author information:
(1)Athena Institute, Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, Vrije Universiteit, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(2)Julius Centre for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Centre 
Utrecht (UMCU), Utrecht, Netherlands.

A frequently mentioned factor holding back the introduction of new vaccines on 
the market are their prohibitively long development timelines. These hamper 
their potential societal benefit and impairs the ability to quickly respond to 
emerging new pathogens. This is especially worrisome since new pathogens are 
emerging at all-time high rates of over one per year, and many age-old pathogens 
are still not vaccine preventable.Through interviews with 20 key-opinion-leaders 
(KOLs), this study identified innovation barriers that increase vaccine 
development timelines. These innovation barriers were visualized, and their 
underlying causes revealed by means of qualitative root cause analysis. Based on 
a survey the innovation barriers were quantitatively ranked based on their 
relative impact on both regular, and Covid-19 vaccine development timelines. 
KOLs identified 20 key innovation barriers, and mapping these barriers onto the 
Vaccine Innovation Cycle model revealed that all phases of vaccine development 
were affected. Affected by most barriers is the area between the preclinical 
studies and the market entry. Difficult hand-off between academia and industry, 
lack of funding, and lack of knowledge of pathogen targets were often mentioned 
as causes. Quantitative survey responses from 93 KOLs showed that general 
vaccine development and Covid-19 vaccine development are impacted by distinct 
sets of innovation barriers. For the general vaccine development three barriers 
were perceived of the highest impact; limited ROI for vaccines addressing 
disease with limited market size, limited ROI for vaccines compared to 
non-vaccine projects, and academia not being able to progress beyond proof of 
principle. Of highest impact on Covid-19 vaccine development, are lack of 
knowledge concerning pathogen target, high risk of upscaling unlicensed 
vaccines, and proof of principle not meeting late-stage requirements. In 
conclusion, the current study demonstrates that barriers hampering timelines in 
vaccine development are present across the Vaccine Innovation Cycle. 
Prioritizing the impact of barriers in general, and in Covid-19 vaccine 
development, shows clear differences that can be used to inform policies to 
speed up development in both war and peace time.

Copyright © 2021 Janse, Brouwers, Claassen, Hermans and van de Burgwal.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.612541
PMCID: PMC8096063
PMID: 33959579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.