[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Al Maliki I Government

ncy Council at first, on the grounds that giving the Prime Minister the power to dismiss Governors would contravene the constitution. However, the Council reversed its position following protests from the Sadrist Movement, saying they would seek changes to the law before it came into force.

Kirkuk 

Meanwhile, the Kurdistan Alliance wants Kurds who were expelled from Kirkuk to be allowed to return to the city and for the Kurdistan Region to be expanded. This currently includes the governorates of As-Sulaymāniyyah, Arbīl and Dahūk, and the Kurds would like this expanded to include Kirkuk and parts or all of Diyala and Ninawa. However, this move is opposed by Turkmen and Arabs in Kirkuk and by neighbouring Turkey. The Iraqi newspaper, 'Al-Furat, reported 2006-03-05 that this is also opposed by Jaafari, and one of the reasons why the Kurds opposed his nomination. The al-Maliki government announced in its programme that the referendum to determine Kirkuk's status would be held on 15 November 2007.

The Kurds would also like to increase the proportion of oil revenues retained by the regions from 17% to 24%.

In August 2006 Maliki appointed a committee to "examine the status" of Kirkuk "in light of Iraq's federalist system", headed by the Sunni Arab Justice Minister Hashim al-Shibli. The committee also including the Shi'ite Independent Interior Minister Jawad Bulani, the Turkoman Youth Minister Jasim Mohammed Jaafar and four representatives from Kirkuk.

Issues faced by the government

Basra violence 
As soon as the government was formed members of the Basrah-based Islamic Virtue Party started a "go-slow", annoyed that they had lost their control over the oil ministry. A state of emergency was imposed on June 2 and the Iraqi Army stationed at key positions. A provincial security council was appointed by Prime Minister Maliki, consisting of:
 Safa al-Safi, Ministry of State for Parliamentary Affairs
 Salam al-Maliki, Sadr Movement
 Hadi Al-Amiri, Badr Organization
 Islamic Virtue Party representative
 Iraqi Accord Front representative
 three other United Iraqi Alliance members

Prison Abuse
D+Z, a development magazine based in Germany, reports the current administration reverting to Saddam-era police tactics, including torture and extrajudicial executions. It is reported that Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki knew of these acts, but he claims "the stories are 'lies.'" Reports of secret prisons exist as well.

Key legislation passed 
The government passed the following key items of legislation:

 The Federalism Law (October 2006), which provided for the formation of new regions of Iraq
 The Unified Retirement Law (October 2007), restored pensions to former Baathists
 The Accountability and Justice Law (January 2008), also known as the de-Baathification reforms, reinstated jobs and pensions to low-ranking Baath Party members, made the De-Baathification Commission permanent and extended de-Baathification to the judiciary.  The law was passed by a majority vote by the Presidency Council after Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi refused to sign.
 The General Amnesty Law (February 2008) allowed for the pardoning and release of all prisoners detained for more than 6 months without charge or 12 months without trial, unless suspected of the most serious crimes.
 The Provincial Powers Act (February 2008) was passed by a majority of only 1 and detailed the division of powers between Governorates of Iraq and the federal government. The law gave the Prime Minister the power to dismiss governors. However, the Presidency Council vetoed this law, saying it violated the constitutions provisions on the powers of the governorates. It also provided for a Provincial Elections Law, to be passed within 90 days and new elections to be held by October 2008.

References

External links
 Official site (Arabic)
 Republic of Iraq Ministry of Foreign Affairs
 Kurdistan Regional Government 
 Biographies of members of Iraq's government (20 July 2006)

Cabinets of Iraq
2006 establishments in Iraq
2010 disestablishments in Iraq