[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mühleberg Nuclear Power Plant

ocated the 1.7–1.8 m thick steel and concrete pressure suppression drywell. The structure is able to withstand an earthquake. In case of a plane crash, however, the building could be damaged. The reactor would nevertheless remain intact due to the five 30–50 cm thick insoles and the massive drywell.

The reactor was fed with water through two loops, each provided with its own pump. A third pump served as reserve.

The emergency cooling of the core is entrusted to three independent systems. A doubly redundant low pressure core spray with a 2·100% heat removal capacity is activated in case of leaks any size in the coolant system. Small leaks may be compensated by the redundant alternate low pressure system (ALPS).

By loss of cooling agent in the drywell, the excessive water will spread into a torus-shaped pressure-suppression pool. The 4000 m3 big torus is filled with 2000 m3 water and is in turn cooled by a redundant torus cooling system and a redundant shutdown and torus cooling system with a total of 4·100% residual heat removal capacity.

Emergency power is provided through two connections with the nearby Mühleberg Hydroelectric Power Plant and three diesel generators.

In 1989, the SUSAN (Selbstständiges, unabhängiges System zur Abfuhr der Nachzerfallswärme) emergency building started operation.
Bunkerized and partially underground, its function is to ensure an emergency shutdown of the reactor even in case of extreme external agents like plane crashes or simultaneous downfall of the dams upstream the plant with resulting submergence of the structures. Amongst others it contains the RCIC, the ALPS, the TCS and two of the three emergency diesel generators.

Waste management
The KKM yearly produces around 35–38 m3 of low and medium level radioactive waste. The waste is compressed in situ and transferred to the Central Interim Storage Facility (ZZL) in Würenlingen for conditioning. BKW-staff  estimated the storage capabilities on the KKM-site to last at least until 2022. Due to the 2006 moratorium on the recycling of spent fuel, the entire stock of exhausted rods is now transferred to the ZZL for storage.

Cracks in some parts
Major concerns about the safety of the reactor arose from the formation of cracks in the so-called core shroud inside the reactor vessel since the 1990s. This is due to steel corrosion by the coolant. Notwithstanding the countermeasures (reinforcements of the shell, chemical additives in the coolant), the cracks were increasing in length year after year. The longest crack is one third of the limit allowed by the safety specifications and it was expected that by 2012 it woulde be  still less than half this value. The situation is continuously monitored and other chemical measures for its stabilization are being tested.

In 1986, due to the presence of similar cracks, some components of the cooling water circulation loop had to be exchanged. A substitution of the core shroud or the pressure vessel was however not considered necessary by the Swiss Federal Nuclear Safety Inspectorate (ENSI) that confirmed that the power plant was able to operate safely at least until 2012, when the license expired provisionally.

Nuclear events

Until the definitive shutdown in 2019, no operative nuclear event (INES level 1 or above) had occurred. Since 1995 one anomaly of INES 1 took place.

Level 1 events

1998
 During a routine check of the reactor protection system in June 1998, a technician opened a steam relief valve in error. The steam that escaped condensed within the torus and heated the water it contained. After 14 minutes the raised temperature within the torus triggered an emergency shutdown of the reactor. The opening of the incorrect valve and the delay before the control room staff reacted appropriately led the event to be classified as INES level 1 (Swiss scale level B).

Significant events before 1995
 In September 1986 a faulty filter in the reconditioning unit for low and middle-active waste leaked a small quantity of radioactive aerosol. As result the surrounding area now shows an anthropogenic average dose rate of 0.0051 mSv/y (status 2007). For comparison the corresponding Swiss legal limit for population exposure is 0.3 mSv/y and the natural dose in the Mühleberg region achieves 1 mSv/y.
 In July 1971, during systems tests prior to full commercial operation, some turbine oil ignited. The fire caused heavy damage to the turbine's housing, including cables connected to safety systems. Sufficient safety system connections remained to allow the reactor to be shut down. The nuclear part of the plant was not affected, but the power generation systems needed extensive repairs. The incident caused the start of  commercial operation to be significantly delayed.