[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carnival in Flanders (film)

ovided by Georges K. Benda. The strong cast included Feyder's wife Françoise Rosay and Louis Jouvet.

The film was produced by the French subsidiary of the German firm Tobis, and it was made in two versions, French and German, with alternative casts (apart from Françoise Rosay who appeared in both).

Costume design and designer 
Georges K. Benda was the main designer for this film, and he went on to work on many French films from the 1930s to the 1950s. Benda was renowned for his attention to historical accuracy and capacity to design visually arresting costumes. However, he had a difficult time designing costumes for "La Kermesse héroque", as it was difficult to accurately represent both the Spanish and Flemish cultures in the film. For the costumes, Benda would have to incorporate historical accuracy as well as including comedic feelings as well. While the uniforms of soldiers are dreary and serious, the uniforms of civilians are brighter and more extravagant. However, the women's costumes are even more elaborate with pronounced features such as voluminous skirts and tight bodices; and many of the costumes feature luxurious trimmings such as ruffles and lace. The Burgomaster's wife wears one of the movie's most memorable outfits. Her outfit is oversized, eye-catching, and perfectly captures the character's personality. The large headdress, which is embellished with ribbons and feathers, would be most recognizable aspect of the outfit. With this headdress, the Burgomaster's wife's already impressive height would be emphasized which made her stand out in a crowd even more. Benda went on to design costumes for other French films, including "Le Million", "Knight Without Armor", and "Koenigsmark".

In "Pour Vous" magazine issue N. 361, published in 1935, Benda was interviewed and provided insight into his work on the film. The magazine also showed what are believed to be sketches of the design for the costumes that were created by Benda himself. In the article, according to Benda, he states that “fortunately, Feyder had told me about the Kermesse, long before starting his film. That allowed me to gather a number of documents in advance, and so I was able, in six weeks, not only make my four hundred models, but choose the fabrics to perform them.”

Production design 

Production designer Lazare Meerson was put in charge of creating the setting for the film. His job included bringing Feyder's vision to life, which was especially challenging for this story, being set several hundred years prior to the film's creation. Meerson took care in building the set from scratch, and, as The National Board of Review Magazine notes, he was able to elegantly contrive an atmosphere true to a 17th century Flanders. Meerson's set construction and arrangement of set decoration has been widely known for its nods to early Flemish paintings, which is reflected by Siska's love interest, Julien's remarkable artistic talents, as well as the blocking, which carefully mimicked the positioning of these classical works of art. Cornelia is shown at the center of a table heavily reflecting Leonardo da Vinci's The Last Supper, supporting the idea that she is the real 'savior' of the town. Furthermore, as noted by Dudley Andrew, Meerson took on many painterly influences to completely recreate the town of Flanders beginning with raw materials, but did so while scaling it down 3/4, further caricaturizing the men of the town. Reported by the Motion Picture Review Digest, the New York Herald Tribune praised Meerson in his talents of vivifying still Flemish paintings, and translating them into moving pictures.

The scale and detail of the set was achieved by Feyder and Meerson’s insistence to their German financial backers, which led them to dig a canal through the center the Epinay Studios. The Flemish town was created around the canal using the current day architecture to provide the stylized depth which is Meerson’s trademark.

Cinematography 
The cinematographer for this film was frequent Jacques Feyder collaborator Harry Stradling Sr. A well-known cinematographer for films such as A Streetcar Named Desire, Funny Girl, and Alfred Hitchcock’s Mr. & Mrs. Smith. He came over to France due to the restrictions to two-reelers, or films with a runtime of 20 minutes, in Hollywood. In France he would work on a number of Jacques Feyder’s films.