[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David Ray (poet)

amp's Cup. Chariton Review Press, 1978.
 "Music of Time: Selected and New Poems". Backwaters Press, 2006.
 "When". (Howling Dog Press/Omega Editions, 2007)
 "After Tagore: Poems Inspired by Rabindranath Tagore". (Nirala Editions, 2008)
 "Hemingway: A Desperate Life" (Whirlybird Press, 2011)

Reviews

-Seanna Oakley (Ph.D. English, University of Wisconsin-Madison), on The Endless Search: A Memoir:
"How can the quiet ache of poet David Ray's memoir, The Endless Search, compete in a market voracious for what reviewer Chris Leman calls the 'extreme-memoir' genre of current best-selling memoirs in the United States?... Ray's search for reconciliation with a childhood of abuse and neglect assumes a modesty that runs counter to expectations shaped by contemporary memoir bestsellers. From disclosures of sexual abuse to 'peeping tom' voyeurism, Ray recounts shameful episodes from the past no less candidly than other memoirists. Yet the restraint that governs his evaluation of the multitude of parents and their proxies, relatives, guardians, and orphanage officials whose collective actions unambiguously disavow his value as a human being is striking enough to capture readers disenchanted by the prolix confessionals of the last two decades...." 3

-F.D. Reeve (Professor of Russian, Wesleyan University), on The Death of Sardanapalus):
"There is nothing like this book in American poetry today, for it is the skilled work of a craftsman whose fine ear and deft control distinguish every poem, all of which cry out against the barbarism of war and the stupid cruelties of those who make it. From the clever metaphoric transition of "The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier" to the deeply moving elegy to Wilfred Owen, this collection of intense lyrics shines with intelligence and passion." 3

-Anslem Hollo (Professor of writing and poetics, Naropa University), on The Death of Sardanapalus:
"In a time of imperial wars abroad and religious wars at home, David Ray's eloquent meditations speak to all who hope and work for change." 3

-Philip Schultz (Director of writers studio in NYC), on The Death of Sardanapalus:
"Zbigniew Herbert uses irony to mask his great vulnerability in the face of oppression. David Ray uses a detached classicism to distance himself (and us) from the present horror. But the outrage is there, and the great sadness. I admire these poems, and his courage in writing them." 3

-Kirkus Review, on The Endless Search: A Memoir:
"Two-time winner of the William Carlos Williams Award from the Poetry Society of America, Ray (English Emeritus/Univ. of Missouri) is one of only a handful of poets to garner a following among nonacademics. While selections of his poetry, eloquent and intensely personal, are scattered throughout the present volume, the topic at hand concerns a boy ever in search of his missing father, or a surrogate. After growing up in Oklahoma during the Depression, son of a dirt-poor sharecropper and an obsessive mother who hated dirt in all its forms, Ray was shuffled among relatives and foster homes, later spending time on an Arizona ranch. He became self-supporting as a teenager and won a scholarship to the University of Chicago. A stint in that city as a social worker gave him insights into his own childhood and the generations of American men who grew up without a male role model. Ray describes the string of "uncles" with whom his mother sought security and a proper home life, as well as the wealthy guardian who both tormented and sexually abused him during a childhood comprising parts of Great Expectations and Oliver Twist.
The author's frank account, unlike many in the current canon of victimology, is almost lyrical, while remaining unglamorized and unsentimental throughout. Ray's quest is alternately heartbreaking and chilling, yet he never lapses into narcissism or self-pity. He goes astray only when drawing broader
conclusions, suggesting, for instance, that it is homophobia that drives the pedophile and the sadist. The personal conclusions Ray draws, however, and the triumph of spirit his life demonstrates are much more important.
A riveting and well-written narrative of abuse." 3

See also

 List of poetry awards

Notes

References

 Dictionary of Literary Biography, Vol. 5: American Poets Since WWII. Detroit, MI, 1980, pp. 175–80.
 Contemporary Poets, Sixth Ed, St. James Press, Detroit, MI, 1996.
 DavidRaypoet.com, referenced October 25, 2006
 https://web.archive.org/web/20070929001534/http://www.howlingdogpress.com/XRAYS/index.html, referenced October 25, 2006
 Carruth, Hayden, Poetic Tradition and the Individual Talent. Harpers, p. 258, May 1979.
 Coleman, Elliot, Priceless Catch. Nation, pp. 345–346, March 1969.

External links
 David Ray
 Video of Ray reading a poem written to Cindy Sheehan, the mother of a soldier killed in Iraq
 X-Rays
Guide to the David Ray Papers 1936-2008 at the University of Chicago Special Collections Research Center