[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Emily Stevens (actress)

ten especially for Mrs. Fiske by C.M.S. McLellan (Hugh Morton). The Manhattan Theatre presented the play about the daughter of a thief in December 1904. The production marked the first original role Fiske had acted in two years. Stevens, Arliss, John B. Mason, and Marie Fedor were among the players.

In 1906, she appeared in the one-act play The Eyes of the Heart at the Manhattan Theater, a companion piece to the one-act play Dolce by John Luther Long, starring Mrs. Fiske.  Stevens remained with the Fiske company for eight years. The Eyes of the World is another production she participated in with her cousin's acting troupe. She played minor roles with Arliss and Bertha Kalich before her first true New York success. This was in Septimus (1909) at the Halleck Theatre, which became Walleck's Theatre. Her achievement was followed by a performance as leading lady in The Boss for Holbrook Blinn. In 1911, she appeared as Victoria Fairchild in the farce Modern Marriage by Harrison Rhodes ("In the role of the shrewish young person who needs enlightenment, and tampering, Miss Emily Stevens plays with delightful variety in an excellent vain of humor" - The New York Times. In 1912, Stevens portrayed Myra Dimsley in The Point of View, by Jules Eckert Goodman. According to The New York Times review, "Miss Emily Steven's performance was exceptionally brilliant and revealed the power to compose a role and to deliver it. It is gratifying, too, to discover that the actress has taken the pains to overcome mannerisms which in previous performances have marred her work. She no longer bites her lips, at every opportunity to express complexity of thought. And though she rustles overmuch in places, she has gained largely in repose. In fact, she is, on the whole, a young actress of fine gifts and beautiful power."  At the end of 1912, Stevens appeared in Tornadot, by German playwright Karl Volmoeller (English version by Jethor Bethell.)  Stevens depicted the character of Mary Turner in Within The Law in  Chicago, Illinois, also in 1912. This was several months before Jane Cowl made the character famous with a run of the play in New York. After Within The Law Stevens' noteworthy roles included the leading female role in The Child by Elizabeth Apthorp, produced by Harrison Grey Fiske, in 1913; To-Day by George Howells Broadhurst; the leading role in The Garden of  Paradise by Edward Sheldon; The Unchastened Woman (1915–1916); the title character of  Alan Dale's Madonna of the Future; and the title role in Hedda Gabler (1926).

She received very positive reviews for her acting as the title character in The Fugitive (1916) by John Galsworthy. After the Galsworthy tragedy of the hunted woman was performed in London, England, there had been speculation regarding an American
actress playing the same role. The Times wrote that last night's performance only deepened a conviction that the first choice could be Emily Stevens. She plays with a power, a penetration, and an unerring precision that are an unfailing delight. Her performance is one of the finest achievements of the season.  She scored a marked success in March 1924 with Fata Morgana, a Theatre Guild production, presented at the Garrick Theatre. Stevens' final role was that of the widow in a Theatre Guild production of The Second Man. She succeeded Lynn Fontanne in this part in July 1927. Stevens played the character until the production closed in October.

Relationships
At some point early in her acting career, Stevens developed a girlhood crush on Harrison Fiske, the husband of her cousin Minnie Fiske. She seems to never have pursued a relationship with him but enough coworkers and family knew of her feeling for Fiske as it is presented in a biography on Minnie Fiske by Archie Binns. She seems to have stayed true to her feelings for Harrison Fiske as she did not pursue relationships with other men.

Death
Emily Stevens died in her apartment at 50 West 67th Street, New York City, in 1928. She was 45, unmarried, and childless. She was survived by a brother, Robert Stevens, the first managing director of the Rochester Community Players in Rochester, New York. Stevens was to have begun rehearsals for a revival of Diplomacy by Victorien Sardou in the near future. George C. Tyler was the play's producer. Stevens died the same day as Dorothy Donnelly.

Stevens was under the care of a neurologist for a year before she died. She had been treated for a nervous breakdown. Wilson attended Stevens over the Christmas and New Year's holidays in the absence of her neurologist. He found Stevens in a highly nervous state about a week before her demise. Wilson administered a hypodermic injection to which Stevens responded successfully.