[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# List of Wild Cards characters

d Andrea Whitman, and wanted to find a way to hurt her for ignoring him. He took his first puppet that day, Roger Pellman, a mentally deficient fourteen-year-old, and began stoking Pellman's anger, lust, and rage until Pellman raped and murdered Andrea, with Gregg feeling everything his puppet felt.

This incident fractured the boy's fragile psyche, with pleasure, hate, guilt, shame, fear, and sex all jumbled together in his already twisted mind. He could not bear to think of these horrific actions as his own doing, so he created the Puppetman: another person in his mind, and the one he blamed for all the things he'd done... and all he would continue to do.

Hartmann became addicted to "feeding" on the negative emotions and psychic pain of others. For years, he both reveled in, and was repulsed by, the many violent crimes and atrocities he committed by proxy. He used his power of emotional influence to become a successful politician; he could make anyone his "puppet" simply through brief physical contact, and a politician shakes a lot of hands.

Hartmann became overconfident of his control over others, when in fact he could not even control himself. Puppetman was becoming an independent, and demanding, force in his mind, constantly hungering for more. At times things spiralled out of his hands; in one case, he touched off a riot, and the resulting overwhelming emotional feedback caused him to have an embarrassing public breakdown that cost him the presidency.

In the sixth volume of the Wild Cards series, Ace in the Hole (1990), the assassin Demise is hired to kill Sen. Hartmann. Demise's own Ace abilities allow him to kill by locking eyes with his intended victim and telepathically projecting the memory of his death into their mind. Amid the chaos generated by Hartmann's manipulation of the Democratic National Convention in Atlanta, Demise got close enough to his target to initiate, but not complete, his death-stare. The result was that Puppetman, who was dominant at the time, was destroyed, leaving behind only the normal half of Hartmann's personality. Hartmann resolved to undo the damage caused by Puppetman, but before he could begin, Dr. Tachyon telepathically coerced Hartmann into the embarrassing breakdown that cost him the Democratic nomination.

Afterwards, Hartmann is jumped into the body of a caterpillar-like Joker. He swings from villain to victim to hero, trying to redeem himself of the horrible deeds he has committed.

Over the course of his career, Puppetman has manipulated literally hundreds of individuals, some to a greater extent than others. The following is a brief list of his many puppets: Carnifex (Hartmann's bodyguard), Gimli (militant Joker's rights activist), Kahina (clairvoyant sister of the radical Islamic Ace Nur al Allah, who later discovers Hartmann's secret), Mackie Messer (German Ace), Molniya (Soviet Ace), The Oddity (Joker vigilante), Peanut (Joker), Black Shadow (Ace vigilante) and Hiram Worchester (popular restaurateur and Ace).

Quasiman
Quasiman is a Joker created by author Arthur Byron Cover. He does not remember his past or his real name, nor indeed any information prior to his transformation. He is large and powerfully built, but with a hunched back and twisted spine. Quasiman is the caretaker of the Church of Jesus Christ, Joker in New York's Jokertown, having been hired by Father Squid shortly after the church opened.

Quasiman has superhuman strength and can teleport, but his powers come with a price; his body is constantly in flux, with molecules moving back and forth in space and time while still staying part of him. Because of this, his mind has difficulty focusing. At times his thoughts are clear and lucid; but those times are few and far between, and never last very long. Usually it is an effort for him just to remember what he was going to do, or if he'd already done it, or if his memories are of the past or future. Occasionally parts of his body will phase out of existence, then back in again.

Quasiman is not a major character, but plays a significant role twice; he is resuscitated by "faith healer" Reverend Leo Barnett, which gains Barnett enough public recognition and sympathy to later be elected president. Later, he is involved in Detective Hannah Davis' investigation of the burning down of the church, which gets him entangled in uncovering the Card Sharks conspiracy.

Righteous Djinn
The Righteous Djinn is an Ace. He appears in the book Inside Straight as a minor character who can absorb the powers of other Aces. He also has immense strength and can become a 30-foot giant. He serves as a bodyguard to the Caliph of the Modern Caliph. He is killed by a group of American Aces (Lohengrin, Rustbelt, Drummer Boy, Bubbles, John Fortune/Sekhmet) at the end of Inside Straight.

Roulette
Roulette was created by Melinda M. Snodgrass in "mosaic novel" Wild Cards III: Jokers Wild.