[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gran Fury

disrupt the flow of normal thoughts with their own agenda. Notably, most of their work was directly exhibited to the public outside of traditional art spaces through fliers, posters, and billboards. They often recycled their own images and texts to circulate their message beyond its initial viewers.

The collective aimed to push various individuals such as Ronald Reagan, then New York Mayor Ed Koch, and John Cardinal O'Connor to address the AIDS pandemic in a more practical, open way, as well as to inform the public on the importance of safer sex and clean needles. When asked about their approach of their work, Gran Fury said: "We want the art world to recognize that collective direct action will bring an end to the AIDS crisis. ... Whenever we can, we steer the art world projects into public spaces so that we can address audiences other than museum-going audiences or the readership of art magazines." By the mid-1990s, Gran Fury found it hard to make simple works surrounding the AIDS pandemic, and started using more text - a necessity that made it hard for the group to relay messages as effectively as before. Gran Fury's final piece was entitled "Good Luck... Miss You, Gran Fury", and was produced in 1995, a year before the death of member Mark Simpson. In the piece, presented at the New Museum, Gran Fury stated that the original agitprop art strategies they were using were ‘unable to communicate the complexities of AIDS issues'.

Participants 
The 11 main members of Gran Fury:

Legacy 
From January to March 2012, the 80 WSE gallery at NYU presented the exhibition, Gran Fury: Read My Lips. The exhibition consisted of 15 pieces, most of which were re-created by Gran Fury from archival documentation.  The show was accompanied by an 88-page catalogue, which was the first publication devoted to the group's production.

Works in Gran Fury: Read My Lips. included, "Kissing Doesn't Kill", "Welcome to America", and "Women Don't Get Aids", reproduced in large-scale mural formats. There were also projections of "Kissing Doesn't Kills" video public service announcements, and several give-aways including "Men use Condoms" stickers in an edition of 3000 and postcards from the "Read My Lips" series.

In April 2022, Bold Type Books published a history of Gran Fury by Jack Lowery entitled, It Was Vulgar & It Was Beautiful: How AIDS Activists Used Art to Fight a Pandemic.

References

External links
 Gran Fury--colllected works (high resolution downloads) 
 "Let the Record Show..." (New Museum)
 Collective retrospective essay
 "Gran Fury talks to Douglas Crimp" (Artforum)
 "When Political Art Mattered" (New York Times)
 Gran Fury collection finding aid, New York Public Library.
 Gran Fury visual materials at New York Public Library Digital Collections
 1990 AIDS PSA by Gran Fury (Media Burn Archive)

Health and disability rights organizations in the United States
HIV/AIDS activism
Defunct LGBT organizations based in New York City
LGBT art in the United States
1988 in LGBT history
1988 establishments in New York City
Organizations established in 1988