[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zhou Baozhong

d Army's march into the Northeast China. As a result, the troops were transferred from the Northeast to the Eighth Route Army and the New Fourth Army. On August 11, Zhou summoned troops to board the ship according to a predetermined plan and arrived in Heilongjiang to return home.

Chinese Civil War

Zhou returned to Changchun in September 1945, under the alias Huang Shaoyuan. He served as the deputy commander of the Soviet garrison headquarters in Changchun. In September of the same year, the Northeast Anti-Japanese Army was renamed the Northeast People's Self-Defense Force, and Zhou was appointed as its general commander. On October 31, the former Northeast Anti-Japanese Army and indigenous armed groups were combined to form the Northeastern People's Autonomous Army. Zhou was appointed deputy chief of staff under the command of Lin Biao.

He also served as secretary of the Jihe District Party Committee, commander and political commissar of the Jihe National Army, and chairman of the Jihe Administrative Committee in Hubei. In November, the Jilin Provincial Working Committee and Jilin Military Region were established. Zhou served as a member of the Provincial Working Committee and commander of the Jilin Military Region.

In January 1946, the Northeast People’s Autonomous Army was renamed as Northeast Democratic Alliance Army, and Zhou served as the deputy commander-in-chief of the Northeast Democratic Alliance Army and commander of the Jilin Military Region. On April 14, 1946, part of the main force of the Northeast Democratic Alliance Army, together with the Jilin Military Region, was divided into three columns under the command of Zhou to attack the Kuomintang units in Changchun. The battle led to the destruction of Kuomintang's Northeast Security Corps fourth and fifth units, leading to a major Chinese Communist military victory in the Northeast in October 1948. However, after the Democratic Alliance Army was renamed the Northeastern People's Liberation Army in January 1948, it was reorganized into the Fourth Field Army in November 1948 and on the same month, Zhou was dismissed as a deputy commander.

In September 1949, Zhou Baozhong served as commander-in-chief and political commissar of the Northeast People’s Self-Defense Army, deputy commander-in-chief of the Northeast Democratic Alliance Army and commander of the Dongman Military Region, chairman of the Jilin Provincial Government, deputy commander of the Northeast Military Region of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army and commander of the Jilin Military Region. He also served as the Northeast Member of the Standing Committee of the Administrative Committee.

During the Chinese Civil War, Zhou led his troops to fought more than 800 battles against the Kuomintang and caused more than 40,000 casualties among the enemy troops. In October 1948, his unit played an important role in the second occupation of Changchun. On September 8, 1949, Zhou Baozhong went to Beijing. On September 21, he attended the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and participated in the founding ceremony of the People's Republic of China. When he was about to go to Yunnan to take up his political post, he was admitted to a hospital in Beijing due to a heart attack. At hospital, he was visited by Liu Shaoqi and Premier of China Zhou Enlai who urged him to recover well and not rush to take office. In November 1949, Zhou went to Yunnan.

Political career

After the founding of People's Republic of China, Zhou was made Vice Governor of Yunnan province in 1949. He also served as the vice chairman of the Kunming Military Management Committee and political committee director of the Committee of Political and Civil Affairs.

From October 1951 to May 1957, he concurrently served as the president of Yunnan University and as dean of the Southwest University of Political Science and Law from August 1953 to October 1954.

In 1954, due to severe heart failure and the recurrence of gallstones, the Central Government decided that Zhou would be recuperating in Beijing from August 1954. Prior to this, Zhou Enlai visited him in at the hospital in May 1954 and told him to recover from his illness with peace of mind. He advised him to write and sort out the historical materials of the Northeast Anti-Japanese United Army after recovery. Beginning in the second half of 1954, Zhou organized and wrote the history of the Northeast Anti-Japanese Allied Forces. During this time, North Korean leader Kim Il Sung met Zhou at the Summer Palace.

In April 1956, he was elected as a representative of the Second National People's Congress and a member of the State Ethnic Affairs Commission. In September, he was elected as an alternate member of the Central Committee at the Eighth National Congress. In April 1959, he was again elected as a representative of the Second National People's Congress and a member of the National Ethnic Affairs Commission.