[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Special Organization (Ottoman Empire)

inst the Assyrian minority and the Pontic Greek genocide against the Pontic Greeks in Pontus. In Thrace and western Anatolia the Special Organization assisted by government and army officials, deported all Greek men of military age to labor brigades beginning in summer 1914 and lasting through 1916.

Other activities
During World War I Eşref Sencer Kuşçubası was allegedly the director of operations in Arabia, the Sinai, and North Africa. He was captured in Yemen in early 1917 by the British military and was a POW in Malta until 1920 and subsequently released in exchange for British POWs. However, Ahmet Efe has written that the Ottoman military archives have detailed information on the organization's personnel, and that Kuşçubası is not mentioned.

In Libya, Nuri Killigil organized operations involving propaganda, subversion, terrorism and sabotage; he coordinated these operations with the Senussi.

Members 
This list includes allegedly notable members, according to an interview with its purported former leader Eşref Kuşçubaşı by U.S. INR officer Philip H. Stoddard: Although the bulk of its 30,000 members were drawn from trained specialists such as doctors, engineers, and journalists, the organization also employed criminals denoted başıbozuk, who had been released from prison in 1913 by amnesty.

Disbanding 
The organization was dismantled following a parliamentary debate and replaced by the Worldwide Islamic Revolt () after World War I. This organization held its first meeting in Berlin. However, it was forced underground by the British, who refused to let these German allies operate.

In 1921, Atatürk founded another secret organization called the National Defense Society (), headed by the former chief of the Special Organization, Hüsamettin Ertürk.

See also 
 List of members of the Special Organization of the Ottoman Empire
 Sentinel Association
 Umur-u Hafiye
 Black Musa

References

Bibliography 
 
 

 
  (unpublished MA thesis)
 
  (unpublished PhD dissertation; available in Turkish)

Further reading
Documents about the Special Organization in the Krikor Guerguerian archive

 
World War I crimes by the Ottoman Empire
Defunct organizations based in Turkey
Defunct intelligence agencies
Secret police
Armenian genocide
Greek genocide
Paramilitary organizations based in Asia