[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Detroit Medical Center

The Detroit Medical Center (DMC) is a for-profit alliance of hospitals that encompasses over 2,000 licensed beds, 3,000 affiliated physicians and over 12,000 employees. Located in Midtown Detroit, the DMC is affiliated with medical schools from Wayne State University and Michigan State University.  Detroit Medical Center hospitals are staffed by physicians from the Michigan State University College of Osteopathic Medicine and the Wayne State University School of Medicine, the largest single-campus medical school in the United States and the nation's fourth largest medical school overall. The Detroit Medical Center is fully accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations.

The Detroit Medical Center is the official healthcare services provider for the Detroit Tigers and the Detroit Red Wings.

On March 19, 2010, Vanguard Health Systems and Detroit Medical Center announced an $850 million expansion and renovation plan. Detroit Medical Center formally became a part of Vanguard Health Systems on December 30, 2010, as a for-profit corporation. Vanguard agreed to invest nearly $1.5 billion which included $417 million to retire debts, at least $350 million in capital expenditures and an additional $500 million for new capital investment in Detroit Medical Center. Vanguard has agreed to assume all debts and pension obligations.  In June 2013, rival Tenet Healthcare announced it would purchase Vanguard for $1.73 billion.  The transaction closed October 3, 2013.

History
The Detroit Medical Center was organized in 1985 as an affiliation among several hospitals: Harper University Hospital, Grace Hospital, Hutzel Women's Hospital, and Children's Hospital of Michigan.  With the addition of other hospitals, such as Detroit Receiving Hospital, the campus of the DMC and its adjacent partner institutions (the Karmanos Cancer Institute and the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center) now occupies most of the area bounded Mack Avenue on the south, Warren Avenue on the north, John R. on the west, and Beaubien on the east.

Harper Hospital was founded in 1863, receiving its first patients, Civil War soldiers, in 1864.  Two years later it opened as a general hospital.  In 1882, a new hospital building was constructed on what is now the campus of the DMC.  Additional buildings were constructed in 1913 and 1928.  Hutzel Women's Hospital, was founded in 1868. Grace Hospital was founded in 1883, and Children's Hospital was founded three years later. Detroit Receiving was founded in 1915, and moved to its present location in 1980.

Organization

The Detroit Medical Center is a part of Tenet Healthcare, a major health care provider. The Detroit Medical Center operates eight general and specialty hospitals in southeast Michigan. Detroit Medical Center hospitals include: 
DMC Children's Hospital of Michigan (Pediatric Level I trauma center)
DMC Detroit Receiving Hospital (Michigan's first Level I Trauma Center and first emergency medicine training program)
DMC Harper University Hospital (with specialty services including bariatric surgery, cardiology, vascular procedures, neurosurgery, neurology and kidney and pancreas organ transplants)
DMC Heart Hospital and Harper Specialty Center (Open August 2014)
DMC Huron Valley-Sinai Hospital (in adjacent Oakland County, Michigan)
DMC Hutzel Women's Hospital (obstetrics, infertility and gynecology)
DMC Surgery Hospital (surgical services)
DMC Rehabilitation Institute of Michigan (rehabilitation medicine and spinal cord injuries)
DMC Sinai-Grace Hospital (cardiology, heart and vascular procedures, neurosurgery, nephrology, orthopedics and total joint replacement surgery, trauma and emergency medicine, oncology, women's health services, gastrointestinal, cosmetic surgery, and many other specialties)
Partnerships
Kresge Eye Institute is part of Wayne State University that offers ophthalmology and cornea transplantation services.

Corporate governance 
Former Wayne County Prosecutor Mike Duggan was president and chief executive officer from January 2004 through December 2012 when he left to mount a campaign to become mayor of Detroit.  Joseph Mullany succeeded Duggan as CEO.  Former WDIV journalist Emery King is contracted to serve as the voice commonly heard on DMC commercials, and presents the Emery King Healthcare Video Library at the Detroit Medical Center's website.