[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bohemian Flats

he lower flats, comparatively.  By 1885 the west side flats were covered with small, frame dwellings from the foot of 2 1/2 Street South to the foot of 20th Avenue South. By 1892 formal streets had appeared, which were named Wood, Cooper, and Mill reflecting the occupations of many of the residents.

In 1890, the St. Anthony Falls Water Power Company ordered that the City of Minneapolis stop dumping their garbage directly into the Mississippi River, giving them only a few days to find a new place to dispose of waste. Barred access to the river, Dr. Kilvington, head of the Minneapolis Board of Health, and his sanitation committee found a loophole by depositing trash on the banks of the Mississippi instead. It was determined that the flats beneath the Washington Avenue bridge would provide a satisfactory location for the dump, "away from the settled city." This facility, described in an appropriately titled Minneapolis Tribune article about the flats called "Life at the Dump," was extremely hazardous to the health of the residents at the Bohemian Flats. In 1899, the State Board of Health ordered Kilvington's replacement, C.T. Frane, to find a new location for the city dump, after closing the location at the flats. This article noted that city residents had been dumping their "cess-pools" (toilet waste) beneath the bridge in addition to trash.

Minneapolis had long wanted to move the head of commercial navigation on the Mississippi from St. Paul to Minneapolis. They succeeded with the opening of  Lock and Dam No. 1,  which extended commercial navigation to the west bank  just above the Washington Ave. bridge - Bohemian flats. In 1915, some residents were issued eviction notices in anticipation of the completion of Lock and Dam No. 1 in 1917. In 1931 the city evicted the residents of Bohemian Flats just north of the municipal levee and built a coal barge facility.  In 1935 a brick terminal building was built at the northern end of the municipal levee with an adjoining railroad yard. A concrete grain loading facility was constructed near the southern end of the levee by Archer, Daniels, Midland Company. The houses on the intermediate terrace were removed shortly after. Eminent domain was used by the city to force evacuations of the area.  The last resident of the Flats stayed until the construction of the current Washington Avenue Bridge in 1963. Joseph A. Kieferle, 80, had called the Flats home for fifty years. A lone abandoned house remained in the shadow of a Great Northern Oil tank until the late 1960s. In the 1940s a large brick building was built for housing single men who worked at the mills. This building was soon inhabited by families. The community began to use this building as a community center.

21st century
On August 1, 2007, the I-35W Bridge collapsed, killing 13 people and injuring 145. Much of the bridge debris was temporarily stored at the Bohemian Flats as part of the ongoing investigation of the collapse; it was removed to a storage facility in Afton, Minnesota, in the fall of 2010. The flats area was used as a construction staging area for contractors renovating the nearby  Franklin Bridge in 2015–2016.

Bohemian Flats Park 
Bohemian Flats is a public park in Minneapolis that is part of the Mississippi Gorge Regional Park, a unit of the Minneapolis Park and Recreation Board. Recreational amenities at Bohemian Flats include biking path, garden, picnic areas, river cruises/private charters, and restroom facilities.

Bohemian Day
Bohemian Day on August 20 was organized by artists and Bohemian Gera Pobuda to celebrate the traditions as well as the immigrants who lived in the Bohemian Flats during the first three decades of the 20th century. These immigrants included Czechs, Slovaks, Germans, Scandinavians, Irish, and Italians. The Lipa Slovak Dancers dress in traditional costumes all made by a woman from Slovakia. The Lipa Slovak group is named after the national tree of Slovakia, the linden tree in North America. They perform several times per year at events such as Czech festivals and the Festival of Nations.

See also
History of Minneapolis

Footnotes