[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cho Won-hee

ffered a rib fracture in the Round of 16 of the AFC Champions League, which saw Guangzhou beat Japanese side FC Tokyo 1–0. Failing to fully recover from that injury, he eventually lost his spot in the team to fellow Korean Kim Young-Gwon, who had completed a transfer move in August of the same year.

Nevertheless, Cho still managed to play his part in the win of two consecutive league titles in 2011 and 2012 with Guangzhou, as well as the national FA Cup and Super Cup in the latter year.

Wuhan Zall
On 28 November 2012, fellow Chinese club Wuhan Zall officially announced they had signed Cho on a free transfer.

Despite being featured regularly and given the captain armband, the South Korean could not bring substantial help to the team throughout the 2013 season of the Super League, which saw Wuhan heavily struggle in their first top-tier season ever: eventually, the club finished in last place, thus being relegated to China League One after just a year from their promotion.

Gyeongnam FC
In February 2014, Cho was loaned to Gyeongnam FC, thus returning to South Korea after four years from his latest experience at the time.

During his brief period of time at Changwon, he featured twelve times, but the club struggled in K League Classic, and then lost the promotion-relegation playoff to Gwangju FC.

Omiya Ardija
On 4 July 2014, Cho moved to Japanese side Omiya Ardija until the end of the season.

However, it proved to be another unlucky experience for him, as he managed to make only four appearances due to fitness issues and could not provide the team with much help, as they finished sixteenth out of eighteen teams in J League 1, failing to stay in the top-tier for just a point: this way, the South Korean got involved in his third relegation in a row in just two years.

Seoul E-Land FC
On 5 February 2015, Cho approached a new and definitive homecoming, as he accepted an offer from newly established Seoul E-Land, which was set to debut in K League Challenge.

After finally regaining full form, the South Korean took a considerable part in Seoul E-Land's season, as the team finished in fourth place before losing their playoff match to eventual winners Suwon FC, due to ranking rules. Still, Cho himself and fellow team-mates Kim Jae-sung and Joo Min-kyu were included in the Best XI of that year. Plus, he set new personal records, as he registered both his highest number of appearances (37) and goals (5) in a single season.

Third spell with Suwon Bluewings and first retirement 
Following his restoring experience in the South Korean capital (which is also his birthplace), at the start of 2016 Cho decided to join Suwon Samsung for the third time in his career: he went on playing for the Blue Wings for almost three years, and even though he ended up featuring increasingly less throughout the time, his contributes helped the team win the Korean FA Cup in 2016 and reach the semi-finals of the AFC Champions League in 2018, between other achievements.

On a side note, this last chapter of his permanence at the club is also remembered for a curious episode of bad luck: at the 89th minute of the seventeenth match of the 2017 season, while playing against Gangwon FC, Cho tried to smother Im Chan-ul's attempt to cross into Suwon's penalty box, but his header curved the ball's trajectory unpredictably and eventually turned into a bizarre own-goal, setting the final score of the game into a 3–3 draw. The episode is still well-remembered by football fans all across the country, with Cho himself being repeatedly invited to speak and joke on his error.

On 31 March 2019, Cho announced his retirement from professional football through a special ceremony, hold at Suwon World Cup Stadium shortly before an official league match against Incheon United.

A new experience with Suwon FC and definitive retirement 
After a year and a half of inactivity, Cho unexpectedly came back in action and moved to the Gyeonggi city once more, although the final destination was different this time around: in fact, on 22 July 2020, it was officially announced that Cho would join Suwon FC, the city's second professional team, as a playing coach, thus re-uniting with main manager Kim Do-kyun (the two were team-mates when Cho started his senior career at Ulsan) and assisting him for the rest of the season in K League 2.