[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

gade.  Colonel John T. Toland, from the 34th Ohio Infantry, was the brigade commander. During the trip to Wytheville, the Union force was joined (and resupplied) by two regiments from the 1st West Virginia Cavalry. One company from the 2nd West Virginia returned to camp with the empty supply wagons.

After several skirmishes and an aborted attempt to sever the rail line west of Wytheville, the brigade arrived at the town. Colonel Toland ordered three companies of cavalry to charge in columns down Wytheville's main street. This was not the preference of Colonel Powell, but Toland "vigorously renewed in unnecessary language" his order to Powell. This first group of Union cavalry was ambushed by a rebel group consisting of Confederate soldiers, Home Guard, and local citizens—who had been warned that a large group of Union horsemen was heading in their direction. Many of the local citizens fired their weapons at the cavalry from inside the cover of homes and businesses—while their targets had been ordered to ride in column down the town's fenced main street. One soldier called the street "an avenue of death".

Captain Dennis Delaney of the 1st West Virginia Cavalry was at the front of the Union charge, and he was shot dead. His first lieutenant was mortally wounded.  Both colonels were shot within the first 10 minutes of the action. Colonel Powell was seriously wounded while he was with the lead group of three regiments, causing Colonel Toland to move to the front. With Powell disabled, Major John J. Hoffman became commander of the cavalry regiment. Hoffman was leading the second group of cavalrymen that charged into the "avenue of death". He was thrown over his horse after it was killed from gunfire, which temporarily stunned him. His column was prevented from advancing because of numerous dead horses in the road—and also trapped on the street by fences. Colonel Toland arrived at the "avenue of death", and refused to take cover despite warnings from the cavalry regiment's CompanyH. He was shot through the heart by a marksman shooting from a two-story house.

The 2nd West Virginia, without its two cavalry leaders, became disorganized. The cavalry was led by company commanders (typically captains or lieutenants), who guided only their own company. The infantry commander, Lieutenant Colonel Freeman E. Franklin wisely sent his infantry forward dismounted, and they were "not sitting ducks like the cavalry." Major Hoffman's portion of the cavalry, which was dismounted and trapped on the street, eventually pushed the fencing down. They were joined by infantry and fought from building to building. The Union soldiers burned the buildings that had been used by the rebels as cover when they shot at the blue-coated horsemen. Despite significant losses of horses and officers, the Union brigade was eventually able to secure the town. However, the Union Army did not achieve its major goals: little damage was done to the railroad, and the lead and salt mines were not damaged.

Fearing reinforcements from the Confederate army, especially after hearing a distant train whistle, the Union brigade left Wytheville less than 24 hours after it entered.  The Union brigade retreated toward its camps in West Virginia, and repelled attacks on July 19 and 20. It reached the safety of Union lines at Fayetteville on July 23, having received no rations for four days.  Losses for the entire excursion (including the trip to Wytheville and the return to camp) were 14 killed, 32 wounded, 17 taken prisoner, and 26 missing. An estimated 300 horses died.

Colonel Powell's wound received at Wytheville was judged to be fatal by surgeons for both the Union and Confederate armies. When the Union army departed from Wytheville, Powell was left behind with other wounded soldiers who could not be moved. These men became prisoners of the Confederacy. The citizens of Wytheville blamed Powell for the burning of many of the community's homes. For his own safety, Powell was hidden. Confederate General Sam Jones wanted Powell held accountable for the burning of two buildings from an earlier raid, and added that Powell was "... one of the most dangerous officers we have had to contend with ..." Surprisingly, Powell recovered enough from his wound that he was moved to a Richmond prison. While in captivity there, he was fed only bread and water, and slept on the floor. Lieutenant Colonel David Dove, who was recovering from a severe wound suffered earlier in the year, returned to camp in October. During Powell's absence, Dove was in command of the regiment.