[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Energy policy of Canada

k at in terms of what the effects of these policies will actually be...Things are changing more rapidly than we imagined." Rivers said that the "federal government’s climate goals and Canada's oil and gas industry are [not] fundamentally incompatible." There is, however, "some tension between them."

In June 2018, NRCAN's Generation Energy Council submitted their report entitled "Canada's Energy Transition: Getting to Our Energy Future, Together", which examined Canada's "long-term energy future", "generational goals", "guiding principles", and "potential pathways and milestones." The report by NRC's Generation Energy Council was informed by a 2017 national dialogue which included a Generation Energy Forum held in Winnipeg in October, on a "low-carbon energy future". In December 2017, Natural Resources Canada established the Generation Energy Council, composed of "energy thought leaders with diverse perspectives and expertise on Canada's energy systems" as a follow-up to the forum. According to the "Canada’s Energy Transition" report, the decoupling of Canadian energy use and GDP growth from 1990 to 2015, was confirmed by statistics showing that during that period, Canada's GDP grew by almost 80 percent, while Canadian energy use increased by only 30 percent.

In June 2016, Prime Minister Trudeau, said that he supported "interprovincial efforts to get carbon emissions down and emphasize hydroelectricity as a power source." BC Hydro's $8.8-billion Site C hydroelectric project on Peace River in northeastern B.C. which is slated for completion in 2024, would supply electricity to Alberta to decrease Alberta's dependency on natural gas and coal.

In April 2020, during the 2020 coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Trudeau's energy policy appeared to appease both environmentalists and the oil industry. The COVID-19 recession, the 2020 stock market crash, and the 2020 Russia–Saudi Arabia oil price war which resulted in the "collapse in oil prices", left Alberta with its "greatest challenge" in the province's "modern history, threatening its main industry and wreaking havoc on its finances." While announcing a "series of measures to support the oil and gas industry", Trudeau said that "Just because we're in a health crisis doesn't mean we can neglect the environmental crisis." Some of the "measures had a complementary goal of addressing serious environmental concerns."

International Energy Statistics (IEA) as of 2014

Regulatory framework
According to a 2006 Natural Resources Canada report on legal and policy frameworks on energy in North America, Canada's federal system of government, jurisdiction over energy is divided between the federal and provincial and territorial governments. Provincial governments have jurisdiction over the exploration, development, conservation, and management of non-renewable resources, as well as the generation and production of electricity. Federal jurisdiction in energy is primarily concerned with regulation of inter-provincial and international trade and commerce, and the management of non-renewable resources on federal lands.

Federal regulation
The National Energy Board (NEB) was an independent federal regulatory agency that regulated the Canadian energy industry. The NEB was created in 1959 and reported through the Minister of Natural Resources to the Parliament of Canada. Its primary responsibilities included:

 Inter-provincial and international oil and gas pipelines and power lines,
 Export and import of natural gas under long-term licenses and short-term orders,
 Oil exports under long-term licenses and short-term orders (no applications for long-term exports have been filed in recent years), and
 Frontier lands and offshore areas not covered by provincial/federal management agreements.

The NEB was superseded by the Canadian Energy Regulator (CER) in 2019.

In 1985, the federal government and the provincial governments in Alberta, British Columbia and Saskatchewan agreed to deregulate the prices of crude oil and natural gas. Offshore oil Atlantic Canada is administered under joint federal and provincial responsibility in Nova Scotia and Newfoundland and Labrador.