[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Religion in Turkey

ll not annoy me, either. But it may annoy some [people] in my country." The Greek Orthodox orphanage in Büyükada was closed by the government; however, following a ruling by the European Court of Human Rights, the deed to the orphanage was returned to the Ecumenical Patriarchate on 29 November 2010.

In 2022, Freedom House rated Turkey’s religious freedom as 2 out of 4, noting that apart from Sunni Islam, Judaism, Orthodox Christianity and Armenian Christianity are officially recognized, but there are regular disputes regarding property and training of clerics.

Religiosity

In a poll conducted by Sabancı University in 2006, 98.3% of Turks revealed they were Muslim. Of that, 19% said they were "extremely religious", 45% said they were "somewhat religious", and 33% said they were "not very religious" and 3%  had "no religious beliefs". 3% of Turks declare themselves with no religious beliefs.

According to Pew in 2020, 89% of Turks say religion plays an important role in their life (71% very important, 18% somewhat important), and 8% say religion doesn't play an important role in their life (3% not at all important, 5% not too important), 75% of Turks also say it is necessary to believe in God to be moral, compare to 84% in 2002.

According to the TFRS study in 2023
 62% responded : "Religious or very religious."
 24% responded : "Neither religious nor non-religious."
 14 % responded : "Not religious."

According to a poll made by OPTİMAR in 2019 

 89.5 % responded : "I believe in God's existence and oneness." (Theist)
 4.5 % responded : "I think there is a Creator, but I am not religious." (Deist)
 2.7 % responded : "I'm not sure if there is a Creator." (agnostic)
 1.7 % responded : "I don't think there is a Creator." (Atheist)
 1.7 % responded no answer.

According to the Pew Research Center report 2015:

 61 % of people in Turkey say religion is "very important" to their lives.
 22 % of people in Turkey say religion is "somewhat important" to their lives.
 7 % of people in Turkey say religion is "not too important" to their lives.
 3 % of people in Turkey say religion is "not at all important" to their lives.

According to the Gallup Poll 2012:

 23 % defined themselves as "a religious person".
 73 % defined themselves as "not a religious person".
 2 % defined themselves as "a convinced atheist".

According to the Eurobarometer Poll 2010:

 94 % of Turkish citizens responded: "I believe there is a God". (theist)
 1 % responded: "I believe there is some sort of spirit or life force". (spiritual)
 1 % responded: "I do not believe there is any sort of spirit, God, or life force". (neither theist nor spiritual)

According to the KONDA Research and Consultancy survey carried out throughout Turkey in 2007:

 52.8 % defined themselves as "a religious person who strives to fulfill religious obligations" (Practicing religious).
 34.3 % defined themselves as "a believer who does not fulfill religious obligations" (Religious in the name).
 9.7 % defined themselves as "a fully devout person fulfilling all religious obligations" (Fully devout).
 2.3 % defined themselves as "someone who does not believe in religious obligations" (Non-believer).
 0.9 % defined themselves as "someone with no religious conviction" (Irreligious).

 Claims of increasing Islamization 
The rise of Islamic religiosity in Turkey in the last two decades, under the government of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and the Justice and Development Party (AKP), has been discussed for the past several years. Many see Turkish society moving towards a more hardline Islamic identity and country, citing increasing religious criticisms against what is considered immoral behaviour and government policies seen as enforcing conservative Islamic morality, as well as the controversial blasphemy conviction of the pianist Fazıl Say for "insulting Islam" by retweeting a joke about the Islamic Friday prayer. The New York Times published a report about Turkey in 2012, noting an increased polarization between secular and religious groups in Turkish society and politics. Critics argue that Turkish public institutions, once staunchly secular, are shifting in favour of Islamists.

Turkish academic Ayhan Kaya, in his 2015 research article Islamisation of Turkey under the AKP Rule: Empowering Family, Faith and Charity, summarizes the question by talking of "a subtle Islamisation of society and politics in everyday life through the debates on the headscarf issue, Imam Hatip schools, faith communities and Alevism, the rise of an Islamic bourgeoisie with its roots in Anatolian culture, the emergence of consumerist lifestyles, not only among the secular segments of the Turkish society but also among Islamists, and, finally, the weakening of the legitimacy of the Turkish military as ‘the guardian of national unity and the laicist order’."