[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Small nucleolar RNA

box snoRNAs, which localise to the nucleolus. These Cajal body specific RNAs are proposed to be involved in the modification of RNA polymerase II transcribed spliceosomal RNAs U1, U2, U4, U5 and U12.   Not all snoRNAs that have been localised to Cajal bodies are composite C/D and H/ACA box snoRNAs.

Orphan snoRNAs
The targets for newly identified snoRNAs are predicted on the basis of sequence complementarity between putative target RNAs and the antisense elements or recognition loops in the snoRNA sequence. However, there are increasing numbers of 'orphan' guides without any known RNA targets, which suggests that there might be more proteins or transcripts involved in rRNA than previously and/or that some snoRNAs have different functions not concerning rRNA. There is evidence that some of these orphan snoRNAs regulate alternatively spliced transcripts. For example, it appears that the C/D box snoRNA SNORD115 regulates the alternative splicing of the serotonin 2C receptor mRNA via a conserved region of complementarity.
Another C/D box snoRNA, SNORD116, that resides in the same cluster as SNORD115 has been predicted to have 23 possible targets within protein coding genes using a bioinformatic approach. Of these, a large fraction were found to be alternatively spliced, suggesting a role of SNORD116 in the regulation of alternative splicing.

More recently, SNORD90 has been suggested to be able to guide N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modifications onto target RNA transcripts. More specifically, Lin et al. demonstrated that SNORD90 can reduce the expression of neuregulin 3 (NRG3).

Target modifications 
The precise effect of the methylation and pseudouridylation modifications on the function of the mature RNAs is not yet known. The modifications do not appear to be essential but are known to subtly enhance the RNA folding and interaction with ribosomal proteins.  In support of their importance, target site modifications are exclusively located within conserved and functionally important domains of the mature RNA and are commonly conserved among distant eukaryotes. A novel method, Nm-REP-seq, was developed for enriching 2'-O-Methylations guided by C/D snoRNAs by using RNA exoribonuclease (Mycoplasma genitalium RNase R, MgR) and periodate oxidation reactivity to eliminate 2'-hydroxylated (2'-OH) nucleosides.

2′-O-methylated ribose causes an increase in the 3′-endo conformation
Pseudouridine (psi/Ψ) adds another option for H-bonding.
Heavily methylated RNA is protected from hydrolysis.  rRNA acts as a ribozyme by catalyzing its own hydrolysis and splicing.

Genomic organisation 
SnoRNAs are located diversely in the genome. The majority of vertebrate snoRNA genes are encoded in the introns of genes encoding proteins involved in ribosome synthesis or translation, and are synthesized by RNA polymerase II. SnoRNAs are also shown to be located in intergenic regions, ORFs of protein coding genes, and UTRs. SnoRNAs can also be transcribed from their own promoters by RNA polymerase II or III.

Imprinted loci
In the human genome, there are at least two examples where C/D box snoRNAs are found in tandem repeats within imprinted loci. These two loci (14q32 on chromosome 14 and 15q11q13 on chromosome 15) have been extensively characterised, and in both regions multiple snoRNAs have been found located within introns in clusters of closely related copies.

In 15q11q13, five different snoRNAs have been identified (SNORD64, SNORD107, SNORD108, SNORD109 (two copies), SNORD116 (29 copies) and SNORD115 (48 copies). Loss of the 29 copies of SNORD116 (HBII-85) from this region has been identified as a cause of Prader-Willi syndrome whereas gain of additional copies of SNORD115 has been linked to autism.

Region 14q32 contains repeats of two snoRNAs SNORD113 (9 copies) and SNORD114 (31 copies) within the introns of a tissue-specific ncRNA transcript (MEG8). The 14q32 domain has been shown to share common genomic features with the imprinted 15q11-q13 loci and a possible role for tandem repeats of C/D box snoRNAs in the evolution or mechanism of imprinted loci has been suggested.

Other functions 
snoRNAs can function as miRNAs. It has been shown that human ACA45 is a bona fide snoRNA that can be processed into a 21-nucleotides-long mature miRNA by the RNAse III family endoribonuclease dicer. This snoRNA product has previously been identified as mmu-miR-1839 and was shown to be processed independently from the other miRNA-generating endoribonuclease drosha. Bioinformatical analyses have revealed that putatively snoRNA-derived, miRNA-like fragments occur in different organisms.

Recently, it has been found that snoRNAs can have functions not related to rRNA.  One such function is the regulation of alternative splicing of the trans gene transcript, which is done by the snoRNA HBII-52, which is also known as SNORD115.