[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Norton Commando

ted on the 1971 MK3.

The ‘Combat engine’ engine was introduced in January 1972 in the Mk4 Fastback. The last of the fastbacks, the MkV, was produced from November 1972 to mid-1973 as a 1973 model and featured improved crank bearings and the standard grind camshaft. Compression was reduced to 9.4:1.

R
The R model was introduced in 1969 with more conventional styling aimed at the American market. The fibreglass seat and tank of the fastback were replaced with a conventional  tank, seat and rear mudguard finished in blue or red.  The model used the 20M3 engine and was only produced in 1969.

S
Also introduced in 1969 and aimed for the American market, was the scrambler style S model which had a high level left-side exhausts. The model used the same fibreglass tank as the R model, and a central oil tank was introduced covered by fibreglass side panels. The tank and side panels were finished in metalflake paint. A  chrome headlight was fitted and the front mudguard and chainguard were also chromed. Fork shrouds and gaiters were replaced with a dust seal and chrome plated stanchion. Production continued until the introduction of the 1971 SS model.

Interpol

After some police forces expressed interest in the Commando, Neale Shilton was recruited from Triumph to produce a Commando to police specifications. The end result was the 'Interpol' machine, which sold well to police forces, both at home and abroad. The 750 cc machine was fitted with panniers, top box, fairing, radio mountings, police lights, and auxiliary equipment. 

The machine was first exhibited at the 1969 Brighton Bike Show and was fitted with an Avon fairing with a blue light and Craven panniers. The tank was derived from the Atlas, but with a modified underside to clear the Commando's top frame tube, and a single seat. Shilton took the bike around the UK demonstrating it to the various police forces. Once production started, the basic machine was assembled in the factory and the accessories such as fairings and panniers were fitted off-site. The exact specification varied dependent on the individual forces' requirement. A disc front brake was offered as an option in 1971 and became standard in 1972. Fitment required new handlebars so the master cylinder cleared the fairing. Reverse cone silencers were fitted in 1972, but not upswept like other models in the Commando range so as to give room for the panniers. The larger Interstate tank was fitted from 1972

Most Interpols were finished in white, but some were supplied in dark blue or black and without fairings to be used as 'unmarked' vehicles.

The 'Interpol' name was retained for Norton's later Norton Interpol 2 rotary engined Police motorcycle.

Production racer

A production racer, featuring a tuned engine, front disc brake and finished in bright yellow was introduced in 1970. It became known as the 'Yellow Peril'. The machine was hand built at the Norton Villiers Performance Centre at the Thruxton Circuit until 1972.

Roadster

In March 1970 the updated S called the 'Roadster' was introduced. It had a low-level exhaust and upward-angled silencers with reverse cones.

A Mk2 version was introduced in 1971, and in 1972 the Combat engine and front disc brake were fitted.

In 1973 the Roadster was available with the 850 engine, initially as an option but from October 1973 as the sole engine. Production of the Roadster continued until 1977 when manufacture of the Commando stopped, although few Roadsters were made in the final year. The Roadster was the most popular of the Commando models.

SS 
The SS was launched in May 1971 and was an update of the S model. A smaller “peanut” tank was fitted with a shortened seat. The front mudguard was mounted high and the model had a high level pipe each side fitted with a "peashooter" silencer. The model was only produced for 3 months.

Hi Rider
With Easy Rider styling, the Hi Rider was launched in May 1971. It featured 'ape-hanger' handlebars, a 'banana seat' and a 'sissy bar'. A small highlight and  tank were fitted. A front disc brake was introduced in 1973.

An 850 version was introduced in 1973 and discontinued in 1974.

Fastback LR
The Fastback LR with increased petrol tank capacity was available from July 1971. Aimed at the Australian market, where most of this model were exported to, production was around 400 machines during 1971 and 1972. The model had a shortened seat with the 'wings' of the fastback and a  tank. The tank was based on the tank used on the Atlas, but with a different base to clear the Commando's top tube. The machines were available in red or green paintwork.

Interstate

The Interstate was introduced in January 1972 using the combat engine. A large  petrol tank was used, which was soon increased to .