[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Homesh

nk told the media that the terror alert necessitated the eviction of the families despite the fact that it involved desecration of the holiday. "The sensitivity to the holiday is important but after assessment sessions were held, it was decided that there was a need to operate during the holiday."  

In June 2007, Knesset member Aryeh Eldad announced that he has the support of 42 Knesset members, in a bill proposing the rebuilding of Homesh, and the decriminalization of further rebuilding attempts.

Fatah military commander Abu Araj has stated that if settlers return to Homesh, the Palestinians would meet the Jewish community with, "fire and attacks. We will not let this entrance go by quietly, and just as before, we will make every effort to liberate our land all over again."

On December 16, 2021, Yehudah Dimentman, a resident of nearby Shavei Shomron who was a student at the Homesh outpost yeshiva, was killed by a Palestinian shooter, who also wounded two passengers. Following Dimentman's funeral, a march to Homesh demanded its rebuilding. On December 22, 2021, a vote in the Knesset to rebuild Homesh was defeated in a vote of 59 votes against to 50 in favor. On January 3, 2022, Defense Minister Benny Gantz ordered the dismantling of unauthorized structures on the site of Homesh.

Court rulings
In August 2007, an Israeli court ruled that it was not illegal entering the ruins of Homesh. Nevertheless, the army frequently declares the site a closed military zone and that it is illegal for civilians to be there.

Justice David Gadol ruled that the Disengagement Law, on which the state bases its prohibition on entering the ruins of Homesh was legislated is not to be utilized for different purposes after that event. The judge also ruled that the government has not relinquished Homesh to another sovereignty and that its status and access roads remain Area 'C' which is in full control of Israel and with no restrictions on Israeli traffic, "After the evacuation of Homesh, Ganim and Kadim, unlike the evacuation of the Gaza Strip settlements, as far as I know, the areas were not transferred to what is known as the Palestinian Authority. As I recall, there were pictures of Palestinians from the area looting the property that was left behind by the evacuating forces. For this reason it is important to legally define whether this territory has Area 'C' status," Justice David Gadol stated, according to Haaretz.

In 2023, the new Israeli government under Benjamin Netanyahu announced it intended to legalize the Israeli outpost illegally established at the site of the previous Homesh settlement. In reaction, Israel's Supreme Court issued an injunction against the Israeli government, urging it to dismantle the outpost, illegal under Israeli law, and to grant the Palestinian landowners of the area regular access to their land, something they have been systematically denied for years, due to the presence of the outpost and restrictions imposed by the IDF.

In popular culture

A documentary film called The Skies are Closer in Homesh, was made about the settlement, which, after it was dismantled by the Israeli government, became a "hot touring destination" among people who wished to express political support for the settlement movement.

See also
 Samaria
 Ganim
 Kadim
 Sa-Nur
 Homesh First
 Yossi Dagan

References

External links
Disengagement Plan of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon - Revised
Disengagement plan approved under false pretenses, say families evacuated from Homesh and Sa-Nur in West Bank
Pictures of Homesh before its destruction
Pictures of Homesh after its destruction
Homesh on Google Maps

Historic Jewish communities
Former Israeli settlements in the West Bank
Israeli disengagement from Gaza
Shomron Regional Council
Populated places established in 1978
Populated places disestablished in 2005
Nahal settlements