[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Wielingen-class frigate

The Wielingen class is a class of four multi-functional frigates constructed for and operated by the Belgian Naval Component. In service from 1976 to 2008 with the Belgians, three of the class were sold to Bulgaria for service with the Bulgarian Navy beginning in 2004. The fourth, , ran aground in 1988, was decommissioned in 1993 and was scrapped.

Design and description
The Belgian government began studies in 1969 for a new type of escort that would meet the requirements of escort missions in the North Sea and English Channel during the Cold War. The design would also only be limited to weapon systems already in service with or under development by NATO navies. The design also emphasized seaworthiness, automation and watertight integrity. The weapons systems, with the exception of the Sea Sparrow surface-to-air missile (SSM) were French. The radar and tactical data systems were Dutch and the hull and machinery were constructed in Belgium. As part of the project, the Belgian government made Belgian shipbuilding participation mandatory in the construction of the new ships.

The frigates feature an action information centre between decks and the ships could be split into two independent gas-tight citadels in the case of nuclear, biological or chemical warfare. All machinery could be controlled from a central control station. The vessels measured  long between perpendiculars and  overall with a beam of  and a draught of . The ships had a light displacement of  and  at full load. By 2004, the light displacement had increased to  and to  at full load.

The ships are propelled by a two-shaft combined diesel or gas (CODOG) system. This is composed of a single Rolls-Royce Olympus TM3B gas turbine creating  and giving the frigates a maximum speed of  or two Cockerill CO 240 V12 diesel engines creating  with a maximum speed of  on both diesels or  on just one. These turned controllable pitch propellers. The frigates have a range of  at . The vessels also had four 500 kW diesel alternators for electric production. They had a complement of 160 including 15 officers in Belgian service.

The Wielingen class were armed with four launchers for MM38 Exocet anti-ship missiles, later converted to two twin launchers. They were equipped with a Mark 29 octuple launcher for eight RIM-7M Sea Sparrow SAMs. These were later upgraded to the RIM-7P model. The frigates also mount a single /55 calibre modèle 68 naval gun, one six-barrelled Creusot-Loire  anti-submarine warfare (ASW) rocket launcher with Bofors rockets, and two catapults for L5 torpedoes. The class was fitted with two eight-barrelled Corvus chaff launchers, a Sagem Vigy 105 optronic director, a Signaal DA-05 air/surface search radar, a WM-25 surface search radar, SQS-510 hull-mounted sonar, and the SEWACO IV tactical data system with Link 11 capability. They were also given Argos AR 900 intercept electronic support measures and SLQ-25 Dixie torpedo decoy system.

Ships in the class

Construction and career
The construction programme of four ships was approved on 23 June 1971 and an order was placed with two Belgian shipyards in October 1973. Construction of the ships began in 1974. The first two ships, Wielingen and Westdiep, were first delivered in December 1976. However, they were both sent back to their yards for an engine overhaul which was completed in 1977. The four ships, including the final two Wandelaar and Westhinder, all entered service in 1978. All four ships were based at Zeebrugge. Westhinder was damaged during  an anti-submarine exercise off the coast of Norway in September 1988, striking a rock. The ship was decommissioned on 1 July 1993 and then used as a parts hulk for the other frigates. The hulk was towed to Ghent for scrapping on 7 November 2000. Following the loss of Westhinder, two of the frigates were kept operational while the third was placed in reserve or under refit. The third ship, Wandelaar, was decommissioned in 2004 and was sold to the Bulgarian Navy the same year. Wielingen and Westdiep were decommissioned in 2007 sold to Bulgaria in 2008.