[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Culture of Dallas

d in 1885 by A. H. Belo and is the company's flagship newspaper.  The Dallas Times Herald, started in 1888, was the Morning News'''s major competitor until Belo purchased the paper on 8 December 1991 and closed the paper down the next day.  A. H. Belo also publishes Al Día, a Spanish-language paper.

Other significant paper-publications include the Dallas Observer, an alternative weekly newspaper, and D Magazine, a monthly magazine about business, life, and entertainment in the metroplex.

The Dallas area has a station from every major television broadcasting network — KDFW 4 (FOX), KXAS 5 (NBC), WFAA 8 (ABC) (which for many years was owned by Belo Corporation alongside the Morning News), KTVT 11 (CBS), KERA 13 (PBS), KTXA-21 (IND), KUVN 23 (UNI), KDAF 33 (The CW) and KXTX 39 (TMD).

Dallas is served by a large number of radio stations.  Because of the city's centrally-located position and lack of nearby mountainous terrain, many high-strength antennae in the city have bands that can broadcast as far off as North Dakota and can be used as emergency broadcasting antennae when broadcasting is down in other major metropolitan areas in the United States.

The Texas Jewish Post'' serves the Jewish community of Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas.

Religion 

There is a large Protestant Christian influence in the Dallas community and the city is deep within the Bible Belt. Methodist and Baptist churches are prominent in many neighborhoods and anchor the city's two major private universities. The Cathedral of Hope, an LGBT Protestant church, is the largest congregation of its kind in the world.

The Catholic church is also a significant organization in the community—it operates a major university in Irving and its Cathedral Santuario de Guadalupe in the Arts District oversees the second-largest membership in the United States.  Dallas is also home to three Eastern Orthodox Christian churches.

The city is also home to a sizable LDS community. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has fifteen stakes throughout Dallas and surrounding suburbs. The Church built the Dallas Texas Temple, the first temple in Texas, in the city in 1984.

Dallas has a large Jewish community, many of whom reside in eastern and northern Dallas.  Temple Emanu-El, one of the largest synagogues in the South and Southwest, was founded in 1873. The community is led by Rabbi David E. Stern. See the History of the Jews in Dallas, Texas.

Dallas' most significant Muslim community lies in the city's northern and northeastern suburbs, and a strong Hindu community exists in Irving, Plano and other northwestern suburbs.

Events 

The most notable event held in Dallas is the State Fair of Texas, held annually at Fair Park since 1886. The fair is a massive event for the state of Texas and brings an estimated US$350 million to the city's economy annually. The Red River Showdown (UT-OU) game is held at the Cotton Bowl each year, during the fair's run.

Other festivals in the area include Cinco de Mayo festivities hosted by the city's large Mexican population, Saint Patrick's Day parades in Irish communities especially along east Dallas' Lower Greenville Avenue, Juneteenth festivities, the Greek Food Festival of Dallas, and an annual Halloween parade on Oak Lawn Avenue.

Architecture 

Most of the notable architecture in Dallas is modernist and postmodernist.  Iconic examples of modernist architecture include I. M. Pei's Fountain Place, the Bank of America Plaza, Renaissance Tower, and Reunion Tower.  Examples of postmodernist architecture include the JPMorgan Chase Tower and Comerica Bank Tower.  Several smaller structures are fashioned in the Gothic Revival and neoclassical styles.  One architectural "hotbed" in the city is a stretch of homes along Swiss Avenue, which contains all shades and variants of architecture from Victorian to neoclassical.

References

External links
 City of Dallas - Office of Cultural Affairs