[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Habeas corpus petitions of Guantanamo Bay detainees

e passing of the Detainee Treatment Act and gave the Supreme Court an 'early opportunity to assess the nature and extent of the jurisdiction-stripping measure'. The Supreme Court held that the amendment by the new legislation would not apply to detainees who had cases already waiting to be reviewed.

Military Commissions Act of 2006
Once more in response to a judicial decision, Congress passed the Military Commission Act of 2006 swiftly after Hamdan v Rumsfeld. The new section, under section 7, attempted to apply the Detainee Treatment Act to detainees with cases pending.   This was an attempt by the political branch of government to reinforce their opinion that the 'federal courts should have as little to do with Guantanamo Bay detainees as possible'.

The Supreme Court and the Military Commissions Act
On June 29, 2007, the Supreme Court agreed to hear outstanding habeas corpus, opening up the possibility that they might overturn some or all of the Military Commissions Act.

The Supreme Court rules on Boumediene v. Bush
On June 12, 2008, the United States Supreme Court ruled, in Boumediene v. Bush, that the Guantanamo detainees were entitled to the protection of the United States Constitution.
Justice Anthony Kennedy, writing for the majority, described the CSR Tribunals as "inadequate", and wrote:

Lists of habeas petitions filed on behalf of detainees

More than 200 detainees have had habeas petitions filed on their behalf.

The proposed Habeas Corpus Restoration Act of 2007
Senators Patrick Leahy and Arlen Specter have proposed Habeas Corpus Restoration Act of 2007, to restore access to habeas corpus to the Guantanamo detainees.
Debate began on the bill on September 17, 2007.  It has been attached, as an amendment, to a Defense bill.

Boumediene v. Bush
The decision in Boumediene v. Bush in 2008 has had huge implications for America's war on terror. It was acknowledged that the Military Commissions Act was retaliation to the decision in Hamdan. Boumediene ruled that Guantanamo detainees were able to bring about a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in U.S courts and established that the judicial branch of government has the final say on unlawful detentions, rather than the Executive branch as the Bush regime had been implementing.

Justice Kennedy, in delivering the majority opinion, held that it was within the U.S. court's jurisdiction to apply a writ of habeas corpus to aliens in Guantanamo Bay as the fundamental rights of the U.S. Constitution should be extended to Guantanamo detainees. Since Boumediene, Bush confirmed that his administration would look into the decision to see if any additional legislation would be 'appropriate' in terms of the protection of American people.

See also

References

Further reading
Fletcher, G. "Black Hole in Guantanamo Bay" 2 (2004) Journal of International Criminal Justice, 121
Thomas, Laura. "The Guantanamo Bay Cases" 11 [2004] Aust Journal of International Law, 187

External links

Read the rulings in the decided cases, McClatchy News
Guantanamo Habeas Scorecard, Center for Constitutional Rights

"Guantánamo and Habeas Corpus: Prisoners Win 3 out of 4 Cases, But Lose 5 out of 6 in Court of Appeals" (Part One), Andy Worthington website, 20 July 20, 2009
Habeas Works: Federal Courts’ Proven Capacity to Handle Guantánamo Cases (2010), Human Rights First
 

Human rights in the United States

 
United States habeas corpus case law