[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of San Francisco

leans crushed several allied companies and finally bayoneted off Villegas' column from the hill. The allied officers tried to contain the retreat, but half of the allied right flank withdrew, as the soldiers fled in all directions across the Pampa del Tamarugal, taking their reserve along with them.

Amunátegui managed to hold the cannons, but at high cost: 30 gunners, 82 soldiers and 7 officers were dead or wounded. This action proved decisive for the battle outcome. Had Villegas had taken Salvo's battery, the Allies would have turned around the cannons and destroyed the Chilean centre, breaking Sotomayor's front in half.

Flank combats
Meanwhile, Buendía took his column to Dolores well, where he was received by heavy artillery fire from Frías', Montoya's and Carvallo's batteries. Despite the barrage, Buendía rallied his lines and stubbornly continued his advance, until he entered into the 3rd Line Regiment's fire range of Col. Ricardo Castro. Castro's infantry received Buendía with an intense firing, which forced back the Peruvians, this time definitively.

Villamil took under him Suárez' left wing and moved to La Encañada to face Urriola. His column met fire from Wood's and Villareal's batteries, which dissuaded the Allies from coming any closer. Villamil was shelled twice and his soldiers fled from the field. The rest of Suárez' group, Bolognesi's and Velarde's divisions, attacked the 4th Line Regiment and the bulk of the Coquimbo Battalion, Amunátegui's right and centre. Both divisions were received with dense infantry fire and forced to seek refuge in ditches on the floor. So, Suárez was annulled from the rest of the battle.

The sum of failures finally broke the Allies' morale and the soldiers disbanded in all directions about 5 pm. The cavalry saw the retreat of Buendía and fled, without covering the retreat as it was supposed to. Suárez' and Cáceres' divisions retired in order and formed a small group of soldiers from Buendía's and Villamil's columns.
 
About 4,500 men retired in order to Tarapacá. The Chileans didn't pursuit, believing that the real fight would take place next day.

Aftermath
The Chileans lost 208 men killed and wounded, while the Allies had 296 casualties and 3,000 missing. The defeat was a very rough blow for the Peruvian Army Southern Command, adding the effect of Daza's withdrawal on the troops morale, specially the Bolivians.

After the battle, the remaining troops marched to Tarapacá.

Notes

References

 
 
 
 

Conflicts in 1879
Battles involving Chile
Battles involving Peru
Battles of the War of the Pacific
1879 in Chile
1879 in Bolivia
Battle of San Francisco
November 1879 events