[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Foreign relations of Belarus

and for the supply of raw materials and components.

After initial negotiation with the Russian Central Bank on monetary union, the Russian ruble was set to be introduced in Belarus in 2004, but this was postponed first until 2005, then until 2006, and now seems to have been suspended indefinitely.

Relations with the United States

Belarus has had an ongoing discussion to relaunch IMF-backed reforms, concluding an arrangement for an IMF Staff-monitored program (SMP) in 2001. However, the authorities did not follow through with reforms as hoped, leaving an uncertain future for IMF-backed cooperation. Belarus authorities have said on several occasions that they find IMF intervention and recommendations in Belarus counter-productive to the economic development of those countries.
The relationships with the United States have been further strained, after Congress of the United States unanimously passed the Belarus Democracy Act of 2004.

On 7 March 2008 the government of Belarus ejected US Ambassador Karen B. Stewart from the country, following a row over travel restrictions placed on President Lukashenko and sanctions against state-owned chemical company Belneftekhim. The Belarusian Foreign Ministry announced at the same time that it was recalling its own ambassador to the US. This was followed by the expulsion of ten other U.S. embassy staff from Minsk in late April. At the same time the government of Belarus ordered the U.S. Embassy in Minsk to cut its staff by half. A White House spokesman described the expulsion as "deeply disappointing".

Relations with other countries
Due to strained relations with the United States and the European Union, as well as occasional high-level disputes with Russia over prices on core imported natural resources such as oil and gas, Belarus aims to develop better relations with countries in other regions, like the Middle East, Asia, and Latin America.

Hong Kong national security law
Belarus was one of 53 countries that in June 2020 supported the Hong Kong national security law at the United Nations Human Rights Council.

Nuclear weapons offer
In May 2023, the President of Belarus offered nuclear weapons to other countries who join Belarus and Russia.

Diplomatic relations
List of countries with which Belarus maintains diplomatic relations with:

Bilateral relations

Multilateral

Africa

Americas

Asia

Europe

Oceania

See also
 Belarus–European Union relations
 List of diplomatic missions in Belarus
 List of diplomatic missions of Belarus
 Visa requirements for Belarusian citizens
 EU Neighbourhood Info Centre: Country profile of Belarus

References

External links
 Back from the Cold? The EU and Belarus in 2009 (Chaillot Paper No.119) European Union Institute for Security Studies
 Belarus OKs European Integration Of Moldova, Offers To Promote China In Europe - Belarus Foreign Policy Digest
 EU Should Keep Belarus In Its Orbit
 Is Belarus-China Cooperation A Pipe Dream?
 Belarus Discovers Its Eurasian Side
 Belarus Welcomes Top EU Leaders: A Rare Show
 A 'Nice Dialogue' With Europe, Befriending Middle East Hardliners - Belarus Foreign Policy Digest 
 Multi-Vector Diplomacy With Trade In Focus - Belarus Foreign Policy Digest
 Both An EU Partner And Russia's Satellite?
 Belarus Engages With The US, Improves Ties With Europe And Post-Soviet Countries – Foreign Policy Digest
 Minsk Dialogue Non-Paper: Another Yalta Is Impossible
 Analytical paper: Belarus-Russia relations after the Ukraine conflict