[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Alaska political corruption probe

ed due to gubernatorial and bipartisan legislative opposition. The Daily News observed, "Those documents, though lacking detail or context, suggest that the probe is wide-ranging and not focused on any one company, issue or individual."

Tom Anderson arrested on federal bribery and extortion charges

The observation by the Anchorage Daily News and other news organizations, that the probe had a wider focus than legislators' ties to the VECO Corporation, was confirmed on December 7, 2006, when outgoing Representative Tom Anderson - whose offices had not been targeted by the August and September FBI raids — was arrested on allegations of extortion, bribery, conspiracy, and money laundering involving his support of a private corrections company. Anderson was accused of accepting money from the company, CorPlan, through a shell corporation set up by a lobbyist, identified in Anderson's charging documents as "Lobbyist A," and later identified as prominent Anchorage lobbyist Bill Bobrick, to disguise the source of payments. Unbeknownst to Anderson or Bobrick, their contact with the private corrections company was a confidential source of the FBI working undercover. According to federal prosecutors, the private corrections company — unidentified in the court documents but widely believed to be Cornell Companies — was not implicated in the plot, and had been unaware of the FBI investigation until Anderson's indictment and arrest. The confidential informant in the case was Frank Prewitt, a former commissioner of the Alaska Department of Corrections. After leaving state employ, Prewitt took positions first with halfway house entrepreneur Bill Weimar, serving on his Allvest corporation board of directors, and subsequently with Cornell Companies, which bought out Weimar to establish its Alaska operations. Court documents filed on March 22, 2010, in a criminal appeal indicated that Prewitt had been paid $200,000 for his assistance in investigating and convicting his former Allvest associates.

Subpoenas of fisheries businesses
Additional subpoenas were served on fishery executives involved with federal funding and the United Fishermen of Alaska who have had business associations with Ben Stevens.

Figures of note

Indictment, arrest of Kott, Kohring and Weyhrauch
On May 4, 2007, former Representatives Pete Kott (R-Eagle River) and Bruce Weyhrauch (R-Juneau) were arrested and charged with bribery, extortion wire and mail fraud. Then-Representative Vic Kohring (R-Wasilla) later turned himself in and was similarly charged. All three were arraigned in Juneau. Charges against the three involved allegations of soliciting and receiving money and favors from VECO chief executive officer Bill Allen and chief lobbyist and V.P. Richard L. "Rick" Smith in return for their votes on an oil tax law favored by the VECO that was the subject of vigorous debate during the 2006 legislative session and two special sessions in 2006.

Kott and Kohring were both convicted, but their convictions were later vacated due to alleged misconduct by the prosecuting attorneys. In 2011 both agreed to plead guilty. Prosecutors agreed to recommend both men be sentenced to time served and subject to conditions upon release. Kohring lost his latest bid to appeal his conviction, turned down unanimously by an en banc hearing of the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals.

After federal charges were dropped, Weyhrauch pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor lobbying violation, his sentence was suspended, and he was fined $1,000. It was estimated he had spent $300,000 on his defense. In 2016, the state senate's Select Committee on Legislative Ethics found that Weyhrauch had committed ethics violations a decade earlier and requested he pay a fine of $18,100 and write and publicize a letter of apology regarding the situation. Two years later, the requests for the apology and payment of the fine were waived.

Of the original seven lawmakers who had their legislative offices searched, only Democratic State Senator Don Olson (D-Nome), who had refused a bribe, was not implicated in the scandal and helped the FBI to make their cases.

VECO executives indicted, plead guilty

On May 7, 2007, VECO CEO Bill Allen and Vice President for Community & Government Affairs Rick Smith pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Anchorage to charges of extortion, bribery, and conspiracy to impede the Internal Revenue Service.