[Source: PubMed]

77. Best Pract Res Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 2024 Jul;95:102517. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2024.102517. Epub 2024 Jun 14.

Improving management of first and second stages of labour in low- and 
middle-income countries.

Hofmeyr GJ(1), Moreri-Ntshabele B(2), Qureshi Z(3), Memo N(4), Hanson S(5), 
Muller E(6), Singata-Madliki M(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Botswana, Gaborone, 
Botswana; Effective Care Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand, East 
London, South Africa; Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Walter Sisulu 
University, East London, South Africa. Electronic address: justhof@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Botswana, Gaborone, 
Botswana. Electronic address: badani83@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Nairobi, Nairobi, 
Kenya. Electronic address: qureshi@uonbi.ac.ke.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Botswana, Gaborone, 
Botswana. Electronic address: memonb85@yahoo.com.
(5)Botswana Global Health Elective, Botswana-Harvard Partnership, Department of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Global and Community Health, Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
shanson1@bidmc.harvard.edu.
(6)Effective Care Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand, East London, 
South Africa. Electronic address: elaviljoen@yahoo.com.
(7)Effective Care Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand, East London, 
South Africa. Electronic address: mandisasingata@gmail.com.

Labour care must balance aspirations of parents with vigilance for unanticipated 
calamities. The 'on-site midwife-led primary care birth unit' facilitates this. 
The World Health Organization have replaced the traditional partograph with the 
'Labour Care Guide'. An implementation project in Botswana included the mnemonic 
COPE: Companion, Oral fluids, Pain relief and Eliminate the supine position. The 
Parto-Ma project in Tanzania used guidelines, training and support to improve 
childbirth outcomes. We list labour practices supported by recent evidence, and 
highlight new developments. Foetal macrosomia increases risk but mistaken 
diagnosis increases caesarean births. Obstructed labour is a complex clinical 
diagnosis, and is difficult to predict. For shoulder dystocia prioritise 
delivery of the posterior shoulder, facilitated if needed by posterior axilla 
sling traction. 'Extended balloon labour induction' with two or three Foley 
catheters side by side, may reduce risks associated with uterine stimulants. 
Bedside ultrasound may facilitate the diagnosis of cephalic malpositions and 
malpresentations.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2024.102517
PMID: 38902106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]