[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Farah Karimi

among other projects.

For her work, Karimi traveled extensively to many conflict regions. In May 2005, she visited the opposition in Iran. She was interrogated at the Teheran airport and information was copied from her diary. This led to a formal protests by Minister Bot to the Iranian ambassador.

The main themes of her work in the House of Representatives were human rights and international law in foreign relations of the Netherlands. She paid particular attention to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict and the developments in Afghanistan and Iran. She wrote about it in her books "Battlefield Afghanistan" and "The Secret of Fire".

Life after politics

In early 2007, Karimi worked for the United Nations Development Programme, where she was a senior consultant for the UNDP in Afghanistan for project SEAL (Support to the Establishment of the Afghan Legislator). There she taught and supported different committees of the National Assembly of Afghanistan. In November 2007 she was appointed general director of Oxfam Novib. She succeeded Sylvia Borren.

Karimi is also active in civil society. She writes for Rooz, a free, Persian online newspaper. Since 2004, she has been a member on the Board of Advice of the International Institute for the Study of Islam in the Modern World in Leiden. In 2006, she founded Bridging the Gulf, a foundation for human security in the Middle East. Between 2006 and 2007, she was a member on the board of Parliamentarians for Global Action in New York.

Personal life
Karimi has been married twice. Her first husband was also involved in the Mojahedin-e Khalgh. When she broke from the organization in 1986 she also broke with him. She has one son with her first husband, who was born when Karimi fled from Iran. In 1989 she was married again. Karimi speaks Persian, Dutch, English, Turkish and German.

Selected works
 Slagveld Afghanistan (El secreto del fuego: mi vida contra el fanatismo islámico/Battlefield Afghanistan) (2006) (Dutch, Spanish and English Edition) 
 Het geheim van het vuur (The Secret of Fire) (2005) together with Chris Keulemans
 In naam van de vrijheid: hoe onze wereld na 9/11 steeds onvrijer is geworden (In the name of freedom: how our world has become increasingly unfree after 9/11), 2021 (Dutch and English Edition)

See also
Iranians in the Netherlands
List of famous Iranian women

References
Farah Karimi

External links

 Drs. Farah Karimi on parlement.com
 Farah Karimi's profile at UNESCO
 Civilian Diplomacy in the Gulf Region. An interview with Farah Karimi
 Farah Karimi's biography
 Farah Karimi Speech at Human Rights Day Seminar, Leiden University, Dec. 2013 (VIDEO)
 Karimi's selected books on Amazon
 Farah Karimi - Green European Journal

1960 births
Living people
Iranian emigrants to the Netherlands
Members of the House of Representatives (Netherlands)
Iranian women writers
Iranian writers
People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran members
GroenLinks politicians
Politicians from Isfahan
Dutch corporate directors
Dutch women in politics
Dutch politicians of Iranian descent