[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Government of Oklahoma

dent executive offices is the governor's ability to determine each office's annual budget.

These executive officers have some specialized regulatory power, some executive power, and some quasi-judicial power. The governor and state legislature often consult them on matters before enacting new laws.

The independent executive offices are as follows:
 The Attorney General of Oklahoma serves as the state's chief legal officer and adviser. Either the attorney general himself or one of his officers represents the state in litigation or hearing before boards and commissions. One of the main responsibilities of the attorney general is to issue opinions on laws to state officials. The attorney general can also call multi-county grand juries to investigate crimes that have occurred in more than one county.
 The Oklahoma State Treasurer is the administrator and manager of the state's depository of state funds collected by Oklahoma's various state agencies. The office's major duty is to select banks and investments in which to place state funds to yield profit for the state at large. The treasurer maintains an accurate account of the money received and distributed by the Oklahoma State Treasury. The Treasurer also delivers state warrants, checks, and bonds to the Oklahoma Office of State Finance.
The Oklahoma Superintendent of Public Instruction, often referred to as the Oklahoma State School Superintendent, supervises and manages the public school system of the state and serves as the chair of the Oklahoma State Board of Education. The superintendent publishes school laws, opinions of the laws, and submits annual reports to the governor on the condition of public schools. The superintendent is also an ex officio member of the State Emergency Fund Board and chairman of the State Career Tech Board.
 The Oklahoma Insurance Commissioner administers state laws dealing with insurance companies operating in Oklahoma. The commissioner audits insurance companies to make certain that they pay claims to their policyholders. Whenever an insurance company faces financial issues, courts usually appoints the commissioner to serve as a trustee.
The Oklahoma Corporation Commission consists of three commissioners, each of at least 30 years, serving staggered six-year terms. The three commissioners regulate public utility rates and supervise public utilities doing business within the State. The commission also regulates cotton gin, trucking, and public transportation businesses. The commission enforces oil and gas conservation laws and regulates pipeline companies. The commission is empowered to inspect the books and records of companies operating under their supervision and has extensive power to punish violators of its orders. In order to serve on the commission, a candidate cannot own personal interests within the companies the commission regulates.
The Oklahoma State Auditor and Inspector prescribes a uniform system of bookkeeping for the county treasurers and the State Treasurer. Twice annually, without notice, the state auditor audits the books and accounts of the state treasurer and the county treasuries. If wrongdoing is suspected in the state, county, or local governments, the state auditor is empowered to investigate, audit the books of the suspect in question, and make recommendations to solve the problem.
The Oklahoma Labor Commissioner is responsible for supervising the administration of state laws relating to labor and workplace safety and gathers and publishes information about the workforce of Oklahoma.

State Cabinet

With the exception of the independent constitutional executive offices, the executive branch is organized into agencies that are grouped together under cabinet positions to reduce the number of people who report directly to the governor. For example, the Oklahoma Department of Transportation and the Oklahoma Turnpike Authority are organized under the state transportation secretary.

The cabinet officers hold the title of "secretary". Agency heads are called "directors" or "commissioners". A cabinet secretary may serve concurrently as an agency director. The governor appoints, with the approval of the Oklahoma Senate, the cabinet. Each secretary advises the governor on policy changes or problems within the agencies under their supervision, represent the governor in administering their area of supervision, and coordinate information gathering for the governor or state legislature. The secretaries are not authorized to act without authorization by the governor through executive order.

The secretaries together make up the Oklahoma State Cabinet, which was created in 1986 under the Executive Branch Reform Act of 1986 to "improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and accountability of state government."