[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Chronology of world oil market events

ces to spot market. Output rises from  in August to  in early 1986.
Aug 15: First Iraqi air raid on Iran's main oil export terminal, Kharg Island.
November 6: Exploratory well in Ranger, Texas, blows out, spilling  of crude oil.
December: OPEC output hits  boosting a glut and triggering a price war.

1986
Average world oil prices fall by over 50 percent in 1986. There is wide use of netback pricing in 1986.
February 3–4: OPEC fails to agree upon a production accord after a two-day meeting in Vienna.
February: Iran captures southern Faw peninsula, starts northern offensive.
May 7: Iraq bombs Tehran refinery.
June: OPEC production-cut talks fail, ending in a tentative majority pact on an average 1986 ceiling of .
June 8: Iraqi jets attack Assadabad satellite station.
July: Brent price dips under $9 per barrel. OPEC production rises to .
Jul 27: Iraqi jets attack central Iranian city of Arak. Iran threatens missile attack of gulf states supporting Iraq.
Aug 2: Hussein offers peace in open letter to Iran.
Aug 4: Reports of probable OPEC agreement on output quotas sends oil prices higher.
Aug 12: Iran fires missile at refinery near Baghdad. Iraq raids Iranian terminal at Sirri Island severely disrupting Iranian exports.
December 19: OPEC reaches an accord that would cut production by seven percent for the first six months of 1987 (from  to ) and would raise prices immediately toward a target world oil price of $18 per barrel.

1987
January: OPEC price accord begins to deteriorate.
February: OPEC majors stick to fixed prices.
Jun-Aug:   Gulf war escalates.
December: OPEC meeting failure.

1988
February: OPEC price meeting set.
March: OPEC/Non-OPEC meeting failure.
July: Iran accepts cease fire.
October  14: Crude oil prices jump in anticipation of possible production accord at Gulf Cooperation Council meeting set for October 16.
November 28: OPEC reaches production accord. Six-month agreement to set production at . Although the recent OPEC quota had been , actual OPEC production had been closer to .
December: Fulmar/Brent outages.

1989
March: Exxon tanker Valdez runs aground, spilling  of crude oil in the waters of Prince William Sound's Bligh Reef. Oil prices react upward to news of the spill and to potential shortages on the west coast caused by refinery fires there.
June: OPEC raises their production ceiling to .

The 1990s
See: 1990-1999 world oil market chronology

1990
Aug: Iraq invades Kuwait. Crude and product prices soar upward; exchange markets react wildly to any middle east news events; cash markets dominate prices after trading hours; jet fuel prices rise to record spreads over other products due to increase in defense demand. In late August, OPEC president fails to revive floundering attempts to organize a formal OPEC meeting to discuss crisis/production strategies. Informal meetings held in Vienna result in record price falls. Conflicting reports of promises to increase OPEC output to compensate for embargo of Iraq and Kuwait oil further compound market uncertainties.
Aug 2: Iraq invades Kuwait. Bush orders troops to Saudi Arabia.
Aug 27: Market prices plunge as OPEC nears informal agreement to increase output to cover  shortfall due to invasion. Cash market trading experiences abrupt decline.
September 6: U.S. citizen is shot in Kuwait. API reports  weekly draw in domestic crude stocks. Oil markets surge on aggressive U.S. statements toward Iraq.
September 21: Reports that U.S refinery problems will lead to a  loss in capacity and aggressive remarks by Saddam Hussein send crude prices to new highs.
September 24: Iraq invades the French and Dutch missions in Kuwait; French President Mitterrand called the action a violation of international law; a U.S. warship boards an Iraqi-flagged tanker bound for the port of Basrah.
September 18: Crude prices outpace increases in product prices and there is talk of cutting refinery runs.
September 20: Poor refining margins.
September 24: Saddam Hussein states his willingness to strike first and his intention to damage oil fields in the region if Iraq does strike.
October  1: Saddam Hussein says he may be willing to negotiate the occupation of Kuwait and would consider foreign participation in negotiations.
October  3: API reports a 9 MMB weekly U.S. crude inventory draw.
Oct. 9:  Fear of war and long-term supply disruptions as Hussein threatens Israel.
October  10: API reports crude inventories dropped by more than 4 MMB in the last week.
October  11: Libya's Qadhafi says Israel must be eliminated, and U.K. Foreign Secretary Hurd says force would be used if Iraq doesn't withdrawal from Kuwait.
November 5: Reports of increasing Saudi production and lower world demand.
November 6: Iran's oil-producing region suffers a serious earthquake.
November 7: API reports 5 MMB U.S. crude inventory weekly increase.
November 8: Unconfirmed rumors that Bush would announce an airlift of supplies to U.S. embassy in Kuwait, which could ultimately trigger a military clash.
Novemb