[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Office of International Treasury Control

scribed OITC representative Masi Kaumaitotoya told the local media: "Don't you ever, ever, ever again report negatively on OITC or we'll sue you for defamation." Individuals claiming to represent the OITC have also accused online critics of "serious defamation in the plural" .

The OITC and MG Rover

The OITC first came to public attention in 2005 with an attempted bid for the failed MG Rover Group in the United Kingdom. The London Daily Telegraph reported that "a Mr David Sale claim to have offered to buy MG Rover for $5 billion." The Financial Times reported that the OITC had given the administrators a deposit of one pound, made out as a postal order.  According to Sale , Rover's administrators PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PWC) were refusing to take their bid seriously even though (according to them) Prime Minister Tony Blair had acknowledged it in a letter. However, PWC told the Telegraph that it had never heard of the OITC and the Prime Minister's office had no record of the OITC's letter.  The bid met with considerable skepticism among MG Rover enthusiasts and was evidently discarded by the administrators, as the OITC did not appear on the final list of bidders. No proof has ever been provided of the supposed letter to Mr Blair.

The OITC and Ecuador

In late 2005 Germania Ullauri, the mayoress of the Ecuadorian municipality of Oña, travelled to Cambodia to meet representatives of the OITC to discuss an investment proposal. According to the local media, OITC called itself variously the Oficina Internacional de Control del Tesoro or Oficina Internacional de Control de Tesorería. It represented itself as being headquartered in Singapore, Cambodia and Malaysia, and declared its intention to establish an office in the Ecuadorian city of Guayaquil.

The OITC appointed Ullauri as its "ambassador" to the 219 municipalities of Ecuador. Following her trip to Cambodia, she convened a meeting of municipal leaders from Ecuador's Azuay, Cañar and Morona-Santiago Provinces to brief them on the OITC's proposals.

The OITC proposed to invest US$150 million in a hydro-electric project in the region, subject to Ullauri placing $20,000 in a bank account in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia as a deposit. She paid in the money as requested in December 2005 but several months later there was no sign of the promised millions from the OITC. In mid-April 2006 Ullauri publicly denounced the OITC and two Ecuadorians said to be its local agents.

The OITC and Fiji

In late February 2006, the OITC made a public offer to invest F$6 billion (US$3.5 billion) in a bank for indigenous Fijians, to be established in conjunction with the Viti Landowners and Resources Association (VLRA). Another $2.5 billion was later offered, for a total of $6 billion. The OITC's "Chief of Cabinet", Keith Scott, met with the Fijian finance minister Ratu Jone Kubuabola and 215 middle level Fijian chiefs to promise that the money would be brought to Fiji and that "this cannot be stopped by any human being." According to Ratu Osea Gavidi of the VLRA, the bank would help Fijians to access funds for development purposes which they could not get from commercial organizations, and so make it easier for Fijians to obtain loans. Ratu Osea claimed that the OITC had already invested $400 billion in China, though the Chinese Embassy in Fiji was unable to confirm this.

A memorandum of understanding was signed on 3 March between Scott and the head of the VLRA, under which the OITC was to provide 50% of the bank's funding and the landowners the other 50%. They were expected to use their land and resources as collateral.  Under the terms of the MOU, the OITC would fund equipment for landowners, the development of a "Community Aged Center", the  development of a community-owned tourist and resort centre, the construction of modern prisons and support for a reforestation programme.  The MOU was signed in chaotic circumstances which culminated in the attending journalists being thrown out by security guards acting for the OITC. Ratu Osea Gavidi subsequently claimed that the OITC had already deposited $3 billion in a bank account but the Reserve Bank of Fiji's Deputy Governor, Sada Reddy, denied that any such transaction had taken place.

The OITC's offer attracted immediate suspicion from a number of sources. The Fijian media played a leading role in questioning the bona fides of the OITC and pointed out the lack of verifiable information, to the evident annoyance of OITC representatives who threatened to sue "for so much the biggest insurance company in the world would not be able to pay the damages." In response, the country's leading newspaper, the Fiji Times, ran a front-page open letter to the OITC's Keith Scott, declaring: "You cannot continue to refuse to tell us, the people of Fiji, who you are. ... Mere words and assurances are not enough. We want hard, commercial facts that we can check and verify."

Government views