[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# June Wayne

he Art Institute of Chicago, 2010;
 June Wayne’s Paintings, Prints, and Tapestries, Pasadena Museum of California Art, 2014;
 MOCA Jacksonville, The Other: Nurturing a New Ecology in Printmaking, 2016;
 Change Agent: June Wayne and the Tamarind Workshop, Arizona State University Art Museum, 2019–20;

Select collections
June Wayne's work is well represented in major museums and private collections throughout the world. A partial list of museum collections include: 
 the Amon Carter Museum; 
 the Art Institute of Chicago; 
 the Arizona State University Art Museum; 
 the Bibliothèque nationale de France; 
 the British Museum; 
 the Brodsky Center, Rutgers University;
 the Fresno Art Museum;
 the Grunwald Center for the Graphic Arts, Hammer Museum;
 the Houghton Library, Harvard University;
 the Jewish Museum, New York;
 the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.;
 the Los Angeles County Museum of Art;
 the Museum of Contemporary Art, San Diego;
 the Museum of Modern Art;
 the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.;
 the National Gallery of Australia, Canberra;
 the National Museum of American History;
 the National Museum of Women in the Arts;
 the Neuberger Museum of Art;
 the New York Public Library;
 the Norton Simon Museum;
 the Philadelphia Museum of Art;
 the Pomona College Museum of Art;
 the Princeton University Library;
 the Queensland Art Gallery;
 the San Diego Museum of Art;
 the Skirball Cultural Center;
 the Smithsonian American Art Museum;
 the Victoria and Albert Museum;
 the Whitney Museum of American Art;
 the Zimmerli Art Museum.

Awards 
In 1982, Wayne was among the first recipients of the Vesta award, a newly created annual award the Los Angeles Woman's Building bestowed on women who had made outstanding contributions to the arts. In 1999 at the time of her retrospective at LACMA Wayne was honored by the Los Angeles City Council with the official proclamation initiated and sponsored by then Councilman Joel Wachs. In the 1990s, Wayne won the Art Table Award for Professional Contributions to the Visual Arts, the International Women's Forum Award for Women Who Make a Difference, and Lifetime Achievement Awards from both the Neuberger Museum of Art and LA ArtCore. In 2003, she was honored with the Zimmerli Lifetime Achievement Award from the College Art Association and in 2009 received awards from three institutions—the Pollock-Krasner Foundation, the Center for the Study of Political Graphics, and the Roski School of Fine Arts at the University of Southern California—as well as commendations from the City of West Hollywood and Los Angeles County. She was awarded honorary doctorates from the Rhode Island School of Design, Moore College of Art and Design, California College of Arts and Crafts, and The Atlanta College of Fine Arts. On April 4, 2011, she was named Chevalier de L'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by then France Minister of Culture Frédéric Mitterrand. In 2018, at the centenary of her birth, Wayne was honored by the Los Angeles City Council with an official proclamation.

Final years
Despite a decade long battle with cancer, Wayne continued to work actively in her Tamarind art studio into her nineties. Amongst her projects was the monumental styrene painting “Propellar”, which embodied many of her ideas about motion, optics, and the cosmos. In 2002, Wayne became a research professor at the Rutgers Center for Innovative Print and Paper.  Wayne also donated a group of over 3,300 prints, both her work and the work of other artists, to the Rutgers Center for Innovative Print and Paper, which established the June Wayne Study Center and Archive to house the collection.

June Wayne's closest Los Angeles friends and collectors gathered in 1988 for "June in June" an 80th birthday luncheon honoring June Wayne. In attendance was David Hockney, Wallis Annenberg and a total of 70 celebrants. The event, organized by Robert and Barbara Barrett was organized to honor Wayne and raise funds to purchase June Wayne work for the Los Angeles County Museum of Art collection. Ten years later LACMA would recognize the breadth of her work with a retrospective. At age 92 Wayne attended “June Wayne’s Narrative Tapestries: Tidal, DNA, and the Cosmos” held at the Art Institute of Chicago in 2010.

Wayne died at her Tamarind Avenue studio in Hollywood on August 23, 2011, with her daughter and granddaughter by her side.

See also
Four Stones for Kanemitsu, a documentary film set at the Tamarind Lithography Workshop

References

External links

Women's International Center entry
ArtScene bio
Tamarind Institute History
June Wayne: A Catalogue Raisonne, 1936-2006 the Art of Everything
Guide to the June Wayne Exhibit Catalogs and Publications. Special Collections and Archives, The UC Irvine Libraries, Irvine, California.