[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Charles E. Apgar

tion to ensure successful reception. The message "Pr 3." would be sent "Pr 3. Pr 3." for example. The Sayville transmissions varied this practice by sometimes sending "Pr Pr 3 Pr. 3." – a significant variation that a casual listener might overlook. These were alleged to be a key to an acrostic code.

Other methods of obfuscation included using innocuous English or American sounding fictitious names such as "Frederick Chappell" to refer to the German submarine Deutschland or "Theodore Hooper" as a code name to refer to Capt. von Papen, the German military attaché in Washington, DC. The phrase "Expect father to-morrow" would be interpreted as "The political situation between America and Germany grows worse. It is imperative that you take care of your New York affairs." These names and phrases were concealed in communications that masqueraded as commercial messages. Copies of these were provided to the government by the Providence Journal which accused the German Embassy of revealing secret information about the movements of the allied navy fleet. The headline of the story was subtitled: "Ambassador Breaks Pledges and with Captain Boy-Ed Has Tricked United States Authorities for Months." In 2004, that same newspaper reported that much of John R. Rathom's reporting was a fraud: "In truth, the Providence Journal had acquired numerous inside scoops on German activities, mostly from British intelligence sources who used Rathom to plant anti-German stories in the American media."

Significance and legacy 

Hiram Percy Maxim has noted that he and other amateurs also noticed these messages: "Apgar, the old sleuth, smelled something just about the time the rest of us did." Flynn describes the importance of Apgar's contributions to the government seizure: "It was really his absolutely faithful records of all of the signals sent out from Sayville that caused the United States to seize the famous station." Extensive coverage in the media in 1915 included a magazine cover story about Apgar that referred to him as "A Wireless Detective in Real Life."

A 1923 article by William J. Burns, then director of the Bureau of Investigation, in Popular Radio included a photo of Apgar. It was captioned "The Radio Detective Who Unfathomed the Famous 'Nauen Buzz'" and the description read:
During the early days of the World War the incredibly rapid and undecipherable radio signals between the most powerful broadcasting station in Germany and the station of the "Telefunken Company" at Sayville, Long Island, N. Y., aroused the attention of the U. S. officials. But it was radio amateur, Charles E. Apgar of Westfield, N. J., who finally found the solution by means of amplifiers that recorded these signals on wax phonograph cylinders. By this means the messages were de-coded – and the Long Island station was promptly seized. This picture shows Mr. Apgar operating the same apparatus which he used on that historic occasion.

The Sayville incident has been described as one of the first "overt acts" that led to American entry into World War I two years later. The specific information recorded on the wax cylinders remained a closely guarded secret in the government archives for many years.

The cylinders that he recorded were acquired by NBC in 1934. An example was displayed, along with the original receiving set that Apgar donated, as part of a museum exhibit in the lobby of Rockefeller Center. Apgar's work received renewed attention early during World War II when amateur radio operators began listening for "fifth column" activity such as odd coded messages sent from "mystery" stations. His work was noted by the ARRL in 2015 during a commemoration held on the 100th anniversary of the sinking of Lusitania. At this time he was also inducted into the CQ Amateur Radio Hall of Fame.

Some of Apgar's homemade equipment has been preserved at The Henry Ford museum. His original wax cylinders are believed to be lost, but some samples of his recordings survive. An interview of Apgar by George Hicks was broadcast on station WJZ and the NBC Blue Network on Dec. 27, 1934. A tape copy of the original aluminum phonograph discs and a transcript is in the Recorded Sound Collection of the Library of Congress. A recording of this broadcast donated by Thorn Mayes is in the collection of the Antique Wireless Association. Broadcast historian Elizabeth McLeod considers Apgar's cylinders to be the earliest surviving recordings of a radio transmission based on research done by Dr. Michael Biel. Apgar has been referred to as a "pioneer home-recorder." He has also been credited with making the first permanent record of a wireless message.

Fictional portrayal