[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# V. I. Warshawski

the wealthier and more powerful of Chicago. She repeatedly uncovers and confronts major combinations of crooked business people and corrupt politicians, much more powerful than she, and emerges with at least a partial victory. Often the identified murderer remains too powerful for the law to touch.

Vic is described as a lean, athletic brunette who runs to keep in shape and does not fear physical confrontations, relying on karate or her Smith & Wesson semi-automatic pistol with its nine-round magazine.

Hot-tempered, sarcastic, and fiercely self-reliant, Vic prefers T-shirts and jeans, and sleeps in the nude, but she can dress stylishly if necessary. She hates to admit being scared or vulnerable. Her capable and willful personality has led fans and literary critics to consider her one of the few feminist detectives. She loves opera and classical music, often singing arias and playing her piano in times of stress. She stays trim despite a ravenous appetite and favors multi-course ethnic meals with good wine. Throughout her adventures she recounts meals - what she had eaten, where, and whether or not it was tasty. She often indulges in big, greasy breakfasts and kielbasa sandwiches. She likes to soak for half an hour or more in her tub – a luxury that was not available in her childhood home.

She shares two golden retrievers, Peppy and Mitch, with her downstairs neighbor, Salvatore "Sal" Contreras - a WWII veteran who fought at Anzio, as well as being a retired trade unionist who took part in organizing militant strikes. She is an ardent fan of the Chicago Cubs in baseball and the Chicago Bears in football, closely following the ups and downs of their respective careers. Her favorite brand of whisky is the Johnnie Walker Black Label, though she takes care not to drink it on the job.

In addition to one failed marriage, Vic has had several lovers over the years, such as English insurance executive Roger Ferrant; Conrad Rawlings, a black Chicago police detective ; war correspondent and human rights activist C.L. Morrell; and musician Jake Thibault. Some of these characters appear in more than one book, even after the formal relationship has ended. Warshawski can be a passionate and caring lover, and feels deeply hurt when a relationship is ended. She is fiercely independent even towards men she loves, would not consider living with one, and deeply resents their feeling protective towards her. Men who love her want to do so when she repeatedly risks her life in pursuing a hot case.

Her closest friend is Viennese physician Dr. Charlotte "Lotty" Herschel, who as a Jewish child escaped Nazi-Annexed Austria. Dr. Herschel treats Vic's  various illnesses and combat-related injuries and is, in effect, her surrogate mother. With both actual mother and surrogate mother being refugees from the Nazis, Vic outspokenly identifies herself as being Jewish, though not religious and not member of any organized community. She has deep identification with Jewish history before and during the Holocaust. Having a typical Polish name and having grown up in a predominantly Polish American neighborhood, she is sometimes mistaken for a Catholic. In fact, her relations with the Catholic Church are complicated and ambiguous. Her childhood was overshadowed by a particularly tyrannical, bigoted, and racist Polish parish priest. In one book she gets into head-on confrontation with a manifestly criminal Cardinal with the Church hierarchy solidly behind him, and whom the Chicago Police - with a preponderance of Irish and Polish Catholics - dare not touch. On the other hand, Vic has a warm and affectionate contact with a Progressive Catholic priest working in a slum neighborhood who appears in several books and who can always be relied on to give discreet help and provide refuge to various fugitives and wayward youths which Vic encounters. The same distinction between "Progressives" and "Reactionaries" is also made in Vic's encounters with various Protestant clergy.

Vic makes quite clear where she stands politically - detesting the Republican Party and all its works, also not very enthusiastic about the Democratic Party establishment but on occasion supporting Progressive Democrat candidates. The cases she works on often get her involved with ethnic minorities - Blacks, Hispanics, Muslims and others - and she feels sympathy for illegal immigrants and occasionally gives them direct aid. Opposed to the American wars in the Middle East, she can be sympathetic to the soldiers sent to fight in these wars and is ready to help soldiers who had been wronged.

Recurring characters