[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zlatko Ćosić

Zlatko Ćosić is a video artist born in Banja Luka, Yugoslavia whose work includes short films, video installations, theater and architectural projections, and audio-visual performances. Ćosić's experience as a refugee influenced and shaped the content of his early artistic practice. His work began with the challenges of immigration and shifting identities, evolving to socio-political issues related to injustice, consumerism, and climate crisis. Ćosić's artwork has been shown in over fifty countries in exhibitions such as the Contemporary Art Museum St. Louis, Ann Arbor Film Festival, Video Vortex XI at Kochi-Muziris Biennale, ZKM Center for Art and Media Karlsruhe, St. Louis International Film Festival, Torrance Art Museum, Alchemy Film & Moving Image Festival, /si:n/ Video Art and Performance Biennale, Institut Für Alles Mögliche, the Pulitzer Arts Foundation, Kunstverein Kärnten, Art Speaks Out at 2022 United Nations Climate Change Conference, and the Research Pavilion at the 57th Venice Biennale. Ćosić has received grants and fellowships including the Regional Arts Commission Artist Fellowship, a Kranzberg Grant for a video installation at Laumeier Sculpture Park, and the WaveMaker Grant, Locust Projects, supported by the Andy Warhol Foundation.

Since 1997, he lives and works in St. Louis.

Work

Ćosić's video Horizons has been an official selection at film festivals in the United States, Australia, Denmark, France, Germany, and Poland and was a prize winner at the 2010 St. Louis Filmmakers Showcase, the 2010 Macon Film Festival, and the 2010 Sunscreen Film Festival. Ćosić's video Elans won the Pulitzer's Film Competition in St. Louis and it was finalist at the Digital Graffiti festival in Florida. His video Spaces was screened in numerous film festivals in North America and Europe and won an award at the St. Louis International Film Festival. Ćosić's video Story 1: Scenes 1-9 won Best Experimental Film and his video Descend won Best Sound at the St. Louis Filmmakers Showcase. His video installation Un-Pollute won Jury Prize, Networked Disruptions exhibition at Finger Lakes Environmental Film Festival. He collaborated with the 60x60 Project creating 200 videos, which have been presented at the Spark Festival, TNA TV in France, EMM Festival, LOOP Videoart Festival, Printemps Musical d'Annecy, Kulturkiosken Gallery, Stimultania Art Gallery and at other venues in France, Spain, Sweden, Serbia and USA. He presented his work and collaborated with St. Louis Symphony Orchestra, New Music Circle and HEARding Cats Collective. Ćosić's solo exhibition Still Adjusting  at Gallery 210 was reviewed in the June 2014 issue of Art in America.

Ćosić's artwork has been exhibited at the Contemporary Art Museum, Kemper Art Museum, Regional Arts Commission, Gallery 210, Cecille R. Hunt Gallery, Sheldon Art Galleries, Des Lee Gallery, Arcade Gallery, and Laumeier Sculpture Park, all in St. Louis; UCM Gallery of Art & Design, Warrensburg, MO; Project 4 Gallery, Washington DC; Hunter Time Square Gallery, New York; Harold Golen Gallery, Miami; PUBLIC Gallery, Louisville; Kulturprojekte, Berlin; Kulturkiosken Gallery, Gävle, Sweden; Atelje 26, Students' City Cultural Center, Belgrade, Serbia; Pinnacles Gallery, Townsville, Australia; Academy of Fine Arts, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina; JCIC Vilnius & Kedainiai Regional Museum, Lithuania; Patarei "The Battery" Prison, Tallinn, Estonia; Torrance Art Museum, Los Angeles; Stimultania Art Gallery, Strasbourg, France; HIEDRA Gallery, Buenos Aires, Argentina; and neo:gallery 23, Bolton, UK.