[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# 2007 New Year Honours

Association. For services to Sport. 
Michael Geer, Swimming Coach and President, Royal Tunbridge Wells Monson Swimming Club. For services to Sport.
Stephen Paul Gelder, Managing Director, Gelder Ltd., Gainsborough. For services to Business and to the community in Lincolnshire.
Steven George Gerrard, Footballer. For services to Sport.
Dr. Carol Gibbens. For services to the community in Dorset.
Lambert Gibbons, Driver, Government Car and Despatch Agency, H.M. Treasury.
Mary Dorothy Beckford, Mrs. Gibson. For services to the Bomber Command Association.
Miss Rita Rose Gibson. For services to the community in West Bromwich, West Midlands.
Ms Angela Jayne Gidden, Design Director and Founder, Attic 2 Ltd and Director and Co-Founder, Nomad and Nest Ltd. For services to Business in South Wales. *Barry Thomas Gifford, Director, Finance and Administration, Royal National Institute for the Blind. For services to People with Visual Impairment. 
Evelyn Mary, Mrs. Gittens, lately School Crossing Warden, Halton Borough Council, Cheshire. For services to Education.
Tibor Gold, Patent and Trade Mark Attorney. For services to Intellectual Property.
June, Mrs. Goodchild. For services to the community in Easterside, Middlesbrough.
Patricia, Mrs. Gordon, Officer, National Insurance Contributions Office, H.M. Revenue and Customs. 
Stephen Grainger, Chief Executive, Youth Sport Trust. For services to School Sport.
Ivor John Frederick Gray, Youth Football Coach. For services to Sport in Northumberland.
William Grayson. For services to the community in Huddersfield.
Hazel, Mrs. Green. For services to the Welfare of Prisoners in Wakefield.
Barbara, Mrs. Greggains, Lay Representative, Clinical Radiology Patients Liaison Group, Royal College of Radiologists. For services to Healthcare.
John William Grey, Head Shoe Shiner, Virgin Atlantic. For services to Passengers.
Bernadette Philomena, Mrs. Grimes. For services to the Soldiers', Sailors' and Airmen's Families Association in the East Riding of Yorkshire.
Wing Commander Peter Ernest Guiver. For services to the Air Training Corps, London and South East Region.
Brian Guttridge, Naval Tailor. For services to the Armed Forces.
Elizabeth Ann, Mrs. Haddow, Co-Founder, National Holiday Fund. For services to children and Families.
Malcolm Haddow, Director and Trustee, National Holiday Fund. For services to Children and Families. 
Roberta, Mrs. Haffey. For services to the Church of Ireland.
Thomas John Hall, Charge Nurse, Tyrone and Fermanagh Hospital. For services to Healthcare in Northern Ireland.
Ms Ruby Hammer, Co-Founder, Ruby and Millie Cosmetics. For services to the Cosmetics Industry. 
Albert Hampson, lately Business Manager, AA Hotel Services. For services to the Hospitality Industry. 
Dilys Elvena, Mrs. Hanmer, President, Pembroke and District Committee, Macmillan Cancer Relief. For charitable services.
Mary Terese, Mrs. Hanna, Mid-day Supervisor, St. James's Roman Catholic Primary School, Twickenham, London. For services to Education. 
Roy Hanna, Founder and Member, Aghalee Development Association. For services to the Rural Community in Northern Ireland.
Derek Graham Hardwell, Senior Manager, Child Support Agency, Department for Work and Pensions. 
Joseph Kenneth Hargreaves. For services to the community in Lancashire.
Thomas George Harland. For services to the British Standards Institution.
Ann Marilyn, Mrs. Harries, J.P., D.L. For services to the Cub Scouts in Neath Port Talbot and Swansea. 
Francis Andrew Harrington, Member, Castle Morpeth Borough Council, Northumberland. For services to Local Government.
Bill Harris, Chair and Member, Senior Citizen Forum, Shrewsbury. For services to the community in Shropshire.
Philip Arthur Harris, Assistant Director of Community Services (Housing Operations), Plymouth City Council. For services to Local Government.
Miss Ruth Alison Harte (Mrs. Langrish). For services to Music.
Ms Angela Hartnett, Executive Chef, Connaught Hotel and Restaurant Proprietor. For services to the Hospitality Industry.
Colin Walter Hassall, Drug and Alcohol Team Manager. For services to People who Misuse Drugs. 
Richard John Hatton, Boxer. For services to Sport. 
Rosemary, Mrs. Hawley, J.P., D.L., Chair, Knowsley Primary Care Trust. For services to Healthcare in Merseyside.
Rosemary, Mrs. Hayes, lately Grade E1, Ministry of Defence.
Ms Margaret Hazell. For services to the Trade Union Movement in Wales.
Aneurin John Wyn Heath, Paramedic Supervisor, Wales Air Ambulance Service, Swansea. For services to Healthcare.
Brenda Chamberlin, Mrs. Heesom. For services to the Sea Cadet Corps in Gravesend, Kent.
Ms Phiona Jane Hesketh, Probation Officer, H.M. Prison, Kirkham, Lancashire. For services to Diversity.
Gaye Stanford, Mrs. Hessay, Defence Section Translator, British Embassy, Madrid, Ministry of Defence.
David Edward Highley, lately Minerals Geologist. For services to Science.
Harry David Higman, Curator, National Cycle Museum Trust, Llandrindod Wells. For services to t