[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Meriden School

f his wife Philippa Marion Wilson in 1900. Selbourne became the home of the Walsord family in the first two decades of the 1900s and became the Earwaker family home in the 1927.

According to the Australian Securities and Investment Commission, Meriden School was formally registered on 6 March 1929.

In 1942, Meriden temporarily became the home of two schools as the Presbyterian Ladies' College (PLC), from the nearby suburb of Croydon, was occupied by the Royal Australian Air Force for the purpose of establishing a top secret Radar Unit. Meriden offered to accommodate the PLC boarders and the school's singing, domestic science, and physical education classes. In spite of the apparent happy relationship between the two schools, the PLC Principal, Dr Helen Wilkie, recommended that further integration between the two schools should not proceed, and thus at the end of 1942, Meriden indicated that it could no longer house the PLC boarders.

In 1957, Meriden purchased Wadham Preparatory School an independent day, co-educational, preparatory school located at 9–11 Wallis Avenue, Strathfield. The school had been established in 1943 by Kathleen Wyndham. The site was used as a sub-primary campus principally for girls, but also for nursery and kindergarten boys. In 1967 Meriden closed the Wadham campus having purchased land for its entire junior school in Redmyre Road, Strathfield. After its closure, the building was demolished and two large 1970s style face-brick houses now stand in its place.

In 1979, as with numerous other schools at the time, Meriden closed its boarding facility due to a steady decline in enrolments.

In 1997, Meriden became an Australia public company with its own board of directors. Although not under the formal organisational structure of the Anglican Church, Meriden emphasises an Anglican ethos. Meriden has been granted exemption from using the designator "Limited" (Ref: Australian Securities and Investment Commission, Document 005320905).

In 2015, a major construction project commenced at Meriden, involving an expansion for enlarged school grounds, the renovation of the school's Turner House wing, the construction of a new two-level sport centre with rooftop courts, and the renovation of the school's Wallis building for an improved library, hall and Year 12 common room.

Principals

School crest
Meriden's crest was designed by the school's art teacher, Mr Albert Collins, in 1921. The crest features Meriden's motto of Semper fidelis (translated from Latin as "always faithful"), together with a representation of the lilies of Parnassus. In ancient Greece, Mount Parnassus was regarded as the mountain sacred to the muses and the centre of the earth. The muses were said to preside over the realm of learning, with each having a special province, such as poetry, science or history.

Activities

Cocurricular Activities
Meriden offers an extensive program of extracurricular activities, including:
 Duke of Edinburgh's Award
 Da Vinci Decathlon
 Tournament of Minds
 Archdale Debating
 Festival of Speech
 Mock Trial
 Choir
 Intermediate and Senior Singers
 Orchestra (Symphony, String, Chamber, Sinfonia)
 Concert Band
 Chapel Band
 Jazz Band
 Chess 
 Interact
 Green Team
 Science Club
 STEM Club
 Art Club

Sports
Meriden participates in IGSA (Independent Girls Schools' Association) where sport teams representing Meriden are formed and play against other private girls schools in Sydney. There is also a Personal Development, Health and Physical Education program which is compulsory for all girls in years 7–10, with 3 PDHPE lessons per fortnight(2 being a practical and 1 learning about health).

House system
Meriden School's original house system was established in 1931 by the headmistress at the time, Miss Overy, who named the houses after English counties. The original four houses were:
Warwick (Yellow)
Cumberland (Blue)
Kent (Green)
Sussex (Red)
In 2014, two more houses were introduced to meet the need for improved house-based pastoral care. In line with tradition, the new houses were named after English counties that are famous for their universities.
The two new houses were:
Oxford (Orange)
Durham (Purple)
Each year, students in each house are to vote for their new Year 11 house leaders – the House Captain who is supported by the Service Officer, Arts Officer and Sports Officer.  Through the house system, students participate in inter-house competitions in order to gain points for their house. Competitions include the Athletics Carnival, Swimming Carnival, House Choral Competition, House Arts Competition, Inter-house Sport Competition and Inter-house Maths Competition. The house with the most points at the end of the school year is awarded the Wallis Cup.

Associated schools 
Meriden's brother school is Trinity Grammar School at Summer Hill, an Anglican day school for boys.

Old Girls