[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Anti-realism

y, non-cognitivism denies the first claim, arguing that moral statements have no meaning or truth content, error theory denies the second claim, arguing that all moral statements are false, and ethical subjectivism denies the third claim, arguing that the truth of moral statements is mind dependent.

Examples of anti-realist moral theories might be:

Ethical subjectivism
Non-cognitivism
Emotivism
Prescriptivism
Quasi-realism
Projectivism
Moral fictionalism
Moral nihilism
Moral skepticism

There is a debate as to whether moral relativism is actually an anti-realist position. While many versions deny the metaphysical thesis, some do not, as one could imagine a system of morality which requires you to obey the written laws in your country. Such a system would be a version of moral relativism, as different individuals would be required to follow different laws, but the moral facts are physical facts about the world, not mental facts, so they are metaphysically ordinary. Thus, different versions of moral relativism might be considered anti-realist or realist.

Epistemic anti-realism

Just as moral anti-realism asserts the nonexistence of normative facts, epistemic anti-realism asserts the nonexistence of facts in the domain of epistemology. Thus, the two are now sometimes grouped together as "metanormative anti-realism". Prominent defenders of epistemic anti-realism include Hartry Field, Simon Blackburn, Matthew Chrisman, and Allan Gibbard, among others.

See also

 Arend Heyting
 Constructivist epistemology
 Crispin Wright
 Critical realism (philosophy of perception)
 Luitzen Egbertus Jan Brouwer
 Metaepistemology
 Münchhausen trilemma
 Neil Tennant (philosopher)
 Philosophical realism
 Quasi-realism

References

Bibliography
 
 . reprinted, pp. 1–24.
 . reprinted, pp. 145–165.
 . reprinted, pp. 202–214.
 Lee Braver (2007). A Thing of This World: a History of Continental Anti-Realism, Northwestern University Press: 2007.
 Ian Hacking (1999). The Social Construction of What?. Harvard University Press: 2001.
 Samir Okasha (2002). Philosophy of Science: A Very Short Introduction. Oxford University Press.

External links

 Semantic challenges to realism in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy

Philosophical realism
Idealism
Metaphysics of science
Metatheory of science
Epistemology of science