[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lorena (song)

sod;
But there, up there, 'tis heart to heart.

Usage in more recent media

Film
An instrumental version appears in the film Gone With The Wind (1939) when Scarlett O'Hara is manning the stall at the charity dance in her mourning outfit and Rhett Butler pursues her while she is trying to avoid him.

The tune occurs in two John Ford films. The melody of "Lorena" was used by composer Max Steiner to represent homecoming in various scenes in the 1956 western The Searchers. Composer David Buttolph used the melody to represent bittersweet parting at the end of the 1959 western The Horse Soldiers.

In the 1989 miniseries Lonesome Dove the tune is used in the background as Gus McCrae lies dying – ostensibly played on a whorehouse piano.

The tune of the song is used in the saloon scene near the beginning of the 2012 film Cowboys & Aliens, played on fiddle. The saloon keeper tells the fiddler that it is too melancholy and asks him to play a different tune. Near the end of the movie, the piano player plays an upbeat version of the tune, and the crowd celebrates their victory over the aliens by dancing to it.

Was featured in the 2017 Colin Farrell/Nicole Kidman film, The Beguiled.

Television
The melody features prominently in several episodes of the 1990 Ken Burns documentary Civil War, and it is referred to as a tune which both Federal and Confederate soldiers particularly loved.

The song features prominently in one subplot-line of the television series So Weird season 1 episode 4 - "Sacrifice".

It was used as harmonica background music in the TV series Wagon Train, episode "The Clementine Jones Story" (1961), with Ann Blyth (as Clementine Jones) singing a rendition of the song.

It was also used as background music in the PBS Civil War drama series Mercy Street, in a scene in which the characters Dr. Jedediah Foster (Josh Radnor) and Nurse Anne Hastings (Tara Summers) visit a Union encampment to treat an ill general.

Video games
In the 2018 western-themed video game Red Dead Redemption 2, the character Karen Jones can be heard singing the song at a campfire.

Recordings
"Lorena" was recorded in 1961 by Tennessee Ernie Ford for his album Tennessee Ernie Ford Sings Civil War Songs of the South, released in conjunction with the centennial of the war.
A version by Johnny Cash was included on the compilation album Johnny Cash – 1970, released in Australia in 1969.
The instrumental version by Molly Mason, Jay Ungar, and Matt Glaser used in Burns' Civil War documentary is available on the series' accompanying soundtrack album.
An instrumental version was recorded and released by The Seldom Scene in 1986 album, recorded live at The Kennedy Center, Washington, DC
”Lorena” was recorded by The Mormon Tabernacle Choir in 1961 and 1962.

See also
 Katyusha
 Erika

Sources
 The American Bicentennial Songbook, Vol. 1 (1770-1870s). William A. Ward, New York, NY, 1975, p. 202.
 Zanesville Times Recorder, May 12, 2007, Zanesville, Ohio.

Notes

External links 
"Lorena" at Lawrence County, Ohio Genealogy and Historical website
  (1963)
Sheet music

Songs of the American Civil War
Songs written by Joseph Philbrick Webster
1857 songs