[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Totaram Sanadhya

he handed over the running of his farm to labourers and he toured the estates, trying to help the Indian labourers. He would sit outside the boundary of the estates singing religious songs and when people from the plantation came out to listen to him he would stop singing and discuss their problems.

Political activities 
In 1910, a petition asking for political representation and education, written by Sanadhya in Hindi, and signed by 200 Suva and Rewa Indians, was submitted to the Governor. In 1911, following a severe hurricane that had brought much hardship to the Fiji Indians in the Central Division of Fiji, the British Indian Association of Fiji was formed. The Association discussed grievances such as the lack of educated leadership amongst the Indians and the dependence on European lawyers and authorised Sanadhya to write a letter to Gandhi to send an Indian barrister to Fiji.  Gandhi was moved by this appeal and published this request in the Indian Opinion, from where it came to the attention of Manilal Doctor in Mauritius. Manilal exchanged letters with Totaram Sanadhya, who organised for collection of money for Manilal's fare and law books and made arrangements for his stay in Fiji. In 1912 he sent a telegram to support Gokhale's resolution in the Legislative Council of India for an end to the Indenture system.

Later life 
He left for India on 27 March 1914. His departure from Fiji was a major event, even gaining the attention of the European Press. On his return to India, he toured different parts of India and also made a speech at the Madras session of the Indian National Congress. He published his experiences in Fiji in the book, My twenty-One Years in the Fiji Islands (in Hindi) in 1914. The book was banned in Fiji but received wide publicity in India and was published in several Indian languages and even a drama was based on it. Several stories in the book, especially Kunti's experiences, aroused a lot of passion and the call for an end to indenture. Sanadhya joined Mahatma Gandhi at the Sabarmati Ashram in 1922, with other followers of Gandhi. After a long illness, he died in 1947.

See also
 Hermann Kallenbach
 Sarvodaya

References

Bibliography 
 

1876 births
1947 deaths
Emigrants from British India
Immigrants to Fiji
Indo-Fijian writers
People from Firozabad district
Fijian Hindus