[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lake Natoma

Lake Natoma is a small lake in the Western United States, along the lower American River, between Folsom and Nimbus Dams in Sacramento County, California. The lake is located within the Folsom Lake State Recreation Area which maintains the facilities and bike trails surrounding the lake. Lake Natoma is located  east of Sacramento, and has 500 surface acres of water.  The total length of lake Natoma is .

Lake Natoma is a recreational lake for rowing, kayaking, and swimming; powerboats are permitted with a  "no wake" restriction. It is home to the Sacramento State Aquatic Center, and regularly hosts West Coast College Rowing Championships, the Pac-12 Conference rowing championships, and, every four years, the Intercollegiate Rowing Association Championships. The Lake Natoma Four Bridges Half Marathon is held each October at the lake.

Lake Natoma includes the historic Black Miners Bar area in Folsom, the site of a gold rush era African-American mining camp.

The Folsom Powerhouse State Historic Park overlooks Lake Natoma in the city of Folsom. It is a California State Historical site, preserving an early hydroelectric power station.

A paved cycling and jogging trail encircles the lake along with unpaved equestrian trails. The Folsom South Canal Trail also begins at the lake. Several parking lots and boat launching ramps are located around the lake.

History 
This was the site of many gold mining operations in the 1800s.

In the 1950s, after the Folsom Dam was constructed as part of the Central Valley Project work began on Nimbus Dam which would manage water released from Folsom Dam. In addition to maintaining water flow the lake provides water to irrigation canals and generates hydro electric power. After Lake Natoma and Folsom Lake were built, the Bureau of Reclamation was given control of operation for both reservoirs and dams.

Around 1956, the Bureau of Reclamation and California Department of Parks and Recreation, also known as State Parks, formed an agreement that State Parks will be responsible for recreational activities on Lake Natoma, as well as Folsom Lake.

In 1979, the general plan for the State Recreational Area at Folsom Lake, including Lake Natoma, was amended three times before it was approved. As part of the 1979 General Plan amendment, the Folsom Powerhouse State Historic Park became a separate unit, not a part of the Folsom Unit.

In 2002, multiple meetings were held for public input and for interested stakeholder to plan and prepare for recreational purposes adequate enough for the growing populations. There was a 62% increase in population since the General Plan was accepted in 1979.

Physical features 
Surrounding this narrow lake are foothills, plateaus, cliffs and river canyons.  A dense  riparian ecosystem encircles the lake. The Lake Natoma Bluffs stand  and line the lake from the Black Miners Bar to the Mississippi Bar.

Recreation 
The area is accessible via US Highway 50. Since these reservoirs are located in the metropolitan area, the State Recreational Area (SRA) tries to create a habitat suitable for the wildlife that are already living there, to have both "recreation and nature." In 2000, there were over 1.5 million visitors to Folsom Lake State Recreation Area, including Lake Natoma and Folsom Lake.

Water and land uses 
Lake Natoma was first ready for the public in 1958. The common water activities are kayaking, rowing, canoeing, swimming, water skiing, sailing, and fishing. Land activities include hiking, biking, picnicking, jogging, and horseback riding. Educational activities are also available, including information about historical sites near Lake Natoma and Folsom Lake. Like the  common fish that spawn in the American River, the history of the California Gold Rush, and Native American life before the Europeans' arrival.

Major facilities

Boat launch 
The lake has three boat launches for powerboats, jetskis, and sailboats. These launches are well designed with two hard surface launches and one gravel launch. With enough room to turn around, and parking areas.  Fishermen like to use the Negro Bar launch, as many fishing tournament events occur nearby. California State University Sacramento (CSUS) holds rowing classes here.

Campgrounds 
There is only one campground open to the public on lake Natoma: Black Miner's Bar Group Campground.

Willow Creek 
Located at the Willow Creek inlet to Lake Natoma, this area is used for both land and water activities. The area is used for picnicking, birdwatching, fishing, and canoeing. Lake Natoma Trail is nearby.

Aquatic Center for CSUS 

Where the Nimbus Dam ends, there is an Aquatic Center right on Lake Natoma that belongs to the California State University Sacramento (CSUS). This is where CSUS holds some of their aquatic classes, such as skiing and wind surfing.

Bike path 
A bike path follows along the East Trail and West Trail of Nimbus Dam that lines Lake Natoma.