[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Monarchy in Ontario

thern Ontario), from the 16th century to the transfer of the territory to the British Crown in 1763, and, in part, from the establishment of Ruperts Land by royal proclamation of King Charles II of England in 1670, which included what is now northern Ontario.

American refugees and American invaders

During and following the American Revolutionary War, which took place between 1775 and 1783, some 46,000 American settlers loyal to the Crown, known as the United Empire Loyalists, fled north to the Province of Quebec (formerly a part of New France, until the British were given control in 1763) and other colonies in the Canadas. The King-in-Council granted each family  of land. From then, Ontario residents descended from these original refugees may use the post-nominals UE, standing for United Empire, and the Canadian Heraldic Authority can grant them distinctive coronets in their coats of arms.

Additionally, thousands of Iroquois and other Aboriginals were expelled from New York and other states, resettling under the protection of the Crown in what is now Ontario. In particular,  Governor of the Province of Quebec Frederick Haldimand issued a royal proclamation (known as the Haldimand Proclamation) granting land to the Mohawk people who had served the British Crown through the revolution. The proclamation stated:

Whereas His Majesty, having been pleased to direct that, in consideration of the early attachment to his cause manifested by the Mohawk Indians, and of the loss of their settlement which they thereby sustained, that a convenient tract of land under his protection should be chosen as a safe and comfortable retreat for them and others of the Five Nations, who have either lost their settlements within the Territory of the American States, or wish to retire from them to the British, I have at the earnest desire of many of these, His Majesty's faithful allies, purchased a tract of land from the Indians situated between the Lakes Ontario, Erie, and Huron, and I do hereby, in His Majesty's name, authorize and permit the said Mohawk Nation and such others of the Five Nation Indians as wish to settle in that quarter to take possession of and settle upon the banks of the river commonly called Ours [Ouse], or Grand River.

On this land, the Crown in 1785 erected the Mohawk Chapel, in Brantford, as a gift to the Mohawk people and their then-leader, Joseph Brant. At the same time, the King provided lands near Belleville to the displaced Tyendinaga Mohawks. There, too, a chapel was built, today known as the Christ Church Royal Chapel. The Mohawks brought there the silver communion set given to them by Queen Anne in 1711, as a symbol of the alliance between the Crown and the Mohawks. Further gifts from monarchs included a triptych in the Mohawk language and a bell from King George III, a royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom from King George V, a bible from Queen Victoria, and a communion chalice from Queen Elizabeth II (given in 1984 to mark the bicentennial of the Mohawks arrival in Ontario), in addition to a set of eight silver handbells. The churches are now two of the three chapels royal in Canada.

A few dozen Black Loyalists also settled in the western region of the Province of Quebec; although, not nearly as many as those who located themselves in Nova Scotia. The majority of black inhabitants of Pays d'en Haut were slaves brought into the colony by the Loyalists, including Brant.

It was the attempted forced return to the United States of one of those slaves—Chloe Cooley—in 1793 that prompted the abolitionist John Graves Simcoe, then serving as King George III's representative in Upper Canada (a territory formed out of the western portion of the Province of Quebec in 1791, because of the influx of Loyalists), to push for legislation abolishing slavery in the colony. Though he faced resistance from the Legislative Assembly, Simcoe, later that year, gave royal assent to the Act Against Slavery, making Upper Canada "the first jurisdiction in the British Empire to pass a law freeing slaves."

Prince Edward, a son of King George III, visited Upper Canada eight months after its establishment, becoming the first member of the royal family to tour the area, seeing Cornwall, Kingston, Prince Edward County, Niagara-on-the-Lake, going so far as Fort Erie. Along the way, he met with Loyalists and various First Nations delegations, helping to foster a British identity for Upper Canada. Along with Simcoe, the Prince Edward made a point of visiting Forts Niagara and Scholsser, getting himself involved in a boundary dispute with the United States in the process.