[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Energy policy of Canada

Canada has access to all main sources of energy including oil and gas, coal, hydropower, biomass, solar, geothermal, wind, marine and nuclear. It is the world's second largest producer of uranium, third largest producer of hydro-electricity, fourth largest natural gas producer, and the fifth largest producer of crude oil. In 2006, only Russia, the People's Republic of China, the United States and Saudi Arabia produce more total energy than Canada.

The United States is Canada's major trade market for energy products and services. Canada sent around 98% of its total energy exports to the United States in 2015, meaning that Canada is the largest supplier of energy exports to the world's largest economy. Canada also exports significant amounts of uranium and coal to Asia, Europe and Latin America.

Despite being a net energy exporter, Canada also imports energy products. $24.5 billion of energy products were imported in 2004.

Canada has a robust energy profile with abundant and diverse resources. The energy and climate policies in Canada are interrelated. These energy and climate policies are implemented at both the federal and provincial government level. The federal government is responsible for establishing objectives for the entire country and the provincial governments are responsible for enforcing these objectives and developing the methods to achieve these goals. In 2015, the federal and provincial governments created a national agreement for cooperating in boosting the nation's energy industry while transitioning to a low-carbon economy. Provincial governments are developing their own strategies in order to reach the national goals. In 2016, Prince Edward Island Strategy became one of the first provinces to develop their own strategies in response to the federal agreement goals.

In 2015, Canada paid US$43 billion in post-tax energy subsidies according to a 2019 International Monetary Fund (IMF) report.

Background

Aspects of Canada's "unique" political and economic reality affect its federal energy strategies.  Canada has "significant resources of conventional and unconventional oil, natural gas and hydroelectricity" and has become "one of the world’s largest energy producers." According to a 2015 Canadian Global Affairs Institute (CGAI), the "design and structure" of Canadian federalism has resulted in an "unwillingness of the federal government to commit to a national vision in most resource issues for fear of risking political capital in debates with those provinces who resist cooperative resource development." Canada was one of the few OECD countries that did not have a national energy policy. The authors of the 2003 publication, Power Switch: Energy Regulatory Governance in the 21st Century, wrote that "Canada has one of the most divided and decentralized constitutional arrangements for energy among Western industrialized countries."

Since 1867, the rules of Canadian federalism ensure that "individual provinces own, market and control energy exports" of energy resources contained within their own provincial borders. The federal government has the responsibility over infrastructure between provinces, which includes pipelines.

One of the major challenges of energy policy in Canada concerns geography not geology. The majority of energy consumers live in Ontario and Quebec and the major energy producers are located in the east and west.  Canada's energy policies attempt to reconcile the economic interests of energy consumers who want the cheapest product, with the challenge of transporting indigenous energy products—such as coal from Nova Scotia in the 19th century for example, or oil and gas from Alberta—over long distances at competitive prices.

In the post-Confederation period one of the most important energy policy debates involved Nova Scotia's coal producers who sought tariffs that would protect their industry against imports of cheaper coal from the American midwest. Coal consumers in central Canada wanted free trade which would ensure access to the less expensive American coal which involved much lower transportation costs. In his 1982 publication entitled Fuels and the National Policy, John N. McDougall wrote that debates on energy policies in Canada pitted those who proposed free markets for energy products, regardless of national origin, against those who called for government intervention through tariffs and other means.

In 1946, the Atomic Energy Control Act was passed and the Atomic Energy Control Board (AECB) was established to regulate the production and uses of uranium in Canada, under the premiership of William Lyon Mackenzie King. The federal government took over the jurisdiction over uranium from the provinces.