[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Culture of Palestine

se of the 20th and 21st centuries.

Since 1967, most critics have theorized the existence of three "branches" of Palestinian literature, loosely divided by geographic location: 1) from inside Israel, 2) from the occupied territories, 3) from among the Palestinian diaspora throughout the Middle East.

Modern poetry
Poetry, using classical pre-Islamic forms, remains an extremely popular art form, often attracting Palestinian audiences in the thousands. Until 20 years ago, local folk bards reciting traditional verses were a feature of every Palestinian town. After the 1948 Palestinian exodus, poetry was transformed into a vehicle for political activism. From among those Palestinians who became Arab citizens of Israel after the passage of the Citizenship Law in 1952, a school of resistance poetry was born that included poets like Mahmoud Darwish, Samih al-Qasim, and Tawfiq Zayyad. The work of these poets was largely unknown to the wider Arab world for years because of the lack of diplomatic relations between Israel and Arab governments. This changed after Ghassan Kanafani, another Palestinian writer in exile in Lebanon, published an anthology of their work in 1966. Palestinian poets often write about a sense of loss and existence in the diaspora.

Modern music

Palestinian music is well known throughout the Arab world. It reflects the Palestinian experience, dealing with themes such as the struggle with Israel, the longing for peace, and the love of the land of Palestine. A new wave of performers emerged with distinctively Palestinian themes following the 1948 Palestinian expulsion and flight, relating to the dreams of statehood and the burgeoning nationalist sentiments.

Since the 1990s the subgenre of Palestinian hip hop has blended the traditional folk music elements of Palestinian music and Arabic melodies with hip hop beats. These artists see themselves as joining a “longer tradition of revolutionary, underground, Arabic music and political songs that have supported Palestinian Resistance”, "[tailoring] the style to express their own grievances with the social and political climate in which they live and work".

See also
 Arab-Israeli culture

References

 
Palestine
Palestine
Palestine