[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Josh Chetwynd

ged the English language through words and idioms. The author Bill Bryson endorsed the book saying, it is "fascinating, informative and hugely entertaining. This is a book I will return to again and again." When the volume was released, Mental Floss named it one of "25 Amazing New Books for Spring."

The Book of Nice: A Nice Book About Nice Things For Nice People was released in April 2013. It delves into the origins and history of all things nice from gestures, sayings and songs to icons, offerings and characters. Gayle King in O, The Oprah Magazine said the book was "a smart look at all things ... nice." The Huffington Post wrote: "Chetwynd explores being nice through chapters on gestures, songs, words, characters and offerings that spread the love and does so with wit and intelligence."

How the Hot Dog Found its Bun: Accidental Discoveries and Unexpected Inspiration That Shape What We Eat and Drink came out in May 2012. It examines how luck has shaped so many of our favorite foods and drinks as well as kitchen innovations and inventions. The Louisville Courier-Journal said: "You'll be delighted by the author's splendidly told tales of [these] creations ... These are engrossing essays that are sure to steal a few hours of your time." The Midwest Book Review wrote the book was "a 'must' for any general lending library seeing popularity in either trivia books, cookbooks, or both ... A fun, compelling read for a wide audience spiced with illustrations throughout by David Cole Wheeler, this is simply not to be missed." In May 2015, the book reached number 13 on The New York Times Best Seller List in the ebook/non-fiction category.

The Secret History of Balls: The Stories Behind the Things We Love to Catch, Whack, Throw, Kick, Bounce and Bat was released in May 2011 to very positive reviews. NPR named it one of the "Best Books of 2011," calling Chetwynd "a great storyteller." The Denver Post wrote: "[Chetwynd] shows us how the evolution of the ball has had a profound influence not only on each athletic activity we play but on much larger issues such as technology, language and culture." New York Journal of Books said: "Anyone with an interest in sports or game development and history will thoroughly enjoy bouncing through these offerings." The Wall Street Journal dubbed it "[a] little gem of a book ..." and ESPN The Magazine labelled it "essential trivia."

Chetwynd's 2008 book Baseball in Europe: A Country by Country History received critical acclaim. Booklist called it "an excellent research tool as well as informative and entertaining." MLB.com wrote it was "a comprehensive, handy reference guide to everything you need to know about America's Pastime on the Old Continent." Nine: A Journal for Baseball History and Culture said it was "a well-written, highly informed, carefully researched and scrupulously documented addition to international baseball scholarship."

He also co-wrote the 2007 book British Baseball and the West Ham Club: History of a 1930s Professional Team in East London. It was written with Brian A. Belton.

In addition, he has contributed chapters or essays to four other books: Baseball Beyond Our Borders: An International Pastime, Baseball without Borders: The International Pastime', West Ham United Miscellany' and Nine Aces and a Joker'

Baseball career
Chetwynd's baseball career included stints at the NCAA Division I college level, professional baseball in the United States and Europe and international play for the Great Britain national baseball team. He competed for four years at Northwestern University in the Big Ten conference. He was named to Academic All Big Ten teams twice as a catcher. Following graduation in 1993, he signed a professional contract with the Zanesville Greys in the independent Frontier League. The team won the first-ever Frontier League championship that year, but Chetwynd was released midway through the season.

Although he grew up in Los Angeles, Chetwynd was born in London, England. Beginning in 1996, he had a 10-year career as a member of the Great Britain national squad. He would represent GB in five European Championships (1996, 1999, 2001, 2003, 2005). His best performances came in 1996 and 2001. At the 1996 European (B-Pool) Championships he hit .412 with a .706 slugging percentage. The team won the gold medal at that event to earn elevation into the top tier of European baseball. At the top level in 2001 he hit .353 at the championships held in Germany.