[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Madelung's deformity

my, concave at the end, is marked on the bone. Now the radius is cut dome shaped and straightened. The distal end of the radius stays attached to the ulna. The dome shape of the osteotomy allows adequate bony contact for stability and a subperiosteal void for rapid healing.

Vickers Ligament Release

This ligament causes the wrist to deform even more. The purpose of this release is to release the tension and leave the wrist straight in further growth. In both physiolysis and dome osteotomy there should be a clear view of the abnormal.

Adults

Ulna reduction

Adults with Madelung’s deformity may suffer from ulnar-sided wrist pain. Madelung's Deformity is usually treated by treating the distal radial deformity. However, if patients have a positive ulnar variance and focal wrist pathology, it’s possible to treat with an isolated ulnar-shortening osteotomy. In these patients the radial deformity is not treated.

The ulna is approached from the subcutaneous border. A plate is attached to the distal end of the ulna, to plan the osteotomy. An oblique segment is removed from the ulna, after which the distal radial-ulnar joint is freed, making sure structures stay attached to the styloid process. After this, the freed distal end is reattached to the proximal ulna with the formerly mentioned plate.

Total DRUJ replacement

An alternative treatment for patients with ulnar-sided wristpain is a total replacement of the distal radial-ulnar joint. There are many surgical treatments of the condition, but most of these only improve the alignment and function of the radiocarpal joint. A persistent problem in these treatments has been the stiff DRUJ. However, a prosthesis helps in managing the pain, and might also improve the range of motion of the wrist.

The procedure consists of making a hockey-stick shaped incision along the ulnar border. This incision is made  between the fifth and sixth dorsal compartment. Being careful not to harm any essential structures, like the posterior interosseous nerve, the incision is continued between the extensor carpi ulnaris and the extensor digiti quinti, until the ulna is found. The ulnar head is then removed. A guide wire is then inserted in the medullary canal of the ulna, allowing centralization for a cannulated drill bit. A poly-ethylene ball, which will serve as the prosthesis, is then placed over the distal peg. After confirming full range of motion, the skin will be closed.

Dome Osteotomy

In case of Madelung's Deformity in conjunction with radial pain, a dome osteotomy may be conducted. For more information about this procedure, please refer to the treatment of Madelung's Deformity in children.

Eponym
It is named for Otto Wilhelm Madelung.

References

External links 

Congenital disorders of musculoskeletal system