[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Devil's Path (hiking trail)

boreal forest, with only 200 feet (62 m) of elevation loss (or gain) along the way. It comes to an end shortly after Danny's Lookout to the northeast, at Orchard (sometimes Orchid) Point. Here Hunter, Southwest Hunter Mountain and West Kill Mountain loom ahead, across the depth of Stony Clove Notch.

Again the trail descends steeply and drastically, 1,400 feet (427 m) into the notch. Here, the trail crosses Route 214 and there is a parking lot and picnic area overlooking a small green lake. There is a water spout in the picnic area, but it seems water does not always flow from it. In season, the state charges a fee for use of the parking lot at the trail crossing. The neighboring campground is a short walk south along Route 214.

Western section

This section is less popular for day hikes since it does not offer easy access from cols, and less of the rocky, steep terrain found to the east. It only goes over the summit of one mountain, and avoids that of Hunter. However, there are still a few attractions.

Hunter

After crossing just below the outlet of Notch Pond, the trail shortly begins to climb and switchback, passing a massive pair of stone outcrops known as the Devil's Portal. Above, the trail follows an old wood road into an area where a few hemlocks remain from tannin-seeking loggers in the late 19th century. Some spruce may be found along here, too.

Leaving the old road shortly before it dead-ends, the trail goes through a slightly more level area where hungry hikers can snack on wild blackberries and raspberries in season, then levels out just below , in an area where paper birch, red spruce and fern make up the forest ... a sign of the heavy logging of this area a century ago by the West Virginia-based Fenwick Lumber Company.

At , from the notch, it reaches Devil's Acre, the low point between Hunter and trailless Southwest Hunter. It begins with the junction with the yellow-blazed Hunter Mountain Trail, which leads uphill (approximately  elevation, 1.6 miles) to Hunter's summit and its fire tower. Shortly after the junction is the Devil's Acre Lean-To. Past the lean-to is a fairly wet area, a result of all the past logging, then the trail begins to descend. A small cairn on the left side of the trail marks the beginning of the old narrow-gauge railbed used by most hikers to reach the elusive summit of Southwest Hunter.

After going through another level area a half-mile long with impressive rock outcrops to one side, the Devil's Path reaches another superb viewpoint over the cirque that gives rise to the West Kill. Southwest Hunter's ridgeline can be previewed by those heading in that direction, and across Diamond Notch rises West Kill itself. Remnants of camping can sometimes be found here although it is not permitted.

The trail then begins a long, leisurely but steady  descent down the south side of Hunter Mountain to the junction with the blue-blazed Diamond Notch Trail at a bridge over a waterfall on the West Kill known variously as West Kill Falls or Diamond Notch Falls. The latter trail can be followed  to the parking lot at the end of Spruceton Road (Greene County Route 7).

West Kill

The newest (it was cut in 1969) and least-hiked portion of the Devil's Path begins just past the West Kill. The trail branches off to follow the water for a few hundred feet, then slowly begins traversing up the huge mountain, the sixth-highest in the Catskills. A good spring is found to the side of the trail  from the ford. Afterwards, it levels off for a while, then begins attacking the mountain more directly, requiring once again the use of hands through some steep chutes. The woods aside the trail become more and more boreal, and at about 3,400 feet (1,036 m), it levels off again. Another  from the spring, there is a large rock overhang, an excellent place to camp just below the  marker, where camping is prohibited for most of the year.

The trail remains level through the boreal woods, then begins to climb seriously to Buck Ridge Lookout, another  from the cave. This sweeping view takes in primarily Hunter and Southwest Hunter, but also offers a good view down Ox Clove towards the Lanesville area and the lesser peaks behind it. Southern peaks such as Slide and Peekamoose are also visible. A short path through the woods leads to another, smaller overlook north taking in Rusk Mountain.

A short distance (0.1 mile, 60 m) past the lookout is the 3,880-foot (1,183 m) summit of West Kill itself, the only summit in the Catskills marked by an official sign to that effect. There is no view. The trail begins to descend shortly afterwards, past an unreliable spring.