[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Soroka Medical Center

dish was named director-general of the hospital, replacing Ehud Davidson, who held the post for five years.

The сampus

The hospital covers an area of 286 dunams, with a constructed area of more than 200,000 square meters, and includes 30 buildings.

Among the buildings on campus are the following:

 The Internal Medicine Building, located at the center of the campus, houses most of the departments from the field of internal medicine: the internal medicine departments, the Neurology Department, the Nephrology Department and the Dialysis Unit.
 The Camelia Botnar Surgical Building was inaugurated in 2003. It contains the hospital's state-of-the-art operating rooms, eight patient wards, the Emergency Room, the Intensive Care Unit, and other units.
 The Saban Pediatric Medical Center, inaugurated in 2008, includes the Pediatric Emergency Room, the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, the three pediatric inpatient wards, the Pediatric Surgery Department, the Hemato-Oncology Department, and the Department of Eating Disorders.
 The Saban Birth and Maternity Center was inaugurated in 2011 and includes 25 spacious and protected individual delivery rooms, the gynecology and obstetrics emergency rooms, advanced operating rooms, and five maternity wards.
 The Legacy Heritage Oncology Center and Dr. Larry Norton Institute, inaugurated in 2018, provides all the services in the field of cancer treatment and research under one roof.
 Additional buildings in the hospital compound, among them the rehabilitation medicine building, are being constructed these days. At present, there is a rehabilitation department with 20 beds. The hospital is currently constructing a rehabilitation building that will allow the expansion of both hospitalization and ambulatory services.

Soroka in numbers

Soroka Medical Center has over 40 inpatient departments and 1,173 hospital beds. In addition to the hospital departments, there are dozens of other units that provide services to hospitalized and ambulatory patients, in the Emergency Medicine Department, institutes, and outpatient clinics.

Soroka's Department of Emergency Medicine, with the largest volume of activity in Israel (more than 250,000 visits annually), is the leading such department in the country according to a health care survey on service and quality conducted by the Ministry of Health.

Soroka's delivery room has the most births of any in the country – more than 17,400 babies are born every year.

In 2022, 32,000 surgeries were performed at the hospital and 100,000 hospitalizations took place. There were over 600,000 visits to the outpatient clinics.

Soroka has some 5,300 employees, including more than 900 doctors, 2,000 nurses, 800 health workers and 500 administrative employees.

Patients at Soroka
Soroka Medical Center provides medical services to more than one million residents of the Negev, who reside in a vast geographical area that comprises 60% of the country. The population of the Negev is relatively young, culturally diverse, largely of low to middle-level socioeconomic status, and has unique health needs.

Unique populations cared for at Soroka include Bedouins, who make up nearly a third of the population, and large groups of immigrants from Ethiopia and the former Soviet Union.

Standards of safety and quality

 The Joint Commission International (JCI)  Quality and Safety Certificate - Soroka Medical Center was one of three Clalit hospitals which were the first in Israel to receive the certificate of accreditation of the JCI in 2008.
 Standards for Environmental Management Systems (ISO 14001) - Soroka is a green hospital. In 2014 the medical center was awarded the Environmental Quality Award.
 Health Information Security Standard (ISO 27799).
 Systems and structures maintenance Standard (ISO 9001).
 Quality Management Standard (ISO 9000) was granted to the Neonatal Intensive Care unit and the logistics department.

A University Medical Center
Soroka Medical Center is a university medical center that maintains close ties with Ben-Gurion University of the Negev (BGU). In this framework, the hospital staff partners in training the future generation of clinicians and managers in the health system in various fields: medicine, nursing, physiotherapy, emergency medicine, pharmacy, medical laboratory, public health, and health systems management. Approximately 1,000 students study at the hospital annually. The campus of BGU's Faculty of Health Sciences is located in the hospital compound.

Research
Many clinical trials approved by the Helsinki Committee are conducted at Soroka. As of 2023, the committee is chaired by Prof. Eitan Lunenfeld.

A center for clinical research operates at Soroka, leading and promoting research with hospital staff and colleagues outside of the hospital in Israel and abroad, sometimes in cooperation with BGU.