[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# A Woman in Berlin

r food, or raiding food stocks when the rations do not suffice. Spending time in the basement shelter, the Narrator gets to know her fellow "cave dwellers" and a kind of camaraderie forms. When a series of bombing destroys her apartment, a pharmacist's Widow allows the narrator to live at her place.

All of a sudden there is silence when the Red Army reaches their street. The Soviets set camp outside and spend their first days comparing stolen watches and bicycles. Eventually the soldiers enter the buildings and basement air raid shelters asking for alcohol and choosing women to rape. The Narrator works as a sort of translator and mediator for women in the basement who are pursued for rape. She tries to convince the men to not rape women and seeks a commander to plead to stop the rapes but minimal effort is offered to the women. Two men outside of the basement rape the narrator after her fellow Germans close and lock the door behind her. Many families desperately hide their young daughters to preserve their virginity. Four Soviet soldiers barge into the widow's apartment and one soldier, named Petka, rapes the narrator. After raping the narrator, Petka begins his "Romeo babble" where he expresses a liking for the Narrator and how he hopes to return later that day. That same day the widow's tenant Herr Pauli arrives and settles in his bed. His male presence offers some but very limited protection against the Soviet sexual predators. Another Russian soldier, described as old, enters the apartment and rapes the narrator in an exceptionally demeaning manner as he opens up her mouth to spit in it and then throws a half opened pack of cigarettes on the bed as payment.

This rape experience creates some sort of turning point for the Narrator, who decides after vomiting and crying that she has to use her brains to help her situation. She decides that she needs to "find a single wolf to keep away the pack" and heads outside to find some higher-ranked Soviet to have an exclusive sexual relationship with so that she does not get viciously and spontaneously raped every day by different men. Out in the street she meets Anatol, a lieutenant from Ukraine. She flirts with him briefly and they agree to meet at her place at 7 pm. That night Petka arrives with some of his friends and makes himself at home. Petka and his friends shock the Widow and the Narrator as they place their food straight on the table, throw bones to the floor, and spit casually. Despite the Narrator's worries that Petka and Anatol might clash over her, when Anatol comes he is at ease in her apartment and she discovers that his rank means very little to the Soviets. Over the next days, Anatol comes to have sex with the narrator and a "taboo" is formed in that the Soviets know that she is claimed. Anatol and his men come and go as they please and the widow's apartment is considered "Anatol's men's restaurant" but a restaurant where they bring the food. The Narrator and the Widow get food that the Soviets bring and they benefit from the protection of Anatol's men against other Soviet soldiers. The Narrator also meets educated Soviet soldiers, such as Andrei, and has many conversations about politics, fascism, and such. Petka shows up completely drunk in a fit of rage against the Narrator and tries to hurt her but due to his drunkenness the Widow and the Narrator manage to push him out of the apartment. Among the many Soviet visitors of the apartment, a pale blond lieutenant who has a lame leg and a clear dislike of the narrator rapes her one night, completely ignoring the "taboo" with Anatol. He arrives another day with a major and after conversing and drinking champagne; he asks the narrator if the major pleases her. The Narrator realizes she has little choice considering Anatol has left and eventually decides to have sex with the major. She accepts the relationship with the major and does not call it rape since it is consensual. The major is very pleasant, shares his life with her, and brings her food and supplies such as candles.  The Narrator contemplates her status as she agrees to have sexual relationships in return for goods and protection.