[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Uranium in the environment

re, because uranium is a toxic metal. Some people have raised concerns about the use of DU munitions because of its mutagenicity, teratogenicity in mice, neurotoxicity, and its suspected carcinogenic potential. Additional concerns address unexploded DU munitions leeching into groundwater over time. 

The toxicity of DU is a point of medical controversy. Multiple studies using cultured cells and laboratory rodents suggest the possibility of leukemogenic, genetic, reproductive, and neurological effects from chronic exposure.
A 2005 epidemiology review concluded: "In aggregate the human epidemiological evidence is consistent with increased risk of birth defects in offspring of persons exposed to DU." The World Health Organization states that no risk of reproductive, developmental, or carcinogenic effects have been reported in humans due to DU exposure. This report has been criticized by Dr. Keith Baverstock for not including possible long-term effects.

Birth defects 
Most scientific studies have found no link between uranium and birth defects, but some claim statistical correlations between soldiers exposed to DU, and those who were not, concerning reproductive abnormalities.

One study found epidemiological evidence for increased risk of birth defects in the offspring of persons exposed to DU.  Several sources have attributed an increased rate of birth defects in the children of Gulf War veterans and in Iraqis to inhalation of depleted uranium. A 2001 study of 15,000 Gulf War combat veterans and 15,000 control veterans found that the Gulf War veterans were 1.8 (fathers) to 2.8 (mothers) times more likely to have children with birth defects.
A study of Gulf War Veterans from the UK found a 50% increased risk of malformed pregnancies reported by men over non-Gulf War veterans. The study did not find correlations between Gulf war deployment and other birth defects such as stillbirth, chromosomal malformations, or congenital syndromes. The father's service in the Gulf War was associated with increased rate of miscarriage, but the mother's service was not.

In animals
Uranium causes reproductive defects and other health problems in rodents, frogs and other animals. Uranium was also shown to have cytotoxic, genotoxic and carcinogenic effects in animals. It has been shown in rodents and frogs that water-soluble forms of uranium are teratogenic.

In soil and microbiology 
Bacteria and Pseudomonadota, such as Geobacter and Burkholderia fungorum (strain Rifle), can reduce and fix uranium in soil and groundwater. These bacteria change soluble U(VI) into the highly insoluble complex-forming U(IV) ion, hence stopping chemical leaching.

It has been suggested that it is possible to form a reactive barrier by adding something to the soil which will cause the uranium to become fixed. One method of doing this is to use a mineral (apatite) while a second method is to add a food substance such as acetate to the soil. This will enable bacteria to reduce the uranium(VI) to uranium(IV), which is much less soluble. In peat-like soils, the uranium will tend to bind to the humic acids; this tends to fix the uranium in the soil.

References

Element toxicology
Nuclear technology
Radiobiology
Radioactivity
Soil contamination
Uranium

fi:Uraanin esiintyminen