[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Galveston Harbor (1862)

the Houston area and along the rail line between Houston and Galveston, bringing the total number of Confederate troops in the region to about 5,000.  Many of the cannons in the city's defenses had been removed, as Confederate Brigadier General Paul Octave Hébert believed the city was indefensible.

Battle
Renshaw moved towards Galveston with five ships and approached the city by early October.  The five Union ships were USS Westfield (the expedition's flagship), USRC Harriet Lane, USS Owasco, USS Clifton, and the mortar schooner USS Henry Janes.  Westfield and Clifton were sidewheel steamers converted from ferry boats, Harriet Lane was also a sidewheel steamer, and Owasco was a screw steamer serving as a gunboat.  Harriet Lane was sent into Galveston Bay early on October 4, with a flag of truce.  After waiting in vain for Confederate messengers to reach the ship and reply, a boat of officers from Harriet Lane was sent to shore, where they met with Cook, who agreed to send a delegation to the Union fleet to discuss surrender terms.  Cook's men had difficult finding a boat, and were delayed until 13:00.  By then, Lieutenant Commander Jonathan Mayhew Wainwright, commanding Harriet Lane, had become impatient and left Galveston Bay.

The approaching Confederate boat was visible to Renshaw's fleet outside of the bay, and the Union vessels began to move into the bay, visibly flying flags of truce.  A Confederate cannon on Fort Point fired a warning shot across the bow of one of the Union vessels, which was interpreted by the Union fleet as a hostile action.  Union return fire quickly knocked the single Confederate cannon at Fort Point out of action, while Confederate artillery at Galveston fired on the Union vessels, despite the range being too far to be effective.

The Union ships were still flying truce flags while firing, and Renshaw realized that continue to fire would be against the laws of war, so he ordered the ships to cease fire.  Both Renshaw and Cook believed that the other side's shots had represented deliberate hostile actions.  Cook's messengers reached and boarded Westfield, and Renshaw demanded immediate surrender, and threatened a further attack if it was not agreed to.  The Confederates declined and reminded that Renshaw would be responsible for any damage to private property or civilian fatalities in the case of an attack.

The two sides formed a verbal agreement for a four-day truce.  The terms were that the Union vessels would not get any closer to Galveston, and that the Confederates would not work on new or existing fortifications.  The verbal truce was interpreted differently: Renshaw thought that it guaranteed the military status quo would remain, while Cook thought he had the option of evacuating Galveston.  As a result, the Confederates used the truce to evacuate supplies and cannons from the city.  Renshaw thought that the Confederates were purposefully violating the terms of the truce, but after contacting Cook and hearing his explanation, accepted the removal of the material; it was of low value and Renshaw believed he could not prevent the Confederates from removing the cannons anyway.

After the truce ended, Renshaw ordered three signal shots fired, and the mayor and city council of Galveston traveled to Westfield and surrendered the city.  A detachment of 150 men led by the commander of Harriet Lane raised the United States flag over the city, as there were no longer any Confederate defenders there.  The only cannon the Confederates had left behind was the one disabled during the October 4 bombardment; several fake cannons known as Quaker guns were left in the abandoned defenses.  The National Park Service states that there were no casualties incurred during the action, while the Civil War Battlefield Guide states that casualties are unknown.

Aftermath
Shortly after Galveston fell, the Union Navy was able to gain control of the waters outside of Corpus Christi and Sabine City, leading to Union control of most of the Texas coastline.  Lack of cooperation from Major General Benjamin F. Butler resulted in difficulties in getting Union infantry to hold Galveston.  Two minor incidents in November also resulted in the capture of small detachments from Henry Janes and Owasco.  An infantry garrison finally arrived on December 25 in the form of 264 men from the 42nd Massachusetts Infantry Regiment.  On January 1, 1863, a Confederate force under Magruder attacked Galveston and defeated the Union forces defending it in the Battle of Galveston.  Renshaw was killed by an explosion while scuttling Westfield, and Harriet Lane was captured; the Confederates regained control of Galveston.  A 2010 study by the American Battlefield Protection Program noted that development from Galveston and changes to shorelines mean that the current landscape does not resemble the landscape present during the war, and that the site does not retain historical integrity.

Notes

References

Sources