[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# List of smoking bans

d by the Restriction on Smoking (Amendment No. 2) (Jersey) Law 2006 adopted 16 May 2006 that enabled the States to make regulations that prohibit or restrict smoking tobacco or a substance (or a mixture of substances) other than tobacco, or the use of tobacco, in a workplace or other defined places.

Jordan
Smoking is banned in hospitals, health centers, schools, cinemas, theaters, public libraries, museums, governmental and non-governmental public premises, means of transportation, arrivals and departures halls at airports, enclosed stadiums and lecture-halls. On 14 April 2015, three coffee shops closed for violating smoking ban laws and their owners went to court.

Kazakhstan
Kazakhstan partially restricted smoking in public places on 1 April 2003. A comprehensive smoke-free law was instituted in September 2009.
Enforcing the smoke-free law appears to be somewhat problematic as far as public bus services are concerned. While smoking by passengers on the public bus services was never an issue, bus operators on duty were being consistently reported as smoking inside the bus vehicles and persistently ignoring requests by the passengers not to do so.

Kenya
Smoking in public indoor areas is restricted in Nairobi, Kenya, since July 2007. Small private bars will be exempted. Mombasa already has a similar pre-existing smoke-free ordinance.

Kuwait
Kuwait has outlawed smoking indoors in public places as of 2012, including restaurants, cafes and hotels, but exempting shisha parlours. In 2015, Kuwait's General Traffic Department considered banning smoking when driving, which is considered the major cause of accidents in Kuwait. In February 2016, smoking in malls was banned and fine of 50KD for the first time and 100 KD for the second time getting caught. While the owner of restaurants and cafes inside the malls could face a fine of 5000KD if someone is caught smoking inside their facilities.

Latvia
As of 1 May 2010, smoking has been completely outlawed in restaurants and bars. Previously non-smoking areas had to be larger than half of the total area of the establishment. In addition, more than half of the summer terraces of bars and restaurants are required to be smoke-free. Smoking is also restricted in parks and for ten metres around entrances of public buildings as well as public transportation stops. Smoking on public transportation, except for ferries, is also forbidden.

In late 2011 some municipalities, for example, Ozolnieku novads, prohibited smoking on balconies and by open windows in apartment blocks and others multi-storey buildings.

In late 2014 amendments to the law considering smoking ban took effect and included whole areas surrounding educational institutions, apartment building balconies, entrances and staircases as prohibited areas where smoking is not allowed. Also additions to law states that every person, located in the vicinity of the smoker, now are given rights to ask the smoker to extinguish the cigarette at once upon request. Smoking in vicinity of underage children is now classified as child abuse, and punished respectively.

Liechtenstein
There have been several smoking bans put into place. These include the restriction of smoking in government buildings, places of employment, and all forms of public transportation. In March 2009, Liechtenstein held a public vote to ban smoking in restaurants. However, the ban was strongly opposed with over 80% of the voters opposing the ban.

Lithuania
Smoking has been restricted in restaurants, bars, places where food is served, clubs (except for special cigar and pipe clubs), and nightclubs since 1 January 2007. Furthermore, smoking on public transportation is forbidden (except on long-distance trains with special facilities), and workplaces inside a building (except designated places). It is also illegal to smoke inside public halls where non-smoking people might have to breathe tobacco fumes. The law is well respected (at least in the largest cities) but smoking in hallways and staircases is still common. The age restriction is 18 years old.

Lebanon

As of 3 September 2012, smoking has been prohibited in enclosed public places such as restaurants, cafes, and hotel. Anybody violating this ban will be charged with a fine of over $100, and the restaurant, the cafe or the hotel will be charged with a fine between $1300 and $4000

Liberia
Liberia has a smoking ban for public indoor places, indoor workplaces and public transport.