[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Two Flags West

offer himself as a sacrifice and turns over command to Tucker. A few days later a dispatch rider arrives with news that Gen. Sherman has completed his march to the sea, spelling doom for the Confederacy. Elena tries to comfort a despairing Tucker with the hope that things will seem better tomorrow.

Cast
 Joseph Cotten as Lt. Clay Tucker USA, formerly Col. Clay Tucker CSA
 Linda Darnell as Elena Kenniston
 Jeff Chandler as Maj. Henry Kenniston
 Cornel Wilde as Capt. Mark Bradford
 Dale Robertson as Lem
 Jay C. Flippen as Sgt, Major Duffy
 Noah Beery Jr. as Corp. Cy Davis (as Noah Beery)
 Harry von Zell as Ephraim Strong
 Johnny Sands as Lt. Adams (as John Sands)
 Arthur Hunnicutt as 1st Sgt. Pickens

Production
The film was originally known as Trumpet to the Morn.

Casting
Fox had originally intended the role of "Col. Clay Tucker" to be played by either Victor Mature or Richard Basehart, but Joseph Cotten was cast at the last minute, loaned to Fox by Selznick International Pictures.

The role of the major was meant to be played by Lee J. Cobb who owed 20th Century Fox a film. (He had recently ended a long-term contract with the studio after refusing to make Where the Sidewalk Ends.) However, Cobb was replaced by Jeff Chandler, who had a six-film contract with Fox after making Broken Arrow of which this was the second movie. He had to commute from Hollywood to the location because of his radio commitments.

Locations
The movie was filmed on location at San Ildefonso Pueblo, New Mexico, using buildings of the Pueblo for those of the Fort Thorn, and on the nearby Shipman Ranch near Black Mesa, which is seen prominently in the film. The local Tewa inhabitants agreed to use of their community, some of whose buildings dated back 400 years, when director Robert Wise promised that filming would remain clear of the tribal kiva (underground council room), cemetery, and sacred shrines.

Historical basis
Screenwriter Frank S. Nugent developed the concept for the film while writing the screenplay for She Wore a Yellow Ribbon in 1948. During research Nugent consulted historians Dee Brown and Martin F. Schmitt, authors of Fighting Indians of the West, for sources of information about the use of "Galvanized Yankees", and learned that  Confederate plans to connect El Paso, Texas with California were formulated in late 1864. He submitted his story, The Yankee From Georgia, to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer but did not receive an offer. The project for Fox began with the working title, Trumpet to the Morn. The circumstances of the recruiting and delivery of Tucker's men are similar to those experienced by Union Capt. Henry Palmer and Company K of the 11th Ohio Cavalry from Camp Chase, Ohio, to Fort Kearney, Nebraska, and thence on to Fort Laramie, Wyoming in 1864. They were also the only former Confederate cavalrymen (originally part of Morgan's Raiders) to see service as "Galvanized Yankees" on the Western frontier.

The historical Fort Thorn was built in December 1853 on the west bank of the Rio Grande,  north of Las Cruces, New Mexico (near present-day Hatch) to defend local settlements against raids by Apache Indians, primarily those of the Mescalero band. Fort Thorn became the eastern terminus of a road built in 1856 across Arizona from Fort Yuma until 1860, when the post closed as a permanent garrison.

In 1861 it was reoccupied as a forward outpost when the Civil War began and Texas organised an expeditionary force to seize New Mexico as part of its Arizona Territory. Union troops withdrew from Fort Thorn in August after a defeat at Mesilla at the Texas end of the valley. Confederate forces occupied the site in January 1862 to stage an advance north, but in April were forced to withdraw from New Mexico. Fort Thorn again became a Union post on July 4, 1862.

Union forces stationed at Fort Thorn were companies of the 3rd Infantry and Regiment of Mounted Riflemen (which became the 3rd Cavalry in 1861) between 1855 and 1860, and the 5th Infantry. In September 1861, Captain Robert M. Morris defeated a force of Texans near Fort Thorn with Companies C, G and K of the 3rd Cavalry. Detachments of the 3rd Cavalry continued to operate from Fort Thorn, as depicted, until September 1862, when that regiment was sent east to fight against the Confederacy. Although Fort Thorn was probably not occupied after that time, the 5th Infantry remained in New Mexico throughout the Civil War, and in theory its forces could have been augmented by "Galvanized Yankees".