[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rilwanu Lukman

s also a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) and served on the SPE board as regional Director for Africa.
In 2007, Lukman became a member of the Supervisory Board of Dietsmann NV of the Netherlands, a leading International Operation & Maintenance company in the upstream energy sector.

Lukman was appointed Honorary (unpaid) Advisor on Energy and Strategic Matters to President Umaru Yar'Adua in August 2007. 
In December 2008 Lukman was appointed Minister of Petroleum Resources, and resigned from his position with Afren, putting his holdings in a blind trust.
In February 2010 there were rumours that Lukman had tendered his resignation after a shakeup in the cabinet by the new acting president, Goodluck Jonathan, but that it had not been accepted.
In March 2010, he warned that the scarcity of petroleum products in Nigeria would only get worse as long as the government held back on deregulating the industry.
He left office on 17 March 2010 when Acting President Goodluck Jonathan dissolved his cabinet.

Corruption
Lukman was accused of facilitating the P&ID corrupt contract, which almost cost Nigeria an economic-crumbling $11bn arbitral award, by ordering his aide, Taofiq Tijani, to “deliberately overlook” P&ID’s shortcomings and push the deal through.

The EFCC accused Lukman of breaking Nigerian laws by approving a deal that he lacked authority to approve and engaged in not doing due diligence on the company, which lacked legally required approvals from Nigerian government's relevant procurement agencies.

Others who have been linked to corruption regarding this fraudulent contract are Taofiq Tijani, Grace Taiga and Olasupo Shasore.

Honours

Lukman was made a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) in 1989 and Officer of the Légion d'honneur of France in 1990, as well as being conferred with the First Class rank of the Order of the Liberator from Venezuela. He was the first African to be honoured with the Fellowship of the Imperial College, University of London.

References

Alumni of Imperial College London
People from Kaduna State
Mining engineers
Nigerian chemical engineers
People from Zaria
2014 deaths
1938 births
Secretaries General of OPEC
Petroleum ministers of Nigeria
University of Leoben alumni