[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ted Serong

nsurgency operations. Resulting in the first involvement of Australian personnel in combat during the conflict, this was a significant decision; it was retrospectively approved by Wilton, who lifted earlier restrictions on the role of AATTV personnel that had prevented them being involved in combat.

According to his biographer Anne Blair, Serong believed in the need to prevent the spread of communism throughout South East Asia, conceiving his mission in South Vietnam in terms of the Domino Theory. In August 1964, Sir Walter Cawthorn, then head of the Australian Secret Intelligence Service (ASIS), had instructed Serong to "...Get me ten years...", time that had to be bought to strengthen the other nations of the region against insurgency, as well as to destroy the Soviet Union economically. After handing over command of the AATTV to Colonel David Jackson in 1965, Serong remained in Vietnam as an advisor, seconded to the US Department of State. In 1965 he was awarded the Distinguished Service Order (DSO) for "outstanding courage and devotion to duty" while commanding the AATTV. During the two-and-half years he led the team he had worked hard to remain in personal contact with its members despite their geographic dispersion, and on occasion while visiting advisors in outstations he had become involved with clashes with the enemy during which his courage and leadership "contributed to the success of operations". Serong declined a formal presentation of the award. From 1965 to 1967 he was senior advisor to the South Vietnamese Police Field Force. Serong left the Australian Army in August 1968, at which time he was granted the honorary rank of brigadier.

Blair later wrote that Serong had accepted the defence of South Vietnam from communism as his "personal mission", and his decision to take an early retirement had been due to his increasing involvement with US organisations, the value they placed on his work and his profile as an international figure, as well as a growing "emotional distance" from the Australian Army and its senior leadership. He later wrote that he "... found a way of being of more service to the country outside it than in it." Serong stayed in South Vietnam as a security and intelligence adviser to the Vietnamese government. He also instructed at the National Defense College of South Vietnam and worked for the Rand organisation, Hudson Institute and other corporations, preparing strategic analyses. He was also a consultant to the Pentagon and the policy planning teams of several US presidents, including the Nixon administration. In 1971, Serong declared that South Vietnam had essentially won the war. Remaining long after the withdrawal of Australian forces, he continued to serve in South Vietnam until the Fall of Saigon. Serong departed Saigon the day prior to its capture, leaving by helicopter in the final airlift from the US embassy on 29 April 1975. He received several US and South Vietnamese awards, including the United States Legion of Merit, the (Vietnam) Medal of Honour, Cross of Gallantry (with palm), and Knight of the National Order of Vietnam.

Later life
Following the war, Serong returned to Melbourne but struggled to return to civilian life and lived apart from his family, who had begun to live their own lives in his long absence. He was considered a world authority on counter-insurgency operations, and wrote widely on the subject in the 1970s. Described by John Farquharson as a major Cold War figure, Serong was recognised internationally for developing new tactics for counter-insurgency and jungle warfare. In retirement he became involved in anti-communist organisations and citizens' militia groups such as Ausi Freedom Scouts (Australians United for Survival and Freedom), of which he was a patron. He also supported conspiracy theories about the Port Arthur shooting in 1996 and allegations of government corruption (later found to have been based on a hoax, albeit unbeknown to Serong) as well as speaking on Australian defence issues. He was at times associated with right-wing individuals or organisations, advocating nationalism and the need for increased defence spending as part of a "forward defence" strategy, as well as strengthening of the peace-time Army Reserve, the development of inland Australia, opposition to gun control, concerns about the loss of national sovereignty and financial autonomy to the United Nations and International Monetary Fund, and limitations on immigration. While at times a controversial figure, his public reputation remained high and his opinions were rarely the subject of criticism in the media. Serong died of heart disease on 1 October 2002 and was survived by his wife and their three daughters and three sons. He was aged 86.

Notes

References

Further reading

External links
 Colonel Francis Phillip Serong – Australian War Memorial