[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Avro 730

ectrical controls and automatic control systems were also to be employed on the type. The undercarriage, designed by Dowty Group, used an arrangement of a single centre-fuselage main unit complete with four wheels, a nose unit with two wheels, and a pair of outriggers located on the engine nacelles.

The Avro 730 lacked a conventional canopy in order to maintain the fineness ratio, the cockpit featured only two small windows facing to the side. On the intended initial development models, a raised canopy would have been present for direct vision; however, production aircraft would have made sole use of an electrically operated retractable periscope in order to provide an external view, including during take-off and landing. As originally envisioned, a crew of three would be carried: pilot, navigator and radar operator. All three were to be contained within the same compartment, which was both pressurised and refrigerated for passenger comfort; lightweight ejection seats were to be provisioned for all crew members. Due to features such as the automatic flight controls and stabilisation systems, the pilot was intended to be capable of supervising some of the aircraft's engineering functions as well, such as the control system, cooling and fuel systems.

Cooling was a critical issue for the Avro 730; at Mach 2, the external skin was anticipated to reach 190 °C, this would rise to 277 °C at Mach 2.7. Much of the aircraft was to be composed of a stainless steel brazed-honeycomb structure. Fuel onboard had the additional role of serving as a heat sink, and a fully duplicated freon-based refrigeration system provided by Normalair was also present.

During development, the Avro 730 underwent re-design work so that it could perform as a bomber as well as a reconnaissance platform. Although the new version looked much like the original, it was larger overall and featured a new wing planform. In order to increase wing area, extra "winglettes" were added outside of the engine pods and the entire planform was re-shaped to be more of a classic delta wing. The wing inside the engine pods, about ⅔ of the overall span, was swept at about 45°, the smaller area outboard of the engine was more highly swept at about 60°. The forward sweep on the trailing edge was removed. The engine pods were now specified to carry four Armstrong-Siddeley P.176 engines each, for a total of eight. The pods were circular at the front and mounted a single large shock cone, and grew progressively more "square" to the rear, where they ended flush with the rear of the wing. Much of the layout was generally the same as the earlier version, with the rectangular canards, "hidden" cockpit and large cropped-delta vertical fin at the rear.

In the new version, the crew was reduced to two members. The bomb bay was narrow but very long at 50 ft (15 m), and was intended to be armed with a nuclear-tipped stand-off missile. A suitable warhead had started development as Blue Rosette.

Specifications

See also

References
Citations

Bibliography

 Bartlett, Christopher John. "The Long Retreat: A Short History of British Defence Policy, 1945-70". Macmillan, 1971. 
 Brookes, Andrew J. "V-Force: The History of Britain's Airborne Deterrent ". Jane's, 1982.
 Bud, Robert and Philip Gummett. "Cold War, Hot Science: Applied Research in Britain's Defence Laboratories, 1945-1990". NMSI Trading Ltd, 2002. .
 Buttler, Tony. "British Secret Projects: Jet Bombers Since 1949". Midland, 2003. .
 Lewis, Peter M. H. "The British Bomber Since 1914: Sixty-Five Years of Design and Development". Putnam, 1980. .
 Polmar, Norman. "Spyplane: The U-2 History Declassified". Zenith Imprint, 2001. .
 Wood, Derek. Project Cancelled. Macdonald and Jane's Publishers, 1975. .

External links

Avro 730 Bomber (1956)
FAS.org
Virtual RAF

Cancelled military aircraft projects of the United Kingdom
730
1950s British military reconnaissance aircraft
1950s British bomber aircraft
Canard aircraft
Delta-wing aircraft
Eight-engined jet aircraft