[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Monarchy of Norway

than the King, or whomever he decrees to sit in judgment on them.This means that the Princes and Princesses also have immunity on the discretion of the king. He could decide to let them be judged by the regular courts or he could decide to judge them himself. This has never been tested in practice.

Council of State
The Council of State consists of the King, Prime Minister and other members, all of whom are appointed by the King on the advice of Prime Minister. The Council of State is the Government of Norway and is chaired by the King. It meets under the King's chairmanship at least once a week usually on Fridays. The King also orders the holding of extraordinary sessions of the council of state in situations that require urgent actions that cannot wait for the next scheduled meeting. Parliamentarism has been in place since 1884 and entails that the cabinet must not have the parliament against it, and that the appointment by the King is a formality. In practice, the monarch will ask the leader of a parliamentary block that has a majority in the Storting to form a government. The King relies on the advice of the previous prime minister and the President of the Storting in this question. The last time the King appointed a new prime minister contrary to the advice of the previous was in 1928 when he appointed the first Labour government.

Article 12 states:The King himself chooses a Council from among Norwegian citizens who are entitled to vote. 
[...]The King apportions the business among the Members of the Council of State, as he deems appropriate.Article 30 states: [...] Everyone who has a seat in the Council of State has the duty frankly to express his opinion, to which the King is bound to listen. But it rests with the King to make a decision according to his own judgment. [...]

Veto of laws
The King has to sign all laws in order for them to become valid. He can veto any law. However, if two separate Stortings approve the law, it becomes valid even without the King's consent. The Crown has not vetoed any law since the dissolution of the union with Sweden.

Article 78 states: If the King assents to the Bill, he appends his signature, whereby it becomes law.If he does not assent to it, he returns it to the Storting with a statement that he does not for the time being find it expedient to sanction it. In that case the Bill must not again be submitted to the King by the Storting then assembled. [...]

Church of Norway
Until 2012 the constitutional head of the Church of Norway, also known as the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Norway, was the King. The Church of Norway professes the Lutheran branch of Christianity, and is a member of the Porvoo Communion.

Since 2012 the Church has been self-governing, although it remains the established state church, which 86% of Norwegians are members of.  In accordance with the constitution, the Norwegian King as head of state must be a member of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Norway.

Pardoning criminals
Article 20 states: The King shall have the right in the Council of State to pardon criminals after sentence has been passed.A pardon is the forgiveness of a crime and the penalty associated with it. It may be given if new information on the crime or criminal has come to light after sentencing has begun. A pardon may entail a complete or partial withdrawal of punishment.
The practical execution of this right has been delegated to the Ministry of Justice which may dismiss an application for a pardon. The formal approval of a pardon has to be done by the King in Council. In 2004 a total of 51 applications for pardon were approved and 274 were denied.

In impeachment proceedings, the King cannot pardon a defendant without the consent of the Storting.

Appointing senior officials
Article 21 states: The King shall choose and appoint, after consultation with his Council of State, all senior civil, and military officials. 
The appointment is made by the Monarch after having been advised by the council of state and having received its consent.

Dismissing the government
Article 22 states: The Prime Minister and the other Members of the Council of State, together with the State Secretaries, may be dismissed by the King without any prior court judgment, after he has heard the opinion of the Council of State on the subject.Chivalric orders
Article 23 states: The King may bestow orders upon whomever he pleases, as a reward for distinguished services[...]

Norway has two chivalric orders: the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav and the Royal Norwegian Order of Merit. In addition the King awards several other distinguished medals for a wide range of accomplishments.

War
Article 25 states: The King is Commander-in-Chief of the land and naval forces of the Realm.The King is also Commander-in-Chief of the Norwegian Air Force: but it is not explicitly mentioned because there was no Air Force in 1814.