[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Murray–Darling Basin Authority

hey could not support the Plan which they believed would cost billions and claimed that it would not fix the problems in the river system. The Wentworth Group wanted a minimum 4,000 gigalitres of water returned to the river system but the Group believed that it would not happen under the draft plan.

Water buybacks
In June 2011, a federal parliamentary committee (chaired by independent Tony Windsor) delivered its report to MDBA and its recommendations on water cutbacks in the basin. The committee was told river communities faced annihilation if 4,000 gigalitres was returned to the environment. The committee also reported that the health of the river system could be protected without the cuts. The Australian Conservation Foundation said it was disappointed by the report delivered by the inquiry into the Murray–Darling river system. The Foundation believed that buybacks were the most efficient way to save the basin.

According to the Wentworth Group, the Commonwealth Government originally planned to start buying the 2,750 gigalitres of water and to increase groundwater extractions by 2,600 gigalitres at the same time in March 2011. Much of the groundwater is linked to river systems, but the Plan does not count it in the models.:

In late May 2012, a revision of the plan was forwarded to state water ministers for review. It did not alter the recommendation to return 2,750 gigalitres of water to the environment by cutting water entitlements.

Following much negotiation between the Commonwealth and state governments and numerous submissions from interested stakeholders and the community, the Basin Plan finally became law in November 2012.

Royal Commission into compliance with plan 
In 2017, after claims that upstream states had not been complying with the Murray–Darling Basin Plan, South Australian Premier Jay Weatherill requested that the Federal Government undertake a judicial enquiry or Royal Commission to determine who was to blame for "water theft" and whether upstream states had been complicit. When the Federal Government rejected the request, Weatherill then launched a South Australian Royal Commission in January 2018 to investigate. The Weatherill Ministry fell in 2019, and then the Federal Government barred Murray Darling Basin Authority officials from giving evidence to the Royal Commission. The Commissioner, Bret Walker SC, also wrote to the new South Australian Attorney-General Vickie Chapman of the Marshall Ministry asking for an extension, but this was rejected.

The report into the Royal Commission was released 29 January 2019. Commissioner Walker was damning of the Murray–Darling Basin Authority's administration. He said that the process of setting sustainable limits to water extraction were "major failure of process", and that "The MDBA and the Commonwealth Government of the day can be seen not to have followed the plain requirements of the Water Act." (p24)  

Subsequently other requests for an inquiry have been made, following mass fish deaths in the Darling River.

See also

Catchment Management Authority (New South Wales)
Catchment Management Authority (Victoria)
River Basin Management Plans

References

External links
 Official Murray–Darling Basin Authority website
 The Basin Plan – Murray–Darling Basin Authority
 Murray–Darling Basin Authority newsroom
 The Murray–Darling Basin location
 Murray–Darling Basin maps
 Murray–Darling Basin Commission - archived website
 An essay describing the MDBC's response to extreme drought conditions, Presented by Dr Wendy Craik in May 2008
 An essay which details the Murray–Darling Basin Authority's Living Murray Initiative, presented at the Australian Government Productivity Commission's Roundtable Proceedings "Promoting Better Environmental Outcomes" by Wendy Craik in August 2008
 Guide to the Proposed Basin Plan - Murray–Darling Basin Authority
 Murray–Darling Basin Science - Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO)
 Research to support Murray–Darling Basin industries and communities - CSIRO
 Murray–Darling Basin Plan - Environment Victoria

 Murray-Darling Basin Authority
Commonwealth Government agencies of Australia
Water in Australia
2008 establishments in Australia
Government agencies established in 2008
Water management authorities