[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Julian Moti

report to police daily, reside with his parents, and, surrender his passport, (travel documents) within 7 days, matter to be heard again on 15 February 2008. On 14 March 2008, Moti's lawyers asked for more time to prepare for his committal hearing, with the matter adjourned by the Court until April.

On 2 January 2008, former prime minister Manasseh Sogavare stated that Moti's extradition had violated a Magistrate Court order which had aimed at halting the extradition process while Julian Moti's asylum application was processed. Sogavare said the arrest and extradition were "an example of the continuing disregard of the laws of Solomon Islands", and claimed that they demonstrated  a "desire to control" on the part of 's Australian Federal Police and the Royal Solomon Islands Police.

Later that month, the Solomon Islands government declared Moti to be a "prohibited immigrant", and explained that he would not be allowed back into the Solomons (for as long as the Sikua government remains in office), irrespective of whether or not his name is cleared in Australia.

Stay of indictment
On 15 December 2009 Justice Debra Mullins of the Queensland Supreme Court ruled that there had been an abuse of process and stayed the indictment against Moti. She held that "questions about the integrity of the administration of the Australian justice system [arise] when witnesses who live in a foreign country, expected to be fully supported by the Australian Government until they gave evidence at the trial in Australia." The stay was set aside by the Queensland Court of Appeal in June 2010.

In December 2011, the High Court of Australia ordered a stay of charges, ruling that Australian officials' participation in Moti's extradition from the Solomons had been unlawful under Solomon Islands law. Summarising its ruling, the court said: "Further prosecution of the charges would be an abuse of process because of the role that Australian officials in Mr Moti being deported to Australia". This was a permanent stay of prosecution putting an end to all court proceedings against Moti; the ruling was a majority decision of six judges to one. Manasseh Sogavare stated, in response to the ruling: "I am so pleased. This matter has hung like a dark cloud over me and my government. This decision has vindicated me".

Mr Moti regained his Fijian citizenship in 2012. He was admitted as a legal practitioner in Fiji on Monday 24 June 2013. In September, he was appointed Professor of Law at the University of Fiji.

References

1965 births
2020 deaths
Fijian people of Indian descent
20th-century Australian lawyers
Australian people of Indian descent
Solomon Islands politicians
Attorneys general
People extradited to Australia
People extradited from the Solomon Islands
Australian people of Indo-Fijian descent
Solomon Islands people of Indo-Fijian descent
Fijian emigrants to Australia
Academic staff of Jawaharlal Nehru University
Academic staff of Bond University
21st-century Fijian lawyers