[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 2006 Gaza–Israel conflict

over the "arbitrary arrest of Palestinian (Cabinet) ministers, members of the Palestinian Legislative Council and other officials as well as the arbitrary arrests of other civilians" and military attacks." On July 13, 2006, The United States vetoed a UN resolution condemning this military operation.

Other countries
  – Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu expressed concern over the worsening humanitarian crisis, calling on Israel to "cease the military actions immediately" and for Palestinian authorities to help release the hostage as soon as possible.
  – Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov called for the unconditional release of Shalit while urging Israel to show restraint. "Such restraint, together with the involvement of the international community, can lead to dialogue restarting and the two sides can go back to implementing the 'Road Map'".
  – "Israel has committed an indefensible act," the Swedish TT news agency quoted Swedish Prime Minister Göran Persson as saying. "It is disproportionate in terms of what the Palestinians have done," Persson said. "To go like that and remove part of a government and members of parliament is incompatible with international law." Persson cast doubt on the possibility of an exchange of prisoners. The situation "keeps getting worse and the dialogue between Israelis and Palestinians has now become virtually impossible. It is ominous," he said.
  – "A number of actions by the Israeli defense forces in their offensive against the Gaza Strip have violated the principle of proportionality and are to be seen as forms of collective punishment, which is forbidden," the Swiss Foreign Ministry said in a statement. "There is no doubt that [Israel] has not taken the precautions required of it in international law to protect the civilian population and infrastructure," Switzerland said. Switzerland also called for the "rapid release" of the captive Israeli soldier.
  – A Syrian official stated "These aggressive operations form a provocation and are unjustified. If their goal is to place responsibility for the capture of the Israeli soldier on the political leadership of Hamas – then Israel is making a scandalous mistake that is crossing the boundaries of logic."
  – White House Press Secretary Tony Snow said that "Israel has the right to defend itself and the lives of its citizens... [But] in any actions the government of Israel may undertake, the United States urges that it ensures that innocent civilians are not harmed and also that it avoid the unnecessary destruction of property and infrastructure." The United States vetoed a UN resolution condemning this military operation.

See also 
 Gaza Division
 Palestinian political violence
 Palestinian rocket attacks on Israel
 2023 Israel–Hamas war

Literature 
 Barry Rubin: Israel's New Strategy in: Foreign Affairs, July/August 2006, p. 111–125

References

External links
 Rashdan, Abdelrahman (2008-04-29), Myths and Facts about Gaza (FAQs) IslamOnline.net
 Focus: Israel and the Palestinians – Al Jazeera
 Mohammed Abu Arar, 23, and Ashraf Al Muasher, 25, Some of the Palestinian leaders responsible for kidnapping killed
 At least 6 Palestinians killed by Israeli fire
 Arabs to lift aid embargo on Palestinians due to deaths of many civilians caused by israeli attacks and UN veto
 Special: Gaza kidnapping Israeli News – Ynetnews
 Continuing Unrest in Middle East
 Chronological Review of Events Relating to the Question of Palestine: Monthly media monitoring review, August 2006

2006
Conflicts in 2006
June 2006 events in Asia
November 2006 events in Asia
2006 in Israel
2006 in the Gaza Strip
Counterterrorism in Israel
Israeli attacks against the Gaza Strip