[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Immigration to Singapore

equired to pay a higher levy on workers whose employment would change the "dependent ceiling" value of the company. The levy and the "dependency ceiling" have remained the two instruments with which the government has regulated worker inflow in line with changes in domestic labour-market conditions.

Non-residents working in Singapore will require a work visa. There are various types of Singapore work visas starting from work permits for the lower-skilled labourers, to P1 and P2 category Employment Passes to attract niche professionals with good credentials in both education and work experience.

From 1 September 2012 only foreign workers with earnings of at least SG$4,000 (US$3,150) per month can sponsor their spouses and children for their stay in Singapore and some of them are also not allowed to bring their parents and in-laws on long-term visit passes. The new regulation also impacts those who switch companies on/after the date, but foreign workers whose families are already in Singapore won't be affected. The increase from SG$2,800 to SG$4,000 was to ease public disquiet over the influx of workers from overseas.

In December 2012, there were over 1,268,300 foreign workers employed in Singapore, while in December 2018 this had increased to 1,386,000. As of 2020, foreign workers make up some three quarters of the whole construction industry, half of manufacturing, and 30 per cent of services.

2013 Population White Paper

In early 2013, the Singapore parliament debated over the policies recommended by the Population White Paper entitled A Sustainable Population for a Dynamic Singapore. Citing that Singapore's 900,000 Baby Boomers would comprise a quarter of the citizen population by 2030 and that its workforce would shrink "from 2020 onward", the White Paper projected that by 2030, Singapore's "total population could range between 6.5 and 6.9 million", with resident population between 4.2 and 4.4 million and citizen population between 3.6 and 3.8 million. The White Paper called for an increase in the number of foreign workers so as to provide balance between the number of skilled and less-skilled workers, as well as provide healthcare and domestic services. It also claimed that foreign workers help businesses thrive when the economy is good. The motion was passed albeit after amendments made to leave out "population policy" and add focus on infrastructure and transport development.

The White Paper was criticised by opposition parties. Member of Parliament Low Thia Khiang of the Workers' Party of Singapore had criticised current measures of increasing the fertility rate, claiming that the high cost of living and lack of family and social support discouraged young couples from having babies. As for current immigration policies, he had noted that immigrants were a source of friction for Singaporeans and that an increased population would put more stress on the already strained urban infrastructure. PAP MP Inderjit Singh had also spoken out on the issue, citing cohesion and social issues that would have been made worse with the proposed immigrant influx rate. On 16 February 2013, nearly 3,000 people rallied to protest the White Paper and raise concerns that the increased population would lead to the deterioration of public service and the increase of the cost of living in the future.

Impact
When immigration significantly increased during the 1980s, concerns were raised by some Singaporeans about the government's policy on immigration. While the inflow of immigrants and foreign workers have helped to alleviate a labour crunch and boost the economy, it has also resulted in strong sentiment by some locals against both foreigners and the government, and was a major issue in both the 2011 general and presidential elections.

Singaporeans have attributed to the government's immigration policy that will lead to the country's overcrowding and falling reliability of its public transportation system, increasing property prices for housing, suppressed wage level, increased competition for jobs and education, increasing income inequality and other social problems. These issues came under closer scrutiny in the aftermath of the 2013 Little India riot.

Behavioural incidents by foreigners
The government have also spoken out against a rising anti-foreigner sentiment after Singaporeans expressed outrage at disparaging statements made by foreigners residing in Singapore.