[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ayoob Kara

nything to do with it. He was threatened with expulsion from the Knesset for trying to obstruct the plan as it went through. The Israeli media called him the "prophet of fury". Years earlier, he opposed the withdrawal from Lebanon in 2000, warning that Hezbollah would gain power in Israel's absence.

After the Gaza flotilla clash, Kara spoke with a leading mufti in Turkey. He told the mufti that Israel conducted the operation legally and humanely and presented facts backing his claims. In addition, he said "Israel is the most humanitarian country in the Middle East and never objected to the transfer of humanitarian aid to Gaza," and the flotilla organizers intended to provoke Israel. He also asked the mufti to preach brotherhood between Israel and Turkey, "saying there are no winners in war."

At a meeting hosted by Turkish television personality Adnan Oktar, Kara stated that flotillas must carry humanitarian aid and not weapons. He said that Israel wanted to work with Turkey to transfer humanitarian aid to Gaza.

Iran
Kara supports an Israeli strike against Iran's nuclear program and assured that other Muslim nations would support a strike, albeit quietly, and not publicly. In April 2010, the MK made public that he had been approached by an Israeli woman of Persian Jewish origin, who had been contacted by an Iranian nuclear scientist seeking asylum in Israel. Kara stated he would help and that the scientist was staying in a "friendly country", but there has been no word on the plan since the announcement.

Following a planned visit by Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to the Israel-Lebanon border, Kara organized a rally in which 2,000 blue and white balloons would be released if Ahmadinejad came, stating that "the balloons represent the fact that the Jewish people have come home after 2,000 years of exile, and are not going anywhere". Kara also stated that as a non-Jew, he appreciated Israel's freedom and democracy, and that were it not for the Jewish people, the entire region would look like Iran. Kara also claims to have sent Ahmadinejad a letter in Persian, in which he expressed "the Israeli nation's desire for peace, and its willingness to defend itself".

At the event, Kara criticized the Israeli government for inaction, and called Ahmadinejad "a catastrophe for the world" and said that Israel wants peace, not wars. He also warned that Ahmadinejad intends to rebuild the Persian Empire, using Lebanon as an army base.

Arab-Israeli conflict and peace
Kara believes that Israel "has no one to make peace with", and that all the peace partners aim to weaken Israel. He noted that many Israelis think like Europeans and do not understand the thought process in the Middle East. He criticized the Oslo accords for giving "the criminal Palestinian leadership that was in Lebanon and Tunisia the legitimacy to be leaders in Judea, Samaria, and Gaza".

In July 2010, Kara warned Israel not to be tricked by United States president Barack Obama's apparent sympathy for Israel. Kara stated that Obama "doesn't sound evil now because he needs Jewish votes and money, but I won't forget the pressure he put on Netanyahu and the stress I saw in the prime minister the last time he came back from Washington". Several days later, in an interview, he endorsed a three-state solution, saying that Egypt should resume control over Gaza. He noted that Arabs almost universally call for a restoration of the situation prior to the Six-Day War, when Gaza was part of Egypt. In addition, he mentioned that it would be beneficial to the security of Egypt to eliminate Iranian influence in the territory. In an interview, Kara noted that "In all history there was never a Palestinian state." He proposed that Jordan, which is 90% Palestinian take administrative control of Arab cities in the West Bank, while Israel would control defense, major cities, and broad areas in the territory.

During the 2010 Israel forest fire, Kara stated he had information that the fire was "a terrorist act"—arson—and called for the perpetrators to be executed like Adolf Eichmann. Some of the 41 killed in the blaze were Druze.

In 2011, Kara and fellow MK Aryeh Eldad met with Glenn Beck. After Eldad said that there was a Palestinian state in Jordan, Kara added "the world doesn't understand that there are already two states here, and now, they want three states. There were never Palestinians in this area" During the same meeting, he explained his Zionism as consistent with the Druze tradition that they are descendants of Jethro, and "commanded to watch over the Land of Israel for the People of Israel". At the first International Regional Cooperation Conference in Tel Aviv, Kara said Israel should negotiate with businessmen rather than the Palestinian Authority leadership.