[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Francis Martin O'Donnell

aig N. Murphy, published by Cambridge University Press, New York/US & Cambridge/UK, 2006 (). O'Donnell's work and influence in East Timor in early 2000, cited (page 341).
 Book review by Caitlin Bain,  & Brian Donovan, Director, Eneclann: The O'Donnells of Tyrconnell: A Hidden Legacy,  review thereof published by Eneclann – The Irish Family History Centre, Dublin, 26 January 2020.The O'Donnells of Tyrconnell: A Hidden Legacy
 Book review by Michael Merrigan: Celebrating Ireland in Belgrade  (front cover story about the book The O'Donnells of Tyrconnell – A Hidden Legacy) published in Ireland's Genealogical Gazette,  Volume 15, no. 2, monthly newsletter of the Genealogical Society of Ireland, February 2020.Ireland's Genealogical Gazette (February 2020) by Genealogical Society of Ireland - Issuu
 Book review by J. Anthony Gaughan: The Astonishing History of One of Ireland's Great Clans, published in The Irish Catholic, Dublin, 12 March 2020.The astonishing history of one of Ireland's great clans.
 Book review by Kenneth Ferguson, LL.B, Ph.D., Honorary Editor of The Irish Sword,  the Journal of the Military History Society of Ireland, Volume XXXII, no. 129, Dublin, Summer 2020.
 Cultural Diplomacy in the Service of Serbia, by Dr. Vjera Mujović, published by the Institute for Political Studies Belgrade, 2020 (367pp) () (her doctoral dissertation of May 2019 at the Faculty of Media and Communications, Singidunum University, Belgrade, Serbia). (Др Вјера Мујовић, Културна дипломатија у служби Србије, Издавач: Институт за политичке студије Београд, Београд, 2020).

Honours

State awards
 : heraldic achievement: The typical O'Donnell "supporters" of a bull and lion rampant, in azure and gold respectively, consistent with historic O'Donnell arms and suitably differentiated therefrom, were added by the Chief Herald of Ireland (Vol. Aa, Folio 72) to his arms recorded in the Register of Grants and Confirmations (Volume Z, folio 87) Home
 : Ambassador O'Donnell was awarded the Golden Medal by Miroslav Lajčák, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs of the Slovak Republic on 1 March 2013, in recognition of enhanced bilateral relations with the Sovereign Military Order of Malta during the period 2009–2013, and expanded activities in social work, palliative care, disability and health, and a new programme for the integration of Roma children into the education system.
 :Ombudsman's Medal of Honour
 : O'Donnell holds the Cross of Honour of Jerusalem , bestowed on him by the Custodia Franciscalis Terra Sanctae in 1965.

Orders
 : Grand Cross of the Order pro merito Melitensi, conferred by the Prince and Grand Master of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, Fra' Matthew Festing, on 26 July 2014 in Dublin, pursuant to diploma of 9 October 2013; and conferred in parallel with visit of Grand Master to Dublin in August 2014.
 : O'Donnell is also a Knight of Malta  (member of the Sovereign Military and Hospitaller Order of Saint John of Jerusalem, of Rhodes, and of Malta), and was accredited, as the Order's Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Slovak Republic (2009–2013).
 : He was decreed into the Pontifical Equestrian Order of St. Gregory the Great, by decree 1566/ON of 10 November 2007, by virtue of which Pope Benedict XVI conferred on him the dignity of papal Knight Commander with Silver Star, a dignity assumed upon his retirement from the UN.
 : He was invested into the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem, Irish Lieutenancy, by the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem, at St Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland on 22–23 July 2011.

Dynastic orders
  House of Bourbon-Two Sicilies: He is also a Knight Commander of the Sacred Military Constantinian Order of Saint George, which shares motto: In Hoc Signo Vinces, inscribed on his coat of arms the main motif of which is a cross-crosslet.
  Royal House of Georgia: He was made Grand Cross in the Royal Order of the Eagle of Georgia by Crown Prince David Bagration of Mukhrani, per diploma dated 30 July 2014, and invested in Leixlip Castle.

O'Donnell was elected Fellow of the Genealogical Society of Ireland (FGSI) on 1 December 2022, as announced in its Gazette.

References