[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 96]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

go back--this attitude of
apology--it is speaking, inimitable!"

"But meanwhile that wretched child is shrieking itself into a fit!"
cried the allegory, with the air of a repentant criminal.

"Whenever you open your mouth, out falls a symbol," exclaimed Hadria.
"Be calm; Hannah will soon comfort her, and it is truer kindness not to
remind her again of her grievance, poor little soul. But we will go back
if you like (you are indeed a true woman!), and you can say you are
sorry you made so free with your own possessions, and you wish you had
done your duty better, and are eager to return and let Her Majesty hold
you captive. Your prototype always does, you know, and she is nearly
always pardoned, on condition that she never does anything of that kind
again."

Professor Theobald seemed too much concerned about the child, who was
still wailing, to pay much attention to any other topic. He turned to
retrace his steps.

"I think you make a mistake," said Hadria. "As soon as she sees you she
will want the watch, and then you will be placed between the awful
alternatives of voluntarily surrendering your freedom, and heartlessly
refusing to present yourself to her as a big plaything. In one respect
you have not yet achieved a thorough fidelity to your model; you don't
seem to enjoy sacrifice for its own sake. That will come with practice."

"I wish that child would leave off crying."

Hadria stopped in the road to laugh at the perturbed Professor.

"She will presently. That is only a cry of anger, not of distress. I
would not leave her, if it were. Yes; your vocation is clearly
allegorical. Feminine to your finger-tips, in this truly feminine
predicament. We are all--_nous autres femmes_--like the hero of the
_White Ship_, who is described by some delightful boy in an examination
paper as being 'melted by the shrieks of a near relation.'"

The Professor stumbled over a stone in the road, and looked back at it
vindictively.

"The near relation does so want to hold one's watch and to stuff it into
his mouth, and he shrieks so movingly if one brutally removes one's
property and person!"

"Alas! I am still a little bewildered by my late captivity. I can't see
the bearings of things."

"As allegory, you are as perfect as ever."

"I seem to be a sort of involuntary _Pilgrim's Progress_!" he exclaimed.

"Ah, indeed!" cried Hadria, "and how the symbolism of that old allegory
would fit this subject!"

"With me for wretched hero, I suppose!"

"Your archetype;--with a little adaptation--yes, and wonderfully
little--the Slough of Despond, Doubting Castle, the Valley of the Shadow
of Death--they all fall into place. Ah! the modern _Pilgrim's Progress_
would read strangely and significantly with woman as the pilgrim! But
the end--that would be a difficulty."

"One for your sex to solve," said the Professor.

When they arrived at the cottage the wails were dying away, and Hadria
advised that they should leave well alone. So the baby's victim somewhat
reluctantly retired.

"After all, you see, if one has strength of purpose, one _can_ achieve
freedom," he observed.

"At the expense of the affections, it would seem," said Hadria.

The walk was pursued towards Craddock. Hadria said she had to ask Dodge,
the old gravedigger, if he could give a few days' work in the garden at
the Red House.

The Professor was walking for walking's sake.

"She is a pretty child, isn't she?" said Hadria.

"Very; an attractive mite; but she has a will of her own."

"Yes; I confess I have a moment of exultation when that child sets up
one of her passionate screams--the thrilling shriek of a near relation!"

"Really, why?"

"She has to make her way in the world. She must not be too meek. Her
mother was a victim to the general selfishness and stupidity. She was
too gentle and obedient; too apt to defer to others, to be able to
protect herself. I want her child to be strengthened for the battle by a
good long draught of happiness, and to be armed with that stoutest of
all weapons--perfect health."

"You are very wise, Mrs. Temperley," murmured the Professor.

"_Mon Dieu!_ if one had always to judge for others and never for
oneself, what Solons we should all be!"

"I hear that you have taken the child under your protection. She may
think herself fortunate. It is an act of real charity."

Hadria winced. "I fear not. I have grown very much attached to Martha
now, poor little soul; but when I decided to adopt her, I was in a state
of red-hot fury."

"Against whom, may I ask?"

"Against the child's father," Hadria replied shortly.




CHAPTER XXVII.


"Yes, mum, I see un go up to the churchyard. He's tidyin' up the place a
bit for the weddin'."

"The wedding?" repeated Hadria vaguely. Mrs. Gullick looked at her as at
one whose claims to complete possession of the faculties there seems sad
reason to doubt.

"Oh, Miss Jordan's, yes. When is it