[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Grand Hotel International Prague

stucco designs for walls and ceilings, window layouts, parquet and wall paneling, seating furniture and lights. It also included historical photographs from the construction phase of the hotel, and perspective drawings of the surrounding area. Trmač had also designed much of the original furniture.

Interior art
The interior decorations of the hotel were overseen by local artists Max Švabinský, and Cyril Bouda. The hotel features wrought iron fixtures, including a staircase railing done by Jan Nušl, a Czech blacksmith. Glass panels are featured in the hotel, which include Czech national motifs from artists Jaroslav Brychta and Vilém Dostrasil. The chandeliers and wall lamps were made in the glassworks from the towns of Kamenický Šenov and Valašské Meziříčí. Some walls of the hotel are painted with plant motifs from artists Josef Novák and Stanislav Ullman. The hotel also features several Gobelin tapestries from the Moravská gobelínová manufaktura, which includes Czech national and folklore themes. The largest tapestry called Praga Regina Musicae is located in the entrance hall, and features a view of Prague with the former Stalin monument in Letná Park in the middle. On the top floor of the tower, is a spiral staircase with a colorful bouquet mosaic covering the whole wall.

Amenities
The Grand Hotel International has a four-star hotel rating, with services provided in five languages, including Czech, English, French, German and Russian. The hotel features a conference centre that includes 14 halls with a capacity of 1200 people, and other renovations in 2016 increased the number of guest rooms to 278. Dining facilities in the hotel include, The Harvest restaurant, the Racianska Vinarna restaurant, a lobby cafe and bar, and a club lounge on the 14th and 15th floors, with a skyline view of downtown Prague.

Notable events
In the 1950s and 1960s, the hotel hosted regular friendship social events for local residents, which later grew in popularity when promoted by the Čedok travel agency, and hosted the annual two-day Staropražský bál for Prague 6 residents. The hotel regularly hosted the Circus Humberto series, and circus acts by the Berousek family. The hotel was featured prominently in the musical comedy film Big Beat set in 1959, directed by Jan Hřebejk. During the 1968 Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia, the American film The Bridge at Remagen was being filmed, and the cast and crew were relocated into the hotel before being permitted travel to Austria. During the 1972 World Ice Hockey Championships in Prague, the hotel hosted negotiations between Joe Kryczka of Canada, and Andrey Starovoytov of the Soviet Union, for the international hockey event that became the 1972 Summit Series.

References

External links

1956 establishments in Czechoslovakia
20th-century architecture in the Czech Republic
Hotel buildings completed in 1956
Hotels in Prague
InterContinental Hotels Group
Skyscrapers in Prague
Skyscraper hotels
Stalinist architecture