[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human rights in Transnistria

he media

According to Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), the media climate in Transnistria is restrictive and the authorities continue a long-standing campaign to silence independent opposition voices and groups.
Alternative viewpoints were stifled by widespread censorship

According to the same U.S. Department of State report for 2006, "Both of region's major newspapers were controlled by the authorities. There was one independent weekly newspaper in Bender and another in the northern city of Rîbniţa.... Separatist authorities harassed independent newspapers for critical reporting of the Transnistrian regime.... Most television and radio stations and print publication were controlled by Transnistrian authorities, which largely dictated their editorial policies and finance operations. Some broadcast networks, such as the TSV television station and the INTER-FM radio station, were owned by Transnistria's largest monopoly, Sherriff, which also holds a majority in the region's legislature.... In July 2005 the Transnistrian Supreme Soviet amended the election code to prohibit media controlled by the Transnistrian authorities from publishing results of polls and forecasts related to elections."

Situation of Romanian-language schools

Transnistrian local authorities insist that public education for ethnic Moldovans in their mother tongue be done using the Soviet-originated Moldovan Cyrillic, and have restricted the usage of the Latin script for the Moldovan language to only six schools. Four schools of the six that taught the Moldovan language using Latin script were closed by the authorities, who claimed the schools refused to apply for official accreditation. The schools were later reopened amid pressure from the European Union, but as private institutions.

In 2010, the European Court of Human Rights declared partly admissible applications of more than 100 local residents regarding closing of three Moldovan schools in Transnistria (Tighina, Rîbniţa and Grigoriopol), alleging the violation of their right to protection of private life, education and non-discrimination.

The OSCE mission to Moldova urged local authorities in the Transnistrian city of Rîbniţa to return a confiscated building to the Moldovan Latin script school located in the city. The unfinished building was nearing completion in 2004, when Transnistria took control of it during that year's school crisis.

Ilie Ilașcu Group 

One of the most high-profile cases involved Ilie Ilașcu, who was convicted in 1993 of killing two Transnistrian officials.  He was initially sentenced to death by Transnistria's Supreme Court. This was commuted to a life prison sentence. Three other associates were sentenced to 12 to 15 years’ imprisonment and confiscation of their property.

Ilașcu was released in 2001, following a decision of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), while the other three were released in 2004 and 2007 when they finished serving their sentences.

In the case of Ilaşcu and Others v. Moldova and Russia (2004), the European Court of Human Rights found their detention arbitrary and did not recognize the sentence. It also demanded that Moldova and Russia release the other Ilie Ilașcu Group members, Andrei Ivanțoc and Tudor Petrov-Popa, at that time still imprisoned in Transnistria.

ECHR stated the authorities had broken the right of freedom and safety to all four members of the group, and that the treatment Ilie Ilașcu suffered qualified as torture. The court also ordered Moldova and Russia — which backs Transnistria — to pay the four a total of €750,000 (US$1,000,000) in compensation for the deprivation of their freedom, and for ill treatment while in custody.

Religious groups
Some organizations claim that the right of free assembly or association is not fully respected and that religious freedom is limited by  denying registration to Baptists, Methodists, and the Church of the Living God. Transnistrian authorities also reportedly accused Jehovah's Witnesses of lacking patriotism and spreading Western influence, and developed school teaching aids along those lines containing negative and defamatory information regarding Jehovah's Witnesses. In 2007, the US-based Christian Broadcasting Network denounced Transnistrian KGB persecution of Protestants.

Profanation of military cemetery
According to the Moldavian and Romanian press, in February 2007, Transnistrian authorities "destroyed and profaned" the Drăgalina cemetery in Tighina (also known as the Romanian cemetery, which contains/contained the tombs of many World War II soldiers),  thus violating Articles 34 and 130 of the 4th Geneva Convention. The Transnistrian authorities did not exhume the bodies but removed the crosses and leveled the terrain with bulldozers.