[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Childlore

have to take the exact same form and can still be easily read in a very similar manner across various cultures. An example of this pattern of stressed and unstressed syllables can be seen clearly in the style of poems in several languages including English, Chinese, Bengkulu, and Yoruba in Nigeria.

Furthermore, another significant aspect of nursery rhymes that tends to be fairly standard across cultures is the number of lines that occur in a poem. Typically, these poems contain four lines with four beats in each line. These beats, as mentioned above, occur in an isochronic pattern. The anthropological approach to traditional nursery rhymes has revealed that in English poetry, it is highly uncommon to find a nursery rhyme that deviates from this pattern. But, in other cultures, these conventions may be different. For example, in Chinese nursery rhymes, there seems to be less rigidity in the requirement that poems have four beats per line only. There are multiple examples of nursery rhymes that contain a longer first line—with six beats—followed by three more conventional lines containing four beats each. Additionally, in Chinese nursery rhymes, certain poems have been seen to have up to 6 four-beat lines as opposed to the more traditional four lines.

Lastly, an additional convention that seems to be fairly universal in children's nursery rhymes is the pattern of rests before or after the lines. In English poetry, a rest is found most commonly after the second and fourth lines of a poem, or after each line in a poem, while sometimes there will be rests after lines one, two, and four. Any deviations from these three schemes will tend to create awkwardness in the reading. Similar patterns are found within other cultures. For example, rhymes in Bengkulu often require rests at the beginning of each verse, which is very similar to the pattern found in English with slight variation, while rests in Chinese tend to be like those in English, with rests after each line.

Further cross-cultural similarities in nursery rhymes are aspects such as rhyme scheme, which tend to be found in an ABAB pattern, with slight variations, although rhyme scheme variation is less common as it adds complexity to the reading and understanding of these rhymes which are inherently designed to be much simpler. All in all, nursery rhymes are at the foundation of culture and provide great insight into the common, socially learned knowledge and behavioral patterns across the world.

See also 
 Children's street culture
 Latin American childlore
 Cooties
 Dong, Dong, Dongdaemun

Notes

References 
 Grider, Sylvia Ann. The Study of Children's Folklore. Western Folklore 39.3, Children's Folklore (1980): 159–69.
 Mendoza, Vicente T. Lirica Infantil De Mexico. Letras Mexicanas. 2a ed. Mexico: Fondo de Cultura Economica, 1980
 Opie, Iona Archibald, and Peter Opie. The Lore and Language of Schoolchildren. Trans. Peter Opie. Oxford Paperbacks. New York: Oxford University Press, 1987.
 Sutton-Smith, Brian. Psychology of Childlore: The Triviality Barrier. Western Folklore 29.1 (1970): 1–8.
 Burling, Robbins. "The Metrics of Children's Verse: A Cross-Linguistic Study". The Metrics of Children's Verse: A Cross‐Linguistic Study1, University of Michigan, anthrosource.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1525/aa.1966.68.6.02a00040.

Further reading 
 
 
 Opie, Iona (1993). The people in the playground. Oxford University Press. . .
 

Folklore
Children's entertainment
Folk culture
Children's street culture