[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Moviment Graffitti

ent has no formal organisation and decisions are taken during regular assembly meetings where anyone who shares the organisation's vision and principles can attend and contribute. Their activities are self-funded through membership-payment and fund-raising events held throughout the year.

Campaigns

Workers’ rights & anti-capitalism 
In 1996, Moviment Graffitti held its first anti-McDonald's day, protesting against multinationals' exploitation of workers and the "brutal way in which animals are raised" and butchered. The event occurred yearly until 2010.

In 1997 Moviment Graffitti proposed the introduction of a 35-hour work week.

In August 2008, Moviment Graffitti joined the campaign against the privatisation of the shipyard. Following the lead of the General Workers Union who represented the workers, Moviment Graffitti showed its support and participated in the mass rally held by GWU. Later that year, on the 13th of November, Moviment Graffitti also joined GWU in its protest march against the increase in utility rates.

Starting from October 2016, Moviment Graffitti launched a campaign attempting to increase the minimum wage and wages in ġeneral tilted the, Decent Wages Tour. The organisation toured several localities to inform the public about the campaign and get their support. In April 2017, the government increased the minimum wage by a weekly €8, however activists said that it fell short of their expectations.

Together with 16 other organisations, Moviment Graffitti launched a campaign for rent regulation in February 2018. Several proposals were put forward including: A tax regime that incentivises long-lets through lower tax rates for longer leases; The possibility for landlords to increase rent-prices yearly during the duration of a contract by a percentage that does not exceed the cost-of-living-increase percentage; A tax on empty rentable property that disincentivizes rent on the black market and increases the amount of properties for rent; and Regulation of Agencies and a legal standing to a Tenants’ Union. The new law including some of these proposals was passed in 2019 and came into force in 2020.

September 2022 saw the launch of a living income study which Moviment Graffitti commissioned together with General Workers Union and the Alliance against Poverty. The study found that 76% of single parent households do not earn a living income, while almost 40% of the two-parent household earn less than the established living income.

Environmental protection & over-development 

In 1996 Moviment Graffitti started a campaign against a proposed development for a Hilton hotel. This campaign started when the Tumas Group bought the land for Lm191,000. A later investigation by the Ombudsman found that there were a number of irregularities in the planning permit.

In 1998 Moviment Graffitti and several other organisations established the Front against Golf Course in response to the proposed Ta’ Ċenċ golf course, arguing that against the “development of golf courses located on land used for agricultural uses or on land which has ecological value”. This campaign continued for years with numerous articles, demonstrations and protests.

Moviment Graffitti was also active in later successful campaigns against golf courses, including a proposed golf course at Verdala by developers AX Holdings in 2002, as well as at Xagħra l-Ħamra near Għajn Tuffieħa in 2005 and once again at Ta’ Ċenċ. Moviment Graffitti was included in the coalition against the golf courses which included organisations such as the Gaia Foundation, Nature Trust, Friends of the Earth, Birdlife Malta, and the Ramblers Association as well as farmers from the areas.

The organisation was active in campaigns against development in the Kalkara valley, the development of villas in Ramla l-Ħamra, Malta's Planning Authority, and the extension of a power station.

In 2015 Moviment Graffitti was part of Front Ħarsien ODZ, a group protesting against the proposed development in the Żonqor area in Marsascala by developers Sadeen as part of the American University of Malta.

In 2016 Moviment Graffitti conducted a campaign on access to Manoel Island in which the group cut through the gates and fences providing access to the public.

Over 2018 and 2019 the organisation coordinated a series of successful direct actions asking for a change in the law which allowed fuel stations to be relocated on ODZ. In 2020 the law was amended as demanded.

In 2018, Moviment Graffitti joined local residents in Pembroke in opposing the development of a hotel by developers DB group on what was the grounds of the Institute of Tourism Studies.

In September 2019 Moviment Graffitti organised a national protest titled Iż-Żejjed Kollu Żejjed (Enough is Enough) demanding a more environmental-sensitive construction industry and radical changes in Malta's planning policies.