[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Joan Roughgarden

for the Oceanic Society (San Francisco), the EPA Science Advisory Board Committee on Valuating the Protection of Ecological Systems and Services, and the science advisory boards of the Pacific Ocean Conservation Network (California), and the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary (Santa Barbara).

Selected bibliography 
 
 Roughgarden, J. The Genial Gene: Deconstructing Darwinian Selfishness. Hardcover ed. University of California Press, 2009 
 Roughgarden, J. Evolution and Christian Faith: Reflections of an Evolutionary Biologist. Hardcover ed. Washington, D.C.: Island Press, 2006. 
 Roughgarden, J. Evolution's Rainbow: Diversity, Gender and Sexuality in Nature and People. Berkeley CA: Univ. of California Press, 2004. 
 Roughgarden, J. Primer of Ecological Theory. 1st ed. Prentice Hall, 1997.
 Roughgarden, J. Anolis Lizards of the Caribbean: Ecology, Evolution and Plate Tectonics. Hardcover ed. Oxford Univ. Press, 1995.
 Roughgarden, J, May, R. M., and Levin, S. A. (eds.). Perspectives in Ecological Theory. Oxford Univ. Press, 1995.
 
 Roughgarden, J. Theory of Population Genetics and Evolutionary Ecology: an Introduction. 1st ed. Prentice Hall, 1979.
 Simpson, Layne A. Gender and Society, vol. 19, no. 3, 2005, pp. 425–426. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/30044605.

References

External links 
 Joan Roughgarden profile – Stanford Univ.
 Joan Roughgarden 50-min interv. – Web Radio (Gender Talk)
 Seed Magazine article on sexual selection theory
 Video (with mp3 available) of conversation with Roughgarden and Robert Wright on Bloggingheads.tv

1946 births
American ecologists
American science writers
American women academics
American women non-fiction writers
Evolutionary biologists
Extended evolutionary synthesis
Harvard University alumni
LGBT Christians
LGBT people from New Jersey
American LGBT scientists
Living people
Mathematical ecologists
Sexual orientation and science
Stanford University Department of Biology faculty
Stonewall Book Award winners
Theistic evolutionists
Theoretical biologists
Transgender academics
Transgender scientists
Transgender studies academics
Transgender women writers
University of Massachusetts Boston faculty
University of Rochester alumni
Women ecologists
Women evolutionary biologists
Women science writers
Writers from Paterson, New Jersey
American transgender writers
Biologists from New Jersey