[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Shooting Dogs

Shooting Dogs, released in the United States as Beyond the Gates, is a 2005 film, directed by Michael Caton-Jones and starring John Hurt, Hugh Dancy and Clare-Hope Ashitey. It is based on the experiences of BBC news producer David Belton, who worked in Rwanda during the Rwandan genocide. Belton is the film's co-writer and one of its producers.

The setting of the film is the École Technique Officielle (ETO) in Kigali, Rwanda, in 1994, during the Rwandan genocide. Hurt plays a Catholic priest (loosely based on Vjekoslav Ćurić) and Dancy an English teacher, both Europeans, who are caught up in the events of the genocide.

Unlike Hotel Rwanda, which was filmed in South Africa using South African actors, the film was shot in the original location of the scenes it portrays. Also, many of the massacre survivors were employed as part of the production crew and in minor acting roles.

The film's title refers to the actions of UN soldiers in shooting at the stray dogs that scavenged the bodies of the dead. Since the UN soldiers were not allowed to shoot at the Hutu extremists who had caused the deaths in the first place, the shooting of dogs is symbolic of the madness of the situation that the film attempts to capture.

Plot

Joe Connor is a teacher at the École Technique Officielle outside Kigali, run by Father Christopher. The school is also home to a company of Belgian soldiers under the command of Captain Delon, as part of the UN peacekeeping mandate. Joe is close to a girl, Marie, who Christopher believes has a crush on him. In early April 1994, they observe a number of events that cause Christopher some concern, including lists being made of Tutsi families, reports of Hutu mobs attacking Tutsis elsewhere in the country, and a suspicious interest shown by Christopher's government contact in the number of UN troops at the school.

On the night of 6 April 1994, distant explosions and gunshots are heard, and Delon hears that the President's plane has been shot down. He mobilises his men to guard the school perimeter, turning it into a military base. Refugees arrive at the gates, and Christopher, over Delon's objections, insists that they are let in. The next morning, Joe drives to Marie's house to fetch her, but the house is deserted save for a dog. He returns to the school to find that she has arrived through the rear entrance, as the front entrance is now guarded by a Hutu mob. The refugees organise themselves under the leadership of Roland, Marie's father. A number of European refugees also arrive, and, to Christopher's frustration, Delon arranges for them to be given better quarters. Christopher continues with church services as usual, while Joe attempts to help the refugees.

As a mob surrounds the school, Joe thinks it would help the refugees if their plight is televised and requests Delon's assistance to fetch BBC journalist Rachel and bring her to the compound. Delon is initially cooperative, but abruptly changes his mind and refuses when he hears that the Belgian soldiers guarding Prime Minister Uwilingiyimana have been massacred. Joe decides to leave anyway and get his friend François, who is a Hutu, to escort him instead, but François is not at home. Joe finds Rachel and her cameraman and persuades them to come to the school by telling them there are Europeans there. As they are returning to the school they are stopped at a roadblock and dragged from their vehicle at gunpoint. While Rachel tries to negotiate their way out, Joe is distraught to see a Tutsi man dragged off and hacked to death with machetes. He is further horrified to see that François is with the mob, holding a bloody machete. François arranges for Joe and the BBC team to be let through. The journalists seem much more dispassionate about the events than Joe, which he later discusses with Rachel, who is a veteran reporter with experience of similar events in Bosnia.

During an interview with Delon, Rachel asks him why his troops do not intervene to stop the killings and queries the UN mandate. Delon terminates the interview and tells her that he has requested a change to his mandate to allow him to intervene, without success. Christopher delivers the baby of Edda, one of the refugees, who names the baby after him. Christopher later leaves the school to find medicine for the baby and to visit a nearby convent, which he has heard has been attacked. At the pharmacist, he pays a bribe to get the medicine and angrily lies that the child is Hutu. When he arrives at the convent, he finds that the nuns have all been killed. Outside, the school's hurdles which he lent out as a favour are being used as part of the roadblock, something his government contact gleefully points out. On Christopher's return to the school, Delon tells him they will begin shooting the dogs scavenging nearby bodies. Christopher sarcastically asks if the dogs have been shooting at the UN troops, in reference to their limited mandate.