[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Thiago Silva

l crucial interventions and getting involved offensively. In the final group match against Cameroon, Silva was again outstanding as Brazil won by a decisive 4–1 scoreline. At the end of the group stage, FIFA rated Silva as the third-best defender of the tournament, and the ninth-best player overall.

In Brazil's victory over Chile in the round of 16, Silva assisted the opening goal scored by David Luiz. Chile equalised, and after no goals were scored in extra-time, the match went to a penalty shootout. Silva faced severe criticism for his behaviour, as he was pictured in tears before and during the shootout. 1970 World Cup-winning captain Carlos Alberto asserted that Silva was a weak captain, while Brazilian legend Zico insisted that Silva should have volunteered to take a penalty, instead of refusing to take one. After the Round of 16, Silva was still regarded as one of the best defenders of the tournament by multiple media sources.

Silva was able to silence his critics by scoring the opening goal in the quarterfinal against Colombia, and was seen as a top performer in the match; however, Silva picked up his second yellow card of the tournament for obstructing goalkeeper David Ospina, which ruled him out of the semi-final. Brazil tried to appeal his yellow card, but it was immediately rejected. Nevertheless, at the end of the quarter-final stage, Silva was rated by FIFA as the second-best defender of the tournament, and the fourth-best player overall. Silva's suspension brought apprehension to the team; José Mourinho even claimed that Silva was Brazil's most important player, praising the stability Silva offers to the defence.

Silva was replaced by Bayern Munich defender Dante, who was deemed by Germany coach Joachim Löw as "an excellent player". Without Silva as captain, Brazil capitulated in the semi-final, losing by a record 1–7 scoreline to Germany. It was widely recognised that Silva's absence played a crucial part in the shock result.

In the third-place match, Silva returned, but his presence could not salvage any honours for Brazil, as they were comprehensively beaten 3–0 by the Netherlands. In the second minute of the game, Silva pulled down Arjen Robben, as he ran into Júlio César's box with the ball for a clear goal-scoring opportunity. Under FIFA rules Silva ought to have been shown a red card, but he was shown a yellow card instead by the Algerian referee Djamel Haimoudi. The referee called for a penalty, while the foul happened outside the box, which was successfully scored by Robin van Persie.

At the conclusion of the tournament, Silva was rated by FIFA as the third-best central defender, and the eighth-best player overall. Silva was selected into the FIFA World Cup Dream Team voted by FIFA.com users, and the Castrol World Cup Top XI based on statistical merit.

2015 Copa América
Brazil, under Dunga's second stint as manager, went to the 2015 Copa América in Chile with Neymar as the captain. After his suspension for the remainder of the tournament in their second game, however, the armband did not go back to Silva, but rather to his defensive partner, Miranda. In Brazil's final group match against Venezuela at the Estadio Monumental David Arellano in Santiago, Silva opened the scoring in the ninth minute, volleying in a corner from Robinho. The eventual 2–1 victory sent Brazil into the quarter-finals as group winners. In the 70th minute of the quarter-final, Silva's handball gave Paraguay the penalty kick from which they equalised for a 1–1 draw; Brazil lost in the subsequent penalty shoot-out.

2018 World Cup and 2019 Copa América title
On 14 May 2018, Silva was named by Tite to the squad for the 2018 World Cup in Russia. He would play the full 90 minutes of all five of Brazil's matches at the tournament, before they were eliminated by Belgium in the quarter-finals. Silva managed to score during Brazil's final group stage match on 27 June, getting the second goal in his side's 2–0 win against Serbia.

In May 2019, Silva was included in Brazil's 23-man squad for the 2019 Copa América on home soil. He would go on to play every minute for Brazil as they won the tournament, concluding with a 3–1 final victory against Peru on 7 July at the Maracanã.

2021 Copa América runner-up and appearance milestones
In June 2021, Silva was included in Brazil's squad for the 2021 Copa América, again held on home soil. He played the full 90 minutes for Brazil in two of their group stage games and all three of their knockout stage fixtures, including their 1–0 defeat to rivals Argentina in the final on 10 July.

On 10 October 2021, Silva made his 100th appearance for Brazil in a goalless 2022 World Cup qualification draw against Colombia. In September 2022, he became the most-capped centre-back in the history of the Brazil national team, surpassing Lúcio.

2022 World Cup
On 7 November 2022, Silva was named to Brazil's 26-man squad for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar.