[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Fort Foote

was used for gas service training, and during the Second World War, the site was used by officer candidates from Fort Washington. After that war, the fort was transferred to the Department of the Interior and the National Park Service for inclusion in the Service's system of DC-area national parks.

Bicentennial Park plans 
In the 1960s, a number of different plans were proposed to create a new museum park on the site of Fort Foote. A "National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board of the Smithsonian Institution" was authorized in 1961 and in 1966, a National Armed Forces Museum was proposed. However, the political climate and the Vietnam War becoming more unpopular worked against these plans, as critics questioned the wisdom of what would be seen as a war museum.

As a result, the advisory board revised the plan to propose Bicentennial Park, a combination museum and park by the Smithsonian Institution and National Park Service. In January 1967, the choice of using Fort Foote was approved by the National Capital Planning Commission. Plans for the park included a recreation of a Revolutionary War encampment. Planners wrote, "emphasis will be placed on the every- day camp life of the patriot man-at-arms, on the long and patient labor, the sacrifice, and the self-reliance demanded in the struggle to bring forth the first modern republic." The park was to include the encampment, a parade ground and a primitive fort made of wood and staffed by period reenactors. There was also to be a Naval Ordnance Park along the riverbank.

However, securing the Fort Foote site became a problem because of local opposition. The National Bicentennial Commission also ensured the park's demise when it said it had “limited relevance and significance.” By 1973, the effort to create a park on the site of Fort Foote had failed.

Modern use 
The area that once held the fort is largely forested, though some of the original bastions have been preserved. Two  guns sit on carriages overlooking the Potomac. Only one was originally used at Fort Foote. The other is from Battery Rodgers, which lay on the opposite side of the river during the Civil War.

References

External links

Fort Foote Park – National Park Service website

Foote, Fort
Foote, Fort
American Civil War forts
National Park Service areas in Maryland
National Capital Parks-East
Parks in Prince George's County, Maryland
Foote
1863 establishments in Maryland
National Register of Historic Places in Prince George's County, Maryland
American Civil War on the National Register of Historic Places