[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# My Uncle Napoleon

My Uncle Napoleon (, Dâ'i jân Nâpel'on, literal translation: Dear Uncle Napoleon) is a coming of age novel by Iranian author Iraj Pezeshkzad published in Tehran in Persian in 1973. The novel was adapted as a TV series in 1976, directed by Nasser Taghvai. Though the book and the TV series were briefly banned following the Islamic Revolution of 1979 in Iran, it remained popular. It is noted for its lampooning of the common social attitudes and beliefs in Iran during the period of Allied occupation of Iran. The novel has been translated by Dick Davis into English.

Plot summary
The story takes place at the time of Iran's occupation by the Allied forces during the Second World War. Most of the plot occurs in the narrator's home, a huge early 20th-century-style Iranian mansion in which three wealthy families live under the tyranny of a paranoid patriarch, Uncle. The Uncle—who in reality is a retired low-level officer from the Persian Cossack Brigade under Colonel Vladimir Liakhov's command—claims, and in latter stages of the story actually believes, that he and his butler Mash Qasem were involved in wars against the British and their "lackeys", as well as battles supporting the Iranian Constitutional Revolution; and that with the occupation of Iran by the Allied forces, the British are now on course to take their revenge on him. The story's narrator (nameless in the novel but called Saeed in the TV series) is a high school student in love with his cousin Layli, Dear Uncle's daughter.

The novel, at its core a love story, unfolds around the narrator's struggles to stall Layli's pre-arranged marriage to her cousin Puri and ensure their love, a love which is constantly jeopardised by an army of family members and the mayhem of their intrigues against one another. A multitude of supporting characters, including police investigators, government officials, Indians, housewives, a medical doctor, a butcher, a sycophantic preacher, servants, and a shoeshine man also appear throughout the development of the story.

Literary significance and reception
Loosely based on the author's real life experiences and his love for the daughter of a wealthy aristocrat, My Uncle Napoleon story instantly became a cultural reference point and its characters national icons of the '70s. The novel was translated into English by Dick Davis in 1996, and published by Mage Publishers. The English translation has since been re-published by Random House in 2006 with an introduction by Azar Nafisi and an afterword by the author.

The novel is a satire of the Iranian society of the 1940s. The garden in which the story takes place "in more ways than one becomes a microcosm of modern Iranian society".

Television adaptation

In 1976, director Nasser Taghvai turned the novel into a television miniseries, compiling the story into 18 episodes. The series was a success both with audiences and the critics. It topped the ratings during every airing of its episodes and it was the most watched show when it played on Friday nights. Many consider the series to be the father of modern television comedy in Iran, and many terms coined during the series' run have become part of Persian popular culture. The series was a huge success financially, as the production cost has been estimated to be 50 million Rials (equivalent to $770,000 in 1976), while the broadcaster was paid about 200 million Rials, four times the production cost, to buy the rights to the series. Due to its popularity, reruns of the series were frequent in the National Iranian Radio and Television until the Islamic revolution of 1979. Although the series has been banned in Iran since the revolution it is still watched, and has been released on DVD by Pars Video, Taraneh Records, and Chehreh Nama.

Cast

 Gholam-Hossein Naghshineh as Dear Uncle
 Parviz Fannizadeh as Mash Qasem
 Saeed Kangarani as The Narrator (Saeed)
 Nosrat Karimi as Agha Joon
 Parviz Sayyad as Asadollah Mirza
 Mohamad Ali Keshavarz as Colonel
 Esmail Davarfar as Dustali Khan
 Jahangir Forouhar as Deputy Teymour Khan
 Parvin Malakooti as Aziz al-Saltaneh
 Parvin Soleimani as Cadet Officer Ghiaasabadi's Mother
 Mohammad Varshochi as Cadet Officer Ghiaasabadi
 Sousan Moghadam as Layli
 Kheirollah Tafreshi Azad as Shamsali Mirza
 Bahman Zarrinpour as Puri
 Zari Zandipour as Qamar
 Mir Ahmad Irvanloo as Dr. Naser al-Hokama
 Mastaneh Jazayeri as Akhtar
 Fereydoun Nariman as Asghar the Diesel
 Karmen Zaki as Farokh Laqa
 Mahmood Lotfi as Shir Ali the Butcher
 Minoo Abrishami as Tahereh
 Gril Singh as Sarda Maharat Khan

Crew

 Nasser Taghvai (Producer)
 Alireza Zarrindast (Cinematographer)
 Abbas Ganjavi (Editor)
 Amir Farrokh Tehrani  (Architect, Production Designer and Art Director)
 Eskandar Radfar (Costume Design)
 Abdollah Eskandari ( Make-up Artist)
 Mohsen Taghvai (Assistant Director)
 Valod Aghajanian (Sound Department)
 Yadollah Asgari (Sound Department)
 Hassan Zahedi (Sound Department)