[Source: PubMed]

53. Mhealth. 2018 May 25;4:15. doi: 10.21037/mhealth.2018.05.01. eCollection
2018.

PTSD Coach around the world.

Kuhn E(1)(2), van der Meer C(3), Owen JE(1), Hoffman JE(1), Cash R(4), Carrese 
P(5), Olff M(3)(6), Bakker A(3), Schellong J(7), Lorenz P(7), Schopp M(8), Rau 
H(9), Weidner K(7), Arnberg FK(10)(11), Cernvall M(10), Iversen T(12).

Author information:
(1)VA National Center for PTSD, VA Palo Alto Healthcare System, Menlo Park, CA, 
USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(3)Academic Medical Centre, Department of Psychiatry, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Phoenix Australia, Department of Psychiatry, the University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(5)Veterans Affairs Canada, Montreal, Canada.
(6)Arq Psychotrauma Expert Group, Diemen, The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Psychotherapy and Psychosomatic Medicine, Medizinische Fakultät 
Carl Gustav Carus, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(8)Department of Computer Science, Universität der Bundeswehr München, Munich, 
Germany.
(9)German Armed Forces Center for Military Mental Health (Psychotraumazentrum), 
Berlin, Germany.
(10)National Centre for Disaster Psychiatry, Department of Neuroscience, 
Psychiatry, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(11)Stress Research Institute, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden.
(12)Department of Psychology, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.

Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a global public health problem. 
Unfortunately, many individuals with PTSD do not receive professional care due 
to a lack of available providers, stigma about mental illness, and other 
concerns. Technology-based interventions, including mobile phone applications 
(apps) may be a viable means of surmounting such barriers and reaching and 
helping those in need. Given this potential, in 2011 the U.S Veterans Affairs 
National Center for PTSD released PTSD Coach, a mobile app intended to provide 
psycho-education and self-management tools for trauma survivors with PTSD 
symptoms. Emerging research on PTSD Coach demonstrates high user satisfaction, 
feasibility, and improvement in PTSD symptoms and other psychosocial outcomes. A 
model of openly sharing the app's source code and content has resulted in 
versions being created by individuals in six other countries: Australia, Canada, 
The Netherlands, Germany, Sweden, and Denmark. These versions are described, 
highlighting their significant adaptations, enhancements, and expansions to the 
original PTSD Coach app as well as emerging research on them. It is clear that 
the sharing of app source code and content has benefited this emerging PTSD 
Coach community, as well as the populations they are targeting. Despite this 
success, challenges remain especially reaching trauma survivors in areas where 
few or no other mental health resources exist.

DOI: 10.21037/mhealth.2018.05.01
PMCID: PMC5994444
PMID: 29963560

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: This manuscript is 
partially based on: PTSD Coach around the World: A Global Perspective on a 
Smartphone App Designed for Self-management of PTSD Symptoms. Symposium 
presented at the annual meeting of the International Society for Traumatic 
Stress Studies, Dallas, TX, November, 2016. Chair: Christianne van der Meer.