[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bogdan Musiał

cted "more or less independently from Moscow", and were never fully controlled by the NKVD. As a result, in the zones controlled by the Soviet partisans, they frequently robbed the local peasants, attacked Jews, assaulted women, beat and killed locals and on some occasions destroyed entire villages.

Professor Zdzisław Winnicki reviewed Musial's book on Soviet partisans, calling it an "impressive and pioneering work", with "incredibly valuable assessments" about the combat effectiveness of Soviet partisan units and their infiltration by the NKVD. Winnicki concludes that Musial's work is a mature, objective study that helps us understand not only past events but also current views and attitudes in Belarus.

Per Anders Rudling, reviewed “Konterrevolutionäre Elemente sind zu erschießen”: Die Brutalisieung des deutsch-sowjetischen Krieges im Sommer 1941. (“Counter-revolutionary Elements are to be Shot”: The Brutalization of the German-Soviet War in the summer of 1941). He noted that Musiał predicted in his introduction that "German liberal intellectuals are not going to like his book for political reasons" because "the sensitiveness surrounding the subject of the Holocaust and the National Socialist past has often worked as a block to a scholarly approach to the subject". Musiał places responsibility for the outbreak of World War II both on Germany and on the Soviet Union. According to Rudling Musiał makes use of "controversial statistics, aimed at pointing out that Poles were singled out and subjected to uniquely harsh terror under Stalin". Rudling concludes by saying that "By focusing on these tragic events, the book has stirred up a debate. Wolfram Wette wrote that the book is full of contradictions and confuses perpetrators and victims. According to Wette the parts of the books describing the Soviet occupation of Eastern Poland contain interesting information, however Musiał's assertion that "Between 1939 and 1941 ... Soviet terror in eastern Poland was comparable to Nazi terror in German-occupied Poland, if not worse." anticipates his findings that are affected by a "specifically Polish anti-Sovietism" attitude.

Alexander B. Rossino states that Musiał's research is detailed and has resulted in a more nuanced understanding of Jewish involvement with Soviet occupation forces. Rossino underlines that while Musiał has been criticized for claiming that Jews in eastern Poland were over represented in Soviet institutions, examination of witness reports discovered in many cases Jewish militia members directly participated in mass arrests and deportation actions. Rossino writes that other scholars of the final solution in the occupied Soviet Union have corroborated Musiał's findings. He names among them Yitzhak Arad who wrote that Jews played a relatively large role in the Communist Party that was behind actions in occupied Poland. Other scholars include Dov Levin who wrote  "the labeling of the Soviet administration as a 'Jewish regime' became widespread when Jewish militiamen helped NKVD agents send local Poles into exile". Rossino names also Jan Gross who according to him wrote in 1983 that "Jewish collaboration" with the Soviet authorities was behind the sudden upsurge of anti-Semitism among the non-Jewish population in eastern Poland.

Bibliography
"Aktion Reinhardt". Der Völkermord an den Juden im Generalgouvernement 1941-1944 (The Origins of “Operation Reinhard”: The Decision-Making Process for the Mass Murder of the Jews in the General Government) Osnabrück 2004
Sowjetische Partisanen in Weißrußland. Innenansichten aus dem Gebiet Baranovici 1941-1944. Eine Dokumentation (Soviets partisans in Belarus). Oldenbourg Verlag, München 2004, .
“The Origins of ‘Operation Reinhard’: The Decision-Making Process for the Mass Murder of the Jews in the Generalgouvernment.” Yad Vashem Studies 28 (2000): 113-153. Deutsche Zivilverwaltung und Judenverfolgung im Generalgouvernement. Eine Fallstudie zum Distrikt Lublin 1939-1944. Harrassowitz Verlag, Wiesbaden 1999, .Kampfplatz Deutschland, Stalins Kriegspläne gegen den Westen (Battle-ground Germany, Stalin's plans of war against the West). Propyläen, Berlin 2008, .
 Sowjetische Partisanen 1941–1944: Mythos und Wirklichkeit (Soviet partisans. Myth and Reality), Paderborn: Ferdinand Schöningh Verlag, 2009; 592 pages. .
 "Stalins Beutezug. Die Plünderung Deutschlands und der Aufstieg der Sowjetunion zur Weltmacht" (Stalin's plundering raid. The plundering of Germany and the rise of the Soviet Union to a Superpower),Propyläen, Berlin 2010. .
 Kto dopomoże Żydowi... (Who helps a Jew ...) Zysk, Poznań, 2019  

References

 Paweł Paliwoda (February 2, 2001), Bogdan Musiał interviewed by Paweł Paliwoda. Życie'', Internet Archive.

Living people
20th-century Polish historians
Polish male non-fiction writers
21st-century Polish historians
Polish male writers
1960 births
People associated with the Institute of National Remembrance