[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Beznau Nuclear Power Plant

of a hall for low level operational waste and a second one for the dry storage of spent fuel. The waste needing conditioning is stored in the central interim storage facility (ZZL) in Würenlingen. These two deposits are to ensure the storage of the plant's waste until at least 2020.

 Safety events 

The following is an overview of nuclear security incidents at Beznau graded on the International Nuclear Event Scale (INES), which ranges from 0 (least severe) to 7 (most severe). In the plant's history there has been one level 2 event and four level 1 events.

 Level 2 events 

 2009 
 On 31 July 2009, during the yearly revision of Beznau 2, two workers were exposed to excessive levels of radiation because of a series of organizational flaws and uncoordinated handling by another revision team. These lead to a sudden increase in radiation levels in the room where the two technicians were working. They absorbed an equivalent dose of 37.8 and 25.4 mSv, respectively (see examples for radiation doses)''. Incorrect settings of personal dosimeters prevented a timely warning.

Level 1 events

2012 

 An emergency diesel generator of unit 2 failed to start during a regular function test of this emergency electrical power generator.

2007 

 In August, during the annual shutdown for revisions of Beznau 2, the 50 kV emergency power line was inactivated. Consequently, the diesel generator of Beznau 1 was switched on at low regime as prescribed by the security regulations. After the reconnection of the 50 kV line, the generator ran at a higher load because of technical reasons, but it eventually failed due to a defective relay. It was therefore assumed that while the 50 kV line was not active the generator would not have been able to run at full loading. Since the unit 2 generator was also unavailable due to the planned audit, the emergency power could be provided only by the hydroelectric plant or backup generators activated in case of flooding. The decrease in redundancy caused a deviation from the normal operation parameters and was therefore classified as a level 1 event (Swiss scale level B).

1997 

 In the course of a periodic inspection carried out by the operating personnel, a manually operated valve, which should have been open, was found to be closed. As a result of the false position, one of three emergency cooling systems of Beznau 1 was not ready for immediate use over a period of two weeks. This breach of the technical specifications led to the incident being assessed as level 1 (Swiss scale level B).

1996 

 After the revision outage, at 1 to 2% of reactor power, the new protection system for Beznau 1 and its internal power supply was to be started up with a test program. During synchronization with the new protection equipment, one of the two turbo groups inadvertently increased the load, and this caused a rise in reactor power to 12.6%. Since only the auxiliary feedwater pumps are in operation during low power, the amount of water supplied was insufficient to feed the steam generator, leading to an automatic reactor scram. The inadvertent demand on the turbo group was caused by an unforeseen reaction of the automatic turbine controller. Besides, the reactor already went critical at 251 °C instead of at the prescribed minimum temperature of 276 °C. The deviation from the operation specifications led to a level 1 assessment (Swiss scale level B).

Significant events before 1995 

 In July 1992, during a revision of Beznau 1, two technicians working in the reactor sump died by suffocation. This was caused by an excessive atmospheric concentration of the argon used for welding. This accident was not due to the nuclear nature of the plant and therefore didn't receive an INES assessment.

See also 
 Nuclear power in Switzerland
 Resun AG

References

External links 

Official power plant website
Axpo AG
Resun AG
Refuna AG
Power Reactor Information System – Beznau 1
Power Reactor Information System – Beznau 2
International Nuclear Safety Center – Beznau 1
International Nuclear Safety Center – Beznau 2

Nuclear power stations in Switzerland