[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Malcolm Wilson (governor)

one for the nation, both in terms of economic and foreign policy and for the Republican Party, which was weakened by the Watergate scandal. Democrats swept to power across the nation in the 1974 general election, with Wilson losing the governor's mansion to Hugh Carey, who won with 58% of the vote.

While governor, Wilson worked to improve passenger rail service in the state and under his leadership, New York City-Albany-Montréal and New York City-Buffalo-Detroit service were revived.  Concerned that city governments, especially New York City, were financing their budgets with financial sleight-of-hand, Wilson warned New York State's mayors that there would be a reckoning unless they got their fiscal houses in order.  His warning turned out to be prescient when New York City was found to be nearly bankrupt, and had to resort to federal assistance to regain a sound footing.  But Wilson's concern over government finances turned into a campaign issue for Carey in the 1974 election, when an agency under Wilson's purview, the state's Urban Development Corporation, was discovered to be near bankruptcy.  After taking office, Carey accused Wilson of hiding the severity of the crisis, and complained that the Wilson administration had not been helpful or engaged during the transition between governors.

Later life and death
After losing the election, Wilson returned to his legal practice and served as Chairman of the Board and CEO of the Manhattan Savings Bank from 1977 until 1986.

Wilson's wife, Katherine, (née McCloskey) died in 1980. In 1991 Wilson's health deteriorated and he retired to New Rochelle, New York.

Wilson died in New Rochelle on March 13, 2000. His memorial service was held at Holy Family Church in New Rochelle. He was buried at Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorne, New York.

Personal life
Wilson had two daughters, Katharine, an attorney, and Anne, and six grandsons. Wilson was a Catholic and attended the St. Denis Catholic Church in Yonkers, New York.

Notes

References
Wolfgang Saxon, Former Gov. Malcolm Wilson, 86, Is Dead, The New York Times, March 14, 2000, at C31, passim

 

1914 births
2000 deaths
United States Navy personnel of World War II
Burials at Gate of Heaven Cemetery (Hawthorne, New York)
Fordham Preparatory School alumni
Fordham University alumni
Fordham University School of Law alumni
Republican Party governors of New York (state)
American people of Irish descent
American people of Scottish descent
Lieutenant Governors of New York (state)
Republican Party members of the New York State Assembly
United States Navy officers
Military personnel from New York City
Politicians from New Rochelle, New York
Politicians from New York City
20th-century American politicians
Lawyers from New Rochelle, New York
Catholics from New York (state)
Catholic politicians from New York (state)
20th-century American lawyers