[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Azores

dically affect the radiation and air quality.

Daily maximum temperatures at low altitudes usually range between . The average annual rainfall generally increases from east to west, ranging from  in Santa Maria to  in Flores and reaching values above  on the highlands of Pico.

Köppen classification

Under the Köppen climate classification, the eastern group (São Miguel and Santa Maria) is usually classified as Mediterranean while the central and western group (especially Flores and Corvo) is increasingly more humid subtropical and overall rainier because of the effects of the Gulf Stream. This stream has a large effect over the sea temperature which varies between  in February and March, and  in August and September, and increases earlier in the western group.

Salvador Rivas-Martínez data presents several different bioclimatic zones for the Azores. Seasonal lag is extreme in the low-sun half of the year, with December being milder than April in terms of mean temperatures. During summer the lag is somewhat lower, with August being the warmest month, though September is usually as warm or warmer than July.

Temperatures, humidity, and sunshine 
Although temperatures as warm as  have been recorded on Pico, neither Ponta Delgada nor Angra do Heroísmo, the two largest cities, have ever been warmer than . There has never been a frost, snowfall, freeze or even temperatures below  recorded at sea level on any of the islands. The coldest weather in winter usually comes from northwesterly air masses originating from Labrador in Canada. However, since those air masses are warmed up as they pass across the warmer Atlantic Ocean, temperatures by day even then exceed .

The average relative humidity can range from 80% at the coast to over 90% above . However, higher elevations above the planetary boundary layer can experience extremely low values close to 10%. Summers are especially humid in August and may increase the perceived temperature by a few degrees. Winters are not only very mild but also very humid and contribute substantially to the annual precipitation.

Insolation is relatively low, with 35-40% of the total possible value for sunshine, and higher in topographically lower islands such as Graciosa or Santa Maria, inversely proportional to precipitation. This is directly caused by the orographic lift of humid air masses and is especially pronounced in islands marked by high orography.

Hurricanes

With a greater rarity, especially in late summer and autumn, despite the northern position that the archipelago occupies, the Azores can be affected by the passage of tropical cyclones, or tropical storms derived from them, some can result from anomalies of low latitude systems while others result from the return, back to the Atlantic, after a route close to or even over the American continent. Though often small and in the process of dissipation, these cyclones result in many of the worst storms the archipelago is subject to.

A total of 14 tropical or subtropical cyclones have affected the region in history. Most of them were either extratropical or tropical storms when they affected the region, although several Category 1 hurricanes have reached the Azores.

The following storms have impacted the region while at Category 1 strength:

Hurricane Fran in 1973
Hurricane Emmy in 1976
Hurricane Gordon in 2006
Hurricane Gordon in 2012
Hurricane Alex in 2016

Several tropical storms have hit the region, including

Tropical Storm Irma in 1978
Hurricane Bonnie in 1992
Hurricane Charley in 1992
Hurricane Erika in 1997
Hurricane Gaston in 2016
Tropical Storm Gaston in 2022

Storms that were extratropical when they impacted the region include

Hurricane Tanya in 1995
Tropical Storm Ana in 2003
Tropical Storm Grace in 2009

In addition, the 2005 Azores subtropical storm affected the region in October 2005.

Economy 
In order of importance, the main sectors of employment of the Azores are services, agriculture, fishery, industry and tourism. Agricultural products include São Jorge cheese.

Demographics

The Azores are divided into 19 municipalities (); each municipality is further divided into freguesias (civil administrative parishes), of which there is a total of 156 in all of the Azores.

There are six cities () in the Azores: Ponta Delgada, Lagoa and Ribeira Grande on the island of São Miguel; Angra do Heroísmo and Praia da Vitória on the island of Terceira, and Horta on Faial. Three of these, Ponta Delgada, Angra and Horta are considered capital/administrative cities to the regional government: homes to the President (Ponta Delgada), the Judiciary (Angra) and the Regional Assembly (Horta). Angra also serves as the ecclesiastical centre of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Angra, the episcopal see of the Azores.

Population