[Source: PubMed]

75. Front Toxicol. 2026 Mar 5;8:1772515. doi: 10.3389/ftox.2026.1772515.
eCollection  2026.

Effects of predicted Khamisiyah exposure on default mode network resting state 
functional connectivity in Gulf War Veterans.

Chao LL(1)(2)(3), Torrisi S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)VA Advanced Imaging Research Center, San Francisco Veterans Affairs 
Healthcare Center, San Francisco, CA, United States.
(2)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.

INTRODUCTION: Potentially more than 100,000 US troops were exposed to 
organophosphorus (OP) nerve agents when an ammunition bunker at Khamisiyah, Iraq 
was destroyed shortly after the end of the 1991 Gulf War (GW). We previously 
reported evidence of differences in brain structure and function in GW veterans 
with predicted exposure to the Khamisiyah plume compared to veterans without 
predicted exposure. Here, we investigate the effects of predicted exposure to 
the Khamisiyah plume on brain functional connectivity in the default mode 
network (DMN).
METHODS: Forty-one GW veterans (19 with and 22 without predicted exposure) 
underwent structural and resting-state magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on a 3 
Tesla scanner. Differences in DMN connectivity between veterans with and without 
predicted Khamisiyah exposure were examined using a left posterior cingulate 
cortex (PCC) seed-based analysis in AFNI. FreeSurfer was used to derive 
quantitative estimates of total hippocampal volume. The veterans were also 
assessed with the Conners Continuous Performance Test (CPT).
RESULTS: Compared to veterans without predicted exposure, those with predicted 
Khamisiyah exposure demonstrated weaker connectivity between the left PCC and a 
cluster in the caudal right anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). Veterans with 
predicted exposure also had smaller left hippocampal volume compared to 
unexposed veterans.
DISCUSSION: Although the cross-sectional nature of this study precludes 
conclusions about causality, the finding of decreased DMN functional 
connectivity in GW veterans with predicted Khamisiyah exposure warrants 
replication in a larger, independent sample. If confirmed, this result would add 
to the literature suggesting persistent differences in brain function between 
deployed GW veterans with and without predicted Khamisiyah exposure and argue 
for further investigation into the long-term effects of GW-deployment related 
exposures.

Copyright © 2026 Chao and Torrisi.

DOI: 10.3389/ftox.2026.1772515
PMCID: PMC12999065
PMID: 41858729

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared that this work was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author LC declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers at the time of submission. This 
had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.