[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Darren Barnard

Darren Sean Barnard (born 30 November 1971) is a former professional footballer, manager and coach who is the head coach of the under-23's at Farnham Town.

Barnard played as both wing-back and midfielder, and during his career played in the Premier League for both Chelsea and Barnsley. He also played in the Football League for Reading, Bristol City and Grimsby Town before playing in the Conference National for Aldershot Town and finishing his career with Non-league Camberley Town. Born in Germany, he was capped 24 times for the Wales national team and eight times for the England U18.

In 2007, while a player with Camberley Town, he became the club's technical director before becoming its first team manager in 2010. He stepped down from his role following the end of the 2011–12 season. He has since worked as the academy manager of Aldershot Town and currently for Farnham Town.

Playing career

Chelsea
Chelsea paid non-league Wokingham Town £100,000 to seal the signature of 18-year-old Barnard in July 1990. He had to wait almost 2 years for his first-team debut as he was competing with the established first-team players Gareth Hall and Frank Sinclair for a place in the team. During his time at Chelsea, Barnard played for Bobby Campbell, Ian Porterfield and Glenn Hoddle, but was only given a regular run in the team by caretaker manager David Webb. Barnard was signed at a time when the Blues were attempting to boost their standing in the First Division with the expensive purchases of Dennis Wise and Andy Townsend, Barnard was forced to wait almost two years for his first-team debut. Comfortable playing anywhere along the left-flank, his first appearance was as a replacement for Vinnie Jones in a 2–1 win over West Ham United towards the end of the 1991–92 season, and after two further substitute appearances he was rewarded with his first start, that ended with a 3–1 defeat at Aston Villa. 

Manager Ian Porterfield resisted the opportunity to include Barnard in his side at the beginning of the following campaign, preferring to play Gareth Hall out of position in the absence of regular left-back Frank Sinclair, and with the exception of an outing at Coventry City in October it wasn't until the final three months of the campaign – after David Webb was drafted in to replace Porterfield for the remainder of the season – that Barnard began to feature regularly. Given the freedom to roam on the left of Chelsea's midfield, he impressed with a number of cultured displays, the best of which came against Middlesbrough when he scored his first goal for the club, in what was a 4–0 win, and ended with a record that season of eight starts resulting in five wins, two draws and just a single defeat. However, Barnard was restricted to only nine starts in 1993–94, primarily as a left-back.

A mid-table league campaign was compensated for by a run to the final of the FA Cup, and although he did not feature in the final itself, Barnard did play in the semi-final victory over Luton Town after replacing the injured Craig Burley late in the first half. He struck his only goal of the season in a 2–0 defeat of West Ham in March, and his final appearance for the club came six weeks later when he was selected for in the side that was beaten by Coventry City as Hoddle chose to protect his likely cup final team. Despite remaining with the club for a further 18 months, Barnard failed to reappear in the first-team, eventually joining Bristol City in October 1995 for a fee of £175,000, a move which proved to be a launching pad for his career as he went on to become a full international in the colors of Wales.

Bristol City
Barnard transferred to Bristol City for £175,000. Two seasons in Division Two culminated in losing in the playoff semi-finals to Brentford. Bought from Chelsea, where he had made just a handful of first-team appearances, Barnard initially played on the left-wing for City. However, manager Joe Jordan started to play him at left wing-back shortly after his move to the club, and before long, Barnard was a fully-fledged left wing-back. His ability to run with the ball down the wing, overlap with Brian Tinnion and, of course, his free-kicks had earned him some plaudits. Barnard left the club soon after, to join Barnsley in the Premier League, so this partnership was never seen in a competitive City side. Barnard scored 17 goals in 76 games for City.