[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Prostitution in Asia

tinue to actively resist the state's activities.

Taiwan

Legislation was introduced in 2011 to allow local governments in Taiwan to set up "special zones" where prostitution is permitted. Outside these zones prostitution is illegal. As of 2017 no "special zones" had been opened.

North Asia

Russia

Prostitution is an administrative, but not criminal, offence in Russia (such as, for example, drinking beer in a public place or walking nude on the street). The maximum punishment is a fine up to 2000 rubles (~$30); however, organising prostitution or engaging somebody into prostitution is punishable by a prison term.

South Asia

Afghanistan

Prostitution is illegal in Afghanistan, with punishments ranging from 5 to 15 years imprisonment. Despite Afghanistan being deeply religious and one of the most conservative countries in the world, where sex outside marriage is against the law, some prostitution activities are reported in the capital Kabul as well as in the Mazar-e-Sharif area in the north of the country.

Small number of women from Iran, Tajikistan, China, and possibly Uganda and other countries are imported for prostitution into Afghanistan. According to the Afghan Interior Ministry's department of sexual crimes, about 2 to 3 prostitution arrests were made each week in Afghanistan between 2007 and 2008.

Bangladesh

Prostitution is legal and regulated in Bangladesh, but it is not considered a respectable profession by Bangladeshi society. Prostitutes must register and swear an affidavit stating she is unable to find any other work. Local NGOs estimate the total number of female prostitutes to be as many as 100,000.

There are 20 brothel-villages in the country. The largest is Daulatdia which has about 1,300 sex workers, it is one of the largest brothels in the world.

Unwed mothers, orphans, and others outside the normal family support system are the most vulnerable to human trafficking. Government corruption greatly facilitates the process of trafficking. Police and local government officials often ignore trafficking in women and children for commercial sexual exploitation and are easily bribed by brothel owners and pimps.

Bhutan

Prostitution is illegal in Bhutan but in many of Bhutan's border towns there are people openly practicing in the sex trade. Prostitution mainly occurs in bars, clubs & hotels. Some of the sex workers are employed by bar and hotel owners to attract customers. Prostitution also occurs in the capital, Thimphu. There are thought to be 400 - 500 sex workers in the country, many from poor backgrounds who enter prostitution for financial reasons.

In 2017, the NGO Lhak-Sam proposed that sex work was legalised by the government, but the proposal was turned down.

India

In India, prostitution is legal only if carried out in the private residence of a prostitute or others. A number of related activities are crimes, including soliciting in a public place, kerb crawling, owning or managing a brothel, prostitution in a hotel, child prostitution, pimping and pandering. But many brothels illegally operate in many Indian cities including Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata.

There were an estimated two million female sex workers in the country in 1997. In 2007, the Ministry of Women and Child Development reported the presence of over 3 million female sex workers in India, with 35.47 percent of them entering the trade before the age of 18 years.

Maldives

Prostitution in the Maldives is illegal under Islamic sharia law, but occurs on a small scale. A 2014 survey by the Human Rights Commission of the Maldives (HRCM) estimated there were 1,139 female prostitutes on the islands. Some women enter the country posing as tourists but then engage in sex work.

Following complaints that sexual services were being offered in spas in hotels, and a protest in the capital, Malé, by the opposition Adhaalath Party, the government ordered the closure of the spas in 1,000 hotels in late December 2011. Following pressure from the country's tourism industry, president Mohamed Nasheed lifted the ban a few days later.

Nepal

Prostitution is illegal in Nepal. The Human Trafficking and Transportation (Control) Act, 2064, Act Number 5 of the Year 2064 (2008), criminalises prostitution and living of the earnings of prostitution by including it in the definition of human trafficking.

For many, entering into the sex industry is the only way in which they could survive economically in Nepal. However, sex work is not officially recognized among the industrial or service sectors of labour. Sex trafficking happens on a large scale in Nepal, but voluntary sex work is common.

Pakistan