[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Gould Dow

es at the University, including the Physics Research Lab, the Space Physics Research Lab, the Plasma Engineering Lab, and the Michigan Aeronautical Research Center (which would eventually become the Willow Run Research Center and eventually the Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, or ERIM).

In 1958, Dow was named Chairman of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, a position he would hold until 1964, when he retired from teaching. His wife Edna had died in 1963. After retiring from active teaching, he served part-time as a Senior Research Geophysicist in the Space Physics Research Lab until 1971. Dow remarried in 1968, to Katherine "Kitty" Keene, who would also pass away in 1997.

When ERIM split off from the University of Michigan in 1972, Dow became a member of its Board of Trustees. He left the board in 1990, but remained a Trustee Emeritus. During this time, Dow continued his research, now in the field of fusion power, with several more patents to his credit.

Later years 
Dow remained active late in life, despite failing hearing. He continued to go into his two offices four days a week even after his 100th birthday, a milestone which the EECS Department commemorated by hosting a two-day birthday celebration for his friends and colleagues from around the country. Finally, at the age of 102, after the death of his second wife, he left Michigan to split time between his sons' homes in Texas and Washington.

William Dow died on October 17, 1999, aged 104, in Bellevue, Washington, while residing with his son Daniel, who himself had been Chairman of the Department of Electrical Engineering at the University of Washington in Seattle for a period of time starting in 1968.

Commemoration 
 In 1980, the University of Colorado awarded him an honorary Doctorate.
 In 2001, the University of Michigan Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science established the William Gould Dow Distinguished Lectureship, the highest external honor the department bestows. It is awarded on the basis of "lifetime achievements, groundbreaking contributions to their fields, and sustained research excellence." In addition to presenting a lecture at the university, recipients receive a $5,000 honorarium.

Books

Articles

Patents 
: Welding Method (assigned to General Motors)
: Large Throat Portable Welder (assigned to General Motors)
: High-Frequency Inductive Welding Apparatus (assigned to General Motors)
: Small Throat Portable Welder (assigned to General Motors)
: Method and Apparatus for Producing Nuclear Fusion (assigned to Consumers Power Company)
: Trochoidal nuclear fusion reactor (assigned to Environmental Institute of Michigan)
: Nuclear fusion system (assigned to Environmental Research Institute of Michigan)

References 

20th-century American engineers
1895 births
1999 deaths
Harvard University people
University of Michigan College of Engineering alumni
University of Michigan faculty
University of Minnesota College of Science and Engineering alumni
American centenarians
Men centenarians
Scientists from Michigan
20th-century American scientists