[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Indigenous and Tribal Populations Convention, 1957

Indigenous and Tribal Populations Convention, 1957 is  an International Labour Organization Convention within the United Nations that was established in 1957.  Its primary focus is to recognize and protect the cultural, religious, civil and social rights of indigenous and tribal populations within an independent country, and to provide a standard framework for addressing the economic issues that many of these groups face.

Today this Convention, C107, is considered outdated in the protection of indigenous rights by the ILO organization. In 1989, the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989 (C169) was written with the purpose of revising it. The new convention has been ratified by twenty countries, including some that denounced the 1957 convention. In the body of the more recent convention, we  read, "[...] Considering that the developments which have taken place in international law since 1957, as well as developments in the situation of indigenous and tribal peoples in all regions of the world, have made it appropriate to adopt new international standards on the subject with a view to removing the assimilationist orientation of the earlier standards [...]".

Quoted excerpts

Preamble

PART I. General policy

Article 1
The convention applies to members of a tribal population whose social and economic conditions are at a less advanced stage than other sections of the nation state and have their own customs and traditions.  These tribal populations are people who are regarded as indigenous as they are the descendants of the original inhabitants of the region "...at the time of conquest, or colonization..." and who live more in common with their historical traditions and tribal institutions, than with the institutions of the nation state to which they belong.  "Self-identification as indigenous ..." is the criteria to which this convention would apply.

Article 2
The convention requires that the nation state work with indigenous groups to create a legal framework for protecting the legal rights of the indigenous groups.  These actions include ensuring that the indigenous individuals have the same rights as the non-indigenous, and to recognize and help preserve the traditions and cultural identity of the indigenous groups.  Further actions include helping to remove economic gaps between the indigenous and other members of the nation state.

Article 3
The convention maintains that indigenous and tribal peoples shall enjoy human rights and freedoms without discrimination, including gender discrimination.

Article 4
The nation state will adopt protections for the "...safeguarding the persons, institutions, property, labour, cultures and environment of the peoples concerned."  These measures are not to be in conflict with the wishes of the people concerned, and such safeguards will not be at the expense of the general rights of citizenship of the indigenous peoples.

Articles 5-10
These articles support articles 1-4, giving methods for carrying out the general policy of the convention.

PART II. Land

Article 11
The indigenous and tribal populations shall have right of ownership over lands that they populations have traditionally occupied.

Article 12
1. The indigenous and tribal populations shall not be removed without their free consent from their historical territories except regarding national laws, national security issues, national economic development, or for the health of the indigenous populations.

2. If removal of these populations is absolutely necessary, they shall be given lands of equal quality to the lands previously occupied by them, suitable to provide for their present needs and future development.

3. Persons thus removed shall be fully compensated for any resulting loss or injury.

Article 13
1. Traditional customs of the transfer of land ownership rights shall be respected by the nation state "...within the framework of national laws and regulations... and do not hinder their economic and social development."

2. "Arrangements shall be made to prevent persons who are not members of the populations concerned from taking advantage of these customs or of lack of understanding of the laws on the part of the members of these populations to secure the ownership or use of the lands belonging to such members".

Article 14
National state farm programs shall provide the necessary land needed for the indigiouns groups to provide "...the essentials of a normal existence", and "...promote the development of the lands which these populations already possess."

PART III. Recruitment and conditions of employment

Article 15
This clause deals with the rights of access to full and occupationally safe employment, without fear of discrimination, and under the same conditions as of the rest of the population, and provides for the right to join legal trade unions, with access to "medical and social assistance..." and adequate housing.

PART IV. Vocational training, handicrafts and rural industries