[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# CSI (franchise)

en."

In urging members to file a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission, PTC said CBS parent company Viacom needed to hear from parents who are concerned about the "graphic scenes of blood, violence, and sex" in their product. They also asked their supporters to contact Target and Toys "R" Us.

World record
Producers announced intentions to break the Guinness World Record for largest ever TV simulcast drama on March 4, 2015, with the episode "Kitty" airing in 150 countries in addition to digital streaming. They succeeded in breaking the record by airing CSI: Cybers backdoor pilot in 171 countries.

Documentaries
Because of the popularity of the CSI franchise in the United Kingdom, Channel 5 created two documentaries about CSI. The first one called The Real CSI follows real crime scene investigators as they work on crime scene. The second documentary, True CSI, features true tales of how forensic science has helped solve some of the world's best known crimes. True CSI had actors re-enacting the crime as well as interviews with people involved in the solving of the crimes themselves. Cases featured included the Sam Sheppard case.

In early 2007, British channel ITV1 broadcast a special of its flagship documentary Tonight with Trevor McDonald discussing the ramifications of the "CSI effect", highlighting the effect of not only the franchise but also several other British and American TV police procedurals.

The popularity of the series has also spawned forensic based reality television/documentary programs, including A&E's The First 48 and truTV's North Mission Road.

In April 2012, PBS' Frontline aired a documentary called "The Real CSI" investigating the limitations of the CSI techniques in forensic science.

References

Further reading 
As well as fictional books based on the franchise there have also been a number of guides published:
 Flaherty, Mike, and Corinne Marrinan (September 2004). CSI: Crime Scene Investigation Companion. Pocket Books, .
 Marrinan, Corinne, and Steve Parker (October 2006). Ultimate CSI: Crime Scene Investigation. Dorling Kindersley, .
 Cortez, Donn, and Leah Wilson, eds. (December 2006). Investigating CSI: An Unauthorized Look Inside the Crime Labs of Las Vegas, Miami, and New York. Smart Pop series, BenBella Books, .
 Allen, Michael (August 2007). Reading CSI: Crime TV Under the Microscope. I.B. Tauris, .
 Cohan, Steven (December 2008). CSI: Crime Scene Investigation. BFI TV Classics, BFI Publishing, .

 
Mass media franchises introduced in 2000
American police procedural television series
Mass media franchises
Television franchises
Paramount Global franchises