[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Hogle Zoo

ke little people, they have their own little colonies and families, they are just fun to be around."

Meerkat Manor provided new outdoor and indoor spaces equipped with termite mounds for the zoo's meerkats who moved from the Small Animal Building. They share their space with two crested porcupines.

Wild Utah
The Aline W. Skaggs Wild Utah exhibit will be the newest major development since 2014's African Savanna. The exhibit will transform three acres of the zoo's east side which was previously only visible by the train. Featured in the exhibit will be Utah native species with the intent to educate Utah's public and tourists about the state's iconic wildlife. Making a triumphant return to the zoo will be species like mountain lion, desert bighorn sheep, and wild burro. The exhibit will also provide new expansive habitats for the zoo's current native animals including a rescued bobcat named Loki, North American porcupine Barton, as well as desert tortoises, burrowing owls, and common chuckwallas. Other new animals that will be making their debut in the exhibit are gray foxes and raccoons that will rotate between three exhibits with the bobcat and North American porcupine. These exhibits are connected by a chute that goes over the guest pathway.

The guest pathway of the new exhibit will include a boardwalk around Emigration Creek, a historic Utah waterway which runs through the zoo's campus. A nature trail will lead down to the water where guests will experience and learn about Utah's riparian habitats. Other features of the exhibit include an education "campground" as well as a pollinator garden which will attract native pollinators and bees. Hands on experiences will include a burrow brushing station, Education Maker Space, and an overlook tower.

The Wild Utah exhibit is expected to cost $22 million, triple the cost of the initial construction bid. $7.5 million came from Zoo Operations, $5 million from private donations, and $1.5 million from state funding.

Construction began in late 2022, with an expected opening sometime in 2024.

Norma W. Matheson Education Animal Center
The expanse of the new Wild Utah exhibit provides an opportunity for a brand-new facility for the zoo's animal ambassadors. Original plans for this project started a couple of years prior for a new animal ambassador building on the zoo's South Rim. However, the COVID-19 Pandemic haltered this plan. Now the building, which will house over 100 animals, is back on track for the Wild Utah exhibit. This new facility will focus on smaller Utah native species including northern flying squirrel, yellow-bellied marmot, Pituophis catenifer deserticola, Lampropeltis pyromelana, as well as the aforementioned burrowing owl, desert tortoise, and common chuckwalla.

The facility will also feature the Utah Amphibian Conservation Room which will become the new home of the zoo's Boreal Toad Conservation Center. This project works to works to protect boreal toads, a subspecies of western toad, whose population has declined in the past 20 years due to habitat loss and fungal disease chytrid. The center is currently home to 20 toads that were collected from Utah's Paunsaugunt Plateau. Theses toads have been carefully bred so that their disease-free offspring can be released back into the isolated population.

The Education Animal Center will support Hogle Zoo's iSEE program which brings animal ambassadors to second grade children across Utah helping to educate 50,000 students yearly about their native Utah wildlife.

Zoofari Express

Hogle Zoo's famous train ride closed on September 26, 2022, in preparation for construction of a new and larger track which surrounds the Wild Utah exhibit. From the train guests will be able to see bighorn sheep, mountain lion, and wild burro, as well as the zoo's African Savanna species. Incorporated into the track is the existing Moffat Tunnel, a guest favorite.

Before the attraction's closure in 2022, the Zoofari Express was in service for about 53 years and provided rides to between 12 and 15 million guests.

Conservation education focus
Other than supporting Hogle Zoo's iSEE program and Boreal Toad Conservation Center, the Wild Utah exhibit will allow the zoo to participate in several other conservation programs. The exhibit will provide space for orphaned mountain lions and bobcats who have been deemed un-releasable due to their young age at rescue. The exhibit will also allow the zoo to participate in the Desert Bighorn Sheep Species Survival Plan, a nationwide effort to increase the genetic diversity of the threatened species. The exhibit's wild burros will be a population of animals that were collected by the Utah Department of Natural Resources. These feral animals can cause problems in native ecosystems by spreading diseases and destroying native plants.

Attractions