[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Passing (gender)

In the context of gender, passing is when someone is perceived as a gender they identify as or are attempting to be seen as, rather than their biological sex. Historically, this was common among women who served in occupations where women were prohibited, such as in combat roles in the military. For transgender people, it is when the person is perceived as cisgender instead of the sex they were assigned at birth. The person may, for example, be a transgender man who is perceived as a cisgender man.

The appropriateness of the term passing, and the desirability of blending into society, are both debated within the transgender community. A trans person who is perceived as cisgender may face less prejudice, harassment, and risk of violence, as well as better employment opportunities. This is sometimes termed passing privilege.

Terminology

General
The term passing is widely used but also debated within the transgender community. Trans writer Janet Mock says that the term is "based on an assumption that trans people are passing as something that we are not" and that, in reality, a trans woman who is perceived as a woman "isn't passing; she is merely being". The GLAAD Media Guide advises that "it is not appropriate" for mainstream media to use the term passing "unless it's in a direct quote". GLAAD's preferred term is "not visibly transgender". Some dislike the use of the terms stealth and passing, based on the argument that these terms imply dishonesty or deception about one's gender identity.

Gender attribution
Gender attribution is the process by which an observer decides which gender they believe another person to be. Once an observer makes an attribution of the person's gender, it can be difficult for the observer to change their mind and see the person as another gender. Gender attribution is used to make initial assumptions about a person to be able to infer other details or aspects about them. In most interactions, one cannot observe others' physical sex characteristics, such as their penis, vagina, or intersex genitals, so therefore must use other visual cues to be able to discern another's gender. This concept can be summarized by the work of SJ Kessler, W McKenna and H Garfinkel, "This not directly visible 'cultural genital' which is expected to be there "exists in a cultural sense if the person is assumed to have it".

Passing/not passing

Passing typically involves a mixture of physical gender cues, for example, hairstyle or clothing, and certain behavioral attributes that tend to be culturally associated with a particular gender. Some experienced cross-dressers say, regardless of a person's presentation, confidence is more important for passing than the physical appearance.

The failure to pass oneself off as the desired gender is referred to as being "read" or "clocked".

In slang, a transgender female is sometimes called a trap. This term may be seen as offensive.

Stealth
The term stealth in its most extreme sense refers to a person who passes as their desired sex or gender at all times and who has broken contact with everybody who knew their gender history. Thus, everybody around them is unaware that they were not always presenting as the current sex or gender, and they are effectively invisible within the population as trans. If a trans person in stealth living also wishes to be sexual, effective sex reassignment surgery would be required. In order to live in stealth, an individual has to be extremely passable.

People may also choose to be stealth in some parts of their lives and not other, disconnected parts (for instance, being stealth at work, but openly transgender amongst friends). To attain the level of gender passing to be stealth is a goal for some who choose to differ from traditional gender. Some transgender individuals find a sense of dignity and full access to their gender by living stealth instead of visibly transgender, or feel that they are living the adulthood they envisioned as children back when they did not know the term "trans" or much about its realities. Many in the community fear issues of discrimination and bias due to their transgender identification. According to Gillian Branstetter from the National Center for Transgender Equality, "People privilege the rights of others  how they look". People may feel safer being able to appear as a non-transgender person than if their gender identity was more easily identifiable.

Privilege