[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of birds of Israel

This is a list of the bird species recorded in Israel. The avifauna of Israel include a total of 591 species, of which eleven have been introduced by humans. Five species are listed as extirpated from Israel.

The official checklist of birds of Israel is maintained by the Israeli Rarities and Distribution Committee (IRDC).

This list's taxonomic treatment (designation and sequence of orders, families and species) and nomenclature (common and scientific names) follow the conventions of The Clements Checklist of Birds of the World, 2022 edition. The family accounts at the beginning of each heading reflect this taxonomy, as do the species counts found in each family account. Introduced and accidental species are included in the total counts for Israel.

The following tags have been used to highlight several categories, but not all species fall into one of these categories. Those that do not are commonly occurring native species.

(A) Accidental - a species that rarely or accidentally occurs in Israel
(I) Introduced - a species introduced to Israel as a consequence, direct or indirect, of human actions
(Ex) Extirpated - a species that no longer occurs in Israel although populations exist elsewhere
(X) Extinct - a species or subspecies that no longer exists

Ostriches
Order: StruthioniformesFamily: Struthionidae

The ostrich is a flightless bird native to Africa. It is the largest living species of bird. It is distinctive in its appearance, with a long neck and legs and the ability to run at high speeds.

Common ostrich, Struthio camelus (Ex)

Ducks, geese, and waterfowl
Order: AnseriformesFamily: Anatidae

Anatidae includes the ducks and most duck-like waterfowl, such as geese and swans. These birds are adapted to an aquatic existence with webbed feet, flattened bills, and feathers that are excellent at shedding water due to an oily coating.

Lesser whistling-duck, Dendrocygna javanica (A)
Graylag goose, Anser anser
Greater white-fronted goose, Anser albifrons
Lesser white-fronted goose, Anser erythropus (A)
Taiga bean-goose, Anser fabalis (A)
Tundra Bean-goose, Anser serrirostris (A)
Barnacle goose, Branta leucopsis (A)
Red-breasted goose, Branta ruficollis (A)
Mute swan, Cygnus olor
Tundra swan, Cygnus columbianus (A)
Whooper swan, Cygnus cygnus (A)
Egyptian goose, Alopochen aegyptiacus (I)
Ruddy shelduck, Tadorna ferruginea
Common shelduck, Tadorna tadorna
Garganey, Spatula querquedula
Northern shoveler, Spatula clypeata
Gadwall, Mareca strepera
Eurasian wigeon, Mareca penelope
Mallard, Anas platyrhynchos
Cape teal, Anas capensis (A)
Red-billed duck, Anas erythrorhyncha (A)
Northern pintail, Anas acuta
Green-winged teal, Anas crecca
Marbled teal, Marmaronetta angustirostris
Red-crested pochard, Netta rufina
Southern pochard, Netta erythrophthalma (A)
Common pochard, Aythya ferina
Ferruginous duck, Aythya nyroca
Tufted duck, Aythya fuligula
Greater scaup, Aythya marila (A)
Common eider, Somateria mollissima (A)
Velvet scoter, Melanitta fusca (A)
Long-tailed duck, Clangula hyemalis (A)
Common goldeneye, Bucephala clangula
Smew, Mergellus albellus
Common merganser, Mergus merganser (A)
Red-breasted merganser, Mergus serrator
White-headed duck, Oxyura leucocephala

Pheasants, grouse, and allies
Order: GalliformesFamily: Phasianidae

The Phasianidae are a family of terrestrial birds. In general, they are plump (although they vary in size) and have broad, relatively short wings.

Sand partridge, Ammoperdix heyi
Common quail, Coturnix coturnix
Chukar, Alectoris chukar
Black francolin, Francolinus francolinus

Flamingos
Order: PhoenicopteriformesFamily: Phoenicopteridae

Flamingos are gregarious wading birds, usually  tall, found in both the Western and Eastern Hemispheres. Flamingos filter-feed on shellfish and algae. Their oddly shaped beaks are specially adapted to separate mud and silt from the food they consume and, uniquely, are used upside-down.

Greater flamingo, Phoenicopterus roseus
Lesser flamingo, Phoeniconaias minor (A)

Grebes
Order: PodicipediformesFamily: Podicipedidae

Grebes are small to medium-large freshwater diving birds. They have lobed toes and are excellent swimmers and divers. However, they have their feet placed far back on the body, making them quite ungainly on land.

Little grebe, Tachybaptus ruficollis
Horned grebe, Podiceps auritus (A)
Red-necked grebe, Podiceps grisegena (A)
Great crested grebe, Podiceps cristatus
Eared grebe, Podiceps nigricollis

Pigeons and doves
Order: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae

Pigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere.

Rock pigeon, Columba livia
Stock dove, Columba oenas
Common wood-pigeon, Columba palumbus
European turtle-dove, Streptopelia turtur
Oriental turtle-dove, Streptopelia orientalis (A)
Eurasian collared-dove, Streptopelia decaocto
African collared-dove, Streptopelia roseogrisea (A)
Laughing dove, Spilopelia senegalensis
Namaqua dove, Oena capensis