[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# National initiative

tical system by direct decree in the United States Constitution. It cites that document's opening clause, "We the people" as evidence of the same premise. By proposed logical extension, having legally created the government of the United States the people may alter it at any time in similar fashion.

The concept of direct decree further posits that although the authority of the United States Congress is limited by the constitution, the authority of the people is inherently sovereign and above the authority of the state. By such a theory any measure voted upon and approved by the popular majority of the people is posited to be legally binding and authoritative over all other law. NI4D does not accept the long-held belief that the two ways spelled out in Article V of the U.S. constitution are the only ways in which the constitution can be amended. The argument for bypassing Article V is that Article V dictates the means which representatives can amend the constitution  but does not expressly forbid amendment by the popular vote of the People in its wording. This notion is supported by constitutional scholar Akhil Reed Amar: "...Article V nowhere prevents the People themselves, acting apart from ordinary government, from exercising their legal right to alter or abolish government, via the proper legal procedures. Article V presupposes this background right of the People, and does nothing to interfere with it. It merely specifies how ordinary government can amend the constitution without recurring to the people themselves, the true and sovereign source of all lawful power."

Summary of the proposal 

The National Initiative for Democracy is a proposed Amendment to the US Constitution that recognizes the people's right to make laws, and an accompanying Federal Law that spells out the procedures for the people to develop and vote on laws. This proposed law making is supplemental to those means existing and established through the institutions of representative government (i.e. Congress and the President).

If enacted, the proposed Amendment and the proposed Act, a Federal Statute would become law.

The proposed amendment to the Constitution:

 asserts the legislative powers of the people to make laws
 allows the people to amend the constitution by holding two successive elections, more than six months but less than one year apart
 legitimizes the national election conducted by Philadelphia II, a non-profit IRS 501 C (4) corporation, to enact the Democracy Amendment and the Democracy Act (see below),
 creates The Electoral Trust to administer the procedures established by the Democracy Amendment and the Democracy Act,
 outlaws the use of funds not from natural persons in initiative elections under this article, and
 outlaws non-natural persons from sponsoring initiatives under this article.

The proposed Federal Statute:

 sets out deliberative procedures to be used by citizens to create laws by initiative,
 describes the responsibilities of The Electoral Trust to administer these procedures on behalf of the people,
 appropriates the funds from The Treasury for The Electoral Trust, and
 defines the threshold of affirmative votes needed to enact this legislation (see below).

This legislation considers itself to be enacted when it has received a number of affirmative votes greater than half the total number of votes cast in the presidential election occurring immediately prior to its certification.  The United States Constitution (via Article VII) also self-enacted.

This is neither a government held nor a government sanctioned election.  As of this writing, there is currently no official method laid out in the United States Constitution for the people to hold such an election. However, the authority for effecting such a constitutional reform is proposed to derive from:
 the people's sovereignty as the creators of the United States Constitution,
 the First Amendment's right for the people to petition the government for redress, and
 Article VII of the US Constitution.

History 
The National Initiative for Democracy, primarily associated with Mike Gravel, seeks broad public support. Gravel founded The Democracy Foundation and the Philadelphia II corporation and played a significant role in drafting the Amendment and Act's text. This draft was publicly reviewed at the Democracy Symposium in February 2002. The initiative's aim to establish a national ballot initiative through popular vote is one among several efforts pursued by Gravel, including previous attempts to promote constitutional amendments during his tenure as a Senator. While it's stated that former presidential candidate Ralph Nader supports the initiative, this assertion requires proper citation.