[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Kazakhstan–United States relations

bayev, the first occurring when Cheney was CEO of Halliburton, and the second shortly after Cheney became vice president. After the meeting, Nazarbayev publicly stated that memoranda of understanding had been signed for co-financing of Kazakh projects and $158 million allocated for defense projects.

On September 29, 2006, Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev met with President George W. Bush in the White House. In their public remarks President Bush thanked Nazarbayev for his country's support in Afghanistan, and stated the two had discussed Kazakhstan's ascension to the WTO and commitment to institutions "that will enable liberty to flourish." President Nazarbayev pointed to the strength in bilateral relations between the two countries as resulting from cooperation on matters of energy security, Bush's war on terror, and economic agreements. The joint declaration signed by both leaders highlighted several bilateral and global issues; these included American support for Kazakh oil and gas pipeline expansion in the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan project, Kazakhstan's national development into a diverse and stable economy, and Kazakh ascension to the WTO. Included in the joint statement was a component focused on Kazakhstan's efforts to invest in "its citizens ... an independent media, local self-government, and elections deemed free and fair by international standards."

Erzhan Ashikbayev in the United States 
Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Erzhan Ashikbayev visited the United States on June 10–12, 2014, where he met with the leadership of the White House, State Department, United States Congress, the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, as well as with representatives of the U.S. export and business community.

Meeting of Nursultan Nazarbayev with the U.S. Congressmen 
President Nursultan Nazarbayev met with the members of the United States Congress Dana Rohrabacher and Gregory Meeks on Sept. 5, 2014 in Borovoye, 250 kilometres north from the Kazakh capital. The U.S. congressmen expressed hope for further strengthening of the mutually beneficial partnership between the two countries.

Also on Sept. 5, the U.S. congressmen had a meeting with Kazakh Foreign Minister Erlan Idrissov. With Idrissov, who spent five years as Kazakhstan's ambassador in Washington, they discussed the current state and outlook for cooperation between Kazakhstan and the United States in political, economic and trade areas.

The congressmen discussed the readiness jointly with U.S. businesses to offer shared projects in non-oil sectors of Kazakhstan economy. The American side also supported Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO and the economic development strategy of the country. The two sides underlined their cooperation in global security issues, primarily in non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and regional security issues, including the situation in Afghanistan.

Nursultan Nazarbayev and Barack Obama 
U.S. President Barack Obama repeatedly stressed the important nature of the Kazakh-U.S. relationship, citing economic issues, human rights and regional security. In 2012 during the nuclear security summit in Seoul, South Korea, Obama noted: "The close relationship between our two countries extends beyond just the nuclear security issue".

On January 21, 2015, Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev held a late night phone conversation with the U.S. President Barack Obama. The main topic of the call was south-eastern Ukraine. Obama praised Kazakhstan's efforts in strengthening international security and expressed his hope that the Kazakh President will continue to actively contribute to finding a peaceful solution to the conflict in Ukraine.

President Nazarbayev was one of four heads of state President Obama held bilateral meetings with during the 2015 United Nations General Assembly in New York City.

Nursultan Nazarbayev and Donald Trump 
Donald Trump and Nursultan Nazarbayev held their first bilateral phone conversation soon after Trump's election as President of the United States.

The first meeting between Presidents Donald Trump and Nursultan Nazarbayev came on the sidelines of the Arab-Islamic-American Summit held in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The two leaders exchanged thoughts on strengthening the bilateral relationship between their countries and prospects for "deepening relations in trade, economic, political, cultural and humanitarian spheres," according to the Kazakhstan embassy website. In later statements Donald Trump expressed his view that the two leaders "developed an immediate relationship" in this meeting.