[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Absent-mindedness

the author as "the epitome of absent-mindedness".
 Caboose, from the web series Red vs. Blue by RoosterTeeth. 
 Hay Lin is an absent-minded character from the Italian comic book series W.I.T.C.H., later made into an animated Disney production.
 Professor Calculus in The Adventures of Tintin comics.

Measurement and treatment
Absent-mindedness can be avoided or fixed in several ways. Although it can not be accomplished through medical procedures, it can be accomplished through psychological treatments. Some examples include: altering work schedules to make them shorter, having frequent rest periods and utilizing a drowsy-operator warning device.

Absent-mindedness and its related topics are often measured in scales developed in studies to survey boredom and attention levels. For instance, the Attention-Related Cognitive Errors Scale (ARCES) reflects errors in performance that result from attention lapses. Another scale, called the Mindful Attention Awareness Scale (MAAS) measures the ability to maintain a reasonable level of attention in everyday life. The Boredom Proneness Scale (BPS) measures the level of boredom in relation to the attention level of the subject.

Mistakes and related phenomena
Absent-mindedness can lead to automatic behaviors or automatisms. Additionally, absent-minded actions can involve behavioral mistakes. A phenomenon called Attention-Lapse Induced Alienation occurs when a person makes a mistake while absent-minded. The person then attributes the mistake to their hand rather than their self, because they were not paying attention.

Another related topic to absent-mindedness is daydreaming. It may be beneficial to differentiate between these two topics. Daydreaming can be viewed as a coping or defense mechanism. As opposed to inattentiveness, daydreaming is a way for emotions to be explored and even expressed through fantasy. It may even bring attention to previously experienced problems or circumstances. It is also a way to bring about creativity.

See also
ADHD predominantly inattentive
Absent-minded professor
Habit (psychology)
Human reliability
Mind-wandering
Attentional shift
Default mode network
Highway hypnosis

Footnotes

Further reading
Reason, J. T. (1982). Absent-minded? The Psychology of Mental Lapses and Everyday Errors. Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall.
Reason, J. T. (1984). Lapses of attention in everyday life. In R. Parasuraman & D. R. Davies (Eds.), Varieties of attention. New York: Academic Press.
Reason, J. T. (1990). Human Error. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Schacter, D.L. 1983.  Amnesia observed: Remembering and forgetting in a natural environment.  Journal of Abnormal Psychology, 92, 236-42.

External links

Oops! The Absent and Wandering Mind, University of Waterloo

Attention
Personality traits