[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# United Nations peacekeeping missions involving Pakistan

Pakistan has served in 46 United Nations peacekeeping missions in 29 countries around the world. As of 2023, United Nations (UN) statistics show that 168 Pakistani UN peacekeepers have been killed since 1948. The biggest Pakistani loss occurred on 5 June 1993 in Mogadishu. Pakistan joined the United Nations on 30 September 1947, despite opposition from Afghanistan because of the Durand Line issue. The Pakistan Armed Forces are the sixth largest contributor of troops towards UN peacekeeping efforts, behind Ethiopia and Rwanda.

Peacekeeping, as defined by the United Nations, is the practice of helping countries torn by conflict create conditions for sustainable peace. UN peacekeepers — usually military officers and regular troops alongside civilian personnel from many countries — monitor and observe peace processes that emerge in regions post-war and assist ex-combatants in implementing the peace agreements they have signed. Such assistance comes in many forms, including confidence-building measures, power-sharing arrangements, electoral support, strengthening the rule of law, and economic and social development. Pakistan's contributions have consisted mainly of regular military personnel, but also include paramilitary troops and civilian police officers as peacekeepers. All operations must include the resolution of conflicts through the use of force to be considered valid under the charter of the United Nations.

Foundation

{{Blockquote|text=Our foreign policy is one of friendliness and goodwill towards all the nations of the world. We believe in the principle of honesty and fair play in national and international dealings and are prepared to make our utmost contribution to the promotion of peace and prosperity among the nations of the world. Pakistan will never be found lacking in extending its material and moral support to the oppressed and suppressed peoples of the world and in upholding the principles of the United Nations Charter."|author=Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah, founder and 1st Governor-General of Pakistan|title=|source=}}

Completed missions

Congo (August 1960 to May 1964)Contribution: 400 Troops, Ordnance, Transport units and Staff PersonnelCasualties: None.

United Nations Operation in the Congo was a United Nations peacekeeping force in Congo that was established after United Nations Security Council Resolution 143 of July 14, 1960.It was active during the Congo Crisis. During the operation Pakistan provided logistic support under Lt Col Naseer, the first ever Pakistani officer commanding an Ordnance Company in United Nation, during movement of troops to and from Congo and inland movement of the United Nation troops. Pakistan Army Ordnance Corps and Pakistan Army Supply Corps (ASC) organized the whole operation. It continued uninterrupted from 1960 to 1964 with four Independent Army Supply and Ordnance Corps companies, consisting of about 100 personnel each.The movement control entailed through sea, air, rail, river and road transport. A systematic organization was created to ensure foolproof administrative arrangements for transportation of troops, weapons, equipment, storage and rations throughout Congo in unfriendly environments by the Pakistani Ordnance troops.

West New Guinea (October 1962 - April 1963)Contribution: 1500 TroopsCasualties:  None.

United Nations Security Force in New Guinea, (UNSF), after the agreement between comity of nations that the Netherlands would hand over control of Western New Guinea to the United Nation by 1 October 1962, prior to its take over by Indonesia for subsequent plebiscite.

In these circumstances, when the world was focusing its eyes on the United Nations Security Force, the Pakistani composite force comprising 14th Punjab Regiment, two companies of 18 Punjab Regiment and supporting elements, disembarked on the coast of Sorong after completing 6000 miles sea voyage on 8 October 1962. The responsibility of this contingent stretched over hundreds of miles. In order to accomplish the assigned mission the companies were deployed at Merauke, Fak Fak, Sorong and Kaimana.