[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 1983–84 in English football

ice and Frank Stapleton is also on the scoresheet as Manchester United beat Luton Town 5–0 at Kenilworth Road. The result means that United are now four points off the top of the table, and also deals a major blow to Luton's hopes of qualifying for the UEFA Cup just two seasons after being promoted.

14 February 1984: Liverpool reach the final of the Football League Cup for the fourth year in a row after a 4-2 aggregate victory over Third Division Walsall. In the First Division, QPR remain firmly in the top five with a 2–0 home win over Norwich City.

15 February 1984: Everton beat Aston Villa 2–0 in the League Cup semi-final first leg.

17 February 1984: Southampton beat Blackburn Rovers 1–0 in the FA Cup fifth round at Ewood Park.

18 February 1984: First Division West Bromwich Albion suffer a shock FA Cup exit at the hands of Third Division strugglers Plymouth Argyle, who win 1–0 in the fifth round showdown at The Hawthorns. West Ham's double hopes are ended when they lose 3–0 to Birmingham City at St Andrew's. Everton's cup adventures continue on both fronts as they beat Shrewsbury Town 3–0. Notts County beat Middlesbrough 1–0 at Meadow Lane. Sheffield Wednesday triumph 3–0 away to Oxford United. Watford beat Brighton 3–1 at Vicarage Road. In the First Division, Arsenal draw 1–1 with Aston Villa at Highbury and Stoke City win 3–2 at Coventry City. The top three of Liverpool, Manchester United and Nottingham Forest are all held to draws away from home.

21 February 1984: West Ham's title hopes are hit by a 4–2 home defeat to Watford.

22 February 1984: Despite losing 1–0 to Aston Villa in the semi-final second leg, Everton are through to the League Cup final, securing them their first cup final for seven years and the first all-Merseyside final in any of the domestic or European cup competitions.

25 February 1984: Wolves are now 13 points adrift of safety after losing 4–0 to local rivals Aston Villa in the First Division at Villa Park. Liverpool maintain a four-point lead at the top of the table, with Manchester United's 2–1 home win over Sunderland keeping up the pressure on the leaders. Nottingham Forest's title hopes take another blow they lose 1–0 at home to Arsenal. West Ham are now nine points behind the leaders after going down 1–0 at Norwich. An eight-goal thriller at Vicarage Road sees Watford and Everton draw 4-4.

28 February 1984: Birmingham City go seven points clear of the relegation zone with a 2–1 home win over local rivals West Bromwich Albion.

29 February 1984: England's first international game since their failure to qualify for the European Championship Finals ends in a 2–0 defeat to France in the Parc des Princes. On the club scene, Liverpool continue to top the First Division, with a four-point lead over Manchester United. Nottingham Forest, West Ham United and Southampton complete the top five. Wolverhampton Wanderers remain bottom of the table, 13 points adrift of safety with 14 games to go. Notts County are 11 points adrift of safety, and Stoke City complete the bottom three, just behind West Bromwich Albion, Leicester City and Ipswich Town. Sheffield Wednesday and Chelsea are level at the top of the Second Division, while Grimsby Town have crept into the top three at the expense of Manchester City.

3 March 1984: The Merseyside derby at Goodison Park ends in a 1–1 draw, allowing Manchester United to cut Liverpool's lead to two points by beating Aston Villa 3–0 at Villa Park. Nottingham Forest's title hopes are fading fast after their fall to another defeat, this time losing 1–0 at Wolves, who grab three points to boost their survival hopes. West Ham win 3–0 at Ipswich, and Southampton boost their hopes of making a late run to the title by beating Norwich City 2–1 at The Dell.

7 March 1984: European action resumes with four English clubs still in the three cups. Liverpool beat Portuguese champions SL Benfica 1–0 in the European Cup quarter-final first leg at Anfield, but Manchester United lose 2–0 to FC Barcelona in the European Cup Winners' Cup quarter-finals. Nottingham Forest beat Austrian side Sturm Graz 1–0 at the City Ground in the UEFA Cup quarter-final first leg, while Tottenham gain a 2–0 advantage over another Austrian side, Austria Vienna, in their quarter-final first leg. On the First Division scene, Sunderland move closer to safety with a 1–0 home win over QPR.

10 March 1984: Watford reach the FA Cup semi-finals for the first time in 14 years with a 3–1 away win over Birmingham City in the quarter-final tie at St Andrew's. Everton's hopes of a domestic cup double are kept alive as a 2–1 away win over Notts County takes them through. One of Home Park's largest-ever crowds of more than 34,000 sees Plymouth Argyle keep their FA Cup dream alive, with a goalless draw with Derby County forcing a replay at the Baseball Ground. First Division action includes victories for leaders Liverpool and second-placed Manchester United.