[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Blockade of Wonsan

san, firing 2,336 rounds of 5-inch shells. The North Koreans offered heavy resistance, and over 500 splashes were counted, but there was no serious damage to the American vessels. The next day  engaged the batteries and received four near misses, wounding four men aboard the ship.

Operation Kickoff

Between late June through August 1951, North Korean attacks on American ships seemed to increase so the United States began concentrating on destroying enemy batteries. On June 28, the destroyer  received counter-battery fire while conducting a bombardment of Wonsan Harbor. She was struck by one round, causing light superficial damage and one man was injured.

A few days later on July 3, the frigate  was attacked by the batteries and took hits, killing one man and wounding seven others. The Americans responded with an attack by the Fast Carrier Task Force. In one day 247 bombing sorties were carried out against Wonsan and 600 South Korean marines raided the mainland from the island of Cho-do.

On July 6, the destroyer USS Frank E. Evans landed men on the island of Hwangto-do and then with two other destroyers, bombarded buildings and a torpedo station. USS Blue captured Kukto Island the following day and established an observation point to keep watch on North Korean positions. On July 11, in the vicinity of Yo-do island, USS Blue and Frank E. Evans were attacked, approximately fifty splashes were counted near the ships but none of them were hit. Due to the attacks, particularly the Battle of the Buzz Saw, American naval commanders decided on launching Operation Kickoff which referred to maneuvers within Wonsan Harbor, aimed at reducing the batteries.

Every day from July 17, 1951, elements of the allied fleet, assigned to bombardment groups, would sail at  to bombard known enemy positions and continue doing so from 3:00 pm until dark. On the first day of the maneuvers, the LSMRs  and  received heavy, accurate fire from enemy batteries on the islands of Kalmagak, Umi-do and Ho-do Pan-do. Both of the vessels were struck by shells and damaged, but not seriously. Over 500 shells splashed in the water around USS O'Brien and she sustained at least a couple of hits. One man was injured although the damage was light. USS New Jersey and heavy cruiser  also participated in the bombardment.

On August 4, British Royal Marines installed mortars on Hwangto-do to counter the North Korean shore batteries and on August 11, , using shore fire control parties, fired direct and indirect fire missions against enemy troop concentrations and transportation targets in the Wonsan area. The minesweepers ,  and  came under fire by shore batteries that same day while conducting check sweep operations in the vicinity of Hodo-pando. Dextrous suffered two direct hits; killing one man, three wounded and moderate damage.

With the exception of an attack on  on August 20, Operation Kickoff proved to be a success as the number of attacks on blockading ships decreased for a while until new batteries were constructed. Seven enemy guns opened fire on Uhlmann that day and after a long engagement, five of the guns were destroyed and 117 splashes were counted by the sailors, but there were no hits. Uhlmann had to break off the attack without silencing the remaining two artillery pieces because allied patrols entered the area.

Renewed minesweeping operations

Because the communists were still mining the approaches of Wonsan and Hungnam, on September 5 the commander of CTF-95 ordered the minesweeping group CTG-95.6 to sweep the coastline so as to allow UN ships to remain within gunfire range of the shore at all times while blockading. Upon completion, allied warships no longer had to withdraw out of range each night. While supporting the minesweepers involved in the mission, the destroyer escort  was hit three times on September 8 by ground-based artillery. Her fire room flooded but there were no casualties.

On September 10, the minesweepers Redstart and Heron were again damaged by shell fire from Wonsan, this time while rechecking pre-swept waters. On September 20,  bombarded enemy troops and mortar positions, scoring five hits which destroyed an ammunition dump. Orleck also attacked a large sampan, suspected of minelaying, and struck her four times with gunfire. On September 24,  was also damaged by shore battery fire. After three hits, the frigate was moderately damaged and caught on fire. Three South Korean sailors were wounded but they were able to save their ship from complete destruction.