[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 132]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ghted at the landing-stage and walked on through the little
town towards the palace.

The sun was deliciously hot; its rays struck through to the skin, and
seemed to pour in life and well-being. The wayfarer stood looking up the
steep green avenue, resting for a moment, before she began the ascent.
At the top of the hill she paused again to look out over Paris, which
lay spread far and wide beneath her, glittering and brilliant; the
Eiffel Tower rising above domes and spires, in solitary inconsequence.
It seemed to her as if she were looking upon the world and upon life,
for the last time. A few weeks hence, would she be able to stand there
and see the gay city at her feet? She plunged back along one of the
converging avenues, yielding to the fascination of green alleys leading
one knows not whither. Wandering on for some time, she finally drifted
down hill again, towards the stately little garden near the palace. She
was surprised by a hurrying step behind her, and Jouffroy's voice in her
ear. She was about to greet him in her usual fashion, when he stopped
her by plunging head foremost into a startling tirade--about her art,
and her country, and her genius, and his despair; and finally his
resolve that she should not belong to the accursed list of women who
gave up their art for "_la famille_."

The more Hadria tried to discover what had happened and what he meant,
the faster he spoke and the more wildly he gesticulated.

He had seen how she was drifting away from her work and becoming
entangled in little affairs of no importance, and he would not permit
it. He cared not what her circumstances might be; she had a great talent
that she had no right to sacrifice to any circumstances whatever. He
had come to save her. Not finding her at her _apartement_, he had
concluded that she had taken refuge at her beloved St. Cloud. _Mon
Dieu!_ was he to allow her to be taken away from her work, dragged back
to a narrow circle, crushed, broken, ruined--she who could give such a
sublime gift to her century--but it was impossible! It would tear his
heart. He would not permit it; she must promise him not to allow herself
to be persuaded to abandon her purpose, no matter on what pretext they
tried to lure her. Hadria, in vain, enquired the cause of this sudden
excitement. Jouffroy only repeated his exhortations. Why did she not cut
herself entirely adrift from her country, her ties?

"They are to you, Madame, an oppression, a weariness, a----"

"M. Jouffroy, I have never spoken to you about these things. I cannot
see how you are in a position to judge."

"Ah, but I know. Have I not heard _cette chère Madame Bertaux_ describe
the life of an English village? And have I not seen----?"

"Seen what?"

"_Cette dame._ I have seen her at your apartment this afternoon. Do not
annihilate me, Madame; I mean not to offend you. The lady has come from
England on purpose to entrap you; she came last night, and she stays at
the Hotel du Louvre. She spoke to me of you." Jouffroy raised his hands
to heaven. "Ha! then I understood, and I fled hither to save you."

"Tell me, tell me quickly, Monsieur, has she fair hair and large grey
eyes. Is she tall?"

No, the lady was small, with dark hair, and brown, clever eyes.

"A lady, elegant, well-dressed, but, ah! a woman to destroy the soul of
an artist merely by her presence. I told her that you had decided to
remain in France, to adopt it as your country, for it was the country of
your soul!"

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Hadria, unable to repress a little burst of
laughter, in spite of her disappointment and foreboding.

"I told her that your friends would not let you go back to England, to
the land of fogs, the land of the _bourgeois_. The lady seemed
astonished, even indignant," continued Jouffroy, waving his hands
excitedly, "and she endeavoured to make me silent, but she did not have
success, I promise you. I appealed to her. I pointed out to her your
unique power. I reminded her that such power is a gift supreme to the
world, which the world must not lose. For the making of little ones and
the care of the _ménage_, there were other women, but you--you were a
priestess in the temple of art, you were without prejudice, without the
_bourgeois_ conscience, _grâce au ciel!_ you had the religion of the
artist, and your worship was paid at the shrine of Apollo. _Enfin_, I
counselled this elegant lady to return to England and to leave you in
peace. Always with a perfect politeness," added Jouffroy, panting from
excess of emotion. Hadria tried in vain to gather the object of this
sudden visit on the part of Henriette (for Henriette the elegant lady
must certainly be).

"I must return at once," she said. "I fear something must have gone
wrong at home." Jouffroy danced with fury.

"But I tell you, Madame, that she will drag you back to your fogs; she
will tell you some foolish story, she will address herself to you