[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hydraulic motor

ed in either aluminum or cast iron bodies, depending on application conditions. They offer design options that can handle radial loads. Additionally, alternative configurations include pressure relief valve, anti-cavitation valve, and speed sensor to meet specific application needs.

Gerotor motors 

The gerotor motor is in essence a rotor with n − 1 teeth, rotating off center in a rotor/stator with n teeth. Pressurized fluid is guided into the assembly using a (usually) axially placed plate-type distributor valve. Several different designs exist, such as the Geroller (internal or external rollers) and Nichols motors. Typically, the Gerotor motors are low-to-medium speed and medium-to-high torque.

Axial plunger motors
For high quality rotating drive systems plunger motors are generally used. Whereas the speed of hydraulic pumps range from 1200 to 1800 rpm, the machinery to be driven by the motor often requires a much lower speed. This means that when an axial plunger motor (swept volume maximum 2 litres) is used, a gearbox is usually needed.  For a continuously adjustable swept volume, axial piston motors are used.

Like piston (reciprocating) type pumps, the most common design of the piston type of motor is the axial.  This  type  of  motor  is  the  most commonly used in hydraulic systems. These motors are, like their pump counterparts, available in both variable and fixed displacement designs. Typical usable (within acceptable efficiency) rotational speeds range from below 50 rpm to above 14000 rpm. Efficiencies and minimum/maximum rotational speeds are highly dependent on the design of the rotating group, and many different types are in use.

Radial piston motors

Radial piston motors are available in two basic types: Pistons pushing inward, and pistons pushing outward.

Pistons pushing inward 
The crankshaft type (e.g. Staffa or SAI hydraulic motors) with a single cam and the pistons pushing inwards is basically an old design but is one which has extremely high starting torque characteristics. They are available in displacements from 40 cc/rev up to about 50 litres/rev but can sometimes be limited in power output. Crankshaft type radial piston motors are capable of running at "creep" speeds and some can run seamlessly up to 1500 rpm whilst offering virtually constant output torque characteristics. This makes them still the most versatile design.

The single-cam-type radial piston motor exists in many different designs itself. Usually the difference lies in the way the fluid is distributed to the different pistons or cylinders, and also the design of the cylinders themselves. Some motors have pistons attached to the cam using rods (much like in an internal combustion engine), while others employ floating "shoes", and even spherical contact telescopic cylinders like the Parker Denison Calzoni type. Each design has its own set of pros and cons, such as freewheeling ability, high volumetric efficiency, high reliability and so on.

Pistons pushing outward 
Multi-lobe cam ring types (e.g. Black Bruin, Rexroth, Hägglunds Drives, Poclain, Rotary Power or Eaton Hydre-MAC type) have a cam ring with multiple lobes and the piston rollers push outward against the cam ring. This produces a very smooth output with high starting torque but they are often limited in the upper speed range. This type of motor is available in a very wide range from about 1 litre/rev to 250 litres/rev. These motors are particularly good on low speed applications and can develop very high power.

Braking
Hydraulic motors usually have a drain connection for the internal leakage, which means that when the power unit is turned off the hydraulic motor in the drive system will move slowly if an external load is acting on it.  Thus, for applications such as a crane or winch with suspended load, there is always a need for a brake or a locking device.

Uses
Hydraulic pumps, motors, and cylinders can be combined into hydraulic drive systems.  One or more hydraulic pumps, coupled to one or more hydraulic motors, constitute a hydraulic transmission.

Hydraulic motors are used for many applications now such as winches and crane drives, wheel motors for military vehicles, self-driven cranes, excavators, conveyor and feeder drives, cooling fan drives, mixer and agitator drives, roll mills, drum drives for digesters, trommels and kilns, shredders, drilling rigs, trench cutters, high-powered lawn trimmers, and plastic injection machines.
Hydraulic motors are also used in heat transfer applications.

See also
 Sisu Nemo

References

Motor

ja:圧力モーター