[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Our Man Bashir

timeslot and lower than the episode that aired the previous week, "The Sword of Kahless", which gained a rating of 6.9 percent. "Our Man Bashir" was the final new episode of Deep Space Nine to air in 1995, with repeats running until "Homefront" aired on January 1, 1996, with ratings of 6.8 percent.

Zack Handlen of The A.V. Club compared "Our Man Bashir" to "Little Green Men" from earlier in the season, saying that this episode was "better paced". Another comparison made was to The Next Generation "Hollow Pursuits", saying that "instead of [Reginald] Barclay using the holodeck to enact his fantasies with people he can't bear to deal with in real life, Bashir is forced to keep his made up world going if he wants to save the lives of his friends". Handlen also praised the relationship between Bashir and Garak in the episode, and said "Our Man Bashir" demonstrates their characterisation. In Michelle Erica Green's review for TrekNation, she criticised the role of women in the episode, saying that they fared better in the James Bond movies. She also thought that taking the out-of-character element of the episode repeated elements seen in several episodes during the previous season, but praised the acting on the part of Avery Brooks and that Garak was "born to play a Bond sidekick".

Keith DeCandido, writing for Tor.com, said that it was obvious that the actors enjoyed their new parts in this episode and said of the episode, "holy crap is it fun". In particular, he praised both Avery Brooks and Nana Visitor in their Bond-esque roles, saying that Brooks made a villain on par with those played by Donald Pleasence, Christopher Lee, and Javier Bardem. DeCandido gave "Our Man Bashir" a rating of nine out of ten. In a list of the top 100 episodes of the Star Trek franchise, "Our Man Bashir" was placed in 77th place by Charlie Jane Anders at io9. She noted it as being one of goofiest Deep Space Nine episodes.

In 2012, Den of Geek ranked this the seventh best episode of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine.

A 2015 binge-watching guide for Star Trek: Deep Space Nine by WIRED recommended not skipping this essential episode.

In 2016, Empire ranked this the 23rd best out of the top 50 episodes of all the 700 plus Star Trek television episodes.

In 2020, Io9 said this was one of the "must watch" episodes from the series.

Awards
The episode was nominated for two Emmy Awards, in the categories "Outstanding Music Composition for a Series" (for the score by Jay Chattaway) and "Outstanding Hairstyling for a Series".

Home media release
The first home media release of "Our Man Bashir" was as a two-episode VHS cassette alongside "The Sword of Kahless" in the United Kingdom on June 13, 1996, followed in the United States and Canada by a single-episode release on October 3, 2000. It was later released on DVD as part of the season four box set on August 5, 2003.

Footnotes

References

External links

 
 
 

1995 American television episodes
Holography in television
Star Trek: Deep Space Nine (season 4) episodes
Television episodes written by Ronald D. Moore