[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sizewell nuclear power stations

The Sizewell nuclear site consists of two nuclear power stations, one of which is still operational, located near the small fishing village of Sizewell in Suffolk, England. Sizewell A, with two Magnox reactors, is now in the process of being decommissioned. Sizewell B has a single pressurised water reactor (PWR) and is the UK's newest nuclear power station. A third power station, to consist of twin EPR reactors, is planned to be built as Sizewell C.

Sizewell A

Site
The site of Sizewell A occupies  north of Sizewell.  It is on a low plateau above flood level. The geological foundation comprises Norwich Crag Formation and Red Crag Formation bedrock of Pleistocene age above Eocene London Clay.  The Crag deposits predominantly consist of medium dense and dense sands with thin layers of clay and silt and fossiliferous shelly horizons. The Crag strata extend to a depth of  below ground level. In 1972/73, Sizewell A was awarded the Christopher Hinton trophy in recognition of good housekeeping.

The site is reached by road, with the nearest railhead about one mile inland at Sizewell Halt. Sidings were installed at the railhead primarily to transport irradiated elements to the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority plant at Sellafield, Cumbria. Nuclear fuel was handled by a crane loading facility at the end of the  Leiston/Sizewell branch railway. This is connected to the East Suffolk line via a south-facing junction to the north of Saxmundham station. The line was extended and used for the delivery of construction materials for Sizewell B power station in the 1980s. The line is now only rarely used for transportation of spent fuels from Sizewell B since the completion of decommissioning of Sizewell A in 2006. A new branch line off the Leiston branch has been proposed for rail terminals for the construction of Sizewell C power station to the north of the existing B power station.

Construction
The Midlands Project Group of the Central Electricity Generating Board (CEGB) planned and managed the project.  The main contract was placed in November 1960 and construction work on Sizewell A began on 1 April 1961. The main construction contract was awarded to British Nuclear Design and Construction Ltd ('BNDC'), a consortium of English Electric, Babcock & Wilcox and Taylor Woodrow Construction, The initial budget was £56million, but due to inflation this figure rose to £65million. During its 40-year operational lifetime, it had produced  of electricity, which would have been sufficient to meet the domestic needs of England and Wales for six months.  Unit 1 was commissioned on 21 March 1966, and Unit 2 on 15 September. The station was officially opened on 7 April 1967 by the Lord Lieutenant of Suffolk, the Earl of Stradbroke.

Design
The designed net electrical output of the station was 652MWe. The power station originally had a single 324.75MW turbo-alternator, and a gross generating capability of 327.7MW. In 1967 a second turbo-alternator was commissioned with a rating of 275MW. The total generating capacity was reduced to 490MW in 1969, and then 420MWe in 1973, to arrest the rate of oxidation of internal reactor-core components. At full load, 70MWe were used in providing works power from the gross electrical output of 490MWe.

The main plant consisted of two 1,010MW (thermal) Magnox reactors, which were natural uranium, carbon dioxide gas cooled, graphite moderated units. These supplied heat to eight boiler units, four associated with each reactor. The steam produced by the boilers was fed to two turbo-generators each rated at 325MW, but which operated at a reduced capacity of 250MW from 1969.

The reactors and turbines were both supplied by English Electric.

Building specification
The foundations for the reactors and associated boilers are provided by a reinforced concrete raft  thick, founded on the sand with a designed net bearing pressure of 3.5tons per square foot. The biological shields are  high and vary between  thick. The composite steel and reinforced concrete cap above each reactor is  thick. Both reactors were housed in a single building to achieve savings in building costs.

The turbine house is a steel-framed, aluminium clad building  long,  wide and  high, with a reinforced concrete basement  deep. The foundations are provided by isolated bases and strip footings with a designed maximum bearing pressure of 3 tons per square foot.

The pumphouse which supplied the main turbines with  of cooling water per hour drew sea water from an intake structure about  offshore via twin  diameter tunnels. This water was returned to the sea through similar tunnels discharging  offshore.

Electricity output 
Electricity output from Sizewell A power station over the period 1966-84 was as follows.

Sizewell A annual electricity output GWh.