[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

f Chișinevschi became Pintilie's close friends, assigning him the task of identifying and eliminating informants from within PCR cells. As Oprea notes: "he instilled in Dej a pathological fear of provocateurs, as well as an admiration for the potential and means available to a secret police agency."

In early 1944, the authorities took decisions which further divided the party cells—Gheorghiu-Dej and others were sent to a camp in Târgu Jiu. An eyewitness account by political scientist Pavel Câmpeanu (who was then a young PCR cadre serving time at Caransebeș), Bodnarenko and Chișinevschi became junior leaders of the Caransebeș group, second only to Teohari Georgescu. The anti-German coup of August 23, partly organized by Gheorghiu-Dej's military adviser Emil Bodnăraș, took the communist cells into the open; this was shortly after Bodnăraș had deposed and kidnapped the PCR General Secretary, Ștefan Foriș. As reported by Câmpeanu, Bodnarenko and Georgescu organized the inmates' march out of the unguarded prison on August 24, and then headed with them by train, to Bucharest. According to this account, Bodnarenko resisted attempts to have Câmpeanu negotiate the terms with the Romanian Railways staff, appointing instead Bercu Feldman as PCR representative. Câmpeanu then places the future General Pintilie among the paramilitaries manning the PCR front Apărarea Patriotică in Bucharest's Obor neighborhood, during the final days of August; officially, his function was recorded as "Chief of Service No 1 (guarding of buildings and dignitaries)". Bodnarenko was then assigned to the Patriotic Combat Formations (FLP), which answered directly to Bodnăraș. He was second in command for the FLP's Fifth Section, directly under Simion Bernachi. The unit was armed with old carbines, sent over by Colonel Victor Precup.

Communist rise
The end of World War II enshrined the Soviet occupation of Romania and the communists' infiltration into the Kingdom's governing institutions. During this process, in 1949, Bodnarenko was one of the many PCR cadres who chose new surnames which were meant to conceal their ethnic origins. Like his future Securitate colleague Serghei Nicolau (Nikonov), he opted for Romanianization; their Jewish subordinate, Boris Grünberg, preferred a Russian-sounding name, "Alexandru Nicolschi". Bodnarenko's victim, lawyer-diarist Petre Pandrea, alleges that, by picking out his new surname, the future Securitate chief wanted to pass as a relative of the PCR's hero-activist, Ilie Pintilie. It corresponds with Bodnarenko's earlier first name, Panteley, both being derived from Saint Pantaleon; Pintilie is most common in the Maramureș and Moldavian dialects of Romanian.

Despite his apparent assimilation, Pintilie had a hard time mastering the Romanian vernacular, and is described by political scientist Vladimir Tismăneanu as agramat ("semi-literate"). A Securitate subordinate, Gheorghe Crăciun, found his Romanian to be "broken and vulgar"; or, as Deletant writes: "Those who knew him commented on his [...] heavily-Russian-accented Romanian, coloured with expletives." Troncotă adds that: "Pintilie never mastered the Romanian language, maintaining no links with the Romanian people's way of life, its interests, or its aspirations. His entire work was in serving Soviet interests in Romania, which is to say in undermining Romanian economic, political and military life".

As early as October 1944, Pintilie-Bodnarenko and Nicolschi-Grünberg were assigned by the occupation authorities to lead a Romanian chapter of SMERSH counter-intelligence, whose activity remained classified. As noted by Oprea, Dmitri Fedichkin of the First Chief Directorate also made Pintilie his direct assistant, thereby establishing the Soviet MGB in a position of power over Romanian police agencies. From March 1945, Pintilie was assigned to the Siguranța, which Bodnăraș had proceeded to communize. His takeover there ran parallel to a mass trail of the old Siguranța leadership, resulting in either imprisonment or execution for all those appearing in court.