[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Warcraft III in esports

The expansion to the computer game Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos, known as The Frozen Throne, had an active professional competition scene, particularly in China, Germany, and South Korea. The game was featured at eSports festivals including the World Cyber Games, the Electronic Sports World Cup, the World e-Sports Games, the World Series of Video Games and the International E-Sports Festival. Outside of the professional circuit, the game had many active competitive circuits, with users at Battle.net ranging between 70,000 and 100,000 at any given moment. In China, in which Warcraft III was extremely popular due to it being easily available through piracy, fans and users often used an alternative client due to the country's poor internet connections to the outside world. Around 3,000,000 copies of the game were sold in the country. 500,000 Chinese competed in the Chinese qualifiers for the 2006 World Cyber Games. The amount of prize money through the years has been significant with top players winning hundreds of thousands of dollars. As usual in competitive gaming, income for Warcraft 3 professional players flowed from various sources like team salaries from pro-gaming teams and sponsorships usually computer technology related. A famous example was the Danish gaming organization known as Meet Your Makers which boasted of paying their players 300,000 on an annual basis. Similar to older games with huge competitive scenes like Starcraft:Brood War and Counter-Strike 1.6, the popularity of Warcraft 3 steadily declined and towards the end of the previous decade almost all tournaments and players were Chinese. After 2010, with Starcraft 2, League of Legends, and Dota 2 being released and becoming popular, Warcraft 3 gave up its position as one of the prime eSports titles.

Professional Warcraft III players 
Sky — Li Xiaofeng
Li Xiaofeng won the 2005 and 2006 World Cyber Games representing China, regarded as Warcraft III's premier individual competition, his victories earned him a massive fanbase and turned him into an icon of China's professional gaming scene on a national and international level. He was recognized as the Warcraft III player of 2006 by competitive gaming media and is a member of the World Cyber Games hall of fame. He is known for revolutionizing the way the Human race is played in Warcraft III and has been considered the top player of the race alongside Frenchman Yoan Merlo since 2005. He has been considered China's number one player since the country's emergence as a major supporter of professional Warcraft III. He has been signed with Chinese based World Elite throughout his professional career.

ToD — Yoan Merlo
He is one of the most successful Warcraft III players ever, holding among other achievements first places at the World e-Sports Games, Blizzard Worldwide Invitational and Cyberathlete Professional League competitions. He is also a World Cyber Games silver and bronze medalist. He was recognized as the Warcraft III player of 2007.

Infi — Wang Xuwen
Wang Xuwen started gaining recognition in international in team World Elite. In 2007, he won the International E-Sports Festival 2007 and became the first non-Korean champion in this tournament and also the first non-Korean champion in a tournament which was held in Korea. From 2007 to 2010, he got many Champions of premier tournaments. He won KODE5 in Moscow and World e-Sports Games in 2008. He was also the champion of World Cyber Games 2009 representing China and the runner-up of the BlizzCon Season VIII. He was considered one of the best Human player in the world. In team World Elite, he helped World Elite get the champion of Warcraft III Champions League Season XIV. Wang Xuwen has the nickname "Tower Race" or "the Six Race". It is because he always builds many towers to defense and offensive.

TH000 — Huang Xiang
Huang Xiang is a Chinese Human player. He is one of the best Human players after 2008 and also one of the best random players. He used Undead and Night Elf in premier individual or team competitions and also used Orc in some tournaments. He also created many tactics for Human, Undead and Night Elf. From 2008 to 2011, Chinese Warcraft III was dominated by 4 players, Lu "Fly100%" Weiliang, Li "Sky" Xiaofeng, Wang "infi" Xuwen and Huang "TH000" Xiang. They were considered the 4 kings in Chinese Warcraft III. He won ZOTAC Cup 16 times. He was the back to back champion of ProGamer League and the champion of World e-Sports Games 2010 and Cyberathlete Professional League 2011. He also got bronze medals of the International E-Sports Festival two times. He is the last Warcraft 3 champion of World Cyber Games.