[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jonathan Bornstein

Jonathan Rey Bornstein (born November 7, 1984) is an American professional soccer player who plays as a left-back for Liga Nacional club Vida. He has captained and made 38 appearances for the United States national team. In addition to also playing for Chivas USA in Major League Soccer (with whom he was the 2006 MLS Rookie of the Year, an MLS Best XI, and a two-time MLS All-Star), he has played in Liga MX and in the Israeli Premier League. He won a silver medal with Team USA at the 2005 Maccabiah Games, in Israel.

Youth and college
Bornstein attended Los Alamitos High School, where he played soccer for all four years. He was MVP of the Sunset League, first-team all-county, and All-California Interscholastic Federation (CIF), and led the soccer team to a CIF Championship.  He also played club soccer for Long Beach United, Beach Soccer Club, and the Irvine Strikers club team coached by Don Ebert. He won the Golden Boot Award as he led the Strikers to the US Youth Soccer 2002 Under-17 National Championship.

He started his college soccer career at Cal Poly Pomona and played there for the Cal Poly Pomona Broncos for two years.  In 2002, Bornstein was California Collegiate Athletic Association (CCAA) Freshman of the Year, first-team All-CCAA, and second-team All-Far West Region, as he led the team in scoring. In 2003, he was again first-team All-CCAA and second-team All-Far West Region, and was selected to the College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) Academic All-America College Division District VIII team with a 3.30 GPA in Business Administration, as he led Cal Poly in all scoring categories. He finished his career at Cal Poly Pomona ranked second in career assists (19), third in career points (53), and fifth in career goals (19).

He then transferred to UCLA for the 2004 season as a sociology major. In 2004, Bornstein played in all of the UCLA's 20 games, with nine starts. In 2005, he started all 20 games and was named second-team All-Pac-10.

Bornstein was a teammate of Benny Feilhaber at the youth (with the Irvine Strikers), college (at UCLA, where they were roommates), and national-team level, and at the Maccabiah Games in Israel. Feilhaber said he and Bornstein "definitely had a special connection" because of their religion from the beginning of their friendship.

Club career

Chivas USA
Bornstein was selected by Chivas USA in the fourth round (37th overall) of the 2006 MLS SuperDraft. A forward in college, he was converted to a left back by Chivas coach Bob Bradley, and was his team's surprising starter at the position when the season opened. Injuries and suspensions forced Bornstein back into an attacking role for Chivas USA's June 3 match against FC Dallas, where the rookie scored his first MLS goal. He continued his fine play in the back and also contributed to the attack during the rest of the season, finishing the year with four assists and six goals, leading all rookies. He started every game in the season, and his total of 2,878 minutes played was third-highest in the league.  He was rewarded for his fine form by winning the 2006 MLS Rookie of the Year Award.

In 2007, he was an MLS All-Star, and named to the MLS Best XI as one of the best 11 players in Major League Soccer. In 2008, Bornstein suffered a knee injury that affected him throughout the spring. When he came back, Chivas coach Preki began to employ him in an attacking capacity, which Bornstein trained for in his youth. He repeated as an MLS All-Star in 2008.

In summer 2008, Israeli club Maccabi Tel Aviv was reportedly interested in Bornstein. News stories claimed that the offer involved a transfer fee of $750,000 and would increase the player's salary five-fold to around $500,000 a season. Bornstein was apparently unenthusiastic, fearing that such a move could cost him his place in the U.S. national team.

In 2009, he was the Chivas USA Defender of the Year (2009) and captain. In five seasons with Chivas USA (2006–10), Bornstein made 123 regular season appearances (117 starts).

Swiss Second Division

Bornstein Recently Joined AC Bellinzona He Will Play Against 
FC Vaduz For Debut He Is Swiss-American-Israeli-Mexican He Is Excited To Play In Switzerland

Liga MX
Bornstein spent the next eight seasons in Mexico's first division, Liga MX. He first played for Tigres de la UANL (2010–14). In July 2010, it was announced by Chivas USA that Bornstein would join Tigres de la UANL in January 2011, following the conclusion of the 2010 Major League Soccer season.

Bornstein was selected by Portland Timbers in the 2010 MLS Expansion Draft. In doing so, Portland retained his MLS rights should he ever return to the league. On February 13, 2013, Portland traded Bornstein's MLS rights back to Chivas USA with allocation money for midfielder Ben Zemanski.

Bornstein was transfer listed by Tigres on November 19, 2012.