[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 35]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

s
Weatherford, April 26, 2014, banned in all restaurants, but not bars or other enclosed workplaces

United States Virgin Islands
Territory-wide smoking ban: Effective February 10, 2011, smoking is banned in all enclosed workplaces, including bars and restaurants, and in outdoor service lines.

Utah

Statewide smoking ban: Effective January 1, 2007, as passed in March 2006 (amended in 2012), Utah's 1995 Indoor Clean Air Act was expanded to ban smoking statewide in all enclosed workplaces in Utah, including bars and restaurants (bars and private clubs were exempt until January 1, 2009), exempting only (1) designated hotel/motel smoking rooms, (2) areas of owner-operated businesses with no employees besides the owner, and (3) American Indian religious and cultural ceremonies. Since the state law supersedes any ordinances passed by political subdivisions of the state (i.e., cities, counties, school districts, agencies, etc.), such political subdivisions are preempted from regulating indoor smoking any more or less stringently than the Act. Utah is one of the few states with a statewide smoking ban that does not exempt tobacconists.
Local outdoor smoking bans: Notwithstanding the preemption against political subdivisions modifying the restrictions on indoor smoking, the Act expressly allows such political subdivisions to regulate "smoking in outdoor places of public access which are owned or operated by" (emphasis added) a political subdivision (specifically including state institutions of public or higher education). Accordingly, some political subdivisions have enacted local ordinances prohibiting smoking in certain outdoor areas such as schools, parks, and public transit facilities.

Vermont
Statewide smoking ban: Effective September 1, 2005, smoking is banned in all enclosed workplaces in Vermont, including all bars and restaurants, except in private residences (unless if it is being used as a childcare facility or it smoking is banned under the landlord's request) as well as areas of owner-operated businesses with no employees that are not open to the public, although separately ventilated designated smoking areas in businesses where employees are not required to be were exempt until July 1, 2009. Designated unenclosed smoking areas in businesses where the layout of the workplace is such that smoking would not be a physical irritation to any nonsmoking employee and three-fourths of the employees agreed were also exempt until July 1, 2009. The Vermont Veterans Home in Bennington is the only non-owner-operated workplace in the state permitted to allow smoking. Vermont is one of the few states with a statewide smoking ban that does not expressly exempt tobacconists, and is one of four states that does not allow the designation of hotel/motel smoking rooms. Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the state law.

Virginia
No statewide smoking ban. Instead, Virginia's 2009 statewide smoking law, the 2009 Indoor Clean Air Act prohibits smoking statewide in enclosed public elevators, public school buses, primary and secondary schools, hospital emergency rooms, health department offices, polling places, indoor service lines and cashier lines, public restrooms in government buildings and hospitals, child daycare centers except where located in a private home, and public restrooms of health care facilities, and relegating smoking in restaurants (including bars) to separately ventilated designated smoking rooms that are structurally separated from the rest of the establishment. The Act exempts private clubs, retail tobacco stores, tobacco warehouses, tobacco manufacturing facilities, prisons, designated smoking areas in government offices, food preparation facilities for catering services, restaurants located on the premises of tobacco manufacturers, rented private rooms in restaurants; requires the reasonable designation of non-smoking areas in educational facilities where smoking is not banned, hospitals, retail stores bigger than , and recreational facilities.

Local governments are preempted from regulating smoking more stringently than the Act. Since 2006, smoking in state offices, vehicles, and buildings (except for correctional facilities) has been banned by executive order issued by the Governor of Virginia. A law which came into effect on July 1, 2016, banned smoking in private cars with any occupants who are 8 years or younger.