[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Robert E. Lee: Civil War General

cover. Tiles may contain various structures ranging from farmhouses to churches; these can also affect the cover or morale bonus/minus of the tile. Rivers are completely impassable unless a bridge or ford is present (the latter are invisible and require the player to search around the map for them).

A number of different weapons are available to units; the game includes most of the more commonly used infantry, artillery, and cavalry weapons from the Civil War. The armies of both sides have certain weapons available exclusively to them, and the Confederate side does not have access to certain more powerful weapons. A unit will have higher morale the better weapons they're carrying, but stronger weapons also use more expensive ammunition than weaker ones.

At the end of a battle, the game displays a stat screen showing the number of casualties on both sides, leaders killed/wounded, men captured/deserted, supply points and weapons cost captured, and total score. At any time during a battle, the player can also access the stat screen through the "Casualty Report" option in the "Reports" menu.

Development
Robert E. Lee: Civil War General was designed by Jeffrey Fiske and developed by Impressions Games, a company previously responsible for the Civil War-themed wargame The Blue & the Gray. Sierra On-Line, which had purchased the developer in 1995, served as the new game's publisher. Civil War General began as a remake of Impressions' earlier wargame Front Lines—whose graphics technology the developer found successful, but whose gameplay it disliked—that reworked the engine to focus on the Civil War. However, the team organically drifted away from this framework as development progressed, until the project crystallized as Civil War General. Initially, Impressions studied history books to research the game, but increasingly relied on Internet research as the project continued. This gave the team access to new data, such as previously inaccessible "personal letters and diaries" that helped them catalog deployment patterns and supplies, according to Sierra's news magazine InterAction. Impressions also worked to reproduce the historical battlefields of the Civil War, including the exact placement of each brigade.

Fiske's core goal with Civil War General was to "create a product that Civil War enthusiasts could play, regardless of prior gaming experience." To this end, he sought to make its gameplay streamlined and intuitive, but without sacrificing historical realism. Fiske noted that the Strategic Simulations (SSI) wargame Panzer General was released as Impressions was first designing Civil War General, and that his team sought to offer accessibility akin to that game's but with greater historical accuracy and realism. Terry Coleman, the wargame columnist for Computer Gaming World, saw Civil War General as part of a trend toward ease-of-use in the computer wargame genre spurred by Panzer Generals commercial success. He further noted that Impressions " 'borrowed' half the title" from SSI's game. T. Liam McDonald of PC Gamer US likewise reported that the Civil War General title was chosen to capitalize on the commercial performance of Panzer General and Allied General.

Civil War General was based on Robert E. Lee's campaign against the Army of the Potomac because of his popularity among Civil War enthusiasts, and because Fiske believed that this confrontation "converts to computer gameplay better than any other" from the period. Fiske described the game's design as one of "morale and maneuver", as it focuses on the control of hexagons that increase troop morale, rather than on victory points. Leadership became a key element of the game design, and McDonald noted that the team included "every important Civil War leader ... except for Lee himself, since it is assumed that the player takes on the role of Lee." Fiske's goal was to make the handling of leadership and individual soldiers' personal welfare (such as rest, loyalty and organization) the player's central concerns, which he considered an untried mechanic in wargames. Before the game's release, he wrote that he "wanted a model in which one extra man on your firing line could make a difference".