[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 179]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ll he drove him near to the
middle of the enclosed space, where a strong post had been firmly fixed
into the ground. As soon as he approached the spot he threw the unerring
noose, and, catching the bull by the horns, entangled him as he had done
before, and dragged him with some difficulty to the stake. To this he
bound him down so closely, that it became impossible for the creature
either to resist or stir. Leaping then from his horse, who remained
immovable as before, he took a saddle, which had been left there on
purpose, and girded it firmly on the back of the bull; through his
nostrils he thrust an iron ring, to which was fixed a cord, which he
brought over his neck as a bridle; and then arming his hand with a short
spike, he nimbly vaulted upon the back of this new and terrible courser.

"The creature all this time did not cease to bellow with every
expression of rage, which had not the least effect upon the mind of this
valiant man; on the contrary, coolly taking a knife, he cut the cord
which bound him to the stake, and restored him to perfect liberty. The
creature, thus disengaged, exerted every effort of strength and fury to
throw his rider, who kept his seat undaunted in spite of all his violent
agitation. The gates of the torillo were then thrown open, and two other
furious bulls rushed out, and seemed ready to attack the man; but at the
instant they perceived the manner in which he was mounted, their rage
gave way to terror, and they fled precipitately away. The other bull
followed his companions, and bore his rider several times round the
amphitheatre in this extraordinary chase. This spectacle had already
lasted some time, to the admiration of all present, when the governor
ordered the man to complete the business by putting all the bulls to
death. He, instantly drawing his knife, plunged it behind the horns of
the bull on which he rode, who immediately dropped down dead; while the
conqueror, disengaging himself as he fell, stood upright by the
slaughtered animal. He then mounted his horse again, who had been placed
in safety at some little distance; and, pursuing the chase as before,
with his fatal noose, despatched both the surviving animals without the
least difficulty."

Tommy expressed the greatest admiration at this recital; and now, as the
evening began to advance, Mr Barlow invited him to return. But Tommy,
instead of complying, took him by the hand, thanked him for all his
kindness and attention, but declared his resolution of staying some time
with his friend Harry. "The more I consider my own behaviour," said he
"the more I feel myself ashamed of my folly and ingratitude; but you
have taught me, my dear sir, that all I have in my power is to
acknowledge them, which I most willingly do before all this good family,
and entreat Harry to think that the impressions I now feel are such as I
shall never forget." Harry embraced his friend, and assured him once
more of his being perfectly reconciled; and all the family stood mute
with admiration at the condescension of the young gentleman, who was not
ashamed of acknowledging his faults even to his inferiors.

Mr Barlow approved of Tommy's design, and took upon him to answer for
the consent of Mr Merton to his staying some time with Harry; then,
taking his leave of all the company, he departed.

But Tommy began now to enter upon a course of life which was very little
consistent with his former habits. He supped with great cheerfulness,
and even found himself happy with the rustic fare which was set before
him, accompanied, as it was, with unaffected civility and a hearty
welcome. He went to bed early, and slept very soundly all night;
however, when Harry came to call him the next morning at five, as he had
made him promise to do, he found a considerable difficulty in rousing
himself at the summons. Conscious pride, however, and the newly-acquired
dignity of his character, supported him; he recollected that he should
disgrace himself in the eyes of his father, of Mr Barlow, and of all the
family with which he now was, if he appeared incapable of acting up to
his own declarations; he therefore made a noble effort, leaped out of
bed, dressed himself, and followed Harry. Not contented with this, he
accompanied him in all his rustic employments; and as no kind of country
exercise was entirely new to him since his residence with Mr Barlow, he
acquitted himself with a degree of dexterity that gained him new
commendations.

Thus did he pass the first day of his visit, with some little difficulty
indeed, but without deviating from his resolution; the second, he found
his change of life infinitely more tolerable, and in a very little space
of time he was almost reconciled to his new situation. The additional
exercise he used improved his health and strength, and added so
considerably to his appetite that he began to think the table of farmer
Sandford exceeded all that he had