[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Guilherme Finkler

compulsory breaks in play). Finkler scored his fourth goal for the season in the 90th(+6) minute to make the score 3–1 to his team.

On 22 February, Finkler scored two goals and played a full match for the first time in the season as the game against Adelaide United finished 4–3 in his club's favor.

Finkler scored his club's first penalty of the season against Perth on New Year's Eve, 2013, in the absence of the previous season's penalty taker Mark Milligan.

In the final home and away match, in Wellington on 12 April 2014, Finkler provided an assist and scored his 8th goal of season.

Finkler scored his 9th goal of the season in the final minutes of regulation time at Docklands Stadium versus Sydney FC – a team that had beaten Victory 5–0 last time they played there, on 26 January 2014 (Australia Day). Sydney also beat Victory 3–2 in Sydney, and in the 3rd home-and-away match of 2013/14, at Melbourne Rectangular Stadium on 29 March in Melbourne's final home match of the season Sydney scored first in a 1–1 draw. It would be fair to say that Sydney FC were Victory's "bogey team" in 2013/14. However Finkler scored a dramatic late goal to get a result

Finkler's growing popularity at Melbourne Victory with his two-year contract ending on 30 April 2014 fast approaching sparked media interest in his future, however Gui did not give any indication to journalists regarding where he would be playing after that date – the upcoming playoff for a position in the group stage of the Asian Champions League required a total of 3 internationals + 1 additional Asian player, but Finkler was not included: instead Kevin Muscat selected defenders Pablo Contreras (Victory's 2013/14 international marquee player) and Adama Traore, who was at that time an international player (on 4 April he became an Australian citizen, less than a month before leaving Melbourne Victory to play in Europe), and forward Kosta Barbarouses as the third, without taking advantage of the ability to sign a fourth player from another AFC country.  Finkler's omission from the playoff with Muangthong United meant that he could not participate in the group stage either. However at the time the team list was submitted to the ACL, Finkler was being slowly integrated back into the side as he recovered from his injury. After falling short of qualifying for the last 16 by 1 on goal difference, it was a frustrating end to the season, to be denied clear penalties in the dying minutes of the final ACL group match, then unbelievably similarly in the semi-final in Brisbane against the eventual champions Roar. After the sad news that star defender Adama Traore left the A-League just weeks after obtaining citizenship and lighting up the Twittersphere with the hashtag #aussieadama, and days after winning the Victory Medal, Melbourne Victory released some positive news: Guilherme Finkler had signed a two-year contract, electing to stay at the Victory along with stalwarts Archie Thompson and Adrian Leijder, strikers Kosta Barbarouses, contracted for 2014/15, and new signing Besart Berisha, whose contract runs for the same amount of time as Finkler's – up until the end of the 2015/16 season.

Season 2014–2015
On 9 May 2014 Melbourne Victory signed Guilherme Finkler for a further two years.

The midfielder played injury-free, amassing 10 assists and 7 goals and helping his club win the A-league in Australia.

On 24 March 2016, Finkler advised the Victory that he would leave them at the end of the season to join Wellington Phoenix FC.

Honours 

Melbourne Victory
 A-League Premiers: 2014-15
 A-League Championship: 2014-15
 FFA Cup: 2015

Individual
 A-League PFA Team of the Season: 2014-15
 A-League All Stars: 2014

References

External links
 Melbourne Victory profile 
 Ultimate A-league Statistics
 
 soFIFA Profile

Living people
1985 births
Brazilian men's footballers
Brazilian people of German descent
Men's association football midfielders
Esporte Clube Juventude players
ABC Futebol Clube players
Grêmio Esportivo Brasil players
Esporte Clube São José players
Campinense Clube players
Sociedade Esportiva e Recreativa Caxias do Sul players
Ituano FC players
Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C. players
Royal Excel Mouscron players
Melbourne Victory FC players
Wellington Phoenix FC players
Brazilian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's soccer players in Australia
A-League Men players
Marquee players (A-League Men)
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in Australia
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in England
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in Belgium
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in Belgium
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in New Zealand
Expatriate men's association footballers in New Zealand