[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of social nudity places in North America

ar Clewiston is a private all-male clothing optional campground. The resort is nearly 200 acres. Membership is required.
 The Woods RV Park in Land o' Lakes is an upscale clothing-optional RV park and resort that opened in 2008 with lots for sale and for rent. It boasts a  clubhouse and heated pool.

Georgia
 Bell Acres Resort in Maysville. AANR and TNS affiliated.
 Hidden River Resort in Saint George, with a mailing address of Sanderson, Florida. AANR affiliated.
 In the Woods in Canon
 Mountain Creek Grove Resort in Cleveland. This is an adult only resort.
 Native Woods Naturist Park in Darien. AANR and TNS affiliated.
 Paradise Valley Resort and Club in Dawsonville is a club with , three swimming pools and a restaurant.
 River's Edge in Dewy Rose
 Serendipity Park in Cleveland. AANR and TNS affiliated.  It is a family-friendly facility offering day visits, overnight tent or RV camping, and rental cabins as well as lot spaces for full-time or part-time living.
 The Naturist Escape in East Ellijay. This is a non-landed, all ages welcome, social naturist organization that is based out of the north Georgia mountains.

Hawaii

Idaho
 Bare Mountain Retreat is a family-oriented facility located on 130 private acres just 30 minutes from Boise, Idaho. It is affiliated with the American Association for Nude Recreation (AANR) and AANR-Northwest, and has operated since 1981.
 Jerry Johnson's Hot Springs is located  west of the Montana state line on US 12. Located on the Nez Perce-Clearwater National Forest, the warm water pools are about a  hike in and known for the clothing-optional atmosphere.
 Goldbug Hot Springs south of Salmon, Idaho. The pools are about a  hike in.

Illinois

 The Den off Eastlake, located in Chicago, is bed and breakfast exclusively for men. Thedenoffeastlake.com

 The Chicago Fun Club is a non-landed social nudist club.
 Nude sunbathing and swimming has occurred at Illinois Beach State Park,  south of the park headquarters building, at the end of the beach.
 Until 1995, nude night swimming occurred at Oak Street Beach in Chicago and other beaches on Lake Michigan, prior to its elimination by police patrols.
 Blue Lake Resort is a family oriented nudist park located in Erie, in the Rock River valley of northwestern Illinois,  northeast of the Quad Cities area (Moline, Rock Island and Davenport). Approximately  of sunny and shaded areas situated amid  of farmland. The camp facilities are approved by the State of Illinois each year.
 Nude Dudes Chicago is a group of 18- to 40-year-old gay men who enjoy public nudity and host events in and around the Chicago area all year round.
 Paradisecreeks Retreat near Aurora hosts nudist events on Wednesdays and Thursdays. They feature indoor and outdoor pools and hot tubs. There is sand and water volleyball, as well as a huge tanning deck. A nice buffet is included. A good selection of lawn sports are provided. www.paradisecreeks.com
 NUD R US Family Nudist Club  (NFNC) is a small Christian and home-based nudist club near Bloomington that is open to all of good moral character. NFNC has an indoor dipping/conversation pool and an outdoor  above-ground pool, a hot tub, firepit, sundeck, outdoor, lounge and rental rooms and tent spaces.   ****1 Jun 2021 - Word has it that NFNC has been sold and will no longer be a naturist location*****