[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# List of coups and coup attempts

al other officers of the Syrian Social Nationalist Party, executed al-Za'im and al-Barazi, and installed Hashim al-Atassi as president.
Syria: In December, Adib Shishakli led a military coup. He kept al-Atassi as president, but arrested Sami al-Hinnawi to end Hashemite influence in Syria.

1950–1959

1951
Manhattan Rebellion in Thailand: A coup attempt by officers of the Royal Thai Navy against the government of Prime Minister Plaek Phibunsongkhram failed on 29–30 June.
Silent Coup (also called the Radio Coup) in Thailand: The Army-led National Military Council announced the dissolution of parliament, reinstatement of the 1932 constitution, and formation of a provisional government on 29 November.
Rawalpindi conspiracy in Pakistan: There was an unsuccessful coup attempt, planned by Major-General Akbar Khan of the Pakistani army against the government of Liaquat Ali Khan.
Argentina: A military coup attempt against Juan Perón was unsuccessful.
Bolivia: President Mamerto Urriolagoitía enacted a self-coup, known as the Mamertazo, and resigned in favor of General Hugo Ballivián in order to prevent elected reformist Víctor Paz Estenssoro from taking office.

1952
Bolivian National Revolution: General Hugo Ballivián was overthrown by Hernán Siles Zuazo, who then ceded command to Víctor Paz Estenssoro. Paz had won the 1951 election, but was prevented from assuming office by self-coup.
Egyptian revolution of 1952: A group of army officers led by Mohammed Naguib and Gamal Abdel Nasser overthrew King Farouk and the Muhammad Ali dynasty.
Cuba: Fulgencio Batista led a bloodless coup to topple the democratically elected government.

1953

1953 Iranian coup d'état: A coup, jointly led by the United States and United Kingdom and codenamed Operation Ajax, overthrew Prime Minister Mohammed Mosaddeq.
 1953 Pakistani constitutional coup:  Governor-General Ghulam Mohammad, supported by Field Marshal Ayub Khan, dismissed the prime minister and dissolved the Constituent Assembly.

1954
1954 Guatemalan coup d'état: The democratically elected government of Colonel Jacobo Arbenz Guzmán was ousted by Colonel Carlos Castillo Armas in an operation organized by the American Central Intelligence Agency and codenamed Operation PBSuccess.
Paraguay: A military coup brings Alfredo Stroessner to power.
Coup d'état of Yanaon: A coup d'état led by Dadala Raphael Ramanayya overthrew French rule in Yanaon, a French colony in India.
Brazil: A coup attempt led by Carlos Lacerda and Eduardo Gomes culminated in the murder of an Air Force officer. A member of President Getúlio Vargas's personal guard was implicated in the killing, which led to anger in the military and to generals demanding Vargas's resignation. Following growing unrest, Vargas killed himself, and was succeeded by Café Filho.

1955

Brazil: A counter-coup led by Marshal Henrique Teixeira Lott overthrew the government of Carlos Luz and prevented a coup against the elected president Juscelino Kubitschek.
Revolución Libertadora in Argentina: A military coup overthrew President Juan Perón.

1956
Cuba: A military coup attempt, led by Colonel Ramón Barquín against President Fulgencio Batista, was unsuccessful.

1957
Colombia: The military supported strikes and student riots, and deposed Gustavo Rojas Pinilla, giving power to the Colombian Military Junta and chairman Gabriel París Gordillo.
Fatti di Rovereta in San Marino: A quasi-coup led to the coexistence of two governments for a month.
1957 coup in Thailand: A coup by members of the Royal Thai Army, under the command of Field Marshal Sarit Thanarat, resulted in the ouster and exile of Plaek Phibunsongkhram.
Anti-Party Group coup attempt in the Soviet Union: A group of leaders within the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, who would latter be dubbed the "anti-party group" by Premier Nikita Khrushchev, unsuccessfully attempted to depose Khrushchev as General Secretary of the Party.
Overthrow of provisional president Daniel Fignolé in Haiti.
1957 Sudanese coup attempt: occurred after one year of Sudan independence in 1956, a group of army officers and students from the Sudanese Military College led by Abdel Rahman Ismail Kabeida, led a coup attempted against Prime Minister Abdullah Khalil and the Sovereignty Council.