[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# World War III in popular culture

idt and the Comedian are haunted by the thought of nuclear war, and Veidt's plot revolves around ending the threat of nuclear war by faking the existence of an extraterrestrial threat.

World War III is mentioned several times in the animated sitcom The Simpsons, particularly in future-set episodes.

Other comics used a Third World War as part of their plots: both Britain's V for Vendetta and Strontium Dog's "Portrait of a Mutant" use nuclear war as the backdrop for the establishment of totalitarian governments, with the former having Britain escape a direct hit and the latter showing the country in ruins. Judge Dredd, which already had a devastating World War III as part of its backstory that left most of the world a desert, has an all-out Soviet-American war in "The Apocalypse War". This climaxes with Dredd obliterating the enemy with a nuclear strike, which slaughters "half a billion human beings" and is presented as both necessary to win such a war and morally appalling. Japan's Akira and Ghost in the Shell both start with World War III as part of their backstory, with Japan becoming a world power because it experiences less nuclear fallout than other nations. The science fiction universe of Star Trek touches on the theme of World War III: first the "Eugenics Wars" of 1992–1996, in which nearly 80 genetic superhuman dictators are overthrown at a cost of 37 million dead. However the "Eugenics Wars" were only a prelude to World War III in 2026–2053, during which 600 million are killed.

Nelvana's first film Rock & Rule follows Earth after a World War III in which a new race of humans is born from domestic animals like dogs, cats, and rodents.

1990s
The Cold War ended without the destructive final global war that had often been envisioned in popular culture, and the public's fears of a World War III were allayed. On the other hand, the previously classified Stanislav Petrov incident of 1983 seemed to imply that the risk of accidental nuclear war because of a possible technical malfunction was greater than had previously been anticipated. The theme of nuclear armageddon launched by military artificial intelligence computer systems without human decision was explored in the 1991 film Terminator 2: Judgment Day. In the early 1990s and particularly during the Gulf War, tabloid papers and other press discussed whether World War III would be linked to prophecies of Nostradamus concerning a third great war. A World War III crisis was also featured in the 1992 Canadian movie Buried on Sunday in which a separatist island in Nova Scotia threatens to use nuclear missiles from a Russian submarine to strike the US and Canada.

Movies about nuclear weapons that saved humanity were popular, such as Armageddon and Deep Impact (1998). Blast from the Past (1999) is a comedy about a 1960s family caught in the grip of Cold War paranoia. Falsely convinced that World War III has started, they hide in their fallout shelter, only to emerge 35 years later in a world after the Cold War had ended. Jonathan Schell complained to the New York Times that "the post–Cold War generation knows less about nuclear danger than any generation."

Wang Lixiong's 1991 novel Yellow Peril depicts a civil war in China that becomes a nuclear exchange and soon engulfs the world. The novel was banned by the Chinese Communist Party but remained popular.

World War III is referenced in the 1996 film Star Trek: First Contact. William T. Riker states that 600 million people were killed, most major cities were destroyed, and very few world governments were left after a third World War occurring in 2053. At around the same time, Kim Stanley Robinson featured a character dissecting World War III 40 years after the fact in Green Mars. Robinson's war featured transnational corporations taking over national governments and using them to attack each other in 2061, with 100 million people being killed by the war.

Since the Cold War ended, some stories have presented the conflict as alternate history. The Fallout series of video games, which began in 1997, took place in a world still gripped by Cold War hysteria late into the 21st century. That and other factors led to a World War III between the global powers (notably the US and China), and the series involves exploring what is left of the US after the conflict. Fallout is considered a spiritual successor to 1988's Wasteland, which involved a similar premise and also mentions World War III.