[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Union of South African Students

of opposition politics, the Wages Commissions, as well as support for Black Consciousness and the Freedom Charter. The state alleged that the five accused had entered into a conspiracy to further the objectives of communism and aims of the African National Congress and South Africa Communist Party.

The prosecution relied on the testimony from Bartholomew Hlapane, a former ANC and Communist Party member who had turned state witness. It was unclear why he was called so the defence team, led by Arthur Chaskalson, applied for permission to consult with three ANC leaders serving sentences on Robben Island, Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu, and Govan Mbeki. George Bizos, also on the defence team, met with the prisoners and learned not only that they knew about the trial but were willing to testify for the defence to rebut  Hlapane's evidence. In the event, the defence team decided not to call the political prisoners to testify because it would raise the profile of the trial and risk the magistrate becoming hostile towards the accused.

In a verdict delivered over two days in December 1976 the five accused were found not guilty on the basis that the state had failed to establish a conspiracy.

Notable alumni
Phillip V. Tobias - president, 1948
John Mowbray Didcott - president, 1955-1956
Roger Jowell
Steve Biko
Neville Colman
Margaret H. Marshall – president, 1967
Duncan Innes – president, 1968
Neville Curtis – president, 1969
Andrew Boraine – president, 1980–1981
Tony Karon
Craig Williamson

References

External links
Halisi, C. R. D. Black Political Thought in the Making of South African Democracy, Bloomington : Indiana University Press, c1999. xxi, 198 p. ; 24 cm.  
 National Union of South African Students
  Apartheid - White Resistance
 South African Students Congress
 History – 
 Bannings 
Interview with Glenn Moss, LRC Oral History Project: 6 August 2008

Anti-Apartheid organisations
Groups of students' unions
Student political organizations
Student organizations established in 1924
Organizations disestablished in 1991
Defunct student organisations in South Africa