[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of social nudity places in North America

a

Permanently Closed Nudity Places:
 Black Bear Camp in Waverly {CLOSED}
 The ReTreat in Horton {CLOSED}
 Spring Creek Campground & Resort in Geneva {CLOSED}

Alaska
Public nudity is illegal in Alaska (no social places). Toplessness is legal when practiced without the intention of offending others.

Arizona
Public nudity is illegal in Arizona. However, Verde Hot Springs (springs only – not the campground) is traditionally nude.  There are a few clothing-optional gay resorts and traditional clothing optional B&B's in Phoenix. Tucson's Upper Tanque Verde Creek is a popular social nudity spot. The lower trail leads to a series of pools and waterfalls along Tanque Verde Creek. The Upper Trail is a quick, 10-minute hike to a well-liked swimming and sunning spot used by sunbathers of both sexes clothed and unclothed.
 Shangri La Ranch in New River is a family-oriented facility that welcomes everyone interested in naturism.
 Mira Vista Resort in Marana is a family oriented clothing-optional resort that opened in May 2006.
 Clothing Optional B&B in Cave Creek
 Valle de Vistas Clothing Optional B&B in Sedona
 El Dorado Hot Spring in Tonopah.
 The Magic Circle is located in a clothing-optional portion of the La Posa South Long Term Visitor Area (LTVA) south of Quartzsite operated by the US Bureau of Land Management.
 Royal Villa in Phoenix is a male only clothing optional hotel which offers a day pass for male Phoenix residents only.  Also, only people traveling from cities outside Phoenix can stay here. Nudity is accepted in all areas of inner property except for hotel lobby.

2017 : Opened in Phoenix, Arizona is the Arizona Sunburst Inn, which caters to males only and, unlike Royal Villa, does not offer a day pass. Rooms are on a strictly rental basis and nudity is accepted poolside. Also on, and/or inside the property.

Arkansas
Public nudity is illegal in Arkansas in the presence of the opposite sex; however, same-sex nudity is legal in Arkansas.
 Magnetic Valley Resort in Eureka Springs is a private men-only resort. The pool and bar areas are clothing optional.

California
 Alameda County
 The Sequoians, a nudity-required nudist club located in Castro Valley
 Del Norte County
 El Dorado County
 American River down river from the Route 49 highway bridge. Biking path is on the south side of the vehicle bridge, after crossing the old concrete railroad bridge, several small trails lead down a steep bank to a series of large rocks outcropping on the river.
 Humboldt County
 Baker's Beach, in Humboldt County between Trinidad and Moonstone. Humboldt North Coast Land Trust claims to own this property.
 College Cove Beach is in the town of Trinidad, north of Eureka in northern Humboldt County.
 Inyo County
 Keough Hot Springs – Hot running creek with pools located near Bishop. Note: the resort at the end of the road is not clothing optional.
 Saline Valley Warm Springs – hot springs in Death Valley National Park
 Lake County
 Harbin Hot Springs is a retreat and workshop center  northeast of the San Francisco Bay Area, north of the Napa Valley, near Middletown. The center was closed for rebuilding after the Valley Fire of 2015.
 Los Angeles County
 Arroyo del Sol Clothing Optional B&B in Pasadena-Altadena is part of Clothing Optional Home Network and is an AANR Participating Business.
 Marin County
 Red Rock Beach, a half mile south of Stinson Beach
 Mendocino County
 Mono County
 Little Hot Creek east of Mammoth Lakes. To find this clothing-optional hot springs, you'll need a good local map showing dirt roads.
 Monterey County
 Zmudowski State Beach – Unofficial clothing-optional "hidden beach" within Moss Landing.
 Garrapata State Park – Clothing-optional beach 15 minutes drive south of Carmel.
 Marina Beach State Park (South side) – A 15-minute drive north of Monterey. 15 minute hike over the sand dunes.
 Napa County
 Meadowlark Country House – A ten-room/suite bed and breakfast outside Calistoga with a large mineral-rich water pool area, Jacuzzi and sauna. Clothing-optional mineral water pool, hot tub, sauna, and sun bathing terraces are available with the purchase of a day pass at $50 per person.
 Nevada County
 South Yuba River – Hoyts Crossing is an area of swimming holes on the South Yuba, about a 20-minute hike upriver from the Highway 49 crossing (north of Nevada City).
 Orange County
 San Onofre Beach, which is actually in San Diego County, but is so close to the Orange County line that most of its visitors are from both counties, is  northwest of this beach (near San Clemente). It was clothing optional until 2010.
 Riverside County
 Anahata Springs Spa and Retreat near Palm Springs is a clothing-optional zen spa and retreat with hot spring pool and spa.
 Living Waters Spa in Desert Hot Springs. This swimsuit optional spa has hot spring water pools, and the spa is an easy introduction to social nudity. TripAdvisor named them as one of the Top 25 Small Hotels in the US for 2013, 2014, and 2015.
 Glen Eden Nudis