[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# New Zealand Democratic Coalition

re stated that he was committed to Labour. In January 1996 a meeting was held in Moore's office. With Moore still uncommitted, Michael Laws told the others he will instead join the New Zealand First party. This led to Mike Moore pulling the plug on the project despite the other MPs still being keen.

Aims and objectives
To Select candidates of ability and integrity for election to the New Zealand House of Representatives who accept and endorse the following principles, aims and objectives:
 To protect and promote the family unit;
 To respect and uphold the rights and liberty of the individual;
 To promote equality of opportunity regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, socio-economic, cultural or religious background;
 To provide economic and social policies that allow individuals to maximise their potential for both private and the common good;
 To ensure the equality of all persons before the law...;
 To protect New Zealand's territorial integrity and ensure this nation's independence in all international forums;
 To promote co-operation and tolerance within the wider community;
 To provide and promote an open and competitive economy that recognises and rewards enterprise and endeavour.
 To provide policies that protect the weak and the vulnerable within our community and seek to empower those individuals to reach their potential.
 To provide for and actively encourage the maximum possible participation in all aspects of local and central government decision-making;
 To create an educated, enlightened, enterprising and responsible society and pursue policies to that end.
 To provide an efficient, effective and accountable public sector that services the education, health and welfare needs of the wider community and is politically neutral and free of ideological bias;
 To provide all members of the New Zealand Democratic Coalition with the opportunity to contribute to the organisation, policy and strategy of the Coalition.

Aftermath 
Michael Laws switched to the New Zealand First party in April 1996. However he was forced to resign as an MP shortly afterwards due to the "Antoinette Beck" scandal. He continued to work behind the scenes for New Zealand First helping them prepare for the 1996 election before retiring from politics. In 2004 he was elected the Mayor of Wanganui.

Ron Mark, Peter McCardle and Jack Elder followed Laws to the New Zealand First party and became list MPs after the 1996 election. New Zealand First ended up holding the balance of power and formed a coalition with the National Party. Peter McCardle became the Minister of Employment and Jack Elder was appointed the Minister of Police. Ron Mark became the government's senior whip. In the later break up of the New Zealand First party McCardle and Elder stayed with the Government but did not seek reelection in 1999. Ron Mark instead remained with New Zealand First and stayed in parliament until the parties defeat in 2008. He was re-elected to parliament for New Zealand First in the 2014 election.

Mike Moore, Clayton Cosgrove and Geoff Braybrooke instead remained with Labour. Moore was reelected as a Labour MP in 1996 but resigned in early 1999 so he could serve as the Director-General of the World Trade Organization. Moore's term ended on August 31, 2002. Cosgrove stood for Labour and was elected as the MP for Waimakariri in the 1999 election, replacing Moore. He was defeated in his electorate at the 2011 election, but remained in Parliament as a list MP until the 2017 election. Braybrooke retained the Napier seat until he retired at the 2002 election.

Moore reflected in a 2017 interview on the discussions of the new party. When asked what stopped him following through he said "I'm Labour, I couldn't do it".

Notes

References

Defunct political parties in New Zealand
Democratic Coalition