[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Walus denaturalization case

ng in 1940.  He had worked on four or five farms, and the wives of the farmers where he had worked remembered his being there.  Further, as a Pole he could not have been a member of the Gestapo, which restricted its number to members of the "master race" and to people taller than Walus' 5'4" height.

The trial lasted seventeen days. Two mutually exclusive possibilities had been presented.  Either Walus had been a Gestapo officer in Poland or a forced farm laborer in Germany.  Hoffman decided upon the former,  relying upon the eyewitness testimony from the persecuted Poles as well as the claims by former boarder Alper.  Hoffman disregarded eyewitness testimony from defense eyewitnesses as well as the defense's documentary evidence.  He issued his ruling in 1978 that Walus' citizenship be revoked.  Shortly thereafter, the defense located five Polish forced laborers who would testify that Walus was with them in Germany during the war. Some old German residency papers proving Walus was in Germany in 1940 were also located.  With this additional evidence, Walus' defense attorneys asked Hoffman for a new trial.  He refused.

Appeal

The Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals heard oral argument from Walus' attorneys in 1979.  It vacated Hoffman's verdict and ordered that there be a new trial, this time with a different judge.  Their ruling noted Hoffman's "disturbing" behavior, especially his cutting off defense efforts to cross-examine witnesses.  It also noted the weaknesses of the prosecution's case and observed that the newly found evidence would "almost certainly compel a different result."

Further investigation

The case now came to the newly formed Office of Special Investigations of the Justice Department.  Because of obvious weaknesses in the case for prosecution, OSI's new director, Allan Ryan, called for an exhaustive investigation of the evidence. It lasted nine months. OSI investigators traveled to Germany, Poland, and Israel to interview witnesses and search for documents.  Efforts were made to locate Kielce and Częstochowa survivors in the US as well as overseas.  A document analyst was retained in Germany.  An OSI historian searched the US National Archives for records.  The investigators concluded that witness testimony at the previous trial was of questionable reliability and that there was conflicting evidence about where Walus had been during the war.  In light of the uncertainty, the OSI concluded that there was a strong possibility of mistaken identity and that it "could not responsibly go forward with a retrial."  One of the two principal IOS investigators had even come to the conclusion that Walus was innocent.

Not going forward to retry the case had some potentially negative consequences for OSI.  Simon Wiesenthal had an interest in the case. The Israeli police had cooperated in providing evidence. Several Holocaust survivors had traveled to America from Israel and came to court to emotionally confront Walus, whom they believed to be their former tormentor.  OSI had not yet won the confidence of the Jewish community, whose support could be important for the organization's success in prosecuting other cases.  This was especially true since the bulk of the evidence regarding Nazi wartime atrocities lay behind the Iron Curtain, and OSI was getting little cooperation from officials in Moscow and Washington.  This situation threatened the viability of OSI's mission.

Decision and aftermath

OSI declined to retry Walus.  The question then arose whether the government should express regret or even issue an apology to Walus.  There was internal disagreement on this, and it was finally agreed that an expression of regret was appropriate.  OSI reimbursement of attorney's fees was generally prohibited by law, but Walus was awarded $34,000 to offset other costs he incurred.