[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arif Dirlik

to historical understanding." He goes on to say that "I am also appalled at the arbitrary magisterial judgments on history encountered frequently in contemporary literature; a kind of licence that postmodernism seems to legitimize: since we cannot know anything, anybody can speak about everything."

The interview goes on to criticize the field of postcolonial studies, which he took up in such essays as "History Without a Center? Reflections on Eurocentrism," Prasenjit Duara in 2001 replied to Dirlik's charge that diasporic scholars from the former British colonial world had used the concepts of "postcolonialism" to become embedded in Western academic "strongholds" and that they did not represent the majority of the population in their former countries. Likewise even a sympathetic review of the field objected to Dirlik's framing of post-colonial scholars as "agents of capital."

Dirlik was also critical of the "Beijing Consensus" which presented China's economic development model as an alternative – especially for developing countries – to the Washington Consensus.  Dirlik argued that this "Silicon Valley model of development"  ignores the fact that "the exploitation of China's labor force by foreign countries was a major part of the Chinese development."

Jerry Bentley's 2005 account in the journal World History provides a cogent summary of Dirlik's critiques of the field and his own disagreement. Dirlik, he says, has leveled a "challenging critique" of the field of world history, charging that it "naturalizes capitalist globalization by turning it into human fate" and that scholarship in the field "perpetuates Eurocentric knowledge even as it seeks alternatives to Eurocentric explanations of the global past." Bentley continues that Dirlik has identified genuine problems, but has "harnessed his scholarship to a political agenda." Dirlik "overstated the problems and overgeneralized his critique," falling into the "trap of an originary fallacy," in which he "confuses origin with fate," assuming that historical scholarship must inevitably follow lines established at the foundation."

Selected publications

Books

 
 1989. The Origins of Chinese Communism, New York: Oxford University Press.
 1989. "Marxism and the Chinese  Experience:Issues in Chinese Socialism(Armonk, N.Y.: M.E. Sharpe(with Maurice Meisner)
 1990. Revolution and History: Origins of Marxist Historiography in China, 1919–1937. Berkeley: University of California Press.
 1991. Anarchism in the Chinese Revolution, Berkeley: University of California Press.
 1991. Schools into Fields and Factories: Anarchists, the Guomindang, and the National Labor University in Shanghai, 1927–1932, (with Ming Chan). Durham: Duke University Press.
 
 1994. After the Revolution: Waking to Global Capitalism, Hanover, NH: Wesleyan University Press.
 1995. "Asia-Pacific as Space of Cultural  Production,"Durham, NC: Duke University Press (with Rob Wilson)
 1997. The Postcolonial Aura: Third World Criticism in the Age of Global Capitalism, Boulder: Westview Press.
 1997. "Critical Perspectives on Mao Zedong Thought," Humanities Press(with Paul Healy and Nick Knight
 2000. "Postmodernism and China." Duke University Press
 2000. "History After the Three Worlds," Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield(with Vinay Bahl and Peter Gran)
 2001. Postmodernity's Histories: The Past as Legacy and Project, Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield.
 2001. "Places and Politics in the Age of Global Capital," Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield(with Roxann Prazniak)
 2001. "Chinese on the American Frontier:A Reader," Lanham, MD:Rowman and Littlefield 
 2005. Marxism in the Chinese Revolution, Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield.
 2006. "Pedagogies of the Global: Knowledge in the Human Interest," Paradigm Press
 2007. "Global Modernity: Modernity in the Age of Global Capitalism." Paradigm Press
 2008. "Snapshots of Intellectual Life in Contemporary PR China,"Special issue of boundary 2(35.2)
 2009. "Kriz, Kimlik, ve Siyaset: Kuresellesme Yazilari"(Crisis, Identity and Politics: Writings on Globalization),Istanbul: Iletisim Publishers
 2011. "The National Learning Revival," Special issue of China Perspectives,#1
 2011. "Culture and History in Post-Revolutionary China: The Perspective of Global Modernity"(The Liang Qichao Memorial Lectures),Chinese University of Hong Kong Press
 2012. "Sociology and Anthropology in Twentieth Century China,"Chinese University of Hong Kong Press
 2012. "Global Capitalism and the Future of Agrarian Society,"Paradigm Publishers(with Roxann Prazniak and Alexander Woodside)
 2013. "Quanqiu xiandaixing zhi chuang: Shehui kexue wenji"(Windows on Global Modernity: Social Scientific Essays),Beijing: Zhishi chanquan chuban she
 2017.  Complicities: The People's Republic of China in Global Capitalism.  Chicago: Prickly Paradigm Press.

Representative articles