[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# 1993–94 in English football

ome win over Norwich City.

30 March 1994 - Manchester United extend their lead of the Premier League to six points with a 1–0 win over Liverpool, in which Paul Ince scores the only goal. Oldham climb out of the bottom three with a 3–1 win at Southampton, who take their place in the relegation zone.

31 March 1994 – Manchester United's treble bid may be over, but they finish March as Premier League leaders by a six-point lead over their nearest rivals Blackburn Rovers. They are also in the FA Cup semi-finals. Newcastle United, Arsenal and Leeds United complete the top five. Oldham Athletic, who will soon be competing in the FA Cup semi-final with Manchester United, are starting to look set for Premier League survival as they have climbed out of the relegation zone at the expense of Southampton, while Sheffield United and Swindon Town remain there. In Division One, Crystal Palace continue to head the table and have been joined in the automatic promotion places by a Nottingham Forest side who weren't even in the playoff zone a month ago. Leicester City, Millwall, Derby County and Tranmere Rovers occupy the playoff zone.

2 April 1994 – Blackburn Rovers cut Manchester United's lead at the top of the Premier League to two points after beating them 2–0 at Ewood Park, three months after United had established a 16-point lead. Alan Shearer scores both of Blackburn's goals. In the relegation battle, Oldham Athletic give themselves a fresh boost by beating QPR 4–1 at Boundary Park, while Everton's relegation woes deepen when they lose 5–1 to Sheffield Wednesday at Hillsborough.

4 April 1994 – Everton are pushed further into the relegation mire with a 3–0 home defeat by Blackburn Rovers, who are kept off the top by Manchester United's 3–2 home win over Oldham Athletic. Tottenham Hotspur are still in danger of relegation after suffering a 4–1 home defeat to West Ham United. Leeds beat QPR 4–0 at Loftus Road.

5 April 1994 - A thrilling East Midlands derby at Filbert Street sees Leicester and Derby draw 3-3 in the Division One promotion race. At the opposite end of the table, Watford win 4–3 at Peterborough.

9 April 1994 – Chelsea beat Luton Town 2–0 in the FA Cup semi-final to reach their first FA Cup final since 1970. In the league, the drama of the day comes as Southampton boost their survival bid with a dramatic 5–4 win over Norwich City at Carrow Road. Matt Le Tissier scores a hat-trick for the Saints, while Chris Sutton scores twice for the Canaries. Everton, meanwhile, give their own survival bid a boost with a 1–0 away win over West Ham United, with Tony Cottee scoring against his old club.

10 April 1994 – A late equaliser by Mark Hughes forces a replay for Manchester United as they draw 1–1 with Oldham Athletic in the FA Cup semi-final, on the same day that Eric Cantona (suspended for today's game) is voted PFA Player of the Year – the first foreign player to receive this accolade.

11 April 1994 – Alan Shearer scores his 30th league goal of the season in Blackburn's 1–0 home league win over Aston Villa to put Blackburn level on points with Manchester United, three months after 16 points separated the two teams.

12 April 1994 - Arsenal reach the final of the European Cup Winners' Cup with a 2-1 aggregate win over Paris St Germain.

13 April 1994 – Manchester United beat Oldham Athletic 4–1 in the FA Cup semi-final replay at Maine Road.

16 April 1994 - Wimbledon beat Manchester United 1–0 in the Premier League but Blackburn miss the chance to go top by losing 3–1 at Southampton, a result which is a big boost for Alan Ball's men in their bid for survival. In Division One, Crystal Palace make promotion almost certain with a 1–0 win at Luton.

17 April 1994 - Crystal Palace's promotion is confirmed when Millwall - one of two teams who were still capable of finishing above them - draw 2–2 at home to second placed Nottingham Forest.

20 April 1994 – The Football League confirms that no team will be relegated to the GM Vauxhall Conference this year, as none of the teams in the top half of the Conference (which, curiously, includes former League members Southport) have a ground which meets the criteria for admission to the League. The recent requirement that all clubs must have a stadium holding at least 6,000 fans (1,200 or more seated) and must own their own stadium is the result of the collapse of Maidstone United at the start of last season; they had won promotion to the Football League in 1989 but had no home of their own at the time and went on to spend a large sum of money on purchasing a piece of land with the intention of building a stadium there, only to be refused planning permission to build the stadium. This leaves Northampton Town and Darlington, who are both well adrift at the bottom of Division Three, fighting only the dishonour of placing as the League's bottom club. Northampton are in the process of building a new stadium to replace the County Ground later this year.