[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# ISO 15926

of FIATECH, to build the tools (which will then be made available in the public domain)
 The tools and deliverables can be seen on the ISO 15926 knowledge base
 The IDS Project of POSC Caesar Association, to define product models required for data sheets
 A joint ADI-IDS project is the ISO 15926 WIP

Upstream Oil and Gas industry 
The Norwegian Oil Industry Association (OLF) has decided to use ISO 15926 (also known as the Oil and Gas Ontology) as the instrument for integrating data across disciplines and business domains for the Upstream Oil and Gas industry. It is seen as one of the enablers of what has been called the next (or second) generation of Integrated operations, where a better integration across companies is the goal.

The following projects are currently running (May 2009):

 The Integrated Operations in the High North (IOHN) project is working on extending ISO 15926 to handle real-time data transmission and (pre-)processing to enable the next generation of Integrated Operations.
 The Environment Web project to include environmental reporting terms and definitions  as used in EPIM's EnvironmentWeb in ISO 15926.

Finalised projects include:

 The Integrated Information Platform (IIP) project working on establishing a real-time information pipeline based on open standards. It worked among others on:
 Daily Drilling Report (DDR) to including all terms and definitions in ISO 15926. This standard became mandatory on February 1, 2008 for reporting on the Norwegian Continental Shelf by the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate (NPD) and Safety Authority Norway (PSA). NPD says that the quality of the reports has improved considerably since.
 Daily Production Report (DPR) to including all terms and definitions in ISO 15926. This standard was tested successfully on the Valhall (BP-operated) and Åsgard (StatoilHydro-operated) fields offshore Norway. The terminology and XML schemata developed have also been included in Energistics’ PRODML standard.

Some technical background 
One of the main requirements was (and still is) that the scope of the data model covers the entire lifecycle of a facility (e.g. oil refinery) and its components (e.g. pipes, pumps and their parts, etc.). Since such a facility over such a long time entails many different types of activities on a myriad of different objects it became clear that a generic and data-driven data model would be required.

A simple example will illustrate this. There are thousands of different types of physical objects in a facility (pumps, compressors, pipes, instruments, fluids, etc). Each of these has many properties. If all combinations would be modelled in a "hard-coded" fashion, the number of combinations would be staggering, and unmanageable.

The solution is a "template" that represents the semantics of: "This object has a property of  X yyyy" (where yyyy is the unit of measure). Any instance of that template refers to the applicable reference data:
 physical object (e.g. my Induction Motor)
 indirect property type (e.g. the class "cold locked rotor time")
 base property type (here: time)
 scale (here: seconds)

Without being able to make reference to those classes, via the Internet, it will be impossible to express this information.

References

External links 
 15926.org: A forum for ISO 15926 discussions and team collaboration.
 iringtoday.com: - An online ISO 15926 thought leadership community geared toward engineering management.
 .15926 Editor Open source software to view, edit and verify ISO 15926 data.
 XMpLant - A translation tool to convert 2D and 3D plant and process CAD data to ISO 15926
 Against Idiosyncrasy in Ontology Development: A critical study of ISO 15926 and of the claims made on its behalf.
 A Response to "Against Idiosyncrasy in Ontology Development": A rebuttal of "Against Idiosyncrasy in Ontology Development".

15926
Semantic Web
Knowledge engineering
Technical communication
Information science
Ontology (information science)
Knowledge representation