[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Teddy Altman

Theodora Grace Altman, M.D., F.A.C.S is a fictional character from the ABC medical drama Grey's Anatomy. The character was created by series producer Shonda Rhimes, and is portrayed by Kim Raver. She was introduced as a recurring character in season 6, but is later upgraded to series-regular in the same season after Katherine Heigl's departure from the series.

Altman was conceived as the third major cardiothoracic surgeon attending in the series, following Preston Burke (Isaiah Washington) and Erica Hahn's (Brooke Smith) exits. In the storyline, Altman is a gift for Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh), recommended by Oh's character's love-interest, Owen Hunt (Kevin McKidd), to practice Cardiothoracic Surgery in her residency, after failing to receive practice from Hahn after Burke's departure. Yang discovers there is more than meets the eye with Owen and Teddy as friends, leading to a brief love-triangle. Other storylines include Altman's relationship with a psychologist and later marrying a patient to take care of his health care, eventually falling in love with him. Raver's first tenure in the show lasted 3 consecutive seasons (2009–2012), with her final appearance being the season 8 finale. 

Altman is mentioned for the first time again 5 years later when Owen discovers his sister, Megan is still alive and Altman reportedly bears witness in identifying her in the season 13 finale. Raver reappears in 5 episodes of season 14, then is upgraded again to series-regular in the season 15, following a storyline involving her pregnancy with McKidd's character. Since her second promotion to series-regular, her storylines have included being caught in 2 love-triangles with Owen and his ex-wife Amelia Shepherd (Caterina Scorsone), and Owen and Tom Koracick (Greg Germann). The character is also later revealed to be bisexual, with secret lover Allison who died in 9/11, shown to be a romantic partner in a flashback. She later becomes Chief of Surgery, succeeding Meredith Grey in the position.

Storylines 
Teddy attended the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. She completed her surgical residency at George Washington University Medical School and her fellowship at Mayo Clinic in Florida. As an attending physician, Teddy worked at Columbia, but after her best friend and lover Allison was killed during the collapse of the second tower on September 11, 2001, she left and joined the army, meeting trauma surgeon Owen Hunt (Kevin McKidd) during her tour in Baghdad.

Owen brings Teddy to Seattle Grace Mercy West hospital to mentor his girlfriend, Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh). Teddy admits that she is in love with Owen, but he tells her that he loves Cristina. When Teddy assigns Cristina a difficult surgery for her first solo cardiothoracic case and refuses to assist, Owen questions Teddy's motives. Teddy decides to leave Seattle Grace; Cristina pleads with her to stay, even offering to break up with Owen if Teddy will continue to teach her. Although Teddy agrees to stay, Owen convinces Cristina to stay with him, and Teddy briefly removes her from her service.

Teddy develops a friendship with pediatric surgeon Arizona Robbins (Jessica Capshaw), who sets her up with plastic surgeon Mark Sloan (Eric Dane). They have a brief relationship, which they both enjoy despite knowing that neither wants the other—Teddy still wants Owen, and Mark is in love with Lexie Grey          (Chyler Leigh). The two separate amicably when Teddy walks in on Mark sleeping with resident Reed Adamson (Nora Zehetner).

Towards the end of season six, Teddy has to fight for her job as Chief of Cardiothoracic Surgery. Cristina asks Owen to put in a good word for Teddy; he does the opposite by telling Chief of Surgery Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey) that she would land on her feet. Ultimately another candidate refuses to take the post and Teddy receives a full-time contract. Teddy later learns of, and is hurt by Owen's betrayal.

Teddy has a brief relationship with Andrew Perkins, whose service at the hospital is temporary. Before his departure, he suggests that Teddy has a tendency to fall for people who are either otherwise engaged or only in town for a month. She later meets Henry Burton (Scott Foley), a patient with the rare genetic condition Von Hippel–Lindau disease, who can no longer afford to pay for his medical care. Teddy marries him so that he can use her health insurance, and only comes to appreciate the gravity of this decision when Henry suffers a near fatal complication of his illness. Teddy discovers that he has listed her as his emergency contact and is forced to make a life-or-death decision regarding his care, not as his doctor but as his wife. Though the newly-weds both maintain that theirs is a simple marriage of convenience, and Teddy continues to date other men, Henry later confesses that he has feelings for Teddy. She tells him she does not feel the same way.