[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# List of coups and coup attempts

l Fignolé in Haiti.
1957 Sudanese coup attempt: occurred after one year of Sudan independence in 1956, a group of army officers and students from the Sudanese Military College led by Abdel Rahman Ismail Kabeida, led a coup attempted against Prime Minister Abdullah Khalil and the Sovereignty Council.

1958
Venezuela: After three weeks of protests, the Venezuelan military removed Marcos Pérez Jiménez and installed Wolfgang Larrazábal, commander of the Venezuelan Navy.
Pakistan: Army Chief and Defence Minister General Ayub Khan led a military coup to overthrow the government of Iskander Mirza.
14 July Revolution in Iraq: The Hashemite monarchy was overthrown and the Iraqi Republic was established, with Abd al-Karim Qasim as Prime Minister. 
May 1958 crisis in France: General Jacques Massu took over Algiers and threatened to invade Paris unless Charles de Gaulle became head of state.
1958 Sudanese coup d'état: was a bloodless self-coup on 17 November 1958 orchestrated by Prime Minister Abdallah Khalil and Lieutenant General Ibrahim Abboud.

1959
1959 Mosul uprising in Iraq: A coup attempt by Arab nationalists against Prime Minister Abd al-Karim Qasim failed.
Brazil: Air Force military hijacked a civilian airplane and attempted a coup against Juscelino Kubitschek.
Cuban Revolution: A successful coup against Fulgencio Batista, led by Fidel Castro, established a communist-ruled Cuba.
1959 Laotian coup: Phoumi Nosavan took control of Laos in a bloodless coup.
1959 Sudanese coup attempt: was on 9 November 1959 where a group of military officers attempted a coup to overthrow Lieutenant General Ibrahim Abboud. The coup attempt failed and conspirators were court martialled and the leaders were hanged.

1960–1969

1960
1960 Turkish coup d'état: A coup against the Democrat Party government resulted in the institution of the Turkish Constitution of 1961.
First Mobutu coup in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: A bloodless coup launched by Joseph-Désiré Mobutu replaced both President Joseph Kasa-Vubu and Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba with a College of Commissionaires-General, consisting of a panel of university graduates led by Justin Bomboko.
1960 Ethiopian coup d'état attempt: A group failed to overthrow Emperor Haile Selassie during a state visit.
1960 Laotian coups: Phoumi Nosavan, who came to power after a coup the previous year, was overthrown in August 1960 by his former ally Kong Le. A three-way conflict ensued, and an attempt by Kouprasith Abhay to seize power from Kong Le failed. Following the Battle of Vientiane, Phoumi Nosavan regained power.
El Salvador: On 26 October, José María Lemus was overthrown by the Junta of Government.
1960 Nepal coup d'état in Nepal: On 15 December, King Mahendra of Nepal dismissed the cabinet of B. P. Koirala and imprisoned Koirala.

1961
El Salvador: On 25 January, the Civic-Military Directory overthrew the Junta of Government.
May 16 coup in South Korea: Park Chung Hee led a coup, ending the Second Republic of South Korea and establishing the Supreme Council for National Reconstruction.
Sanmu incident in Japan: Right-wing extremists from the Japan Self-Defense Forces attempted a coup, but were foiled by the National Police Agency.
Algiers putsch of 1961 in France: In the midst of the Algerian War, four retired Army generals failed to overthrow president Charles de Gaulle, who himself came to power through the 1958 military coup d'état.
1961 revolt in Somalia: A group of military officers failed in an attempt to dismantle the union of the two states of Somaliland and Somalia.

1962
Coup of 29 March 1962 in Argentina: President Arturo Frondizi was overthrown by the military while abroad, and José María Guido became president.
Yemen: A military coup in Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen began the North Yemen Civil War.
1962 Ceylonese coup d'état attempt: Christian officers in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) failed to overthrow the government of Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike.
1962 Burmese coup d'état: A coup led by General Ne Win overthrew the constitutionally elected government of Prime Minister U Nu.