[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Clifford B. Harmon

Clifford Burke Harmon (July 1, 1866 – June 25, 1945) was a wealthy American real estate developer and founding partner of Wood, Harmon & Co., as well as a noted early amateur aviator.

Early life
Clifford Burke Harmon was born on July 1, 1866, in Urbana, Ohio, the youngest child of William R. and Mary Wood ("Molly") Harmon.  He had one older brother, William Elmer Harmon, born in 1862. His father William R. Harmon fought in the Civil War with the 70th Ohio Volunteers and later served as an officer with the “Buffalo Soldiers”.

Harmon grew up in Lebanon, Ohio, attending the local public schools. In 1884 his mother passed away, followed by his father 6 months later.

Real estate success 
In 1887, Harmon's brother William approached him and his uncle Charles Wood with a business proposition. William Harmon had determined that there was money to be made by providing a way by which people interested in owning a home could purchase one in installments, making a small down payment and paying what they could monthly. This "Easy Pay Plan" opened the possibility of home and land ownership to large groups who might not otherwise be able to do so. Harmon and his uncle both liked the idea; together they pooled a total of $3000 to start Wood, Harmon & Co.

Their first development was near Loveland, Ohio, and consisted of 200 lots. With some well-crafted advertising, the development sold out in 4 days. Further developments were soon built in Ohio and western Pennsylvania, followed by expansion into various cities in the Midwest and the East Coast of the United States. Harmon relocated to Pittsburgh around 1891, then to Philadelphia in 1895. Wood, Harmon & Co. soon had offices in over 26 cities.

In 1900 Wood, Harmon & Co, purchased large tracts of land in Brooklyn, New York, in anticipation that the building of the Brooklyn Bridge and expansion of the city's rail transit would provide opportunities for the company. The bet on this expansion proved to be fortuitous, with the company ultimately developing over 20,000 building lots in Brooklyn. Wood, Harmon & Co. also diversified by creating other companies to acquire and hold business properties and real estate for lease and/or sale.

In 1907, disagreements between the partners resulted in the dissolution of Wood, Harmon, & Co., with Clifford Harmon forming his own development company. Harmon had already taken the lead in developing several properties in the New York metropolitan area, notably Pelhamwood starting around 1909 and continuing to develop Harmon-on-Hudson (now part of Croton-on-Hudson), initially developed in 1903 as an artists colony. He also continued with real-estate development in other cities such as Philadelphia and Louisville, Kentucky. The Clifford B. Harmon & Co. continued to advertise until around 1930, after which the firm presumably closed.

Early aviation and other pursuits 
Harmon was known for his love of automobile racing, yachting, horses, and other pursuits. In 1908 he learned to fly in approximately one week, and was awarded the sixth pilot's license issued in the United States. He was involved with both ballooning and airplanes; in 1908 he set a record for time aloft in the Indianapolis balloon race. In 1909 Harmon participated in several balloon races; he again participated in the June Indianapolis balloon race, with A. Holland Forbes; his balloon was fired upon at night traveling over Morgan County, Alabama. In September 1909 he was the subject of a large search when he flew solo over western Massachusetts and lost contact with those on the ground; Harmon landed safely and returned to city via car and train.

In October 1909 at the St. Louis Centennial balloon race Harmon again set a flight duration record of 48 hours 26 minutes as well as an altitude record of 24,000 feet in his gas balloon New York. Later in October he was a witness for a Wilbur Wright flight of 27 minutes (the longest at a government aerodrome at the time).

Harmon began 1910 by attending Aviation Week in Los Angeles, California, bringing a Curtiss aircraft and a balloon; while there he conducted a number of balloon flights with passengers. In March 1910 he attempted a balloon flight from San Antonio, Texas to New York, but was brought down early by weather. In July 1910 he set an American endurance record for airplane flight in Boston, staying aloft 3 hours 3 minutes 30 seconds; the record was broken in September. Later in July Harmon made an attempt to fly across the Long Island Sound, but crashed when his Farman III biplane lost power; he was not seriously injured. By August 1910 Harmon had added two French Bleriot monoplanes to his collection.