[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Lawson railway station

external fabric. Its integrity is therefore moderate. The buildings within the Electrical depot have a high level of integrity and intactness externally. While most equipment originally installed has been removed from the Substation the building is relatively intact despite the fire damage in 2003.

Modifications and dates 
1970s: Mercury arc rectifiers in the substation replaced with solid state equipment
1994: Internal fabric of station building was altered.
2000: The collection of old electric metres were relocated to Strathfield Depot September.
2003: Substation damaged by fire.
N.d: Modern platform canopy has been added. Modern platform fence and station seats. Roof extended over the platform entry to the pedestrian underpass. Brick screen to lavatory at east end of main building. Fence to underpass entry from platform. Side platform has been significantly modified and Down siding removed (in part) and covered with aggregate recently.
N.d: The original roof of the Station Master's residence, with an ornate ridge, has been replaced at an unknown date; internally, virtually all original fabric has been removed.

Further information 

Modern demountable buildings within the depot sites are excluded from the listing.

A (1907) Monier Arch overbridge lies outside the curtilage and is located northeast of the island platform. It consists of a concrete arch with abutments set in rock cutting. The bridge was widened in 2009. Excluded from listing.

Another 1907 Monier Arch bridge (used for pedestrian access) – 1 km east of station near Somers Street and GWH overbridge has separate S170 listing.

Transport links
Blue Mountains Transit operates one bus route via Lawson station, under contract to Transport for NSW:
690K: Springwood to Katoomba

Heritage listing 
As at 9 November 2010, Lawson Railway Station Group is of state significance as an important railway location along the Main Western Line and is significant for its important historical role associated with locomotive servicing facilities and the change to electric traction power supply at this steepest part of the Blue Mountains. The place is unique and has research potential for its combination of buildings and structures that demonstrate a large railway complex of railway station, accommodation, service, depot and administration facilities.

The station building demonstrates the period of line duplication across the Blue Mountains and is a good example of a standard 1902 Federation style design station building with matching detached shed. The Lawson Station Master's residence is significant for its ability in demonstrating the custom of providing accommodation for railway staff, and is a representative example of the simple architectural forms employed in other railway residences in NSW.

The buildings of the Electrical Depot including the former District Engineer's office and the associated stores and sheds have historical and research significance to demonstrate the former administration and railway electrical supply facilities along this section of the Blue Mountains. The Lawson substation is the last major rail electric substation built for the Sydney metropolitan network and the largest such building on the Main Western line between Penrith and Lithgow. While the original function of the building has been superseded by modern technology, the substation represents one of the final phases in the development of the electrified railway system for the Sydney Metropolitan area.

Lawson railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.

Lawson Station Group is historically significant as part of the early station buildings built during the duplication of the Western rail line across the Blue Mountains combining a standard 1902 Federation style design station building and matching detached shed. It demonstrates the technological and engineering achievements in the early 1900s and is an important part of the townscape of the Lawson historic village and is highly visible from the main road.

The site has further historical significance due to its continued rail use since 1880, with the Station Master's cottage demonstrating the custom of providing accommodation for railway staff and the importance of the station as a key terminus for locomotive facilities with its large number of water columns and tanks. The Electrical Depot site demonstrates another major phase in the historical development of Lawson Station precinct featuring buildings built in the 1950s as part of the electrification of the railway to Lithgow. The substation is the last major rail electric substation built for the Sydney metropolitan network and the largest such building on the Main Western line between Penrith and Lithgow.