[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Treaty 8

W.G. White, James Walker, A. Arthur Cote, A.E. Snyder, H.B. Round, Harrison S. Young, J.F. Prud'Homme, C. Mair, H.A. Conroy, Pierre Deschambeault, Joseph Henri Picard, Richard Secord, Matthew McCauley, Headman Moostoos, Headman Felix Giroux, and Headman Wee Chee Way Sis, Headman Charles Neesotasis.

According to the University of Lethbridge's historian, Raymond Huel, prior to entering negotiations for Treaty, officials turned to Oblate (OMI) missionaries for assistance as they had lived among the First Nations. The Oblates, had been eye-witnesses to the rapid deterioration of the lifestyle of First Nations since the 1870s, and considered the treaties to be the "lesser of two evils", according to Huel. Government officials chose the Catholic missionary, Albert Lacombe, (OMI) as Treaty 8 signatory and government consultant and mediator, because of his many years of experience with the First Nations who had come to trust him. Lacombe was charged by the government to be present to help convince First Nations that it was in their interest to enter into a treaty.  He was present on June 21, 1899, and assured the First Nations that their lives would remain, more or less, unchanged.  He was also present at some of the meetings at which adhesions were signed. The elements of Treaty 8 included provisions to maintain livelihood for the native populations in this  region, such as entitlements to land, ongoing financial support, annual shipments of hunting supplies, and hunting rights on ceded lands, unless those ceded lands were used for forestry, mining, settlement or other purposes.

See also
 List of treaties
 Status of First Nations treaties in British Columbia
 The Canadian Crown and Indigenous peoples of Canada

References

External links
 Treaty Texts - Treaty No. 8 from the Government of Canada
 Treaty 8 First Nations of Alberta
 Treaty 8 Tribal Association (British Columbia)
 List of Treaty 8 First Nations in Saskatchewan
 

Numbered Treaties
Dane-zaa
Political history of British Columbia
Political history of Alberta
Political history of Saskatchewan
History of the Northwest Territories
First Nations history
Treaties concluded in 1899
Treaties concluded in 1900
1899 in Alberta