[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ned Christie

ouble charge of powder into the cannon for more power, but the next shot blew up the barrel. They pushed a wagon load of dynamite against one wall of the fort and detonated it. The explosion destroyed part of the fort and set the rest afire. Christie was fatally shot as he escaped the burning ruins.

They tied his body to a door for transport by train to Fayetteville, Arkansas. There the lawmen were photographed with Christie's body as a trophy, as was common in those times. They transported the body by train to Fort Smith, Arkansas, to claim their reward from the US court. More people had their pictures taken next to Christie's body. The Cook photography studio took a photo to reproduce and sell as postcards.

Christie's body was finally released by authorities to his family. They returned with it to Wauhillau for burial. The body was interred at his father's Watt Christie Cemetery in Wauhillau. Its location is marked by a tombstone.

The government's pressure on the Cherokee continued. After the raid, Christie's nephew Arch Wolfe and the youth Charles Hair were each charged and convicted of assault and intent to kill a lawman. Because of his age, Hair was sentenced to three years in the State Reformatory in Illinois. It was far from his people. Wolfe was held for years in penal institutions. He was finally committed to the Canton Indian Insane Asylum in South Dakota, which opened in 1903 and was often used to house Indians considered troublemakers. Wolfe died there in 1912. Run by officials with no background in psychiatric care, the asylum had refused to allow Wolfe any contact with his family or to give them information about him.

In 1918, Dick Humphreys, a freedman, gave an interview to the Daily Oklahoman in which he said he had been an eyewitness to the shooting of Marshal Maples. He said that Bud Trainer shot the lawman, not Christie. Humphreys had not volunteered his information earlier because he feared retaliation by Trainer. 

Christie's name was cleared at last, years after he was brutally killed. The Keetoowah leader had opposed allowing railroad development, allotment in Indian Territory, and statehood for the area, as he resisted encroachment by European Americans. Some researchers believe that his opposition to the powerful men promoting development there may have contributed to his being falsely accused of Maples' murder and pursued as an outlaw.

Legacy and honors
Today Christie is honored by a plaque at the Cherokee Court House in Tahlequah, Oklahoma, the oldest public building in the state. The memorial reads that he was "assassinated by U. S. Marshals in 1892." The Fort Smith National Historic Site, operated by the National Park Service, also has material recognizing Christie's death as an assassination.

Many articles about Christie were published in newspapers and western magazines, in addition to dime novels; most at the time sensationalized his life.

Christie has also been the subject of late 20th-century novels, such as Larry McMurtry and Diane Ossana's Zeke and Ned (1997) and Robert J. Conley's Ned Christie's War (1991). The latter Cherokee author had a particular interest in trying to portray Christie's struggles.

In the 21st century, Christie has been the subject of carefully researched histories, including Devon A. Mihesuah's biography Ned Christie. The Creation of an Outlaw and Cherokee Hero (2018), published by University of Oklahoma Press. It provides more information about the context of Christie's times and his political stands. He Was a Brave Man: The Story of an Indian Patriot (2010) was written by Lisa LaRue, Cherokee Keetoowah historian.  Christie's great-great-nephew, Roy J. Hamilton, also wrote and self-published a history, titled Ned Christie: Cherokee Warrior.

Notes

References

Further reading
Hamilton, Roy J. Ned Christie: A Family Remembers, self-published, 1995 (He is Christie's great-great-nephew)
Speer, Bonnie Stahlman. 1990. The Killing of Ned Christie: Cherokee Outlaw. Norman, OK: Reliance Press. (Speer owns the press that published her book and refused to make corrections brought to her attention by Christie's descendants.)
Steele, Philip W. 1973/1987 edition. The Last Cherokee Warriors: Zeke Proctor, Ned Christie., Pelican Publishing Company, 111 pages; a book classified by Google as "juvenile fiction". (Steele claimed to have firsthand observations from the son of Christie's half-brother, but the boy was only two in 1892, when Christie was killed.)

External links 
Frates, Kent F. "The Atonement of Christie," in This Land. 25 August 2016< no footnotes or sources 
Roy J. Hamilton (Christie's great-great-nephew), "Some Errors in Ned Christie's Life Cloud Book," Amazon customer review of Bonnie Stahlman Speer's The Killing of Ned Christie (1990/2000 edition). 
 Ned Christie at Find A Grave