[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mary Anderson (actress, born 1859)

0, aged 80. She was survived by her son and daughter.

Filmography

Legacy
The Mary Anderson Theatre was the oldest theatre on Louisville's 4th Street. It opened in 1907 as a vaudeville house, but two years later began to screen movies. The theatre closed in 1972 and was converted into office space.

Land donated by Anderson in Mount St. Francis, Indiana to the Conventual Franciscan Friars is now the Mount Saint Francis Center for Spirituality. The center serves as the headquarters for the Province of Our Lady of Consolation and home to the Mary Anderson Center, an artist colony.  In 1989, the portion of US Route 150 that adjoins the donated property was named the Mary Anderson Memorial Highway.

The house and farm that Mary and Antonio Navarro purchased and extended in the town of Broadway, Court Farm, is recognised as hosting one of the best preserved Edwardian gardens. It was left to her son, Toty de Navarro, who lived there with his wife, Dorothy, their son Michael and Dorothy's long-time Cambridge friend, Gertrude Caton Thompson. As in the years when Mary lived there, it was often filled with visiting artists and musicians, including Myra Hess and a young Jacqueline du Pré.

References and sources
References

Sources
 Donald Roy, "Anderson, Mary (1859–1940)", Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, Oxford University Press, 2004
 Winter Stage Life of Mary Anderson (1886)

External links

 
 Mary Anderson  by J. M. Farrar (1885), a Project Gutenberg etext
 "Perdita", a poem by Florence Earle Coates "on seeing Miss Anderson in the role"
 Oxford Dictionary of National Biography
 Letters from Mary Anderson, 1910–1940, held by the Billy Rose Theatre Division, New York Public Library for the Performing Arts
Heroines of the Modern Stage p. 230 by Forrest Izard c.1915

1859 births
1940 deaths
People associated with Gilbert and Sullivan
Actresses from Sacramento, California
Actresses from Louisville, Kentucky
Catholics from Kentucky
People from Wychavon (district)
19th-century American actresses
American stage actresses
20th-century American actresses
American silent film actresses