[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Kgalema Motlanthe

s-busting deal with the Iranian government. Motlanthe denied the allegation and asked the Public Protector to investigate; both he and Mtshali were cleared of wrongdoing. COSATU applauded Motlanthe's willingness to subject himself to public scrutiny and accountability.

Personality and public image 

Motlanthe is known for being "ferociously private." According to former Minister in the Presidency Frank Chikane, he did not invite any family or guests to his presidential inauguration. He is also known for his restrained, measured demeanour, although his friends inside the ANC report that "he can be a great joker" and that he frequently defused bad moods among his Robben Island cohorts. The Financial Mail describes him as avuncular and "mild mannered, with an almost inborn presidential bearing." In 2008, journalist Fiona Forde wrote, using his nickname "Mkhuluwa" (English: "the Elder" or "Elder Brother"): There are few in the ranks of the [ANC] who have a bad word to say about Mkhuluwa. To them he is the silent but strong force that exudes calm in a moment of panic – a man whose cool-headed outlook sees him through many a tough time. His is the voice of reason... He is an intellectual of note, a comrade whose door is always open. He possesses great wit which he unleashes with a dry sense of humour. Mkhuluwa is also a man of principles... Many commentators agree that Motlanthe appeared to harbour little personal ambition for political advancement. In 2012, he told reporters that he was "not a politician." In early 2009, while president himself, he told journalist John Carlin, "Being president means you have no life of your own. I actually don't like it. I think you have to be insane or very, very special." Indeed, in 2007, he had said that he would prefer overseeing Bafana Bafana, the national soccer team, to becoming president. His own paradigm of good leadership seems to exclude personal ambition: on one occasion, he explained, "To volunteer leadership is the antithesis of democracy, which is about collective decisions and not individual ambitions"; on another, he said, "If you end up a leader it must be accidentally."However, Booysen argues that he probably had both the ability and the appetite to win another presidential term. According to Booysen, it was due to his adherence to the democratic centralism traditionally associated with the ANC that he opted not to push back against the instructions of the party. In either case, the grace with which he relinquished power to Zuma in 2009 has made him appear a trustworthy figure.  

On the other hand, Motlanthe's "self-effacing" personality has also been connected to certain criticisms of his leadership style. Critics say that he was "inefficient, indecisive and lacking a backbone," or "indecisive at crucial times, too soft." Likewise, although his "unflappable" appearance and ability to rise above "scrappy factional battles" was sometimes perceived as a virtue, some supporters were disappointed by his detachment and unwillingness to "be their hero," motivated by what they perceived as "his desire to avoid a messy scrap and keep his image squeaky clean." The Witness said in December 2012, "The ANC and South Africa will never know what kind of leader Motlanthe could and would have been." Right2Know also criticised the discrepancy between Motlanthe's outward commitment to compromise and moderation, on the one hand, and his demonstrated commitment to implementing loyally the ANC party line on the other. It said that he "lulls [the public] into a false sense of security" by playing "good cop" to the ANC's "bad cop."

English diplomat and politician Robin Renwick said in 2012 that, after Mandela, Motlanthe was South Africa's most highly respected leader overseas, "seen to embody the best virtues of the old guard of the ANC." Motlanthe is viewed as having assumed an "elder statesman" role after his retirement, with the Sunday Times commenting in 2018 that he was the first of South Africa's former presidents to have found "the right role" in public life, in his case as "a reluctant president, a caretaker who stepped in to steady the ship and gracefully retreated to a lesser position, a custodian of democratic values and elder statesman."

Personal life
In 1975, Motlanthe married Mapula Mokate. They were separated before he ascended to the presidency in 2008, and he filed for divorce in 2011. Their divorce was settled amicably in March 2014, and he married his longtime partner, businesswoman Gugu Mtshali, in May 2014 in Houghton, Johannesburg. He has three adult children with Mokate – Kagiso, Nthabiseng, and Kgomotso – and is a jazz enthusiast.

See also

History of the African National Congress

References