[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Al-Qaeda

ion committees of Al-Qaeda, Zawahiri placed special emphasis on communicating with his groups. However, after the war on terror, Al-Qaeda's leadership has become isolated. As a result, the leadership has become decentralized, and the organization has become regionalized into several Al-Qaeda groups.

Many Western analysts do not believe that the global jihadist movement is driven at every level by Al-Qaeda's leadership. However, bin Laden held considerable ideological influence over revolutionary Islamist movements across the world. Experts argue that Al-Qaeda has fragmented into a number of disparate regional movements, and that these groups bear little connection with one another.

This view mirrors the account given by Osama bin Laden in his October 2001 interview with Tayseer Allouni:

 however, Bruce Hoffman saw Al-Qaeda as a cohesive network that was strongly led from the Pakistani tribal areas.

Affiliates 
Al-Qaeda has the following direct affiliates:

 Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP)
 Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS)
 Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM)
 Al Shabaab
 Hurras al-Din
 Jama'at Nasr al-Islam wal Muslimin (JNIM)

The following are presently believed to be indirect affiliates of Al-Qaeda:

 Caucasus Emirate (factions)
 Fatah al-Islam
 Islamic Jihad Union
 Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan
 Jaish-e-Mohammed
 Jemaah Islamiyah
 Lashkar-e-Taiba
 Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group

Al-Qaeda's former affiliates include the following:

 Abu Sayyaf (pledged allegiance to ISIL in 2014)
 Al-Mourabitoun (joined JNIM in 2017)
 Al-Qaeda in Iraq (became the Islamic State of Iraq, which later seceded from al-Qaeda and became ISIL)
 Al-Qaeda in the Lands Beyond the Sahel (inactive since 2015)
 Ansar al-Islam (majority merged with ISIL in 2014)
 Ansar Dine (joined JNIM in 2017)
 Islamic Jihad of Yemen (became AQAP)
 Movement for Oneness and Jihad in West Africa (merged with Al-Mulathameen to form Al-Mourabitoun in 2013)
 Rajah Sulaiman movement
 Al-Nusra Front (dissolved in 2017, merged with other Islamist organizations to form Hayat Tahrir al-Sham and split ties)

Leadership

Osama bin Laden (1988–May 2011) 

Osama bin Laden served as the emir of Al-Qaeda from the organization's founding in 1988 until his assassination by US forces on May 1, 2011. Atiyah Abd al-Rahman was alleged to be second in command prior to his death on August 22, 2011.

Bin Laden was advised by a Shura Council, which consists of senior Al-Qaeda members. The group was estimated to consist of 20–30 people.

After May 2011 
Ayman al-Zawahiri had been Al-Qaeda's deputy emir and assumed the role of emir following bin Laden's death. Al-Zawahiri replaced Saif al-Adel, who had served as interim commander.

On June 5, 2012, Pakistani intelligence officials announced that al-Rahman's alleged successor as second in command, Abu Yahya al-Libi, had been killed in Pakistan.

Nasir al-Wuhayshi was alleged to have become Al-Qaeda's overall second in command and general manager in 2013. He was concurrently the leader of Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) until he was killed by a US airstrike in Yemen in June 2015. Abu Khayr al-Masri, Wuhayshi's alleged successor as the deputy to Ayman al-Zawahiri, was killed by a US airstrike in Syria in February 2017. Al Qaeda's next alleged number two leader, Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah, was killed by Israeli agents. His pseudonym was Abu Muhammad al-Masri, who was killed in November 2020 in Iran. He was involved in the 1998 bombings of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

Al-Qaeda's network was built from scratch as a conspiratorial network which drew upon the leadership of a number of regional nodes. The organization divided itself into several committees, which include:
 The Military Committee, which is responsible for training operatives, acquiring weapons, and planning attacks.
 The Money/Business Committee, which funds the recruitment and training of operatives through the hawala banking system. US-led efforts to eradicate the sources of "terrorist financing" were most successful in the year immediately following the September 11 attacks. Al-Qaeda continues to operate through unregulated banks, such as the 1,000 or so hawaladars in Pakistan, some of which can handle deals of up to million. The committee also procures false passports, pays Al-Qaeda members, and oversees profit-driven businesses. In the 9/11 Commission Report, it was estimated that Al-Qaeda required $30million per year to conduct its operations.
 The Law Committee reviews Sharia law, and decides upon courses of action conform to it.
 The Islamic Study/Fatwah Committee issues religious edicts, such as an edict in 1998 telling Muslims to kill Americans.
 The Media Committee ran the now-defunct newspaper Nashrat al Akhbar () and handled public relations.
 In 2005, Al-Qaeda formed As-Sahab, a media production house, to supply its video and audio materials.