[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Delaware Route 896

north and crosses West Chestnut Hill Road/Old Chestnut Hill Road, with a reverse jughandle controlling movements between northbound DE 896 and westbound West Chestnut Hill Road, before it reaches an intersection with DE 4. A park and ride lot is located at the southeast corner of this intersection.

At this point, DE 896 turns west to join DE 4 on the four-lane divided Christiana Parkway, passing to the south of the University of Delaware's Science, Technology, and Advanced Research campus. The road narrows into a three-lane undivided road with two eastbound lanes and one westbound lane, curving to the northwest and coming to bridges over Amtrak's Northeast Corridor railroad line and the Christina River. Christiana Parkway reaches an intersection with the northern terminus of DE 279, where DE 4 ends and DE 896 continues northeast on Elkton Road. DE 896 becomes a four-lane divided highway that crosses the Christina River again and heads into residential areas. The road changes names to South Main Street and becomes undivided as it passes businesses before reaching downtown Newark.

Here, DE 896 intersects DE 273, with the road splitting into a one-way pair. Northbound DE 896 becomes concurrent with eastbound DE 273 on West Delaware Avenue, heading to the east, while southbound DE 896 remains along South Main Street, also concurrent with eastbound DE 273. The one-way pair carries two lanes in each direction. Northbound DE 896 soon turns north onto two-way South College Avenue, which carries two northbound lanes and one southbound lane as it passes through the University of Delaware campus. The northbound direction of the route turns west (along westbound DE 273 on West Main Street), reaching the end of South Main Street, which it left earlier due to one-way streets. Here, northbound DE 896 continues northwest onto one-way New London Road, carrying one lane, while southbound DE 896 follows DE 273 on two-way, two-lane West Main Street.

Soon after, both directions of the route cross CSX's Philadelphia Subdivision railroad line at-grade as it leaves the downtown area and enters residential neighborhoods. New London Road becomes two-way carrying both directions of DE 896, with southbound DE 896 running southwest on two-way North Hillside Road to get to DE 273 and continue east. The two-lane undivided DE 896 heads northwest and crosses Bogy Run, heading between the Newark Country Club to the west and the University of Delaware to the east before running through wooded areas of residential development. The route becomes undivided again as it leaves Newark, passing to the west of White Clay Creek State Park and heading through the community of Mechanicsville. DE 896 continues to its northern terminus at the Maryland border, where the road briefly traverses the northeast corner of that state as MD 896 before heading north into Pennsylvania as PA 896.

DE 896 has an annual average daily traffic count ranging from a high of 48,492 vehicles at the I-95 interchange to a low of 3,783 vehicles at the intersection with Cleveland Avenue in Newark. The portion of DE 896 south of DE 273 is part of the National Highway System.

History

What is now DE 896 originally existed as a county road by 1920, with the portion between Boyds Corner and Mount Pleasant proposed as a state highway at that time. Four years later, the state highway between Boyds Corner and Mount Pleasant was completed while the rest of the route was paved. A year later, the road was upgraded to a state highway between Mount Pleasant and Summit Bridge. In 1936, the road became a state highway between Summit Bridge and Glasgow; at this time none of present-day DE 896 was assigned a route number. On December 21, 1936, the grade crossing with the Pennsylvania Railroad (now Amtrak's Northeast Corridor) along College Avenue in Newark was replaced with a bridge over the tracks. In 1938, the state highway between Glasgow and Newark was built on a new alignment, bypassing a narrow winding alignment that ran further to the east along what is now Old Cooch's Bridge Road. This road was built to give Newark a better road connection to places further south.

DE 896 was designated by 1938 to run from DE 71 in Summit Bridge north to the Maryland border northwest of Newark, passing through Newark on College Avenue and New London Road. At the state line, the road briefly became MD 278 before becoming PA 896 in Pennsylvania. MD 278 became MD 896 in 1942 to match DE 896 and PA 896.