[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Operation New Life

em were South Vietnamese army and naval personnel.  The Vietnamese navy had loaded up their ships with people during the evacuation and sailed out to sea, ending up in Guam.  Their families often left behind, the soldiers and sailors requested—then demanded—that they be allowed to return to Vietnam.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees initially took responsibility for the repatriation. The Vietnamese government demanded that a lengthy questionnaire be completed for each potential returnee.  UNHCR completed the questionnaires and submitted them, but no response was forthcoming from Vietnam.  Meantime, the refugees became more insistent in their demands to return, including staging demonstrations and threatening violence and suicide. In September 1975, Julia Taft recommended that the Vietnamese be given the merchant ship Thuong Tin and allowed to depart Guam for Vietnam. The U.S. Navy renovated the ship for the voyage to Vietnam.

The State Department was concerned that some among the potential returnees were being coerced by their colleagues into saying they wished to return to Vietnam. State isolated the potential returnees and interviewed each of them individually.  Those affirming they wished to return to Vietnam were escorted directly from the interview to the Tuong Tin for departure. Those declining to return, numbering 45, were escorted to the mostly-empty refugee camps for onward transportation to the U.S.  The total number of Vietnamese crowded onto the Thuong Tin was 1,546, of whom most were men whose families were in Vietnam. The Thuong Tin departed Guam on 16 October 1975.  
 
The fate of the Thuong Tin was unknown for more than a decade. The ship's captain, Tran Dinh Tru, later told his story. On arrival in Vietnam, Tru and at least some of his shipmates were sent to re-education camps in the rural areas of Vietnam. Tru was imprisoned for 12 years.

The Thuong Tin returnees were nearly the last Vietnamese refugees on Guam. The camps there were closed on 23 October and Operation New Life terminated on 1 November 1975.

Aftermath

The Vietnamese on Guam were flown to one of four military bases: Fort Chaffee in Arkansas, Camp Pendleton in California, Fort Indiantown Gap in Pennsylvania, and Eglin Air Force Base in Florida.  There, the U.S. military provided them food and temporary housing while the IATF and charitable organizations gave them language and cultural training and sought sponsors and locations for their resettlement.  (See Operation New Arrivals) By 20 December 1975 all the Vietnamese had been resettled in every state and in several foreign countries.

See also 
 Operation Frequent Wind
 Operation Babylift
 Operation New Arrivals

References

1975 in military history
1975 in Vietnam
1975 in Guam
Vietnamese diaspora
Vietnamese refugees
New Life
History of South Vietnam
New Life
Vietnamese-American history
Immigration to the United States
Aftermath of the Vietnam War
Orote Peninsula