[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Terrorism in Australia

liner. In Sydney, four men were arrested by the Australian Federal Police and their properties were searched.
On 17 December 2019 Khaled Khayat was sentenced to 40 years in prison (with a non-parole period of 30 years). Mahmoud Khayat was sentenced to 36 years (with a non-parole period of 27 years).

Amer Khayat was the third brother who was to, unknowingly, carry the bomb onto the plane. Amer was arrested overseas and spent two-and-a-half years in a Beirut prison. In September 2019 he was cleared of any involvement by a military tribunal.

Tamin Khaja 
On 31 October 2017, Tamin Khaja plead guilty to planning a terrorist attack on targets in Sydney that included the Timor Army Barracks and Sydney West Trial Courts. He was arrested in May 2016 as he was attempting to obtain firearms, explosives and an Islamic State flag.

2014 plot 
On 3 November 2017 Sulayman Khalid, also known as "Abu Bakr", was sentenced to up to 22 years and 6 months' jail in the NSW Supreme Court by Justice Geoffrey Bellew. He was the leader among five of six conspirators who were sentenced in connection to a plot between 7 November and 18 December 2014 that targeted government sites, including the Lithgow Correctional Centre and an Australian Federal Police building in Sydney. Jibryl Almaouie, Mohamed Almaouie, Farhad Said and an unnamed teenager were all sentenced to jail terms for their part. Ibrahim Ghazzawy, the sixth conspirator was earlier in 2017 sentenced to a minimum of 6 years and 4 months. Khalid appeared on the SBS program Insight in 2014, where he said that Islamic State only wanted to bring "justice, peace and humanitarian aid to the people". He later stormed off the set. Khalid was arrested on 23 December 2014 by Joint Counter Terrorism Team members as part of Operation Appleby.

Joshua Ryne Goldberg 

In 2015, Jewish American internet troll Joshua Goldberg was arrested for planning a bombing in Kansas City while posing as an Australian ISIS supporter. A 17-year-old Melbourne teenager who had been in contact with Goldberg pleaded guilty to preparing a terror attack, after bombs were found in his home. Goldberg's ISIS persona also attempted to incite mass shootings in Australia.

Victorian Trades Hall bombing plot 
In 2016, Phillip Galea, a Victorian man associated with the far-right group Reclaim Australia, was arrested for planning bombings of various "leftist" organisations in Melbourne, including Trades Hall in Carlton, the Melbourne Anarchist Club in Northcote and the Resistance Centre in the Melbourne CBD. He was arrested in August 2016, after police raids of his home in November 2015 found cattle prods, mercury, information relating to home-made bombs and a document drafted by Galea called the "Terrorist's Cookbook", intended to be a how-to-guide for Right-wing terrorists.

Galea was convicted of plotting terrorist attacks and creating a document likely to facilitate a terrorist act in December 2019 and given a 12-year jail sentence. The Court was told that his aim were to eliminate the leaders of the left in Melbourne, blaming them for the "Islamisation" of Australia.

Federation Square attack plot  
On 27 November 2017 an Australian man of Somali parentage was arrested for plotting a mass shooting. Twenty-year-old Ali Khalif Shire Ali from Werribee, Victoria was charged the next day in Melbourne Magistrates' Court with: preparing to commit a terrorist attack, and gathering documents to facilitate a terrorist act. Police believed that Ali planned to "shoot and kill as many people as he could" in Federation Square, Melbourne on New Year's Eve.

In May 2019 Ali pled guilty to preparing a terrorist attack. On 21 May 2020 he was sentenced to ten years' jail, with a seven-and-a-half-year non-parole period. In December 2020 his sentence was increased to sixteen years, with a non-parole period of twelve years. Ali's brother was 30-year-old Hassan Khalif Shire Ali, who committed a stabbing attack in Melbourne in November 2018. Hassan killed one person, and was then shot and killed by police.

Counterterrorism efforts