[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Model Town, Lahore

Model Town Society (Punjabi, ) is a gated neighbourhood in Gulberg township of Lahore in Punjab, Pakistan.

History 

Model Town, established in 1921, is a fruition of [Dewan Khem Chand]'s lifelong dream to see the establishment of what he called “Garden Town”. Advocate Khem Chand's unshakeable belief in the values of self-help, self-responsibility, democracy, equality, equity, and solidarity are the values of cooperation upon which the principles of cooperative societies are founded and the reason Model Town was established as and still is a cooperative society. On Sunday, 27 February 1922, about 200 persons assembled in Lahore's Town Hall under the chairmanship of Rai Bahadur Ganga Ram and decided to establish a cooperative housing society to be named as a garden town. The meeting approved Diwan Khem Chand's proposed housing scheme based on cooperative principles in the suburbs of Lahore to solve housing problems and to provide improved sanitary and better living facilities for the residents, and thus the government was requested to provide a 2000-acre (4 km²) plot of land.

The residents of Model Town, who owned their spacious houses, were retired judges, rich businessmen, traders, and upmarket store-owners. Many high court judges, doctors, and engineers had also moved to Model Town from the city. Included among the residents of this best laid-out residential estate of Lahore were college professors and officers of the civil service. The communist leader BPL Bedi, who had studied at British and German universities, lived here. His son Kabir Bedi became a famous actor in post-independence India. As of March 2015, Saifur Rehman was elected president of the Model Town Society, marking his second term in office.

Model Town Society 

A preliminary committee of 21 members was formed under the chairmanship of Khan Bahadur Sir Sh. Abdul Qadir to frame the by-laws and to carry out other necessary work associated with the formation of the society. As a result, The Cooperative Model Town Society Limited was formed and subsequently registered under the Cooperative Societies Act II of 1912 in 1924. The principle aims of the Society were:

 To conceive, design, develop and maintain a garden town.
 To buy or otherwise acquire land, buildings, and other moveable and immovable property.
 To provide services and construct, manage and maintain works, and other infrastructure of various kinds for the convenience and benefit of the resident members.
 To sell, mortgage, and lease land, houses, homesites, buildings, and all moveable or immovable property as necessary for carrying out the objects of the society.
 To build residential houses and other buildings for private and public use and for the convenience of members etc.

On 1 April 1941, the Government of the Punjab transferred 1,963 acres (7.9 km²) situated in Rakh, Kot Lakhpat Tehsil, District, Lahore and the transfer deed was registered with the Sub-Registrar, Lahore, on 25 April 1941.

Competition to select layout design (map) of Model Town 
Dewan Khem Chand had proposed his ideas about the layout plan of the Society in his first pamphlet; this was to become the basic guide on which the layout was later planned. A 'Design Selection Committee' was formed to select a suitable layout plan.  A competition was held and the Society received thirty-two plans which were displayed for exhibition to the members of the Society on 17 and 18 December 1922. This was also visited on 17 December 1922 by the Governor, Sir Edward Maclagan.

The Designs Committee of The Society was not able to select any single plan. Consequently, The Committee shortlisted the following four plans (maps) which give interesting suggestions:

1. 'Dilnagar80' by Mr. G. K. Trilokekar, Architect, Bombay;
2. 'Commonsense' by Mr. S. C. Paul, Architect, Calcutta;
3. 'Jupiter' by Mr. N. L. Verma, Architect Allahabad; and
4.  'Dilemma' by Dr. J. B. Sahni Lahore.

The prize money was distributed evenly among these four competitors. The Design Committee then assigned Mr. N. L. Verma; one of the prize-winners to combine the ideas from these four shortlisted plans into one master plan (map). For this additional work he was awarded a further Rs. 500.

The final design was approved by the Government of Punjab.

Evacuee property 

The Society was declared Evacuee property after the Indo-Pak partition in 1947, as about 1100 out of 1300 members emigrated to India.