[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jahmir Hyka

Montreal Impact on 4 March 2017, finished in the 1–0 victory. His first score-sheet contributions came in his second ever appearance for the club on 11 March 2017, substituting on at halftime and recording two assists to help the Earthquakes make a 3–2 comeback victory over the Vancouver Whitecaps.

On 18 March 2017, Hyka made his first MLS start in a 2–1 loss at Sporting Kansas City. His first goal was scored on 14 April 2017 with ten seconds remaining in stoppage time in what would be a 1–1 home draw against FC Dallas. Hyka opened the scoring against the Portland Timbers in the 3–0 rout on 7 May in the 8th minute of the match. He assisted the first goal scored by San Jose Designated Player Vako on 20 July against the New York Red Bulls, which finished as a 5–1 loss.

Following the end of the 2018 season, Hyka was not offered a new contract, leaving the club after collecting 52 appearances. Following his departure from the club, Hyka returned in Albania and begun training with his old club Tirana in order to maintain his form.

Maccabi Netanya F.C.
In January 2019, Hyka joined Maccabi Netanya F.C. of the Israeli Premier League on a free transfer.   He scored three goals for the club in his first season.

International career
On 7 February 2007, Hyka made his debut for Albania in a friendly match against Macedonia. On 20 August 2008, he scored his first goal for Albania against Liechtenstein and his goal came just 46 seconds after the game had begun, making it the quickest goal in Albanian history.

Following a two-year absence, he returned to Albania national team under the same coach Gianni De Biasi, receiving a call up for the Friendly match against Morocco on 31 August 2016 and the 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification opening match against Macedonia on 5 September 2016.

Style of play
A quick, energetic, and agile player, Hyka is capable of playing either as left winger or attacking midfielder. Luzern fans have nicknamed him "the Albanian Messi" due to his short stature, dribbling, and speed. Dominic Kinnear, San Jose's coach at the time of Hyka's signing with the team, praised his skills, saying, "He's really smart on the ball and confident in tight places" and adding that "he has a good first touch." Both Earthquakes general manager Jesse Fioranelli and MLS senior analyst Matt Doyle have emphasized Hyka's unpredictability on the field.

Personal life
Hyka has four siblings, two sisters and two brothers who live in his hometown of Tirane. He practices the faith of Islam, praying five times daily and fasting during the holy month of Ramadan, which he has done so since the age of 12. He attends mosque when possible around his football schedule, and at his former club 1. FSV Mainz 05 he would attend with teammate Chadli Amri.

He is fluent in Albanian, German, and English.

As of 13 March 2018, Hyka possesses a U.S. green card, which qualifies him as a domestic player for MLS roster purposes.

Career statistics

Club

International

International goals
. Albania score listed first, score column indicates score after each Hyka's goal.

Honours
Rosenborg
Tippeligaen: 2006

Olympiacos
Superleague Greece: 2006–07

Tirana
Albanian Cup: 2010–11

Luzern
Swiss Super League: Runner-up 2011–12

Individual
Swiss Super League Player of the Month: April 2016

References

External links

 
 
 
 
 

1988 births
Living people
Footballers from Tirana
Albanian men's footballers
Men's association football wingers
Albania men's international footballers
Albania men's under-21 international footballers
Albania men's youth international footballers
Rosenborg BK players
Olympiacos F.C. players
KF Tirana players
1. FSV Mainz 05 players
Panionios F.C. players
FC Luzern players
San Jose Earthquakes players
Maccabi Netanya F.C. players
Sektzia Ness Ziona F.C. players
Guizhou F.C. players
Eliteserien players
Swiss Super League players
Bundesliga players
2. Bundesliga players
Major League Soccer players
China League One players
Albanian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Norway
Expatriate men's footballers in Greece
Expatriate men's footballers in Germany
Expatriate men's footballers in Switzerland
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States
Expatriate men's footballers in Israel
Expatriate men's footballers in China
Albanian expatriate sportspeople in Norway
Albanian expatriate sportspeople in Greece
Albanian expatriate sportspeople in Germany
Albanian expatriate sportspeople in Switzerland
Albanian expatriate sportspeople in the United States
Albanian expatriate sportspeople in Israel
Albanian expatriate sportspeople in China