[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Marco Almaviva

ent and the colour base of the painting bestows upon the representation the characteristics of a plastic, impalpable, and luminous form, conceived by Almaviva as the expression of that primordial matter that he aims to investigate, despite its inherent incomprehensibility.

Filoplastica as research 

During the 1970s, he gave form to 35 solo exhibitions in various Italian cities, characterized by the filoplastic research. In 1979, he moved to Borgo a Buggiano, Tuscany, where he continued his research activity, completely independent of established artistic currents and critics. In the early 1980s, he shaped two fundamental painting cycles, "Forms from the Ptolemaic World" and "The Matter of Limbs," which emphasize the crystalline and impalpable matter that constitutes the hallmark of Filoplastica, delving into the aesthetic values connected with the nature of his research. This was also done with the aim of not being confused in the prevailing atmosphere of the "return to painting" movement that emerged in the early 1980s. Almaviva has consistently asserted the Tonaltimbica and Filoplastica's intrinsic originality, given the close correspondence between their defining poetic principles and their unprecedented formal solutions. Consequently, they represent a significant expansion of the field of knowledge, whose boundaries of innovation were once deemed so narrow as to suggest the inevitable exhaustion of painting.

Painting beyond Flatness 

In line with the spirit of inquiry that characterises his work, Almaviva deemed it necessary to address the issue of tearing the canvas, which had eliminated the very possibility for painting to exist as such, precisely because its fundamental condition, flatness, had been irreparably destroyed through Fontana's intervention. In 1965, following his encounter with Kaisserlian, Almaviva conceived a solution corresponding to the paradox formulated by the Milanese critic: a painting that would form independently of any pre-established surface, as a more pertinent response to the revolutionary turn of Spatialism. The definitive realisation occurred in 2019 when Almaviva produced the first artefacts (the Archetypes and the Rectoverso), expressions of a new form of painting that, in its constitutive procedure, precedes the formation of the support. As the philosopher Carmelo Strano wrote, Almaviva retained the "obsession for surpassing the canvas medium," that does not pass through the Fontanian yoke nor "the existential exasperations of Piero Manzoni [...] His 'Archetypes', always ideally children of Filoplastica, are paintings that have eluded the canvas while still determining a framework.” The "Painting beyond Flatness" project, conceived in 2020 by Almaviva himself, aims to investigate all the consequences resulting from the Rectoverso (corresponding to an "oil on canvas without the canvas to paint on") in relation to the dynamics of modernism that led to the so-called "abandonment of painting." In this regard, given the centrality that flatness assumes in this context, the production of the Rectoverso structurally fits into the path that has characterised painting as a materially constituted procedure, freeing itself from any potential denotative function. From this perspective, the new research, precisely because it has made possible the realisation of an artefact corresponding to an oil on canvas whose execution did not rely on canvas or any pre-existing plane, has rendered the painting autonomous from all the constraints that flatness exerted upon it. Consequently, the Rectoverso breaks free from everything that, in terms of compositionality, is subject to the flat surface. It is, therefore, a painting detached from any compositional rules, and it constitutes a work of art "wholly literal" since, by virtue of its own realisation procedure, there is no real distinction between the support, the background, and the painting itself.

References 

1934 births
Living people
People from Novi Ligure
20th-century Italian painters
Italian male painters
21st-century Italian painters
20th-century Italian male artists
21st-century Italian male artists