[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# History of the French Foreign Legion

ion forces in the Balkans spent the winter of 1915–16 waging a fighting retreat in the face of a Bulgarian advance. The 3rd Battalion also engaged in delaying actions at  Dent de Scie and Trana Stena. The 3rd Battalion of the  1st Marching Regiment of Africa was disbanded on 1 October 1917.

Rif War

At the close of the First World War, the Foreign Legion's prestige was at a high; however, the Foreign Legion itself had suffered greatly in the trenches of the First World War. In 1919, the government of Spain raised the Spanish Foreign Legion and modeled it after the French Foreign Legion. General Henri Mordacq intended to rebuild the Foreign Legion as a larger military formation, doing away with the Legion's traditional role as a solely infantry formation.  General Mordacq envisioned a Foreign Legion consisting not of regiments, but of divisions with cavalry, engineer, and artillery regiments in addition to the Legion's infantry mainstay.  In 1920, decrees ordained the establishment of regiments of cavalry and artillery regiments. Immediately following the armistice, the Foreign Legion experienced increased enlistment which continued for the next few years. Many of the new volunteers for the Foreign Legion were of German and Russian extraction: the former being mostly veterans of World War I and the latter consisting of veterans of the White Russian movement. The Foreign Legion began the process of reorganizing and redeploying to Algeria.

Second World War

Influx of recruits
The Foreign Legion was heavily involved in World War II, playing a large role in the Middle East and the North African campaign. The 6th Foreign Infantry Regiment was established by consolidating battalions stationed in Syria into a single battalion on October 15, 1939. Around the beginning of the war the primary training camp of the Legion was located at Saïda, however by October 1939, another training camp was established at Bacarès near the Spanish border. The facility at Bacarès was re-purposed as training facility from an internment camp for Spanish refugees from the Spanish Civil War. Foreign Legion Forces being trained at these locations were provided inadequate arms and equipment—mostly surplus World War I-era equipment—which demonstrates the degree of low regard which the Foreign Legion by French military authorities. The 13th Foreign Legion Demi-Brigade was raised in February 1940 for the purpose of deploying to Finland. By February 1940, over 84,000 foreigners had volunteered to serve France which led to great organizational difficulties for the Foreign Legion. During this time a large number of recruits in the Legion were Spanish Republicans and East European Jews, many of whom held their personal ideologies very close to their hearts causing difficulty in their assimilation into the Foreign Legion. Not only did political refugees from Spain and East Europe prove difficult to assimilate into the Legion, but so did many of the reservist, former Legionnaires who returned to the Legion when called up as they were no longer young men and had families to look after. Most  of the Foreign Legion remained in training until the Germans launched their offensive against France on May 10, 1940.