[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 47th (London) Infantry Division

er cent of these men would be deployed to reinforce the 21st Army Group following the completion of their training and certification of fitness. On 15 August, what was left of the division was dispersed; this process took until the end of the month, when the division and its brigades were disbanded.

During 1944, the British Army suffered a severe shortage of manpower. In an effort to downsize the army and consolidate as many men within as few formations as possible to maintain efficiency, the War Office began disbanding divisions and restructuring the Army. It was believed that division numbers familiar to the British public held recruiting value, and should be retained. As a result, the 76th Infantry (Reserve) Division was disbanded; its GOC, Utterson-Kelso and his staff, reformed the division as the 47th Infantry (Reserve) Division on 1 September. As part of this process, the 76th's 213th Infantry Brigade was renumbered the 140th and assigned to the 47th. Likewise, the 220th Infantry Brigade was assigned from the 76th to the 47th and in November 1944 was re-designated the 141st Infantry Brigade. The 7th Infantry Brigade, which was previously part of the 9th Armoured Division, was also assigned to the new division. Soldiers who had completed their basic and their job-specific training were sent to reserve divisions for additional training. These soldiers were given five weeks of additional training at the section, platoon and company levels before undertaking a final three-day exercise. Troops would then be ready to be sent overseas to join other formations. Training was handled in this manner to relieve combat formations of the need to train new recruits. For example, the 9th Battalion, Dorsetshire Regiment trained soldiers who were then dispatched to other battalions within the regiment and the Royal Norfolk Regiment. The division remained in this role for the duration of the war. It was disbanded during the demobilisation of the British Armed Forces after the Second World War, and was non-existent by January 1946 when Utterson-Kelso retired. The TA was reformed in 1947 on a much smaller scale of nine divisions, which did not include the 47th.

General officers commanding

Order of battle

See also

 List of British divisions in World War II
 British Army Order of Battle (September 1939)
 British logistics in the Normandy Campaign

Notes
 Footnotes

 Citations

References

Further reading

External links

 

Infantry divisions of the British Army in World War II
Military units and formations in London
Military units and formations established in 1939
Military units and formations disestablished in 1944
Military units and formations established in 1944
Military units and formations disestablished in 1946