[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Majida El Roumi

ida had a special TV appearance in Christmas time during a recital hosted in the Lebanese Presidential Palace. President Michel Sulaiman and First Lady Wafaa hosted many public figures, politicians and artists in this occasion. The recital was broadcast live on the Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation.

Majida El Roumi's concerts included a tour in the Arab world in 2012–2013; she was part of the Batroun International Festival 2012  and hosted a concert in the amphitheatre of the Katara Cultural Village, Doha. The summer of 2013 was very active with Majida's sold-out concerts. After her concert is Megarama Centre in Casablanca, Morocco, she was part of the 49th edition of Carthage Music Festival; she worked for the first time with the Tunisian Symphony Orchestra. It was a one of a kind concert for her in Carthage and M. Mourad Saqli, president of the festival confirmed that Majida's night ranks first in terms of income among the whole performances. She also visited Chokri Belaid's shrine to pray for this person who gave for his country so much, and "Ben Saadoun" children hospital checking up how could their hard cases be treated and taken care of, after hosting a press conference explaining how exceptional this visit is.
Following her continuous success, concerts in Morocco were more demanded that she was part of the 9th edition of Twiza Festival in Tangier. and Timitar Music Testival in Agadir in its 10th year. Her visit to Tanger also included a visit to the children's orphan hospital in "Al Qortobi" center and give the kids some presents. Majida opened the Bahrain Summer Festival in August 2013, too; a full house concert with a wonderful performance with songs for love and peace on the Bahrain National Theater.

The Batroun International Festivals in Lebanon won Majida over one more time for another performance for the end of August in 2013.
The country's political situation was unstable as her concert followed two consecutive explosions in Beirut suburbs. People attended the sold-out concert leaving with moments filled with Majida's voice. It was also the only concert ever that Majida sang "Kalimat" twice with historical standing ovations between each and every song of the program.
Majida's first concert in 2014 and after 40 years of her career debut was for the closing season of Dubai Classics in February, it was held in Dubai World Trade Center. The festival opening was with international artist Sarah Brightman performing her Dreamchaser World Tour. Majida broke her 8 years of absence and went back to Egypt for a concert in March on the stage of Bibliotheca Alexandrina in Alexandria. Although Majida's Alexandria concert tickets were criticised for being overpriced, the event sold-out and was (as expected) a raging success. She opened her concert by a mix of both the Egyptian and Lebanese national anthem then sang most of her oldies and hits . In her press conference a day before the concert, Majida affirmed that the aim of this visit was just to encourage the tourism in Egypt after the crises the country has been through. She also pointed out she has nothing but respect for the June 2013 Egyptian protests emphasizing that she has no political intentions whatsoever. At the end of the concert, the mayor of Alexandria, Mr. Tarek Mahdi gave majida the golden key of the city in the presence of the minister of tourism in Egypt Mr. Hicham Zaazouh. A Day after her concert, Majida spent a touristic tour in the city and visitied Montaza Palace where she planted in its garden the first Lebanese Cedar since King Farouk's era, she also cried over Youssef Chahine's tomb as a loyal memory for the maker of her first movie.

In September 2021 Majida El Roumi fainted on stage while performing at Jordan's Jerash Festival, she returned minutes later to complete her set during the event's opening night.

Public positions 

Majida El Roumi was appointed an ambassador for the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) on World Food Day, 16 October 2001 in an official ceremony in Rome, Italy. She has participated in numerous round-table discussions on the role of FAO ambassadors in helping the Organization combat world hunger. As FAO ambassador, Majida inaugurated the First Annual Agricultural Week in Lebanon and dedicated the book prepared by FAO Sanabel El Kheir on 8 November 2005 during an official ceremony to celebrate World Food Day 60th Anniversary at the UNESCO Palace in Beirut.

In her acceptance speech, Majida said: "While pursuing our dreams and hopes, we tend to forget the importance of our bones, and we end up wearing them out – we realize only when it is too late that we didn't take care of them. This is why I am participating in this campaign, to shed light on this truth, because if we are aware we can avoid this terrible disease and thereby avoid misery, sadness and a poor quality of life."