[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tim Teufel

rror that led to both of Oakland's runs in their 2–1 victory. With one out and a runner on second in the seventh inning of game one of the 1986 series, Boston's Rich Gedman hit a ground ball to Teufel at second which Teufel misplayed, allowing the runner to score. Boston held on for the 1–0 victory.

He hit a home run in game five of the Series, but the Mets lost that game. For the series, Teufel batted .444 with four hits in nine at bats. The home run was the only postseason run batted in and run scored of Teufel's career.

 was Teufel's best season statistically, as he tied his 1984 home run and run batted in highs despite playing in only 97 games. His .308 batting average, .398 on-base percentage and .545 slugging percentage were career-highs. Despite significantly outperforming Wally Backman, Teufel continued to be used in a platoon role. He was given the chance to play every day in , but spent all of April below .200 and missed three weeks from mid-May with an injury, causing the platoon to be reinstated.

Teufel was used in just one game in the 1988 NLCS. In , Gregg Jefferies was given most of the time at second base and Teufel spent half of his time at first base. His playing time further decreased in  as he played in career-lows of 80 games with 175 at-bats while shifting between first, second and third base.

San Diego Padres
Teufel's  average was .118 on May 31 when the Mets traded him to the San Diego Padres for Garry Templeton. Teufel hit between .220 and .250 in all three seasons with San Diego while continuing to play at all three bases defensively. On April 14, , he went 5-for-5 for the second time in his career but the Padres lost the game on their way to a 101-loss season. Teufel was granted free agency and retired after the 1993 season.

Coaching career
Teufel returned to the Mets as a roving instructor for  and . He was named the manager of the Mets' Rookie-level minor league Brooklyn Cyclones for  and was promoted to the Single-A St. Lucie Mets for  and .
After the two seasons near .500, the Mets announced Teufel was being replaced by Gary Carter for . Teufel decided to take a break from baseball for the year.

He was named manager of the Savannah Sand Gnats on January 11,  and was a Mets representative at the 2008 Major League Baseball Draft. He returned as St. Lucie's manager in 2008 and 2009.  In 2010, in his first season managing the Double-A Binghamton Mets, he led the team to a 66–76 record and a fifth-place finish in the Eastern League. He was named manager of the Buffalo Bisons in January 2011. In 2011, he was named manager of Leones del Caracas in the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League. On November 16, 2011, he was replaced as manager by Carlos Lezcano.

Teufel returned to the New York Mets organization as the new third base coach in 2011, replacing former coach Chip Hale.
After the 2016 season, on November 15, 2016, it was announced that Teufel would be replaced by longtime Arizona Diamondbacks coach Glenn Sherlock. On Friday, November 25, it was announced that he would be the minor league instructor and club ambassador. Following the 2022 season, Teufel and the Mets parted ways.

Career stats

References

External links
, or The Ultimate Mets Database, or Tim Teufel - Baseballbiography.com

1958 births
Living people
All-American college baseball players
Baseball coaches from Connecticut
Baseball players from Connecticut
Binghamton Mets managers
Brooklyn Cyclones managers
Buffalo Bisons (minor league) managers
Clemson Tigers baseball players
Cotuit Kettleers players
International League MVP award winners
Major League Baseball second basemen
Major League Baseball third base coaches
Minnesota Twins players
New York Mets coaches
New York Mets players
New York Mets scouts
San Diego Padres players
Sportspeople from Greenwich, Connecticut
St. Petersburg Titans baseball players
Orlando Twins players
Toledo Mud Hens players