[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Far Cry 2

s possible provided earlier versions were removed. The game was compatible with the amBX peripheral designed by Philips, allowing greater immersion into the game's world through light and vibrations. Production was completed on October 14, 2008, when Ubisoft Montreal declared the game had gone gold.

Far Cry 2 was released in North America on October 21, 2008. It subsequently released on Ocrtober 23 in Australia, and October 24 in Europe. Alongside the standard edition, limited editions were released in North America and Europe. The GameStop-exclusive Pre-Order Edition came with a real-world map of the game's world and six additional in-game missions. The GAME-exclusive European version contained an artbook, a behind-the-scenes DVD, a guidebook, and the map. Far Cry 2 was reissued on February 21, 2014, as part of a bundle for Windows and its consoles as part of Far Cry: The Wild Expedition, a compilation of all Far Cry titles up to that point. It was also made backwards compatible with the Xbox One on January 17, 2018.

The console versions were published in Japan by Ubisoft's local branch. The 360 version was released on November 21, and the PS3 version on December 25. The Windows version, which included a translated manual, was published by E Frontier on December 12. A version for mobile phones was developed and published by Gameloft, releasing in 2008 after the PC and console versions. This version was reworked as a top-down third-person shooter, with the mercenary undergoing a series of ten missions.

As part of its promotion for PS3, environments themed after Far Cry 2 were released through PlayStation Home. Ubisoft eventually updated the game so multiplayer matches could be launched through Home. In November, a downloadable content bundle dubbed "Fortune's Pack" was released. It included three new weapons, an Exploding Crossbow, Ceremonial Shotgun, and Silenced Shotgun; vehicles, including a utility truck and ATV; and five new multiplayer maps. Ubisoft released three software patches between November 2008 and June 2009, fixing bugs and balancing in the single player and multiplayer campaigns, a higher gameplay difficulty option, in addition to adjustments to the map editor and how the game used hardware. The later patch also allowed the PC version to launch without needing the game disc.

A prequel novel, FarCry 2: Blutige Diamanten (Far Cry 2: Blood Diamonds), was written by Michael Bhatty and published as a German exclusive on May 21, 2008, by Panini Comics. The storyline focuses on veterinarian Paula as she struggles to survive in the middle of the civil war when she comes into possession of important information. Bhatty wrote the book in parallel with a novelization of the original game, using the first book to introduce characters who were featured in Blutige Diamanten. These characters were Marty Alencar, one of the playable mercenaries, and ex-CIA Zam agent who was a novel-exclusive character. Other mercenary characters from the main game were also included. He was given access to the game's assets to write the novel, though since it was early in production there were some differences such as Reuben's name. The different names were rationalized as Reuben using a pseudonym to protect himself. The characters were all given names native to Central and South Africa, with meanings related to their narrative role. Protagonist Paula was inspired by a namesake in the television series Daktari and the video game protagonist Lara Croft.

Reception 

The Windows version was the best-selling game in North America during its opening week. The 360 version was fourth, while the PS3 version was fifth. According to a report by the NPD Group, Far Cry 2 was the fifteenth best-selling Windows game during November 2008. By November 12, the game had sold one million copies worldwide across all platforms. Sales were up to 2.9 million by the following January. Far Cry 2 met with generally positive reviews from gaming journalists. On review aggregator website Metacritic, the Windows and console version were given scores of 85 points out of 100; the score was based on 34 reviews for Windows, 49 for PS3, and 75 for 360.

Thierry Nguyen  of 1Up.com said it qualified as one of the best shooters of 2008 despite many small problems with its gameplay balance, and Edge Magazine enjoyed the main gameplay and praised the twist ending's match with the overall theme. Christian Donlan of Eurogamer called it "a game that was born to struggle with itself", noting several elements that clashed with its aesthetic and enjoyable gameplay structure. Game Informers Matt Miller found the game's basic combat fairly weak, but otherwise praised its design and player freedom, citing the emotional connection developed with the Buddies as a highlight. Shaun McInnis of GameSpot was positive about the amount of content and freedom offered to players when approaching different missions.