[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Infantry Regiment Großdeutschland

ment Großdeutschland 1, and was joined in the division by Infanterie-Regiment Großdeutschland 2, which had been formed in Berlin. Supporting units in the form of a Panzer battalion, an assault gun battalion and increased flak, artillery and engineers were added with the upgrade to divisional status.

After the reorganization, the Großdeutschland Division was assigned to XLVIII.Panzerkorps during the opening phases of Fall Blau, the assault on Stalingrad. The division took part in the successful attacks to cross the upper Don river and to capture Voronezh. In August, the division was pulled back to the north bank of the Donets and held as a mobile reserve and counterattack force.

Grenadier Regiment Großdeutschland 1 October 1942 
On 1 Oct 1942, the regiment was renamed "Grenadier Regiment Großdeutschland". Their counterparts became Füsilier Regiment GD. After the Soviet Operation Uranus, the regiment was involved in heavy winter fighting with the rest of the division near Rzhev.

Kharkov
In January–February 1943, Großdeutschland and XLVIII Panzerkorps, along with the II SS Panzer Corps took part in the Third Battle of Kharkov. The division fought alongside the 1.SS Division Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler, 2.SS Division Das Reich and 3.SS Division Totenkopf during these battles. After the fall of Kharkov, the Großdeutschland was pulled back and refitted. This included equipping the division with a company of Tiger I tanks.

The 1st Battalion of Grenadier Regiment GD was re-equipped at this time with a handful of Sd Kfz 251 vehicles, mainly command vehicles but also some troop carriers (SPW), and by the fighting at Kharkov, the battalion under Major Otto-Ernst Remer was fully mechanized in 83 Sd.Kfz 251s. The Füsilier Regiment did not receive SPWs until the spring of 1944.

Panzergrenadier Regiment Großdeutschland
In June 1943, with the addition of armoured personnel carriers and a company of Tiger tanks, the division was redesignated Panzergrenadier-Division Großdeutschland, and Großdeutschland 1 was renamed "Panzergrenadier Regiment "Großdeutschland". Their counterpart in the division was named "Panzerfüsilier Regiment Großdeutschland".

Kursk
The newly re-equipped division was attached to the 4.Panzer-Armee of Generaloberst Hermann Hoth, in preparation to Operation Citadel, which aimed to sever the Kursk salient. During the buildup period, a battalion of new Panther Ausf. D tanks came under the operational control of Großdeutschland. After the launch of Citadel, the division was engaged in the fight to penetrate the southern flank of the salient. The new Panthers did not perform well, suffering from engine fires and many breaking down before reaching the battle. The division was pulled back to the village of Tomarovka on 18 July 1943.

Defensive battles
After the battle of Kursk, the division was transferred back to Heeresgruppe Mitte, and resumed its role as mobile reserve. GD fought around Karachev before being transferred back to XLVIII Panzerkorps in late August. For the rest of 1943, Großdeutschland was engaged in the fighting withdrawal from the eastern Ukraine, taking part in battles around Kharkov, Belgorod, and finally on the Dnieper, ending the year near Michurin-Rog, east of Kryvyi Rih.

1944
Großdeutschland continued fighting in the area of Krivoi-Rog early in January 1944 until it was transferred west for rest and refit. During this period, 1./Panzer Regiment 26 (Panther) joined the Panzer Regiment GD, and GD's I. Battalion moved to France to refit and train with the new tanks; they did not rejoin the division until after the Normandy invasion. The Panzergrenadier Regiment GD was a 4-battalion organization in 1944, though by June it was reduced to three.

The division, less the Panzer Regiment, was involved in heavy fighting from the Dniester to Northern Bessarabia. In early May 1944, the division, as a part of LVII.Panzerkorps took part in the Battle of Târgul Frumos, near Iaşi in Romania.

The division was next involved in the fighting around Podul. After a brief rest in early July, the division was transferred to northern Romania and then to East Prussia. Over the next months, Großdeutschland was involved in heavy fighting in both East Prussia and the Baltic States. The division was later forced to withdraw into Germany, where it was nearly destroyed during the battles in the Memel bridgehead.

1945 
By March 1945, the Division Großdeutschland had been reduced to around 4,000 men. These escaped by ferry from the collapsing Memel bridgehead and landed at Pillau. By 25 April 1945, the division ceased to exist, having been destroyed in the battles around Pillau. A few hundred of the surviving personnel made their way to Schleswig-Holstein and surrendered to British forces. The remainder surrendered to the Soviet army.

Großdeutschland Insignia