[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 91]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ed in Valeria an inborn love of splendour that often
opened hungry and unsatisfied jaws.

She had never looked so brilliant or so handsome.

Professor Theobald's face cleared. He explained to Mrs. Temperley that
they had been discussing the complexity of human character, and had come
to the conclusion that it was impossible to really understand even the
simplest man or woman alive. Professor Theobald said that it was a
dispensation of Providence which intended the human race for social
life. Lady Engleton upbraided the author of the cynical utterance.

"Which of us can dare to face his own basest self?" the culprit
demanded. "If any one is so bold, I fear I must accuse him (or even her)
of lack of self-knowledge rather than give praise for spotlessness."

"Oh, I don't believe all these dreadful things about my fellows!" cried
Miss Du Prel, flinging up her fine head defiantly; "one is likely to
find in them more or less what one expects. It's the same everywhere. If
you go seeking mole-hills and worms, and put nose to ground on the scent
for carrion, you will find them all, with the range of snow-capped Alps
in full view, and the infinite of blue above your blind head!"

Hadria, in justice, could not refuse to acknowledge that Professor
Theobald was open-minded.

"True," he said, "it is dangerous to seek for evil, unless you naturally
love it, and then----"

"You are past praying for," said Professor Fortescue.

"Or at least you never pray," added Hadria.

Both Professors looked at her, each with an expression of enquiry. It
was difficult to understand from exactly what sources of experience or
intuition the singular remark could have sprung.

The conversation took a slight swerve.

Professor Theobald contended that all our fond distinctions of vice and
virtue, right and wrong, were mere praise and blame of conditions and
events.

"We like to fancy the qualities of character inherent, while really they
are laid on by slow degrees, like paint, and we name our acquaintance by
the colour of his last coat."

This view offended Miss Du Prel. Joseph Fleming and Lord Engleton
rallied round her. Hubert Temperley joined them. Man, the sublime, the
summit of the creation, the end and object of the long and painful
processes of nature; sin-spotted perhaps, weak and stumbling, but still
the masterpiece of the centuries--was this great and mysterious creature
to be thought of irreverently as a mere plain surface for _paint_? Only
consider it! Professor Theobald's head went down between his shoulders
as he laughed.

"The sublime creature would not look well _un_painted, believe me."

"He dare not appear in that plight even to himself, if Theobald be right
in what he stated just now," said Professor Fortescue.

"Life to a character is like varnish to wood," asserted Miss Du Prel;
"it brings out the grain."

"Ah!" cried Professor Theobald, "Then _you_ insist on varnish, I on
paint."

"There is a difference."

"And it affects your respective views throughout," added Professor
Fortescue, "for if the paint theory be correct, then it is true that to
know one's fellows is impossible, you can only know the upper coat;
whereas if the truth lies in varnish, the substance of the nature is
revealed to you frankly, if you have eyes to trace the delicacies of the
markings, which tell the secrets of sap and fibre, of impetus and check:
all the inner marvels of life and growth that go forward in that most
botanic thing, the human soul."

"Professor Fortescue is eloquent, but he makes one feel distressingly
vegetable," said Temperley.

"Oh! not unless one has a human soul," Lady Engleton reassured him.

"Am I to understand that you would deprive me of mine?" he asked, with a
courtly bow.

"Not at all; souls are private property, or ought to be."

"I wish one could persuade the majority of that!" cried Professor
Fortescue.

"Impossible," said Theobald. "The chief interest of man is the condition
of his neighbour's soul."

"Could he not be induced to look after his own?" Hadria demanded.

"All fun would be over," said Professor Fortescue.

"I wish one could have an Act of Parliament, obliging every man to leave
his neighbour's soul in peace."

"You would sap the very source of human happiness and enterprise,"
Professor Fortescue asserted, fantastically.

"I should be glad if I could think the average human being had the
energy to look after _any_ business; even other people's!" cried Lady
Engleton.

"I believe that, as a matter of fact, the soul is a hibernating
creature," said Theobald, with a chuckle.

"It certainly has its drowsy winters," observed Hadria.

"Ah! but its spring awakenings!" cried Miss Du Prel.

The chime of a clock startled them with its accusation of lingering too
long. The hostess remonstrated at the breaking up the party. Why should
they hurry away?

"The time when we could lay claim to have 'hurried'