[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chapayev and Void

critics that the novel advocates solipsism. She wrote that "while the protagonist’s search for authentic being and self-definition leads him to disregard the meaning others impose on his life, the novel recognizes the ethical problem of reducing the reality of others.

Buddhist motifs in the novel 

The novel "Chapaev and Void" absorbed the entire cultural layer of Buddhist religion. The work is built on the philosophy of Zen Buddhism, according to which "active penetration into the nature of things means discovering a new world, and at the intuitive level. And this is facilitated by the koans (reasoning) that Pelevin uses in his texts as dialogues between the characters.

In the novel the commander Vasily Ivanovich Chapayev appears as a Zen Buddhist Guru, a guru who instructs his pupil, Peter, opening for him the way to Nirvana. Emptiness (Sanskrit "shunyata") is one of the basic concepts of Buddhism.

Chapaev's armored car, in which Peter makes his escape into emptiness, has slits resembling "half-closed Buddha eyes" for a reason. And the escape itself "is nothing more than a variation on the theme of the Buddhist "liberation" from the world of suffering.  Only by abandoning one's "illusory" self and belief in the reality of the world around us through "enlightenment" as "awareness of the absence of thought" can one achieve a "buddha state," i.e., nirvana.

Nirvana is nothing and nowhere. Chapaev acts as a bodhisattva Guru for Peter, rejoicing when he answers the question "Who are you?" with "I don't know," and when asked "Where are we?""Nowhere." Awareness of oneself and the world as the Void is the last stage on the path to Nirvana, there is Nirvana itself, which cannot be described.

Reception
According to Vaingurt in 2018, many critics initially "accused the novel of advocating solipsism and radical disengagement."

A reviewer for Publishers Weekly was highly positive, writing that the work "will surely cement the reputation of Pelevin [...] as one of contemporary Russia's leading writers." The reviewer argued that while the novel risks becoming a mess, the "loosely applied Buddhist principles" ultimately make it cohesive. In The New York Times, Scott Bradfield argued that the satire is sometimes overkill, but claimed to admire the "genuine concern for the people who get lost in today's ideological battlefield". Bradfield wrote that "Pelevin has a gift for making complicated philosophical arguments feel both urgent and humane, and his translator, Andrew Bromfield, makes sure even the knottiest passages come through loud and clear."

By 2000, The Observer had listed Buddha's Little Finger among Pelevin's "acclaimed" novels. In 2000, a writer for Kirkus Reviews wrote that it is messier and more "self-indulgent" than other works by Pelevin, but is still quite compelling. The reviewer dismissed the satire on Western values as "clumsily transparent", but praised Pelevin's re-creation of Russia's early 20th-century literary culture. On Salon.com, Craig Offman said that the work is "[a]s astounding as it is frustrating [...] shabby, messy, but often visionary". He said the vignettes are "alternately biting and toothless", dismissing Maria's vision of the airplane piloted by Arnold Schwarzenegger while praising Serdyuk's vision of seppuku with a Japanese businessman. Offman dismissed certain Buddhism-inspired passages, but praised Pelevin as skilled in description and metaphor.

In 2017, scholar Sofya Khagi wrote that the novel is a "now-classic" work.

References

Novels by Victor Pelevin
1996 novels
Novels set in Russia
Russian novels adapted into films
1996 Russian novels