[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Connecticut Military Department

gade of the 26th Infantry Division.

Today, the Connecticut Army National Guard is composed of approximately 5,000 soldiers.   It maintains facilities in 22 communities.  In 1999, these facilities included 22 armories, eight maintenance shops, four aviation facilities, four training site facilities.

Its units include the 85th Troop Command, 143rd Area Support Group, 14th Civil Support Team (WMD), 248th Engineer Company, 250th Engineer Company, 143d and 643d Military Police Companies, 141st and 142d Medical Companies, the 143d Combat Service Support Battalion (formerly FSB), the 1109th Aviation Depot (AVCRAD), the 169th Regiment (RTI), and the 192d Military Police Battalion. The primary combat unit is the 1st Battalion, 102d Infantry Regiment, assigned to the 86th Infantry Brigade Combat Team, which is headquartered in Vermont.

Aviation

One base is the Army Aviation Support Facility at Bradley International Airport where the 1st Battalion, 169th Aviation Regiment operate the CH-47F, UH-60A/L, HH-60M & C-12U The unit also operates Detachment 2, Company C, 3d Battalion, 126th Aviation Regiment (HH-60M) and Company B, 2d Battalion (General Support), 104th Aviation Regiment (CH-47F)

Connecticut Air National Guard

The Connecticut Air National Guard traces its history back to World War I with the beginnings also of the United States Army Air Service. It comprises approximately 1,200 airmen and officers assigned to the 103rd Airlift Wing and 103rd Air Control Squadron. The 103rd Airlift Wing is  based in East Granby at the Bradley Air National Guard Base at Bradley International Airport.

Known as the "Flying Yankees", the 103rd Airlift Wing is the third-oldest Air National Guard unit in the United States with a history dating back to World War I. Until 2008, the organization was known as the 103rd Fighter Wing (103 FW), operationally gained by the Air Combat Command (ACC) and equipped with A-10 Thunderbolt aircraft.  As a result of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) actions, the wing's A-10 fighter aircraft were reassigned to other units and the 103rd reequipped with C-21 Learjet aircraft as a "placeholder" flying mission under the Air National Guard's VANGUARD program until the 103rd's next flying mission could be determined.  Following this change in mission, the unit was redesignated the 103rd Airlift Wing and placed under the operational claimancy of Air Mobility Command (AMC).

The 103rd Air Control Squadron is based in Orange, Connecticut, and is known as "Yankee Watch". The mission of the 103rd Air Control Squadron is real-time detection, identification and surveillance of air traffic for combat operations and homeland defense.  The 103rd ACS is the oldest unit of its kind in the United States military.

The Connecticut Air National Guard counts one astronaut amongst its former members, Jack Swigert, who flew on Apollo 13. Swigert served with the CT ANG from April 1960 to October 1965.

Brigadier General Daniel L Peabody is the current Assistant Adjutant General-Air, for the CT ANG.

Connecticut State Guard
The Connecticut State Guard is the organized militia portion of the state military. As a State Defense Force it is a military entity authorized by both the State Code of Connecticut and Executive Order. The State Defense Force (SDF) is the state’s authorized militia and assumes the state mission of the Connecticut National Guard in the event the Guard is mobilized. The SDF comprises retired active and reserve military personnel and selected professional persons who volunteer their time and talents in further service to their state.

Connecticut's state defense force consists of four active units known as the Governor's Guards.  There are two foot guard units and two horse guard units which I preserve the lineage and heritage of Connecticut's infantry and cavalry units since the colonial period.  While all four companies are primarily ceremonial, the horse companies do drill in mounted search and rescue.  The First Company of the Horse Guard was created in 1788 as the Independent Volunteer Troop of Horse Guards in Hartford.  A second Horse Guard company was created in 1808 in New Haven.  Both were created to serve and protect the governor between his travels between New Haven and Hartford.

The Connecticut State Guard Reserve is currently inactive.

Connecticut Naval Militia
The Naval militia of the state remains an authorized force by state statute, but has been inactive for several decades with no current membership.

Agency history

The Agency traces its roots to May 11, 1637, when the General Courts of the Colony of Connecticut established a military arm of the government.  This arm of the colony's government was responsible for overseeing and regulating the militiamen of the colony.  Agency personnel participated in several wars with Native Americans as well as with and against European colonial powers.