[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# University of Eswatini

The University of Eswatini (or UNESWA; formerly known as the University of Swaziland, or UNISWA) is the national university of Eswatini.

It was established by act of parliament in 1982. The university developed from the University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland (UBLS), formerly known as the University of Basutoland, 
Bechuanaland and Swaziland (UBBS), which was established in 1964. 
It became the University of Botswana and Swaziland when the Lesotho campus withdrew to form the National University of Lesotho on 20 October 1975, and then became an independent national 
university in 1982.

The university has eight faculties, which are located in the three campuses of the university. Luyengo campus houses the Agriculture and Consumer Sciences faculties, Mbabane campus is home to the faculty of Health Sciences, and Kwaluseni campus is the main campus. The University of Eswatini is mainly an undergraduate institution, offering bachelor's degrees. There are a few postgraduate programmes including two Ph.D. programmes.

The head of the university is the Chancellor, who is His Majesty King Mswati III. Its daily management is the responsibility of the Vice Chancellor, who is Professor Justice Thwala. UNISWA is home to research centers and institutes. 
The university also publishes research periodicals such as the UNISWA Research Journal of Agriculture, Science and Technology and the UNISWA Research Journal.

History

Tertiary education in Eswatini began with the establishment of the University of Basutoland, Bechuanaland and Swaziland in 1964 and continued via the University of Botswana and Swaziland between 1976 and 1982. It was only after the splitting of the latter institution in 1982 that the University of Swaziland (UNISWA) was finally established. The Swaziland Agricultural College and University Centre, which came into being in 1966, had developed independently, and it now constitutes UNESWA's Faculty of Agriculture and is situated on the Luyengo campus of the university. 
Main recipients of the courses offered are officers working for the Ministry of Agriculture and Education.

There are two other campuses which, like Luyengo, are situated in the Mbabane/Manzini corridor in the west-central area of the country. The main campus is at Kwaluseni, which was financed jointly by the United Kingdom, United States, Canada, the Anglo American Corporation, and the Eswatini government. The campus houses the faculties of Commerce, Education, Humanities, and Science. The Mbabane campus houses the Faculty of Health Sciences, established in 1996. Certificate, diploma and degree programmes are offered in general and specialised nursing, community mental health science and environmental health services.

Since achieving full university status in the early 1980s, UNESWA has grown in accordance with its chief mandate, which is to assist in the national development effort through manpower production. The output of teachers, nurses and agricultural experts has risen steadily, while the double-subject-major degrees on offer in both the humanities and the sciences have been designed to provide teachers with more than one speciality – an important qualification where teacher shortages are endemic.

The electronic and electrical engineering programme offered by the Faculty of Science and Engineering reflects the need to rapidly develop the science and technology expertise within the country.

Governance and administration
The University of Eswatini is governed by the University Council which is appointed by the Chancellor. The Chancellor of the university is His Majesty King Mswati III. In this capacity, he confers all degrees during the University graduation ceremony. The daily management of the university is the responsibility of the Vice-Chancellor with the assistance of the Pro-Vice-Chancellor. Both are appointed by the University Council and are accountable to it. The Vice-Chancellor is professor J.M Thwala. In addition there is a University Senate which is responsible for academic authority of the university. It is chaired by the Vice-Chancellor. The Faculties of the university are run by the Deans who are also chairpersons of the respective Faculty boards. They are accountable to the University Senate. Other officers of the university are responsible for various affairs such as the Dean of Student Affairs, Registrar, Physical Planner among others.

Students are represented by the Student Representative Council (SRC) which falls under the Student Welfare Office which is run by the Dean of Student Affairs. Issues pertaining to student accommodation and residences on the campuses is the responsibility of the warden also under the Student Welfare Office.

Campuses