[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 58]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ded by his rider. This
may very properly be called the _education_ of an animal, since by these
means he is obliged to acquire habits which he would never have learned
had he been left to himself. Now, I knew that the poor bear had been
frequently beaten and very ill-used, in order to make him submit to be
led about with a string, and exhibited as a sight. I knew that he had
been accustomed to submit to man, and to tremble at the sound of the
human voice, and I depended upon the force of these impressions for
making him submit without resistance to the authority I assumed over
him. You saw I was not deceived in my opinion, and by these means I
probably prevented the mischief that he might otherwise have done to
some of those women or children.

As Mr Barlow was talking in this manner, he perceived that Tommy's arm
was bloody; and inquiring into the reason, he heard the history of his
adventure with the monkey. Mr Barlow then looked at the wound, which he
found of no great consequence, and told Tommy that he was sorry for his
accident, and imagined that he was now too courageous to be daunted by a
trifling hurt. Tommy assured him he was, and proceeded to ask some
questions concerning the nature of the monkey, which Mr Barlow answered
in the following manner:--"The monkey is a very extraordinary animal,
which closely resembles a man in his shape and appearance, as perhaps
you may have observed. He is always found to inhabit hot countries, the
forests of which, in many parts of the world, are filled with
innumerable bands of these animals. He is extremely active, and his
fore-legs exactly resemble the arms of a man; so that he not only uses
them to walk upon, but frequently to climb trees, to hang by the
branches, and to take hold of his food with. He supports himself upon
almost every species of wild fruit which is found in those countries, so
that it is necessary he should be continually scrambling up and down the
highest trees, in order to procure himself a subsistence. Nor is he
contented always with the diet which he finds in the forest where he
makes his residence. Large bands of these creatures will frequently
sally out to plunder the gardens in the neighbourhood, and many
wonderful stories are told of their ingenuity and contrivance." "What
are these?" said Tommy. "It is said," answered Mr Barlow, "that they
proceed with all the caution and regularity which could be found in men
themselves. Some of these animals are placed as spies to give notice to
the rest, in case any human being should approach the garden; and,
should that happen, one of the sentinels informs them by a peculiar
chattering, and they all escape in an instant." "I can easily believe
that," answered Harry, "for I have observed, that when a flock of rooks
alight upon a farmer's field of corn, two or three of them always take
their station upon the highest tree they can find; and if any one
approaches they instantly give notice by their cawing, and all the rest
take wing directly and fly away." "But," answered Mr Barlow, "the
monkeys are said to be yet more ingenious in their thefts; for they
station some of their body at a small distance from each other, in a
line that reaches quite from the forest they inhabit to the particular
garden they wish to plunder. When this is done, several of them mount
the fairest fruit-trees, and, picking the fruit, throw it down to their
companions who stand below; these again cast it to others at a little
distance, and thus it flies from hand to hand till it is safely
deposited in the woods or mountains whence they came. When they are
taken very young they are easily tamed, but always retain a great
disposition to mischief, as well as to imitate everything they see done
by men. Many ridiculous stories are told of them in this respect. I have
heard of a monkey that resided in a gentleman's family, and that
frequently observed his master undergo the operation of shaving. The
imitative animal one day took it into his head to turn barber, and,
seizing in one hand a cat that lived in the same house, and a bottle of
ink in the other, he carried her up to the top of a very fine marble
staircase. The servants were all attracted by the screams of the cat,
who did not relish the operation which was going forward; and, running
out, were equally surprised and diverted to see the monkey gravely
seated upon the landing-place of the stairs, and holding the cat fast in
one of his paws, while with the other he continually applied ink to
puss's face, rubbing it all over, just as he had observed the barber do
to his master. Whenever the cat struggled to escape, the monkey gave her
a pat with his paw, chattering all the time, and making the most
ridiculous grimaces; and when she was quiet, he applied himself to his
bottle, and continued the operation. But I have heard a more tragic
story of the imitative genius of these animals. One of them lived in a
f