[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Civil War: Front Line

ich finally resigns from the Daily Bugle because he knows they won't print what he's discovered. The newly released Speedball meets with a costume maker, who  says he can see it used for no means less than torture. Robbie (Speedball) reveals it is for himself and assumes his new identity as Penance.

During the final battle of the pro- and anti-registration forces, several people are killed. Some days later, Sally Floyd and Ben Urich visit Captain America aboard The Raft. Both have quit their jobs. He expresses regret he didn't try for peaceful discussions earlier. Floyd derides him for his lack of knowledge of current American culture. The two reporters decide to form a news outlet called 'Frontlines'. They meet with Iron Man. The duo believe that he has orchestrated much of the preceding events for the purposes of registration, because he believed the alternative would be far worse. Angered, Iron Man kicks them out of his office.

Notes
Each issue from #1 to #9 concludes with a short story comparing the events of Civil War to real historical conflicts. Each piece is accompanied by portions of a relevant text.
Issue 1 - Anonymous poem from Poston War Relocation Center. Compares with Spider-Man web-swinging to the Statue of Liberty whilst considering his identity reveal decision.
Issue 2 - Text by Plutarch. Compares Iron Man's arrest of Prodigy with Julius Caesar crossing the Rubicon.
Issue 3 - Futility by Wilfred Owen.
Issue 4 - Goodnight Saigon by Billy Joel. Compares an American action against Viet Cong with the government ambush of the rebels earlier in the issue.
Issue 5 - Letters from two brothers during the American Civil War, James and Alexander Campbell. They fought in a battle, each on opposing sides. They later find out they had fought each other.  Compares the event to Iron Man and Spider-Man attacking a group of unregistered heroes that were resisting arrest.
Issue 6 - High Flight by John Gillespie Magee. Compares the Battle of Britain to aerial conflict in the story.
Issue 7 - An epigraph by A. E. Housman, taken from his collection More Poems, comparing the dead of the Somme offensive to the Atlanteans killed by the Green Goblin.
Issue 8 - Into Battle by Julian Grenfell comparing the royalists and the Parliamentarists in the English Civil War of 1642 to the Pro-Registration and Anti-Registration groups.

Front Line limited series tie ins were also used for World War Hulk (World War Hulk: Front Line), Secret Invasion (Secret Invasion: Front Line) and Siege (Siege: Embedded).

Collected editions

See also
 Civil War II

References

2006 comics debuts
2007 comics endings
Comics set in New York City
Marvel Comics limited series