[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dave Allison

turned to the IHL as coach of the Milwaukee Admirals, the Nashville Predators' IHL affiliate, leading the team to a 42–33–7 record, but losing in the first round of the playoffs.  He moved with the club to the American Hockey League (AHL) in 2001–02, but missed the playoffs with a 30–35–10–5 record.

Allison then took a few years away from the professional ranks before taking over the Iowa Stars of the AHL, the Dallas Stars' affiliate, leading them to a 41–31–1–7 record before losing in the first round of the playoffs in his first season with the franchise. In between, he spent time behind the bench of the Fort Frances, Ontario-based Borderland Thunder of the Superior International Junior Hockey League.

Allison was named head coach of the AHL's Peoria Rivermen on June 13, 2012, replacing Jared Bednar as head coach. He was an assistant coach of the AHL's Chicago Wolves for the 2013–14 AHL season.

Allison became the head coach and general manager of the Des Moines Buccaneers in the United States Hockey League in 2014. He was relieved after the team finished last in the Western Conference in the 2017–18 season.

Allison became the fourth head coach in the history of the North American Hockey League's Fairbanks Ice Dogs in January 2022. He compiled a 41–33–7–2 record in 83 regular season games, and 2–3 mark in 5 playoff appearances as the head coach of the Fairbanks Ice Dogs before leaving the team on April 3, 2023, in "an amicable parting."

Personal
He is the brother of ex-NHL player Mike Allison. Allison resides in Des Moines with his wife and three daughters.

Career statistics

Regular season and playoffs

NHL coaching statistics

References

External links
 

1959 births
Living people
American Hockey League coaches
Canadian ice hockey coaches
Canadian ice hockey defencemen
Canadian people of English descent
Colorado Avalanche scouts
Cornwall Royals (QMJHL) players
Halifax Citadels players
Ice hockey people from Ontario
Kingston Frontenacs coaches
Indianapolis Ice players
International Hockey League (1945–2001) head coaches
Montreal Canadiens players
Muskegon Lumberjacks players
Newmarket Saints players
Nova Scotia Oilers players
Nova Scotia Voyageurs players
Ottawa Senators coaches
Pittsburgh Penguins scouts
Sherbrooke Canadiens players
Sportspeople from Fort Frances
Undrafted National Hockey League players