[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of controversies involving the Royal Canadian Mounted Police

ing roles at the RCMP. According to the CBC in 2019, around 2,500 women were expected to claim claims under both of the settlements. The payouts are only allowed for living officers, with payments denied to the families of Mounties who had committed suicide since coming forward about the harassment.

Animal abuse
In 2017, allegations of animal abuse against horses used for the RCMP Musical Ride emerged. Following the allegations, the riding master conducting the musical rides, Mike Côté was removed from his post and restricted to administrative duties. This revived previous allegations going back as far as 2004 that the officer severely beat a horse until it was bleeding, punching another horse and ramming another into a wall. Other previous claims of public concerns were cited that he was promoted to a horse master.

Four years earlier, Staff Sgt. Caroline O’Farrell filed a lawsuit against thirteen colleagues in the musical ride alleging physical and sexual abuse.

Kinder Morgan pipeline in Canada
During early stages of the construction of the controversial Kinder Morgan pipeline which was met by massive protests and physical resistance, the RCMP was brought in to disperse them. This resulted in a number of arrests. Amongst those arrested were Member of Parliament Elizabeth May and Tamo Campos, grandson of David Suzuki, which the activist made a speech against, and criticized the RCMP's actions.

Opponents of the Kinder Morgan pipeline alleged that the RCMP deliberately targeted them for arrests.

Homophobia
On November 11, 2020 the Honourable Michel Bastarache, C.C. Q.C. Independent Assessor, released his report Broken Dreams Broken Lives. In it Bastarache wrote "What I learned led me to conclude that a toxic culture prevails in the RCMP. This culture encourages, or at least tolerates, misogynistic, racist and homophobic attitudes among many members of the RCMP."

See also
 List of cases of police brutality in Canada
 Royal Commission of Inquiry into Certain Activities of the RCMP
 Corruption in Canada
 Human rights in Canada

References

Further reading
 RCMP scandals and setbacks since 2006, The Globe and Mail, March 29, 2007
 Tips For Canadian Citizens On How To Survive An Encounter With The RCMP, Cannabis Culture Magazine, September 2, 2007
 Kerry Pither's Dark Days: The Story of Four Canadians Tortured in the Name of Fighting Terror documents how three men targeted by an RCMP national security investigation were detained, interrogated and tortured overseas. It tells the stories of Ahmad El Maati, Abdullah Almalki, Maher Arar and Muayyed Nureddin.
The fifth estate

External links
RCMP Watch

Canadian commissions and inquiries
Legal history of Canada
Royal Canadian Mounted Police
Human rights abuses in Canada
Royal Canadian Mounted Police
Police misconduct in Canada
Royal Canadian Mounted Police
Lists of events in Canada