[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# TT1

such as Isis, daughter of Khonsu. Two foetuses or infants were buried in yellow-painted wooden boxes. Nine burials were in coffins (eight adults, one child), and 11 individuals were buried without coffins. The bodies of the child and the two foetuses were given floral garlands.

Coffins and mummies

The most elaborate and best studied coffin sets are those of Sennedjem, Iyneferti, Khonsu and Isis. Sennedjem was buried in a wooden rectangular sarcophagus or outer coffin shaped like a shrine. This was mounted on sledge runners and fitted with four working wheels; the wheels and axles were not found in the tomb but the wheels are inferred to have been of solid wood  in diameter based on the areas of lost paint on the runners. The background is entirely yellow, possibly in imitation of gold. The protective goddesses Serket and Neith, and Isis and Nephthys are depicted at the head and foot ends respectively. The sides have two registers of decoration, the lower of which depicts the usual funerary complement of the four sons of Horus, Anubis, and Thoth. Scenes in the upper register and lid are based on scenes from the Book of the Dead. Sennedjem's coffined body was originally placed on a funerary bed decorated with snakes within the sarcophagus. However, at the time of discovery this sarcophagus had been disassembled to allow more space for further interments; the coffins of Khonsu were placed on the bed instead.

Sennedjem had a single mummy-shaped coffin and a mummy board. The coffin decoration is typical of the time period but entirely yellow with coloured scenes instead of black-based with gilded bands and figures. The lid depicts him as a wrapped mummy wearing a naturalistic wig and the short beard of the living. His mummy board, placed inside the coffin atop the body, depicts him as a young man in a wig, broad collar, and white linen kilt. More specifically Sennedjem is represented as an akh, an effective spirit that has passed the trials of the afterlife. His mummy was also equipped with a cartonnage mummy mask. Sousa suggests, through comparison with his coffin, that the mask of Khonsu in the Metropolitan Museum really belongs to Sennedjem but was swapped at some point before its sale. His body was equipped with three pectorals, one of which is a heart scarab. His unwrapped mummy has not been X-rayed or CT-scanned so nothing is known about his health or age at death.

Iyneferti was buried in a mummiform coffin with a mummy board and mask. Her coffin lid depicts her as a wrapped mummy with her arms crossed over her chest and hands open. She wears a long wig with a floral fillet and ribbons and a large collar with lotus terminals covers most of her chest. The inner mummy board depicts her in a long white dress; her left arm is bent over her chest. Two of her daughters are depicted kneeling and mourning under the feet of her mummy board; their pose and the position of the scene recalls the depictions of Isis and Nephthys who protect the deceased. Like her husband, she is also fitted with a mask, which is "practically a replica of the upper third of her coffin". Iyneferti's mummified body was wrapped in palm-rib matting and four layers of linen bandaging and padding. She wore a faience ring on each hand; one had the throne name of Amenhotep III on the bezel and the other had the name of Amun. Iyneferti was unwrapped in 1906 and in 1933 her body was examined in the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Her mummy was skeletonised but retained her long hair which was "parted in the middle and braided", coloured blonde by the embalming process. She died as an elderly woman of at least 75 years of age; she was toothless and had rheumatoid arthritis of the spine. She had a healed fracture (Colles' fracture) of her right wrist. She may have been blind towards the end of her life, based on a prayer dedicated by her to Thoth.