[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1st Arkansas Infantry Regiment (Union)

The 1st Regiment Arkansas Volunteer Infantry (1863–1865) was an infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. Although Arkansas joined the Confederate States of America in 1861, not all of its citizens supported secession. Arkansas formed some 48 infantry regiments to serve in the Confederate Army, but also formed another 11 regiments that served in the Union Army.

Background 
During the antebellum period, Arkansas geopolitics could be split into two regions. The eastern counties along the Mississippi River, with their large slave plantations situated on flat fertile land, and the northwest, with its rolling hills taken up by yeomen and small towns. Unlike their fellow Arkansans on the opposite side of the state, cotton was not king in the northwest. This region was also located next to the Indian Territory, where no doubt citizens took comfort in the fact of having Fort Smith, a Federal Army Fort, of which to offer them protection. With these conditions, it is easy to see why the Northwest was the most Pro-Union area in the state. The men of this region were also one of the first to offer themselves as soldiers for the Federal government during the Mexican-American War. In April 1861, in response to a confederate flag raising at Fayetteville, unionists raised the Stars and Stripes above the courthouse. However, this region had by no means had a unionists majority. Following Arkansas seceding from the Union, men rushed to enlist in the confederate army from all across Arkansas, with multiple regiments being organized in the Northwest. Despite this Arkansas unionists still held firm, albeit in secrecy, such as the organization of the Arkansas Peace Society. Those who spoke out against secession found themselves being increasingly harassed by confederate sympathizers. Some decided to move into the mountains for seclusion and protection while others fled the state entirely.

Northwest Arkansas saw extensive action early in the Civil War following the Battle of Wilson's Creek. In February 1862 a federal army, under the command of General Curtis, entered Arkansas south of Springfield, Missouri. Some men, after seeing this large Yankee army invade their state, were compelled to enlist in confederate regiments as a way of protecting their homes. For those who had been harassed it was a sight of relief. The latter of which would have their hopes dashed no soon as they began.

After the Battle of Pea Ridge, on March 7, 1862, General Curtis began to move his army east with the intent of capturing Memphis, Tennessee but after being ordered to send half his army to Missouri and being defeated near Searcy, Curtis then decided to occupy the city of Helena. Along the way his army was joined by a few of the local unionists mentioned earlier. These men wanted to fight the same men who had harassed them and their families and became dismayed after learning that the army's destination would take them east to the Mississippi River. Nonetheless these men carried on and were eventually mustered in a battalion of infantry in the summer of 1862. Their enlistments only lasted 6 months and in that time they saw no fighting and were later mustered out in Missouri. Another Arkansas Regiment was also formed in the same summer, that being the 1st Arkansas Union Cavalry. Unlike the 1st Arkansas Infantry battalion, the 1st Arkansas Cavalry saw much fighting in Northwest Arkansas, mainly skirmishing with confederate guerrillas. In the fall of 1862, unionists would be given good news as another large Union army was once again entering Northwest Arkansas.

Organization