[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Effi Eitam

2008 Ahi merger with Likud
In December 2008, Eitam and his Ahi political party merged with the Likud party. In 2009–2010, he visited a series of US campuses as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's "Special Emissary" to the "Caravan for Democracy" program of the Jewish National Fund.

Ideology

Arabs
Eitam has called Israeli Arabs a "cancer": "[T]he Israeli Arabs are in large measure the ticking bomb beneath the whole democratic Israeli order inside the Green Line. Even today, in the Galilee and the Negev, a de facto autonomy of theirs is being created, which could in practice turn Israel into the bubble of Metropolitan Tel Aviv.… Therefore, I say that the State of Israel today faces an existential threat that is characterized by being an elusive threat, and elusive threats by their nature resemble cancer. Cancer is a type of illness in which most of the people who die from it die because they were diagnosed too late. By the time you grasp the size of the threat, it is already too late to deal with it." Commenting on this, the veteran Israeli journalist, Akiva Eldar, wrote in Haaretz, "The fact that the Nazis were especially fond of this [cancer] metaphor is probably not lost on the general [public]."

In 2004, Eitam called the Palestinians "dark forces", and said: "We will have to kill them all... I don't mean all the Palestinians, but the ones with evil in their heads."
In 2002, the Israeli Army used Nidal Abu Muihsein as a human shield, causing his death; Eitam called this "very moral". In October 2005, Eitam opposed a Supreme Court of Israel ruling that banned the IDF from using Palestinians as human shields, stating that, "Supreme court judges demonstrated today that their pity for the cruel will prove cruel to the merciful and will expose Israeli soldiers to more danger". In November 2006, he called for an expulsion of most Palestinians from the West Bank: "Expel most of the Judea and Samaria Arabs from here. We cannot be with all these Arabs, and we cannot give up the land." In March 2008, he called for the expulsion of Israeli Arab members of the Knesset: "One day, we will expel you to Gaza from this house and from the national home of the Jewish people."

Iran
Eitam has called on the U.S. to attack Iran and destroy its suspected nuclear weapons program, adding that Israel was well-prepared to take such action alone, as "a nuclear Iran is not an option for Israel". In February 2007, he stated that in three to four years, Iran would "have a [nuclear] bomb and the missile to deliver it".

References

External links

The Official Website of Brigadier General Effie Eitam
May 2007 Interview and transcript of that interview. Eitam calls for Olmert to resign.
Eitam's Medal of Distinguished Service and the story behind it  

1952 births
Living people
Graduates of the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst
Baalei teshuva
Israeli generals
Israeli settlers
Israeli people of Latvian-Jewish descent
Neo-Zionism
Israeli Orthodox Jews
Mercaz HaRav alumni
People from Northern District (Israel)
Recipients of the Medal of Distinguished Service
National Union (Israel) politicians
National Religious Party leaders
Ahi (political party) politicians
University of Haifa alumni
Ministers of Housing of Israel
Members of the 16th Knesset (2003–2006)
Members of the 17th Knesset (2006–2009)