[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Religious emblems programs

ms available from the National Federation for Catholic Youth Ministry (N.F.C.Y.M.) and the Eastern Orthodox Program from P.R.A.Y approved by the Eastern Orthodox Committee on Scouting.  Recognitions from other organizations, denominations, or religions are not approved for use with the organization.

To promote religious awards within AHG, P.R.A.Y. offers a "Love God" rotational segment patch program for girl scouts and adults who memorize the Biblical verses Mark 12:29-31, attend or make a presentation about religious awards, then make a personal commitment to "love God".  This program is similar to the "Duty to God" BSA and "To Serve God" GSUSA programs.

Canada 
Scouts Canada and Girl Guides of Canada offer the Religion in Life badge.  Different faiths develop their own programs which are approved by Scouts Canada (which also administers the program for Girl Guides of Canada).

Each program has multiple age stages and a badge can be earned for each stage with the border color indicating the stage.  The emblem on the badge indicates which faith.
 Stage 1 - Ages 7–9 - yellow border
 Stage 2 - Ages 10–12 - green border
 Stage 3 - Ages 13–15 - blue border
 Stage 4 - Ages 15 and up - red border
 Stage 5 - adult - purple border

Currently recognized programs are
 Anglican Church of Canada
 Apostolic Church of the Pentecost
 Canadian Baptist Ministries
 Canadian Conference of the Mennonite Brethren Churches
 Canadian Armed Forces (Protestant)
 Christian Church (Disciples of Christ)
 Christian Science
 Church of the Nazarene
 Congregational Christian Church of Canada
 Eastern Orthodox Church
 Evangelical Church of Canada
 Free Methodist Church of Canada
 Lutheran Churches of Canada
 Moravian Church of Canada
 Orthodox Church
 Pentecostal Assemblies
 Polish National Catholic Church of Canada
 Presbyterian Church in Canada
 Religious Society of Friends (Quakers)
 Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints
 Roman Catholic Church in Canada
 Salvation Army
 The Standard Church
 United Church of Canada
The above all have the same badge of a circle around a Greek alpha and omega. The following all have different badges.
 Bahá’í Faith - nine pointed star
 Buddhist Faith - wheel of the law
 Canadian Unitarian Council - flaming chalice
 Hindu - om
 Islam in Canada - Allah in Arabic above a crescent moon and star above Allah in English
 Jewish Religion - Menorah
 Sikh - Khanda
 Zoroastrianism - Fravashi

See also 

 Religion in Scouting

Footnotes

Further Information 
 Programs of Religious Activities with Youth.  Also known as P.R.A.Y..  The administrator of a set of Protestant religious programs but their business office is also a clearing house on info about the Religious Emblems Programs in the United States in general.
 Boy Scouts of America info on the Religious Emblems Programs
 Policy of the Boy Scouts of America Pertaining to Recognitions Granted by Churches, Synagogues, Temples, Mosques and Other Religious Organizations
 Friends Committee on Scouting
 National Catholic Committee for Girl Scouts and Camp Fire  and National Catholic Committee on Scouting (Boy Scouts)
 National Lutheran Association on Scouting
 Eastern Orthodox Committee on Scouting
 National Jewish Committee on Scouting (Boy Scouts) National Jewish Girl Scout Committee
 Baha'i Religious Emblem Program
 National Buddhist Committee on Scouting
 North American Hindu Association
 National Islamic Committee on Girl Scouting

References 

Scout and Guide awards
Religion and children
Religion-related awards