[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Arsenije III Crnojević

Arsenije III Crnojević (; 1633 – 27 October 1706) was the Archbishop of Peć and Serbian Patriarch from 1674 to his death in 1706. In 1689, during the Habsburg-Ottoman War (1683–1699), he sided with Habsburgs, upon their temporary occupation of Serbia. In 1690, he left the Patriarchal Monastery of Peć and led the Great Migration of Serbs from Ottoman Serbia into the Habsburg monarchy. There he received three charters (the "Serbian Privileges" of 1690, 1691, and 1695), granted to him by Emperor Leopold I, securing religious and ecclesiastical autonomy of Eastern Orthodoxy in the Habsburg Monarchy. In the meanwhile, after restoring their rule in Serbian lands, Ottomans allowed the appointment of a new Serbian Patriarch, Kalinik I (1691–1710), thus creating a jurisdictional division within the Serbian Orthodox Church. Until death, in 1706, Patriarch Arsenije remained the head of Serbian Orthodox Church in Habsburg lands, laying foundations for the creation of an autonomous ecclesiastical province, later known as the Metropolitanate of Karlovci.

Early life

Arsenije, surnamed Crnojević (Црнојевић) or Črnojević (Чрнојевић), spelled in Church Slavonic as "Арсенїй Чарноевичь"
(sr. Чарнојевић/Čarnojević), claimed to be a descendant of the medieval Crnojević family, which had ruled the region of Zeta in the second half of the 15th century. He was born in Bajice, hamlet of Cetinje in the Old Montenegro, a mountainous region that was never fully conquered by the Ottoman Empire.

As a young boy, Arsenije came to live in the Patriarchal Monastery of Peć, the seat of the Serbian Patriarchate of Peć, at the time led by Serbian Patriarch Maksim I. There, as he grew older, he was tonsured and ordained a deacon and then a priest, thanks to the good graces of his mentor Maksim whom Arsenije later described as "my father and teacher". In 1665, Arsenije became the abbot (archimandrite) of the Peć Monastery. Arsenije was elected as Metropolitan of Hvosno. He was consecrated bishop by the metropolitans of the Patriarchal Synod on the Feast of the Ascension in 1669 in Dovolja monastery. During the following years, he became the main assistant of the aging Patriarch Maksim. In 1674, when, Patriarch Maksim fell ill and decided to withdraw from the position, Arsenije was elected patriarch, probably between Easter and Ascension.

Great Turkish War

Upon his return, in 1683, Arsenije III was in Nikolje Monastery where he received news of the Battle of Vienna (12 September 1683). The battle placed forces of the Ottoman Empire under Kara Mustafa Pasha against forces of the Holy League under John III Sobieski. The battle broke a two-month siege of Vienna and forced the Ottoman army to retreat. A note survives that reports Arsenije taking the news with pleasure.

As the war approached, and Serbs from Dalmatia, Herzegovina and the Bay of Kotor already took to arms, Arsenije III continued with his regular duties visiting Slavonia in 1684, but on the other hand secretly maintained contacted with forces of the League, particularly those of the Republic of Venice and the Archduchy of Austria. In 1685, Serbs in Montenegro and Dalmatia under the leadership of local guerilla leaders, such as Stojan Janković,  fought in the ranks of the army of the Republic of Venice, led by Francesco Morosini (1619-1694), against the Ottoman Empire in the Morean War.

The passing Ottoman armies plundered the local populace mercilessly; the worst of them all was the one under notorious Yeğen Osman Pasha who for two years (1687–89) robbed the area from Belgrade to Ohrid and from Sofia to Peć. This force also managed to rob the vast treasure of the Serbian Patriarchate of Peć, deposited there for centuries. Jegen Osman-pasha in addition captured Arsenije III demanding a ransom of 10,000 thalers. After this was paid and he was released, Arsenije's mind was made up. He was soon forced to leave Peć because the Turks tried to assassinate him.

Arsenije contacted Peter I of Russia, asking the monarch to recognize him as the leader of the Serbs, but the Austrians cut these liaisons abruptly. Faced with Turkish threats, Arsenije escaped to Nikšić and then to his native Cetinje which was already taken by the Venetian forces. There, he swore allegiance to the Doge. However, his close ties with the Venetian Republic were scrutinized in Vienna. Representatives of Leopold I, Holy Roman Emperor warned Arsenije that unless he renewed his cooperation with the Habsburgs, they would see to the election of a more obedient patriarch. According to one letter written by Catholic bishop Peter Bogdani, rebellious Rumelian beylerbey Yeğen Osman Pasha threatened to cut off the head of Čarnojević because he allegedly received money from Habsburgs to instigate anti-Ottoman rebellion of Orthodox Serbs.

Habsburg rule