[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Zuffenhausen

with debris and overburden. Miscellaneous changes to the landscape includes the filling in of a few old quarries and clay pits in the Feuerbach river valley, and the creation of a high plateau of an old ditch that came down from Stammheim, which now serves as an expansion of Zuffenhausen's cemetery.

The flora and fauna are quite diverse, even though the fauna have declined in number since the introduction of sealed roads. Birds, however, are less affected by the loss of habitat thanks to generously sized home gardens and the Hofkammerwald. Located west of Zuffenhausen are larger forests and different types of semi-arid grassland between increasingly marginal fields and by now almost totally absent pastures and orchards, that were the most important assets of Zuffenhausen's economy until 1907, still visible on the coat of arms of Zazenhausen. Since the emergence of a concern for the conservation of natural habitats and the creation of an association for local biospheres in 2003, nature reserves have been declared as conservation areas by the local government. Most of the vineyards on the western slope of the Feuerbach river in the region were made fully operational between 1976 and 1979.

Environmental protection: In response to prolonged pollution with nitrogen oxide and particulates from the relatively heavy traffic nearby that caused forest damage and the ongoing disruptions of the formation of the water table a comprehensive environmental protection program has been established. Noise pollution in the area is attributed to the Bundesautobahn 81, Bundesstraße 10, 27, 27a, the Stuttgart S-Bahn and the Stuttgarter Straßenbahnen. Measures have been made to improve the situation faced by the landscape of Zuffenhausen, such as land restoration, the creation of wildlife corridors, and the establishment of green development plans.

History

Overview
Stuttgart-Zuffenhausen has been consistently inhabited for about 7500 years. Paleo-Humans, such as Neanderthals and Homo erectus  have stalked the rich and abundant wildlife present for roughly 300,000 years, as evidenced by the discovery of early tools typically made of mammoth bones at Travertine quarries in nearby Cannstatt and Ludwigsburg.

During the Middle Ages, Zuffenhausen was often mistakenly referred to as "Offenhausen" and "Ottohausen" due to differences in Alemannic German and later German tongues. For most of its history, Zuffenhausen has served as valuable farmland for its owners. On April 23, 1907, during the reign of King William II of Württemberg, Zuffenhausen became a city and would later be incorporated into Stuttgart on March 31, 1931, following financial difficulties symptomatic of the Great Depression.  The convenient location of Zuffenhausen on the bank of the Neckar River led to a sharp incline in population during the Industrial Revolution, when the purely rural character of Zuffenhausen was finally phased out.

On May 1, 1933 Zazenhausen, Neuwirtshaus, and Zuffenhausen were united in one district. Starting in 1949, Zuffenhausen became increasingly important to Stuttgart as an industrial district. The "Rotwegsiedlung", called the SS siedlung had already been founded in 1938. In the course of the plans for re-division of 1956, all administration in Stuttgart was completely restructured.

Since January 1, 2001, after yet another administrative reorganization of the municipalities of Stuttgart, Zuffenhausen is endowed with 11 municipalities. Zuffenhausen remains an important local and international industrial center, as the locality of the headquarter of Porsche automobiles.

Prehistory and Early History

The prehistoric finds made in Zuffenhausen district and surrounding areas (Lemburg, Burgholzhof, Stammheim, and Viesenhäuser Hof) date back to the Neolithic and rank among some of the oldest and most diverse of the Urban districts of Stuttgart. Though many settlements from the Neolithic to the Iron Age have existed, Zuffenhausen entered the era of recorded history during the period of the Alemanni tribes.

Paleolithic and Mesolithic Zuffenhausen
Paleolithic: Numerous findings and excavations in the area suggest the usage of hills in the region as paleolithic rest stops as far back as the Middle Paleolithic (300,000 years ago), suggesting that early peoples came through the region frequently. Further substantiation is corroborated by tools and processed bones discovered at travertine quarries in nearby Bad Cannstatt.

The first finds made in Zuffenhausen itself originate only from the Upper Paleolithic. In 1879, four hand scrapers and pieces of flint and mammoth bone pieces were discovered at Hofäcker brickyard. Whether they can be attributed to Neanderthals or early modern humans is unknown. At this time, Europe's landscape was glacial tundra, where ancient hunter gatherer societies followed and hunted the large herds of Mammoths, Reindeer, and Wild horses that migrated around ancient Stuttgart.