[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Regulares

lue sashes and white cloaks (burnous) retained from the Moorish style dress uniforms worn prior to 1956.

Modern parade march 
These regiments and their attached battalions march in both quick and slow time on parade and only turn to the slow march when they are ready to render salutes on the march.

Military Music Units 
The military bands and Corps of drums of the Regulares regiments and Tabors are commonly known as the Nubas. They are the same as the normal Spanish Army military bands except that the Corps of Drums is a mix of drums, cymbals, tambourines, bugles, trumpets, bagpipes and chirimias or oboes. At the present time only the Corps of Drums is seen in continuous active service, with military band support usually from other units. It was led by a Bugle Major, who in the past was the assistant of the drum major, until in the 2014 National Day Parade the Corps of Drums of the 54th Regulares Group reinstated the practice of being led by a drum major which was formerly in force in the first decades. Personnel of the Nuba wear the same service dress as their comrades.

Depiction in popular culture 
The sentence in the Spanish Republican song , as well as one of the verses of  and the opening line of  refer to the Regulares.
The novel Kábila, by the Spanish author and journalist Fernando González Martín, is about a Moroccan who as a teenager hates the Spanish colonial troops but subsequently becomes a soldier of the Regulares, plays a major role in suppressing the Asturias repression and ends up as a high-ranking commanding officer in the military forces of Franco.
A famous  sung from the civil war times till now refers to these military units:

It remains a popular song that is often heard at any "jota" festival or contest.

Awards 

The personnel of units of the Regulares, for their role in both the "Pacification" of Morocco and for its participation in the intervention in Spain (mainly in the Civil War of 1936-1939), were awarded with a number of orders and medals by the government. Today the Regulares are the most decorated units of the Spanish Army. Among some of its many Laureates and medals obtained are:

 Laureate Cross of San Fernando:
 Lieutenant Samaniego del Tabor de Caballeria who died in 1912 in the combats and occupation of the Aduar of Haddu al-Lal Kadur. He is the first soldier of Regulares who obtains this decoration.
 Lieutenant Salustiano Sáenz de Tejada y Olózaga, awarded for his merits and death in the combat of 31 March 1924, when he took a convoy to the position of Issen Lassen.
 In 1915 for a doctor of Military Health, assigned to Regulares. 
 Laureate Cross of San Fernando (Collective Medal for Units):
 II Tabor of the 5th Group of Indigenous Regulars of Alhucemas, for the actions of Ciudad Universitaria (Parque del Oeste), November 1936.
 V Tabor of the Group of Indigenous Regulars of Ceuta No. 3, for the acts of weapons that occurred between 11/15/1936 and 5/19/1937 in the University City of Madrid. University City actions (Parque del Oeste) 
 Collective Military Medal:
 4th Group, by the action of Muires and Haman in 1920 .
 Group of Ceuta No. 3, for the combats of Barranco del Lobo and Casabona in 1921 .
 Group of Regular Infantry Forces of Melilla No. 2, for the actions of Tizzi Assa and Tifaruin, in 1923 .
 Group of Tetuán # 1, by the combats of Peñas de Cayat.
 Group of Indigenous Regulars Alhucemas No. 5, by the combats in the University City (Parque del Oeste) November 1936.
 V Tabor of the Group of Indigenous Regulars of Melilla No. 2, for their actions in the Battle of the Ebro 25 July 1938.
 V Tabor of the Group of Indigenous Regulars of Ceuta No. 3, for its brilliant behavior in the operations of Teruel, Maestrazgo and especially for the cycle of operations of the Ebro. November 1938.

See also 

 Spanish Army
 Army of Africa (Spain)
 Tiradores de Ifni, a similar force raised in Ifni
 Guardia Mora
 Goumier
 Spanish Legion
 Mohamed Meziane

References

Bibliography

External links 
 

Military history of Spain
Military units and formations of Spain
Military units and formations of the Spanish Civil War
Spanish Army
Military history of Morocco
Rif War
Military units and formations established in 1911
Colonial troops