[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Constructive set theory

ill make principles inconsistent that claim the existence of functions which provenly have no recursive realization. Some forms of a Church's thesis as principle are even consistent with the classical, weak so called second-order arithmetic theory , a subsystem of the two-sorted first-order theory .

The collection of computable functions is classically subcountable, which classically is the same as being countable. But classical set theories will generally claim that  holds also other functions than the computable ones. For example there is a proof in  that total functions (in the set theory sense) do exist that cannot be captured by a Turing machine.
Taking the computable world seriously as ontology, a prime example of an anti-classical conception related the Markovian school is the permitted subcountability of various uncountable collections. Adopting the subcountability of the collection of all unending sequences of natural numbers () as an axiom in a constructive theory, the "smallness" (in classical terms) of this collection, in some set theoretical realizations, is then already captured by the theory itself.
A constructive theory may also adopt neither classical nor anti-classical axioms and so stay agnostic towards either possibility.

Constructive principles already prove  for any . And so for any given element  of , the corresponding excluded middle statement for the proposition cannot be negated. Indeed, for any given , by noncontradiction it is impossible to rule out  and rule out its negation both at once, and the relevant De Morgan's rule applies as above. But a theory may in some instances also permit the rejection claim . Adopting this does not necessitate providing a particular  witnessing the failure of excluded middle for the particular proposition , i.e. witnessing the inconsistent . Predicates  on an infinite domain  correspond to decision problems. Motivated by provenly computably undecidable problems, one may reject the possibility of decidability of a predicate without also making any existence claim in .
As another example, such a situation is enforced in Brouwerian intuitionistic analysis, in a case where the quantifier ranges over infinitely many unending binary sequences and  states that a sequence  is everywhere zero. Concerning this property, of being conclusively identified as the sequence which is forever constant, adopting Brouwer's continuity principle strictly rules out that this could be proven decidable for all the sequences.

So in a constructive context with a so-called non-classical logic as used here, one may consistently adopt axioms which are both in contradiction to quantified forms of excluded middle, but also non-constructive in the computable sense or as gauged by meta-logical existence properties discussed previously. In that way, a constructive set theory can also provide the framework to study non-classical theories.

History and overview 
Historically, the subject of constructive set theory (often also "") begun with John Myhill's work on the theories also called  and .
In 1973, he had proposed the former as a first-order set theory based on intuitionistic logic, taking the most common foundation  and throwing out the Axiom of choice as well as the principle of the excluded middle, initially leaving everything else as is. However, different forms of some of the  axioms which are equivalent in the classical setting are inequivalent in the constructive setting, and some forms imply , as will be demonstrated. In those cases, the intuitionistically weaker formulations were consequently adopted. The far more conservative system  is also a first-order theory, but of several sorts and bounded quantification, aiming to provide a formal foundation for Errett Bishop's program of constructive mathematics.

The main discussion presents sequence of theories in the same language as , leading up to Peter Aczel's well studied , and beyond. Many modern results trace back to Rathjen and his students.
 is also characterized by the two features present also in Myhill's theory:
On the one hand, it is using the Predicative Separation instead of the full, unbounded Separation schema, see also Lévy hierarchy.
Boundedness can be handled as a syntactic property or, alternatively, the theories can be conservatively extended with a higher boundedness predicate and its axioms. Secondly, the impredicative Powerset axiom is discarded, generally in favor of related but weaker axioms. The strong form is very casually used in classical general topology.
Adding  to a theory even weaker than  recovers , as detailed below.
The system, which has come to be known as Intuitionistic Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory (), is a strong set theory without . It is similar to , but less conservative or predicative.
The theory denoted  is the constructive version of , the classical Kripke–Platek set theory without a form of Powerset and where even the Axiom of Collection is bounded.