[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rafi Eitan

ficult Pollard and MILCO cases, the Israeli government decided to disband Lekem, whose functions were assigned to the Director of Security of the Defense Establishment, adding technical and scientific intelligence to its responsibilities which include internal investigations of the defense ministry.

Following the disbandment of Lekem, Eitan was offered the position as head of the state-owned Israel Chemicals Corporation, from which he retired in 1993 at the age of 67. During his tenure, the company underwent a rapid expansion in terms of sales, development and manpower, making it the largest government-held firm in the country. In 1998 he appeared in the documentary special The Spy Machine, produced by Open Media and Israfilm and shown on Channel 4.

Advisor on counter-terrorism 
Further revelations from the book Gideon's Spies:The Secret History of the Mossad by Gordon Thomas, describe how the Margaret Thatcher government in Britain during the mid-1980s developed a relationship with Eitan as an advisor to the Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) on counterterrorism operations in Northern Ireland. This relationship came to a head in 1985, when Mossad agents helped track a Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) bomb team in Gibraltar. The three-member IRA team was killed (Operation Flavius) by the British Special Air Service, under highly controversial circumstances. It was subsequently reported in British papers that Eitan and Mossad had played a surveillance role in the operation, and IRA command put out orders for assassination teams in Ireland and Britain to find and kill Rafi Eitan. Due to this threat of assassination, and the embarrassment of the Israeli government over Eitan's unauthorized relationship with the operation, Eitan left Britain and ended his relationship with Britain's intelligence services. This incident strained Israeli/British relations for several years.

Business career
In 1992, Eitan was approached to bid on a contract for an agricultural deal in Cuba, which involved the cultivation of the largest citrus grove cooperative on the island. After winning the bid, Eitan built a partnership with four other international entrepreneurs to run the deal. The company BM Group was incorporated in Panama, and traded with Israeli suppliers.

Due to the success of the venture and the connections acquired, BM also won the contract to build the world trade center in Havana, and a Holocaust Memorial at the center of the Old City of Havana. Recently, GBM was awarded the "Medal for Agricultural Work" by the Cuban government.

In addition to this deal, BM has started expanding its business deals to the rest of Latin America. It runs various agricultural projects in the Dominican Republic, among others.

Political career 
Eitan was asked to represent the pensioners' party Gil in the 2006 Knesset elections. The party went on to win seven seats, despite predictions that it would not secure more than three, at best, and would not pass the vote threshold, at worst. In the 2009 elections the party failed to cross the electoral threshold, and Eitan lost his seat.

In February 2010, Eitan remarked "In principle, when there is a war on terror you conduct it without principles. You simply fight it.".

In 2018 Eitan caused surprise and shock in Israel and Germany when he publicly endorsed the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party. He said: “Please understand that all of us in Israel appreciate your attitude toward Judaism. In any case, I’m sure that if you work wisely strongly and most important realistically… I’m sure that instead of ‘Alternative for Germany,’ you might become an alternative for all of Europe.” Jeremy Issacharoff, Israel’s Ambassador to Germany, wrote: “It is hard to believe how the person who captured Eichmann … is able to praise German right-wingers who so admire the Nazi past and wish on us that they become the alternative of Europe! Sad and shameful.”

Published works
Ish Hasod ("The Secret Man"), 2020

References

External links 

 Bio: Rafi Eitan, Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 4 May 2006
 "Eitan vows to focus on pensioner's issues" Jerusalem Post, 29 March 2006

1926 births
2019 deaths
Palmach members
Alumni of the London School of Economics
Elder rights activists
Israeli Jews
Leaders of political parties in Israel
Members of the 17th Knesset (2006–2009)
Government ministers of Israel
Dor (political party) politicians
People of the Shin Bet
People of the Mossad