[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2007 Bahamian general election

disappointed by their loss, many also thought the election was a complete toss up with no clear predicted winner.

In general, Bahamian voters favoured Ingraham over Christie. Females did not favour him as much as males, however, as he won the female vote by a smaller margin than the male.

Results

Aftermath
The controversial victory of Hubert Ingraham, member of the Free National Movement, incited strong reactions, particularly from the Progressive Liberal Party. The PLP announced it questioned the validity of (and may request a recount of) the electoral votes in districts where the results were closer. Despite a delayed report on the results of the election and the scepticism coming from the PLP, Perry Christie called Hubert Ingraham to concede two and a half hours after the results were reported. However, after the concession of the PLP, rumours of the FNM's victory being overturned. Prime Minister Ingraham countered claims of miscounts by accusing the PLP of corruption mentioning that there had not been this level of corruption in any recent general election. In response to the 49.86% of votes being cast for the FNM, Perry Christie, leader of the PLP said "Ingraham must now live with the reality that he is the first ever prime minister of a government elected with a minority of the popular vote.”

On 7 May, Prime Minister Hubert Ingraham appointed the following Cabinet Ministers:
 Hubert Ingraham, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
 Brent Symonette, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs.
 Tommy Turnquest, Minister of National Security.
 Claire Hepburn, appointed to the Senate and made Attorney General.
 Carl Bethel, Minister of Education, Youth, Sports and Culture.
 Kenneth Russell, Minister of Housing and National Insurance.
 Earl Deveaux, Minister of Works and Transport.
 Neko Grant, Minister of Tourism and Aviation.
 Dion Foulkes, appointed to the Senate and made Minister of Maritime Affairs and Labour.
 Lawrence (Larry) Cartwright, Minister of Agriculture and Marine Resources.
 Sidney Collie, Minister of Lands and Local Government.
 Dr. Hubert Minnis, Minister of Health and Social Development.
 Zhivargo Laing, Minister of State in the Ministry of Finance.
 Desmond Bannister, Minister of State in the Ministry of Legal Affairs.
 Elma Campbell, appointed to the Senate and made Minister of State for Immigration in the Ministry of National Security.
 Loretta Butler-Turner, Minister of State for Social Services.
 Byron Woodside, Minister of State for Youth & Sports.
 Charles Maynard, Minister of State for Youth & Culture.
 Branville McCartney, Minister of State in the Ministry of Tourism & Aviation.
 Phenton Neymour, Minister State for Public Utilities.
Controversy surrounded the appointment of Brent Symonette as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, as Perry Christie critiqued him for being a white and wealthy Bahamian. Ingraham responded to this critique by saying:

"If we are to become all that we might be we must aspire to transcend historic prejudices and break loose from the stereotypical bounds of the politics of race and class division that belongs to a bygone era. That is behind us and we must leave it so that we can achieve full unity in our land with a government dedicated to serving all Bahamians, black and white, middle class, rich and poor; young and old able and disabled".

References 

Bahamas
General election
Elections in the Bahamas
May 2007 events in North America