[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Africa Israel Investments

17 November 2014, the Cypriot AFI Development Plc, which did not file its 2012 financial results indicator report and delayed filing its 2013 financial results indicator until March 18, 2014, was fined by the Cyprus SEC for lack of transparency a violation of the section 13 (1) Law.

Major holdings

Real estate
 AFI Development Plc – Russia: A public company traded in the London Stock Exchange. Founded in 2001, this company is one of the largest real estate developments companies in Russia, focusing on large scale projects in Moscow and other main cities in Russia in the residential, offices, shopping malls, hotels and infrastructure sectors, such as the Mall of Russia and the Tverskaya Zastava site.
 AFI USA: Established in 2002, the company focuses on exclusive residential projects, income producing properties and hotels. The company is active in New York where it owns The Apthorp residential building and formerly 229 West 43rd Street. It is moreover active in Miami, Los Angeles and Phoenix, and was a partner in the Hard Rock amusement park in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina (permanently closed) and holds building rights for a mega project in Las Vegas.
 AFI Europe: The company has been coordinating the group’s activities in Europe since 1998. It owns residential, office and shopping mall projects in the Czech Republic, Serbia, Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, Hungary, Germany and Latvia. Among its outstanding assets is the "Palace Flora" mall in Prague and it is building the "Cotroceni Park" in Bucharest, which upon its completion will become the largest mall in Romania. Cotroceni Park opened on 29 October 2009, as the "AFI Palace Cotroceni".
 Africa Israel Residences Ltd.:  A public company traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange operating in Israel under the “Savionim” brand name, Africa Israel develops entire neighborhoods including shopping centers, schools, green areas, cultural and sports facilities.
 AFI Properties Ltd.:  A public company traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange holding shopping centers and office buildings.

Construction and infrastructures
Danya Cebus  is the construction and infrastructures arm of Africa Israel, listed on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Danya Cebus is involved in major infrastructure projects in Israel, Russia, Romania and North America.

BOT & PFI Projects: Africa Israel owns 37.5% of the company operating the Cross-Israel Highway (Highway 6), Israel’s first toll road. Other BOT and PFI activities include Highway 431, Israel's first private penitentiary, student dormitories at the Hebrew University and the Tel Aviv Light Rail.

Energy and food retail
Alon Group: Consists of Dor Alon Oil , Israel's largest international energy group; Alon USA Energy, Inc.  which operates the Big Spring refinery, 1,700 FINA gas stations in several states, terminals, more than 1,850 miles of oil pipelines, asphalt factories and more than 170 7-Eleven convenience stores. 
Dor Energy: A national network of gas stations and Super Alonit convenience stores in Israel, controlling also Blue Square, Israel's second largest supermarket chain.

Industry
AFI Industries: Africa Israel holds a major interest in AFI Industries (formerly Packer Plada), Israel’s largest steel company and Negev Ceramics, the country’s leading company in design and manufacture of building and interior design ceramic products. AFI Industries is also active in Russia and intends to expand its activities to additional countries.

Tourism and leisure
Africa Israel Hotels holds the Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn franchise in Israel, operates 10 hotels in Israel (2,250 rooms) a Spa Hotel in Kislovodsk, Russia (400 rooms), a hotel in Germany, and 3 hotels in Bucharest, Romania, and is expanding its operations in Europe. It also holds and operates an amusement park in Eilat, Israel.

Fashion
The company's fashion Brands include Gottex, Gideon Oberson, Christina (Canada) and other beachwear international brands, and the Zara and Pull & Bear franchises in Israel.

Lev Leviev and the Africa-Israel Group acquired Gottex in 1997, from its founder and chief designer Lea Gottlieb.  After about a year heading the design team, Gottlieb left the company.

Communications and media
The company has a controlling stake in Tadiran Telecom which develops telecom solutions and in Channel 9 (Israel), a TV station serving Russian speakers.

Recent disposals
 In June 2009, Africa Israel Group sold its 50 percent stake in the Gottex swimwear firm to its joint venture partners for 44 million shekel (US$11.3 million).
 In March 2009, Africa Israel Properties sold its stakes in two shopping centres in the Tel Aviv area to Melisron Ltd , a company controlled by the Ofer Brothers Group.

See also
Economy of Israel

References

External links
 Official website