[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Terrorism in Syria

Terrorism in Syria has a long history dating from the state-terrorism deployed by the Ba'athist government since its seizure of power through a violent coup in 1963. The Ba'athist government have since deployed various types of state terrorism; such as ethnic cleansing, forced deportations, massacres, summary executions, mass rapes and other forms of violence to maintain its totalitarian rule in Syria. The most extensive use of state terrorism in the 20th century was during 1970s and 1980s, when Islamic uprisings across Syria where crushed through bloody campaigns of intense repression, culminating in the Hama massacre which killed around 40,000 civilians.  

At the turn of twentieth century, the state deployed extensive violence against civilians, such as the case of 2004 Qamishli massacre. When Arab Spring spread to Syria in 2011, the Ba'athist security apparatus launched a brutal crackdown against peaceful protestors calling for freedom and dignity, which killed thousands of civilians and deteriorated the crisis into a full-scale civil war. Taking advantage of the situation, transnational Jihadist groups like Islamic State and al-Nusra began to emerge in Syria as the war escalated, some of which emulated the deadly terrorist tactics of the Assad regime.  

After over a decade of war, the country has been devastated, with over 600,000 deaths and millions have been displaced, sparking the largest refugee crisis in the world. Syrian military and Ba'athist security forces have systematically unleashed scorched earth tactics on populations it deemed hostile; receiving international condemnation. These include hundreds of chemical attacks, massacres, torture, mass rapes, ethnic cleansing, forced disappearances and various other acts of state terror under orders from the highest echelons of the Ba'athist regime.

History

Under Hafez al-Assad

Islamist uprising 

From 1976 to 1982, Sunni Islamists fought the secular Ba'ath Party-controlled government of Syria in what has been labelled by the Arab Socialist Ba'ath party as a "long campaign of terror".

The Muslim Brotherhood was blamed for the terror by the government, although the insurgents used names such as Kata'ib Muhammad (Phalanges of Muhammad, begun in Hama in 1965 Marwan Hadid) to refer to their organization.

Following Syrian occupation of Lebanon in 1976 a number of prominent Syrian officers and government servants, as well as "professional men, doctors, teachers," were assassinated. Most of the victims were Alawis, "which suggested that the assassins had targeted the community" but "no one could be sure who was behind" the killings.

Among the better-known victims were:
the commander of the Hama garrison, Colonel Ali Haydar, killed in October 1976 
the rector of Damascus University, Dr. Muhammad al-Fadl, killed in February 1977 
the commander of the missile corps, Brigadier 'Abd al Hamid Ruzzug, killed in June 1977 
the doyen of Syrian dentists, Dr Ibrahim Na'ama, killed in March 1978 
the director of police affairs at the Ministry of the Interior, Colonel Ahmad Khalil, killed in August 1978 
Public Prosecutor 'Adil Mini of the Supreme State Security Court, killed in April 1979. 
President Hafez Assad's own doctor, the neurologist Dr. Muhammad Shahada Khalil, who was killed in August 1979.

These assassinations led up to the 17 June 1979 slaughter of cadets at the Aleppo Artillery School. On that day a member of school staff, Captain Ibrahim Yusuf, assembled the cadets in the dining-hall and then let in the gunmen who opened fire on the cadets. According to the official report 32 young men were killed. Unofficial sources say the "death toll was as high as 83." This attack was the work of Tali'a muqatila, or Fighting Vanguard, a Sunni Islamist guerrilla group and spinoff of the Muslim Brotherhood. `Adnan `Uqla, who later became the group's leader, helped plan the massacre.

On 26 June 1980, the president of Syria, Hafez al-Assad, "narrowly escaped death" when attackers threw two grenades and fired machine gun bursts at him as he waited at a diplomatic function in Damascus.

While the involvement of the Syrian government "was not proved" in these killings, it "was widely suspected."

The insurgency is generally considered to have been crushed by the bloody Hama massacre of 1982, in which thousands were killed, "the vast majority innocent civilians".

Perpetrators
According to some sources, such as Syrian president Hafez al-Assad and journalist Robert Dreyfuss, the Muslim Brotherhood insurgents in Syria were aided by the Jordanian government in cooperation with Lebanese Phalangists, South Lebanon Army, and the right-wing Israeli government of Menachem Begin, who allegedly supported, funded and armed the Muslim Brotherhood in an effort to overthrow the government of President Assad.