[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Northern Ireland Public Service Alliance

Communist Party of Ireland, members of Sinn Féin and others", while Broad Left "comprises members of the Socialist Party, the Socialist Workers Party, People Before Profit and others". Newton Emerson, writing in The Irish News, characterises Unity as "far left" and Broad Left as "even farther left".

Civil Service Group
The Civil Service Group's executive control is vested in its Annual Delegate Conference which convenes on the day preceding the NIPSA General Conference. It is here that the Civil Service Group Executive is elected from an electoral college made up of attending branches. Despite what is often perceived as a Civil Service bias with NIPSA, it is actually the Civil Service Group which is the smaller of the two sections.

Public Officers' Group
The Public Officers' Group essentially mirrors that of the Civil Service Group. Its conference is held on the same day and its executive committee is elected in a similar manner.

NIPSA Youth
Tentative moves have been made towards establishing NIPSA Youth as a viable Young Members movement, similar to the PCS Young Members group. PSA Youth has had a presence at events including General Conference, May Day rallies and the General Strike on 30 November 2011.

Campaigns

NIPSA is involved in a wide spectrum of campaigns, ranging from domestic issues such as encouraging the non-payment of water charges to international problems like Justice for Colombia and Palestine through its Global Solidarity Committee.

Controversies
The union was heavily criticized by an employment tribunal in a case concerning 'entryism' by members of the Communist Party of Ireland.
The tribunal noted NIPSA's tendency to sort out internal grievances though tribunals. The judgement said the case was part of a dispute between two factions; 'unity', which is associated with the Marxist Leninist CPI, and the 'broad left' which is associated with various Trotskyite parties, in the union which "has been a rich source of litigation over recent years". The tribunal stated that the two factions actually have little if any substantive political differences.

General Secretaries
1971: Brendan Harkin
1978: Jim McCusker
2003: John Corey
2010: Brian Campfield
2015: Alison Millar
2021: Carmel Gates

See also

List of Government departments and agencies in Northern Ireland

References

External links
Official website
NIPSA Youth Website

Trade unions in Northern Ireland
Public sector trade unions
Trade unions established in 1922