[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# List of smoking bans

public facilities in Ho Chi Minh City in 2005 with the exception of entertainment areas.

A ban has also been imposed on all forms of advertisement, trade promotion, and sponsorship by tobacco companies, as well as cigarette sales through vending machines, or over the telephone and on the Internet.

Zambia
Smoking is prohibited in public places in Zambia and is punishable by a fine of K400 or imprisonment of up to two years.

Specific restrictions

Outdoor smoking restrictions
It is illegal to smoke at a bus shelter in Ireland. It was also the first country in the world to impose a restriction upon smoking outdoors within  of a public building.
In Costa Rica, it is also illegal to smoke at a bus shelter or at queues for the bus, train, etc. It is also forbidden to smoke in public parks and recreational areas.
In the Australian state of Queensland, smoking is prohibited within four metres of entrances to public buildings, within 10 metres of children's playground equipment, in commercial outdoor eating or drinking areas, at patrolled beaches, and at all major sports stadiums.
Some beaches in Sydney, Australia have smoking restrictions in place.
Smoking on land owned by the New South Wales Department of Education is prohibited.
Cambridge Memorial Hospital in Cambridge, Ontario, Canada, enacted a total (outdoor) smoke-free regulation, believed to be the first in the entire province if not country, as of October 2004. At the same time, Wilfrid Laurier University in the nearby city of Waterloo, Ontario, proposed a similar total smoke-free regulation on its property, after its 10 metre outdoor proximity restriction (enacted in 2002) failed. WLU was presumed to be the third Canadian (public) post-secondary institution to consider such measures, after Carleton and Acadia.
Smoking is prohibited in Hamilton Street Railway bus shelters in Hamilton, Ontario.
It is illegal to smoke on a bus or at a bus shelter in Winnipeg, Manitoba.
It is illegal to smoke on a bus or at a bus shelter as well as less than 4 metres from any entrance in Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Calgary, Alberta, prohibited all outdoor patio smoking at bars, restaurants and casinos on 1 July 2005. Nova Scotia did the same on 1 December 2006.
Calabasas, California, United States, prohibited smoking in almost all indoor and outdoor public places in 2006, believed to be the strictest such regulations in the United States. At least 13 California cities (including Los Angeles) have prohibited smoking on their beaches, at least four other California cities (including San Francisco) ban smoking in parks or outdoor venues. For more information, see List of smoking bans in the United States#Outdoor smoking bans.
Belmont, California, prohibited smoking in outdoor places on 25 September 2007; this also applies inside condominiums, apartments and other kinds of multi-unit housing.
California has prohibited smoking within  of entrances to any public building.
Selected wards in Tokyo, Japan, prohibit smoking on the streets; this is enforced and violators are fined.
56% of Chiyoda ward's land area is a no-smoking zone as of April 2007.
Kyoto, Japan, has prohibited smoking on 7.1 km of its streets in 2007, including busy areas along Kawaramachi, Karasuma-dori and Shijo Street avenues.
Railway stations in Japan are no-smoking except for a few remaining long-distance services.
Many UK NHS organisations prohibit smoking on their premises both inside and outside hospitals, including places such as car parks.
Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge, has banned smoking on all of its sites, including private homes that are on hospital grounds since 1 January 2014.
Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust has had a ban on smoking on its sites since 2007, but in 2013 admitted that the ban was unenforceable, and will be installing outdoor smoking shelters.
 Wales is due to introduce a smoking ban outside schools and hospitals from Summer 2019.
 In Hong Kong, smoking restrictions are imposed on most public recreational areas and beaches. It is up to districts to designate which public recreational areas are exempt, and some prohibit smoking districtwide. Many playgrounds in public housing estates have also become smoke-free. Some public transport interchanges, as designated by the government, have been smoke-free since 1 September 2009.
Smoking is prohibited on all railway platforms in England, regardless of whether they are covered or not. These measures were introduced before any national smoking ban for safety reasons.
It is illegal to smoke on the outdoor property of the institutions of public education in Slovenia, penalties are dictated by internal orders of the concerned institutions.
It is illegal to smoke at some bus shelters (complex rules determine which, leading to variable compliance) and inside telephone boxes in Scotland.