[Source: PubMed]

3. Global Health. 2021 Nov 24;17(1):134. doi: 10.1186/s12992-021-00784-3.

International investment liberalization, transnational corporations and NCD 
prevention policy non-decisions: a realist review on the political economy of 
tobacco, alcohol and ultra-processed food.

Milsom P(1), Smith R(2), Baker P(3), Walls H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Development, Faculty of Public Health and 
Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 15-17 Tavistock Place, 
Kings Cross, London, WC1H 9SH, UK. Penelope.milsom@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)College of Medicine and Health, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(3)Institute for Physical Activity and Nutrition, School of Exercise and 
Nutrition Sciences, Deakin University, Geelong, VIC, Australia.
(4)Department of Global Health and Development, Faculty of Public Health and 
Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 15-17 Tavistock Place, 
Kings Cross, London, WC1H 9SH, UK.

BACKGROUND: Public health concerns relating to international investment 
liberalization have centred on the potential for investor-state dispute 
settlement (ISDS)-related regulatory chill. However, the broader political and 
economic dimensions that shape the relationship between the international 
investment regime and non-communicable disease (NCD) policy development have 
been less well explored. This review aimed to synthesise the available evidence 
using a political economy approach, to understand why, how and under what 
conditions transnational corporations may use the international investment 
regime to promote NCD prevention policy non-decisions.
MAIN BODY: Methods: Mechanisms explaining why/how the international investment 
regime may be used by transnational health-harmful commodity corporations 
(THCCs) to encourage NCD prevention policy non-decisions, including regulatory 
chill, were iteratively developed. Six databases and relevant grey literature 
was searched, and evidence was extracted, synthesized and mapped against the 
various proposed explanatory mechanisms.
FINDINGS: Eighty-nine sources were included. THCCs may be incentivised to use 
the ISDS mechanism since the costs may be outweighed by the benefits of even 
just delaying regulatory adoption, particularly since the chilling effect tends 
to ripple out across jurisdictions. Drivers of regulatory chill may include 
ambiguity in treaty terms, inconsistency in arbitral rulings, potential 
arbitrator bias and the high cost of arbitration. Evidence indicates ISDS can 
delay policy adoption both within the country directly involved but also in 
other jurisdictions. Additionally, governments are adopting standard assessments 
of public health regulatory proposals for trade and ISDS risk. Various economic, 
political and industry-related factors likely interact to increase (or decrease) 
the ultimate risk of regulatory chill. Some evidence indicates that THCCs take 
advantage of governments' prioritization of foreign investment over NCD 
prevention objectives to influence the NCD prevention regulatory environment.
CONCLUSIONS: While ISDS-related regulatory chill is a real risk under certain 
conditions, international investment-related NCD prevention policy non-decisions 
driven by broader political economy dynamics may well be more widespread and 
impactful on NCD regulatory environments. There is therefore a clear need to 
expand the research agenda on investment liberalization and NCD policy beyond 
regulatory chill and engage with theories and approaches from international 
relations and political science, including political economy and power analyses.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12992-021-00784-3
PMCID: PMC8611909
PMID: 34819083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.