[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Geoffrey Nyarota

e Central Intelligence Organisation, had sent a man named Bernard Masara to kill Nyarota; however, after meeting Nyarota in a lift, Masara changed his mind and warned him of the plot. Masara then called his employer with the paper's editors listening so that they could verify the source of the plan.

On 22 April 2000, a bomb was thrown into the paper's offices, but no one was hurt. South African Associated Press photographer Obed Zilwa was arrested for the attack, but the newspaper alleged that agents of Mugabe's security forces had thrown the bomb. Zilwa was released without charge 48 hours later. In January 2001, the News building was bombed again, this time destroying its printing presses. According to the Committee to Protect Journalists, "credible sources" linked the Zimbabwean military to the attack.

On 30 December 2002, Nyarota resigned as editor of the Daily News, to avoid his firing by the paper's new executive chair. The paper was shut down by the government in September 2003.

Later career 
In 2003, Nyarota and his family fled to South Africa and later to the United States. There, Nyarota was awarded a fellowship at the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University. He also taught journalism classes at Bard College.

In 2006, he released his first book, Against the Grain. The memoir tells of his experiences as a schoolteacher in Rhodesia and later as a journalist under Mugabe's rule. From exile, he also began the website www.thezimbabwetimes.com, describing Internet news as the "loophole" in Zimbabwean government censorship.

Awards 
In 2001, the Committee to Protect Journalists awarded Nyarota its International Press Freedom Award, which recognizes journalists who show courage in defending press freedom despite facing attacks, threats, or imprisonment. The World Association of Newspapers awarded him its Golden Pen of Freedom Award in 2002. That same year he was also awarded UNESCO's Guillermo Cano World Press Freedom Prize.

Personal life 
Nyarota has a wife, Ursula, and three children.

References

1950s births
Bard College faculty
Living people
Nieman Fellows
Zimbabwean newspaper editors
Zimbabwean journalists
Zimbabwean exiles
Zimbabwean expatriates in the United States
20th-century Zimbabwean writers
21st-century Zimbabwean writers