[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Committee for Human Rights in North Korea

tion, Taken: North Korea's Criminal Abduction of Citizens of Other Countries, to a crowd of 150 people in Washington, D.C. on May 5, 2011. Taken is a study that documents North Korean abductions, which total over 180,000 abductees, and exposes the breadth and scope of North Korea's actions.

Prisons

HRNK, The International Coalition to Stop Crimes Against Humanity in North Korea, and Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation hosted the presentation of "Trapped in North Korea's Gulag:The Story of Oh Kil-nam and His Family" on November 6, 2011. The event featured Dr. Oh Kil-nam and was delivered at the Mike and Maureen Mansfield Foundation. HRNK executive director spoke at the panel presentation.

HRNK released its publication, Hidden Gulag Second Edition: Political Prison Camps, and held a conference at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. The report calls for the dismantlement of the vast North Korean political prisoner camp system in which 150,000 to 200,000 are incarcerated. The April 10, 2012 conference on North Korea's gulag brought together former North Korean prisoners, human rights experts, representatives of governments, UN agencies, Korea specialists, the private sector, and NGOs to inform, collaborate, discuss, and make recommendations on North Korean human rights issues.

HRNK presented "Human Rights in North Korea: Prison Camps in 2012" at the U.S.-Korea Institute at SAIS on December 13, 2012. Gordon Flake, co-vice chair of the board of directors at HRNK and executive director of the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, and HRNK board member Carl Gershman and president of National Endowment for Democracy presented information on North Korea during the panel discussion.

HRNK published Hidden Gulag IV: Gender Repression and Prisoner Disappearances by veteran human rights investigator David Hawk on September 18, 2015. The report uses satellite imagery and defector interviews to reveal the addition of a women's section to a prison camp facility known as Kyo-hwa-so No. 12 and describe the plight of North Korean women repatriated from China. The report also addresses "double disappearances", or North Koreans who vanished first into political prisons and again as such detention facilities were dismantled or relocated.

Satellite Imagery 
Published by HRNK in 2003, The Hidden Gulag, First Edition includes satellite imagery of political prison camps provided by DigitalGlobe with camp locations and facilities identified by North Korean defectors. In The Hidden Gulag Second Edition: Political Prison Camps, HRNK was able to publish 41 higher resolution camp images in which defectors marked structures as small as guard towers and homes with the advent of Google Earth technology. HRNK and AllSource Analysis, Inc. have worked together to conduct detailed satellite imagery analysis of specific camps over time, and some of this work contributed to the United Nations' Report of the commission of inquiry on human rights in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Most recently, HRNK and AllSource Analysis discovered the closure of the Camp 15 “Revolutionizing Zone” and issued this report: Imagery Analysis of Camp 15 “Yodŏk” Closure of the “Revolutionizing Zone.”

Songbun

HRNK released the first comprehensive study of North Korea's discriminatory social classification system, Marked for Life: Songbun, North Korea's Social Classification System, to a group of 200 people at the American Enterprise Institute on June 6, 2012. As a starting point, this report recommended that North Korea allow the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations Special Rapporteur in North Korea full, free, and unimpeded access, so that they can study the impact of the songbun system on the human rights of North Koreans.

Mass Surveillance and Coercion

HRNK launched its report, Coercion, Control, Surveillance, and Punishment: An Examination of North Korea's Police State, at the Korea Economic Institute (KEI) on July 19, 2012, to a group of 100 people. Authored by North Korean leadership specialist Ken E. Gause, the publication focuses on security and espionage in North Korean.

Executions 
HRNK's 2012 report Coercion, Control, Surveillance, and Punishment: An Examination of the North Korean Police State alleges that public executions are not uncommon in North Korea, nor is the death penalty limited to the “most serious crimes,” constituting a violation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.