[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Xiaolu Guo

evelopment, and sexism more in keeping with her peasant upbringing than the country's supposedly progressive capital.

Guo's 2010 book, Lovers in the Age of Indifference, is a collection of short stories that depicts the lives of people adrift between the West and the East, set in various locations.

In 2015, Xiaolu Guo published the novel I Am China, which she describes as "a parallel story about two Chinese lovers in exile – the external and internal exile that I had felt since leaving China". In the book, the London-based literary translator Iona Kirkpatrick discovers a story of romance and revolution as she translates a collection of letters and diaries by a Chinese punk musician named Kublai Jian. Unbeknownst to Iona, Jian has come to Britain seeking political asylum, while another character, Mu, is in Beijing trying to track him down. As the translator tracks the lovers' 20-year relationship, she develops a sense of purpose in deciding to bring Jian and Mu together again before it is too late. It was one of a NPR's Best Books of 2014.

In 2017, she published her memoir Once Upon a Time in the East (the US edition entitled Nine Continents: A Memoir In And Out Of China), which is a chronicle of her growing up in China in the 1970s and '80s and her journey to the West.

In 2020, her novel A Lover's Discourse was released by Grove Atlantic in the US and Penguin Random House (Chatto) in the UK.

Films
Guo's 2004 film is The Concrete Revolution, a film essay about the construction workers in Beijing building stadiums for the 2008 Olympics. It received Grand Prix at the International Human Rights Film Festival in Paris, 2005 and Special Mention at Chicago Documentary Film Festival.

Guo's 2006 film, How Is Your Fish Today?, inspired by Alain Robbe-Grillet's Trans-Europ-Express (1966) is a docu-drama set in modern China, focusing on the intertwined stories of two main characters; a frustrated writer (Rao Hui) and the subject of his latest film script, Lin Hao (Zijiang Yang). It was selected for the Official Competition at Sundance Film Festival 2007 and Rotterdam Film Festival, received Grand Prix at International Women's Film Festival in France.

Guo's 2008 film, We Went to Wonderland is a black-and-white essay film focusing on two elderly Chinese communists who arrive in the rundown East End of London and comment on the Western world from their astonished Chinese perspective.
The film which premiered at the Rotterdam IFFR was immediately picked for the 2008 New Directors/New Films Festival of the MoMA / Lincoln Film Society in New York.

Guo's 2009 feature is She, a Chinese, a homage to Jean-Luc Godard's La Chinoise. This film won the Golden Leopard at the 2009 Locarno International Film Festival and the Best Script Award at the Hamburg Film Festival 2010. It has been distributed in the UK, France, Spain, Germany and Switzerland.

Guo's other 2009 film, Once upon a Time Proletarian, is a sister-film to She, a Chinese. This documentary looks at China in the post-Marxist era and examines different social classes in the society. It premieres at the Venice Film Festival 2009 and has been shown at Rotterdam IFFR and Sheffield Doc/Fest.

Guo's 2011 fiction feature,  is a cinematic adaptation of her novel of the same title. The film stars Chinese actress Shi Ke and German cult figure Udo Kier and is a political metaphor recounted through the transformation that befalls a small Chinese village after an alleged UFO sighting. Inspired by Soviet cinema, Xiaolu Guo dedicated this film to Soy Cuba, a banned 1964 Soviet-Cuban film directed by Mikhail Kalatozov. It received the Public Award at Milan 3-Continental Film Festival 2013.

Guo's 2013 film, Late at Night, Voices of Ordinary Madness, focuses on Britain's underclass society, each fighting their ground in their own way. It is the second part of Guo's Tomorrow trilogy, continued after her documentary Once Upon A Time Proletarian. It premiered at the 57th BFI London Film Festival 2013 and Rotterdam Film Festival 2014, and was exhibited at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC.

Guo's 2018 documentary feature Five Men and A Caravaggio, is inspired by Walter Benjamin's landmark essay The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction (1936). It premiered at the BFI London Film Festival 2018 and the Athens Avant-Garde Film Festival in Greece 2018.

In 2020 Guo collaborated with the American Vietnamese filmmaker Trinh T. Minh-ha on Trinh's new film 'What About China?'.