[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Central Business District, Saskatoon

dren's Festival, the Saskatoon Jazz Festival, public ice skating rink, Taste of Saskatchewan, and Shakespeare on the Saskatchewan. A previous event was "Louis Riel Day", with the Riel Relay, a team competitive event comprising running, canoeing, horseback riding being the highlights.

Transportation

Municipal transit
Saskatoon Municipal Railway or Saskatoon Municipal Street Railway provided an electric railway in Saskatoon and the surrounding area, for instance connecting Saskatoon and the village of Sutherland. The Electric Railway operated between 1912 and 1951.  Saskatoon Transit operated from 1949 to present. The early trolley cars operated from electric lines suspended above the streets, and the trolley cars ran on tracks. This system was employed between 1948–1974. The wires were in need of repair from ice accumulation in the winter months, and were subject to breakage. Motor buses supplemented this system starting in the late 1930s and are still in operation today.

The 23rd Street roadway between 2nd Avenue and 3rd Avenue has been closed off to produce a hub city bus terminal. This produces access to anywhere in the city via a type of spoked wheel analogy. If you catch a city route bus on any of the spokes of the wheel or any neighborhood, they all pass through the hub, so a bus transfer will connect you to all sections and neighbourhoods of the City of Saskatoon. The transit system has added recent innovations such as the Bio Bus, Access Transit and Low Floor Service.

Regional transit

Saskatchewan Transportation Company operates a major bus depot in downtown Saskatoon on 23rd Street and Pacific Avenue or the Warehouse district. It has provided passenger and parcel services across Saskatchewan since 1946.

Street
22nd Street (Highway 14) is a major thoroughfare through Saskatoon.  Highway 14 connects with Asquith, Biggar Wilkie, Unity, and Macklin en route to Alberta.

Idylwyld Drive was formerly known as Avenue A, (Highway 11). It is a main thoroughfare through the city connecting Regina, Saskatoon and Prince Albert, Saskatchewan. It also connects west Saskatoon with the bedroom communities of Warman and Martensville.

Vehicular access from east Saskatoon across the South Saskatchewan River is provided by three bridges – the Buckwold (or Freeway) Bridge, the Broadway Bridge and the University or 25th Street Bridge (all three bridges also provide pedestrian crossings). A fourth bridge, the Traffic or Victoria Bridge, provided access from Nutana into downtown for more than a century until it was declared unsafe for vehicular traffic in the late 2000s and closed; as of 2012 the historic structure was in the process of being dismantled with plans for a future replacement bridge still the subject of debate.

Urban planning
The early layout consisted of a train bridge where the  CNR Bridge (present day site of the Senator Sid Buckwold Bridge or Freeway/Idywyld Bridge) Senator Sid Buckwold Bridge currently stands. The train yards, switching station, station house were all at the foot of the bridge. Warehouses sprang up along the rail tracks. Homes, and schools were scattered to the east of the train yards. Churches lined the river bank edge; Spadina Crescent was first named Church Road. The western side of the rail yard became the town of Riversdale, and were smaller sized lots. The eastern side was the town of West Saskatoon.

When the revitalisation downtown project commenced in the 1960s, the rail yards were refashioned into the current downtown core, a shopping mall, and two large at-grade parking lots (for the shopping mall).  The rail bridge was demolished and an automotive bridge was constructed in its place.  The layout started on Avenue A (now Idylwyld Avenue) and the riverbank for the QLLS.  Streets are laid out east-west, and avenues north-south.  First Avenue begins to the east of Avenue A and numbers rise consecutively towards Spadina Crescent.  Streets are numerical incrementing northward.

South Downtown River Landing

Saskatoon is developing the South Central Business District, or block 146, which is called the River Landing Project. The CNR railyards and the Saskatoon Arena were the first buildings to fall; then the A. L. Cole Power Plant; and more recently, the Gathercole Building. It was once a high school, and later the Saskatoon Board of Education offices. Persephone Theatre is one of the first tenants on site, developing the Frank & Ellen Remai Arts Centre that opened in the winter of 2007. In December 2004, Premier Lorne Calvert, allocated $29.3 million to finance Saskatoon's River Landing project on the A. L. Cole Power Plant site.

Architecture

Heritage buildings