[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vanished (TV series)

he person wanted the conspiracy undone more than Sara's rescue. He eventually solved the real ransom demand of the conspiracy, the supreme court vote, but after stopping the vote with a bioterrorist attack simulation, he was shot and killed by one of the conspirators, before he can give any details.

FBI Agent Lucas takes over after the killing of Agent Graham, and successfully tracks down more leads, leading to a raid on a conspiracy site where dead sea scrolls were being scanned into a computer. However, while he gets very close to Sara a few times after she escapes, he is unable to unravel the false trail Sara left behind her as she escaped to her safe place with Peter Manning. 

Agent Lucas also discovers that a rehab facility, known as Encompass, was used as a front by the conspiracy to recruit addicted vulnerable youth. Sara, Ben, Max and Quinn all attended this same rehab facility, with Quinn later becoming a counselor and a recruiter there. Sara had been checked into this facility by her parents 12  years ago  when she was a 19, however, she escaped. Quinn later shared that Sara was the only person to ever escape the facility, and it might have been a factor in her kidnapping. After Sara's escape she lived for few months under a false name in Gloucester, Massachusetts. There she worked as a waitress in a bar, got into a relationship with Peter Manning local fisherman, and later got pregnant by him. Sara then left without telling anyone, including her boyfriend, gave birth to the a baby girl, name Becca. However, her parents raised Becca as her sister for a reason not fully explained in the show. The FBI wonders why would Sara who was tortured at the Encompass facility conceived Senator Collins to send Max there, but this question is never addressed. 

Ben Wilson, Marcy Collins' boyfriend, was released on bond from Marcy, who believed his story. He believes he is the father of Marcy's unborn child, and despite his innocence over prior events, was enraged by the rape of Marcy and murdered the Judge who attack her. In the end of the show it was unclear If he got away with it. It is also never confirmed if the Marcy's unborn child was a result of her affair with the judge or her relationship with Ben, as both took place at the same time.   

Agent Lucas uncover the mystery around the scholar. After the scholar found the Dead Sea Scrolls he found hidden messages there he thought was so dangerous he destroyed his research, and killed of his research team. He also lied about murdering his wife in order to protect her. However, it was later revealed the conspirators found out his wife was actually alive and kidnapped her leverage to coerce his help with the decipher once he is released from prison. 

Peter Manning is a man searching for the love of his life, who one day vanished from Massachusetts, where he worked on a fishing boat. He sees her again in the news as recently kidnapped wife of Senator Collins news. He still loves her, but his lead to the FBI is classified as low priority. He embarks on a mission to find her. He finds his child, but can't find a way to make things right. He gives up in the end, and returns to his boat to find that Sara is there. It's the place she ran to before; where she could be anonymous and find love. Judy Nash is a reporter covering Sara's kidnapping. She believes in her story about Peter Manning fathering a child with Sara, but is cut off as she doesn't have the proof. While Peter got her proof that he was the father, there is no proof about the mother. Without Sara, there is no story.

The series finale shows Senator Collins in a family dinner with his ex-wife and their two children. Sara, meanwhile, appears in aboard Peter Manning's boat. She says  to explains that twelve years ago she was pregnant and was taken away by "them". Peter interrupts her, and says, "none of that matters now. You're home", and they embrace.

Production history 
Vanished was the first project to emerge from a four-year creative deal between Josh Berman and 20th Century Fox. In January 2006, the studio ordered the production of the pilot and two additional scripts. It was announced that Gale Harold would star.

In April 2006, Vanished became one of two shows to get the early pickup by Fox. The network picked the show up for 12 additional episodes. It was then announced that the show would premiere following Prison Break, in the time slot 24 occupies from January to May.

Shortly thereafter, it was announced that John Allen Nelson would star opposite Harold. On June 19, 2006, it was learned that Penelope Ann Miller would guest star in six episodes and have the option of becoming a regular. It was then announced that Josh Hopkins would guest on several episodes and that Eddie Cibrian would also join the cast.