[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fukushima Daini Nuclear Power Plant

cool the suppression pool and drywell in addition to the reactor to prevent the drywell pressure from getting too high. 
Operators were later able to restore the High Pressure Core Spray portion of the ECCS in unit 4 and switched emergency water injection for unit 4 from the MUWC system to the HPCS.

While the water level was maintained in the three cores using emergency water injection, pressures in the containment vessel continued to rise due to lack of suppression pool cooling and the operators prepared to vent the containments making restoration of heat removal urgent. 
Unit 1 was prioritized as it had the highest drywell pressure.

Cold shutdown
The ultimate heat sink was restored on March 13 when the service seawater system pumps in the pump room were repaired in units 1, 2 and 4. 
This allowed the restoration of the normal ECCS and heat removal systems to operable status and cooling was switched to the Residual Heat Removal System (RHR) portion of the ECCS. 
The RHR systems were first activated to cool down the suppression pools (torus) and drywells to operable status, and water injections were made to the reactors using the Low Pressure Coolant Injection (LPCI) mode as needed. 
When the suppression pool was cooled down to below 100 °C, the RHR was switched to the shutdown cooling mode and brought the reactors to a cold shutdown.

Coolant temperatures below 100 °C (cold shutdown) were reached in reactor 2 about 34 hours after the emergency shut down (scram).
Reactors 1 and 3 followed at 1:24 and 3:52 on March 14 and Reactor 4 at 7:00 on March 15. 
By March 15, all four reactors of Fukushima II reached cold shutdown, which remained non-threatening.

The loss of cooling water at reactors 1, 2 and 4 was classified a level 3 on the International Nuclear Event Scale (serious incident) by Japanese authorities as of March 18.

Officials made preparations for release of pressure from the plant on March 12, 
but no pressure release was necessary.
An evacuation order was issued to the people living within  of the plant, subsequently expanded to . 
Air traffic was restricted in a  radius around the plant, according to a NOTAM. 
These zones were later superseded by the 20 km evacuation and 30 km no-fly zones around Fukushima Daiichi on March 12 and 15, respectively.

, 7,000 tons of seawater from the tsunami remained in the plant. 
The plant planned to release it all back into the ocean, as the tanks and structures holding the water were beginning to corrode.
Approximately 3,000 tons of the water was found to contain radioactive substances, and Japan's Fisheries Agency refused permission to release that water back into the ocean.

Restoration 
On December 26, 2011, the Prime Minister officially cancelled the nuclear emergency declaration for the Fukushima Daini plant officially ending the incident.
On February 8, 2012, the plant was opened to news media for the first time since the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.

The evacuation order was partly rescinded for Daini evacuees in August 2012. Some of the residents, such as the 7200 at Naraha, were permitted to return during daylight hours only, but others were ordered to remain away. The area did not become seriously contaminated and was safe to visit without protective clothing. In 2015, the evacuation order for Naraha was completely lifted, allowing residents to return and reconstruction efforts to begin. Naraha is the first of a number of towns in the area to have had its evacuation order removed.

2016 earthquake

On Tuesday, November 22, 2016, a magnitude 6.9 earthquake struck Japan  east southeast of Namie, Fukushima Prefecture at a depth of . The shock had a maximum intensity of VII (Very strong). 14 people were injured and more than 1,900 homes briefly lost electricity. Though a warning of a possible tsunami of  in height was issued, a  wave was reported by NHK in the port of Onahama of Iwaki, Fukushima; a  wave hit Soma, Fukushima; and another wave  in height struck the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant site after the 6.9 shock. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said that the third reactor's spent fuel cooling systems at Fukushima Daini had stopped as a result of the earthquake; TEPCO later reported the restart of the spent fuel cooling system after only 100 minutes of stoppage.

Decommissioning
On 31 July 2019, the TEPCO board of directors decided to decommission the plant, in response to local demands for a decision. Decommissioning is expected to take more than 40 years to complete, and will include moving spent nuclear fuel from spent fuel pools to on-site dry cask storage.

See also

 Nuclear power in Japan
 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster
 List of boiling water reactors
 List of nuclear power plants in Japan
 Lists of nuclear disasters and radioactive incidents
 List of civilian nuclear accidents

References

External links