[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 9th New Jersey Infantry Regiment

ed in a sunken road. While outnumbered the Carolinian held ground. General Heckman was wounded and the 9th lost 4 dead and 30 wounded.

On 7 May the Union force moved forward again, slowly pushing the Confederate force back toward the railroad. The 9th suffered an additional 1 killed and 10 wounded.

9 May XVIII and X corps pushed south to Swift Creek, finally able to destroy a portion of the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad. The 9th suffered an additional 1 killed and 9 wounded. Major-General Butler then pulled back to Bermuda Hundred.

Drewry's Bluff
On 12 May, Butler moved against Drewry's Bluff overlooking the James River. This second battle for Fort Darling at the top of the bluff is officially called the Battle of Proctor's Creek. The battle resulted in 6,000 casualties. XVIII Corps was effectively stopped until Grant and Lee maneuvered their way to Cold Harbor.

The 9th lost more men at Drewry's Bluff than any other engagement of the war.

Note: Drewry's Bluff is also spelled Drury's Bluff.

Colonel Zabriskie was wounded in the throat and later died of his wounds on 24 May. The 9th was not engaged in the following days of the battle, except to defend against attack on 20 May.

Brigadier-General Heckman was captured during this battle. General Butler offered to exchange Major-General Walker for Heckman but the offer was rejected. The Richmond Examiner called Heckman's brigade "foot cavalry" when reporting his capture.

The 9th was almost constantly engaged in skirmishes until 29 May when ordered to White House, Virginia, on the Pamunkey River by way of City Point. The regiment then marched to Cold Harbor.

Cold Harbor
The Battle of Cold Harbor was the last battle of Grant's Overland Campaign. Maj. Gen. William F. "Baldy" Smith's XVIII Corps joined up with Grant's Army of the Potomac at Cold Harbor. The addition of Smith's 16,000 men would extend the Union line. XVIII Corps arrived about 3 o'clock in the afternoon on 3 June 1864.

Second Division under the command of Brig. Gen. John H. Martindale, including the 9th New Jersey, was deployed on the right of Smith's force. The 9th arrived on the field late and was not involved in the bloody Union attacks. The 9th did, however, enter the trenches; the result was 1 enlisted man killed, 1 officer wounded, and 34 enlisted men wounded.

The next several days saw the 9th engaged but not part of any of the costly frontal attacks. By the 12th Grant began the next set of movements that would bring the army to Petersburg. The 9th covered the XVIII Corps withdraw to White House and then Bermuda Hundred.

Upon reaching Bermuda Hundred on 15 June 1864 the nine remaining companies of the 9th plus much reduced 23 Massachusetts were formed into the Provisional Brigade. This was all that was left of Heckman's Star Brigade. The Provisional Brigade was then assigned to X Corps temporarily.

Petersburg
The 9th marched 35 miles in 12 hours to reach the outskirts of Petersburg in early June. The regiment remained in the muddy trenches and bombproof dugouts until 29 July 1864. Their time in the trenches, however, was anything but dull "sharpshooting and being sharpshot" most of the time.

On 29 July, the 9th moved to provide support for the "Burnside Mine" the next morning. The regiment's exact movements are not known but there was at least one casualty (see below) so they must have been within range of the city defenders.

Known casualties:
Private John O. Huff, E Company, was wounded in the right hand; thumb amputated; left regiment for hospital

After the Crater, the 9th moved back to the trenches and bombproof dugouts.

Back to North Carolina
On 25 August 1864 the regiment moved to Point of Rocks where they met the recently released General Heckman. He promised to have them transferred back to North Carolina. With that in mind, the regiment was ordered to North Carolina on 17 September.

On 21 October 1864 the 108 surviving veterans that had not reenlisted left North Carolina for home.

On 7 January 1865 Lieutenant J. Madison Drake rejoined the regiment. Lt. Drake had been captured at Drewry's Bluff but escaped by jumping from a train on its way to South Carolina. He had made it back to Union held territory by moving cross country.

Deactivation
On 12 July 1865 the regiment was mustered out of the army at Goldsborough, North Carolina. The next day the men proceeded by rail to Danville, Virginia. The men then passed through City Point, Baltimore, and Philadelphia to reach Trenton on 18 July. The men were furloughed until the 28th when final discharge papers were issued.

Battle summary

Regiment commanders
September 1861 – Colonel Joseph W. Allen, drowned off Hatteras Inlet, NC
January 1862 – Colonel Charles A. Heckman, promoted
November 1862 – Colonel Adam Zabriskie, killed at Drury's Bluff
June 1864 – Colonel James Stewart, Jr., promoted

First enlistment
The first enlistment was spent entirely in North Carolina as can be seen by the engagements below.