[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yevgeny Zavoisky

not accepted even by the Soviet scientists (including Pyotr Kapitsa). The doubts were dispersed when Zavoisky visited Moscow, assembled an EPR spectrometer from scratch and reproduced his results there. In 1945, Zavoisky defended his habilitation on the phenomenon of electron paramagnetic resonance.

Teaching
Zavoisky was a popular teacher who focused on demonstrations rather than theories. He himself showed various cryogenic phenomena, such as hardening and shattering of matter upon freezing. One experiment nearly resulted in his arrest by the internal police. Zavoisky demonstrated interference of polarized light in a biaxial crystal that resulted in an encircled swastika-like image projected onto the screen in front of a large audience. The demonstration crystals were soon confiscated and analyzed by a special commission, seeking relation between the experiment and Nazi Germany, and only a series of letters from scientists settled the matter.

Late years
In 1947, upon invitation from Igor Kurchatov, Zavoisky moved from Kazan to Moscow, to work in the institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Soviet Union which later became the Institute of Atomic Energy (IAE). He was then moved to the classified location Arzamas-16 and participated in the Soviet atomic bomb project. Upon return to IAE, he worked on detectors of ultrafast processes and in 1952 developed a novel luminescence camera for detection of nuclear processes. Starting from 1958, he studied plasma and nuclear fusion related phenomena and discovered magneto-acoustic resonance in plasma in the same year.

A serious illness took him away from science in 1972. Zavoisky died in 1976 in Moscow.

Awards and honors
Zavoisky was awarded the Stalin Prize (1949), the Lenin Prize (1957) and Hero of Socialist Labour (1969), as well as two Orders of Lenin. On 23 October 1953, he became an Associated Member of the Academy of Sciences of the Soviet Union and on 26 June 1964 was elected as Academician.

In 1977, a year after his death, his discovery of EPR was acknowledged by the international EPR society, which also established the "Zavoisky Award". In 1984, Kazan Physics Institute was named after Zavoisky.

Zavoisky received 35 nominations for the Nobel Prize between 1958 and 1970, of which 33 were in Physics and 2 in Chemistry.

References

Bibliography

External links
 Memorial Laboratory of Yevgeny Zavoisky

1907 births
1976 deaths
20th-century Russian physicists
Full Members of the USSR Academy of Sciences
People from Mohyliv-Podilskyi
Kazan Federal University alumni
Academic staff of Kazan Federal University
Heroes of Socialist Labour
Recipients of the Stalin Prize
Recipients of the Lenin Prize
Recipients of the Order of Lenin
Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour
Russian nuclear physicists
Soviet nuclear physicists
Burials at Kuntsevo Cemetery
Russian scientists