[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Compton, 3rd Earl of Northampton

eat that destroyed the last major Royalist field army, and accompanied Charles on the attempt to link up with Montrose in Scotland that ended at Rowton Heath in September. He returned to Oxford and surrendered to the Committee of Both Kingdoms in February 1646, shortly before the war ended in June. 

After paying a fine, he resumed ownership of his estates in 1651 and most of his literary output dates from this period, which includes several plays and poems, as well as translations of French and Italian works. He also supported a number of minor poets and playwrights, the most significant being Cosmo Manuche, a former Royalist officer. While his brother William was involved in the Royalist underground as a member of the Sealed Knot, Compton remained largely undisturbed by the authorities, although he was briefly arrested for his part in the 1659 Booth's Uprising. 

Following The Restoration in 1660, Compton was rewarded by Charles II with appointments as Lord Lieutenant of Warwickshire and Recorder of Coventry, which he held until his death. He attended the House of Lords on a regular basis, his most significant act being to propose the banishment of Clarendon, former advisor to Charles I and Lord Chancellor from 1660 to 1667. The diarist Samuel Pepys described this as a "thing of vanity and insult...which is mighty poor I think, and so doth everyone else".  He was made a Privy Councillor in 1673, then Constable of the Tower of London in 1675, before being removed from both posts during the 1679 Exclusion Crisis.

After his death on 15 December 1681, he was buried in the family vault at Compton Wynyates, next to his first wife and succeeded as fourth Earl of Northampton by his son George.

Literary works

A founding member of the Royal Society in 1660, Compton is best known as a patron of the arts. In 1977, the discovery of manuscripts held in the family archives at Castle Ashby showed he wrote at least four original plays, including one on Caracalla, and an unfinished draft of a drama on Strafford. He also translated Niccolò Machiavelli's comedy "La Mandragola" and one of the earliest English versions of the French tragedian Pierre Corneille.

References

Sources
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

|-

1622 births
1681 deaths
03
04
Lord-Lieutenants of Warwickshire
People from Northamptonshire
Constables of the Tower of London
Compton, James Compton, Lord
James
Compton, James
Cavaliers
Alumni of Queens' College, Cambridge
Parents of prime ministers of the United Kingdom
17th-century English dramatists and playwrights
People educated at Eton College