[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# PREDA Foundation

The People's Recovery Empowerment Development Assistance Foundation, commonly referred to as the PREDA Foundation or PREDA, is a charitable organization that was founded in Olongapo City, Philippines in 1974. Its purposes include the promotion and protection of the dignity and the Human Rights of the Filipino people, especially of women and children. The main focus is to assist the sexually-exploited and abused children.

History 
Father Shay Cullen is a Catholic missionary priest from Dublin, Ireland, a member of the Missionary Society of St. Columban. He helped found the charity in 1974 along with Alex Corpus Hermoso and Merly Ramirez. Since then, Fr. Shay Cullen has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize twice.

Preda Foundation and Fr. Shay Cullen were awarded the prestigious Human Rights Award from the City of Weimar, in Germany.

In 2012, the PREDA Foundation spoke out about the case of the 52,000 Amerasians in the Philippines, the children from soldiers of the US Army settlements in the country who did not get legal recognition of their origins from their own government.

Description 
The Preda Foundation is licensed and accredited by the Philippine government. The Preda Foundation is dedicated to the protection of children and working for social transformation and a just and corrupt free society. It has worked to prevent children being locked in small, cramped jails without basic rights. Preda has been actively involved in helping victims of the human trafficking and sex slave trade in the Angeles City. Preda has been involved in promoting and defending the Rights of Children and their Defenders. Preda cooperates closely with international legal tribunals Interpol and the UN Commission on Human Rights.

The PREDA Foundation provides rescue, treatment and recovery for sexually and physically abused children. It investigates and prosecutes abusers, to prevent and protect children and youth against child abuse, substance abuse and AIDS. The foundation helps families in being self-reliant, promotes livelihood training and employment with just wages by providing capital, interest free loans, technical assistance to producers and markets through the Fair Trade Movement and the commercial market. The foundation also works with media to develop public awareness and protect children.

Preda projects 
 Childhood For Children: Rescues Children and youth from brothels and domestic abuse. Rescues children from sexual abusive situations in home or in the streets and brothels. It has helped law enforcement agencies in the detection, arrest and criminal prosecution of those involved in these crimes.
 Legal Services: free legal services for children that have been accused of crime. They also provide research and legal assistance in the prosecution of their abusers.
 Rescue Every Child Today (REACT): Responsible for visits to jails and works on the cases of children in conflict with the Law. The REACT project provides a residential center with therapeutic activities, trainings, non-formal education and legal assistance.
 Street Child Education Early Kontact and Outreach (SEEKOUT): Helps street children that are in dire circumstances by providing help through fresh food, clothes, learning and legal assistance.
 Public Education and Preventive Seminars (PEPS): Provides specialized workshops and training seminars for the prevention of child abuse, drug abuse and the HIV-AIDS by using handouts, posters, video showing and direct people participation.
 Special Human Rights Education and Lobbying (SHARE): A project directed to the Barangay communities, college business on child protection and legal procedures in child abuse cases.
 Research, Advocacy, Information and Networking (RAIN): dissemination through articles, pamphlets, newsletters, public speaking engagements, global awareness building in the Philippines and abroad, through media (radio and TV), and working with journalists and broadcasters.
 Indigenous Peoples Assistance Community Training (IMPACT):
helping organize Indigenous People's leaders for dialogue and community action for environmental protection and development.
establishes tree nurseries and provides a least a thousand (2 meter tall) saplings yearly planted by the Indigenous people and volunteers. There are special scholarships for the youth of the 3 communities participating in the project.
 Youth Organising and Empowerment Training and Theatre training production (AKBAY): Training in social and family values, leadership training and character formation through seminars, workshops, summer camps, and social projects done by the youth.
 Scholarship for Youth (SCHOLAR): Providing specialised education in nursing assistance, social work, and computer training for disadvantaged youth. The Computer training course is conducted at the Preda computer laboratory with 20 units. The course is certified by TESDA and Microsoft through the LEARN Foundation.
 Internet Safety Campaign (INSEC): National and Internati