[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nevado de Longaví

om sector collapses of the volcano. This collapse is known as Lomas Limpias and its scar has a surface area of  . The collapse scar was later filled with products from explosive eruptions. Another collapse occurred on the southsouthwestern flank, forming the Los Bueyes collapse and terrace deposits.

Nevado de Longaví is a relatively small volcano. With a diameter of , a basal surface area of  and a height above base level of , Nevado de Longaví has a volume of about .

The basement beneath the volcano is formed by the volcaniclastic Cura-Mallín Formation of Eocene–Miocene age, Miocene plutons and the lavic-breccia Pliocene-Pleistocene Cola de Zorro formation. This last formation was identified as forming a deeply eroded volcano in the Cordón de Villalobos south of Nevado de Longaví. This volcano  south of Nevado de Longaví is known as Villalobos. The emplacement of this formation was facilitated by a decrease in the compressional stress that had affected the region prior to the Pliocene.

Some isolated monogenetic volcanic centres can be found southeast of Nevado de Longaví. Aside from Villalobos, this includes Resago and Loma Blanca. The first and the last are of Pleistocene age, based on their preservation. Resago is post-glacial. The last two centres appear to be related to a geological lineament that flanks the eastern slopes of Nevado de Longaví.

A glacier is found on the southern slope, between 1989 and 2017 glacier cover has decreased by over 95% with less than  of glacier cover remaining. Previous glaciation is also supported by the presence of glacial striations on lava flows and of lahar deposits. The Rio Blanco originates on the southeastern slope of Nevado de Longaví, within the collapse scar. It turns south and west around the volcano in a fishhook pattern. The Estero Martinez and Quebrada Los Bueyes rivers also originate on Nevado de Longaví, on the western and southern flank respectively. They are both tributaries of the Rio Blanco. The Achibueno River also originates on the eastern flank of Nevado de Longaví in a lake of the same name. It flows first northeastward and then turns around the volcano.

Composition 

Nevado de Longaví has chiefly erupted andesite, which forms about 80% of the volcano. Smaller amounts of basalt and dacite were also erupted by the volcano, the former in the early stages of activity and as basaltic andesite inclusions, the latter during the Holocene.

Early stage rocks contain phenocrysts of clinopyroxene, olivine and plagioclase. Mainstage rocks in addition contain amphibole and orthopyroxene. In the Holocene rocks, apatite, iron and titanium oxides and sulfides have been found. Aside from minerals, gabbro and mafic rocks form enclaves. Granite xenoliths are also found. Unlike these granites, the gabbros appear to be cumulates considering their chemical similarity to Nevado de Longaví rocks.

The chemistry of Nevado de Longaví's magmas is unusual among the volcanoes of the South Volcanic Zone. For example, the potassium content is unusually low. Likewise, incompatible elements are underrepresented. Modal amphibole is much more prevalent. Nevado de Longaví's magmas have been referred to as adakitic, the only magmas of such chemistry in the Southern Volcanic Zone, but this classification has been contested. Fractional crystallization of amphibole has been invoked to explain some of the compositional patterns.

On the basis of their rubidium content, Nevado de Longaví's magmas have been classified in two groups. The rubidium-rich group resembles that of other volcanoes in the Southern Volcanic Zone; the rubidium-poor group conversely is the "unusual" one. The differences appear to reflect both different parental magmas and different magma evolution. There is a temporal pattern of the magmas becoming more rubidium-poor over time.

The unusual chemical patterns appear to reflect that the magmas erupted from Nevado de Longaví were extremely rich in water. Such a pattern has also been noted at Mocho-Choshuenco and Calbuco. All these volcanoes are located above the points where fracture zones intersect the Peru–Chile Trench, and it has been proposed that these fracture zones channel water into the mantle. In the case of Nevado de Longaví, the Mocha fracture zone is subducting beneath the volcano.

Eruptive history 

Early stage basaltic andesite lava flows crop out on the northern and southwestern slopes of Nevado de Longaví. They originated at a site   below the present-day summit and reach thicknesses of . Individual flows are about  thick. These volcanic rocks are up to one million years old.

During the main growth stage, volcanic activity was approximately constant considering the homogeneous structure of the lava flows. Temporary periods of dormancy however occurred, causing the formation of erosion valleys on the northern slope that were then filled by younger lava flows. These younger lava flows were themselves subject to glaciation.

Holocene