[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Harry Hays

Harry William Hays,  (December 25, 1909 – May 4, 1982) was a Canadian politician, 27th Mayor of Calgary, Cabinet minister in the government of Lester Pearson, and Senator from Alberta.

Personal life

Born in Carstairs, Alberta, Hays had several careers related to agriculture. He was an auctioneer, rancher and breeder as well as a radio broadcaster. He was a founding member and president of the Alberta Poultry Breeders' Association and also served as president of the Alberta Holstein Breeders' Association. He led the Canadian Swine Breeders during World War II when it initiated the "Bacon for Britain" campaign of increased production as part of the war effort. In the 1950s, he pioneered exporting cattle by airplane allowing the Canadian industry to develop new markets in Mexico and the United Kingdom. Hays is the creator and namesake of the Hays Converter beef cattle breed.

Harry Hays is credited with starting the Calgary Stampede pancake breakfast tradition.

In 1934 Hays married Muriel Biglund and had one son Daniel Hays, who was a former member of the Senate of Canada appointed in 1984 where he served as Speaker and Leader of the Opposition.

Political life

Mayor of Calgary
While Hays had never run for political office prior to 1959, it was generally believed that he made his 1959 run at the urging of business colleagues who were concerned about the City of Calgary's rising debt, which would reach $82 million in 1960. In 1959 Hays would sell his dairy farm on the southern outskirts of the city to developers for $1 million, the land would eventually form the community of Haysboro.

Hays was elected the 27th Mayor of Calgary in the October 1959 Calgary municipal election. Hays defeated popular incumbent Mayor Donald Hugh MacKay following the damning report from the Turcotte Inquiry which concluded MacKay had used his position as Mayor for improper personal gain. Turcotte would note that MacKay "derived a direct improper advantage through his position as mayor". Hays would be re-elected for a second term in the 1961 Calgary municipal election. Harry Hays resigned effective June 30, 1963, Grant MacEwan appointed as Mayor by Council and sworn on July 3, 1963.

During his time as Mayor, it was noted that Hays quickly gained the confidence of Council, city commissioners, the press and public, which made him an attractive candidate for Pearson's Liberals. Hays campaigned on more efficiency in government, and the creation of a robust business climate. For his 1961 re-election, Hays made good on his election promise to reduce debt, claiming he had lowered the per capita debt by $11.

Following pressure by Hays directed to the Canadian Pacific Railway regarding a lack of development on the downtown rail right-of-way, the CPR would dispatch employee and future City of Calgary Mayor Rod Sykes to work with Hays to reach a solution. In June 1962 Sykes and Hays would announce CPR led development into a two-block project east of the Palliser Hotel. Hays did not inform his colleagues on council of the announcement, besides Alderman Jack Leslie, and would be censured by in a following council meeting. Despite the rebuke by his peers, Hays was defiant noting "You will be getting these projects from me as long as I am in the chair (Mayor)", to which his fellow councillors reacted by capitulation to the comments, recognizing the power and influence Hays held. The CPR redevelopment scheme would eventually fail to materialize by June 1964.

Harry Hays would also prove to be an ardent supporter of the Calgary Municipal Airport and its continued growth. Hays would lead a delegation to Ottawa to lobby the Department of Transport and Minister of Transport George Hees to provide the Airport with official "International Status". The federal government did not agree with the request, but as a compromise renamed the passenger terminal from "Calgary Municipal Airport" to "Calgary International Airport". Public and council support ensured the remaining area of the airport including the runway would remain called "McCall Field" after Calgary aviator and First World War ace Fred McCall.