[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Julius Thomas Fraser

from what it was when the universe first came into being. As the universe continues to change, so too does time change. In the humanistic sense, it is the perception of time that has changed, as humans have biologically evolved with different concepts of the world to those of our ancestral species.

This biological evolution, and the different perceptions of time that it implies, are played out in every moment in our brain. Our brain functions in one sense as a unitary organ, but evolutionarily it contains different brains: one that controls autonomic function, one that perceives the world in the moment, and one that understands the world intellectually. By this understanding, the biological self that understands only the moment is in perpetual conflict with the intellectual self that conceives of past, present, future, and the possibility of eternity. This, then, at its root is the conflict that underlies the tension of time felt and time understood. People can never resolve the fact that we live in the moment, but dream of the eternal.

Fraser builds his reasoning on an interpretation of the nature of time that permits a novel understanding of the dynamics of human values. He shows that seeking the true, doing what is right, and admiring what is beautiful, far from promoting permanence, continuity, and balance in individual and social affairs, actually perpetuate the chronic insecurity of the time-knowing species and drive its remarkable creativity and frightening destructiveness. For example let truth as a human value be defined as the recognition of permanence in reality. Its historical function has been the creation of conflicts and, through them, social, cultural, and personal change. Likewise if the quality of a feeling is such as to make one desire its perpetuation, then whatever is believed to be responsible for it is said to be beautiful. Of course the opposite is said to be ugly. The historical function of beauty has again been the creation of conflicts and consequent change.

Fraser's ideas have consequences not only for our understanding of the physical universe, but also of the emergence of the human mind (a parallel model of which was developed by the psychologist Clare W. Graves in his model of psychosocial emergence) and for culture and the arts. For example, Fraser posits that in literature tragedy is the purest expression of the universe's emergent temporality. Human values are instructions whose purpose is that of keeping alive the unresolvable, creative conflicts of the strange walker.

The theory of time as conflict - nested hierarchy of unresolvable conflicts.
These nested levels represent qualitatively different temporalities, for both time and the perception of time have evolved. In one sense, time is physically different from what it was when the universe first came into being.

atemporal -
blank sheet of paper,
objects travelling at speed of light,
black hole/Big Bang,
causation has no meaning

prototemporal -
fragmented shaft of an arrow,
particle-waves travelling at less than speed of light,
instants may be specified only statistically,
probabilistic causation joins prototemporal events

eotemporal -
shaft of an arrow,
countable and orderable without a preferred direction,
nowless time,
physical matter,
time orientable but not time oriented,
deterministic causation joins eotemporal events

biotemporal -
short arrow,
future, past, present, limited temporal horizons,
organic present,
simultaneities of necessity,
organic intentionality directed toward concrete goals and serving the continuity of the organism's life,
multiple and final causation,
rigid programming gives way to dynamic programming

nootemporal -
long straight arrow,
"You'll come to me out of the long ago",
intentionality directed towards concrete or symbolic goals,
serving continued integrity of the self,
human actions are connected through symbolic causes known as ideas,
the possibility of choice among ideas and corresponding actions is known as human freedom,
ideas can produce responses to imaginary challenges

sociotemporal -
A society is a group of people with a family of conflicts that defines them
and distinguishes them from other societies.
man has capacity to change social institutions in response to symbolic causes

Books
Books that he has authored include:
 1966, The Voices of Time: A Cooperative Survey of Man's Views of Time as Expressed by the Sciences and by the Humanities
 1975, Of Time, Passion, and Knowledge
 1978, Time as Conflict: a Scientific and Humanistic Study
 1982, The Genesis and Evolution of Time: a Critique of Interpretations in Physics
 1987, Time the Familiar Stranger
 1999, Time, Conflict, and Human Values
 2007, Time and Time Again:  Reports from a Boundary of the Universe

See also
 Philosophy of space and time
 Powers of Ten, a 1977 film in which a Fraser book makes a brief appearance
 Temporality
 Chronosophy

References