[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Schoolmaster snapper

pper is a slow growing, long lived species which has a maximum recorded age of 42 years.

 As fish grow longer, they increase in weight, but the relationship is not linear.  The relationship between length (L) and weight (W) for nearly all species of fish can be expressed by an equation of the form:

Invariably, b is close to 3.0 for all species, and c varies between species. A weight-length relationship based on 100 schoolmaster snapper ranging in length from 2 to 7 in (50 mm to 180 mm) found the coefficient c was 0.000050015 and the exponent b was 2.9107.   This relationship suggests a 12.5-inch schoolmaster snapper (320 mm) will weigh about 2.2 lb (1 kg).

Commercial and recreational use
Schoolmaster snapper, along with other snapper species, are sought by both recreational and commercial fishermen.  but the schoolmaster snapper is not as frequently targeted by commercial fisheries as other sympatric Lutjanus snappers.  Their food quality is reported to be excellent. However, the consumption of this species has been linked to ciguatera poisoning in humans.

Fishing regulations in US state waters are specific to each state, but they have similarities.  For example, the minimum length in Florida for schoolmaster snapper is  total length with a catch limit of 10 per fisherman per day.  However, the 10-fish limit is an aggregate for all species of snapper.

Light spinning and baitcasting tackle are used to fish for schoolmaster snapper. Live shrimp and baitfish, as well as shrimp pieces and cut bait, are the best natural bait. While jigs make for the best artificial bait, artificials are rarely used and rarely successful.

Conservation
The IUCN lists this species as being of Least Concern because it is not routinely targeted by commercial fisheries and separate commercial catch statistics are unavailable. The juveniles are common in mangroves and on shallow reefs which may be threatened by coastal development, as well as the impacts of climate change. In Colombia, illegal dynamite fishing in the Rosario Islands led to the near extirpation of this species. In some areas, minimum sizes and bag limits have been introduced to conserve the stocks of schoolmaster snapper. Fishing pressure could lead to a decrease in numbers and make the defensive aggregations of these fish more vulnerable to predation, so it has been suggested that no-take zones be introduced to reduce the amount of fishes killed by fisheries.

References

External links

Photos of the schoolmaster snapper at Florent's Guide to the Tropical Reefs
Photos of developing larval and juvenile schoolmaster snapper
South Atlantic Fishery Management Council Recreational fishing regulations for snapper. Accessed 20 February 2012
South Atlantic Fishery Management Council Commercial fishing regulations for snapper. Accessed 20 February 2012
 
 
 

Schoolmaster snapper
Fish of the Atlantic Ocean
Fish of the Dominican Republic
Fish of the Caribbean
Fish described in 1792