[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Roger Somville

o tackle world events:
Non à la guerre,
La résistance (1950)
Mineur (1953)
La répression (1961)
Socialisme pour l’Espagne
Les réunions syndicales
Vietnam (1966)
Les peintres (1971–1977)
Comité de quartier contre les missiles (1983)
Un intellectuel (1981–1986)
Le Peletier de Saint-Fargeau (1968–1987)

Alternatively, his energy expressed in caustic drawings: "La diarrhée intellectuelle", Les vernissages.

Other themes are intimate in tone and celebrate Woman, Hommage à Rubens, Les baigneuses, Les nus, Le modèle et son peintre are admirable portraits of his wife Simone.

Art
Somville's work is rooted in a refusal of what he considered to be futile aestheteism. However,
his work is not therefore naturalist. Rather than copy reality, he took it as his source, reconstituting it and transforming it in new, pictural terms. Forms adapt themselves to the expression of a convictions, the pulsating, a character; they burst their limits, change their shape. The explosion of colours serves a desire to express the pulsating of an inner world, over and above the message. They thunder out, sometimes on the verge of the deliberate vulgarity, or, on the contrary are Gaiety and passionate love of live itself.

This is a long way from the anecdote or the tour de force. As Emile Langui says,
"We are in the presence of a painter, in the absolute sense of the word."

His work as a painter, théoretician, lecturer and activist and his efforts for peace (he represented Belgium on the World Peace Council) were completed by his teaching life. At the Academy of Watermael-Boitsfort, which has become renowned under his direction, he trained numerous artists, independent of any artistic dogmatism. He directed the school from 1947 to 1986.

Somville's painting is known beyond the confines of a small coterie; retrospectives have been devoted to his work in Bruxelles, Paris, Moscow, Cologne, Sofia, Sofia, Mexico, Berlin, Saint-Denis, Bobigny, Liège, Budapest and La Havane, etc.

Among the collective exhibitions in which Somville's work has appeared are the Mostra Internationale di Bianco e Nero at Lugano (1960), the Biennale Internationale d’art at Venice (1962), the Biennale Internationale de la tapisserie at Lausanne (1962 and 1965), figuration et défiguration, at the Hedendaagse Kunst Museum in Ghent (1964), the Salon de mai, in Paris (1977), L’art belge depuis (1945), at the Musée des Beaux-Arts André Malraux, Le Havre (1982), then Salon International d’art, at Basle (1985), and other exhibitions including Amsterdam, Utrecht, Antwerp, Ostend, Ljubljana, Frechen, Rijeka, Heidelberg, Venise and Paris.

Somville's work is to be found in numerous museums in Belgium (the Moderne Art Museum in Brussels), and abroad (Mexico, Dresde, Faenza, the Hermitage in Saint Petersburg, Sofia, Paris and Lund). Among the various important prizes he has been awarded is the "Prix de le Critique" with Hans Bellmer, (1968–69).

References

External links
 Larousse
 officiel

1923 births
2014 deaths
People from Schaerbeek
Belgian painters