[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cybermorph

e to the game, which required a workaround to integrate a fix into the Jaguar's final production run. Gill felt that the 68000 chip was a limiting factor, but ultimately liked working with the Jaguar's hardware due to its flexibility and has since retrospectively expressed being proud of Cybermorph.

Release 
Cybermorph was unveiled as one of the first games for Atari Jaguar at a press conference held by Atari Corporation on August 18, 1993, running on an Atari TT030-based Jaguar development system. It was released by Atari in North America on November 23, 1993, as the pack-in game for the Jaguar. Trevor McFur in the Crescent Galaxy was initially slated to be the pack-in game until Atari chose Cybermorph instead. The game was reissued in 1994 as a one-megabyte (1MB) cartridge, with several features missing compared to the original two-megabyte (2MB) version from 1993 such as the introductory animation sequence and music, as well as fewer voice samples. The cut content was a cost-effective measure made by Atari to boost sales of the Jaguar, a process which took Attention to Detail approximately two hours in order to fit the game from a 2MB cartridge onto a 1MB cartridge. It was then released in Europe on June 1994, and later published in Japan by Mumin Corporation as a stand-alone release on December 15. In 1995, the game's trademark was abandoned. In 2022, the game was included as part of the Atari 50 compilation for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows (via Steam), and Xbox One, marking its first re-release.

Reception 

Cybermorph divided critics. Some found the pod-collecting gameplay to be dull and repetitive, while others saw it as varied and challenging due to the number of different enemies and obstacles. The usage of Gouraud shading was widely praised, but the graphics were generally regarded as a disappointment given the Atari Jaguar's capabilities, due primarily to the simplistic, untextured shapes. Unfavorable comparisons to Star Fox on Super NES also came up frequently in reviews; Digital Press Joe Santulli, for example, remarked that "Starfox is ten times better than this game – and Silpheed, a game that I really thought was all glitz, is easily superior to Cybermorph in terms of graphics and sound. So what gives here?"

The audio came as a bigger disappointment than the graphics, with several critics complaining at the absence of in-game music and the sound effects, which they found dated even by the standards of the previous generation. Electronic Gaming Monthlys four reviewers particularly emphasized the audio's poor quality. A few critics felt the game successfully delivered on the Jaguar's promise; Atari ST Users Simon Clays wrote that "I've never been overcome in quite the manner I was when I saw Cybermorph. More than anything it demonstrated the sheer power of the machine and its immediate superiority to anything else you'll see." Some critics particularly argued that in-game music was not called for, as it would have become annoying over the lengthy campaigns and detracted from the game's atmosphere.

Otherwise, the more positive reviews tended to emphasize its gameplay rather than its audio-visual performance. Edge magazine added that "it's gameplay that counts and Cybermorph has nothing to fear in that department. From the first firebutton press, it's pretty much non-stop action, and even though there's no timer, the game comes with a built-in sense of panic as you attempt to scoop up all the pods and haul ass outta there." GamePros Boss Music had a more mixed reaction, citing an intriguing gameplay concept but repetitive action, blocky and untextured graphics, and deterring challenge level. The title received a "Viewpoint Game Of the Month" award from GameFan, who also gave it one of its most enthusiastic reviews. They lauded the open world environments, level design, length, and real-time 3D graphics. Internal documentation from Atari Corporation showed that the stand-alone release had sold fewer than 2,000 copies by April 1, 1995. In 1996, ST Format regarded it as one of the ten best games for Jaguar.