[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lewis Tappan

Tappan and other radical political abolitionists denounced the Democratic Party as essentially pro-slavery.  Though mistrustful of politicians, Tappan supported various antislavery parties that culminated in formation of the Republican Party.  In both 1860 and 1864, Tappan voted for Abraham Lincoln.

Tappan supported the Emancipation Proclamation but believed that additional liberties were necessary. He wrote to Charles Sumner: "When will the poor negro have his rights? Not, I believe, until he has a musket in one hand and a ballot in the other."

Philanthropy 
Recipients of aid from Lewis Tappan included:
 American and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society
 American Anti-Slavery Society
 American Colonization Society
 American Missionary Association
 Human Rights (journal)
 Lane Seminary
 Oberlin College
 Oneida Institute
 Amistad defendants

Writings

See also 
 United States v. The Amistad, the United States Supreme Court case

References

Sources
 Blue, Frederick J. No Taint of Compromise. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 2006.
 Ceplair, Larry. The Public Years of Sarah and Angelina Grimke. New York: Columbia University Press, 1989.
 Harrold, Stanley. Subversives. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 2003.
 Wyatt-Brown, Bertram. Lewis Tappan and the Evangelical War Against Slavery, New York: Athenaeum, 1971.

External links
 PBS entry
 Origin of the Tappan name
 American National Biography Entry
 
 
 American Abolitionists and Antislavery Activists, comprehensive list of abolitionist and anti-slavery activists in the United States, including Lewis Tappan, and antislavery organizations. Website includes historic biographies and anti-slavery timelines, bibliographies, etc.

 
American abolitionists
American Congregationalists
1788 births
1873 deaths
Burials at Green-Wood Cemetery
People from Northampton, Massachusetts
New York (state) Republicans
La Amistad
Businesspeople from New York City
American manual labor schools
Congregationalist abolitionists
19th-century American businesspeople
19th-century American philanthropists
Underground Railroad in New York (state)