[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Bastille Day military parade

r Typhoons, alongside personnel from the Bundeswehr, the color guard of the Gardebataillon from the Austrian Armed Forces, the Hellenic Armed Forces, the Swiss Armed Forces and the Netherlands Armed Forces. It was the first time since the end of the Second World War that the parade was scaled back. 

The parade honored the military, police and civilian medical workers nationwide and all the uniformed service men and women from the country's uniformed organizations who have been at the forefront of the response to the pandemic and their actions to support the well-being of the populace at home and abroad, with many of them being present. The parade capped off with the playing of the National Anthem by the French Army Chorus. The La Musique de l'Air performed John Williams' Summon the Heroes and Olympic Fanfare and Theme, both as a reminder of the nation's preparedness in hosting the 2024 Summer Olympics to be held in the capital, while marking the 190th year of the July Revolution of 1830, the golden jubilee anniversary since the passing of President Charles de Gaulle, the 80th anniversary of the formation of the Free French Forces and the establishment of the Order of Liberation, the 75th diamond jubilee since the victory over the Axis Powers and the end of the Second World War and the 60th anniversary of the country's first ever nuclear test. 

The French Foreigh Legion Music Band performed before the marchpast began. During the pre-parade segment, two French Army tanks from the Armoured Cavalry Arm dating from the Second World War were presented before the dignitaries, in remembrance of de Gaulle's career in the army during that war, as a regimental commander before assuming his leadership role as leader of the Free French. These tanks, one Char D2 and one Renault R35, honoured his prior role as commandant of the 507th Tank Regiment.

The 2021 edition of the parade returned to the traditional route of the Champs-Élysées. For the first time in a year officer cadet battalions of Armed Forces academies included cadets and officers from NATO countries' armed forces. Two military tattoo-inspired segments served as the opening and closing, respectively, of the parade. As a tribute to the ongoing fight against the COVID-19 pandemic at home and abroad, a battalion of the Defense Health Service marched as part of the 10,000 strong ground column, which was led off by a composite battalion of special forces and military personnel representing armed forces operations, together with personnel from EU armed forces, in French-speaking Africa.

In the 2023, Prime Minister  of India, Narendra Modi is invited as the Guest of Honour for the prade. The Indian tri-services; Indian Army, Indian Navy and Indian Air Force contingents will also be the part of the prade. A 269-member Contingent of Indian Armed Forces will march alongside their French counterparts. The 2023 prade also celebrates the 25 years of collaboration and strategic partnership between the two countries.

Composition of the parade

As of the early 2010s, the parade involves around 9,500 soldiers (7,800 on foot, the rest are crew members or cavalrymen), 380 vehicles, 240 horses and more than 80 planes and helicopters. It is the largest regular military parade in Western Europe.