[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Political families of India

Although India is a parliamentary democracy, the country's politics has become dynastic or with high level of nepotism, possibly due to the absence of party organizations, independent civil-society associations which mobilize support for a party, or centralized financing of elections. The dynastic phenomenon is present at the national, state, regional, and district level. The Nehru–Gandhi family has produced three Indian prime ministers, and family members have largely led the Congress party since 1978. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)  also has several dynastic leaders. In addition to the major national parties, other national and regional parties such as Shiromani Akali Dal, Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Janata Dal Secular, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Kerala Congress, Jammu & Kashmir National Conference, Indian Union Muslim League, AIMIM, and the Nationalist Congress Party are all dominated by families, mostly those of the party founders.

National

Nehru–Gandhi family 

The Nehru–Gandhi family's involvement with the Congress Party began with Motilal Nehru in the 1920s, when India was still part of the British Empire. The family became more influential under his son, Jawaharlal Nehru, who became a prominent figure in India's nationalist movement. After Jawaharlal's death, his daughter Indira Gandhi became his political heir (her surname came from her husband, Feroze Gandhi. The Nehru-Gandhi dynasty has dominated the Congress Party since Indian independence in 1947. The party was defeated in the 2014 elections, however, and high-level defections took place in Maharashtra, Assam, West Bengal, and Jammu and Kashmir. The family still has widespread name recognition.

Motilal Nehru - Freedom fighter, politician and lawyer
Jawaharlal Nehru - Freedom fighter, First Indian Prime Minister, 1947–1964 (son of Motilal)
Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit - Member of Parliament, diplomat (daughter of Motilal)
Kamala Nehru - Congress Party leader (wife of Jawaharlal)
Indira Gandhi - Prime Minister, 1966–1977 and 1980–1984 (daughter of Jawaharlal)
Feroze Gandhi - Freedom fighter, politician, journalist (husband of Indira)
Rajiv Gandhi - Prime minister, 1984–1989 (son of Feroze and Indira)
Sonia Gandhi - Former President of the Congress Party, leading it to victory in two successive Lok Sabha elections (wife of Rajiv)
Rahul Gandhi - Member of Parliament, former Congress Party president (son of Rajiv and Sonia)
Priyanka Gandhi - Congress Party general secretary (daughter of Rajiv and Sonia)
Robert Vadra - Businessman, entrepreneur (husband of Priyanka)
Sanjay Gandhi - Politician (son of Feroze and Indira)
Maneka Gandhi - Cabinet member of Narendra Modi's government (wife of Sanjay Gandhi) 
Varun Gandhi - Former Member of Parliament (son of Sanjay) 
Uma Nehru - Member of Parliament (cousin of Indira)
Arun Nehru - Former minister (nephew of Indira, son of Uma)

Andhra Pradesh & Telangana

Bihar

Mehta Family
Tulsidas Mehta— five time Member of Bihar Legislative Assembly from Jandaha Assembly constituency, former Minister in Lalu Prasad Yadav cabinet, one of the founder of Rashtriya Janata Dal.
Alok Kumar Mehta— multiple times Member of Bihar Legislative Assembly, former Member of Lok Sabha from Ujiarpur Lok Sabha constituency, multiple times minister in Rashtriya Janata Dal government. (son of Tulsidas Mehta)

Chaudhary Family
Shakuni Choudhary— five time Member of Bihar Legislative Assembly from Tarapur Assembly constituency and former Minister in Government of Bihar, a close accomplice of Lalu Prasad Yadav.
Samrat Choudhary— Former Minister in Government of Bihar, President of Bihar wing of Bharatiya Janata Party (son of Shakuni Chaudhary)

Prasad Family
Jagdeo Prasad— Founder of Shoshit Samaj Party and Former Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar.
Satish Prasad Singh— Former Chief Minister of Bihar for shortest tenure. (brother-in-law of Jagdeo Prasad)
Nagmani— Former Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment in Atal Bihari Vajpayee's cabinet, several time Member of Bihar Legislative Assembly and Minister in Government of Bihar. (son of Jagdeo Prasad and son-in-law of Satish Prasad Singh).

Verma Family
Upendra Nath Verma— Former Minister in Vishwanath Pratap Singh's cabinet, several time Member of Bihar Legislative Assembly, Former Minister For Education in Government of Bihar.
Bagi Kumar Verma— Former Minister in Government of Bihar, several time Member of Bihar Legislative Assembly. (son of Upendra Nath Verma)

Kushwaha Family
Janardan Manjhi— several times Member of Bihar Legislative Assembly from Amarpur Assembly constituency in Banka district.
Jayant Raj Kushwaha— Member of Bihar Legislative Assembly from Amarpur Assembly constituency, served as Minister for Rural Works and Minister for Minor Water Resources in Government of Bihar. (son of Janardan Manjhi)