[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Liver X receptor

agonists have been developed, including nonsteroidal LXR agonists T0901317 and GW3965.

The hexacyclic aromatic ketones, (-)anthrabenzoxocinone and (-)bischloroanthrabenzoxocinone ((-)-BABX) derived from a Streptomyces sp. have micromolar affinity for LXR-α.

LXR-623 (WAY 252623) CAS: [875787-07-8].

Target genes 
LXR-RXR nuclear receptor heterodimers function as transcriptional regulators for genes involved in lipid metabolism, lipid homeostasis, and inflammation. Target genes of LXRs are involved in cholesterol and lipid metabolism regulation, including:
 
  ABC – ATP Binding Cassette transporter isoforms A1, G1, G5, and G8
  ApoE – Apolipoprotein E
  CETP – CholEsterylester Transfer Protein
  FAS – Fatty Acid Synthase
  CYP7A1 – CYtochrome P450 isoform 7A1 - cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase
  LPL – LipoProtein Lipase
  LXR-α – Liver X Receptor-α (a somewhat unusual example of receptor up-regulating its own expression)
  SREBP-1c – Sterol Regulatory Element Binding Protein 1c
  ChREBP – Carbohydrate Regulatory Element Binding Protein

Role in metabolism 
The importance of LXRs in physiological lipid and cholesterol metabolism suggests that they may influence the development of metabolic disorders such as hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis. Evidence for this idea has been observed by recent studies that linked LXR activity to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. LXRα knockout mice are healthy when fed with a low-cholesterol diet. However, LXRα knockout mice develop enlarged fatty livers, degeneration of liver cells, high cholesterol levels in liver, and impaired liver function when fed a high-cholesterol diet. LXRβ knockout mice are unaffected by a high-cholesterol diet, suggesting that LXRα and LXRβ have separate roles. LXRs regulate fatty acid synthesis by modulating the expression of sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c). LXRs also regulate lipid homeostasis in the brain. LXRα and LXRβ double knockout mice develop neurodegenerative changes in brain tissue. LXRβ knockout mice results in adult-onset motor neuron degeneration in male mice.

Adiponectin induces ABCA1-mediated reverse cholesterol transport by activation of PPAR-γ and LXRα/β.

Potential therapeutic applications of LXR agonists 
LXR agonists are effective for treatment of murine models of atherosclerosis, diabetes, anti-inflammation, Alzheimer's disease, and cancer.

Cardiovascular 
Treatment with LXR agonists (hypocholamide, T0901317, GW3965, or N,N-dimethyl-3beta-hydroxy-cholenamide (DMHCA)) lowers the cholesterol level in serum and liver and inhibits the development of atherosclerosis in murine disease models. Synthetic LXR agonist GW3965 improves glucose tolerance in a murine model of diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance by regulating genes involved in glucose metabolism in liver and adipose tissue. GW3965 inhibits the expression of inflammatory mediators in cultured macrophage and inflammation in mice.

Aberrant LXR signaling in macrophages due to the oxidized cholesterol 7-ketocholesterol promotes the inflammation that leads to atherosclerosis. For this reason, 7-ketocholesterol is a therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis.

When lipogenesis is increased by pharmacological activation of the liver X receptor, hepatic VLDL production is increased 2.5-fold, and the liver produces large TG-rich VLDL particles. Glucose induces expression of LXR target genes involved in cholesterol homeostasis like ABCA1 which is defective in Tangier disease. A common feature of many metabolic pathways is their control by retinoid X receptor (RXR) heterodimers. LXR heterodimerises with RXR. Promiscuous RXR also heterodimerises with PPAR members. PPAR-α plays a pivotal role in fatty acid catabolism in liver by upregulating the expression of numerous genes involved in mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation. Thus RXR is a common partner of two nuclear receptors acting in opposite directions with regard to fatty acid metabolism. So both LXR and PPAR-α compete for the limited pool of RXR and this dynamic equilibrium determines the direction of lipid metabolism.

Developing new potent and effective LXR agonists without the undesirable side effects may be beneficial for clinical usage.  In this regard, DMHCA was reported to reduce atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice without inducing hypertriglyceridemia and liver steatosis.

Alzheimer's disease 
Treatment with T0901317 decreases amyloidal beta production in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model. However, both T0901317 and GW3965 have been reported to increase plasma and liver triglycerides in some mice models, indicating that T0901317 and GW3965 may not be a good candidate for a therapeutic agent.