[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fail Safe (2000 film)

hile, the American president has ordered another American bomber to circle over New York with a 40-megaton payload, which should be dropped in case of the bombing of Moscow. The American ambassador in Moscow reports about the final moments of the Soviet capital before being vaporized from the blast.

The American bomber receives an order to drop its bombs over New York in order for the destruction of Moscow to be reciprocated and a Third World War avoided. It was earlier revealed that the U.S. President's wife was in New York while the events of the film transpired, meaning she would be killed in the blast. The pilot of the American bomber, General Black, commits suicide with a lethal injection just after releasing the bombs.

New Yorkers are shown going about their lives, unaware of their imminent doom. The screen fades to white, and text appears listing the nine countries with nuclear capability as of 2000.

Cast
 Walter Cronkite as Host
 Richard Dreyfuss as The President
 Noah Wyle as Buck
 Brian Dennehy as General Bogan
 Sam Elliott as Congressman Raskob
 James Cromwell as Gordon Knapp
 John Diehl as Colonel Cascio
 Hank Azaria as Professor Groeteschele (loosely based on John von Neumann and Herman Kahn)
 Norman Lloyd as Defense Secretary Swenson
 Bill Smitrovich as General Stark
 Don Cheadle as 1st Lieutenant Jimmy Pierce
 George Clooney as Colonel Jack Grady
 Harvey Keitel as Brigadier General Warren A. Black
 Doris Belack as Mrs. Jennie Johnson
 Tommy Hinkley as Sergeant Collins
 Thom Mathews as Billy Flynn
 Cynthia Ettinger as Betty Black
 Will Rothhaar as Tom Grady (Colonel Grady's son, serving the same role in the plot as Grady's wife in the 1964 film.)

Production
The April 9, 2000 presentation was the first live broadcast of a dramatic movie (a televised play) on CBS since May 1960.  The production was shot and aired in black and white (the same format as the 1964 theatrical film), using 22 cameras on multiple sets.

See also
 List of nuclear holocaust fiction
 Nuclear weapons and the United States
 Nuclear weapons in popular culture

References

External links
 
 
 

2000 films
2000 television films
2000s thriller films
American black-and-white films
American live television shows
American political thriller films
Apocalyptic films
Black-and-white American television shows
CBS network films
Cold War aviation films
Films about fictional presidents of the United States
Films about nuclear war and weapons
Films about World War III
Films based on American novels
Films based on military novels
Films based on thriller novels
Films directed by Stephen Frears
Films set in Nebraska
Films set in New York City
Films set in Washington, D.C.
Films with screenplays by Walter Bernstein
Television remakes of films
American thriller television films
Warner Bros. films
2000s English-language films
2000s American films