[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Breckenridge Ski Resort

the resort implementing a year-long celebration in honor of a half-century since the resort was founded on December 16, 1961.

While no new lifts were built in 2012, the Colorado SuperChair received new chairs, replacing the original chairs that had been used since the lift's original construction.

In 2013, Breckenridge carried out a massive expansion with the opening of a long-awaited 543 acre expansion onto Peak 6. The expansion was first conceived in 2005, but construction of it was delayed due to opposition from groups that alleged that the expansion would destroy lynx habitat. Peak 6 expanded the resort's in-bounds terrain by 23%, and was the first major lift-serviced expansion at a Colorado ski resort since the construction of the Independence SuperChair in 2002. A new fixed-grip quad and high speed six pack were built as part of the expansion: the quad, known as the Zendo Chair, originates on Peak 7 at the junction of Monte Cristo and Angel's Rest, and travels to the Horizon Warming Hut at 10,800 feet, and is the primary route to access Peak 6. To avoid crowding the Independence SuperChair, a new trail called the Peak 6 Parkway was opened on Peak 7 consisting of new trail segments linking Pioneer to Wirepatch and Wirepatch to Lincoln Meadows,  allowing skier traffic from Peak 8 to directly access Zendo without going through Peak 7 base.  From the Horizon hut, the six pack, known as the Kensho SuperChair, transports visitors above timberline to an altitude of 12,302 feet and provides access to intermediate bowl terrain. The new six pack is the second highest lift on the mountain, behind only the Imperial Express SuperChair. Trail and lift names on Peak 6 reflect a common theme of the resort's Peak 6 branding, "Awaken Your Sixth Sense". The choice of trail names was historic in that they were selected by way of a crowdsourced naming contest on the resort's Facebook page, the first time this had ever been done by a ski resort. Zendo and the Kensho SuperChair opened to skier traffic on December 25, 2013, expanding the resort to 2,908 acres spread across five peaks.

On March 29, 2013, Breckenridge announced that the resort had launched plans to completely re-imagine the Fun Park's summer activity offerings on the mountain as part of the Vail Resorts Epic Discovery summer program, launched in the summer of 2015. This includes the construction of several zip lines on Peak 8 and Peak 7. The first of these was the Ten Mile Flyer on Peak 8, constructed immediately adjacent to the GoldRunner Coaster's lift hill, and opened on January 22, 2014.

By 2014, the original Colorado SuperChair was beginning to show its age and had become a bottleneck for congestion. Consequently, for the 2014–2015 season, Leitner-Poma replaced it with what became the resort's fourth high speed six pack. The upgraded Colorado SuperChair increased the lift's uphill capacity from 2,800 people per hour to 3,600 people per hour, easing congestion on Peak 8, especially during the early season when it is the sole intermediate terrain lift open. It is the sole six pack on the mountain to use a conveyor loading belt, similar to ones utilized at many European ski resorts, which cuts down on stops and slows due to falls in the loading area. It is also the second lift on the mountain to have such a carpet belt, after Rip's Ride (also on Peak 8). Alongside the Colorado SuperChair, the replacement chairs installed on the original quad were relocated to the Beaver Run SuperChair to replace that lift's aging Competition chairs. The Peak 9 Restaurant at the top of Lift C was renovated and turned into a new facility known as the Overlook Restaurant, after the original owners' lease expired at the end of the 2013–2014 season.

For 2016, a new restaurant, Pioneer Crossing, was opened at the top of the Independence SuperChair, replacing a warming hut that had existed there since the opening of Peak 7.

For the 2017–2018 season, the Falcon SuperChair, at this point more than 30 years old, was upgraded to a high speed six pack by Leitner-Poma. With the upgrade, each of the five peaks has one high speed six pack on it.

2020s
For the 2021-2022 season, Leitner-Poma constructed a high speed quad servicing trails on the north side of Peak 7. The Freedom SuperChair supplemented the Independence SuperChair, while also creating a route bypassing the Peak 7 base area for skier traffic heading south from Peak 6 to Peak 8.

Layout
Breckenridge is spread out across the five peaks that make up the southern half of the Tenmile Range. The peaks are numbered from southernmost (Peak 10) to northernmost (Peak 6) 'til 2012. Prior to development of Peak 6, directional trail signs between peaks were color coded: Peak 9, orange arrows, Peak 10 yellow, Peak 8 purple, Peak 7 red,

Backcountry