[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 172]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

s banners the remainder of their forces. _Tigranes_ (for thus he is
named) possesses all the courage and activity of Arsaces, but he is
destitute of his generosity and clemency. His ambition is vast and
boundless; he grasps at universal empire, and rejoices to scatter ruin
and destruction in his way; he has already subjected all the maritime
cities that derive their origin from Greece, together with the fertile
plains of Syria. These mountains, inhabited by a bold and hardy race of
men, now present a barrier to his enterprising spirit; and I am assured
he already meditates the conquest. His soldiers are drawn together from
every part, and nothing can escape their fury. In vain did I think
myself safe in the humble obscurity of my cottage, and the reputed
favour of the great Arsaces. Yesterday, a lawless band, not contented
with destroying my harvest and plundering my little property, seized my
daughter and me, and dragged us away in chains. What farther injuries,
what farther insults we might have suffered, it is impossible to
determine, since Heaven was pleased to effect our deliverance when we
had least reason to expect it.'

"Such was the history of Chares, which Sophron and his family listened
to with fixed attention. When he had finished, the father of Sophron
again embraced the venerable stranger, and assured him of all the safety
which their mountains could bestow. 'But,' added he, 'if so imminent a
danger is near, it behoves us to consult for the general safety; let us
assemble all our friends and neighbours, that they may consider whether
life is of more consequence than liberty; and if they determine to
retain that freedom which they have received from their ancestors, by
what means it maybe best defended.' Sophron then immediately went out,
and ascending a neighbouring rock, thus shouted out, in a voice that
echoed over the neighbouring valleys: 'Arm, O ye inhabitants of Lebanon,
and instantly meet in council; for a powerful invader is near, and
threatens you with death or slavery!' This sound was instantly repeated
by all who heard it; so that in a short time the intelligence was
dispersed to the very confines of the country.

"It was not long before a numerous assembly was convened. The aged
appeared with all the majestic dignity of wisdom and experience; their
countenances, indeed, indicated the ravages of time, but temperance and
exercise had preserved them from the loathsome diseases which grow on
luxury and indolence. They were attended by their sons in all the pride
of youth and vigour, who rushed along in arms, and seemed to breathe
deliberate rage and unconquerable opposition. When they were all
assembled on a spacious plain, Sophron rose, and with a becoming
modesty, recited the adventures of the preceding night, and the alarming
intelligence he had just received. He had scarcely finished before a
general cry of indignation burst unanimously from the whole assembly.
When it had a little subsided, a venerable old man, whose beard, white
as the snow upon the summits of the mountains, reaching down to his
middle, slowly arose, and leaning upon his staff, spoke thus:--'Ninety
years have I tended my flocks amid these mountains, and during all that
time I have never seen a human being who was bold enough to propose to
the inhabitants of Lebanon that they should fear death more than infamy,
or submit to the vassals of a tyrant.' At this a second cry, which
seemed to rend the very heavens, was raised, and farther deliberation
judged unnecessary, except upon the most effectual means of defence. For
this purpose the aged and most experienced retired to a little distance
to consult. They were not long in their deliberations; it was
unanimously agreed that all who were able to bear arms should be
embodied, and wait for the approach of the enemy, within the boundaries
of their own mountains. The nature of the country, always rough, and in
many parts inaccessible, would afford them, they thought, sufficient
advantages even against the more numerous and better disciplined troops
of the invader; and, by the common consent of all, Sophron was named
the general of his country, and invested with supreme authority for its
defence.

"When these measures had been resolved upon, the assembly dispersed, and
Sophron was left alone with Chares. It was then the stranger thus
accosted him with a deep sigh:--'Did success, O virtuous Sophron, depend
entirely upon the justice of the cause, or upon the courage and zeal of
its defenders, I should have little doubt concerning the event of the
present contest, for I can truly say, that in all the various countries
I have visited, my eyes have never seen a more martial race than I have
this day beheld assembled; nor can I doubt that their sentiments
correspond to their appearance; all, therefore, that can be effected by
patience, activity, and dauntless courage, will be achieved by your
countrymen