[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# David Kilcullen

aphy: "a deep, situation-specific understanding of the human, social and cultural dimensions of a conflict, understood not by analogy with some other conflict, but in its own terms." In the same essay, "Religion and Insurgency," published in May 2007 on the Small Wars Journal, he expanded this view:

Counterinsurgency
In 2010, Kilcullen brought together his writings in his book Counterinsurgency and developed his understanding of counterinsurgency to address radical Islam's globalized threat. He argues that successful counterinsurgency is about out-governing the enemy and winning the adaptation battle to provide integrated measures to defeat insurgent tactics through political, administrative, military, economic, psychological, and informational means.

Positions on American policy

Iraq War
In an interview with Spencer Ackerman of the Washington Independent in 2008, Kilcullen called the decision to invade Iraq "fucking stupid" and suggested that if policy-makers apply his manual's lessons, similar wars can be avoided in the future. "The biggest stupid idea," Kilcullen said, "was to invade Iraq in the first place." Kilcullen didn't deny saying it, but rather that "I can categorically state that the word 'fucking' was said off the record". Kilcullen explained his comment the next day:

In his book Blood Year, published in 2016, Kilcullen makes very clear his view that "there undeniably would be no Isis if we had not invaded Iraq." In a March 2016 interview on the UK's Channel 4 News, he went on to say:

Criticizing American policy
On 6 March 2009, Kilcullen published a piece on Small Wars Journal titled "Accidental Guerrilla: Read Before Burning."  The piece responded to Andrew Bacevich's review of Kilcullen's book, The Accidental Guerilla: Fighting Small Wars in the Midst of a Big One, and also addressed his criticisms of American administrations.  Kilcullen wrote:

Drone use
Kilcullen argues that targeted killings with drone strikes in Afghanistan and Pakistan is a mistake. in 2009 he said: "These strikes are totally counter-productive. It is a strategic error to personalize the conflict in this way, it’ll strengthen the enemy and weaken our friends. How can one expect the civilian population to support us if we kill their families and destroy their homes."

Publications and testimony
 
 
 
  Longer draft version of journal article.
 
  Different version
 
 
 
 
  Video
  Video

Books

See also
 Counter-insurgency
 Counter-terrorism
 Human Terrain System
 Iraq War troop surge of 2007

References

External links
 
 
 
 
  Citation
 
  23 (4): 23.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Guerrilla warfare theorists
Counterinsurgency theorists
Counterterrorism theorists
1967 births
Living people
Australian soldiers
Australian Army officers
Graduates of the Australian Defence Force Academy
University of New South Wales alumni
Royal Military College, Duntroon graduates
Fellows of the Royal Geographical Society
People educated at St Pius X College, Sydney