[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Behavior of nuclear fuel during a reactor accident

n which they can diffuse out of the pellet and into the gap between the fuel and the cladding. Here the xenon can decay to the long lived caesium isotope.

Genesis of 137Cs

These fission yields were calculated for 235U assuming thermal neutrons (0.0253 eV) using data from the chart of the nuclides.

Genesis of 134Cs
In the case of 134Cs the precursor to this isotope is stable 133Cs which is formed by the decay of much longer lived xenon and iodine isotopes. No 134Cs is formed without neutron activation as 134Xe is a stable isotope. As a result of this different mode of formation the physical location of 134Cs can differ from that of 137Cs.

These fission yields were calculated for 235U assuming thermal neutrons (0.0253 eV) using data from the chart of the nuclides.

An example of a recent PIE study
In a recent study, used 20% enriched uranium dispersed in a range of different matrices was examined to determine the physical locations of different isotopes and chemical elements.

 A solid solution of urania in yttria-stabilized zirconia (YSZ) (Y:Zr atom ratio of 1:4).
 Urania particles in an inert matrix formed by a mixture of YSZ and spinel (MgAl2O4).
 Urania particles dispersed in the inert matrix formed by a mixture of YSZ and alumina.

The fuels varied in their ability to retain the fission xenon; the first of the three fuels retained 97% of the 133Xe, the second retained 94% while the last fuel only retained 76% of this xenon isotope. The 133Xe is a long-lived radioactive isotope which can diffuse slowly out of the pellet before being neutron activated to form 134Cs. The more short-lived 137Xe was less able to leach out of the pellets; 99%, 98% and 95% of the 137Xe was retained within the pellets. It was also found that the 137Cs concentration in the core of the pellet was much lower than the concentration in the rim of the pellet, while the less volatile 106Ru was spread more evenly throughout the pellets.

The following fuel is particles of solid solution of urania in yttria-stabilized zirconia dispersed in alumina which had burnt up to 105 GW-days per cubic meter. The scanning electron microscope (SEM) is of the interface between the alumina and a fuel particle. It can be seen that the fission products are well confined to within the fuel, little of the fission products have entered the alumina matrix. The neodymium is spread throughout the fuel in a uniform manner, while the caesium is almost homogenously spread out throughout the fuel. The caesium concentration is slightly higher at two points where xenon bubbles are present. Much of the xenon is present in bubbles, while almost all of the ruthenium is present in the form of nanoparticles. The ruthenium nanoparticles are not always colocated with the xenon bubbles.

Release of fission products into coolant water in a Three Mile Island type accident
At Three Mile Island a recently SCRAMed core was starved of cooling water, as a result of the decay heat the core dried out and the fuel was damaged. Attempts were made to recool the core using water. According to the International Atomic Energy Agency for a 3,000 MW (t) PWR the normal coolant radioactivity levels are shown below in the table, and the coolant activities for reactors which have been allowed to dry out (and over heat) before being recovered with water. In a gap release the activity in the fuel/cladding gap has been released while in the core melt release the core was melted before being recovered by water.

Chernobyl release
The release of radioactivity from the used fuel is greatly controlled by the volatility of the elements. At Chernobyl much of the xenon and iodine was released while much less of the zirconium was released. The fact that only the more volatile fission products are released with ease will greatly retard the release of radioactivity in the event of an accident which causes serious damage to the core. Using two sources of data it is possible to see that the elements which were in the form of gases, volatile compounds or semi-volatile compounds (such as CsI) were released at Chernobyl while the less volatile elements which form solid solutions with the fuel remained inside the reactor fuel.