[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Defense of Cincinnati

The Defense of Cincinnati occurred during what is now referred to as the Confederate Heartland Offensive or Kentucky Campaign of the American Civil War, from September 1 through September 13, 1862. Confederate Brigadier General Henry Heth was sent north from Lexington, Kentucky, to threaten Cincinnati, Ohio, then the sixth-largest city in the United States. Heth was under orders from his superior, Major General Edmund Kirby Smith, not to attack the city, but to instead make a "demonstration". Once Heth arrived and reconnoitered the defenses, he realized an attack was pointless. After a few minor skirmishes, he took his men back to Lexington.

Union preparations

Cincinnati's mayor, George Hatch, ordered all businesses closed. Union Major General Lew Wallace declared martial law, seized sixteen steamboats and had them armed, and organized the citizens of Cincinnati, Covington, and Newport, Kentucky for defense.

Among the groups organized were the Black Brigade of Cincinnati, a forcibly conscripted group of free African Americans. The Black Brigade was given its own flag and each man was paid $13 for one month's service, the same pay given to privates at that time. Seven hundred and six members of the Black Brigade built fortifications in Kentucky to protect Cincinnati. They had no weapons and only had a few cavalry scouts between them and Confederate troops. 
The brigade worked until September 20, when there was no longer a threat to Cincinnati.  When they were done, hundreds of acres of forests had been cleared and in some locations used as abatis obstructions. Miles of rifle pits were dug.  They  built forts, magazines, and miles of military roads and breastworks along the border with Northern Kentucky between Fort Thomas and Bromley. The fortifications were built far enough away from Cincinnati that the Confederates could not shell the city.

The fortifications were defended by 25,000 Union Army soldiers and 45,000 local militia volunteers (including the Wallace Guards).  Further support was provided by more than 15,000 so-called "Squirrel Hunters"—untrained volunteers from other parts of Ohio who carried outdated equipment. Construction of the defenses was directed by Colonel Charles Whittlesey until relieved by Major James H. Simpson, chief of Topographical Engineers for the Department of the Ohio. On September 5, Ohio governor David Tod announced to the public that no additional volunteers would be needed for the defense of Cincinnati, but he advised that all military organizations be kept up for future needs.

Heth's arrival, skirmishing and departure
Heth and his men marched from Lexington, Kentucky, on the Lexington Turnpike (present-day U.S. Route 25), arriving south of Covington on September 6.  After reconnoitering the defenses at various points, he determined that an attack was pointless. Heth's forces stayed only a few days, skirmishing with members of the 101st Ohio Infantry, 103rd Ohio Infantry and 104th Ohio Infantry near Fort Mitchel on September 10–11 and returning south to Lexington on September 12, 1862.

On September 12, Wallace telegraphed Major General Horatio Wright (commander of the Department of the Ohio) in Cincinnati:  "The skedaddle is complete; every sign of a rout.  If you say so I will organize a column of 20,000 men to pursue to-night."  The large pursuit was never ordered as most of the military forces were sent via steamboats to Louisville, Kentucky to prevent capture by General Braxton Bragg. However, small scouting forces were sent southward to harass the rear-guard of Heth's forces. A skirmish occurred at Florence, Kentucky, on September 17. Another skirmish occurred near Walton, Kentucky on September 25, when Colonel Basil W. Duke attacked a Union camp of approximately 500 men near Snow's Pond.

For his vigorous defense of the city, Wallace earned the nickname "Savior of Cincinnati". Within a month of the panic, the Squirrel Hunters returned to their homes.

The defenses
In September 1862, one earthwork fort and five earthwork batteries were extant in Kenton County and only three earthwork batteries in Campbell County, all having been constructed in 1861. Two earthwork batteries protecting the city's flanks were located on hills at the west and east sides of Cincinnati. Altogether, the defenses were armed with just 15 heavy guns.

When Wallace moved his headquarters from Cincinnati to Kentucky, he selected the main building at the Thompson Winery that was designated Fort Henry, although no earthworks were ever constructed on the site. It was the approximate center of the line of fortifications and telegraph lines connected each of the earthwork positions with his headquarters.

Following the threat, many more batteries and forts were constructed through November 1864, mostly under the direction of Major James H. Simpson.

Kentucky batteries
Unless otherwise noted, all traces of these earthworks are gone.