[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Catholic Church in Chile

The Catholic Church in Chile is part of the worldwide Catholic Church, under the spiritual leadership of the Pope, the curia in Rome, and the Episcopal Conference of Chile.

The Church is composed of 5 archdioceses, 18 dioceses, 2 territorial prelatures, 1 apostolic vicariate, 1 military ordinariate and a personal prelature (Opus Dei). The government observes the following Catholic Holy Days as national holidays (if on a week day): Good Friday, Christmas, Feast of the Virgin of Carmen, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, the Feast of Saints Peter and Paul, the Feast of the Assumption, and All Saints Day.

The Catholic Church in Chile has had a complex relationship with the Chilean state, particularly during the latter half of the 20th century, with the government of Salvador Allende and the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet. The influence of liberation theology and political ideologies also contributed to internal disagreements and changing Church attitudes.

In 2012, 66.6% of Chilean population over 15 years of age claimed to be of Catholic creed – a decrease from the 70% reported by the 2002 census. A report in 2021 indicated that this number had further declined to 42%, a record low.(Encuesta Nacional Bicentenario 2021) The Catholic Church sexual abuse cases in Chile, especially Karadima case which came to light in 2010 and led to Karadima's conviction in 2011, had a strongly negative influence on Chilean public opinion of the Church. Chilean trust in the Catholic Church plummeted from 61% in 2010 to 38% in 2011, and 36% in 2017; the lowest of any Latin American country. The percentage of Chileans who called themselves Catholic also steadily decreased from 73% in 2007 to 45% in 2017.

History
Catholicism was introduced by Dominican and Franciscan friars who accompanied the Spanish colonialists in the 16th century. The first parish was established in 1547 and the first diocese in 1561. Most of the native population in the northern and central regions was evangelized by 1650. The southern area proved more difficult. Church activity was hindered during the campaign for independence (1810–18) and in the first years of the new government. In the 20th century, further success was impeded by a shortage of clergy and government attempts to control Church administration. Separation of Church and state was established by a new constitution in 1925.

The Church in the 1970s and 80s

Presidency of Salvador Allende 
Relations between Church and state were complicated during the Socialist presidency of Salvador Allende (November 1970 − September 1973). While Allende and the state refrained from attacking the Church, the majority of the Catholic hierarchs in Chile were either ideologically opposed to Allende and his socialist program or cautious of open clerical involvement in politics. However, a vocal minority of priests, followers and participants of liberation theology, were supporters of the government. On April 16, 1971, a group of these priests, "The 80", released a declaration advocating for Catholics to actively participate in Allende's cause and the socialist program. The 80 would subsequently form the organization Christians for Socialism. Other Catholic organizations were also a part of Allende's Popular Unity coalition, including the Christian Left and MAPU, which split off from the more centrist Christian Democratic Party. Previously, Catholic involvement in Chilean politics had been represented primarily by the Christian Democratic Party, which as a political organization was institutionally separate from the Church. In 1972, twelve members of Christians for Socialism were invited to visit Cuba by Fidel Castro, while there they spoke in support of socialist revolution. In April of that year, Christians for Socialism held a First Latin American Congress of Christians for Socialism in the city of Santiago; its focus was reflection on the activities of Christians who practiced liberation theology in Latin America. It was attended by laypeople, clergy, and the sole hierarch to participate, Mexican bishop Sergio Méndez Arceo. The Archbishop of Santiago, Cardinal Raúl Silva Henríquez, was invited but turned down the invitation because he believed Christians for Socialism was trying to push the Church into supporting communist revolution. Also in April, following the conference, the Chilean bishops issued two statements, one rebuking the statement of the twelve who went to Cuba, and the other treading a middle ground between respect for Allende and affirming his legitimacy, while maintaining a nominally apolitical stance and that Marxism was inconsistent with Catholicism.