[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Raffy Tulfo

April 12, 1999. On February 28, 2005, the Pasay City Regional Trial Court found Tulfo, Macasaet and Quiano guilty of 14 counts of libel and were sentenced to up to 32 years of imprisonment and ordered to pay a fine of  total. On June 29, 2021, the Supreme Court acquitted Tulfo of the libel charges.

On March 24, 2004, Tulfo published an article in his Abante-Tonite column accusing businessman Michael Guy of seeking help from former finance secretary Juanita Amatong to halt a tax fraud investigation by the Department of Finance’s Revenue Integrity Protection Service (RIPS). The claim was proven false, however, as the RIPS only investigates government officials and did not have jurisdiction over Guy. On February 24, 2010, the Makati Regional Trial Court convicted Tulfo and seven representatives from Abante's publisher of libel and were ordered to pay a total of  to Michael Guy for damages and attorney's fees. In July 2019, the Supreme Court upheld the conviction and increased the amount of damages needed to be paid.

In January 2007, Tulfo and his brothers Ramon and Erwin, each posted bail after a Quezon City Regional Trial Court judge issued warrants for their arrests following a libel complaint by then-first gentleman Mike Arroyo. The brothers have previously accused Arroyo of using his influence to force the government-sequestered station RPN to cancel their investigative news program Isumbong Mo: Tulfo Brothers. On July 16, 2007, the libel case against the brothers was dismissed.

In June 2014, Tulfo again posted bail for an arrest warrant issued by the Quezon City Regional Trial Court after Senior Police Officer III Abubakhar Manlangit filed a libel case against him and his brother Erwin. The policeman, who appeared in a November 15, 2011, episode of T3, also filed an MTRCB complaint against the brothers after being called a "thief" on air which contributed to a 20-day suspension of the program.

On April 18, 2022, Tulfo's Senate bid faced a disqualification case due his conviction for the crime of libel.

Personal life
Tulfo is married to Jocelyn Pua, the incumbent representative for ACT-CIS Partylist since 1993. They had two wedding ceremonies – at the Office of the Municipal Circuit Trial Court in Luna, Isabela on June 24, 1993, and at the Little Quiapo restaurant in Quezon City on January 20, 1995. Together, they have two children and one grandson.  His daughter Maricel (born 1992) also hosts his programs Wanted sa Radyo and Idol in Action. His son Ralph Wendell (born 1996) is the incumbent representative of the 2nd district of Quezon City since 2022.

Julieta Nacpil Licup claimed that she and Tulfo married on October 25, 1982, at a civil wedding in Capas, Tarlac with supporting evidence and they have one daughter named Grendy, born in 1984. In addition, Julieta also claimed that Tulfo left her when she was five months pregnant with their child because of a misunderstanding. Because they were not able to communicate with each other thereafter in 1984, Julieta thought that Tulfo was dead and filed paperwork within the Philippine courts with evidence of her attempts at finding him. The courts approved her petition to his presumptive death and she was able to remarry an American in 1992. As a result, Tulfo was sued for bigamy on June 10, 2019, as their marriage was not annulled. She also claimed that Tulfo also married another woman named Celedonia Amos in the United States in 1985. He also faced a disqualification case before Commission on Elections given those claims of his past marriages, but was later junked by the Commission's 2nd division because it "does not pertain to his qualification for elective office."

Filmography

Television

Radio

Notes

References

External links 
 
 

1960 births
Living people
Commentary YouTubers
Filipino television news anchors
Filipino radio journalists
Filipino actor-politicians
Filipino YouTubers
Independent politicians in the Philippines
TV5 (Philippine TV network) personalities
News5 people
News YouTubers
People from Davao City
People's Television Network
Raffy
Senators of the 19th Congress of the Philippines