[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Israel–Venezuela relations

shared blame for the attack because they had responded to Israel's military campaign in Palestine and Lebanon with silence and omissions. Venezuela has never had any anti-Jewish attitudes, recognizes the existence of Israel as a state, welcomes the Jewish community and guarantees its total respect."

Al Jazeera's Dima Khatib, reported that  Chávez was the first head of state to harshly condemn Israel over the Israeli-Lebanon conflict, even before any Arab or Muslim country. On August 3, 2006 Chávez ordered the Venezuelan charge d'affaires to Israel to return from Tel Aviv to Caracas, protesting the 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict. According to The Miami Herald, two days later, on his Sunday radio program, "Aló Presidente" ("Hello President"), Chávez accused Israel of "going mad and inflicting on the people of Palestine and Lebanon the same thing they have criticized, and with reason: the Holocaust. But this is a new Holocaust" with the help of the United States, which he described as a terrorist country. He went on to say that the United States refuses "to allow the [U.N.] Security Council to make a decision to halt the genocide Israel is committing against the Palestinian and Lebanese people". The Israeli government responded by recalling the Israeli ambassador to Venezuela. Chávez went on to repeat the comparison with the Holocaust several days later.

In the Arab world Chávez's actions and comments saw widespread praise, with Al-Ahram Weekly commenting that Chávez had "emerged as the most popular leader within the Arab world". According to the Jewish Telegraphic Agency, Chávez "is pursuing closer strategic relations with Arab countries and Iran, and is emerging as a key supporter of Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.  Although it's not unusual for OPEC members to maintain relations, Carlos Romero, a political scientist at the Universidad Central de Venezuela, says that 'since the foundation of Israel, Venezuela has maintained equilibrium between its interests in Israel and Arab countries. Chávez has broken this'."

Venezuelan Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said on August 13, 2006, that Venezuela would not endorse an OPEC oil embargo in response to the Middle East crisis, but did say, "What we have been warning and denouncing over the past two years is the permanent aggression of U.S. foreign policy toward OPEC producers" which continue to "pressure" the oil market.  Ramirez attributed record high oil prices to U.S. "policy of permanent aggression toward Venezuela, Iran" and "countries in the Persian Gulf."

On August 25, 2006, Reuters reported that Chávez had called for Israeli leaders to face a trial for genocide over killing in the Lebanon conflict.  Speaking from Beijing, Chávez said the Jewish state had "done something similar or, perhaps worse, who knows, than what the Nazis did".

In August 2006, during Chávez's visit to Syria, El Universal reported that the Governments of Syria and Venezuela demanded that Israel retire from the Golan Heights.

2008
In 2008, during the spat with Colombia over the latter's intrusion into Ecuador, Chávez said "the Colombian government has become the Israel of Latin America." In doing so he also reiterated his criticism of the Israel Defense Forces' strikes on Palestinian militants. His remarks were criticized by the Israeli ambassador to Argentina Rafael Eldad accusing Chávez of "introducing the culture of hatred into Latin America" while calling for messages of peace and calm for the region.

Gaza War (2009)
On January 5, Chávez called the violence "state terrorism", saying of the attacks "the Holocaust, that is what is happening right now in Gaza". Chávez accused Israel of "flagrant violations of International Law" and stated that the Israeli Prime Minister and American President be tried at the International Criminal Court. Venezuela expelled Israel's ambassador to Venezuela and part of the embassy personnel, and Hugo Chávez called for Ehud Olmert to be tried for war crimes. On January 14, Chávez broke off diplomatic ties and expelled the Israeli ambassador and his staff after the 2008-09 Gaza War which left around 1,200 Palestinians dead and over 5000 wounded. The Israeli government retaliated by expelling Venezuelan diplomats from the country.

On April 27, 2009, Venezuela officially recognised the existence of the State of Palestine.

In April 2009, Israel selected Canada as its protecting power in Venezuela. In September 2009, Venezuela's Foreign Ministry appointed Spain to be its protecting power in Israel.