[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Nadītu

Nadītu (sometimes romanized as naditu, with the long vowel omitted) were a social class in ancient Mesopotamia, attested only in the Old Babylonian period. They were associated with the tutelary gods of specific cities, and are often considered to be priestesses by modern authors, though this conclusion is not universally accepted, and it is sometimes argued they should be treated as a fully separate class. The best documented community of nadītu resided in Sippar, where they were associated with the god Shamash. They were not allowed to marry or have biological children, though adoption was permitted. Women did not become nadītu by choice, and it is assumed the institution was meant to constrain their agency. However, in some cases they benefited from this status as they were allowed to manage their own business affairs, which lead to economic empowerment. Groups of nadītu are also attested in other cities, but they were not necessarily subject to the same regulations and in Sippar, for example those in service of Marduk, known from Babylon and other sites, were allowed to marry.

Terminology and background
The term nadītu is a feminine noun derived from Akkadian nadû, "to throw down", "to cast away" or in agricultural context "to leave a field fallow", and on this basis it has been proposed it can be translated as "fallow", here to be understood metaphorically as "barren woman". It could be represented by the Sumerogram LUKUR, which originally designated a type of priestess possibly regarded as the "junior wife" of a god she served. Nadītu are also often described as priestesses in modern Assyriological literature, but this designation is not universally accepted, as while they most likely did spend a part of their day on prayer, there is no other indication that they had religious duties, and they did not prepare religious festivals or maintain temples, which lead to proposals that referring to them as a distinct social class might be preferable to classifying them as a subgroup of clergy. They were dedicated to the god of a specific city, and were expected to reside in it. As argued by Tonia Sharlach, their status can be compared to that of medieval Christian nuns and Marten Stol outright refers to them as "nuns". However, this approach has been criticized by Katrin De Graef, who argues it might lead to a misunderstanding of ancient institutions, and states using the original Akkadian nadītu is preferable.

References to nadītu are present exclusively in texts from the Old Babylonian period. There is no evidence they already existed in the Ur III period, and despite the use of the term lukur to represent nadītu there is no indication that the women designated in the third millennium BCE by the latter had a comparable role in society. Most likely, this class only developed in the Old Babylonian period due to social and economic changes.

In Sippar
The best documented community of nadītu lived in Sippar. It is first mentioned around the year 1880 BCE, during the reign of Sumu-la-El. It resided in a so-called gagû, "cloister", which was a quarter of the city located close to the temple of Shamash. They were closely associated with this god and Aya, a goddess regarded as his wife. Their devotion to these deities is well attested in greeting formulas in letters. It is also possible that some of the seals with depictions of Shamash and Aya discovered during excavations in Sippar originally belonged to nadītu.

It is presumed that around 200 nadītu resided in houses in the gagû area, in addition to various officials overseeing them and weaver women employed by the community. Female servants and cooks are also mentioned in a number of sources. Male servants are also attested, though they were not numerous. Some of them were Suteans. The walls surrounding the gagû were most likely monumentally tall, and their repair was considered an accomplishment suitable to commemorate  in year names by Babylonian rulers. One example is attested from the fourteenth year of Ammiditana.