[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# People in Need

g provision: ensuring that at least one warm room in a house, home repair, rent grants, and distribution of fuel and water. In Syria, People in Need also provides local farmers with seeds and tools to support their farming activity or, in safer places, provide food vouchers instead of food packages.

PIN has provided assistance to people in more than 50 countries across Europe, Asia and Africa, including DR Congo, Ethiopia, Angola, Mongolia, Cambodia and Romania. PIN works to address long-term problems such as the lack of quality education, health care and environmental degradation. Focusing on securing basic living needs (water, health, education, nutrition) and promoting social programmes, local business development, and supporting civil society and good governance. In Afghanistan, PIN began operating in 2001 after the fall of the Taliban, focusing on addressing long-term problems of livelihood, education and local community development.

Ukraine war

The Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 has plunged millions of Ukrainians into a humanitarian crisis. The cities of Kyiv, Kharkiv, Kherson and Mariupol have been hit by intense fighting. Fighting has also taken place in the Donetsk and Luhansk Oblasts. People in Need — which has been working in Ukraine since 2003 — immediately organised humanitarian aid for the areas affected by the attacks on the first day of the armed conflict. The SOS Ukraine Emergency Appeal was set up and quickly became the most successful fundraising effort in the organisation's history. In cooperation with various partners, a train bridge between Ukraine and Prague was set up to help with the logistics and coordination of humanitarian aid. In the very first days of the war,  PIN trucks loaded with humanitarian aid were dispatched to the war-affected areas of Ukraine.

The war in Ukraine affected millions of people. Residents of Ukraine were forced to move from their homes, and many residential areas of Ukrainian cities were destroyed. As a result of the fighting, critical infrastructure was damaged and hundreds of thousands of people found themselves without water and electricity. As a result, People in Need secured water supplies in eastern Ukraine. PIN has also financially supported local NGO partners to facilitate better distribute of food, drinking water and hygiene products.

Millions of people fled Ukraine to the neighboring countries. Most of those who fled were women and children. To improve their plight People in Need operated on the border of Ukraine and Poland, where people were waiting for days to get to safety. Help was offered to refugees in Czech Republic, and also in Moldova, Romania and Slovakia. People in Need also ensured shelter for refugees on the Ukrainian border. PIN built heated tents and offered important information to Ukrainians in flight.

In response to the unfolding humanitarian crisis People in Need launched a website Pomáhej Ukrajině (Help Ukraine) with the intention of pairing offer with demand in cooperation with non-government organisations working with migrants.

Social integration Programme

Since 1999, PIN has regularly worked to reduce poverty and social exclusion in the Czech Republic. It helps in poorer areas by providing social outreach projects, namely housing advice, advisory service for debtors, and limiting unemployment. In the past years, PIN has offered jobs, legal counseling, tutoring, social service assistance, police apparatus, and encouraged meaningful leisurely activities for children.

In summer 2006 PIN established a separate social integration department (in Czech: Programů sociální integrace, PSI). This department provides a comprehensive range of services for socially excluded individuals and families. Additionally, PIN advises town councils and municipalities with the highest numbers of socially excluded people. Their approach attempts to address the issues on both individual and community levels.

The programme employs over 200 people, including 130 social workers, job counselors, lawyers, and educators who are further supported by over 300 volunteers. It operates in more than 60 cities and municipalities throughout the Czech Republic and Slovakia.

Social exclusion is closely linked to problems with debt and the debt trap, which is associated with illegal loan-sharks and so-called quick loans offered by non-banking companies and even legitimate banking establishments. Hence, People in Need began negotiations with the Czech Banking Association in 2010, and reached an agreement regarding the elimination of unfair terms for credit agreements at all Czech banks. In 2011, PIN completed a nearly three-year campaign of indexing predatory lending to the Roma in Slovakia. Thanks to this campaign, the vast majority of companies modified the provision of loans.