[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Japanese cruiser Kasuga

was the name ship of the  armored cruisers of the Imperial Japanese Navy, built in the first decade of the 20th century by Gio. Ansaldo & C., Sestri Ponente, Italy, where the type was known as the . The ship was originally ordered by the Royal Italian Navy as Mitra in 1901 and sold in 1902 to Argentine Navy who renamed her Bernardino Rivadavia during the Argentine–Chilean naval arms race, but the lessening of tensions with Chile and financial pressures caused the Argentinians to sell her before delivery. At that time tensions between the Empire of Japan and the Russian Empire were rising, and the ship was offered to both sides before she was purchased by the Japanese.

During the Russo-Japanese War of 1904–05, Kasuga participated in the Battle of the Yellow Sea and was lightly damaged during the subsequent Battle of Tsushima. In addition, she frequently bombarded the defenses of Port Arthur. The ship played a limited role in World War I and was used to escort Allied convoys and search for German commerce raiders in the Indian Ocean and Australasia. Kasuga became a training ship in the late 1920s and was then disarmed and hulked in 1942 for use as a barracks ship. The ship capsized shortly before the end of World War II in 1945 and was salvaged three years later and broken up for scrap.

Background 

Kasuga was the next-to-last of the 10 Giuseppe Garibaldi-class armored cruisers to be built. The first ship had been completed in 1895 and the class had enjoyed considerable export success and had been gradually improved over the years. The last two ships of the class were ordered on 23 December 1901 by the Royal Italian Navy and sold the next year to the Argentine Navy in response to the order placed with a British shipbuilder by Chile for two second-class battleships. The possibility of war between Argentina and Chile, however, abated before the vessel was completed, and a combination of financial problems and British pressure forced Argentina to dispose of Bernardino Rivadavia and her sister ship Mariano Moreno. The Argentine government attempted to sell the ships to Russia, but negotiations failed over the price demanded by the Argentinians. The Japanese government quickly stepped in and purchased them due to increasing tensions with Russia despite the high price of ¥14,937,390 (£1,530,000) for the two sisters. Already planning to attack Russia, the government delayed their surprise attack on Port Arthur that began the Russo-Japanese War until the ships had left Singapore and could not be delayed or interned by any foreign power.

Design and description

Kasuga had an overall length of , a beam of , a molded depth of  and a deep draft (ship) of . She displaced  at normal load. The ship was powered by two vertical triple-expansion steam engines, each driving one shaft, using steam from 8 coal-fired Scotch marine boilers. Designed for a maximum output of  and a speed of , Kasuga barely exceeded this, reaching a speed of  during her sea trials on 20 September 1903 despite  produced by her engines. She had a cruising range of  at . Her complement consisted of 560 officers and enlisted men.

Her main armament consisted of one 40-caliber Armstrong Whitworth  Type 41 gun in a single turret forward and two 45-caliber  Type 41 guns, in a twin-gun turret aft. Ten of the 40-caliber quick-firing (QF)  Type 41 guns that comprised her secondary armament were arranged in casemates amidships on the main deck; the remaining four guns were mounted on the upper deck. Kasuga also had ten QF  Type 41 guns and six QF 3-pounder () Hotchkiss guns to defend herself against torpedo boats. She was fitted with four submerged  torpedo tubes, two on each side.

In 1924 two of her 3 in guns were removed, as were all of her QF 3-pounder Hotchkiss guns, and a single 3-inch 3rd Year Type anti-aircraft gun was added. By August 1933, all ten of her casemated 6-inch guns had been removed in addition to four more 3 in guns.

The ship's waterline armor belt had a maximum thickness of  amidships and tapered to  towards the ends of the ship. Between the main gun barbettes it covered the entire side of the ship up to the level of the upper deck. The ends of the central armored citadel were enclosed by transverse bulkheads  thick. The forward barbette, the conning tower, and gun turrets were also protected by 150-millimeter armor while the aft barbette only had  of armor. Her deck armor ranged from  thick and the 6-inch guns on the upper deck were protected by gun shields.