[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adlington Hall

vilions at the ends of the south front were also demolished. During the Second World War, parts of the Hall were used as a Services maternity ward run by St. Mary's Hospital. In the 1960s the stable block was converted into mews flats.  Between 2004 and 2009 the east wing was restored.

Architecture

Exterior
The plan of the hall consists of four ranges or wings arranged as a quadrangle around a courtyard, and comprises a mixture of architectural styles.  The north and east wings are in 15th- and 16th-century black-and-white timber framing, and the south and west wings are in brick dating from the middle of the 18th century.  The north front is in brick with stone quoins enclosing the timber-framing.  It is irregular, in two or three storeys with six gables.  It contains a mixture of 12- and 16-pane sash windows, and two Venetian windows. On the courtyard side is a two-storey timber-framed porch bearing a long inscription dated 1581.  The east wing is timber-framed, with close studding, on a rubble stone plinth.  It contains mullioned and transomed windows, a small oriel window, and 12- and 16-pane sash windows.  There is also a two-storey staircase turret.  The south wing is in Flemish bond brick with sandstone dressings.  It is symmetrical, in two and three storeys, and 13 bays.  It is set on a low stone plinth, and has rusticated quoins.  In the centre is a portico rising to the full height of the building.  This consists of four plain Ionic columns each of which is carried on an octagonal pedestal.  It has a frieze bearing the inscription "CHARLES & HESTER LEGH 1757", and its pediment contains the Legh arms.  Behind the portico are two round-arched windows and a round-arched door on the ground floor, over which is a window with a Palladian pediment.  On each side of the portico are 12-pane sash windows under flat rusticated heads.  Only the left and right ends of the west wing are still present, and they are joined by a screen wall.  Inside the courtyard, on the south and west sides, is a cloister.

Interior
The major part of the north wing is occupied by the medieval Great Hall.  This has a hammer-beam roof, with carvings of angels that were added at a later date.  The roof is plastered, but has been painted in such a way that it appears to be panelled.  At the end that would have originally been occupied by the high table is "the finest canopy in the county", according to the authors of the Buildings of England series.  This is "a rare wooden version of the cloths of estate hung over the high table in the Middle Ages to give splendour to the appearance of the Lord of the Manor".  It consists of five tiers of panels, divided by oak ribs into 60 compartments, each of which is painted with the arms of Cheshire families.  At the intersections of the ribs, instead of bosses, there are carved letters spelling out an inscription including the date 1505.  At one time the scheme may have been greater, as an account dated 1611 records a display of over 180 coats of arms.  Under the canopy is a mural of Hector and Andromache.  The side walls contain murals depicting the history of Troy.  The latter had been painted over until they were revealed in 1859, when the family were playing with a shuttlecock and damaged the overlying plaster.  The other end of the hall is supported by a spere truss formed by two giant oak trunks, carved into an octagonal shape and covered in panels.  Within the spere truss is an organ (see below).  To the sides of the organ are murals depicting, on one side Arabella Hunt, and on the other Saint Cecilia playing a harp.  Below the murals were the doors to the buttery and pantry.  Both doors are now blocked, replaced by panels carved with animals and foliage.  Also in the Great Hall is a fireplace decorated with the head of Apollo.

In the west wing are the surviving rooms from Charles Legh's extension, the dining room on the ground floor and the drawing room above it.  Both rooms are panelled and decorated in Classical style, with pediments over the doors and chimneypieces.  The dining room is the simpler of the two, and contains a white marble fireplace that has been dated to 1742.  The fireplace in the drawing room is also in white marble but is more elaborate, carved with scrolls, garlands, and a profile of Minerva.  This room also contains giant Corinthian pilasters.  Above its doors are wood-carvings in the style of William Kent, depicting the heads of Bacchus, Ceres, Flora, and Neptune.  The rooms in the south wing include family sitting rooms decorated with Rococo style ceilings, and Gothic and Chinoiserie motifs.  Also in the rooms of this wing are items moved from the demolished parts of the west wing.  The east wing contains service rooms.