[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abu Basma Regional Council

The council was established by the Interior Ministry on 28 January 2004. At the time, the regional council had a population of approximately 30,000 Bedouins and a total land area of 34,000 dunams, making it the most populous regional council in the Southern District but the smallest in jurisdiction.

Criticism
There was considerable controversy within the Bedouin community regarding the establishment of this council. The Regional Council of Unrecognized Villages (RCUV) argued that while the creation of the Abu Basma Regional Council involved the recognition of villages that were previously under threat of demolition, it has involved the renunciation of considerable swathes of village land claims in exchange. The RCUV was concerned that the creation of Abu Basma would set a precedent for the transformation of unrecognized villages into urban ghettos by limiting their boundaries to the area of habitation and zoning most Bedouin grazing grounds; this type of de jure recognition has not entailed the introduction of business districts or de facto recognition through equitable provision of education, health, transportation and municipal waste services long denied to, and demanded, by the Bedouin community. The RCUV also worried that, as the council covered the region with the largest population but the least jurisdiction, the Abu Basma council's delimitations would strangle future village development necessary to accommodate population growth. The RCUV instead recommended the recognition of all unrecognized villages and their land claims, since "the entire land under dispute is no more than 2% of the Negev lands. The Bedouins are more than 25% of the Negev population."

Abu Basma Regional Council prior to its division
The last head of the council was Rahamim Yona, preceded by Amram Qalaji. The council had the highest rate of unemployment in Israel. A 2011 audit by State Comptroller Micha Lindenstrauss revealed failures of local authorities.

It is accepted to give all the newly established councils a four-year trial period before elections are held. According to the amendment to the Regional Councils’ Law passed in 2009, that period can be extended by the Interior Ministry indefinitely. Following a decision taken by the Knesset’s Interior Committee in 2010 to force the government to present a detailed timeline for the council’s development the date for the first elections in the Abu Basma Regional Council was set as 2012. But due to the unpreparedness and low level of municipal services eventually these elections were delayed once again and never took place since the regional council was split.

Education
In 2007, the council ran 24 elementary schools (21 based in temporary housing) and three high schools. Due to the shortage of high schools in their villages, students attended regional schools in Kuseife and Shaqib al-Salam. The dropout rate was 16%.

See also
 Arab localities in Israel

References

External links
An official site of Abu Basma Regional Council in Hebrew and Arabic
Bedouin of the Negev
Lands of the Negev, a short film by Israel Land Administration about the challenges in the land management; providing infrastructure to the Negev Bedouin
 Seth Frantzman, Presentation to Regavim about Negev

 
Defunct regional councils in Israel