[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yousef Beidas

Yousef Beidas (, also transliterated Yusif Bedas, Yusef Baydas, Yousif Beydas) (December 1912 – 28 November 1968) was a banker born to a Palestinian father and a Lebanese Beirut-born mother. Known as "The Genius from Jerusalem" and the founder and Chairman of Intra Bank headquartered in Lebanon, he was a central figure in one of the Middle East's financial success stories and later one of its most disastrous financial collapses. Until his final days, Beidas claimed he was victim of 'a well-planned conspiracy'.

Early life
Born in Jerusalem, Palestine under Ottoman rule, Beidas was the son of Palestinian author and scholar Khalil Beidas and a Lebanese mother. In Mandatory Palestine he enjoyed a brilliant and precocious career. He was appointed the director of the exchange section of the Palestinian branch of Barclay's Bank at 21 years of age, and rose to be manager of the Arab Bank by the end of World War 2.
Having fled Palestine in 1948 with his pregnant wife, the Lebanese Wedad (Salameh) Abou Fadel, whom he married in 1946, was granted the Lebanese passport on account of his Lebanese Beirut-born mother. One of the outcomes of the Israeli-Arab war in Palestine in 1948, and the concomitant flight of huge numbers of Palestinians, was that Haifa lost its status as the commercial centre of the Mashriq or Arab countries east of Egypt, and the role was picked up by Beirut. Lebanese traders were happy to lay out the red carpet for people they otherwise regarded as "two -bit Palestinians" for the capital and talent that could bring to the local economy.

Beidas set himself up as a money-changer in Beirut with a personal capital of $4,000. On one occasion he even rented all of his office furniture, leaving only a sitting area on the floor for himself to conduct his business, and eventually managed to put 100 competitors out of business.

Intra Bank

Beidas established his Intra (International traders) Bank in 1951, together with three partners, Mounir Abou Fadel, Emile Mousallam and Mounir Haddad, with a capital of 12,000.LL Lebanese pounds, according to one source, or £100,000 sterling based on borrowings from his old clients at the Arab Bank. At the time, Beirut's financial importance was enhanced in the wake of the Tripartite Aggression against Egypt in 1956, which weakened Cairo's function as a beachhead for European investment in the Arab world, the tight bank secrecy rules and absence of exchange controls in the Lebanese banking system made the country a refuge for capital flight, petrodollars and hot money from Arab states of the Persian Gulf. Intra was soon to become the dominant player in the Lebanese economy, and by 1966 it had between 13 and 17 percent of the country's bank deposits and assets which included the Casino du Liban, the largest casino in the world, through which drug money was reportedly recycled, Middle East Airlines and the Port Authority of Beirut. He turned Middle east Airlines, floundering at the time, into one of the most profitable airlines in the world. he owned a steel mill and a mutual fund society. His group also had an extensive repository of real estate holdings in major cities, 40 branches across the globe, prime property investments in a 27-story skyscraper on Fifth Avenue in New York near the Rockefeller Center, Beidas's bank also controlled a shipyard in Marseille, the Londonderry Hotel in Park Lane and a section of the Champs-Élysées. He also opened up a cinema production company "Studio Baalbek" in 1956, hoping to make Lebanon the "Hollywood of the Middle East".