[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Government procurement in the European Union

he profit motive driving private sector capital interests, they still meant that the "similar control" requirement had not been met.

The 2014 Directive incorporated the Teckal case law into article 12, which outlines circumstances in which a public contract falls outside the scope of the Directive.

Defence procurement
Procurement of arms, munitions, war materiel and related works and services acquired for defence purposes and procurement of sensitive supplies, works and services required for security purposes are subject to EU Directive 2009/81/EC on defence and sensitive security procurement, not the Directives on Public Procurement. The purpose of the directive is to balance the need for transparency and openness in defence markets within the European Single Market with the need to protect individual countries' security interests. The European Commission has been working to improve cross-border access for small and medium-sized enterprises in defence contracts and on 20 April 2018 the Commission published a Recommendation on cross-border market access for sub-suppliers and SMEs in the defence sector, calling for earlier and clearer publication of information regarding member states' long-term plans and priorities in defence procurement.

Infrastructure procurement
An "Ex-ante Assessment Mechanism", introduced in November 2017, allows the European Commission and contracting authorities to share information about the public procurement aspects of various infrastructure projects. The mechanism was established via the European Commission's Communication on "Helping investment through a voluntary ex-ante assessment of the procurement aspects for large infrastructure projects" of 3 November 2017, and includes a helpdesk, notification mechanism and information exchange mechanism, whose shared aim is to help public authorities manage large procurement projects as efficiently as possible, irrespective of whether they are funded by the EU itself or not.

Third country access
"Third country access" refers to access to a common market by goods, services or traders who are based outside the common market borders, for example countries which are not part of the European Union and have not negotiated an international agreement which includes market access commitments.

Resolutions were adopted by the European Council on 21 December 1976 (referenced in Directive 77/62/EEC issued on the same date) and 22 July 1980 regarding non-member state access to community public supply contracts, which noted the scope for individual Member States to apply their own commercial policy measures but also anticipated a Commission proposal on the "co-ordination and progressive standardization" of policies.

The European Commission put forward an international procurement policy proposal in 2012 which would have established a Regulation on the access of third country goods and services to the EU's internal market in the field of public procurement. The proposed regulation would also have addressed access of EU goods and services to the public procurement markets of third countries. An amended proposal was put forward in 2016. As an EU Regulation it would have been directly applicable within EU Member States, including the United Kingdom at the time.

The regulation would have enabled contracting authorities to reject high value tenders (over €5m) with more than 50% third country content, subject to European Commission approval, and allow the commission to restrict access to EU public procurement markets where third countries did not offer open access to EU companies to compete for public contracts. The UK government at the time was "strongly opposed" to restrictions on third country access to EU markets, fearing that "tit-for-tat protectionism" would result.

Significant reservations were expressed by members and committee rapporteurs in the European Parliament. The Commission published an amended proposal in 2016, which maintained the position that world procurement markets lacked a "level playing field".

An International Procurement Instrument (IPI) covering this issue was adopted in June 2022.

Administration
Within the European Commission's operations, public procurement policy is administered by unit GROW.C.2 within the  Directorate-General for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs, located in Brussels.

Bibliography
 
 
 
 
 
  Pdf.

See also
Government procurement – includes details of transposition of EU procurement law into the legal regimes of each EU member state.
List of European Court of Justice rulings, especially sections covering the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, and public procurement

Notes

References

External links
 
 

 
Procurement
European Union competition law