[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of Powder River

at [45 05 18 N 105 51 28 W], is accessible by Montana Secondary Highway 391 (Moorhead Road), along the Powder River, in Powder River County, Montana. It is about  north of the present-day unincorporated community of Moorhead, Montana, and about  southwest of the present-day town of Broadus, Montana.

Monuments
In 1919, a historian named Walter M. Camp learned that while the four soldiers killed in the battle had been left on the field, no headstones had been erected. With help from Major H. R. Lemly and General Anson Mills (Mills had commanded the 1st Battalion, 3rd Cavalry at the Battle), headstones were prepared by the Quartermaster Corps and shipped by train to Arvada, Wyoming on the Powder River.

In a January 1920 address by Camp to the Order of the Indian Wars in Washington, D.C., he stated that the headstones would "be placed on the battlefield next summer." Despite this, the headstones would remain in storage in Wyoming for another 14 years.

In October 1933, Camp's 1920 address was reprinted in "Winners of the West," and came to the attention of D.C. Wilhelm of Gillette, Wyoming, who informed the writer that the headstones were still in storage. In early 1934, with help from the American Legion, Montana State Senator Frank T. Kelsey, and others, a stone and concrete monument embedded with the soldiers' headstones was placed on the Powder River Battlefield. The monument was dedicated on Memorial Day, May 30, 1934, and it still stands today.

Across the county road from the soldiers' monument is the Cheyenne monument, a sandstone boulder painted with the flag of the Northern Cheyenne tribe.

Order of battle
Native Americans, Chief's Old Bear, Two Moon, and Little Coyote (Little Wolf).  About 60 to 250 warriors.

United States Army, Big Horn Expedition Powder River Detachment, March 16–18, 1876, Colonel Joseph J. Reynolds, 3rd Cavalry, commanding

United States Army, Col Joseph J. Reynolds (brevet Major General), 3rd United States Cavalry Regiment, in command. About 383 soldiers and scouts.
 2nd United States Cavalry Regiment
 Company E, 53 men, First Lieutenant William C. Rawolle (brevet Lieutenant Colonel)
 Company I, 56 men, Captain Henry E. Noyes
 Company K, 47 men, Captain James Egan
 3rd United States Cavalry Regiment
 Company A, 1 man, Second Lieutenant Charles Morton
 Company D, 1 man, Second Lieutenant John G. Bourke
 Company E, 69 men, First Lieutenant John B. Johnson
 Company F, 68 men, Captain Alexander Moore (brevet Lieutenant Colonel)
 Company M, 68 men, Captain Anson Mills.
 Scouts, medical and staff officers, and civilians, 19 men

United States officers at the battle
 Colonel Joseph Jones Reynolds, Headquarters, 3rd Cavalry
 Major Thaddeus Harlan Stanton, Paymaster, Headquarters, Indian Scouts
 Assistant Surgeon Curtis Emerson Munn, Medical Detachment, Department of the Platte
 Captain Anson Mills, Company M, 3rd Cavalry, Headquarters, 1st Battalion
 Captain Henry Erastus Noyes, Company I, 2nd Cavalry, Headquarters, 3rd Battalion
 Captain Alexander Moore, Company F, 3rd Cavalry, Headquarters, 5th Battalion
 Captain James "Teddy" Egan, Company K, 2nd Cavalry
 First Lieutenant William Charles Rawolle (Wounded), Company E, 2nd Cavalry
 First Lieutenant Christopher Tomkins Hall, Company I, 2nd Cavalry
 First Lieutenant John Burgess Johnson, Company E, 3rd Cavalry
 First Lieutenant Augustus Choutea Paul, Company M, 3rd Cavalry
 Second Lieutenant Frederick William Sibley, Company E, 2nd Cavalry
 Second Lieutenant Bainbridge Reynolds, Company F, 3rd Cavalry
 Second Lieutenant John Gregory Bourke, Aide-de-camp to General George Crook, Company D, 3rd Cavalry
 Second Lieutenant Charles Morton, Acting Regimental Adjutant and Quartermaster of Cavalry, Co. A, 3rd Cavalry

In popular culture
In 1951, Hollywood produced a fictional movie starring Van Heflin, Yvonne De Carlo, Jack Oakie, and Rock Hudson, released in the United States under the name Tomahawk. In the United Kingdom and elsewhere, it was given the name Battle of Powder River, although the plot was actually based on events of Red Cloud's War (also known as the Powder River War) of 1866–8, rather than on the Reynolds battle of 1876.

Further reading
 Hedren, Paul L., Powder River: Disastrous Opening of the Great Sioux War, University of Oklahoma Press, 2016.
 Vaughn, J. W., The Reynolds Campaign On Powder River, University of Oklahoma Press, 1961.
 Eckroth, David; Kallevig, Rebecca; Penfold, Michael; Held, Jaeger R.; The Powder River Fight, March 17, 1876, American Battlefield Protection Program, National Park Service, 2018.
 Dillon, Richard H., North American Indian Wars 1983.
 Greene, Jerome A. (editor), Battles and Skirmishes of the Great Sioux War, 1876–1877: The Military View, University of Oklahoma Press, 1993. .
 Marquis, Thomas, Wooden Leg: A Warrior Who Fought Custer. 1920.
 Voices from the Western Frontier

References