[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Victoria Nuland

Victoria Jane Nuland (born July 1, 1961) also known as Toria Nuland is an American diplomat currently serving as Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs since 2021. A former member of the US Foreign Service, she served as Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs from 2013 to 2017 and the 18th U.S. Ambassador to NATO from 2005 to 2008. Since July 2023, Nuland has served as acting Deputy Secretary of State following the retirement of Wendy Sherman.

Nuland held the rank of career ambassador, the highest diplomatic rank in the U.S. Foreign Service. She is the former CEO of the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), serving from January 2018 until early 2019, and is also the Brady-Johnson distinguished practitioner in grand strategy at Yale University and a member of the board of the National Endowment for Democracy. She served as a nonresident fellow in the Brookings Institution's foreign policy program and senior counselor at the Albright Stonebridge Group.

Early life and education 
Nuland was born in 1961 to Sherwin B. Nuland, a surgeon born to Eastern European Jewish immigrants with the last name Nudelman, and a Christian British native mother, Rhona McKhann, née Goulston. She graduated from Choate Rosemary Hall in 1979. She has two younger half-siblings, Amelia and William. She earned a bachelor of arts degree from Brown University in 1983, where she studied Russian literature, political science, and history.

Career

Clinton administration 
From 1993 to 1996, during Bill Clinton's presidency, Nuland was chief of staff to deputy secretary of state Strobe Talbott before moving on to serve as deputy director for former Soviet Union affairs.

Bush administration 
From 2003 to 2005, Nuland served as the principal deputy foreign policy adviser to Vice President Dick Cheney, exercising an influential role during the Iraq War. From 2005 to 2008, during President George W. Bush's second term, Nuland served as U.S. ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in Brussels, where she concentrated on mobilizing European support for the NATO intervention in Afghanistan.

Obama administration 
In the summer of 2011, Nuland became special envoy for Conventional Armed Forces in Europe and then became State Department spokesperson.

In May 2013, Nuland was nominated to act as assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs and was sworn in on September 18, 2013. In her role as assistant secretary, she managed diplomatic relations with fifty countries in Europe and Eurasia, as well as with NATO, the European Union and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.

Ukraine 
During the Maidan Uprising in Ukraine, Nuland made appearances supporting the Maidan protesters. In December 2013, she said in a speech to the US–Ukraine Foundation that the U.S. had spent about $5 billion on democracy-building programs in Ukraine since 1991. The Russian government seized on this statement, claiming it was evidence the U.S. was orchestrating a revolution.

On February 4, 2014, a recording of a phone call between Nuland and U.S. ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey Pyatt on January 28, 2014, was published on YouTube. Nuland and Pyatt discussed who they thought should or shouldn't be in the next Ukrainian government and their opinion of various Ukrainian political figures. Nuland told Pyatt that Arseniy Yatsenyuk would be the best candidate to become the next Prime Minister of Ukraine. Nuland suggested the United Nations, rather than the European Union, should be involved in a political solution, adding "fuck the EU". The following day, Christiane Wirtz, Deputy Government Spokesperson and Deputy Head of the Press and Information Office of the German Federal Government, stated that German Chancellor Angela Merkel termed Nuland's remark "absolutely unacceptable." The president of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy, condemned the remark as "unacceptable". Department of State spokesperson Jen Psaki said the discussion was not evidence of any American plan to influence the political outcome, remarking that "It shouldn't be a surprise that at any point there have been discussions about recent events and offers and what is happening on the ground".