[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Xiao Tong

Wu tried to console him by pointing out that he should not harm his body and that he still had his father that Xiao Tong began to take porridge, but he ate nothing further.  He was described to be fairly obese until that point, but he lost a lot of weight during the mourning period for Consort Ding.

Death
The death of Consort Ding brought about a disastrous effect in Xiao Tong's relationship with his father, however. Xiao Tong sought out an appropriate place to bury Consort Ding, but while he was doing so, a landowner bribed the eunuch Yu Sanfu () into convincing Emperor Wu that that piece of land would bring good fortune for the emperor, and so Emperor Wu bought the land and buried Consort Ding there.  However, once Consort Ding was buried, a Taoist monk informed Xiao Tong that he believed that the land would bring ill fortune for Consort Ding's oldest son—Xiao Tong.  Xiao Tong therefore allowed the monk to bury a few items intended to dissolve the ill fortune, such as wax gooses, at the position reserved for the oldest son.  Later on, when one of Xiao Tong's attendants, Bao Miaozhi (), was squeezed out of Xiao Tong's inner circles by another attendant, Wei Ya (), he, in resentment, reported to Emperor Wu that Wei had carried out sorcery on Xiao Tong's behalf.  When Emperor Wu investigated, waxed gooses were found, and Emperor Wu became surprised and angry, and wanted to investigate further.  He only stopped the investigation when he was advised to do so by the prime minister Xu Mian, executing only the Taoist monk who had suggested the burial of wax gooses.  Xiao Tong became humiliated in the affair, and was never able to clear himself completely in his father's eyes.

Xiao Tong died in 531.  Even when he was very ill, because he was afraid to make Emperor Wu be concerned about him, he still personally wrote submissions to his father.  After his death, Emperor Wu personally attended his wake and buried him at a tomb appropriate for an emperor. He also summoned Xiao Tong's oldest son, Xiao Huan () the Duke of Huarong back to the capital Jiankang, preparing to create Xiao Huan crown prince to replace his father. However, still resentful over the wax goose affair, he hesitated for days without carrying out the creation, and finally did not do so.  Instead, against popular opinion, he created Xiao Tong's younger brother, also by Consort Ding, Xiao Gang crown prince.  In 551, when Xiao Gang, then emperor (as Emperor Jianwen) but under control and virtual house arrest by the general Hou Jing, Hou, to try to show off his power, deposed Emperor Jianwen and made Xiao Tong's grandson Xiao Dong the Prince of Yuzhang emperor.  It was then that Xiao Tong was posthumously honored an emperor.

Literary legacy
Xiao Tong is survived by his great literary compendium, the Wenxuan, an anthology of literature divided into 60 chapters. Chapter 29 preserves the Nineteen Old Poems, a major source for early Classical Chinese poetry. Xiao appears to consider these to be anonymous works, a view supported by modern scholarship, despite the claims of Xu Ling in his New Songs from the Jade Terrace.

Family
Consorts and Issue:
Empress Zhaode, of the Cai clan (昭德皇后 蔡氏)
Xiao Huan, Prince An of Yuzhang  (豫章安王 蕭歡, d. 20 January 541 ), first son
Empress Dowager Yuan, of the Gong clan (元太后龔氏, d.562)
Xiao Cha, Emperor Xuan (宣帝 蕭詧; 519–562), third son
Unknown
Xiao Yu, Prince Wuhuan of Hedong (河东武桓王 蕭譽, 519 – 22 June 550), second son
Xiao Pi, Prince of Wuchang (武昌郡王 蕭譬, d. 17 September 546), fourth son
Xiao Jian, Prince of Yiyang (義陽郡王 蕭鑒, d. 7 August 537), fifth son
Princess Luling (庐陵公主), first daughter
married Wang Kuan (王㳬)

Notes

References
Davis, A. R. (Albert Richard), Editor and Introduction (1970), The Penguin Book of Chinese Verse. (Baltimore: Penguin Books).

External links

 
 

Liang dynasty Buddhists
Liang dynasty imperial princes
501 births
531 deaths
People from Xiangyang
Chinese poetry anthologists
Heirs apparent who never acceded