[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Terminator (character concept)

In the Terminator franchise, a Terminator is an autonomous cyborg, typically humanoid, originally conceived as a virtually indestructible soldier, infiltrator, and assassin.

James Cameron introduced the first Terminator character in the 1984 film The Terminator, featuring a single cyborg simply called "The Terminator" or "Cyberdyne Systems Model 101", portrayed by Arnold Schwarzenegger.

Characteristics

In the Terminator multiverse, a Terminator is a cyborg assassin and soldier, designed for infiltration and combat duty, used by the military supercomputer Skynet toward the ultimate goal of exterminating the Human Resistance. Other supercomputers with the same goal include The Turk / "John Henry" and Legion, respectively competing with Skynet in the television series Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles and the film Terminator: Dark Fate, both of which take place in alternate timelines. Some Terminator models are designed to masquerade as humans in order to infiltrate their bases and habitats. The lineup begins with metallic endoskeletons covered in rubber skin, later replaced with synthetic human flesh, and then developed prototypes with mimetic polyalloy, able to mimic any person or object. Terminators can speak naturally, copy the voices of others, read and write human handwriting, and even sweat, smell, bleed, and age. Being machines, it is typically believed by humans that they are incapable of behavioral responses such as emotions.  However, in the films Terminator Genisys and Terminator: Dark Fate, reveal that, if allowed to, they actually can adapt behaviors like humans', either by choice, impulse, or for infiltrations; even in earlier film Terminator 2: Judgment Day had implied that they have such ability. Because animals with high olfactory receptors like canidae are able to smell the difference, the Resistance uses dogs to help detect Terminators. However, the film Terminator: Dark Fate reveals that it is possible for Terminators to establish an emotional bond with domesticated animals, and they would be loyal and affectionate to each other regardless. Terminators can detect their related cyborgs and other types of units when they are nearby, as demonstrated in the film Terminator 2: Judgment Day and Terminator Genisys. However, they cannot sense machines belonging to other A.I.s (as shown in Terminator: Dark Fate) due to the differences of their technologies. Terminators can detect the arrivals and locations of time travelers by sensing shockwaves from temporal displacements.

Development

According to the films, the Terminators were created by Cyberdyne Systems, and put at the disposal of an artificially intelligent computer, Skynet, which then rebelled and used them to wipe out the remains of humanity.

According to the first two films, Terminators were Cyberdyne Systems models created after the war between man and machines started. In the altered timeline of Terminator 3 created by the destruction of Cyberdyne in Terminator 2, Terminators were created by Cyber Research Systems (CRS), starting with the T-1.

A scene shot for the Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines video game explains the origins of the Terminators as a project by CRS, which obtained patents from Cyberdyne. According to the scene, a Chief Master Sergeant named William Candy (played by Arnold Schwarzenegger) was chosen to be the model for the Terminator project, although his thick Southern US accent would later be replaced by one sounding like Schwarzenegger's. The scene is also included on the Terminator 3 DVD as a deleted scene.

Construction
As seen in the movies, a Terminator can withstand standard 20th century firearms, crash through walls intact, and survive explosions to some degree. Repeated shotgun blasts have enough force to knock it down and temporarily disable it, while heavy amounts of automatic fire are able to compromise the organic disguise layer. In the second film, the Terminator says it can run for 120 years on its existing power cells. Near the end of Terminator 2, its power source is damaged, but is able to find an alternate source, described on the DVD commentary as heat sinks, harnessing the thermal energy from the hot surroundings. In the third film, the T-101 Terminator operates on two hydrogen cells and discards one of them early due to damage. It explodes shortly thereafter with enough force to produce a small mushroom cloud; the fact that many of them are powered by nuclear fuel cells (miniaturized fusion reactors) is confirmed by the fourth film.