[Source: PubMed]

13. Crit Care Med. 2008 Jul;36(7 Suppl):S267-74. doi:
10.1097/CCM.0b013e31817da7dc.

Damage control resuscitation: a sensible approach to the exsanguinating surgical 
patient.

Beekley AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Madigan Army Medical Center, Tacoma, WA, USA. alec.beekley@us.army.mil

BACKGROUND: The current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have resulted in the 
highest rates of combat casualties experienced by the U.S. military since the 
Vietnam conflict. These casualties suffer wounds that have no common civilian 
equivalent and more frequently require massive transfusion (greater than 10 
units of packed red blood cells [PRBCs] in less than 24 hrs) than civilian 
injured.
DISCUSSION: Military surgeons have found that traditional approaches to 
resuscitation, particularly in terms of the ratio of blood products to each 
other and the timing of these products, often fail to effectively treat the 
coagulopathy that is present on arrival in these casualties. This observation 
has been concurrently noted in the civilian trauma literature. These experiences 
have ignited interest in an alternative approach to the resuscitation of these 
most grievously injured patients. This approach includes the use of permissive 
hypotension; the prevention and aggressive treatment of hypothermia with both 
passive and active warming measures; the temporization of acidosis with use of 
exogenous buffer agents; the immediate use of thawed plasma in ratios 
approaching 1:1 with PRBCs; the early use of platelets, often given well before 
10 units of PRBCs have been transfused; the early use of recombinant Factor 
VIIa; and, in military settings, the use of fresh whole blood as a primary 
resuscitation fluid. This strategy has been called "damage control 
resuscitation" to emphasize its pairing with damage control surgical techniques.
SUMMARY: Review of the published support for this strategy reveals that 
additional trials are needed to study and optimize these techniques.

DOI: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e31817da7dc
PMID: 18594252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]