[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Translink (Queensland)

tructure was introduced that included:
 Cheaper fares across all zones
 Off-peak discounts extended to 6am (from 3am)
 Free travel for seniors after 2 journeys each day and Concession Pensioner Card holders
 Free weekend travel on a child go card
 Half-price journeys after 8 trips in a week

go card

Translink offers a contactless fare payment card called go card. It requires passengers to touch the card on a card reader at the start and end of each journey, and when transferring between services. The fare is automatically calculated based on the difference between the highest zone number and the lowest zone number recorded for the journey. A journey can comprise any number of individual legs (each recorded by touching the card when entering or leaving a service) within a two-hour period. The fare is automatically deducted from a pre-paid balance associated with the go card used.

The following types of go card are available:
Adult go card is for use by passengers without concessions. Tertiary students, job seekers and asylum seekers will need to have an adult go card in order to have concession fares activated on the card.
Child go card is for use by children under the age of 15 years and provides concession fares for the holder along with free travel on weekends.
Concession go card is for use by passengers entitled to a concession, such as secondary students, holders of a Pensioner Concession Card, and holders of a Repatriation Health Card.
Seniors go card is for use by passengers who have a Queensland Seniors Card issued by the Queensland Government.
Seniors+go card incorporates a Queensland Seniors Card and a go card on both sides.

go seeQ card
The go seeQ card was introduced in late 2012 for visitors to South East Queensland. This card provides for travel for a period of 3 or 5 days across the Translink network. The card can also be used to receive discounts at retail locations throughout the South East Queensland region.

Paper tickets
A single-fare paper ticket is also available for infrequent travellers and visitors.
Single – one-way travel with unlimited transfers for two hours for travel through up to 10 zones and three and a half hours for more than 10 zones.
Single (Concession) – for eligible students, pensioners and children, who travel for half the price of an equivalent regular adult fare. Children under five years of age travel free. A valid concession card must be presented when purchasing and presenting a concession ticket.

Regional Queensland 
In Regional Queensland, the unmber of zones vary between 1 zone and 11 zones, depending on the location. Typically the zones are rings centred on the town centres of reach region. The regional centres where you will find the Translink brand are: Bowen, Bundaberg, Cairns, Fraser Coast, Gladstone, Gympie, Innisfail, Kilcoy, Mackay, Rockhamption/Yeppoon, Sunshine Coast Hinterland, Toowoomba, Townsville, Warwick and Whitsundays.

Originally, each regional centre had a large difference in the number of zones and fares. From 4 July 2022, Translink progressively took over the qconnect brand in Regional Queensland. By 16 January 2023, previous qconnect regions had transitioned to the new zone and fare structure along with previous Translink regional centres of Cairns, Mackay, Toowoomba and Townsville/Magnetic Island.
Each regional location has individual transport zones they use different fare prices to South East Queensland. One-zone fares are $2.40 for adults and $1.20 for concession with zonal increases set at $0.60 for adults and $0.30 for concession. go cards currently cannot be used on Regional Queensland services.

Fares

South-East Queensland 
Below are the fares per zone in South-East Queensland:

Regional Queensland 
Below are the fares per zone in Regional Queensland:

Zones 
Currently each transport area has zones individual to the location. Below is the amount of zones there are per location across Queensland:

Authorised Officers 
Translink employ a team of authorised officers called Senior Network Officers. Senior Network Officers were introduced in 2010 and they utilise powers available under section 111(3) of the Transport Operations (Passenger Transport) Act 1994 and Transport Infrastructure Act 1994.  As authorised officers, they enforce Translink's conditions of travel for passengers on the network. Senior Network Officers issue infringement notices for transport offences. Senior Network Officers also carry handcuffs and can exercise a power to detain for certain offences committed on public transport

Translink South East Queensland network

The Translink South East Queensland network is divided into seven regions, each region operated by different operators contracted by Translink. The regions are based largely on local government boundaries: