[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Edith S. Sampson

ve convinced ourselves, because it seemed so necessary, that the battle against injustice could be won piece by piece through changes in law, through court appeals, through persistent but cautious pressures. We were mistaken. No–we were wrong. Ours was not the only way. It was not even the best way.

Judgeship
In 1962, Sampson ran for associate judge of the Municipal Court of Chicago, and easily won the election; she was the first black woman to be elected as a judge in the state of Illinois.  In 1966, she became an associate judge for the Circuit Court of Cook County.  Most of the cases that she heard were housing disputes involving poor tenants, in which she was perceived as "an understanding but tough grandmother".

By 1969 she had apparently regained her faith in working within the system, saying in a speech: "We learned that we could work within the establishment, the system, without necessarily knuckling under to it."

She continued as a Circuit Court judge until she retired in 1978. She died in Chicago in October 1979.

Family
Sampson first married Rufus Sampson, a field agent for the Tuskegee Institute. They divorced, but she retained the name Edith Sampson as she was already professionally known by it. In 1935, she married lawyer Joseph E. Clayton, with whom she shared her legal practice until his death in 1957. Two of her nephews, Charles T. Spurlock and Oliver Spurlock, were also judges. Her niece, Jeanne Spurlock, became the first African American woman to be dean of an American medical school (Meharry Medical College). Sampson's great-niece, Lynne Moody, is an actress who appeared in the television miniseries Roots. Sampson became an honorary member of Zeta Phi Beta sorority in 1952.

See also
List of African-American jurists
List of first women lawyers and judges in Illinois

References

Further reading

External links

 Edith Sampson Papers. Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe Institute, Harvard University.

Illinois state court judges
Loyola University Chicago School of Law alumni
Lawyers from Chicago
Politicians from Pittsburgh
1901 births
1979 deaths
Probation and parole officers
African-American judges
Illinois Democrats
Columbia University School of Social Work alumni
African-American diplomats
American diplomats
American women diplomats
University of Illinois Chicago School of Law alumni
20th-century American judges
20th-century American women judges
20th-century American lawyers
20th-century African-American women
20th-century African-American lawyers