[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Operation Prone

s and one crashed on its way back to its base in Angola.

The South African soldiers retreated towards the SWA/Namibian border, crossing in the late afternoon. As described above, the air attack part of the Cuban operation went ahead but their ground forces retreated back to Techipa after the clash.

Undeclared peace
Fearing a revenge attack by the SADF, the Cubans implemented plans that included possible attacks on SWA/Namibia itself. These plans were scrapped when no retaliation occurred from the South Africans.

What followed the hostilities at Calueque was an undeclared ceasefire. The South African public was shocked by the deaths at Calueque and the government ordered a scaling back of operations.

Battle Group 20 whom with UNITA, guarding the minefields east of the Cuito River across from Cuito Cuanavale, were ordered to withdraw personnel and equipment so as not to take casualties and prevent any further SADF personnel becoming prisoners of war.

UNITA was informed, with some regarding this withdrawal as an act of  betrayal. Orders were to ensure no Cubans advance any further than where they were currently positioned.

Talks continue
By 10 July, the Cubans and South Africans were back at the negotiation table in New York City for three days.

The Cubans surprised the South African delegation by proposing an honourable Cuban withdrawal from Angola linked to the implementation of UN Resolution 435 and the ending of support to SWAPO and UNITA. This proposal became known as the New York Principle though the detail in the proposal would be negotiated at a later date.

The parties met again in the Cape Verde on the 22 July for the fourth round of talks but all that was agreed on was the proposal to set up a Joint Monitoring Commission.

Modified planning
Following the clashes at the end of June 1988, the South African politicians and the military re-evaluated the SADF's role in the operational area. What was considered was the change in the military balance brought about by the Cuban division, the reluctance of the South African public to accept high casualties, the political direction towards the ending of Apartheid, and the international push to end South Africa's control of SWA/Namibia.

New South African Military Plan
On 19 July 1988 planning was finalised and Operation Hilti was changed to Operation Prone and the new plan became the defence of SWA/Namibia.

This plan was divided into sub-operations, Operation Linger and Operation Faction (renamed Operation Pact).

 Operation Linger became the counterinsurgency plan against SWAPO incursions in SWA and bases in Angola.
 Operation Faction (Pact) was the conventional plan that would defend SWA against a Cuban invasion across the border and the destruction of the remainder of the enemy in Angola with a possible offensive action.

Operation Pact was further divided into three phases.

The first phase was to deceive the Cubans as to the intentions and disposition of the South African forces, the preparation of the SADF forces, assist in countering any SWAPO raids, and use of the recces to track the movement and disposition of the Cuban forces.
Phase two would occur when the Cubans invaded SWA/Namibia, drawing them into areas of SADF control, halting and destroying the Cubans.
The third phase would occur if phase two failed, a delaying retreat by SADF forces to an area around Tsumeb and the final destruction of the remaining Cuban forces.

Airborne assault plan
The South Africans also planned for an attack on the Angolan port of Namibe (today Moçâmedes). This port was the main logistical entrance for Cuban and FAPLA supplies to the Cuban 50th Division. The plan was developed by Commandant McGill Alexander of 44 Parachute Brigade, a veteran of Operation Reindeer. This operation would last 72 hours with the objective being the destruction of the port's logistical capacity; the harbour and railway facilities and the railway line. The SADF would make use of the navy, air force, paratroopers and special forces. The plan called for approximately 1,200 men, half as an airborne drop and the rest by means of an amphibious assault backed by navy strike craft. The plan was tested during Exercise Magersfontein at Walvis Bay.

Peace talks
Round five of the Tripartite talks began on 2 August 1988 in Geneva, Switzerland. The Soviets joined the meeting in an observer role.  The South Africans opened the negotiations with several proposals: 
a ceasefire to begin on 10 August 1988, 
redeployment of South African and Cuban forces in Angola by 1 September 1988, 
implementation of UN Resolution 435 and all foreign forces leave Angola by 1 June 1989.

The 1 June 1989 proposal angered the Cuban and Angolans and the talks continued discussing the first three South African proposals. With the assistance of the Soviets, the American were able to get the Cubans, Angolans and South Africans to sign the Geneva Protocol on 5 August 1988. The protocol set the following dates: