[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# March 1973

on West Germany's North Sea coast from storm surges.
A British government White Paper on Northern Ireland proposed the re-establishment of an Assembly elected by proportional representation, with a possible All-Ireland council which would lead to the unsuccessful Sunningdale Agreement of December 9.

March 21, 1973 (Wednesday)
Pieces of Moon rock samples from the Apollo 17 mission were sent by U.S. President Nixon to all 50 of the United States and to all the nations of the world, displayed on wooden plaques. In each case, a letter accompanied the presentation of samples from the last crewed mission to the Moon with a letter that said, in part, "In the deepest sense our exploration of the moon was truly an international effort. It is for this reason that, on behalf of the people of the United States I present this flag, which was carried to the moon, to the State, and its fragment of the moon obtained during the final lunar mission of the Apollo program. If people of many nations can act together to achieve the dreams of humanity in space, then surely we can act together to accomplish humanity's dream of peace here on earth."
U.S. President Nixon and White House Counsel John Dean had a private conversation that was recorded, in which Dean warned of what he called "a cancer on the presidency" because the Watergate burglars had been paid money in return for their silence. Dean pointed out that he, Chief of Staff H. R. Haldeman, domestic policy adviser John Ehrlichman and former Attorney General John N. Mitchell had all been "involved in that" and that burglar E. Howard Hunt was demanding more money. Nixon replied, "Don't you have to handle Hunt's financial situation damn soon? You've got to keep the cap on the bottle..." the first suggestion of an obstruction of justice ordered by the president. Nixon would claim five months later that he had been unaware of an attempt at a cover-up before that day, saying in an August 15 speech that "It was not until March 21 of this year that I received new information from the White House counsel that led me to conclude that the reports I had been getting for over nine months were not true."
The Lofthouse Colliery disaster killed seven miners in Great Britain. .
Iran nationalized all oil installations within its borders, forcing British, American, French and Dutch oil companies to hand over control with compensation set by the Iranians.
Two Mirage fighter jets of the Libyan Air Force intercepted and fired upon a U.S. Air Force C-130 spy plane that was flying in the Gulf of Sidra. The C-130 was not damaged and escaped, and the U.S. Air Force said that it did not come closer than  from the Libyan coast.
Two bodies of two teenagers were found in "a wooded area near an abandoned lumber camp" in Gainesville, Florida after they had become the first of at least 22 young women who were victims of serial killer Gerald Eugene Stano. Janine Ligotino and Ann Arceneaux had been stabbed to death. Over the next seven years, Stano would kidnap and murder victims in the U.S. state of Florida until his arrest on March 25, 1980. Stano would be executed in 1998.
Born: 
Michael Milton, Australian skier and four-time Winter Paralympics gold medalist; in Canberra 
Amanda Lewis, American TV talk show host; in Los Angeles
Died: Bruce Elliott, American science fiction writer and stage magician, 58, from injuries sustained four months earlier when he was struck by a taxi.

March 22, 1973 (Thursday)
A hurricane in the Atlantic caused havoc with multiple shipping accidents.
All 32 crew on the cargo ship MV Anita drowned when the ship foundered.
Thirty of the 31 crew of the MV Norse Variant were killed after the bulk carrier foundered in a hurricane in the Atlantic Ocean. The lone survivor, Stein Gabrielsen, had been clinging to a piece of debris for three days before he was spotted by the U.S. Coast Guard. day earlier, the ship had set out from Newport News, Virginia in the U.S. with a cargo of coal bound for Glasgow in Scotland.
General Suharto was re-elected unopposed as President of Indonesia, and Ludvik Svoboda was re-elected unopposed as President of Czechoslovakia.
The state of Washington ratified the Equal Rights Amendment.
Ignis Varese of Italy won the European pro basketball championship, the FIBA European Champions Cup, defeating the Soviet Union's CSKA Moskva team in the final at Liège in Belgium, 71 to 66. 
Born: 
Beverley Knight, English singer-songwriter, in Wolverhampton
Péter Oszkó, Hungarian politician, in Budapest
Died: 
Binkie Beaumont, 64, British theatre manager and producer
 Hilda Geiringer, Austrian mathematician, 79