[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Air Force Technical Applications Center

sorties, processing 342 seismic events, and analyzed 660 samples from the peninsula.

In the summer of 2015, AFTAC removed ten radioactive thermoelectric generators from Alaska that were no longer required. This power source had been the Air Force's largest source of sensitive radioactive material.

In December 2015, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) released its final assessment on "Past and Present Outstanding Issues" regarding Iran's nuclear program. AFTAC provided trace forensic analysis of samples supporting the IAEA's mission to monitor Iranian compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. As a major component of the IAEA's network of analytical labs, AFTAC's analysis was foundational to the report.

In January and September 2016, AFTAC sensors detected underground disturbances near North Korea's reported nuclear tests. The center's findings were based on seismic activity and were distributed to American authorities.

In September 2017, AFTAC detected nuclear activity in North Korea that registered 6.3 on the Richter scale, ten times more powerful than North Korea's detonation in 2016.

AFTAC also maintains an array of sensors across the United States as part of the National Technical Nuclear Forensics (NTNF) program. The program is designed to collect forensic analysis after attacks against American sites or interests to aid the Federal Bureau of Investigation in identifying governmental or terrorist involvement.

AFTAC works closely with the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) in Vienna, Austria to improve the International Monitoring System. AFTAC contributes six of its U.S.-based USAEDS seismic monitoring stations to the IMS.

Notable detections

Russia
AFTAC predecessors detected the first Russian nuclear test conducted on 29 August 1949.

China
On 16 October 1964, AFTAC detected a Chinese atmospheric test.

Sinking of Soviet submarine K-129
 
On 11 March 1968, the acoustic signatures of two extended destructive events were detected by four AFTAC hydroacoustic stations in the Pacific at Midway Island, Kaneohe, Wake Island and Eniwetok and by an AFTAC tap on a U.S. Navy SOSUS array terminating at Adak, Alaska. These signals were analyzed using the differences of arrival times at each station. This detection and localization provided the first specific data on the wreck of the Soviet Golf-II class SSB K-129, which became the target of the CIA's Project Azorian salvage operation conducted in the summer of 1974.

India
India's first nuclear test was detected on 18 May 1974 by AFTAC.

Vela incident

On 22 September 1979, one of the Vela satellites detected a double flash of light, consistent with a nuclear explosion, centered over the Prince Edward Islands. There still exists a great deal of contention about whether the detection was nuclear in origin.

Pakistan
AFTAC detected Pakistan's first of five nuclear tests on 28 May 1998, with another nuclear test on 30 May 1998. The Pakistani tests occurred several days after several Indian tests.

North Korea

AFTAC has detected and confirmed each of North Korea's nuclear tests between 2006 and 2017.

Lineage
 Designated as the 1035th USAF Field Activities Group and organized on 7 July 1959
 Redesignated as the 1035th Technical Operations Group on 26 June 1972
 Redesignated as the Air Force Technical Applications Center on 1 October 1980

See also
 Sixteenth Air Force
 Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
 Patrick Space Force Base
 Air Combat Command

References

Notes

Bibliography

External links
 
 U.S. National Data Center
 Air Force Technical Applications Center at Federation of American Scientists
 Long Range Detection Alumni Association
 AFTAC Alumni Association

1947 establishments in Florida
Organizations established in 1947
Centers of the United States Air Force
Technical Applications Center
Military in Brevard County, Florida
Military units and formations in Florida