[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Brigitte Gabriel

Brigitte Gabriel (; born Hanan Qahwaji, 21 October 1964) is a Lebanese-American conservative author, anti-Islam activist, and founder of ACT! for America, which has been described as "the largest grassroots anti-Muslim group" in America.

Early life and education
Gabriel was born in the Marjeyoun District of Lebanon to a Maronite Christian couple. She says that during the Lebanese Civil War, Islamic militants launched an assault on a Lebanese military base near her family's house and destroyed her home. Gabriel, who was ten years old at the time, was injured by shrapnel in the attack. Afterwards, she and her parents were forced to live underground in all that remained, an  bomb shelter for seven years, with only a small kerosene heater, no sanitary systems, no electricity or running water, and little food. Gabriel also stated that she had to crawl in a roadside ditch to a spring for water to evade Muslim snipers.

In the spring of 1978, a bomb explosion caused Gabriel and her parents to become trapped in the shelter for two days. They were eventually rescued by three Christian militia fighters, one of whom befriended Gabriel but was later killed by a land mine.

Gabriel wrote that in 1978 a stranger warned her family of an impending attack by the Islamic militias on all Christians. She says that her life was saved when the Israeli army invaded Lebanon in Operation Litani. Later, when her mother was seriously injured and taken to an Israeli hospital, Gabriel was surprised by the humanity shown by the Israelis, in contrast to the constant propaganda against Jews she saw as a child.

After graduating from high school, Gabriel completed a one-year business administration course at a YWCA in 1984.

Multiple facts surrounding Gabriel's upbringing and autobiography have been disputed, with author Dave Gaubatz calling her account of growing up in Lebanon to be "dramatically fabricated.”

Career
Using the pseudonym Nour Semaan, Gabriel was a news anchor for World News, an Arabic-language evening news broadcast of Middle East Television, which "was then run by Pat Robertson's Christian Broadcasting Network to spread his politically conservative, Pentecostal faith in the Middle East." The broadcasts covered Israel, Egypt, Syria, Jordan and Lebanon. Gabriel reported on the Israeli withdrawal from central Lebanon, the Israeli Security Zone (occupied South Lebanon), and the Palestinian uprising in the West Bank and Gaza. She moved to Israel before emigrating in 1989 to the United States.

In February 2017, Gabriel said that she provided a "national security briefing" at the White House. She met with aides at the White House in March 2017, during the Donald Trump administration. She has written intermittently for Breitbart News.

ACT! for America

Her organization, ACT! for America, has been described as anti-Muslim or anti-Islamic. According to The New York Times, ACT! for America draws "on three rather religious and partisan streams in American politics: evangelical Christian conservatives, hard-line defenders of Israel (both Jews and Christians) and Tea Party Republicans". According to The Washington Post, the organization "touted as its 'first accomplishment' its 2008 campaign to shut down a Minnesota Islamic school."

Viewpoints

The Southern Poverty Law Center described ACT! for America as "the largest grassroots anti-Muslim group in the country," and the Council on American–Islamic Relations has described it as "one of the main sources of growing anti-Muslim bigotry in our nation". According to The Guardian, the organization has been "widely identified as anti-Muslim". Gabriel and ACT! have been described as part of the counter-jihad movement.

According to Peter Beinart in The Atlantic, "the organization has condemned cities with large Muslim populations for serving halal food in public schools. In 2013, its Houston chapter urged members to 'protest' food companies that certify their meat as compliant with Islamic dietary law. ACT! for America tries to dissuade Jews and Christians from conducting interfaith dialogue with Muslims. And in state after state, it has lobbied state legislatures and school boards to purge textbooks of references that create 'an inaccurate comparison between Islam, Christianity and Judaism.'"

According to Laurie Goodstein of The New York Times, Gabriel "presents a portrait of Islam so thoroughly bent on destruction and domination that it is unrecognizable to those who study or practice the religion." Goodstein says that Gabriel "insists that she is singling out only 'radical Islam' or Muslim 'extremists'—not the vast majority of Muslims or their faith. And yet, in her speeches and her two books, she leaves the opposite impression."