[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mr. Pogo

the Ninja Express legacy, teaming with Kensuke Sasaki, winning two WWC Caribbean Tag Team Championships in 1989. He also held the WWC World Junior Heavyweight Championship once, despite being over the weight limit, before leaving WWC in 1991. He never returned to the Americas to wrestle afterwards.

Frontier Martial-Arts Wrestling (1990–1991)
In June 1990, he was back in Japan, this time for Frontier Martial-Arts Wrestling, which was an upstart promotion that specialized in death matches. He debuted in FMW on June 2, 1990, seconding Tarzan Goto in his match with Ricky Fuji. Immediately, Pogo feuded with Atsushi Onita, partaking in various deathmatches, which eventually became Pogo's specialty.

Wrestling International New Generations (1991–1993)
In the summer of 1991, Pogo left FMW, because he wanted more interesting matches to compete in, and moved to Wrestling International New Generations (W*ING), where he partook in innovated deathmatches with everyone, ranging from veterans like Kim Duk and Kevin Sullivan to up and coming stars like Mitsuhiro Matsunaga and Yukihiro Kanemura, among others. He won one World Tag Team Championship with Crash The Terminator. A bitter contract dispute forced him to leave W*ING in June 1993.

Return to FMW and retirement (1993–1996)
Pogo returned to FMW in July 1993 and resumed his feud with Atsushi Onita. During this period, he wrestled periodically for Michinoku Pro Wrestling, New Tokyo Pro Wrestling, and Big Japan Pro Wrestling. He won two FMW Brass Knuckles Heavyweight Championships and three FMW Brass Knuckles Tag Team Championships, one each with Hisakatsu Oya, The Gladiator, and Yukihiro Kanemura. An injury nearly ended Pogo's career at Summer Spectacular, on August 1, 1996 during a Double Hell Death Match against Terry Funk when the match was cut short, after Funk blew fire at Pogo, who dropped into the exploding barbed wire outside of the ring. When falling into it, the barbed wire pushed his chin and head back, breaking his neck. Funk, not knowing why Pogo was still down, began blowing fire at him, stuck in the barbed wire, causing the referee to end the match and award it to Funk via knockout. Pogo returned to the ring, but the injury made him even more immobile. His last match as an active FMW wrestler took place at Year End Spectacular on December 11, 1996, teaming with Masato Tanaka, Tetsuhiro Kuroda, and the returning Atsushi Onita to defeat Terry Funk, Hisakatsu Oya, and The Headhunters in what was considered Pogo's retirement match.

Comeback (1997–2016)
His retirement did not last, as he returned to wrestling in July 1997 for Big Japan Pro Wrestling. In 1998, he became the inaugural BJW Deathmatch Heavyweight Champion. After losing the title, he left BJW and briefly returned to FMW to feud with Atsushi Onita one more time, before leaving in November 1998.

From 1999–2016, Pogo was freelancer, wrestling for promotions including IWA Japan, SPWF, Onita FMW, Shin-W*ING, Shin-FMW, Onita Pro, and his own promotion, WWS.

Personal life
In 2003, he ran for a Senate seat in his hometown, but was defeated in the polls.

Sekigawa was rushed to a hospital in February 2007 with a bleeding gastric ulcer and spent three weeks there.

Death 
In 2014, Sekigawa underwent a spinal canal surgery. On May 25, 2017, Sekigawa underwent a second spinal canal surgery due to the lingering pain. Massive blood loss during the second surgery resulted in doctors deeming it too dangerous to continue and it was halted mid-way through. Sekigawa remained in a Gunma hospital, until surgery was attempted again on June 22, nearly a month after the previous surgery attempt. During the surgery, Sekigawa's blood pressure dropped to the point where he began experiencing an irregular heartbeat, resulting in a cerebral infarction. Sekigawa was transferred to a hospital in Saitama, where he died on June 23 at the age of 66 years old.