[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richard Madaleno

no co-sponsored legislation expanding eligibility for tax credits for college savings and for those saddled with student loan debt, as well as a "tuition freeze" for Maryland college students from 2007 to 2010. The Washington Post credits Madaleno with helping to keep college affordable in Maryland.

Madaleno co-sponsored the law implementing the Affordable Care Act in Maryland; a 2017 law against price gouging by generic drug manufacturers; the Firearms Safety Act of 2013, which bans assault weapons and high-capacity magazines; a number of environmental regulations, including a ban on fracking; and legislation to improve public transit. In 2017, Madaleno worked with Maryland's congressional delegation to restore federal funding for programs that protect the Chesapeake Bay.

Candidacy for governor
In May 2017, Madaleno declared his candidacy to be Governor of Maryland. In February 2018, Madaleno announced that his running mate was business executive and former O'Malley appointee Luwanda Jenkins. Madaleno would have been the first Italian-American and the first openly gay governor of Maryland.

In the June 2018 primary, Madaleno finished in fifth place for the Democratic nomination, which was won by Ben Jealous.

Montgomery County government
In November 2018, it was announced that Madaleno would be nominated to serve as budget director for Montgomery County Executive Marc Elrich.

Awards and honors 
 2007, 2008, and 2009: Certificate of Appreciation, Maryland Municipal League
 2009: Legislative Award, The Arc of Maryland
 2014: Consumer Hero, Maryland Consumer Rights Coalition
 2016: MLK Courageous Leadership Award, Maryland Citizens' Health Initiative

Personal
Madaleno was the first person to be elected to the General Assembly as an openly gay candidate. He is also the first openly gay Maryland state senator. Along with Delegates Maggie McIntosh, Anne Kaiser, Heather Mizeur, Peter Murphy, Mary Washington, Bonnie Cullison, Luke Clippinger and Meagan Simonaire he formed part of the nine-strong gay grouping in the Maryland General Assembly. His election campaigns have won the support of the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund.

Madaleno is a member of Cedar Lane Unitarian Universalist Church, where he has chaired the Social Justice Council and taught Sunday School.

He and his husband, Mark, have two children. They are Kensington homeowners.

See also 
 2018 Maryland gubernatorial election

References

External links 
 

Living people
1965 births
Gay politicians
LGBT state legislators in Maryland
Maryland Democrats
People from Kensington, Maryland
American people of Italian descent
People from Silver Spring, Maryland
2012 United States presidential electors
21st-century American politicians