[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Višegrad massacres

niak men from their workstations. He thereafter took them down to the bank of the Drina river in front of the factory, where he lined them up. He then shot them in full view of a number of onlookers, including the wife and daughter of one of the victims, Ibrišim Memišević. All seven men were killed.

In a report submitted to the UNHCR in 1993 by the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was alleged that, on another occasion, during the murder of a group of 22 people on 18 June 1992, Lukić's group tore out the kidneys of several individuals, while the others were tied to cars and dragged through the streets; their children were thrown from the bridge and shot at before they hit the water.

In the summer of 2010, when the waters of Perućac Lake and the Drina upstream of the lake were lowered as a result of maintenance work on the Bajina Bašta dam, the remains of over 300 victims were retrieved for identification.

Pionirska Street fire and the Bikavac fire
In the Pionirska Street fire, on 14 June 1992, a group of 70 Bosniak civilians, mainly from the village of Koritnik, were locked en masse in a house on Pionirska Street, Višegrad. Some of the women were taken out and raped before being returned to the house. A grenade was then thrown inside, killing some.  The house was then set ablaze and the occupants were left to burn to death. 59 people were killed but a handful survived. All of the survivors who were still alive came to testify before the ICTY Trial Chamber at the trial of Lukić's cousins.

In the Bikavac fire on 27 June 1992, approximately 70 Bosniak civilians were forced into one room in a house in the settlement of Bikavac, near Višegrad.  After the captives were robbed, the house was set on fire and the occupants were burned alive. The Trial Chamber found that at least 60 Bosniak civilians were killed. Zehra Turjačanin testified in relation to this incident:

Paklenik massacre

On 14 June 1992, dozens of Bosniak men were separated from an organized civilian convoy leaving Višegrad and were systematically executed the next day by soldiers from the Republika Srpska army's Višegrad Brigade, in what came to be known as the Paklenik Massacre. Around 50 Bosniak civilians were shot and their bodies were dumped in a ravine called Propast (Downfall). The sole survivor, Ferid Spahić, was a key witness in the Mitar Vasiljević and Nenad Tanasković cases.

Bosanska Jagodina massacre

On 26 May 1992, the SDS-led Municipality organized buses to deport Bosniaks from Višegrad to Macedonia. Near Bosanska Jagodina, 17 male Bosniaks were taken off the bus and murdered in front of eyewitnesses in what is known as the Bosanska Jagodina massacre. Their remains were discovered in a mass grave in 2006. It is believed that this war crime was most probably carried out by the paramilitary group the "Avengers" led by Milan Lukić, under the control of the Army of the Republika Srpska.

Barimo Massacre

In August 1992, the Army of the Republika Srpska attacked Barimo, burnt down the entire village and religious buildings. A total of 26 Bosniak civilians were killed. A large number of them were women and children. The oldest victim was Halilović Hanka, born in 1900 and the youngest was Bajrić Fadila Emir, born in 1980.

Perućac Lake exhumations

In July and August 2010, when the level of the Perućac reservoir water behind the Bajina Bašta hydroelectric dam was lowered while maintenance and repair work was being done on the dam, the remains of many civilians who perished in the Višegrad massacres in 1992, in the early days of the Bosnian war, were discovered. The bodies of victims from the 1999 Kosovo conflict are also thought to be in the lake.

Between 19 July and 9 August 2010, the remains of 60 individuals were found in Lake Perućac. Amor Mašović, Chairman of the Bosnian Institute for Missing Persons, who was in charge of forensic investigations at the lake, believed that they had all been killed in Višegrad or a few kilometres further upstream in Muhići and Kurtalići, and their bodies thrown into the Drina. When the bodies reached the lake, they were snagged by branches or became stuck in the shallow mud and sand.

Divers also searched for bodies of Kosovar Albanians from the refrigerator truck dumped in the lake in 1999. Although dozens of bodies were recovered from the truck when it was discovered in 2003, more are thought to be in the lake, as the vehicle's doors were open when it was found.

Representatives of missing persons commissions from Serbia and Kosovo joined the Institute team in conducting a joint examination of an eight-kilometre stretch of the lake. The institute's team members were shot at from the village of Blace, near Višegrad, about 10 days after they began the search.

The remains of at least three German Wehrmacht soldiers from World War II were also discovered during the 2010 investigations.