[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Critical reaction to 24

ies. The Muslims imprisoned in the detention facility are portrayed as innocent and sympathetic. Another storyline revolves around main character and Muslim-American CTU Agent Nadia Yassir being racially profiled by Homeland Security. Nadia is later wrongfully tortured by the Counter-Terrorist-Unit.

Season Seven features very little Muslim involvement.  In the later episodes of the season, an innocent Muslim is framed by the season's villain and forced to commit a terrorist attack.  However, this man is later able to make contact with Jack Bauer, and risks his life to (successfully) avert the very attack he was meant to perpetrate.  Ironically, he does so by holding up the WMD and shouting that he is a terrorist; the mass panic allows him to escape and deliver the WMD to Bauer, who disposes of it with seconds to spare. The season ended on a particularly benevolent note towards Muslims, since while Jack Bauer is dying he reaches out to an Imam featured earlier in the season to confess.

In addition, the main antagonists of 24s final season, Season Eight, are depicted as Russian government leaders and Muslim puppets. During the same season, Omar Hassan, the President of the fictional Islamic Republic of Kamistan, was trying to broker a peace treaty with the US when he was killed by opposing factions inside his own administration. In the series finale, both the Presidents of the United States and Russia are portrayed as corrupt, while Hassan's successor is portrayed as benevolent.

During an interview for his new television series Homeland, Howard Gordon (the showrunner for Seasons 5-8) was asked about any regrets from his time on 24. Gordon mentions a billboard advertisement for the series. He notes it as a Season 2 advertisement, but the storyline he refers to is actually in Season 4. He said:

Torture

The program routinely includes scenes of torture, both physical and psychological, and  CTU is portrayed as employing several personnel exclusively for this purpose—characters Richards, Johnson, and Burke are only seen on-screen when they are torturing someone. Jack Bauer himself also tortures suspects both physically and emotionally.

In its first five seasons there were 67 scenes of torture—more than any other show on television,Bauder, David. Group: TV torture influencing real life . USA Today: February 11, 2007. Melissa Caldwell, the Parents Television Council's Senior Director of Programs, said:
"24 is the worst offender on television: the most frequent, most graphic, and the leader in the trend of showing the protagonists using torture."

Subsequently, the PTC launched a campaign to try to persuade sponsors to stop buying airtime for 24, having named several episodes as "the worst television programs of the week"Episode cited: "Day 6: 10:00 PM–11:00 PM"

The depictions of torture as effective and necessary have prompted considerable criticism from human rights activists, military officials, experts in questioning and interrogation, and even from fans of the series. The film Taxi to the Dark Side claims that the show popularizes torture. Stephen King, an admitted fan of 24, wrote,
"There's also a queasily gleeful subtext to 24 that suggests, 'If things are this bad, why, I guess we can torture anybody we want! In fact, we have an obligation to torture in order to protect the country! Hooray!  Yet Jack Bauer's face — increasingly lined, increasingly haggard — suggests that extreme measures eventually catch up with the human soul."