[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 149]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

t
with mute attention, waiting to hear his proposals; for, though we call
them savages, yet in some respects they well deserve to be imitated by
more refined nations; in all their meetings and assemblies the greatest
order and regularity prevail; whoever rises to speak is sure of being
patiently heard to the end without the least interruption.

"Our leader then began to harangue them in their own language, with
which he was well acquainted. I did not understand what passed, but it
was afterwards explained to me that he set before their eyes the
injuries they had mutually received from the French and the tribes in
their alliance. He told them that their great father (for so these
people call the King of Britain) had taken up the hatchet of war, and
was sending an innumerable band of warriors to punish the insults of his
enemies. He told them that he had ordered him to visit the Ottigamies,
his dutiful children, and smoke with them the pipe of peace. He invited
their young men to join the warriors that came from beyond the ocean,
and who were marching to bury the bones of their brethren, who had been
killed by their mutual foes. When he had concluded, he flung upon the
ground a curious string of shells, which is called the belt of
_Wampum_. This is a necessary circumstance in all the treaties made with
these tribes. Whoever comes as an ambassador brings one with him to
present to the people whose friendship is solicited, and, if the belt is
accepted the proposed alliance is considered as entered into.

"As soon as our leader had finished, a chief of a stature superior to
the common race of men, and of a most determined look, jumped into the
middle of the assembly, and, taking up the belt, cried out in their
language, 'Let us march, my brethren, with the young men of our great
father! Let us dig up the hatchet of war and revenge the bones of our
countrymen; they lie unburied, and cry to us for vengeance! We will not
be deaf to their cries; we will shake off all delays; we will approve
ourselves worthy of our ancestors; we will drink the blood of our
enemies, and spread a feast of carnage for the fowls of the air and the
wild beasts of the forest!' This resolution was universally approved by
the whole nation, who consented to the war with a ferocious joy. The
assembly was then dissolved, and the chiefs prepared for their intended
march according to the manners of their country.

"All the savage tribes that inhabit America are accustomed to very
little clothing. Inured to the inclemencies of the weather, and being in
the constant exercise of all their limbs, they cannot bear the restraint
and confinement of a European dress. The greater part of their bodies,
therefore, is naked; and this they paint in various fashions, to give
additional terror to their looks.

"When the chiefs were thus prepared they came from their tents; and the
last solemnity I was witness to, was dancing the dance of war and
singing the song of death. But what words can convey an adequate idea of
the furious movements and expressions which animated them through the
whole of this performance! Every man was armed with a kind of hatchet,
which is their usual weapon in battle, and called a _tomahawk_. This he
held in his hand, and brandished through the whole of the dreadful
spectacle. As they went on, their faces kindled into an expression of
anger that would daunt the boldest spectator; their gestures seemed to
be inspired by frantic rage and animosity; they moved their bodies with
the most violent agitations, and it was easy to see they represented all
the circumstances of a real combat. They seemed to be engaged in close
or distant battle, and brandished their weapons with so much fury, that
you would have imagined they were going every instant to hew each other
to pieces. Nor would it have been possible, even for the performers
themselves of this terrific dance, to have avoided mutual wounds and
slaughter, had they not been endued with that extraordinary activity
which is peculiar to savage nations. By intervals they increased the
horrid solemnity of the exhibition by uttering yells that would have
pierced a European ear with horror. I have seen rage and fury under
various forms and in different parts of the globe, but I must confess
that everything I have seen elsewhere is feeble and contemptible, when
compared with this day's spectacle. When the whole was finished, they
entertained us at a public festival in their cabins, and, when we
departed, dismissed us with these expressive wishes; they prayed that
the Great Spirit would favour us with a prosperous voyage; that he would
give us an unclouded sky and smooth waters by day, and that we might lie
down at night on a beaver blanket, enjoying uninterrupted sleep and
pleasant dreams; and that we might find continual protection under the
great pipe of peace. I have been thus particular (said the Highlander)
in describ