[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Treaty Three Police Service

ess uniform. All black with gold along the tunic closure and along the pants seam, the uniform differs from other traditional dress uniforms by dropping the tie for a military style mandarin collar, vaguely reminiscent of the uniforms worn by First Nations Chiefs in the time of the Treaty 3 Signing.

Geography
Treaty Three Police services 18,550 First Nations residents in 28 First Nation Territories in the Kenora and Rainy River districts. Due to the vast patrol area, (55,000 square miles) T3PS was divided into two major "sub-divisions" with smaller satellite detachments left over from the OPP administered program. The Kenora Sub-division was headquartered on Niisaachewan Anishinaabe Nation. Kenora Sub Division is now run out of the new Headquarters on Round Lake. Territories in the Rainy River district operated out of the Emo OPP detachment east of Manitou Rapids First Nations while Couchiching sub-division was relocated between fall of 2007 and spring 2011 from Couchiching First Nation near Fort Frances, Ontario while the new building was approved and constructed. Having been placed on "Agency One" land given to several local territories jointly, the detachment was renamed Treaty Three South Sub-Division

Detachments
The Treaty Three Police Service General Headquarters and the Kenora Sub-Division are housed in the same building in Kenora.  The Couchiching Sub–division was housed at the Emo OPP Detachment until the new South Sub-Division was opened in March 2011 on Couchiching First Nations.

Kenora Sub-division
Kenora Patrol Zone
Obashkaandagaang Bay First Nation
Shoal Lake 40 First Nation
Anishinabe of Wauzhushk Onigum
Niisaachewan Anishinaabe Nation
Iskatewizaagegan 39 Independent First Nation
Northwest Angle 37 First Nation
Grassy Narrows Patrol Zone
Grassy Narrows First Nation
Wabaseemoong Patrol Zone
Wabaseemoong Independent Nations
Kenora South Patrol Zone
Naotkamegwanning First Nation
Ojibways of Onigaming First Nation
Northwest Angle 33 First Nation
Kenora East Patrol Zone
Eagle Lake First Nation
Wabigoon Lake First Nation
Wabauskang First Nation

South Sub-division/Couchiching Detachment (Fort Frances area)
Fort Frances Patrol Zone
Nigigoonsiminikaaning First Nation
Lac La Croix Patrol Zone
Lac La Croix First Nation
Big Island/Big Grassy Patrol Zone
Big Grassy First Nation
Anishnaabeg of Naongashiing

2013 Budget Issues
Starting in March 2013, Treaty Three Police was forced into a position of laying off officers due to a chronic shortage of funding. According to the local Minister of Parliament Greg Rickford, the blame was on the Ontario Government  which transferred money into an "Officer Recruitment Fund" to hire more officers, without a plan on what to do once the Officer Recruitment Fund was used up.

In an effort to keep Treaty Three Police Service in existence, Police Chief Conrad Delaronde and the Chiefs of the communities it serves, had ignored the collective bargaining agreement, introduced a number of cost-cutting measures such as wage cuts, and eliminated paid maternity leave, which effectively reversed a recent arbitration decision to bring the officers to OPP parity.

The Treaty Three Police Officers Union opposed these measures and requested the Board of Directors abide by the current contract, which expires in March 2014.  According to Treaty Three Police Service management and the Chiefs of the communities, unless costs are drastically cut or a funding increase from the Federal or Provincial governments happens - the Chiefs have elected to disband the Police Service entirely to prevent the First Nations from accruing more financial obligations (the First Nations will be liable for any debts incurred by the Police Service). The officers were given 45 days notice. According to the Policing Agreement between Grand Council Treaty Three, the Ontario Government, and the Federal Government, withdrawal requires 12 months notice.

Within hours of the announcement, a grassroots Facebook movement arose to generate support for the officers, questioning the speed, wisdom and legality of the decision to "bust the union".

After a series of meetings and talks the Chiefs dissolved the old board and replaced those members with Chiefs that essentially worked to replace themselves with community members within months and renew the fight for adequate funding. In a surprise move, Chief Delaronde, Deputy Chief Armstrong and Deputy Chief Indian all resigned. The PSAC and Board then went to closed doors meetings. By the time Chief Delaronde relinquished command to Interim Chief of Police Dan Davidson, and after a number of controversial changes began to affect the budget, T3PS was in better, albeit still underfunded state. The layoff notice was then rescinded by Chief Davidson and the new board in preparation for a new effort to work with the officers and PSAC to negotiate a new contract, seek better funding while addressing community concerns within the current budget.