[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Japanese invasion of Thailand

of Taiwan Army Unit 82, had been involved with intelligence-gathering in Burma, Thailand, and Malaya prior to the outbreak of war and had selected Pattani as a suitable landing site. Unknown to him, beyond the sandy beach, was a muddy sea bed which caused the invading force considerable difficulty.

Songkhla (also known as Singora)
The port city of Songkhla was one of the main objectives of Yamashita's 25th Army. During the early hours of 8 December, three regiments of the IJA 5th Division led by Colonel Tsuji under Lieutenant General Matsui Takuro landed there from 10 troop transports. The landing was supported by IJN destroyers , , , and .

The Thai garrison at Khao Khor Hong (the 41st Infantry Battalion and the 13th Artillery battalion) immediately occupied positions alongside the roads leading down to Malaya, but were brushed aside into positions the main Japanese advance could ignore. A further clash occurred at Hat Yai. The Thais lost 15 dead (8 KIA from 41st Inf. Bat. and 7 from the 5th Inf. bat.) and 30-55 wounded.

The fighting ceased at noon when orders for an armistice to be arranged was received.

Malaya

While these landings were taking place in Thailand, troops from the Japan's 25th Army also landed further south at Kota Bharu in Malaya.

Once Thailand was secured the 15th Army's 143rd Regiment moved north to replace the Imperial Guards. The Imperial Guards headed south to join the 25th Army and participate in the invasion of Malaya and Singapore. The 15th Army moved to attack Burma.

Aftermath

Phibun's decision to sign an armistice with Japan effectively ended Churchill's hopes of forging an alliance with Thailand. Phibun also granted Japan permission to use Thailand as a base of operations to invade neighbouring Malaya. Within hours after the armistice came into effect, squadrons of Japanese aircraft had flown into Songkla airfield from Indochina, allowing them to carry out air raids on strategic bases in Malaya and Singapore from a short distance.

On 14 December, Phibun signed a secret agreement with the Japanese committing Thai troops in the Malayan Campaign and Burma Campaign. An alliance between Thailand and Japan was formally signed on 21 December 1941. On 25 January 1942, the Thai government declared war on the United States and the United Kingdom. In response, all Thai assets in the United States were frozen by the federal government. While the Thai ambassador in London delivered the declaration of war to the British administration, Seni Pramoj, Thai ambassador to Washington, D.C., refused to do so, instead organising the Free Thai Movement.

See also
For further information about the predominant Japanese philosophy and reasoning
 Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere
 Hakkō ichiu
 Japanese nationalism

For events directly relating to the invasion
 Bombing of Bangkok
 Franco-Thai War - Thai invasion of French Indochina in early 1941
 Thailand in World War II - history post-invasion
 Japanese Order of Battle, Malayan Campaign
 Operation Krohcol - unsuccessful British Operation from 8 to 10 December 1941 to occupy Southern Thailand after the Japanese invasion
 Operation Matador (1941) - planned British Operation to occupy Southern Thailand in the event of a Japanese invasion
 Japanese invasion of Malaya - a simultaneous attack on Kota Bharu
 Masanobu Tsuji of Malaya

References

Bibliography

Further reading

External links
 Thailand and the Second World War
 Japanese Order of Battle
 Thai Order of battle

Thailand in World War II
Conflicts in 1941
South-East Asian theatre of World War II
Military history of Thailand during World War II
World War II operations and battles of the Southeast Asia Theatre
1941 in Thailand
Japan–Thailand military relations
Thailand
Invasions of Thailand
World War II invasions