[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 32]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

was Miss Du Prel's impression, when ten minutes later the meeting
took place between the Professor and his old friend.

It would indeed have been hard to be anything but genial to the
Professor. Hadria remembered him and his kindness to her and the rest of
the children, in the old days; the stories he used to tell when he took
them for walks, stories full of natural lore more marvellous than any
fairy tale, though he could tell fairy tales too, by the dozen. He had
seemed to them like some wonderful and benevolent magician, and they
adored him, one and all. And what friends he used to be with Ruffian,
the brown retriever, and with every living creature on the place!

The tennis-party began to break up, shortly after the Professor's
arrival. Temperley lingered to the last.

"Is that a son of the celebrated Judge Temperley?" asked one of the
bystanders.

"His eldest son," answered Mr. Gordon; "a man who ought to make his
mark, for he has splendid chances and good ability."

"I have scarcely had a word with you, the whole afternoon," Temperley
said to Hadria, who had sunk upon a seat, tired with making herself
agreeable, as she observed.

"That is very sad; but when one has social gatherings, one never does
have a word with anybody. I think that must be the object of them--to
accustom people to do without human sympathy."

Temperley tried to start a conversation, taking a place beside her, on
the seat, and setting himself to draw her out. It was obvious that he
found her interesting, either as a study or in a less impersonal sense.
Hadria, feeling that her character was being analysed, did what many
people do without realizing it: she instinctively arranged its lights
and shades with a view to artistic effect. It was not till late that
night, when the events of the day passed before her in procession, that
she recognized what she had done, and laughed at herself. She had not
attempted to appear in a better light than she deserved; quite as often
as not, she submitted to appear in a worse light; her effort had been to
satisfy some innate sense of proportion or form. The instinct puzzled
her.

Also she became aware that she was interested in Hubert Temperley. Or
was it that she was interested in his interest in her? She could not be
certain. She thought it was direct interest. She felt eager to know more
of him; above all, to hear him play.

On returning to the house, after Temperley had, at last, felt compelled
to depart, Hadria found her father and mother and their guest, gathered
together before the cheery fire in the study. Hearing his daughter's
step, her father opened the door and called her in. Till now, the
Professor had not seen her, having been hurried into the house, to
change his clothes and have something to eat.

As she entered, rather shyly, he rose and gave a gasp of astonishment.

"You mean to tell me that this is the little girl who used to take me
for walks, and who had such an inordinate appetite for stories! Good
heavens, it is incredible!"

He held out a thin, finely-formed hand, with a kind smile.

"They change so much at that age, in a short time," said Mrs. Fullerton,
with a glance of pride; for her daughter was looking brilliantly
handsome, as she stood before them, with flushed cheeks and a soft
expression, which the mere tones of the Professor's voice had power to
summon in most human faces. He looked at her thoughtfully, and then
rousing himself, he brought up a chair for her, and the group settled
again before the fire.

"Do you know," said the Professor, "I was turning into a French
sweet-shop the other day, to buy my usual tribute for the children, when
I suddenly remembered that they would no longer be children, and had to
march out again, crestfallen, musing on the march of time and the
mutability of things human--especially children."

"It's ridiculous," cried Mr. Fullerton. "I am always lecturing them
about it, but they go on growing just the same."

"And how they make you feel an old fogey before you know where you are!
And I thought I was quite a gay young fellow, upon my word!"

"You, my dear Chantrey! why you'd be a gay young fellow at ninety!" said
Mr. Fullerton.

The Professor laughed and shook his head.

"And so this is really my little playfellow!" he exclaimed, nodding
meditatively. "I remember her so well; a queer, fantastic little being
in those days, with hair like a black cloud, and eyes that seemed to
peer out of the cloud, with a perfect passion of enquiry. She used to
bewilder me, I remember, with her strange, wise little sayings! I always
prophesied great things from her! Ernest, too, I remember: a fine little
chap with curly, dark hair--rather like a young Italian, but with
features less broadly cast; drawn together and calmed by his northern
blood. Yes, yes; it seems but yesterday," he said, with a smile and a
sigh; "and now my little Italian is at college, with a