[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Miguel Comminges

in of the season, playing the whole match in a 3–1 victory over Walsall on 18 September 2012. In January 2013, his contract was extended until the end of the 2012–13 season, and he went on to make 21 appearances during the campaign. He was released by Stevenage when his contract expired in May 2013.

International career
Comminges was called up to the Guadeloupe team, ahead of the 2007 Gold Cup. The 2007 edition of the tournament was the first time the country had participated in the competition. He made his debut in Guadeloupe's opening game of the tournament, playing the whole match in a 1–1 draw with Haiti. He went on to play in one of the two remaining group matches; starting in a surprise 2–1 victory over group winners Canada, before missing a 1–0 defeat to Costa Rica through suspension. Finishing the group in third place with four points, Guadeloupe qualified as one of the best two third-place finishers. Comminges subsequently started in the quarter-final match, as Guadeloupe defeated Honduras 2–1. Comminges earned his fourth cap in the semi-final, as his country narrowly lost to Mexico by a 1–0 scoreline.

In 2008, Comminges made three appearances for the regional team, all of which in friendly matches. The following year, he was named in Roger Salnot's 23-man squad for the 2009 Gold Cup. He started in all three group matches, with Guadeloupe finishing in second place with six points out of a possible nine. Comminges played in his fourth match of the tournament, earning his eleventh cap in the process, as his country fell at the quarter-final stage of the competition courtesy of a 5–1 defeat to Costa Rica. He participated in his third Gold Cup in 2011, playing in two matches as Guadeloupe finished bottom of their group after losing all three matches. To date, Comminges has made 15 appearances for his country.

Personal life
He is the son of Jeanne and Jerome Comminges, and has three brothers. Comminges was born in Les Abymes, Guadeloupe, and was raised in Petit-Canal. He states that he grew up always wanting to be a professional footballer; playing football in the streets in his hometown before playing organised football from the age of seven upwards, despite his mothers initial reluctance for him to pursue a career in football. Following his move to France, Comminges attended Louis Thuillier High School in Amiens.

Honours
Stade Reims
 Championnat National: 2003–04

Individual
 Swindon Town Player of the Year: 2007–08

Career statistics

Club

A.  The "League" column constitutes appearances and goals in the Football League and MLS.
B.  The "Other" column constitutes appearances and goals in the Football League Trophy and CONCACAF Champions League.

International

References

External links

1982 births
Living people
People from Les Abymes
French men's footballers
Men's association football defenders
Amiens SC players
Stade de Reims players
Swindon Town F.C. players
Cardiff City F.C. players
Carlisle United F.C. players
Southend United F.C. players
Colorado Rapids players
Stevenage F.C. players
Guadeloupean men's footballers
English Football League players
Major League Soccer players
2007 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
2009 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
2011 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
Guadeloupe men's international footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in Wales
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States