[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Courtney Pitt

to make an impact at the Kassam Stadium, and after eight appearances for the U's, he was released at the end of the 2003–04 season and began the search for a new club. After a spell with Boston United, he signed for Conference National side Cambridge United prior to the start of the 2005–06 season.

In May 2008, Pitt was one of five players released by manager Jimmy Quinn following the 2008 Conference National play-off final loss to Exeter City but was brought back to the club by Gary Brabin, Quinn's successor, on 8 July 2008. He joined Conference Premier club York City on loan until the end of the 2009–10 season on 22 January 2010. He made his debut as a 75th-minute substitute in a 1–0 defeat at Ebbsfleet United on 13 February, nearly scoring an equaliser for York but was denied by goalkeeper Lance Cronin. He scored his first goal with the winner in a 1–0 victory over Mansfield Town on 16 March. He was to be released by Cambridge following the expiration of his contract on 30 June. He came on as a substitute on 73 minutes in the 2010 Conference National play-off final at Wembley Stadium on 16 May, which was lost 3–1 to Oxford. He finished the season with 12 appearances and one goal for York.

Pitt turned out as a triallist for Wrexham in their 3–2 friendly win at AFC Sudbury on 20 July 2010. On 17 September he joined Southern Football League Premier Division side Weymouth on non-contract terms, before being released by the club on 7 October. On 19 November Pitt joined Conference North side AFC Telford United on non-contract terms after a successful trial with the club. He finished the season having made four appearances for Telford and was invited back to the club for a pre-season trial, ahead of their first Conference season. He stayed with the club until January 2012 when he left by mutual consent. On 25 February, Courtney made his debut for Chasetown against Stocksbridge Park Steels in the Northern Premier League Premier Division.

He joined Stafford Rangers in July 2012 ahead of the 2012/13 season. On 25 October Pitt left Stafford Rangers by mutual consent.

Style of play
Former York City FC Manager Martin Foyle described Pitt is a player who "can take people on, is great at set-pieces and can provide an outlet on that left side".

Career statistics

Footnotes

A.  The "League" column constitutes appearances and goals (including those as a substitute) in the Football League and Football Conference.
B.  The "Other" column constitutes appearances and goals (including those as a substitute) in the FA Trophy and play-offs.

References

External links

1981 births
Living people
Footballers from Paddington
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Chelsea F.C. players
Portsmouth F.C. players
Luton Town F.C. players
Coventry City F.C. players
Oxford United F.C. players
Boston United F.C. players
Cambridge United F.C. players
York City F.C. players
Weymouth F.C. players
AFC Telford United players
Chasetown F.C. players
Stafford Rangers F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Southern Football League players
Northern Football League players
Black British sportsmen