[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Brookwood Labor College

nd Fund). Evelyn Preston, a wealthy philanthropist and president of the League of Women Shoppers, gave $10,000 to the college from 1932 to 1935. Local business people, like Wappingers Falls laundry owner Harold Hatch, and Fannia Cohn's brother, sister, and brother-in-law also contributed large sums.

Nonetheless, most of Brookwood's income came from tuition payments. Tuition was low, just $200 a semester or $450 a year ($ in  dollars). The college's relatively high income from tuition allowed it to remain independent of both the AFL and other unions.

Campus
Brookwood initially consisted of a large two-story Colonial Revival home. On the ground floor was a social hall with two fireplaces, a library, a dining room, and a kitchen. The second floor contained faculty apartments and offices, and tiny student rooms were in the attic.

Expansion took place quickly. In 1924, a major donor gave funds to build a two-story red brick women's dormitory behind the main house. Three small wooden cottages were added to create additional male housing in 1925, and three houses for faculty were built from 1925 to 1926. (A fourth faculty house was built a few years later.)

By 1926, Brookwood was planning to erect library and classroom buildings. Over the next few years, the college added a six-car garage, volleyball and tennis courts, and a swimming pool.

By 1937, the campus consisted of the main house, an administration building, the women's dormitory, seven cottages of five to 10 rooms each that could sleep for seven to 10 men, a six-car garage, and a number of outbuildings.

Curriculum and faculty

Faculty

Brookwood's Director was A.J. Muste, a Christian and pacifist. He also served as chairman of the faculty, and taught world history. John C. Kennedy was the Director of Studies, and Tom Tippett the director of extension activities. Cara Cook acted as both Brookwood's librarian and served as administrative assistant to Muste. In later years, she taught classes and tutored students at the college as well.

Faculty taught either full- or part-time. Notable faculty who taught there (for a part or most of the school's history) included:
Charles A. Beard (history)
Louis Budenz (labor organizing and strike management)
Dr. Arthur W. Calhoun (sociology and history)
Sarah Norcliffe Cleghorn (writing and nonviolent techniques)
Josephine Colby (public speaking)
Katherine Pollak Ellickson (writing and economics)
Jack Frager (labor history)
Abram Lincoln Harris (economics)
John C. Kennedy (economics)
John Martindale (union organization and parliamentary procedure)
Dr. Broadus Mitchell (economics)
Helen G. Norton (labor journalism)
Roy Reuther (labor organizing)
Lawrence Rogin (trade union organization and labor journalism)
 John Nevin Sayre (nonviolent techniques)
 Dr. David J. Saposs (economics)
 Dr. Joel I. Seidman (economics and union issues)
 Tucker P. Smith (later Socialist candidate for U.S. vice president
Mark Starr (British labor history)
Dr. Lazare Teper (economics)
Tom Tippett (strike organizing and music)
Nat Weinberg (economics)

Clinton S. Golden is often claimed to have been on the faculty. But as Golden's biographer Thomas Brooks, points out, Golden lectured occasionally at Brookwood but was never appointed to the faculty. His role on the board of directors precluded it.

The faculty was integrated (Harris was African American). The faculty was also unionized, with all teachers members of Local 189 of the American Federation of Teachers.

Faculty at Brookwood were an integral part of the school's administration.  Faculty had a formal role in directing the school and in setting its educational policies. Faculty also helped establish and maintain Brookwood's clearinghouse on worker education materials, and hosted an annual conference on worker education that drew labor educators from across the nation.

Curriculum
Generalizations about the curriculum are difficult because it was constantly changing.