[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kulto

as plays an audiotape of their earlier conversation from a false beer belly (which is a result of his visits to slimming salons and strenuous abdominal training). When Brother Jonas' bodyguards try to attack, Polgas knocks them out after he sets the recorder's volume to full blast to disorient them.

The cultists rebel when they realize that Brother Jonas will not drink the EOD along with them. His "gullible and dumb" remarks in the tape further enrages them. He suddenly runs off, using his sprinting experience from years of evading the clutches of man-raping Arabs in Saudi Arabia.

Meanwhile, Boy Pantog is released from the balloon. The UFO watchers see him coming down, mistaking him for an alien. His foul odor catches the group by surprise after he slams into the ground. They run off into the distance - towards Brother Jonas, who suddenly crumples under another stampede. Polgas and the WPG chance upon him, who then is offered a bottle of Perrier water. However, there is one catch: the lack of bubbles indicated the presence of EOD, which practically shocks Brother Jonas. Polgas points out that the EOD mixed with the water was diluted; although Brother Jonas will not die from diarrhea, it is now a lifelong illness.

Brother Jonas is then presented before Judge Tickolas Marshall, who sentences him to life in exile in Bacolod, Negros.

Miscellaneous trivia
 The special turon Polgas eats in this arc is a reference to an old news report in the mid-1990s which claimed that lawmakers in the Philippine House of Representatives spent millions of pesos in public funds for an order of turrón.
 To emphasize how stinky Boy Pantog's smell is, lyrics from Shaggy's hit, Boombastic, surround him ("A-mistah-hoba-hoba" and "Kaboom-bastik"). This is a play on the Filipino word "putok" (literally, "explosion"), which is used as a euphemism for bad body odor.
 Boy Pantog also wears a button bearing the phrase "I ♥ Saddam." This further corroborates Medina's running gag of describing Arabs with bad body odor.
 There is actually no such place in the province of Iloilo as Bacolod (which may be Bacolod, the provincial capital of Negros Occidental). However, Brother Jonas does correctly mention that the place is known for its chicken dishes, especially chicken inasal.
 Actor Roy Alvarez appears in this arc as the leader of the UFO watchers. At the time the story arc was published, the actor rose to notoriety for being an alleged mediator and spokesperson for extraterrestrials whose ships were sighted in the Philippines.
 This story arcs debuts Polgas's fake beer belly. Later story arcs (such as Apo Hikers) see him use it as a storage compartment whenever he wants to change his identity into Dobermaxx. He spent so many time to do his fake beer belly, from exercises to sauna sessions.
 Jonas begging that he rather die than be exiled in Bacolod City stems from belief from OFWs that their food consists of only chicken in  stereotypical Arab company canteens.

References

Pugad Baboy