[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Findhorn Ecovillage

iversary of the UN Celebrations.
 In October 1998 the Ecovillage Project, together with other 100 leadership Initiatives "which are inspiring innovative action on Earth", received Best Practice Designation from the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements — UNCHS (Habitat) and Dubai Municipality.

 In September 2000 the conservation charity Trees for Life received the Millennium Marque Award in recognition of its work in helping to restore the Caledonian Forest in Glen Affric.
 The following year the United Nations Environment Programme noted that "most of the problems identified by Agenda 21 have their roots at the local level, therefore UNEP appreciates your significant contribution at the local level to models for holistic and sustainable living in harmony with the environment."

Various critiques exist in print, although these tend to concentrate on the eclectic spirituality of the Findhorn Foundation rather than the environmental aspects of the Ecovillage.  There is a statement of core values for the Ecovillage and its associated community called ‘Common Ground’ but other than affirming a commitment to "active spiritual practice" (which is diversely understood and interpreted) it concentrates largely on preferred interpersonal behaviours rather than prescribing a spiritual philosophy.  Objections were raised by a local pressure group against the expansion of the wind park.

See also

 Sustainable development in Scotland
 Renewable energy in Scotland
 Centre for Alternative Technology
 Diggers and Dreamers

Footnotes

References

 Chambers, N. et al. (2004) Scotland’s Footprint. Best Foot Forward. 
 Dawson, J. (2006) Ecovillages: New Frontiers for Sustainability. Totnes. Green Books. 
 Findhorn Community. Thompson, William Irwin (Forward). (1968) The Findhorn Garden: Pioneering a New Vision of * Man and Nature in Cooperation. Harper & Row Publishers.
 Gilman, Robert and Diane (1991) Ecovillages and Sustainable Communities. Denmark. Gaia Trust.
 Jackson, H. and Svensson, K. (2002)  Ecovillage Living: Restoring the Earth and Her People.  Green Books.  
 Metcalf, Bill. (1996) Shared Visions, Shared Lives: Communal Living Around the Globe. Findhorn Press.
 Talbott, John. (1993) Simply Build Green. Findhorn Foundation. 
 Tinsley, S. and George, H. (2006) Ecological Footprint of the Findhorn Foundation and Community. Forres. Sustainable Development Research Centre. UHI Millennium Institute.
 Wackernagel, M. and W. Rees. 1996. Our Ecological Footprint: Reducing Human Impact on the Earth.  Gabriola Island, BC: New Society Publishers.  
 Walker, Alex (Ed). (1994) The Kingdom Within: A Guide to the Spiritual Work of the Findhorn Community. Findhorn Press.

External links

 Findhorn Ecovillage Project

Findhorn community
Ecovillages
Low-energy building in the United Kingdom
Local currencies
Villages in Moray
Sustainability in Scotland
Wind farms in Scotland
Housing in Scotland
1982 establishments in Scotland
Populated places established in 1982
Sustainable buildings in the United Kingdom