[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# CSI (franchise)

to play two characters within the franchise.  Crossovers have also, on occasion, taken place between a CSI series and a series outside the franchise.

Within the franchise

With other series

UK TV movies
In the UK, Channel 5 edited together related episodes to make one whole feature. These include:

Also Channel 5 will sometimes group episodes with similar themes together such as:
 Psychopaths called "CSI: Psycho Season" – episodes involve characters such as Paul Millander, Nate Haskell (The Dick & Jane Killer), and Charlie DiMasa (Dr. Jekyll) from CSI; Antonio Riaz, Walter Resden, and Clavo Cruz from CSI: Miami; and Shane Casey, Clay Dobson, Hollis Eckhart (The Compass Killer), and The Cabbie Killer from CSI: NY.
 Home Invasion Murders – episodes include "Blood Drops" and "Gum Drops" from CSI, "Slaughterhouse" from CSI: Miami, and "Damned If You Do" and "Who's There?" from CSI: NY.
 Cop killings called "CSI: Cops in Crisis" – episodes include "Cop Killer" from CSI: Miami as well as the episodes where regular CSI characters are killed such as Warrick Brown, Tim Speedle, Aiden Burn, and Jessica Angell.
 Domestic murders between couples called "CSI: Murder and Matrimony" – episodes include "Just Murdered" and "Divorce Party" from CSI: Miami.
 Guest celebrities called "CSI: Celeb" including the episodes featuring Justin Bieber, Taylor Swift and Kim Kardashian among others.
 Christmas themed episodes called "A CSI Christmas" – episodes include "The Lost Reindeer" from CSI and "Silent Night", "Forbidden Fruit", "Second Chances" and "Shop Till You Drop" from CSI: NY.  Also Channel 5 might include Christmas themed episodes from other crime dramas such as the NCIS franchise, The Mentalist and Castle.

Other media

Comics

There have been a number of comic books based on all three series published by IDW Publishing. Writers include Jeff Mariotte and Max Allan Collins.

Games
The CSI franchise has spawned 12 computer games published by Ubisoft across the three shows. Nine for CSI: Crime Scene Investigation: CSI: Crime Scene Investigation–2003, CSI: Dark Motives–2004, CSI: 3 Dimensions of Murder–2006, CSI: Hard Evidence–2007, CSI: Deadly Intent–2009, CSI: Fatal Conspiracy–2010, CSI: Unsolved–2010, CSI: Crime City–2010, and CSI: Hidden Crimes–2014. Two for CSI: Miami: CSI: Miami–2004 and CSI: Miami – Heat Wave–2012. One for CSI: NY: CSI: NY – The Game–2008.

Gameloft has also published a series of mobile games based on the CSI series including CSI: The Mobile Game (Vegas) and CSI: Miami.

In addition, several board games and puzzles based on all three series have seen release, all published by Canadian game manufacturer Specialty Board Games, Inc. In 2011, the CSI Board Game was released by another Canadian company, GDC–GameDevCo Ltd. It is the first game to include all three CSI shows.

A pinball game machine called CSI: Crime Scene Investigation was released in 2008.

Exhibition

Chicago's Museum of Science & Industry opened an exhibit in CSIs honor on May 25, 2007 called: "CSI: The Experience". In October 2011 it was at Discovery Times Square in New York City. There is also a game on the website where you are trained in forensic biology, weapons and tool mark analyses, toxicology and the autopsy.

Novels

Various tie-in novels have appeared based on the series. Authors include Max Allan Collins (CSI: Crime Scene Investigation), Donn Cortez (CSI: Miami), Stuart M. Kaminsky (CSI: NY), and Keith R.A. DeCandido (CSI: NY).

Magazine
Titan Magazines published 11 issues of CSI Magazine starting in November 2007. They contained a mixture of features and interviews looking into the world of the three CSIs and the people who help create it. They were available in the UK and US.

Toys
A range of toys have been developed. These include:
 "CSI: Forensics Lab"
 "CSI: DNA Laboratory"
 "CSI: Forensic Facial"
However, they have been the source of some controversy. The Parents Television Council, who have complained about CSI in general, in 2004 released a statement specifically aimed at the toys. The PTC e-mailed letters to their supporters, telling them the content of the games were entirely inappropriate for children to be exposed to "because the CSI franchise often displays graphic images, including close-ups of corpses with gunshot wounds and other bloody injuries." The letter went on to say "The PTC doesn't think the recreation of blood, guts and gore should be under a child's Christmas tree this year," PTC concluded. "This so-called 'toy' is a blatant attempt to market CSI and its adult-oriented content directly to children."

In urging members to file a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission, PTC said CBS parent company Viacom needed to hear from parents who are concerned about the "graphic scenes of blood, violence, and sex" in their product. They also asked their supporters to contact Target and Toys "R" Us.