[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Henry Larcom Abbot

26 (January 1904): 481–87. A Nicaragua canal would be "ill suited to the transit of ocean shipping." (p. 483). Answers objections to the Panama route. "[N]ow that the problem has been thoroughly studied, and that the facts are known, and that fortune has enabled us to secure the better route, we have good reason to rejoice that hasty action was delayed, and that no mistake has been made in the selection." (p. 487)
 Abbot, Henry L. "Disposition of Rainfall in the Basin of the Chagres." Monthly Weather Review 32 (February 1904): 5–-65. "In connection with their other technical investigations the New Panama Canal Company found it obligatory to study some of these questions [relating to rainfall, evaporation, absorption by plants, and ground water] with considerable attention, and this paper is written in the hope that the resulting facts and figures may prove useful in throwing light upon the more general problem of the ultimate disposition of rainfall." (p. 57) Article covers the basin of the Chagres above Bohio. See Abbot's 1907 article "Rainfall and Outflow Above Bohio."
 Abbot, Henry L. "Hourly Climatic Records of the Isthmus of Panama." Monthly Weather Review 32 (June 1904): 267–72. Mostly tables of temperature, rainfall, and barometric pressure data collected by engineers of the New Panama Canal Company at Alhajuela and Bohio. Abbot notes that the company's rights and property had been transferred to the United States in April.
 Abbot, Henry L. "The Regimen of the Chagres." Harvard Engineering Journal 3 (June 1904): 153–62. Knowledge of the regimen of the river "has been secured by the elaborate and long continued investigations of the New French Company." (p. 153) "The old popular belief that the regulation of the floods of the Chagres presents unprecedented difficulties . . . is erroneous." (p. 154)
 Abbot, Henry L. "Natural Conditions Affecting the Construction of the Panama Canal." Engineering Magazine 27 (August 1904):721-30. "While no one will claim that the climate of the Isthmus is salubrious, it is certain that much wild exaggeration has been circulated . . . ." (p. 727) No danger of earthquakes. The Chagres River "is marvelously adapted to the needs of the canal." (p. 729)
 Abbot, Henry L. Problems of the Panama Canal, Including Climatology of the Isthmus, Physics and Hydraulics of the River Chagres, Cut at the Continental Divide and Discussions of Plans for the Waterway. New York: Macmillan, 1905. "[A]n unbiased and truthful statement of how the work appears to a retired officer of the Corps of Engineers . . . who has spent his life in the prosecution of public works confided to that Corps . . . ." (p. vi) Written before the United States took over the project from the French. The author believes that Americans could have a voice in the operation of the canal by purchasing stocks and bonds of the French company, and that the United States could control transits across the canal by its domination of the surrounding seas. The appendix presents a strong case for a canal through Panama rather than Nicaragua. Some of the content is based on Abbot's periodical articles, but much of it is new. See also the second (1907) edition.
 Abbot, Henry L. "The Revival of De Lesseps' Sea-Level Plan for the Panama Canal." Engineering Magazine 28 (February 1905): 721–26. "Why . . . waste an extra ten or a dozen years and untold millions of dollars to execute a scheme which the investigations of thirty-five years have demonstrated to possess only a sentimental merit due to the imagination of M. de Lesseps?" (p. 726) Cites advances in lock canal technology in recent years.
 Abbot, Henry L. "The Panama Canal Under Control of the United States." Harvard Engineering Journal 5 (April 1906): 1–13. Discusses the government of the Canal Zone; duties of the Isthmian Canal Commission; administration of the Panama Railroad; the work of Chief Engineer John F. Stevens, especially on the Culebra Cut; appointment of the Board of Consulting Engineers; the majority and minority reports of the board. Abbot responds to criticism that little had been accomplished in the building of the canal, pointing out that needed preliminary work was being done.
 Abbot, Henry L. "The Panama Canal. Projects of the Board of Consulting Engineers." Engineering Magazine 31 (July 1906): 481–91. The board, of which Abbot was a member, was unable to agree whether to recommend a sea-level or lock canal. Abbot, who had studied both types throughout the world, likens the Panama Canal to the Sault Ste. Marie Canal.
 Abbot, Henry L. "Hydrology of the Chagres River." George Washington University Bulletin 5 (December 1906): 48–54. The Panama Canal would follow the valley of the Chagres for much of the way and the river would provide water for the operation of the locks. "[I]t may be said that the dominating element in deciding what type of canal should be adopted at the Isthmus of Panama is neither more nor less than this eccentric little river; and that the l