[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Machon L'Madrichei Chutz La'Aretz

Machon Le Madrichim (hebr. for " Institute for Youth Leaders"), officially known as Machon L'Madrichei Chutz La'Aretz ()("Institute for Youth Leaders from Abroad"), is a gathering of young people in Jerusalem from different Zionist youth movements (tnuat noar) which educate and strengthen youth leadership, focused on Israel and Zionism.

Machon is a tool to implement a common vision through Zionist youth movements.

Machon integrates the methods of informal outreach, appropriate to the world of youth movements, with a focus on formal and content-driven activities to develop a sense of commitment to themselves, their communities, Israel and the Jewish people. All this in order to foster graduates of the programs to become agents of change in their home communities and encourage them to contribute in different ways to transform Israel as a state and strengthen its Jewish and democratic identity.

Basics
The Machon Le Madrichim (MLM) holds four core believes: 
 
Guided by content: A belief that to become an effective Jewish leader, and also for education and culture per se, members must possess a basic understanding of core content areas of Jewish life and particularly the place of Israel within the Jewish people. The contents of the MLM program is organized around five areas: Zionism, Jewish history, Judaism, Leadership and Hebrew. The objective is not limited only to the acquisition of knowledge, but based on the same development of self-understanding and values which in turn lead to actions.
Leadership and action: MLM believes in the importance of the development of Jewish leadership and activists around the world, both in the short term, as hadracha (leadership) providers and activities in their own movements, answering the needs of key partners in the youth movements, and in the long term, the development of effective leadership for the Jewish people in Israel and the Jewish diaspora. MLM graduates return to their communities and become active in leadership positions, while working with a wide variety of organizations and youth movements. Stressing the importance of training agents of social change and that these leaders should be treated with mutual respect.
Open and pluralistic environment: MLM believes that the essential component in developing Jewish guides and educators is an open educational vision that is able to challenge existing beliefs and opinions and encourage openness to new ideas and different beliefs, whether it's in the political, religious or educational arenas. MLM aims at creating an environment where members can connect with Jews who come from diverse backgrounds and beliefs and learn from each other in an atmosphere of tolerance and acceptance. At the center of this vision is the attempt to create a truly diverse educational community, and creating a space to provide for each individual's personal development process, from which they can choose their own path.
Development of core commitments: MLM believes in the importance of community as the principle of kol Israel arevim ze laze ("all Jews are responsible for each other"), and its graduates have an active commitment and involvement with the Jewish people with Israel at its center. The graduates examine, define, and strengthen their Jewish identity, their connection with the various dimensions of Israel and within that to develop a love of Israel and learning what the meaning of Zionism is for them, including the belief in the importance of building relationships and true cooperation between Israelis and Jews outside of Israel.

History
The Machon opened in 1946, at the initiative of World Zionist Organization (WZO) before the creation of the state of Israel. At that time the main mission was for Machon to be a training program for youth movement graduates outside of Israel, to help them meet the central challenge of Zionism, to encourage allies and settlement in Israel as the main objectives of the movements. The first group of students, 30 Jewish high school graduates from South Africa, were housed at an agricultural school near Ness Ziona. In 1949, the Machon moved to a building in the Katamon neighborhood of Jerusalem. Since 1972, it has usually been located in East Talpiot.