[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Karaburun

chokes. Underground reserves include marble quarries, deposits of basalt, slate for constructions and clay for ceramics. Mercury was also mined in the past. The district's total number of companies stood at 525 the same year. There was only one bank operating through one branch in Karaburun in 2007.

The total number of residences in Karaburun district was counted as 8,912, an important part constituted by secondary residences owned by seasonal inhabitants. The total accommodation capacity of the district is 982 beds, in which the depending municipality of Mordoğan has a sizable share. The level of literacy in Karaburun nears hundred per cent, and the district is advantaged by the rather comfortable number of students,  12 in 2007, per teacher. There was one doctor for 1,447 patients in Karaburun in 2007.

Other information
Nearer to Karaburun is the abandoned village of Sazak whose inhabitants were subject to the 1923 Population exchange between Greece and Turkey in the frame of the Treaty of Lausanne. Sazak today is a ghost town rarely visited by tourists from Karaburun.

The whole district is very quiet during winter when the population of Karaburun center falls back to the usual 2,500, with the owners of summer houses gone. Nevertheless, its spectacular gorges and heights makes the peninsula a favorite destination among trekkers in all seasons.

There is talk since years on starting ferry services from İzmir to these two centers of the peninsula, which would be quite practical by allowing visitors to avoid the difficult end-portion of the land route, but the project meets the opposition of the dolmuş lobby.

Composition
There are 16 neighbourhoods in Karaburun District:

 Ambarseki
 Bozköy
 Eğlenhoca
 Hasseki
 İnecik
 İskele
 Kösedere
 Küçükbahçe
 Merkez
 Mordoğan
 Parlak
 Saip
 Salman
 Sarpıncık
 Tepeboz
 Yaylaköy

See also
 Karaburun Peninsula
 September 2006 Karaburun, Turkey migrant boat disaster

References

External links

Sources

 
 

 
Populated coastal places in Turkey
Populated places in İzmir Province
Tourist attractions in İzmir Province
Fishing communities in Turkey
Ancient Greek archaeological sites in Turkey
Districts of İzmir Province
Metropolitan district municipalities in Turkey