[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Albert C. Barnes

sed by Barnes during his lifetime. The retail division became for the first time, a profit center. A licensing program was established allowing international use of images from the collection. Programs were established for regional K-12 schools, as was intended by Barnes as documented in his papers.

Camp's work with her conservator, registrar, archivist and advisory committee created the Collection Assessment Project, a multi-year, multi-million effort to catalog the collection, conduct conservation assessments and catalog archival records. With over 1,000,000 records, the Barnes archives is now public. It was Camp's research that provided the basis for the petition to relocate the Barnes Foundation to its center city location. Documentation provided in court proved, in Barnes' own words, that the foundation could be moved to Philadelphia. Camp remained at the Foundation through 2005 to ensure its smooth transition to new leadership.

In 2002 the Foundation petitioned the Montgomery County Orphans' Court for permission to expand its Board of Trustees and move its gallery collection to Philadelphia and in December 2004 the court approved the petition. A new building designed by architects Tod Williams and Billie Tsien on the Benjamin Franklin Parkway opened on May 19, 2012. The move to Philadelphia was featured in the documentary film The Art of the Steal (2009).

Notes

Further reading
Hart, Henry. Dr. Barnes of Merion: An Appreciation. New York: Farrar, Straus, and Company, 1963.
Wattenmaker, Richard. American Paintings and Works on Paper in the Barnes Foundation. Merion: The Barnes Foundation; New Haven: in association with Yale University Press, 2010.
Dolkart, Judith and Martha Lucy. Masterworks: The Barnes Foundation. New York: Skira Rizzoli Publications Inc., 2012.
House & Garden, December 1942 vol. 82, no. 6.
Barnes and Beyond. Dir. Art Fennell. Fennell Media, 2014. DVD.
The Barnes Collection. Dir. Glenn Holsten. PBS, 2012. DVD.
The Collector: An investigation of the brilliant, passionate, and sometimes difficult personality behind the Barnes collection. Dir. Jeff Folmsbee. HBO, 2010. DVD.

External Links
 

1872 births
1951 deaths
American art collectors
Scientists from Philadelphia
19th-century American chemists
Patent medicine businesspeople
Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania alumni
Central High School (Philadelphia) alumni
Road incident deaths in Pennsylvania
20th-century art collectors
20th-century American chemists