[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Northamptonshire County Council

Northamptonshire County Council was the county council that governed the non-metropolitan county of Northamptonshire in England. It was originally formed in 1889 by the Local Government Act 1888, recreated in 1974 by the Local Government Act 1972 and abolished in 2021. The headquarters of the council was County Hall in Northampton.

As a non-metropolitan county council, the council was responsible for education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport policy and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.

In early 2018, the Council announced it was effectively insolvent. Subsequently, a report by Government Inspectors concluded that problems at the council were so deep-rooted that it should be abolished and replaced by two smaller authorities.

In February 2020, the Northamptonshire (Structural Changes) Order 2020 was enacted, which on 1 April 2021 abolished Northamptonshire County Council and the district councils and created two unitary authorities, known as North Northamptonshire Council and West Northamptonshire Council respectively.

History
Northamptonshire County Council was first formed in 1889 as a result of the Local Government Act 1888, covering Northamptonshire, with the exceptions of the borough of Northampton, which became a county borough and the Soke of Peterborough, which was made its own administrative county. This arrangement changed in 1974 when, following the Local Government Act 1972, a newly constituted Northamptonshire County Council was formed for the non-metropolitan county of Northamptonshire. First elections to the new authority were in April 1973, and the council took office on 1 April 1974.

From its recreation in 1974, the county council administered the newly formed non-metropolitan county of Northamptonshire, including Northampton. This did not include the area of the Soke of Peterborough (now part of Cambridgeshire). During 1990s local government reform, Northampton tried to obtain unitary authority status, but failed. Between 1974 and 2021, there were three tiers of local government: the county council; seven lower-tier councils, comprising four borough councils (Corby, Kettering, Northampton, Wellingborough) and three district councils (Daventry, East Northamptonshire, South Northamptonshire); and more than 250 parish councils.

Governance
Northamptonshire County Council operated executive arrangements in the form of a Leader and Cabinet system from 2001. In December 2008, the council chose to adopt the revised Executive Leader and Cabinet arrangement.

The Council was composed of 57 councillors, each representing a single-member division. Elections were held every four years; the last in 2017.

Cabinet
Northamptonshire County Council's cabinet was composed of seven councillors and the Leader of the council.

Districts and boroughs 

Between 1974 and 2021, Northamptonshire had three tiers of local government: the county council, seven district or borough councils, and over 200 parish councils. The seven district councils were:
 Corby Borough Council
 Daventry District Council
 East Northamptonshire District Council
 Kettering Borough Council
 Northampton Borough Council
 South Northamptonshire District Council
 Borough Council of Wellingborough

These district councils were responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.

Political control 

Political control of the county council was held by the following groups:

At abolition, the council comprised 57 councillors. Each councillor typically served for a four-year term, representing an electoral division. Each electoral division elected one councillor by the first-past-the-post system of election. The composition of the county council, following the 2017 election, was 43 Conservative councillors, 12 Labour councillors, and 2 Liberal Democrat councillors.

Insolvency
Early in 2018 the county council announced that it "was effectively insolvent."

In March 2018, a government-appointed investigator's report into financial and management failures at the authority recommended the council be broken up. It said the problems at the council were so deep-rooted that it was impossible to rescue it in its current form, and to do so "would be a reward for failure". It recommended that ministers send in a team of external commissioners to take over the day-to-day running of the council until it can be broken up and replaced with two new smaller authorities. The report rejected the council leadership's claim that it had been disadvantaged by government funding cuts and underfunded. It condemned the council's attempt to restructure services by outsourcing them to private companies and charities (the Next Generation Programme). It described the council's budgeting as "an exercise of hope rather than expectation".