[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Alliance (Netherlands)

illboard in which a small girl in lingerie was used. A group of which the NA said it has no connections with spray-painted the billboard of Scarlet with the text "PEDO'S". A few days later, Scarlet announced that they would continue with an amended version of their ad, because of all the complaints.

On 21 March 2005, the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, the NA held a demonstration against "leftist fascism" in Rotterdam. On 22 October 2005, the NA invited the editor-in-chief of Vooraan! to hold a lecture about the extreme-left and antifascists for NA/Dietsland Jeugd members. Pictures of antifascists taken on demonstrations are being posted on the NA forum, in which they offer a cash reward for information leading them to the persons.

In March 2006 the NA participated local elections in Rotterdam and the Feijenoord neighbourhood in Rotterdam. Activists started the electoral campaign by distributing flyers in the centre of Rotterdam, dressed in an orange burqa. The party didn't gain any seats in the local elections.

On 11 June 2005, the NA held a demonstration in Rotterdam against the construction of a Surinamese mosque. The demonstration proceeded peacefully, but the NA was the focus of media attention in June 2005 following an arson attack on their old mosque. Although the NA declared that it had nothing to do with it a NA sympathizer was considered the main suspect (the sympathizer was convicted but this conviction was overturned by a higher court in 2006 after a detention of 14 months, as the higher court deemed the evidence inconclusive).

Following the sympathizer's arrest, several moderate NA members left the party, while a number of prominent party leaders also canceled their membership but continue to exercise influence behind the scenes.

In September 2006 the NA again became the focus of media attention after 17 members (including 11 soldiers) of Flemish neo-Nazi group Bloed, Bodem, Eer en Trouw (BBET; "Blood, Soil, Honour and Loyalty") were arrested. According to the press, the leading suspect was organizing the trafficking of weapons, and was developing international links, in particular with the Nationale Alliantie. The Dutch justice department conducted research, at the request of the Belgian authorities, into the Dutch participants, including one of the NA's founders and a former chairman of the NA's youth organisation, in the Leopoldsburg shooting practices. In March last year, twenty Dutch Nazis, including Kapić, took part in a paramilitary training exercise near Spa, organised by Blood & Honour Flanders. They camped in ten tents and had seven military vehicles at their disposal. The Nazis patrolled the area, intimidating passers-by who then informed the police. A search later uncovered stiletto knives and Nazi propaganda. The NA claimed this wasn't true and that the BBET group had only held a lecture (about Zionism and activism) on 29 January 2005 for their youth organization.
Their youth organization, however, held a lecture in cooperation with BBET before on 28 May 2005 about "Race and reality – to the extinction of the white race?". The NA calls on white Dutch people to increase their birthrate and demanding a halt to the building of mosques and the closure of The Netherlands' borders to all migrants and refugees.

In February 2005 the NA organized a lecture about "Disunion of right-wing parties". Their guest speaker was Joop Glimmerveen, the former face and leader of the Dutch People's Union (NVU) since the beginning of the 1970s and party ideologist until the end of the 1990s, now one of the biggest critics of the NVU's current leader.

Affiliations
The party was associated with the European National Front. In October 2004, the NA was present in Warsaw, Poland, at the first conference of the ENF. On 2 December 2006, a delegation of the NA visited the Corneliu Codreanu Memorial March in Bucharest, Romania, at invitation of Noua Dreaptă and the NPD in Germany in February 2007.

The NA furthermore was present in Flanders every year at the annual IJzerwake ("Yser Vigil"). On 11 September 2004 the NA took part in a demonstration against terrorism which was held in Antwerp (Flanders) in corporation with other Flemish nationalist organizations like Groen Rechts and BBET.
On 8 December 2004 the NA joined a demonstration against the invasion of China in Tibet and the violating of human rights of the Tibetan people at the Hague.

On the occasion of the first national congress of the NA held in Rotterdam in 2005, the American national socialist Harold Covington sent a letter in the name of the 'white nationalist movement' in the United States and Canada and extended greetings from all white nationalists in North America. Covington's books were being promoted on the NA forum.

References

External links