[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# White House Executive Chef

ecutive Chef, and retired in October 1992 just before he turned 65. French-born and trained chef Pierre Chambrin succeeded Raffert as executive chef, but he was asked to resign in March 1994 after refusing to cook the low-fat American cuisine favored by President Bill and First Lady Hillary Clinton.

Walter Scheib was appointed executive chef in April 1994. While his tenure under the Clintons was a happy one, he had a more difficult time meeting the needs of President George W. Bush, First Lady Laura Bush, and Laura Bush's social secretary, Lea Berman. Laura Bush wanted a more formal presentation, and President Bush disliked soup, salad, and poached fish—staples of Scheib's cuisine. Scheib was fired by the Bushes in February 2005, and succeeded in August 2005 by Cristeta Comerford, a White House sous-chef whom Scheib had hired in 1995. Comerford was the first woman to be selected for the post.

President Barack Obama retained Comerford as executive chef, but brought chef Sam Kass from Chicago to act as the first family's personal chef. Kass, who assumed several policy positions in the White House as well, resigned in December 2014. In November 2009, Marcus Samuelsson became the first guest chef at a White House state dinner when Comerford temporarily stepped aside to allow him to cook for Indian prime minister Manmohan Singh.

Comerford was retained as executive chef by President Donald Trump and later by President Joe Biden.

List of executive chefs

Duties and staff
The executive chef is responsible for planning and preparing all menus and meals for the first family and for all entertaining (informal, formal, and state dinners) served by the White House, either away or on-site. The executive chef supervises a staff of five, and a part-time staff of 20 to 25 assistant chefs and kitchen helpers.

The executive chef is formally hired by the first lady, and reports to the White House chief usher. The executive chef has no purview over any of the desserts or pastries served at the White House. The White House executive pastry chef operates as a separate entity, but coordinates with the executive chef for all meals and events.

The White House executive chef made between $80,000 and $100,000 annually in 2005 ($ to $ in 2021 dollars).  The chef receives no overtime, and the workload can vary considerably depending on whether the first family is in residence or traveling, if there is a special event, or if a holiday occurs.

The kitchen
The White House executive chef works in one of two kitchens at the White House:  The main kitchen, which is located in the northwest corner of the Ground Floor of the White House, and the Family Kitchen on the Second Floor. The executive pastry chef works in the Pastry Kitchen on the mezzanine of the State floor, above the butler's pantry. The main kitchen was last renovated in 1971.

As of 2011, the White House executive chef used a natural gas oven and range manufactured by Vulcan Restaurant Equipment; a Traulsen refrigerator and freezer; a Cimbali M32 espresso machine; a Hobart 300 gravity-fed food slicer; Mauviel stainless steel pots and pans; and Misono knives.

See also
 Hercules Posey, George Washington's slave and chief chef

Notes

Explanatory notes

Citations

General bibliography

Further reading

External links
 White House Web site page on Executive Chef Cristeta Comerford
 Archived White House Web site page on Executive Chef Walter Scheib

 
Executive Chef, White House
White House Office