[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Magog (DC Comics)

elf with his own staff, then makes everyone in the vicinity believe Captain Atom killed Magog. After Max escapes and undoes the global mindwipe, he releases a statement onto the Internet exonerating Captain Atom of the deaths in Chicago, saying far worse would have happened if he had not intervened.

The New 52
The New 52 reboot of Magog occurred in the 4-issue Superman/Wonder Woman story arc "Casualties of War" by Peter J. Tomasi and Doug Mahnke, harkening back to the origin of the Justice League where they repel an invasion of Parademons on Metropolis, but there are civilian casualties, including David Reid's mother (which he blames on them). Five years later, the two heroes are fighting two supervillains Major Disaster and the Atomic Skull while the new hero, Wonderstar, a.k.a. an amnesic Reid, aids them. Later in issue #14, Wonderstar's powers go out of control while Superman and Wonder Woman restrain him until a magic portal appears in the sky, dropping a golden staff weapon that looks like a two-pronged trident. Wonderstar touches it and becomes Magog, under the command of Circe, who had cast spells to transform David Reid and make his wish come true (revenge on Superman and Wonder Woman). In Superman/Wonder Woman #17, Circe's desire is for Diana to suffer and watch the death of Superman. Circe captures the couple and gloats, but when Wonder Woman outsmarts her, Circe retreats from Superman through a magic portal admitting defeat. Magog is defeated by Wonder Woman and deprived of his now-powerless staff, reverting him to a 10-year-old boy.

Collected editions
 Magog: Lethal Force (collects Magog #1–5)

Powers and abilities
Reid possesses great amounts of plasma energy within him, which were originally focused into energy blasts by the device on his left arm. After his resurrection as Magog, his left arm is now metal and his energy blasts are focused through a staff given to him by Gog. He also possesses enhanced strength and endurance as the original Magog did. The staff was later upgraded by Max Lord to emit a form of radiation that harmed Captain Atom. He is capable of flight, as well as teleportation of himself and others, though this last ability has not been seen since Gog's death. Keith Giffen, however, has stated that much of his power remains unexplored for the time being. When powered up, Magog is granted enhanced vision in his blind eye (despite the fact it keeps the appearance of a pupiless orb) and is able to switch to infrared or tap into more exotic wavelengths.

Magog is also able to take on a more normal appearance, with skin (or a close approximation of it) magically covering his right arm. As David Reid, Magog is half-blind and scarred.

Other versions
In the alternate timeline of the 2011 "Flashpoint" storyline, David Reid was a member of Team 7, an elite unit of soldiers led by Grifter. David and most of his teammates were ultimately killed during a botched attack on a terrorist training camp.

Magog appears as the main villain of the canon Arrowverse comic miniseries Earth-Prime. He is first seen in an unnamed appearance springing Clayface (Tanner Freyr) from Arkham Asylum so that he can help Magog take down Batwoman. Magog travels to the unnamed Earth where John Henry Irons originates, recruiting the evil Superman to his side after saving him from his Earth being erased during the Crisis on Infinite Earths. Magog went to Earth-2 and approached an elderly Needle after he visited Pat Dugan and Courtney Dugan during their vacation in Yellowstone National Park and approached an elderly Needle (who has become a changed man since serving time) to inform him that his Earth is different from Earth-Prime and wants to make use of his services. While he was unable to recruit Needle who drove off, Magog took one of the needles that Needle shot at him during their confrontation and prepared to make a clone of Needle that obeys his every command.

In other media
David Reid appears in the Young Justice episode "Failsafe", voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson, as a soldier under General Wade Eiling's command in Martian Manhunter's mental training exercise. His real world counterpart is never shown, but is mentioned to exist and be a member of the Justice League in the third-season finale "Nevermore".

References

Characters created by Mark Waid
Characters created by Alex Ross
Comics about time travel
Comics characters introduced in 1996
DC Comics characters who can teleport
DC Comics characters with superhuman durability or invulnerability
DC Comics characters with superhuman senses
DC Comics characters with superhuman strength
DC Comics cyborgs
DC Comics military personnel
Fictional characters with energy-manipulation abilities
Fictional corporals
Fictional United States Marine Corps personnel
Fictional Iraq War veterans
Vigilante characters in comics

de:Schurken im Superman-Universum#Magog