[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Barbuda Council

Local Government Act. It is an 11-member body consisting of nine directly elected and two ex officio (Barbuda's House and Senate representatives in the national Parliament) members who serve four-year terms.

Councillors serve for four years with elections held every two years in March.

Committees 

The Barbuda Council currently has five different committees: Finance, Works and General Purposes, Health, Social Welfare and Disaster, Tourism, Sports, Culture and Youth Affairs, and Agriculture, Land, Forestry, Fisheries, Coastal/Marine Protection. The Council will establish a Finance Committee, a Works and General Purposes Committee, and a Health and Social Welfare Committee at its annual meeting. A council member is eligible to be appointed to multiple committees. Other committees may be appointed by the Council for any general or particular reason. Except from the authority to create bylaws, collect money, adopt the yearly budget, or borrow money, the Council may assign any duties it performs to a Committee that it appoints, with or without restrictions or conditions.

Barbuda's secession request 
The government is taking the unprecedented step of presenting the matter to the Parliament after it received a letter from the Barbuda Council requesting that discussions commence on the separation of Barbuda from Antigua and Barbuda In the letter dated 31 August 2020, Council Secretary, Paul Nedd, informed Cabinet Secretary, Konata Lee, that the Barbuda Council wished to secede from Antigua to determine a separate future for Barbuda and its people.

Elections 
The Governor-General must designate a suitable individual to serve as the Supervisor of Elections. The responsibility for overseeing and managing the overall management of elections is on the Supervisor of Elections. The Returning Officers, Presiding Officers, and Poll Clerks that may occasionally be required for the administration of elections may be appointed by the Supervisor of Elections. The register of electors for an election serves as the register for the member of the Barbuda constituency's election to the House of Representatives. Voting in the election of a Council member is open to anybody whose name is in the aforementioned register. 

When the Governor-General sets a date for an election in accordance with section (13)(1) of the Barbuda Local Government Act, the Supervisor of Elections must promptly arrange for notices announcing the election to be published in the Gazette, posted on the outside doors of the Council office, any church with permission from the relevant Minister, any police station, any Government School, and in any other prominent locations they deem appropriate. The notices must be posted for a minimum of ten days prior to the election date. 

The four members who received the fewest votes in the first election under the Barbuda Local Government Act will retire from office after two years, but they will be eligible to run again. In order to fill the seats left empty by the retiring members, an election will be held on a date that the Governor-General appoints within eight weeks of the date of the members' retirement. Following the election held in accordance with subsection (I) of the Barbuda Local Government Act, the five elected members who had not yet retired will take office and be eligible for reelection. Subsequent elections will then be held at regular intervals of two years between each election, and the members will retire in rotation at each alternate election in groups of four or five, as may be appropriate, with each retiring group of members always being eligible for reelection. The tenure for an elected member of the Barbuda Council is four years. 

A two-thirds majority of the Council's members may vote in favor of a motion requesting the Council's dissolution at any time.  

The Elections Rules included in the First Schedule to the Representation of the People Act apply to elections held under the Barbuda Local Government Act if no rules have been made by the Cabinet, which has the authority to make regulations to govern the conduct of elections under the Barbuda Local Government Act.

Chair of the Barbuda Council

In January of every year, the council must elect a chairperson and a deputy chairperson before the Barbuda Council proceeds with any other business. In a year where an election is held, at the first sitting of the council after the election, this is also an instance where the council must elect a chairperson and a deputy chairperson. 

Below is a table of Chairs of the Barbuda Council:

If the chairperson or the deputy chairperson resigns, dies, or becomes disqualified from serving in the council, the vacancy must be filled by an election of a new chairperson or deputy chairperson. If the chairperson is to resign from the council, the chairperson must address a note to the secretary of the council.

Members