[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Air transports of heads of state and government

ts for such special missions. It was designated that the General Secretary of the Communist Party, the President, Prime Minister and the Chairman of the National Assembly of Vietnam as well as equivalent representatives of other nations are objects to be served by such so-called "dignitary flights."

A Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner (most commonly the one registered VN-A868) or sometimes an Airbus A350-900 XWB (registered VN-A896 or VN-A898) chartered from Vietnam Airlines is often used for international and long haul flights. For domestic and short haul flights, an Airbus A321 is chartered from the same carrier. The callsign Viet Nam One (VN1/HVN1) is often used when the flight is chartered by the government, especially to transport key people of the Vietnamese state. None of those Vietnam Airlines airframes are reportedly configured specifically for VIP or Head of State transport missions, instead, they are all operating commercial services on daily basis and state leaders use the "casual" business class and are served with standard civilian crews employed by Vietnam Airlines on such VIP flights.

Helicopters of the Vietnam Helicopter Corporation and/or the Vietnam People's Air Force and/or the Vietnam People's Navy can also be used for VIP transport missions.

Europe

Albania
Albanian leaders previously utilised private or commercial aircraft for overseas travel, however, in January 2020, the Turkish government leased an Airbus A319 (TC-ANA) to the Albanian government for VIP transport. Although Albanian titles have been placed over the previous Turkish government livery, the aircraft retains its Turkish registration. The livery bears a striking resemblance to that of Air Albania. This aircraft flies under the callsign "TRK8".

Andorra 
The government does not have any presidential aircraft, and the country does not even have an airport other than a small one near its border with Spain, but the former Prime Minister, Antoni Martí once flew to a summit on a Spanish Air Force Boeing 707.

Austria 
The government of Austria has never operated VIP transport aircraft, although there were plans in the late 1980s to acquire a BAe 146-100STA, capable of being converted into a VIP configuration, however, the already painted and registered aircraft was never flown to Austria, as the deal had to be cancelled due to political pressure that led to tensions within the Austrian Government. The head of state, as well as members of the government, are flown on scheduled flights, preferably using flag carrier Austrian Airlines, occasionally chartering smaller aircraft. Until the late 1990s, domestic VIP flights were operated by a four-seater Saab 105OE of the Austrian Air Force. For visits of peacekeeping missions of the Austrian Armed Forces, a Lockheed C-130K Hercules is still being used.

Belarus 

The airline Belavia operates a Boeing 767-300ER, a Boeing BBJ and a Bombardier Challenger 850 on behalf of the government for use of the President and Prime Minister. A Gulfstream Aerospace G550 aircraft (reg: EW-001PJ) was also acquired in 2020 for use.

All of these aircraft fly under four-digit Belavia (BRU) callsigns.

Belgium 

For the transport of the royal family and the members of the Government, Belgium utilises one Dassault Falcon 900 and two Dassault Falcon 7X operated by the 15th Air Transport Wing of the Armed Forces, which fly under three-digit Belgian Air Force (BAF) callsigns. An Airbus A321 and an Airbus A330 were previously operated.

Bosnia and Herzegovina 
The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina operate a Cessna Citation I, a Cessna CitationJet and a Cessna Citation CJ4. Commercial planes are used for long-haul travel.

Bulgaria 

In Bulgaria governmental VIP air transport is provided by the State Aviation Operator which is a civilian state-owned company under the control of the Prime Minister of Bulgaria's office. As of 2018 it operates an Airbus A319, a Dassault Falcon 2000, 2 Mil Mi-8s and an Augusta AW-109 Power for use by the president, the prime minister and other state officials.

Any aircraft carrying the president usually flies under the callsign "BGF1", however when not transporting the president aircraft usually fly under three-digit BGF callsigns.

Croatia 

Pilots of the Croatian Air Force fly a low-visibility grey VIP-configured Challenger CL-604 9A-CRO business-jet, acquired in August 1997 to be used by the president, Government and Parliament officials, and other users upon the approval of the prime minister, especially in the case of flights for the transportation of organs or seriously injured persons.  This aircraft flies under the callsign "9ACRO". Additionally, Mil Mi-8-1 twin-turbine helicopter is occasionally used for the short-range travel within the country. Directorate for the Use of Official Aircraft is an expert service of the Government that operates the aircraft.

Czech Republic