[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Soludo

unidentified gunmen disrupted an interactive session between Isuofia youths and Soludo at the town's civic centre, leading to the death of three police officers.

In February 2021, Soludo officially declared his intention to run for the position of Governor of Anambra State under the banner of APGA.

On 9 November 2021, the Independent National Electoral Commission announced Soludo as the winner of the 2021 Anambra State gubernatorial election and governor-elect of Anambra State. He was issued a certificate of return on 13 November 2021.

On 17 March 2022, Soludo was sworn in as the fifth Governor of Anambra State. During the inaugural event, a fight broke out between the wife of former Governor of Anambra State Willie Obiano, Ebele Obiano, and the wife of Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, Bianca Odumegwu-Ojukwu.

Personal life
Charles Chukwuma Soludo was born into the family of Pa Simeon Soludo. His mother was said to have died during the civil war when he was nearly eight. He grew up in the village of Isuofia in Aguata, Anambra State, attending Uga Boys High School, where he became senior prefect. He proceeded to the University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN) in Enugu State, where he got first-class honours in economics in 1984. He continued at that institution and received his master's in 1987 and doctorate in 1989, graduating as best student at all three levels. He then became a professor of economics at UNN.

Soludo has been married to Nonye Frances Soludo since December 1992, and they have six children.

Publications

1992
 "North-South Macroeconomic Interactions: Comparative Analysis using the MULTIMOD and INTERMOD global models", Charles Chukwuma Soludo, Brookings discussion papers in international economics, Brookings Institution (1992)

1993
 "Implications of alternative macroeconomic policy responses to external shocks in Africa", Charles Chukwuma Soludo,  Development research papers series, United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, Socio-Economic Research and Planning Division (1993)

 "Growth performance in Africa: Further evidence on the external shocks versus domestic policy debate", Charles Chukwuma Soludo, Development research papers series, United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, Socio-Economic Research and Planning Division (1993)

1994
 "The Consequences of US Fiscal Actions in a Global Model with Alternative Assumptions about the Exchange Regime in Developing Countries”, Ralph C. Bryan and Charles Chukwuma Soludo. Chapter 13 in David Currie and David Vines, eds., North-South Linkages and International Macroeconomic Policy, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press for the Centre for Economic Policy Research. (Brookings Discussion Paper in International Economics No. 103. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution, February 1994.)
1995
 "Macroeconomic adjustment, trade, and growth: Policy analysis using a macroeconomic model of Nigeria", Charles Chukwuma Soludo, AERC research paper, African Economic Research Consortium (1995)  

1998
 

1999
 "Our Continent, Our Future: African Perspectives on Structural Adjustment", T. Mkandawire and C.C. Soludo, Council for the Development of Social Science Research in Africa, Dakar, 1999, in Journal of Sustainable Development in Africa, 1:2, 1999.

2002
 "African Voices on Structural Adjustment: A Companion to Our Continent, Our Future", Edited by Thandika Mkandawire and Charles C. Soludo. At least three editions: IDRC/CODESRIA/Africa World Press 2002, , 280 pp.; Paperback,  Jan 2003; Africa World Press 2003, 

 

2004
 "The Politics of Trade and Industrial Policy in Africa: Forced Consensus", Edited by Charles Chukwuma Soludo, Michael Osita Ogbu and Ha-Joon Chang, Africa World Press (January 2004), ,  (Also International Development Research Centre, )

2006
 "Potential Impacts of the New Global Financial Architecture on Poor Countries", Edited by Charles Soludo, Musunuru Rao, , 80 pages, 2006, CODESRIA, Senegal, Paperback

Notable articles
 Economic and Institutional Restructuring for the Next Nigeria
 COVID-19: Can Africa Afford Lockdowns?

References

External links
 Publications on Google Scholar

Living people
1960 births
Nigerian bankers
Central bankers
Nigerian economists
People from Anambra State
University of Nigeria alumni
Governors of the Central Bank of Nigeria
Governors of Anambra State