[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chilean rodeo

l riders were honoured.

Standardisation and regulation

During the government of General Carlos Ibáñez del Campo, in 1927, a law was passed regulating the "cattle runs", placing the Chilean rodeo under the supervision of the General Directorate of Equine Development and Remonta of the Chilean Army.

Rodeo became, by law, a national sport on January 10, 1962 by decree Nº269 of the National Council of Sports and the Chilean Olympic Committee. From 22 May 1961, the sport has been regulated by the Federation of Chilean Rodeo. In 1986, the National Federation of Rodeos and Huaso Clubs of Chile (Federación Nacional de Rodeos y Clubes de Huasos de Chile) was founded to regulate, to a certain degree, the "labor rodeos" (rodeo tournaments not recognized by the Olympic Committee).

Notable riders

In 1949 the first National Rodeo Championship took place in Rancagua and the first champions were the riders  and . The rider with the most victories in the history of the championship is Juan Carlos Loaiza who has won nine national titles, followed by Ramón Cardemil and Eduardo Tamayo Órdenes, with seven championships each.

The champions of the 2018-2019 season were Pablo Aninat and Alfredo Díaz.

Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the 2020 Rodeo National Championship was postponed.

Governance

The official organization in charge of the Chilean rodeo is the National Sports Federation of the Chilean Rodeo, while the labour organisation is run by the National Federation of Chilean Huasos of Rodeos and Clubs, founded in 1961 and 1986 respectively. The National Championship is held annually in April in "La Monumental Medialuna de Rancagua", the main tournament and stadium, with representation from different parts of the country.

Funding

Although the Chilean rodeo has been declared a national sport, it is in a precarious position in terms of finances, political support and promotion. Part of the reason for this is that the federation does not receive any of the revenue of  (Chiledeportes) like the rest of sports federations in Chile. This is because only sports that represent Chile overseas receive funds. The Chilean Rodeo Federation has been critical of the government for the lack of funds towards the sport, arguing that because in many parts of the country, due to the distance from population centres, sporting events do not take place, the local population turns to the rodeo as their primary pastime throughout Chilean countryside.

Criticism 
Animal rights organizations object to Chilean Rodeo and refuse to call it "sport". The arguments against this activity are related to the treatment the animals receive: the calf is driven near a wall and suddenly is hit by the horse's chest (a charge) in order to stop him. This occurs several times, although the calf is rarely injured or unwilling to stand up. There are constant inspections of the calf during the event to ensure that it is fit to continue.

In 2006, a group of 40 people protested against Chilean rodeo outside Medialuna de Rancagua where the Campeonato Nacional de Rodeo (National Championship of Chilean Rodeo) was taking place.

In 2010, a group of activists entered a medialuna in the middle of a rodeo to protest, and were violently repressed by the huasos taking part in the event. A 17-year-old girl was lassoed, beaten and dragged out of the medialuna.

Since then, other organisations have sought a ban on Chilean rodeo. This is similar to the 2010 ban on Spanish bullfighting in Catalonia, Spain.

Traditions 
The rodeo is not only a sporting event but also a party where friends and family gather. Normally, it is held on the weekend and includes activities such as craft fairs, horse shows, Chilean Creole games, and Chilean-style races.

A ramanda, or tavern, is usually where the party takes place. Generally a musical group plays the cueca, a Chilean genre of music, while people dance. People eat typical Chilean foods such as casserole, asado, corn cakes, humitas, empanadas, etc. To drink, the most popular options are pisco, chicha, punch, and chilean wine. Although rodeos are held throughout the year, they most commonly take place during the National Holidays because, over the years, they have become a symbol of Chile.

In every rodeo a queen is chosen. On Saturday the candidates are nominated and on Sunday the winner is chosen. By tradition, the chosen person must dance the cueca with the winners and take a ride on the back of their horse.

Women's Rodeo Movement 
For many years the rodeo was exclusively for men. Women participated in the rodeos through administrative roles, but never entered any of the events. This only began to change in the late 1990s when women became able to participate in the Chilean Equestrian Trials (PECH). Later, women continued to protest and demand that they be included in the main rodeo events, creating organisations to fight for these rights.