[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marcia Angell

ngell and Relman estimate the cost to them is actually closer to $100 million. Angell is the author of The Truth About the Drug Companies: How They Deceive Us and What to Do About It.

In her 2004 article "The Truth About the Drug Companies", published in The New York Review of Books, Angell wrote :

Richard Friedman, director of the psychopharmacology clinic at Weill Cornell Medical College, and a regular contributor to the New York Times science pages, criticized Angell's views as unbalanced. "Dr. Angell is now doing pretty much the same thing the industry she assails has done, just the converse.  Pharma withheld the bad news about its drugs and touted the positive results; Dr. Angell ignores positive data that conflicts with her cherished theory and reports the negative results.”

Views on alternative medicine 

Marcia Angell is also a critic of the current categorization of alternative medicine. In a 1998 NEJM editorial she wrote with Jerome Kassirer, they argued:

 It is time for the scientific community to stop giving alternative medicine a free ride. There cannot be two kinds of medicine — conventional and alternative. There is only medicine that has been adequately tested and medicine that has not, medicine that works and medicine that may or may not work. Once a treatment has been tested rigorously, it no longer matters whether it was considered alternative at the outset. If it is found to be reasonably safe and effective, it will be accepted.

Awards and honors 
In 1997, Time magazine named Marcia Angell one of the 25 most influential Americans for that year.

Works
Basic Pathology 1st edition (1971, Robbins, Stanley Leonard; Angell, Marcia); 2nd ed. (1973, Robbins, S.L.; Angell, M.); 3rd ed. (1981, Robbins, S.L.; Angell, M. Kumar, Vinay)

References

External links 
 
 
 
 
 Quotes by Marcia Angell
 Angell article archive from The New York Review of Books
 

Physicians from Massachusetts
Harvard Medical School faculty
American medical writers
Women medical writers
James Madison University alumni
Boston University School of Medicine alumni
1939 births
Living people
The New England Journal of Medicine people
American skeptics
Critics of alternative medicine
People from Knoxville, Tennessee
20th-century American women physicians
20th-century American physicians
Medical journal editors
American women academics
21st-century American women
Members of the National Academy of Medicine