[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Extractable nuclear antigen

vity, other techniques have been explored in order to increase assay sensitivity without decreasing disease sensitivity. For example, in patients with Systemic lupus erythematous (SLE), only 8–40% have detectable anti-SM when using gel-based assays. CIEP has been shown to be more sensitive than DID.

Hemagglutination, ELISA, Western Blot 
Three additional techniques, passive hemagglutination, enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and western blotting (WB), can be used in order to identify ENAs and link them to specific diseases. Passive hemagglutination was popular in the late 1970s, but very few studies have been done using them and was restricted to anti-Sm and anti-ribonuclear protein (RNP) antibodies. Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) has become the most widely used technique for testing for anti-ENAs due to them being simple to perform, quantitative, and high volume output. While this method has increased assay sensitivity and is efficient for high volume labs, they have a much lower disease specificity than alternative techniques. This is due to the inability to properly isolate the ENAs without large costs due to their association with complexes in the nucleus of the cell. Another worry with the ELISA technique is that anti-Sm antibodies have been reported in patients without SLE which would lead to over-investigating, but could be due to the quality of the antigen source used. Western blotting has a major disadvantage in that antibodies targeted against conformational epitopes can not be detected. On top of that, false positive can occur and the disease specificity is lower than other techniques. While each technique has their advantages and disadvantages, ELISA has the least severe disadvantages of potential for false positives (which are less dangerous than false negatives) and expensive.

Many labs use a combination of both of these techniques to improve efficiency without sacrificing specificity. The current recommendation by European Consensus workshops is to screen for positive anti-ENAs with the ELISA technique. A more specific test such as CIEP will follow with samples that are identified as positive.

The six main antigens used in immunological laboratories for detection are Ro, La, Sm, RNP, Scl-70 and Jo1, which are screened for by Ouchterlony double immuno diffusion techniques and confirmed by immunoblotting. On anti-nuclear antibody tests, these antigens have a speckled pattern.

Terminology
ENAs originally referred to proteins found in a saline extract of cell nuclei. Components have since been more clearly identified and in fact include many cytoplasmic molecules. The misnomer, however, has remained. These proteins are intimately associated with various RNA molecules and are thus called ribonucleoproteins, but the nomenclature used for them is often a source of confusion, Sm, Ro and La were named after the first 2 letters of the surnames of the patients in whom they were first found. Two proteins associated with Sjögren syndrome were independently described as antigens A and B, but are now known to be identical to Ro and La respectively, i.e. SS-A = Ro and SS-B = La.

ENA (extractable nuclear antigen) panel tests, test for autoantibodies to proteins in the cell nucleus. The term "extractable" is derived from the ability to remove the autoantibodies from the nuclei with saline and common proteins. The method of identifying these specimens is why they are also referred to as antibodies to saline-extracted antigens.

ENA 
Anti-ENA is a grouping of antibodies often used to screen for mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD), Sjögren's syndrome and systemic lupus erythematosus and commonly is composed of six tests:
anti-Sm (for SLE)
anti-RNP (for MCTD)
anti-La/anti-SS-B (for Sjögren's)
anti-Ro/anti-SS-A(for Sjögren's)
anti-Scl70 (for Scleroderma)
anti-Jo (for Dermatomyositis)

Sensitivity and specificity of these tests depends on the type of assay employed, and will therefore vary by lab. The following table illustrates the sensitivity and specificity of ENA antibodies at detecting SLE with the ELISA technique.

In addition, the use of ENA testing has also been used for the study of wheat related disorders such as celiac disease. A study conducted in 2018 screened patients with wheat related disorders for 10 anti-ENA antibodies.

 SSA (Ro) 
 SSB (La) 
 RNP/Sm 
 Jo-1 
 Sm 
 Scl-70 
 Chromatin 
 Centromere  
 Histone 
 RNA polymerase III

73% of celiac disease subjects tested positive for anti-histone and was the most prevalent, which is typically associated with drug-induced lupus erythematosus. This implicates a high probability of an autoimmune disorder in patients with wheat-related disorders.

References

External links
 

Rheumatology