[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Tom Sturdivant

I threw ’em," Sturdivant credited his catcher for help handling the Dodgers. With Ford, Larsen, Bob Turley, and Kucks, Sturdivant was part of a group that threw five straight complete games in the series, an occurrence that has yet to be repeated. This time, the Yankees were victors in seven games.

Sturdivant's 1957 regular season was even better than it had been in 1956. This year, all 28 of his appearances were starts. From April 26 through May 24, he pitched 31 consecutive innings without allowing an earned run. Included in that stretch were a game on May 15 in which he struck out nine Indians (though he suffered the loss because of two unearned runs) sandwiched between victories over the Athletics on May 7 and May 24, the latter of which was a shutout. Against the Tigers on June 9, after Frank Bolling and Charlie Maxwell started the third inning with back-to-back home runs, Sturdivant threw a pitch over Ray Boone's head. Boone started for the mound, and Sturdivant approached him as the benches cleared; both players were thrown out of the game. Sturdivant claimed the pitch was a mistake: "It was a high fast one that got away from me." A loss on August 7 brought his record to 9–6, but he won all seven of his final decisions, posting a 1.59 ERA in his last nine games. In the first game of an August 18 doubleheader, he shut out the Orioles, striking out eight in a 7–0 victory. Six days later, he tied his season high with nine strikeouts against the Indians; though he gave up four runs over eight innings, he earned the win in the 10–4 victory. He threw eight shutout innings in a 2–0 win over the Orioles on September 3. In 1957, Sturdivant walked 80 batters and allowed 170 hits in  innings pitched, a career high. His 16-6 record helped him lead the AL in won-lost percentage (.727, tied with Dick Donovan, who was also 16–6), and his 2.54 ERA was second in the league to teammate Bobby Shantz's 2.45. Sturdivant also finished third in the AL in wins (tied with Donovan and Tom Brewer behind Jim Bunning's and Billy Pierce's 20). Sports Illustrated said he was the "most dependable Yankee pitcher."

The Yankees again reached the World Series, this time facing the Milwaukee Braves. Starting Game 4, Sturdivant pitched three scoreless innings before allowing four runs in the fourth, including home runs by Hank Aaron and Frank Torre. He received a no decision, but the Yankees lost in 10 innings. He pitched a scoreless sixth and seventh innings in Game 7, but the Yankees already trailed, and they were defeated 5–0 as Milwaukee won the series.

Hoping for a higher salary, Sturdivant waited to start spring training, finally agreeing to an $18,000 contract (a $4,000 increase) in late February. He did not pitch between April 22 and May 28, and on June 5, Sheehan reported that "Sturdivant has yet this year to find his touch." Bearing a 1–4 record and a 6.00 ERA through June 12, he was relegated to the bullpen, not starting again until July 20. In August, he suffered an injury during practice when one of his teammates stepped on his heel, spiking him and causing an injury that placed him on the disabled list for six weeks. The Boston Globe reported that Stengel fined the pitcher $250 for horseplay. However, Stengel said in an August 19 article, "The accident happened because Tom slipped on the damp grass. No one was clowning around." Arm trouble suffered that year began a "nightmarish" few seasons for him. He had a "miserable" season, according to Sports Illustrated. In 15 games (10 starts), he had a 3–6 record, a 4.20 ERA, 41 strikeouts, 38 walks, and 77 hits allowed in  innings pitched. Though Sturdivant was initially left off the list of World Series-eligible players, Stengel announced on the final day of the season that Sturdivant was indeed one of the 25. He did not pitch in the series but earned his second World Series ring as New York prevailed in seven games.

Sturdivant started spring training late in 1959 as he negotiated his contract, finally agreeing to the same salary as the previous year. The Yankees, who had discussed trading him to the Washington Senators for Camilo Pascual in 1956, were rumored to be interested in making the same trade in 1959, until Sturdivant threw five shutout innings in a spring game on March 23. In seven games (three starts) with the Yankees during the regular season, he had an 0–2 record, a 4.97 ERA, 16 strikeouts, nine walks, and 20 hits allowed in  innings. On May 26, he, along with Kucks and Jerry Lumpe, was sent to Kansas City for Héctor López and Ralph Terry. Though he and Kucks had been viewed as up-and-coming stars in 1957, Stengel said, "The two pitchers, Kucks and Sturdivant, just couldn’t get going for me, and I felt we had to do something. Maybe a change of scenery will do them good."