[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yves Edwards

Yves Ed'duvill Edwards (born September 30, 1976) is a Bahamian retired mixed martial artist, who is best known for competing in the UFC's Lightweight division, fighting 21 times in the promotion. A professional competitor since 1997, he also competed for PRIDE, the WEC, Strikeforce, Bellator, EliteXC, King of the Cage, BodogFIGHT, the MFC, and HDNet Fights. For a period of time (2004), Edwards was ranked as the #1 Lightweight in the world.

Background
Edwards was born on the island of New Providence in the Bahamas and moved to Texas when he was 14 years old. Edwards began training in traditional Karate in his youth, moving on to Kung Fu and Ninjutsu before eventually taking up mixed martial arts. This also led him to Muay Thai in order to improve his stand-up. Like many aspiring martial artists, Edwards cites Hong Kong cinema as a formative influence. He has been quoted as saying "I've always liked the old Hong Kong flicks, and I was a big comic book fan: you know the superheroes, they were always big in my mind. Anything that will make me physically better than the average person, and teach me to do things that the average person can't do, I was game for it."

Based in Houston since his teens, Edwards says he learned some grappling on a trip back home to the Bahamas at the age of 17, although "it wasn't as technical as it should have been, but it was better than not getting anything." He is a well-rounded fighter, with a strong boxing background, having also trained with Lewis Wood, a #6 WBA Featherweight Boxer. This is in addition to his experience in Muay Thai and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, of which he says "I've never worn a gi 'cause I've always been competing".

Mixed martial arts career

Early career
Edwards made his professional mixed martial arts debut in 1997 and compiled a record of 18-5-1 before being signed by the UFC.

Ultimate Fighting Championship and World Extreme Cagefighting
Edwards made his UFC debut at UFC 33 against Matt Serra and was defeated via unanimous decision. He would then go 6–1 in his next seven appearances under the Zuffa banner.

At UFC 49, Edwards knocked out Josh Thomson by way of a spectacular flying head-kick. Due to the fact that the lightweight division had no current champion at the time, Edwards was regarded as "The Uncrowned Lightweight Champion of the UFC."

Post-UFC
After two wins in the EliteXC promotion, Edwards lost to EliteXC Lightweight Champion K. J. Noons via KO in the first round in June 2008, and lost a unanimous decision to Duane Ludwig at Strikeforce: Destruction.

He rebounded with a submission victory against James Warfield in September 2009, and next defeated Kyle Jensen by way of TKO in the first round. Yves followed up that victory the following February with an impressive quick TKO of fellow UFC veteran Derrick Noble.

Return to the UFC
Edwards returned to the UFC against John Gunderson on September 15, 2010, at UFC Fight Night 22, replacing Efrain Escudero who was promoted to the main card. Edwards won the fight via unanimous decision.

Edwards was expected to face Melvin Guillard on January 22, 2011, at UFC Fight Night 23, but Guillard was promoted to the main event against Evan Dunham after Kenny Florian was forced off the card with an injury. Edwards then faced replacement Cody McKenzie on the card, and won via rear naked choke in the second round earning Fight of the Night and Submission of the Night honors.

Edwards fought Sam Stout on June 11, 2011, at UFC 131 and was knocked out by an overhand left at 3:52 of the first round.

Edwards defeated Rafaello Oliveira via second-round TKO on October 1, 2011, at UFC on Versus 6.

Edwards faced Tony Ferguson on December 3, 2011, at The Ultimate Fighter 14 Finale. Edwards lost the fight via unanimous decision in a back and forth fight.

Edwards was expected to face Donald Cerrone at UFC on Fuel TV: The Korean Zombie vs. Poirier on May 15, 2012. However, Edwards was forced from the bout with an injury and replaced by Jeremy Stephens.

Edwards was expected to face Jeremy Stephens on October 5, 2012, at UFC on FX 5. However, the bout was cancelled due to Stephens being arrested on the day of the event for an assault charge that dated back to 2011. The fight eventually took place on December 8, 2012, at UFC on Fox 5. Edwards won by knockout in the first round, being the first fighter to ever stop Stephens via strikes.

Edwards faced promotional newcomer Isaac Vallie-Flagg on February 2, 2013, at UFC 156. He lost the fight via split decision.

Edwards was expected to face Spencer Fisher on July 27, 2013, at UFC on Fox 8. However, on July 11, Fisher was removed from the bout due to injury and replaced by Daron Cruickshank. He lost a split decision.