[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS Erie (PG-50)

only  thick.

Erie carried one floatplane aboard that was stored just aft of the smokestack on a raised deck. Initially this was a Curtiss SOC Seagull which was later replaced with a  Vought OS2U Kingfisher. The planes required being hoisted into and out of the water by means of a derrick when used.

Accommodations
s were designed and built as flagships and a floating diplomatic embassy. Some of the additions to help with these missions were a large admirals cabin located aft on the main deck behind the captain's cabin and two guests' cabins on the second deck. Eries also had large uncluttered fantails that could be covered with a canvas awning for hosting diplomatic envoys as could the aircraft deck. A large movie projector room was located in the aft superstructure and with a portable screen set up on the aft fantail and portable chairs set up on the afterdeck the crew or diplomats could watch movies.  The ships boasted bands, made up of crew members, and they had Marine detachments for diplomatic duties.

Service history

Inter-war period

Spanish Civil War and shakedown cruise
Sailing from New York on 31 October 1936, Erie spent November and December 1936, on a shakedown cruise and in temporary duty with Squadron 40-T, protecting US interests and citizens during the Spanish Civil War.

On 26 November, Eries Commander reported for formal duty with Squadron 40-T. On 5 December, Erie received orders to call on a number of ports along Spain's northern coast to check on US citizens and other foreign nationals with orders to evacuate them, if need be. Erie had three United States consular officials sailing with her, including the consul and vice consul of the US Consulate in Bilbao, and Walter C. Thurston, counselor for the United States embassy in Madrid. These men were tasked with authorizing travel documents of US citizens or any other nationals that were requesting evacuation from Spain. With this they converted Erie into a floating consulate, one of the duties for which the ship had been built. Erie dropped anchor in Bilbao, Spain, on 13 December, joining . While in Bilbao, Erie flew ensigns, illuminated at night, on both of her masts. Negotiations between British, Basque, and US government officials were also held while in port, that led to the release of $400,000 in certificated securities owned by a United States utility company. The 5,000 certificates, weighing , were conveyed to Erie for transport back to New York City.

España incident
Leaving Bilbao on 15 December, Erie set sail for Santander and Gijon, to check on US nationals living in these two towns. The ship arrived in Port Musel, Gijon, around 08:00 on 17 December, and began to prepare a shore party for bringing back aboard any persons seeking evacuation. Around 08:30 a naval bombardment was launched by the rebel Spanish battleship España, her twelve-inch guns lofting three rounds into the harbor, with one landing within  of Erie. General Quarters was called with preparations made to evade Españas gun fire, but no return fire from Erie was ordered, and España almost immediately steamed away in the direction of the Bay of Biscay.

Newspapers back in the United States declared the incident as an attack on Erie, with some going as far as saying that seven rounds had been fired at her, with one landing as close as . However, it appears, and Commander Hanson agreed, that the battleship's actions were merely part of an ongoing operation against loyalist forces that controlled Gijon. When Commander Hanson radioed his initial report to Washington he stated that Erie was not hit and that there was no basis to conclude that Españas target was Erie. Because of his report the US State Department decided to deem the incident inadvertent and that no retaliation was required by the US Government.

Eries executive officer, Lt. Commander Herman P. Knickerbocker, made the only detailed public statement, shortly after returning to the US. The statement was published in The New York Times on 3 January 1937:

Evacuation of refugees and return to the US
Beginning on 18 December, Erie retraced its route across the northern coast of Spain to San Juan de Luz, landing eight Filipino, Puerto Rican, and Polish evacuees, along with the consular officials.

Erie was then dispatched from Squadron 40-T, with orders to immediately return to the United States. After sailing through heavy seas for the Azores, Erie reached Ponta Delgada, on 22 December, and set course the next day for the New York Navy Yards. Erie was severely battered by high seas and gale-force winds of the Atlantic on the return crossing, leaving several hull plates damaged. Erie arrived and moored up at the New York Navy Yard on the morning of 30 December, having completed the two-month shakedown cruise.