[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Nicholas Purcell of Loughmoe

to the Irish Cavalry near Ennis. Several delegates arrived for a parley with General Ginkel; they included the Archbishop of Cashel, the Earl of Westmeath, the Lord Dillon, the Lord Galmoy, Major-General Sheldon and Colonel Nicholas Purcell. They dined with General Ginkel, then rode on to Limerick.

On 28 September, the Irish commissioners rode out to negotiate with General Ginkel. They were: Patrick, Earl of Lucan, Piercy Viscount Galmoy, Colonel Nicholas Purcell, Colonel Nicholas Cusack, Sir Toby Butler, Colonel Garrett Dillon and Colonel John Browne.  The articles to the Treaty of Limerick were agreed upon 3 October between Sir Charles Porter and Thomas Coningsby, Lords Justice of Ireland, and Lieutenant-General Ginkel for the Williamites, and Patrick Earl Lucan, Piercy Viscount Galmoy, Colonel Nicholas Purcell, Colonel Garrett Dillon, and Colonel John Browne for the Irish.

They secured either the right to go overseas or, if they accepted William's regime, immunity from discriminatory laws. But civil articles to secure toleration for Roman Catholics were not ratified, thus enabling later Irish leaders to denounce the "broken treaty" of Limerick.

Later years 
Thus ended Colonel Purcell's Dragoon Regiment's service in King James II's Irish Army. Most of them went back to their homes in Tipperary and Kilkenny, although some went to France with Baron Dunboyne. Colonel Purcell chose to remain in Ireland. He was still active in the affairs of the state as can be seen when Colonel Purcell, along with Viscount Fitzwilliams of Meryon and John Seigrave, Esq. on behalf of all Roman Catholics in Ireland, signed his name to a petition read at the Council of Parliament on 28 June 1695. The petition claimed that some Bills sent from England were "injurious to the petitioners' rights" and asked for time to examine the Bills and if necessary lodge "exceptions". The petition, "after full debate, [was] rejected."

On 31 October 1695 Colonel Purcell, along with Colonel Luttrell, attended the Privy Council to petition for an Act of Parliament to confirm the Articles of the Treaty of Limerick.  History tells us that they were not successful.

We again in the life of Colonel Purcell reach a period were only sporadic incidents are known. For an unknown reason, on 28 April 1697 the Duke of Shrewsbury wrote to the Lords of the Treasury that amongst other payments, "Col. Nicholas Purcell should have 100l." On 16 June 1699 Colonel Purcell was managing, with a Mr. Roberts, South and Savage, the estate of Viscount Kenmare, his father-in-law. Colonel Purcell is quoted as saying that "Protestant tenants will readily take it (the estate) at £3,000 a year".

On 30 March 1705 a special order was issued that issued licenses for Roman Catholics in Ireland to carry certain arms. Colonel Purcell was among the sixty or so people listed and was allowed to carry 1 sword, 1 case of pistols and 1 gun.

Of Colonel Purcell's children we know the following. As already mentioned his only son fell into a vat of boiling water and died. Of his three daughters it is only known that two of them married. Catherine, his second daughter married a member of the Gaelic nobility, Domhnall, the O'Callaghan. His third daughter, married a man surnamed White from Leixlip who apparently by 1705 was not yet eighteen. In conversation with a Paul Davys, possibly a cousin, Col. Purcell's daughter stated that she "desires not to live with her husband until he is eighteen." The Purcell-Whites were the last to live in Loughmoe and did so until approximately 1760.

On 4 March 1722, Colonel Nicholas Purcell of Loughmoe, 13th Baron of Loughmoe died. He was buried in the old abbey in Loughmore. For some reason, there are two stones appearing to record his death.

Citations

Sources 

 – L to M (for Loughmore)
 – Viscounts (for Mountgarett)

King James' Irish Army List, 1689, by John D'Alton
''Journal of the Waterford & the South East of Ireland Archeological Society, Page 199'

1651 births
1722 deaths
Irish soldiers in the army of James II of England
Irish Jacobites
People from County Tipperary
18th-century Irish people
Irish MPs 1689
Loughmore
Members of the Parliament of Ireland (pre-1801) for County Tipperary constituencies