[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mount Victoria railway station

ll extant. It is now located in the Baden Powell Park, Mount Victoria. The history of the cottage is important as it illustrates that residences not always reflected the status of the occupant. In this case, the Station Master received the same type and size structure as did Gatekeepers on the line.

The train involved in the 1977 Granville Rail Disaster, consisting of eight passenger carriages hauled by 46 class electric locomotive 4620, commenced its journey towards Sydney's Central Railway Station at 6:09 am. At approximately 8:10 am, whilst approaching Granville railway station, the locomotive derailed and struck one of the steel-and-concrete pillars supporting the bridge carrying Bold Street over the railway cutting, causing the bridge to fall on the derailed train, killing 84 passengers. "The Day of the Roses" and its associated death toll has been regarded as Australia's worst peacetime railway accident, eclipsing the death toll of the Camp Mountain Rail Accident that occurred in Queensland on 5 May 1947.

Platforms and services
Mount Victoria has two side platforms. It is serviced by NSW TrainLink Blue Mountains Line services travelling from Sydney Central to Lithgow. Some services terminate at Mount Victoria and stable in the sidings west of the station. The Bathurst Bullet operates two evening services to Bathurst.

Journey Beyond's weekly Indian Pacific also passes through Mount Victoria, but stops when traveling towards Sydney only.

Description 
The complex includes a type 3, second class, sub-type 1, stone station building for platform 2, erected in 1869 with a refreshment room, erected in 1884; and a type 11, brick station building for platform 1, erected in 1913; platform 1 Lavatory Block 1 (); platform 2 Lavatory Block (); a signal box – type E, 48 lever, brick on platform 2 (1911); barracks/Rest house, brick (1911-1913); and the site of the former Station Master's Cottage (1868).

Other structures include a part stone and part brick faced platform 1, erected in the 1870s; a brick faced platform 2, erected in 1911; a footbridge (1911); and various other structures.

Station building platform 2 (1869, 1884)
External: Constructed of stone with a slate roof the station building on Platform 2 is a "type 3", second class station building altered to include refreshment rooms on the upper level with later brick extensions to both Up and Down ends. Its key features include a large two-storey central stone building flanked by attached stone and brick single-storey wing structures, a hipped slate roof to main building, gambrel roof to the Up end wing and flat roof to Down end wing, timber framed double-hung windows and timber panelled doors with standard iron brackets over decorative corbels supporting wide platform awnings, fretted timber work to both ends of awnings. The main two-storey central building features four tall brick chimneys with stone base and tops (one with chimney pot), bracketed eaves and segmental arched tall windows to the upper level. The single-storey sandstone south wing is part of the original station building with pitched slate roof and brick extension with corrugated metal gambrel roof and a brick chimney. The stone eaves of the original south wing are visible over the later platform awning. The south wing (ladies room) is a painted brick on the platform side and face brick on the car park side featuring tall face brick chimneys with corbelled tops and double-hung timber framed windows. An enclosed cantilevered balcony is located on the west side of the central wing, supported on cast iron brackets with iron lace (mostly removed). A ground floor brick and weatherboard skillion addition with a tall brick chimney is also located on the west side of the central wing.

Internal: The original layout of the station building in its extended form remains. The room arrangement on the ground floor includes combined station master's office, ticket office and booking office, general waiting room, and ladies room. The upper level accommodates the local museum with entry via the rear staircase. The station refreshment rooms no longer function. The original internal finishes include decorative plaster ceiling and moulded plaster cornices to the waiting room and ladies waiting room, moulded timber architraves to original building joinery, plasterboard ceilings to amenities, and tile and carpet floorings. All fireplaces have been enclosed.