[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Thornton Chase

ned it and all other Christian churches. He initiated a broader religious search and began to read a wide variety of books about religion; Chase read James Freeman Clarke's classic Ten Great Religions, later said he had taken an interest in Hinduism and for a time accepted the idea of reincarnation.

In the summer of 1886 Chase was mentioned in theatrical productions in Denver. In March 1887 he was hired by the Union Mutual Life Insurance Company as an agent and soon promoted as manager for all of Colorado. In June 1888 they promoted him again and moved him to their California office where he was listed as "superintendent" for the company. The move was noted back in Pueblo, and his career lauded. On 28 June 1889 Chase and Eleanor had a son, William Jotham Thornton Chase. Chase published a booklet called Sketches that explains why people should purchase life insurance for themselves, using biblical and religious stories to illustrate its major points. According to Stockman, it reveals Chase as a religious seeker familiar with all the major religions. His wife was visible in the Santa Cruz community up to 1892. Thornton Chase was visible entertaining at a reception in April, 1893.

Baháʼí life

Chicago 

In June 1893 Union Mutual promoted Chase to superintendent of all agencies west of the Appalachians. This necessitated a move to Chicago. In May he was in Omaha, NE, and Salt Lake, UT, for business, and in early September the president of his company was killed in a train accident back east. He may have been able to attend the first Parliament of the World's Religions held in Chicago in mid-September which was organized by a Swedenborgian. Stockman considers it likely Chase at least followed the reports in the newspapers which did include a quote of Baháʼu'lláh, the founder of the Baháʼí Faith, and Chase could have followed up with the then available books and journal articles by Edward Granville Browne available in the library. The next president of the company was elected in October. In early 1894 Chase was elected to the Insurance Underwriters Association there. Stockman quotes Carl Scheffler offering an anecdote of how Chase learned of a teacher of the religion in Chicago:  
While writing a poem about God one day he was interrupted by the visit of a business acquaintance who expressed an interest in his activity, perhaps because he was so busy typing. Mr. Chase read a portion of what he was writing and he was astounded when his friend told him that he had recently come upon a man who had declared that God had “walked upon the earth.” Immediately Mr. Chase expressed interest and asked to be conducted to this person. Chase was then put in touch with Ibrahim George Kheiralla, recently immigrated to the United States and the second Baháʼí in America after Anton Haddad. A small group began to study the religion with Kheiralla. Stockman indicates that 5 June 1894 was probably the day the class began. A week later he was noted in Pueblo, CO, and then attended a memorial observance for Bunker Hill back in Chicago. Chase's status as a Baháʼí is accepted pointing to this time though several others accepted the new religion before him, but did not stay with the religion. Thus Chase should be considered the first American to become and remain a Baháʼí, and not the first American Baháʼí chronologically. In January 1897 his speech at an insurance agents convention was described as "beautiful…, bright and sublime in its imagery", about attaining to noble ideals above "killing time". In February Chase used an editorial commending of the insurance agent association for "inviting men in various walks of life to its banquets to speak to the members on topics that inspire, elevate, and encourage", and expands on the theme, quoting his words:
If we are only business seekers, traders, worshipers of the calf of gold, Caesar is our tax assessor and God to us is nothing; but if we are teachers and bearers of "good will to men," we shall keep the laws of humanity with heart and act, helping men to help themselves, teaching them the beauty and wisdom of unselfishness, of laboring for others, of providing a certain hope for their own futures, of protecting those dependent on them, even after earthly interests shall cease.

Let us hope that we may urge their minds so close to the border land of the life to come that they may look across the line of division between earthly affairs and eternal ones, and grasp ideals of the greater beauty and grander wisdom of striving for the fulfillment of God's promises to men, and of providing for a permanent home in the kingdom of their Creator.
In early 1899 Chase submitted an essay to the association's competition, and raised awareness of the religion in Cincinnati as well. Baháʼís including Chase were also known to frequent a restaurant named "Kimballs' Restaurant" in Chicago.