[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Cycle index

In combinatorial mathematics a cycle index is a polynomial in several variables which is structured in such a way that information about how a group of permutations acts on a set can be simply read off from the coefficients and exponents. This compact way of storing information in an algebraic form is frequently used in combinatorial enumeration.

Each permutation π of a finite set of objects partitions that set into cycles; the cycle index monomial of π is a monomial in variables a1, a2, … that describes the cycle type of this partition: the exponent of ai is the number of cycles of π of size i. The cycle index polynomial of a permutation group is the average of the cycle index monomials of its elements. The phrase cycle indicator is also sometimes used in place of cycle index.

Knowing the cycle index polynomial of a permutation group, one can enumerate equivalence classes due to the group's action. This is the main ingredient in the Pólya enumeration theorem. Performing formal algebraic and differential operations on these polynomials and then interpreting the results combinatorially lies at the core of species theory.

Permutation groups and group actions

A bijective map from a set X onto itself is called a permutation of X, and the set of all permutations of X forms a group under the composition of mappings, called the symmetric group of X, and denoted Sym(X). Every subgroup of Sym(X) is called a permutation group of degree |X|. Let G be an abstract group with a group homomorphism φ from G into Sym(X). The image, φ(G), is a permutation group. The group homomorphism can be thought of as a means for permitting the group G to "act" on the set X (using the permutations associated with the elements of G). Such a group homomorphism is formally called a group action and the image of the homomorphism is a permutation representation of G. A given group can have many different permutation representations, corresponding to different actions.

Suppose that group G acts on set X (that is, a group action exists). In combinatorial applications the interest is in the set X; for instance, counting things in X and knowing what structures might be left invariant by G. Little is lost by working with permutation groups in such a setting, so in these applications, when a group is considered, it is a permutation representation of the group which will be worked with, and thus, a group action must be specified. Algebraists, on the other hand, are more interested in the groups themselves and would be more concerned with the kernels of the group actions, which measure how much is lost in passing from the group to its permutation representation.

Disjoint cycle representation of permutations 
Finite permutations are most often represented as group actions on the set X = {1,2, ..., n}. A permutation in this setting can be represented by a two line notation. Thus,
 
corresponds to a bijection on X = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} which sends 1 → 2, 2 → 3, 3 → 4, 4 → 5 and 5 → 1. This can be read off from the columns of the notation. When the top row is understood to be the elements of X in an appropriate order, only the second row need be written. In this one line notation, our example would be [2 3 4 5 1]. This example is known as a cyclic permutation because it "cycles" the numbers around and a third notation for it would be (1 2 3 4 5). This cycle notation is to be read as: each element is sent to the element on its right, but the last element is sent to the first one (it "cycles" to the beginning). With cycle notation, it does not matter where a cycle starts, so (1 2 3 4 5) and (3 4 5 1 2) and (5 1 2 3 4) all represent the same permutation. The length of a cycle is the number of elements in the cycle.

Not all permutations are cyclic permutations, but every permutation can be written as a product of disjoint (having no common element) cycles in essentially one way. As a permutation may have fixed points (elements that are unchanged by the permutation), these will be represented by cycles of length one. For example:
 
This permutation is the product of three cycles, one of length two, one of length three and a fixed point. The elements in these cycles are disjoint subsets of X and form a partition of X.