[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Siege of Barcelona (1713–1714)

to surrender and start the negotiations about capitulation. The talks were extended until the next day, due to the desires of Philip V to punish the population without any kind of agreement, but Berwick, fearing a prolonged struggle, formally accepted to respect the lives of Barcelonians.

Aftermath

The Catalan defeat represented the end of the Principality of Catalonia as a separate political entity, as its independent institutions and legislation were suppressed and replaced by Castilian ones in order to establish absolutism. This event is now commemorated every 11 September as the National Day of Catalonia, known in Catalan as the Diada Nacional de Catalunya. The surrender of the pro-Archduke forces to the Franco-Spanish army in 1714 was not only the end of the war, but also a phase in the centralization of various monarchies on the European continent which had been going on for two centuries. With the War of the Spanish Succession completed,  Spain evolved from a composite monarchy made-up of different states to a centralized kingdom.

The defenders of the city were buried in a cemetery, now a plaça (Catalan: square) called Fossar de les Moreres, where Catalans gather every 11 September, known as the National Day of Catalonia or la Diada. The former market hall Mercat del Born covers archaeological ruins which were part of the La Ribera district of Barcelona that was demolished after the defeat of Catalonia in 1714.

The alleged abandonment of the pro-Habsburg defenders of Barcelona was one of the criticisms made by the opponents of Robert Harley during his impeachment by the British Parliament after the war.

References

Bibliography

External links
 Documents about the case of the Catalans dated on 1714, at the House of Lords, UK.
 Journal of the House of Lords: volume 19, 2 August 1715, Further Articles of Impeachment against E. Oxford brought from H.C. Article VI.

Military history of Catalonia
Siege of Barcelona (1713–1714)
Barcelona
Barcelona
Battles in Catalonia
Barcelona
1713 in Europe
1714 in Europe
Conflicts in 1713
Conflicts in 1714
1713 in Spain
1714 in Spain
18th century in Barcelona
Sieges of the War of the Spanish Succession
War of the Spanish Succession