[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006–2008 Lebanese protests

t into a political rally against Syria and its supporters.
November 25, 2006 – The seventeen remaining Cabinet Ministers approved the creation of the Hariri tribunal. However, President Émile Lahoud called the vote "null and void", deeming the Cabinet unconstitutional due to its lack of Shi'a representation. In addition, the Speaker of the Parliament and leader of Amal, Nabih Berri, was not expected to bring the matter before the Parliament for a vote on the same constitutionality grounds. Both Hassan Nasrallah and Nabih Berri, the leaders of Hezbollah and Amal, respectively, stated that they supported the creation of the tribunal, despite their opposition to the Cabinet that passed the accord supporting it.
November 26, 2006 – Sheik Naim Kassem, Hezbollah's Deputy Secretary-General, told Al-Manar television that Hezbollah would not provide the government with advance notice of when it would begin protests.
November 30, 2006 – On the eve of the protest, Hassan Nasrallah, issued a televised message through Al-Manar, urging his supporters to take to the street and start a series of peaceful protests against the government. In his speech, Nasrallah had cited the need for a "national unity" government, in order to "preserve Lebanon's independence and its sovereignty, prevent Lebanon from falling under any foreign tutelage, to strengthen the foundations of security, stability and civil peace, to cooperate in addressing the suffocating social and economic crisis, to address the political crises through true representation of all Lebanese movements and groups, to give real participation in the country's administration and to deal with various crises and face various existing challenges local, regional and international."

The protest

Timeline

 
 
 
 
December 1, 2006 – Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators amassed peacefully in downtown Beirut. Police estimated the crowd to number approximately 800,000, while Hezbollah claimed it was larger. By nighttime, several thousand protesters remained to begin a sit-in, setting up tents and vowing not to leave until Prime Minister Fouad Siniora resigned.
December 3, 2006 – Violent clashes between pro-government and anti-government groups flared up in Beirut, stoking fears of a possible civil war. The clashes claimed the life of 21-year-old Amal supporter, Ahmad Ali Mahmoud, and left 21 others injured. Al-Manar, a Hezbollah-run television station, reported that Future Movement militiamen were responsible of Mahmoud's death.
December 5, 2006 – Ahmad Mahmoud was laid to rest in the "Two Martyrs" cemetery in Beirut. His coffin was paraded past the Grand Serail where Fouad Siniora and the remaining Cabinet Ministers have been living since the beginning of the protests. During the funeral, procession protesters continued to demand the ousting of the government, shouting "Death to Siniora", while their leadership tried to prevent revenge attacks. Siniora warned his supporters that the situation could get out of control. Lebanon's Army commander Gen. Michel Suleiman urged politicians to compromise and warned that the military may not be able to contain further protests, despite the deployment of thousands of soldiers.
December 7, 2006 – Hassan Nasrallah issued a televised speech calling on supporters to take to the streets on December 10, 2006, to mark "a historic and decisive" demonstration in central Beirut and intensify the pressure on Prime Minister Fouad Siniora. He emphasized that the protest was "peaceful and civilized," and demanded that the death of Ahmad Mahmoud should not be served as an excuse for violence. He also claimed the government had conspired with Israel and ordered the Lebanese Army to seize weapons being delivered to Hezbollah, and calling for an independent committee to investigate events during the conflict. He said that unnamed members of the government had asked US envoys to get Israel to destroy Hezbollah because "the Lebanese couldn't," and had tried to help Israeli forces determine his whereabouts during the war. Prime Minister Siniora denied the accusations of collaborating with the Israelis, an incendiary charge in the Arab world, and told cheering supporters that Nasrallah was threatening a coup. Despite the politically charged crisis, schools and businesses in Lebanon remained open, indicating a certain level of normalcy.
December 8, 2006 – Shi'a and Sunni Muslims prayed together in front of the Mohammed al-Amin Mosque in Downtown Beirut. A former Sunni parliament member and leader of a small pro-opposition Sunni group, Fathi Yakan, led them in prayers to show Muslim unity and dispel fears of sectarian strife and urging national unity. "This mass protest is not for Shiites or for Sunnis or any other sect. It is for all of Lebanon," he said, accusing the government of being an agent of the United States.
December 9, 2006 – Lebanon's pro-Syrian President Émile Lahoud rejected the proposal to create the Hariri tribunal, citing the Cabinet as uncons