[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 4th Ohio Infantry Regiment

of the Wilderness and Spotsylvania Court House in May. After a series of smaller engagements, the 4th was a part of an ill-advised charge against Confederate entrenchments at the futile Battle of Cold Harbor in June. They participated in the Siege of Petersburg from June 16, 1864, to April 2, 1865.

The old members of the regiment (the remainder of the original three-years men) mustered out June 21, 1864, and what was left of the 4th Regiment, Ohio Volunteer Infantry was consolidated to a battalion five days later. The much depleted 4th saw action in a series of engagements near Petersburg, including Deep Bottom, Ream's Station, and Hatcher's Run. They served in the Appomattox Campaign from March 28 – April 9, seeing their final major combat in the triumph at the Battle of Sayler's Creek. The victorious army marched to Washington, D.C. in early May, then participated in the Grand Review on May 23. The 4th Ohio mustered out July 12, 1865, in Columbus.

During its service, the regiment lost 8 officers and 95 enlisted men killed and mortally wounded and 3 officers and 155 enlisted men by disease, a total of 261 fatalities.

The 4th Ohio Infantry is memorialized with monuments at Antietam and Gettysburg, as well as an inscription at the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument in Cleveland's Public Square. Its battle flags are in the collection of the Ohio Historical Society in Cleveland, and some artifacts and records in the Western Reserve Historical Society.

Another regiment (unrelated) known as the 4th Ohio served in the Spanish–American War. It was also known as the 14th Ohio National Guard.

Medal of Honor Recipient
One man from the regiment received the Medal of Honor for his actions during the Civil War:
 Lewis Morgan, Private, Company I – (Spotsylvania): "Capture of flag from the enemy's works."

See also
 Ohio in the Civil War

Notes

References

 Baumgartner, Richard A., Buckeye Blood: Ohio at Gettysburg. Huntington, West Virginia: Blue Acorn Press, 2003. .

Further reading
 Ohio Roster Commission. Official Roster of the Soldiers of the State of Ohio in the War on the Rebellion, 1861–1865, compiles under the direction of the Roster commission. 12 vol. Akron: Werner Co., 1886–95.

External links
 Ohio in the Civil War: 4th OVI by Larry Stevens
 Ohio Historical Society: Battleflags and Relics
 National Park Service: Civil War Soldiers and Sailors System
Civil War Index: 4th Ohio Infantry - 3 Months Service in the American Civil War
Civil War Index: 4th Ohio Infantry - 3 Years Service in the American Civil War

Units and formations of the Union Army from Ohio
Gibraltar Brigade
Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865