[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bahaeddin Şakir

deportation of the Armenian population in Ardanuç, where he was the head of the Special Organization, and Ardahan in 1914.
On 3 March 1915, Şakir sent a letter stating

Based on this letter, Turkish historian Taner Akçam concluded that the Armenian genocide must have been ordered prior to that date.

In 1916, Şakir and Provincial Governor Ahmed Muammer Bey issued orders to execute a labor battalion of 2,000 Turkish Armenian soldier. General Wehib Pasha was outraged by the massacre and ordered the court-martials of Kör Nuri, the gendarmerie commander in charge of the labor battalions, and Çerkez Kadir, the brigand chief who carried out the killings. Both men were hanged. Vehib attempted to have Şakir and Muammer court-martialed. However, Şakir escaped arrest and Muammer was transferred out of Vehib's jurisdiction.

Journey to Moscow 
With the Ottoman Empire's surrender, Şakir fled to Berlin via Sevastopol on a German torpedo boat with Enver Pasha, Jamal Pasha, Talat Pasha and four other high ranking Unionists. In absentia he was tried by the court nicknamed the "Nemrut Mustafa Divan" and was sentenced to death for waging war and massacring Armenians. From Berlin, Şakir, Cemal and Enver travelled to Moscow to get Bolshevik assistance for the Turks in their war for independence. 

The journey there was troubled. Their first flight took off from the German border and crashed in the outskirts of Kaunas, Lithuania. Fortunately for the two of them they weren't recognized by journalists or the Allied forces stationed there until they were about to leave. Their return flight to Berlin also crashed. Enver's insistence to arrive to Moscow by plane costed them another plane crash in flight trials. Eventually Cemal Pasha joined them in Berlin, and using a plane that successfully passed flight tests they set off once again for Moscow. But hearing strange noises from the engine, Enver asked the pilot to turn back, and the plane disintegrated upon landing. While Enver was determined to make a grand entrance from the sky Şakir and Cemal gave up and instead joined a Russian prisoner of war convoy heading back to their homeland. After several more bizarre mishaps Enver finally met the two of them at Moscow (he came by land in the end).

Şakir participated in the Congress of the Peoples of the East, which was held in Baku in September 1920. He was the Baku representative of the Union of Islamic Revolutionary Societies (İslam İhtilal Cemiyetleri İttihadı). After attending the congress of the organization held in Moscow in the spring of 1921, he returned to Germany.

Assassination of Bahaeddin Sakir

In the autumn of 1919, the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (ARF) decided to punish the executors of the Armenian Genocide. Under Operation Nemesis, Aram Yerganian and Arshavir Shirakian were given the task to assassinate Cemal Azmi and Şakir who were both in Berlin. On 17 April 1922, Shirakian and Yerganian encountered Azmi and Şakir walking with their families on Uhlandstraße. Shirakian managed to kill Azmi and wound Şakir. Yerganian immediately ran after Şakir and killed him with a shot to his head. The assassins were never detained.

Legacy

Şakir and Azmi were buried in the cemetery of Şehitlik Mosque in Berlin.

In 1926, the Republic of Turkey granted the families of those killed in Operation Nemesis a pension fund. Bahaddin Şakir was also included in the list accepted by the assembly, along with Talat, Azmi, Said Halim Pasha, Cemal Pasha, and his aides Süreyya and Nusret.

His life was published as a book by Hikmet Çiçek in 2004 called Dr. Bahattin Şakir: İttihat ve Terakki’den Teşkilatı Mahsusa’ya Bir Türk Jakobeni (Dr. Bahattin Şakir: a Turkish Jacobin from Union and Progress to Teşkilatı Mahsusa ).

In 2005, Kurdish-German politician  brought up their "graves
of honour" and Armenian genocide denial in a session of parliament.

References

Sources

1874 births
1922 deaths
Physicians from Istanbul
Political people from the Ottoman Empire
Assassinated people from the Ottoman Empire
Deaths by firearm in Germany
Malta exiles
Members of the Special Organization (Ottoman Empire)
Ottoman people of World War I
Committee of Union and Progress politicians
19th-century physicians from the Ottoman Empire
20th-century physicians from the Ottoman Empire
People from the Ottoman Empire murdered abroad
People murdered in Berlin
People assassinated by Operation Nemesis
Armenian genocide perpetrators
Politicians from Istanbul
1922 murders in Germany
1920s murders in Berlin
Expatriates from the Ottoman Empire in France
People sentenced to death in absentia by the Ottoman Special Military Tribunal