[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 91]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

rdly tell.

_Mr Barlow._--No! Why, is it not the same thing, whether an object goes
from you, or you from the object? Is there any difference between the
ship sailing away from us, and our walking away from the ship?

_Tommy._--No, sir.

_Mr Barlow._--Did you not say that if the sun could be removed farther
from our eyes, it would appear less?

_Tommy._--To be sure it would.

_Mr Barlow._--Why, then, if the earth were to sink down from under our
feet, lower and lower, what would happen? Would it have the same
appearance?

_Tommy._--No, sir; I think it must appear less and less, like the ship
that is sailing away.

_Mr Barlow._--Very right, indeed; but now attend to what I asked you
just now. If a person could rise slowly into the air, and mount still
higher and higher towards the sun, what would happen?

_Tommy._--Why the same as if the earth were to sink from under us; it
would appear less and less.

_Mr Barlow._--Might not the earth then at least appear as small as the
sun or moon does?

_Tommy._--I can hardly conceive that, and yet I see it would appear less
and less the farther we went.

_Mr Barlow._--Do you remember what happened to you when you left the
island of Jamaica?

_Tommy._--Yes, I do. One of the blacks held me upon the deck, and then I
looked towards the island, and I thought that it began to move away from
the ship, though in reality it was the ship moving away from the land;
and then, as the ship continued sailing along the water, the island
appeared less and less. First, I lost sight of the trees and houses that
stood on the shore; and then I could only see the highest mountains; and
then I could scarcely see the mountains themselves; and at last the
whole island appeared only like a dark mist above the water; and then
the mist itself disappeared, and I could see nothing but a vast extent
of water all round, and the sky above.

_Mr Barlow._--And must not this be exactly the case if you could rise up
into the air, higher and higher, and look down upon the earth?

_Tommy._--Indeed it must.

_Mr Barlow._--Now, then, you will be able to answer the question I asked
you a little while ago: Could a person travel straight forward from the
earth to the sun, how would they both appear to him as he went forward?

_Tommy._--The earth would appear less and less as he went from it, and
the sun bigger and bigger.

_Mr Barlow._--Why, then, perhaps it would happen at last that the sun
appeared bigger than the earth.

_Tommy._--Indeed it might.

_Mr Barlow._--Then you see that you must no longer talk of the earth's
being large and the sun small, since that may only happen because you
are nearer the one and at a great distance from the other; at least, you
may now be convinced that both the sun and stars must be immensely
bigger than you would at first sight guess them to be.

As they were returning home they happened to pass through a small town
on their way, and saw a crowd of people going into a house, which gave
Mr Barlow the curiosity to inquire the reason. They were told that there
was a wonderful person there who performed a variety of strange and
diverting experiments. On Tommy's expressing a great desire to see these
curious exhibitions, Mr Barlow took them both in, and they all seated
themselves among the audience.

Presently the performer began his exhibitions, which very much diverted
Tommy, and surprised the spectators. At length after a variety of
curious tricks upon the cards, the conjuror desired them to observe a
large basin of water, with the figure of a little swan floating upon the
surface. "Gentlemen," said the man, "I have reserved this curious
experiment for the last, because it is the most wonderful of all that I
have to show, or that, perhaps, was ever exhibited to the present hour.
You see that swan, it is no more than a little image, without either
sense or life. If you have any doubt upon the subject, take it up in
your hands and examine it." Accordingly, several of the spectators took
it up in their hands, and, after having examined it, set it down upon
the water. "Now," continued he, "this swan, which to you appears totally
without sense or motion, is of so extraordinary a nature that he knows
me, his master, and will follow in any direction that I command." Saying
this, he took out a little piece of bread, and whistling to his bird,
ordered him to come to the side of the basin to be fed. Immediately, to
the great surprise of all the company, the swan turned about and swam to
the side of the basin. The man whistled again, and presently the swan
turned himself round and pursued the hand of his master to the other
side of the basin.

The spectators could hardly believe their eyes, and some of them got
little pieces of bread, and held them out, imagining that he would do
the same to them. But it was in vain they whistled and presented their
bread; the bird remained unmoved upon the