[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Education in Jamaica

), tables of synonyms and even mnemonics. Visual aids are used a lot to help in the teaching and learning process and it is very common to see the walls of primary school classrooms decorated with charts made by teachers or those bought in stores, that contain information that students need to know.

The primary school system in Jamaica is quite rigorous as students are assigned a lot of homework daily from as early as Grade 1 (age 5 or 6). Most students have at least two hours of homework to do each day and up to eight hours of homework on weekends. It is not uncommon for students to be punished by their teachers when homework assignments are not completed. In many instances the parents are called when the assignments are not done. Students are tested regularly and generally ranked in their classes by the grades that they receive. Students are required to do three national exams in primary schools so much pressure is placed on parents, the students, the teachers and the schools.

Grade 4 Literacy and Numeracy Tests

All students aged 9 or 10 are required to sit the national Grade 4 Literacy and Numeracy tests between June and July each year. To prepare for these tests, students are usually given many assignments to complete and some schools are famous for giving students numerous mock examinations to get them adequately prepared. The aim of the examination is to test students' levels (Mastery, Almost-Mastery, Non-Mastery) and abilities in these two subject areas. When students do not perform satisfactorily on these exams, they are usually required to repeat the grade and as such cannot go on to the next grade. After students sit the exams, they usually get their results. The Minister of Education usually holds a press conference to talk about the test results and discuss strategies for the following year. The schools with a high percent of students mastering these exams are usually ranked as 'Sought After Primary Schools'. The Ministry of Education also publishes the results of these schools.

Grade Six Achievement Test (GSAT)

In the first term of their Grade 6 year, students make a prioritized list of five high schools they wish to attend, and based on the results from the GSAT, they are placed at a school from their list. Some schools have a higher cutoff score, generally schools with a history of high academic performance. To get into the top ranked high schools in Jamaica, students need to generally score As (over 80%) in their GSAT examinations. Almost all parents want their children to go these schools. As a result, much pressure is placed on the students to excel. They must do many hours of extra lessons each day after school. Some extra classes last up to five hours a day. Most students also have to go to classes on weekends. Many children in Grade 6 across the country do have little free time as they usually have many assignments to complete for their regular school classes as well as for the extra classes. Many parents spend thousands of dollars to get students enrolled in highly competitive extra classes with teachers who are known for getting students to excel and being placed at the top traditional high schools. It is not uncommon for many students to be stressed at this point of their academic lives, as the number of assignments they receive is often overwhelming. Students tend to have great support at school from their teachers, as some schools tend to have some of their best teachers with years of experience preparing students for these exams.

At most schools students are usually given mock exams to test their readiness. Teachers tend to use past GSAT papers to test the students. Usually reports are given to the parents after these exams with teacher-parent consultations on how to get the students to improve if that is the case.

GSAT takes place in March each year. Students are given five exams over a two-day period (two exams on one day and three exams on the other).
Students are tested on: 
 Social Studies (including Civics, Geography and History)
 Language Arts
 Mathematics
 Science
 Communication Tasks

Social Studies, Language Arts, Mathematics and Science usually take the form of multiple choice whereas Communication Tasks usually requires students to write stories, letters, fill out forms, or make recommendations.