[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Intelligence Agency (Democratic Republic of the Congo)

The Agence Nationale de Renseignements (ANR) is a government intelligence agency of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). The role of the agency is to ensure "internal security and external security" of the state. The agency was strongly criticized for the disrespect of human rights by several organisations. Inzun Kakiak has led the agency since 2019.

History

Background
In 1993 the administrative director of the Service national d'identification et de protection (SNIP) was Admiral Mavua Mudima, who became defense minister in the 1996-1997 Kengo wa Dondo government. In November 1993 Admiral Mavua was replaced by his assistant, Goga wa Dondo, a half-brother of prime minister Kengo wa Dondo. Goga wa Dondo was replaced in November 1995 by his assistant, Atundu.

On February 13, 1996, Zaire handed to the Rwandan government rusting artillery pieces, troop carriers, arms and ammunition seized from fleeing Hutu former Rwandan government troops at the end of Rwanda's 1994 genocide. Zairean Defence Minister Admiral Mavua Mudima handed over the weapons in a ceremony near the northwestern Rwandan border with Zaire. The weapons included two 105mm howitzers, one without its barrel, four anti-aircraft guns and six dusty French-made armoured personnel carriers with flat tyres and smashed windows.

Historically, the intelligence organisation in the DRCongo or Zaire from 1960 to 1997 was named:

 Surêté Nationale (SN) (National security) – 1960–1970
 Centre National de Documentation (CND) (National Documentation Center) – 1970 – November 1985
 Agence Nationale de Documentation (AND) (National Documentation Agency) – November 1985 – August 1990
 Service National d'Intelligence et de Protection (SNIP) (National Service for Intelligence and Protection) – August 1990 – 1996
 Direction Générale de la Surêté Nationale (DGSN) – 1996 – May 1997

Formation and early years
The ANR was created in the beginning of 1997 as an intelligence service of the Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo (AFDL). In May 1997, the agency integrated the premises of the former Service national d'intelligence et de protection (SNIP), which had been renamed Direction générale de la sûreté nationale (DGSN) in 1996.
On 16 April 1997 Mudima accompanied by General Baramoto Kpama fled the collapsing Mobutu regime, flying to South Africa aboard Baramoto's private jet.

On 13 December 1997, three former senior Mobutu officers (Admiral Mavua Mudima accompanied by Baramoto Kpama, and Nzimbi Nzale) were briefly detained in South Africa after returning from Kahemba, an area still controlled by UNITA forces and awash with ex-FAZ and Hutu militiamen. Their arrest may have pre-empted a coup attempt.

In October 2002, Georges Leta Mangasa, the chairman of ANR, was sentenced to death with other persons in the course of Laurent-Désiré Kabila's assassination.  
Before this, in 2001, the interim president, Joseph Kabila, appointed Kazadi Nyembwe for the chair of the ANR.

Human rights violations accusations 
The agency has come under criticism under the tenure of Kalev Mutond (Mutondo). Human Rights Watch has accused it of being "instrument of political repression against opposition leaders and human rights and pro-democracy activists during the country's protracted political crisis." Specifically they accuse Mutondo of using the organization to repress political dissent in 2016 around the time that then president Joseph Kabila was remaining in office beyond his constitutional limit. Accusations include those of harassment and torture.

Management 

The National Intelligence Agency is headed by a General Manager (Administrateur Général), who directly depends on the president. He is assisted in his task by a Deputy General Manager and senior administrators. He was also under the chairmanship of Laurent-Désiré Kabila, right member of the State Security Committee (Comité de sécurité d'État).

The general manager coordinates all the activities of the ANR in accordance with laws and regulations. As such, it:

 ensures the management of the ANR;
 coordinates and controls the activities of all branches of the ANR;
 give impetus to departments, directorates, divisions, offices and stations by way of instructions, inspections and controls;
 manages the staff, financial resources and the personal and real estate of the ANR;
 ensures compliance with laws and regulations, ethics and discipline within the ANR;
 has the fullness of the disciplinary authority over the entire ANR;
 coordinates cooperation with partner services;
 prepares the budget and manages the accounts of the ANR;
 may reserve the treatment of certain files considered sensitive, important or urgent;
 represents and engages the ANR in its relations with the institutions, services, public and private agencies and third parties.