[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rafael Celestino Benítez

Red Fleet said the Cochino had been "not far from Murmansk" and suggested that it had been seeking military information. On September 23, President Harry S. Truman, confirming fears that had led to Commander Benitez's mission, announced that the Soviet Union had detonated its first nuclear device".

Late career
In 1952, Benítez was named chief of the United States naval mission to Cuba, a position which he held until 1954. In 1955, Benítez was given the command of the destroyer . The Waldron resumed normal operations along the East Coast and in the West Indies under his command after having completed a circumnavigation of the globe.

Post-Navy career
Benítez retired from the Navy in 1959 and was promoted to the rank of rear admiral as he had been decorated for heroism in combat.

He became Pan American World Airways' vice president for Latin America. He taught international law and was associate dean at the University of Miami Law School and dean of the university's graduate school of international studies. During his years at University of Miami Law School, Benítez founded the Graduate Program for Foreign Lawyers, now known as the LL.M. Program in Comparative Law. He also inaugurated the "Lawyer of the Americas" (the predecessor of the Inter-American Law Review) and started the Masters Program in Inter-American Law for U.S. Lawyers.

In 1978, he served as a board member of the US Foundation of the University of the Valley of Guatemala, located in Delaware. Benítez was also the author of Anchors (), a compilation of ethical and practical maxims, published in August 1996.  On March 15, 2000, the University of Miami School of Law launched a Rafael C. Benítez Scholarship Fund to support the studies of foreign graduate students.

Benítez resided in Easton, Maryland, with his wife and three children, a son and two daughters. On March 6, 1999, he died at the Memorial Hospital located in Easton. He was buried with full military honors at Oxford Cemetery in Talbot County, Maryland.

Silver Star and Bronze Star citations

Awards and recognitions
Among Rear Admiral Benítez's decorations and medals were the following:

See also

Hispanic Admirals in the United States Navy
List of Puerto Ricans
Puerto Ricans in World War II
List of Puerto Rican military personnel
Hispanics in the United States Navy
Hispanics in the United States Naval Academy

References

Further reading
"Puertorriquenos Who Served With Guts, Glory, and Honor. Fighting to Defend a Nation Not Completely Their Own'''"; by : Greg Boudonck; ;

External links
 

1917 births
1999 deaths
United States Navy personnel of World War II
People from Juncos, Puerto Rico
Puerto Rican academics
Puerto Rican military officers
Puerto Rican United States Navy personnel
Recipients of the Silver Star
University of Miami faculty
United States Naval Academy alumni
United States Navy rear admirals (upper half)
United States submarine commanders