[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 66th Infantry Division (United Kingdom)

to second line units. The process varied widely between the TA divisions, and was complicated by a lack of central guidance, as well as the lack of facilities, equipment, and instructors. Some were ready in weeks while others had made little progress by the time the Second World War began.

History

Formation and home defence
On 17 July 1939, the embryo of the division was formed. Major-General Arthur Purser, formally Brigadier, Royal Artillery, for Eastern Command, was assigned as General Officer Commanding (GOC). The same month, the 42nd Division created the 197th Infantry Brigade as a second line duplicate of the 125th Infantry Brigade, the 198th Infantry Brigade as a second line duplicate of the 126th Infantry Brigade, and the 199th Infantry Brigade as a second line duplicate of the 127th Infantry Brigade. However, the embryonic division and its brigades were administered by the 42nd Division until the 66th divisional headquarters was formed on 27 September 1939, located in Lancaster. At this point, the brigades were transferred to the 66th Division, which in turn was assigned to Western Command. The 197th Brigade comprised the 2/5th and the 2/6th Battalions, Lancashire Fusiliers, and the 5th Battalion, East Lancashire Regiment; the 198th Brigade comprised the 6th and the 7th Battalions, Border Regiment, as well as the 8th (Irish) Battalion, King's Regiment (Liverpool); the 198th Brigade comprised the 2/8th Battalion, Lancashire Fusiliers, and the 6th and the 7th Battalions, Manchester Regiment. Due to the lack of official guidance, the newly formed units were at liberty to choose numbers, styles, and titles. The division adopted the number of their First World War counterpart, the 66th (2nd East Lancashire) Division, and their divisional insignia. While the insignia was adopted, it was never actually worn by the men of the division.

The Government and military envisioned that the TA divisions each be deployed intact to reinforce the regular army formations in France as equipment became available, with all 26 TA divisions deployed by the end of the first year of the war. This was a lofty goal for the 66th Infantry Division. For example, at the start of the war, the 6th Battalion, Border Regiment had no small arms. The men of the battalion were billeted in their own homes, and attended their local drill hall for the start of their training. Training was further impeded by a large portion of the division's manpower being assigned to guarding strategically important locations, known as vulnerable points. These included railway bridges, Royal Ordnance Factories, and Royal Air Force bases. In November, the division was placed under the control of Northern Command. On 10 January, due to ill-health, Purser stepped down from his role as GOC. He was replaced on the same day by Major-General Alan Cunningham, who had previously commanded the 5th Anti-Aircraft Division.

In October 1939, Commander-in-Chief, Home Forces, General Walter Kirke, was tasked with drawing up a defensive plan to defend the United Kingdom from a German invasion, which was codenamed Julius Caesar. The divisions assigned to this defensive plan were constantly changing, and, by May 1940, included the 66th Division. The division replaced the 49th (West Riding) Infantry Division in Northern Command's part of this plan, and as a result moved from positions around Manchester into Yorkshire. The division's role was to launch an immediate attack on German parachutists, or failing that, to cordon off and immobilise any German invasion effort, until relieved by forces capable of launching a counter-attack to defeat the Germans. On 9 April, following the German invasion of Norway, the second-line infantry divisions in the United Kingdom were requested to each form an independent infantry company consisting of 289 volunteers, who would be deployed to Norway. The 66th Division formed No. 10 Independent Company. However, the company was not deployed to Norway. Following the conclusion of the campaign, No. 10 Independent Company was based in Scotland and did not return to the division. In May 1940, the divisional artillery was equipped with only seven First World War  howitzers against a war establishment of seventy-two modern 25-pounder field guns. Historian David John Newbold described all forces under Kirke's command in May, including the 66th, as having "been severely weakened by departures overseas", "spread very thinly" and "largely semi-trained, relatively immobile and lacking in all types of heavy equipment, especially artillery and anti-tank guns." In particular, the division relied heavily on civilian transport. It had, prior to moving to Yorkshire, conducted little training. The move, it was hoped, would rectify this situation. Shortly after transferring, the division began platoon and company size training exercises.

Disbandment