[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pavel Postyshev

plenum, Postyshev protested about the recent arrest of a Ukraine-based Communist official named Karpov, whom he said had been wrongly accused of being a Trotskyite. In a sharp exchange, Stalin demanded "What are you, actually?" and 
Postyshev replied: "I am a Bolshevik, comrade Stalin, a Bolshevik".

On 17 March 1937, Postyshev was removed from his post in Ukraine, and appointed First Secretary of the Kuibyshev (Samara) regional party committee, a drastic demotion that was supposedly his chance to "correct his errors". He was accused of having an "un-Bolshevik style of work", and of allowing Trotskyists to flourish in the Kyiv party organisation. With Postyshev in charge, Kuibyshev "was purged of 'enemies' with a savagery unexampled even in other regions. Postyshev ... changed many of the sentences sent to him for his signature, requiring death where the procurator and investigator thought eight or ten years in confinement were sufficient". He had 3,300 party members expelled and 35 out of 65 district party committees disbanded. In one district, 64 out of 200 Communist Party members were expelled.

In January 1938, Postyshev was hauled in front of the Central Committee and accused, for a second time, of persecuting innocent communists. He justified himself on the grounds that "the soviet and party leaderships were in enemy hands, from the regional leadership at the top to the district leadership at the bottom." He was removed from his post in Kuibyshev, and was arrested on February 21, 1938. His arrest came after he was denounced by Lev Mekhlis, who feared that Postyshev's repression might affect him. In prison, Postyshev 'confessed' to having been a spy for Japan since 1920, and to having been part of a 'counter-revolutionary Right-Trotskyist organisation' operating in Ukraine since 1934. The NKVD officer who interrogated him, K.I.Tserpento, later admitted that Postyshev's 'confession' was written by his interrogators and handed to him to sign. Until he saw the document, he did not know what he was expected to confess to. 

Postyshev was shot in Butyrka prison on 21 February 1939 and buried in Moscow's Donskoye Cemetery. Nikita Khrushchev, along with Vyacheslav Molotov and Nikolai Yezhov, were sent to take over Postyshev's post in Ukraine. Khrushchev had to be appointed by Moscow; he could not be elected because, after Postyshev's removal, the entire Central Committee of the CP(b)U "had been purged spotless", according to Khrushchev.

Family 
Postyshev had one son, Valentin (1916–1938), by his first wife, Anastasia Konovalova, whom he married in Siberia. Valentin, who had been so distressed by the plight of Ukrainian peasants, later enrolled at an aviation school in Yeysk, where he was appointed secretary of the school Komsomol organisation, and reputedly copied his father's example for ruthlessness. He was arrested on the same day as his father, 21 February 1938. According to one source, he was shot on 26 August 1938, when he was aged 23, though it has also been reported that he was in a labour camp in Kolyma and was sentenced to death there, for refusing to work, and shot.

Postyshev's second wife, Tatiana Semyonovna Postolovskaya (1899–1938) was also an Old Bolshevik and a high ranking Communist Party official. In 1934, she was appointed Secretary of the Party committee of the All-Ukrainian Association of Scientific-Research Marxist-Leninist Institutes. In February 1935, a Communist named M. Garin, whose wife had been expelled from the party at Postolovskaya's instigation, wrote to Stalin complaining that she "is not distinguished either for her intellect or her experience" but exercised "unlimited authority" because she was married to Postyshev. She was expelled from the Communist Party early in 1937. She was arrested on the same day as her husband, and shot on 26 August 1938.

They had two more sons. Leonid (1920–2008) was arrested in 1939 and sentenced to ten years in the gulag, but survived and had his conviction overturned in 1955 and became a prominent economist. Vladimir (born 1922) was 15 or 16 years old when he was arrested, on 22 August 1938. In 1939, he was sentenced to five years in the gulag, as a "socially dangerous person". After he had completed that term, he was rearrested and sentenced to a further ten years. There is a story that when the two surviving brothers met, when their father was being "rehabilitated" in 1955, they did not recognise each other. Vladimir, then in his 30s, died soon afterwards.

Legacy

A railway station which eventually became the city of Pokrovsk was briefly (1934–1938) named Postyshevo after him.

Postyshev was rehabilitated on 1 June 1955.

Sources 
Magocsi, Paul Robert (1996). A History of Ukraine. Toronto: University of Toronto Press. .
Subtelny, Orest (1988). Ukraine: A History, 1st edition, Toronto: University of Toronto Press. .

References

External links 

Postyshev, Pavel entry in the Encyclopedia of Ukraine