[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Diplomatic career of Muhammad

d and married. The Muqawqis is reported in Islamic tradition as having presided over the contents of the parchment and storing it in an ivory casket, although he did not convert to Islam.

Letter to Khosrau II of the Sassanid Kingdom
The letter to Khosrow II () is translated by Muslim historians as:

According to Muslim tradition, the letter was sent through Abdullah as-Sahmi who, through the governor of Bahrain, delivered it to the Khosrau. Upon reading it Khosrow II reportedly tore up the document, saying, "A pitiful slave among my subjects dares to write his name before mine" and commanded Badhan, his vassal ruler of Yemen, to dispatch two valiant men to identify, seize and bring this man from Hejaz (Muhammad) to him. When Abdullah ibn Hudhafah as-Sahmi told Muhammad how Khosrow had torn his letter to pieces, Muhammad is said to have stated, "May God [likewise] tear apart his kingdom," while reacting to the Caesar's behavior saying, "May God preserve his kingdom."

Other letters

The Sassanid governors of Bahrain and Yamamah 

Apart from the aforementioned personalities, there are other reported instances of correspondence. Munzir ibn Sawa al-Tamimi, the governor of Bahrain, was apparently an addressee, with a letter having been delivered to him through al-'Alaa al-Hadrami. Some subjects of the governor reportedly converted to Islam, whereas others did not. A similar letter was sent to Hauda bin Ali, the governor of Yamamah, who replied that he would only convert if he were given a position of authority within Muhammad's government, a proposition which Muhammad was unwilling to accept.

The Ghassanids 
Letter of Muhammad to al-Ḥārith bin ʾAbī Shamir al-Ghassānī, who ruled Byzantine Syria (called by Arabs ash-Shām "north country, the Levant" in contrast to al-Yaman "south country, the Yemen") based in Bosra, alternatively  Damascus, and hailed from the Ghassanian dynasty of Hellenized Arabs (comparable though superior in status to the Herodian dynasty of Roman Palestine):

Al-Ghassani reportedly reacted less than favourably to Muhammad's correspondence, viewing it as an insult.

The 'Azd 
Jayfar and 'Abd, princes of the powerful ruling 'Azd tribe which ruled Oman in collaboration with Persian governance, were sons of the client king Juland (frequently spelt Al Julandā based on the Perso-Arabic pronunciation). They embraced Islam peacefully on 630 AD upon receiving the letter sent from Muhammad through 'Amr ibn al-'As. The 'Azd subsequently played a major role in the ensuant Islamic conquests. They were one of the five tribal contingents that settled in the newly founded garrison city of Basra at the head of the Persian Gulf; under their general al-Muhallab ibn Abu Sufrah and also took part in the conquest of Khurasan and Transoxania.

The letter reads as follows:

See also
Muslim history
Itmam al-hujjah
Sharia

Notes

Citations

References
 
 
 

 
 
 
 P.J. Bearman, Th. Bianquis, C.E. Bosworth, E. van Donzel and W.P. Heinrichs (Ed.), Encyclopaedia of Islam Online. Brill Academic Publishers..

Further reading
 Al-Ismail, Tahia (1998). The Life of Muhammad: his life based on the earliest sources. Ta-Ha publishers Ltd, United Kingdom. .

External links
 Muhammad Husayn Haykal: "The Life of Muhammad"; Online version
 Letters sent by Muhammad

Life of Muhammad
Treaties of Muhammad