[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Iranian Space Agency

ch of the Chinese Shenzhou 7 spacecraft.

Lunar program 
In 2011 and 2012, Western media has quoted that Iran has plans to land an astronaut on the Moon by 2025. However Iran doesn't have a medium lift rocket, therefore sending a human to space is unlikely due to the lack of equipment.

Controversy 

The Iranian space program has been condemned by United States and Europe because of their concern over its military potential. Some analysts have compared the relatively fast Iranian advancement in space technology to Soviet Sputnik program with the prediction that this advancement will propel Iran's military capability in other areas as well. The military concerns over Iran's space program has been exacerbated over Safir rocket's advanced 2nd stage which Iran has kept secret by not releasing any technical information related to the second stage of the rocket, keeping outside observers guessing over the technicalities. For Radio Free Europe, independent experts interviewed disagreed with assertion made by the U.S. and various European countries. SIPRI's Tytti Erästö stated space launch vehicle program can contribute to missile development yet it isn't a shortcut for development of long range missiles such as intercontinental ballistic missiles, historically the ICBMs were converted to SLVs and never was in history SLV converted to ICBM. IISS Michael Elleman stated that claims made by the U.S. such as Mike Pompeo are grossly exaggerating contribution of SLV program to ICBM program and that it is misguided to suggest that SLV program is cover for nuclear capable ICBMs as claims made are a political statement. ST Analytics Markus Schiller stated that there is no indication that Iran is trying to develop missiles with range longer than 2000 km as Iran has been working on improving accuracy of their existing short and medium range missiles.

Sabotage by the U.S. 
In 2019, the New York Times reported that the U.S. has been sabotaging Iran's space program for years and that it planned to widen its efforts.

See also 

 Aerospace Force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps
 Anousheh Ansari – First Iranian-American cosmonaut
 Colonization of Mars
 Colonization of the Moon
 Economy of Iran
 International rankings of Iran in science and technology
 Iran Aviation Industries Organization
 List of first orbital launches by country
 List of government space agencies
 List of Iranian research centers
 List of missions to the Moon
 National spacefaring programs
 Science and technology in Iran

References

External links 
 Iranian Space Agency 
 Space Science
 Iranian Space Agencies (listing)
 Iran space program
 Shahab SLV
 Aerospace Industries Organization
 Iran in Space Globalsecurity.org

Videos
 Imam Khomeini Space Center – Iran – Nuclear Threat Initiative (2013)
 

Space program of Iran
Government agencies of Iran
Government agencies established in 2003
2003 establishments in Iran
Science and technology in Iran
Scientific organisations based in Iran
Space agencies