[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Tiller

his many trips abroad.

John went on to perfect a high-kicking dance for the Folies-Bergère, Paris. The dance used eight girls and was called the Pony Trot. It was the first of all modern kick routines and the routine that every Tiller Girl had to learn as their first dance.

The American Connection

John first sent a troupe of girls to America in 1900. George Lederer booked them to perform their original Pony Trot. Later, at the height of their popularity in New York there were three Tiller lines working on Broadway: The Lollipops and The Sunshine Girls at the Globe Theatre, and 24 Tiller Girls in the Ziegfeld Follies.

Charles Dillingham and George White had visited The Palace Theatre in London and booked the girls to appear in “Good Morning Dearie” at George White's Scandals of 1923 and The Nifties of 1923. Florenz Ziegfeld took 48 of the girls under contract for three years for his follies.

In New York City, John Tiller opened a dance school at 226 West 72nd Street, with offices and a training studio. It was run by Mary Read, a Head Tiller Girl from England who had been one of the 1916 Sunshine Girls in America, She trained American pupils as well as the girls from the United Kingdom. She was a hard taskmaster, but a good business woman who had John Tiller's full support in everything she did. The girls always called her Miss Read. In the 1920s, John Tiller was regularly crossing the world to finalise contracts. He always made sure his trip ended up in New York so he could meet Mary. 

After John's death in 1925, Mary Read signed a very profitable contract with RKO studios. Many Tiller Girls worked in American films and danced all over the USA. Many girls married and settled in America, most of them dancing and choreographing in American shows. Mary closed the American Tiller School in 1935 and married Donald Leman Clark, PhD, a professor of rhetoric at Columbia University in New York. (source: Boltz family archives)

Tiller schools 
The Tiller schools remained open and run by Doris Alloway, Barbara Aitken and R.J. Smith. In 1973 the Tiller school was taken over by the impresario Robert Luff, with Barbara Aitken remaining as director and choreographer. It is said it would have taken about three months to turn an experienced dancer into a Tiller Girl.

John Tiller died in 1925. By then, the (Casino de Paris – Paris en Fleurs program) was called the "Lawrence Tiller Girls." John's wife kept the school running until her death in the mid 1930s.

The John Tiller School of Dance including Ballet and Tap training & Modern and Ballroom is continued by Bernard Tiller.

See also
 Tiller Girls

References
Tiller Family Archives, and Tiller's Girls by Doremy Vernon, Published 1988,

External links
 Bernard Tiller's Tiller Girls Web Site Pages of information on John Tiller, The Tiller Girl Dancers and the Tiller School of Dancing
 The Tiller Girls) Latest news for The Tiller Girls
 Revues and burlesques by John Tiller on Great War Theatre

English musical theatre directors
English choreographers
1925 deaths
1854 births
Burials at Brookwood Cemetery