[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007

007 as a rider, which raises the minimum wage from $5.15 an hour to $7.25 an hour from 2007 to 2009, and contains some $4.84 billion in tax breaks for small businesses.

Domestic Spending for Disaster Relief
The bill also includes domestic spending, such as more than $6 billion for hurricane relief.

Tamper-resistant prescription pads
In addition, Title VII sets forth the first federal mandate of tamper-resistant prescription pads for Medicaid reimbursement. The requirement states that "Effective October 1, 2007; Medicaid outpatient drugs will be reimbursable only if non-electronic written prescriptions are executed on a tamper-resistant pad." The recommendation for this provision was previously enumerated by President Bush in his 2008 budget, which projected that the prevention of fraudulent prescriptions could reap $355 million in taxpayer savings. Although not objecting to the new requirement's rationale, the American Pharmacists Association (APhA) on July 17, 2007 asked the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to delay implementation because of the short timeline. In the request letter to CMS, APhA warned that the immediate implementation of the Act could potentially result in many Medicaid patients being turned away from pharmacies if not possessed of a valid prescription written on a tamper-resistant pad. The APhA's rationale for delay of tamper-resistant pads includes:
 Unrealistic to presume medical and pharmacy practice can implement the change in three months
 Delay could prevent the suffering of Medicaid patients by allowing time to prepare for the following
 Define standards for what constitutes "tamper-resistant"
 Educate providers, pharmacists, and patients
 Clarify the applicability of telephone orders, electronic, and faxed prescriptions
 Allow organizations time to appropriate resources, print, and distribute pads

Representatives Charles Wilson (D-Ohio), Marion Berry (D-Arkansas), and Mike Ross (D-Arkansas) joined APhA in representing concerns of Medicaid enrollees and pharmacies. The representatives are reported to be working on an amendment aimed at limiting the tamper-resistant pad to only controlled substances. Further, an individual with the American Medical Association was interviewed about the topic by the Associated Press. "The implementation timetable is too short to educate prescribing physicians about the new law and is also likely too short to produce and distribute the enormous quantity of new prescription pads that will be needed," said Dr. Edward Langston, chairman of the board for the American Medical Association (as reported to the Associated Press). Dr. Langston also warned that, in effect, such a rapid implementation of law threatens access to medicine. The AP article also reported that CMS spokesperson Steve Hahn indicated that there were no plans to push back the October 1 implementation date, but that the agency is talking with "health care providers" to help prepare.

Earlier versions
 was a bill for "Making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, and for other purposes". The bill was vetoed by president George W. Bush, his second veto while in office. The House of Representatives failed to override the veto, so that version of the bill died.

References

External links

 , the enacted law
 , the vetoed House bill
 GovTrack U.S. – H.R. 1591

Acts of the 110th United States Congress
United States federal defense and national security legislation
United States federal labor legislation
United States federal appropriations legislation