[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267

to strike a deal concerning bin Laden in spite of the political damage it would cause them. They had also substantially reduced the cultivation of opium poppies.

On 30 July 2001, UN Security Council Resolution 1363 established a Monitoring Team to monitor and assist implementation of the measures.

Criticism
Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights Thomas Hammarberg stated in 2008 that he believes the "arbitrary procedures for terrorist black-listing must now be changed". He said that he believes the measures have affected a number of rights of the targeted individuals, including the right to privacy, the right to property, the right of association, the right to travel or freedom of movement, and there has been no possibility to appeal or even know all the reasons for the blacklisting, eliminating the right to an effective remedy and due process.

UN Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights Martin Scheinin stated in 2008 that "terrorist listing procedures did not meet due process requirements of fair trial". He suggested "introducing an independent review body composed of independent experts, which would be part of the Security Council's decision-making procedure" or even to abolish the 1267 Committee and move the question of listing to the Counter-Terrorism Committee's jurisdiction, on the basis of resolution 1373 (2001).

Canadian Federal Court Judge Russel Zinn wrote in a judgement about the case of Abousfian Abdelrazik (who was listed in 2006), "I add my name to those who view the 1267 Committee regime as a denial of basic legal remedies and as untenable under the principles of international human rights. There is nothing in the listing or de-listing procedure that recognizes the principles of natural justice or that provides for basic procedural fairness. ... It can hardly be said that the 1267 Committee process meets the requirement of independence and impartiality when, as appears may be the case involving Mr. Abdelrazik, the nation requesting the listing is one of the members of the body that decides whether to list or, equally as important, to de-list a person. The accuser is also the judge."

Post-Taliban resolutions
The U.S. invasion of Afghanistan began in October 2001 following a series of ultimatums to the Taliban to hand over Osama bin Laden whom the United States asserted was responsible for the 11 September 2001 attacks.  The Taliban regime appeared to overrule a decision by an emergency meeting of Afghan clerics to ask bin Laden to leave voluntarily, and declared that it would be an insult to Islam to hand him over without any actual evidence of guilt. 
Anti-Taliban forces retook the country, and a new government was set up under Hamid Karzai in December 2001.

On 15 January 2002, the Security Council lifted sanctions from Ariana Afghan Airlines as it was no longer operated by the Taliban in Resolution 1388. The following day, in Resolution 1390, they cancelled all further flight restrictions, but reiterated the financial and military sanctions against Taliban associated individuals and gave all countries 90 days to report on the measures they were taking.

On 20 December 2002, the Security Council, under Resolution 1452, changed the enforcement regime so that individual countries could administer their own exemptions to the financial sanctions.  Until then, all financial transactions involving someone who had been designated by the committee as an associate of the Taliban had to be authorized on a case-by-case basis on the grounds of humanitarian need.  This resolution allowed countries to free up funds for such individuals for the purposes of paying for food, rent, medicine, tax, legal fees, and so forth. In the United Kingdom the sanctions regime is severe enough that it has been found to apply to the wife of a listed individual who was prevented from withdrawing enough money to take her children to the swimming pool.

The following month in Resolution 1455 the Security Council reinstated the Monitoring Group and reminded all countries that they should be implementing the sanctions and writing reports.

On 20 January 2003 the Security Council convened a high-level meeting of ministers to discuss the subject of combatting terrorism. Resolution 1456 itself was simply the adoption of a declaration made by the ministers, urging intensified efforts from the Counter-Terrorism Committee.

On 30 January 2004 the Security Council passed Resolution 1526 (2004) to strengthen the regime and demanded that:
 All countries must immediately freeze all economic resources that could directly or indirectly benefit anyone on the list
 All countries must prevent entry and transit through their territories of people on the list
 All countries who had not yet done so had to submit their reports by 31 March

On 29 July 2005 the Security Council passed Resolution 1617 (2005) to formalize the procedure for putting individuals onto the Consolidated List.