[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# The Patriots (film)

The Patriots ( ) is a 1994 French film by director Éric Rochant about a young Frenchman who is recruited by the Israeli secret services and used for missions, first in France and then in the USA. The film was entered into the 1994 Cannes Film Festival.

Plot
Leaving his family in France, young Ariel Brenner goes to Israel and is recruited by the Mossad. After training, he is part of a team sent to Paris to entrap a French nuclear scientist who is working on plans for a power plant in a Middle Eastern country (a fictionalised version of the Osirak site in Iraq). While the scientist's co-operation is secured through blackmail, using a delightful call-girl who Ariel recruits named Marie-Claude, his Arab counterpart refuses, despite Marie-Claude's charms, and is assassinated. To the alarm of their US allies, the Israeli armed forces then bomb the plant out of existence. An American intelligence operative in Washington named Jeremy Pelman (a fictionalised Jonathan Pollard) is sympathetic to the Israeli cause and through Ariel offers to feed them useful information. As a spy he is not very competent, sharing everything with his wife, and when he comes under suspicion from his superiors, tries to defect. The Israelis, to avoid further alarm from their allies, hand him back. Back in Israel, Ariel is on surveillance at the airport when Marie-Claude happens to fly in. He takes her into an office, locks the door and pulls down the blinds .....

Cast
 Richard Masur - Jeremy Pelman
 Yvan Attal - Ariel Brenner
 Allen Garfield - Eagleman
 Yossi Banai - Yossi
 Nancy Allen - Catherine Pelman
 Maurice Bénichou - Yuri
 Emmanuelle Devos - Rachel
 Hippolyte Girardot - Daniel
 Moshe Ivgy - Oron
 Sandrine Kiberlain - Marie-Claude
 Bernard Le Coq - Bill Haydon
 Christine Pascal - Laurence
 Jean-François Stévenin - Remy Prieur
 Éva Darlan - Madame Prieur
 Dan Toren - Ran Ostrovitch
 Myriem Roussel - Laurence's friend

References

External links 

1990s French-language films
1994 films
1990s spy thriller films
French spy thriller films
1990s political thriller films
Films directed by Éric Rochant
Films about the Mossad
French political thriller films
1990s French films