[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# May 1974

er, summer and winter X Games gold medalist
Lowie Vermeersch, Belgian automobile designer for Carrozzeria Pininfarina; in Kortrijk
Died: Charles Katz, 46, American mathematician and computer scientist, co-developer of the compiler programs for the UNIVAC programming languages, died after an illness.

May 10, 1974 (Friday)
Northern Irish terrorist Brendan Hughes, commanding officer of the Belfast Brigade of the Provisional IRA, was arrested in Belfast five months after escaping from Maze Prison. During his time on the run, he had assumed the name "Arthur McAllister" and posed as a traveling salesman.
In Italy, police in Alessandria stormed a prison hospital where 21 hostages had been taken the day before by three armed prisoners. Two of the three inmates, and three of the hostages, were shot to death, and 15 were wounded. After hours of negotiations, police had intervened "when they heard gunfire and shouts" and "believed the prisoners were executing the hostages."
Dominican Republic President Joaquín Balaguer and six other people were able to escape a helicopter crash before the aircraft burst into flames. Balaguer was accompanied by the Caribbean nation's chief of the armed forces, Rear Admiral Ramon Jimenez, along with General Eligio Bisono Jackson and Major General Santos Melido Marte on a campaign trip, and was returning to Santo Domingo from Puerto Plata in a heavy rainstorm when the main rotor system failed and the aircraft made a hard landing on a hill  from the capital.   
G. Gordon Liddy, already convicted of crimes in the Watergate scandal, was found guilty of contempt of Congress. Because Liddy was already serving two other sentences, he received a six-month suspended sentence and one year's probation.
The New York Nets defeated the host Utah Stars, 111 to 100, to win the championship of the American Basketball Association, 4 games to 1.
All six people aboard a Sikorsky S-61 helicopter were killed when the aircraft, operated by KLM Helikopters, crashed into the North Sea while en route to an oil rig. The cause was later traced to metal fatigue in one of five rotor blades. The aircraft was recovered from the North Sea floor. It was sold to Carson Helicopter in the USA and re-registered as N87580.
Officer Michael Lee Edwards of the Los Angeles Police Department was last seen alive leaving the police academy. His handcuffed body, shot execution-style, was found the next day in an abandoned building. Edwards' murder has never been solved.
A rear end collision between two trains on the Chicago Transit Authority elevated railway injured 222 people but caused no reported deaths.
Born:
Liu Fang, Chinese–Canadian pipa player; in Kunming, Yunnan
Sylvain Wiltord, French footballer; in Neuilly-sur-Marne
Died:
Hal Mohr, A.S.C., 79, American cinematographer known for The Jazz Singer and Phantom of the Opera
James Muilenburg, 77, American Biblical scholar who worked on the New Revised Version of the Old Testament
Takeshi Sakamoto, 74, Japanese actor in more than 300 films between 1925 and 1965

May 11, 1974 (Saturday)
A 7.1 magnitude earthquake struck China's Yunnan province at 3:25 in the morning local time, and killed at least 1,200 people and possibly as many as 20,000 in and around the Chinese city of Zhaotong.
In Colombia, police in Bogotá rescued all the passengers and crew of a hijacked Avianca Boeing 727, 19 hours after the jet had been taken over by three men who were armed with pistols and sticks of TNT. A group of police, posing as members of a flight crew, shot two of the hijackers while the hostage pilot used karate chops to subdue the third one. The flight from Pereira to Bogota had been diverted on a course to Cali, back to Pereira and then onto Bogota.
Six people were killed and 35 injured in the crash of a Greyhound bus near Charleston, Missouri. The bus, traveling from Chicago to Memphis, sideswiped an overturned truck, tearing the right side of the bus open.
Born: Simon Aspelin, Swedish tennis player; in Saltsjöbaden
Died: Eleanor Tennant, 79, American tennis player who was the first female player to turn professional

May 12, 1974 (Sunday)