[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Roman Catholic Diocese of Pinerolo

alace was not appropriate for a seminary. In 1753 the new diocese received the bequest of his palazzo in Pinerolo from Count Luigi Piccone, the former Governor of Pinerolo and of the city and province of Asti. The bishop was able to preside over the solemn opening of the new seminary on 23 May 1753.

The Chapter of the Collegiate Churches of S. Donato and of S. Maurizio was founded perhaps as early as 1024, and it was certainly functioning as a single body by 1278.  They were certainly secular canons by the 14th century, though some have argued that they were originally regular canons. There were four canons and a provost. In a document of 1475 it is made clear that they did not live in common, but had separate residences (domus canonicales). By 1626 the number of canons was seven, and by 1648 the number had risen to twelve. At the time of the creation of the diocese in 1748, there were eighteen canons.

At the time the diocese was erected there were already working in its territory, in addition to the diocesan clergy of Turin, eight Dominican Order priests, twelve Franciscan priests, five Augustinian priests, six Jesuit priests, and eighteen Capuchin priests. There were eighteen professed nuns of the Visitation, thirty-six Clarisses, and twenty-five Augustinian nuns. The Society of Jesus (Jesuits) was suppressed by Pope Clement XIV on 21 July 1773.

French revolution

In 1796 Piedmont was seized by the armies of the French Directory, the King driven into exile in Sardinia, and a Republic of Piedmont was declared. By a decree of 12 April 1801, the First Consul of the French Republic, N. Bonaparte, declared the Republic of Piedmont united to the French state, and divided it into six departements. The decree also made the French language obligatory. Pinerolo became part of the Department of Eridanus, and four Administrators General of the department were named; Pinerolo received a Sub-Prefect, who held office until the Bourbon Restoration in 1814. By a decree of 31 August 1802, religious corporations were abolished, and the Augustinians, the Capuchins, the Clarisses, and the Feuillants were expelled. The Salesian Sisters had already been ordered from their monastery in 1799. The Badia of Santa Maria was closed, and the church of San Francesco, which was in bad condition, was sold at public auction in 1802, and razed to the ground; its tombs, including that of Duke Carlo I of Savoy, were despoiled. On 11 September 1803 a Senatus Consultum made the annexation of Piedmont to the French state permanent.

Following the Concordat of 1801 between Bonaparte and Pope Pius VII, the Pope issued a bull, Gravissimis causis (1 June 1803), in which the number of dioceses in Piedmont was reduced to eight: Turin, Vercelli, Ivrea, Acqui, Asti, Mondovi, Alessandria and Saluzzo. In 1805, by an imperial decree of the Emperor of the French, Napoleon I Bonaparte, the papal bull was put into effect and the diocese of Pinerolo was suppressed, and its territory merged into the diocese of Saluzzo.

On 2 April 1808 two major earthquakes struck the western Piedmont, with Pinerolo close to the epicenter. More than 400 houses were rendered unlivable. Aftershocks continued for seven months.

Restoration

After the defeat of Napoleon and the return of Pope Pius VII from his French imprisonment, the Congress of Vienna promoted the restoration of the Kingdom of Sardinia and the Papal States (with some exceptions) to their rightful owners. In both cases the chaos caused by the French occupation had to be undone, and both Victor Emanuel I and Pius VII needed support in asserting their legitimacy and authority. Through Count Giuseppe Barbaroux, the envoy of the King, and Cardinal Enrico Consalvi, the Papal Secretary of State, it was agreed that a reorganization of the Church in the Piedmont was essential. The culmination of negotiations was a bull issued by the Pope on 17 July 1817, Beati Petri, which was promulgated in November, fortified by the royal Exequatur and a decree of the Royal Senate, re-erecting all of the dioceses in the Piedmont and redrawing their diocesan boundaries. In Pinerolo the proclamation was carried out by Msgr Pietro Antonio Cirio, Canon of the Cathedral Chapter of Turin and Subdelegatus Apostolicus, on 9 November 1817. An inscribed tablet on the façade of the Cathedral of S. Donato commemorates the event.

On 15 January 1818 Bishop Bigex reopened the Major Seminary, and established a minor seminary which was later converted into the collegio concitto civico.

Diocesan synods
A diocesan synod was an irregularly held, but important, meeting of the bishop of a diocese and his clergy. Its purpose was (1) to proclaim generally the various decrees already issued by the bishop; (2) to discuss and ratify measures on which the bishop chose to consult with his clergy; (3) to publish statutes and decrees of the diocesan synod, of the provincial synod, and of the Holy See.