[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Orlando Ward

tten instructions to him from General Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Supreme Allied Commander in the Mediterranean Theater of Operations (MTO), after Fredendall was sacked: "You must not retain for one instant any man in a responsible position where you have become doubtful of his ability to do his job."

Recent scholarship suggests that political factors may also have played a significant part in Ward's relief. "Ward’s dismissal covered up Alexander’s incoherent plans for the American commitment to North Africa; in its wake, Patton’s failure to punch through the German line and prove American superiority was assuaged as well. Ike kept the upper-level alliance intact (if not healthy) by sacrificing the position of a lower-level subordinate."

Ward was replaced with Major General Ernest N. Harmon, the former commander of the 2nd Armored Division who had successfully intervened to remedy Fredendall's inaction during the battles of Kasserine Pass. Major General Ward was the only general relieved of his command by Patton during World War II.

Later World War II service
Returning to the United States, Ward was briefly commander of the U.S. Army Tank Destroyer School (Tank Destroyer Tactical and Firing Center) at Camp Hood, Texas before becoming Commandant of the United States Army Field Artillery School at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, where he had served as an instructor before the war.

In September 1944 he assumed command of the 20th Armored Division from Major General Roderick R. Allen. In February 1945 the division was sent overseas to the European Theater of Operations (ETO) to serve on the Western Front where it fought briefly in the Allied invasion of Germany, and assisting other divisions in the capture of the German city of Munich. The end of World War II in Europe came soon afterwards, on May 8, 1945, known now as Victory in Europe Day. Ward relinquished command of the division in August to Major General John W. Leonard.

For his services in World War II, Ward was twice awarded the Legion of Merit, along with the Silver Star and the Purple Heart, the Army Distinguished Service Medal and the DSC.

Postwar
After the war, Ward briefly commanded V Corps between June and November 1946. 
Ward then had two major assignments, first as commander of the 6th Infantry Division (October 1946 to January 1949), in Korea (prior to the war there). He then served as Chief of Military History, where he oversaw the production of the famous "Green Books," the official U.S. Army history of World War II.

Major General Ward retired from the army in January 1953, after over 38 years of service as a commissioned officer. He returned to Denver, Colorado, where he remained until his death, aged 80,  on February 4, 1972.

Decorations
Major General Ward's decorations included the Distinguished Service Cross, the Army Distinguished Service Medal, the Silver Star with Oak Leaf Cluster, Legion of Merit with Oak Leaf Cluster, Purple Heart, the Mexican Border Service Medal, World War I Victory Medal with four campaign stars, Army of Occupation of Germany Medal, American Defense Service Medal, American Campaign Medal, European–African–Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with four campaign stars, World War II Victory Medal, Army of Occupation Medal and the National Defense Service Medal.

Promotions

Bibliography

References

External links
U.S. Army in World War II Series ("The Green Books")

Investigation into the Reliefs of Generals Orlando Ward and Terry Allen
Generals of World War II

|-

|-

|-

|-

1891 births
1972 deaths
United States Army Cavalry Branch personnel
United States Army Field Artillery Branch personnel
United States Army generals
United States Army personnel of World War I
People from Macon, Missouri
Recipients of the Distinguished Service Cross (United States)
Recipients of the Silver Star
United States Army Command and General Staff College alumni
United States Army War College alumni
United States Military Academy alumni
Military personnel from Missouri
Recipients of the Distinguished Service Medal (US Army)
United States Army generals of World War II
University of Wisconsin–Madison faculty