[Source: PubMed]

83. J Migr Health. 2024 Aug 7;10:100262. doi: 10.1016/j.jmh.2024.100262.
eCollection  2024.

Interplay of sociocultural factors, health literacy and well-being among African 
asylum seekers and refugees in Asia: A systematic review.

Amoah PA(1), Ameyaw EK(2), Fordjour GA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, School of Graduate Studies, Institute of Policy 
Studies, Lingnan University, Tuen Mun, Hong Kong SAR.
(2)Institute of Policy Studies and School of Graduate Studies, Lingnan 
University, Hong Kong.
(3)Department of Psychology, The Education University of Hong Kong, Tai Po, Hong 
Kong SAR.

BACKGROUND: There are many African asylum seekers and refugees (AAR) in Asia. 
However, little research has been conducted on their well-being within the 
sociocultural milieu. This systematic review explores the characteristics of 
AAR's psychological and mental well-being and how their acculturation practices, 
social networks and support (i.e. social capital), health-related knowledge and 
skills (i.e., health literacy) influence their psychological and mental 
well-being.
METHODS: The study included relevant peer-reviewed articles from any Asian 
country/region, published in English. No date restriction was applied. Five 
databases (i.e. Scopus, PubMed, Web of Science, PsycINFO, and CINAHL) were 
searched for studies conducted about AAR from any of the 54 African countries 
and residing in any of the 51 Asian countries. Following a predefined inclusion 
criteria and quality assessment, nine articles were included in this study. 
Narrative synthesis approach was used to analyse the articles.
RESULTS: It was found that AARs face significant challenges that culminate in 
poor psychological and mental well-being, including conditions such as 
depression and discontent with their lives. Notwithstanding, being in a safe 
place made some of them optimistic about their future. However, many AARs had 
difficulties adjusting to the host culture. They had limited awareness of the 
prevailing health system and services and faced restrictions on their rights to 
social services, partly because of difficulty obtaining appropriate information. 
The few social bonds and bridges they possessed enabled them to develop a sense 
of belonging and protected them from psychological distress. However, 
problematic social relationships increased the chances of poor health-related 
outcomes.
CONCLUSION: The psychological and mental well-being of AAR in Asia is 
concerning. Hence, more research on how critical health determinants (i.e. 
social capital, health literacy and acculturation processes from this study) 
directly and interactively influence their well-being across age cohorts. Given 
their roles in promoting AAR's well-being, appropriate interventions to improve 
those critical health determinants are also sorely needed.

© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmh.2024.100262
PMCID: PMC11359766
PMID: 39211312

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.