[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bathgama

hristian converts since the colonial period, as conversion provided much easier access to good education and government jobs. Nonetheless, the vast majority of Bathgama people are Buddhists and a large number of prominent Buddhist monks of the "Ramagna" and "Amarapura" sects are from Bathgama Caste.

A few prominent members of the Bathgama community
N. H. Keerthiratne Former Cabinet Minister of Posts and Broadcasting 
Asoka Karunaratne Former Cabinet Minister of Social Services 
G.W Samarasinghe Former Deputy Minister of postal and state affairs (1960 - 1965) and Social Services  (1970 - 1977) Parliament Member for Kuliyapitiya 
Patali Champika Ranawaka Former Cabinet Minister of Megapolis and Western Development
Charles Godakumbura Archeologist
Mahindananda Aluthgamage Cabinet minister
Neranjan Wickremasinghe Former Provincial Minister of North Western Province,SLFP Chief Organizer of Mawathagama and former Member of Parliament
Sunil S. Abeysundera Former Cabinet Minister
Gemunu R. Abeysundera Former Parliamentarian
Lalith Dissanayake Deputy Minister of Health and Former Health Minister of Sabaragamuwa Province
Samantha Devi Mahamaya Karunaratne Former Parliamentarian and Minister of United National Party Government
A. V. Suraweera Former Deputy Minister
D. P. Wickremasinghe Former Cabinet Minister
Lional Rajapakse Former Parliamentarian of Kurunegala District and SLFP Chief Organizer of Polgahawela
R. P. Wijesiri Former Non Cabinet Minister
Chandra Karunaratne Former Non Cabinet Minister & M.P. for Nawalapitiya
Sunil S. Abeysundera Former Cabinet Minister
Gemunu R. Abeysundera Former Parliamentarian 
U. P. Y. Jinadasa Former Parliamentarian
Cyril Wickremage Artist and Actor
Susanthika Jayasinghe Olympic silver medalist
Bandula Warnapura first Sri Lankan test cricket captain
Chandralekha Perera Singer
Mihindu Keerthiratne Architect  
Ananda Wickremage Actor
Gunadasa Dehigama Provincial Minister of North Western Province,SLFP District Organizer of Kurunegala
Sri Lal Wickremasinghe Sabaragamuwa Provincial Agriculture Minister and Yatiyanthota SLFP Chief Organizer
D. P. Ajith Rohana Provincial Council Member of North Western Province UNP Chief Organizer of Mawathagama
Ilica Malkanthi Karunaratne Writer
Arthur Hamilton Weerasinghe Former Deputy Mayor Kurunegala & Former Member of Parliament

References

Sinhalese castes