[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Baltic offensive

Soviet control. While some ended up serving on both sides, many partisans hid in the woods to avoid conscription. (See also Forest Brothers)

112 Hero of the Soviet Union awards were given out during the offensive, of which three were given soldier's second award.

Reoccupation of the Baltic states

Soviet rule of the Baltic states was re-established by force, and sovietisation followed, which was mostly carried out in 1944–1950. The forced collectivisation of agriculture began in 1947, and was completed after the mass deportation of civilians in March 1949. All private farms were confiscated, and farmers were made to join the collective farms. An armed resistance movement named the 'Forest Brothers' was active until the mass deportations. Tens of thousands participated or supported the movement; thousands were killed. The Soviet authorities fighting the Forest Brothers also suffered hundreds of deaths. Among those killed on both sides were innocent civilians. Besides the armed resistance of the Forest Brothers, a number of underground nationalist schoolchildren groups were active. Most of their members were sentenced to long terms of imprisonment. The punitive actions decreased rapidly after Joseph Stalin's death in 1953; from 1956 to 1958, a large part of the deportees and political prisoners were allowed to return to their homelands. Political arrests and numerous other kinds of crimes against humanity were committed all through the occupation period until the late 1980s. Although the armed resistance was defeated, the populations remained anti-Soviet. This helped the Baltic citizens to organise a new resistance movement in the late 1980s and then rapidly develop a modern society after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.

Formations and units involved

Soviet
1st Baltic Front commanded by General Ivan Baghramian
5th Guards Tank Army commanded by General Vasily Volsky
6th Guards Army commanded by Lieutenant-General Ivan Chistyakov
4th Shock Army commanded by Lieutenant-General Pyotr Malyshev
43rd Army commanded by Lieutenant-General Afanasy Beloborodov
51st Army commanded by Lieutenant-General Yakov Kreizer
33rd Army commanded by Lieutenant-General Vyacheslav Tsvetayev
3rd Air Army
2nd Baltic Front commanded by Army-General Andrey Yeryomenko
3rd Shock Army commanded by Lieutenant-General Nikolai Simoniak
22nd Army commanded by Lieutenant-General Vladimir Vostrukhov
3rd Baltic Front commanded by Colonel-General I.I. Maslennikov
3rd Belorussian Front (parts) commanded by Army General Ivan Chernyakhovsky
2nd Shock Army commanded first by Lieutenant-General Porfiry Chanchibadze, then by Lieutenant-General Ivan Fedyuninsky
3rd Guards Mechanized Corps commanded by Lieutenant-General Viktor Obukhov
61st Army commanded by Lieutenant-General Pavel Belov
67th Army commanded by Lieutenant-General Vladimir Sviridov
Leningrad Front commanded by Marshal L.A. Govorov (parts)
8th Army commanded by Lieutenant-General Filipp Starikov

German
Army Group North commanded by Colonel-General Ferdinand Schörner
Army detachment "Narwa" commanded by Infantry General Grasser
Eighteenth Army commanded by Infantry-General Loch
Sixteenth Army commanded by Artillery-General Hansen
502nd Heavy Panzer Battalion
Army Group Centre commanded by Colonel-General Reinhardt
Third Panzer Army commanded by Colonel-General Erhard Raus
XXXX Panzer Corps
XXXIX Panzer Corps
Panzer Grenadier Division Grossdeutschland
4th Panzer Division
5th Panzer Division
17th Panzer Division

Notes and references

Anderson, D, et al. The Eastern Front, Zenith Imprint (2001), 
Muriyev, D. Preparations, Conduct of 1944 Baltic Operation Described, Military History Journal (USSR Report, Military affairs), 1984-9
Stilwell, A. and Hastings, M. The Second World War: A World in Flames, Osprey (2004), 
Проэктор, Д. M. "Агрессия и катастрофа. Высшее военное руководство фашистской Германии во второй мировой войне", Глава восьмая. "Катастрофа", М.: Наука, 1972.

Further reading
Melzer, W. 'Der Kampf um die baltischen Inseln'
Niepold, G. 'Panzeroperationen Doppelkopf und Cäsar'
Ziemke, E.F. 'Stalingrad to Berlin'
Bagramyan 'So schritten wir zum Sieg'

External links

Conflicts in 1944
World War II aerial operations and battles of the Eastern Front
Battles and operations of the Soviet–German War
Battles involving the Soviet Union
Strategic operations of the Red Army in World War II
Baltic Sea operations of World War II
Occupation of the Baltic states
Military operations of World War II involving Germany
1944 in Estonia
1944 in Latvia
1944 in Lithuania