[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert Dollard

he began to farm. According to the records of the U.S. Land Office, Dollard was the first permanent settler in the county. While farming most of the year, Dollard resided in Scotland, South Dakota during the winter and practiced law, including travel to the territorial capital of Yankton for trials.

Continued career
In 1881, Dollard gave up farming and settled in Scotland, where he developed a law practice that covered Bon Homme, Hutchinson, and several adjoining counties.  By now a Republican, Dollard was elected to several local offices and participated in the statehood conventions of 1883 and 1885.  In 1883, he received appointment as U.S. Commissioner for the Second Judicial District. In 1884, he was elected State's Attorney of Bon Homme County and he was chosen to serve as attorney general of South Dakota's interim state government in 1885.  In 1888, Dollard was elected to the Territorial Council, the upper house of the legislature, and he served until South Dakota attained statehood in November 1889.

In 1889, he was elected as the first state attorney general and he was reelected in 1890.  In 1892, Dollard was an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican nomination for governor.  Later that year he was elected to a term in South Dakota Senate and in 1896 he won a term in the South Dakota House of Representatives.  In 1898, Dollard was an unsuccessful candidate for Congress at the state Republican convention; the nominations were won by Charles H. Burke and Robert J. Gamble, who went on to win the general election.  During the Spanish–American War, Dollard undertook recruiting efforts in South Dakota, and succeeded in raising 1,200 volunteers for the army.

Later life
In 1905, Dollard left South Dakota and settled in Santa Monica, California, where he lived in retirement.  His wife and he traveled extensively throughout the western United States as tourists.  In 1909, he entered the race for mayor of Santa Monica, but he withdrew his candidacy before election day.

Death
He died in Santa Monica on April 28, 1912.  He was buried at Rose Hill Cemetery in Scotland, South Dakota.

Family
In 1875, Dollard married Carrie E. Dunn of Yates City, Illinois.  She was a school teacher and librarian, activist for women's suffrage, and participant in other civic causes; in addition to serving as the first teacher in Scotland's public school, she organized and managed the town's library for many years.  They were the parents of a son, Archie, who they adopted when he was an infant, and who died at the age of nine.  A daughter, Maud, was born and died in 1889.

References

Sources

Books

Internet

Newspapers

External links

1842 births
1912 deaths
19th-century American politicians
Politicians from Fall River, Massachusetts
People of Massachusetts in the American Civil War
Illinois lawyers
Illinois Democrats
South Dakota Republicans
South Dakota lawyers
District attorneys in South Dakota
South Dakota Attorneys General
South Dakota state senators
Members of the South Dakota House of Representatives
Lawyers from Santa Monica, California
Politicians from Santa Monica, California
Burials in South Dakota
19th-century American lawyers