[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Humphrey the Whale

1985, at 4:36 p.m. The town of Rio Vista later erected a commemorative granite marker at City Hall at the east end of Main Street. A restaurant in Antioch was named Humphrey's in the whale's honor. The restaurant has since been remodeled and its name changed to 'Smith's Landing Seafood Grill'.

1990

Humphrey stayed a considerable time in 1990 in the embayment immediately north of Sierra Point in Brisbane, California where occupants of the Dakin Building could observe his antics. Humphrey became beached on a mudflat in San Francisco Bay to the north of Sierra Point and to the south of Candlestick Park. He was extricated from the mudflat with a large cargo net and support from the Marine Mammal Center and a U.S. Coast Guard boat.

This time, he was successfully guided back to the Pacific Ocean using a combination of "oikomi" simultaneously with the broadcast of attractive sounds of humpback whales preparing to feed from a boat headed towards the open ocean. Researchers Louis Herman and Bernie Krause led a team of scientists who used sound recordings of natural whale feeding vocalizations to guide Humphrey back to safety. These sounds were produced for a swimming trajectory of  until Humphrey reached the Pacific Ocean, sometimes attaining speeds of .

Later sightings
Cascadia Research Collective spotted Humphrey in 1986, 1987 and 1988 outside the Bay.

Humphrey has been seen only once since the second misadventure, at the Farallon Islands in 1991.

In media
 A film, Humphrey the Lost Whale, was produced and opened at the Tybee Island Marine Science Center, Savannah, Georgia on September 24, 2005.
  MC Lars has a song entitled "Humphrey the Whale" on his 2003 album Radio Pet Fencing which repeats the lyrics "Humphrey the Whale should get GPS".
 Golden Gate Transit had a Rapid Transit Series bus with a painting of Humphrey (by George Summer) nicknamed Humphrey the Whale Bus (officially named Pollution Solution). The bus entered service in February 1993 and retired in 2004 after logging more than  of service. Golden Gate Transit auctioned the bus on eBay in June 2004. A new Humphrey the Whale Bus, manufactured by Orion International and also painted by summer, was unveiled in August 2005.
Humphrey the Lost Whale: A True Story is a 1986 children's picture book written by Wendy Tokuda and Richard David Hall and illustrated by Hanako Wakiyama.
Humphrey the Wayward Whale is a 1986 children's picture book written by Ernest Callenbach and Christine Leefeldt and illustrated by Carl Dennis Buell.
A song, "Humphrey the Humpback Whale", was composed by Stone Valley Elementary School teacher Ann Fox and performed by her students during assembly.

See also

 Delta and Dawn
 List of individual cetaceans

References

Notes

Bibliography

External links
Voice recording of sounds that lured Humphrey to safety 

Individual humpback whales
Wayward cetaceans
History of Solano County, California
San Francisco Bay