[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Armenian genocide recognition

46th U.S. state to recognize the Armenian genocide.

On August 24, 2017, Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds signed a proclamation memorializing the Armenian Genocide and declaring October 2017 as "Armenia Awareness Month" in Iowa, making it the 47th U.S. state to officially recognize the Armenian genocide.

On November 6, 2017, Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb issued a powerful proclamation memorializing the Ottoman Turkish Empire's centrally planned and executed annihilation of close to three million Armenians, Greeks, Assyrians, and Syriacs, making the Hoosier State the 48th U.S. state to properly recognize and condemn the Armenian genocide.

On February 22, 2018, the parliament of the Netherlands adopted two resolutions on the Armenian genocide with an absolute majority of votes. The first resolution reaffirms the decision of the Netherlands in 2004 to recognize the Armenian genocide, while by the second resolution, the foreign minister of the Netherlands will be obliged to visit Armenia and pay tribute to the victims of the Armenian genocide at Tsitsernakaberd memorial complex every 5 years.

Due to the ongoing deterioration of relations between Egypt and Turkey, the Government of Egypt, led by el-Sisi, has been receiving proposals to recognize the Armenian genocide, a sensitive subject which Turkey has many times denounced. Filmmaker Mohamed Hanafi had produced a movie, "Who Killed the Armenians?", in response to ongoing tensions between Turkey and Egypt, as an act of Egyptian solidarity to Armenia. In February 2019, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi announced it had implicitly recognized the Armenian genocide, further deteriorated the relationship between Turkey and Egypt.

On February 5, 2019, French President Emmanuel Macron declared April 24 as Armenian genocide commemoration day in France.

On March 20, 2019, Alabama became the 49th US state to formally recognize the Armenian genocide.

On April 10, 2019, the Executive Committee of the Centrist Democrat International political alliance met in Brussels where participants officially adopted the resolution recognizing and condemning the Armenian genocide.
On April 26, 2019, the Portuguese Parliament officially recognized the Armenian genocide.
On October 29, 2019, the US House of Representatives passed a resolution on a 405–11 vote to recognize the Armenian genocide. Moreover, the House backed a legislation calling on President Donald Trump to impose sanctions on Turkey, following the Turkish offensive into north-eastern Syria. On December 12, 2019, the US Senate passed unanimously a resolution to recognize the genocide.

Since 2020 

On April 16, 2021, the Legislative Assembly of Alberta in Canada passed a law unanimously recognizing the Armenian genocide and other genocides, while the government declared the month of April as Genocide Remembrance, Condemnation and Prevention Month.

On April 24, 2021, President Joe Biden officially recognized the Armenian genocide, thus formalizing the United States' recognition, and making it clear the executive branch was in agreement with Congress' recognition in late 2019. It was the first time an American President had used the term "Genocide" formally on April 24, the international day of remembrance for the Armenian Genocide.

On November 11, 2021, the Regional Parliament of La Rioja in Spain adopted a motion recognizing the Armenian genocide.

On May 6, 2022, Mississippi became the 50th US state to recognize the Armenian genocide, with Governor Tate Reeve's proclamation marking April as "Genocide Awareness and Prevention Month”.

On February 8, 2023, the Mexican Senate (Senate of the Republic) adopted a document recognizing the Armenian Genocide, citing the need for protection of universal human rights.

See also
 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide
 Armenian genocide denial
 Armenian genocide in culture
 Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day
 Armenian Revolutionary Army
 Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia
 List of visitors to Tsitsernakaberd
 Press coverage during the Armenian genocide 
 Turkish opposition to the Armenian Genocide
 United States recognition of the Armenian genocide
 White genocide (Armenians)
 Witnesses and testimonies of the Armenian genocide

References

Further reading

External links

 Armenian Genocide International Recognition
 Arak29 Genocide Recognition (2000–2004)
 Radio France Internationale in English on French Armenian genocide laws
 Recognition of the Armenian Genocide: List of countries

Armenian genocide commemoration
Armenian genocide denial
Foreign relations of Armenia