[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# 2007 New Year Honours

er President, Suffolk Institute of Archaeology and History. For services to Heritage.
Sandra, Mrs. Blockley, Founder, Lorraine Blockley Cancer Fund. For charitable services.
David Philip Boulter, Consultant, Driver Safety Training. For services to Public Transport.
Judith Margaret, Mrs. Bousfield. For services to the community in Keighley, West Yorkshire.
Aubrey Francis Houston Bowden. For services to the Army Dress Committee.
Richard Munden Bower, Recycling Education Officer, Cornwall County Council. For services to Local Government.
Carol, Mrs. Bowes, Senior Officer, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
David Charles Boyle. For charitable services in Northern Ireland.
Nicolas Leighton Bracegirdle, Grade C1, Ministry of Defence.
Kathleen Theresa, Mrs. Braddock. For services to the community in Rutland.
James Coulter Bradley, lately Leading Seaman, Ministry of Defence.
John Harold Bradley, Fleet Manager, Hampshire Constabulary. For services to the Police.
Miss Jane Bratby. For services to H.M. Prison Armley, Leeds.
Miss Elizabeth Margaret Braund. For services providing rural experience on Dartmoor and in the South West for Inner City Young People.
John Anthony Hugh Bray, Chief Executive, The Bishop's Forum, Cornwall. For services to Young People.
Michael Gerrard Martin Brennan, Head of Learning Development, Queen Mary University of London. For services to Higher Education.
John Ernest Briggs, Actor. For services to Drama.
Frances Grace, Mrs. Bristow. For services to Education and the community in Suffolk.
Douglas Gordon Broadbent, Fundraiser, British Cardiac Patients' Association. For charitable services. 
Gill, Mrs. Bromley, Strategic Manager, Kent County Council Libraries and Archives. For services to Local Government.
Cecil Edward Hilary Brooks. For services to the Royal British Legion in Hampshire.
Dr. Janine Brooks, Associate Director for Dentistry, National Clinical Assessment Service. For services to Dentistry.
Robert Michael Brooks, Administration Manager, Preston Crown Court, Her Majesty's Court Service, Department for Constitutional Affairs.
Mary Jane, Mrs. Brown, Treasurer, Northern Ireland Farm and Country Holidays Association. For services to the Tourist and Hospitality Industries.
Maureen Shirley, Mrs. Brown. For services to the community in Trumpington, Cambridge.
Peter Charles Brown. For services to the community in Weasenham St. Peter, Norfolk.
Elizabeth, Mrs. Bryson, Teacher, Euston Street Primary School, Belfast. For services to Education.
Brian James Buck, Court Security Officer, Vale Royal Magistrates' Court, Department for Constitutional Affairs.
Christopher Thomas Bullock, Chief Executive, Institute of Advanced Motorists. For services to Road Safety.
Trevor George Burchick. For services to the community in Greater Manchester.
Terrance John Burns. For services to the community in Gentleshaw, Staffordshire.
Ms Eleri Butler. For services to Domestic Violence Against Women.
John Joseph Buxton, D.L. For services to Conservation in Norfolk.
Miss Marianne Caffrey, IT Systems Engineer, Particle Physics and Astronomy Research Council. For services to Science.
Irene Helen, Mrs. Callaghan. For services to Nursing and to Charity in Angus.
Christine Mary, Mrs. Callund, Founder, Charitable Association Supplying Hospitals. For charitable services in East Berkshire.
Peter Colin Carlsson, Founder, Young People's Forum, Waddington, Lincolnshire. For services to Young People.
Andrew Joseph Carman. For services to disabled people in Warrington, Cheshire.
Robin James Carr, Grade C1, Ministry of Defence. 
Wilhelmina, Mrs. Carson, Chair, Royal Ulster Constabulary George Cross Widow's Association. For services to the Police.
Barbara Vivien, Mrs. Carter, J.P., D.L. For services to the Administration of Justice and to the community in Rochdale, Lancashire 
Kevin Cawood, lately Deputy Managing Director, VT Communications. For services to the Ministry of Defence.
Peter Robin Chambers. For services to Disadvantaged Children in Somerset.
John Frederick Chatburn. For services to the community in Hutton, Somerset.
Myrna Edna, Mrs. Chave. For services to the Guide Dogs for the Blind Association and to the community in Poole, Dorset.
Gladys, Mrs. Chilton. For services to the community in Sunderland, Tyne and Wear.
Piara Singh Clair. For services to the community in Leicester.
James Clarke, lately Legal Adviser, Perimeter Issues, Financial Services Authority. For services to the Financial Services Industry.
Stephen Frank Clarke, Non-Executive Director, Accent Group Ltd. For services to the Financial Services Industry in Yorkshire and Humberside.
Joyce, Mrs. Clement. For services to Oxfam in Formby, Liverpool.
Jeffrey Brian Clements, Designer and Conservator. For services to Bookbinding.
Robert Coles, Chair, Little Harrowden Parish Council. For services to the community in Northamptonshire. 
Michael Collier, Fishing Vessel Surveyor, Maritime and Coastguard Agency, Department for Transport.
Ms Shirley Collins, Folk Singer and Write