[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Anthem Project

hington Monument with "The President's Own" U.S. Marine Band for an afternoon concert. On June 15, school ensembles from around the country performed throughout Washington, D.C. at eight monuments including the Lincoln Memorial, Capitol Reflecting Pool, World War II Memorial, and Jefferson Memorial.

The Grand Finale's third day of celebrations was hosted by Drum Corps International at the Navy/Marine Corps Stadium in Annapolis, Maryland. These festivities included a special singing of the national anthem, and later competition of drum corps from around the country. The National Anthem Project Grand Finale events garnered more than 220 news stories, reaching 26 million people.

The Project continued its tradition of celebrating National Anthem Project Day on each September 14. The day aims to promote the importance of music education and the Project by encouraging teachers, students, parents, and community members and leaders to participate in joint celebrations. Events include singalongs and public statements of support for music education by local school administrators and elected officials. Media coverage of National Anthem Project Day and public statements of support from state and national elected officials are available online on the Project Web site.

Criticism of the project

Criticism of the project includes the following:

 The National Anthem Project encourages American music teachers to focus on content and coverage rather than musical skills and understandings in their curriculum, an approach that is contrary to some contemporary theories of instructional design. 
This criticism fails to recognize the need to examine such topics through a cross curricular lens which is evidenced as a best practice in education.  It is important to focus on content AND musical skills.   
 Like the "Mozart Effect", use of the National Anthem Project for music advocacy brings greater attention to the work of music educators, but it also promotes the educational use of music as a tool for non-musical objectives in other academic subjects.
This criticism uses either'or fallacy to defend a view.  Both intrinsic and extrinsic values of music should be addressed in the classroom.  However, the general focus in music education should be primarily intrinsic in value. 
 The National Anthem Project facilitates the promotion of a corporate agenda in public schools, complete with company logos some characterize as advertising.
This is an anti-American view. The purpose of the project was to teach our youngest citizens the history and words of their National Anthem.  
 
 Since its inception, military divisions were publicly credited as "Supporting Organizations" for the project and explicit discussion of support for the US military has featured prominently in public discourse surrounding this project.
The Star Spangled Banner is not military education, nor was any part of it supportive of military topics. 

Public criticisms include Amy Beegle's (2004) documentation of musical propaganda in American schools during World War II, and suggestion that music educators should "reflect upon the experiences of past generations" (p. 67). Later, Jere Humphreys remarked that "the National Anthem Project sends questionable messages during this time of controversy during a foreign war and the reduction of civil liberties at home and abroad" and warned against the "messages and images this campaign engenders" (Humphreys, 2006, p. 183). More recently, Carlos Abril (2007) cautioned that most of the Project's efforts "propel absolutist views in which declared truths take a front seat to divergent understandings and discoveries" (p. 81). Estelle Jorgensen (2007) also wrote that "selecting The Star-Spangled Banner as the focus of a national campaign to teach the nation to sing can be read as too narrow an objective in that it forwards the limited claims of nationalism to the exclusion of building international and local affiliations and identities. Rather, music teachers need to resist the claims of excessive nationalism in order to ensure that these other interests are also served" (p. 153).

See also
 Branding national myths and symbols

References

Further reading
Books 

 

Articles

External links
The National Anthem Project
The National Association for Music Education
"Oh Say Can You" Sing the National Anthem - MERIDIAN STAR
NPR-Citizen Student: Teaching Patriotism in Time of War
Martha Nussbaum - Patriotism and Cosmopolitanism
Emma Goldman - Patriotism: A Menace to Liberty
Inside Higher Education - Honoring the Anthem or Free Speech?
Patriotism and Nationalism in Music Education (Ashgate press, 2012)

Music education in the United States
American music history
2005 in music
Propaganda songs
Propaganda in the United States
The Star-Spangled Banner
George W. Bush administration controversies
American nationalism