[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chris Shuker

gue One campaign with eight goals in 48 games, including a  strike against Peterborough and a "beautiful volley" against Stockport County. For his performances, the club named him 'Player of the Season' and eventually offered him a new one-year contract, which he signed "after weeks of uncertainty".

Barnsley won promotion under Andy Ritchie in 2005–06, and Shuker played a total of 57 competitive games in league and cup competitions, and was an ever-present in the league. He scored a total of ten goals, including braces against Oldham Athletic and Swindon Town; Barnsley won every game in which Shuker found the net. He played in both legs of the play-off semi-final win over Huddersfield Town, and also played in the Millennium Stadium final, scoring a penalty in the shoot-out victory over Swansea City. He was offered a new contract, however the club withdrew the offer after four weeks; Shuker said that "the manager wanted me back, the lads as well, it seems the chairman is running the club, picking the players. Money wasn't the issue, I turned down an extra £500 from another club because I wanted to stay." A year later, former teammate Daniel Nardiello also criticized Chairman Sheperd, saying "He's made promises to me in the past and not kept them, but I never made a fuss and just got on with things. I didn't like the way he treated my mate Chris Shuker a couple of seasons ago either."

Tranmere Rovers
Shuker switched clubs to Tranmere Rovers in July 2006, then managed by Ronnie Moore, signing a two-year deal. He played 50 games in 2006–07, scoring seven goals, as Rovers missed out on the play-offs by eight points. For his performances he was named on the PFA Team of the Year, and was handed a new three-year contract. He was limited to 27 appearances in 2007–08, having picked up a knee injury in December.

Despite missing pre-season training due a muscle injury, he started the 2008–09 season in fine form, causing manager Ronnie Moore to remark that "Shuker looked like Shuker today and it has been coming. He's a menace, he's a threat, he can go round people, they didn't know what to do with him." He played a total of 35 games as Rovers missed out on the play-offs by two points. However, he was ruled out for the rest of the season having broken his arm in March 2009 "after messing about with his girlfriend". He scored in a pre-season friendly against Liverpool in July 2009. However the club struggled in 2009–10 under John Barnes and then Les Parry, avoiding relegation by a single point; despite making 32 appearances, Shuker was released at the end of the season.

Morecambe
He had a trial with Scottish Premier League club Motherwell, scoring in a friendly win over Forfar Athletic. However a deal was not agreed, and so he instead considered a move to New Zealand. Shuker eventually signed for Morecambe of League Two in August 2010. Sammy McIlroy's side struggled, and avoided losing their Football League status by only four points. Shuker played 30 games, but was not offered a contract for the following season.

Port Vale
Pre-season interest from Bury came to nothing, and Shuker then spent some months out of the game. In December 2011, he joined League Two side Port Vale on trial. He joined the club on non-contract terms on 14 February 2012. He scored his first goal for the "Valiants" in his fourth game for the club, hitting a long-range effort in a 2–2 draw with Accrington Stanley at the Crown Ground. He stayed at Vale Park, despite a financial crisis leaving manager Micky Adams unable to promise Shuker the payment of his wages as listed in the player's contract. He finished 2011–12 with 16 appearances and one goal to his name. He agreed to sign a two-year deal with the club in May 2012.

He began the 2012–13 season in a central midfield partnership with Sam Morsy, rather than in his usual position on the wing. He scored his second and final goal for the club in a League Cup tie against Burnley. He then was in-and-out of the starting line-up, as Ryan Burge staked his claim for a first team spot. Shuker featured 34 times by the end of the campaign, as Vale secured promotion with a third-place finish.

Shuker rarely featured in the first half of the 2013–14 campaign, but began to feature regularly as a substitute in January. Manager Micky Adams revealed Shuker had been absent from first team squad contention due to a chronic knee injury Shuker had been suffering with for years, but had become more serious with time to the point where his future as a footballer was in doubt. Shuker announced his retirement at the end of the season on account of the knee injury.