[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Romania and the euro

nge rate would pass to the European Central Bank, leaving Romania without the ability to control an important monetary policy instrument (the monetary policy interest rate) and giving up to the exchange rate, another instrument that contributes to adjusting the economy, especially during recessions.

Convergence. In order to suffer a smaller cost from the currency changeover, the structural, real and institutional convergence must be as high as possible. Business cycles must be synchronized (periods of economic downturn and economic growth to be simultaneous in Romania and in the Eurozone). In general, Romania is a quarter-lagged room against the Eurozone economy. Hence, the effects of the ECB's monetary policy will have an asymmetrical effect. The decision to change to the euro currency is not appropriate to the phase of Romania's economic cycle.

Control of macroeconomics balances. Romania must maintain the balance of macroeconomics: in the private sector (low debt rate), in the budgetary sector (a low budget deficit) and in the external sector (a stable balance).

An alternative instrument for interest rate and exchange rate. By renouncing the two instruments, Romania needs to find a substitute tool: economists usually recommend the flexibility of the labour market, the flexibility of wages and mobility of production factors.

It is an exercise of will and power. The ambitious objective can bring Romania a solid, robust economy. Also, if Romania enters unprepared into the EU, the benefits will be smaller than the costs.

The Committee for Preparing the Changeover to the Euro 
The Committee for Preparing the Changeover to the Euro at the National Bank of Romania was originally established in 2011. The committee's original scope was to work as an advisory body to analyze aspects related to euro adoption. Another objective was to serve as a genuine platform for discussion and representatives of other public authorities were invited to attend its meetings.

The Committee's present objective relays an in-depth, comprehensive analysis within the BNR and a strong relationship among board members with the heads of central bank departments, to keep them informed about the aspects related to euro adoption. The Committee keeps its initial role as a platform for discussion because it fosters an inter-institutional dialogue to raise awareness among competent authorities about the fiscal and structural reforms necessary to provide the Romanian economy more flexibility as they changeover to the Euro.

The Committee's main topics of discussion are:

 the experience of other EU member states in preparation for changeover to the euro;
 the stage of Romania's preparation for adoption of the euro;
 the new mechanisms and concepts developed at the EU in the field of economic governance and strengthening of the Economic and Monetary Union;
 the documents of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the Government of Romania regarding the convergence to the Eurozone of the derogating member states.

The National Commission for the foundation of the national plan for the adoption of the euro 
In 2018, the Government established through a Government Emergency Ordinance a new body to help achieve sufficient convergence before changing to the euro, the National Commission for foundation of the plan for adoption of the euro. During the functioning of this National Commission, the Committee's activity would be suspended.

The National Commission tasks which have a direct impact on criteria of legal convergence are:

a) elaboration of the National Plan for transition to the Euro and of the timetable of actions necessary for adoption of the euro;

b) evaluation of the stage of meeting the convergence criteria;

c) evaluation of the current legislative framework and preparation of new legislative projects for the introduction of the euro;

d) preparing the national statistical system for updating the data series;

e) monitoring the preparation of national systems for the changeover to the euro, the modification/compatibility of the payment system and the national accounting;

f) identifying necessary actions and entities involved to organize information campaigns for the general public about adoption of the euro, developing and updating dedicated sites and setting up information help points for citizens and companies. The National Commission will ensure that the public is informed clearly, objectively and in a timely and accurate manner about the adoption of the Euro;

g) establishing and monitoring specific elements, respectively the parallel circulation of the national currency and the Euro, as well as the display of prices in the national currency and in Euros;

h) drawing up periodic working reports and sending them to the institutions involved.

Convergence criteria

Public opinion
Public support for the Euro in Romania