[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of former Muslims

nder of the Treatment Action Campaign.
 Zara Kay – Tanzanian-Australian activist, founder of Faithless Hijabi.
 Zineb El Rhazoui – Moroccan-born French journalist and former columnist for Paris-based satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.
 Zoya Akhtar – Indian director and screenwriter.

Became agnostics

 Abdullah al-Qasemi – one of the most controversial intellectuals in the Arab world because of his radical change from defending Salafism to defending atheism and rejecting organized religion.
 Alyque Padamsee – Indian theatre personality and ad filmmaker. He was the father of Indian Advertizing. He was an agnostic.
 Cenk Uygur – Main host of the liberal talk radio show The Young Turks. He is an agnostic.
 Fareed Zakaria – Indian-American CNN host. He is a self described secular and non practicing Muslim. He added: "My views on faith are complicated—somewhere between deism and agnosticism. I am completely secular in my outlook."
 Ibn al-Rawandi – early skeptic of Islam.
 Ibn Warraq – British Pakistani secularist author and founder of the Institute for the Secularisation of Islamic Society.
 Kia Abdullah – British novelist and travel writer. In 2020, she stated that she identifies as an agnostic and a secular Muslim.
 Orhan Pamuk – Turkish novelist and screenwriter. Describes himself as a cultural Muslim while not believing in a personal connection to God.
 Seema Mustafa – Indian journalist, Political Editor and Delhi Bureau Chief of The Asian Age newspaper.
 Sohail Ahmed – Former radical Islamist. He now describes himself as a cultural Muslim who rejects the truth claims of Islam.
 Wafa Sultan – Syrian-born American psychiatrist and controversial critic of Islam. She describes herself as a "Secular Humanist"
 Dr. Younus Shaikh – Pakistani medical doctor, human rights activist, rationalist and free-thinker.
 Zohra Sehgal – Indian actress who has appeared in several Hindi and English language films.

Became deists
 Ahmad Kasravi – notable Iranian linguist, historian, and reformer.
 Ehsan Jami – former politician and founder of Central Committee for Ex-Muslims.

Became non-religious

 Mustafa Kemal Atatürk – Turkish field marshal, statesman, secularist reformer, and author. Sources point out that Atatürk was a religious skeptic and a freethinker. While his specific religious views are unclear, he was a non-doctrinaire deist. According to Atatürk, the Turkish people do not know what Islam really is and do not read the Quran. People are influenced by Arabic sentences that they do not understand, and because of their customs they go to mosques. When the Turks read the Quran and think about it, they will leave Islam. Atatürk described Islam as the religion of the Arabs in his own work titled Vatandaş için Medeni Bilgiler by his own critical and nationalist views.
 Nyamko Sabuni – politician in Sweden
 Safdar Hashmi – Indian Communist playwright and founding member of Jana Natya Manch.
 Sajid Javid – British politician
 Zayn Malik – English singer of Pakistani and English-Irish descent.

Other

Religious founders

 Akbar the Empire – Mughal emperor and founder of Dīn-i Ilāhī, a religious movement whose followers never numbered more than 19 adherents, although Akbar never renounced Islam publicly or privately, and modern scholars have argued that it was a spiritual discipleship program rather than a new religion.
 Ariffin Mohammed – founder of the Sky Kingdom who claimed a unique connection to God. In spite of renouncing Islam in 2001, he stated that there was no restriction on practising your own faith and at the same time belonging to the Sky Kingdom.
 Báb – founder of Bábism. Most of his followers later accepted Bahá'u'lláh and thus joined the Baháʼí Faith.
 Bahá'u'lláh – after the Bab's death, claimed to be the prophet the Báb spoke of, thereby founding the Baháʼí Faith.
 David Myatt – founded the Numinous Way
 Dwight York – African American author, black supremacist leader, musician, convicted child molester and founder of the religious doctrine called Nuwaubianism.
 Kabir – 15th-century mystical poet and founder of the Kabirpanthi. Born to a Hindu widow but adopted and raised as Muslim by a childless Muslim couple, later denouncing both Hinduism and Islam.
 Musaylimah – self proclaimed prophet of the Banu Hanifa tribe who lived during and after the lifetime of Muhammad.
 Riaz Ahmed Gohar Shahi – founder of the spiritual movements Messiah Foundation International and Anjuman Serfaroshan-e-Islam.
 Ṣāliḥ ibn Tarīf – second king of the Berghouata. He proclaimed himself a Prophet/Mahdi and came out with his own Qur'an.
Sheikh Adi ibn Musafir – founder of Yazidism
 Sultan Sahak – founded Ahl-e Haqq

Undetermined current belief system