[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Cuba–United States aircraft hijackings

Aircraft hijacking incidents between the United States and Cuba were at their height between 1968 and 1972. These incidents have variously been attributed to terrorism, extortion, flight for political asylum, mental illness, and transportation between the two countries as a result of the ongoing antagonistic Cuba-United States relations and the Communist government restrictions against Cubans attempting to leave Cuba. Subsequent measures by both governments contributed to a gradual reduction of reported incidents towards the mid-1970s. Governmental measures included an amendment to Cuban law which made hijacking a crime in 1970, the introduction of metal detectors in U.S. airports in 1973, and a joint agreement between the U.S. and Cuba signed in Sweden to return or prosecute hijackers.

Below is a non-comprehensive list of hijacking incidents of aircraft between Cuba and the United States.

1950s 
Before the Cuban Revolution:
 April 9, 1958 A Douglas DC-3, (CU-T266) piloted by Capt. Armando Piedra, co-piloted by Ramon J. Vazquez (el Niño) Cubana de Aviación is hijacked en route from José Martí International Airport, Havana to Santa Clara Airport. The aircraft landed at Mérida-Rejón Airport, Mexico where the hijack ended. This is considered first hijacking to take place in the Western Hemisphere.
 April 12, 1958 The crew of a Cuban Airlines DC-3 with 12 passengers on board, diverted their flight from Havana to Santa Clara in Central Cuba, and flew, instead, to Miami, Florida. One of the passengers, United Press reporter Harold Lidin, said that the decision to defect was apparently made after takeoff.
 April 13, 1958 A Cuban Airlines DC-3 is hijacked by three crew members, forcing it to fly to Miami.
 October 22, 1958 Cuban Airlines Flight 266 is hijacked by 3 rebels who diverted the plane to a rebel airfield in the Sierra Maestra mountains.
 November 1, 1958 A Cubana de Aviación Flight 495, a Vickers Viscount, en route from Miami to Varadero to Havana is hijacked by Cuban  militants. The hijackers were trying to land at Sierra Cristal in Eastern Cuba to deliver weapons to Fidel Castro's rebels. As night approached, the plane ran out of fuel and tried an emergency landing at the Preston sugar mill.  It did not make it and instead landed in the ocean and broke apart, killing most passengers and crew. There were six survivors.
 November 6, 1958 Cubana de Aviación Flight 482, a DC-3, is hijacked by rebels and flown to a rebel airfield.

After the Cuban Revolution:
 April 10, 1959 A COHATA DC-3 is hijacked by six rebels. They fatally shot the pilot and forced the co-pilot to fly to Cuba.
 April 15, 1959 A plane is hijacked from Cuba to Miami. The hijackers were four members of Batista's Army (three were from the SIM—the Military Intelligence—and one was an aviation mechanic). The airplane is returned by the U.S.
 April 16, 1959 An Aerovías Cubanas Internacionales C-46 is forced to land in the United States by four men with guns.
 April 25, 1959 A Cubana de Aviación Vickers Viscount is taken by four hijackers and diverted to Key West, Florida.
 October 2, 1959 a Viscount of Cubana de Aviación is hijacked on a flight from Havana to Antonio Maceo Airport, Santiago. The aircraft landed at Miami International Airport.