[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Armored Corps (Israel)

rev in December 1948.

Active units
The following list contains all currently active armor brigades:

 7th "Saar me-Golan/Storm from Golan" Armor Brigade
 188th "Barak/Lightning" Armor Brigade
 401st "I'kvot Ha-Barzel/Iron Trails" Armor Brigade
 460th "Bnei Or/Sons of Light" (Training) Armor Brigade

Unit histories 
 36th "Ga'ash" Armor Division The division is stationed on the Golan Heights under Northern Command. It includes the 7th and 188th Armor Brigades:
 7th "Saar me-Golan" Armor Brigade It was the first IDF armored brigade and has participated in all of Israel's wars. The brigade's fighting during the Suez War resulted in a breakthrough in how the army approached the character of armored warfare. , the brigade is transitioning from Merkava 2 tanks to Merkava 4 tanks.
 188th "Barak" Armor Brigade Beginning with the Six-Day War, the brigade participated in all of Israel's wars. During the Yom Kippur War, the brigade was the first line of defense in the first days of the war in the Southern Golan, and saw almost all of its officers killed in action. It was the last armored brigade to use the Centurion tank, converting to Merkava 3 tanks in 1992, later completing their coversion to Merkava Mark 4M-400 in July 2019.
 162nd "Utzvat HaPlada" Armor Division This division is subordinated to Southern Command. It includes the 401st Armor Brigade:
 401st "I'kvot Ha-Barzel" Armor Brigade This brigade was created in 1968 in order to control the Suez Canal line. During the Yom Kippur War, it faced the first line of attack in the canal and suffered heavy losses. During the 1982 Lebanon War, it fought in the Southern force—one of its battalions participated in the Sultan Yaakov battle. During 2004–05, the brigade's Magach tanks were replaced by Merkava 4 tanks.
 460th "Bnei Or" Armor Brigade This brigade is the training brigade of the Armored Corps. It maintains two bases: the Shizafon training base—the school for the corps' commanders, where the officers and tank commanders are instructed, as well as basic training for all brigades, and advanced training for the 401st and 7th brigades — and Camp Magen-Sayarim, which is shared with the Combat Intelligence Collection Corps and Border Defense Corp as grounds for the advanced training for soldiers of the 188th Brigade.
As an added footnote - Sayarim used to be the Armored Corp base for basic training for Armored Corpsmen, and advanced training was received in specific designated companies in active battalions under the operational brigades. Around 2004, advanced training was moved to Shizafon, whereafter basic training was also gradually moved to Shizafon. After the creation (and later disbanding of in 2021) of the Mesaya'at fire support and reconnaissance training battalion (and operational companies in active battalions), the advanced training of the 188th brigade was moved to Sayarim, where it stays (per 2022).
Plans are discussed for the re-integration of the 188th advanced training to Shizafon, and furthermore, of all advanced training returning to active battalions.

Reserve units 

The following list contains all reserve armor brigades:

 4th "Kiryati" (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 8th (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 10th "Harel" (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 14th "Machatz/Bison" (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 37th "Ram" (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 205th "Iron Fist" (Reserve) Armor Brigade 
 679th "Yiftah" (Reserve) Armor Brigade
 847th "Chariots of Steel" (Reserve) Armor Brigade