[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# YMCA Youth Parliament

ter who was a Youth Premier when she completed the program.

Many Youth Acts of the Queensland Youth Parliament were then passed by their senior counterparts and made into fully fledged laws of Queensland, including the criminalisation of revenge pornography, and changes to learner driver log books.

Northern Territory
The Northern Territory selects applicants aged 13 to 25 to participate in the Youth Parliament program. Their participation in making, debating and passing bills with the Youth Parliament result in the bills being passed to Parliament for review. These bills may be enacted into law.

South Australia 
YMCA South Australia Youth Parliament is a non-partisan program providing a platform for young people aged 15 – 25 to have their say on important issues, build skills and parliamentary understanding. It focuses on personal development, empowerment and connecting politicians and decision makers with youth voices and opinions.
The Youth Parliament program runs from March to August every year and includes mentoring, a training weekend, a week-long camp and access to Parliament House. Every year, young leaders come together to learn about public speaking, parliamentary etiquette, bill development and youth advocacy. They share their big ideas, discuss the challenges facing South Australia and create solutions in the form of Youth Bills.

The program is intended to be "rewarding and educational". Cassandra Attwood, a past participant, commented, "I want to be a lawyer, so I think it gives me a lot of good experience in public speaking and being able to think on your feet," she said.

The 2022 Youth Governor of South Australia is Her Excellency, Shania Richards.

Playford mayor Glen Docherty, Australia's Labor minister Kate Ellis, and policy adviser, Mia Handshin are alumni of the program.

In South Australia, the ages range from 15-25. The 23-year program has seen more than 1,000 youth participate in the program that is supported by the Government of South Australia's Office for Youth.

Tasmania 
The Tasmania Youth Parliament conducts an annual event at state capital's Parliament House in Hobart.  There they follow "real government" procedures for drafting and debating bills. Government Whip Felicity Grey stated, "It’s a good way to get into public speaking and to meet not only like minded people but to have your own opinions challenged."

Victoria 
The first YMCA Victoria Youth Parliament was held in the Legislative Council of Parliament House in September 1987 and has been held yearly since then. The program is offered to individuals between 16 and 25 years of age; participants engage in a 9-day residential program, part of which is conducted at Parliament House.

The Youth Parliament, supported by the Victoria government, have seen more than 20 of their bills passed into law, including alcohol, bike and nightclub safety measures.

At the 2012 session, six Hazara young men were part of the Victoria Youth Parliament and asked the Prime Minister to put pressure on the Pakistani government to stop genocide of Hazra people and brought awareness of the plight of fleeing people, such as those who come to Australia by boat. Wahid Omid Talked said: "all Hazara asylum seekers who comes to Australia and seek protection here are prosecuted by Taliban and other terrorist and extremist groups." Regarding why they don't remain in queues in Indonesia's refugee camps: "the queue is imaginary and does not exist, people have been waiting for up to 10 years in Indonesia to be settled in  country and the applications in UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees) office is processed randomly not by turn." The group of youth parliamentary participants debated the following day about how to welcome people seeking asylum in Australia.

Western Australia
The Western Australian Youth Parliament is a program coordinated by the YMCA of Perth, and acts as the most senior youth advisory body to the Western Australian government. Participants spend time in committees developing bills, and then attend a week-long camp during which the legislation and other motions are debated in the Western Australian Parliament. Successfully passed bills are handed to the state government for consideration. In 2004 the first regional Youth Parliament sitting occurred in Albany, Western Australia. Young people from 15 to 25 years of age may participate in the program.

National Indigenous Youth Parliament 
To mark the 50th anniversary of Indigenous Australians obtaining the right to vote, the Museum of Australian Democracy, YMCA, and Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) collaborated on a week long event in May 2012 for the first "National Indigenous Youth Parliament" (NIYP).