[Source: PubMed]

26. Confl Health. 2024 Apr 3;18(1):25. doi: 10.1186/s13031-024-00582-9.

Impacts of attacks to female health care workers in three territories of 
Colombia.

Echeverry-López ME(1), Marín-Uribe A(1), Garcés-Palacio IC(2), Borrero-Ramírez 
Y(1), Hernández-Holguin DM(3), Pacheco-Sánchez CI(4), Haar RJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Health Management and Policies Research Group, School of Public Health, 
Universidad de Antioquia UdeA, Medellín, Colombia.
(2)Epidemiology Group, School of Public Health, Universidad de Antioquia UdeA, 
Medellín, Colombia. icristina.garces@udea.edu.co.
(3)Mental Health Research Group, School of Public Health, Universidad de 
Antioquia UdeA, Medellín, Colombia.
(4)Health Policy Research Group, Department of Sociology, Universidad Nacional 
de Colombia -Sede Bogotá, Bogotá, Colombia.
(5)Berkeley. School of Public Health, Division of Epidemiology, University of 
California, Berkeley, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: This study explores the impacts of attacks perpetrated in the 
context of armed conflict, to female health workers in three Colombian 
territories.
METHODS: We conducted a document review of the reports and databases of the 
Colombian Truth Commission, 17 in-depth semi-structured interviews with experts 
on the national and regional armed conflict and the medical mission, and 26 
female health workers who were victims of attacks.
RESULTS: Experts and female health workers reported attacks to health 
activities, facilities, equipment, and personnel, including attacks to 
traditional doctors belonging to indigenous communities. The most frequent 
attacks were threats and retention of health personnel; theft of supplies and 
medicines; damage and use of infrastructure and means of transport for purposes 
other than health care; and hinderance of health service provision. The attacks 
occurred in a framework of structural violence that intersects with poverty, 
racism, and gender bias. The impacts of these attacks include gender-based 
violence, significant disruption of the lives of health workers, and physical, 
emotional, psychological, social, and economic effects on the victims and their 
families. The government response to protect victims and populations has been 
absent or insufficient.
CONCLUSIONS: Attacks to health care were reported in all the studied territories 
obstructing adequate health care. Impacts of these attacks affect negatively the 
professional and personal life of the workers and are aggravated by structural 
violence and absent or little institutional response.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13031-024-00582-9
PMCID: PMC10988842
PMID: 38566196

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.