[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

ayo's house is destroyed and burned by Republicans.
A Free State soldier is killed in an attack on the National Army post in Castlemaine, County Kerry.
30 January – Free State Senator John Bagwell is kidnapped in Dublin by Anti-Treaty fighters. Senator O'Sullivan's house is also burned in Killarney.

February 1923 
1 February – Moore Hall in County Mayo is burned down by Republican guerrillas, because its owner, Maurice Moore is a senator in the Dáil.
2 February – One Free State soldier is killed and another wounded in an ambush of a patrol near Cahirsiveen, County Kerry.
3 February – 
A Postmaster J O'Reilly, is shot dead by Republican raiders on the post office at Clonakilty, County Cork.
Irregulars attack the railway station in Killala, County Mayo. The set fire to a train and set it into motion, where it crashes into the buffers and eventually lands in the sea. The station is also destroyed.
4 February – In Shorne, Rathmore, County Kerry, Anti-Treaty IRA fighter Micheal McSweeney is shot dead by Free State troops.
Free State troops use IRA prisoners to clear a blocked road near Bandon, County Cork, a booby trap mine explodes while they are clearing a road block, killing two prisoners and injuring seven.
5 February – 
A party of 50 Anti-Treaty IRA fighters, operating from the Arigna mountains, raid the town of Ballyconnell in County Cavan. They shoot dead two civilians and wounded another man. The Post Office was robbed and car dealership blown up. The raid was in reprisal for the shooting of a Republican named Cull the month before in the town.
A National Army soldier accidentally shoots dead a civilian, Elizabeth Walsh, in her home in Parnell Street Dublin while she was making him dinner his revolver went off.
7 February – An anti-Treaty IRA column attack the Free State post in Ballinamore. The National Army garrison of 35 men surrenders and the barracks is blown up. The prisoners are taken to the Arigna mountains.
A civilian, Thomas Roche is shot dead at a roadblock near Newcastle West, County Limerick by Free State troops when he failed to halt his car in time.
8 February – The Free State suspends executions until 18 February, offering an amnesty to anyone who surrendered before that day.
9 February – 
Two Anti-Treaty fighters are killed in a skirmish at Poleberry, County Waterford, while attempting to hold up a post office.
Irregulars attack the train from Castlebar and Westport.  Thirty Irregulars lift the tracks, derailing the train. The driver and fireman were injured. The Irregulars disarm a number of National Troops, and then let then return to Westport by foot. 
10 February – Republican officer Tom Barry, after contacts with some former IRA comrades on the Free State side, proposes that the Anti-Treaty IRA call a truce. Liam Lynch turns down the idea.
It is reported that tax collectors in County Leitrim are refusing to collect taxes in the county, saying it is too dangerous. They are told to resume collection or be sacked within 3 weeks. The county is 50,000 pounds in arrears due to uncollected rates. 
10 February – Republicans shoot dead a civilian James Gallagher in Gweedore, County Donegal. He had previously fired at an IRA party raiding his house.
Republicans open fire on Free State troops as they are leaving Mass in Clonmel, killing one civilian. Separately a National Army lieutenant is killed in an action near Scartaglen, County Kerry along with a civilian. Three anti-Treaty fighters are wounded. 
In Cork city a civilian, Michael Cusack, is mortally wounded in an attack on the city Courthouse.
11 February – 
The Father of Government minister Kevin O'Higgins is shot dead by Republicans at the family home in Stradbally County Laois. The house is also burnt down.
Athlone Waterworks is badly damaged by a Republican bomb.
A civilian carter, James Finlay is shot dead by anti-Treaty fighters near Tullamore, County Offaly. 
13 February – Two Anti-Treaty men are killed in a raid on their dug out at Currahane Strands, County Kerry.
14 February – In Kiltimagh, County Mayo armed Irregulars set fire to a goods store.
15 February – Mansion of senator Brian Mahon in Ballymore Eustace, County Kildare is burned down by Anti-Treaty forces. In the remainder of the month, a total of 37 houses of senators are destroyed by the Anti-Treaty IRA. Their owners are mainly big landowners, descendants of the Protestant Ascendancy and many of them were unionists before Irish independence. Oliver St John Gogarty is another prominent victim of house burnings. He also survives an assassination attempt in Dublin.
16 February – An unidentified man is found shot dead near Thurles, with the warning pinned on him, 'One out of fifty'.
18 February – Up to 1,000 Free-State troops drawn from Cahir, Cashel, Clonmel and Tipperary town encircle the area around the Glen of Aherlow and move in from all sides simultaneously in pursuit of Republican leader Dinny Lacey and his IRA column, which is billetted in the Glen. Lacey and one of