[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Spy Who Came In from the Cold (film)

d and England's Shepperton Studios were used for the shooting of interior scenes, though Dublin was predominantly used for external German scenes. Smithfield, Dublin was used as the location for the Berlin checkpoint.

Reception
The Spy Who Came In from the Cold took in $7,600,000 at the box office.

Bosley Crowther of The New York Times wrote, "After all the spy and mystery movies of a romantic and implausible nature that we have seen, it is great to see one as realistic, and believable too, as The Spy Who Came In from the Cold." Variety called the film "an excellent contemporary espionage drama of the Cold War which achieves solid impact via emphasis on human values, total absence of mechanical spy gimmickry, and perfectly controlled underplaying." Philip K. Scheuer of the Los Angeles Times wrote: "It is not an easy, certainly not a pleasant, picture to sit through; too impersonal, too objective, to move us to weep, so that its ending can only leave us tremendously depressed." Richard L. Coe of The Washington Post declared: "Not having shared the evidently widespread admiration for The Spy Who Came In from the Cold in its original form as a novel, I nonetheless find it a wholly absorbing picture." Brendan Gill of The New Yorker called it "in every respect an admirable translation [to] the screen of the fantastically popular thriller by Jean [sic] le Carré." The Monthly Film Bulletin wrote, "Concentration is demanded; and earned by the tension and accuracy of the dialogue and the high level of performance ... [the cast] all give performances of a kind which instantly engage attention, even if the characters scarcely develop beyond the point at which we first meet them."

The film holds a score of 86% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 14 reviews, with an average grade of 7.7 out of 10.

Awards and nominations

Home media
The Spy Who Came In from the Cold was released by The Criterion Collection as a Region 1 DVD on 25 November 2008 and on Blu-ray on 10 September 2013. Extras for this version include: digitally restored picture and sound; an interview with John le Carré; scene-specific commentary by director of photography Oswald Morris; a BBC documentary titled The Secret Center: John le Carré (2000); an interview with Richard Burton from a 1967 episode of the BBC series Acting in the '60s; a 1985 audio interview with director Martin Ritt; a gallery of set designs; the film's theatrical trailer; and a booklet featuring an essay by film critic Michael Sragow.

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 The Movie Scene review
 The Spy Who Came In from the Cold: True Ritt an essay by Michael Sragow at the Criterion Collection

1965 films
1965 drama films
1960s spy drama films
1960s English-language films
British spy drama films
Cold War spy films
British black-and-white films
Films directed by Martin Ritt
Paramount Pictures films
Edgar Award-winning works
Films based on British novels
Films based on works by John le Carré
Films about MI6
Films about the Berlin Wall
Films set in Berlin
Films set in London
Films set in the Netherlands
Films shot in the Republic of Ireland
Films shot in Dublin (city)
Films with screenplays by Paul Dehn
Best British Film BAFTA Award winners
Films featuring a Best Supporting Actor Golden Globe winning performance
Films scored by Sol Kaplan
Films set in West Germany
Films set in East Germany
Films shot at Shepperton Studios
1960s British films