[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq

al Affairs is Alice Walpole of the United Kingdom, While Ghulam Isaczai of Afghanistan serves as the Deputy Special Representative responsible for humanitarian and development efforts.

In 2023, there were approximately 648 personnel, 251 international staff and 397 national staff working for UNAMI.

Mandate
The current mandate of UNAMI was extended to 31 May 2023 under UNSC Resolution 2631, adopted on 26 May 2022. One of its tasks is to implement the International Compact with Iraq. The Mission is mandated "as circumstances permit" and "at the request of the Government of Iraq" to:
 Advise support and assist the Government of Iraq in:
 advancing their inclusive, political dialogue and national reconciliation;
 development of processes for holding elections and referenda;
 constitutional review and the implementation of constitutional provisions;
 development of processes acceptable to the Government of Iraq to resolve disputed internal boundaries;
 facilitating regional dialogue, including on issues of border security, energy, and refugees;
 planning, funding and implementing reintegration programmes for former members of illegal armed groups;
 initial planning for the conduct of a comprehensive census;
 Promote, support, and facilitate, in coordination with the Government of Iraq:
 The coordination and delivery of humanitarian assistance and the safe, orderly, and voluntary return, as appropriate;
 The implementation of the International Compact with Iraq, including coordination with donors and international financial institutions;
 The coordination and implementation of programmes to improve Iraq's capacity to provide essential services for its people and continue active donor coordination of critical reconstruction and assistance programmes through the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq (IRFFI);
 Economic reform, capacity-building and the conditions for sustainable development, including through coordination with national and regional organizations and, as appropriate, civil society, donors, and international financial institutions;
 The development of effective civil, social and essential services, including through training and conferences in Iraq when possible;
 The contributions of United Nations agencies, funds, and programmes to the objectives outlined in this resolution under a unified leadership of the Secretary-General through his Special Representative for Iraq;
 And also promote the protection of human rights and judicial and legal reform in order to strengthen the rule of law in Iraq

Military representatives and guards
  - 160 troops, who are responsible for protecting UN buildings and staff in the Green Zone. Trained, equipped and transported to Iraq by Australia, the contingent was first deployed to Iraq in December 2004, at which time it consisted of 134 troops.
 -  77 troops and one military observer. After Fiji, Nepal bears the most responsibility for guarding UN assets in Iraq.

Former Participants
  - 100 Romanian soldiers were sent to Iraq in March 2005 for a six-month deployment in support of UNAMI (in addition to Romania's contribution to the US-led Coalition).
  - Around 550 soldiers were deployed in March 2005 to perform UN protection duties (in addition to Georgia's contribution to the US-led Coalition). However, they were placed under U.S. command on a "middle ring security" mission in the Green Zone, and were later redeployed to join the Georgian Multinational Force Iraq contingent.
  - One military observer was deployed from October 2004 to July 2007.
  - One military observer.
  - One military observer.
  - Four military observers.
 - One military observer. Previously, around 35 troops had been deployed as UN guards (in addition to Denmark's contribution to the US-led Coalition).
 - One military observer.
 - Two military observers and one defence civilian.
 - Two military observers.

See also
Multinational Force in Iraq

References

External links
  
Iraq Inter-Agency Information & Analysis Unit Reports, Maps and Assessments of Iraq from the UN Inter-Agency Information & Analysis Unit

Multinational force involved in the Iraq War
United Nations operations in Iraq
1500
2003 establishments in Iraq