[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hong Kong Metropolitan University

Hong Kong Metropolitan University (HKMU), also known as Open University of Hong Kong before September 2021, is a public university in Ho Man Tin, Hong Kong. Established as the Open Learning Institute of Hong Kong by the Hong Kong government in 1989, HKMU now consists of five schools, namely the School of Arts and Social Sciences, Lee Shau Kee School of Business and Administration, School of Education and Languages, School of Nursing and Health Studies, and the School of Science and Technology.

HKMU is the only self-financing university set up by the government. It began as a distance-learning-based university, but is now in effect two universities in one. It has started to offer full-time programmes since 2001 and has participated in Hong Kong's centralised joint university admission system (JUPAS) since 2007. Currently, it has a headcount of more than 9,600 students on its full-time face-to-face programmes, occupying one-sixth of all undergraduate students in Hong Kong. The current president is Professor Lam Kwan Sing.

History 
Hong Kong Metropolitan University, formerly as the Open Learning Institute of Hong Kong (OLI) and the Open University of Hong Kong (OUHK), was established by the Hong Kong Government in 1989. With the consent made by the Governor of Hong Kong and the Executive Council of Hong Kong in May 1997, the motion for the third reading was agreed by the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. The OLI officially upgraded to the Open University of Hong Kong. The promotion marks the public recognition to the achievements and contributions made by the OUHK in the academic field.

Early Development 
In May 1989, the Hong Kong Government established the Open Learning Institute of Hong Kong. The OLI was the first distance-learning-based higher education institution in Hong Kong. The OLI adopted a flexible academic score system, allowing its students to accumulate their credits by stage until successfully earning the degree. In August 1992, the Hong Kong Government announced to accept graduates from the OLI to apply for its positions which required a university degree. In November 1992, the OLI offered 17-degree programmes which were approved by the Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic Qualifications. In November 1993, the OLI held its first congregation.

Upgrade to a University 
In June 1995, the OLI passed the accreditation by the Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic Qualifications and received the recommendation of granting the self-accrediting status after June 1996. In October 1996, the Hong Kong Government granted the OLI with the self-accrediting status. It recognised the capacity of self-management and quality assurance of the Institution. In February 1997, the Hong Kong Executive Council approved in principle to the upgrade the OLI to a university. In May 1997, the motion for the third reading was agreed by the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. The OLI was upgraded to the Open University of Hong Kong and became the seventh statutory university in Hong Kong.

Continuous Improvement 
In October 1998, students of the OUHK were allowed to be included in the Non-means-tested Loan Scheme for Full-time Tertiary Students (NLSFT). In June 1999, the OUHK was conferred the Prize of Excellence for Institutions by the International Council for Open and Distance Education (ICDE) for 1999. In October 1999, the Hong Kong Government approved a one-off grant of HK$50 million to develop the University into a Centre of Excellence in Distance and Adult Learning and accepted the OUHK to apply for the grant of the Research Grants Council (RGC). In June 2000, the electronic library of the OUHK won the Stockholm Challenge Award in a global IT contest.

In October 2000, the Open University of Hong Kong Centre for Continuing and Community Education was officially renamed as the Li Ka Shing Institute of Professional and Continuing Education to acknowledge the donation of HK$40 million by the Li Ka Shing Foundation in supporting the establishment of the Island Learning Centre.

Launch of Full-time Programmes 
In September 2001, the OUHK firstly launched the full-time associate degree programme. In March 2005, the University introduced the first full-time top-up degree programme. In May 2004, the OUHK partnered with the Vocational Training Council (VTC) to introduce top-up degree programmes.

In May 2005, the OUHK started to collaborate with local hospitals for nurse degree education. The University partnered with Cathay Pacific Airways to organise the Professional Diploma in Inflight Service programme. In October 2005, the University partnered with the Hong Kong Police Force for recruit police constables' foundation training.