[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Fernald Feed Materials Production Center

metal reactors to produce UF4 powder. Hydrogen fluoride was a valuable byproduct of the reaction, which was: UF6 + H2 → UF4 + 2HF. In addition, most of the thorium production activity at the FMPC took place inside the Pilot Plant. Thorium production activities began in 1964 and continued until 1980.

The Pilot Plant met the needs of development projects and special orders. Some of the equipment that was available for and had been used in enriched processing was as follows:
 Oxidation Furnace: with special high-temperature steel alloy pans enclosed cooling and unloading, and special two-stage dust collection.
 Vacuum Furnaces: two furnaces, with perclene cooling, and all auxiliaries including vacuum pumps, three power hacksaws, crucible and mold preparation facilities, and dust collection have been used at temperatures up to 3,360 °F (for melting thorium).
 Reduction to Metal: two systems representing step-down of size reduction in two stages from the full-scale production units for reducing UF4 to metal were available in the Pilot Plant. The smaller system can handle full enrichments, the other intermediate enrichments Reduction pots, blenders, mandrels, furnaces and all auxiliary equipment were available for use as required.
 Heat Treating: a large, versatile, salt-bath unit was available with quench baths of molten salt, molten metal, water, or oil and a fast acting hoist.
 Shot-Blast Cleaning Unit: this unit can clean castings of any shape up to four feet in the largest dimension and employs uranium shot as the blasting medium.
 Machining Chips Recovery System: consisting of a chip crusher, washing system, pickling, drying, and finally briquetting in a hydraulic press. The machine has been used on materials enriched up to 2% U-235.
 Solvent Extraction System: three versatile sets of extraction columns, 2-inches, 6-inches and 9-inches in diameter, were available with all auxiliaries. This includes digesters, fume scrubbers, pumps, controls, boildown system, neutralizer, filters, and more than 12 stainless steel tanks ranging from 100 to 8000 gallons in capacity.
 Dry Preparation System: this includes two crushers, a small continuous ball mill, a multi-split mechanical screen, and a large dust collection system.
 UF6 Hydrolysis - UO2 Precipitation: a system for efficiently absorbing quantities of UF6 in water at rates up to 800 pounds per hour was available. The UO2F2-HF solution can then be neutralized to ammonium diuranate, filtered, washed, and dried to UO2 using components of the system previously described above.
 Calciner: a small (6-inch diameter) Inconel-tube rotary calciner with precision electric heating was available for jobs such as UF4 dehydration, ADU (Ammonia Diuranate) calcining, and the like. Its small size meets geometry limits for nuclear safety.
 Decladding: a rubber-lined tank was set up and used as needed to remove zirconium cladding from reject fuel cores. Equipment for removal of other metals, such as steel or aluminum, was available also.
 UF6 to UF4 Production Facility: conversion UF6 to UF4 using cracked ammonia. HF was produced as a by-product.

Fernald Closure Project

The Fernald Closure Project is a program run by the United States Department of Energy to clean up the former uranium processing site Fernald Feed Materials Production Center.

In 1990, Congress approved closure of the site and environmental cleanup of the facility. Fluor Fernald, part of the Fluor Corporation, was awarded the contract in 1992 for cleanup of the site. Fluor Fernald completed their portion of the cleanup in October 2006, 12 years ahead of schedule and 7.8 billion dollars below the original cost estimate. The waste was permanently buried at Waste Control Specialists.

The site is permanently unfit for human habitation, according to federal scientists, and "will have to be closely monitored essentially forever."

Cleanup costs were estimated at $1 billion over 10 years.

Fernald Preserve

The $4.4 billion cleanup of the surface areas was completed in December 2006, and the site was turned into the Fernald Preserve nature preserve. Thousands of tons of contaminated concrete, sludge, liquid waste, and soil were removed from the site and replaced with man-made wetlands and greenery.

Ongoing cleanup operations include routine monitoring of the environmental conditions with test wells, including the uranium groundwater plume extending south of the plant area, storage of residual waste onsite, and filtering of uranium contamination from the Great Miami River aquifer. These cleanup operations, along with restrictions on establishing new wells in areas exceeding water contaminant limits, will continue for the foreseeable future.

Citations

General references