[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Phillip Roddey

Chicago in 1874 with associates of Roddey, Shotwell found that railroad bonds had been stolen from her luggage, as were other important papers including those that purportedly proved her marriage to Roddey. She reported it to the police and two men were arrested. She told the detective in the case:

"I am Carlotta Frances Shotwell. I am 28 years old and a native of New Jersey. I spend most of my time in New York and Washington, but travel a good deal, as my business affairs require. I arrived in Chicago this morning from New York, and was on my way to Mobile, Ala., where I had business in connection with some bonds of the Selma and Gulf Railroad which I own. On my arrival here I registered at the Tremont house and had my luggage sent to that hotel. A few hours after I reached the city I had occasion to open my trunk, and found that the lock had been broken. On examination of the contents I found a package containing bonds of the Selma and Gulf Railroad to the amount of $54,000, together with other valuable private papers and correspondence, had been stolen."

Roddey, however, was part of the plot. Despite telling Shotwell, whom he introduced everywhere as his wife, that he was still in love with her and making all kinds of stories to protect himself, he could not hide the fact that his associates were under a cloud of suspicion. When Shotwell pressed the case, Roddey had her arrested for grand larceny...for stealing a pair of binoculars.

Shotwell was arrested and spent weeks before her trial in the Tombs, the colloquial name for the Manhattan Detention Facility. She was also charged with perjury for stating that she was married to Roddey.

During the trial, the media had a field day. The courtroom was filled over capacity every day, according to the New York Times. Roddey denied the marriage. It came out during the trial, however, that Roddey was not only a bigamist, having abandoned his wife in Alabama, but an adulterer as well. Shotwell found love letters among her husband's effects.

Eventually, Shotwell was acquitted but did not get her money back. She wrote a book about her experience in 1878, recently discovered, titled A General Betrayal: The Sufferings and Trials of Carlotta Frances Roddey. In the book, Shotwell states that Roddey was eventually charged with defrauding the U.S. government. He fled to London, where he died July 19, 1897. His body was returned to Tuscaloosa, Alabama, for burial.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)
Collier-Overby House, Roddey's post-war residence in Tuscaloosa, on the National Register of Historic Places

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Hood, Stephen M. John Bell Hood: The Rise, Fall, and Resurrection of a Confederate General. El Dorado Hills, CA: Savas Beatie, 2013. .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. .

 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .

External links
 

Confederate States Army generals
People of Alabama in the American Civil War
1826 births
1897 deaths
People from Moulton, Alabama