[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Terrorism in Russia

regime, by a vote of 99 to 0, with 1 abstaining, on 13 October 2022. The European Parliament resolved to discuss the topic in November.

On October 18, parliament of Estonia declares Russia a terrorist state.

On October 25, the Polish senate recognized the Russian government as a terrorist regime.

The Foreign Affairs Committee of the Czech lower house of parliament declared the Russian regime terrorist on November 3, after resolutions condemning large-scale Russian attacks on Ukrainian civilians and critical infrastructure. On November 16, the deputies of the house passed a resolution calling Russia terrorist.

On 21 November the NATO Parliamentary Assembly unanimously passed a resolution declaring Russia a terrorist state and calling for a Special International Tribunal to investigate its crimes, and also approving of various other measures supporting Ukraine in the Russo-Ukrainian War.

On 23 November, the European Parliament declared Russia a state sponsor of terrorism and a state that uses means of terrorism.

The parliament of the Netherlands declared Russia a state sponsor of terrorism on 24 November.

On December 14, 2022, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland recognized the Russian Federation as a state sponsoring terrorism by a vote of 231:2:1. 226 deputies did not take part in the vote.

2023 
On 16 February, the Slovakia's National Council recognized the Russian government as terrorist and Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism, by a vote of 78 to 12, with 7 abstaining.

On 2 April there was an explosion in a Saint Petersburg café.

On 4 July the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly recognized Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism.

International cooperation
In December 2019 President of Russia Vladimir Putin thanked his American counterpart Donald Trump for a tip which allowed the prevention of a terrorist attack in St. Petersburg.

See also

 SR Combat Organization
 Kizlyar raid
 Right-wing terrorism in Russia
 State-sponsored terrorism#Russia
 Russian Federation list of terrorist and extremist organizations

References

Further reading

External links
 Terrorism: A Marxist Perspective, By Dave Holmes
 Over 200 cases against Hizb ut-Tahrir activists opened in Russia
 Khanty-Mansiysk Court confirms Hizb ut-Tahrir activist's sentence
 'Big three' to hold Delhi talks
 Terrorism in Russia – slideshow by Life magazine

 
Russia
Human rights abuses in Russia