[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Evripidis Bakirtzis

onary forces in Athens, he went to Evros, collaborated in the defensive line of the front and was the trainer of the famous Evros Army. Later, with the rank of lieutenant colonel, as Chief of the Artillery in Asvestochori, Thessaloniki, dealt with reorganization and reorganization of the Greek Army.

In October 1923, when the Leonardopoulos-Gargalidis Movement broke out, Bakirtzis, along with other loyal government officials, such as Georgios Kondylis, Stefanos Sarafis, Dimitrios Psarros, etc., were informed in advance that the movements were the situation in their hands, before the manifestation of the movement in the city of Thessaloniki. They then confronted the military forces led by Colonel George Ziras against the city and forced them to surrender. In 1926, as a lieutenant colonel, he was arrested and sentenced to death, as one of the leaders of the military coup of Tzavela-Bakirtzis, but was not executed. In 1928 he returned to the army and in 1930–31, with the rank of colonel, he served as a military attaché in Sofia and Bucharest. There he was honored with the senior Brigadiers of Bulgaria and Romania. He returned to Greece and took over the management of the 2nd Staff Office (Information) of the General Staff. He also served as chief of staff of the Γ Army Corps. In 1935, now a colonel, he took part in the Movement of March 1, 1935. He was arrested and sentenced to death for the second time, but his sentence was eventually commuted to deportation from the army and exile to Agios Efstratios (June 25, 1935). He stayed there for a year. He was later demoted to the rank of ordinary soldier and exiled to Antikythera, where his detention conditions were very bad and dangerous to his health. In 1937, he moved to Athens and the Metaxas government asked him to cooperate with the dictatorship and offered him a high position in the General Staff. He refuses and is allowed to leave Bucharest immediately, without having the right to move from there. In fact, he is deprived of his salary and the money of the Share Fund but fortunately his son-in-law, doctor Alexandros Dimitriadis, had support. In Bucharest he wrote three excellent studies that were first published in the book by Euripides Bakirtzis, published by Epikairotia, under the supervision of his exile detainee, Nikos Margaris. These were The Military Value of Greece, The Countries of the Lower Danube and The New Turkey. Especially for the latter, the Turkish ambassador in Bucharest conveyed the congratulations of his government.

World War II and resistance 
With the declaration of the Greek-Italian War in 1940, Bakirtzis returned to Greece and presented himself at the Military Office of Thessaloniki to join the army with the rank of ordinary soldier, something that was not accepted by the government of Ioannis Metaxas.

Toward the beginning of the war, Bakirtzis joined the Greek resistance and one of his first missions included sabotage of Italian forces in Albania which was intended to garner more widespread support for resistance from the left and the right of Greece. He was also the first military liaison between the British and the Greeks, during the Occupation, he led an operation codenamed Prometheus I. He led a 50-man unit of trained saboteurs under the command of General Alexander Zannas and they were to receive wireless sets to receive instructions from a British SOE agent in Turkey but the Greek ship transporting them was sunk by enemy action. Before this Bakirtzis was chief of staff to General Plastiras who was the Greek military attache in Sofia and Bucharest and the director of military intelligence. Bakirtzis, among a number of other Hellenic Army officers, adopted more socialist ideals after facing persecution from the former Greek government.

On March 10, 1944, the EAM established the PEEA with the goal to counter both the former Greek Government in exile in Cairo and the Greek government which was a collaborationist power for the Axis Powers. During the leadership of Bakirtzis, the PEEA gained significant legitimacy when it was recognized by the National Council (Greek: Εθνικό Συμβούλιο). However it did face issues from a lack of support of prior political leaders.

Alexandros Svolos, a law professor at the University of Athens took over as the head of the PEEA on April 18, 1944, and Bakirtzis took a lower position within the organization.