[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Seafort Saga

st the Captain, and results in an all-out war between the tranny gangs and the UN soldiers. In the process of this war, the UN government uses poison gas, and attempts to use the space laser cannons that were put in place to destroy asteroids and fish, to destroy parts of New York to kill the gangs.

While the gangs are fighting the government, Jared manages to convince them to let him help. He enlists other fellow hackers in an effort to bring down the global economy. PT somehow manages to avoid serious injury while looking for Jared, but in the attacks Jared's father Adam is killed. 

Captain Seafort, reunited with his son, takes a stand against the United Nations government's attempt to kill those of its own people that have used as valueless. In the process, he and his son are nearly killed when they place themselves in a spacecraft, and allow themselves to drift into the line of fire of the orbital laser batteries.

Returning to earth, and realizing that he can no longer stay silent or inactive, Captain Seafort returns to political life and is elected secretary-general of the United Nations.

Patriarch's Hope
Published in 1999, the book is set approximate 10 years after the events of Voices of Hope

Decades after what has since become known as the trans-pop rebellion, Seafort remains unhappy with his position as secretary-general of the United Nations, despite the fact that he feels he can trust no one else to do what he must.

Assisted by jarence branstead, he has attempted to galvanize Earth's industries into completely restoring the Navy to its pre-fish capabilities. Also attempting to respect the rights of the trans-pop community, and also serve as a moral and religious example. Unfortunately the massive industrial boom has led to an increased erosion of the Earth's habitability.

This has led to an upsurge in protests and demonstrations by eco-friendly parties, which Seafort regards with derision. His strict moralistic interpretation of the bible causes him to regard Earth as man's property. Therefore, it is their privilege to do what they will with it, as blessed by Lord God.

During an inspection of naval facilities at devon, several cadets are killed in what appears to be a training accident. But an investigation reveals they have been poisoned, and an Earth first terrorist organization takes credit for the attack. This galvanizes Seafort into taking an even harder stance on any supposed weakening of his policies towards the environment.

While accepting an award for his supposed moral excellence, Seafort has a bout of conscience which moves him to deny the award, citing his moral fallibility in the political revenge he has enjoyed inflicting on his enemies and adversaries. This reluctantly has the opposite effect that he intends, and instead causes the public to Revere him even more.

Well accepting this award Seafort has been enjoying the company of his old friend Derek carr, now head of the government of Hope nation, who has returned to Earth to negotiate trade deals. Also he is enjoying the company of his old friend Alexi tamarov, who has now been appointed as captain of the ship Melbourne. 

Secretary-general Seafort, accompanied by alexi and his wife Arlene, tours the new super ship Galactic. The ship has been built as a massive undertaking, in an effort to demonstrate the power and superiority of the navy and also intended to help promote colonization efforts throughout the Galaxy. The touring of the ship demonstrates to Captain Seafort just how much the Navy has shifted from when he was a boy, with the ship's designed being much more relaxed, Including luxury cabins, and first and second class dining and accommodations.

While engaged in attempting to balance production, and placate the navy, captain Seafort becomes aware of political machinations within the navy. Some are unhappy with the secretary-general's supposed lack of desire to use the Navy as a cudgel to beat the colonies into submission, which goes against Nick's conscience.

At the same time, Seafort comes under pressure from the head of the Earth's religious bodies, known as the patriarchs. They feel the captain needs to crack down on the independence of the colonies, to ensure that Earth remains Paramount in the universe, and that the patriarchs do not lose any income. As he regards the patriarchs as the voice of God on Earth this troubles the captain's conscience. 

During a second meeting in New York with the patriarchs, Seafort is injured in a terrorist attack. A bomb explodes which causes him severe injury, and regretfully kills captain tamarov.

The explosion causes paralysis and Seafort's lower body confining him to a wheelchair. Resenting his immobility, the secretary-general becomes irritable and depressed.