[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Special Action Force

est of Mayor Joson and his 13 bodyguards, who were responsible for the killing of his political rival Mayor Pérez.
 1997 - The RECON COY under PSINSP Willy Cayat was deployed to Davao Del Norte at Mount Diwalwal to restore peace and order and conduct police operation against use of explosive components by miners in their operation of mining gold in Mount Diwalwal.
 1997 to 2000 - The 1SAB under PSUPT Benjamin Magalong figured in numerous special operations such as arrests and raids on high-profile lawless elements and hostage rescue operations in cooperation with Presidential Anti-Organized Crime Task Force (PAOCTF). Its Counter-Terrorist Unit also figured in series of raids against NPA that resulted in the neutralization of some of NPA leaders.
 August 4, 2000 two teams of SAF LRU of PAOCTF Luzon led by PSINSP Edgar Alan Okubo and PSINSP Félix Servita, Jr engaged eight fully armed robbers of the Danny Flores Gang after a hot pursuit operation in Alabang, Muntinlupa resulting in the killing of four suspects and arrest of four others and the recovery of six high powered long firearms and five handguns. One SAF trooper was KIA. 
 July 27, 2003 - SAF EOD experts were deployed to Makati during the Oakwood Mutiny.
 August 25, 2003 - SAF units were deployed in Makati after heavily armed bank robbers attacked the headquarters of Citibank Philippines.
 September 23, 2003 - A joint raid by the SAF, CIDG, Intelligence Group (IG), Traffic Management Group, Intelligence Service of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (ISAFP), Army Intelligence and Security Group (AISG) and Marines assaulted Palar Village in Taguig, netting a bank robbery gang made up of ex-Armed Forces soldiers believed to have been responsible for the earlier Citibank Philippines robbery.
 September 28, 2003 - SAF provided Quick Reaction Forces for protection of US President George W. Bush during his state visit to the country.
 October 2, 2003 - SAF arrested Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist Taofek Refke.
 March 10, 2004 - SAF teams engaged NPA guerrillas in a gunfight alongside soldiers of the Army's 24th Infantry Battalion at Sitio Caarosipan, Barangay Apóstol, San Felipe, Zambales. Eight NPA guerrillas were confirmed killed. A SAF officer was KIA, while three were WIA.
 April 28, 2004 - Arrest of Abu Sayyaf terrorists in the Muslim community in Culiat, Quezon City.
 March 18, 2004 - The SAF Commando Cl-27 composed the 24SAC, 2SAB who were deployed to North Cotabato (Buliok Complex) as requested by Governor Emmanuel Pinol to serve as a peace negotiator between the government and the MILF rebels. They also served as security during the 2004 presidential election in the province.
 May 31, 2004 - SAF protected ballot boxes used in the May 10 general election.
 June 11, 2004 - SAF teams were deployed in a resettlement area in Taguig, after reports of snipers were sent to the PNP.
 June 20, 2004 - A SAF officer was killed when SAF and the Zambales Police Provincial Mobile Group engaged the NPA in a firefight in Zambales.
 July 17, 2004 - A group of phone hackers, consisting of Filipino and foreign nationals, were arrested in a raid conducted by the SAF.
 July 28, 2004 - The SAF provided security for former Abu Sayyaf hostage Gracia Burnham who testified against said terrorist group in a local courthouse.
 September 27, 2004 - SAF teams were deployed in the Cordillera to disarm various Partisan Armed Group (PAG) gunmen in the employ of several local prominent politicians.
 January 30, 2005 - SAF arrested various members of a kidnap-for-ransom gang in Batangas City.
 February 10, 2005 - SAF arrested members of a bank robbery gang during a raid in the City of San Fernando, Pampanga.
 March 15, 2005 - SAF and NCRPO SWAT teams led by PSSUPT Benjamin Magalong raided the Metro Manila Rehabilitation Center of the Bureau of Jail Management and Penology in Camp Bagong Diwa, Taguig City after it was captured by Abu Sayyaf inmates. Among those killed were Alhamser Limbong (alias "Commander Kosovo"), Ghalib Andang (alias "Commander Robot"), Nadzmi Sabdullah (alias "Commander Global"), and Sadit Abdul Ganit Husim (alias "Commander Lando"). For a short time, various human rights group in the Philippines and abroad have accused the SAF of police brutality and were convinced that the PNP really wanted to kill them at the start of the crisis. PNP officials have denied all charges. Various foreign groups abroad (possibly other special ops units) have praised the SAF for bringing a quick end to the 30-hour crisis. This was one of the SAF's publicly known operations to be on the headlines on newspapers and on TV news reports worldwide, especially on CNN. PO1 Abel Arreola was the only SAF operative killed during the attack.
 February 17, 2006 - SAF units were deployed to Southern Leyte as part of a humanitarian contingent of the PNP.
 February 21, 2006 - SAF units patrolled the grounds of Malacañan Palace after an explosion within the palace complex. The explosive was said to have b