[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ralph F. Gates

es from running for office again. However, he still controlled the state party and at the state convention in 1948, he was able to unite the three factions opposing Jenners to deny him the nomination. Jenners, who had a two-hundred vote lead in the first ballot, was outraged and never forgave Gates.

Gates played a key role in the establishment of Chain O'Lakes State Park in Noble County. He promoted the cause of establishing the park even after leaving office. In 1960, when the park was established, Gates spoke at the opening ceremony.

Later life

Party leader

When Gates left office he resumed his duties as chairman of the state party, and also served at different times in the national party as a member of the Republican National Committee. He met with Robert A. Taft in 1952 and was offered the chance to run for Vice President of the United States, but he declined. The same year party leaders tried to nominate him to run for governor again, but he refused. Although he never ran for office again, his support and backing proved critical to Republicans for many years in gaining party nominations. Richard Lugar was among the last men he helped secure the party's Senate nomination for. He continued offering political advice until 1976 when told a reporter that the national party made a mistake in choosing Gerald Ford over Ronald Reagan for the 1976 president nomination, and that Jimmy Carter was "well intentioned, but had no grasp of politics."

Death and legacy

Gates and his wife remained living in their Columbia City home, the same he had purchased in 1919. They also purchased a cottage on Crooked Lake just outside the town where they spent considerable time in the summer. He became an American Civil War enthusiast and collected a large number of books on the subject. After retiring from his law practice he also spent considerable time gardening. He died of natural causes on July 28, 1978. Only a private service was held after his death because of his request for only a simple ceremony where his favorite song, "Onward Christian Soldiers" was played. Indiana State Road 205, which runs from Garrett, through Churubusco and Columbia City, before ending in South Whitley, is called the Ralph F. Gates Memorial Highway.

As a governor, Gates was responsible for helping the state to successfully transition from a war to peace time economy. He is best remembered as an important Republican Party leader, who rebuilt the party following its near collapse after the KKK scandal in the late 1920s, and his continued role in the party after his time as governor.

The Ralph F. Gates Nature Preserve at Crooked Lake near the Whitley - Noble county line was given to ACRES Land Trust, Inc. in 1977 by Phil and Patricia McNagny.

A public dedication of an Indiana state historical marker commemorating Governor Ralph Fesler Gates was held on July 2, 2013, at 1:15 pm on the Whitley County Courthouse north lawn in Columbia City, Indiana.

See also

List of governors of Indiana

References
Notes

Bibliography

External links
Indiana Historical Bureau: Biography and portrait
National Governors Association
Ralph Gates at FindAGrave

1893 births
1978 deaths
Republican Party governors of Indiana
American Presbyterians
University of Michigan Law School alumni
People from Columbia City, Indiana
20th-century American politicians