[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Big Pocono State Park

arbon County)
Jacobsburg Environmental Education Center (Northampton County)
Lehigh Gorge State Park (Carbon and Luzerne Counties)
Nescopeck State Park (Luzerne County)
Promised Land State Park (Pike County)
Swartswood State Park (New Jersey)
Tobyhanna State Park (Monroe and Wayne Counties)

Climate

According to the Trewartha climate classification system, Big Pocono State Park has a Temperate Continental climate (Dc) with warm summers (b), cold winters (o) and year-around precipitation (Dcbo). Dcbo climates are characterized by at least one month having an average mean temperature ≤ , four to seven months with an average mean temperature ≥ , all months with an average mean temperature <  and no significant precipitation difference between seasons. Although most summer days are comfortably humid in Big Pocono State Park, episodes of heat and high humidity can occur with heat index values > . Since 1981, the highest air temperature was  on July 22, 2011, and the highest daily average mean dew point was  on January 8, 2006. July is the peak month for thunderstorm activity which correlates with the average warmest month of the year. The average wettest month is September which correlates with tropical storm remnants during the peak of the Atlantic hurricane season. Since 1981, the wettest calendar day was  on September 30, 2010. During the winter months, the plant hardiness zone is 6a with an average annual extreme minimum air temperature of . Since 1981, the coldest air temperature was  on January 21, 1994. Episodes of extreme cold and wind can occur with wind chill values < . The average snowiest month is January which correlates with the average coldest month of the year. Ice storms and large snowstorms depositing ≥  of snow occur nearly every year, particularly during nor’easters from December through March.

Ecology

According to the A. W. Kuchler U.S. potential natural vegetation types, Big Pocono State Park would have a dominant vegetation type of Northern Hardwood (106) with a dominant vegetation form of Northern hardwood forest (26). The peak spring bloom typically occurs in early-May and peak fall color usually occurs in early-October. The plant hardiness zone is 6a with an average annual extreme minimum air temperature of .

References

External links
  

State parks of Pennsylvania
Pocono Mountains
Protected areas established in 1954
Parks in Monroe County, Pennsylvania
1954 establishments in Pennsylvania
Protected areas of Monroe County, Pennsylvania