[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# European University Institute

this up.

As of 2020/21, the basic grant/salaries (and top-ups) stood as follows:

Masters Programme in Law
Since 1984 the European University Institute has offered law students a one-year programme leading to the degree of Master in Comparative, European and International Law (LL.M. degree level).

Languages
The majority of students and professors are multilingual; all are required to have a good knowledge of English although French and Italian are also regular working languages and the institute is committed to accommodating other languages where possible.

Postdoctoral fellowships
The EUI has several post-doctoral fellowships in the social sciences

Max Weber Postdoctoral Fellowships
The Max Weber Programme is Europe's largest postdoctoral programme in the social sciences and is funded by the European Commission.

Max Weber Fellowships are designed for junior post-docs who would like to pursue an academic career, concentrate on their own research and enhance their academic practice in a multidisciplinary environment. Max Weber Fellowships are for one or two years and are open to candidates who have received a doctorate in the social sciences (economics, law, political science, sociology, history and related fields) within the last five years.

Jean Monnet Fellowships
Through its Jean Monnet Fellowship Programme the Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies offers fellowships to mid- and late-career scholars (while previously the Jean Monnet was a post-doctoral fellowship, it is now available only to those who received their PhD at least five years prior). During their stay at the RSCAS, fellows work on a research topic that fits well in the overall research profile of the RSCAS and participate in the academic life of the centre and of the EUI. Jean Monnet Fellowships have a duration of one or two years and are open to candidates who have received a doctorate more than five years prior.

Fernand Braudel Senior Fellowships
Fernand Braudel Senior Fellowships provide a framework for established academics with an international reputation to pursue their research at the EUI. Fellowships last for up to ten months in one of the EUI's four Departments which in turn invite fellows to participate in departmental activities (seminars, workshops, colloquia, etc.).

Marie Curie Fellowships
The EUI (the departments and the Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies) acts as a host institution for Marie Curie Fellowships which are awarded by the European Commission.

Canon Foundation Fellowships
The Canon Foundation and the EUI jointly award one Canon Foundation Fellowship each year for post-doctoral research at the EUI. The fellowship is open to candidates of Japanese nationality or permanent residents of Japan.

Academy of Finland Fellowships
The Academy of Finland awards fellowships for post-doctoral research at the EUI. A project to be funded shall serve Finnish research and society or international collaboration.

Australian European University Institute Fellowships Association Inc
The Australian European University Institute Fellowships Association Inc awards annually one six-month Postdoctoral Fellowship for the period January–June. The Postdoctoral Fellowship is available to those who have graduated with a PhD qualification within the last five years, and is open only to Australian citizens or residents employed in Australian universities.

Major Events

The State of the Union
The State of the Union is an annual forum for high level reflection on the European Union organised by the EUI since 2011.  The conference acts as a bridge between academia and policy making at the highest level in Europe, bringing together heads of state, EU representatives, academics, policy-makers, business and opinion leaders and civil society representatives to discuss and debate the key challenges and opportunities facing Europe and Europeans each year. Presidents, prime ministers, foreign ministers, as well as presidents of the European Commission and European Parliament have taken part in the event over the years.

Rankings
The EUI is one of the leading social science research institutions in Europe, and with around 1,000 researchers at various levels in their careers also one of the largest graduate schools.

In 2020, the EUI was ranked 31st in the world for Politics and International Studies, 51st in the world for History, and 51st in the world for Law in the QS World University Rankings.

The EUI Political and Social Science department was ranked 1st in Europe and 5th worldwide in the Hix ranking of such departments (which was published in 2004 and covered the period 1998–2002). In November 2009, the same department was included in the Die Zeit 'CHE Excellence Ranking' for political science.

Campus

The European University Institute is seated on the Tuscan hillside overlooking Florence and close to Fiesole. Many of the villas date from the Renaissance period and have been restored along with their landscaped gardens.