[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Warrant officer (United States)

1959.

The last active-duty Air Force chief warrant officer, CWO4 James H. Long, retired in 1980. The last Air Force Reserve chief warrant officer, CWO4 Bob Barrow, retired in 1992. Upon his retirement, Barrow was honorarily promoted to CWO5, the only person in the Air Force ever to hold this grade.

Coast Guard 
Due to the small size and decentralized organizational structure of the Coast Guard, Commissioned Warrant officers often fill command roles. Warrant Officers frequently serve as Commanding Officers of Coast Guard Stations and patrol boats but also fill a variety of billets as specialists and supervisors in other technical areas, and serve as special agents in the Coast Guard Investigative Service. They wear insignia essentially like that of their Navy counterparts, but with the USCG shield between the rank insignia and the specialty mark, as Coast Guard commissioned officers do with their rank insignia. Like their Navy counterparts, candidates for the rank of chief warrant officer must typically be serving in the chief petty officer grades (E-7 through E-9); however, the Coast Guard also permits selection of first class petty officers (E-6) who are chief petty officer selectees and who are in the top 50% on their advancement list to E-7. The Coast Guard does not use the rank of warrant officer (WO-1). Although authorized in 1994, the Coast Guard has not promoted any of its warrant officers to CWO5.

Public Health Service Commissioned Corps 
,  and  of the U.S. Code of law establishes the use of warrant officers (W-1 to W-4) with specific specialties to the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps for the purpose of providing support to the health and delivery systems maintained by the service; however, the grades have never been used in Public Health Service history to date.

United States Maritime Service 
The U.S. Maritime Service (USMS), established at 46 U.S. Code § 51701, falls under the authority of the Maritime Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation and is authorized to appoint warrant officers, although none have been so appointed. In accordance with the law, the USMS rank structure must be the same as that of the U.S. Coast Guard, while uniforms worn are those of the U.S. Navy, with distinctive USMS insignia and devices.

Notable warrant officers 

 CWO2/Chief Carpenter John Arnold Austin, USN
 FO Gene Autry, USAAF (Equivalent of WO1). (Flew C-109 in C-B-I, TV and Radio star)
 WO1 Floyd Bennett, USN (Medal of Honor)
 FO Jackie Coogan, USAAF (Equivalent of WO1) (Distinguished Flying Cross) (Glider Pilot in C-B-I, TV and Movie Star)
 CW5 David F. Cooper, USA (Distinguished Service Cross)
 CW4 Michael Durant, USA (Black Hawk Down)
 MAJ (was CW3) Frederick Edgar Ferguson, USA (Medal of Honor)
 CWO4 John W. Frederick, Jr., USMC (Navy Cross)
 James W. Hall, III, USA (convicted of espionage and stripped of rank)
 CW4 Thomas J. Hennen, USA (Astronaut)
 WO1 Olive Hoskins USA (the first female warrant officer)
 CW4 Oscar G. Johnson, USA (Medal of Honor)
 WO1 John W. Lang, USN (Navy Cross)
 WO1 Robert Mason, USA (best-selling author)
 CW2 Jason W. Myers, USA (Distinguished Service Cross)
 CW4 Michael J. Novosel, USA (Medal of Honor)
 CW5 Ralph E. Rigby, USA (last continuously serving draftee on active duty in the U.S. Army, retired in 2014)
 CW2 Louis R. Rocco, USA (Medal of Honor)
 Captain (was WO Machinist) Donald K. Ross, USN, awarded the first Medal of Honor of World War II
 MAJ (was WO1) Hugh Thompson, Jr., USA (Soldier's Medal recipient)
 CW3 Brad R. Torgersen, USAR, multi-award-winning science fiction author
 WO1 Gore Vidal USA
 John Anthony Walker, Jr., USN (convicted of espionage and stripped of rank)
 CWO4 Henry Wildfang, USMC (Gray Eagle Award recipient for longest-serving naval aviator; only chief warrant officer in the history of U.S. Naval Aviation so honored)
 CWO4 Hershel W. Williams, USMC (Medal of Honor)
 Brig Gen Chuck Yeager, USAF (World War II USAAF flight officer, equivalent to WO-1)
 CW4 Keith Yoakum, USA (Distinguished Service Cross)
 CW3 Ronald D. Young Jr., USA (POW, game show contestant)

See also 
 Aviation Cadet Training Program (USAAF)
 List of comparative military ranks
 Ranks and insignia of NATO armies officers
 List of United States Navy ratings
 List of United States Coast Guard ratings
 Army Staff Senior Warrant Officer

Notes

References

Further reading 
 United States Congressional Budget Office study: "The Warrant Officer Ranks: Adding Flexibility to Military Personnel Management" 
 direct link to the PDF