[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

Downtown Oakland into North Berkeley, was renamed Martin Luther King, Jr. Way in 1983-84. Berkeley made the change by resolution of the city council on November 8, 1983.  The street had once represented the dividing line between neighborhoods where minorities could and could not live or buy property. The street begins shortly before Embarcadero West in Oakland near the city's port, and continues through Berkeley until crossing over Codornices Creek, where it becomes The Alameda.
 Riverside: In November 1993, the Riverside City Council voted to rename a portion of Pennsylvania Avenue and Box Springs Boulevard to Martin Luther King Boulevard.  It runs from Kansas Avenue to Interstate 215.
 Sacramento: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard travels from Broadway south to Franklin Boulevard. It is crossed by SR 99.  It was originally named Sacramento Boulevard.
 San Diego:
 Market Street was briefly renamed Martin Luther King Jr. Way in 1986, before reverting to its previous name later.
 In 1989, a portion of SR 94 was renamed the Martin Luther King Jr. Freeway, designated between I-5 and SR 125.
 In 2010 members of the Broadway Heights community in San Diego renamed Weston Street after King.  Martin Luther King Jr. Way is a one-block street connecting Charlene and Tiffin avenues.
 San Francisco: Martin Luther King Drive is one of two roads that run virtually the entire length of San Francisco's famous Golden Gate Park—the other is John F. Kennedy Drive. It was renamed from South Drive.
 Stockton: Martin Luther King Drive, major east–west corridor. It runs from I-5 on the west to CA-99 on the east. West of I-5, it is still known by its former name, Charter Way. Charter Way got its name in honor of the charter of the City of Stockton. Before the street was Charter Way, the street was known as South Street.

Colorado
 Colorado Springs: A freeway segment of US Route 24 is named Martin Luther King Jr. Bypass.
 Denver and Aurora: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is a major street running through the eastern part of Denver, terminating on the west at Downing Street. It is a divided parkway that was formerly East 32nd Avenue. East of Quebec Street the street shifts slightly southward into the alignment of the former East 30th Avenue, passing through the Central Park neighborhood. At its eastern terminus, it follows the south edge of Bluff Lake Nature Park and then turns south into the alignment of East 26th Avenue, straddling the border between Denver and Aurora on its final two blocks before reaching its eastern terminus at Peoria Street.

Connecticut
 New Britain: Martin Luther King Drive is the name for the section of Connecticut Route 71 between Main Street and Stanley Street.
 New Haven: Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, formerly North Frontage Road, is a westward one-way main entrance into New Haven, home of Yale University. The name was successfully dedicated in 2011 through continuous efforts by New Haven's Muslim alderman Yusuf Shah. Exits off of I-91 and I-95 take drivers onto the boulevard into downtown New Haven, which then terminates at West River Memorial Park. The road is also designated as Connecticut Route 34.
 Norwalk: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive is located in South Norwalk.  It is one of the busiest streets in the area and many popular places are located on it, notably the South Norwalk train station.

Delaware
 Dover: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard begins at Federal Street as a one-way pair that passes Delaware Legislative Hall before becoming a four-lane divided highway that crosses the St. Jones River and heads east to intersect US 13 before ending at Bay Road a short distance later, where the road becomes South Little Creek Road. On January 19, 2013, the city of Dover renamed Court Street, Duke of York Street, and William Penn Street near Delaware Legislative Hall to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. Originally Delaware Route 8 (Division Street) was to be renamed Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, but merchants opposed.
 Lewes: West Fourth Street is co-signed as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Way. On February 28, 2020, the honorific street signs were unveiled in a ceremony.
 Wilmington: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard connects Lancaster Avenue to Front Street, traveling from I-95 to the Wilmington Amtrak Station at US 13 Business. It provides a gateway for the New Castle County suburbs to Wilmington's waterfront, downtown, and the transit hubs from I-95. Eastbound (inbound) lanes connect with Lancaster Avenue and form part of eastbound Delaware Route 48 (with the westbound direction of the route along Second Street), and are therefore able to draw from both exit 6 off of I-95, and the surrounding urban neighborhoods of Wilmington that lie west of downtown. Westbound (outbound) lanes of MLK Jr. Boulevard terminate at, and merge directly with I-95, providing a direct link between city and highway only. Wilmington Boulevard was renamed Martin Luther King Boulevard in 1989.