[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Israel–Turkey relations

ter Recep Tayyip Erdoğan stated in June 2012: "We do not need Israeli tourists. We have successfully filled their places".

Still, tourism to Antalya rose by more than 20% from September 2010 to September 2011, and the number of Israeli visitors to Istanbul rose 13%, still well below previous peaks.

Turkish Airlines dropped the number of weekly flights to Israel by about half in 2010. In 2011, Turkish charter airlines began to cut back weekly flights on routes to and from Israel against the backdrop of the crisis in relations between the two counties and the decline in Israelis' Turkey holidays. It also emerged that El Al Israel Airlines had contingency plans that would address the possibility that Turkey would bar the Israeli carrier from overflying Turkish territory. However, it was announced by the Israeli Airports Authority that in 2013 and 2014 Turkish Airlines flew more passengers to and from Israel than any other foreign airline.

Disaster relief efforts 
 
After the 1999 Izmit earthquake, Israel assisted in search and rescue efforts and set up makeshift hospitals. The Israeli team included hundreds of personnel from the IDF SAR team, paramedics, surgeons and administrative personnel. The team was one of the largest international teams to assist in the catastrophe (which claimed more than 17,000 lives) and remained active for weeks. One of the iconic images of the catastrophe was an "Israeli rescue dog with a red Star of David sniffing through debris in the devastated port city of Gölcük".

During the Mount Carmel forest fire in 2010, Turkey was one of the first nations to send aid to Israel. Turkey sent two firefighting aircraft, which started to extinguish fire in the early hours of 3 December.

Following the 2011 Van earthquake, Israel offered to provide prefabricated housing and tents in response to Turkish requests for foreign aid. Israel airlifted mobile homes to the devastated region.

2023 Turkey–Syria earthquake 

In the wake of the 2023 Turkey–Syria earthquake, Israel provided significant humanitarian aid and emerged as one of the most vital and prominent partners of the Turkish government in their search and rescue attempts and efforts to recover and rebuild in the aftermath of the large tremors which devastated Southern Turkey. Israel previously assisted Turkey with search and rescue efforts in the aftermath of the 2011 Van earthquakes and 1999 İzmit earthquake and has deployed more than 430 search and rescue, disaster relief and humanitarian aid workers and sent more than 15 cargo planes with hundreds of tons of humanitarian aid and set up a field hospital, as of 8 February, mainly to the areas of Adana and Gaziantep. Of these, 230 were IDF medics operating an Israeli field hospital in Gaziantep, 167 were from an elite search and rescue unit of Israel Defense Force officers from the Home Front Command which has assisted 31 countries and has extensive experience in conducting search and rescue operations in the aftermath of natural disasters and war both in Israel and abroad, and most recently assisting in Ukraine during the current war and during the Surfside building collapse in the United States, and 2017 Puebla earthquake in Mexico. The first delegation organized by the IDF consisted of 17 was sent on 6 February with a larger 150 member delegation sent by the IDF the next morning. A third delegation consisting of delegation of dozens of Israeli doctors, medics, rescue operators and psychotrauma specialists along with 10 tons of equipment and humanitarian aid was sent by United Hatzalah, an Israeli volunteer-based emergency medical services NGO on the afternoon of 7 February. A fourth delegation from IsraAID including trauma experts and others brought with them water purification systems to assist Turks needing clean water in the aftermath. IsraAID planned to assess the needs on the ground to determine what other help would be needed going forward, according to an IsraAID member. The Israeli government sent over 30 tons of humanitarian equipment to carry out rescue missions in Turkey, as of 7 February, and was planning on sending a second flight of humanitarian aid and medicine, according to a spokesperson for the Israeli Embassy in Washington. Israeli President Isaac Herzog reached out to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to offer his condolences on behalf of the people of Israel. The establishment of an Israeli field hospital in Gaziantep was approved by Defencs Minister Yoav Gallant. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said received a request through Russian interlocutors to send aid to Syria and assist in search and rescue operations there even though the two nations are technically in a state of war and do not have relations. Israel has plans to send aid to Syria, including humanitarian aid, medication, blankets, and tents. In contrast to the assistance provided by Israel to Turkey, any assistance provided to Syria by the Israeli government would not involve the military, accordin