[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Acme Fresh Market

lled.

In 2014, Acme opened a brand new store in Green, Ohio. The 68,800 square foot store is the first new Acme facility to be built since 1990.

Albrecht, Inc., Acme's realtor, owns land in Medina, Ohio, and has plans for a five-building shopping center anchored by a 68,000 square-foot Acme store.

Fuel Rewards
In March 2009, Acme Fresh Market teamed with local Circle K stores to offer gasoline discounts. The program first launched at the Parma location, and the rest of the chain followed in May 2009. Shoppers earn rewards for buying select products throughout the store. The rewards are in a dollar and cent amounts off the total gasoline bill (rather than cents off per gallon). Along with the Acme Fresh Market Savings card, shoppers carry a Fuel Rewards card, which is used at the pump to redeem the credits earned. Acme #14 no longer has the Fuel Rewards system as of 2019.

Walk-in clinic
In 2006, several stores introduced QuickClinics. These small clinics offered patients exams and healthcare with a nurse practitioner. Two years later, ownership of the clinics switched to Akron General.

The clinics were shut down in 2010, before changing hands and reopening one year later under the "ExpressCare Clinic" brand. Currently, the clinics are located at Acme No. 2, 14, and 17.

Alcohol sales
Acme stores have a wide variety of wine and beer. Seven locations also have State Liquor licenses. In 2011, Acme started the "Mix-a-Six" program in the beer aisle. This is an empty six-pack carrier that customers can fill with six bottles from a selection of craft beers. Later that same year, Acme introduced Growler stations at some of its stores. These stations feature several craft beers on tap, which are dispensed into customer-purchased Acme beer jugs.

Children Services
Acme's mascots, Buck the Dog, and his "girlfriend" Buffy, frequently visit the stores and local events. Store managers hand out Kid Dollars, featuring Buck's picture, to the young shoppers. The stores often put on events at holidays for children, including Breakfast with Santa Claus and Breakfast with the Easter Bunny. Acme also offers store tours to children.

Photos

References

External links 
 

Supermarkets of the United States
Companies based in Akron, Ohio
Retail companies established in 1891
Privately held companies based in Ohio
Summit County, Ohio
1891 establishments in Ohio