[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mohammad Munaf

Mohammed Munaf (, full name Mohammad Munaf Mohammad al-Amin, born November 29, 1952) is an Iraqi–American terrorist convicted in 2008 for his role in the March 2005 kidnapping of three Romanian journalists in Iraq. He was convicted of terrorism charges in Romania and served 7 out of the 10 years of his sentence and was freed on July 6, 2022. In addition to his conviction in Romania, he was sentenced to death by an Iraqi court in October 2006 for his involvement in the kidnapping of the Romanian journalists in 2005, but his conviction was vacated on technical grounds by the Iraqi Court of Cassation on February 29, 2008, and remanded to the lower court for retrial. His habeas corpus petition to prevent his transfer to the Iraqi government was heard by the U.S. Supreme Court, which denied certiorari; the U.S. Court of Appeals ruling in Munaf v. Geren, which rejected Munaf's claims and ruled that his transfer to Iraqi custody was legally valid, was therefore allowed to stand.

Early life
A native of Iraq, Munaf emigrated to Romania and then to the United States, becoming a naturalized U.S. citizen in 1990. He then settled in Romania with his wife and three children until 2004.

Kidnapping
In March 2005, Munaf, traveled to Iraq alongside three Romanian journalists, Marie Jeanne Ion, 32, Sorin Mişcoci, 30, and Ovidiu Ohanesian, 37, to act as their guide and translator. Shortly thereafter, all four were taken hostage when their vehicle was blocked in by several armed men. The four hostages were held for approximately 55 days, during which time a video was recorded and broadcast with the journalists pleading for Romania to pull its troops out of Iraq. On May 22, 2005, their captors freed the victims. The three Romanian journalists were freed, but Munaf was detained in MNF-I custody due to his suspected involvement in the kidnapping plan.

Charges in Romania
On May 27, 2005, formal charges were brought against Munaf by Romania for "initiating, funding and coordinating the March 28 kidnapping." On April 24, 2008, Realitatea TV reported that the Bucharest Appeals Court sentenced Munaf to 10 years in prison, and 2,000,000 euros in penalties to each kidnap victim. Munaf's business partner Omar Hayssam was sentenced in absentia to 20 years in prison after a Romanian court found him guilty of masterminding the kidnapping.

Charges in Iraq
In Iraq, Munaf and his five co-conspirators were tried, convicted, and sentenced at the Central Criminal Court of Iraq (CCCI) in Baghdad, of which Romania says it was not informed. His five co-conspirators were his brother, Yusuf Munaf Mohammad al-Amin; Salam Hikmat Mohammad Farhan al-Qassir; 'Abd al-Jabbar 'Abbas Jasim al-Salman; 'Omar Jasim Mohammad 'Ali al-Salman; and Ibrahim Yassin Kadhim Hussain al-Jibouri. Prior to the actual trial, Munaf and his five co-conspirators had confessed their involvement in the kidnapping plot at several investigative hearings before an Investigative Hearing Judge. At the trial, a panel of three trial judges at CCCI found Munaf and his co-conspirators guilty under part G, D and H of Article 421 of the Iraqi Penal Code and sentenced all six to death. At the trial, Munaf and his co-conspirators recanted their previous confessions and denied any involvement in the kidnapping plan. Because a death penalty was imposed by the Iraqi judges, Munaf's case was automatically appealed to the Iraqi Court of Cassation.

Defense claims of an unfair trial
Munaf was represented at his trial at CCCI by Badie Arrief Izzat, an Iraqi attorney. Izzat claimed that the trial was unfair because Munaf was not allowed to bring or question any witnesses at the trial. In addition, Izzat claimed that the judge was ready to dismiss the case of his client, but that shortly after two U.S. military officials privately spoke with the judge the death penalty verdict was handed down. Munaf's defense team also claimed that his confession was produced under torture and that their client was nothing more than a captured hostage during the kidnapping episode. These allegations were set forth in an unsworn declaration in writing under penalty of perjury submitted to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia from Sean Riordan, then a third year law student at UCLA School of Law who was working as an intern at the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law. The U.S. Government provided rebuttals to these allegations in several sworn declarations filed with the court during the U.S. proceedings.