[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bannister Federal Complex

Energy Commission and building nonnuclear components for nuclear weapons. This portion of the complex became known as the Kansas City Plant. The Kansas City Plant occupied the greatest portion of the complex, and in 1958 Westinghouse moved out and Bendix expanded operations at the Kansas City Plant.

The Kansas City Plant portion of the Bannister Federal Complex, which was operated and managed by Honeywell Federal Manufacturing & Technologies, LLC for the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), provided high-tech production services to government agencies. As one of the most secure production facilities in the country, the plant produced nonnuclear mechanical, electronic and engineered material components for U.S. national defense systems, such as high-energy laser ignition systems, microwave hybrid microcircuit production, and miniature electromechanical devices. The plant also provided technical services such as metallurgical/mechanical analysis, analytical chemistry, environmental testing, nondestructive testing, computer-based training, simulations and analysis, and technical certification. The nonnuclear components produced at the Kansas City Plant comprise 85 percent of the parts manufactured within the nuclear weapons complex, as well as 85 percent of the components that constitute a nuclear weapon. The Kansas City Plant was the NNSA's highest rated production facility As of fiscal year 2007, the Kansas City Plant had 2,711 employees. Gross operating cost for KCP in FY07 was $501 million.

The Internal Revenue Service once occupied  in two buildings of the complex, but the IRS moved into a new facility near Union Station in October 2006, taking about 2,500 jobs out of the Bannister complex. The National Archives and Records Administration, which occupied  of space at the complex, began operating in a new location, also near Union Station on Memorial Day 2009. The Defense Finance and Accounting Service was also removed from the complex, leaving about  vacant.

GSA relocated its regional office operations to 2300 Main Street, near Union Station, in 2015.

References

External links

Buildings and structures in Kansas City, Missouri
Buildings of the United States government
General Services Administration
United States Department of Energy
Nuclear weapons infrastructure of the United States
Government buildings in Missouri
Historic American Engineering Record in Missouri
National Register of Historic Places in Kansas City, Missouri
1942 establishments in Missouri
Government buildings completed in 1942