[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ahmed Sofa

Intellectual Graveyard.

Though Sofa never married, he had relationships with several women; among them, his relationships with Shamim Sikder and Suraya Khanam are notable. These relationships were the basis of Sofa's novel, Ardhek Nari Ardhek Ishvari (Half Women Half Goddess, 1995).

Writing career

Non-fictions
Marked by "a rare brilliance of genius" and revealing insight, Sofa's non-fiction writings deals with history, sociological issues, contemporary politics, literary and cultural critiques, etc. Sofa's Bangali Musalmaner Man (The Mind of the Bengali Muslims, 1981) contains nine essays written over twelve years from 1969 to 1980. "Rabindranather Sanskriti-Sadhana" was first published in Kanthaswar in 1969 and "Banglar Chitra Oitihya: Sultaner Sadhana" was first published in Mulabhumi in 1980. In the eponymous essay "Bangali Musalmaner Man" first published in Monthly Samakal in 1976, Sofa explored the historical formation of Bengali Muslims' identity across the millennium. The essay considerably changed the academic perception of Bengali Muslims' identity and the subsequent scholarship about the issue. Upon publication, it polarized critics' opinion, some welcoming and others condemning the work. Sofa attributed the causes of the backwardness of Bengali Muslims to the detachment of the ruling class from the mass people.

In another essay titled "On the Issue of Bangladesh's Upper Class and a Social Revolution" (1992), Sofa made a similar point in the present context that the nexus of urban elites had zero ties with the large swathes of poor and struggling people across the country. They feign to feel more foreign here than foreigners themselves. They aspire to identify with a western cultural existence which has no roots in the realities of the millions in this country.” Sofa attributed the causes of the religious/secular dichotomies to the absence of a concerted effort for dialogue from the elites. Sofa opined that people in general are not fanatic at all, but the elites' growing distance from the mass people and the continued economic and political deprivation of the majority of Bengali Muslims created a treacherous situation muddled by angst and desperation which may be easily co-opted by international extremist institutions.

In Buddhibrittir Natun Binyas (A New Mode of Intellectualism, 1972), Sofa mapped the intellectual landscape of Bangladesh delineating general opportunistic tendencies of the intellectuals, and their collaboration with the Establishment before and after the liberation of the country. Sofa condemned "the intellectuals who live by their wits, play the intellectuals, and do everything for pure selfish reasons." Sofa reminded the intellectuals of their true responsibility in the newly independent country and warned about the grim future of fascism unless they performed their responsibility properly. Though today Buddhibrittir Natun Binyas is highly acclaimed for its prophetic insight into the future political and cultural prospect of Bangladesh, Badruddin Umar commented that Sofa left the question of class unexplored. Jagrata Bangladesh (Watchful Bangladesh, 1971), Bangladesher Rajnoitik Jatilata (Political Complications in Bangladesh, 1977) explore political crises before and after the liberation of Bangladesh.

Fictions
As a pioneering novelist of Bangladesh, Sofa brought fresh air both in forms and contents. Sofa's novels and stories were often based on his personal experience and observation. Critics appreciated his portrayal of a society yet to overcome feudal and colonial residual in its social and political matrix, a society where common people's lives are crippled with class struggle and limited opportunities of empowerment. Akhtaruzzaman Elias commented that Sofa mastered the craft of story-telling in his early youth.

Surya Tumi Sathi (Sun, You Are My Companion, 1967) was Sofa's first novel and first book as well. He wrote it at the age of 24. The novel has been called "a heart-warming tale of communal harmony" in a country ridden by communal conflicts and violence. The central conflict of the plot pivots around Hashim whose father got converted into Islam from Hinduism. Hashim's grandmother rises above the orthodox rituals and thoughts of her society by taking responsibility for Hashim's newly born baby.

Omkar (The Om, 1975) recounts the transformation of a mute girl, and how she gets to speak in parallel with the transformation of a community into a nation. The novel delineates the sociopolitical condition of the society as well as the sociofamilial environment very minutely.

In Ekjan Ali Kenaner Utthan Patan (The Rise and Fall of an Ali Kenan, 1988), Sofa created an existentialist character Ali Kenan in a backdrop of Mazar culture in Bangladesh. The political scenes, from Ayub Khan to Sheikh Mujib, are explored from the viewpoint of the people living on the fringe of the society. Salimullah Khan viewed Ali Kenan as a metaphor for Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.