[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blockade of Wonsan

s and several near misses and successfully rescued a downed pilot from  with a motor boat, while he was adrift in a mine field. The boat officer of the boat received a Bronze Star for the rescue. Ozbourn eventually returned to San Diego in April 1951 for repairs and later sailed back to North Korea.

On February 24, the undefended island of Sindo-ri, in Wonsan Harbor, was captured by South Korean marines supported by two American destroyers and two frigates. Wonsan shore batteries also dueled with UN warships on March 3, but there were no recorded hits. The battleship  participated in her first shore bombardment mission of the war on May 20, 1951. While patrolling off Wonsan, North Korean batteries opened fire and she was struck by one shell. Slightly damaged, she sustained one man killed and two wounded, her only casualties during the war. Another shot was a near miss and passed over New Jersey from aft to port. She then responded by bombarding the enemy position until they were silenced. The type of warfare experienced at Wonsan would last throughout the war.

Operation Fireball
Operation Fireball was the code name for a bombardment of the Wonsan area from May through September. It involved the joint deployment of naval and aerial assets from the 5th Air Force which caused heavy damage to the North Koreans. On the night of May 21 and May 22, during the height of the fighting, two American LSMRs, supported by light cruisers and destroyers, fired 4,903 rockets in thirty-five minutes, further damaging the defenses of the city. UN carrier aircraft were used to fire flares while the warships focused on gunnery.

It was the first time LSMRs would be deployed in the siege of Wonsan and over time would cause heavy casualties to the North Korean garrison. Between June and September the LSMRs would discharge a total of 12,924 5-inch rockets. During the operation, the destroyer  was slightly damaged while engaging a battery, she sustained eight casualties in the action.

Action off Rei-To
On May 24, the UN station ship at Wonsan detected several small craft southeast of Rei-To Island. In a one sided night engagement, the light cruiser  and the destroyer USS Brinkley Bass used radar to direct their fire and broke the enemy formation. Four sampans were recovered the following day along with the bodies of eleven enemies, one other wounded North Korean was taken prisoner and the sampans were found to have been converted to minelayers, with four M-26 mines each.

USS Walke incident
 was a destroyer, under Captain Marshall Thompson, of Task Force 77 (TF-77) which was by now assigned to naval operations in the Wonsan area. On June 12, 1951, Walke was about 60 miles off the coast of North Korea, at position , when she was struck either by a torpedo or a floating sea mine which had separated from a field. The resulting explosion severely damaged Walkes hull on her port side and 26 men were killed and 40 others wounded. Many of the casualties were blown over the side and into the water when the explosion occurred and it took a long time before all of them could be recovered. The event was the deadliest suffered by the US Navy during the Korean War.

Shortly thereafter, sailors on the nearby destroyers  and  spotted an oil slick off of Walkes starboard side so they began dropping depth charges on what they reported as being two submarines. The chase was eventually discontinued and the damage to Walke was temporarily repaired and she made for Japan. A later investigation of the incident recovered a small metal disk from the damaged ship and when analyzed it was concluded to have been part of a torpedo detonator. Walke was later repaired and returned to Korean waters the following year.

Battle of the Buzz Saw
The Battle of the Buzz Saw, as United States Navy personnel called it, was North Korea's response to the UN's attacks on Wonsan. After causing heavy damage to North Korean forces within the previous months, the situation escalated as the communists started utilizing new weapons to lift the blockade. On July 6, 1951, the United States launched another naval bombardment of the area, causing high casualties and tempting the North Koreans to retaliate with an especially heavy bombardment on July 17, 1951.

For four and a half hours the destroyers ,  and  engaged the batteries at Wonsan, firing 2,336 rounds of 5-inch shells. The North Koreans offered heavy resistance, and over 500 splashes were counted, but there was no serious damage to the American vessels. The next day  engaged the batteries and received four near misses, wounding four men aboard the ship.

Operation Kickoff