[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cypress Hills National Cemetery

nd Division AEF Monument (in front of rostrum).

 The Eagle Monument (Cypress Hills Section 2, The Mount of Victory). This unique hand-crafted monument of fieldstones was created by cemetery laborers around 1934. An American eagle, carved in stone was placed atop the stone pyramid.

Notable burials 

 There are 24 Medal of Honor recipients interred at Cypress Hills
 Marine Sergeant John Mapes Adams, for action during the Boxer Rebellion
 Coxswain John Cooper, aka John Laver Mather, two time recipient. The first for action on board USS Brooklyn during the Battle of Mobile Bay, and the second a year later while serving on Rear Admiral Henry K. Thatcher's staff in Mobile, Alabama
 Army Sergeant Wilbur E. Colyer, for action at the Battle of Verdun during World War I
 Marine Sergeant Major Daniel Joseph Daly, two time Medal of Honor recipient. The first for action in the Boxer Rebellion, and the second for action in Haiti in 1915
 Marine Private James Dougherty, for action aboard USS Carondelet (second ship by that name) in Korea in 1871
 Army Private Christopher Freemeyer, for action in Montana Territory during the Indian Wars
 Army Sergeant Major Frederick W. Gerber, for 32 years of service to the US Army during the Indian Wars
 Army Sergeant Patrick Golden, for action in the Arizona Territory during the Indian Wars
 Army First Sergeant Edward P. Grimes, for action in Colorado Territory during the Indian Wars
 Army Sergeant Bernhard Jetter, for action during the Indian Wars
 Chief Watertender Johannes J. Johannessen, for peace time service aboard USS Iowa
 Quartermaster Edward S. Martin, for action at the Battle of Mobile Bay during the Civil War
 Lieutenant Mons Monssen, for peace time service aboard USS Missouri
 Army Sergeant John Nihill, for action in Arizona Territory during the Indian Wars
 Quartermaster Third Class Anton Olsen, for action aboard USS Marblehead during the Spanish–American War
 Army Private Henry Rodenburg, for action in Montana Territory during the Indian Wars
 Army Sergeant Valentine Rossbach, for action at the Battle of Spotsylvania Court House during the Civil War
 Army Private John Schiller, for action at the Battle of Chaffin's Farm during the Civil War
 Chief Watertender Eugene P. Smith, for peace time service aboard USS Decatur
 Gunner's Mate First Class Wilhelm Smith, for peace time service aboard USS New York
 Marine Gunnery Sergeant Peter Stewart, for action during the Boxer Rebellion
 Army Private James W. Webb, for action at the Second Battle of Bull Run during the Civil War
 Army First Sergeant Henry Wilkens, for action in Montana Territory during the Indian Wars
 Seaman Louis Williams, a.k.a. Ludwig Andreas Olsen, two time recipient. Both medals were for peace time service aboard USS Lackawanna
 Other notable interments
 Hiram Cronk, soldier with the New York Volunteers, the last surviving veteran of the War of 1812 as of the date of his death in 1905
 General Thomas W. Egan, 40th New York Volunteer Infantry Regiment, Civil War
 Brevet Brigadier General William Gates, veteran of the War of 1812, Seminole War, Mexican War and Civil War
 William "Wild Bill" Lovett, leader of the White Hand Gang, veteran of World War I
 Colonel Benjamin Kendrick Pierce, veteran of the War of 1812, Second Seminole War, and Mexican–American War, and brother of President Franklin Pierce

Gallery

References

External links 

 National Park Service
 National Cemetery Administration
 Cypress Hills National Cemetery
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Cemeteries in Brooklyn
United States national cemeteries
Cemeteries on the National Register of Historic Places in New York City
Cypress Hills, Brooklyn
Historic American Landscapes Survey in New York (state)
National Register of Historic Places in Brooklyn
Commonwealth War Graves Commission cemeteries in the United States
1862 establishments in New York (state)
Cemeteries established in the 1860s