[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ron Unz

s a platform to anti-Semites."

In 2017, The Unz Review received public attention when former CIA operative Valerie Plame was criticized after tweeting an article by a columnist, counter-terrorism specialist Philip Giraldi, titled "America's Jews Are Driving America's Wars" published in the webzine.

Relation to anti-Semitism, Holocaust denial, homosexuality research, etc.
The ADL and others criticized Unz for a $600,000 grant for research in evolutionary biology to Gregory Cochran, a professor who argued that homosexuality may be caused by a "gay germ." Ralph Nader, while running with Unz for Harvard board of overseers called him "a very nuanced guy. He should not be stereotyped as a lot of the world of identity politics does."
  
The Unz Foundation, of which he is president, has donated to individuals and organizations which are alleged by the ADL to have published or expressed opinions that are antisemitic or, in the case of Norman Finkelstein, are anti-Israel. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, it gave $108,000 to Paul Craig Roberts, $74,000 to Philip Giraldi, $75,000 to Finkelstein, $80,000 to CounterPunch and $60,000 to Philip Weiss, co-editor of the Mondoweiss website. In addition, the Unz Foundation has given grants to Alison Weir, founder of If Americans Knew. He has donated tens of thousands of dollars to VDARE, which he admits is a "quasi-white nationalist" website, but has said "they write interesting things".

Since their 2014 article, the ADL commented in October 2018 that Unz "has embraced hardcore anti-Semitism", "denied the Holocaust", and "endorsed the claim that Jews consume the blood of non-Jews", referring to blood libel. In July 2018, in articles for The Unz Review, he wrote about the claims in the Czarist forgery The Protocols of the Elders of Zion and Henry Ford's The International Jew. Ford's work, a series of antisemitic pamphlets published in the 1920s, appeared to Unz to be "quite plausible and factually-oriented, even sometimes overly cautious in their presentation." He partly accepted the standard consensus on the Protocols but believes they were assembled by "someone who was generally familiar with the secretive machinations of elite international Jews against the existing governments... who drafted the document to outline his view of their strategic plans."

In August 2018, Unz made use of Holocaust denial arguments and wrote, "I think it far more likely than not that the standard Holocaust narrative is at least substantially false, and quite possibly, almost entirely so." That same year, The Unz Review published material written by Holocaust denier Kevin Barrett, while Unz himself defended David Irving, who lost his libel case against Deborah Lipstadt. Unz also implied that Mossad was involved in the murders of President John F. Kennedy and his brother Robert. Writing about the 2001 September 11 attacks in a September 2018 article for his Review, Unz stated: "the vast weight of the evidence clearly points in a single direction, implicating Israel and its Mossad intelligence service, with the case being overwhelmingly strong in motive, means, and opportunity.”

Collection of essays
In 2016, Unz self-published The Myth of American Meritocracy and Other Essays, a hardcover collection of most of his writings, including nearly all of his print articles.

References

Further reading

External links

The Unz Review

1961 births
Living people
American computer businesspeople
20th-century American Jews
California Republicans
English-only movement
American white supremacists
Harvard College alumni
People from Greater Los Angeles
Stanford University alumni
Writers from Palo Alto, California
North Hollywood High School alumni
American people of Ukrainian-Jewish descent
21st-century American Jews
American political activists
Candidates in the 1994 United States elections
Candidates in the 2016 United States Senate elections
American Holocaust deniers
Blood libel