[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Court of Cassation (Belgium)

ppeals in cassation against judgments and rulings in civil and commercial cases;
 The second chamber hears appeals in cassation against judgments and rulings in criminal cases;
 The third chamber hears appeals in cassation against judgments and rulings in social (labour and social protection) cases.

Other cases (cases involving fiscal law, administrative law, or disciplinary rulings by some professional bodies) are divided over the chambers by the first president of the court. In practice, most of these cases are heard by the first chamber. The first president may also at any time, whenever the needs of the court require so, refer cases to another chamber than the one before which they normally ought to be heard. Cases are heard by either the Dutch or French section of each chamber depending on the language of the proceedings.

Specific hearings and assemblies 
However, the first president may require cases to be heard in "full bench" or "plenary hearing" (, , ), upon the opinion of the prosecutor-general's office and the judge-rapporteur. This means that the Dutch and French sections of the chamber will hold a joint session to hear the case. This usually pertains to cases where different interpretations of the law may exist between the two sections of a chamber. In this manner, hearing cases in full bench is meant to promote the uniform interpretation of the law by both sections.

The law also prescribes that some cases must be heard by the court in "joint chambers" or "full court" (, , ). This means that the judges of multiple chambers will hold a joint session to hear the case. The instances for which the law requires such a hearing in joint chambers are fairly uncommon. Cases required to be heard in this manner include jurisdictional conflicts between administrative and judicial courts, and appeals in cassation against a judgment handed down in a criminal case against a minister of the federal government or one of the regional governments of Belgium.

The broadest manner in which the court can convene, is in "general assembly" (, , ). The court does not convene in general assembly to adjudicate cases; the general assembly only handles certain matters of an internal nature. The prerogatives of the general assembly of the court include, amongst other things: initiating disciplinary proceedings against the first president of the court, appointing the president and section presidents of the court, providing an opinion on candidates for the office of judge at the court to the federal minister of Justice of Belgium, and drawing up the annual report of the court. A sole exception are any disciplinary proceedings against members of the Council of State, on which the Court of Cassation must decide in general assembly.

Number of judges 
The number of judges which must hear cases in the different configurations of the court, is laid down in the Belgian Judicial Code. To prevent deadlocks, cases are always heard by an uneven number of judges. By default, a case is heard by one of the two sections of a chamber, which sits with five judges. If a case is heard in full bench (by both sections of a chamber), the chamber will sit with nine judges. In principle, all judges of the court can sit in hearings in joint chambers, but the number of judges hearing cases in joint chambers must be at least eleven. If the court convenes in general assembly, an absolute majority of its thirty judges must be present to be able to take any decision. If this quorum for a general assembly is not met, the assembly will be adjourned to a later date. If at a later date the quorum is still not met for an adjourned general assembly, the assembly may take decisions without the quorum being met.

However, the first president or the section president may, upon the opinion of the prosecutor-general's office and the judge-rapporteur, order a case to be heard by only three judges of a section of a chamber. Before 2014, this was only permitted if the outcome of the case appeared to be obvious. After a 2014 amendment, the scope of such hearings with a limited number of judges was broadened to all cases where it appeared an answer to important questions of law, in the interest of the uniform interpretation or the evolution of the law, was not needed. This limited panel of judges must decide on the case unanimously. If the three judges cannot reach a unanimous decision, or if one of them requests it, the case must be referred to the full section of the chamber to be heard by five judges.

Process of an appeal in cassation