[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Firefly (G.I. Joe)

Constitution, and attempted to destroy Saudi oil facilities. During the last mission he was captured by Rock 'n Roll, whose girlfriend had been killed during the Golden Gate attack.

IDW
In 2010, Firefly reappears in the IDW reboot of the series. He now shows his face, and is black.

Animated series

Sunbow
Firefly appeared in the Sunbow G.I. Joe animated series, voiced by Gregg Berger. Firefly was first seen in the "Revenge of Cobra" miniseries, and later appeared throughout the first season, where he maintained his role as a saboteur and mercenary. In at least one episode, he is shown to be almost paranoid about concealing his identity, going so far as to threaten captives' lives if they turn to look at him despite the fact that he is wearing a mask; and becoming mildly enraged when Cobra Commander refers to him by his codename (acting as though he had just been addressed by his real name). He has important underworld contacts, which Cobra Commander is forced to turn to after he goes broke. Firefly is absent for most of the second season but appeared in the episode "Into Your Tent I Will Silently Creep", in which he is involved in one of Cobra Commander's plots to kill Serpentor.

G.I. Joe: The Movie
He also appears in the G.I. Joe: The Movie, but only for a short time. After the cartoon switched production companies from Sunbow/Marvel to DIC Entertainment, Firefly made no further appearances.

Direct to DVD films
Firefly is featured in a toy line based on G.I. Joe: Valor vs. Venom as a civilian turned into one of Cobra's Venomised troops.

Sigma 6
Firefly has a major role in the Sigma 6 cartoon, joining the G.I. Joe Team at the beginning of the second season. He is shown to use fire-based weapons in battle. Throughout the first half of the season, it is hinted that there is a spy amongst the Joes. This is eventually revealed to be Firefly, who traps the team and turns them over to Cobra. Firefly's former commander Lt. Stone attempts to convince him it is not too late to side with the Joes, but Firefly is insulted by the offer. He shaves his head as a sign of his loyalty to Cobra, and after a climactic battle with Lt. Stone, leaves with Cobra Commander.

In "Ice", Firefly reappears wearing a costume reminiscent to both his Sigma 6 suit and his appearance in "A Real American Hero." In the episode, he fights Snake Eyes at a Terrordrome base in Antarctica. After Snake Eyes was accidentally frozen, Firefly captures Snake Eyes and makes off with Snake Eyes before the Antarctic Terrordrome base explodes.

In "Assault", Firefly fights Stone again and is defeated. Firefly escapes the collapsing base and tells Stone that he should leave.

He was voiced by Sean Schemmel in the English version.

Resolute
Firefly had a brief appearance in G.I. Joe: Resolute where he uses a portable rocket launcher to fire a projectile into the United Nations building. However, the device was only a holographic transmitter that allowed Cobra Commander to relay his demands to world leaders.

Renegades
Firefly first appears in the G.I. Joe: Renegades episode "Fire Fight" voiced by Peter MacNicol. Reimagined as a pyromaniacal arsonist who talks to fire like a lover, Firefly covers his face in Renegades not to obscure his identity, but to hide disfiguring burns across his body. Baroness and Doctor Mindbender send Firefly to terrorize the town of Green Ridge, after it wins a court order to prevent Cobra's dam construction. Firefly tries to burn down the mayor's home, but is thwarted by Duke, Roadblock, Barbecue, and Tunnel Rat. Firefly is then ordered to destroy the entire town. Firefly blows up the only bridge into Green Ridge, causing the Joes to flee via the dam. Duke and Snake Eyes confront Firefly near his helicopter, but he vanishes. As Roadblock then uses the helicopter to blow up the dam, Firefly reapperas, causing the helicopter to crash into a cliff. It is not known if Firefly survives or not.

Live action film 

Ray Stevenson portrays Firefly in G.I. Joe: Retaliation, the sequel to G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra. Stevenson revealed in an interview to Total Films that Firefly is an ex-Joe. His codename in this version stems from his trademark weapon system, insectoid robot drones which he uses to surreptitiously deliver explosive charges. During production of the film, the character was not supposed to wear his trademark camouflaged mask, but Stevenson, who researched the character and became a fan of the original Firefly, lobbied to be shown wearing it in some scenes.