[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Insurgency in the Preševo Valley

The Insurgency in the Preševo Valley was an approximately two year-long armed conflict between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the ethnic Albanian separatists of the Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac (UÇPMB). There were instances during the conflict in which the Yugoslav government requested KFOR support in suppressing UÇPMB attacks since they could only use lightly armed military forces as part of the Kumanovo Treaty that ended the Kosovo War, which created a buffer zone between FR Yugoslavia and Kosovo.

Background
Before the insurgency Preševo Valley was home to approximately 100,000 people, of whom 70,000 were Albanians and another 30,000 Serbs. Albanians make up to 95% of Preševo, 63% of Bujanovac and 26% of Medveđa population. The region is sometimes referred to as Eastern Kosovo by Albanians.
The Albanian-populated region became a part of Serbia in 1913, after the First Balkan War.

From 1945 to 1946 Preševo and Bujanovac were a part of newly established Autonomous Oblast of Kosovo and Metohija inside the Federated State of Serbia. In 1946 they were transferred to Central Serbia in exchange for a part of Serb inhabited modern-day North Kosovo. During the breakup of Yugoslavia, on 1 and 2 March 1992 Albanians from Preševo Valley held the referendum about their future status in Serbia. The majority, 97% of voters demanded autonomy for the valley and the right to join Republic of Kosova. Serbian government rejected the referendum as unconstitutional and illegal.

The Kosovo War was a parallel conflict between the Yugoslav Army and the Kosovo Liberation Army. It began in February 1998 and ended on 10 June 1999 when the Kumanovo Agreement was signed. According to the agreement, KFOR troops, supervised by the United Nations, would enter as a peacekeeping force, while Yugoslav military forces were to withdraw. It was agreed that the KLA would disband by 19 September 1999. According to the agreement there would be a demilitarized zone around Kosovo. Serbs could only use police squads with up to 10 members. This buffer zone was used by Albanian guerrillas for attacks against Serbian forces. The Preševo valley conflict erupted in June 1999.

Ground Safety Zone 
After the Kumanovo Agreement was signed, a 5 km (3 mi) deep demilitarized zone was established along the Kosovo border. The zone's length was 382 km. The purpose of this buffer was to prevent incidents between KFOR troops and the Yugoslav army. At the same time, an Air Safety Zone was set up. Its width was 20 km. Only lightly armed police in groups of up to ten were allowed to patrol, making it difficult to ensure order. It was prohibited for Yugoslavia to use planes, tanks or any other heavier weapons, so the area became a haven for drug smuggling and operations against Yugoslav forces. The Zone consisted of the following sectors:

 Sector C west – from Plav to the Albanian border
 Sector A – from Rožaje to Medveđa
 Sector D – parts of Medveđa, Leskovac, Lebane and Vranje municipalities
 Sector B – from Medveđa to Preševo
 Sector C east – border with Macedonia to village of Norča

UÇPMB 
Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac (, UÇPMB) members were first seen during the funeral of brothers Shaqipi who were killed by the police in January 2000 in Dobrosin. They had around 1,600 active fighters and around 5,000 non-active. The Yugoslav government considered it a terrorist organization. The organization consisted of three zones. First was South zone commanded by Shaqir Shaqiri. After he was arrested in 2001, he was replaced by Mustafa Shaqiri. They had between 300 and 500 fighters. Center zone was commanded by Ridvan Qazimi, known as "Captain Lleshi", who had around 600 rebels. Lleshi was later killed in clashes near Oraovica. This zone was around Gjilan-Bujanovac regional road. In the north there was so-called Čar group, or North zone led by Muhamet Xhemajli. The highest commander was Shefket Musliu, an auto mechanic from Končulj. Rebels mostly had mine throwers and other light weapons. Those weapons were transported illegally from Kosovo throughout border with Serbia. The biggest Albanian village in Serbia, Veliki Trnovac, was the rebel center. According to Serbian Security Intelligence Agency it was full of bunkers, as well as laboratories and storehouses for heroin. PMBLA was operating in following villages:

 North zone – Muhovac (command), Ravno Bučje, Pribovce, Zarbince, Suharno, Đorđevac, Čar
 Center zone – Veliki Trnovac (command), Breznica, Mali Trnovac, Dobrosin, Končulj, Lučane and Turija
 South zone – Bukovac, Gospođince, Mađare, Ilince, Depce, Masurica, Cerevajka, Sefer, Kurbalija, Šušaja, Karadak

Rebels were controlling all villages in GSZ sector B and C east except Cerevajka and Gramada.

History