[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# List of smoking bans

oking has been restricted in indoor public places including public transport, government buildings, schools, hospitals, libraries, cinemas, theatres, restaurants and bars, with the exception of specially designated smoking rooms.

Myanmar
Myanmar has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.

Namibia
On 8 October 2009, the Namibian National Assembly adopted the Tobacco Products Control Bill, potentially one of the most comprehensive smoke-free ordinances. The law (once implemented) will prohibit "the smoking of tobacco in a public place, any outdoor public place or any area within a certain distance of a window, ventilation inlet, door or entrance".  The bill was voted into law on 16 February 2010, became effective on 1 April 2014, and a public ban on smoking was in effect by 1 July 2014.

Nepal
Nepal Government implemented a smoke-free law covering public places, effective from 7 August 2011. The Tobacco (Control and Regulatory) Act restricts smoking in airports, hotels, restaurants, government offices and other public places. The act also makes it obligatory for tobacco product manufacturers to ensure that product packs carry graphic warnings about the adverse effects of smoking and the harmful ingredients the products contain. The warnings should cover at least 75% of the total pack area. The act also prohibits sales of tobacco products to pregnant women and people below the age of 18.

The Tobacco Control and Regulation Act-2068 was signed by President Dr. Ram Baran Yadav on 29 April.

The Act includes provisions for officials to inspect implementation of the new law. A fine of Rs 100-100,000 will be slapped on anyone who smokes in public places or sells tobacco products to people below 18 or to pregnant women.

Netherlands
The smoking of tobacco is prohibited by law in all public buildings and on public transport. On railway platforms, the limited smoking areas are not enforced.  As of 1 January 2004, every employee has the right to work in a smoke-free environment. Tobacco legislation states that employers are obliged to take measures to ensure that employees are able to carry out their work without being bothered or affected by secondhand smoke from other people. On 1 January 2008, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol became the first completely smoke-free European airport; however, since August 2008; smoking has been permitted in designated smoking rooms. Since 1 July 2008, the smoke-free law has also applied to all hotels, restaurants, bars and cafes in the Netherlands. Separate smoking rooms are allowed in hospitality facilities as long as no food or beverage is served there, although the court banned them as of February 2018. All forms of tobacco advertising, promotion or sponsorship are prohibited. Smoking of cannabis (including hashish) in coffeeshops is permitted as long as it is not mixed with tobacco. In 2010, the new government spoke out against the effects of the smoke-free law upon small catering businesses. The law was widely ignored with statistics showing that around 41% of bars and discos had flouted it. On 3 November 2010, the new government lifted the smoke-free regulations for bars of 70 square metres or less, on the condition that the bar did not employ any staff other than the owner. Around 3,000 of the 5,500 bars in the Netherlands are staffed by the owner alone.

On 12 February 2013, the Dutch lower house agreed on a total ban in the hospitality sector with 77–73, with no exception for smaller, owner-operated bars. Special smoking rooms without service were not affected by the change in the law.

Since 1 January 2017, smoking rooms are no longer to be allowed in city hall and other municipal buildings of Amsterdam and within a 20-meter distance of these buildings.

On 13 February 2018, the court in The Hague decided that smoking rooms are no longer legal in pubs, clubs and restaurants. On 27 September 2019 this ban was confirmed by the Hoge Raad (Supreme Court of the Netherlands).

In 2020 smoking outdoors in all educational facilities and playgrounds was banned. Smoking on train stations was also banned.
The smoking ban in the hospitality sector also made Schiphol Airport fully smokefree.

Since 1 January 2022 all smoking areas are banned. Smoking is only allowed at home (even if used as a workplace) and outside (also on terraces that are open at 1 side or more).

New Zealand

The first building in the world to have a smoke-free policy was the Old Government Building in Wellington, New Zealand, in 1876. This was over concerns about the threat of fire, as it is the second largest wooden building in the world.