[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# EFG Hermes

rmes Kenya launched its operations in 2017, being the firm’s first foray into Sub-Saharan Africa in a step that will serve as an East African hub into more neighboring markets. The company provides securities brokerage, research and corporate advisory services spanning Kenya and neighboring markets.

Nigeria
In 2018, EFG Hermes expanded its global presence into the largest economy in West Africa through the acquisition of Primera Africa Securities Limited, now EFG Hermes Nigeria Limited. EFG Hermes Nigeria is licensed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nigerian Stock Exchange to carry out brokerage and research coverage services.

United States
EFG Hermes USA, Inc. is a subsidiary of EFG Hermes Holding and is a member of FINRA and SIPC. The office was established to serve Western institutional clients residing in North America and provides coverage of 75 frontier emerging markets (FEM) or 100% of FTSE's FEM index to its clients.

Bangladesh
EFG Hermes Bangladesh was inaugurated as rep office in Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh, to serve the firm’s network of global institutional clients. The addition of Bangladesh to the firm’s frontier platform came as part of EFG Hermes’ drive to expand representation in high-potential frontier emerging markets.

Vietnam
EFG Hermes entered an agreement in 2019 with ACBS - the securities brokerage arm of ACB Asia Commercial Bank of Vietnam to offer its clients on-ground access to the local capital markets.

References

External links
Abraaj Capital. Investor Relations. Retrieved September 28, 2006
Arab Decision, Egypt, other Financial Institutions
Atlas Investment Group. Jordan Country Report. Retrieved October 3, 2006
Ameinfo. UAE retail investors moving online as market grows
American University. Sources and links. Retrieved September 1, 2006
Bank Audi. Jordanian Economic Report. Retrieved August 29, 2006
Center for administrative Innovation in the Euro-Mediterranean Region. Jordan Administrative Reform, Innovation and Maintenance 
Central Intelligence Agency (2004). The World Fact Book. Retrieved on October 3, 2006 
EFG Hermes. Investor Relations. Retrieved on September 14, 2006
Library of Congress, Federal Research Division, Country Studies. Jordan. Retrieved October 3, 2006
Moussa Najla. Abraaj Capital makes offer on EFG Hermes Shares. Retrieved November 20, 2006 
2006 Jordan Index of Economic Freedom, The Heritage Foundation, Retrieved August 29, 2006 
Saban Center for Middle East Policy. Luncheon Address: Suhair Al-Ali. Retrieved October 17, 2006, from Miller Reporting Co

Financial services companies established in 1984
Banks established in 1984
Investment banks
Private equity firms of the Middle East
Conglomerate companies of Egypt