[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Managerial state

objects.  Using a phrase from Peter Drucker, he says this reflects the myth of Economic Man – that human beings are mainly or entirely economic in their motivations and that therefore the business of America is business, even if it takes the federal leviathan to conduct it or regulate it.

Analysis

Criticism 
In his essay Second Thoughts on James Burnham, George Orwell summarises Burnham's ideas in The Managerial Revolution and The Machiavellians and highlights inconsistencies. Orwell concludes that Burnham may be right in identifying a general drift towards oligarchy with the concentration of industrial and financial power, and the development of the managerial/technical class. However Orwell concludes that Burnham's major error is in seeing this trend as continuing. In doing so, Burham makes two erroneous assumptions; that "Politics is essentially the same in all ages" and "Political behaviour is different from other kinds of behaviour." Orwell refutes these assumptions and notes that just as Nazism had smashed itself to pieces, so the Russian regime will destroy itself. "The huge, invincible, everlasting slave empire of which Burnham appears to dream will not be established, or if established, will not endure." Furthermore, Orwell identifies Burnham's critique of managerial state to unveil a sort of 'power-worship', stating that "it is not surprising that Burnham's world view should often be noticeably close to that of the American imperialists on the one side, or to that of the isolationists on the other. It is a 'tough' or 'realistic' world-view which fits in with the American form of wish-thinking."

According to Christopher Hitchens, "Orwell was one of the very few commentators to see the sinister influence of [Burnham's] preachings, and subject these to a critique which greatly nettled Burnham himself."

See also
Woke capitalism
Benevolent dictatorship
Technocracy
Meritocracy
Liberal elite
Constitutional economics
Political economy
State within a state

References

Sources
 Patrick J. Buchanan, September 14, 1992, "The Cultural War for the Soul of America", speech.
 Gottfried, Paul E., 1999, After Liberalism: Mass Democracy in the Managerial State. 
 –––, 2003, Multiculturalism and the Politics of Guilt: Toward a Secular Theocracy. 
 James Kalb, "The Tyranny of Liberalism" (originally published as Liberalism, the Transcendent, and Restoration, in Modern Age, Summer, 2000).
 William S. Lind, 2000, "The Origins of Political Correctness", Accuracy in Academia.
 Lukacs, John, 1993, The End of the Twentieth Century and the End of the Modern Age. 
 Nisbet, Robert, 2003, The Present Age: Progress and Anarchy in Modern America. 
 –––, 2000, Twilight of Authority. 
 Roberts, Paul Craig and Lawrence Stratton, 1997, The New Color Line: How Quotas and Privilege Destroy Democracy.  
 Joseph Sobran, "How Tyranny Came to America", Sobran's'', n.d.

Conservatism
Paleoconservatism
Paleolibertarianism
Right-libertarianism