[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rabbi Ammi

the rabbis exclaimed, "Are these the guardians of the city? They are the destroyers of the city!" When asked who were the guardians, they replied, "The instructors of the young and the masters of the old; for thus the Scripture says, 'Unless the Lord guards the city, the watchman is awake in vain'."

Besides their familiarity with halakhah and aggadah, Ammi and Assi also possessed some knowledge of the sciences of their time. They prescribed remedies in cases of sickness, and studied the habits of animals. Much as they valued the study of the Law, they prized pious deeds still higher. Therefore they and R. Hiyya bar Abba did not hesitate to absent themselves from academy and to miss a lecture by R. Eleazar, when the burial of a stranger required their attention; and when once a considerable sum of money was presented to the academy, Ammi took possession of it in the name of the poor, among whom it was subsequently distributed. Once R. Ammi, accompanied by R. Samuel ben Nahmani, undertook a journey to the court of Zenobia (queen of Palmyra) to intercede for Zeir b. Ḥinena, who had been seized by her orders. Zenobia refused to liberate him, remarking, "Your God is accustomed to work miracles for you," when a Saracen, bearing a sword, entered and reported, "With this sword has Bar Nazar killed his brother"; this incident saved Zeir b. Ḥinena. On another occasion he was ready to ransom a man who had repeatedly sold himself to the Ludi (lanistæ, procurers of subjects for gladiatorial contests) He argued that although the Mishnah exempted a Jew from the duty of ransoming a man who repeatedly sells himself to non-Israelites, still it was his duty to ransom the children (to save them from sinking into idolatry); so much the greater was this obligation in a case where violent death was imminent. Ammi's colleagues, however, convinced him that the applicant for his protection was totally unworthy of his compassion, and he finally refused to interfere.

Teachings

R. Ammi and R. Assi are very frequently cited in both Talmuds and in the Midrashim, and often together, either as being of the same opinion or as opposed to each other. Owing to this circumstance, the same doctrines are quoted sometimes in the name of one and sometimes in that of the other. The same uncertainty manifests itself even where the reporter had probably received the tradition directly from one of them.

Following are some examples of R. Ammi's exegetics: 
 Commenting on Lamentations 3:41, "Let us lift up our heart with our hands to God in the heavens," he observes, "No man's prayer is heard of heaven, unless he carry his soul in the hands which he raises in prayer." 
 "The prayer for rain is granted only for the sake of the men of faith." In support of this remark, Ammi, by means of an exegetical substitution of synonymous Hebrew words, quotes Psalms 85:11 ("When Faith springs forth from the earth, Beneficence looks down from heaven"). 
 In Moses' designation of Israel as "a stiff-necked people", Ammi sees not so much a reproach as a praise of its firmness in religion, even in the face of persecution: "The Jew would either live as a Jew or die on the cross".
 According to R. Ammi, death is the consequence of sin, and suffering the penalty of wrongdoing; the first observation he derives from Ezekiel 18:4 ("The soul that sins, it shall die"); the second from Psalms 89:33 ("I will visit their transgressions with the rod [of punishment], and their iniquity with stripes").

Other quotes
Whoever fails to use reason cannot expect men to pity him (i.e. when he falls into trouble).

References

 It has the following bibliography:
Grätz, Gesch. d. Juden, 2d ed., iv. 300-307;
Frankel, Mebo, p. 63a;
Weiss, Dor, iii. 96;
Bacher, Ag. Pal. Amor. ii. 143-173.

Talmud rabbis of the Land of Israel
3rd-century rabbis
People from Tiberias