[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Proposed states and union territories of India

laya and Tripura on 21 January 1972. The Kingdom of Sikkim joined the Indian Union as a state on 26 April 1975. In 1987, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram became states on 20 February, followed by Goa on 30 May of the same year. Goa's northern exclaves of Daman and Diu became a separate union territory.

Three new states were created in November 2000: Chhattisgarh (1 November) was created out of eastern Madhya Pradesh; Uttaranchal (9 November), which was later renamed Uttarakhand, was created out of the mountainous districts of northwest Uttar Pradesh; and Jharkhand (15 November) was created out of the southern districts of Bihar.

On 2 June 2014, Telangana was separated from Andhra Pradesh as the 29th state of the union. On 31 October 2019, the state of Jammu and Kashmir was split into two new Union Territories: Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. On 26 January 2020, the Union Territory of Daman and Diu and the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli were merged into one Union Territory: the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.

India may have 50 states in the near future if all statehood demands are conceded.

Table of all proposed States

Andhra Pradesh

Rayalaseema
This proposed state would consist of eight districts, namely Kurnool, Nandyal, Anantapur, Sri Sathya Sai, Kadapa, Annamayya, Tirupati, and Chittoor. Rayalaseema Parirakshana Samithi is a political party formed by Byreddy Rajasekhar Reddy in 2013 advocating for a separate Rayalaseema state. There have also been demands to include the two coastal districts of Prakasam and Nellore district to form Greater Rayalaseema.

Assam

Ahomland
Upper Assam's various Tai-Ahom organizations like "Ahom Tai Mangoliya Rajya Parishad" (ATMRP), has been demanding separate Ahomland state since 1967, comprising erstwhile Un-divided Sivasagar and Lakhimpur districts respectively. On 2023, "TAI Ahom Yuba Parishad, Assam" (TAYPA) have organized a protest at Chachal and have demanded Separate Ahomland state.

Barak State

The native Bengali people of Assam have demanded a separate state for themselves within the Barak Valley, particularly the Bengali-majority districts of Cachar, Hailakandi, and Karimganj. Some definitions also include Dima Hasao and Hojai. Silchar would be the capital of the proposed state.

Bodoland
The agitation for the creation of a separate Bodoland state resulted in an agreement between the Indian Government, the Assam state government, and the Bodo Liberation Tigers Force. According to the agreement made on 10 February 2003, the Bodoland Territorial Council, an entity subordinate to the government of Assam, was created to govern four districts covering 3,082 Bodo Kachari-majority villages in Assam. Elections to the council were held on 13 May 2003, and Hagrama Mohilary was sworn in as the chief of the 46-member council on 4 June.

Dimaraji

The Dimasa people of northeast India have been demanding a separate state called Dimaraji or "Dimaland" for several decades. It would comprise the Dimasa-Kachari inhabited areas in Assam, namely the Dima Hasao district, Cachar district, Karimganj district, Hailakandi district, Karbi Anglong district, and parts of Hojai district, together with part of the Dimapur district in Nagaland.

Karbiland

Karbi Anglong is one of the 35 districts of Assam. Several memoranda for a Karbi homeland have been submitted at multiple times by several organisations over the years. The demand for a separate state turned violent on 31 July 2013 when student demonstrators set government buildings on fire.

Bihar
At least three states have been proposed to be carved out of Bihar.

Bhojpur
There have been demands for a Bhojpur state, comprising the Bhojpuri-speaking districts of western Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh.

Magadha Rajya 
There have been demands for a Magadha Rajya, comprising the Magahi-speaking districts of southern Bihar and a blend of Magahi known as Khortha is spoken by non-tribal populace in North Chotanagpur division of northern Jharkhand. Patna could be the new capital of proposed state.

Mithila

Mithila is a proposed state which would cover the Maithili-speaking regions of Bihar and Jharkhand. There is no consensus on the capital, although Begusarai, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, and Purnia have all been suggested as candidate cities.

Chhattisgarh

Gondi State

Gondi, a prominent language spoken in southern Chhattisgarh, India, holds profound cultural and historical significance among the Gondi people. The creation of the new state may have a potential impact on reducing the Naxalite-Maoist insurgency, as it could address some of the underlying grievances and socioeconomic challenges contributing to the conflict.

Threats to Gondi Language and Culture
Despite its significance, Gondi faces numerous challenges that threaten its survival: