[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arshak II

daughter of the late consul Ablabius. Constantius also granted Arshak exemption from taxation. The Roman historian Ammianus Marcellinus describes Arshak II as a "steadfast and faithful friend" to the Romans. Faustus, on the other hand, depicts Arshak as vacillating between the Romans and Persians. 

Arshak II, like his father, pursued a policy strongly in favor of Arianism, which led to a falling out with Catholicos Nerses. Nerses was eventually exiled for around nine years along with other anti-Arian bishops and replaced during that time by a royal appointee called Chunak. Arshak's relations with the Armenian nobility also soured, leading him to order the assassinations of prominent , the extermination of several noble houses (such as the Kamsarakans) and the confiscation of their lands. Arshak ordered the murder of his cousins Gnel (in defiance of the intercession of Nerses) and Tirit. Although Faustus presents this as a story of romance and jealousy involving Parandzem, Gnel's wife whom Arshak later married, it is more likely that Arshak ordered the murders because his cousins, as Arsacid princes and potential pretenders, could have become rallying points for a rebellion against him. He attempted to shore up his rule by founding the city of Arshakavan in Kogovit, which, according to Faustus and Movses Khorenatsi, he populated by granting amnesty to any criminals that would settle there. His plan was opposed by the clergy and nobility, who destroyed the city and killed its inhabitants.

Accoording to Ammianus Marcellinus, Arshak was summoned by Constantius II to Caeserea in 362 and warned to remain loyal to Rome, after which he "never dared to violate any of his promises." Faustus writes that Arshak enjoyed good relations with the Shapur II for some time and even sent a detachment to help Shapur against the Romans at one point, but that hostilities began between Armenia and Persia due to the scheming of Arshak's father-in-law Andovk Siuni and the Persian-backed revolt of Meruzhan Artsruni. In 363, the Romans and Sasanian empires clashed again, and Arshak raided Persian territory in support of Emperor Julian's campaign. The campaign ended with Julian's death, and the new Roman emperor Jovian was forced to negotiate an undesirable peace with Shapur II in which, among other concessions, Rome renounced its alliance with Armenia, leaving the country to face Shapur alone. Although  Vasak Mamikonian won a number of victories over Persian armies (which were joined by Armenian forces led by the renegades Meruzhan Artsruni and Vahan Mamikonian, brother of Vasak) and successfully defended the central province of Ayrarat, more and more Armenian nakharars went over to the Persian side. Faced with this desperate situation, Arshak agreed to go to Persia for peace negotiations with Shapur  after receiving guarantees for his safety. When Arshak II arrived with Vasak Mamikonian, he was imprisoned and possibly blinded, while his general was skinned alive. 

After eliminating Arshak, Shapur laid waste to Armenia, destroying its major cities and deporting their inhabitants to Persia. Meruzhan Artsruni and Vahan Mamikonian, who had renounced Christianity, were installed as governors. Christian Armenians were persecuted and many churches were destroyed and replaced with Zoroastrian fire temples. Arshak's queen Parandzem and his son Pap continued to hold out in the fortress of Artagers for some time, perhaps until early 370, when the fortress was captured and Parandzem was taken to Persia to be put to death. Pap, however, had earlier managed to escape to Roman territory, and returned to Armenia to take the throne with the help of the emperor Valens in 370/371 (other estimates place Pap's ascension to the throne in 367/368).

Imprisonment and death
Arshak was sent to the Castle of Oblivion in Khuzestan. Faustus of Byzantium gives an account of his death in captivity. Sometime in 369 or 370, an Armenian eunuch named Drastamat, who had been a great court official under Arshak and his father, visited the imprisoned king. The king reminisced about his glory days and, feeling depressed, took his visitor's knife and killed himself. Drastamat, moved by what he had just witnessed, took the knife from Arshak II's chest and stabbed himself as well. 

The Roman historian Ammianus Marcellinus gives an alternative account where Arshak is captured, blinded and executed by the Persians.