[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Uthayan

Suresh Kumar (B. G. Sahayathasan) and Ranjith Kumar, two employees of the newspaper, were killed on 2 May 2006 when armed men burst into the newspaper's offices and opened fire indiscriminately. The attack followed the newspaper publishing a cartoon mocking Douglas Devananda, the leader of the EPDP.

A delivery driver and an agent named Sathasivam Baskaran was shot dead at the wheel of his delivery truck on 15 August 2006 at Puttur junction near Achchuveli. Baskaran was shot in an area controlled by the Sri Lankan military. Three days later, on 18 August 2006, a warehouse in Kopay was burnt down by armed men as a curfew was in place.

Armed men entered the Uthayan offices on 7 September 2006 and ordered staff to publish a statement urging Jaffna's students to call off their strike, threatening "severe reprisals" if the statement wasn't published. A few days later, on 10 September 2006, two armed men who entered into the Uthayan offices were arrested by the policemen who were guarding the building. But they were released within hours.

Journalist Selvarajah Rajivarnam, an Uthayan reporter for 6 months prior to his death, was shot dead in Jaffna close to a military checkpoint on 29 April 2007. The EPDP was blamed for Rajivarnam's murder. A Proof reader, Vadivel Nimalarajah was abducted on 17 November 2007 near Jaffna as he returned home after work.

A grenade was thrown into the newspaper's office in Jaffna on 24 March 2009 causing extensive damage and injuring a security guard. Same year, on 25 June, thousands of copies of the Uthayan, Thinakkural and Valampuri were burnt in the street by armed men, after the papers had refused to print a statement against the LTTE.

A Staff Correspondent of the newspaper, S. Kavitharan was attacked by a group of men on 28 May 2011 as he cycled to work. Kavitharan had written articles critical of the security in Jaffna and the actions of government backed paramilitary groups whose members had previously threatened Kavitharan. On 29 July, the same year, Uthayan'''s chief news editor Gnanasundaram Kuganathan was brutally attacked as he walked home from the office in Jaffna. The EPDP was blamed for the attack. Between 2006 and 2010 Kuganathan lived in the Uthayan offices out of fear for his life but had recently moved back to his family home after assurances were given by the government.

Nagesh Pratheepan and two other Uthayan distributors were attacked and newspapers torched by four men on two motorbikes on 10 January 2013 as they were distributing them in the Valvettithurai area.

The paper's office in Kilinochchi were attacked by a group of six masked Sinhala speaking men on 3 April 2013. Five employees were injured, two seriously, and equipment and vehicles damaged. The newspaper blamed the security forces for the attack. The attack came after the paper published a series of articles highlighting seizure of Tamil owned land by the army. Ten days later, on 13 April 2013, three men came to the paper's office in Jaffna and threatened security guards before damaging equipment and setting the printing press ablaze.