[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

a Pact, in which the pro- and Anti-Treaty wings of Sinn Féin would jointly contest the upcoming first election of the new state.
There is a firefight at Gormanston railway station, County Meath, between RIC men and Anti-Treaty fighters. One Anti-Treaty officer and one RIC man are killed.

June 1922

14 June - Michael Collins urges voters to vote "for the candidates they think best of" in Cork.
16 June – A Free State soldier, William Murphy, is killed.
16 June – 1922 Irish general election – The Pro-Treaty Sinn Féin party wins the election, despite the Collins/De Valera Pact stating the election was not to be held on the issue of the Treaty but to form a Coalition Government, with 239,193 votes to 133,864 for Anti-Treaty Sinn Féin. A further 247,226 people voted for other parties, all of whom supported the Treaty (except Unionist Party)
18 June – At the Third Army Convention, a proposal by Tom Barry for war to be restarted with the British is narrowly defeated in the face of opposition by Liam Lynch. A hardline faction walks out and  establishes a new GHQ command in the Four Courts. Joe McKelvey becomes IRA chief of staff.
22 June – Assassination in London of Henry Hughes Wilson by IRA men in retaliation for attacks on Catholics in Northern Ireland. Research will eventually come to suggest that it was Pro-Treaty leader Michael Collins who ordered the killing, but at the time, Winston Churchill assumes that the Anti-Treaty Four Courts garrison is responsible and warns Collins that if he does not act, British troops will be used to re-take Dublin. The assassins are hanged by the British on 10 August.
26 June – The Four Courts garrison kidnaps Free State General JJ "Ginger" O'Connell in retaliation for the arrest of Leo Henderson I/C Belfast Boycott.
27 June – Collins gives a final ultimatum to the Four Courts garrison to surrender before they are attacked.
28 June – 
Michael Collins borrows two British 18-pounder field guns to bombard the Four Courts at 4.15 am, marking the definitive start of the Civil War.
Passenger trains to Galway, Westport, Ballina and Sligo are suspended.
A number of buildings in Ballina, including the post office, are seized by Irregulars.

Hostilities
28 June–5 July – Battle of Dublin
Fighting breaks out in Drogheda between pro- and Anti-Treaty units. One man on either side and a woman civilian are killed in a gun battle in the town. Many other civilians including the town's mayor are wounded. The Republicans are left in control of the town. The Anti-Treaty fighters blow up the railway bridge to the south of Drogheda, isolating it from Dublin.
An Anti-Treaty fighter is killed in fighting Tipperary town.
29 June – British give Collins two more 18-pounders to increase the bombardment of the Four Courts. Free State troops storm the eastern buildings of the complex, losing 3 dead and 14 wounded.
Oscar Traynor leads Anti-Treaty members of the IRA's 1st Dublin Brigade to occupy O'Connell Street in order to help the Four Courts garrison. His men also take up positions in York Street, South Circular Road, Capel Street, Parnell Square and Dolphin's Barn.
Skirmish in Listowel, County Kerry, Free State troops surrender their arms to Republicans.
Free State troops surround republican fighters at Finner Camp, County Donegal. After a two-hour gun battle, two anti-Treatyites are killed and 50 surrender. Elsewhere in the county, another 200 republicans are taken prisoner.
30 June – Anti-Treaty commander in the Four Courts, Paddy O'Brien is wounded by shrapnel. Ernie O'Malley assumes command. In the morning there is a truce to remove the wounded. Shortly afterwards, a massive explosion destroys the western wing of the Four Courts and the Irish Public Records Office along with it. It is thought to have been caused when fires from the artillery bombardment set off munitions stored there, although Free State troops claim that the building was mined. 20 Free State soldiers are maimed in the blast. O'Malley surrenders the Four Courts when Oscar Traynor sends word that he cannot break through to help them. Members of the IRA Army Executive Liam Mellows, Rory O'Connor, Joe McKelvey and Dick Barret are among the prisoners, but O'Malley himself escapes.
A Free State column under Commandant General Sweeney breaks up Anti-Treaty units in County Donegal. There are fire fights at Letterkenny, Buncrana and Bundoran. Casualties are reported, including at least one irregular killed and 200 taken prisoner.
Anti-Treaty IRA fighters fire on National Army billets in Tralee, killing one soldier.