[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Refugees in New Zealand

ional refugees on top of the country's existing refugee quota. Similarly, the Council for International Development's (CID) Humanitarian Manager Aaron Davy called on the Government to lift the refugee quota to 1,000 in order to take in Afghan refugees and to increase humanitarian aid to Afghanistan.

In early November 2021, Community Law Waikato challenged Immigration New Zealand's decision to stop processing visas by Afghan migrants and refugees in 2020.  Crown lawyer Robert Kirkness defended the department's decision, citing New Zealand's COVID-19 border restrictions. On 23 November, the High Court ruled against Immigration NZ's decision to cease processing Afghan interpreters' visas due to the COVID-19 pandemic and for not making humanitarian grounds following the Taliban takeover. Immigration NZ subsequently defied the High Court's ruling and issued a new ruling suspending the processing of Afghan visa applications, contending that the humanitarian crisis was irrelevant to the processing of travel requests. Following a second judicial challenge by Community Law Waikato, the High Court rejected Immigration NZ's decision to cease processing Afghan visa applications. However, evacuation plans were hindered by the suspension of MFAT-sponsored emergency flights during the 2021–2022 summer season.

In early February 2022, Radio New Zealand reported that only 17 of the 77 Afghan applicants since November 2021 had received a Family Support Category visa and that these 17 were unable to enter the country due to a lack of official assistance. MFAT had declined to assist them on the grounds that these visa holders did not fit the criteria to get help, which focused on people who helped New Zealand agencies in Afghanistan and their immediate families. Immigration New Zealand had initially assigned two staff members to process their visas following the court ruling but had since increased the number of personnel to nine. Community Law CEO Sue Moroney criticised the Government for blocking Afghan applicants from resettling in New Zealand.

Asylum seekers 
New Zealand receives relatively few asylum seekers (the vast majority by air), whose claim is then either approved or declined by the Refugee Status Branch of the Immigration New Zealand, or by the Immigration and Protection Tribunal. In 2022/23, 708 refugee status applications were received. New Zealand is one of a handful of countries that takes the majority of their refugees through a quota system. Assistance that addresses asylum seeker's specific needs as they attempt to integrate into New Zealand is limited.

Asylum seekers by boat

New Zealand has had a long-standing concern about boat arrivals of asylum seekers. New Zealand has been an active participant in the Bali Process to prevent boat arrivals. No mass boat arrival has ever made it to New Zealand, although small numbers of arrive by sea and subsequently claimed asylum.

In 2013 a Migration Amendment Bill was introduced which would allow the government to mandatorily detain refugees who arrive by boat in groups of ten or more. The bill, colloquially referred to as the Mass Arrivals Bill, was passed as the Migration Amendment Act 2014 but only after Peter Dunne insisted the number rise from ten to thirty people.

A number of refugees or reports have claimed that asylum seekers are attempting to travel to New Zealand in recent years. Examples include: