[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nassib Lahoud

the March 14 Alliance - with a majority in parliament - decided to back him. His willingness to run for the presidency was part of a wider campaign to remove the pro-Syrian president Emile Lahoud (Nassib's cousin) who was widely considered to be the last bastion of Syrian hegemony over the country.

In 2008 the parliamentary majority ultimately designated Lahoud as its presidential nominee  but the Hezbollah-led opposition refused to attend a legislative session to elect a new president, thus ensuring there was no quorum. President Michel Suleiman was later elected by consensus, after Hezbollah threatened not to yield to a state if the president was Nassib Lahoud or any other candidate chosen by the parliamentary majority.

Testament to the political tension prevalent during those times, Hezbollah supporters eventually attacked March 14 majority-affiliated buildings and newspapers in Beirut, in a show of force reminiscent of the days of the Lebanese civil war. This was due to a refusal by the government to rescind two controversial executive decrees that aimed to dismantle Hezbollah's private telecommunications system as well as sack the military general responsible for airport security.

Nassib Lahoud was later appointed Minister of State, as the representative of the Ex-Qornet Shehwan Gathering, in the first government under President Michel Suleiman's mandate. Lahoud refused to run at the next parliamentary elections alongside old symbols of Syrian hegemony over Lebanon, even though they were now new independent allies of the March 14 coalition. He thus withdrew from the 2009 parliamentary elections,

Personal life
Lahoud was married to Abla Fustuq, with whom he had two children, Salim and Joumana. He also had a step-daughter, Roula. Abla is part of the Fustuq business family, based in London. She is the sister of Mahmoud Fustuq and Aida Fustuq, who was once married to Saudi ruler King Abdullah.

Lahoud was very fond of his hometown Baabdat in the Metn. He was known for many high-profile friends and relationships within politics, arts, business, academics and society around the world. An avid chess and backgammon player, as well as art collector, Lahoud had close family and business ties with the Saudis.

Death
Lahoud died at the age of 67 at Hotel Dieu Hospital in Ashrafieh, Beirut on 1 February 2012 after a long illness. He received a state funeral which was attended by the President and the Prime Minister and posthumous homages were published in many newspapers and Web sites.

References

External links

1944 births
2012 deaths
Ambassadors of Lebanon to the United States
Candidates for President of Lebanon
Democratic Renewal (Lebanon) politicians
Ministers without portfolio of Lebanon
Lahoud family
Lebanese Maronites
Members of the Parliament of Lebanon
Lebanese engineers
Electrical engineers
People of the Lebanese Civil War
20th-century Lebanese diplomats