[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Yiddish Policemen's Union

trash his
most recent draft and start over. His publisher HarperCollins pushed the publication date back to April 11, 2006. Chabon's rejected 600-page draft featured the same characters as the novel he eventually published but "a completely different story," and was also written in the first person.

In December 2005, Chabon announced a second delay to the novel's release, claiming that the manuscript was complete but that he felt that HarperCollins was rushing the novel into publication. An excerpt from the book appeared in the Fall 2006 issue of the Virginia Quarterly Review, and the novel itself was released on May 1, 2007. Chabon has said that the novel was difficult to write, calling it "an exercise in restraint all around... The sentences are much shorter than my typical sentences; my paragraphs are shorter than my typical paragraphs." He also described the novel as an
homage to the writing of mystery writers Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammett, and Ross Macdonald, along with Russian writer Isaac Babel.

The book's original cover art by Will Staehle features an amalgam of styles (like the novel itself), drawing on classic pulp detective novel, Jewish imagery, and art from the Pacific Northwest and Alaska, especially that of the Tlingit and Haida peoples.

Reception
In the weeks leading up to its publication, the novel received considerable attention from the press.  The front page of The New York Times''' Arts & Leisure section featured a "big, splashy" profile of Chabon in which he flew to Sitka and discussed the book while walking around the city.

Reviews were generally positive. The review aggregator Metacritic reported the book had an average score of 75 out of 100, based on 17 reviews. Library Journal called it "bloody brilliant" and Michiko Kakutani wrote in The New York Times that the novel "builds upon the achievement of Kavalier & Clay... a gripping murder mystery [with] one of the most appealing detective heroes to come along since Sam Spade or Philip Marlowe."  The novel debuted at #2 on the New York Times Best Seller list on May 20, 2007, remaining on the list for 6 weeks.

Proposed adaptations

Cancelled film adaptation
Producer Scott Rudin purchased the film rights to The Yiddish Policemen's Union in 2002, based on a one-and-a-half page proposal.  In February 2008, Rudin told The Guardian that a film adaptation of The Yiddish Policemen's Union was in pre-production, to be written and directed by the Coen brothers.  The Coen brothers were to begin working on the adaptation for Columbia Pictures after they completed filming of A Serious Man.  Chabon stated that the Coens are "among [his] favorite living moviemakers[...] What's more, I think they are perfectly suited to this material in every way, from its genre(s) to its tone to its content."

In the fall of 2012, however, Chabon told Mother Jones that "the Coen brothers wrote a draft of a script and then they seemed to move on," and that the film rights had "lapsed back to me."

TV series
In January 2019, CBS Television Studios, PatMa Productions and Keshet Studios acquired the script from  Chabon and his wife Ayelet Waldman to premium cable and streaming networks.

See also

 
 Jewish Territorialist Organization

References

External links
 “Voices on Antisemitism” Interview with Michael Chabon from the United States Holocaust Memorial MuseumDissent magazine's interview with Chabon about The Yiddish Policemen's UnionAn Open Letters review of Chabon's careerHard-Boiled, Yiddish Style a review by Marc Alan Coen Mechuga Alaska a review by John Leonard in New York Review of Books from 14 June 2007 
'Murder Most Yiddish', review of The Yiddish Policemen's Union in the Oxonian Review''

2007 American novels
Novels set in Alaska
American alternate history novels
Hugo Award for Best Novel-winning works
Jewish American novels
Jews and Judaism in Alaska
Nebula Award for Best Novel-winning works
Novels by Michael Chabon
Postmodern novels
Sidewise Award for Alternate History winning works
2007 speculative fiction novels
HarperCollins books
American magic realism novels