[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tony Corrente

12.

On November 4, 2012, Corrente yelled “God damn it!” (slipping past CBS censors) and other obscenities during the Miami Dolphins-Indianapolis Colts game. Kevin Harlan of CBS Sports apologized for this act. Corrente apologized afterwards; he was fined a game check by the National Football League.

Corrente was named as referee for the AFC Championship Game on January 19, 2014 in Denver between the Broncos and New England Patriots.
He was the referee of the January 18, 2015 NFC championship game between the Seattle Seahawks and the Green Bay Packers. He was also the referee of the game known for the Double Doink, the NFC Wild Card game on January 6, 2019 between the Philadelphia Eagles and Chicago Bears.

In a Monday Night Football game on November 8, 2021 between the Chicago Bears and Pittsburgh Steelers, Corrente faced controversy. On a third down play with 3:40 left in the game with the Steelers leading 23–20, Bears linebacker Cassius Marsh sacked Steelers Quarterback Ben Roethlisberger which forced the Steelers to punt back to the Bears. But Marsh was penalized for unsportsmanlike conduct which gave the Steelers an automatic first down. Replays showed Marsh stared down the Steelers bench but never said a word which caused controversy. Replays also showed Corrente hip-checking Marsh when Marsh was heading back to his bench before throwing the flag which appeared to have been done on purpose by Corrente. The Steelers would eventually score a field goal to extend their lead and the penalty cost the Bears the win as the Steelers won 29–27. After the game, Marsh said that Corrente hip checking him was "incredibly inappropriate" while Corrente said that the contact between him and Marsh had nothing to do with that.

On January 24, 2022, the NFL announced Corrente would be the official for the 2022 Pro Bowl.

References

External links
 

1951 births
Living people
College football officials
National Football League officials
Sportspeople from Greater Los Angeles
California State University, Fullerton alumni
Azusa Pacific University alumni
People from La Mirada, California