[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# People's Alliance for Democracy

ssolution of a political party if one of the executives was involved in vote buying. Yongyuth Tiyapairat, People's Power Party executive who was also the Parliamentary president after the election, was being tried for vote buying. Yongyuth was later found guilty by the Supreme Court on July 8, 2008.

Several key persons involved in cases against Thaksin and the People's Power Party were removed from their posts for interfering with the justice system. This includes Sunai Manomai-udom, then Department of Special Investigation (DSI) director-general working in the case about Thaksin's asset concealment charges, Seripisut Temiyavet, then National Police chief who was installed by the coup but is well known for taking on mafias including those in the police, and Chaiwat Changkaokam, then the head of Tambon Chanchawa who was the key witness to Yongyuth Tiyapairat's alleged vote buying.

Demonstrations and street protests by PAD restarted on May 25, 2008 at Democracy Monument on Ratchadamnoen Road. The PAD supporters amassed to protest against the proposed constitutional amendments. The rally attracted ten thousand supporters. However pro-government supporters gathering nearby started attacking PAD protesters. The clash was the first between the two groups, and many were wounded on both sides. The plan was to march the supporters from Democracy Monument to the front of Government House.
However, the crowd was stopped by a large police barrier at Makkhawan Rangsan Bridge.
PAD settled at Makkhawan Rangsan Bridge and staged continuous rally there.

As the rally went on, the PAD announced their effort to collect signatures to request the removal of members of the House of Representatives and Senators who supported the amendment on May 30, 2008.
The next day Samak expressed on government-run NBT television channel his intention to dissolve the rally by force. In reaction to Samak's speech, the PAD issued announcements against the government's move.

Preah Vihear issue 
PAD opposed Noppadon Pattama's move to allow Cambodia to singly apply Preah Vihear Temple as World Heritage Site.
As it lies near the Thai-Cambodia border with land surrounding the temple still under dispute, many scholars feared Thailand would lose sovereignty over the land surrounding the site and preferred the site to be listed jointly between Cambodia and Thailand. It is also claimed that the hidden motive behind them was to exchange for oil and gas concessions to Chevron.
Noppadon proceeded to sign the Thai-Cambodia Joint Communique on June 18, 2008. Thailand Administrative court issue injunction against the action on June 28
and them found the agreement to be unconstitutional on July 8, 2008.
However, UNESCO awarded World Heritage Site to Cambodia later on the same day.

Moving the PAD stage 
On June 20, 2008 PAD and supporters made through police blockades and successfully gathered in front of Government House, an effort to pressure the government to resign.
Both police and PAD declared victory as violence was avoided. However, the Prime Minister was not pleased.

The new PAD stage blocked Phitsanulok and Rama V roads, causing inconvenience to schools in the area. Other problems include loud speaker noise. Teachers and parents of Ratchawinit Secondary School filed lawsuit against PAD, which PAD appealed and lost. PAD moved its stage back to Makkhawan Rangsan Bridge on July 8.

Siege of Government House 

Samak Sundaravej's government was in difficulty on 10 July 2008, after Pattama, the third top official in the ruling People Power Party (PPP), resigned from his post. The deputy leader of the party Yongyut Tiyapairat was also banned from politics for 5 years, and Chiya Sasomsub was removed for illegally concealing his wife's assets. The Constitutional Court had already ruled that the entire cabinet violated the charter, and the Opposition filed a petition to impeach Noppadon Pattama. Even though the demands for Samak resignation were abundant, he remarked, "I will never resign in response to these threats. I will not dissolve the House. I will meet the king today to report what's going on." Later Samak met with King Bhumibol Adulyadej at Hua Hin palace.

A few days after, 30,000 protesters led by the People's Alliance for Democracy occupied Samak's Government House compound in central Bangkok so as to force him and his advisers to work out of a military command post. Thai riot police entered the occupied compound and delivered a court order for the eviction of protesters, but was instead abused. Chamlong Srimuang ordered 45 PAD guards to break into the main government building on Saturday. 3 regional airports remain closed and 35 trains between Bangkok and the provinces were canceled. Protesters raided the Phuket International Airport tarmac on the resort island of Phuket Province resulting to 118 flights canceled or diverted, affecting 15,000 passengers.