[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HMNB Devonport

tic patrol ship

Aviation Support Ship
 RFA Argus (forward deployed as part of Littoral Response Group (South))

Fast Fleet Tankers
 RFA Wave Ruler (in extended readiness - uncrewed reserve; laid up at Seaforth Docks)
 RFA Wave Knight (in extended readiness - uncrewed reserve; laid up in Portsmouth)

Other units based at Devonport
 Fleet Operational Standards and Training (FOST)
 Hydrographic, Meteorological & Oceanographic Training Group
 HQ Amphibious Task Group
  RNR (relocated to the South Yard from Mount Wise in 2004)
 RM Tamar/47 Commando (Raiding Group) Royal Marines
 10 Landing Craft Training Squadron
 4 Assault Squadron
 6 Assault Squadron
 9 Assault Squadron
 539 Assault Squadron
 Hasler NSRC (Naval Service Recovery Centre) & Hasler Company Royal Marines
 Southern Diving Group RN
 1 × Sea-class 15 m diving support boat (DSB Vulcan)
 Defence Estates South West
 Ministry of Defence Police

Dockyard facilities

Babcock's privatised Devonport Royal Dockyard facility is co-located with HM Naval Base Devonport, providing 'through-life support for submarines, surface ships and associated systems and equipment'. Operational vessels are provided with 'in-service engineering maintenance support' from the yard, dry docks are available to 'maintain, refit, convert and modernise sophisticated modern surface warships' and specialised workshops enable complex systems to be 'removed, overhauled, tested and installed'. 

In the early 1970s it was announced that Devonport would join Chatham and Rosyth in serving as a refit base for nuclear submarines; the Submarine Refit Centre duly opened in 1981. Since 2002, Devonport has been the sole refitting base for all Royal Navy nuclear submarines.

In 2022 Babcock began a ten-year programme of work to upgrade its Devonport Dockyard facilities. The project is described as 'a major infrastructure refurbishment of the nuclear licensed docking and berthing facilities at the dockyard' to meet the evolving requirements of the Royal Navy. The work is focused around No. 5 Basin, with Dry Docks 9, 10, 14 and 15 being upgraded (along with their surrounding buildings and infrastructure) to support the maintenance programme for 'new and existing classes of submarine', along with Dry Docks 8, 11 and 12 which will be used for new classes of frigate (some of which are likely to be too large for the covered docks of the current refit complex).

Nuclear submarine decommissioning
Thirteen out of service nuclear submarines were stored at Devonport in 2018.

 
  (preserved in North Yard as a museum ship)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

In 2018, the UK Parliament's Public Accounts Committee criticised the slow rate of decommissioning of these submarines, with the Ministry of Defence admitting that it had put off decommissioning due to the cost. The National Audit Office in 2019 stated that the costs of laid up storage of all nuclear submarines had reached £500 million, and they represent a liability of £7.5 billion.

South Yard (Freeport)

Several sections of the South Yard (the oldest part of the Naval Base) are no longer used by the Ministry of Defence. Its historic slips were formerly the shipbuilding centre of the Royal Dockyard. In 2012 the southernmost part of the site was sold to a private company and in 2014 the northernmost section was leased to Plymouth City Council as part of a City Deal regeneration project; other areas are leased to Babcock. In 2022 the whole of the South Yard (except for the north-east corner of the site) became part of Plymouth's Freeport.

Princess Yachts
In 2012 Princess Yachts acquired the freehold to  at the southern end of the site, which now houses its construction facility for 'superyachts'. The company sees itself as continuing the boat building tradition within the dockyard, and 'adding drama to the site' with yachts being moved around the quayside, launched on No. 3 Slip, tested in No. 2 Slip and moored alongside the quay wall. Alongside the modern yachts, classic vessels are repaired and restored by Stirling & Son, on and around the 18th-century covered No. 1 Slip.

Oceansgate
In 2014 it was announced, as part of a 'City Deal' regeneration agreement, that more of the South Yard would be 'unlocked' with a view to it becoming a 'marine industries hub'. By 2016 the northern section of the South Yard was being redeveloped in phases, from east to west, with a marketing strategy focused on 'the development of marine industries and the high growth area of marine science and technology'. The area has been renamed Oceansgate.