[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Enrique Peñalosa

nd leftist populist policies, represented by former mayor Gustavo Petro. Peñalosa was the first center-right candidate to be elected as mayor after 12 years of leftist populist politicians in office, with Luis Eduardo Garzon (2004–2007), Samuel Moreno Rojas (2008–2011) and Gustavo Petro (2012–2015).

His principal policy proposals in his second administration include the construction of Bogota's first rapid transit line, to be complemented by several new BRT corridors following Transmilenio's early 2000 plan - including in landmark avenues such as 7th, 68th and Boyacá Avenues; the construction of 30 public schools and 6 public hospitals; the implementation of 1,500 surveillance cameras to prevent petty crime; the construction of large highways and avenues such as Avenida Longitudinal de Occidente and Tintal-Alsacia-Constitución; selling all public participation in Empresa de Telefonos de Bogotá (ETB); and the expansion of Bogotá's metropolitan area in its northern edges, in areas currently occupied by the Thomas Van Der Hammen natural reserve. Peñalosa has been in controversy with several interest groups for these proposals -specifically environmental, education, and health citizen groups, as well as his political opponents from leftist groups strong in the city. As of late 2017, a recall election attempt on Peñalosa is being spearheaded by ETB's unions (who oppose privatization) and Gustavo Petro's political group, supported by other citizen groups.

On 27 October 2019, Claudia López Hernández, a member of the Green Alliance Party, was elected to succeed Peñalosa as mayor of Bogotá. Democratic Center candidate Miguel Uribe Turbay, who served as Peñalosa's Secretary-General, came in fourth place during the election.

Graduate degrees scandal

Penalosa's critics have recently claimed that he has repeatedly misstated his professional graduate studies throughout his career. Peñalosa claims he earned a Diplôme d'études supérieures spécialisées (DESS) at the University of Paris. In response to these allegations, he has claimed that this DESS title has been repeatedly misinterpreted as a PhD. Further investigation into his studies revealed that he earned a graduate degree in Government Affairs at the University of Paris II, and later earning a DESS at the Institut international d’administration publique (also known as École nationale de la France d'outre-mer), which in 2002 was merged into École nationale d'administration.

The scandal was triggered in 2016 by an opinion article published in the Colombian newspaper El Espectador, which reported in April 2016 that Peñalosa did not hold a doctoral degree as had been widely reported by several sources, including in the personal profile section in several of his published books. Opinion writers in El Espectador discovered that Peñalosa did not hold a doctoral degree, after contacting the University of Paris, which confirmed that it did not offer any academic program that would grant a PhD in Public Administration. The magazine Semana also reported that during the swearing-in ceremony of the Mayor in January 2016, a leaflet had been circulated among news media that presented Peñalosa as a PhD of Public Administration, which the mayor dismissed as typing errors by someone in his team.

According to an opposition group actively promoting Peñalosa's 2015 election to be recalled, Peñalosa has been misrepresenting his graduate degrees for 35 years. The group denounced that in an interview with the Brazilian newspaper O Globo, Peñalosa had directly stated that he held a PhD in public administration; however, only the edited interview was ever published, and given the differences between the Spanish and Portuguese languages, other proof of this statement remained unverified, including a direct statement from the lead reporter of said interview.

Peñalosa himself has repeatedly claimed that he has never mentioned in public that he has a PhD degree, and that he firmly believes that his two graduate degrees earned in France are equivalent to master's degrees in the Colombian education system, while stating that his political opponents are actively trying to tarnish his academic credentials with unsubstantiated attacks while promoting his election to be recalled. In his first term as mayor, Peñalosa also went through a significant recall election attempt by his political opponents.  
According to Peñalosa's official public curriculum vitae presented to Colombian authorities when elected as mayor, Peñalosa holds a bachelor's degree in economics and history (Earned in May, 1977), a master's in government affairs (earned in September, 1979) and a "third cycle graduate title in Public Management", referring to the DESS title (Earned in September, 1980).

Awards
 Simón Bolívar Journalism Award 1986 for his economy related journalism section in El Espectador newspaper.
 Simón Bolívar Journalism Award 1990 for his documentary Capitalismo, la mejor opción.

Bibliography

Books