[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Louis de Clermont, seigneur de Bussy

temporarily arrested, the king so vexed at these spats that he retired from public view for several days. Released in February, Caylus, Saint-Mégrin, Saint-Luc and François d'O ambushed Bussy at Saint-Antoine, but he was able to slip their grasp, angrily demanding justice from the king in response.

Frustrated by the reception he had received at court, Alençon decided to depart court again in February and instructed Bussy and his other favourites to join him in abandoning the king. Catherine de Medici, mother of the king, persuaded him to remain, but he remained frosty, refusing to attend the wedding of the king's favourite Saint-Luc. Attending the ball to celebrate the wedding later that night, another of the king's favourites, Louis de Maugiron took the opportunity to insult Alençon. Again deciding to leave, his followers were locked in the Louvre and Bastille. Urged on by his sister, Alençon offered an apology for his conduct, and that of his followers over the past months. As a result his favourites were released from their imprisonment, with Bussy and Caylus forced to embrace as a symbolic act of the reconciliation. The apology was not however genuine, and on 14 February Alençon snuck out of court, slipping out of a window, down to a horse where Bussy was waiting for him, together they fled towards Angers. Catherine pursued them, hoping to achieve a more real reconciliation, however they refused to see her. At this time Alençon made Bussy the 'first gentleman of his chamber'.
In March after having briefly returned to Paris for some celebrations, Alençon laid out his demands for returning to the city, among them was a demand that Bussy, La Châtre and Simier be inducted into the conseil privé, the innermost royal council of decision making.

Apogee
Enjoying the peak of his favour, Bussy was granted the Abbaye de Bourgueil which brought him annual revenues of 18,000 livres, a sizable sum. He was further made command of Alençon's troops for his planned entry into the Netherlands, placing him in the position of organising further recruitment, though the prince would be dissauded from entering the country in force for the moment. He accompanied Alençon on his trip to Mons, a preliminary exploration for Alençon's ambitions to become king of the Netherlands. in August he and François de la Noue were dispatched to meet with William the Silent to discuss the religious situation in the Netherlands. Returning from the trip he continued his cavalier existence in Anjou, the population having despaired of achieving any successful royal intervention.

In his capacity as governor of Anjou, he was questioned by Catherine during the negotiations she was conducting with Navarre, as to what provisions for worship had been granted. The Protestants had complained that Bussy had provided for them the site of Baugé, which they felt was unsuitable. Though Bussy would not change the allocation, Alençon would grant an alternate site in 1581.

Fall from favour and murder
By 1579, his fortunes were changing. Alençon felt he needed his brother’s favour for his Dutch ambitions, and Bussy was an obstacle to any reconciliation. He increasingly found Bussy a patronising presence among his entourage, never having forgiven him for making fun of him during a friendly game. To dispose of him, Alençon provided evidence to the king that Bussy was now romantically pursuing the wife of the count of Montsereau. Henri in turn insinuated to the count that he would not face any royal opposition if he pursued vengeance against Bussy. To entrap the former favourite, Montsereau's wife, on instruction, pretended she was interested in Bussy coming to visit. On 19 August 1579, upon entering the château of Contancière with a friend for this 'illicit rendezvous', he was set upon by Montsereau's men and killed.

His governor responsibilities in Anjou would be inherited by another of Alençon's favourites, the sieur de Simier.

In popular culture 
Bussy d'Amboise is the hero of the play Bussy D'Ambois (1607) by English playwright George Chapman, written 20 years after d'Amboise's death. He is also the hero of the novel La Dame de Monsoreau by Alexandre Dumas, père.

Sources

References

1549 births
1579 deaths
Alexandre Dumas characters
French duellists
Louis de Bussy d'Amboise