[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yehiam

29 and 31 October 1948.

After the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, new houses were built, including the first children's house. Hashomer Hatzair groups joined from different parts of Israel, as well as Aliya of that same movement from Cuba, France, Uruguay, Argentina, Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela.

Economy

Kibbutz Yehiam was privatised in 2001, with a programme put in place in order to attract young families, some of them belonging to people who have grown up on the kibbutz and have moved out at some point.

A sweets factory was one of the first industries in Yehi'am. In addition, the kibbutz had a large variety of agriculture branches such as bananas, citrus, avocado, dairy farming, chicken coop, pigsty, fish farming, wheat, cotton and maize (corn), and a large tobacco crop. As for 2023, Yehi'am's agriculture is largely based on bananas, avocado, and chickens.

Yehi'am Fortress National Park features an Arab fortress built in the 18th century by Zahir al-Umar on and around the remains of a smaller castle dating back to the Crusader era, and which was occupied later on by Bedouin tribes when it was called Khirbat Jiddin.

In 1969, Yehi'am established Deli-Yehiam, a kosher meat factory specializing in beef and chicken cold cuts. In 2006, the company developed a new series of products including pastrami with pistachio, red peppers and olives, which was also marketed at retail chains and kosher delis in France. Its exports to Europe totaled $10 million a year.

In the early 1990s, Yehi'am built Teva BeYehiam, a 60-room Crusader-style guest house at the foot of the castle.

Notable people

 Yael Neeman (born 1960), writer
 Yona Rozenkier (born 1981), filmmaker
 Neetzan Zimmerman (born 1981), blogger

See also
Yehi'am Fortress National Park
Khirbat Jiddin

References

External links
Official website (Hebrew)
Deli-Yehiam

Hungarian-Jewish culture in Israel
Kibbutzim
Kibbutz Movement
Populated places in Northern District (Israel)
Populated places established in 1946
1946 establishments in Mandatory Palestine