[Source: PubMed]

60. Eur J Psychotraumatol. 2017 Nov 30;8(sup7):1403257. doi: 
10.1080/20008198.2017.1403257. eCollection 2017.

The global collaboration on traumatic stress.

Schnyder U(1), Schäfer I(2), Aakvaag HF(3), Ajdukovic D(4), Bakker A(5), Bisson 
JI(6), Brewer D(7), Cloitre M(8), Dyb GA(3)(9), Frewen P(10), Lanza J(11), Le 
Brocque R(12), Lueger-Schuster B(13), Mwiti GK(14), Oe M(15), Rosner R(16), 
Schellong J(17), Shigemura J(18), Wu K(19)(20), Olff M(5)(21).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital Zurich, 
University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Norwegian Centre for Violence and Traumatic Stress Studies, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, 
University of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Academic Medical Center at the University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Division of Psychological Medicine and Clinical Neurosciences, Cardiff 
University School of Medicine, Cardiff, UK.
(7)Ramsay Health Care, The Hollywood Clinic, Perth, Australia.
(8)National Center for PTSD Dissemination and Training Division, VA Palo Alto 
Health Care System, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford 
University, Menlo Park, CA, USA.
(9)Institute of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Western University, London, Canada.
(11)Argentine Society for Psychotrauma, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(12)School of Nursing, Midwifery, and Social Work, University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Australia.
(13)Faculty of Psychology, Clinical Psychology, University of Vienna, Vienna, 
Austria.
(14)Oasis Africa Centre for Transformational Psychology & Trauma, Nairobi, 
Kenya.
(15)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Kurume University School of Medicine, Kurume, 
Japan.
(16)Department of Psychology, Catholic University Eichstätt-Ingolstadt, 
Eichstätt, Germany.
(17)Department of Psychotherapy and Psychosomatic Medicine, University Hospital 
Carl Gustav Carus at the Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(18)Department of Psychiatry, National Defense Medical College, Tokorozawa, 
Japan.
(19)Asian Society for Traumatic Stress Studies, Hong Kong, China.
(20)Clinical Psychological Services, Kwai Chung Hospital, Hospital Authority, 
Hong Kong, China.
(21)Arq Psychotrauma Expert Group, Diemen, The Netherlands.

Trauma is a global issue. The great majority of the global burden of disease 
arising from mental health conditions occurs in low- and middle-income countries 
(LMICs), among populations in political, economic, and/or cultural transition 
and those struck by forced migration. These mental health problems frequently 
arise as a result of traumatic events that adversely affect adults, children, 
and families, including war, mass violence, natural disasters, and accidents. In 
response to this, the International Society for Traumatic Stress Studies (ISTSS) 
launched the Global Initiative to have a stronger global impact on 
trauma-related issues. As part of this initiative, the Global Collaboration was 
established by representatives of eight professional organizations active in the 
field of traumatic stress. The group decided to focus on childhood abuse and 
neglect as its first collaboration. They collected guidelines worldwide, 
providing the basis for a synthesized core guide for prevention and treatment 
that can be customized for specific cultural contexts. The resulting 'Internet 
information on Childhood Abuse and Neglect' (iCAN) is a comprehensive guide for 
adults who have been affected by childhood abuse and neglect, as well as for the 
survivors' significant others. It is currently provided in eight languages, and 
is freely available at the homepage of ISTSS and other websites. A second 
achievement of the Global Collaboration is the validation of the Computerized 
Childhood Attachment and Relational Trauma Screen (CARTS), a self-report measure 
designed to measure occurrences of childhood maltreatment, and its translation 
into multiple languages, including Croatian, Dutch, French, Georgian, German, 
Italian, Japanese, Norwegian, Russian, and Spanish. A study is currently planned 
to collect normative responses to the questionnaire, and to conduct 
cross-cultural comparisons. The Global Collaboration's success may be seen as an 
encouraging step towards a truly global structure in the field of traumatic 
stress.

Publisher: El trauma es un problema global. La gran mayoría de la carga mundial 
de enfermedades derivadas de las enfermedades de salud mental se produce en los 
países de ingresos medios y bajos (PIMB), entre las poblaciones en transición 
política, económica y/o cultural y las afectadas por la migración forzada. Estos 
problemas de salud mental suelen surgir como resultado de acontecimientos 
traumáticos que afectan de modo adverso a adultos, niños y familias, e incluyen 
guerras, violencia masiva, desastres naturales y accidentes. En respuesta a 
esto, la Sociedad Internacional de Estudios de Estrés Traumático (ISTSS) lanzó 
la Iniciativa Global para tener un impacto global más fuerte en los temas 
relacionados con el trauma. Como parte de esta iniciativa, la Colaboración 
Global fue establecida por representantes de ocho organizaciones profesionales 
activas en el campo del estrés traumático. El grupo decidió centrarse en el 
abuso y la negligencia infantil como primera colaboración. Recopilaron 
directrices de todo el mundo, proporcionando la base para un guía central 
sintetizada de prevención y tratamiento que se puede personalizar para contextos 
culturales específicos. La ‘información de Internet sobre abuso y abandono 
infantil’ (iCAN) resultante es una guía completa para adultos que se han visto 
afectados por abuso y negligencia en la infancia, así como para los seres 
queridos de los sobrevivientes. Actualmente, se ofrece en ocho idiomas y está 
disponible gratuitamente en la página de inicio de la ISTSS y otras páginas web. 
Un segundo logro de la Colaboración Global es la validación de la Detección 
Computarizada de Apego Infantil y Trauma Relacional (CARTS), una medida de 
autoinforme diseñada para medir las ocurrencias de maltrato infantil, y su 
traducción a múltiples idiomas, que incluyen croata, holandés, francés, 
georgiano, alemán, italiano, japonés, noruego, ruso y español. Actualmente se 
está planeando un estudio para recopilar respuestas normativas al cuestionario y 
realizar comparaciones interculturales. El éxito de la Colaboración Global puede 
verse como un paso estimulante hacia una verdadera estructura global en el campo 
del estrés traumático.

Publisher: 
创伤是一个全球问题。全球的疾病负担大部分来自于中低收入国家（LMICs）的精神健康问题，集中在处于政治、经济和/或文化过渡期和被迫移民的群体中。创伤事件负面影响着成人、儿童和整个家庭，而这些精神健康问题经常作为这些创伤事件的结果出现。正因为如此，国际创伤应激研究协会（ISTSS）发起了全球倡议，以期对创伤相关问题产生全球化的影响。 
作为这项倡议的一部分，全球合作组由八个在创伤应激领域活跃的专业机构组成，决定将第一次合作内容集中在童年虐待和忽视。他们从全世界收集指南，以此为基础提出针对预防和治疗综合的核心指导，并对不同文化内容进行修改。《关于童年虐待和忽视的网络信息（iCAN）》是一个提供给经历过童年虐待和忽视的成人以其重要他人使用的综合性指南。这份指南目前有八种语言版本，可以在ISTSS 
的首页和其它网站上免费获得。这次全球合作组的第二项成就是确认了‘童年依恋和关系创伤电脑版筛选工具（CARTS）’ 
的有效性。CARTS是一个对是否发生童年虐待的自评工具，已经被翻译成了多种语言：克罗地亚语、荷兰语、法语、格鲁吉亚语、德语、意大利语、日语、挪威语、俄语和西班牙语。目前有一项研究计划收集对这份问卷的常模反应，同时进行跨文化比较。这个全球合作组的成功被看做是在创伤应激领域建立真正的国际结构的推进性鼓励。.

DOI: 10.1080/20008198.2017.1403257
PMCID: PMC5800488
PMID: 29435201

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the authors.61. Child Psychiatry Hum Dev. 2016 Dec;47(6):950-965. doi: 
10.1007/s10578-016-0626-7.

Effects of War, Terrorism and Armed Conflict on Young Children: A Systematic 
Review.

Slone M(1), Mann S(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychological Sciences, Tel Aviv University, PO Box 39040, 6997801, 
Tel Aviv, Israel. mich@post.tau.ac.il.
(2)School of Psychological Sciences, Tel Aviv University, PO Box 39040, 6997801, 
Tel Aviv, Israel.

Millions of children have been maimed, displaced, orphaned and killed in modern 
warfare that targets civilian populations. Several reviews have documented the 
impact of political trauma on children's mental health but none has focused 
specifically on young children (ages 0-6). Since developmental factors influence 
the young child's perception and experience of traumatic events, this 
developmental period is characterized by a unique spectrum of responses to 
political trauma. This systematic review, comprising 35 studies that included a 
total of 4365 young children, examined the effects of exposure to war, conflict 
and terrorism on young children and the influence of parental factors on these 
effects. Results showed that effects include PTSD and post-traumatic stress 
symptoms, behavioral and emotional symptoms, sleep problems, disturbed play, and 
psychosomatic symptoms. Correlations emerged between parental and children's 
psychopathology and, additionally, family environment and parental functioning 
emerged as moderators of the exposure-outcome association for children.

DOI: 10.1007/s10578-016-0626-7
PMID: 26781095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]