[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Occupational Health Services Convention, 1985

Occupational Health Services Convention, 1985 is  an International Labour Organization Convention.

Content 
The convention was held on the 71st International Labour Convention session in Geneva on 25 June 1985. The preamble notes the relevance of the Protection of Workers' Health Recommendation, 1953, the Occupational Health Services Recommendation, 1959, the Workers' Representatives Convention, 1971, and the Occupational Safety and Health Convention and Recommendation, 1981, for the principles of this convention. Furthermore, it is emphasized that the employer has to protect the workers against sickness, disease and injury at the workplace.

Principles of national policy 
The first four articles define the term occupational health services and workers’ representatives, how it has to be established and provided.

Article1 
The first article defines the term occupational health services as actions with preventive focus to protect all workers and employers. 
Workers’ representatives in the undertaking are people recognized as such under law or practice.

Article 2 
Each member of the convention shall organize and create their own national policy on occupational health services in cooperation with representative organizations of employers and workers and check on the implementation.

Article 3 
Every member has to develop ongoing occupational health services for all workers in all branches and arrangements must be adapted to the working conditions and risks. 
If occupational health services cannot be established immediately, each member has to plan such services in cooperation with the most representative organizations of employers and workers. 
Every member is required to provide information in reports on the implementation and progress of the plans submitted to the International Labour Organization.

Article 4 
The competent authority shall cooperate with the most representative organizations of employers and workers for implementation of the agreements.

Functions 
The main functions and participations of occupational health services are resumed in the fifth article of the conventions. Occupational health services must detect and assess risks from health hazard at the workplace, check on possible risks to health in the working environment and all facilities provided by the employer, take part in planning and organization of work, workplaces and in maintenance of working equipment. In addition, occupational health services shall participate in the development of programmes, advice on occupational health, safety and hygiene, observe the health of workers in relation to work, support the improvement of working conditions, organize first aid and emergency treatment and analyze occupational accidents and diseases.

Organization 
The articles six to eight determine the legal conditions for occupational health services. They also refer to competent authorities and the organization of services within and between companies.

Article 6 
The provision of occupational health services shall be made by law, collective agreements and contracts or another way approved by the competent authority.

Article 7 
Occupational health services can be organized for a single company or a number of companies. The services shall be organized by public authorities, social security institutions, authorized bodies or companies themselves.

Article 8 
Employers and workers shall cooperate and participate equally in the implementation of occupational health services.

Conditions of operation 

Articles 9 to 15 describe the responsibilities of personnel and employers regarding occupational health services and the implementation of health protective measures.

Article 9 
Occupational health services shall cooperate with other services in the company and the personnel is determined by the nature of the tasks.

Article 10 
The personnel for occupational health services acts independent from employers and workers.

Article 11 
The competent authority determines the required qualifications for the personnel of occupational health services.

Article 12 
The surveillance of the workers’ health shall not involve earning loss, be free of charge and should take place in working time.

Article 13 
Every worker has to be informed about health hazards in their work.

Article 14 
Occupational health services are informed about known health hazards by employers and workers.

Article 15 
Occupational health services must be informed about occurring illnesses and workers’ absence due to health reasons in order to identify possible health risks at work. 
The personnel must not be instructed by the employer to verify the reasons for absence from work.

General provisions 
Articles 16 to 24 govern the ratification of this convention and the adoption of a new convention. They also contain the responsibilities of the Director-General of the ILO and the validity of the English and French versions.