[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# State Anti-fascist Council for the National Liberation of Bosnia and Herzegovina

, the ZAVNOBiH was established as the representative legislative body of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was meant to demonstrate Bosnian patriotism and diversity of segments of society united in opposition to the Axis occupation and was intended to motivate a broader support for the Partisan resistance.

The ZAVNOBiH elected its 31-member presidency, and 53 representatives for the second session of AVNOJ scheduled for 29 November in nearby Jajce. While the body was communist dominated, the presidency members included non-communists in support of the ZAVNOBiH's aim of expanding the Partisan base of support. Thus it included representatives who were members of the HSS and JMO, as well as a member of the Gajret organisation. Its ranks included former Chetnik Vojvoda Pero Đukanović, former Croatian Home Guard Colonel Sulejman Filipović, a Christian Orthodox priest and a Hodja. Vojislav Kecmanović, a pre-war member of the SDS, was elected president of the presidency. Humo, Aleksandar Preka, and Đuro Pucar were elected vice-presidents, and Hasan Brkić was elected secretary. The ZAVNOBiH also adopted a resolution dismissing the order imposed by the Axis powers as well as the pre-war Yugoslav system of government and the Yugoslav government-in-exile, while declaring that the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina will contribute to building of federal Yugoslavia on equal terms as other peoples of Yugoslavia.

Second session

The second session of the ZAVNOBiH was convened on 30 June 1944 in Sanski Most. There were 197 delegates at the session. All ratified delegates of the first ZAVNOBiH session were there except five, and a few were added at this session. About one third of the delegates were either absent or represented by a proxy. Pucar and Brkić were keynote speakers. The former talked about the common struggle and brotherhood of people, while the latter explained the need to adopt legal declarations on statehood of Bosnia and Herzegovina, rights of citizens, prosecution of war crimes and other issues related to establishment of a state.

The ZAVNOBiH confirmed the decisions of the second session of AVNOJ. It also adopted a declaration stating that Bosnia and Herzegovina was a sovereign entity enjoying the right to self-determination and that it was voluntarily joining the Yugoslav federation. The ZAVNOBiH authorised the Presidency to use the sovereign powers and issued the Declaration on Rights of the Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina recognising equality of Serbs, Muslims and Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By adopting these and other decisions on 30 June2 July 1944, the ZAVNOBiH established Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state.

Finally, the ZAVNOBiH elected 26 members of the Presidency. It included communists and non-communists, seeking to represent as wide spectrum of the society as possible. Its president was Kecmanović, while three vice presidents were Humo, Pucar and Jakov Grgurić – a HSS member.

Third session
The ZAVNOBiH Presidency transferred its seat from Jajce to Sarajevo on 15 April 1945 and decided, the next day, to hold there the third session of the ZAVNOBiH on 26 April. The session would transform the provisional bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina into regular bodies. Exact list of delegates remains uncertain, but it appears that there were 176 official delegates – 155 of whom attended the proceedings.

The ZAVNOBiH renamed itself the People's Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Presidency was rebranded as the People’s Government. Čolaković was appointed to lead the first government formally voted in on 28 April.

Public holiday
The date of convening of the first session, 25 November, was celebrated as the day of the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since the date was close to the Day of the Republic – the Yugoslav holiday marking the anniversary of the second session of the AVNOJ on 29–30 November – the two anniversaries were referred to in Bosnia and Herzegovina as the November Days. In 1995, the anniversary of convening of the first session of the ZAVNOBiH was formally declared a holiday in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where it is marked as Bosnia and Herzegovina Statehood Day.

Footnotes

References

Bosnia and Herzegovina in World War II
Anti-fascism in Yugoslavia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Political history of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Yugoslav Bosnia and Herzegovina
1943 in Bosnia and Herzegovina
1944 in Bosnia and Herzegovina
1945 in Bosnia and Herzegovina
1940s establishments in Bosnia and Herzegovina
1943 establishments in Yugoslavia
1945 disestablishments in Yugoslavia