[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Osman Baydemir

nst him had been conducted. In June 2001 Amnesty International issued an urgent action on his behalf. After the assassination of Armenian journalist Hrant Dink in January 2007 Osman Baydemir was among several people who received death threats.

Some or the court cases against Osman Baydemir include:

 In May 2006 Osman Baydemir was charged with for providing an ambulance of the municipality for the transport of a corpse. In September 2006 Osman Baydemir was acquitted. 
 Osman Baydemir and 55 other mayors of the Democratic Society Party (DTP) were indicted because in December 2005 they signed a petition to the Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen urging him not to close the Kurdish television station Roj TV. They were charged with supporting the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The trial started in September 2006 and in April 2007 the prosecutor asked for sentences of 15 years' imprisonment for 52 mayors. 
 He was prosecuted for violating a Turkish law prohibiting the use of letters not in the Turkish alphabet when he sent out a New Year's greeting in Kurdish which included the letter "W". On 19 April 2007, Diyarbakır Peace Court No. 2 dropped the charges since the Ministry of Justice had not permitted that such a case be heard.
 He was charged with forbidden propaganda for having referred to the PKK as the "armed Kurdish opposition", but was acquitted in December 2009 as it was seen as freedom of thought by a court in Diyarbakır.  
In October 2017 Baydemir was sentenced to 1 year, 5 months and 15 days of imprisonment for insulting an "on-duty government employee" after he called three police officers "fascists and low-lives". The verdict was confirmed in April 2018, following which he was expelled from parliament.  
On 10 December 2018 Ahval news agency reported he was sentenced to 18 month of prison for violating the law of demonstrations and meetings.
On the 17 March 2021, the State Prosecutor to the Court of Cassation Bekir Şahin filed a lawsuit in front of the Constitutional Court demanding for Baydemir and 686 other HDP politicians a five-year ban to engage in politics together with a closure of the HDP due to alleged organizational links with the PKK.

Personal ife 
In May 2005 he married Reyhan Yalçındağ, the deputy chair of the TIHV. On 23 April 2006 their son Mirzanyar was born. After his expulsion of the Turkish parliament he left Turkey and went into exile to London, United Kingdom.

References

External links
 What do the Kurds Want? (December 2004) petition, signed also by Osman Baydemir.

1971 births
Turkish Kurdish politicians
Living people
Turkish human rights activists
Mayors of Diyarbakır
Democratic Society Party politicians
Members of the 25th Parliament of Turkey
Peoples' Democratic Party (Turkey) politicians
Members of the 26th Parliament of Turkey
Dicle University alumni
Mayors of places in Turkey
Kurdish jurists
Exiled Turkish politicians