[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joel H. Rosenthal

l human interest.”

Personal life 

He is married to Patricia Barney Rosenthal and has two children.

Selected Articles & Multimedia 

 “Ethics 101” 
 “Peace: What is it Good For?”
 "Compromises and Rotten Compromises: A Reflection on the Iran Deal" 
 “Ethics and War in Homer’s Iliad”

Publications 

 “Economic Sanctions,” in International Encyclopedia of Ethics, ed. Hugh LaFollette (Wiley-Blackwell; 1 edition, 2013)
 “Patriotism and Cosmopolitanism,” in Civil Religion, Human Rights and International Relations: Connecting People Across Cultures and Traditions, ed. Helle Porsdam (Massachusetts: Edward Elgar Publishing, 2012).
 Editorial advisor for Encyclopedia of Global Justice, ed. Deen Chatterjee (New York: Springer, 2011).
 Co-editor of Ethics and International Affairs: A Reader, 3rd ed. (Washington, D.C.: Georgetown University Press, 2009).
 Ethics and International Relations (Library of Essays in International Relations Series, Ashgate Publishing, 2009) co-edited with Ethan B. Kapstein.
 Foreword in Ethics of Spying: A Reader for the Intelligence Professional, ed. Jan Goldman (Maryland: The Scarecrow Press, Inc., 2005).
 Political Theory and International Affairs: Hans J. Morgenthau on Aristotle’s The Politics Foreword, (Praeger Publishers, 2004)
 Foreword in Ethics and Statecraft: The Moral Dimension of International Affairs, 2nd ed. (Connecticut: Praeger Publishers, 2004)
 Ethics and the Future of Conflict, co-edited with Albert C. Pierce and Anthony Lang (London: Pearson, 2004).
 “A New Ethical Front,” Foreign Policy, July 2002.
 Foreword in Never Again?: The United States and the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide since the Holocaust, (Maryland: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2001).
 “Cycles of Moral Dialogue,” in Autonomy and Order. A Communitarian Anthology, ed. Edward Lehman (Maryland: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2000).
 “Henry Stimson’s Clue,” World Policy Journal, Fall 1997.
 “Ethics,” in Encyclopedia of U.S. Foreign Relations, ed. Bruce W. Jentleson et al. (New York: Oxford University Press, 1996).
 “Private Convictions and Public Commitments,” World Policy Journal, Summer 1995.
 Righteous Realists (Louisiana: Louisiana State University Press, 1991).

References

External links 

 Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs - http://www.carnegiecouncil.org/people/data/joel_h__rosenthal.html 
 Profile Page - http://joelrosenthal.org/welcome/
 Carnegie's Vision for Peace: WNYC's Brian Lehrer Interviews Joel Rosenthal
 http://www.wnyc.org/story/carnegies-vision-peace/

1960 births
Living people
Harvard University alumni
Yale University alumni
People from Brookline, Massachusetts
American political scientists
Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs