[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alonzo Cushing

f the Civil War serves the Ozaukee County region of Wisconsin.

A small state park in Delafield was dedicated to the memory of Cushing and two of his brothers, William and Howard. While the park remains dedicated to the memory of the Cushing brothers, it is now the property of the City of Delafield.

Cushing Elementary School in Delafield (part of the Kettle Moraine School District) is also named after the brothers.

A stone monument in honor of Cushing marks the spot where he was killed during the Battle of Gettysburg. The marker is located on Cemetery Ridge, along Hancock Avenue, at The Angle.

In 2015, the Commandery-in-Chief of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States (MOLLUS) posthumously elected Lieutenant Cushing as a companion of the Order.

NFL Houston Texans linebacker Brian Cushing is a distant relative of Alonzo Cushing and his brothers. 

Stephen Vincent Benet's poem "John Brown's Body" contains a stanza commemorating Cushing's death at Gettysburg:

"Cushing ran down the last of his guns to the battle-line.

The rest had been smashed to scrap by Lee's artillery fire.

He held his guts in his hand as the charge came up to the wall,

And his gun spoke out for him once before he fell to the ground."

See also
List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Battle of Gettysburg
List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: A–F

Notes

References
 Brown, Kent Masterson. Cushing of Gettysburg. Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 1993; .

Further reading
 Fuger, Frederick. 1908. "Cushing's Battery at Gettysburg". Journal of the Military Service Institution of the United States. p. 41.
 Haight, Theron Wilber. Three Wisconsin Cushings: A Sketch of the Lives of Howard B., Alonzo H. and William B. Cushing, Children of a Pioneer Family of Waukesha County, Wisconsin. Madison: Wisconsin History Commission, 1910. .
 Langworthy, Todd. The Cushing Boys of Fredonia: Soldiers of the Civil War. [S.l: s.n.], 2009. 
 "Winning a Battle to Honor a Civil War Hero", New York Times, June 11, 2010; accessed November 7, 2014.

External links

 Army.mil Spotlight
 Battery A, 4th U.S. Artillery – The Civil War Artillery Compendium

1841 births
1863 deaths
Union Army officers
American Civil War recipients of the Medal of Honor
People of New York (state) in the American Civil War
People of Wisconsin in the American Civil War
People from Delafield, Wisconsin
People from Fredonia, New York
United States Military Academy alumni
United States Army officers
United States Army Medal of Honor recipients
Burials at West Point Cemetery
Union military personnel killed in the American Civil War