[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Landscape-scale conservation

Conservancy, The Sustainable Trade Initiative, and EcoAgriculture Partners. Promoters claim that integrated landscape management will maximise collaboration in planning, policy development and action regarding the interdependent Sustainable Development Goals. It was defined by four elements in 2013:

 Large scale: It plans land uses at the landscape scale. Wildlife population dynamics and watershed functions can only be understood at the landscape scale. Assuming short-term trade-offs may lead to long-term synergies, conducting analyses over long time periods is advocated.
 Emphasis on synergies: It tries to exploit "synergies" among conservation, agricultural production, and rural livelihoods. 
 Emphasis on collaboration: It can not be achieved by individuals. The management of landscapes require different land managers with different environmental and socio-economic goals to achieve conservation, production, and livelihood goals at a landscape scale.
 Importance of both conservation and agricultural production: bringing conservation into the agricultural and rural development discourse by highlighting the importance of ecosystem services in supporting agricultural production. It supports conservationists to more effectively conserve nature within and outside protected areas by working with the agricultural community by developing conservation-friendly livelihoods for rural land users.

By 2016 it had five elements, namely:

 stakeholders come together for cooperative dialogue and action; 
 they exchange information systematically and discuss perspectives to achieve a shared understanding of the landscape conditions, challenges and opportunities; 
 collaborative planning to develop an agreed action plan; 
 implementation of the plan; 
 monitoring and dialogue to adapt management.

Ecosystem approach
The ecosystem approach, promoted by the Convention on Biological Diversity, is a strategy for the integrated ecosystem management of land, water, and living resources for conservation and sustainability.

Ten Principles

This approach includes continual learning and adaptive management: including monitoring, the expectation that actions take place at multiple scales and that landscapes are multifunctional (e.g. supplying both goods, such as timber and food, and services, such as water and biodiversity protection). There are multiple stakeholders, and it assumes they have a common concern about the landscape, negotiate change with each other, and their rights and responsibilities are clear or will become clear.

Criticisms
A literature review identified five main barriers, as follows:

 Terminology confusion: the variety of definitions creates confusion and resistance to engage. This resistance has emerged, often independently, from different fields. As stated by Scherr et al.: "People are talking about the same thing ... This can lead to fragmentation of knowledge, unnecessary re-invention of ideas and practices, and inability to mobilize action at scale. ... this rich diversity is often simply overwhelming: they receive confusing messages" This problem is not unique to landscape approaches: since the 1970s it has been recognised that the constant emergence of new terminology can be harmful if they promote rhetoric at the expense of action. Because landscapes approaches develop from, and aim to integrate, a wide variety of sectors, makes it vulnerable to overlapping definitions and parallel concepts. Like other approaches to conservation, it may be a fad.
 Time lags: substantial time and resources are invested in developing and planning, while resources are inadequate for implementation. 
 Operating silos: Each sector pursues its goals without giving consideration to the others. This may arise because of a lack in established objectives, operating norms and funding that effectively bridge different sectors. Working across sectors at the landscape scale requires a range of skills, different from those traditionally used by conservation organisations.  
 Engagement: Stakeholders may not desire to be engaged in the process, engagement may be trivial or inaccessible, and the discussions may hinder efficient decision-making. 
 Monitoring: There is lack of monitoring to check whether the objectives have been achieved.

See also

 Agriculture in Concert with the Environment
 Agroecology
 Agroforestry
 Anthropogenic biome
 Conservation development
 Ecosystem approach
 Global biodiversity
 Landscape ecology
 Multifunctional landscape
 Working landscape
 Landscape Institute
 Landscape urbanism
 Polder model
 Sustainable forest management
 Sustainable landscaping
 Topocide
 Watershed management

References

External links
CIVILSCAPE - We are the landscape people! (CIVILSCAPE)
Landscape Europe
Landscape Character Network

Landscape ecology
Natural resource management
Sustainable design
Environmental conservation