[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kumar Rupesinghe

advocate and first secretary general of Amnesty International, Martin Ennals, who received the Nobel Prize. During his tenure, Rupesinghe was in the august company of IA Board members like Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Nobel Laureates and other distinguished citizens of the global human rights community.

Under his leadership, International Alert became one of the largest NGOs in the world with a budget of approximately UK£5 million a year, a staff of 80, and field programmes in over 15 countries. Many organisations adopted International Alert's mandate of conflict prevention. Rupesinghe collaborated with over 50 organisations mainly in the regions of conflict.

International Alert has been involved in mediation and conflict resolution in Sri Lanka, the Philippines, Fiji, Sierra Leone, Burundi, Rwanda, the Caucasus region, and the Russian Federation. It made a decisive intervention in the conflict in Sierra Leone and facilitated the mediation process with the foreign minister of Côte d'Ivoire, the UN, the OAU, and the Commonwealth secretariat. Their efforts eventually led to the Abidjan Accords. In Liberia, at the request of President Carter, early efforts were made to encourage dialogue between Charles Taylor of Liberia and President Abacha of Nigeria.

In Sri Lanka, International Alert worked towards the resolution of its conflict with many problem-solving workshops inclusive of all parties involved. Of special interest was a programme to take 20 MPs representing each political party to learn from the experience from Northern Ireland, South Africa, and the Philippines.

In the Caucasus, in collaboration with the then Minister of Nationalities, Professor Valery Tishkov, Rupesinghe initiated a programme to expand an early warning and early response network in the Russian Federation and inaugurated a citizen-based network for peace building and conflict resolution. International Alert was asked to intervene in several conflicts in the former Soviet Union, including Chechnya and Dagestan.

In Fiji, International Alert was involved in several workshops with decision makers from both sides to work towards constitutional reform.

Academic pursuits
As chairman of the FCE, Rupesinghe provided policy support for the Sri Lankan peace process by writing articles and issue papers and participating in seminars and TV opinion programmes. This role supported continued public engagement and exchange with key decision-makers, stakeholders, and fellow civil society organisations.

Since his return to Sri Lanka after the signing of the ceasefire agreement between the government and the LTTE in 2002, he initiated the National Anti-War Front (NAWF) with a presence throughout Sri Lanka. It has been engaged in public demonstrations, sit-ins, and vigils to call for peace and a negotiated solution to the country's civil war.

While his nation building efforts were invaluable, Rupesinghe remained open to criticism. He encouraged open discussions with such individuals and groups and believed that transparency and dialogue is the only way of reaching a national consensus on the issue.

Among his contributions were advancing early warning and conflict resolution, understanding the role of third parties in the mediation of protracted internal conflicts, and developing a concept of multitrack solutions to civil wars.

He contributed to early warning systems for the EU and the OAU, and sought to influence policy debate in the UK, Canada, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland, Denmark, Germany, and Japan, where his efforts led to the formation of the Centre for Preventive Diplomacy.

International achievements
Rupesinghe also served as a member of the board on the United Nations Research Institute for Social Development (UNRISD)'s Project on War Torn Societies.

Professional achievements
Rupesinghe was chair of HURIDOCS (Human Rights Documentation Systems Exchange International) and was appointed chair of the Programme on Culture and Ethnicity of Japan's Sasakawa Peace Foundation. This programme will publish over five volumes on culture and identity.	
	
He was chair of the Forum for Early Warning and Early Action (FEWER), an ongoing initiative to establish an international early warning network.

He was appointed a member of the Atlanta-based Council of the International Negotiation Network, led by former President Carter, and acted as an advisor for his initiatives on peace.

He was a council member of the Commission in Globalisation of former Russian President Gorbachev's State of the World Forum.

Personal life and death
Rupesinghe died on 22 February 2022, at the age of 79.