[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Refugees in New Zealand

arp decrease in the number of asylum seekers accepted from 2001 onwards. They argued that the quota had not increased for three decades, that Australia welcomed five times as many refugees per capita as New Zealand, and that New Zealand ranked around 90th in the world at hosting refugees per capita.

Prior to the 2014 election only the Green Party and United Future had policies on increasing the quota. The National party had a policy of decreasing the quota to 500 places in 2002 but this policy was not continued, nor implemented when they gained power in 2008. At the 2014 election the Labour party indicated they would support raising the quota to 1,000.

In early 2015 Amnesty International joined the call to double the quota. The public awakening to the refugee crisis in August of that year led to doubling the quota becoming a popular argument for how New Zealand should respond, gaining support from mayors, churches, other NGOs, the National Party's youth wing, and media commentators. Public pressure saw the government agree to admit 600 additional Syrian refugees, with 150 places also set aside from within the quota for Syrians. They also said they would consider increasing the quota at the triennial review due in 2016.

A broad-based campaign ran in the first six months of 2016 to encourage the government to double the quota. While it was ultimately unsuccessful in that goal, the government did set in place an increase of the quota to 1,000 places for July 2018. More importantly, United Future, Labour and the Greens all took on a policy of doubling the quota.

In the lead up to the 2017 election, Doing Our Bit continued the campaign with a nationwide speaking tour securing pledges of Members of Parliament and candidates to double the quota. Among those signing was then deputy leader of the opposition, Jacinda Ardern. When Ardern eventually became Opposition leader and then leader of the coalition government with New Zealand First, she reiterated that the refugee quota would grow to 1,500 places. The Green party also secured a review of the numbers admitted under family reunification for their confidence and supply support. In August 2018, a book by Stephens was released documenting the campaign through publisher Bridget Williams Books.

On 19 September 2018, the Sixth Labour Government announced that New Zealand will raise the annual refugee quota from 1,000 to 1,500 in July 2020, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern had announced. Labour campaigned on increasing the refugee quota to 1,500 over three years, and providing the funding to manage refugee resettlement. In June 2023, it was announced that the doubled quota had been reached for the first time.

2021 Afghan evacuation
Following the 2021 Taliban offensive that reinstated Taliban rule in Afghanistan in mid–August 2021, the New Zealand Government dispatched military forces including a Royal New Zealand Air Force C-130 Hercules plane to assist in international evacuation efforts at Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul. Besides New Zealand citizens and residents, NZ forces were tasked with evacuating Afghans who had assisted the New Zealand Defence Force and their families. By 23 August, the first batch of Afghan evacuees had arrived in New Zealand via the United Arab Emirates, with the Australian Defence Force helping to facilitate their travel to New Zealand.

On 26 August, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT) suspended the processing of residency applications from Afghan nationals in late August 2021, citing the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan. The suspension of Afghan residency applications was criticised by human rights advocates and Afghan migrants. Former Afghan interpreter Diamond Kazimi stated that 200 Afghan families who had assisted the NZDF were still waiting for their visa applications to be processed. On 26 August, the RNZAF completed its last evacuation flight from Kabul following the 2021 Kabul airport attacks. By that stage, about 300 of the 520 people in Afghanistan registered with MFAT had been evacuated.

In response to the Afghan crisis, the University of Waikato law academic Alexander Gillespie called on the Government to do a one-off intake of 1,500 additional refugees on top of the country's existing refugee quota. Similarly, the Council for International Development's (CID) Humanitarian Manager Aaron Davy called on the Government to lift the refugee quota to 1,000 in order to take in Afghan refugees and to increase humanitarian aid to Afghanistan.