[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Torkom Manoogian

oogian was rushed to Hadassah Hospital, with septic shock due to pneumonia. One day after his admission he suffered from cardiac and pulmonary arrest (the heart stopped working because of the severe infection in the lungs that could permit neither oxygenation nor ventilation) and lost consciousness.

On March 14, 2012, Patriarch Torkom Manoogian was transferred to the Franciscan Fathers Infirmary in Jerusalem. In an interview with Archbishop Aris Shirvanian, published on April 11, 2012, Shirvanian stated that, "The Patriarch's condition is grave. He has come out of coma, however remains unconscious and unable to speak. He has lost his ability to speak because his brain was seriously damaged."

Since January 30, 2012, the Grand Sacristan Archbishop Nourhan Manougian was officially assigned to take upon him the tasks of Patriarch.

On October 12, 2012, Patriarch Torkom Manoogian died due to a blood infection caused by a severe pressure bed-sore. He was 93. His official burial ceremony was held in Jerusalem on October 22, 2012. On October 19, Archbishop Aris Shirvanian was elected Locum Tenens, until the election of the new Patriarch.

On January 24, 2013, Archbishop Nourhan Manougian was elected as the 97th Armenian Patriarch of Jerusalem. Within the Armenian Apostolic Church, the Patriarch of Jerusalem is autonomous, and the Patriarchate holds its own jurisdiction.

Legacy
Manoogian was a musician, a choral conductor, composer, poet and writer. He published more than 20 books and monographs including three books of poetry under the pen name "Shen Mah". His work includes original research on the Armenian liturgy, books on the Armenian genocide, and a detailed guide book of the holy places of Jerusalem. He translated into Armenian the 154 sonnets of William Shakespeare.

He was an expert and lecturer on the Armenian composer Komitas, publishing a study of his liturgical music as well as several essays related to his musicological work.

References

1919 births
2012 deaths
20th-century translators
Armenian Patriarchs of Jerusalem
Armenian refugees
Iraqi people of Armenian descent
Translators of William Shakespeare
Translators to Armenian
20th-century Oriental Orthodox bishops
21st-century Oriental Orthodox archbishops