[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# John Kennedy (Louisiana politician)

not appear to be government entities, the lack of information about many of the items or entities, and that many of the items should have been considered through the entire process and/or included in other appropriate places in the budget to ensure proper public scrutiny, input and accountability."

During his third term as treasurer, Kennedy devised a 24-point plan by which the state could save money. Governor Bobby Jindal said Kennedy could "streamline" his own department. Many of Kennedy's ideas were derived from the Louisiana Commission for Streamlining Government, on which he served in his official capacity as treasurer. Kennedy later accused Jindal's administration of check kiting, a controversial accounting practice whereby the governor took money from the 2014-2015 budget to cover debts from the 2013-2014 budget.

Campaigns for U.S. Senate

2004 

On February 3, 2004, Kennedy launched his first bid for the U.S. Senate to replace incumbent John Breaux, who was retiring. He ran as a Democrat in the state's jungle primary, losing to Republican David Vitter and Democrat Chris John. Vitter won the election outright.

2008 

Kennedy ran for the Senate again in 2008, this time as a Republican. He was defeated, 52.1% to 45.7%, by incumbent Democratic Senator Mary Landrieu; the same year, Republican presidential nominee John McCain defeated Barack Obama in Louisiana, but Obama was elected.

2016 

On January 26, 2016, Kennedy launched a third bid for a Senate seat. In seeking to succeed the retiring Vitter, he faced more than 20 opponents. Vitter had announced his forthcoming retirement from the Senate in 2015 after losing a bid for governor to John Bel Edwards.

Kennedy's senatorial campaign was endorsed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Federation of Independent Business, the NRA Political Victory Fund, the National Right to Life Committee, the American Conservative Union, Vice President-elect Mike Pence and President-elect Donald Trump. Kennedy, who had supported Vitter for governor the previous year, won the jungle primary and faced Democrat Foster Campbell in a December 10 runoff election. President-elect Donald Trump—who had received Kennedy's support in the 2016 presidential election—campaigned for Kennedy the day before the runoff. Kennedy defeated Campbell by 536,204 votes (61%) to 347,813 (39%). He lost the most-populated parishes of Orleans and East Baton Rouge, in which he had been reared, but was a runaway winner in Campbell's home parish of Bossier.

2022 

Kennedy was reelected in 2022, defeating 12 opponents in an open primary with 62% of the vote in the first round. In the general election, Kennedy defeated Democratic nominee Gary Chambers by 43.7 percentage points. Kennedy received the most votes in every parish except Orleans parish.

U.S. Senate (2017–present)

115th Congress (2017–2019) 

Kennedy was sworn in as Louisiana's junior U.S. Senator on January 3, 2017. He had resigned his position as state treasurer earlier that day.

In June 2017, Kennedy "grilled" Education Secretary Betsy DeVos in a hearing before the Appropriations subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Service, Education and Related Agencies. In the exchange, he contrasted the lack of school choice available to younger pupils in many rural areas of the country with the numerous brands of mayonnaise available at grocery stores: "Now I can go down to my overpriced Capitol Hill grocery this afternoon and choose among about six different types of mayonnaise. How come I can't do that for my kid?" Kennedy asked. The remark attracted national attention. DeVos replied that the Trump administration budget proposal would give parents and students more power and opportunity so that American education could again become "the envy of the world". Kennedy served as a volunteer substitute teacher for more than a decade in Louisiana public schools to better understand issues in the education system. He attracted comment for his manner in the Senate. A January 2018 Huffington Post article reported: "Since being elected to the Senate a year ago, Kennedy ... has made a name for himself on Capitol Hill with his wit, humor and penchant for folksy expressions―a notable feat in a place where jargon and arcane procedure tend to reign supreme".

Kennedy received widespread media attention after he crossed party lines to oppose the appointment of three of Trump's U.S. District Court judicial nominees who Kennedy believed were not qualified: Jeff Mateer, Brett Talley, and Matthew S. Petersen. The White House withdrew all three nominations. On December 13, 2017, during Petersen's confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Kennedy asked Petersen about basic legal procedure, whether he knew what the Daubert standard was, and what a motion in limine was. Petersen struggled to answer. Kennedy also voted against the nomination of Gregory G. Katsas to the D.C. Circuit, but Katsas was confirmed.