[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# List of Asian Americans

Chaplain, former Chinese dissident
 Rodney James Takashi Yano – sergeant first class, U.S. Army. Posthumous Medal of Honor recipient in Vietnam War
 James Yee – captain, U.S. Army. Muslim Chaplain previously charged with Sedition
 John C. Young – colonel, U.S. Army, combat liaison officer, CBI, WWII

Foreign military service 
 Arthur Chin (陳瑞鈿) – major, National Revolutionary Army. World War II pilot and fighter ace with Canton Provincial Air Force
 Ma Dunjing – major general, National Revolutionary Army. Chinese Muslim immigrated to Los Angeles in the United States after retirement in 1950
 Ma Hongkui – lieutenant general, National Revolutionary Army. Chinese Muslim immigrated to Los Angeles in the United States after retirement in 1950
 Nobuaki Iwatake – conscript, Imperial Japanese Army.
 Nguyễn Ngọc Loan – brigadier general, Army of the Republic of Vietnam. Subject of Eddie Adam's photograph
 Vang Pao, – major general, Royal Lao Army. Hmong Leader, commander of CIA-supported Hmong forces during the Laotian Civil War
 Ngo Quang Truong – lieutenant general, Army of the Republic of Vietnam. Author

News/media/journalism
 Guy Aoki – founder of Media Action Network for Asian Americans
 Ben Calhoun – radio journalist at This American Life
 Cher Calvin News Anchor 
 Jeff Chang – journalist, hip-hop historian
 Laura Chang – science editor, The New York Times
 Christine Chen – Emmy Award-winning journalist and news anchor
 Julie Chen Moonves – newsreader on The Early Show and host of Big Brother
 Lanhee Chen – American policy expert, academic and CNN political commentator
 Anna Chen Chennault (陳香梅) – journalist, notable in American public life; also, wife of Claire Chennault – of the Flying Tigers
 Kiran Chetry – television news anchor
 Connie Chung – anchor and journalist, 2 Emmy Awards for Best Interviewer
 Ann Curry – anchor and correspondent for NBC News and The Today Show
 Veronica De La Cruz – CNN News anchor
Cynthia Gouw – award-winning television and radio reporter/anchor
 Sanjay Gupta – CNN senior medical correspondent
 Joseph Heco (1837–1897) – fisherman, writer, first to publish a Japanese language newspaper
 Ching He Huang – cooking show host
 Philip Jaisohn – journalist, activist, the first Korean to become a naturalized citizen of the United States
 Pedram Javaheri – meteorologist for CNN International & HLN
 JT Tran – featured dating advice columnist for LA Weekly and Baller Magazine
 Michiko Kakutani – Pulitzer Prize winning New York Times literary critic and author
K. Connie Kang – first female Korean American journalist, wrote for Los Angeles Times
  Ken Kashiwahara  – first Asian American network news anchor, Emmy-winning television journalist
 Guy Kawasaki – author, Apple evangelist
 Mina Kimes – journalist, ESPN commentator
 Gobind Behari Lal – science journalist and the first Asian American Pulitzer prize winner
 Euna Lee – journalist
 Jennifer 8. Lee – journalist, The New York Times
 K. W. Lee – journalist, founder of the Korean American Journalists Association
 Young Jean Lee – playwright, director, and filmmaker
 Carol Lin – news anchor
 Sam Chu Lin – journalist, one of the first Asian Americans on network TV news
 Lisa Ling (凌志慧) – journalist, known for her role as a co-host of ABC's The View and host of National Geographic Ultimate Explorer documentarian for CNN
 Richard Lui – news anchor of MSNBC
 Michelle Malkin – Fox News reporter and author
 Vinita Nair – current anchor of World News Now and America This Morning on ABC.
 Kent Ninomiya – anchor, reporter, news executive
 Uma Pemmaraju – Fox News Channel senior news anchor
 Dith Pran – photojournalist. The Killing Fields was based on his life.
 Aneesh Raman – CNN Middle East correspondent
 Scott Sassa – former President of NBC West Coast
 Sharon Tay – journalist
 Iva Toguri (1916–2006) – radio broadcaster who has been nicknamed "Tokyo Rose"
 Kaity Tong – television news anchor, WPIX-TV
 Lin Sue Cooney – news anchor 12 News
 Ben Fong-Torres (方振豪) – journalist, Rolling Stone
 Stephanie Trong – journalist, former Executive Editor, Jane Magazine; current Executive Editor Nylon Magazine
 Ali Velshi – CNN business anchor
 Zain Verjee – CNN anchor
 Doualy Xaykaothao - award-winning Hmong American radio journalist
 Michael Yamashita – president/CEO and publisher of Bay Area Reporter
 John Yang (journalist) – Peabody Award-winning news correspondent and commentator for NBC Nightly News with Brian Williams, Today (NBC program) and MSNBC
 Jeff Yang – writer, media/business consultant, Asian American culture columnist for the San Francisco Chronicle
 Al Young - journalist; first Asian American sportswriter in U.S. Mainland at metro daily newspaper with Bridgeport (CT) Post-Telegram in 1970.
 Anthony Yuen – journalist
 Fareed Zakaria – editor of Newsweek, host of Fareed Zakaria GPS on CNN

Politics