[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ayoob Kara

talks to improve relations. However, the Syrian embassy in Washington denied the meeting took place, as did a spokesman for Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu. He has also been outspoken in his opposition to proposed divisions of the border village of Ghajar, comparing it to the Berlin Wall.

In 2010, he worked to improve economic and humanitarian ties between Israel and Syria. Druze farmers in the Golan Heights now import water from Syria and export thousands of tons of apples every year. In addition, Druze were able to visit relatives in Syria for the first time in decades and also receive organ transplants there. In addition, he has coordinated burials for families between Syria, Lebanon, and the Golan Heights. Kara is hopeful that these "cracks in the great wall between Israel and Syria" will one day lead to real negotiations for peace. Or at the very least, he hopes to cut down the bureaucracy preventing humanitarian exchanges between Israel and Syria. Kara has also called for mines to be removed from the Golan Heights, citing them as dangerous to travelers and not needed for Israel's defense.

When several pro-Israel European politicians visited Israel, Kara and other Knesset members joined the Europeans to condemn the Gaza disengagement and lack of assistance to former Jewish residents of Gaza, who had been expelled from their homes. Kara urged stronger relationships with European politicians that support Israel. Kara visited Austria in December 2010 and met with Heinz-Christian Strache, leader of the Freedom Party of Austria, praising him at a joint press conference and calling him a "friend of Israel" in its war on terror. Austria's Jewish community complained in a letter addressed to Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu about the meeting and the praise and honor bestowed by Kara on the party and its members, particularly in light of the party's anti-semitic remarks and their praise for the Nazi regime of the Third Reich. Israel had scaled back its diplomatic relations with Austria when the party entered into the Austrian government a few years ago.

The head of a South Sudan delegation to a February 2011 meeting of a new organization to develop Nigeria, Suleiman Alhariri, invited Kara  to help begin setting up diplomatic relations. Kara led a delegation of Jewish, Muslim, Druze, and Christian religious leaders to discuss interfaith relations in Istanbul with TV show host Adnan Oktar. The delegation presented a list of Jewish religious sites in Syria for the opposition in the Syrian Civil War to guard, should unrest threaten the sites. The group planned to set up a religious court to arbitrate regional disputes. Kara also said "Turkey is eager to reestablish its ties with Israel." In May 2011, Kara claimed that the opposition movement in the Syrian Civil War had approached him to seek help for their movement from the United Nations, United States, and European Union.

Kara was placed 39th on the Likud Yisrael Beiteinu list for the 2013 elections, losing his seat as the alliance won only 31 seats. However, he returned to the Knesset following the 2015 elections, for which he was placed 24th on the Likud list. He was subsequently appointed Deputy Minister of Regional Cooperation.

Minister of Communications
In January 2017, Netanyahu appointed Kara as Minister in the Prime Minister's Office. In May of the same year, Netanyahu appointed Kara as Minister of Communications.

In the April 2019 elections, Kara was placed 39th in the Likud list and not re-elected. In September 2019, a tape was leaked of a conversation between Kara and Netanyahu in which the latter demanded that Kara close down the Cable and Satellite Broadcasting Council. Kara was blamed by several Likud politicians for the leak, but denied involvement.

Views and opinions
Kara is known as a staunch conservative in the Knesset, supporting "hawkish" and Zionist views. He opposed the Gaza disengagement and the 2009–10 settlement freeze. He was a supporter of Moshe Feiglin's Manhigut Yehudit faction, within Likud.

Gaza
During the months preceding the disengagement from the Gaza Strip and northern West Bank, Kara requested from then Prime Minister, Ariel Sharon, that Druze soldiers not be assigned to tasks related to the disengagement, since the Druze opposed the disengagement and did not want to have anything to do with it. He was threatened with expulsion from the Knesset for trying to obstruct the plan as it went through. The Israeli media called him the "prophet of fury". Years earlier, he opposed the withdrawal from Lebanon in 2000, warning that Hezbollah would gain power in Israel's absence.