[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Demographics of Houston

d about 60,000 people of recent African immigrant origin.

In 2019 Ethiopian Airlines CEO Tewolde GebreMariam stated that the presence of African immigrants in United States is one reason related to the airline's decision to establish the Bush Intercontinental Airport-Lome Airport route.

Nigerians 

Charles W. Corey of the U.S. Department of State said that it has been estimated that Greater Houston has the largest Nigerian expatriate population in the United States. As of 2018 about 150,000 Nigerian Americans live in the Houston area. The 2017 American Community Survey estimated that 65,000 Nigerian Americans lived in Texas, the vast majority of which reside in Houston. As of 2003, Houston had 23,000 Nigerian American residents. Many Nigerian Americans choose Houston over other American destinations due to its warmer climate and the ease of establishing businesses. Nigerians in Houston are highly educated and often have postgraduate degrees. Nigerians in the Houston area opened Nigerian groceries, restaurants, and churches. Many Nigerian Americans in Houston live in Alief and Sharpstown.

Until Continental Airlines began nonstop flights to Lagos from George Bush Intercontinental Airport in November 2011, many Nigerians had to fly through Europe to travel between Texas and Nigeria. Jenalia Moreno of the Houston Chronicle said that the Nigerian community and the energy companies in Houston have worked for a long time to get a flight to Nigeria from this city. In 2016 United Airlines, which had merged with Continental, canceled the Lagos route, citing a decline in the energy industry and inability to get currency out of Nigeria.

In 2020 No Passport Required featured Nigerian restaurants in Houston. According to the Migration Policy Institute, 2018 estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau state that 40,000 Houston residents were of recent Nigerian origins.

Until 2006 there was a video rental shop catering to the West African community. Houston has TV services catering to area West Africans, including AfrocentrikTV, Afrovibes Entertainment, and Millenium Broadcasting Corporation.

Ethiopians 

Mesfin Genanaw, a Houston Community College teacher who was one of the individuals who assisted with the building of the area Ethiopian Orthodox church, stated in a 2003 Houston Chronicle article that there was estimated 5,000 Ethiopians in Greater Houston. In 2020, Dai Huynh wrote in Buzz Magazines that the number of ethnic Ethiopians in the Houston area goes "from 3,000 to 10,000 depending on whom you ask".

One Ethiopian Orthodox church in Houston is the Debre Selam Medhanealem Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahdo Church. Prior to the construction of the church, those of the Ethiopian Orthodox faith worshiped at Coptic Orthodox churches. Genanaw, stated that in 1992 20 Ethiopian women who were attending a Coptic church planned the establishment of an Ethiopian church. In 1993 the group purchased a  site and a tent, and conducted church services in a tent. After fundraisers were held, in 1995 construction of the permanent church started, and the church later obtained an additional  of land.

In 2020 Huynh wrote "the Ethiopian restaurant scene is vibrant" with several restaurants in the Gulfton area.

Other African immigrants 
 the number of Equatorial Guinean citizens in the Houston area under 100, was the largest Equatorial Guinean population in the United States. The Consulate-General of Equatorial Guinea in Houston is located in Houston.

St. Nicholas Catholic Church in East Downtown (historically the Third Ward) has African immigrants in its congregation. By 2012 the church held Swahili masses due to it gaining African immigrant parishioners. In particular it has a group of Cameroonians in the congregation served by the Assumption Cameroonian Catholic Community, so it has services each month tailored to that group.

European and Middle Eastern immigration 

European immigration was often from Western Europe until 1965. Since the late 20th century, new immigrants have arrived from Norway, Russia, and the Middle East. In addition, there are nationals from the United Kingdom and other countries who work in Houston periodically. Lasse Sigurd Seim—the consul general of the Norwegian Consulate General, Houston—described the estimated 5,000–6,000 Norwegians in the Houston area around 2008 as the largest concentration of ethnic Norwegians outside of Scandinavia. Jenalia Moreno of the Houston Chronicle said during that year that the influx of Norwegians into Greater Houston was "relatively new" and related to Norway's also having a major oil industry.

In a 2004 Houston Chronicle article, Nikolai V. Sofinskiy, the first consul general of the Consulate-General of Russia in Houston, said that there were around 40,000 Russian speakers in the Houston area.