[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ógra Shinn Féin

Ógra Shinn Féin (colloquially known as Republican Youth, , and formerly, officially known as Sinn Féin Republican Youth, , from 2012 to March 2018) is the youth wing of the Irish political party Sinn Féin. Ógra Shinn Féin is active and organised throughout the island of Ireland.

Upon its establishment in 1997 it was originally known as Sinn Féin Youth; it changed to Ógra Shinn Féin in 1998. A number of Sinn Féin's elected representatives are also members of Ógra Shinn Féin.

Membership
Membership is free and open to all Sinn Féin party members and college society members aged 15 to 29 who support a united Ireland and the establishment of a democratic socialist republic. After the 2019 Ard Fheis it became mandatory for all party members under the age of 26 to be an active member of their local Ógra branch after the success of Ógra's motion on this issue.

Organisation
Ógra Shinn Féin is organised in all 32 counties of Ireland, in both local communities and universities. Its structure is similar to that of Sinn Féin. Ógra Shinn Féin cumainn are largely autonomous from local Sinn Féin structures.

 Cumainn - cumainn are organised within a local area or within a college or university. At present there are over 50 active Ógra Shinn Féin cumainn throughout Ireland. A cumainn is required to have a minimum of five members.
 National Youth Committee - the National Committee (Comhairle Náisiúnta) is the democratically elected governing body of Ógra Shinn Féin. It consists of between 21 members. Half of the National Youth Committee will be elected by activists at an annual conference, and half will be selected by those elected already in place. The chair of the National Youth Committee is now elected by delegates at a national congress, having previously been appointed by the party chair.

Campaigns and issues

The long-term aim of Ógra Shinn Féin is "to recruit young dedicated activists to ensure the continuity and successful conclusion of the struggle" to establish a 32-county democratic socialist republic.

Specific issues of primary importance include: Irish unity and independence; workers' rights; the protection of the environment; an end to sectarianism and racism in Ireland; decent housing for the people; weekend elections and referendums; education; supporting the Shell to Sea campaign, voting age to be lowered to 16; and the promotion of the Irish language (Gaeilge).

The following is a list of some campaigns which Ógra Shinn Féin has been involved in:
Educate to be Free Campaign - This campaign was launched in December 2008 and calls for free education for all. It also calls for an increase in Irish language education and for student empowerment and radicalizing students unions.
Green Postbox Campaign - This campaign was launched in 2008 and involved young republicans in Northern Ireland painting postboxes green (postboxes in the Republic of Ireland are green while those in Northern Ireland are red). The campaign received severe criticism from Unionist politicians such as Jim Wells. It is alleged that hundreds of postboxes were painted throughout Northern Ireland. Although this campaign was officially launched in 2008, it had been common for ÓSF members and other Irish republicans to engage in this practice. In 2006, a Tyrone ÓSF member was arrested for painting a postbox in Fintona.
National Suicide Prevention Campaign - In 2006 Ógra Shinn Féin launched a nationwide suicide prevention campaign. The campaign focuses on the dissemination of information and the demand for an all-Ireland approach to suicide awareness.
ARISE - In 2007 Ógra Shinn Féin launched the Anti-Racism, Imperialism, Sectarianism and Exploitation (ARISE) campaign.
Other campaigns - It is/was also involved in campaigns regarding Demilitarization, Anti-Collusion, Disband the Royal Ulster Constabulary/Proper Policing, Minimum Wage, Lower Car Insurance, A President for All, Gay Rights, Re-routing Orange Order marches, "Freedom for the POW's", "Bring them home" (Colombia Three), anti-occupation of Iraq, remembering "Irish martyrs", Irish language, Shell to Sea, Save 16 Moore Street and All Ireland mobile tariff.
In August 2016 Sinn Féin youth activists staged a protest outside of Fine Gael Headquarters due to their decision to use tax-payers' money to appeal the European Commission's decision to force Apple Inc. to hand over €13 billion in unpaid taxes to the state. The protest involved dumping dozens of apples on the doorstep of the building as well as impaling apples on the railings.

Recent events