[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Anthony Grant (footballer, born 1987)

th place in League One. He was placed on the transfer list in May 2013. With Grant entering the final year of his contract at Stevenage, new manager Graham Westley felt he would not play as much as he would have liked, and therefore it was "better for all" that Grant "move on to develop his career".

Crewe Alexandra
Having not returned to pre-season with Stevenage ahead of the 2013–14 season, Grant signed for divisional rivals Crewe Alexandra in July 2013, joining on a two-year contract. He signed for Crewe on a free transfer, having been released from his contract at Stevenage by mutual consent. In November 2013, Crewe manager Steve Davis made Grant and fellow midfielder Brad Inman available on loan because he was unhappy with their attitude: "Their attitude has got to be better, for the moment, for the benefit of the squad, they're better not around it." He remained at Gresty Road however, and went on to divide opinion with "Railwaymen" supporters, some welcoming his physical approach and ability to break up play whilst others criticised him for slowing down the play of Crewe's otherwise highly technical midfield.

Despite being featuring 48 times in the 2014–15 season he was not offered an extension to his contract as the coaching staff were not convinced he represented "value for money". He was voted second in the club's Player of the Year award behind goalkeeper Ben Garratt.

Port Vale
Grant remained in League One after leaving Crewe, and signed a two-year contract with nearby rivals Port Vale in June 2015. He started the 2015–16 season in good form, and was described by local press as the club's outstanding player during Vale's unbeaten run of six games to open the campaign, whilst captain Carl Dickinson said that "I can't see why he isn't playing higher". However his combative style of play left his with ten yellow cards before the new year, and as a result he was suspended for two games. He went on to collect 15 bookings and so was suspended for the final three matches of the campaign. Despite such disciplinary problems he was voted the club's Player of the season.

He submitted a transfer request in July 2016. After Rob Page switched from manager of Port Vale to Northampton Town he put in a bid for Grant that Vale chairman Norman Smurthwaite dismissed as "pathetic", saying "it wasn't enough to fuel my car for a year". New Vale manager Bruno Ribeiro then appointed Grant as joint-captain, along with Ben Purkiss and Ben Purkiss. His performance on the opening day of the 2016–17 season – a 0–0 draw with Bradford City – saw him named in the Football League Paper's League One Team of the Day. He was again named in the Team of the Day for his performance in a 2–1 win over Gillingham on 17 September. However, he was sent off for two bookable offences in a 2–1 home win over Fleetwood Town on 12 November, and was suspended for a total of six games and fined £2,000 after he returned to the field after the match to argue with the referee on the full-time whistle. Vale won just two league points and one FA Cup game during his suspension. The club reportedly turned down a transfer bid of £50,000 for the player in the January transfer window.

Peterborough United
Grant joined Port Vale's League One rivals Peterborough United for an undisclosed "six-figure fee" on 31 January 2017, and signed a two-and-a-half-year contract. He said he was attracted to the club by manager Grant McCann's attacking style of football. He made his "Posh" debut in a 3–0 win at former club Port Vale on 4 February, and was described as "excellent" by assistant manager Lee Glover. He played 11 games for the club in the second half of the 2016–17 season, helping United to an 11th-place finish.

He picked up four yellow cards in his first six appearances of the 2017–18 season, before he was sent off for deliberate handball in the closing stages of a 3–1 defeat by Bradford City at London Road Stadium on 9 September. Speaking in March 2018, new manager Steve Evans told the press that "I had a long chat with Anthony Grant the other day regarding my need for him to pass the ball on quickly and he will come again". However he transfer-listed him two months later and said that "I want a two-man midfield [and he] is better suited to being one of three midfielders".