[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Benoît Pelletier

to get a new vision of Canadian federalism, and to strengthen Quebec within Canada." After the election, Harper fulfilled a campaign pledge to give Quebec a seat at UNESCO. (Some, however, have noted that the provincial delegate cannot in practice take positions contrary to Canada's representative.)

In late 2006, Pelletier endorsed Harper's parliamentary motion to recognize that "the Québécois form a nation within a united Canada." He was more critical of Harper's efforts to reform the Senate of Canada, arguing that any significant changes would require negotiations with the provinces. Pelletier opposed Harper's efforts to reduce Quebec's percentage of seats in the House of Commons of Canada, saying that the proposed change would go to "the heart of balance in the federation."

Pelletier also supported efforts to have Alberta's oil wealth included in a new federal–provincial funding formula. The Alberta government strongly opposed this suggestion.

After the Quebec Liberals were reduced to a minority government in 2007, Pelletier called for the Canadian government to recognize Quebec's distinctiveness in a "charter of open federalism" and to clarify its division of powers with the provinces. He later welcomed Harper's pledge for the federal government to end direct spending in areas of provincial jurisdiction.

Pelletier's approach to federal-provincial relations was often compared to former prime minister Brian Mulroney's failed Meech Lake Accord on constitutional reform. During most of his time in office, Pelletier said that the time was not right to reopen constitutional debates.

Minister of Aboriginal Affairs
Pelletier took part in negotiations with several indigenous communities during his time in government. He brought forward an agreement with Quebec's Inuit leaders in June 2003, to negotiate a new form of self-government. Four year later, he concluded an agreement in principle to create an Inuit-controlled government in the northernmost third of Quebec, answerable to the Quebec National Assembly.

Pelletier considered reopening a 2002 settlement with the Innu on the grounds that the agreement did not properly address concerns about Quebec's land and laws. He ultimately chose to accept the accord and said that he would seek to balance the rights of the Innu and non-indigenous people under its framework. He also took part in negotiations to resolve a 2004 crisis in the Mohawk community of Kanesatake, after violent confrontations that forced Grand Chief James Gabriel to leave the area.

Reform of democratic institutions
Pelletier supported the replacement of Quebec's first past the post electoral model with mixed member proportional representation. In 2006, he wrote an article in the Montreal Gazette defending the proposed new system. Three months later, he promised a bill on proportional representation before the next provincial election. In the same period, he also proposed financial incentives to political parties as a means of encouraging more female candidates and candidates from "ethnocultural minorities.".

In late 2007, Quebec's chief electoral officer issued a 400-page document that was seen as endorsing the mixed-member proportional system. Notwithstanding Pelletier's efforts, no significant changes have been introduced to Quebec's electoral system as of 2012.

Francophone communities in Canada
In a departure from previous Quebec policy, Pelletier also sought to assist francophone minority communities in the rest of Canada. In August 2003, he announced $1.7 million for community projects across the country. In late 2006, he argued that continued support was necessary to prevent the assimilation of these communities into the English-speaking majority.

Other
Pelletier opposed Parti Québécois leader Pauline Marois's 2007 proposal that all new immigrants to Quebec be required to have a working knowledge of French before becoming citizens of the province. He described the suggestion as dangerous, saying it would create a new tier of second-class citizens.

Also in 2007, Pelletier contributed to a book entitled, Reconquerir le Canada: un nouveau projet pour la nation québécoise (English: Reconquering Canada: A New Project for the Quebec Nation). The volume was intended to promote and revitalize the federalist cause in Quebec.

Pelletier served as the acting minister of Justice and Public Security in autumn 2007, when Jacques P. Dupuis underwent surgery.

After politics

Pelletier did not seek re-election in 2008 and instead returned to his position at the University of Ottawa as a constitutional professor. He is still frequently sought for commentary on Canadian constitutional matters. In June 2010, he called for Canadians to be more willing to discuss the constitution.

In October 2010, Pelletier published an extended essay titled, Une certaine idée du Québec. Parcours d'un fédéraliste. De la réflexion à l'action.

Awards