[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Francis Xavier Pierz

om can be achieved here without exertion and the sweat of one's brow. Our dear Lord permits us to be humiliated and prepared by much suffering before he employs us as instruments of His mercy in the conversion of the Pagans and allows us to enjoy the comforts of soul their spiritual rebirth causes."

Legends
I remember an incident of Father Pierz and a man named Dugal, the Government blacksmith at Crow Wing. This Dugal was quite pious but went on a spree once in a while – once a month. And Father Pierz would meet him in this condition and say to him in French, 'You are drunk again, my pig.' Once, on a trip to Leech Lake, Father Pierz got a hold of Dugal's supply of whiskey and only gave it out to him in small portions. Dugal begged for the bottle but Pierz said, 'No, no, you my pig.' Dugal when drunk feared Pierz. Once as he saw Pierz entering a store and knowing he was under a good supple of liquor, Dugal hid himself under a buffalo robe. But Pierz chatted and stayed so long that Dugal finally gave up and, casting off the robe, said, 'Father, I confess!'

References

Further reading

 Drnovšek, Marjan. Franc Pirc (1785–1880): Sadjar na Kranjskem in misijonar v Ameriki. Naklo, 2003.
 Furlan, William. In Charity Unfeigned: The Life of Father Francis X. Pierz. St. Cloud, Minnesota: Diocese of Saint Cloud, 1952.
 Voigt, Robert. Crow Wing and Father Pierz. St. Cloud, Minnesota: Diocese of Saint Cloud, 1989.

1785 births
1880 deaths
19th-century Carniolan writers
19th-century American Roman Catholic priests
American people of Slovenian descent
American poetry
Emigrants from Austria-Hungary to the United States
Carniolan Catholic poets
Carniolan Roman Catholic priests
Catholic Church in Minnesota
Catholics from Michigan
Catholics from Minnesota
Catholics from Wisconsin
German-American culture in Minnesota
German-American history
Minnesota folklore
Native American Christianity
Native American history of Michigan
Native American history of Minnesota
Ojibwe
Ojibwe in Minnesota
People from the Municipality of Kamnik
People from Harbor Springs, Michigan
People from Ashland County, Wisconsin
People from Pierz, Minnesota
Poets from Minnesota
Poet priests
Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Saint Paul and Minneapolis
Roman Catholic missionaries in the United States
Roman Catholic missionaries in Canada
Slovene-American culture in Minnesota
Slovene-American history
Slovenian Catholic poets
Slovenian poets
Slovenian male poets
Slovenian Roman Catholic missionaries
Writers from Minnesota