[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Loudoun County in the American Civil War

r, was deemed to unsafe to operate and never used widely in the war.

Skirmish at Loudoun Heights - February 27, 1862
Skirmish at Lovettsville - February 28, 1862
Skirmish at Wheatland and Waterford - March 7, 1862
Skirmish at Middleburg - March 26–28, 1862
Skirmish at Loudoun Heights - May 27, 1862

General Robert E. Lee's Maryland Campaign: September 1862
Following the victory at the Second Battle of Manassas, General Lee elected not to attack the Union army behind its fortifications around Washington D.C., but to instead take his army into Loudoun County to obtain forage and reorganize for his planned invasion of Maryland.  Fighting broke out in the county in advance of the army's arrival as Confederate cavalry cleared the area of Federal resistance.  The army stopped over briefly in Leesburg from September 4–6 where it underwent its reorganization, before crossing over the Potomac to Maryland at Cheeks Ford and Conrad's Ferry.  On the 9th, General John G. Walker was dispatched back to the county with order to take Loudoun Heights as part of the plan to capture Harpers Ferry.  Walker occupied the Heights from September 13–15, before crossing the river into Harpers Ferry following its capture.

 Battle of Mile Hill, September 2, 1861
 Battle of Harpers Ferry, September 12–15, 1862
 Skirmish at Leesburg - September 15, 1862

McClellan's return to Virginia: October - November 1862
Following the bloody fight at the Battle of Antietam, J.E.B. Stuart set out from Williamsport, Maryland north towards Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, and then southeast to encircle McClellan's army for the second time in less than a year in order to reconnoiter their strength and movements. On October 10 he crossed back into Virginia at White's Ford, where he briefly skirmished with his Federal pursuers, bringing with him some 1,200 horses he and his men had captured. He rested for a day after the crossing northeast of Leesburg before moving south to the town to pick up the Winchester Turnpike west into the Shenandoah Valley by way of Snickers Gap.

 Skirmish at White's Ford - October 10, 1862

On October 27, George B. McClellan and his Army of the Potomac belatedly reentered Virginia in pursuit of Lee.  The Union army crossed the Potomac River around Berlin (present day Brunswick, Maryland) and Harpers Ferry and then proceeded down the Loudoun Valley, foraging off local farms. While in Loudoun, McClellan set up headquarters in Wheatland, Purcellville and Unison. As the Federals moved through the county, Col. E.V. White and his Comanches struck at the supply trains and managed to capture 1,000 prisoners and 200 wagons. Likewise General J.E.B Stuart and his cavalry sparred with the advancing Federal columns in an effort to screen the movement of the Army of Northern Virginia below the Rappahannock River.  Stuart's actions further delayed McClellan's pursuit and contributed to the eventual removal of McClellan from command of the army.

 Battle of Unison, October 29 - November 1, 1862

The Gettysburg Campaign: June - July, 1863
Following the Battle of Chancellorsville, the Army of Northern Virginia again marched north to cross the Potomac. While Lee's main body this time stayed west of the Blue Ridge Mountains, he sent the divisions of John Bell Hood and George Pickett east of the mountains through Loudoun County to guard the mountain passes and protect his right flank. In addition to Hood and Pickett, J.E.B. Stuart's cavalry was kept east of the mountains to prevent the Union cavalry from pinning down the location of the Confederate Army. While moving through Loudoun County, Stuart engaged in a series of battles along the Ashby's Gap Turnpike as Union cavalry commander Brig. Gen. Alfred Pleasonton attempted to break through Stuart's screen and locate the Confederate army.

As the cavalry fight raged along the Ashby's Gap Turnpike, Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker began his pursuit of Lee and entered Loudoun County on June 17 and headed to Edwards Ferry, where pontoon bridges had been assembled. Over the next eleven days, the entire Army of the Potomac came through the county and crossed the Potomac at Edwards Ferry. In addition to securing Edwards Ferry, the Union army covered all major crossings of the river up to Harpers Ferry. As a result, as J.E.B. Stuart prepared to leave the county and join up with Ewell in Pennsylvania, he was forced to circumnavigate the Union army and cross downriver, where the river is deeper and wider at Rowsner's Ford at the extreme eastern end of the county. With much difficulty, Stuart and his three brigades crossed the river on June 27, several days behind schedule, leaving Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia blind as they embarked on their second northern invasion.

 Battle of Aldie, June 17, 1863
 Battle of Middleburg, June 17–19, 1863
 Battle of Upperville, June 21, 1863