[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dan Gelber

er announced his candidacy for Florida Attorney General. Reminiscent of Senator Bob Graham's Workdays, Gelber performed community service across Florida, which included serving meals to the homeless, cleaning up the Wekiva River, and joining elementary school students in writing letters to veterans.

Gelber soundly won the August 24, 2010, primary election, defeating his Democratic opponent fellow state senator Dave Aronberg by 18 points. His campaign has been endorsed by many top public servants, including Republican state senator J. Alex Villalobos, former United States Attorney General Janet Reno, former Florida Education Secretary Betty Castor, former Congressman Jim Davis, Congresswoman and DNC Vice Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Tampa Mayor Pam Iorio, as well as the Florida Police Benevolent Association, the state's largest law enforcement union.

Ultimately, Gelber lost the election to the Republican candidate, Pam Bondi.

Mayor of Miami Beach

On November 7, 2017, Gelber was elected mayor of Miami Beach with 82 percent of the vote over three other candidates. His main competitor, former commissioner Michael Grieco, withdrew from the election and eventually resigned from office amid a campaign finance scandal that led to criminal charges.

Committee assignments
Committee Membership
Commerce, vice chair
Higher Education Appropriations, vice chair
Policy and Steering Committee on Social Responsibility
Policy and Steering Committee on Ways and Means
Communications, Energy, and Public Utilities
Judiciary
Select Committee on Florida's Economy
Joint Committee on Public Counsel Oversight

See also 
 List of mayors of Miami Beach, Florida

References 

Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations

External links
Dan Gelber for Attorney General: 
Dan Gelber's official legislative bio: member bio
Wall Street Journal: A Tale of Two GOP's 
St. Petersburg Times: Governor Gelber?
Palm Beach Post: FCAT role in schools' fate may be demoted
St. Petersburg Times: Florida Democrats Grab a Role

External links
Florida House of Representatives – Dan Gelber

|-

|-

|-

|-

1960 births
20th-century American lawyers
21st-century American Jews
21st-century American lawyers
21st-century American politicians
Candidates in the 2010 United States elections
Florida lawyers
Democratic Party Florida state senators
Fredric G. Levin College of Law alumni
Jewish American people in Florida politics
Jewish mayors of places in the United States
Living people
Democratic Party members of the Florida House of Representatives
Tufts University alumni
Politicians from Miami Beach, Florida