[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Panagiotis Kone

s one of a few players to emerge from the season with any value at all—was consoled by a supporter after breaking down in tears in the melee. "The dressing room is destroyed, we are mortified. Kone has been crying alone on the pitch," coach Ballardini was quoted as saying in La Gazzetta dello Sport.

Following the demotion, reports in Italy suggested that Palermo were keen to sign Kone, hoping to close the deal before the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Despite Bologna asking €5.6 million for Kone, Palermo offered around €3 million, but were also exploring the idea of a loan move with the option to buy-out the next year. The possibility of including players as compensation was also explored. Additionally, according to Tuttosport, Torino management were ready to make their decisive move for Kone due to Giampiero Ventura's will.

Udinese
Despite Palermo and Torino's interest, Udinese confirmed the signing of Kone. No details were provided concerning the transfer fee or any contract details.

On 22 January 2015, Kone scored the equalizing goal—a fierce, low volley—in the 2014–15 Coppa Italia against reigning champions Napoli in extra time. After the 2–2 draw, however, ten-man Udinese were eliminated in the subsequent penalty shoot-out. During extra time, Kone also threatened to score the winner when pouncing on a Miguel Britos error, forcing goalkeeper Mariano Andújar into a save at full stretch. On 22 March, Kone scored his first Serie A goal with Udinese, coming against Fiorentina. After the match, he said to Udinese Channel, "My goal was important for the team, certainly did not deserve to lose this game because, beyond the first 10 minutes of the second half, we played a great game. We are a group full of young kids, I make compliments to the coach as he read the game and for the changes it made because it allowed us to play better in a difficult moment. Against Torino and Fiorentina I think we played very well and our team is growing every day. Do not forget that this is only the first year of this project."

On 23 August 2015, in the opening match of the 2015–16 Serie A season, Kone, as a substitute, helped Udinese stop Juventus' 47-game unbeaten streak at home in the league by providing an assist to teammate Cyril Théréau in an eventual 0–1 away win. On 13 October 2015, Udinese confirmed that Kone suffered a calf injury while on international duty with Greece and would be out of action for  months. On 17 December 2015, Kone made his return to the team, scoring an impressive goal against Lazio in the 2015–16 Coppa Italia; controlling a cross with his heel, he swung his leg around and acrobatically flicked the ball into the top-left hand corner of the goal. Despite the individual effort, however, Lazio prevailed 2–1, knocking Udinese out of the tournament. On 24 January 2016, Kone almost 4 months since his last appearance with the club in Serie A, played again as a substitute for Emmanuel Agyemang-Badu in a 4–1 away loss against Palermo.

He started the 2016-17 season, filled with last year's injuries including a painful experience to Fiorentina. Kone has returned to Udinese without having played a competitive match and a trust to be rebuilt. Slowly proved to coach Giuseppe Iachini that he reached on a good physical level and has given greater awareness in their own ability. Physically, the form is still to find, as well as the race pace. However the fans appreciated his entrance against Empoli in the tactical aspect, as he helped the club stopping being anxious and hasty in control of the race and the team seemed more compact. On 12 October 2016, Udinese has announced that kone has suffered from dislocated shoulder, without be certain for the day of his return.

ACF Fiorentina
On 31 January 2016, Kone joined Fiorentina on a loan with the right of redemption from Udinese. The deal is for an initial loan, but Udinese confirmed on their official website that Fiorentina will have the option to buy. Former Bologna midfielder Kone has struggled with injury problems this season, making only five league appearances for Udinese as a result.
On 4 February 2016, Kone poked surprising from Fiorentina's UEFA Europa League squad, a surprise for the midfielder as has been dropped from Paulo Sousa, coach of the club.
Panagiotis Kone made his Fiorentina debut in the Serie A match away to Empoli as an 82nd-minute substitute for Josip Ilicic on 10 April 2016.

Granada
On 19 January 2017, Kone was loaned to La liga club Granada, for six months.

Return to AEK
On 30 August 2017 AEK reached an agreement with Udinese for the return of the international midfielder on a season-long loan. On 23 November 2017, almost 8 months after his last appearance in the field, Kone came as a substitute in a home 2–2 UEFA Europa League group stage home game against Rijeka. On 11 December 2017 Kone scored his first goal for the club after 10 years in a 3–1 home win against Kerkyra.