[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sōshi-kaimei

ndividually selected shi began to rise sharply. As of April, only 3.9% of all households had provided notification for the creation of a shi, but by August 10, that figure had risen to 80.3%. Also, statements opposing the policy of sōshi-kaimei were censored according to the internal security laws. 

There are several viewpoints regarding this sudden increase. Most argue that official compulsion and harassment existed against individuals who would not create a new Japanese-style shi, but disagree whether this was the result of individual unauthorized practices by low-level officials , the policy of some regional government organizations, or an overall intention of the colonial government. Others argue that Koreans seeking to avoid discrimination by the Japanese voluntarily created Japanese-style family names.

Regardless, of Koreans living in Korea, the proportion of those who changed their given name reached only 9.6%. Among Koreans living in mainland of Japan, the proportion of those who created a new shi by individual selection reached 14.2％.

Restoration of original names 

After the liberation of Korea from Japanese rule, the Name Restoration Order was issued on October 23, 1946, by the United States military administration south of the 38th parallel, enabling Koreans to restore their Korean names if they wished to. However, not all Koreans returned to using their original names, especially Koreans living outside of Korea. Many Zainichi Koreans chose to retain their Japanese names, either to avoid discrimination, or later, to meet the requirements for naturalization as Japanese citizens, while some Sakhalin Koreans who had taken Japanese names were registered by Soviet authorities under those names (which appeared on their Japanese identity papers) after the Red Army liberated South Sakhalin, and up to the  have been unable to revert their legal names to their original Korean ones.

Name registration of prominent individuals

Those who took a Japanese-style name 
 Kim Suk-won (), a.k.a. Kaneyama Shakugen (), Major General in the Imperial Japanese Army
 Park Chung-hee (), a.k.a. Takagi Masao (), Lieutenant in the army of Manchukuo, later president of South Korea
 Lee Myung-bak (), a.k.a. Tsukiyama Akihiro (), former president of South Korea
 Kim Dae-jung (), a.k.a. Toyota Daiju (), former president of South Korea

Those who retained their Korean-style name 
 Hong Sa-ik (), Lieutenant General in the Imperial Japanese Army
 Pak Chun-geum (), member of the House of Representatives (see Japanese Wikipedia article)
 Han Sang-ryong (), member of the House of Peers (see Korean Wikipedia article)
 Yi Gi-yong (), member of the House of Peers

Timeline of family registration procedures in Korea 

 The application period for the creation of a SSI was limited to six months in length, while there was no time limit placed on the change of given name
 Children inherited their father's clan and family name
 Children of an unmarried woman inherited the woman's clan and family name
 Even if one married, the recorded native region and clan name could not be changed
 According to customary Korean law (now no longer followed), one can not marry a person of the same clan name and the same clan origin related within 6 or 8 degrees

See also 
Japanese name
Korean name
Koreans in Japan
Ethnic issues in Japan
Legislation on Chinese Indonesians
Final Solution of the Czech Question
Cultural genocide

Notes

References 
 
 
 
  Footnote 16 gives bibliographic references for Korean perspectives on the Soshi-Kaimei policy. 

Korea under Japanese rule
1939 in Korea
1939 in law
Anti-Korean sentiment in Japan
Japanese imperialism and colonialism
Legal history of Japan
Japanese names
Cultural assimilation
Cultural genocide
Zainichi Korean history
Sakhalin Korean history