[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 181]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

have the foolish vanity to
despise their fellow-creatures as infinitely inferior to themselves.
There, indeed, they entertain these conceits from ignorance, but in this
country, where the natives pretend to superior reason, I have often
wondered they could be influenced by such a prejudice. Is a black horse
thought to be inferior to a white one in speed, in strength, or courage?
Is a white cow thought to give more milk, or a white dog to have a more
acute scent in pursuing the game? On the contrary, I have generally
found, in almost every country, that a pale colour in animals is
considered as a mark of weakness and inferiority. Why then should a
certain race of men imagine themselves superior to the rest, for the
very circumstance they despise in other animals?

"But, in the country where I was born, it is not only _man_ that
differs from what we see here, but every other circumstance. _Here_, for
a considerable part of the year you are chilled by frosts and snows, and
scarcely behold the presence of the sun, during that gloomy season which
is called the winter. With us, the sun is always present, pouring out
light and heat, and scorching us with his fiercest beams. In my country
we know no difference between the length of nights and days; all are of
equal length throughout the year, and present not that continual variety
which you see here; we have neither ice, nor frost, nor snow; the trees
never lose their leaves, and we have fruits in every season of the year.
During several months, indeed, we are scorched by unremitting heats,
which parch the ground, dry up the rivers, and afflict both men and
animals with intolerable thirst. In that season you may behold lions,
tigers, elephants, and a variety of other ferocious animals, driven from
their dark abodes in the midst of impenetrable forests, down to the
lower grounds and the sides of rivers; every night we hear their savage
yells, their cries of rage, and think ourselves scarcely safe in our
cottages. In this country you have reduced all other animals to
subjection, and have nothing to fear, except from each other. You even
shelter yourselves from the injuries of the weather, in mansions that
seem calculated to last for ever, in impenetrable houses of brick and
stone, that would have scarcely anything to fear from the whole animal
creation; but, with us, a few reeds twisted together, and perhaps daubed
over with slime or mud, compose the whole of our dwelling. Yet the
innocent negro would sleep as happy and contented as you do in your
palaces, provided you do not drag him by fraud and violence away, and
force him to endure all the excesses of your cruelty.

"It was in one of these cottages that I first remembered anything of
myself. A few stakes set in the ground, and interwoven with dry leaves,
covered at top with the spreading leaves of the palm, composed our
dwelling. Our furniture consisted of three or four earthen pipkins, in
which our food was dressed; a few mats woven with a silky kind of grass
to serve as beds; the instruments with which my mother turned the
ground, and the javelin, arrows, and lines which my father used in
fishing or the chase. In this country, and many others where I have
been, I observe that nobody thinks himself happy till he has got
together a thousand things which he does not want, and can never use;
you live in houses so big that they are fit to contain an army; you
cover yourselves with superfluous clothes that restrain all the motions
of your bodies; when you want to eat, you must have meat enough served
up to nourish a whole village; yet I have seen poor famished wretches
starving at your gate, while the master had before him at least a
hundred times as much as he could consume. We negroes, whom you treat as
savages, have different manners and different opinions. The first thing
that I can remember of myself, was the running naked about such a
cottage as I have described, with four of my little brothers and
sisters. I have observed your children here with astonishment; as soon
as they are born, it seems to be the business of all about them to
render them weak, helpless, and unable to use any of their limbs; the
little negro, on the contrary is scarcely born before he learns to crawl
about upon the ground. Unrestrained by bandages or ligatures, he comes
as soon and as easily to the perfect use of all his organs as any of the
beasts which surround him; before your children here are taught to
venture themselves upon their feet, he has the perfect use of his, and
can follow his mother in her daily labours.

"This, I remember, was my own case. Sometimes I used to go with my
mother to the field, where all the women of the village were assembled
to plant rice for their subsistence. The joyful songs which they used to
sing, amid their toils, delighted my infant ear, and when their daily
task was done, they danced together under the shade of spreading palm