[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mirsaid Sultan-Galiev

l cultures, Sultan-Galiev believed, was particularly important for the relations between the colonies and the metropolitan, because this element constituted the main dynamics of the Metropolitans and the main reason for all social deviations that occur in the development process of modern humanity. 

Sultan-Galiev ordered these deviations by examining firstly, the exploitation of resources, especially in colonies in terms of the general interests of humanity. And secondly, the circulation of global production and the irrational order of this general circulation, resulting in a significant amount of human energy being lost or destroyed. Galiev gave an example of the production and export of leather or cotton from Tibet or India to the British Empire, which was then used to make a shoe or a shirt and then sent back to the original country. However, the opposite method occurs in production of necessary consumer goods such as vehicles or machines. Sultan-Galiev thereby argued that it would be more moral to transform raw materials into necessary consumer goods in their country of origin.

Sultan-Galiev took special notice of an arms race between colonial powers and wrote that such a race was not just against colonies, but against other Metropolitan countries. Sultan-Galiev noted that human energy was spent in a massive and inefficient way in order to maintain the status quo and the existing structures of production (the deviances mentioned prior) in an orderly manner. The prevention of the natural development of the productive forces of colonial holdings (which made up a large portion of the world's population), on these grounds created inequality between the people of the Metropolitan countries and those who lived in colonies. Sultan-Galiev argued for the importance of the effects of imperialist war and its consequences through subsequent "revolutionary earthquakes" (Sultan-Galiev provides the wave of revolutions that occurred in the wake of the first world war) and their effects in the politics of Metropolitan nations. Sultan-Galiev believed that this disposition caused two important consequences. Firstly, the existing cultural material of the people of the Metropolitan, that being the division of the nation from private properties, collapses in on itself due to these contradictions. Secondly, linked to this is the development of conditions that provide the possibility of liberation for colonised nations. Conflict between Metropolitans thereby improves the standing of anti-colonial movements. 

Sultan-Galiev also believed in what he called "Energetic Materialism" as a means of enabling Socialist revolution in colonised and exploited nations in the formation of a "Colonial International". The ideas of Energetic Materialism have been compared to the Vpered movement in the Bolshevik party.

Fallout with the Bolsheviks

Sultan-Galiev wanted to give Marxism argued that the Russian Empire had oppressed Muslim society apart from a few big landowners and bourgeois. He was, despite this attempt at synthesis, thought of by the Bolsheviks as being excessively tolerant of nationalism and religion and, in 1923, he was accused of nationalist, pan-Islamic and pan-Turkic deviations and he was arrested and expelled from the party.

He was freed, but with Lenin's death in 1924, he lost his only protector, and remained a political outcast, constantly watched by state security. In these years he spent his time travelling for the Hunting Union and writing occasional reviews and translations. He was accompanied by his second wife Fatima Yerzina, whom he had married in 1918, and their two children.

In 1928, he was arrested a second time and sentenced to be shot in July 1930. However, in January 1931 his sentence was commuted to ten years of hard labour for nationalism and anti-Soviet activity. In 1934 he was released and given permission to live in the Saratov Oblast. At the beginning of 1937 he was again arrested, and was forced to make a confession; he was convicted of being the "organizer and factual leader of an anti-Soviet nationalistic group," who led an "active struggle against Soviet power" and the party "on the basis of pan-Turkism and pan-Islamism, with the goal of tearing away from Soviet Russia Turkic-Tatar regions and establishing in them a bourgeois-democratic Turan state." In December 1939, he received the death sentence which was carried out on 28 January 1940 in Moscow.

References