[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# At Lady Molly's

n personal interaction but free with his money to those social causes that he feels passionate about – the latter a trait which makes him very attractive to J.G. Quiggin and one that Mona Templer indicates that she aims to cure him of. Egotistical, worries about his health and used to having his own way. First mention of this character was in A Buyer's Market when his name was announced at the Huntercombes party.<ref>A Buyer's MarketPp 43</ref>Lady Frederica Budd. Widowed. Eldest of the Tolland sisters. A lady-in-waiting and great friend of Mrs Conyers.
Priscilla Tolland. Youngest of the Tollands and desired by Chips LovellNorah Tolland. A lesbian living with Eleanor Walpole-Wilson in some squalor at a flat in ChelseaSusan Tolland. Turns-up with Isobel at Thrubworth and announces her engagement to Roddy Cutts (who looks into the Conservative Central Office once in a way).Isobel Tolland. A bit of a highbrow when she isn't going to night clubs according to Chips Lovell, Nick meets her at Thrubworth and they are engaged by the last chapter. Long legged and witty.Blanche Tolland. Regarded by the Tolland family as being dotty.Katherine Warminster. Sister of Lady Molly. Widowed stepmother to the ten Tollands. Lives at Hyde Park Gardens where life could be ruthless... but at the same time a curtain of relatively good humour was allowed to cloak an inexorable recognition of life's inevitable severities. To Nick's mind she has an unearthly, witch-like quality. A hypochondriac, she spends most of her time in her bedroom writing lightly researched histories of powerful women – Empress Maria Theresa of Austria her current subject. Lord Warminster had spent most of their married life fishing in Iceland or pig-sticking in Bengal.Smith the butler. Sole working-class character, discounting Quiggin, in the book. Lacks what Bertie Wooster would call the Feudal spirit. Slovenly, alcoholic butler to Erridge. Lady Molly borrows him to help out at South Kensington from time to time. Breaks the Dresden coffee pot and is suspected of drinking the gin.Chips Lovell. Twenty three or four and filling-in time at the script department of a film company where Nick works. Hopes to land a job on the society pages of a newspaper. Spends most of his time talking about his aristocratic cousins. Amorously interested in Priscilla TollandHeather Hopkins. Lesbian Cabaret performer. Plays piano with brutal violence but a great deal of facility. Appears in an act with Max Pilgrim at Dickie Umfraville's night club. Neighbour of Norah Tolland and Eleanor Walpole-Wilson.Mrs. Betty Taylor or Porter. Peter Templer's new girlfriend whose last name he can't remember although he regards her as rather a peach.

Established charactersAlfred Tolland. Brother-in-law to Lady Molly who teases him mercilessly about his nieces and nephews. Has unexpected depths.Max Pilgrim. Sings one of his 'sophisticated' comic songs (about a lesbian), accompanied by Heather Hopkins on piano, at Umfraville's.Miss Weedon. Much in evidence at Lady Molly's. Has a plan to cure Stringham of his alcoholism.Eleanor Walpole Wilson. Living with Norah Tolland. Dislikes Heather Hopkins. Now in a position to feel sorry for Barbara (Goring) Pardoe due to problems in the latter's marriage.
Dickie Umfraville. Now managing a night club of dubious legality in Soho. Divorced from Lady Anne Stepney who, he says, didn't like grown-up life- and who can blame her?.Peter Templer. Meets Nick at Umfraville's night club.Mona Templer. Living in a cottage with Quiggin on Erridge's Thrubworth estate. Bored, she fancies becoming a film star but runs off to China with Erridge instead.Mark Members. No longer writing Freudian-inspired verse and has thrown over his half-hearted adherence to communism. Now he has a variety of jobs of a literary kind which keep him in funds. Trying to move up in the social world which is why he regards the people he meets at Lady Molly's reception as being great disappointments.Quiggin. Now a well-regarded critic, although his Unburnt Boats remains a work in progress. He has become a hanger on of Erridge, Alf Warminster, whom he hopes will finance a new magazine with Quiggin as director. His Left wing bombast and odd regional idioms reach new heights.Widmerpool. Becomes engaged, contracts jaundice- again, see A Buyer's Market -, gets cuckolded and then jilted. Has a terrible and dramatic scene at Dogdene. Politically he is an Appeaser.Nick Jenkins. His twenty-eight-year-old (or thereabouts) self has become more assertive and outspoken when interacting with his contemporaries (although Widmerpool still renders him speechless).