[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sallie-Anne Huckstepp

to life, so I did the best thing I could. I know Warren’s family suffered deeply, but I cannot do anything about it." He goes on to claim that as a result of his testimony at the inquest, Rogerson and other corrupt police officers gave him a "green light" to commit crime without fear of prosecution.

Huckstepp continued lobbying the media. A documentary about her life was made and she began writing articles for a monthly magazine. However, she continued using heroin, and in 1985, her then-partner David Kelleher was arrested on charges of importing heroin worth more than $2 million. With Kelleher remanded into custody, Huckstepp began a relationship with a federal police officer, Constable Peter Parker Smith. Huckstepp visited Kelleher regularly in prison, telling him she was attempting to get information from Constable Smith which could be useful in his trial. In Catch and Kill Your Own, Neddy Smith claims that Huckstepp was trying to help Kelleher by making tape recordings of her conversations with Constable Smith.

Death and inquest
On the evening of 6 February 1986, Huckstepp received a phone call in her Edgecliff apartment. She rushed out, telling Gwen Beecroft - an acquaintance with whom she stayed at the time - that she would be back shortly. The following morning, a man walking his dog found her body in Busby Pond, a lake in Centennial Park, New South Wales.

Huckstepp's murder resulted in one of the longest-running inquests of its kind in Australia. It began in 1987 and lasted until 1991, though it only sat for a total of 19 days in that time. It was alleged at the inquest that Huckstepp had gone to meet an unknown drug dealer to obtain a fresh supply of heroin and was then lured to Busby's Pond, a remote area of the park. She was then strangled and drowned. Peter Smith, the federal policeman with whom she was having an affair, testified that she had told him she was frightened that Neddy Smith and Roger Rogerson or David Kelleher (who was in prison at the time) may try to murder her. He later told the Administrative Appeals Tribunal that Huckstepp's death was a "traumatic event for (him)". The coroner found that the evidence was insufficient to recommend charges and made a finding that Huckstepp had been murdered by a person or persons unknown.

Prior to the inquest, Neddy Smith was interviewed four times by four separate teams of detectives. He claims that he was at home with his wife the night Huckstepp was murdered. However, he was secretly recorded confessing to a cellmate at Long Bay Correctional Centre. He was recorded saying he had attacked Huckstepp from behind, punched her, grabbed her by the throat, lifted her off the ground, and then strangled her for about six minutes. Smith then claimed he dragged her into the pond and stood on her back to keep her head submerged for a few more minutes. He was also recorded saying, "strangling somebody is the hardest thing in the world...(but) the most satisfying thing I ever did in my life".

Smith later dismissed his confession as lies, saying he knew he was being taped and wanted the publicity for his new book, Catch and Kill Your Own. He is also alleged to have confessed to his publisher. Smith was subsequently charged in September 1996 with Huckstepp's murder, and was committed to stand trial, but was acquitted in 1999. In an interview with writer John Dale, Smith claimed that Huckstepp was murdered because she kept "bugging Roger, ringing him up and leaving messages that he was a dog...The reason they didn't bury her or dispose of the body was Roger wanted her left floating in the pond as a message. The bloke who killed her has never been arrested and is not in jail".

Huckstepp is survived by a daughter, Sascha Huckstepp, who was born in 1973, and is an actress and casting agent in Sydney. Sascha had a minor role as a nurse in the Australian miniseries Blue Murder, which featured a character (played by Loene Carmen) based on her mother. In 1991 and 1992, she appeared as Jade Williams in the British soap opera Families. Huckstepp was also the half-sister of Australian screenwriter and actor Matt Kay.

In popular culture
Huckstepp inspired the song "Sallie-Anne" by Sydney band Spy vs. Spy.

An episode of the documentary series Crime Investigation Australia depicted her murder.

The 1995 Australian television miniseries Blue Murder featured the story of Huckstepp's homicide.

See also
Juanita Nielsen
Shirley Brifman
Shirley Finn

References