[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arihant-class submarine

the Machinery Test Center in Visakhapatnam. Facilities for loading and replacing the fuel cores of the naval reactors in berthed submarines were also established. The prototype 83 MW light water reactor that was installed at Kalpakkam by BARC is codenamed S1 and is used to train nuclear submariners.

In 2007, then finance minister P. Chidambaram, who was a member of the political committee which monitors the ATV programme, questioned the huge amount of money being spent on submarines with just 4 missile launch tubes. Hence the ATV project team tweaked the Arihant design by adding a 10-metre-long section for four more K-4 SLBMs to be integrated into the boat codenamed S4. After it became evident that the larger S5 class of SSBNs will take more time to develop, an additional unit, codenamed S4*, was sanctioned in 2012 to ensure that the production line doesn't go idle.

The detailed engineering of the design was implemented at Larsen & Toubro's submarine design centre at their Hazira shipbuilding facility. Tata Power SED built the control systems for the submarine. The steam turbines and associated systems integrated with the reactor were supplied by Walchandnagar Industries. The lead vessel underwent a long and extensive process of testing after its launch in July 2009. The propulsion and power systems were tested with high-pressure steam trials followed by harbor-acceptance trials that included submersion tests by flooding its ballast tanks and controlled dives to limited depths. INS Arihants reactor went critical for the first time on 10 August 2013. On 13 December 2014, the submarine set off for its extensive sea trials. On 5 November 2018, INS Arihant completed its first deterrence patrol.

Ships in class
Four boats of this class are planned. The first boat of the class, , was commissioned in August 2016. In December 2014, the work on a second nuclear reactor began and the second boat,  sea trials started in 2017 and commissioned in August, 2022 (speculated). The final two ships S4 and S4* in the class are expected to be larger, displacing over 1,000 tonnes more than the Arihant and have 8 missile launch tubes to carry up to 8 K4 or K5 and a more powerful pressurized water reactor than INS Arihant. S4 was launched in November 2021

Timeline

See also
 Future of the Indian Navy
 List of submarines of the Indian Navy
 List of submarine classes in service
 Submarine-launched ballistic missile

References

External links

 The Indian Strategic Nuclear Submarine Project by Mark Gorwitz

Ballistic missile submarines
Arihant-class submarines
Submarines of India
Nuclear-powered submarines
Submarine classes