[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Robert F. Kennedy Journalism Award

The Robert F. Kennedy Awards for Excellence in Journalism is a journalism award named after Robert F. Kennedy and awarded by the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights. The annual awards are issued in several categories and were established in December 1968 by a group of reporters who covered Kennedy's campaigns.  Winners are judged by more than 50 journalists each year, led by a committee of six independent journalists. The awards honor reporting "on issues that reflect Robert F. Kennedy's concerns, including human rights, social justice and the power of individual action in the United States and around the world. Entries include insights into the causes, conditions and remedies of injustice and critical analysis of relevant public policies, programs, attitudes and private endeavors." The awards are known as the "poor people's Pulitzers" in media circles.

Recipients
Note: This list of winners is incomplete.

1969–1979
1969

The first awards were presented by Kennedy's widow, Ethel Kennedy.

 Network TV: CBS for "Black History: Lost, Stolen or Strayed", written by Perry Wolf and narrated by Bill Cosby.
 Magazine: David Nevin, Life magazine for "These Murdered Old Old Mountains."
 Newspaper: Nick Kotz of The Des Moines Register and Tribune for coverage of rural poverty and hunger.

1970
The second annual awards were presented at the Federal City Club in Washington, D.C., with multiple awardees in each category.

 National TV:
 ABC News for "Black Fiddler: Prejudice and the Negro," produced by Stephen Fleischman.
 NBC News for "Between Two Rivers," narrated by Tom Pettit, from the First Tuesday series.
 Honorable Mention: Group W for "The shame of Welfare," produced by Dick Hubert.
 Local TV:
 WRC-TV for "Perspective: New Set of Eyes," produced by Bill Leonard.
 KNXT-TV for "The Siesta is Over (Revisited)," produced by Ken Rosen.
 Honorable Mention: WCKT-TV for "Migrant Workers," news director Gene Strul.
 Radio:
 WJR for "I Am Not Alone," reported by Phil Jones.
 Honorable Mention: WAKY for "Soul Searching," produced by Bob Watson.
 Newspaper:
 Linda Rockey for a series on the problems of hunger in the Chicago Sun Times.
 Dallas Kinney and Kent Pollock of the Palm Beach Post-Times for "Migration to Misery," an eight-part series on the life and dreams of migrant farm workers.

Articles in Series:
 "They Live Unwanted, in the Shadows of Society", October 5, 1969
 "A Perpetual Cycle Traps the Migrant", October 6, 1969
 "Squeezing Out a Living", October 7, 1969
 "For $50 a Month: A One-Room Shed, No Toilets", October 8, 1969
 "Migrant Gets What's Left", October 9, 1969
 "An Elderly Migrant Who Waits to Die", October 10, 1969
 "Bubba Boone: A Migrant Out of the Stream", October 11, 1969
 "The County's Effort Expansive But Not Enough", October 12, 1969

 Magazines:
 Fred C. Shapiro for "The Whitmore Confessions" in The New Yorker.
 Honorable Mention: Dr. Robert Coles and Harry Huge for a series of reports in The New Republic on the problems of the disadvantaged.

1971
The third annual awards were presented by Ethel Kennedy during a luncheon ceremony held at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C., which was still under construction.  Entertainer Bill Cosby was the master of ceremonies, and Tim Wickers of The New York Times gave the keynote speech.  The winners were selected from over 275 entries. No awards were given in the Radio and Magazines categories.

 TV:
 NBC News for "Migrant: An NBC White Paper" with correspondent Chet Huntley, produced by Martin Carr.
 Richard Hubert, Paul Galan, Rod MacLeish, Westinghouse Broadcasting Company for "When You Reach December."
 Newspapers:
 Ralph Looney of the Albuquerque Tribune for the nine-part series "The Plight of the Navajo."
 Sam Washington and Jerome Watson of the Chicago Sun-Times for a series on schools for the intellectually disabled.
 Special awards:
 Ruben Salazar of the Los Angeles Times for a collection of 17 columns that "communicated effectively and compassionately the culture and alienation of Chicanos." The award was accepted by Salazar's widow, Sally.
 The New Thing, an arts and architecture workshop in Washington, D.C., for the film "This Is the Home of Mrs. Levant Graham, the New Thing."

1972
The fourth annual awards were presented by Rose Kennedy during a luncheon ceremony at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. Ralph Nader gave the keynote speech. Eligibility was expanded to include high school entries.