[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Darel Russell

ransfer deadline day 2012, Russell joined Portsmouth on an initial one-month deal. Russell left Portsmouth on 28 January 2013, a day before his contract with the club was due to expire. He had made 18 appearances for Pompey with the side destined for relegation after suffering a ten-point deduction.

Toronto FC
On 14 February, Russell joined Canadian Major League Soccer side Toronto FC on a trial basis. On 1 March, he signed a contract with the Canadian club. He made his debut for the club on 9 March in a 2–1 home victory over Sporting Kansas City, he came on as a second half sub for John Bostock. Russell scored his first goal for the club on 6 April, the goal came in the 90th minute to earn Toronto a 2–2 home draw against FC Dallas. He was not retained following the 2013 season.

Tampa Bay Rowdies
Russell joined Tampa Bay Rowdies for the 2014 North American Soccer League season. He played 26 times, scoring three goals as the team failed to reach the championship play-offs. He retired at the end of the season.

Personal life
Russel was born in England and is of Saint Lucian descent. His sister Shar Alexander (real name Sharlene Russell), is a singer in the band 'Miss Frank' who competed in the sixth series of X Factor.

Career statistics

Honours
 Norwich City
 League One champions: 2009–10

 Charlton Athletic
 League One champions: 2011–12

References

External links

1980 births
Living people
Footballers from Mile End
English men's footballers
English people of Saint Lucian descent
English expatriate men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Norwich City F.C. players
Stoke City F.C. players
Preston North End F.C. players
Charlton Athletic F.C. players
Portsmouth F.C. players
Toronto FC players
Tampa Bay Rowdies players
Expatriate men's soccer players in Canada
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States
English Football League players
Major League Soccer players
North American Soccer League (2011–2017) players
English expatriate sportspeople in the United States
English expatriate sportspeople in Canada