[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Legal purge in Norway after World War II

ensions hardened, those fighting against the death penalty for humanitarian reasons were stigmatized as "the silk front". Those who favored harsh penalties were known as "the ice front". The editorial pages of Norwegian newspapers (Dagbladet being one of the most prominent) demanded harsh penalties.

Within just a few days of the war ending, up to 28,750 people were arrested for questioning. Although many were released quickly, between 5,000 and 6,000 individuals were still in custody in August 1946.

Former wartime resistance leader Sven Arntzen was made acting chief barrister of the Norwegian Prosecuting Authority. He was given the responsibility for bringing the cases to trial. Arntzen played a highly public role in establishing the principles that should drive the trials. This led to considerable public and internal debate about the nature of the legal purges.

Altogether prosecutors requested death sentences in 200 cases of treason; of these only 30 were passed down, with 25 being carried out. All were executed by firing squad, except for Erich Hoffmann, who was hanged. From the beginning, the application of capital punishment was controversial in Norway, in part because the country's first government instituted capital punishment before the Norwegian parliament had reconvened after the war.

Legacy
A great deal of sensitivity continues to surround this subject in Norwegian society. In later years, studies and inquiries have shown that justice was administered unevenly and—by today's standards—harshly.

For example, the volunteers who joined the Waffen-SS and served on the Eastern Front were tried only for treason, never for war crimes. Some believe that those who sided with Nasjonal Samling were often publicly shamed and ostracised well beyond the punishment their crimes merited, such as fines or a prison sentence.
The prosecution of individuals who served with the German Red Cross has also been questioned. Among those convicted was Hanna Kvanmo, who later rose to prominence as a socialist politician.

Treason

War crimes

Sentenced for war crimes by Allied law in Oslo

References

Citations

Bibliography
 University of Oslo: The Legal Purges in Norway after 1945 – A Research Project: Project Description
 Home page for project
 
 The Norwegian SS Volunteers In addition to general information about the Norwegian SS volunteers, also contains information about what happened to these soldiers after the war.
 Anika Seemann (2020) "Citizen Outcasts", Scandinavian Journal of History, 45:3, 360–383, 

Norway in World War II
Political and cultural purges
Legal history of Norway