[Source: PubMed]

82. PLoS Med. 2020 Nov 10;17(11):e1003143. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1003143. 
eCollection 2020 Nov.

Southeast Asian health system challenges and responses to the 'Andaman Sea 
refugee crisis': A qualitative study of health-sector perspectives from 
Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, and Thailand.

Legido-Quigley H(1)(2), Leh Hoon Chuah F(1), Howard N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore.
(2)Department of Global Health and Development, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Southeast Asian countries host signficant numbers of forcibly 
displaced people. This study was conducted to examine how health systems in 
Southeast Asia have responded to the health system challenges of forced 
migration and refugee-related health including the health needs of populations 
affected by forced displacement; the health systems-level barriers and 
facilitators in addressing these needs; and the implications of existing health 
policies relating to forcibly displaced and refugee populations. This study aims 
to fill in the gap in knowledge by analysing how health systems are organised in 
Southeast Asia to address the health needs of forcibly displaced people.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We conducted 30 semistructured interviews with health 
policy-makers, health service providers, and other experts working in the United 
Nations (n = 6), ministries and public health (n = 5), international (n = 9) and 
national civil society (n = 7), and academia (n = 3) based in Indonesia (n = 6), 
Malaysia (n = 10), Myanmar (n = 6), and Thailand (n = 8). Data were analysed 
thematically using deductive and inductive coding. Interviewees described the 
cumulative nature of health risks at each migratory phase. Perceived barriers to 
addressing migrants' cumulative health needs were primarily financial, 
juridico-political, and sociocultural, whereas key facilitators were many health 
workers' humanitarian stance and positive national commitment to pursuing 
universal health coverage (UHC). Across all countries, financial constraints 
were identified as the main challenges in addressing the comprehensive health 
needs of refugees and asylum seekers. Participants recommended regional and 
multisectoral approaches led by national governments, recognising refugee and 
asylum-seeker contributions, and promoting inclusion and livelihoods. Main study 
limitations included that we were not able to include migrant voices or those 
professionals not already interested in migrants.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is one of the first qualitative studies to 
investigate the health concerns and barriers to access among migrants 
experiencing forced displacement, particularly refugees and asylum seekers, in 
Southeast Asia. Findings provide practical new insights with implications for 
informing policy and practice. Overall, sociopolitical inclusion of forcibly 
displaced populations remains difficult in these four countries despite their 
significant contributions to host-country economies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1003143
PMCID: PMC7654775
PMID: 33170834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.