[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Arthur Eddington

ormalism
 Special relativity
 Theory of everything (also called "final theory" or "ultimate theory")
 Timeline of gravitational physics and relativity
 List of experiments

People
 List of science and religion scholars

Other
 Infinite monkey theorem
 Numerology
 Ontic structural realism

References

Further reading
 Durham, Ian T., "Eddington & Uncertainty". Physics in Perspective (September – December). Arxiv, History of Physics
 
 Lecchini, Stefano, "How Dwarfs Became Giants. The Discovery of the Mass–Luminosity Relation" Bern Studies in the History and Philosophy of Science, pp. 224. (2007)
 
 Stanley, Matthew. "An Expedition to Heal the Wounds of War: The 1919 Eclipse Expedition and Eddington as Quaker Adventurer." Isis 94 (2003): 57–89.
 Stanley, Matthew. "So Simple a Thing as a Star: Jeans, Eddington, and the Growth of Astrophysical Phenomenology" in British Journal for the History of Science, 2007, 40: 53–82.

External links

 
 
 
 
 Trinity College Chapel
 Arthur Stanley Eddington (1882–1944) . University of St Andrews, Scotland.
 Quotations by Arthur Eddington
 Arthur Stanley Eddington  The Bruce Medalists.
 Russell, Henry Norris, "Review of The Internal Constitution of the Stars by A.S. Eddington". Ap.J. 67, 83 (1928).
 Experiments of Sobral and Príncipe repeated in the space project in proceeding in fórum astronomical.
 
 Biography and bibliography of Bruce medalists: Arthur Stanley Eddington
 Eddington books: The Nature of the Physical World, The Philosophy of Physical Science, Relativity Theory of Protons and Electrons, and Fundamental Theory

1882 births
1944 deaths
Alumni of Trinity College, Cambridge
Alumni of the Victoria University of Manchester
British anti–World War I activists
British astrophysicists
British conscientious objectors
British Christian pacifists
Corresponding Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences (1917–1925)
Corresponding Members of the USSR Academy of Sciences
British cosmologists
British Quakers
20th-century British astronomers
Fellows of Trinity College, Cambridge
Fellows of the Royal Astronomical Society
Fellows of the Royal Society
Foreign associates of the National Academy of Sciences
Knights Bachelor
Members of the Order of Merit
Members of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences
People from Kendal
Presidents of the Physical Society
Presidents of the Royal Astronomical Society
Recipients of the Bruce Medal
Recipients of the Gold Medal of the Royal Astronomical Society
British relativity theorists
Royal Medal winners
Senior Wranglers
20th-century British physicists
Plumian Professors of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy
Presidents of the International Astronomical Union
Members of the American Philosophical Society