[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tomas Osmeña

Tomas dela Rama Osmeña (; born July 26, 1948), known as Tommy Osmeña, is a Filipino politician who served as the Mayor of Cebu City thrice: first from 1987 to 1995, again from 2001 to 2010, and lastly from 2016 to 2019. He also served as Congressman representing the second district of Cebu City from 2010 to 2013. He is a grandson of former Philippine President Sergio Osmeña.

He is also considered as the founder of Bando Osmeña – Pundok Kauswagan, a local political group run by the Osmeña family of Cebu.

Early life and education

Osmeña is the son of Senator Sergio Osmeña, Jr. and Lourdes de la Rama-Osmeña of Negros Occidental. He is the fourth among five siblings, namely former Senator Sergio III, Maria Victoria, Esteban and Georgia. His father, the son of former Philippine President Sergio Osmeña, was a politician from Cebu having served as Governor of Cebu, Mayor of Cebu City and Senator while his mother was the daughter of former Senator Esteban dela Rama, founder of the Dela Rama Steamship Company, the country's largest shipping firm in the 1950s.

He grew up in Metro Manila where he got to study in La Salle Green Hills until first year high school in which he failed his Tagalog and Catechism classes. "I couldn’t stand those two things," he said in an interview and eventually transferred to Sacred Heart School for Boys in Cebu.

Among his siblings, he was the only one to finish secondary school in the Philippines after declining the offer to study in the United States. He finished Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Economics from Xavier University - Ateneo de Cagayan in Cagayan de Oro and went on for further graduate studies in Finance, Management and International Trade at the University of California, Los Angeles.

During his father's campaign for President in the 1969 elections, he would be mingling with the crowd and trade stories with anyone in the sorties according to his sister Maria Victoria "Minnie" Osmeña. Years later in 1972, his family had to leave Cebu after martial law was declared by Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos, who also defeated his father in 1969. He stayed in exile in the United States for 15 years.

Early career
In 1972, while staying in the United States, Osmeña worked as vice president in his father's Los Angeles-based sales company, SEROS, Inc., then as financial analyst for Foreign Credit Insurance Association, the operating arm of the Export-Import Bank of United States wherein he was engaged in the political and economic play of the export credit accounts of a number of major US banks and exporters across 12 western states. He also served as vice president of Apex Realty and Developers in California.

He got involved as well in several civic organizations and was elected as vice president of the while he was in Los Angeles, California. He was given seven awards from different Filipino organization including an award by the Philippine-American Council of Los Angeles "for outstanding service to the Filipino-American community in LA."

Mayor of Cebu City (1988-1995)
Upon returning to Cebu in 1987, he ran for Mayor of Cebu City against Jose Cuenco and defeated him despite not having a backing of a party or an endorsement coming from a national official. In his first term, he became the Chairman of the Metro Cebu Development Project (MCDP) where he was able to secure over PHP 2 billion-worth of foreign assisted projects for Metro Cebu.

In 1988, he was awarded as one of the Ten Outstanding Young Men in the Philippines in the field of Public Service, together with then Pangasinan 1st District Congressman Oscar Orbos, by the Philippine Jaycees and the Gerry Roxas Foundation, Inc.

In 1990, he was elected as the National Executive Vice President of the League of Cities of the Philippines (LCP) and later on, was also elected on mass motion as its President from 1992 to 1995.

During his term as Mayor, Cebu City received Galing Pook Awards by the Galing Pook Foundation namely Tax Computerization (1993-1994),

In the 1992 elections, he was re-elected to office together with his candidate for Vice Mayor Alvin Garcia and fifteen of the sixteen slots for councilor in the Cebu City Council. He was also elected as the Chairman of the Regional Development Council for Central Visayas on his second term.

After serving for two terms, he gave way and endorsed his vice mayor, Alvin Garcia to run for his place in the 1995 elections. Garcia went on to win for two terms.

Mayor of Cebu City (2001-2010)
While Garcia was mayor, Osmeña publicly criticized his aggressive push of a controversial $500 million investment scheme in which Garcia also responded by publicly calling Osmeña "stupid". When Garcia declared his candidacy for a third term in 2001, Osmeña decided to challenge his former vice mayor in the 2001 Cebu City local elections. Osmeña won by a slim margin of 3,060 votes.

During his second stint as mayor, he was faced with several issues: