[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles

review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes season 1 has a score of 76% based on reviews from 34 critics, and season 2 has rating of 94% based on 16 reviews. On Metacritic, the first season has an average score of 74 out of 100 based on 24 reviews. The second season has a score of 67, based on only 4 reviews.

Robert Bianco of USA Today gave the premiere episode four and a half stars out of five, calling the series, "smart, tough and entertaining." Gina Bellafante of The New York Times referred to it as "one of the more humanizing adventures in science fiction to arrive in quite a while". The Los Angeles Times declared the show "has heart and feeling" and "an almost Shakespearean exploration of fate vs. character" that features "plenty of really great fight scenes, and explosions, as well as neat devices developed in the future and jury-rigged in the present." Film industry journal Daily Variety declared the series pilot "a slick brand extension off this profitable assembly line" that showcases "impressive and abundant action with realistic visual effects and, frankly, plenty of eye candy between Glau and Headey." At the start of the second season, Variety praised "Headey's gritty performance as Sarah—managing to be smart, resourceful and tough, yet melancholy and vulnerable as well" and that the Chronicles "continue to deliver", getting "considerable mileage out of the constant peril" facing the characters. The Connecticut Post placed it on its list of the top 10 TV shows of 2008: "It's smart, with thought-provoking meditations on parenthood, destiny and human nature, and features good performances by Lena Headey, as Sarah, and Summer Glau."

Not all response was positive. One report from La Lámina Corredora reported "the pilot feels too much like a cheap remake of T2." Tim Goodman of the San Francisco Chronicle derided the entire conceptualization and production of the series. Though limited to his viewing of the first two episodes, Goodman leveled criticism against Fox for having "taken the wholly predictable course of putting a lot of money into explosions and regenerating cyborgs" but not having "paid much attention to plot, casting or writing."

In his review of the second season, Travis Fickett at IGN felt despite a few middling episodes and the restrictions of a TV budget, "[the series] turned out to be intelligent, complex and consistently operated on a deeper emotional level than anyone could have expected." Looking back on the series, Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger was disappointed by Sarah and John as well as the sluggish pace of the show; however, he felt these weaknesses were outweighed by the strength of the performances of Summer Glau, Brian Austin Green and Garret Dillahunt as well as the writers' commitment to showing the emotional toll on the characters. Commenting on the final episode of season two, he called it a "terrific" finale which took the show in a new potential-filled direction. In May 2009 the show won the E!Online "Save One Show" poll, and has received positive coverage from places such as Wired and CNN. In an effort to keep the series on the air, fans created support communities on Facebook and MySpace and uploaded videos to YouTube. Creator Josh Friedman confirmed to CliqueClack that he has vowed to never reveal how the series would have progressed or ended.

Awards 
Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles won the following awards:
 Saturn Award: Best Supporting Actress on Television, 2007 (Summer Glau) – Tied with Elizabeth Mitchell for Lost

The series was also nominated for the following awards:
 Saturn Award: Best Actress on Television, 2007 (Lena Headey)
 Saturn Award: Best Network Television Series, 2007
 Teen Choice Awards: Choice TV Actress: Action, 2008 (Summer Glau)
 Teen Choice Awards: Choice TV: Breakout Show, 2008
 Teen Choice Awards: Choice TV: Female Breakout Star, 2008 (Summer Glau)
 Teen Choice Awards: Choice TV: Male Breakout Star, 2008 (Thomas Dekker)
 Teen Choice Awards: Choice TV Show: Action, 2008
 Primetime Emmy Award: Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Drama Series, 2008 (Paul Karasick for "Pilot")
 Primetime Emmy Award: Outstanding Special Visual Effects, 2008 (James Lima, Chris Zapara, Lane Jolly, Steve Graves, Rick Schick, Jeff West and Bradley Mullennix for "Pilot")
 Primetime Emmy Award: Outstanding Stunt Coordination, 2008 (Joel Kramer for "Gnothi Seauton")
 Visual Effects Society Award: Outstanding Visual Effects in a Broadcast Series, 2008 (James Lima, Raoul Bolognini, Andrew Orloff, Steve Meyer for Episode 108)

References

External links

 Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles on TheWB.com