[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas Jefferson Randolph

to Monticello in 1815 during a drought crisis, Randolph began to manage Monticello for his (separated) mother and grandfather. In 1817 Jefferson leased another two of his quarter-farms, Tufton and Lego, to Randolph, who soon built a stone house and moved his growing family into the Tufton premises.

Randolph had been close to his grandfather and was appointed executor of his estate in Thomas Jefferson's will, executed in 1826. As that year had begun, following the conclusion of his father's term as Virginia's 21st governor and escalation of problems with his creditors following mounting debts, Randolph managed to purchase his father's plantation at Edgehill at a foreclosure auction. Jefferson's main estate was also heavily encumbered by debt at his death on July 4 of that year (particularly after this Randolph's father-in-law Nicholas defaulted on his debts before 1823). In fact, the principal of Jefferson's debts would not be extinguished until 1878 (after this Randolph's death), and Nicholas' arriage of approximately $70,000 became the bulk of the $100,000 plus shortfall in Jefferson's estate (plus his Monticello plantation would only bring $7100 when finally sold in 1831, though for years valued at over $70,000). In any event, Randolph ordered Monticello goods and property sold, including the 130 slaves. Thus, on January 19, 1827, about six month's after the former President's death, a sale occurred that paid off about $35,000 of the debt's principal and another $12,840 of interest and expenses.
His mother withheld Sally Hemings from the auction and gave her "her time," which informally allowed her to live freely in Charlottesville, Virginia with her two younger sons. Jefferson had formally freed Madison and Eston in his will, after allowing their older sister and their older brother to "run away" in 1822. Then Mrs. Martha Randolph left Monticello after the furnishing auction and eventually went to live in Boston with her daughter (this Randolph's sister), only to return to Virginia to reconcile with her husband and attend his deathbed at Monticello in 1828. News about her penniless state at age 60 led the South Carolina and Louisiana legislatures to each present her with $10,000. She would live with Randolph and other children at various times before her own death in 1836 and burial at Monticello.
In the 1850 federal census, Randolph owned 46 enslaved people in Albemarle county, ranging from 79- and 70-year-old women and a 75-year-old man to a 9-year-old boy and girls aged 5, 3 and one year old. In the 1860 federal census, Randolph owned 1 three-year-old girl who lived with 28 slaves owned by his son Thomas Jefferson Randolph Jr. in Frederickville in Albemarle County, and 34 slaves who lived with him (16 of them 5 years old or younger).

Political career

Albemarle County voters elected Thomas Randolph as one of their delegates (part-time) to the Virginia House of Delegates multiple times, but also refused to elect him multiple times, instead often electing Valentine W. Southall, who would eventually rise to become speaker of that historic legislative body. During several of Thomas Randolph's legislative terms, he often served alongside Alexander Rives, younger brother of William C. Rives, who was this Randolph's friend since their school days and who had frequently visited Monticello and built his plantation home Castle Hill nearby after marrying a daughter of Thomas Walker who owned that plantation.

After Nat Turner's slave rebellion of 1831, Randolph introduced a post nati emancipation plan in the Virginia House of Delegates. This would have provided for gradual emancipation of children born into slavery after July 3, 1840, requiring that they serve an apprenticeship, then leave the state upon coming of age. It was defeated 73 to 58.

In 1850, Randolph was elected to the Virginia Constitutional Convention of 1850, as one of four delegates jointly elected from  Albemarle and adjoining Nelson and Amherst Counties.

Author and educator

In 1829, Randolph published Memoir, Correspondence and Miscellanies: from the Papers of Thomas Jefferson.  It was the first collection of Jefferson's writings. Shortly thereafter, he became a member of the Board of Visitors at the nearby University of Virginia. Links to other of Thomas Jefferson Randolph's works are below.

Randolph also allowed his wife and unmarried sisters to teach school at what had been the original house on his Edgehill estate beginning in 1829. His sister Cornelia Randolph (1799-1871) taught painting, drawing and sculpture there before the American Civil War, during which she moved to Alexandria, Virginia to live with female relatives.

From 1857 to 1864, Randolph served as the rector of the University of Virginia, succeeding Andrew Stevenson.