[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Dokka Umarov

e US State Department's Rewards for Justice list in April 2014. According to the website, "Suspects may be removed from the RFJ list for a variety of reasons, including when they are taken into custody by law enforcement or security forces, or are confirmed dead by an official authoritative source."

Religious beliefs and world views
"Barely religious until late in life", Umarov used to be known as practitioner of the region's "traditional Islam", as opposed to "Wahhabis". In 2006, responding to Russian claims that he was an Islamic extremist, he described himself as a "traditionalist" and said:
 "Before the start of the first war in 1994, when the occupation began and I understood that war was inevitable, I came here as a patriot. I'm not even sure I knew how to pray properly then. It's ridiculous to say I'm a Wahhabist or a radical Muslim."
Umarov denied that Chechen separatism is linked to al-Qaeda or any other international jihadi groups, saying that the rebels' priority is liberty and independence from Russia and peace for the Caucasus. Prior to his 2007 declaration of the Caucasus Emirate, Umarov was commonly viewed as a staunch Chechen nationalist and had been expected to rather curb the pan-Islamist tendencies in the Chechen separatist movement.

In the same 2007 statement in which Umarov proclaimed his Emirate, he expressed solidarity with "brothers in Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia and Palestine" and described not only Russia but "everyone who attacked Muslims" and "wages war against Muslims" as an enemy. His deputy Anzor Astemirov later recalled how Umarov told them that "of course we must rely on Allah, not on England, not on America, not on the West, not on anyone except Allah, and we must get rid of all these delusions." In the video in which Umarov claimed responsibility for the Domodedovo International Airport bombing, he criticized the United States and Russia as hypocrites, stating that if they actually followed their own principles, they would have to surrender world power to China due to the senior status of Chinese culture. In March 2013, Umarov urged the Chechen diaspora members to not get involved in the Syrian civil war and instead to join his forces in the North Caucasus. The ideology that Umarov espoused from the declaration of the Caucasus Emirate until his death would describe him as a Salafist-Takfiri jihadist.

References

External links
 Profile: Chechen rebel leader Doku Umarov at BBC News
 Profile: Who Is Doku Umarov? at Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (2010)
 Умаров, Доку: Президент самопровозглашенной республики Ичкерия at Lenta.ru 

1964 births
2013 deaths
Date of death unknown
Caucasus Emirate members
Chechen field commanders
Chechen warlords
Emirs of the Caucasian Emirate
Individuals designated as terrorists by the United States government
People from Chechnya
Politicians of Ichkeria
Heads of the Chechen Republic
Vice presidents of Chechnya
Chechen Islamists
People designated by the Al-Qaida and Taliban Sanctions Committee
Russian people of Chechen descent
Heads of state of former countries
Leaders of Islamic terror groups
Chechen independence activists
North Caucasian independence activists