[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jamie Hand

ng to speculation that the Fisher move had been used to exploit a loophole in the transfer window system. Hand helped the "Cobblers" to secure runners-up spot in League Two and thereby win promotion from League One. However, he was not offered a contract at Sixfields and instead became a free agent.

Chester City
On 15 May 2006, Hand joined League Two side Chester City. He was signed by Mark Wright, his former Peterborough manager. He scored four goals from 50 appearances across the 2006–07 season. He started the following campaign at the Deva Stadium, but surprised "Seals" manager Bobby Williamson with the haste of his exit after the club accepted an offer from Lincoln City.

Lincoln City
Hand signed a two-year contract with Lincoln City on 17 August 2007. Lincoln's Director of Football, John Deehan, had previously worked with Hand at Northampton Town. He became a regular presence in the side under the management of John Schofield, but lost his place when the "Imps" came under the management of Peter Jackson. On 28 February 2008, Hand was loaned out to former club Oxford United – now in the Conference and managed by Darren Patterson – until the end of the 2007–08 season. Despite starting 13 of Oxford's remaining 14 fixtures, the club announced that Hand would not be offered a deal for the following season and he returned to Sincil Bank. Hand's contract with Lincoln was cancelled by mutual consent in May 2008.

Non-League
In August 2008, Hand joined Conference side Ebbsfleet United on non-contract terms, after spending time with them in pre-season. He made 26 appearances across the 2008–09 season, before dropping down to the Conference South to play for Chelmsford City. He returned to the Conference Premier in September 2009 to sign for Woking. In March 2010, he signed for Southern League Premier Division club Hemel Hempstead Town, arriving at the same time as former Watford teammate Paolo Vernazza.

Hand returned to the Conference Premier after joining Hayes & Yeading United on a short-term deal in August 2010. He formed an effective midfield partnership with Peter Holmes and Bradley Pritchard, and was rewarded with an extended contract by manager Garry Haylock. Hand said that: "I have been working hard and putting a lot of effort into my football – it is something I should have done years ago." He made 43 appearances in the 2010–11 season, scoring two goals, and was made club captain in the summer. On 9 September 2011, he moved on loan to divisional rivals Luton Town, with a view to a permanent move in January 2012. At the end of his loan spell with Luton Town manager Gary Brabin decided not to pursue a transfer, explaining his thinking behind the decision he said "Jamie was a fantastic character but hadn't nailed down a place in the squad that was his own, so it makes sense not to pursue it."

In April 2012, he was fined £250 by The Football Association for bringing the game into disrepute with comments he made on Twitter, such as one post on 9 April that Luton Town supporters were "40 year old virgins who live wit there [sic] mums". He quit Hayes the following month as he was unhappy with the level of a fine issued to him for a red card he received in the match at Lincoln City that saw Hayes relegated into the Conference South; he said "I don't think a sending off warrants a week's wages" and that Tony [O'Driscoll, director of football] and Nas Bashir are telling me it's the chairman's decision to fine me. If that's his decision that's fine but I won't play for the club again while he is in charge".

On 15 July 2012, Hand signed with Mansfield Town; "Stags" manager Paul Cox said that he "will add steel and competitiveness to the squad". On 9 November, he joined Richard Hill's Eastleigh on a one-month loan deal, in order to regain match fitness following a knee injury. On 2 January, he made a surprise return on loan at former club Hayes & Yeading United. Speaking about reversing his decision never to play for the club again, he said "we live in the here and now and that's all that matters". He made five appearances and was sent off on Bashir's final match in charge, a 6–2 defeat at Chelmsford City, which also proved to be Hand's last game for United. On 9 March, he joined Margate of the Isthmian League Premier Division on loan until the end of the 2012–13 season.