[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# December 1979

a parental guidance (PG) rating, premiered in the United Kingdom (with an "A" rating)  and was released in the United States and Canada three days later.  With a total budget of $26 million for production and promotion, the film was the most expensive produced by the Disney studios up to that time.

December 19, 1979 (Wednesday)
The United States Senate followed the previous approval of the U.S. House of Representatives and voted, 53 to 44, to pass the Chrysler Corporation Loan Guarantee Act of 1979 to authorize the financial rescue of the ailing U.S. automobile manufacturer.  U.S. President Carter signed the bill into law on January 7 to authorize a 1.5 billion dollar government loan.
Mudar Badran resigned as Prime Minister of Jordan and was replaced by Abdelhamid Sharaf, a former Jordanian Ambassador to the U.S.  Badran, though only 40, died of a heart attack less than eight months later, on July 4, 1980.
Siegfried Haag, a former lawyer and member of the Red Army Faction terrorist group in West Germany, was sentenced to 15 years in prison.  He would be released seven years later because of illness.
The Academy Award-winning film Kramer vs. Kramer, starring Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep as a divorcing couple fighting over custody of their child, was released nationwide in the United States. New York Times critic Vincent Canby described it as "one of those rare American movies that never have to talk importantly and self-consciously to let you know that it has to do with many more thnings than are explicitly stated."

December 20, 1979 (Thursday)
The first advanced maneuverable reentry vehicle ballistic missile, the AMaRV, was launched as the payload of a U.S. Minuteman I and was capable of autonomously adjusting its trajectory during its descent in order to reach its target.
A military court in South Korea sentenced seven men, led by former Korean Central Intelligence Agency director Kim Jae-kyu, to be executed for the October 26 assassination of President Park Chung Hee.  Kim, who shot President Park to death during a banquet, told the court, "I do not wish to beg for my life, as I have found a cause to die for.  My motive was a wish to establish a foundation for peaceful changes of government in the future."

December 21, 1979 (Friday)
Documents for a ceasefire in the Rhodesian Civil War were signed at the Lancaster House in London, to take effect on December 28.  Bishop Abel Muzorewa, the Prime Minister of the biracial government that had been elected in Zimbabwe Rhodesia signed on behalf of the colonial government, while Robert Mugabe of the Zimbabwe African National Union and Joshua Nkomo of the Zimbabwe African People's Union signed for the Patriotic Front guerrilla group.
For the first time since the founding of the People's Republic of China, the Communist government permitted the public ceremonies for consecration of a religious leader, as Bishop Michael Fu Tieshan was certified as the Roman Catholic Bishop of Beijing by the Communist government.  Bishop Fu, leader of the government-approved Catholic Patriotic Association, was consecrated by eight Roman Catholic bishops from other dioceses, all of whom wore "traditional church vestments".  The ceremony was not recognized by the Vatican, however, since Fu was elected by his parishioners rather than selected by the Roman Catholic Church.  The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Beijing would be reactivated by the Vatican in 1989.
At least 43 bus passengers in the Philippines were killed while traveling home for the Christmas holiday, after the driver missed a detour and drove the vehicle off of a collapsed bridge.  The bus, operated by Philippine National Railways (PNR) fell into the Marana River, near Ilagan City, when it reached a concrete bridge whose center span had been washed away by Typhoon Vera.
The record for most consecutive games played in the National Hockey League, held by Garry Unger of the Atlanta Flames, stopped at 914 in a row when Flames' coach Al MacNeil benched Unger, marking the first time since February 24, 1968, that Unger had not appeared in a scheduled NHL game. The benching came on the same day that a reporter for the local Atlanta Constitution spoke of Unger's "selfish reputation" and wrote that the mark "seems only to dig up more talk about his lack of team play each game the streak is mentioned."    Unger's record would stand for seven more years until December 26, 1986, when surpassed by Doug Jarvis of the Hartford Whalers.

December 22, 1979 (Saturday)
In the U.S., the acquisition of National Airlines company by Pan American World Airways was approved by President Jimmy Carter upon recommendation of the Civil Aeronautics Board, bringing an end to the 45-year old airline brand.  All of National's flights and aircraft were re-branded as Pan Am, which became the fourth-largest air carrier in the U.S.