[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

any tobacco product shall not affect any other term or condition of the tenancy, nor shall this section be construed to require statutory authority to establish or enforce any other lawful term or condition of the tenancy.
(Added by Stats. 2011, Ch. 264, Sec. 2. Effective January 1, 2012.)

Colorado

Statewide smoking ban: On July 1, 2006, the Colorado Clean Indoor Air Act went into effect, banning smoking in all enclosed workplaces statewide, including bars and restaurants. Casinos, initially exempt, were added to the ban January 1, 2008. The Act only exempts private residences and automobiles unless used for the public transportation of children or as part of healthcare or daycare, limousines under private hire, hotel/motel rooms designated as smoking rooms, retail tobacco stores, cigar bars, designated areas in airports, outdoor areas, workplaces not open to the public where the employer employs three or fewer employees, private nonresidential buildings on a farm or ranch that has annual gross income of less than $500,000, and designated areas in nursing homes. Local governments may regulate smoking more strictly than the state. A judge has ruled that a bar sharing common indoor space with a tobacco shop is also exempt from the ban.

Connecticut
Statewide smoking ban: On October 1, 2003, the Clean Indoor Air Act went into effect, banning smoking statewide in bars and restaurants (bars, cafes, and bowling alleys were exempt until April 1, 2004). The Act exempts areas of businesses where tobacco products are developed and tested, cigar bars (a business that has a liquor permit and generated at least 10% of its 2002 gross income from on-site sales of tobacco products or humidor rentals and has not changed its size or location after December 31, 2002), and public housing projects. Prior to October 1, 2021, the Act exempted correctional and psychiatric facilities, private clubs whose liquor permit was issued on or before May 1, 2003, designated hotel rooms, separately-ventilated break rooms in non-work areas of non-hospitality businesses with five or more employees, and non-hospitality businesses with fewer than five employees. Local governments are preempted from regulating smoking at all.
Two large casinos on Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot tribal land, Mohegan Sun and Foxwoods, allow smoking in many areas of their properties.

Delaware
Statewide smoking ban: On November 1, 2002, the Clean Indoor Air Act went into effect, banning smoking statewide in all enclosed workplaces in Delaware, including bars, restaurants, and casinos. The Act exempts private homes and automobiles not used for childcare or daycare or the public transportation of children, rented social halls while being rented, limousines under private hire, hotel/motel rooms designated as smoking rooms, fundraising activities sponsored by an ambulance or fire company while on property owned or leased by the company, and fundraising activities sponsored by a fraternal benefit society taking place upon property owned or leased by the society. Local governments can regulate smoking more strictly than the state. Bethany Beach has outlawed smoking on the boardwalk and beach. In Rehoboth Beach, smoking is banned in parks, playgrounds, the beach, the boardwalk, and adjacent public areas.

District of Columbia
District-wide smoking ban: Effective January 2007, smoking is banned in bars, restaurants, and other public places in the District of Columbia; exempts outdoor areas, designated hotel/motel rooms, retail tobacco stores, cigar bars, hookah bars, and businesses that can show they receive 10% or more of their annual revenue from tobacco sales, excluding cigarette machines.

Florida
Statewide smoking ban excluding bars: On July 1, 2003, a constitutional amendment passed by voters came into effect which banned smoking statewide in all enclosed workplaces in Florida, exempting private residences, retail tobacco shops, designated smoking rooms in hotels/motels, stand-alone bars with no more than 10% of revenue from food sales, rooms used for quit-smoking programs and medical research, and designated smoking areas in customs transit areas under the authority of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Local governments are generally preempted from regulating smoking, however a law passed in 2022 allows for local governments to restrict smoking in public parks and on beaches.

Georgia