[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Siege of Cuneo (1691)

fought against the Ottomans in the War of the Holy League – arrived to reinforce Amadeus, raising his strength (on paper) to 45,000. On 26 September the Allies crossed the river Po to retake the lost town. Due to the lack of available French troops, Carmagnola capitulated to the Allies on 8 October.

Meanwhile, the Marquis de La Hoguette, commanding French forces in the Duchy of Savoy, raided the Aosta Valley in preparation for the siege of Montmélian. The valley was one of the two main routes into Savoy through which Amadeus could send assistance from Piedmont (the capture of Susa in November 1690 had blocked the only other direct route). Hoguette reached as far south as Bard before returning to Savoy, destroying behind him all the bridges and passing points. Due to a lack of siege guns Montmélian could not be properly invested until November. However, when it became apparent that no relief was coming from Piedmont, the town's governor finally yielded the citadel on 22 December.

Although the French had achieved little in Piedmont, Catinat now controlled almost all of the County of Nice and the Duchy of Savoy. At peace talks in mid-summer Louis XIV had insisted keeping his gains in Nice, several Piedmontese towns on the route to Casale, and Montmélian; some 2,400 of Amadeus's troops, together with three dragoon regiments were also expected to join with French forces against the Grand Alliance on other fronts. However, on 16 July, the King's highly influential and belligerent War Minister, Louvois, died; 12 days later Louis XIV recalled the more moderate Pomponne to sit in the Conseil d'en haut, the consequences of which were to alter the political direction of the state. Now facing a superior enemy, and unable to sustain their forces on the Piedmontese plain, Louis XIV offered further peace terms in December, but these provisions bore no resemblance to the original demands at the beginning of the war in Italy in May 1690. Louis XIV was now prepared to indemnify Savoy for the costs of the war, and the places France had conquered would be sequestrated in neutral hands; Casale would be razed, and, in the event of the death of Charles II, King of Spain, Louis XIV would help Amadeus to conquer the Milanese. By now, however, Amadeus was not prepared to negotiate seriously, especially as he anticipated military superiority for the following campaign. The peace terms were rejected and hostilities resumed the following year.

References

Sources
Lynn, John A (1999). The Wars of Louis XIV: 1667–1714. Longman. 
MacMunn, George (1933). Prince Eugene: Twin Marshal with Marlborough. Sampson Low, Marston & CO., Ltd.
Maffi, Davide (2010). La cittadella in armi. Esercito, società e finanza nella Lombardia di Carlo II 1660-1700. Milan: FrancoAngeli, 2010. 
 
Wolf, John B. (1970). Louis XIV. Panther Books. 

1691 in Italy
1691 in France
Battles of the Nine Years' War
Sieges involving France
Cuneo
Battles in Piedmont
Conflicts in 1691