[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# TT69

Theban Tomb 69 (TT 69) is located in Sheikh Abd el-Qurna, part of the Theban Necropolis, on the west bank of the Nile, opposite Luxor. It is the burial place of the ancient Egyptian official named Menna, whose titles included ‘Overseer of Fields of Amun’, and ‘Overseer of Fields of the Lord of the Two Lands’.  Traditionally, TT 69 has been dated to the reign of Thutmosis IV. However, recent art historical studies of artistic style suggest the majority of the tomb was decorated during the reign of Amenhotep III.

Layout and decoration

The layout of TT 69 is typical of 18th Dynasty Theban tombs with an outer courtyard, a T-shaped rock cut chapel, and a subterranean burial chamber. The tomb sits on an east–west axis, with the central shrine oriented to the west, and the entrance to the tomb oriented to the east.  This east–west alignment placed the tomb within the solar cycle, associating the shrine with the setting sun, and thus death and the realm of the dead, and the entrance with the sunrise, and with rebirth and life.

Courtyard

Tombs at Thebes often had a superstructure that included a sunken courtyard often surrounded by a low mudbrick enclosure wall. This space, which was open to the sky, connected the tomb to the solar cycle, and was the location for certain rituals at the time of the funeral, such as the opening of the mouth ceremony.  The courtyard of TT 69 was sunk into the ground and a mudbrick enclosure wall was built around it. It is accessed today by a modern ramp, but in antiquity it appears to have had mudbrick stairs.  Mond also records a decorated doorway and lintel, though today there is a modern doorway made of concrete and metal.  Ancient mudbrick is still present, though it has been bolstered with modern mudbrick and concrete.

Front Room / Broad Hall

The rock-cut chapel of TT69 is laid out in a T-shape consisting of a front room, a back room, and a central shrine niche.  The front and back rooms are oriented perpendicularly to one another creating an inverted T. The front room of TT69 is often also called the broad hall or the transverse hall.  This differentiates it from the back room, called the long hall due to its orientation.

The decoration in the broad hall of TT 69 focuses on the life of the tomb owner, Menna.  Since the majority of titles Menna carries are associated with agriculture, the tomb includes a well preserved scene of agricultural production. Menna is shown a number of times on this wall, both seated and standing, overseeing the various stages of grain production including plowing, harvesting, and winnowing. This scene emphasizes the importance of Menna's various roles within the administration of royal and temple agriculture.

Other scenes in the broad hall show Menna and his wife, Henuttawy, seated before piles of offerings.  Offering scenes often include images of offering bearers bringing food, drink, and bouquets to the tomb owner and his wife.  Others include images of banqueting and refer to the Valley Festival, a celebration of the dead during which families visited the tombs of their ancestors, and brought food and drink to nourish the tomb owners. Scenes of offerings, banqueting, and the Valley Festival served to emphasize Menna's desire to receive food and drink in the afterlife, and the intricate details encouraged visitors to stop by his tomb.

The short walls of the broad hall were also decorated.  One was painted to look like a false door and a stela showing images of the tomb owner and his wife seated underneath funerary deities.  Figures with their arms upraised in praise were painted around the false door accompanied by tables piled high with offerings.

The other short wall contains a painted image of Menna and Henuttawy standing before the god Osiris, who sits in a kiosk. Behind and below the couple are offering bearers bringing bouquets, oxen, and other offerings which they burn on two braziers.

Back Room/Long Hall

The back room of TT 69, also called the long hall, lies perpendicular to the broad hall. The decoration of this space focuses on Menna's transition from the world of the living into the world of the powerful ancestors. Scenes in the long hall show images of the funeral, including the dragging of the sarcophagus, the Voyage to Abydos, rites performed on the mummy of the tomb owner, and mourning women.  These scenes do not depict Menna's actual funeral, and more likely represent an idealized funeral procession by combining actual ritual with more ancient practices.  On the left hand wall, the funeral procession ends with depictions of the funerary deities Anubis and the Goddess of the West.