[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# New York City in the American Civil War

ew York Illustrated News. The political cartoonist Thomas Nast became a well-known commentator on the war, and his efforts helped stir patriotism and fervor for the Union.  Field war correspondents and artists such as Alfred Waud provided the public with first-hand accounts from the Northern armies.

Two journalists for the Brooklyn Eagle conspired to exploit the financial situation during early part of 1864, a plot known as the Civil War gold hoax. On May 18, two New York City newspapers, the New York World and the New York Journal of Commerce, 400,000 more men into the Union army. Share prices soon fell on the New York Stock Exchange when investors began to buy gold, and its value increased 10%. Officials finally traced the source of the story to the two men from the rival Brooklyn newspaper and arrested them.

Thomas W. Knox, a veteran journalist for the New York Herald, published a series of scathing attacks on General William Tecumseh Sherman and his men. These contributed to speculation over Sherman's sanity. Knox printed important information related to the Vicksburg Campaign that led to his being charged, tried, and found guilty of disobedience of orders, although he was acquitted on espionage charges.

1864 Election Day sabotage

Secret agents from the Confederacy operated in New York City throughout the war, providing information on troop strengths, political views, shipments, etc. to the government in Richmond. Some of these agents planned an act of terrorism for Election Day in November 1864, to burn down several leading city hotels. The plot was initially foiled due to a double agent who turned over communications to Federal officials, and to a massive military presence that deterred the plotters. Election Day, November 8, passed without incident. But, on November 25, the saboteurs finally struck, setting fires at several hotels and other leading landmarks, including P. T. Barnum's museum, which had been rebuilt following the Draft Riots the year before. The city's firefighters extinguished most of the blazes, and the majority of the conspirators escaped to Canada. However, former Confederate officer Robert Cobb Kennedy was arrested, court-martialed, and hanged at Fort Lafayette in the harbor on 25 March 1865.

Civil War notables from New York City
 John Jacob Astor III - financier, brevet brigadier general in the Union Army
 Richard Delafield - major general in charge of New York's defenses
 Thomas Devin - cavalry divisional commander in the Union army
 Hamilton Fish - former Congressman; financier and commissioner
 Benjamin F. Isherwood - U.S. Navy officer who pioneered engineering innovations
 Alexander S. MacKenzie - U.S. Navy officer
 Dennis Hart Mahan - USMA professor at West Point; expert in siege warfare
 Wesley Merritt - cavalry general in the Union Army
 Timothy H. O'Sullivan - pioneer photographer
 James B. Ricketts - Union army general
 Daniel Sickles - corps commander in the Army of the Potomac
 John Slidell - Confederate political agent
 Alexander S. Webb - division commander in the Army of the Potomac

See also
 New York in the American Civil War - the statewide situation
 History of New York City (1855–97)
 Confederate Army of Manhattan
 St. Nicholas Hotel (New York City)

Notes

Further reading