[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ceasefire attempts during the 2006 Lebanon War

ty. The plan received the support of Hezbollah, the EU and the Arab League, including countries such as Syria and Jordan.

27 July
The Security Council met to express its shock and distress and the bombing of a United Nations Observer post (part of UNIFIL) and the deaths of four of its peacekeepers.

28 July
The UN Emergency Relief Coordinator Jan Egeland asked for a 72-hour ceasefire to let relief workers to evacuate the elderly, young, and injured and to deliver aid to Lebanon. But Israeli government spokesman Avi Pazner rejected it, saying that "There is no need for a 72-hour temporary ceasefire because Israel has opened a humanitarian corridor to and from Lebanon."

30 July
In the aftermath of the bombing raid on Qana, the Israeli government announced a 48-hour limited suspension of air operations over southern Lebanon. The reason given was to allow the UN to coordinate "humanitarian efforts on the ground in southern Lebanon, to allow the IDF time to investigate events at Qana, and, according to an Israeli Army spokesman, to "allow a 24-hour period of safe passage for all residents of south Lebanon who wish to leave". The IDF reserved the right to attack targets that threatened its forces during the pause.

The Security Council was briefed by the Secretary-General about the raid on Qana and took statements from the representative of Lebanon, and then issued a statement expressing its "extreme shock and distress" at the incident.

31 July
The Security Council passed United Nations Resolution 1697(2006) calling for the resupply  of UNIFIL and to extend its mandate till 31 August, and then held a meeting where the representative of Lebanon and Israel exchanged their points of view.

4 August
France and the United States presented a draft UN Security Council resolution. It was, however, regarded as much too favourable to Israel by Lebanon and most Arab nations, as it didn't call for an immediate Israeli withdrawal from Lebanese territory, and only called on Israel to stop its offensive activities, while calling for Hezbollah to stop all activities.

7 August
At an emergency meeting of the Arab League in Beirut, the Siniora Plan was further detailed, by specifying that 15,000 Lebanese Army troops would fill the void in southern Lebanon between an Israeli withdrawal and the arrival of the international force. The number of soldiers corresponded with what Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert earlier had said that the size of the international force would need to be.

8 August
A delegation from the Arab League came to New York to try to persuade the architects of the UN draft, France and USA, to base it on the Siniora Plan. This, combined with a strong opposition to the existing draft from several of the 15 Council members, especially Qatar, resulted in a change of France's position. In order to avoid a total collapse of the UN efforts to end the hostilities, this eventually led to a substantial revision of the draft proposal (with several re-drafts in between), which included many elements from the Siniora Plan.

The Security Council met and discussed the merits of a draft resolution which was before them (although not publicly available).

11 August
The Security Council unanimously adopted a revised draft of the resolution as United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 in a meeting attended by the Secretaries of State or Foreign Ministers of United States, United Kingdom, France, Qatar, Greece, and Denmark.

12 August
The Lebanese government unanimously accepted the UN resolution, and it was also accepted by Hezbollah's leader, Hassan Nasrallah. Later the same day, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan announced that a ceasefire was to start at 8:00 am local time on 14 August, a time accepted by both Lebanon's PM Fouad Siniora and Israel's PM Ehud Olmert.

13 August
The Israeli government also endorsed the resolution, with 24 ministers voting in favour and one, former Defence Minister Shaul Mofaz, abstaining.

18 August
In the first large-scale violation of the U.N.-brokered cease-fire between the sides, Israeli raided a Hezbollah stronghold deep inside Lebanon, that led to the killing of one their soldiers.

UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Israel had violated the terms of the UN resolution that ended the fighting, and called on all parties to respect the embargo on unauthorised arms shipments to Lebanon.

See also
2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict
Siniora Plan
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701

References

External links
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1559
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1680

2006 Lebanon War
Ceasefires