[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Investigating Committee for Preparatory Work for Independence

a. At the end of the BPUPK session, members were encouraged to discuss their views and hear opinions from the people at meetings held in their hometowns. A sub-committee of eight members, the panitia kecil (small committee), was set up with Sukarno as chairman to discuss the issues that had emerged.

Recess 
The Central Advisory Council also established by the Japanese held a session from 18 to 21 June, and Sukarno, who chaired the body, took advantage of this to hold a meeting of the CAC members who were also members of the BPUPK. He also invited the BPUPK members who lived in Jakarta. Of the 47 people invited, 38 met and, prompted by Sukarno, established a nine-member committee, the panitia sembilan, to work on a draft constitution. This group included nationalists as well as Islamic figures, and on June 22 produced a draft preamble to the constitution including the wording of Pancasila, albeit in a different order from that in Sukarno's June 1 speech, with the religious obligation for Muslims. This was mostly the work of Muhammad Yamin, who named the resultant document the Jakarta Charter.

Second (10–17 July 1945) 
This session debated and reached agreement on fundamental issues relating to the new nation, including its form, territory and constitution. On 10 July, a large majority of members (55) voted for independent Indonesia being a republic, rather than a monarchy (6 votes) or other type of state (2 votes). The next day, it was decided that the territory of Indonesia would include not only the Dutch East Indies, but also Malaya, North Borneo, Portuguese Timor, a concept known as Greater Indonesia (Indonesia Raya), which was strongly supported by Mohammad Yamin. This proposal garnered 39 votes, with 19 votes for a state limited to the territory of the Dutch East Indies and 6 votes for the Dutch East Indies plus Malaya.

The debate about the nature of the state continued. The main opposition to Soepomo's integralistic concept came from Muhammad Yamin, who favoured a liberal democracy similar to the United States, with separation of powers and a bill of rights. Other delegates called for an Islamic state, or at the very least, a constitutional obligation for Muslims to abide by Shariah law.

A sub-committee  held meetings on 11, 13 and 15 July to discuss details of the constitution. All 27 members agreed to the final format on 15 July. As Soepomo played a dominant role in the drafting of the document, his views were manifested in its provision for a strong state. The constitution was approved by the BPUPK on 16 July, with only Yamin voting against it, apparently because he was unhappy at not having been included in the constitution drafting committee.

Sumatra 
On 25 July, a BPUPK was established by the Japanese 25th Army, in Sumatra, chaired by Mohammad Sjafei, head of the Sumatra Central Advisory Council, as chairman. The secretary was Djamaluddin Adinegoro. As well as the chairman and secretary, there were 22 members, including A.K. Gani, Teuku Hasan, Hamka and the Sultan of Asahan. It never met, but issued a statement of its resolve to strive for the Japanese Empire. The chairman and secretary had planned to travel around Sumatra making speeches. They set off on July 26, but the tour was cut short by the Japanese surrender.

Composition 
The members of BPUPK in Sumatra were:

 Chairman: Mohd. Sjafei 
 Secretary: Djamaluddin Adinegoro 
 Members: Aceh: T. Njak Arif, Tgk. Mohd. Daud Beureu'eh
 Members: East Sumatra: Dr. Pirngadi; Dr. Amir; Mr. T. Mohd. Hasan; Hamka; Tgk. Saibun Abdul Jalil Rahmat Sjah, Sultan of Asahan; Hsu Hua Chang
 Members: Tapanuli: Dr. Ferdinand Lumbantobing; Mr. Azairin
 Members: West Sumatra: Dt. Perpatih Baringek; A.R. Sutan Mansur; Chatib Soeleiman; Sjech Mohd. Djamil Djambek
 Members: Riau: Aminoeddin
 Members: Jambi: Dr. A. Sjagoff
 Members: Bengkulu: Ir. Indra Tjahaja
 Members: Palembang: Dr. A.K. Gani; Ir. Ibrahim; K.H. Tjik Wan
 Members: Lampung: Mr. Abdul Abbas
 Members: Bangka-Billiton: M.A. Sjarif

Eastern islands 
In the eastern islands, the Japanese Navy, the occupying authority, did not believe the inhabitants of the region were ready for independence. It allowed the establishment of a short-lived and impotent National Party chaired by the Sultan of Bone, but this was banned six weeks later. The stance by the Navy prompted Sukarno to send two pro-independence figures from the east, Sam Ratulangi and Tadjuddin Noor, who were in Java, back home to mobilize pro-independence forces.

See also
 Central Advisory Council
 Preparatory Committee for Indonesian Independence (PPKI)
 Central Indonesian National Committee (KNIP)

Note

References

Works cited

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1945 in the Dutch East Indies
 
Indonesia in World War II
Indonesian collaborators with Imperial Japan
Indonesian National Revolution
Japanese occupation of the Dutch East Indies