[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Christians United for Israel

Christians United for Israel (CUFI) is an American Christian organization that supports Israel. Its statement of purpose is; "to provide a national association through which every pro-Israel church, parachurch organization, ministry or individual in America can speak and act with one voice in support of Israel in matters related to Biblical issues." It is the largest pro-Israel organization in the United States, with over 10 million members. It operates under the leadership of John Hagee as founder and chairman along with Diana Hagee and Shari Dollinger as co-executive directors.

History
"Christians United for Israel" was originally established  in 1975 by Dr. David A. Lewis.  The evangelical minister John Hagee sought and received permission from Lewis to use the title for his own organization.  Hagee called upon Christian leaders in America to join him in launching his new initiative. Over 400 leaders, each representing a denomination, mega-church, media ministry, publishing company, or Protestant university voiced support and Christians United for Israel was created. Hagee would legally incorporate the revived organization on February 7, 2006.  Since its reorganization, it has operated out of San Antonio, Texas, where Hagee has long operated his own ministry.

The first college chapter of Christians United for Israel was established at California State University, Bakersfield. At the 2011 CUFI Washington Summit, it was reported that "CUFI on Campus" chapters had been formed or were in the process of formation on over 75 college campuses and CUFI was reported to have a presence on 225 campuses. As of November 2017, when CUFI Action Fund Chairwoman Sandra Hagee Parker testified before Congress during a hearing examining evidence of anti-Semitism on college campuses, CUFI on Campus reported 200 established chapters across the nation with an active presence on over 300 campuses. Parker testified that CUFI on Campus has trained over 3500 students since the campus program began in 2008.

In March 2012, the number of members passed one million, a milestone that meant CUFI was the largest US-based pro-Israel organization.  By January 2015, the membership passed two million. As of December 2018, CUFI's membership had grown to over 5.1 million people.

In April 2018, the executive director position at CUFI changed hands for the first time since its founding. After founding Executive Director David Brog stepped down and took an alternate position as Director of Strategic Affairs for CUFI, the executive board chose two women to fill the position as Co-Executive Directors.  Diana Hagee, wife of CUFI founder and Chairman John Hagee, and Shari Dollinger, a Jewish woman who had been the Associate Director of CUFI since 2007, assumed joint responsibility for leading the day-to-day operations of Christians United for Israel.

Activities

A Night to Honor Israel
CUFI hosts "Nights to Honor Israel" events in cities across the United States to express Christian solidarity with the State of Israel and the Jewish people. Such "Night to Honor Israel" events have often sought to include members of local Jewish communities. Funds raised are often given to the local Jewish federations to assist with efforts in Israel.

Washington/Israel Summit
CUFI holds an annual summit to enable delegates to personally speak with their representatives on behalf of Israel. In response to particular current events, CUFI also mobilizes its members through Rapid Response Alerts to raise popular support for Israel and lobby the U.S. Congress in support of Israel. On July 17, 2017, Vice President Mike Pence spoke to thousands of CUFI members at the annual CUFI Washington DC Summit's Night to Honor Israel ceremony.

National Night to Honor Israel 2008, 2009, 2010
On July 22 CUFI held their 2008 National Night to Honor Israel. Ambassador Dan Gillerman, Pastor John Hagee and Senator Joseph Lieberman (I-Conn.) spoke with live music interludes.  For the first time CUFI hosted several prominent Catholic leaders in a show of unity between Pastor Hagee and the Catholic Church.  CUFI held an annual Washington Summit July 20–23, 2009. Israeli PM Netanyahu addressed the gathering by video conference at the Washington Summit in 2010.