[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kimberly Dozier

eatment.

Most of the patrol was outside their parked Humvees in a residential Baghdad neighborhood. Insurgents waited until the patrol approached the car bomb, packed with an estimated  of explosives, before remotely detonating it. The captain, translator and CBS crew were closest to the explosion.

Dozier underwent more than two dozen major surgeries in the two months following the bombing. Doctors removed shrapnel from her head, rebuilt her shattered femurs, and applied skin grafts to extensive burns on both legs. Dozier was first treated at the Baghdad Combat Support Hospital, and the medical facility at Balad, Iraq, before being medevacked to Landstuhl Regional Medical Center, the U.S. military's largest overseas hospital.

Although Dozier was unable to speak because she was on a respirator, she was able to write to communicate; the first question she asked regarded the crew.
On June 7, 2006, she returned to the United States for further treatment at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland.

Coincidentally, in April 2004, Dozier had been featured in a USA Today article on the safety of journalists covering the Iraq War.

Fully recovered from her injuries, Dozier ran the 10K of the 2008 U.S. Marine Corps Marathon to raise money for Fisher House, which provides a place to stay for loved ones of the combat-injured. Proceeds of her 2011 paperback and e-book and funds from speaking to military-related organizations went to a number of charities including NSWKids.org and WoundedWear.org, and/or to donate thousands of copies of her book to patients and families going through similar medical crises.

Dozier worked for the Associated Press from 2010 to 2014. Her work has appeared in The Washington Post, Newsweek, The Daily Beast, and Salon.

 Book
Dozier wrote a book, Breathing the Fire: Fighting to Survive, and Get Back to the Fight, which chronicles both her physical and emotional recovery from the IED explosion on Memorial Day 2006 in Iraq. Breathing the Fire was published in May 2008. It was reissued in 2011. In the book, Dozier pieces together her own memories of the explosion and recovery with reports from her doctors, nurses, family members and even rescuers about her condition.

Bibliography 

 Breathing the Fire: Fighting to Report--and Survive--the War in Iraq, Meredith Books, 2008,

References

External links

 
 
 

1966 births
Living people
American television reporters and correspondents
American women television journalists
American women war correspondents
Associated Press reporters
CBS News people
CNN people
Iraq War casualties
Time (magazine) people
Wellesley College alumni
Women in the Iraq War
Writers from Honolulu