[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David Pannick, Baron Pannick

ional for the government to deny her the right of abode in the territory.

In October 2016, he co-wrote a legal opinion commissioned by businessman Philip Green to challenge the conclusions of a parliamentary inquiry which criticised Green's conduct over the collapse of retailer British Home Stores.

Also in 2016, Pannick successfully represented Gina Miller in R (Miller) v Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union, an action against the Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union on whether approval by Parliament was required before the Prime Minister could initiate proceedings under Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union to take the UK out of the European Union.

Pannick successfully led the team working on behalf of Gina Miller in R (on the application of Miller) (Appellant) v The Prime Minister (Respondent), arguing against the legality of the Government's prorogation of Parliament in September 2019. In the ruling on the morning of 24 September 2019, the UK supreme court unanimously judged that the Prime Minister Boris Johnson had given unlawful advice to the Queen.

In November 2020, Pannick appeared on behalf of Shamima Begum in the Supreme Court in Begum v Home Secretary, judicial review proceedings brought against the then Home Secretary Sajid Javid's decision not to allow her to return to Britain for legal proceedings regarding the removal of her British citizenship.

In March 2023, Pannick advised former Prime Minister Boris Johnson in his assessment by the House of Commons Privileges Committee of whether he knowingly misled the House in relation to his statements around the 'Partygate' scandal.

Small house policy 
Pannick represented the Heung Yee Kuk village organization in Hong Kong, in a court case to defend the small house policy. The controversial policy allows male villagers, but not female villagers, the right to build their own house on government land in the New Territories. Pannick challenged Martin Lee, the "Father of Democracy", who represented the plaintiffs. Lee said that "Hong Kong has been waiting for so many years for someone to challenge this policy." However, Pannick argued that the plaintiff, Kwok Cheuk-kin, was "simply a busybody."

Publications
Judicial Review of the Death Penalty (1982, Duckworth)
Sex Discrimination Law (1985, Oxford University Press)
Judges (1987, Oxford University Press)
Advocates (1992, Oxford University Press)
Human Rights Law and Practice (general editor with Lord Lester of Herne Hill QC, Butterworths, October 1999, second edition March 2004)
I Have to Move My Car: Tales of Unpersuasive Advocates and Injudicious Judges (2008, Hart Publishing)

Personal life
He married Denise Sloam in 1978. The couple had two sons and one daughter. She died of cancer in 1999. Pannick married Israeli-born lawyer Nathalie Trager-Lewis in 2003. The couple have two daughters and a son. He is Jewish.

Hamlyn lecture 
In 2021, he delivered the Hamlyn lecture series on the subject of Advocacy.

References

External links 
 Professional biography at Blackstone Chambers
  Bookfinder.com, Books by David Pannick, KC

1956 births
Living people
People from Ilford
English Jews
People educated at Bancroft's School
Alumni of Hertford College, Oxford
Members of Gray's Inn
English King's Counsel
People's peers
Crossbench life peers
Fellows of All Souls College, Oxford
Jewish British politicians
Life peers created by Elizabeth II