[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Thin-film bulk acoustic resonator

25,000 FBAR duplexers for N-CDMA phones. Later in 2005, FBAR activity at Agilent was one of the technologies of Avago Technologies Ltd., which acquired Broadcom Corporation in 2015. In 2016 Avago Technologies Ltd. changed its name to Broadcom Inc., currently active in providing FBAR-based products.

Infineon Technologies AG started to work with SMR-FBARs in 1999, concentrating in telecommunication filters for mobile applications. The first product was delivered to Nokia Mobile Phones Ltd, which launched the first SMR-FBAR-based GSM three-band mobile phone product in 2001. Infineon's FBAR (BAW) filter group was acquired by Avago Technologies Ltd 2008 which later became part of Broadcom as described before.

After acquiring Panasonic's filtering business in 2016 Skyworks Solutions became one of the major players in BAW/FBAR devices additionally to Broadcom and Qorvo.

Additionally after acquiring rest of RF360 Holdings in 2019 Qualcomm and Kyocera are offering thin film resonator based products like RFFE modules and separate filters.

Still many companies like Akoustis Technologies, Inc. (founded in 2014), Texas Instruments (TI), several universities and research institutes are offering and studying to improve FBAR technology, its performance, manufacturing, advancing design capabilities of FBARs and exploring new application areas jointly with system manufacturers and companies providing simulation tools (Ansys, Comsol Multiphysics, and Resonant Inc. etc.).

Thin film resonator based sensors 
Because thin film resonators can replace crystals in sensoring, the most potential application area for FBAR resonators is similar to area for the quartz crystal microbalance (QCM). One of the pioneering companies utilizing thin film resonators in sensoring is Sorex Sensors Ltd.

See also 
 Resonance
 Acoustic resonance
 Acoustic impedance
 RF and microwave filter
 RF front end
 Duplexer
 Piezoelectric sensor

References

External links
 University of Southern California explanation on the operation of FBAR's
 PhD thesis of J. V. Tirado, Bulk Acoustic Wave Resonators and their Application to Microwave Devices, 2010, Universitat Autonoma Barcelona, Spain, 201 pages.
 PhD thesis of J. Liu, Application of Bragg Reflection for Suppression of Spurious Transverse Mode Resonances in RF BAW Resonators, 2014, Chiba University, Japan, 151 pages. 
 Broadcom's products based on FBAR technology
 FBAR technology opportunity in 5G telecommunication
 Products of Qorvo based on BAW (FBAR)
 Description of Texas Instrument's SimpleLink module
 Akoustis Technologies Inc.
 Example of Ansys acoustic tools
 Example of FBAR/BAW related simulation tools with Comsol Multiphysics 
 Research on adding scandium in AlN for improved performance
 IPR (Intellectual Property Rights) landscape of acoustic wave filters by KnowMade, 2019

Sound
Acoustics
Resonators