[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Black Water (novella)

ns become more vivid until she is imagining her parents, very old, watching her being pulled from the water in horror. She imagines herself as a child reaching up to be carried away.

The book ends with a line that is repeated throughout the book: "As the black water filled her lungs, and she died."

Characters
 Elizabeth Anne Kelleher, a.k.a. Kelly Kelleher. The protagonist. She works for a magazine, Citizen's Inquiry. She wrote her thesis on The Senator. She is twenty-six years old, and suffers from acne and anorexia.
 The Senator, a Democratic U.S. Senator. He is hard of hearing, an aggressive driver, tall, and likes to drink. He has been married for thirty years, although he is separated from his wife.
 Artie Kelleher, Kelly's father. He is a staunch Republican.
 Madelyn Kelleher, Kelly's mother.
 Uncle Babcock, Kelly's hard-of-hearing uncle.
 Grandpa Ross, Kelly's grandfather.
 Buffy St. John, Kelly's best friend, she was her roommate at Brown University. She is twenty-six years old and works for a magazine, Boston After Hours.
 Ray Annick, Buffy's boyfriend. A mature lawyer who is friends with The Senator.
 Lisa Gardner, A girl who attempted suicide in college.
 Laura, Lisa's twin sister, who had also attempted suicide before college.

Cultural references
The novel makes several references to both contemporary political and popular culture. Republican presidents George H. W. Bush and Ronald Reagan are both castigated in the narrative, while Bobby Kennedy and the Vietnam War are referred to as representing the cushy Democratic era. In Chapter 24, the Senator mentions the 1991 Gulf War.

The Beatles song "Eleanor Rigby" (1966) plays on the radio in Chapter 9, echoing the prosody of the novella. The Education of Henry Adams (1907) is quoted in Chapter 32.

The story parallels the 1969 Chappaquiddick accident, in which Mary Jo Kopechne drowned. In a New York Times interview, Oates said she began making notes for "a novel" in 1969, after she felt "a horrified fascination and sympathy" for the victim, who was in the car driven by Senator Edward Kennedy. ("But Ms. Oates insists 'Black Water' is not about Chappaquiddick per se. 'I wanted the story to be somewhat mythical, the almost archetypal experience of a young woman who trusts an older man and whose trust is violated.'")

Literary significance and reception
Black Water was a National Book Critics Circle Award finalist in 1992, and was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in 1993. The Rocky Mountain News, The Times, and Entertainment Weekly have all listed Black Water as one of Joyce Carol Oates's best books.

In 1993, the composer John Duffy suggested that Oates adapt Black Water into an opera; seeing it "as a chance to 'rewrite the work'", and Oates expanded the role of the Senator and began working on the libretto.  The opera Black Water had its first workshop in 1995, and premiered at the American Music Theater Festival in April 1997.

That same year, the composer Jeremy Beck also wrote to Oates, requesting permission to adapt Black Water into a monodrama for soprano and piano. Oates gave Beck permission to do so, indicating that she herself was creating a libretto for the Duffy project, but noting that their respective approaches would result in very different operatic works. Beck's monodrama was first premiered in a concert version in 1995 at the University of Northern Iowa; it did not receive its stage premiere until April, 2016, at the Center for Contemporary Opera production at Symphony Space's Thalia Theater in New York City.

In 2007, The New York Times Book Review editor Dwight Garner wrote that Amanda Plummer's "cool, dark telling" of Black Water was "the best book on tape ever recorded".

References

1992 American novels
Novels by Joyce Carol Oates
Novels adapted into operas
American novellas
Dutton Penguin books
Roman à clef novels