[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 25]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

t is."

"Ah! such as it is!" echoed Hadria.

"Who was it said, the other day, that she thought a wise woman always
took things as they were, and made the best of them?"

"Some dull spirit."

"And yet a practical spirit."

"I am quite sure," said Hadria, "that the stokers of hell are practical
spirits."

"Your mother must have had her work cut out for her when she undertook
to bring you up," exclaimed Miss Du Prel.

"So she always insinuates," replied Hadria demurely.

They were spinning down hill now, into a warm bit of country watered by
the river, and Hadria drew rein. The spot was so pleasant that they
alighted, tied the pony to a tree, and wandered over the grass to the
river's edge. Hadria picked her way from stone to slippery stone, into
the middle of the river, where there was comparatively safe standing
room. Here she was suddenly inspired to execute the steps of a reel,
while Valeria stood dismayed on the bank, expecting every moment, to see
the dance end in the realms of the trout.

But Hadria kept her footing, and continued to step it with much
solemnity. Meanwhile, two young men on horseback were coming down the
road; but as a group of trees hid it from the river at this point, they
were not noticed. The horsemen stopped suddenly when they cleared the
group of trees. The figure of a young woman in mid-stream, dancing a
reel with extreme energy and correctness, and without a smile, was
sufficiently surprising to arrest them.

"As I thought," exclaimed Hadria, "it is Harold Wilkins!"

"I shall be glad to see this conquering hero," said Valeria.

Hadria, who had known the young man since her childhood, waited calmly
as he turned his horse's head towards the river, and advanced across the
grass, raising his hat. "Good morning, Miss Fullerton."

"Good morning," Hadria returned, from her rock.

"You seem to be having rather an agreeable time of it."

"Very. Are you fond of dancing?"

Mr. Wilkins was noted, far and wide, for his dancing, and the question
was wounding.

He was tall and loosely built, with brown expressionless eyes, dark
hair, a pink complexion, shelving forehead, and a weak yet obstinate
mouth. His companion also was tall and dark, but his face was pale, his
forehead broad and high, and a black moustache covered his upper lip. He
had raised his hat gracefully on finding that the dancer in mid-stream
was an acquaintance of his companion, and he shewed great
self-possession in appearing to regard the dancing of reels in these
circumstances, as an incident that might naturally be expected. Not a
sign of surprise betrayed itself in the face, not even a glimmer of
curiosity. Hadria was so tickled by this finished behaviour under
difficulties, that she took her cue from it, and decided to treat the
matter in the same polished spirit. She too would take it all decorously
for granted.

Mr. Wilkins introduced his friend: Mr. Hubert Temperley. Hadria bowed
gracefully in reply to Mr. Temperley's salute.

"Don't you feel a little cramped out there?" asked Mr. Wilkins.

"Dear me, no," cried Hadria in mock surprise. "What could induce you to
suppose I would come out here if I felt cramped?"

"Are you--are you thinking of coming on shore? Can I help you?"

"Thank you," replied Hadria. "This is a merely temporary resting-place.
We ought to be getting on; we have some miles yet to drive," and she
hurried her friend away. They were conducted to the pony-cart by the
cavaliers, who raised their hats, as the ladies drove off at a merry
pace, bowing their farewells.

"The eternal riddle!" Temperley exclaimed, as they turned the corner of
the road.

"What is the eternal riddle?" Harold Wilkins enquired.

"Woman, woman!" Temperley replied, a little impatiently. He had not
found young Wilkins quick to catch his meaning during the two hours'
ride, and it occurred to him that Miss Fullerton would have been a more
interesting companion.

He made a good many enquiries about her and her family, on the way back
to Drumgarren.

"We are invited to tennis at their house, for next Tuesday," said Harold,
"so you will have a chance of pursuing the acquaintance. For my part, I
don't admire that sort of girl."

"Don't you? I am attracted by originality. I like a woman to have
something in her."

"Depends on what it is. I hate a girl to have a lot of silly ideas."

"Perhaps you prefer her to have but one," said Temperley, "that one
being that Mr. Harold Wilkins is a charming fellow."

"Nothing of the kind," cried Harold. "I can't help it if girls run after
me; it's a great bore."

Temperley laughed. "You, like Achilles, are pursued by ten thousand
girls. I deeply sympathize, though it is not an inconvenience that has
troubled me, even in my palmiest days."

"Why, how old are you? Surely you are not going to talk as if those days
were over?"

"Oh, I am moderately palmy still!" Temperley admitted. "Still, the ho