[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Charleston (1862)

The Battle of Charleston was a Confederate victory in Kanawha County, Virginia, on September13, 1862, during the American Civil War. Troops led by Major General William W. Loring defeated a Union force led by Colonel Joseph Andrew Jackson Lightburn. This battle, which featured extensive use of artillery but few casualties, was the second major fight in Loring's Kanawha Valley Campaign of 1862 that succeeded in driving Union forces out of the Kanawha River Valley. All points in the Kanawha River Valley were in the southwestern part of Virginia at the time of the battle, but are now part of the state of West Virginia. This battle should not be confused with other battles with similar names that occurred in Charleston, Missouri, and South Carolina's Charleston Harbor.

After a victory at Fayetteville on September10, and a pursuit down the Kanawha River, Loring caught Lightburn's force at Charleston during the morning of September13. Much of the fighting became an artillery duel, especially after Lightburn brought his command to the west side of the Elk River. Once Lightburn burned a bridge across the river, it became difficult for Loring to continue his pursuit. Lightburn retreated to the safety of Ohio, but abandoned the direct route along the Kanawha River to avoid Confederate cavalry waiting for him. He brought 700 wagons of supplies with him. 

Loring did not conduct much of a pursuit, and was content to gather supplies in Charleston. His report claimed he captured supplies worth at least $1,000,000 (), and the nearby salt-mines were saved. He established headquarters in Charleston, and released a declaration urging locals to join him. In less than four weeks, he offended Confederate leadership and was replaced by Brigadier General John Echols. The Union commander in the Kanawha Valley prior to Lightburn was Jacob Dolson Cox. In October, Cox was promoted to major general and returned to the valley. Confederate troops were gone by November.

Background

In the American Civil War, Union forces controlled a large portion of southwestern Virginia during the summer of 1862. Brigadier General Jacob Dolson Cox was commander of the District of the Kanawha, which included Charleston and southwestern Virginia along the Kanawha River Valley. The western portion of Virginia had few good roads and few settlements. Using small steamboats from the Ohio River, the Kanawha River could be navigated for about  to a point about  upstream from Charleston, which meant the river could be used to transport troops and supplies. Charleston is located where the Elk River joins the Kanawha River.

Further upstream (with non-navigable portions), the Kanawha River is formed by the meeting of the New River and the Gauley River at the community of Gauley Bridge. That community was important not only for its river connections, but also because the James River and Kanawha Turnpike ran through it and was intersected by another road that ran northeast to Summersville and beyond. The Kanawha River Valley portion of Virginia, including Charleston (county seat of Kanawha County), became part of the Union state of West Virginia on June 20, 1863.

On August 14, 1862, Cox began moving his Kanawha Division to Washington as reinforcement for Major General John Pope's Army of Virginia. Exceptions to Cox's orders were about 5,000 troops left behind and put under the command of Colonel Joseph Andrew Jackson Lightburn. Soon after Cox left the Kanawha Valley, Pope's quartermaster was captured along with numerous records, and Confederate leaders learned that Cox had left only 5,000 men in the Kanawha Valley at posts around Gauley Bridge. In 1862, the Kanawha Valley was important to the Confederacy because of its salt deposits and its potential for new army recruits. The valley, including Charleston, also contained a large amount of supplies used by Union troops. Major General William W. Loring was ordered to clear the Kanawha Valley of Union soldiers, and then move northeast to form a junction with more Confederate soldiers in the Shenandoah Valley.

Opposing forces

Union army