[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 2003 Fiesta Bowl

ce, called on Miami defender Glenn Sharpe. As a result, Ohio State received the ball on the 2-yard line with an automatic first down. With a fresh set of downs, Krenzel rushed for a 1-yard touchdown on 3rd down. Nugent's kick was good and tied the score at 24 sending the game into a second overtime.

Second overtime
In the second overtime, the teams switched possession order, giving the ball first to Ohio State. The Buckeyes started strong with Lydell Ross rushing for a 9-yard gain on 1st down. 3rd and 1 came up and Krenzel rushed for 5 yards and an Ohio State 1st down. For 1st and 10 on the Miami 11, Krenzel completed a 6-yard pass to Jenkins which brought up 2nd and 4 on the Miami 5-yard line. Krenzel then handed off the ball to Maurice Clarett for a 5-yard rushing touchdown putting Ohio State up 31–24 after a successful Nugent PAT.

Miami had to score a touchdown and then either kick the PAT to tie the game and send it to a 3rd overtime, or go for a 2-point conversion and the win. The Hurricanes drew a couple of blanks to put them in a 4th and 3 situation where Dorsey completed a 7-yard pass to Winslow for a 1st down. A facemask penalty was called on Ohio State during the play to make it 1st and 5 for Miami from the Buckeye 6-yard line. Ken Dorsey then threw an incomplete pass to Andre Johnson, but a pass interference call on a Buckeyes defender gave Miami a 1st and goal from the 2-yard line. The Buckeye defense held Miami to only one yard in the next 3 plays to bring up a big 4th and goal on the 1-yard line. Ken Dorsey threw a pass as he was being hit by linebacker Cie Grant; it was incomplete, ending the game with Ohio State winning the BCS National Championship 31–24.

Scoring summary
1st Quarter
Miami – Roscoe Parrish 25-yard pass from Ken Dorsey (Todd Sievers kick) 4:09 – UM 7, OSU 0

2nd Quarter
Ohio State – Craig Krenzel 1-yard run (Mike Nugent kick)  2:28 – OSU 7, UM 7
Ohio State – Maurice Clarett 7-yard run (Nugent kick) 1:10  – OSU 14, UM 7

3rd Quarter
Ohio State – Nugent 44-yard field goal  8:33 – OSU 17, UM 7
Miami – Willis McGahee 9-yard run (Sievers kick)  2:11 – OSU 17, UM 14

4th Quarter
Miami – Sievers 40-yard field goal 0:00 – UM 17, OSU 17

1st Overtime
Miami – Kellen Winslow, Jr. 7-yard pass from Dorsey (Sievers kick) – UM 24, OSU 17
Ohio State – Krenzel 1-yard run (Nugent kick) – OSU 24, UM 24

2nd Overtime
Ohio State – Clarett 5-yard run (Nugent kick) – OSU 31, UM 24

Aftermath
The amount of future NFL talent that played in the game is considered highly exceptional. Of the 43 players who started in the game (OSU's Chris Gamble started on both offense and defense), 37 of them were eventually NFL draft picks (including 18 first-rounders, of which 12 were Hurricanes and 6 were Buckeyes). Of the 100 players who played in the game, 52 went on to be drafted and 58 went on to play in the NFL.

Controversy

The pass interference penalty called against Miami in the first overtime period faced immediate scrutiny. During instant replay analysis after the call on the field, Fouts and Jackson discussed the merits of the penalty, which Fouts thrice proclaimed as a "bad call." Jackson suggested that there may have been defensive holding on the play, to which Fouts responded, "They called pass interference, Keith."

The play had proceeded thusly: at the snap, Sharpe jammed Gamble at the line of scrimmage as he ran a fade route. Attempting to escape, Gamble broke off his route while Sharpe maintained contact. At the top of the route, both Gamble and Sharpe jumped for the ball, which bounced out of Gamble's outstretched arms; the predominant camera angle used for instant replay focused on this jump for the ball at the end of the play. The line judge signaled incomplete, but after a delay of several seconds, field judge Terry Porter threw a penalty flag. The delay had allowed for members of the Miami sideline to storm the field in celebration, and they had to clear the field before play could resume. Initially signaling for defensive holding, Porter revised his signal to pass interference before the call was announced.

Media analysis
After the game, sportswriters criticized the call and its influence on the outcome of the game. In his article for Sports Illustrated, Rick Reilly said, "I think Porter choked. I think he didn't know what to call, and so he did the stupidest thing possible. Maybe he felt the coming wrath of a stadium that was 90% Ohio State red and started wondering if he'd make it out of there with both his kidneys." Dennis Dodd of CBS Sports also said that Porter "choked," and both writers criticized Porter for how long he took to throw the penalty flag. Dodd wrote:

Reilly expressed a similar sentiment: "In all my years of watching overweight, bespectacled guys in striped shirts fling flags after pass plays, I've never seen a flag flung so flagrantly late. You felt like you could've assembled a ship in a bottle in that time."