[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Virendranath Chattopadhyaya

ll Ker's Political Trouble in India: 1907–1917 discusses Chattopadhyaya. He described some of the less appealing aspects of his character and actions.

He was deeply admired by colleagues such as M. N. Roy and Dr. Abhinash Bhattacharya for his able leadership, sharp intelligence and sincere emotion.

In his autobiography decades later, Jawaharlal Nehru wrote of Chatto:
An entirely different type of person was Virendranath Chattopadhyay, member of a famous family in India. Popularly known as Chatto he was a very able and a very delightful person. He was always hard up, his clothes were very much the worse for wear and often he found it difficult to raise the wherewithal for a meal. But his humour and light heartedness never left him. He had been some years senior to me during my educational days in England. He was at Oxford when I was at Harrow. Since those days he had not returned to India and sometimes a fit of homesickness came to him when he longed to be back. All his home-ties had long been severed and it is quite certain that if he came to India he would feel unhappy and out of joint. But in spite of the passage of time the home pull remains. No exile can escape the malady of his tribe, that consumption of the soul, as Mazzini called it ... Of the few I met, the only persons who impressed me intellectually were Virendranath Chattopadhyay and M.N. Roy. Chatto was not, I believe, a regular communist, but he was communistically inclined.

Chattopadhyaya's family line survives today in Kolkata.

Representation in other media
Chatto was well known in Great Britain and India as a revolutionary. He is believed to have inspired Somerset Maugham's character of "Chandralal" in his short story, "Giulia Lazzari;" (its character of Ashenden was based upon Maugham).. The American writer Agnes Smedley, who was involved with Chatto for eight years, used him as a model for the character Ananda in her novel Daughter of Earth.. The Indian revolutionary in Berlin, A C N Nambiar, had married Chatto's sister Suhasini.

See also
 Hindu–German Conspiracy
 Indian independence movement

References

Political Trouble in India: 1907–1917, A Confidential Report, by James Campbell Ker, 1917, repr. 1973
Europé bharatiya biplaber sadhana, by Dr Abinash Chandra Bhattacharya, 2nd ed., 1978
Bahirbharaté bharater muktiprayas, by Dr Abinash Chandra Bhattacharya, 1962
Dictionary of National Biography, ed. S.P. Sen, Vol. I, "Chatterjee Birendra Nath", 272–4
Chatto: the Life and Times of an Indian Anti-Imperialist in Europe, by Nirode K. Barooah, Oxford University Press, 2004
Aditya Sinha, "Review of Niroda K. Baroosh's Chatto", Hindustan Times, New Delhi, 14 August 2004
Les origines intellectuelles du movement d'indépendance de l'Inde (1893–1918), by Prithwindra Mukherjee (PhD thesis, Paris Sorbonne University), 1986
In Freedom's Quest: Life of M.N. Roy, Vol. II, III (Part 1), by Sibnarayan Ray
Indian Revolutionaries Abroad, by A.C. Bose, Patna, 1971
Agnes Smedley: The Life and Times of an American Radical, by Janice R. MacKinnon and Stephen R. MacKinnon, University of California Press, 1988

External links
 Heike Liebau: Chattopadhyay, Virendranath, in: 1914-1918-online. International Encyclopedia of the First World War.

Bengali Hindus
Indian revolutionaries
1880 births
1937 deaths
Brahmos
University of Madras alumni
University of Calcutta alumni
Hindu–German Conspiracy
Anti-imperialism in Asia
India House
Indian people executed by the Soviet Union
Great Purge victims
People from Hyderabad, India
Indian expatriates in France
Indian expatriates in Germany