[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Muhammad Abu Tir

ment in an interview prior to his getting elected, he stated that he would "negotiate [with Israel] better than the others [previous administrations], who negotiated for 10 years and achieved nothing." He explained that "We [Hamas] are not against the Jews. We are against occupation and oppression".

He noted further that Hamas had removed significant sections of their constitution which called for Israel's destruction, though the basic idea remains the same: Israel cannot be allowed to remain as a Jewish state in the Middle East.  "In the past," he said, "it was said that we don't understand politics, only force, but we are a broad, well-grounded movement that is active in all areas of life. Now we are proving that we also understand politics better than the others." Abu Tir's final thought on Israeli negotiation was to leave it to the new parliament "as with every matter, to be discussed and decided upon in a rational manner". After Hamas's landslide victory in January 2006 many countries decided to back Israel's decision to cut foreign aid to The Palestinian Authority. After being asked what Hamas planned to do in light of this Abu Tir stated that Hamas "would not go to foreign donors on [a] bended knee". In a 6 February 2006 open letter to Newsweek International Tir stated that "The European Union and America should cooperate with us. We have ways of creating understanding among our people. We are facilitators, helpers, aides. The presence of Hamas is a guarantee of safety and stability in the region. Any money that is given to us will be channelled to the correct path." As he tried to address Western fears that donations would go to buy arms Tir told the West to "...[not] be afraid...we can always find arms on the black market. It is obvious that we have built our military infrastructure in that way. Our weapons are the only guarantee of our existence. If a proper Palestinian state were established, then all the militias would melt inside the Palestinian Army." Summing up his letter Tir attempted to ease western anxiety about Hamas by stating that "The West has nothing to fear from Hamas. We're not going to force people to do anything. We will not impose Sharia. Hamas is contained. Hamas deals only with the Israeli occupation. We are not Al Qaeda."

2006 and 2010 Arrests
On 25 June 2006, Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit was captured by Hamas, which touched off the 2006 Israel–Gaza conflict. A few days after the incident, on 29 June, Israel arrested 64 Hamas officials in the West Bank, including Palestinian Authority cabinet ministers and members of the Palestinian Legislative Council. Abu Tir was among them and was held in jail for four years.

Abu Tir was freed on 20 May 2010. He was subsequently stripped of his Israeli ID card and residency rights, and told by the Israeli Shin Bet intelligence service that he was banned from Jerusalem.

He was held under administrative detention for one year and release in May 2012, expelled to Ramallah and not allowed to enter Jerusalem.

Orange beard 
One of Abu Tir's most noticeable physical attributes and trademarks is his bright orange beard. The orange is actually a dyed substance called henna, a natural dyestuff, which needs to be applied periodically in order to maintain its lustrous colour. In an interview with the Israeli Channel 10 television Abu Tir stated that he had decided to dye his beard with henna because the prophet Muhammad had done so and also because it was a remedy for headaches and dandruff. Islam bans the use of black hair dyes; however, there is no mention of a ban on the use of other colours. Residents in his native village of Umm Tuba say that his signature beard does help him stand out when he is out campaigning at public events and functions.

References

External links 
"Council on Foreign Affairs" "Hamas' Leaders" by Alexandra Silver 10 February 2006
 Israel National News: "Arab MK Goes One Step Too Far", 20 April 2006

1951 births
Living people
Hamas members
Members of the 2006 Palestinian Legislative Council