[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# PISCES

ently being deployed in five countries and is scheduled for deployment in 12 more countries this calendar year. Arrests and detentions have occurred in all five countries where the system has been deployed."

In 2005: "Since 2001, twenty nations have been provided this capability"

Expected 2011: 31

Currently deployed 
Maldives PISCES was deployed in Maldives at 0000hrs on 20 August 2013, replacing the border control system developed and installed by NexBiz of Malaysia. 
Iraq FY 2007 NADR/Terrorist Interdiction Program funding is requested to support efforts to disrupt the travel of terrorists into Iraq by increasing the number of Iraqi ports of entry equipped with and capable of effectively operating the program's PISCES watchlisting system. 
Pakistan FY 2002 PISCES system has been installed at seven major airports of the country i.e. Islamabad, Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar, Quetta, Multan and Faisalabad airports. The system has provision to accommodate information on suspects from all law enforcement agencies like Immigration, Police, Narcotics Control, Anti-smuggling, and Intelligence Services.
Malta Inaugurated 2004-05-05 by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and Home Affairs Dr Tonio Borg and United States Ambassador Anthony H. Gioia. PISCES is being provided by the United States at no cost to Malta, and assistance will include installation of the system, training of immigration officials on use of PISCES, and maintenance of the system. The overall U.S. assistance to Malta for this program is valued at approximately $US 1.5 million, nearly Lm700,000.
Thailand 
 March 2004, during his visit to Thailand, Secretary Ridge and I witnessed the signing of the Memorandum of Intent for Provision of a Terrorist Interdiction Program Border Control System. Under this Memorandum, the Personal Identification Secure Comparison and Evaluation System, known in short as PISCES, could be used to screen people passing through Thailand's ports of entry, so that we may be able to detect suspected terrorists.
 In FY 2007, NADR/TIP funds will be used to expand operation of the program's watchlisting computer system to additional ports of entry and provide for system software upgrades as they become available.
Bangladesh memorandum of understanding signed in May 2004, renewable agreement would be valid for five years. Relevant portions of PISCES will immediately become operational at the capital's Shahjalal International Airport and later expand to cover all land, sea and airports.
Tanzania The State Department's counterterrorism bureau is funding the "PISCES" (Personal Identification Secure Comparison System) program to improve interdiction capabilities at major border crossings. While the program targets terrorist activities, it has implications for narcotics and other smuggling as well.

Cambodia FY 2007 NADR Terrorist Interdiction Program (NADR/TIP) funds will be used to sustain a computerized system for collecting, comparing and analyzing traveler data to identify possible terrorists, and provide for software upgrades to the system as they become available.
Philippines In FY 2007, NADR/TIP funds will be used to expand operation of the program's watchlisting computer system to additional ports of entry in the Republic of the Philippines, and provide for system software upgrades as they become available.
Kosovo FY 2009 NADR Terrorism Interdiction Program funding will sustain existing program operations and provide for software upgrades to program equipment.
Macedonia FY 2007 NADR Terrorism Interdiction Program funding will sustain existing program operations and provide for software upgrades to program equipment.
Cote d'Ivoire FY 2009 NADR Terrorism Interdiction Program funding will sustain existing program operations and provide for software upgrades to program equipment. "The Ivoirian Ministry of Interior, in cooperation with the United States, uses PISCES to enhance border security at its major airport and seaport.": On August 6, 2009 Ivoirian authorities detained Imam Abd al Menhem Qubaysi, a Hizballah spiritual leader and U.S. designated terrorist financier, at the airport upon his arrival on a commercial flight from Lebanon. Qubaysi, who lived in Côte d'Ivoire for a number of years, was denied entry at immigration and returned to Lebanon on the same flight through the use of PISCES.

Bosnia and Herzegovina 

On 27 March 2018 the country and the US government signed a Memorandum of Intention on the donation of a System for Personal Identification Secure Comparison and Evaluation (PISCES). In cooperation with Bosnia's Council of Ministers, the US government aims to install and maintain all the hardware and software required for the PISCES system to operate - starting with the International airport Sarajevo and later expanding to other airports and border crossings in the country.