[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 79th New York Infantry Regiment

at buckled into suspender buckles on either hip. Because of their lack in size variation, suspenders were worn with them.

Original kilt information:
http://emuseum.nyhistory.org

Sporran

The sporran was made of wavy white horse and or goat hair with three black tassels with a black leather cantle.

Original glengarry information:
http://emuseum.nyhistory.org

Hose and flashes

Common Victorian red and white diced hose with common Victorian flashes.

Shoes

Low cut false buckle shoes

Civil war

Departure for federal service
Sgt. Robert Gair of 3rd Company recalled that the 79th was at a drill when news of the firing on Ft. Sumter came across the telegraph. The Regiment held a formation an unanimously voted to offer their services to the Governor of the state and President Lincoln. The 79th's 6 companies had approximately 300 on the muster rolls - common for a militia regiment at the time, but understrength for the regulation of 1,000 men. The 79th recruited 600 additional men in the weeks between mid April and early May when the Regimental mustered into service on May 13th. Camped in Central Park, the Highlanders waited for orders from the 1st Division 4th Brigade, N.Y.S.M. to move to Washington.

On 2 June 1861, the Highland Guard, 895 men strong, marched down Broadway on its way to Washington. Passing through Baltimore, the Highlanders received a good welcome—in contrast with the reception the 6th Massachusetts Militia had received a few days earlier. After arriving in Washington, the regiment elected James Cameron, the brother of Simon Cameron, President Lincoln's Secretary of War as its Colonel.  The Regiment was quartered at Georgetown College, recently vacated by the 69th N.Y.S.M, and spent their first few couple weeks in Washington filling their time with drill and guard mounts. The 79th was moved from Georgetown College to a camp on Maridian Hill overlooking the city. The camp was their first experience with life in tents.  Early July saw a moved from the City across the chain bridge into Virginia. Singing "All the Blue Bonnets are Over the Boarder", the Highlanders crossed the Promoac and settled in a placed they named "Camp Weed". They were attached to Sherman's Brigade, Tyler's Division, in McDowell's Army of Northeastern Virginia, for the advance on Manassas.

First Bull Run
At the First Battle of Bull Run on 21 July 1861, the Third Brigade of Tyler's First Division, under Colonel William Tecumseh Sherman, consisted of four regiments of infantry (2nd Wisconsin, 13th, 69th, and 79th New York) and a battery of artillery, the 3rd United States Artillery, Company E. The 79th New York experienced some of the fiercest fighting and suffered some of the highest Union casualties at First Bull Run (referred to by the Confederates as First Manassas) although, to begin with, it appeared that they would miss the action. As Confederates fled from the initial Union attack and withdrew up the hill past the Henry House, Private Todd stepped out of line calling to Colonel Sherman, "Give us a chance at 'em before they get away". His sergeant, a British Army veteran, dragged him back into line, growling "shut up your damned head - you'll get plenty of chance before the day is over".

Sherman, in obedience to orders, committed his regiments piecemeal to the capture of Henry House Hill. He first sent the 2nd Wisconsin who, still wearing their militia gray uniforms, were shot to pieces by both sides. When the Wisconsin boys were eventually driven back, the 79th were ordered forward. Led by their colonel, James Cameron, they charged three times over the dead and wounded of the 2nd Wisconsin. Unluckily, in the smoke of battle, they mistook a Confederate flag for one of their own and ceased firing. It was a costly mistake - "As we lowered our arms and were about to rally where the banner floated we were met by a terrible raking fire, against which we could only stagger". Retreating back down the hill they saw Colonel Cameron lying dead in the yard of the Henry House. He had been killed by the Confederates' second volley.

The Highlanders eventually retreated from the plateau and sank sullenly behind the brow of the hill to nurse their wounds. There they remained for two more hours while the attack was pressed by other Union regiments with an equal lack of success, until all were finally driven from the plateau by Confederate reinforcements. It then acted as a rear guard during the Federals' ignominious retreat to Washington. The regiment sustained one of the heaviest losses of the battle, losing 32 killed, including their commanding officer, 51 wounded (eight mortally) and 115 captured (including Capt. James A. Farrish of Company B who was wounded) or missing—a total of 198 - 22 percent of its strength.