[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Henrikh Mkhitaryan

ian to play in the Premier League on 14 August 2016 when he came on as a 75th-minute substitute for Juan Mata in a 3–1 away victory against AFC Bournemouth. He made his first Premier League start for Manchester United in the Manchester derby on 10 September 2016, but he was substituted at half-time.

On 8 December 2016, Mkhitaryan scored his first goal for the club, away against Zorya Luhansk, in Manchester United's last group match of the Europa League. Three days later, in United's next game, Mkhitaryan scored his first Premier League goal (and his first goal at Old Trafford) in a 1–0 victory over Tottenham Hotspur; however, he left the game in the second half after suffering an ankle injury in a tackle by Danny Rose. He returned from this injury two matches later, coming off the bench to score United's third goal against Sunderland, a scorpion kick which he described as being the best goal he had ever scored; however, replays after the goal suggested Mkhitaryan was in an offside position when the ball was played to him. In a UEFA Europa League tie against AS Saint-Étienne on 22 February 2017, Mkhitaryan scored but then went off injured. As a result, he missed the 2017 EFL Cup Final. He scored in the 2017 Europa League final to help Manchester United beat Ajax 2–0, and became the first Armenian to win a major European trophy.

 
In the first three matches of the 2017–18 Premier League season, Mkhitaryan assisted a record-equalling five goals. Two days later, he scored his first goal of the season in a 4–0 victory over Everton. He scored his first Champions League goal for Manchester United ten days later in a 4–1 away win against CSKA Moscow. However, following a run of poor form, Mkhitaryan was dropped from the starting line-up during United's 4–1 victory over Newcastle United. He returned for the following match against Brighton and Hove Albion but then faced a five Premier League match absence from the squad. He returned to the squad for three games in late December but was dropped again for his final three United games.

Arsenal
 
On 22 January 2018, Arsenal announced the signing of Mkhitaryan from Manchester United, as part of a swap deal with Alexis Sánchez moving in the other direction. On 3 February 2018, he made his first start for Arsenal in a 5–1 home win over Everton, claiming three assists. Mkhitaryan returned from injury to face Manchester United at Old Trafford, scoring Arsenal's only goal in an eventual 2–1 loss, refusing to celebrate the goal out of respect for his former team.

Mkhitaryan scored a goal and an assist in Arsenal's second games of the 2018–19 season against London rivals Chelsea, losing the match 3–2. He scored a brace against Southampton in another 3–2 defeat, before suffering a metatarsal fracture in the following game, a 2–0 North London derby League Cup defeat. Mkhitaryan return to the squad to get two goals and three assists across his second and third game back, helping Arsenal in their 2–0 win over Southampton and 5–1 win over Bournemouth.

Mkhitaryan was at the centre of a controversy ahead of the 2019 UEFA Europa League Final in Baku, Azerbaijan between Arsenal and Chelsea; Armenia and Azerbaijan do not have international relations and people of Armenian descent are forbidden entry to Azerbaijan without prior formal authorisation. He was promised guarantees of security, but did not travel over safety fears. Mkhitaryan and Arsenal ultimately decided that he would not travel with the squad to the final match, as he previously opted twice not to travel to Azerbaijan, the first was in 2015 to play for Borussia Dortmund against Gabala, and the second was in 2018 for Arsenal against Qarabağ.

Roma

2019–20 season: Initial loan
Mkhitaryan played three games for Arsenal before, on 2 September 2019, he joined Italian club A.S. Roma on a season-long loan deal for €3 million, plus an additional €100,000 in variables. Mkhitaryan made his debut against Sassuolo on 15 September and scored a goal in Roma's 4–2 win. In late September, Mkhitaryan suffered an injury to his adductor muscle in a 1–0 win over Lecce. Initially expected to be out for three weeks, he returned to the squad in late November. On his first game back from injury, Mkhitaryan scored in a 3–1 win over Hellas Verona. He then scored two games later against SPAL on 12 December 2019, sending Roma up to fourth place in the Serie A table.

In January 2020, Mkhitaryan suffered a second injury of the season to his thigh muscle putting him out for a further month. For the third time, he scored on his return to the squad, in a 3–2 loss to Bologna. He later scored in back to back victories over Lecce and Cagliari.

2020–21 season: Permanent transfer
On 31 August 2020, Mkhitaryan's contract with Arsenal was cancelled by mutual consent and he joined Roma on a permanent deal.