[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Air transports of heads of state and government

ing on buying a plane specifically for VIP government use, choosing a Russian Antonov 148 after sanctions prohibited the acquisition of an Airbus, Boeing, or Embraer aircraft, however this plan was scrapped after the selected plane crashed during a test flight in Eastern Russia, killing all onboard.

Nepal
The present President of Nepal, Prime Minister of Nepal, and other senior government officials travel on regular scheduled commercial flights or chartered flights by either Nepal Airlines or Himalaya Airlines. There is no plane used specifically for VIP operations.

Pakistan

The history of VIP transport in Pakistan dates back to August 1947, where an ex-British Imperial Air Force Vickers VC.1 Viking was acquired to serve as the official transport aircraft for the Governor-General of Pakistan. This aircraft is considered as the first to use the call sign reserved for an aircraft flying Pakistan's head of state or head of government, 'PAKISTAN ONE'. Governor-Generals Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah, and Khawaja Nazimuddin used the aircraft until 195, when it was retired. It remained parked at Karachi's Mauripur Airbase and then at a PAF Base in Peshawar. In 1997, the aircraft was disassembled and transported to Karachi and put up for display at the Pakistan Air Force Museum.

In the 1960s and 70s, Presidents Muhammad Ayub Khan, Yahya Khan and Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto used Boeing 707 jetliners of the national flag carrier, Pakistan International Airlines. In the 1980s, President Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq used a Lockheed C-130B Hercules. In the 90s, Prime Ministers Nawaz Sharif and Benazir Bhutto used a Boeing 737 for their official trips which was maintained by the Pakistani Government. During the late 1990s, Prime Minister Sharif's government bought a Boeing 737-300 for official use. Initially its role was rotated between serving as a regular commercial aircraft for Pakistan International Airlines and as a VIP transport for the government. However, following a military coup in 1999 the aircraft was permanently transferred to Pakistan International Airlines. The President and Prime Minister then resorted to using two of the airlines's Airbus A310s for official visits, while rare trips were done on regular commercial flights of the airline. In 2007 the Qatari government gifted an Airbus A310-300 of the Qatar Amiri Flight to Pakistan, which was operated for the Pakistan Air Force by Pakistan International Airlines.

Since 2010 two Gulfstream IVs with serial numbers J-755, J-756 and four AW 139 helicopters from the Pakistan Air Force are used by the President and Prime Minister for air travel. The planes all fly under regular Pakistan Air Force callsigns.

Philippines

The 250th Presidential Airlift Wing of the Philippine Air Force is used to transport the President of the Philippines and the First Family. On occasion, the wing has also been tasked to provide transportation for other members of government, visiting heads of state, and other state guests.

The fleet includes: one Fokker F28, which is primarily used for the President's domestic trips and it is also called Kalayaan (Filipino "Freedom") One when the President is on board, one Fokker F27 aircraft, and seven Bell 412 helicopters. In October 2019, the government purchased an Airbus C-295 and a Gulfstream G280 for use by the President and other senior officials which were then delivered in April 2019 and September 2020 respectively. A Hawker 800XP business jet was donated by San Miguel Corporation in May 2022.

For trips outside of the Philippines, the President uses a Learjet 60, Challenger 850 or charters appropriate aircraft from Philippine Airlines. The aircraft with the flight number PR/PAL 001 and callsign PHILIPPINE 001/PILIPINAS 001 is a special aircraft operated by Philippine Airlines to transport the President. These aircraft have the Presidential Seal on the front left door. The Airbus A320 and Airbus A321 are used for short-haul flights, while the Airbus A330-300, Airbus A350-900 and Boeing 777-300ER are used for medium or long haul flights.

The presidential aircraft of President Laurel was a Mitsubishi MC-20. A PAAC Douglas C-47 Skytrain named Lili Marlene was designated as the presidential plane of President Roxas. This aircraft crashed in May 1947, and a few months later was replaced by a C-47 of the newly formed Philippine Air Force. President Quirino used a plane named Laong Laan (Filipino "Kept in reserve for a purpose for a long time.") which during the Garcia administration was renamed Dagohoy. President Magsaysay used two PAF C-47 presidential planes, the Pagasa (Filipino "Hope") and the Mt. Pinatubo. During the Macapagal presidency the Pag-asa was renamed Common Man and was also used by President Marcos Sr. Prior to 1962, the Air Force chartered aircraft from Pan American World Airways as the international services of Philippine Airlines were suspended.