[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jung Woo-sung

ommit. The series premiered on December 5, 2011.

In December 2020, he replaced Bae Seung-woo for SBS television series Delayed Justice as leading role. Jung served as an executive producer for Netflix series The Silent Sea in 2021. and in 2022 he will star remake of Japanese drama Say Me to Love Me

Directorial work 
In 2000 Jung had started to try his hand at directing. His first works were music videos for one of the top South Korean pop music group G.o.d. In 2012, he directed and starred in the promotional commercial for cable channel XTM. And a year later, Jung was among four celebrities who directed a short film using smartphone Samsung Galaxy S4 with the theme "Meet a Life Companion." His short Love explored the feelings of first love, and recorded 1.8 million views on YouTube. He then directed another short film for Samsung Galaxy S4, this time for the project "Story of Me and S4." In Jung's short Beginning of a Dream, Choi Jin-hyuk starred as an ordinary office worker who dreams of leaving his mundane existence and entering a world of fantasy; he is approached by a blue fish, rides a sports car at supersonic speed, sees a boy floating past holding a balloon, hangs out with a hippie band in their van, and meets himself as a young boy at a bus stop.

In 2014, Jung along with actors Francis Ng and Chang Chen, directed three short films for Three Charmed Lives, an omnibus commissioned by the Hong Kong International Film Festival. Critics praised Jung's short The Killer Behind the Old Man as the strongest and most stylish entry. In it, a son hires an ultra-methodical hitman (played by Andy Choi) to assassinate his own father, but the killer however finds himself transfixed by the man's slow-moving and ordered life, and thus hesitates to carry through with his mission.
Jung was invited to present The Killer Behind the Old Man at the 9th London Korean Film Festival in November 2014.

His feature directorial debut A Man of Reason, starring himself, Kim Nam-gil, Park Sung-woong, and Kim Jun-han was invited to the Special Presentations section at 2022 Toronto International Film Festival where it had its world premiere in September 2022.

UNHCR engagement 
In May 2014, UNHCR Korea appointed Jung Woo-sung as its first celebrity supporter. He was officially nominated UNHCR National Goodwill Ambassador on June 17, 2015. He went on his first UNHCR mission to Nepal in 2014. He then donated  () to help victims of the April 25 earthquake.

In 2015 he visited South Sudan and in the beginning of March 2016 he met with Syrian refugees in Lebanon. In June 2017 he went to Kurdistan Region of Iraq and visited Qushtapa camp for Syrian refugees and Hasansham U3 camp housing mainly Iraqis displaced from Mosul region.

Talent management firms 
In October 2012 Jung left Taurus Films, his agent since 2009, and established new talent agency Red Brick House appointing his manager of 10 years as CEO.
In May 2016, Jung and actor Lee Jung-jae co-founded and became CEOs of the talent management agency, Artist Company. Apart from the owners, the company represents other artists, viz. Lee Si-a, Go Ara, Ha Jung-woo, Esom, Nam Ji-hyun and Yum Jung-ah.

Film festival jury member 
Jung has attended various international film festivals, not only as an actor or director, but has served on the following festivals' juries:
 2012: 17th Busan International Film Festival, South Korea 
 2013: 14th Jeonju International Film Festival, South Korea  
 2014: 20th Gwangju Biennale, South Korea 
 2015: SSFF & Asia (Short Shorts Film Festival & Asia), Japan
 2016: International Film Festival and Awards, Macao

Personal life 
He is best friends with fellow actor Lee Jung-jae, whom he met while filming City of the Rising Sun. They are co-owners and co-investors of several businesses, including management agency Artist Company.

The actor is notoriously private about his romantic involvements. The only one that he publicly acknowledged so far was his short-lived relationship with Athena co-star Lee Ji-ah. After they were photographed on a date in Paris, Jung confirmed in March 2011 they were dating. But after Lee's married and divorced past with top Korean singer-songwriter Seo Taiji became exposed to the public the following month, the Korean press reported in June that Jung and Lee had broken up. Despite this and contrary to some other South Korean mega stars Jung's life remains untouched by any scandals and he is often praised by fellow filmmakers for his cooperativeness and willingness to help junior colleagues on the set. He is known for picking up the tab when eating with his co-workers or ordering meals for the entire crew.

Philanthropy 
On March 8, 2022, Jung donated  million won to the Hope Bridge Disaster Relief Association along with Lee Jung-jae to help the victims of the massive wildfire that started in Uljin, Gyeongbuk and has spread to Samcheok, Gangwon.