[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 100]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

mounted a horse, and rode to the enemy's
camp, where he no sooner arrived than he desired to be instantly
introduced to the general. He found him sitting in his tent carousing in
the midst of his officers, and not at all thinking of an engagement.
When he approached he thus accosted him; 'I am come, great warrior, as a
friend, to acquaint you with a circumstance that is absolutely necessary
to the safety of yourself and army.' 'What is that?' said the general,
with some surprise. 'At this instant,' replied the European, 'while you
are indulging yourself in festivity, the enemy, who has lately been
reinforced with a large body of his most valiant troops, is advancing to
attack you, and even now has almost penetrated to your camp.' 'I have
here,' added he, 'a wonderful glass, the composition of which is only
known in Europe, and if you will condescend to look through it for a
moment, it will convince you that all I say is truth.' Saying this, he
directed his eye to the telescope, which the general had no sooner
looked into than he was struck with consternation and affright. He saw
the prince, whom he had long considered as lying at his mercy, advancing
with his army in excellent order, and, as he imagined, close to his
camp. He could even discern the menacing air of the soldiers, and the
brandishing of their swords as they moved. His officers, who thronged
round him to know the cause of his sudden fright, had no sooner peeped
into the wonderful glass than they were all affected in the same manner.
Their heads had been already disturbed by their intemperance, and
therefore, without waiting to consult, they rushed in a panic out of
their tents, mounted their swiftest horses, and fled away, without
staying to see the consequences. The rest of the army, who had seen the
consternation of their leaders, and had heard that the enemy was
advancing to destroy them, were struck with an equal panic, and
instantly followed the example, so that the whole plain was covered with
men and horses, that made all possible haste towards their own country,
without thinking of resistance. Thus was an immense army dispersed in an
instant, and the besieged prince delivered from his danger by the
address and superior knowledge of a single man."

"Thus you see," added Mr Barlow, "of how much use a superiority of
knowledge is frequently capable of making individuals. But a still more
famous instance is that of Archimedes, one of the most celebrated
mathematicians of his time. He, when the city of Syracuse was besieged
by the Romans, defended it for a long time by the surprising machines he
invented, in such a manner that they began to despair of taking it." "Do
pray," said Tommy, "tell me that story." "No," answered Mr Barlow, "it
is now time to retire, and you may at any time read the particulars of
this extraordinary siege in 'Plutarch's life of Marcellus.'"

And now the time approached when Mr Barlow was accustomed to invite
greater part of the poor of his parish to an annual dinner. He had a
large hall, which was almost filled with men, women, and children, a
cheerful fire blazed in the chimney, and a prodigious table was placed
in the middle for the company to dine upon. Mr Barlow himself received
his guests, and conversed with them about the state of their families
and their affairs. Those that were industrious, and brought their
children up to labour, instructing them in the knowledge of their duty,
and preserving them from bad impressions, were sure to meet with his
encouragement and commendations. Those that had been ill he assisted
with such little necessaries as tended to alleviate their pains, and
diffuse a gleam of cheerfulness over their sufferings. "How hard," he
would say, "is the lot of the poor when they are afflicted with
sickness! How intolerable do _we_ find the least bodily disorder, even
though we possess every convenience that can mitigate its violence! Not
all the dainties which can be collected from all the elements, the
warmth of downy beds and silken couches, the attendance of obsequious
dependants, are capable of making us bear with common patience the most
common disease; how pitiable, then, must be the state of a
fellow-creature, who is at once tortured by bodily suffering, and
destitute of every circumstance which can alleviate it; who sees around
him a family that are not only incapable of assisting their parents,
but destined to want the common necessaries of life, the moment he
intermits his daily labours! How indispensable, then, is the obligation
which should continually impel the rich to exert themselves in assisting
their fellow-creatures, and rendering that condition of life which we
all avoid less dreadful to those who must support it always!"

Acting from such principles as these, Mr Barlow was the common friend of
all the species. Whatever his fortune would allow him to perform he
never refused to all who stood in need o