[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Turkish think tanks

Turkish think tanks are relatively new, but such think tanks provide research and ideas, yet they play less important roles in policy-making when compared with American think tanks. Many of them are sister organizations of a political party or a company. There are very few university think tanks.

List 

 21st Century Turkey Institute; based in Ankara, undertakes research and projects on a large scale; from Turkish Foreign Policy to regional politics and geostrategy. [www.21yyte.org]
 3H Movement is a liberal think tank and a young organization centered in Istanbul.
 Ankara Strategy Institute  is an Ankara-based independent think-tank organization established in 2011. It is distinguished from other think-tank organizations in Turkey with its analysts being all academicians.
 Institute of Turkish Studies
 Center for Middle Eastern Strategic Studies
 Association for Liberal Thinking is a libertarian think-tank centered in Ankara.
 Center for Eurasian Studies
 Atatürkist Thought Association
 Association for the Support of Contemporary Life
 Bahcesehir University Center for Economic and Social Research (Betam) was founded with the goal of establishing a tradition rooted in scientific research, and of becoming a universally accepted research platform. Betam consists of two main units. In the Economic Research Unit, it focuses on the research and development of economic policy in Turkey and abroad from a comparative perspective. In the Social Sciences Research Unit, it concentrates on the cultural, social and political structure of Turkey and its international relations.
 Center For Alternative Policies or Alternatif Politikalar Merkezi (APM-CAP). Based in Ankara / TURKEY Undertakes research and projects on economic and foreign policy and good governance.
 Center for Eurasian Strategic Studies or Avrasya Stratejik Araştırmalar Merkezi (ASAM). The first known think-tank in Turkey. It has close ties to Turkish diplomacy, and it is the parent organisation of the Institute for Armenian Research (EREN).
 Centre For Policy and Research On Turkey (Research Turkey) Established in 2012 in London, United Kingdom. www.researchturkey.org
 Center for Strategic Communication (STRATIM) is an independent think tank founded in 2008 working on Turkish and regional foreign policy issues. STRATIM has been organizing the Istanbul Forum since 2009. https://web.archive.org/web/20171230123324/http://www.stratim.org.tr/ and http://www/theinstanbulforum.org 
 Center for Turkey's Economic and Strategic Studies (TESAM) is an independent think tank, established in 2008. Undertakes research and projects on Turkey's history, international relations, strategy and foreign policy as well as economic and cultural issues.
° The Center for Turkish Studies is the 'Zentrum für Turkeistudien' where multidisciplinary expertise in business, culture, economics, foreign affairs, history, language, national security, politics, religion, sociology and sustainable development brings about a comprehensive study of the Turkic region. CTS places higher education on the cutting edge with policy implementation and public service.
 Education Reform Initiative (ERI) was launched within Sabancı University in 2003 with the aim of improving education policy and decision-making through research, advocacy, and training. ERI mobilizes a wide range of stakeholders in participatory education policy processes in pursuit of its mission of “quality education for all.”   Education Reform Initiative was ranked in The 2013 Global Go To Think Tank Index. See the result:  
 Foreign Policy Institute 
 Freedom Research Association is an Ankara-based policy think tank with a mission to help consolidate liberal institutions in Turkey. Recently founded, the think tank brings together distinguished political scientists, legal scholars and journalists to publish original research and make an impact on public policy. http://ozgurlukarastirmalari.com/
 Policy and Strategy] GLOBAL Policy and Strategy, is a non-profit organization. GLOBAL is an independent think tank that conducts scholarly research and analyses, together with delivery of training and consultancy services. http://globalpse.org/en/about
 Global Political Trends Center also known as GPoT Center is a liberal research unit at Istanbul Kultur University.
 Istanbul Policy Center (IPC) is a political and economic think tank in Istanbul affiliated with Sabancı University. It has multiple projects and has broad focuses on climate change, democratization, education, EU relations, US relations, and Middle East relations.
 Istanbul Institute of Political Strategy. Established in 2022, dedicated to conducting research in political theory, national security, international relations, and ideology research. 
 Institute for Armenian Research or Ermeni Araştırmaları Enstitüsü (EREN). Privately funded organization, created by the Center for Eurasian Strategic Studies (ASAM).
 International Strategic Research Organization (USAK) is an Ankara-bas