[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Camp Sovereignty

cal group and various fires, it became clear this group would refuse to leave and the camp would remain. As this continued, the group were met with harsher criticism from the public and other Indigenous activities, along with legal threats from levels of government until it was inevitably shut down.

The main site of the protest at Kings Domain also holds significance in the organisation of Camp Sovereignty. In this park, the Indigenous Australians cherish the Kings Domain Resting Place which is a site specifically dedicated to deceased Victorian Indigenous Australians. Campaigners argued ‘the sacred site has been destroyed and ruined by many different groups’. The group thus chose Kings Domain as the central land to the protest as a symbol of historical mistreatment and disrespect.

The camp sovereignty protest at the Commonwealth Games resembles similar protests where sports and politics intersect. Protests such as the Brisbane 1982 Commonwealth Games protest and Sydney's 1988 Bicentennial Marches resemble the Camp Sovereignty protest and could be seen as inspiration for a successful protest at a major Australian sporting event.

Chronology

2005: Formation of the Black GST group 
The Black GST group is formed by a small group of activists in Melbourne early in 2005. The group consisted of various Indigenous and White activists with prominent figures including Robbie Thorpe, Marg Thorpe and Garry Foley. The group sought to publicise Indigenous civil rights issues and introduced their motives to end genocide, promote sovereignty and create treaties.

Early 2006: The 'Stolenwealth' Games 
Prior to the 2006 Melbourne Commonwealth Games (15/3/2006-26/3/2006), the Black GST group encouraged people to attend their planned protest which would commence three days prior to the start of the Commonwealth Games. The group encouraged activists to join them in the camp protesting for the duration of the Commonwealth Games. The group branded the Commonwealth Games as the ‘Stolenwealth Games’ in reference to the Stolen Generations and what the GST were terming Genocide. The group planned this initiative and invited activists throughout 2005 and early 2006 to best take advantage of the anticipated domestic and international media coverage. The group also pursued various events throughout the 2006 Commonwealth games including further protests and press events.

Throughout February and early March 2006, the Black GST group and Victorian authorities engaged in frequent non-conclusive discussion to ensure ‘the protest is manageable’ and is reasonable. These discussions combined with the government rejecting a cultural camp in Victoria Park, Collingwood had led the Black GST group to become increasingly vocal.

March 2006: The Commonwealth Games 
On 2 March 2006, the group launched the Camp Sovereignty website to publicise their message online to a global audience and share the significance of their sacred site.

The 2006 Commonwealth Games ran from the 15th to 26 March. On 12 March, the Camp Sovereignty movement was launched and the Black GST political group established a camp in Kings Domain, Melbourne. The group lit a fire in the public park to represent their cultural traditions in the heart of the events as a form of Indigenous recognition at a Commonwealth event. The group publicised this idea of the "Stolenwealth Games", rebranding the motto of the games: “united by the moment” with “divided by history”. Throughout the games, the fire ceremony and protest continued and gained increased attention from the public, media outlets and authorities.

The choice of occupying Kings Domain was contentious because it was classified as a “Games Management Zone.” According to the Commonwealth Games Arrangements Act 2001 these zones are under special restrictions including strict bans on any form of protesting or demonstrating. The organisers selected this location to draw attention to the demonstration due to its historical importance and its proximity to the Queen's residence.

Late March – Early May 2006: Post-Commonwealth Games 
Despite agreement to conclude the demonstration on 25 March, the group continued to occupy kings Domain beyond the Commonwealth Games events. After many disputes and legal issues the protest concluded on 10 May 2006.

Aftermath 
After refusing to close the camp on 25 March by declaring the site of the fire in kings Domain as sacred, the state government initiated legal action to stop the demonstration.