[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1946 in poetry

Nationality words link to articles with information on the nation's poetry or literature (for instance, Irish or France).

Events
 March – Japanese poet Sadako Kurihara's "Bringing Forth New Life"  (生ましめんかな, Umashimen-kana) is published. Publication this year of her first collection, The Black Egg (Kuroi tamago), is permitted during the occupation of Japan only in abridged form because of its treatment of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima experienced by the poet.
 May 20 – W. H. Auden becomes a United States citizen.
 Ezra Pound is brought back to the United States on treason charges but found unfit to face trial because of insanity and sent to St. Elizabeths Hospital in Washington, D.C., where he remains for 12 years (to 1958).
 Upon learning about Isaiah Berlin's visit to Russian poet Anna Akhmatova this year, Joseph Stalin's associate Andrei Zhdanov, with the approval of the Soviet Central Committee, issues the "Zhdanov decree" denouncing her as a "half harlot, half nun", and has her poems banned from publication. This resolution is directed against two literary magazines, Zvezda and Leningrad, which have published supposedly apolitical, "bourgeois", individualistic works of Akhmatova and the satirist Mikhail Zoshchenko. In time Akhmatova's son will spend his youth in Stalinist gulags and she will resort to publishing several poems in praise of Stalin to secure his release.
 Takashi Matsumoto founds a literary magazine, Fue ("Flute") in Japan.
 Martin Starkie founds Oxford University Poetry Society in Oxford, England.

MacSpaunday
Roy Campbell, in his Talking Bronco, first published this year, invents the name "MacSpaunday" to designate a composite figure made up of the poets
 Louis MacNeice ("Mac")
 Stephen Spender ("sp")
 W. H. Auden ("au-n")
 Cecil Day-Lewis ("day")
Campbell, in common with much literary journalism of the period, imagines the four as a group of like-minded poets, although they share little but very broadly left-wing views.

Works published in English
Listed by nation where the work was first published and again by the poet's native land, if different; substantially revised works listed separately:

Canada
 Louis Dudek. East of the City. Toronto: Ryerson Press, 1946.
 Robert Finch, Poems.
 Wilson MacDonald, Armand Dussault. Toronto: Macmillan.
 P. K. Page, As Ten As Twenty.
 A. J. M. Smith, ed. Seven Centuries of Verse.

India, in English
 Anilbaran, Songs from the Soul (Poetry in English), Calcutta: Amiya Library
 Harindranath Chattopadhyaya:
 Edgeways and the Saint (Poetry in English) a farce; Bombay: Nalanda Publications
 The Son of Adam (Poetry in English), Bombay: Padma Publications
 Nolini Kanta Gupta, East Beams (Poetry in English),
 P. R. Kaikini, Selected Poems (Poetry in English), Bombay
 H. G. Rawlinson, editor, Garland of Indian Poetry (Poetry in English), London: Royal India Society; anthology; Indian poetry published in the United Kingdom
 S. H. Vatsyayana, Prison Days and Other Poems (Poetry in English), Benares: Indian Publishers

New Zealand
 Allen Curnow, Jack Without Magic (Caxton), New Zealand
 Kendrick Smithyman, Seven Sonnets, Auckland: Pelorus Press
 J. C. Reid, Creative Writing in New Zealand, with two chapters on poetry, scholarship, New Zealand

United Kingdom
 Lilian Bowes Lyon, A Rough Walk Home
 Rupert Brooke, The Poetical Works of Rupert Brooke, comprising the contents of Collected Poems of 1928 and 26 additional poems; published posthumously
 Roy Campbell, Talking Bronco, South African native living in and published in the United Kingdom
 Walter De la Mare, The Traveller
 Lawrence Durrell, Cities, Plains and People
 Robert Graves, Poems 1938–1945
 Fredoon Kabraji, editor, This Strange Adventure: An Anthology of Poems in English by Indians 1828-1946, London: New India Pub. Co., 140 pages; Indian poetry published in the United Kingdom
 Maurice Lindsay, editor, Modern Scottish Poetry: An Anthology of the Scottish Renaissance 1920-1945 (Faber and Faber)
 Norman MacCaig, The Inward Eye
 Hugh MacDiarmid, pen name of Christopher Murray Grieve, Poems of the East-West Synthesis
 John Clark Milne, The Orra Loon and Other Poems.
 Kathleen Raine, Living in Time
 Herbert Read, Collected Poems
 Henry Reed, A Map of Verona, including "Naming of Parts"
 Vita Sackville-West, The Garden
 Sydney Goodsir Smith, The Devil's Waltz
 Bernard Spencer, Aegean Islands and Other Poems
 Dylan Thomas, Deaths and Entrances, including "Fern Hill" and "A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London"
 R. S. Thomas, The Stones of the Fields