[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Paxus Calta

Paxus Calta (born 1957), born Earl Schuyler "Sky" Flansburgh, is an American political activist, communitarian and writer. He has been involved with the anti-nuclear movement and is a member of the Twin Oaks Community.

Biography
Calta was born as Earl Schuyler Flansburgh, or "Sky" as a nickname, in 1957. Calta studied engineering and economics at Cornell University, where he served as a student member of the Board of Trustees and as a member of the Quill and Dagger society. Afterward he worked as a software designer, helping to found and ultimately sell two software consulting firms.  In 1982, he changed his name to Paxus Calta. In 1988, he hitchhiked on sailboats across the Pacific, settled briefly in Australia and then moved on to Hawai'i where he worked for Makai Ocean Engineering.  After the fall of the Berlin Wall, Calta moved to the Netherlands and worked for The World Information Service on Energy (WISE) in Amsterdam.

Calta was invited by a Czech deep ecology organization, Hnutí DUHA, to run the international campaign against the Temelín Nuclear Power Station from Brno, Czechoslovakia in 1991, which remained his primary home base for most of the 1990s and from where he campaigned against nuclear power.  During this time, he "moved up" in the Friends of the Earth hierarchy. In 1998, Calta moved to Twin Oaks Community, located in Virginia in the United States.

Calta is a proponent of polyamory and writes on the topic. In 2004, he wrote a chapter of the book The Impossible Will Take a Little While (compiled by Paul Rogat Loeb), in which he detailed a successful campaign launched by an 18-year-old to overthrow the Bulgarian government.

Political activism

Throughout the 1990s, Calta was involved in campaigns to stop nuclear power plants in 6 countries in Central Europe. Calta was the Chair of the international campaign commemorating the 10th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. and co-managed the FAIRE project (Free & Applied Internships in Renewables and Efficiency) which trained Central European activists in English language skills, campaigning and then placed them in western environmental groups as interns. The FAIRE project was funded by the Heinrich Böll Foundation, which is affiliated with the German Green Party. Hnutí DUHA invited Calta to be the lead international anti-nuclear campaigner after he left WISE. In 1994, Calta presented materials before the US House of Representative Subcommittee on International Development to block the Export-Import Bank of the United States from funding the Temelín reactor.

Calta initiated the Clean Energy Brigade project in the early 1990s in the Czech Republic in which local activists installed energy saving hardware in residential homes and public buildings at materials cost in exchange for documentation of reduced energy use. The program was later expanded to 11 Central and East European countries and is now called the International Energy Brigades. In aggregate, the efficiency upgrades from this project are abating thousands of tons of CO2 annually.

More recently, he campaigned against a planned new reactor at North Anna in Virginia and was arrested
and jailed for protests there.  On December 4, 2009 Calta critiqued Stewart Brand on NPR on the merits of using nuclear power to stop climate change.  Calta served on the board of directors of the anti-nuclear group Nuclear Information and Resource Service (NIRS) from 1997 til 2010, and as the president of the board for the last 3 years.

After the August 23, 2001, Virginia earthquake which closed down the North Anna nuclear power plant, Calta and others founded the organization "Not on Our Fault Line", for which Calta has been repeatedly a spokesperson.

On November 30, 2011, Calta was arrested with 17 others in Charlottesville, Virginia as part of the Occupy Charlottesville protest.

In late 2013, Calta co-founded the Point A project designed to start income sharing communities in urban centers on the East Coast of the US.  These communities would be part of the Federation of Egalitarian Communities.  In 2015, the Point A project launched its first new income sharing project in Washington DC called Compersia.

On 16 January 2017, Certa presented an interactive workshop on activism at Elon University. His effort was to describe methods that can be used, and motivate participants to choose their own causes. But his perspective was slanted as un-American when critically covered by the American Lens. His response to their critique provides a minor insight into the substance of his character: "Appreciate being targeted". In the summer of 2018, BBC 4 filmed part of their Utopia series at Twin Oaks, Calta was the principal guide.

Lifestyle activism