[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Trey Grayson

e had made a technical mistake in purging some of the voters, but that the concept was important.

Grayson was reelected Secretary of State in 2007 by a 14-point margin. He became one of only two Republican statewide elected constitutional officers to win a second consecutive term in modern history 

In Grayson's second term, he launched new services that allow companies to start businesses online, reducing by several days the time it takes start a business in Kentucky. He also led the effort to modernize Kentucky's business laws, making it easier to start a business in Kentucky. His office was the first government entity in Kentucky to put its spending online so that taxpayers could hold his office accountable for how their tax dollars are spent. He also cut spending in his office by 15%.

Grayson supported a policy change made by Governor Steve Beshear that made it easier for some convicted felons to apply to have their voting rights restored.  The Secretary of State's office is part of the technical process to restore voting rights, as the governor's paperwork is filed with the office. Grayson did not support automatic restoration of voting rights to all convicted felons.

Grayson administered the $37 million Kentucky received in federal funds to implement the Help America Vote Act (HAVA), as well the $169,755 grant from the Federal Election Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities (EAID). These funds allowed every Kentucky county to purchase a new machine for every precinct.

2010 U.S. Senate election

Grayson ran in the 2010 Republican primary for U.S. Senate in Kentucky, losing to Rand Paul by a 23-point margin.

Endorsements
Grayson was endorsed by Senator Mitch McConnell, former Vice President Dick Cheney, former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, Senator Rick Santorum, Representative Hal Rogers, and several members of Kentucky's State legislature.

In late April, Focus on the Family founder James Dobson endorsed Grayson, saying he was the only candidate with the conviction to lead Kentucky. But a week later, Dobson rescinded his endorsement and endorsed Paul, claiming to have been misled by senior Republican officials about Paul's stance on abortion. Dobson did not claim Grayson was complicit in misleading him, but two days later Paul aired commercials claiming that Grayson and other GOP leaders "deliberately deceived one of America's leading conservatives, Dr. James Dobson." The ads were later removed.

Results
Grayson lost to Paul by a 23.33% margin, with 124,710 votes to Paul's 206,812.

After conceding the election to Paul, Grayson said, "It's time to put all differences aside, unite behind Dr. Paul. He needs our help and I for one stand ready to serve". He downplayed the effect of the Tea Party's support for Paul, saying, "I think there are just so many things at work here, it's hard to pinpoint it. I think the tea party [vs.] conservative establishment thing is a little too simplistic."

Later career
On January 7, 2011, it was announced that Grayson would resign as Secretary of State to accept a position at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. He became the Director of the Harvard Institute of Politics. Governor Beshear named Bowling Green, Kentucky Mayor Elaine Walker as Grayson's replacement. Grayson's resignation became effective January 29, 2011.

At Harvard, Grayson oversaw many nationally recognized studies of political shifts between different blocks of voters, especially millennials. He was also a frequent moderator of school panels and lectures by many of the nation's top leaders.

In 2012, Grayson joined Gabrielle Giffords's "Gabby PAC" as co-chairman.

In April 2014, it was announced that Grayson would resign from Harvard University effective June 30.

On May 21, 2014, the Northern Kentucky Chamber of Commerce announced Grayson would become the president and CEO of the organization, effective July 1.

In May 2017, the Northern Kentucky Chamber of Commerce announced Grayson would resign as president and CEO effective June 9.

Later that year, in September, Frost Brown Todd announced that Grayson would joining its team as a member and a principal for CivicPoint, the firm's public affairs affiliate.

In June 2020, Grayson participated in the Transition Integrity Project, a group that considered scenarios for a contested presidential election in the fall. He continues to write opinion columns on subjects such as prioritizing economic development over "anti-LGBTQ stunts" and in favor of broader funding sources for election assurance.

References

External links
 Official Website
 Harvard University Institute of Politics biography
 

|-

1972 births
Dixie Heights High School alumni
Gatton College of Business and Economics alumni
Harvard College alumni
Kentucky lawyers
Kentucky Republicans
Living people
People from Kenton County, Kentucky
Secretaries of State of Kentucky
University of Kentucky College of Law alumni