[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Russian Union of Evangelical Christians-Baptists

The Russian Union of Evangelical Christians-Baptists, RUECB () is a Baptist Christian denomination in Russia. It is affiliated with the Baptist World Alliance. The headquarters is in Moscow.

History
The union has its origins in an Evangelical group in 1867 and its leader Nikita Isaevich Voronin who was baptized in the Kura river in Tbilisi, Caucasus, in present-day Georgia.  German Mennonites in Ukraine and Lutherans in the Baltic coast started a revival that became known as "Stundist", which led to the formation of churches composed of baptized adult believers. Vasily Pashkov, a retired army colonel in St Petersburg, introduced the evangelical message in the upper classes in the city, adhering to the principles of the Plymouth Brethren and later would emerge in the Union of the Evangelical Christians in All-Russia.

Soviet era

After coming to power, the Soviet government attempted to weaken the influence of the Russian Orthodox Church by encouraging Baptist and Methodist missionaries. However, when the missionaries helped their members by administering welfare programs and building homes, the government clamped down. Laws passed in April 1929 declared that "the activity of all religious units be confined to the exercise of religion, and be not permitted any economic or cultural work which exceeds the limits of their ministry to the spiritual needs of Soviet citizens" and prevented churches being used by anyone outside the community served.
In July 1929 Russian Baptists conducted a mass baptism in the Moscow River, a month after the Soviet Congress had passed a resolution limiting religious propaganda. The official press reported negatively on the event.
In June 1942, at the height of the Second World War, a plea came from "4,000,000 Russian Baptists" for Christians in the U.S. and Great Britain to pray for Russia's victory. The number may have been exaggerated, but indicated that the Baptist church was strong.

In 1944, the Union of Evangelical Christians and the Russian Baptist Union became the Union of the Evangelical Christians-Baptists; Pentecostals were later added because of government pressure. 

Estonian Baptists were also pressured to join the Russian Baptist Union; the government's interest in uniting these denominations was perceived by the faith communities as an attempt to control them better and to provoke them to fight each other (over infant vs. adult baptism and other doctrinal issuest), thus making it possible for the government to liquidate their communities with greater ease. Churches that failed to cooperate in forming this union could be closed down by the government.

Despite the differences and theological disagreements, many of these churches came to recognize the need to cooperate with each other in the hostile atheistic society and tried to build friendly relationships between their respective communities.

In the summer of 1946, Joseph Stalin invited Louie De Votie Newton, president of the Southern Baptist Convention in the United States, to visit Russia on a five-week tour and to investigate the status of its 2,000,000 Baptists. Newton reported that the churches were open seven days a week, carrying on highly active programs of religious instruction, culture and recreation.

Baptists were depicted in Soviet propaganda as being dangerous and unintelligent. The goal of the Soviet government was to root out all religion, and churches were considered enemies of the people. At the same time, churches played an important role in cooperating with the state on an international level by giving a positive depiction of Soviet society. This role included promoting the peace movement. The period during the war and afterwards was lenient on most religions (relatively speaking, compared to most of Soviet history); however, beginning in the late 1950s the state began to more aggressively attack religion. All Christians (including Baptists) were isolated from public life and the mass media as well as the education system, which was filled with atheistic propaganda.

Administrative harassment of Baptist churches occurred, such as refusing permission to move to a new prayer house by claiming that the new building was not sanitary (even though the old building that they were then confined to was even less sanitary). The KGB recruited agents from different Christian churches; however, it may have had difficulties in recruiting agents from Baptists and similar Evangelical churches—a fourth department KGB report from 1956 said in reference to them, "a special psychological approach is needed to recruit sectarians, among whom there are many religious fanatics."