[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Karma in Jainism

ctrine in Jainism might be in the teachings of Parsva, who is said to have lived about two hundred fifty years before Mahavira. The Jain conception of karma—as something material that encumbers the soul—has an archaic nature which justifies the hypothesis that it goes back to 8th or 9th century BCE.

The present form of the doctrine seems to be unchanged at least since the time of Bhadrabahu (c. 300 BCE) who is respected by both the sects. This is supported by the fact that both Svetambara and Digambara sects agree on the basic doctrine, giving indication that it reached in its present form before the schism took place. Bhadrabahu is usually seen as the last leader of united Jain sangh. Detailed codification of types of karma and their effects were attested by Umasvati who is regarded by both Digambara and Svetambara as one of theirs.

Jain and Buddhist scholar Padmanabh Jaini observes: 

With regards to the influence of the theory of karma on development of various religious and social practices in ancient India, Padmanabh Jaini states: 

The Jain socio-religious practices like regular fasting, practicing severe austerities and penances, the ritual death of Sallekhana and rejection of God as the creator and operator of the universe can all be linked to the Jain theory of karma. Jaini notes that the disagreement over the karmic theory of transmigration resulted in the social distinction between the Jains and their Hindu neighbours. Thus one of the most important Hindu rituals, śrāddha was not only rejected but strongly criticized by the Jains as superstition. Certain authors have also noted the strong influence of the concept of karma on the Jain ethics, especially the ethics of non-violence. Once the doctrine of transmigration of souls came to include rebirth on earth in animal as well as human form, depending upon one's karmas, it is quite probable that, it created a humanitarian sentiment of kinship amongst all life forms and thus contributed to the notion of  (non-violence).

Factors affecting the effects of Karma 

The nature of experience of the effects of the karma depends on the following four factors:
Prakriti (nature or type of karma) – According to Jain texts, there are eight main types of karma which categorized into the 'harming' and the 'non-harming'; each divided into four types. The harming karmas (ghātiyā karmas) directly affect the soul powers by impeding its perception, knowledge and energy, and also brings about delusion. These harming karmas are: darśanāvaraṇa (perception-obscuring karma), jñānavāraṇa (knowledge-obscuring karma), antarāya (obstacle-creating karma) and mohanīya (deluding karma). The non-harming category (aghātiyā karmas) is responsible for the reborn soul's physical and mental circumstances, longevity, spiritual potential and experience of pleasant and unpleasant sensations. These non-harming karmas are: nāma (body-determining karma), āyu (lifespan-determining karma), gotra (status-determining karma) and vedanīya (feeling-producing karma), respectively. Different types of karmas thus affect the soul in different ways as per their nature.
Sthiti (the duration of the karmic bond) – The karmic bond remains latent and bound to the consciousness up to the time it is activated. Although latent karma does not affect the soul directly, its existence limits the spiritual growth of the soul. Jain texts provide the minimum and the maximum duration for which such karma is bound before it matures.
Anubhava  (intensity of karmas) – The degree of the experience of the karmas, that is, mild or intense, depends on the anubhava quality or the intensity of the bondage. It determines the power of karmas and its effect on the soul. Anubhava depends on the intensity of the passions at the time of binding the karmas. More intense the emotions—like anger, greed etc.—at the time of binding the karma, the more intense will be its experience at the time of maturity.
Pradesha (The quantity of the karmas) – It is the quantity of karmic matter that is received and gets activated at the time of experience.
Both emotions and activity play a part in binding of karmas. Duration and intensity of the karmic bond are determined by emotions or "" and type and quantity of the karmas bound is depended on yoga or activity.

The process of bondage and release
The karmic process in Jainism is based on seven truths or fundamental principles (tattva) of Jainism which explain the human predicament. Out that the seven tattvas, the four—influx (āsrava), bondage (bandha), stoppage (saṃvara)  and release (nirjarā)—pertain to the karmic process.

Attraction and binding