[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Parlement Jeunesse du Québec

onal credit and overly-indebtedness were also the main subjects for a bill to be created in 2009, mainly encompassing the usage of high risk credit. The issue of pollution inspired another bill in 2004 aiming to create a market representing pollution rights.

Social Measures: A Forefront Action Plan

Despite the willpower to revise the role of the State, the millennium years paved the way to other important bills that aimed to ameliorate the quality of life for families. The following are some examples:
 Regimes dealing with parental maternity leave and other dispositions for families on the job market needing a leave of absence due to children (2000)
 Better access to the judicial system (2002)
 Normalizing the divorce process (2005)
 Job Security (2007)

The 2010s

The 61st simulation welcomed the beginning of a new era by dealing with four bills encompassing concrete issues in Quebec society, such as:
	The decriminalization of euthanasia and the legalization of assisted suicide
	Reform on copyright laws
	The decriminalization of prostitution
	Media and Publicity Control

In 2011 (62nd), the bills addressed topics of another nature :
 a reform of the labour code
 the creation of a network of autonomous schools
 the institutionalisation of chronically homeless people
 a change of paradigm regarding international aid
In 2012 (63rd), the bills addressed :
 surrogacy
 a reform of citizenship
 a reform of the agriculture and agri-food system
 a reform of the penal justice system

In 2013 (64th), these four bills were introduced:
 women's representativity on the job market
 the mandatory DNA mapping to prevent severe diseases
 the fight against violence
 the inauguration of an immigration chosen directly by employers
For the first time, a "néo-québécois" Premier was at the head of the PJQ during this 64th legislature.

In 2014 (65th), the youth parliamentarians debated on:
 alcohol from a public health perspective
 children's superior interest
 the collective right to quality information
 revaluation and financing of culture

In 2014, the efforts of past and present executives toward gender parity are recognized, as the "Association québécoise des jeunes parlementaires" receives the "Gouvernance Pluri'elles" award at the Women of merit Gala of the YWCA Quebec. This distinction aims at recognizing the measures put in place by different organizations in order to include more women in their governing entities.

The same year, and for the first time in the whole history of the Quebec Youth Parliament, the entire executive committee was composed of women. The Premier at the time, Anne-Sophie Tommeret-Carrière, was the 7th woman to take on this role in 65 years of the organization's existence.

In 2015 (66th), another precedent is created, as for the first time all members of the presidency of the house and both the Premier and the Leader of the Opposition are women. That year, the assembly debated on controversial and contemporary topics:
 A bill on the management of drinking water resources, aiming at the reduction of water consumption in Quebec for a greater capacity to export water in cases of humanitarian crises.
 A bill on education, focusing on the adaptation of primary and secondary teaching to the needs of pupils and students.
 A bill on the establishing of a sustainable economy, proposing sustainable degrowth through a universal income aimed at reducing the number of worked hours and consumption in the economy.
 A bill on the reform of democratic institutions, allowing citizens to have legislative initiative by means of referendums, without submitting these popular bills to the Charter of rights and freedoms.
In 2016 (67th), a position of leader of the native recruitment - occupied by a member of the first nations - is created, with the purpose of reaching out to native communities across Quebec and create bonds among native and non native youths. There is also a remarkable proportion of participants with immigrant ascendance (27%) and a more than gender equal deputation (53% are women), which represent the diversification and inclusion efforts of the organization. The debated bills addressed :
 The digital rights and freedoms, including the forbidding of any state or private restriction to the freedom of access to internet.
 Rape culture and the judicial treatment of sexual aggression, in particular by putting in place a dialogue procedure and by reversing the burden of proof.
 The modernization of national defence, notably by transforming the armed forces into a civil organization.
 The democratization of social involvement, by instating a mandatory obligation of social involvement hours and by putting in place a monetary indemnification program accordingly.