[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Strawberry Statement (film)

Helpless", "Our House", "The Loner" and "Down By The River".  Crosby, Stills and Nash perform "Suite: Judy Blue Eyes".

Reception
The film was a commercial and critical flop. "The critics attacked the style instead of the substance", said Winkler. "Most disappointing was the dismissal by audiences."

Vincent Canby of The New York Times wrote that the film "only lacks an occasional, superimposed written message ... to look like a giant, 103-minute commercial, not for peace, or student activism, or community responsibility, but for the director himself." Gene Siskel of the Chicago Tribune gave the film two-and-a-half stars out of four and called it "a movie with its heart, if not always its intelligence, in the right place ... The major problem with the film is that during the period before Simon James, a 20-year old student at Western Pacific university, is radicalized, neither his life style as a member of the college crew, nor the political movement on campus is very interesting. Director Stuart Hagman [sic], in his first feature effort, substitutes overly enthusiastic camera techniques and popular music played against the San Francisco scenery for a more complete character definition." Charles Champlin of the Los Angeles Times wrote, "I found 'The Strawberry Statement' inconsistent and uneven, all too glossy and yet suddenly all too real and populated with children I have no trouble recognizing as my own. And it's the true measure of the film that we are all likely to remember its best moments: The moments when we are made to see the terrible and ironic costs of innocence and idealism." Gary Arnold of The Washington Post stated that the violent climax "would be absurd even if it were well staged, because Hagmann and Horowitz haven't earned their catharsis. There is something howlingly inappropriate about a movie that turns 'angry' after an hour-and-a-half of puppy love, puppy protest and the confectionery audio-visual style pioneered by 'A Man and a Woman' and 'The Graduate.' It's difficult to forget that the script has been fundamentally negligible and incompetent." David Pirie of The Monthly Film Bulletin wrote, "The Strawberry Statement is certain to be attacked for its patchiness and for hollow commercial opportunism; but while students are being killed on university campuses in America, one can't help preferring its highly emotional, if faltering and uneven, tone to the slick reportage of a film like Medium Cool."

Horovitz says when he saw the film "I was really upset with it. I thought it was too cute and Californian  and too pretty."

Brian De Palma said "big studio revolutionary movies" like Strawberry were "such a joke. You can't stage that stuff. We've seen it all on television."

"Bad timing", said Davison. "Everyone had enough of the country tearing apart."

Horovitz now says he came to accept the film "for what it is, what it was, and what it represented in the time in which it was made. I'm glad I got to write it."

As a snapshot of its time, the film has collected many present-day fans, as David Sterritt writes for Turner Classic Movies:Leonard Quart expressed a more measured view in Cineaste, writing that while The Strawberry Statement is basically a "shallow, pop version of the Sixties", it still provides "a taste of the period's dreams and volatility." That's a reasonable take on the film, which is more accurate than it may seem at first glance, depicting an uncertain time when many aspiring rebels were motivated as much by romance and excitement as by principles and ideologies. The Strawberry Statement is a terrific time machine that's also fun to watch.

Awards
The film won the Jury Prize at the 1970 Cannes Film Festival, tying with Magasiskola.

In 1971, Bruce Davison was nominated for his performance for the Laurel Awards "Male Star of Tomorrow".

See also
 Port Huron Statement
 List of American films of 1970
 Columbia University protests of 1968
 Hippie
 Beatnik
 Counterculture of the 1960s
 Vietnam War
 Civil rights movement
 List of historic rock festivals
 Pacifism

References

External links

1970 films
1970s English-language films
Films based on non-fiction books
American coming-of-age comedy-drama films
Hippie films
Films set in San Francisco
Anti-war protests in the United States
1970s political comedy-drama films
American satirical films
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer films
American political comedy-drama films
Films produced by Robert Chartoff
Films produced by Irwin Winkler
Films about activists
Films set in Columbia University
Films directed by Stuart Hagmann
1970s American films