[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dawn (Wiesel novel)

end of the spectrum to the complete opposite end before and after World War II. Another important theme is becoming someone you hate. Once joining the movement, he takes the place of the people he hated, the Nazis. Before, the Nazis were committing acts of hate, but now Elisha and the movement are.

The two main motifs for Dawn are death and internal struggle. In war, death surrounds everyone, there is no escaping it. Elisha and the movement's objective was to, "...kill the greatest number of soldiers possible. It was that simple." The death of John Dawson and David B. Moshe played a significant role in the writing of Dawn. Internal struggle is seen many times during the story. Elisha, being the main character of the book, has the most internal struggle of anyone. He always hears a child crying, even though no one is actually crying. This suggests that Elisha is that child who wants to cry but cannot. Elisha is given the job of executing John Dawson, but he debates whether he should get to know him before killing him. Gad tells Elisha, "Don't torture yourself, this is war." This quote implies that Elisha is making his task more of an issue than it's supposed to be, according to Gad.

Film adaptations
Elie Wiesel's novel L'Aube (Dawn) was adapted twice to the screen:
 1985 by Miklós Jancsó. The French-Hungarian coproduction Dawn is starring Michael York, Philippe Léotard and Christine Boisson.
 2014 by Romed Wyder. The Swiss-UK-German-Israeli coproduction Dawn is starring Jason Isaacs, Joel Basman and Sarah Adler.

Symbols 

There are a number of symbols seen in Dawn. One of the first symbols that readers see is night. The beggar describes to Elisha that night has a face, and explains that if you can see a face, you know that night has succeeded day. Due to Gad's explanation of night, the night or darkness represents purity of thought. Throughout the novella, Elisha continues to see different faces in his window during the night. The faces that Elisha initially saw were people from his past who have died, until the end when Elisha sees his own face. The eyes/faces that Elisha see represent death.

The next symbol is Elisha's name, which alludes to the prophet Elisha, mentioned in the Old Testament's Book of Kings. Lastly, dawn is a symbol which represents death. Dawn is generally the time that the Jews and hostages get executed, so throughout the book, the repetition of Elisha mentioning dawn refers to the death of Jews and hostages.

Notes

1961 American novels
Novels about the Holocaust
Novels set in Israel
Novels by Elie Wiesel