[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# New Apostolic Reformation

onvention with 500 evangelical leaders, the National Symposium on the Postdenominational Church, including the organization of the church and evangelization, at the Fuller Theological Seminary  of Pasadena in the United States. Since this convention, the term has been used more and more in churches.

Members
Though few, if any, organizations publicly espouse connection to the NAR, a movement known for dominion theology and a belief in the continuing ministries of apostles and prophets alongside those of evangelists, pastors, and teachers, (Ephesians 4:11-13) there are several individuals often associated with this movement including:
 Lou Engle, founder of TheCall
 Bill Johnson, senior leader of Bethel Church
 Guillermo Maldonado, co-founder and senior pastor of El Rey Jesús 
 Rick Joyner, founder of MorningStar Ministries
 John P. Kelly, founder of John P. Kelly Ministries and Convening Apostle
 C. Peter Wagner, founder of Global Harvest Ministries 
 Ché Ahn, Harvest International Ministries
 Todd White, Lifestyle Christianity
 Randy Clark, Global Awakening
Kenneth Copeland, Kenneth Copeland Ministries
Rodney Howard-Browne, Revival Ministries International
Faytene Grasseschi, V-Kol Media Ministries

C. Peter Wagner of Global Harvest Ministries considered the year 2001 to be the beginning of the second apostolic age, for the movement holds that the lost offices of prophet and apostle were restored in that year.

After being named as part of the NAR, and critics believing that Bethel Church was instrumental in leading some Christians to embrace tenets of NAR, Pastor Bill Johnson of Bethel became regularly listed as an NAR leader. Johnson confirmed that he does believe in the apostolic and prophetic ministries, he denied however in an official statement that his church had any official ties to the NAR."

When Rick Joyner of the MorningStar Ministries was listed, he announced that "there will likewise be a horde of false apostles released" continuing: "Our team received two very specific dreams warning about false 'apostolic movements' that were built more on organization than relationship. The dreams indicated that these were trying to bring forth apostles that were really more like corporate CEOs, and the movement that they led had the potential to do great damage to the church. The enemy's intent with this false apostolic movement was to have the church develop a deep revulsion to anything that was called apostolic."

Controversy and criticism 
Forrest Wilder, senior editor for the Texas Observer, describes the New Apostolic Reformation as having "taken Pentecostalism, with its emphasis on ecstatic worship and the supernatural, and given it an adrenaline shot." Wilder adds that beliefs of people associated with the movement "can tend toward the bizarre" and that it has "taken biblical literalism to an extreme."

Al Jazeera called the NAR "America's Own Taliban" in an article highlighting NAR's dominionism as bearing resemblance to Islamic extremism as seen in groups such as the Taliban because of the NAR's language concerning spiritual warfare.

National Public Radio brought the discussion about the political influence of the NAR to a national audience with a 2011 article. Lou Engle and Don Finto, who are considered to be leaders within the NAR, participated in a prayer event called "The Response" hosted by Texan governor Rick Perry, on August 6, 2011, in Houston, Texas. This event is cited as a sign of the influence of NAR beliefs on Rick Perry's political viewpoints.

The Passion Translation has been identified by researchers of the NAR movement as containing "completely reworded verses, making it appear that the Bible supports NAR teachings."

See also
 Apostolic-Prophetic Movement
 Book of Revelation
 Eschatology
 Third Wave of the Holy Spirit
 Christian nationalism
 Christian fascism

References

Further reading
 Churchquake: The Explosive Dynamics of the New Apostolic Revolution 
 The New Apostolic Churches 
 The Apostolic Revelation – The Reformation of the Church 
 God's Super-Apostles: Encountering the Worldwide Prophets and Apostles Movement 
 A New Apostolic Reformation?: A Biblical Response to a Worldwide Movement 
 The New Apostolic Reformation: History of a Modern Charismatic Movement

External links
 NAR Connections
 The Call Official website
 El Rey Jesús Official website
 Wagner University
 International Coalition of Apostles
 International Coalition of Apostolic Leaders
 European Coalition of Apostolic Leaders
 What does Mike Bickle and the International House of Prayer believe about NAR?

Charismatic and Pentecostal Christianity
Pentecostalism in the United States