[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jonathan Cilley

prohibited within the boundaries of the District of Columbia, so the participants and their seconds – George Wallace Jones for Cilley and Henry A. Wise for Graves – arranged to meet on February 24, 1838, at the Bladensburg Dueling Grounds, just outside the city limits and inside the Maryland border.

As the challenged party, Cilley had the choice of weapons.  Because of Graves' reputation as an expert pistol shot, Cilley selected rifles, with the distance between the duelists to be 80 yards, a distance far enough apart to negate Graves' supposed shooting skill; in actuality, the marked off distance was 94 yards.  After their first fire missed, the participants shortened the distance and fired again, but again both shots missed.  On the third exchange of shots, Graves fatally wounded Cilley by shooting him through the femoral artery.  Cilley bled to death on the dueling ground within a matter of minutes.  He was buried at Congressional Cemetery, and re-interred at Elm Grove Cemetery in Thomaston, Maine.

Legacy
There is a cenotaph to Cilley's memory located at Congressional Cemetery.

After Cilley's death, longtime friend Nathaniel Hawthorne published two biographical sketches of him.  His colleagues paid tribute to him by passing a federal law on February 20, 1839, which strengthened the strict prohibition against dueling in Washington, D.C. by making it a crime to issue or accept a challenge within district limits, even if the actual duel was to take place outside the district.

See also
List of United States Congress members who died in office (1790–1899)
List of United States Congress members killed or wounded in office

References

Sources

Further reading

Memoirs and Services of Three Generations: General Joseph Cilley, First New Hampshire Line. War of the Revolution; Johnathan Longfellow, Father of sarah, wife of General Joseph Cilley; Colonel Joseph Cilley, U.S. Senator and Officer in the War of 1812; Honorable Johnathan Cilley, Member of Congress from Maine; Commander Greenleaf Cilley, War with Mexico and War of 1861; General Johnathan P. Cilley, First Maine Cavalry, War of the Rebellion – reprint from the Courier-Gazette, Rockland Maine, 1909
Political Portraits with Pen and Pencil. No. IX. Jonathan Cilley by Nathaniel Hawthorne, The United States Democratic Review (J.& H.G. Langley, etc., New York), Sept. 1838, vol. 3 issue 9, pp. 67–69.  Available online at  (accessed March 8, 2008).

External links

Nathaniel Hawthorne's memorial to Jonathan Cilley, written in 1838

Jonathan Cilley at The Political Graveyard

1802 births
1838 deaths
19th-century American journalists
19th-century American lawyers
19th-century American politicians
19th-century male writers
American male journalists
American newspaper editors
American politicians killed in duels
Bowdoin College alumni
Deaths by firearm in Maryland
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Maine
Maine lawyers
People from Nottingham, New Hampshire
People from Thomaston, Maine
Speakers of the Maine House of Representatives