[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fernando Gago

f €1.7 million in July 2013. He signed a three-year deal in the aim of making the Argentina squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. On 13 September 2015 in the Superclásico away to River Plate, he left the game after 24 seconds due to a left Achilles tendon injury; he returned to action in late January. 

On 24 April 2016, Gago suffered the same injury after 44 minutes at home to River Plate, returning at the end of November. In March 2017, his contract was extended for three more years. He suffered another injury on international duty that October, and did not recover until May 2018.

Boca Juniors reached the 2018 Copa Libertadores Finals against rivals River, and the second leg had to be played at Gago's former club ground in Madrid due to hooliganism. He came on in the 89th minute for captain Pablo Pérez just before the game went to extra time, and suffered another Achilles injury in the 116th minute. Having used all four substitutes and had Wilmar Barrios sent off, Boca fell to a 3–1 loss with nine men.

Return to Vélez Sarsfield
Ahead of the 2019–20 season, Gago was released by Boca and signed a one-year contract with Vélez Sarsfield. His new manager was his former Real Madrid and international teammate, Gabriel Heinze. He made his comeback after nine months on 24 August 2019 in a 3–1 home win over Newell's Old Boys. In November 2020, he announced his retirement from professional football at the age of 34.

International career 

Gago was part of the under-20 squad which won the 2005 FIFA World Youth Championship. He made his senior international debut on 7 February 2007 in a 1–0 friendly win away to France. He played in the 2007 Copa América, and was part of the team which won the gold medal at the 2008 Olympics. 

Gago was one of over 100 players used by Diego Maradona in 2010 FIFA World Cup qualification, but also one of the highest-profile absentees for the final tournament in South Africa. He returned to the squad for the 2011 Copa América.

Gago was named in Argentina's 23-man squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. He made his World Cup debut in Argentina's 2–1 defeat of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the Estádio do Maracanã, coming on as a half-time substitute for Hugo Campagnaro. He was named in the starting line-up for the team's second match, a 1–0 win over Iran in Belo Horizonte, and remained a starter until being replaced by Lucas Biglia in the quarter-finals. Gago replaced Enzo Pérez after 86 minutes of the final, which Argentina lost 0–1 to Germany after extra time.

On 5 October 2017, Gago returned to the national team against Peru. In his final international match, he suffered cruciate ligament injuries to his right knee.

Style of play 
Gago relished operating in a holding role at Boca Juniors, functioning as a deep-lying playmaker in front of the defence, due to his intelligence and ability to dictate play in midfield with his passing; he has also played in a similar role with the Argentina national team and other clubs. Upon arriving in Europe in 2006, Gago drew comparisons to compatriot and former Real Madrid man Fernando Redondo, due to his ability to build up play and break down the oppositions' attacks, thus enabling him to contribute both offensively and defensively. His Real Madrid profile described Gago as a "very dynamic footballer who predicates his game on ball movement". He is also capable of reaching the opponent's box, possesses a tremendous vision for the game, [he] can cover much ground and knows how to protect the ball.

Managerial career

Aldosivi
On 17 January 2021, Gago was appointed manager of Argentine Primera División side Aldosivi. He lost 2–1 at home to Godoy Cruz on his debut on 14 February. He resigned on 27 September after a run of six consecutive defeats left the team in 23rd.

Racing Club
Gago returned to work on 21 October 2021, signing with Racing Club until the end of the following year. Two days later, he lost 2–1 on his debut at Rosario Central. 

In June 2022, despite eliminations from the Copa Argentina and Copa Sudamericana, Gago's contract was renewed for another year. The team ended the domestic season as runners-up to Boca, who started the final day one point ahead as the teams drew their respective games; Racing had a penalty that would have won them the title, but River Plate's Franco Armani saved from Jonathan Galván.

Personal life 
Gago, Sergio Agüero and Lionel Messi had all been teammates as children back in Argentina. Together, the three of them won the 2005 FIFA World Youth Championship in the Netherlands.

Gago is a literature and art enthusiast. The first thing he did after landing in Spain was visit the Museo del Prado. He earned the nickname "El Pintita" (roughly meaning "the little one trying to look good" in English) ever since Ramón Maddoni scolded him for playing with his hair. Also, his Boca Juniors teammates would call him so because his youth squad coach would scold him, "Stop trying to look good and run!"