[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Terminator video games

es voice acting by Arnold Schwarzenegger as the Terminator. It is similar to the pinball game Terminator 2: Judgment Day, also by Ritchie.

Terminator Salvation (2009 film) games
A third-person shooter action game titled Terminator Salvation, based on the film of the same name, was released in 2009.

An arcade game based on the film, developed by Play Mechanix and published by Raw Thrills, was released in 2010. It is a light gun game featuring next-generation graphics. Two players can cooperate simultaneously using machine gun-styled light guns to blast terminators, drones, and other enemies while pushing a button on the magazine well of the gun in order to reload.

Terminator Genisys (2015 film) games

For the 2015 film Terminator Genisys, two mobile games were released.

Terminator Genisys: Revolution, also called Terminator Genisys: Guardian, was developed and published by Glu Games, and released in June 2015. It is a free-to-play third-person shooter with micro-transactions that include new characters and weapons. Jon Mundy of Pocket Gamer called it "another shallow movie tie-in, high on action, spectacle, and (especially) IAPS, but low on depth and content". A game, based on Terminator Genisys: Revolution, was also shown in select theaters prior to the showing of the film, with viewers aiming their mobile phones at the screen to shoot Terminators.

In June 2016, Skydance Media granted Plarium the rights to develop a new mobile game based on the film. The game, Terminator Genisys: Future War, was released in May 2017. It is an MMO strategy video game, set during the future war between humans and Skynet. Jessica Famularo of Pocket Gamer criticized the grinding gameplay and minimal storyline, and called it the "Terminator game you neither wanted nor asked for".

Terminator: Dark Fate (2019 film) games

Terminator: Dark Fate – The Game is an MMO strategy video game developed by Firefly Games and the China-based Camel Games for Android and iOS. It is based on the 2019 film of the same name. Firefly Games began working on the game in 2017, after being contacted by the film's production company, Skydance Media. The game was released on October 18, 2019, and a global release occurred on November 8, 2019.

In the game, the player commands a group of Resistance fighters who must defend against machine attacks. The player can expand the group's Resistance base and can also form alliances with other players. The player is guided by characters from the film. The game is free-to-play but utilizes in-app purchases in exchange for various resources.

Terminator: Guardian of Fate, a virtual reality game by VRstudios, was also launched in November 2019, as a tie-in to Dark Fate. The game is exclusive to the Dave & Buster's chain, debuting at 130 locations across the U.S. It uses HTC Vive headsets and supports up to four players. Like the film, it features the return of Linda Hamilton as Sarah Connor, though in a voice-over role. In the game, Connor and players travel together in a vehicle to evade a terminator.

Another game, Terminator: Dark Fate – Defiance, is scheduled for release on PC in winter 2023. It is a real-time strategy game that takes place after the film and Judgment Day, during the war between humans and the A.I. known as Legion. It was in development by Cats Who Play and will be published by Slitherine Software, in collaboration with Skydance.

Non-film based games
Several games, not based on any particular film, have been released since 1992.