[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Energy in Taiwan

ing energy efficiency, and set a target of energy efficiency of 33% by 2025. This target is higher than Japan's commitment to APEC with the target of 25%-26% efficiency. The government is currently assisting 200 major energy users (companies and organizations) in implementing energy-saving measures.

Taiwan is preparing for the age of high oil prices, and is proactively developing clean energy, such as solar and wind power and biofuels. The efforts would help reduce Taiwan's reliance on imported oil, while contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gases.

The government aims for renewable energy to account for 15% of the nation's energy by 2025. It would amount to 8.45 million kilowatts, capable of producing 28.7 billion kilowatt hours of electricity. Wind-generated power could create as much as 8.9 billion kilowatt hours of electricity by 2025, comparable to 2.3 times the capacity of Linkou's thermal power plants. Many domestic companies are now beginning to work on the development of solar energy, and conservative estimates are projecting that 1.2 billion kilowatt hours of electricity will be produced through solar power by 2025.

Under the Energy Management Law and the underlying Implementing Regulations and related measures, companies are encouraged to improve the energy efficiency of their operations and products. Mandatory programs have been established for the purpose of energy conservation, including energy audit and energy efficiency standards for certain electrical and electronic products.

The Energy Commission under the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for formulating and implementing energy policy and laws, including the programs instituted under the Energy Management Law. The principal responsibilities of the Energy Commission include:

 supervising general affairs related to energy management to assure the stability of energy supply;
 accelerating the rationalization of energy pricing;
 promoting the effectiveness of energy utilization;
 preventing energy-related environmental pollution; and
 enhancing energy research and development.

The day-to-day work of the Energy Commission involves activities such as the development of policies and regulations, planning and conservation, research and development of technology, and data collection, processing, and publication.

Through the Greenmark program set up by the Fundamentals for Promoting the Use of the Taiwan Ecolabel, a number of energy-using appliances have been granted Ecolabels. For the electronic products, energy efficiency is one of the most important criteria for granting Green Marks. For further details, refer to the section on packaging and labeling. The Statute for Upgrading Industries also provides incentives for the improvement of energy efficiency.

Energy research 

The Center for Energy Research (CER) at National Central University has initiated a plan to educate energy professionals. It would coordinate professors from related disciplines and build a diversified teaching platform to recruit young students and researchers. Educating young scientists in the field of green technology and encouraging them to create innovative products will provide Taiwan with an edge in the international market.

Energy Technology and Management Research Center at National Chiao Tung University
CER at National Central University 
New Energy Research Center at National Taiwan University

Currently there are four nuclear research centers in Taiwan ranging up to 2.8 MW.

Dr. Yuan Tseh Lee is alumni of National Tsing Hua University and actual Taiwanese Nobel Prize scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory using with scientific method and with understanding on laws of thermodynamics looking for energy sources with high net capacity factor as base load power source and low carbon footprint.

Taiwan has to step up its pace in fusion power research if it wishes to develop more sources of "clean" energy according to Dr. Cheng Chio-Zong

See also

 List of power stations in Taiwan
 Taiwan Power Company
 Economy of Taiwan
 Electricity sector in Taiwan
 Nuclear power in Taiwan
 Renewable energy in Taiwan
 Ministry of Science and Technology (Taiwan)

References

Further reading 

 Renewable energy in Taiwan: Its developing status and strategy. Energy, Volume 32, Issue 9, September 2007, Pages 1634-1646
 Current status and development policies on renewable energy technology research in Taiwan Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews. Volume 9, Issue 3, June 2005, Pages 237-253
 Renewable energy perspectives and support mechanisms in Taiwan
 Development of Hydrogen Energy/Fuel Cell in Taiwan
  Industrialization and Energy Policy in Taiwan Postwar (I)  [in Japanese] 
 Promotion strategies for renewable energy in Taiwan Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews. Volume 12, Issue 6, August 2008, Pages 1681-1691