[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Libby Prison escape

in solitary confinement, the Confederates felt Rose's presence at Libby now presented a danger.  Given the chance, they gladly traded the famed escapist for a Confederate colonel on April 30, 1864.  Rose returned to his unit, the 77th Pennsylvania Infantry, and fought through to the end of the war.

Effect
To judge the success of the Libby Prison escape solely by the number of men who crossed Federal lines would be a mistake.  Richmond was deeply affected by the break, and Libby Prison itself was thrown into chaos, much to the satisfaction and raised morale of the remaining prisoners.  Lieutenant Colonel Cavada recorded some of the more humorous effects of the escape inside the prison.  On one occasion, the entire camp was roused in the middle of the night for a roll call because a sentry thought he saw something down in a sewer.  It turned out to be his own shadow.  Even the Confederate warden, Major Thomas P. Turner, was visibly shaken.  Cavada commented, "Really, when our distracted little Commandant now comes into our rooms, he keeps his knees well together, it is necessary to be very cautious, some of us might slip out between his legs!"

In popular culture
A melodramatic Broadway play about the escape entitled A Fair Rebel, by Harry P. Mawson, premiered in New York City in August 1891. In 1914, a 3-reel silent film version was released starring Linda Arvidson, Charles Perley and Dorothy Gish and directed by Frank Powell.

Episode Number 25 of The Great Adventure (American TV series) presents a dramatisation of the Libby Prison escape.

References
 Cavada, F.F., Libby Life. Pennsylvania: J.B. Lippincott & Co., 1865.
 Hamilton, A. G., Story of the Famous Tunnel Escape from Libby Prison. Chicago: S. S. Boggs, 1893.
 Johnston, I. N., Four Months in Libby. Cincinnati: Methodist Book Concern, 1893.
 Klee, Brue, "Libby Prison," Civil War Times, February 1999.
 Moran, Frank E., Famous Adventures and Prison Escapes of the Civil War. New York: The Century Co., 1898. 
 Morgan, Michael, "Breakout from Rat Hell," Civil War Times, October 1999.
 Richmond Examiner, 11 February 1864.
 Rose, Thomas E., “Libby Tunnel”, National Tribune, 14 May 1885.

Notes

External links
 John Bray's (First New Jersey Cavalry) account of his escape

American Civil War prison camps

Escapes in the United States
1864 in Virginia
Prison escapes
February 1864 events
Richmond, Virginia in the American Civil War