[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jaime Guzmán

Jaime Jorge Guzmán Errázuriz (June 28, 1946 – April 1, 1991) was a Chilean constitutional law professor, politician, and founding member of the conservative Independent Democratic Union party. In the 1960s, he strongly opposed the University Reform movement and became an active organizer of the Gremialist movement. Guzmán vehemently opposed President Salvador Allende and later became a trusted advisor of General Augusto Pinochet and his dictatorship. As a professor of Constitutional Law, Guzmán played a significant role in drafting the 1980 Chilean Constitution. He briefly served as a senator during the transition to democracy before being assassinated in 1991 by members of the communist urban guerrilla group, the Manuel Rodríguez Patriotic Front.

Early life 
Guzmán was born in Santiago to Jorge Guzmán Reyes, a sports leader at the Catholic University, and Carmen Errázuriz Edwards, a travel agent. He attended the Colegio de los Sagrados Corazones de Santiago from 1951 to 1962, where he displayed an early interest in literature and demonstrated strong leadership qualities. Even during his senior year, Guzmán showed a keen interest in political life, and he graduated from high school at the young age of 15.

In 1963, at the age of 16, Guzmán was accepted to study law at the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile, where he graduated in 1968 with the highest honors. He was awarded the Monseñor Carlos Casanueva prize for being the best student in his class.

During his university years, Guzmán founded the conservative political movement Movimiento Gremial Universitario, which in 1968 won the presidency of the student union at the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile. The movement maintained almost uninterrupted leadership until 2009, when the left-wing group Nueva Acción Universitaria (NAU) became the majority. The Movimiento Gremial quickly expanded to the main universities in Chile.

According to writer Óscar Contardo, Guzmán was identified as gay within a portfolio held by the National Intelligence Directorate.

Role during Chile's dictatorship (1973-1990) 
After the 1973 military coup, Guzmán became a trusted advisor to General Augusto Pinochet and an influential policymaker in Chile. Just two days after the coup, Guzmán was tasked with studying the creation of a new constitution, and he later joined the Comisión Ortúzar charged with drafting the new constitution. He was also a key participant in the drafting of Pinochet's Chacarillas speech of 1977, which was one of the founding texts of the military regime.

While he initially had close contacts with Jorge Alessandri and espoused his political views, Guzmán eventually converted to the neoliberal economic policies supported by the Chicago Boys and distanced himself from Alessandri. He became closer to Pinochet and his minister Sergio Fernández.

Although Guzmán never held an official position in Pinochet's military dictatorship, he remained one of the closest collaborators, playing an important ideological role. He participated in the design of important speeches for Pinochet and provided frequent political and doctrinal advice and consultation.

Guzmán declared that he had a "negative opinion" of National Intelligence Directorate director Manuel Contreras, which led to various "inconveniences and difficulties" for him. However, the National Intelligence Directorate identified Guzmán as an intelligent and manipulative actor in a secret 1976 memorandum. The same document posited that Guzmán manipulated Pinochet and ultimately sought to displace him from power to lead his own government in collaboration with Jorge Alessandri. The National Intelligence Directorate spied on Guzmán and monitored his everyday activities.

Senator 
After Chile's return to democracy, Guzmán ran for office in the legislative elections.

Guzmán continued to work as a professor of constitutional law in the Faculty of Law at the Catholic University of Chile until his death. He was known for his extensive knowledge of Scholasticism.

Assassination 

On April 1, 1991, Guzmán was shot and killed as he was leaving the Catholic University, where he taught constitutional law. The assassination was carried out by members of the far-left urban guerrilla movement, Frente Patriotico Manuel Rodriguez (FPMR), Ricardo Palma Salamanca, and Raúl Escobar Poblete. However, the operation is believed to have been planned by the leaders of the movement, Galvarino Apablaza, Mauricio Hernández Norambuena, and Juan Gutiérrez Fischmann, who had been planning Guzmán's murder since the 1980s.

Hernández, also known as "Commander Ramiro," was the only one arrested and tried for Guzmán's murder. However, after serving less than three years in a Chilean prison, he escaped and sought refuge in Cuba. In 2002, Hernández was arrested in Brazil for the kidnapping of Brazilian businessman, Washington Olivetto. He is currently serving a sentence in Chile.