[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 335th Signal Command (Theater)

ange and white are the colors associated with the Signal Corps. Dark blue signifies the atmosphere and the flashes and globe are symbolic of the unit's worldwide communication capability. The shoulder sleeve insignia was approved on 30 October 1985 designed by Major Charles K Reber 20 February 1985.

Distinctive unit insignia
Description: A gold color metal and enamel device  in height overall consisting of two quadrates conjoined with point up, the left quadrant of white, the right of black, surmounted by two orange lightning flashes chevronwise and extending above and below the quadrates; in base, a green open wreath of Live Oak, all above a semicircular gold scroll folded back at the base of each flash and inscribed, "READY LIGHTNING" in black letters, areas between quadrates and flashes at top and quadrates and Live Oak in base are pierced. Symbolism: The white and black quadrates and the lightning flashes symbolize the organization's day and night mission to direct and coordinate the operations, training, administration and logistics support of assigned and attached units. The Live Oak, the State Tree of Georgia and a symbol of ever-ready strength in reserve, also alludes to the organization's origin and home station at Atlanta, Georgia. Orange and white are colors used for the Signal Corps. The distinctive unit insignia was originally approved on 10 December 1971 for the 335th Signal Group. It was redesignated for the 335th Signal Brigade on 24 December 1984. The insignia was redesignated for the 335th Signal Command on 16 April 1986.

Past Commanders

References

335th Theater Signal Command Websites as listed below in external links.

External links
 Official Site
 "335th Theater Signal Command" on "The Institute of Heraldry" Site
 "335th Theater Signal Command" on GlobalSecurity.org

335
Military units and formations of the United States Army Reserve
Military units and formations established in 1953
East Point, Georgia