[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Columbia, South Carolina, in the American Civil War

rthern atrocity. General Sherman blamed the high winds and retreating Confederate soldiers for firing bales of cotton, which had been stacked in the streets. Sherman denied ordering the burning, though he did order militarily significant structures, such as the Confederate Printing Plant, destroyed.

According to Marion Lucas, author of Sherman and the Burning of Columbia, "the destruction of Columbia was not the result of a single act or events of a single day. Neither was it the work of an individual or a group. Instead it was the culmination of eight days of riots, robbery, pillage, confusion and fires, all of which were the byproducts of war. The event was surrounded by coincidence, misjudgment, and accident. It is impossible, he maintains, to determine with certainty the origin of the fire. The most probable explanation was that it began from the burning cotton on Richardson street. Columbia at this time was a virtual firetrap because of the hundreds of cotton bales in her streets. Some of these had been ignited before Sherman arrived and a high wind spread the flammable substance over the city."

In 2015, The State identified "5 myths about the Burning of Columbia":
 Sherman ordered the burning of Columbia.
 All of Columbia burned.
 There was a "battle" for Columbia.
 Union soldiers burned the Congaree River bridge.
 First Baptist Church was saved by an African-American caretaker.

Reconstruction

During Reconstruction, Columbia became the focus of considerable attention. Reporters, journalists, travelers, and tourists flocked to South Carolina's capital city to witness a Southern state legislature whose members included ex-slaves. The city also made somewhat of a rebound following the devastating fire of 1865; a mild construction boom took place within the first few years of Reconstruction, and repair of railroad tracks in outlying areas created jobs for area citizens.

Notable Civil War personalities from Columbia
Maxcy Gregg — Confederate brigadier general mortally wounded at the Battle of Fredericksburg
Alexander Cheves Haskell — Colonel of the 1st South Carolina Cavalry, led a Confederate brigade late in the war
William Augustus Reckling (1850-1913) was a noted SC Photographer operating in Columbia 1870–1910 at times with his 2 sons as "Reckling & Sons Photographers" on Senate St now part of the USC campus. The latter has a collection of Reckling's photos of notable South Carolinians of the era as well as a series of stereographs of Columbia.

Civil War tourism
The Confederate Relic Room and Military Museum, part of the S.C. Budget and Control Board, showcases an artifact collection from the Colonial period to the space age. The museum houses a collection of South Carolina artifacts from the Confederate period.

The six impacts from Sherman's cannonballs to the granite exterior of the State House were never repaired, and are today marked by bronze stars.

Today, tourists can follow the path General Sherman's army took to enter the city and see structures or remnants of structures that survived the fire. A Civil War walking tour is available.

References
Magrath, Andrew. "From The Governor of the State, to the People of South Carolina." Legislative System, Messages, 1860–1865. South Carolina Archives, Columbia, South Carolina.
Simms, William G. Sack and Destruction of the City of Columbia S.C. Columbia: Power Press of Daily Phoenix, 1865. online
McCarter, James. "The Burning of Columbia, Again." Harper's Magazine 33, October, 1866.
Whilden, Mary S. Recollections of the War, 1861-1865, 1887. Reprint: Columbia, 1911.
Gibbes, James Guignard. Who Burnt Columbia? Newberry, SC, 1902
 
Howard, Oliver Otis. Autobiography of Oliver Otis Howard, Major General, United States Army. New York, 1907
Snowdon, Yates. Marching With Sherman: A Review of the Letters and Campaign Diaries of Henry Hitchcock. Columbia, 1929
Burton, Elijah P. Diary of E.P. Burton, Surgeon, Seventh Regiment Illinois, Third Brigade, Second Division, Sixteenth Army Corps, II, 63. Des Moines, 1939
Miers, Earl Schenck. The General Who Marched To Hell. New York,1951.
Miers, Earl Schenck. When The World Ended: The Diary of Emma LeConte. New York, 1957
Lucas, Marion Brunson. Sherman and the Burning of Columbia. College Station: Texas A&M University Press, 1976
Fellman, Michael. Citizen Sherman: A Life Of William Tecumseh Sherman. New York, 1995.
Eicher, David J., The Longest Night: A Military History of the Civil War, Simon & Schuster, 2001, .
Teal, Harvey S. "Partners with the Sun, South Carolina Photographers, 1840-1940" University of South Carolina Press (2001).
Campbell, Jacqueline G. "'The Most Diabolical Act of all The Barbarous War': Soldiers, Civilians, and the Burning of Columbia, February, 1865." American Nineteenth Century History, Vol. 3, No. 3, Fall 2002
Elmore, Tom, "A Carnival of Destruction-Sherman's Invasion of South Carolina." Jogglingboard Press, 2012.
Elmore, Tom, "Columbia's Civil War Landmarks" The History Press, 2011.