[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Necati Zontul

t case was taking place in 2004 and in 2006, a court official in the Military Appellate Court in Athens told Necati that his assailant, Dandoulakis, was "really a good boy" and that Necati was not among witnesses being called to testify. Despite apparent bias, however, the guilty verdict was upheld.

Nevertheless, the Greek Government has failed to apologise, accept responsibility for the actions of its armed and uniformed security personnel, issue a statement of non-recurrence or offer compensation. The Greek Ombudsman has written to and repeatedly discussed (in 2007) with the Greek Government, suggesting that an apology and a statement of sympathy would be in order. The Government has never responded. Further instances of torture and abuse by the Greek Coast Guard have been recorded, and some are recorded on YouTube.

The Greek Government, in response to a request from the British Foreign Office in 2006-2007, issued a range of four conflicting dates for the cessation of national remedies.

Together with his partner, Tim Wilson, Necati has campaigned against his assailants and has made a film of his experiences. It mixes animation and live action footage. The film, A Torture Cartoon, was sponsored by Screen South and the RIFE lottery project.

The case came before the European Court of Human Rights.  The treatment of foreign detainees and refugees in Greece has not greatly improved - to such an extent that the British Government has recently decided not to send refugees / asylum seekers who make their way to the UK back to Greece.

In 2012, Necati's case was successful. The torture was admitted and modest compensation arranged. This was organised by the British charity REDRESS.
Further violence to foreigners has continued in Greece, and has involved the detention and abuse of foreign tourists.

References

Turkish refugees
Living people
21st-century Turkish LGBT people
Turkish emigrants to the United Kingdom
British people of Turkish descent
Year of birth missing (living people)
Turkish people imprisoned abroad