[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dechert

following a withdrawal of the claim by the claimant". Dechert and an administrative services provider for the firm agreed in 2021 to settle claims by a former site manager in Washington D.C. that he was subjected to discrimination and retaliation because he had a stroke, federal court records show.

In August 2022, Dechert's UK unit agreed to pay £20 Million to a former client for compensation for damages caused by its former UK partner and white-collar crime head Neil Gerrard. It comes after a decade-long proceeding that resulted in the High Court finding in May 2022 that Dechert, its former white-collar crime head Gerrard, and the Serious Fraud Office had committed acts of wrongdoing in their dealings with the law firm's then-client Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation(ENRC).
London's High Court found that Dechert and Gerrard – who was ‘obsessed with making money' and ‘lost any real sense of objectivity, proportion or indeed loyalty to his client  had acted deliberately, or at least recklessly. Judge also ruled Neil Gerrard committed ‘gross and knowing breach of duty' as a solicitor by, among other things, disclosing confidential and privileged information to the UK watchdog, the SFO, and leaking to the media confidential documents of his client Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC (ENRC). He concluded in his judgment in 2022 that Gerrard was a "highly unreliable and at times dishonest witness" who was "plainly lying" about his contacts with the SFO. The judge found senior SFO officials breached their duties by holding a series of unauthorized meetings with Gerrard in which they received information that was plainly against former Dechert's client interests in what the judge described as a case of bad faith opportunism. Indeed, though he denied it at trial, Gerrard allegedly referred to billing in the case as ‘rape mode'. The law firm now faces costs upwards of $50 million. Dechert faces two more UK trials and two US lawsuits related to Gerrard. One lawsuit involves a claim under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act, for its alleged role in an international ‘hack and dump scheme', which it denies 
Media reported that regulators are probing the firm. The U.K.'s SRA, the legal watchdog, has received several complaints.

The firm's profitability increased significantly in 2021, but fell in 2022. The firm ultimately placed 36th on The American Lawyer's 2023 Am Law 200 ranking, based on its 2022 revenue. In 2023 Dechert announced that it would cut 5% of its global workforce due to "faltering demand", as several other large law firms publicly confirmed cuts.

Pro bono activities
Dechert has been recognized among the top 10 U.S. law firms for pro bono work in The American Lawyer'''s Pro Bono Survey, an annual report that rates the nation's 200 highest-grossing law firms based on their level of pro bono activity. The report confirmed that it remained the top law firm for international pro bono work. In August 2014, Dechert received the American Bar Association Pro Bono Publico Award.

In 2020, Dechert received the ABA Business Law Section National Public Service Award. In 2021, the firm was rated #1 for international pro bono work by The American Lawyer''.

Notable lawyers and alumni

Harvey Bartle III, chief judge of the United States District Court Eastern District of Pennsylvania
Joseph S. Clark, mayor of Philadelphia (1952–56) and United States senator for Pennsylvania (1957–69)
Q. Todd Dickinson, former Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property
Steven Engel, deputy assistant attorney general in the Office of Legal Counsel under George W. Bush and United States Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel in the Donald Trump administration
Glenn Fine, former inspector general for the U.S. Department of Justice
Miriam González Durántez, head of international trade practice
Paul G. Haaga, Jr., vice chairman of Capital Research and Management Company, a constituent company of the Capital Group Companies
David N. Kelley, former United States Attorney and Deputy U.S. Attorney for the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
Cheryl Ann Krause, United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
Noyes Leech (1921–2010), law professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School
Scooter Libby, chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney (2001–2005)
Edward A. McDonald, portrayed himself as a federal prosecutor in Martin Scorsese's "Goodfellas"
Mary A. McLaughlin, judge for the United States District Court Eastern District of Pennsylvania
Lisa Scottoline, New York Times best-selling author
Norma Levy Shapiro, first woman partner and retired judge for the United States District Court Eastern District of Pennsylvania
Arlen Specter, United States senator for Pennsylvania (1981–2011)

See also
List of largest United States-based law firms by profits per partner

References