[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# August 1976

in Darbhanga, Bihar state (d. 2011)
Died: 
Fritz Lang, 85, Austrian-born film producer known for Metropolis and The Big Heat.
Monroe J. Rathbone, 76, President of the largest U.S. oil company, Standard Oil Company of New Jersey (now the Exxon Corporation) from 1953 to 1965

August 3, 1976 (Tuesday)

U.S. Congressman Jerry Litton of Missouri won the Democratic nomination for U.S. Senator, then died in a plane crash while flying to a victory party to celebrate his victory.  Litton, his wife and their two children, and the pilot and a co-pilot were on a twin-engine Beechcraft airplane that lifted off from the airport in Chillicothe, Missouri shortly after 9:00 p.m., then crashed 19 seconds later after a crankshaft broke in the left engine.  The airplane, which had been chartered to fly to a victory party in Kansas City, plummeted into a soybean field and exploded on impact, killing all six people on board.
Valery Sablin, a Soviet Navy officer who had led a mutiny in 1975 on the anti-submarine ship Storozhevoy on November 8, 1975, was executed after being found guilty of treason in a court-martial.
Born: Anoop Menon, Indian film actor, screenwriter and director in Malayalam films; in Kozhikode, Kerala state

August 4, 1976 (Wednesday)
The government of Sudan executed 81 people who had been summarily tried and convicted of participation in a July 2 attempt to overthrow the government of Jaafar Nimeiry.  The next day, an additional 17 people were executed including former Sudanese Brigadier General Mohammed Nur Saeed, who had led the effort involving more than 1,000 troops who had been trained in Libyan camps.
Roman Catholic Bishop Enrique Angelelli, of the diocese of La Rioja in Argentina, was assassinated by a group of people in two trucks.  As he was returning from a Mass in the city of Chamical with another priest, Father Arturo Pinto, Angelelli's truck was forced off the road at the town of Punta de los Llanos.  Pinto survived, but after recovering consciousness, he saw that Bishop Angelelli had been beaten to death.  Local police described the death as an accident and closed the case.  After the restoration of democracy in Argentina, a new investigation would conclude in 1986 that Angelelli had been murdered on orders from an Argentine Army officer.
American serial killer and teenager Montie Rissell murdered the first of five female victims in the Washington, DC suburb of Alexandria, Virginia.  After having sex with Aura Gabor, a 26-year-old prostitute who lived in the same apartment complex where he lived, he drowned her in a nearby ravine.  In a period of nine months, he would rape 12 women and kill five of them before being arrested on May 18, 1977.
The Sun Belt Conference, a group of college basketball in the southeastern United States, was formed by six universities.  Only one of the original members, the University of South Alabama, remains in the now 12-member conference.
Died:  Lord Thomson of Fleet, Canadian-born British publishing mogul who built the Thomson Organization that owned The Times of London

August 5, 1976 (Thursday)