[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Royal Jordanian Army

of the Jordanian Armed Forces. This authority is vested in the king by the Jordanian Constitution of 1952. He exercises the right to appoint and dismiss all members of the High Command of Jordan's Armed forces, and has the authority to exercise command and control over all units of the armed forces.

General Chiefs of Staff
The Headquarters of Jordan's military is called the Armed Forces General Command and is located in Amman. This headquarters is under the supervision of the Chief of the General Staff, who is appointed by the king. He exercises general responsibility for the day to day command, control and administration of the military and reports directly to the king as Supreme Commander.

Chiefs of Staff is a group of officers qualified militarily and technically working to advise the commander and assist in decision-making, they translate decision of the commander to orders and instructions and they are responsible for monitoring the implementation and size varies Chiefs of Staff of the unit level and the level of formations and at the level of the General Command represents assistant chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff group Chiefs of Staff, as follows:
 Chairman Joint chiefs of staff Deputy
 Logistics Support chief of staff
 Strategic Planning chief of staff
 Joint Operations chief of staff
 Training chief of staff
 Intelligence chief of staff
 Personnel chief of staff
 Defense Resources and Investment Management chief of staff

Land Forces Organization 
The Jordanian Army has Four Regional Commands (Northern, Central, Eastern and Southern), Quick Reaction Force Brigade, Special Forces Group and Special Royal Guard Command.

JAF main directorates 
 Directorate of Joint Chiefs of Staff
 Directorate of Royal Medical Services
 6x Mobile Field Hospital
 Directorate of Military Survey
 Directorate of Strategic Planning
 Directorate of Joint Military Operations
 Field Reconnaissance Battalion
 Directorate of Military Intelligence
 Directorate of International Affairs
 Directorate of Morale Guidance
 Directorate of Planning and Joint Logistic Supply
 Directorate of Doctrine and Joint Training
 Directorate Of Information Technology
 Directorate of Military Production
 Directorate of Defensive Procurement
 Airport Security and Protection Directorate
 Directorate of Housing and Military Construction
 Professions and Military Works Group

Unit Organization 
 Army General HQ
 Crisis Management National Center
 Royal Signal Directorate
 Army Headquarters Communication Group
 Jordanian Armed Forces Band
 Royal Artillery Corps
 Command HQ
 Army Artillery Command
 Acquisition and Survey Battalion (STA Battalion)
 2nd Field Artillery Battalion
 28th WM-120 MLRS Battalion
 29th HIMARS MLRS Battalion
 42nd Mobile Mortar Battalion
 Royal Maintenance Corps
 Royal Field Air Defense Directorate
 Royal Engineer Directorate
 Command HQ
 General Support Engineering Battalion
 Explosive Ordnance Disposal Unit
 Chemical Support Group
 Counter Nuclear Smuggling National Team
 Directorate of Border Security
 Command HQ
 Electronic Reconnaissance Group
 Border Security Training Center
 Royal Supply and Transportation Directorate:
 Command HQ
 Main Transportation Group
 Tank Transportation Group
 Royal Military Police Command
 Military Ammunition Command
 Command HQ
 Ammunition Security Group
 Ammunition Storage and Warehouses

Special Royal Guard Command

 Special Operations and Quick Reaction Force

The Army have a full range of combat and combat supporting corps, including the Royal Maintenance Corps. Today's Jordanian military ranks are based on those of the British Army, given Jordan's military heritage.

The Jordanian military also contributes to UN peacekeeping missions worldwide, having sent contingents to Africa, Afghanistan, Croatia, Bosnia, parts of the former Soviet Union, and even as far as Haiti and East Timor. The Jordanian military has established a regional center of excellence with regards to special forces training, having received training from both the United Kingdom and the United States. Jordanian Special Forces have trained counterparts from Algeria, Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE and Yemen.

Kenneth Pollack, a U.S. military analyst, wrote in c.2002 that 'from 1948 to 1956, the Arab Legion was far superior to any of the other Arab militaries. In battle, it generally gave as good as it got, and the Israelis considered it their most dangerous adversary. However, after 1956, the Jordanian capabilities began to decline. In 1967, they performed worse than in 1948, although the exceptional performance of the 40th Armoured Brigade and a number of Israeli mistakes helped disguise the deterioration somewhat. Thereafter Jordanian capabilities continued to gradually erode.'

Unit Summary