[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# David Luiz

s surprisingly allowed to play on after the incident but was subbed off at half time. He was last seen bleeding through his bandage before the half time whistle, which led to a spark of protests from both footballers and fans, demanding a 'free substitution' for those who are concussed on the pitch.

On 28 February 2021, he scored his first Premier League goal of the season in a 3–1 away win against Leicester City. On 6 March, he made his 50th league appearance for Arsenal in a 1–1 draw against Burnley.

It was confirmed on 18 May by manager Mikel Arteta that David Luiz would leave the club at the end of his contract in June 2021.

Flamengo
On 11 September 2021, David Luiz signed a 15-month contract with Flamengo, making his return to Brazil after spending nearly 15 years playing club football in Europe. He was part of the Flamengo squad that competed in the 2021 Copa Libertadores Final on 27 November, playing the full 120 minutes as his team lost 2–1 to Palmeiras after extra time. On 29 October 2022, he played in the 2022 Copa Libertadores Final against Athletico Paranaense, which ended in a 1–0 victory; hence, he became the twelfth player to win both the UEFA Champions League and the Copa Libertadores.

On 13 May 2023, David Luiz scored his first goal for Flamengo. In the sixth round of the Campeonato Brasileiro, against Esporte Clube Bahia, David Luiz hit a header to goalkeeper Marcos Felipe. Despite scoring the first goal, David Luiz did not celebrate. After the game, he explained why he didn't celebrate:

International career

David Luiz played with the Brazil under-20 team at the FIFA U-20 World Cup in 2007, with the team being ousted in the round of 16.

Courtesy of his solid season at Benfica, he was first picked for the senior side in a 2–0 friendly win against the United States on 10 August 2010, the first match after Mano Menezes replaced Dunga as the coach of the Seleção. Prior to making his debut for Brazil, the Portuguese Football Federation had considered calling him up to their own national team.

David Luiz was present in every squad during the management of Menezes and was called up to the squad for the Copa América in 2011, but did not make a single appearance at the tournament due to injury. In a friendly with Mexico in October of that year, he scored an own goal, but the Seleção eventually won it 2–1.

On 7 September 2012, David Luiz captained Brazil for the first time, appearing in a 1–0 win against South Africa in São Paulo. He was included in the squad for the FIFA Confederations Cup in 2013, which was hosted in his native Brazil. Alongside teammate Thiago Silva, David Luiz started all matches and helped Brazil win their fourth Confederations Cup title. In the final against Spain, he made an outstanding goal-line clearance from Pedro's shot.

On 2 June, David Luiz was named in Brazil's squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. He scored his first international goal in a 1–1 draw against Chile in the round of 16. He subsequently converted the team's first kick in the penalty shootout as they prevailed 3–2. He scored the winning goal from a 35-yard free kick in a 2–1 win against Colombia in the quarter-final, and celebrated the goal by running towards the corner flag and kicking it. In the absence of Thiago Silva due to suspension, David Luiz captained the Seleção in their 7–1 defeat to Germany at the semi-final stage of the tournament. Brazil went on to lose the third-place play-off 3–0 against the Netherlands.

David Luiz was a member of Brazil's squad for the 2015 Copa América in Chile. He partnered Miranda in central defence for the team's first two group matches, before being dropped for Thiago Silva, as Brazil were knocked out by Paraguay in the quarter-finals.

On 13 November 2015, David Luiz received his first career red card in a 1–1 2018 World Cup qualifying draw with rivals Argentina in Buenos Aires. In 2016, David Luiz and Thiago Silva were among several experienced players who were not chosen for the squad that travelled to the Copa América Centenario in the United States.

Style of play