[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Winston & Strawn

Winston & Strawn LLP is an international law firm headquartered in Chicago. It has nearly 800 attorneys spread across ten offices in the United States and six offices in Europe and Asia. Founded in 1853, it is one of the largest and oldest law firms in Chicago.

The firm is known for its litigation practice across a variety of fields.

Offices
The firm's largest office by number of employees is Chicago. It maintains other U.S. offices in Charlotte, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco, Silicon Valley, and Washington, D.C., and international offices in Europe (Brussels, London, and Paris) and Asia (Hong Kong and Shanghai).

History and timeline 

Winston & Strawn LLP was founded in Chicago in 1853 by Frederick H. Winston, who was joined by the firm's other name partner, Silas H. Strawn, in 1892.

The white-shoe firm has made a series of mergers and opened additional offices. The firm operates in the Cravath System tradition, with practices such as lateral hiring.

Notable events in the firm's history include:

 September 2000: Winston & Strawn acquires Breed, Abbott & Morgan, a law firm with a history dating back more than a century with offices in Greenwich, Connecticut and White Plains, New York.
 May 2012: 60 attorneys join from Dewey & LeBoeuf.
 2016: Winston & Strawn became the first Chicago law firm to match the record starting salary of $180,000 for first-year associates, beginning a "salary war" among large Chicago law firms after years of no change.
 2016: The firm announced a gender-neutral parental leave policy, allowing both male and female associates to take up to 20 weeks of paid parental leave within the first year of a child's life. 
 February 2017: Firm opens an office in Dallas with 23 partners from eight different law firms in Texas, the move described in the press as a "seismic shift" in the North Texas legal landscape.
 July–September 2017: Adds 12 partners to its employee benefits and executive compensation team, all from McDermott Will & Emery LLP.
 August 2017: A number of attorneys from the Latin America team of Chadbourne & Parke LLP's New York office leave to join Winston & Strawn's New York office.
 January 2020: Winston & Strawn announces the closure of their office in Dubai, which the firm opened four years earlier.
 June 2020: Joel Rubinstein, Jonathan Rochwarger, Elliott Smith and Daniel Nussen resigned to join White & Case, establishing its SPAC practice.
 August 2020: Winston & Strawn announced the formation of an Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Advisory Team, designed to assist companies navigate their ESG Profiles.
 2020: From mid-2020, the firm introduced austerity measures, including cuts to associate numbers and partner compensation, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Revenue
The firm's reported revenue was $985 million in 2017, a firm record. Its reported 2019 revenue was $1.01 billion. In 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, revenue decreased about three percent, to $981.2 million, and partner profits increased by more than four percent due to reduced expenses.

Notable representations 
Winston & Strawn has handled high-profile matters for its clients, including its organizing the Union Stockyard and Transit Company in 1894; challenging the War Powers Act in 1944 on behalf of department store Montgomery Ward; and representing the Atlanta Braves baseball franchise in 1966 litigation involving its relocation from Milwaukee to Atlanta. More recently: