[Source: PubMed]

55. PLoS One. 2021 Jul 1;16(7):e0252045. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252045. 
eCollection 2021.

Gender and intersectional analysis of livestock vaccine value chains in 
Kaffrine, Senegal.

McKune S(1), Serra R(2), Touré A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Global Health and Center for African Studies, 
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States of America.
(2)Center for African Studies, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, United 
States of America.
(3)Department of Livestock Science & Technology, Université du Sine Saloum El 
Hadj Ibrahima Niass, Kaffrine, Senegal.

Among livestock species, poultry and small ruminants are of particular 
importance to rural women in low- and middle-income countries, as means to 
generate income, provide nutritious food for the family, accumulate wealth, and 
confer social status. Newcastle disease (ND) and Peste des Petits Ruminants 
(PPR) are widespread livestock diseases of poultry and small ruminants, 
respectively. While both diseases are vaccine preventable, numerous constraints 
limit the availability of and access to livestock vaccines, especially among the 
most vulnerable populations in developing countries. The literature on equity 
and effectiveness of livestock vaccine distribution systems has emphasized many 
of these constraints, however a gendered analysis and deeper understanding of 
the vaccine system remain insufficient. This paper applies a gendered and 
intersectional transformational approach, or GITA, to highlight how gender and 
other social factors affect the provision and utilization of vaccines for ND and 
PPR diseases in the region of Kaffrine, Senegal. We first articulate and 
describe the vaccine value chains (VVCs) for these diseases in Kaffrine, and 
then analyze the gendered and intersectional dynamics at different nodes of the 
VVCs, including actors at the national level, through the regional and district 
levels, down to providers of animal health at community level and the livestock 
keepers themselves. Our findings indicate that actors' various experiences are 
shaped and defined mainly by rigid gender norms, location and remoteness, and to 
a lesser degree by other social stratifications of age, ethnicity, and 
livelihood. Given the significant role that gender norms play in the livestock 
vaccine value chains, differences according to the livestock species, regulation 
of vaccine administration, and vaccine distribution systems emerge as highly 
relevant for understanding barriers that women specifically face within the 
livestock vaccination system.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252045
PMCID: PMC8248738
PMID: 34197467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.