[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Inca army

p bury the dead. Inca armies would not fight at night for religious reasons. A group of priests would also be attached to the army units, to pray, make sacrifices, and try to weaken the opposing force by casting spells before and during battle. Weapons and other equipment were transported by llamas.

In the early stages of the Incan Empire, the army was mainly formed of ethnic Inca troops. Later on, however, only the officers and imperial guards were Incas (the Incas were 40,000 to 100,000 strong, and they ruled an empire of 10 to 15 million). The squads were organized according to the ethnicity of the soldiers (auca runas). The soldiers were armed and dressed according to their tribe with animal skins, fabric shields, feathers, jewels or body paints.

Once a battle was over, enemy leaders would only be executed if they refused to accept the sovereignty of the Incas. The majority of conquered nations were absorbed into the Empire. Conquered nations were forced to adopt Quechua as their main language, worship Inca gods and adopt Inca social customs. Inca government officials would perform a careful study of the conquered zone to ensure the achievement of these objectives.

Tactics 

Before the battle began, each battalion paraded to arouse awe in the opposing army, with their banners and the commander carried in his litter carrying the symbol of his command. After that, the general in command would review the troops while musical instruments were played. After this, the commanding officer would rally the troops for the attack. The Sapa Inca himself would rally the troops in larger campaigns. For smaller rebellions, barbarian invasions, or small campaigns, a general or a prince would be sent as his representative.

Logistics and command
The Inca army's military effectiveness was based on two main elements: logistics and discipline. In order to facilitate the movement of their armies, the Incas built a vast road system. Staging areas were set along the roads so the troops and animals could rest and weapons could be obtained (Colcas). Discipline was very rigid. Soldiers weren't allowed to leave the formation, even during the course of a march. Troops would maintain silence, only breaking it just before battle by yelling and singing to intimidate the opposing force.

Army squads were organized in a series of lines. The front lines were initially occupied by slingers and archers, who would go to the rearguard of the formation after the initial barrages. The lines behind them were occupied by storm-troopers with clubs and axes, these were followed by short-spear bearers, and closing the formation were long-spear bearers (up to 6 meters long).

The Incas also built forts (Pukaras) where they stored weapons, food and reserve soldiers. These fortresses also controlled the main communication routes and were constructed in easily defensible locations such as in mountains, on the tops of hills or at the side of a river or road.

There was a reward system for distinguished services. Soldiers displaying bravery beyond expectations were rewarded with medals, metal weapons, uniforms and other objects.

Field tactics
During a battle on the open ground, the army would usually get divided into three groups. The main group would launch a frontal attack against the opposing force, while the other two would flank the enemy and circle around behind them to attack from the rear. Before the hand-to-hand combat would start, to break the enemy's lines the soldiers used ranged weapons (slings, arrows and short spears). The Incan army sometimes used to feign a retreat to be attacked while launching its own pincer attack.

The main advantage of the Inca army over its enemies was its numeric superiority. While typical adversaries were warriors from a single chiefdom (or at most, an alliance of several chiefdoms), the imperial troops were formed of men from all over the empire. Thanks to the large size of the empire, an army of hundreds of thousands of warriors could be mobilized. This wide variety of men would prove both an advantage (numerical superiority and specialized soldiers for different terrain) and a disadvantage (lack of cohesion between army battalions). Both Inca oral histories and Spanish written accounts estimate that the Incas could field armies of 100,000 at a time.

Most opponents of the Inca in the region were poorly organized and after breaking formation would perform mass frontal charges. The Inca army, by contrast, was so well disciplined that it very rarely broke formation and was able to effectively repel ambushes in the jungle, desert, mountain and swamp terrains.

Sieges

In the event that the opposing force would take refuge in a fortress, mountain, or city, the Incan forces would cut communication and supply lines to isolate the enemy and prevent retreat or requests for reinforcements. If negotiations failed, the Inca forces would attempt to storm the fortress and/or starve the opposing force.