[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Todd G. Buchholz

Todd G. Buchholz is an American economist, author, inventor, and business consultant.  He served as Director of Economic Policy under George H. W. Bush and as managing director of Tiger Management. Buchholz regularly contributes commentaries on political economy, financial markets, business and culture to media outlets such as The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and The Washington Post, as well as major television networks. In his work, Buchholz has devised a number of economic theories and policy proposals and frequently makes forecasts about major economic turns and developments.

Life and career

Todd Buchholz holds advanced degrees in law and in economics from Harvard Law School, and from the University of Cambridge. He was a Cambridge University fellow in 2009.

From 1989 to 1992, Buchholz was  Director for Economic Policy at the White House.

Buchholz resides primarily in San Diego, California and travels the world delivering keynote presentations on economics, finance, and innovation to companies such as Microsoft, IBM and General Electric, as well as to governmental organizations. He has lectured in the U.K. Parliament, as well as at the White House library and the U.S. Treasury.

Buchholz has been known to contribute commentary on political economy, financial markets, business and culture to the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, Forbes, Reader's Digest, PBS, CBS, and ABC News. He once hosted his own special on CNBC.

His books have been translated into 12 languages and include the best-selling New Ideas from Dead Economists.

Buchholz's 2011 book Rush: Why You Thrive in the Rat Race, a "synthesis of neuroeconomics and evolutionary psychology," was named a top ten book in the social sciences by Publishers Weekly, and a book of the year by the New York Post and Los Angeles Times. In 2012, Rush was featured on the Charlie Rose TV show. Buchholz's book The Price of Prosperity: Why Rich Nations Fail and How to Renew Them was published by HarperCollins in June 2016. The book received praise from economists including Lawrence Summers, former Federal Board vice chair Alan Blinder, Michael Boskin, and Glenn Hubbard. The Wall Street Journal named Buchholz's 2016 book The Price of Prosperity:  Why Rich Nations Fail and How to Renew Them, one of eight "must-reads" for the summer of 2016. Buchholz's other works include New Ideas from Dead CEOs, Lasting Lessons from the Corner Office, From Here to Economy, Market Shock, and Bringing the Jobs Home. Mystery novel The Castro Gene, another of his books, won a USA Best Books prize in 2007.

Buchholz was a founder and president of the G7 Group, Inc., an international consulting firm. He has also been in charge of Victoria Capital, "which advises some of the world's leading investment funds on global strategies."

In 2005, Buchholz was reported to be on a short-list for a White House appointment to the Federal Reserve Board.

Buchholz co-produced the Broadway musical Jersey Boys. Buchholz coauthored the musical Glory Ride, which "tells the true story of Italians sneaking children out of Fascist Italy on bicycles." Glory Ride was performed in New York in January 2015, starring Tony Award nominee Josh Young, Alison Luff, and Quinn VanAntwerp. It was then performed in London in November 2022 to sold out audiences at The Other Palace Theatre.

He was awarded the Allyn Young Teaching Prize by the Harvard University Department of Economics and was named "One of the Top 21 Speakers of the 21st Century" by Successful Meetings magazine.

Buchholz invented the Math Arrow, a mathematical matrix that makes numbers more intuitive to children. He is the CEO of Sproglit, LLC, which develops software and classroom materials based on the Math Arrow.

Economic Theories and Policy Proposals

Buchholz has devised a number of economic theories and policy proposals, presented in books, articles, and lectures: