[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# List of South African slang words

g abundant drugs and booze
 pull in – literally means to come; example: "Pull in to my pozzy tonight, gona have a bust up"
 benou – (pronounce BER-NOW) – marijuana or dagga. Commonly used by Indians in Gauteng. "no benou there?"-do you have any dagga?
 sharp – goodbye, ("shap im out" – goodbye I'm leaving)
 aspriss – to do something deliberately ("I closed the door on him aspriss")
 gusheshe – BMW 325is (Black Slang).
 arrawise – greeting, derived from the English word 'otherwise' ("arrawise bra watse?")
 Salut – Hello, hi, as in a greeting, or "dis (it's) salut (good) my bra (friend/brother)"
 Ben 10 –  someone dating a woman who is 1–10 years older than him or a young male partner of a cougar. The name comes from the Cartoon Network animated series of the same name.
 Blesser –  This is a high level sugar daddy, but with a lot more money. He's filthy rich, and can set a lady up with clothing accounts, overseas holidays and sometimes even a car in exchange for sex benefits. The lady is expected to be readily available at all times when the blesser needs her (Black Slang).
 Blessee –  a lady who dates a blesser (Black Slang).
 Bosoh – Commonly known as weed or dagga. "Jdogger roll the bosoh there. Im keen to get blazed"
 Make the thing there –  This is commonly used with the word betters referring to the purchasing of a bag." Make the thing there Lyles. Make a betters for the boys"
 Chow a bean – A bean which is also known a blue boy, is commonly used at the end of a sesh to cut things before they get dangerous "We on day 4 now Cheeno. Time to call it and chow a bean."
 Beef – A small Muslim boy also known as tokoloshe.
 Gup – Indian slang for a lie. Can be used as a verb which is "gupping" or past tense "gupped". "I told Cheeno I got a backdoor into Wikipedia. That guy got gupped hard""
 Let's have it – A commonly used phrase to instigate the start of a past time activity. Can be used for anything leisure, from FIFA to a betters (Please refer to the definition of betters above). "Lets have it there quick Stanosh before more owes come"
 Jux – To be horny or excited. "Ekse this betters is making me jux"
 Catch a press – To have sexual intercourse which lasts only a few moments due to being jux. "Bra, im so jux, lets vye catch a press said Cheens"

South African Portuguese slang 
 maburro – slang for a white Afrikaans person, usually derogatory but sometimes used affectionately depending on context. (a "burro" in Portuguese is an ass, donkey or stupid person.)
 padece – slang for a white Afrikaans person, usually derogatory but sometimes used affectionately depending on context.

South African Indian slang 
Many of these terms occur in the Cape Town and Durban areas, and few in Indian areas in Gauteng. Many words are shared with Coloured slang, such as pozzie (in Durban) and let's waai.

cake – idiot
cameway – to go with someone, like come with me. Used in Durban.
Charo – a person of Indian origin. From the word "curry" (or tea).
eeuww man! – an informal way of greeting. The South African Indian equivalent of "Hey dude!"
guzzie – friend (from the Zulu gaz'lami)
Jaaver – an Afrikaner person
kassam – serious, not joking. From Islamic meaning "oath".
mooing – to flirt. From the Afrikaans word mooi meaning "nice"/"pretty".
 ou – person
 Roti Ou / Bread Ou Hindi person
 Wit Ou – a White person
 Porridge Ou – a Tamil person
paining – having pain
pano – money, from the Tamil word for "money". Commonly used by all South African Indian linguistic groups as a euphemism for money (not slang).
 patla, flouie – usually refers to poor (unfunny) jokes. Patla can also refer to any kind of damp squib. Patla Patla often refers obliquely to having sex; imitating the sound of two bodies meeting.
 potter-marie – means a dumbass (Hindu language roots)
right – an affirmation, mostly used while giving traffic directions, as in "Go straight, Right. Turn Left, Right."
sheila – an ugly woman
slaat – action like hit. For example: Don't choon me what what an' all, I slaat you one time laanie.
this thing/"dis ting" – watchamacallit
y'all – "you all"  appears across all varieties of South African Indian English. Its lexical similarity to the y'all of the United States is attributed to coincidence.