[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Lima Site 85

ed to worsen, as an estimated four PAVN infantry battalions captured the Laotian government's stronghold at Nam Bac. Despite the growing threat from North Vietnamese forces, the US military was still not permitted to reinforce the installation on Phou Pha Thi Mountain due to political sensitivities.

The defense of Lima Site 85 was assigned to two CIA paramilitary officers who led about 1,000 Hmong soldiers, with 200 men guarding the ridge line and the remaining 800 in the valley below. They were reinforced by a Thai Border Patrol Police battalion of 300 men. In the first week of 1968, the combined PAVN and Pathet Lao forces probed Royal Laos Army positions in the area by launching several artillery attacks. On 10 January, a Pathet Lao patrol was driven from the area by the Hmong soldiers. Fearing the explosives attached to their equipment could be detonated by incoming artillery rounds, US technicians dismantled the charges and threw them over the cliff.

On 12 January, CIA spotters reported a four-aircraft formation flying in the direction of Lima Site 85. They were Soviet-made Antonov An-2 biplanes. Two aircraft continued towards Lima Site 85, while the others turned away. The Vietnam People's Air Force, in one of its few air attacks during the conflict, tried to destroy the radar at Lima Site 85. The An-2s flew over Phou Pha Thi, and their crewmen dropped 120 mm mortar shells through the aircraft's floor and then strafed their targets with 57 mm rockets mounted on the wing pods. As they repeatedly attacked the facility, ground fire heavily damaged one AN-2, and it crashed into a mountainside. By now, CIA officers and US controllers at Lima Site 85 had managed to contact an Air America helicopter, which was faster than the Soviet-made biplanes. The Huey pilot Captain Ted Moore sighted the remaining An-2, and promptly gave chase. As he pulled alongside, flight mechanic Glenn Woods armed with an AK-47 assault rifle opened fire and caused the biplane to crash into a ridge.

The remaining An-2s had observed the attack from a distance and managed to escape without damage. Four Hmongs, two men and two women, had been killed by the North's attack. The TSQ-81 radar and associated equipment were undamaged. Shortly afterwards, what remained of one of the An-2 biplanes was put on display in front of the That Luang Monument, Vientiane's most important Buddhist shrine, as proof of North Vietnamese military activities in the kingdom. Despite the attack, the US Embassy in Vientiane and the USAF refused to alter their strategy for defending Lima Site 85. Lieutenant Colonel Clarence F. Blanton, commander of USAF personnel at the facility, was given no authority to supervise his own perimeter or to order a retreat if they again came under attack. Throughout January and February, intelligence collected by the Hmongs confirmed that a major assault on Lima Site 85 was being prepared, but Sullivan and the US military took no steps to strengthen the defenses. In late February, a Combat Controller, Technical Sergeant James Gary, arrived to augment the defenses by directing air strikes. He was replaced in this duty by Sergeant Roger D. Huffman on about 4 March.

Battle

North Vietnamese plan and preparations
On 18 February 1968, a PAVN artillery survey team was ambushed near Lima Site 85 by Hmong reconnaissance teams, killing a PAVN officer in the process. The dead officer, who was a major, carried a notebook which revealed a plan to attack Phou Pha Thi by using three PAVN battalions and one Pathet Lao battalion. Consequently, US personnel at Lima Site 85 directed 342 air strikes within  of their own facility to disrupt their opponent's build-up during 20–29 February. Unknown to the USAF, the PAVN had also drawn up their plan to capture Lima Site 85 by deploying a Special Forces unit. The task of capturing the US facility was entrusted to a platoon from the PAVN 41st Special Forces Battalion, led by First Lieutenant Truong Muc. The platoon numbered 33 soldiers, and they were reinforced by a nine-man sapper squad and a communications and cryptography squad.