[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Boogiepop Returns: VS Imaginator Part 1

is the second novel in the Boogiepop series written by Kouhei Kadono and illustrated by Kouji Ogata.

Plot introduction
The year before the incident with Manticore, Boogieopop fought against Imaginator.  Now, Imaginator is attempting to return and complete its ambitions.  Meanwhile, agents from the Towa Organisation have begun to investigate Boogiepop.

Explanation of the novel's title
The titles used in the Boogiepop Series can typically be separated into multiple titles.  The full title of this novel is Boogiepop Returns: VS Imaginator Part 1 "SIGN".  Boogiepop Returns refers to this being the return of the character Boogiepop.  VS Imaginator has a double meaning: Imaginator is the key antagonist of the novel, therefore it can be read as 'verses Imaginator', but VS Imaginator is also the name of a fictitious book by Kirima Seiichi – quotes from VS Imaginator are presented at the start of each chapter.

Plot summary

A year before the "pillar of light", Minahoshi Suiko seemed to have killed herself, but Boogiepop claims that he killed her, because she was an enemy of the world.  He calls her Imaginator.

Asukai Jin can see people's hearts as parts of plants such as flowers, leaves, buds and roots growing from their chests, but everyone's plant is missing something important: this represents the flaw in their heart.  Asukai saw the apparition of a girl, who claimed to be Imaginator.  She offered Asukai a vision of a possible future, but he was initially opposed.  He tried sketching the apparition's face, but was unable to capture it.  The students who sought his counsel often uttered the phrase "sometimes it snows in April"; a phrase used by Imaginator.  After meeting a former student, addicted to drugs, and dying, Asukai gave in and reached for her plant; she died happy.  After rescuing a boy and a girl from a group of thugs, Asukai identified himself as Imaginator.

Taniguchi Masaki had just moved back to Japan from Phnom Penh, and found himself incredibly popular with the girls at his school, and equally hated by the boys.  One day, he failed to notice a group of thugs moving in to attack him.  A girl, Orihata Aya, stepped in to help Taniguchi, though her words and actions were far from normal.  Before things got out of hand, a man stepped in to save them.  The two ended up going out.  While waiting for Taniguchi one day, a large man missing his right ear came up to Orihata, calling her "Camille" – he was Spooky E, and they were both from the Towa Organisation.  Taniguchi thought to rescue Orihata from the man, but was rendered unconscious.

Miyashita Touka and Suema Kazuko were studying at the cram school where they had met and become friends.  Kinukawa Kotoe approached Suema seeking advice about her relative, Asukai Jin.  Unable to let things pass her by, Suema promised to look into things.  In Asukai's office, she found failed sketches that looked like Minahoshi Suiko.  Whilst hiding, she also saw Asukai do "something" near the chests of two girls on behalf of Imaginator – a name she recognized from a book by Kirima Seiichiro.  After Asukai had finished, the two girls looked remarkably similar in their relaxed expression.

After the incident with Spooky E, Orihata had explained to Taniguchi about the shinigami, Boogiepop.  She asks him to play the part of Boogiepop, and save people.  He dressed up as the rumours described Boogiepop, and uses his Karate experience to defeat criminals that she would lure out.  However, this fails to draw out the real Boogiepop, so Spooky E instructs Orihata to try a new plan.

When Taniguchi Masaki transferred into his school, Anou Shinjirou fell in love immediately.  Confused by his feelings, he directs anger at Taniguchi instead.  One day, he convinced a group of younger students to threaten Taniguchi, and watches on from the shadows.  At no point did things go according to his plan, especially not when some man suddenly appears and quickly defeats the other students.  Anou watches with disgust as the relationship between Taniguchi and Orihata develops.

Hearing rumours about Orihata's frivolous attitude towards men, Anou tries to prove them, so as to break up her relationship with Taniguchi.  Unfortunately, all he learns is that she lives like clockwork, and makes no effort to enjoy life.  Anou is found by Spooky E, who turns him into his puppet, and orders him to enter Shinyo Academy – following this, Anou would occasionally cry for no apparent reason.  Due to the change in his behaviour, Anou receives a love letter, and is instructed by Spooky E to follow it up, but a chance encounter with Asukai Jin frees Anou from Spooky E's control.