[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Liberal welfare reforms

devoted to increasing employment opportunities through measures such as afforestation and the provision of smallholdings in the countryside. In addition, the government encouraged the adoption of Fair Wages contracts by local authorities. In 1908, special regulations were made for electrical safety.

The 1906 Notice Of Accidents Act simplified and improved "the system of reporting accidents in mines, quarries, factories and workshops." The Police (Superannuation) Act amended the law as to retirement from the Police Force "in a manner advantageous to the Force and the individual policeman, while at the same time relieving the burden on the rates." The Employment of Women Act 1907 repealed two unimportant provisions of the law "which allowed employment of women at night in a mine or factory to an extent inconsistent with the requirements of the International Convention on the subject" that had been signed by Great Britain and thirteen other States at Berne in 1906. In 1908, a shipbuilding programme for that year was accelerated to boost labour demand, while loans sanctioned by the Local Government Board since the early summer for 'works of public utility' (such as street improvements, waterworks, and sewerage) had exceeded £700,000. Spending on relief work and public works was also significantly increased to alleviate unemployment, while the Local Government Board regulations governing the type of work provided by distress committees and local authorities, together with the eligibility of applicants for relief, were both relaxed. In 1909 the construction of back-to-back houses was finally forbidden. For those in Ireland, the Labourers (Ireland) Act 1906 empowered Rural District Councils to acquire land for labourers' cottages and plots, while the Town Tenants Act extended "the principle of compensation for improvements at the termination of a lease to the urban tenant".

The Regulations of 1907 for the manufacture of paints and colours prohibited women and young persons from manipulating lead colour (defined as any dry carbonate of lead, red lead or any colour containing either of these substances) and ordered monthly medical examinations of all employees engaged in a lead process. Regulations introduced that same year concerning the heading of yarn dyed by means of a lead compound prohibited the employment of young persons and prescribed the medical examination "of all workers in the process once every three months".
The Trade Boards Act 1909 created boards to set minimum wage criteria that were legally enforceable.  The main provision was to set minimum wages in certain trades with the history of low wages, because of surplus of available workers, the presence of women workers, or the lack of skills. At first it applied to four industries: chain-making, ready-made dresses. paper-box making, and the machine-made lace and finishing trade. About 70 per cent of their 200,000 workers were women. It was later expanded to coal mining and then to other industries with a preponderance of unskilled manual labour by the Trade Boards Act 1918, and by 1924 to farm labourers.

The Mines Accidents (Rescue and Aid) Act 1910 provided for the availability of first aid treatment, rescue work, and fire precautions at mines, and that same year a central Road Board was established to fund improvements in road conditions, a measure made necessary by the new motor traffic. Upon its introduction the new Board began at once to enable the County Councils to begin tarring the surfaces of main roads.

Health and Welfare 
A number of innovations in social welfare were carried by the Liberal Government during its time in office. The Housing of the Working Classes and Town Planning Act, as noted by one study, “liberalized still further the terms of housing loans, increasing the proportion of money needed which could be lent and the time for repayment. Local authorities could borrow all or part of the money required from the Public Works Loan Commissioners for 60 years (80 for the land) and Public Utility Societies could borrow two-thirds of the needed cash for 40 years In both cases the interest rate at that time was 372 per cent, but this depended on market fluctuations. Up to 1909 municipal housing had been optional. It now became obligatory where a shortage was judged to exist. The town planning powers conferred have had far-reaching results in preventing congestion in un- built-on areas.”  

The 1910 Census Bill sought to obtain more information "about both family structure and urban conditions in order for the government to develop policies to tackle problems such as infant mortality and slum housing", while administrative reforms were carried out that by 1913 "had resulted in a more effective deployment of medical staff in the infirmaries".