[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Disputation of Tortosa

hat the belief in the Messiah is a principle of faith by which the midrashim must be interpreted. Thus he rejected the attempt to produce arguments against the principle of the Messiah from the midrash, for the interpretation must use the principle of faith to elucidate the midrash, not the reverse.

In April, Geronimo summarized the disputation according to his own understanding, and thus ended the exchange over the matter of the Messiah.

Debate over the Talmud

Discussion turned to a new topic, around which revolved the earlier Disputation of Paris of 1240: "the errors, heresies, defilements, and blasphemies against the Christian religion" found in the Talmud. At this point, the Jews apparently decided that it is better for them to keep quiet, and said that although they are convinced that the sages of the Talmud would know how to defend their words, they do not know how to do so. Yosef Albo and Zerachia HaLevi did not participate in this communication and agreed to respond, but their responses are not known.

Geronimo demanded to burn the Talmud. He used the dispute over the works of Maimonides, which ended with the burning of his books, to justify burning a book even if only a small part of it is heretical.

It seems that most of the Jewish religious leaders reached the conclusion that a continuation of the disputation would exact a heavy cost and that the harm brought in their absence upon their communities and families was intolerable, so they decided to end it at all costs. It is not known what those among them who decided to continue said in the remainder, and in December 1414 the disputation was formally concluded.

Results

Benedict claimed victory and he gave instructions by which all books of the Talmud would be handed over to his functionaries for censorship. Compulsory conversions of the Jews continued, although they were not given official encouragement. However, Jews who were coerced into becoming Christian could, if they wished, return to their own religion. Vincent Ferrer passed through the communities and compelled the Jews to hear his sermons, then took his campaign north to France in 1416; that year a new king, Alfonso V, took to the throne in Aragon, and subsequently reversed all the anti-Jewish legislation of the Ferrer epoch, protecting the Jews and conversos firmly from the start of his reign and rejecting all attacks on them.

Most of the damage caused as a result of the disputation was to morale. Aragon Jewry suffered a hard blow and many of its dignitaries and wealthy converted. The feeling was that the Jews had gotten the worst of it in the confrontation with Geronimo. After the fact, Isaac Abrabanel criticized the weakness of the arguments brought forward by the Jewish religious leaders, but it appears that under their duress, their ability to succeed was more limited.

See also
Disputation of Barcelona (1263)
Disputation of Paris (1240)
History of the Jews in Spain
Converso
Marrano
Allahdad
1910 Shiraz blood libel
Christianity and Judaism

Further readingBen Yehudim le-Notsrim : Yehudim ṿe-Notsrim be-Maʻarav Eropah ʻad reshit ha-ʻet ha-ḥadashah , Tel-Aviv : ha-Universiṭah ha-petuḥah, c1993-1998. Vol. 3 and 5.  and 
Bobichon, Philippe, Yosef Albo, Sefer ha-‘Iqqarim [« Livre des Principes »], III, 25 : Un chapitre de la controverse judéo-chétienne dans l’Espagne du XVe siècle (texte hébreu traduction, commentaires), Madrid, CSIC, 2015 online
Lasker, Daniel J., Jewish philosophical polemics against Christianity in the Middle Ages, New York 1977 
Maccoby, Hyam., Judaism on Trial: Jewish-Christian Disputations in the Middle Ages, Littman Library of Jewish Civilization, 1993. 
Rauschenbach, Sina, "Joseph Albo, der Messias und die Disputation von Tortosa." In: Medieval Forms of Argument: Disputation and Debate''. Hrsg. Georgiana Donavin, Carol Poster, and Richard Utz. Eugene, OR: Wipf & Stock, 2002. pp. 53–66.

References 

1413 in Europe
1414 in Europe
15th century in Catalonia
15th century in Aragon
Christian antisemitism in the Middle Ages
Criticism of Christianity
Tortosa
Jewish Spanish history
Jewish–Christian debate