[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Stuart London

children. Parliament captured the king, and in 1647 he was imprisoned in Hampton Court Palace for several months. The Parliamentary New Model Army used Putney as their headquarters from November 1647, and held a series of meetings there to discuss the future of the country called the Putney Debates.

In 1648, Henry Rich attempted to create an uprising in favour of the king, resulting in the Battle of Surbiton. However, he was summarily defeated and Londoners generally did not join the rebellion, and Charles was executed on the 30th of January, 1649, outside Banqueting House. Without a king, England entered an Interregnum period in which the country was controlled by Parliament, particularly its military leader, Oliver Cromwell, until his death in 1659. The Lord Mayor of London refused to proclaim the abolition of the monarchy, and was imprisoned in the Tower as a result.

Woolwich was established as a military base in 1671, storing ordnance and experimental armaments.

In 1685, the Catholic James II came to the throne, which angered anti-Catholic Anglicans and Dissenters. After a failed rebellion by the Duke of Monmouth, James stationed troops outside London. Seven bishops refused to accept a new law of his allowing greater toleration for Catholics and Nonconformists, and were imprisoned in the Tower of London, but were found not guilty. Londoners celebrated their release in the streets. In 1688, several politicians contacted the husband of James' sister, William of Orange, inviting him to seize the throne. He brought an army across the English Channel, arriving in London in November in what was known as the Glorious Revolution. Afterwards, Parliament passed a law banning Catholics from taking the throne, and supporters of James and his descendants, known as Jacobites, continued to fight for the next 70 years.

Health and medicine

In non-plague years, the biggest cause of death in London from the 1660s-1690s was tuberculosis, being named as the cause of 18% of all deaths on average. The second-biggest was "convulsions", or fits; the third was "ague and fever", which includes malaria; followed by "griping in the guts" (dysentery), smallpox and measles, rotten or abscessed teeth, old age, and dropsy.

The preparations for the coronation of King James I and Anne of Denmark in 1603 were interrupted by a severe plague epidemic (which may have killed over 30,000 people) and by threats of assassination. The Royal Entry to London was deferred until 15 March 1604. Major epidemics of plague occurred in 1603, 1625, and most notably, 1665, known as the Great Plague. Modern estimates place the number of deaths in the Great Plague at upwards of 100,000, over one-quarter of London's total population.

London's two main hospitals were St. Bartholomew's and St. Thomas'. There were a number of leper hospitals, including at Highgate (closed in 1653), and Kingsland in Hackney. London had several hospitals for the mentally ill. The most famous was also the most notorious- St. Mary of Bethlehem, better known as Bedlam. Inmates at Bedlam were able to be viewed by the public in return for a donation. During this period, the hospital moved from its first location on Bishopsgate to a site in Moorfields. In 1684, the hospital gained a new governor in Edward Tyson, who attempted to reform the institution somewhat by replacing the male warders with female nurses, and establishing a fund to provide clothing for the inmates. 

During this period, the Chamberlen family of midwives pioneered the use of forceps during a difficult birth. Before the use of forceps, a child who could not be born was pulled out of the mother with hooks or cut up into smaller pieces, whereas the Chamberlens' method offered a chance of saving the baby as well as the mother. To preserve their trade secret, they transported the forceps in an overly large wooden case. The secret was so well-kept that no one else discovered it until after the last member of the family died without an heir in 1728.

The most prestigious medical practitioners were the Fellows of the Royal College of Physicians, who could be hired to see private clients for large fees, and most of whom were based in London. The most celebrated single physician of the age may be Thomas Sydenham, known as "the English Hippocrates" due to his relatively high success rate.

In 1674, the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries first opened their Physic Garden in Chelsea in order to grow plants for medicine. The garden may have included England's first greenhouse, which was recorded there by John Evelyn in 1685.

Education