[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of skateboarding terms

shing: A plastic cup-shaped piece which rests in the pivot cup of the base plate and supports the truck's hanger at the pivot point allowing the truck to pivot smoothly. The pivot bushing prevents frictional contact between the truck and the base plate and provides a cushioned pivot point.

Bearings

Bearings: Bearings allow for the smooth turning of a wheel on its axle. Bearings consist of 6, 7, or 8 balls enclosed in races between two shields encased in a disc-like body. Bearings can be measured by an ABEC rating. Skateboard bearings typically come in sets of eight and are inserted into both sides of the wheel; two bearings for each of the four wheels.
Crown: Crowns are also called retainers or cages and are usually made of Delrin. Crowns hold and separate the individual balls in a bearing.
Bearing shield: The two walls that hold the ball bearings and Delrin crowns from falling out. The bearing shield plays an important role as well in keeping dirt from getting into the bearing and slowing it down. Some bearings have only one shield and can be taken apart for maintenance.
C clip: The C clip is a mechanism for locking bearing shields in place. It is essentially a thin C-shaped wire that fits tightly into a groove around the outside perimeter of the bearing shield to hold it in place against the bearing casing. Not all bearings have a C clip, but those that do can usually be taken apart for cleaning and maintenance.
Casing: The casing is the body of the bearing. It holds the ball bearings, crown, and shield in place.

Skateboarding trick terminology 

Ollie: A jump performed by popping the tail of the board on the ground, and using the front foot to even out body and attain air. The basis of most skating tricks, originally done on a ramp, named after Alan Gelfand, AKA "Ollie" and the flat ground ollie was created by Rodney Mullen See: Air, Pop
180: An ollie with a 180 degree board and body turn either backside or frontside.
180 heelflip: A heelflip with a 180 degree board and body turn either backside or frontside.
180 kickflip: A kickflip with a 180 degree board and body turn either backside or frontside.
360 flip or Tre flip: A 360 shove it and a kickflip. The board does one full rotation.
50-50 grind: A grind on both trucks.
5-0 grind: A rear truck grind with the front of the board elevated over the obstacle.
Air: Riding with all four wheels in the air.
Backside: A trick executed with the skater's back to the ramp or obstacle, or a rotation of the rider/board where the front foot moves forward (e.g. a regular-footed skater turning clockwise).
Boardslide: A trick in which the skater slides the underside of the deck along an object.
Caballerial: A 360-degree ollie while riding fakie. The Caballerial was named after Steve Caballero, who invented the trick on vert in the early 1980s.
Carve: To skate in a long, curving arc.
Crooked grind: A nosegrind where the nose is angled toward the object and the tail is elevated.
Darkslide: A seemingly complicated looking trick in which the rider approaches a ledge or rail and does a flip trick onto the obstacle so that the rider lands on the board upside down with their feet on the nose and the tail and slides across the obstacle. Generally a half-kickflip or half-heelflip is the flip trick used to get into a darkslide. Created by Rodney Mullen.
Fakie: Rolling backwards; the rider is in the normal stance, but rolling in the opposite direction. (Basically a switch nollie position)
Frontside: A trick executed with the skater facing the ramp or obstacle, or a rotation of the rider/board where the front foot moves backward (e.g. a regular-footed skater turning counterclockwise).
Goofy-foot: A skater who more comfortably rides with the right foot leading.
Grind: Riding on a curb, railing, or other surface using one or both truck axles.
Hardflip: Instead of the board spinning backside, the trick is performed by doing a kickflip and having the board spin frontside.
Heelflip: A kickflip in which the skater uses the front heel to flip the board in the opposite direction.
Inward heelflip: A heelflip variation where the board simultaneously rotates 180 degrees backside
Kickflip: An ollie in the middle of which the skater uses the front toe to kick the board into an Aileron roll.
Laserflip: A heelflip with a 360 degree frontside shove-it.
Mongo pushing: Pushing with the front foot instead of the back foot as per usual.
No-Comply 180: A one-footed 180 where the front foot plants on the ground and the back foot pops the board 180 degrees and then the plant foot is brought back onto the board
Nollie: An Ollie performed with the front foot (N/ollie nose ollie) Same motion as a switch ollie but done on the front of the board, it could be added as a prefix to describe any other trick performed in fake or switch stance (Nollie 360 flip/Tre flip, Nollie kickflip/Nollie flip, etc.).
Nosegrind: A front truck grind with the rear of the board elevated over the obstacle.
Noseslide: Sliding the