[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Economy of the Middle East

pipeline has brought revenue to Turkey and enabled it to share in some of the regional hydrocarbon wealth.  Turkey's economy is currently led by its automobile, agricultural, construction and textile sectors.  It has a per capita GDP of $11,200, supplemented by some 1.2 million Turks working abroad.

Turkey's economy has been considered a regional success story in the past. As per the Turkish Statistical Institute, a government agency committed to producing official statistical data on the country, the country's inflation rate increased by 14.03% in November 2020. The statistics showed a 1.5 points increase as per the expected level; a 15-month high. As of December 2020 stats, the figures show a 2.3% increase in monthly consumer prices and a significant price rise in basic necessities such as food, beverages, and transportation. Meanwhile, the fall of the Turkish lira has been reported for years. Since the start of 2020, it has lost more than 30% of its value as compared to the US dollar and 30% against the euro.

United Arab Emirates

The economy of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) is the second largest in the Arab world (after Saudi Arabia), with a gross domestic product (GDP) of $377 billion (AED1.38 trillion) in 2012. The United Arab Emirates has been successfully diversifying the economy. 71% of UAE's total GDP comes from non-oil sectors. Oil accounts for only 2% of Dubai's GDP. The UAE is also making an effort to attract foreign direct investment by offering 100% foreign ownership and no taxes. Tourism is one of the main sources of revenue in the UAE.

A rating agency, Moody's Investors Service revised its rating of eight UAE banks from stable to negative amidst the coronavirus outbreak. The eight banks included Emirates NBD, Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank, Dubai Islamic Bank, Mashreq Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East, Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank, National Bank of Ras al-Khaimah and National Bank of Fujairah.

The UAE cabinet introduced a UBO law in early 2021 after global pressure for financial transparency in the corporate sector increased. The pressure was sourced from the investigations carried out by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists like the 2016 Panama Papers pushing to pass the Ultimate Beneficial Ownership or UBO registries. Following Dubai’s increasing role in being a safe haven for the investment of illicit funds and provision of financial secrecy to people behind it – as disclosed under other ICIJ probes such as FinCEN Files and Luanda Leaks – has led to the introduction of the beneficial ownership law in the UAE. According to ICIJ, companies not abiding by the law and failing to report beneficial ownership information will have to bear administrative penalties and fines worth approximately 100,000 UAE dirhams, starting July 1, 2021. However, considering the lack of a centralized register to track all financial activities, loopholes, and exemptions in the UBO law itself, advocates believe that it isn’t enough as a standalone to control money laundering in UAE.

Yemen

Yemen has suffered from chronic economic mismanagement. With 85% unemployment, the nation relies heavily on expatriate remittances. The reliance on foreign labor markets proved disastrous following the 1991 Persian Gulf War when Saudi Arabia and Kuwait expelled Yemeni workers and curtailed aid to the country in response to its support of Iraq. Most of Yemen's GDP comes from its limited oil production. The bulk of its labor is involved in agriculture where its primary cash crop is khat.
On 3 November 2018 a British MP from Labor Party blamed Iran backed rebels in Yemen for the disastrous humanitarian crisis in that country. Graham Jones, chairman of the Commons Committees on Arms Exports Controls (CAEC) has questioned the British Government ‘s arm sales.

Job index
The Middle East Job Index Survey conducted by Bayt.com in February 2015 stated that: 
Overall, the Job Index had decreased by one point since the last wave of August 2014. In the
UAE, the Job Index had decreased by four points since August 2014.

Three-fifths of working respondents in the MENA stated that they would be hiring in the following 3 months. Plans to hire in those 3 months were higher in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries (Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman and Qatar), with 37% 'definitely' hiring, compared to 30% in the Levant and 29% in North Africa.

7 in 10 working respondents stated that they would be hiring in a year's time. The plans for hiring in a year's time showed more positive results amongst the GCC countries, with 37% 'definitely' hiring after 12 months, compared to 30% in Levant and North Africa. 65% of those who planned to hire in the following 3 months indicated that they would be hiring for up to 10 positions. Over three-fifths (64%) of working respondents stated that their companies have hired new employees in the previous 6 months.