[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# George Allen (American politician)

Despite Allen's efforts to keep Virginia independent from federal education funds, the Virginia Board of Education applied for federal funds through the program Goals 2000.

During Allen's tenure as governor, the American Federation of Teachers rated the SOLs "exemplary" in the four core subjects.

Virginia water toxin cover-up
In 1994, Allen's administration eliminated Virginia's water toxins monitoring program. The Virginia Toxics Database, which was maintained by the program and contained important baseline toxicity levels for Virginia waters, was locked away in a safe during Allen's term as governor. Scientists and government agencies were denied access to the data by Allen's Department of Environment Quality. Reporting by The Roanoke Times spurred Virginia legislators to call for an investigation by the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission. The 1999 investigation found that documents from the database were destroyed and that the concealed data included information on high levels of PCBs in Virginia waterways, including the Rappahannock River. A report by the Chesapeake Bay Foundation found that the DEQ had withheld knowledge of high mercury concentrations in the Shenandoah River.

"Disney's America" Controversy

In 1993, The Walt Disney Company announced their plans to build a U.S. history-inspired theme park called "Disney's America" in Prince William County, Virginia. Allen was a vocal supporter of the park, citing all the new jobs that would be created if the park was constructed. The announcement of the park, however, sparked backlash from both historians and the public. There were fears that Disney would not be truthful in its telling of U.S. history and would resort to a harmful promotion of American exceptionalism. Many also worried the nearby Manassas National Battlefield Park—the site of two major Civil War battles (see the First Battle of Bull Run and the Second Battle of Bull Run)--would be negatively impacted by the park's creation. Allen went on CNN to debate critics of the project and spoke at a Congressional hearing over the park's creation. In the end, however, plans for the park's creation were scrapped by Disney.

Return to the private sector (1998–2001)

McGuireWoods
In February 1998, Allen became a Richmond-based partner at the law firm McGuire Woods Battle & Boothe (now McGuireWoods LLP), as head of its business expansion and relocation team. At the time, Allen said "I think it's healthy to get out of government. If you stay in too long, you lose track of reality and the real world." According to a disclosure form Allen filed on May 12, 2000, he was paid $450,000 by the firm between January 1999 and April 2000.

Xybernaut
While out of office, Allen became a director at two Virginia high-tech companies and advised a third, all government contractors that he had assisted while governor.

In mid-1998, Allen joined the board of Xybernaut, a company selling mobile, flip-screen computers. The firm never made a profit – it posted 33 consecutive quarterly losses after it went public in 1996. In September 1999, Allen and the rest of the company's board dismissed the company's accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers, which had issued a report with a "going concern" paragraph that questioned the company's financial health.

Allen made almost no money from the stock, according to his communications director, John Reid. According to the Associated Press, Allen steered compensation from his board service, other than stock options, to his law firm. He was granted options worth $1.5 million at their peak. Allen listed them on his disclosure forms for 2002 and 2003, but never exercised them.

Commonwealth Biotechnologies
Allen joined Commonwealth's board of directors about two months after leaving the governor's office in January 1998. "I learned a lot on their board and enjoyed working with 'em, and they seem to be doing all right, I guess," Allen said in October 2006.

Commonwealth granted Allen options on 15,000 shares of company stock at $7.50 a share in May 1999. Allen steered other compensation from his board service to his law firm, McGuire Woods. As of late 2006, Allen had not cashed in any options; the stock as of that date was well under $5 per share, making the options valueless for the moment. Commonwealth reported its first full year of profitability in 2005.

Com-Net Ericsson
Allen became a member of the advisory board of Com-Net Ericsson in February 2000. The advisory board's responsibility was to meet at least twice a year and provide advice and service. Allen terminated his service on the board before the end of 2000. He was paid approximately $300,000 for his services.

U.S. Senate (2001–2007)

Elections

2000

Allen ran for the U.S. Senate and defeated Democratic incumbent U.S. Senator Chuck Robb 52%–48%. He was the only Republican to unseat a Democratic incumbent that year.

2006