[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# January 1973

a series, Last of the Summer Wine would debut on November 12 and would continue to run for 295 episodes over 37 years, until August 29, 2010.
An annular solar eclipse took place, visible mostly over Chile and Argentina.
Born: Laia Marull, Spanish film actress; in Barcelona

January 5, 1973 (Friday)

Mandatory screening before boarding of all airline passengers went into effect in the United States under orders of the U.S. Department of Transportation, after notice and comment was announced on December 5.
As its first order of business, the members of the Canada's House of Commons, liberal and conservative, voted unanimously to condemn the American Christmas bombing of North Vietnam that was carried out from December 18 to December 29, 1972.  The resolution, introduced by Mitchell Sharp, the MP who was Canada's Secretary of State for External Affairs, began with a statement that the House "deplores the recent large-scale bombing in the Hanoi-Haiphong area", and added that the body "requests the government of the United States to refrain from resumption" of the bombing.  The move infuriated U.S. President Richard M. Nixon.
U.S. President Nixon issued an Executive Order to partially put into effect his 1971 proposal for reorganization of the federal government, consolidating much of the authority under three members of his Cabinet whom he elevated to the additional role of "White House Counselor". Caspar Weinberger, whom he had nominated for U.S. Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW), was designated as "Counselor for Human Resources" and had "responsibility for health, education, manpower development, income security, social services, Indian and native peoples, drug abuse and consumer protection". James T. Lynn, nominated as U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), was designated as "Counselor for Community Development" to handle community institutions, community planning, housing, highways, public transportation, regional development, disaster relief and national capital affairs. Earl Butz, at the time the United States Secretary of Agriculture, was named "Counselor for Natural Resources" in charge of "natural resource use, lands and minerals, environment, outdoor recreation, water control and park and wildlife resources."  Many of the named duties were under the authority of agencies not affiliated with any Cabinet-level department.  The move was intended to reduce the number of staff in the White House from 4,000 to 2,000.
NASA announced the cancellation of the NERVA (Nuclear Engine for Rocket Vehicle Application) project, a joint effort of NASA and the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission to develop a nuclear-powered rocket engine for long range space missions. Over 17 years, US$1.4 billion had been spent on the development before U.S. President Nixon canceled the program as a cost-cutting measure.
Indonesia's four Islamic political parties merged into a single organization, the Partai Persatuan Pembangunan (PPP, United Development Party).
The Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland was signed into law after being overwhelmingly approved in a December 7 referendum.  The amendment removed references to "the special position of the Holy Catholic Apostolic and Roman Church as the guardian of the Faith" in addition to the honorable mention of the non-Catholic denominations of "the Church of Ireland, the Presbyterian Church in Ireland, the Methodist Church in Ireland, the Religious Society of Friends in Ireland, as well as the Jewish Congregations and the other religious denominations existing in Ireland" in 1937.  The fourth amendment, lowering the voting age in national elections from 21 to 18, took effect the same day.
The American rock band Aerosmith, composed of Boston musicians Steven Tyler, who sang lead vocals, guitarists Joe Perry and Brad Whitford, bassist Tom Hamilton and drummer Joey Kramer, released its debut album of the same name, distributed by Columbia Records.

Future United States President Joe Biden was sworn in as the junior United States senator from Delaware at a chapel at the Wilmington General Hospital in Wilmington, Delaware, where one of his sons was still hospitalized after a December 18 auto accident that had killed Biden's wife and his daughter.
Died: Gerald Boland, 87, Irish attorney who served as Minister for Justice 1939 to 1948 and 1941 to 1954, as well as member of the parliament 1923–1961 and senator, 1961–1969