[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election

President of the United States, accepting minutes later.
August 28 – Barack Obama accepts the Democratic Party presidential nomination in a speech delivered at Invesco Field in Denver.
August 29 – John McCain announces his selection of Alaska Governor Sarah Palin as his running mate.

September 2008

 September 1–4 – 2008 Republican National Convention convenes in Minneapolis–St. Paul, Minnesota.
 September 2 – Ron Paul holds parallel convention in the same city.  
 September 3 – John McCain is officially nominated for president by the Republican Party, winning over 98% of the delegates.  Ron Paul received 5 to 29 votes, and Mitt Romney received 2 votes.  
September 4 – Sarah Palin is officially nominated for Vice President by the Republican Party. John McCain accepts the Republican Party nomination in a speech delivered at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul, Minnesota.
September 10 – Former Republican candidate Ron Paul expresses support for Constitution Party nominee Chuck Baldwin, Green Party nominee Cynthia McKinney and independent candidate Ralph Nader in a joint press conference at the National Press Club.  The purpose was to outline shared principles of all:  non-interventionism, civil liberties, balanced budgets, and uncorrupt monetary policy. Libertarian Party nominee Bob Barr, who was invited by Paul, held a separate conference down the hall, joining in the support of shared principles, but protesting that Paul ought to endorse the Libertarian nominee (Barr himself) specifically.  Barr's protest was cited as a reason for not giving him the endorsement; two weeks later, Paul would instead specifically endorse the Constitution Party nominee.  
September 21 – Early voting begins in some states.
September 24 – John McCain announces he is suspending his campaign in order to work on the financial crisis of 2007–2008, and says he may not attend the first presidential debate on September 26. The first segment of Sarah Palin's interviews with Katie Couric airs on CBS News. Ron Paul endorses Chuck Baldwin for president.
September 25 – Barack Obama and John McCain meet with President George W. Bush and congressional leaders to discuss the financial crisis.
September 26 – Barack Obama and John McCain appear at the first presidential debate at the University of Mississippi.

October 2008

October 2 – Joe Biden and Sarah Palin appear at the vice presidential debate at Washington University in St. Louis.
October 7 – Sarah Palin accuses Barack Obama of "palling around with terrorists" in reference to his alleged links with anti-war activist Bill Ayers. John McCain and Barack Obama appear at the second presidential debate at Belmont University, Tennessee.
October 15 – John McCain and Barack Obama appear at the third presidential debate at Hofstra University, New York.
October 16 – Barack Obama and John McCain address the traditional Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner.
October 19 – Former Secretary of State Colin Powell, a Republican, endorses Barack Obama.
October 26 – Constitution Party nominee Chuck Baldwin, Green Party nominee Cynthia McKinney and independent candidate Ralph Nader appear at a debate at Columbia University, New York City. It is covered by C-SPAN.
October 29 – The Obama campaign airs a 30-minute prime-time television advert on several networks, including a live component at the end of the broadcast.
October 30 – Former Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger, a Republican, attacks Sarah Palin's perceived lack of experience in foreign affairs.
October 31 – Former White House Chief of Staff Ken Duberstein, a Republican, endorses Barack Obama.

November 2008 

November 1 – Republican nominee John McCain appears on Saturday Night Live.
November 4 – Election Day: Barack Obama and Joe Biden win 52.92 percent of the popular vote and 365 electoral votes to John McCain and Sarah Palin's 45.66 percent and 173 electoral votes. McCain concedes the election in Phoenix, Arizona and President-elect Obama gives his victory speech in Chicago.
November 16 – Barack Obama resigns his seat in the United States Senate.

December 2008
December 5 – The Supreme Court of the United States meets to decide whether to rule on President-elect Barack Obama's eligibility to take office.
December 8 – The Supreme Court declines to rule on President-elect Obama's eligibility to take office.
December 15 – Each state's presidential electors meet in their respective state capitals and the District of Columbia to officially elect Barack Obama as president and Joe Biden as vice president.

2009