[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# The Deputy

ef Mengele, Franz Stangl, Eduard Roschmann, and many others to escape justice. After he became "a little too public" with these activities he was sidelined by Pope Pius and, according to Hansjakob Stelhe, "took his revenge" by providing Hochhuth with his portrait of Pius.

Alleged KGB disinformation

In 2007 a high ranking intelligence officer and defector from the Eastern Bloc, Ion Mihai Pacepa, stated that in February 1960, Nikita Khrushchev authorized a covert plan (known as Seat 12) to discredit the Vatican, with Pope Pius XII as the prime target.Mindell, Cindy, Pope Pius XII: The Case For - and Against - Canonization , The Jewish Ledger, November 25, 2008Poprzeczny, Joseph, THE COLD WAR: How Moscow framed Pope Pius XII as pro-Nazi , News Weekly, April 28, 2007 As part of that plan Pacepa alleged that General Ivan Agayants, chief of the KGB's disinformation department, created the outline for what was to become the play.Did Pope Pius XII help the Jews? by Margherita Marchione 2007  page 37 Pacepa's story has not been corroborated; the national paper Frankfurter Allgemeine opined that Hochhuth who had been an unknown publisher's employee until 1963 "did not require any KGB assistance for his one-sided presentation of history". However, German historian Michael F. Feldkamp called Pacepa's account "wholly credible. It fits like a missing piece in the puzzle of communist propaganda and disinformation aimed at discrediting the Catholic Church and its Pontiff." English historian, Michael Burleigh, stated "Soviet attempts to smear Pius had actually commenced as soon as the Red Army crossed into Catholic Poland", noting that the Soviets "hired a militantly anti-religious propagandist, Mikhail Markovich Sheinmann" - "Hochhuth's play...drew heavily upon Sheinmann's lies and falsehoods..."

Film adaptation

Rowohlt Verlag sold the worldwide rights for a film adaptation for 300,000 Deutsche Mark in April 1963 to the French producer Georges de Beauregard and his production company "Rome Paris Films". The Deputy was eventually made as the film Amen. by the Greek-born French filmmaker Costa-Gavras in 2002.

Literature
 Hannah Arendt: Responsibility and Judgment. New York: Schocken 2003.  (contains Arendt's 1964 essays The Deputy: Guilt by Silence? and Personal Responsibility Under Dictatorship)
 Emanuela Barasch-Rubinstein: The devil, the saints, and the church: reading Hochhuth's The Deputy. New York: Peter Lang 2004.
 Eric Bentley: The storm over The Deputy. New York: Grove Press 1964.
 Lucinda Jane Rennison: Rolf Hochhuth's interpretation of history, and its effect on the content, form and reception of his dramatic work. Durham: University of Durham 1991.
 Margaret E. Ward: Rolf Hochhuth''. Boston: Twayne Publishers 1977.

References

1963 plays
1960s debut plays
Docudrama plays
Plays about the Holocaust
Criticism of the Catholic Church
Broadway plays
West End plays
Books about Pope Pius XII
Cultural depictions of Pope Pius XII
Plays about Catholicism
Plays set in Italy
Plays set in the 1930s
Plays set in the 1940s
1963 in Christianity
German plays adapted into films
Films directed by Costa Gavras