[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Radio repeater

r range. In these systems, the hand-held works so long as it is within range of the low power mobile repeater. The mobile radio is usually on a different band than the hand-held to reduce the chances of the mobile radio transmitter interfering with the transmission from the hand-held to the vehicle.

 Motorola, for example, marketed a vehicular repeater system called PAC*RT. It was available for use with 150 MHz or 450 MHz hand-helds and interfaced with some Motorola mobile radios.
 In the 1980s, General Electric Mobile Radio had a 463 MHz emergency medical services radio that featured a 453 MHz vehicular repeater link to a hand-held.

There is a difficult engineering problem with these systems. If you get two vehicle radios at the same location, some protocol has to be established so that one portable transmitting doesn't activate two or more mobile radio transmitters. Motorola uses a hierarchy system with PAC*RT, each repeater transmits a tone when it is turned on, so the last one on site that turns on is the one that gets used. This is so several of them are not on at once.

Vehicular repeaters are complex but can be less expensive than designing a system that covers a large area and works with the weak signal levels of hand-held radios. Some models of radio signals suggest that the transmitters of hand-held radios create received signals at the base station one to two orders of magnitude (10 to 20 decibels or 10 to 100 times) weaker than a mobile radio with a similar transmitter output power.

Siting as part of system design

Radio repeaters are typically placed in locations which maximize their effectiveness for their intended purpose:
 "Low-level" repeaters are used for local communications, and are placed at low altitude to reduce interference with other users of the same radio frequencies. Low-level systems are used for areas as large as an entire city, or as small as a single building.
 "High-level" repeaters are placed on tall towers or mountaintops to maximize their area of coverage. With these systems, users with low-powered radios (such as hand-held "walkie-talkies") can communicate with each other over many miles.

See also
 Broadcast relay station for broadcast television repeaters 
 Cellular repeater
 Microwave radio relay
 Signal strength in telecommunications

Repeater lists
 UHF CB Australia – UHF CB News, Information, Repeater Locations & Sales. UHF CB Australia Supporting and expanding the UHF CB network

References

Radio electronics