[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Dominick Montiglio

Dominick Montiglio (born Dominick Anthony Santamaria; July 17, 1947 – June 27, 2021) was an American associate of the Gambino crime family who later became a government informant.

Early life

Montiglio was born in New York City to Anthony Santamaria and Marie Gaggi, both of Sicilian origin. When his father became estranged, he was raised by his uncle Nino Gaggi. His mother remarried to Anthony Montiglio, and Dominick took his surname. He was also a cousin of Frank Scalice.

Military service

In 1967, Montiglio served in the Vietnam War as a sniper who reportedly killed dozens of men (unconfirmed).

Gambino crime family and informant

Upon his return, he started working for the Gambino family in drugs, extortion and murder, reportedly earning $250,000 per week at his peak in the Roy DeMeo crew.
In 1983, Montiglio was arrested for racketeering, and the Gambinos fearing he would talk, reportedly took out a $1 million contract on his life; Montiglio decided to collaborate with the FBI. He testified against the family and Gaggi in various trials, and reportedly helped send 56 mobsters to prison. He later changed his identity and entered the witness protection program, where he and his family stayed for the next decade as they moved around between various locations in Wyoming, Alabama and Colorado; they withdrew from the program in 1993 when they could no longer cope with the constant moving.

Later years and death

In his later life, Montiglio devoted himself to art. He also appeared in the 1994 documentary film Loyalty & Betrayal: The Story of the American Mob.

On June 27, 2021, Montiglio died at the age 73 in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and is buried at Santa Fe National Cemetery.

References

1947 births
2021 deaths
American gangsters of Italian descent
American gangsters of Sicilian descent
DeMeo Crew
Gambino crime family
Criminals from Brooklyn
People from Levittown, New York
People who entered the United States Federal Witness Protection Program
Federal Bureau of Investigation informants
American military personnel of the Vietnam War