[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Khalida Jarrar

measure, along with 450 administrative detainees held in prison with no legal process, 319 of which have been served with administrative detention orders in the first 4 months of 2015, six times higher than the number for the preceding year, according to the Palestinian Prisoners Centre for Studies.

On 21 May 2015, the court ruled Jarrar was to be released to house arrest. She was also fined $5,180. Amnesty International, which stated she had been brought to stand trial with her legs in shackles, reportedly stated that the judge had ruled that the prosecution's case was based on insufficient and dated evidence. The prosecution was given 3 days to appeal the decision. The prosecution then appealed the decision to release her on bail, and the court reversed the ruling on May 28, stating Jarrar was a "security risk" on the basis of secret evidence, according to Addameer The court ordered that she been held in detention until proceedings against her have concluded.
Her trial is scheduled for June 22. If convicted she faces a prison term of up to 2 years.

By November 2015, Jarrar was still under arrest, in what her attorney called "a circus, a charade". Witnesses, who had been asked to identify Jarrar, had been presented with pictures of 7 people, where only one person, Ms. Jarrar, was female.

On December 6, 2015, Jarrar received a 15-month jail sentence for belonging to an illegal organization and "incitement", with a suspended sentence of a year within a five-year period. She was also fined $2,582, and released on June 3, 2016.

On 2 July 2017 Khalida Jarrar was again detained by the Israeli security apparatus for an alleged offense related to national security.

In June 2018, her detention was extended for another four months, while any info about charges against her remains confidential, which was again renewed until 28 February 2019. She was being held in Damon Prison.

She was released on 28 February 2019, after 20 months in administrative detention without any charge or trial made against her.

In late October 2019, she was again arrested, as 70 Israeli soldiers surrounded her house in Ramallah at 03.00 AM. According to Israeli military sources, she was arrested "in suspicion of being involved in activities which jeopardize the security in the area". The indictment reads "...holding a position in an illegal association.", the Israeli Military court sentenced her to further administrative detention. Jarrar was subsequently convicted as part of a plea bargain, began serving two years in prison in March, 2021, and was released after finishing her sentence September that year.

See also
 Jarrar family

References

External links
interview

1963 births
Living people
People from Ramallah
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine members
Palestinian women in politics
Palestinian people imprisoned by Israel
Palestinian feminists
Members of the 2006 Palestinian Legislative Council