[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Kaunos

the terrace temple of the 3rd century BC facing a circle of columns has the greatest appeal. Inside the circle an obelisk has been found, which is also depicted on old Kaunian coins. The obelisk was the symbol of king Kaunos, who according to mythology established the ancient city bearing his name.

Outside the official Kaunos archeological site, there are:
Six rock tombs on the Dalyan river (4th – 2nd century BC), which are Dalyan's prime sight
The façades of the rock tombs resemble the fronts of Hellenistic temples with two Ionian pillars, a triangular pediment, an architrave with toothed friezes, and acroterions shaped like palm leaves.
The Kaunos city walls
The spectacular Kaunos city walls were erected during the reign of Mausolos in the 4th century BC. They are extraproportional in relation to the size of Kaunos and its population, presumably because the satrap had high expectations of the city's future as a marine and commercial port. The city walls start west of the inner port and run along the hills N and NW of the city, to the top of the steep cliff opposite Dalyan centre. There is a walking track along the wall, starting at the Çandır water station. The regularly-shaped rectangular blocks and the way the blocks have been positioned give a fine impression of Hellenistic building techniques. Parts of the wall are well-kept, other parts have been taken down and rebuilt.
The niche tombs at the port of Çandır
Kaunos is surrounded by ancient necropoli, because the ancient Greeks and Romans always buried their deceased at considerable distance from their homes. The niche tombs were the most common ones. The ashes of the deceased were put in urns and then placed in a niche. At the port of Çandır, some km beyond the archeological site of Kaunos, there are tens of niche tombs hewn from the rock of Kızıltepe.

Notable people 
Protogenes, Greek painter, 4th century BC
Zeno of Kaunos, secretary in Ptolemaic service, 3rd century BC

Notes

Sources

External links 

GCatholic – (titular) bishopric
Official website
Herodotus Project: Extensive B+W photo essay of Caunus
History surfaces from Köyceğiz Lake, Land of Lights, 28 October 2010
 Ancient Caria: In the garden of the sun, CANAN KÜÇÜKEREN, Hürriyet Daily News, 28 March 2011
 New dig at ancient site of Kaunos reveals fountain, Today's Zaman, 11 September 2008
Over 250 pictures

Ancient Greek archaeological sites in Turkey
Archaeological sites in the Aegean Region
Buildings and structures in Muğla Province
Populated places in ancient Caria
Former Roman Catholic dioceses in Asia
Former populated places in Turkey
Geography of Muğla Province
History of Muğla Province
Members of the Delian League
Roman towns and cities in Turkey
Turkish Riviera
World Heritage Tentative List for Turkey
Populated places of the Byzantine Empire
Ortaca District