[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paul Jacob

f the organization.

Jacob is also founder and president of the Citizens in Charge Foundation, which works to educate the public, opinion leaders, and elected officials on the initiative and referendum process. The Foundation currently produces his radio and internet commentary program Common Sense.

The Sam Adams Alliance 
Jacob was a senior advisor at the Sam Adams Alliance from 2007–2008. Paul acted as a spokesperson for Sam Adams, and the Alliance produced his daily "Common Sense".

2007 indictment in Oklahoma

Ballot initiative petition drive
In 2005 and 2006, Jacob worked with an Oklahoma group, Oklahomans in Action, to place on the ballot an initiative, Stop Overspending, which is one of several measures run in different states known as the Taxpayer Bill of Rights, or TaBOR. Among the paid petitioners used were some that had come to Oklahoma from other states to work on the drive. On October 2, 2007, Jacob was formally indicted in Oklahoma on a charge of conspiracy to defraud the state on the matter of hiring out-of-state petitioners. Jacob claims the petition's organizers had sought, and received, approval for this from the Oklahoma Secretary of State. A conviction would have carried a maximum fine of $25,000, and the maximum jail sentence of ten years in prison. Jacob was indicted with two others in the case, and each pleaded not guilty. A website—FreePaulJacob.com—was put up in Jacob's defense.

Criticism of indictment
The indictment drew criticism from around the state and all over the country for being politically motivated. 2008 independent presidential candidate Ralph Nader referred to the laws such as the one Jacob was charged with breaking as "Jim Crow laws," adding, "We've seen this before against African Americans. The Wall Street Journal editorialized against the prosecution twice, calling it "bizarre", and Steve Forbes asked the question "Has North Korea Annexed Oklahoma?".

Law struck down and charges dropped
On December 18, 2008 the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals struck down the underlying Oklahoma law that barred out of state petition circulators, noting that it was in violation of the First Amendment . Oklahoma Attorney General Drew Edmondson appealed the decision on behalf of Secretary of State Susan Savage. On January 21, 2009 the Tenth Circuit court denied the state's appeal, effectively ending the case. The Attorney General's office dismissed the charges against Jacob and the other defendants, with Edmondson saying "The statute under which these defendants were charged has been declared unconstitutional, and the appellate process is complete...The statute is no longer enforceable."

References

External links
 Common Sense with Paul Jacob
 
 Paul Jacob, Townhall columnist
 Register of the Paul Jacob papers

1960 births
Living people
American activists
Direct democracy activists
Members of the Libertarian National Committee