[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of social nudity places in North America

This is a list of places where social nudity is practised in North America for recreation. This listing includes notable nude beaches and private resorts. This listing also includes places where female toplessness is permitted in jurisdictions where it is normally forbidden.

Anguilla
Nude bathing on beaches is illegal in Anguilla.
 Captain's Bay is a secluded beach where people do bathe in the nude (illegally).

Antigua and Barbuda
 Hawksbill Bay, Antigua

Bahamas
 Breezes Bahamas, Nassau used to allow nude bathing but as of January 2015 nudity is no longer allowed.

Belize
Though Belizeans don't particularly frown on nudity, there are no official nude beaches in Belize. However, there are dozens of deserted out islands with beaches perfect for sunbathing nude.

Canada

Alberta
 CottonTail Corner Naturist Beach, located 20 minutes from the City of Edmonton near the Town of Devon.  A 25-minute hike through the trees leads to the beach.
 Helios Nudist Association, less than an hour's drive east of Edmonton, is billed as North America's northernmost nudist camp.
 Sunny Chinooks Camping Association has a landed campground for members near Sundre. They have been in operation since 1952 and also host nude swims in Calgary for members during the winter.
 Weaslehead Nude Beach at the western edge of Calgary has been in operation for over two decades. As of 2020, an additional option is available at Hidden Beach at Fish Creek Provincial Park.

British Columbia
British Columbia has thousands of kilometres of coastline and thousands of lakes, as well as millions of hectares of natural parks and undeveloped land. The vast majority of these areas are mostly uninhabited and nude swimming and sunbathing can be done with little concern for disturbing others. In the populated areas, particularly the Lower Mainland, Greater Victoria, and the Okanagan, nudity is generally practiced only in certain established or isolated locations (usually beaches) and on private properties.

 Wreck Beach is the second largest clothing-optional beach in North America with over 100,000 visitors each year. On the shore of the Georgia Strait and the north arm of the Fraser River, it is part of Pacific Spirit Regional Park, which is adjacent to the University Endowment Lands, just west of the city limits of Vancouver.
 Crescent Rock Beach in Surrey; after political wrangling in 2006 nude sunbathing is now allowed.
 Red Sands Beach in Nelson is a nude beach used mainly by the locals. Camping is not permitted.
 Three Mile Beach in Penticton has traditionally been used as a clothing optional beach, but the legal status of nudists using the beach is unclear.
 Nipple Point in Salmon Arm is a rocky beach east of the town that sees occasional nude use.
 Little Tribune Bay, near the Tribune Bay Provincial Park on Hornby Island is a clothing optional sandy/small round gravel beach, close to the Co-op, camping nearby.
 Mission Flats Beach, Kamloops. Expansive sandy beach early spring and late summer based on the rise and fall of water levels. Very popular with couples as well as singles.
 Prior Lake on Vancouver Island near Victoria. From a backroad around Thetis Lake, there is access to this smaller lake which features a secluded dock that is clothing optional.
 Southern extremity of the beach (beyond the painted "nude" signs on fallen trees) at Witty's Lagoon Regional Park in Metchosin near Victoria.
 Sol Sante Club is a naturist club located on a  property near Cobble Hill, north of Victoria on Vancouver Island.
 Van Tan Club is a naturist club located near North Vancouver, British Columbia.
 At Lost Lake in Whistler, there is a "Nudy Dock" where it is acceptable to bathe and sunbathe nude.
 Brunswick Beach in Lions Bay is a nude beach mostly used by locals.
 Blackburn Lake on Salt Spring Island has a well known "nudist dock".

Manitoba 
 Naturist Legacy Park, a family friendly facility.
 Patricia Beach. From the furthest parking lot walk the path through the trees to the right, or along the shore when the water is low. It is approximately 200 meters to the nude section, then it winds through the brush for hundreds of meters past that.

Nova Scotia
 Crystal Crescent Beach Provincial Park, near Sambro, is about  from Halifax and has a section that is a nude beach.