[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Burning Tigris

the United States from helping in any meaningful way. Other European powers at the time also did not do much. More than one hundred high-ranking government officials from the Ottoman Empire were put on trial for war crimes, fewer than 20 were convicted, and  none of them served their full sentences.

Reception
In a mixed review for The New York Times, Belinda Cooper writers that Balakian leaves some questions, such as the role of Turks who opposed the genocide unaddressed and as to why so many Armenians continued to declare their loyalty to the Ottoman Empire, but states: "The Burning Tigris does succeed in resurrecting a little-known chapter of the American and as well as the Armenian history" . Cooper wrote that Balakian provided an "unremitting depiction of irrational barbarism by sociopathic Turkish leaders and a fanatical population against a generally unresisting minority", but added he gave "only a superficial sense of the changes in the centuries-old relationship between Turks and Armenians that could unleash such violence". Cooper praised Balakian for rescuing the "lost history" of America's response to the genocide as she noted that he provided an excellent account of the "enormous humanitarian response" the suffering of the Armenians generated in the United States. Cooper noted that during the First World War, ordinary Americans contributed $100 million US dollars (about $2 billion today) for the Near East Relief Fund that provided food and medicine to staving and destitute Armenian refugees, providing a silver of hope to an otherwise dismal story.

In a review in The Boston Globe, John Shattuck wrote: "The Burning Tigris has major weaknesses, including its cursory explanation of what drove the Turkish government to exterminate the Armenians and its limited account of how Turkey managed for so long to block all efforts to tell the truth. Nevertheless, by reintroducing the voices of Americans who spoke up for the Armenians a century ago, Balakian honors the international human rights tradition in the United States, pointing toward the need for international laws and institutions that are now so discredited by Washington. As one of these voices, early feminist writer and champion of the Armenian cause Charlotte Perkins Gilman wrote in 1903, "National crimes demand international law, to restrain, prohibit, punish, best of all, to prevent.""

In a review in The Minneapolis Star Tribune, Stephen Feinstein wrote: "Balakian makes it clear that the discourse about Armenia has not ended: Unlike the perpetrators of the Nazi Holocaust, no Turkish high official was brought to trial. And the systematic suppression and denial continues. Turkey, a NATO member and U.S. ally, has intervened in congressional attempts to label the genocide according to U.N. convention, and to this day prohibits discourse about its own history and prosecutes teachers who tell the story in their classrooms. Balakian's book should serve as a warning: Suppressed history has a way of returning with a vengeance. One can only hope that Americans, concerned with the Armenian cause in the past, will be receptive to it again, and that Turkey, long in denial of its past, will strengthen its own democratic system by dealing with it. Although Balakian's research is not based on original documents in Turkish or the languages of the region, he has succeeded in writing a lucid and engaging account that serves as a useful entry point for readers unfamiliar with a complex subject. The story of Armenia is a reminder that we live in an age of genocide, and that discourse about this history and establishment of early warning systems is perhaps the only way to prevent it from recurring."