[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Guy Boutilier

ude an associated financial cost to come before the legislature with an estimate of those costs for the ensuing three years.  The bill was hoisted for six months on second reading on a motion by Wayne Cao, which, since the legislature was not in session six months later, effectively killed the bill.

He was re-elected in the 2001 election with a substantially increased margin over Vyboh.  Following the 2001 election, Premier Ralph Klein named Boutilier to his cabinet as the Minister of Municipal Affairs.  In this capacity, Boutilier sponsored the Municipal Government Amendment Act in 2003.  The Act allowed municipalities to charge developers off-site road levies, a practice which had been common but which had recently been successfully challenged in court, and passed largely without controversy.  Boutilier kept the municipal affairs until after the 2004 election (in which he was again re-elected handily, this time in the newly formed Fort McMurray-Wood Buffalo riding), when Klein transferred him to the post of Minister of the Environment.  He held this post in 2005, when a Canadian National Railway train derailed, spilling oil into Wabamun Lake.  At the time, Boutilier described himself as "damn well pissed off" about the spill and about the allegation that CN had neglected to report that the spill contained carcinogenic chemical, and pledged "to bring to the full extent of the law anyone who has breached Alberta law."  CN was eventually charged under federal statutes.  He was also at the forefront of his government's opposition to the Kyoto Protocol, at one point slipping his Quebec counterpart Thomas Mulcair a note during a United Nations conference on the subject in Montreal, which Mulcair interpreted as a request that Quebec soften its support of Kyoto in exchange for investment in the Montreal Stock Exchange by Alberta industry.  Boutilier characterized the note as "discussions in terms of what we would want to be able to do in a positive environmental initiative" and denied that he was trying to influence Quebec's position.

Expulsion from the PC caucus 
In the 2006 Progressive Conservative leadership election, Boutilier initially backed Lyle Oberg, and switched his support to eventual winner Ed Stelmach after Oberg was eliminated on the first ballot. When Stelmach succeeded Klein as premier, he named a smaller cabinet than Klein's. This included a merger of the Aboriginal Affairs portfolio with Intergovernmental and International Relations, and Stelmach gave the expanded portfolio to Boutilier.

That same year, Stelmach also announced that the construction of a $35-million, 48-bed long-term care centre in Fort McMurray would be a priority for his government. But the next year, Health Minister Ron Liepert said the project would be delayed by at least four years. Liepert said the project was not an immediate priority because Fort McMurray’s growing population at the time was young.

Boutilier was re-elected by another expanded margin in the 2008 election, but was not named to Stelmach's new cabinet, making him the only returning member of the pre-election cabinet not to receive a portfolio. His demotion was met with protest in his home riding, which contains much of the oilsands activity driving Alberta's economy at the time, and the local Progressive Conservative riding association sent a letter of protest to Stelmach.

Boutilier also became a vocal critic of the government for delaying the long-term care facility, and compared the treatment of Fort McMurray’s seniors at the Northern Lights Regional Health Centre to being kept in "holding cells.” He also said Liepert was “talking gibberish.”

In July 2009, Stelmach kicked Boutilier out of the Progressive Conservative caucus for publicly criticizing the government’s delay of the facility. Stelmach's spokesman said that his ejection was due to his seeking "preferential treatment" for his riding; Boutilier denied that he had done so.

A continuing care centre would not be built in Fort McMurray until 2021. The groundbreaking ceremony was held on April 20, 2018. It was approved in 2015 by Premier Rachel Notley following lobbying from Brian Jean, the MLA for Fort McMurray-Conklin. Both Notley and Jean agreed the project had been mismanaged and needlessly delayed by the former PC government.

Joining the Wildrose caucus 
In June 2010, after nearly a year as an independent, he joined the Wildrose Alliance Party, saying that the move was "a natural flow,” and in hindsight calling his expulsion from the PC Party "the best thing that ever happened to me in my political career.”

Boutilier was joined by fellow former Tories Heather Forsyth and Rob Anderson. As an Opposition MLA, Boutilier was a vocal critic of the PC government’s handling of education, health care, transportation, infrastructure and housing in Fort McMurray.