[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Chalgrove Field

out along two miles. By 08:30, the rearguard was in contact with Hampden and Gunter, who had been joined by 100 dragoons under Colonel Dalbier, an experienced German mercenary. Realising he could not outrun his pursuers, Rupert ordered Lunsford to keep moving, and secure the bridge at Chiselhampton.

Their route took them along a bridleway, bounded by a 'Great Hedge', a double line of thick, shoulder-high hedgerows used to mark parish boundaries, and prevent cattle straying. With their flanks secured their flanks, the dragoons under Lord Wentworth set up an ambush further along the hedgerow, while Rupert's cavalry formed up in an open field. By now, Parliamentarian forces on the scene consisted of around 200 cavalry, plus the dragoons.

Dalbier moved his dragoons up to the hedge and fired on the Royalist cavalry, prompting Prince Rupert into an attack, allegedly leaping the hedge while the rest of his men made their way around. Reinforced by Hampden and Gunter, Dalbier's men initially held their ground but were heavily outnumbered and broke. For once, Rupert's men halted their pursuit, probably since their horses were exhausted, and withdrew to Chiselhampton, where they remained until the next day. Most accounts agree the fighting was over by the time Stapleton arrived, although it has been suggested otherwise, primarily by Royalist statesman and historian, the Earl of Clarendon.

The idea Parliamentarian losses contained a disproportionate number of senior officers also originates with Clarendon. Total casualties are unclear, partly because contemporary reports often fail to distinguish between those incurred at Chinnor, the skirmish with the rearguard, and the battle itself. The Royalists reported a total of 45 for both sides, Essex suggested 50 each, including Gunter, who was killed close to the hedge. The other significant loss was Hampden, who was wounded twice in the shoulder and died six days later after they became infected; later claims these injuries were caused by the explosion of his own pistol have not been substantiated.

Aftermath

Chalgrove Field cemented Prince Rupert's reputation, emphasising his qualities of drive, determination, and aggression. In only a few hours, he put together nearly 2,000 men, devised a plan, and carried it out, while his aggressive counter-attack kept Stapleton at a distance. It also minimised his weaknesses, one being his cavalry's ill-discipline, which cost the Royalists victory at Edgehill, and led to defeat at Naseby; at Chalgrove, this was limited by their horses being exhausted after a night of hard riding. Capable of inspiring great loyalty among subordinates, like Wentworth and Legge, he was less successful with his peers, the quarrel with Newcastle contributing to defeat at Marston Moor.

It increased discontent with Essex, whose sole achievement in 1643 was to capture Reading; the attack on Islip was slow and ponderous, in contrast to that led by Rupert. Despite warnings of the likelihood of a raid, no precautions were taken, and without Hampden and Gunter, the Royalists would have made it home without being intercepted. The damage to his reputation was sealed when Rupert's men spent the next day at Chalgrove distributing their loot, and preparing for a triumphal entry into Oxford, while the Parliamentarian army looked on.

Chalgrove ended any danger to the Royalist arms convoy, which entered Oxford in early July. More importantly, it established a psychological edge over their opponents, confirmed on 25 June when Urry attacked Wycombe. Essex withdrew from Oxfordshire, allowing Prince Rupert to support operations in the west, culminating in the capture of Bristol on 26 July.

Hampden's death was seen as a major blow; his close friend Anthony Nicholl wrote; 'Never Kingdom received a greater loss in one subject, never a man a truer and more faithful friend.' His reputation and man management skills had been vital in minimising internal divisions, particularly after the exposure of Edmund Waller's Plot on 31 May. Waller had close links to many Parliamentarian leaders, including his cousin, William Waller, and Essex.  The death of John Pym in December meant Parliament's two most prominent leaders left the scene in less than six months, during a period of almost unbroken Royalist success.

In 1843, George Nugent-Grenville, a Whig radical politician and author of the hagiographic Memorials of John Hampden, paid for the Hampden Monument, located 700 metres south of the main site. Following an extensive debate over whether it constituted a 'battle' or 'skirmish', English Heritage designated it a registered battlefield in 1995.

References

Sources

 

1643 in England
17th century in Oxfordshire
Battles of the English Civil Wars
Conflicts in 1643
Military history of Oxfordshire
Registered historic battlefields in England