[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Su Excelencia

Hernán – Representative of Bolognia (uncredited)
Velia Lupercio – Guest at reception (uncredited)
Rubén Márquez – Commissar at dinner (uncredited)
Manuel Trejo Morales – Guest at reception (uncredited)
Fernando Yapur – Commissar at dinner (uncredited)
Manuel Zozaya – Guest at reception (uncredited)

Reception
The film's political overtones, and the speech by Cantinflas's character at the end of the film, where he lectures world leaders, have been subject of analysis by Cantinflas bibliographers. In Cantinflas and the Chaos of Mexican Modernity, Professor Jeffrey M. Pilcher argued that despite how Cantinflas's character "refused in the end to cast his vote for either side and spent a full fifteen minutes haranguing the rival powers in the name of world peace; nevertheless, he lost the moral high ground of nonaligment through his blatant anticomunism", in reference to the film's storyline about the machinations of Pepeslavia (a clear Soviet Union analogue) to get the character's vote. Pilcher also found the subplot about Pepeslavia assigning a beautiful secret agent to seduce Cantinflas's character "an odd plot twist", noting that the film was made less than a year after the death of Cantinflas's Russian wife. In his Concise Encyclopedia of Mexico, Michael Werner listed the film among those in Cantinflas's later filmography (from El analfabeto onwards) that were "preachy, tedious, and humorless", saying that in the final speech he "offers the Christian doctrine as a solution for the world's problems in an international scenario meant to represent the United Nations". In Looking for Mexico: Modern Visual Culture and National Identity, John Mraz was more critical; sharing similar conclusions to Werner's, but also adding that the final speech showed that "[Cantinflas's] arrogance was unbounded", and that he was "taking himself very seriously".

References

Bibliography
Pilcher, Jeffrey M. Cantinflas and the Chaos of Mexican Modernity. Rowman & Littlefield, 2001.
Werner, Michael. Concise Encyclopedia of Mexico. Taylor & Francis, 2001.
Mraz, John. Looking for Mexico: Modern Visual Culture and National Identity. Duke University Press, 2009.

External links
 

1967 comedy films
1967 films
Mexican comedy films
Films directed by Miguel M. Delgado
Cold War films
Films about coups d'état
1960s English-language films
1960s Mexican films