[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Special Services Wing

ice Group (Navy) at School of Divers PNS Hamalaya Karachi or by SSG(ARMY)'s MUSA company at Mangla .

SSW soldiers are occasionally sent to the United States for advanced training with the 1st Special Forces Group and the 75th Ranger Regiment in Fort Lewis, Fort Bragg and Fort Benning.

Capabilities

The SSW combat members are trained and qualified to carry out missions in unconventional warfare, special reconnaissance, direct action by sabotage and offensive raiding, Counter terrorism, counter-proliferation, VIP protection, and information and intelligence gathering operations. They have also carried out Combat search and rescue (CSAR), security assistance, humanitarian assistance.

They are also trained to be ground operators certified to act as air traffic controllers in hostile and dangerous environments. They can take over or construct an airstrip, set up navigational equipment, and direct airplanes and helicopters to a safe landing without the use of a tower or elaborate communications system. They also control air attacks of fixed- and rotary-wing aircraft from all military services.

They will also have the capability to perform search and rescue, typically of (but not limited to) downed pilots. They will be trained and able both to fight with virtually any special operations unit and to act as paramedics on the battlefield.

Some members of SSW will have the ability to gather and interpret meteorological and oceanographic information, as well as act as forward ground combatants. Their primary mission would be to collect and disseminate forward observations in denied, hostile, or otherwise data-sparse regions. But can be used for any kind of task as every member is trained for multiple tasks.

Organization
Special Services Wing has five squadrons and one separate Flight Wing.
Each Squadron consists of 250–400 men. Squadrons are divided into numerous flights which are further subdivided into 10-12 men teams. Squadrons are commanded by Wing Commanders/Squadron leaders.

Uniform

SSW (Special Services Wing) is distinguished by maroon berets with PAF Officer, JCO or Airmen berret insignia, and a wing on the right side of the chest. The combat uniform of the SSW is green jungle camouflage. They also wear their wing insignia.

Equipment
SSW is equipped with modern weaponry, including side arms such as SIG Sauer P226  and Glock pistols, H&K MP5 and FN P90 sub-machine guns, FN F2000 and Steyr AUG assault rifles. In the sniper or marksman role, the SSW teams are equipped with POF PSR-90 semi-automatic rifles and the Accuracy International Arctic Warfare bolt-action rifle. The general-purpose machine gun in use is the Rheinmetall/POF MG3, it is suspected that they may be also having FN Minimi LMG. They may also be equipped with anti-aircraft weapons and Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) for reconnaissance.

Operational experience
Since the formation of SSW in 2004, they have been engaged in fighting against militants in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and FATA region. SSW Also participated in repelling a Major Terrorist Attack over Pakistan Air Force Base Kamra alongside Army's SSG on the Night of 15/16 August 2012.

See also
 Special Service Group (Pakistan Army)
 Special Service Group (Navy) (Pakistan Navy)

References

External links
 Special Services Wing Training
 SSW Special Ops
 PAF sets up Commandos of SSG training center for Anti Terrorism operations

Military special forces of Pakistan
Pakistan Air Force wings
Airborne units and formations of Pakistan
Air force special forces units
Military units and formations established in 1965
Military units and formations disestablished in 1972
Military units and formations established in 2004