[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Human cannibalism

.

As in some other Papuan societies, the Urapmin people engaged in cannibalism in war. Notably, the Urapmin also had a system of food taboos wherein dogs could not be eaten and they had to be kept from breathing on food, unlike humans who could be eaten and with whom food could be shared.

See also

 Alexander Pearce, alleged Irish cannibal
 Alferd Packer, an American prospector, accused but not convicted of cannibalism
 Androphagi, an ancient nation of cannibals
 Asmat people, a Papua group with a reputation of cannibalism
 Cannibal film
 Cannibalism in literature
 Cannibalism in popular culture
 Cannibalism in poultry
 Chijon family, a Korean gang that killed and ate rich people
 Child cannibalism for children as victims of cannibalism (in myth and reality)
 Custom of the sea, the practice of shipwrecked survivors drawing lots to see who would be killed and eaten so that the others might survive
 Homo antecessor, an extinct human species providing some of the earliest known evidence for human cannibalism
 Human fat has been applied in European pharmacopeia between the 16th and the 19th centuries.
 Human placentophagy, the consumption of the placenta (afterbirth)
 Idi Amin, Ugandan dictator who is alleged to have consumed humans
 Issei Sagawa, a Japanese man who became a minor celebrity after killing and eating another student
 List of incidents of cannibalism
 Manifesto Antropófago (Cannibal Manifesto in English), a Brazilian poem
 Medical cannibalism, the consumption of human body parts to treat or prevent diseases
 Mummia, medicine made from human mummies
 Noida serial murders, a widely publicized instance of alleged cannibalism in India
 Placentophagy, the act of mammals eating the placenta of their young after childbirth
 Pleistocene human diet, the eating habits of human ancestors in the Pleistocene
 R v Dudley and Stephens, an important trial of two men accused of shipwreck cannibalism
 Self-cannibalism, the practice of eating oneself (also called autocannibalism)
 Traditional Chinese medicines derived from the human body
 Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy, a progressive condition that affect the brain and nervous system of many animals, including humans
 Vorarephilia, a sexual fetish and paraphilia where arousal results from the idea of devouring others or being devoured
 Wari’ people, an Amerindian tribe that practised cannibalism

References

Further reading

Berdan, Frances F. The Aztecs of Central Mexico: An Imperial Society. New York 1982. 

Earle, Rebecca. The Body of the Conquistador: Food, Race, and the Colonial Experience in Spanish America, 1492–1700. New York: Cambridge University Press 2012. 

Jáuregui, Carlos. Canibalia: Canibalismo, calibanismo, antropofagía cultural y consumo en América Latina. Madrid: Vervuert 2008. 
Lestringant, Frank. Cannibals: The Discovery and Representation of the Cannibal from Columbus to Jules Verne. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press 1997. 

Ortiz de Montellano, Bernard R. Aztec Medicine, Health, and Nutrition. New Brunswick 1990. 
Read, Kay A. Time and Sacrifice in the Aztec Cosmos. Bloomington 1998. 
Sahlins, Marshall. "Cannibalism: An Exchange." New York Review of Books 26, no. 4 (March 22, 1979).
Schutt, Bill. Cannibalism: A Perfectly Natural History. Chapel Hill: Algonquin Books 2017.

External links

 Is there a relation between cannibalism and amyloidosis?
 All about Cannibalism: The Ancient Taboo in Modern Times (Cannibalism Psychology) at CrimeLibrary.com
 Cannibalism, Víctor Montoya
 The Straight Dope  Notes arguing that routine cannibalism is myth
 Did a mob of angry Dutch kill and eat their prime minister?  (from The Straight Dope)
 Harry J. Brown, 'Hans Staden among the Tupinambas.'