[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hydrophilic interaction chromatography

Hydrophilic interaction chromatography (or hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography, HILIC) is a variant of normal phase liquid chromatography  that partly overlaps with other chromatographic applications such as ion chromatography  and reversed phase liquid chromatography. HILIC uses hydrophilic stationary phases with reversed-phase type eluents. The name was suggested by Andrew Alpert in his 1990 paper on the subject.  He described the chromatographic mechanism for it as liquid-liquid partition chromatography where analytes elute in order of increasing polarity, a conclusion supported by a review and re-evaluation of published data.

Surface
Any polar chromatographic surface can be used for HILIC separations.  Even non-polar bonded silicas have been used with extremely high organic solvent composition, thanks to the exposed patches of silica in between the bonded ligands on the support, which can affect the interactions.   With that exception, HILIC phases can be grouped into five categories of neutral polar or ionic surfaces: 
simple unbonded silica silanol or diol bonded phases
amino or anionic bonded phases
amide bonded phases
cationic bonded phases
zwitterionic bonded phases

Mobile phase
A typical mobile phase for HILIC chromatography includes acetonitrile ("MeCN", also designated as "ACN") with a small amount of water. However, any aprotic solvent miscible with water (e.g. THF or dioxane) can be used.  Alcohols can also be used, however, their concentration must be higher to achieve the same degree of retention for an analyte relative to an aprotic solvent - water combination. See also Aqueous Normal Phase Chromatography

It is commonly believed that in HILIC, the mobile phase forms a water-rich layer on the surface of the polar stationary phase vs. the water-deficient mobile phase, creating a liquid/liquid extraction system. The analyte is distributed between these two layers. However, HILIC is more than just simple partitioning and includes hydrogen donor interactions between neutral polar species as well as weak electrostatic mechanisms under the high organic solvent conditions used for retention.  This distinguishes HILIC as a mechanism distinct from ion exchange chromatography. The more polar compounds will have a stronger interaction with the stationary aqueous layer than the less polar compounds. Thus, a separation based on a compound's polarity and degree of solvation takes place.

Additives
Ionic additives, such as ammonium acetate and ammonium formate, are usually used to control the mobile phase pH and ion strength. In HILIC they can also contribute to the polarity of the analyte, resulting in differential changes in retention. For extremely polar analytes (e.g. aminoglycoside antibiotics (gentamicin) or Adenosine triphosphate), higher concentrations of buffer (ca. 100mM) are required to ensure that the analyte will be in a single ionic form.  Otherwise, asymmetric peak shape, chromatographic tailing, and/or poor recovery from the stationary phase will be observed.  For the separation of neutral polar analytes (e.g. carbohydrates), no buffer is necessary.

Use of other salts such as 100-300 mM sodium perchlorate, which are soluble in high-organic solvent mixtures (ca. 70%-90% acetonitrile), can be used to increase the mobile phase polarity to affect elution.  These salts are not volatile, so this technique is less useful with a mass spectrometer as the detector.  Usually a gradient (to increasing amounts of water) is enough to promote elution.

All ions partition into the stationary phase to some degree, so an occasional "wash" with water is required to ensure a reproducible stationary phase.

Applications
The HILIC mode of separation is used extensively for separation of some biomolecules, organic and some inorganic molecules  by differences in polarity. Its utility has increased due to the simplified sample preparation for biological samples, when analyzing for metabolites, since the metabolic process generally results in the addition of polar groups to enhance elimination from the cellular tissue. This separation technique is also particularly suitable for glycosylation analysis and quality assurance of glycoproteins and glycoforms in biologic medical products.   For the detection of polar compounds with the use of electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry as a chromatographic detector, HILIC can offer a ten fold increase in sensitivity over reversed-phase chromatography because the organic solvent is much more volatile.