[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Indo-Nepal Treaty of Peace and Friendship

can be scrapped by a one-year notice. The treaty has been unpopular especially among Pahari segments of Nepal, who often regard it as a breach of its sovereignty. Also, agreements were manipulated in the favour of antidemocratic autocratic rule of Nepal, where the power of the people is fragmented.

Deterioration of bilateral relations
Although initially supported enthusiastically by both the Rana rulers and Indian establishment, the treaty became the subject of increased resentment in Nepal, which saw it as an encroachment of its sovereignty and an unwelcome extension of Indian influence. After an abortive attempt in 1952 of the Communist Party of Nepal to overthrow the autocratic Rana rule with Chinese backing, India and the Rana regime stepped up military and intelligence cooperation under treaty provisions, and India sent a military mission to Nepal which was regarded by leftist Nepalese as an undue extension of Indian influence in Nepal. In the late 1950s and the 1960s, after the advent of democracy in Nepal, it and China forged better relations, and relations with India deteriorated. Nepal forced the Indian military mission to leave, and both nations began ignoring the treaty provisions.

It was temporarily brought closer to India after the Sino-Indian War in 1962, but Nepal resented the growth of India's regional power in the 1970s. The extensive Indian trade and economic influence was also resented by some in Nepal. In 1975 after the annexation of Sikkim by India, Nepal began openly lobbying for renegotiation of the treaty and proposed itself as a Zone of Peace between India and China, where military competition would be off-limits. India refused to endorse the proposal.

Proposed scrapping
Upon forming a coalition government after the 2008 Nepalese Constituent Assembly election, the leader of the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) Pushpa Kamal Dahal said on 24 April 2008 that the 1950 treaty would be scrapped and a new pact would be negotiated with India. However, he did not pursue the matter and had to resign as prime minister within nine months. However, in 2014, both India and Nepal agreed to "review" and "adjust" the peace treaty to reflect the current realities.

Nepal India Open Border Dialogue Group
People of Terai region of Nepal and Indian state of Bihar formed a group Nepal India Open Border Dialogue Group. Initially the group formed to understand the issue related to flooding in Nepal India Border later the group started advocating for open border and organised several seminar.

Revision of the Treaty 
In January 2021, Nepal Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali said, that Nepal wants India to  review and revise the 1950 Indo-Nepal Treaty to reflect the changes and new realities.

See also
India–Nepal relations
Common Travel Area, a similar treaty existing between the UK and Ireland on freedom of movement.
Union State, a similar treaty existing between Russia and Belarus on freedom of movement.

External links
Text of the Indo-Nepal Treaty of Peace and Friendship

References

Indian documents
India–Nepal relations
History of Nepal
Indo-Nepal Treaty of Peace And Friendship, 1950
Indo-Nepal Treaty of Peace And Friendship, 1950
Treaties of Nepal
Politics of Nepal
Treaties concluded in 1950
Bilateral treaties of India