[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sidney Edgerton

ut on May 23, 1864, while on his way home, Mary Edgerton had a baby girl. She named her Idaho, unknowing of the fact that it was now the Territory of Montana. After seeing his skills in the Territory of Idaho, President Abraham Lincoln appointed Edgerton as the first Territorial Governor of Montana.

Lincoln appointed Edgerton on June 22, 1864, and Edgerton found out on his arrival at Bannack. Bannack was created the capital of Montana Territory, and the Edgertons were able to keep their same home. Edgerton was not supported by many settlers and miners in the Territory, as the majority were from border states and either supported the Confederacy or were Democrats who abhorred radical Republicans like him. There were even death threats for those who flew an American Flag. Edgerton put together a quick census, so that an election could be held. The elections would be for the State Council, State House, and for the Delegate of the Territory of Montana to the House of Representatives. After the elections of 1865, Democrats took power in the House, and took the Delegate seat in the House of Representatives. While the Republicans took the Council. Numerous engagements between the Governor and Democrats occurred, causing troubles for the Montana Legislature. In all, though, the legislature worked with Edgerton to pass numerous bills on roads, public education, irrigation, and mining.

In 1865, Edgerton began to have to deal with threats from Native Americans. General Patrick Connor was sent to handle these threats. He led an expedition against the Sioux and Cheyenne Indians, who were disrupting travelers along the Bozeman Trail. Edgerton then issued a proclamation for five hundred volunteers to help defend immigrants. Numerous other battles were fought, and numerous treaties were signed between the Government of the Territory of Montana and the Native Americans.

In 1865, Edgerton was forced to go East to secure funds for the territory. The revenues being received were not enough to pay for expenses, and Edgerton himself gave large sums of his own money to the territory. He hoped to both get funds for the state, and receive compensation for his expenditures. He would receive neither. Edgerton left the Territory, in September 1865. During this time, Edgerton was in Washington, D.C. While he was away, Thomas Francis Meagher served as the acting Territorial Governor of Montana. Despite remaining governor, until January 13, 1866, Edgerton did not return to Montana for 25 years. To express their dislike for Edgerton, the state legislature changed the name of Edgerton County to Lewis and Clark County.

Montana Vigilantes
After numerous acts of lawlessness, and with no established court system, Edgerton supported his nephew, Wilbur F. Sanders, and other residents of Bannack and Virginia City as they organized the Vigilantes. This group began meeting in secret, and began trying and lynching suspected criminals. On January 10, 1864, members of the Vigilance Committee traveled to Sheriff Henry Plummer's home. Plummer was suspected of murder, and the men coaxed him from his sickbed. They then grabbed him, and brought him to a gallows he had constructed for hangings. Then the men put a noose over his neck, and hanged him next to two of his deputies who were also accused of being road agents. Along with the lynching of Plummer, the Montana Vigilantes hanged 22 road agents. After these actions Edgerton's nephew, Wilbur F. Sanders, was forced to defend the group in Utah courts.

Death
After returning to Akron, Ohio, with his family in the Fall of 1865, Edgerton went back to his law practice. He was involved in his law practice until his death on July 19, 1900. He is buried in Tallmadge Cemetery in Tallmadge, Ohio.

Notes

Citations

References