[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Bibliography of the American Civil War

il War Corps Badges and Other Related Awards, Badges, Medals of the Period.
 Pitman, John. Breech Loading Carbines of the United States Civil War Period.
 Plum, William R. The Military Telegraph During the Civil War in the United States, an Exposition of ancient and Modern Means of Communications, and of the Federal and Confederate Cipher Systems, Also a Running Account of the War between the States, two volumes. Chicago: Jensen, McClug & Company, Publishers, 1882.
 Reilly, Robert M. United States Military Small Arms 1816–1865.
 Riling, Ray, ed. Uniforms and Dress of the Army and Navy of the Confederate States.
 Ripley, Warren. Artillery and Ammunition of the Civil War.
 Ross, Charles D. Trial by Fire: Science, Technology and the Civil War. Shippensburg, Pennsylvania: White Mane Publishing, 2000.
 Rutherford, Kenneth R. America’s Buried History: Landmines in the Civil War. Savas Beatie, 2020. .
 Smith, Robin. Brassey's History of Uniforms: American Civil War, Union Army. McLean, Virginia: Brassey's Inc., 1997.
 Stamatelos, James. Notes on the Uniforms and Equipments of the United States Cavalry, 1861–1865.
 Summers, Festus P. The Baltimore and Ohio in the Civil War. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1939.
 Tucker, Spencer. Arming the Fleet. U.S. Ordnance in the Muzzle-Loading Era (1988)
 Turner, George Edgar. Victory Rode the Rails: The Strategic Place of the Railroads in the Civil War. New York: Bobbs Merrill, 1963.
 Wilson, Harold S. Confederate Industry, Manufacturers and Quartermasters in the Civil War. Jackson: University Press of Mississippi, 2002.
 Winey, Michael J. Union Army Uniforms at Gettysburg. Gettysburg, Pennsylvania: Thomas, 1998.
 Wise, Arthur and Francis A. Lord. Uniforms of the Civil War.
 Woodhead, Henry, ed. Echoes of Glory: Arms and Equipment of the Confederacy. Alexandria, Virginia: Time-Life Books, 1991.
 Woodhead, Henry, ed. Echoes of Glory: Arms and Equipment of the Union. Alexandria, Virginia: Time-Life Books, 1991.

Reconstruction
 See Reconstruction: Bibliography for complete guide

Medical

 Adams, George Worthington. Doctors in Blue: The Medical History of the Union Army in the Civil War. New York: Henry Schuman, 1952.
 Bell, Andrew McIlwaine. Mosquito Soldiers: Malaria, Yellow Fever, and the Course of the Civil War. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 2010.
 Cunningham, Horace Herndon.  Doctors in Gray: The Confederate Medical Service. (reprint Peter Smith, 1970)
 Downs, Jim. Sick from Freedom: African-American Illness and Suffering during the Civil War and Reconstruction. (Oxford University Press, 2012)
 Duncan, Louis C. The Medical Department of the United States Army in the Civil War. Gaithersburg, Maryland: Olde Soldiers Books, 1987.
 Flannery, Michael A.  Civil War Pharmacy: A History of Drugs, Drug Supply and Provision, and Therapeutics for the Union and Confederacy. London: Pharmaceutical Press, 2004.
 Freemon, Frank R. Gangrene and Glory: Medical Care during the American Civil War. University of Illinois Press, 2001. 
 Green, Carol C.  Chimborazo: The Confederacy's Largest Hospital. University of Tennessee Press, 2004.
 Grzyb, Frank L. Rhode Island's Civil War Hospital: Life and Death at Portsmouth Grove, 1862–1865. Jefferson, North Carolina: McFarland, 2012. .
 Hilde, Libra R. Worth a Dozen Men: Women and Nursing in the Civil War South. University of Virginia Press, 2012. .
 Humphreys, Margaret. Intensely Human: The Health of the Black Soldier in the American Civil War. Baltimore, Maryland: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2008.
 Humphreys, Margaret. Marrow of Tragedy: The Health Crisis of the American Civil War. Baltimore, Maryland: Johns Hopkins University Press; 2013.
 Lande, R. Gregory.  Madness, Malingering, and Malfeasance: The Transformation of Psychiatry and the Law in the Civil War Era. Washington, D.C.: Brassey's, 2003.
 McGaugh, Scott. Surgeon in Blue: Jonathan Letterman, The Civil War Doctor Who Pioneered Battlefield Care. Arcade Publishing, 2013. .
 Miller, Brian Craig. Empty Sleeves: Amputation in the Civil War South (University of Georgia Press, 2015). xviii, 257 pp.
 Patterson, Gerard A. Debris of Battle: The Wounded of Gettysburg. Mechanicsburg, PA: Stackpole Books, 1997. .
 Robertson, James I (ed). The Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, seven volumes. Wilmington, North Carolina: Broadfoot Publishing Co, 1990–1992 reprint.
 Rutkow, Ira M.  Bleeding Blue and Gray: Civil War Surgery and the Evolution of American Medicine. New York: Random House, 2005.
 Schmidt, James M. and Guy R. Hasegawa, eds. Years of Change and Suffering: Modern Perspectives on Civil War Medicine. Edinborough Press, 2009.
 Schroeder–Lein, Glenna R. The Encyclopedia of Civil War Medicine. Armonk, New York: M.E. Sharpe, 2012.
 Schroeder–Lein, Glenna R. Confederate Hospitals on the Move: Samuel H. Stout and the Army of Tennessee. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1994.
 Schultz, Jane E.  Women at the Front: Hospital Workers in Civil War Americ