[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Triads in the United Kingdom

und Road, Fulham. During the ceremony he claimed to have paid his sponsor and dai lo, actor Tang Wai-ming, an initiation fee of £36.60 to operate in the UK. As a result of his testimony, Cheung was given a reduced sentence of five years imprisonment.

Triads active in the United Kingdom

Wo Shing Wo

The Wo Shing Wo is considered by authorities to be the largest Triad operating in Britain. Although largely based in Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow and London, it also has affiliated groups in Bristol, Newcastle, Stoke-on-Trent and Cardiff.

In the 90s, Wong Kwun-seng (the chairman), Kenny Ng Siu-hong (the deputy) and Andrew Lam Ngai-kan (the captain), were believed to lead hundreds of Wo Shing Wo members in the London area.

Although members are recruited in the traditional manner, they also include prominent businessmen who either ally with the organization for their own protection or as full associate participants in their criminal activities. Although they abide by the territorial urban districts of other Triad organizations, often centred around a Chinese cultural club or martial arts associations, they have been involved in extortion activities over areas as far afield as Truro and Great Yarmouth.

14K Triad

Despite its declining power since its first appearance in the early 1950s, the 14k Triad, led by ‘Ponytail’ remains the oldest and well established in the underworld as the second largest Triad organization operating in the UK. Based primarily in London and Liverpool, the 14k continues its traditional activities of loan sharking and extortion of Chinese businesses although they have also had a history of targeting other immigrant groups such as Indian and Pakistani running corner shops and small factories (however, West Indians have been more likely to report incidents of harassment and intimidation than their Asian counterparts). Much of the Triad's membership is made up of teenagers or illegal Chinese immigrants and there are now confirmed reports of non-Chinese and female members as well.

Sun Yee On

The Sun Yee On, led by chairman ‘Uncle Po’, is an influential Triad organization which, like its Hong Kong affiliates, is a highly organized criminal syndicate involved in white-collar crime as well as owning legitimate businesses, specifically in the entertainment industry a key red pole ‘Teflon’ Dyl, ‘Serpent’  and ‘Vibora’ are presumed to be British. Incense master ‘Daiki’ is also presumed to reside in the UK area of Sun Yee On. . This branch of the Sun Yee On is run by a man known only as ‘Gideon’. Based primarily in London and Liverpool, the Sun Yee on are a major Hong Kong triad operating worldwide.

References
Booth, Martin. The Dragon Syndicates: The Global Phenomenon of the Triads. New York: Carroll & Graf Publishers, 1999.

Further reading
Silverstone, Daniel. "From Triads to snakeheads: organised crime and illegal migration within Britain's Chinese community." Global Crime 12.2 (2011): 93–111.
Wang, Peng. "The Increasing Threat of Chinese Organised Crime: national, regional and international perspectives", The RUSI Journal Vol. 158, No.4, (2013), pp. 6–18.

Organised crime groups in the United Kingdom
Triad (organized crime)
Overseas Chinese organisations