[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Radha Krishna Temple

devotees temporary accommodation on his recently purchased estate, Tittenhurst Park, near Ascot, while renovations were underway at Bury Place. The devotees occupied the servants' quarters at Tittenhurst Park, close to the main house, and assisted in their hosts' renovation of the 72-acre property.

In September 1969, Prabhupada finally came to visit the new UK base, reuniting with his disciples and meeting Harrison and Lennon for the first time. Held in a former recital hall in the grounds of Tittenhurst Park, Prabhupada's meeting with the two Beatles and Yoko Ono, Lennon's wife, led to a philosophical discussion about topics such as the Bhagavad Gita, mantras and Krishna. Their conversation was taped by Shyamsundar and later made available as Lennon '69: Search for Liberation, the first publication in Mukunda's Vedic Contemporary Library Series. Of the two bandmates, Lennon was the one most impressed with Prabhupada initially. Harrison, who was preoccupied with news that his mother had been taken severely ill, later admitted to having underestimated the acharya at first.

Prabhupada stayed in a guesthouse at Tittenhurst Park, at Lennon's invitation. The recital hall – which had been one of the locations for what would turn out to be the Beatles' final photo shoot as a band, on 22 August 1969 – became known as "the Tittenhurst Temple" from this point.

In what Gurudas would deem "not the best move", the devotees' numbers had been bolstered with some recent recruits who provided a disruptive influence. As a result, Prabhupada's followers "outstayed their welcome" at Lennon's home, according to author Alan Clayson, while Joshua Greene writes of the devotees later recalling "few … friendly exchanges with their hosts" there, compared to the warm relationship they shared with Harrison.

In December 1969, Prabhupada and the devotees – which now numbered 25, in Gurudas' estimation – moved into the new Radha-Krishna Temple at Bury Place. The location allowed for easy access to Oxford Street, which continued to be the Krishnas' main area of interaction with the public in central London. Harrison donated the temple's altar, which was made of Siena marble selected by his sculptor friend David Wynne.

Prabhupada and Harrison
Harrison came to revere Prabhupada as a teacher and a friend, as well as "a perfect example of everything he preached". Harrison was particularly taken with the guru's insistence that he was merely a servant of God, telling Mukunda in 1982:

A lot of people say, "I'm it. I'm the divine incarnation. I'm here and let me hip you." … But Prabhupada was never like that … I always liked his humility and his simplicity: "the servant of the servant of the servant" is really what it is, you know. None of us are God – [we're] just His servants.

Harrison once asked Prabhupada if he should also shave his head and formally become a devotee, to which the acharya replied that he could do more for Krishna through his music. When Prabhupada heard Harrison's orchestrated version of the Govindam prayers for the first time, in Radha-Krishna Temple (London)'s 1970 single "Govinda", he was moved to tears and asked for the song to be played every morning during the daily greeting of the deities, or darshan arati. This practice continues today, at all ISKCON centres around the world.

1970 activities
The Temple members made other devotional recordings with Harrison in 1970, for an intended album, while keeping up their schedule of live performances. Among the latter were concerts with Joe Cocker, Deep Purple and the Moody Blues, and an appearance at the Midnight Sun Festival in Stockholm, Sweden, in June. An organ player in his university band, Joshua Greene joined the London temple during the 1969–70 holiday season, taking the devotee name Yogesvara. Tamal Krishna, a flute player, was among the members of ISKCON's American centres who also joined the London chapter over this period.

The devotees again appeared on Top of the Pops to promote "Govinda". Richard Williams of Melody Maker described their performance as "a fresh wind blowing in the midst of turgid dishonesty"; he added: "There they were – a dozen or so people with happiness on their faces, completely unselfconscious, radiating a weird inner strength of the kind which easily unsettles less secure people, even those of a so-called 'enlightened' generation." Sung primarily by Yamuna, "Govinda" peaked at number 23 in the UK.