[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Żarnowiec Nuclear Power Plant

The Żarnowiec Nuclear Power Plant () was to be the first nuclear power plant in Poland. 
The construction was cancelled due to changes in the economic and political situation in Poland, in the Soviet Union and in the Eastern Bloc and due to the Chernobyl disaster in 1986 and the following years. It was to be located in the former village of Kartoszyno and had its seat in Nadole.

Planned design
The location of the plant was chosen after several years of hydrological, seismological and demographic research commissioned for the purpose of determining the most suitable location. A site was located in the north of the country near the Baltic Sea, about 50 km northwest of Gdańsk, just to the south of its namesake village Żarnowiec, adjacent to Lake Żarnowiec which was to be used for cooling. The research also identified the site for a second plant in Klempicz in west-central Poland.

The plant was planned to occupy 70 ha of land area, while the entire complex with dedicated construction facilities and supporting buildings would take 425 ha. The design incorporated four VVER-440 pressurized water reactors of Soviet design produced in Škoda factories in Czechoslovakia, rated at 440 MWe each, for a combined power rating of 1600 MWe. The turbines and power generators were to be produced in Poland. An adjacent pumped-storage plant was to act as a load balancer and energy reservoir to ensure continued power delivery during reactor maintenance.

Completion of the first reactor block with a power rating of 465 MWe was planned for 1989, with the second one following in 1990. On the last day of 1983 the dates were adjusted to December 1990 and December 1991, respectively. After the Chernobyl disaster in 1986, there were plans to make modifications in order to bring the plant to Western safety standards, as well as install reactor automation equipment from Siemens AG.

In addition to 79 buildings of the reactor-housing compound, the complex included a lot of supporting facilities. Before the project was canceled, 630 other structures were completed, including a modern radiometeorology station, housing for the staff, production halls for prefabricated concrete elements, a railroad station, a cafeteria and cloakroom halls. Several domestic and foreign companies were involved in the project.

Timeline

 December 9, 1972 - The Planning Commission approves the localization of the first Polish nuclear plant in the village of Kartoszyno. Shortly thereafter a research outpost is constructed on the site
 January 18, 1982 - The Council of Ministers passes a decree regarding the construction of the Żarnowiec Nuclear Power Plant
 March 31, 1982 - The construction site is transferred to the main contractor, Energoblok-Wybrzeże; Start of construction work and relocation of the inhabitants of Kartoszyno
 December 31, 1983 - The Council of Ministers adjusts the planned dates of completion to December 1990 for block 1 and December 1991 for block 2
 April 10, 1986 - Sejm passes the first bill (called Nuclear law) regulating the use of nuclear energy in Poland
 April 26, 1986 - Chernobyl disaster. Escalation of protests against the construction
 December 2, 1989 - The cabinet led by Tadeusz Mazowiecki decides to halt construction work for one year in order to collect opinions and information necessary to decide the fate of the power plant
 May 27, 1990 - Referendum in the Gdańsk voivodeship. 86.1% of voters are against continuing the construction, with a turnout of 44.3%
 December 17, 1990 - The Council of Ministers initiates the liquidation of the unfinished power plant, set to complete on December 31, 1992

Meteorological Centre
Near the construction site, there was also a centre for meteorological research with a 205 metres high guyed meteorological tower at . While the buildings of the station still exist, but are devastated, the mast is demolished.

Public opposition

There was some official public discussion concerning the localization of the power plant, but it was interrupted by the introduction of martial law in Poland in 1981. Despite this, no organized opposition beyond sending letters to the authorities took place.