[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 51]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ot cider. _The
Woman._--Why, we put the juice into a large cask, and let it stand in
some warm place, where it soon begins to ferment. _Tommy._--Ferment!
pray, what is that? _The Woman._--You shall see.

She then showed him another cask, and bade him observe the liquor that
was in it. This he did, and saw it was covered all over with a thick
scum and froth. _Tommy._--And is this what you call fermentation? _The
Woman._--Yes, master. _Tommy._--And what is the reason of it? _The
Woman._--That I do not know, indeed; but when we have pressed the juice
out, as I told you, we put it into a cask and let it stand in some warm
place, and in a short time it begins to work or ferment of itself, as
you see; and after this fermentation has continued some time, it
acquires the taste and properties of cider, and then we draw it off into
casks and sell it, or else keep it for our own use. And I am told this
is the manner in which they make wine in other countries.
_Tommy._--What! is wine made of apples, then? _The Woman._--No, master;
wine is made of grapes, but they squeeze the juice out, and treat it in
the same manner as we do the juice of the apples. _Tommy._--I declare
this is very curious indeed. Then cider is nothing but wine made of
apples?

While they were conversing in this manner a little clean girl came and
brought Tommy an earthen porringer full of new milk, with a large slice
of brown bread. Tommy took it, and ate with so good a relish that he
thought he had never made a better breakfast in his life.

When Harry and he had eaten their breakfast, Tommy told him it was time
they should return home, so he thanked the good woman for her kindness,
and putting his hand into his pocket, pulled out a shilling, which he
desired her to accept. "No, God bless you, my little dear!" said the
woman, "I will not take a farthing off you for the world. What though my
husband and I are poor, yet we are able to get a living by our labour,
and give a mess of milk to a traveller without hurting ourselves."

Tommy thanked her again, and was just going away when a couple of
surly-looking men came in and asked the woman if her name was _Tosset_.
"Yes, it is," said the woman: "I have never been ashamed of it." "Why
then," said one of the men, pulling a paper out of his pocket, "here is
an execution against you, on the part of Mr Richard Gruff; and if your
husband does not instantly discharge the debt, with interest and all
costs, amounting altogether to the sum of thirty-nine pounds ten
shillings, we shall take an inventory of all you have, and proceed to
sell it by auction for the discharge of the debt."

"Indeed," said the poor woman, looking a little confused, "this must
certainly be a mistake, for I never heard of Mr Richard Gruff in all my
life, nor do I believe that my husband owes a farthing in the world,
unless to his landlord; and I know that he has almost made up
half-a-year's rent for him: so that I do not think he would go to
trouble a poor man." "No, no, mistress," said the man, shaking his head,
"we know our business too well to make these kind of mistakes; but when
your husband comes in we'll talk with him; in the meantime we must go on
with our inventory."

The two men then went into the next room, and immediately after, a
stout, comely-looking man, of about the age of forty, came in, with a
good-humoured countenance, and asked if his breakfast was ready. "Oh, my
poor dear William," said the woman, "here is a sad breakfast for you!
but I think it cannot be true that you owe anything; so what the fellows
told me must be false about Richard Gruff." At this name the man
instantly started, and his countenance, which was before ruddy, became
pale as a sheet. "Surely," said the woman, "it cannot be true, that you
owe forty pounds to Richard Gruff?" "Alas!" answered the man, "I do not
know the exact sum; but when your brother Peter failed, and his
creditors seized all that he had, this Richard Gruff was going to send
him to jail, had not I agreed to be bound for him, which enabled him to
go to sea. He indeed promised to remit his wages to me, to prevent my
getting into any trouble upon that account; but you know it is now
three years since he went, and in all that time we have heard nothing
about him." "Then," said the woman, bursting into tears, "you, and all
your poor dear children are ruined for my ungrateful brother; for here
are two bailiffs in the house, who are come to take possession of all
you have, and to sell it."

At this the man's face became red as scarlet, and seizing an old sword
which hung over the chimney, he cried out, "No, it shall not be; I will
die first; I will make these villains know what it is to make honest men
desperate." He then drew the sword, and was going out in a fit of
madness, which might have proved fatal either to himself or to the
bailiffs, but his wife flung herself upon her knees before him, and,
catching