[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lachin

em being in Lachin.

Return to Azerbaijan 
According to the president of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev, a new corridor was going to be built in the region as the Lachin corridor passes through the city of Lachin, and when this corridor is ready, the city will be returned to the Azerbaijani administration.

In August 2022, Azerbaijan built its part of the road around Lachin, while Armenia did not yet. On 2 August, the local Armenian authorities reported that the Azerbaijani side had conveyed to them a demand to organise communication with Armenia along a different route, bypassing the existing one. Following the renewed clashes around Lachin, Secretary of the Security Council of Armenia, Armen Grigoryan, stated that Azerbaijan's demand for the Lachin corridor was unlawful, since the Armenian side has not yet agreed to any plan for the construction of a new road. Azerbaijan accused Armenia of delaying the construction of its part of the road, while the part for which Azerbaijan was responsible had already been built. On 4 August, the Minister of Territorial Administration and Infrastructure of Armenia, Gnel Sanosyan, stated that the construction of an alternative road to Lachin was actively underway and would be completed the spring of 2023. On 5 August, local Armenian authorities told the residents of Lachin, as well as Zabukh and Sus, to leave their homes by 25 August, after which the towns would be handed over to Azerbaijan. Some of the Armenian inhabitants burned their houses down. As of 26 August, Azerbaijan regained control of the town and the villages Sus and Zabukh in the Lachin corridor.

Geography 
The town is scenically built on the side of a mountain on the left bank of the river Hakari.

Economy and culture 

As of 2015, the population is mainly engaged in different state institutions. The town has a municipal building, a regional hospital, four dental clinics, two secondary schools, the Berdzor Music School and the Berdzor Art and Sports School, and a kindergarten.

Demographics

Twin cities 
Lachin is twinned with:
  Highland, California

Gallery

References

Notes

Bibliography 
 Е. М. Поспелов (Ye. M. Pospelov). "Имена городов: вчера и сегодня (1917–1992). Топонимический словарь." (City Names: Yesterday and Today (1917–1992). Toponymic Dictionary." Москва, "Русские словари", 1993.

External links 

 Pictures of Lachin
 Onnik Krikorian, Armenia’s Strategic Lachin Corridor Confronts a Demographic Crisis, eurasianet.org, Sep 15, 2006.
 More information about Lachin from Armeniapedia.com
 
 
 

Populated places in Kashatagh Province
Cities and towns in the Republic of Artsakh
Populated places in Lachin District
Villages in Azerbaijan
Armenia–Azerbaijan border
First Nagorno-Karabakh War