[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Anatomical terms of motion

tion is considered the back of the arm; and flexion between the hand and the body's palmar surface, which in anatomical position is considered the anterior side of the arm. The direction of terms are opposite to those in the foot because of embryological rotation of the limbs in opposite directions.

Palmarflexion is flexion of the wrist towards the palm and ventral side of forearm.

Dorsiflexion is hyperextension of the wrist joint, towards the dorsal side of forearm.

Pronation and supination

Pronation and supination refer generally to the prone (facing down) or supine (facing up) positions. In the extremities, they are the rotation of the forearm or foot so that in the standard anatomical position the palm or sole is facing anteriorly when in supination and posteriorly when in pronation. As an example, when a person is typing on a computer keyboard, their hands are pronated; when washing their face, they are supinated.

Pronation at the forearm is a rotational movement where the hand and upper arm are turned so the thumbs point towards the body. When the forearm and hand are supinated, the thumbs point away from the body. Pronation of the foot is turning of the sole outwards, so that weight is borne on the medial part of the foot.

Supination of the forearm occurs when the forearm or palm are rotated outwards. Supination of the foot is turning of the sole of the foot inwards, shifting weight to the lateral edge.

Inversion and eversion
Inversion and eversion are movements that tilt the sole of the foot away from (eversion) or towards (inversion) the midline of the body.

Eversion is the movement of the sole of the foot away from the median plane.
Inversion is the movement of the sole towards the median plane. For example, inversion describes the motion when an ankle is twisted.

Eyes

Unique terminology is also used to describe the eye. For example:

 A version is an eye movement involving both eyes moving synchronously and symmetrically in the same direction.
 Torsion is eye movement that affects the vertical axis of the eye, such as the movement made when looking in to the nose.

Jaw and teeth

Occlusion is motion of the mandibula towards the maxilla making contact between the teeth.
 Protrusion and retrusion are sometimes used to describe the anterior (protrusion) and posterior (retrusion) movement of the jaw.

Other

Other terms include:

 Nutation and counternutation are movement of the sacrum defined by the rotation of the promontory downwards and anteriorly, as with lumbar extension (nutation); or upwards and posteriorly, as with lumbar flexion (counternutation).
Opposition is the movement that involves grasping of the thumb and fingers.
Protraction and Retraction is an anterior (protraction) or posterior (retraction) movement, such as of the arm at the shoulders, although these terms have been criticised as non-specific.
Reciprocal motion is alternating motions in opposing directions.
Reposition is restoring an object to its natural condition.

See also
 Anatomical terms of location
 Anatomical terms of muscle
 Anatomical terms of bone
 Anatomical terms of neuroanatomy

Notes

References

Sources

External links

 Hypermuscle: Muscles in Action at med.umich.edu