[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# James Semple

James Semple (January 5, 1798 – December 20, 1866) was an American attorney and politician. He was Speaker of the Illinois House of Representatives, Attorney General of Illinois, an associate justice of the Illinois Supreme Court, Chargé d'Affaires to New Granada, and United States Senator from Illinois.

Semple was born in Green County, Kentucky and was raised and educated in Clinton County. He served in the Kentucky militia during the War of 1812 and then moved to Missouri, where he was active in the militia and owned and operated several businesses. He later studied law in Missouri and Kentucky, attained admission to the bar, and moved to Edwardsville, Illinois to start a practice. He became active in politics as a Democrat, but was opposed to slavery, and he served in the Illinois House of Representatives from 1828 to 1832. He continued his militia service after moving to Illinois, and took part in the Black Hawk War. After service as Illinois Attorney General from 1832 to 1834, Semple returned to the Illinois House, where he served as Speaker from 1834 to 1837.

From 1838 to 1842, Semple served as US Chargé d'Affaires in New Granada. Upon returning to Illinois, he was appointed an associate justice of the Illinois Supreme Court, but he served only a few months because later that year he was selected to fill a vacancy in the US Senate, where he served from 1843 to 1847.

After leaving politics, Semple practiced law, was active in several business ventures, and attempted to market an invention called the prairie car, a forerunner of the modern automobile. He died in Elsah, Illinois, a town he founded, and was buried at Bellefontaine Cemetery in St. Louis, Missouri.

Early life
James Semple was born in Green County, Kentucky on January 5, 1798, the son of John Walker Semple and Lucy (Robertson) Semple. Semple's grandfather Robert Semple served in the Virginia legislature, and his father served in the legislature of Kentucky. James Semple was raised on his father's Clinton County homestead, which John Sample named "76". He received his early education from his mother, a talented woman educated enough to argue cases in court when no lawyers were available, and was tutored by his uncle Isaac Robertson, who was a graduate of Princeton College.

Start of career
In 1814, the sixteen-year-old Semple volunteered for the Kentucky Militia during the War of 1812.  He served until the end war, and in 1817 received a commission as an ensign in Kentucky's 81st Militia Regiment.

In 1818, Semple moved to Edwardsville, Illinois, but he remained for only nine months before returning to Kentucky.  In 1819, he moved to Chariton, Missouri, where he operated a tannery and became active in other business ventures. In addition, he joined the Missouri Militia's 21st Infantry Regiment, which he later commanded with the rank of colonel.  Soon after arriving in Chariton, Semple was elected a state Loan Commissioner. In response to the Panic of 1819, Missouri's government authorized the issuing of paper money that could be loaned to farmers so that they wouldn't lose their land during the economic downturn. Loan Office Banks throughout the state were supervised by commissioners who loaned the money, ensured it was repaid, and instituted foreclosure proceedings and auctions for farmers who defaulted on their loans.

After the sudden death of his first wife in 1821, Semple decided on a career as an attorney and began to study law. He moved to Louisville, Kentucky in 1824 to continue his studies, and after three years of learning he was admitted to the bar and returned to Edwardsville in 1827 to start a law practice.

Continued career
Semple practiced law in Edwardsville and became active in politics. Though he opposed slavery, he became a Democrat, and advocated abolition in opposition to most members of his party, who either supported slavery or accepted that it could continue where it already existed. During the Black Hawk War of 1832, Semple was appointed adjutant of the Illinois Militia's 8th Infantry Regiment, then adjutant of a newly-organized mounted regiment, and then aide-de-camp to Brigadier General Samuel Whiteside and judge advocate of Whiteside's brigade. Semple later commanded the 8th Regiment as a colonel, and subsequently attained the rank of brigadier general.

In 1828, Semple was elected to the Illinois House of Representatives, and he served until 1832. He served as Illinois Attorney General from 1832 to 1834, and did not run for reelection, preferring instead to become a candidate for the Illinois House. He won a House seat and was chosen to serve as Speaker of the House, a post he held until 1837. In 1836, Semple was an unsuccessful candidate for the U.S. Senate. In addition to practicing law, he became involved in business ventures including real estate speculation, and was one of the founders of the town of Highland and the village of Tamaroa. In 1837, he moved to Alton, where he continued to practice law.