[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dioon edule

Evidence suggests D. edule subsp. edule was much more widespread than it is today and became fragmented thus allowing for genetic isolation. It is also speculated that the narrower leaves are endemic in the northern subspecies due to less temperate and humid environmental conditions in these areas.

In addition, endomycorrhizae are present in roots and allow for increased absorption of nutrients and water.  Symbiotic blue-green algae are also found in the coralloid (i.e. upward growing) roots. They assist the plant by fixing nitrogen thus giving the plant essential nutrients in exchange for protection. Cycads in general have significant roles in the nitrogen budget of their respective ecosystems.

Endangerment 
Both subspecies of Dioon edule are on the verge of becoming endangered. They are threatened by human-caused habitat destruction and collection for horticultural and medicinal purposes. Bouncing back from these disturbances is extremely difficult for slow-growing plants such as D. edule. The United States Botanical Garden suggests that plant material should be conserved, seed banks should be established and legislation regarding trading cycads and protection of their habitats should be implemented and enforced.

Dioon edule var. edule 
Dioon edule var. edule is commonly called the chestnut dioon and is endemic to the eastern coast of Mexico. D. edule was originally described by John Lindley in 1843. There are currently two subspecies known: D. edule subsp. edule and D. edule subsp. angustifolium.

Pictures

References and external links

Stevenson, D. W., R. Osborne & J. Hendricks. A world list of cycads Memoirs of the New York Botanical Garden 57: 200-206 (1990)
 The Cycad Pages: Dioon edule
Dioon edule original description by J. Lindley (1843).
 
 Compton, R. H, and F. W. South . "Notes From the Cambridge Botany School on the Anatomy of the Dioon Edule Lindle.." New Phytologist 7(1908): 222-229.
 de Luca, Paolo, Sergio Sabato, and Mario Vasquez. "Distribution and Variation of the Dioon Edule." Brittonia 34(1982): 355-362. 
 Octavio-Aguilar, Pablo, Jorge Gonzalez-Astorgas, and Andrew P. Vovides. "Population Dynamics of the Mexican Cycad Dioon Edule Lindl. (Zamiaceae) Life History Stages and Management Need." Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society 157(2008): 381-391. 
 "Rare and Endangered Plants." 2008. United States Botanical Garden. 2 May 2009 
 Vovides, Andrew P. "Spatial Distribution, Survival and Fecundity of the Dioon edule (Zamiaceae) in Tropical Deciduous Forests in Velacruz, Mexico with Notes on its Habitat.” The American Journal of Botany 77(1990): !532-1543. 
 Whitelock, Loran M. "Variation in the Mexican Cycad Dioon Edule (Zamiaceae)." The Botanical Review 70(240-249): 2009.

edule
Plants described in 1843
Near threatened plants
Flora of Mexico
Taxa named by John Lindley
Flora of the Sierra Madre Oriental