[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Autumn Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China

The Autumn Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China () was a series of battles initiated by the communists against the nationalists during the Chinese Civil War after World War II.

Prelude
After the defeats of the Summer Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China, Chiang Kai-shek removed Xiong Shihui, the political leader, and Du Yuming, the military commander, of the northeast China and replaced them with Chief of the General Staff Chen Cheng.  With the arrival of the 49th Army from China proper, the total nationalist strength in northeast China numbered half a million, numbering forty-five divisions belonging to ten armies, which in turn, belonged to four corps.  Chen Cheng deployed his troops in major cities such as Changchun, Siping, Shenyang, Jinzhou and along the railways linking these cities, and planned to attack the communists when more troops arrived from China proper.

In northeast China, meanwhile, the communists had twenty-seven Divisions that belonged to nine columns, and twelve independent divisions (including two cavalry divisions), and local garrisons. This totaled 510,000 troops, slightly more than its nationalist opponent. The communists mainly occupied regions in western Liaoning, and regions along the railways from Changchun to Greater Stone Bridge (Dashiqiao), and from Shenyang to Jilin.  The communists planned to launch an offensive in late September by first attacking the southern front of the nationalists where the defense was the weakest, and then annihilate large amount of the nationalist force by ambushing the nationalist reinforcement from north.  However, on September 6, 1947, to secure the railway communication line, three nationalist Divisions begun their push toward Jianchang from Xingcheng, Suizhong and Jinxi, and the communists consequently adjusted their schedule accordingly by launching the offensive early on September 14, 1947.

Nationalist order of battle
The Newly Organized 1st Army
The Newly Organized 6th Army
The 3rd Cavalry Army
The 49th Army
The 52nd Army
The 53rd Army
The 60th Army
The 71st Army
The 207th Division of the Youth Army
Six divisions from China proper in the latter stage of the offensive

Communist order of battle
To achieve their objective, the communists established three commands:
The 1st frontline command headed by commander Xiao Jinguang and political commissar Xiao Hua, which was assigned to attack nationalist troops in the region between Liaoyang and Greater Stone Bridge (Dashiqiao, and the region between Tieling and Changtu.  This command included:
The 3rd Column
The 4th Column
Three independent divisions
The 2nd frontline command headed by commander and political commissar Cheng Zihua, which was tasked to fight the nationalists defending the railways from Shanhai Pass to Jinzhou and from Chengde to Jinzhou.  This command included:
The 8th Column
The 9th Column
Four independent Divisions
The high command headed by commander Lin Biao and political commissar Luo Ronghuan, which was assigned to annihilate enemy in the regions between Siping (city) and Changchun.  This command included:
The 1st Column
 The 2nd Column
 The 6th Column
 The 7th Column
 The 10th Column
Three independent divisions

First stage
On September 14, 1947, the nationalist westward push was met head on with stiff communist resistance.  At dawn, the nationalist 50th Division at the left front was badly mauled by the communist 8th Column and the 1st Independent Division at the Pear Tree Ditch Gate (Lishu Gou Men) region, and was forced to turn back.  The communist force did not pursuit the retreating remnant of 50th Division, but instead, turned to the nationalist 22nd Division at the central front, wiping out the enemy at the region between Yang's Family's Pole (Yangjia Zhangzi) and Old Gate (Jiu Men).  The nationalist 60th Division at the right front immediately withdrew after learning the news of the annihilation of forces at the other two fronts and after failing to catch up with the retreating enemy, the communists withdrew to the west for rest and regroup.  In the meantime, the communist 9th Column were order to the Jinxi and Yang's Family's Pole (Yangjia Zhangzi) for reinforcement to face the renewed nationalist attack that was certain to come.