[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Edward S. Bragg

he Radical Republican Congress.  In February 1867, the Senate voted to rescind Bragg's appointment, along with several other Johnson appointments.  Johnson subsequently nominated Bragg to be Assessor of Internal Revenue for the 4th district of Wisconsin, which the United States Senate also defeated.

Democratic minority
Later in 1867, General Bragg won election to the Wisconsin State Senate from the 20th senatorial district, serving in the 21st and 22nd Wisconsin Legislatures (1868 & 1869).  He did not run for re-election in 1869, but remained extremely active in Democratic politics, campaigning for the Democratic tickets and running for office several times. He was mostly unsuccessful for the next several years, as Republican politics remained dominant in Wisconsin.

In 1868, Bragg was a member of the executive committee for the National Convention of "Conservative Soldiers and Sailors"—part of the 1868 Democratic National Convention in New York City.  The Soldiers and Sailors convention favored the nomination of Major General Winfield Scott Hancock for president, but were ultimately unsuccessful, as the convention nominated former New York Governor Horatio Seymour.  Bragg campaigned vigorously for the Democratic ticket in the fall, though papers commented that he didn't seem to share the candidate's views on African American suffrage.  He was a delegate to the 1872 Democratic National Convention, which nominated Horace Greeley.

He was the Democratic nominee for Attorney General of Wisconsin in 1871, but was defeated along with the entire Democratic ticket.

In the hotly contested 1875 United States senate election in the Wisconsin Legislature, Bragg was the choice of the Democratic caucus, believed to be a potential compromise candidate for the fourteen Republicans who had pledged to prevent the re-election of Matthew H. Carpenter.  After no candidate was able to obtain a majority through several ballots, a new compromise candidate emerged in Angus Cameron.  Cameron was ultimately elected on the 12th ballot.

In more local affairs, Bragg engaged in a years-long feud with Congressman Charles A. Eldredge, who had defeated him running on an anti-war platform in the 1862 congressional election.  In 1874, Bragg was successful in defeating Eldredge in local primaries and taking a slate of delegates to the district convention, preventing Eldredge's renomination. The nomination ultimately went to Samuel D. Burchard.  Bragg came back two years later, and this time defeated Burchard in his attempt for renomination.

Congress
In November 1876, Bragg was elected to represent Wisconsin's 5th congressional district in the 45th United States Congress.  Bragg would go on to win re-election in 1878 and 1880, but, after redistricting in 1881, he was unable to win renomination in 1882.

During these six years in Congress, Bragg was chairman of the Committee on Expenditures in the Department of Justice from 1877 to 1879 and of the Committee on War Claims from 1879 to 1881.  He was again a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1880, which nominated General Winfield Scott Hancock.

After the 1880 census, redistricting was carried out and Bragg's county, Fond du Lac, was moved from the 5th congressional district to the 2nd district.  Bragg now found himself in an intense contest for renomination against Arthur Delaney of Dodge County.  In the days before attended the convention in September, Bragg was arrested and accused of a financial fraud deriving from a transaction with the Tremont House institution in Chicago.  Though the charges were eventually dropped, the controversy likely harmed his chances of renomination.  

At the convention, the vote deadlocked for hundreds of ballots with delegates for the two candidates unwilling to compromise.  The matter was resolved when Bragg had to leave the convention to attend his daughter's wedding—a former ally, Daniel H. Sumner, convinced a group of delegates to pick him as a compromise candidate on the 1,601st ballot.  Bragg initially considered an independent bid, but decided against it, stating that he was retiring from politics.

While in Congress, Bragg had been one of only 3 Democrats to vote against the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882.

General Bragg remained involved in state politics.  In 1884, he was again a delegate to the Democratic National Convention.  At that convention, he seconded the nomination of Grover Cleveland for the presidency saying "We love him for the enemies he made."—referring to Cleveland's conflicts with the corrupt Tammany Hall organization.  The phrase became a slogan for the Cleveland campaign, and Cleveland was elected the 22nd President of the United States that November.