[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Behemoth (Hobbes book)

he Lord of Strafford for treason to Parliament and had him beheaded. Next Parliament arrested and executed the Archbishop of Canterbury for his preaching of the introduction of arbitrary government ruled in consultation of the bishops. This was opposed by many in Parliament, but mainly by the Scots.

After this discussion Hobbes' master provides a history of the house of commons and its role in the governance of the realm. He reminds his student that the Parliament had always been an institution of counsel and not control over the monarchy. The present Parliament oversteps the ancient bounds imposed on it by its appointed role as representative of the people before the king.

The rising in Ireland of an army of Papist sympathies who busied themselves harassing and slaughtering Protestants becomes an issue before the Parliament. A truce is made with the king to arrange a militia to combat this uprising in Ireland. Charles I dismissed the charges of high treason but would not identify his informant in the commons. The solicitor general is accused of being an informer on the house and he flees to France to avoid the wrath of the Parliament.

Parliament next took control of the militia from the crown and insisted that no adherents of the Roman church be allowed to command the army being sent to Ireland. Parliament raised funds for this expedition by selling shares of land in the Irish province of Ulster. A small share, three pence on every acre, was reserved for the crown with the balance of the funds being set aside for Parliament. The king did not assent to this. Relations between the two sides once again broke down and the king issued a declaration that Parliament needed to be obedient to the established laws of the kingdom.

Both sides began to gather material and men for possible war. The Parliament sent a message to the king, a humble petition, with 19 propositions to prevent conflict. The nineteen points are:

 Ministers serving on the King's Privy Council must be approved by the House of Commons and Lords.
 Matters that concern the public must be debated only by Parliament.
 A number of high offices, those dealing with finances and laws of the kingdom, must be chosen with the consent of both houses of Parliament.
 The King's children's education and raising should be committed to those approved of by Parliament.
 Parliament shall approve of the marriage of the King's children to any person, from home or abroad.
All laws against Papists must be strictly enforced.
The vote of Papists in the Lords shall be taken away, and the children of Papists must receive a Protestant education.
A reformation of the Church government must be made in a manner advised by both houses.
The King will accept the ordering of the militia by Parliament.
Members of Parliament that have recently been removed from the house must be allowed to return.
 Councilors and judges must take an oath to maintain certain Parliamentary statutes.
 All judges and officers approved of by Parliament shall hold their posts on condition of good behaviour.
 The justice of Parliament shall apply to all law-breakers, whether they are inside the country or have fled.
 The King's pardon must be granted, unless both houses of Parliament object.
 Parliament must approve the King's appointees for commanders of the forts and castles of the kingdom.
 The unnecessary military attachment guarding the King must be discharged.
 The Kingdom will formalise its alliance with the Protestant States of the United Provinces (the Dutch) to defend them against the Pope   and his followers.
 The King must clear the six members of Parliament of any wrongdoing.
 New peers of the House of Lords must be voted in by both Houses of Parliament.

These nineteen points were rejected by the king as they would further weaken the authority of the crown.  This left both Parliament and the king no choice but to go to war.

See the related article Nineteen Propositions for a further discussion of this aspect of the English Civil War.

Part Three: The English Civil War, Rise of Cromwell, and Execution of Charles I
The discussion again continues after a break and now turns to the matter of the Civil war itself.  The student is concerned about what he sees as the inability of Charles I to stand up to the Parliament due to his overall lack of resources as Parliament has taken control of much of the necessary material to fight a war. The master reminds the student that the officers on the side of the crown were all well experienced men and that this was an advantage that the Parliamentarians did not have. As for money, neither side had much on hand. Some of the forces supporting the king took future credit while those supporting the Parliament were funded by an appeal to the cities and by the placing of levies on the towns.