[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hilf al-Fudul

d from commerce with Yemen if Yemeni merchants were to stop coming to Mecca. This would explain the necessity for them to defend the Yemeni merchant. He also notes that the same clans remained in conflict until the Battle of Badr, where all Meccan leaders belonged to the same clans who opposed the .

Legacy
That pact marked the beginning of some notion of justice in Mecca, which would be later repeated by Muhammad when he would preach Islam. Later on, after proclaiming Islam, Muhammad still acknowledged the validity and value of the pact, despite most of its members being non-Muslim. Abu Bakr is also said to have agreed to this pact. This presumption is based on the fact that Abdullah ibn Jad'an, whose house was the venue for this pledge, was Abu Bakr's fellow clansman.

In the time of the first Umayyad caliph Mu'awiya, the governor of Medina al-Walid ibn Utba ibn Abi Sufyan ('Abd Shams), who was a nephew of the caliph, committed an injustice to Husayn ibn Ali. Husayn threatened to take the case to the members of Hilf al-Fudul. As influential Meccans like Abdullah ibn al-Zubayr (Assad), al-Miswar ibn Makhrama (al-Zuhri) and Abd al-Rahman ibn Awf (al-Taymi) swore to help Husayn in agreement with the pact, the Umayyad governor stepped back, afraid of the possible consequences.

Islamic ethics
Anas Malik sees the pact as an example of libertarianism in Islam, and Anthony Sullivan considers it as a support for Muslim democrats.

The pact holds significance in Islamic ethics. According to Anthony Sullivan, the pact represents Islam's interest in human rights and protection of such rights. Muhammad, later as a Muslim, accepted the substance of the agreement made by primarily non-Muslims. Tariq Ramadan draws three principles from this:
Islam embraces values derived from the human conscience, that are outside of the Islamic tradition. This is because Muhammad had acknowledged a pact before revelation, in the pre-Islamic era.
Islam acknowledges the righteousness of non-Muslims. In this case, the non-Muslims had defended justice and the oppressed.
Islam, instead of building allegiance to a closed community, requires allegiance to a set of universal principles. The message of Islam is not a closed value system, or at variance or conflict with other value systems.

See also
Muhammad in Mecca

References

Life of Muhammad
History of the Arabian Peninsula
Islamic terminology
6th-century establishments in Arabia