[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Education in Jamaica

rd college usually denotes institutions which do not grant at least a bachelor's degree. Universities are typically the only degree granting institutions; however, many colleges have been creating joint programs with universities, and thus are able to offer some students more than a college diploma.

A few universities in the United States have extension programs in various parts of Jamaica. Most of the students who enroll in these part-time programs are working professionals who want to continue their education without having to relocate closer to the nation's universities.
\
Tertiary education is offered by the following institutions:  
 Caribbean Maritime University (CMU)
 University of the West Indies at Mona (a regional institution)
 University of Technology (UTech, Ja.)
 Excelsior Community College (EXED)
 Northern Caribbean University (NCU)
 International University of the Caribbean (IUC)
 University of the Commonwealth Caribbean (UCC)  
 Edna Manley College of the Visual and Performing Arts (an artistic conservatory)
 College of Agriculture, Science and Education (CASE)
 G. C. Foster College of Physical Education and Sports
 Knox Community College
 Moneague College
 All American Institute of Medical Sciences, Black River, St. Elizabeth (AAIMS)
 Teacher training colleges
 The Mico University' College, Cross Roads, Kingston 
 Shortwood Teachers' College, Shortwood, St. Andrew 
 Bethlehem Teachers' College, Malvern, St. Elizabeth
 Moneague College, Moneague, St. Ann
 Church Teachers' College, Mandeville, Manchester
 Sam Sharpe Teachers' College, Montego Bay, St. James
 St. Joseph's Teacher's College, St. Andrew
 Catholic College of Mandeville, Mandeville, Manchester
 Saint John's College (school of nursing)
 14 community colleges
 1 dental auxiliary school
 1 vocational training development institute
 29 vocational training centres, and 
 6 human employment and resources training (HEART) vocational training institutions.

Special programs and events

Tourism education program 
The Jamaica Tourist Bsm is a new subject at all levels from early childhood up to secondary, that is for children from age 4 to 20 years". This program, introduced for the 1999/2000 academic year, works in accordance with the set curriculum, which includes "Mathematics, Social Studies, Resource and Technology which will carry tourism related materials and concepts".

The tourism education program has also led the Ministry of Education to edit some of the textbooks to be used in schools, with other texts being developed. With the preparation of the new textbooks comes the training of tourism teachers, with an understanding of "Who is a Tourist, Why People Travel, the Importance of Tourism, Anti Harassment and Culture". Jamaica has also formed a summer school program, which is a five-day workshop for students to gain first hand experience working in the tourism environment.

Field trips to "local" tourist attractions are also included, along with a "one month placement of the top students in hotels and tourism related organizations. Each of the schools selected to participate in this program was invited to send five students from the third and fourth form years". The group of students selected is accompanied by a teacher and covers the following material: Tourism is our Business; Attitudinal Development; In the Tourist’s shoes; Tourism and the Environment; and Trends in the Industry.

Special events

Schools compete scholastically in School's Challenge Quiz and debating competitions.

In regard to sports, the main track and field event is the Boys and Girls School's Championships. For football there are the Manning Cup and DaCosta Cup competitions. For cricket there is the Grace Shield competition. Many swim meets are held throughout the year.

See also
 List of universities and colleges in Jamaica

References

External links
 Jamaica Ministry of Education and Youth website
 Scholarship Jamaica - Online scholarship and bursary resource for Jamaican students

 
Society of Jamaica