[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Louis Beam

Louis Ray Beam, Jr. (born 1946) is an American white supremacist and neo-fascist.

After high school, he joined the United States Army and served as a helicopter door-gunner in Vietnam. He was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. Once he returned to the United States, he became a Klansman, leading a maritime Louisiana KKK element and Klan rally in Texas against government help to Vietnamese immigrant fishermen. He was also the leader of the Texas Emergency Reserve, a militia that was disbanded by the courts in 1982 as a result of a lawsuit filed under Texas anti-militia law by the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC). The lawsuit was brought by SPLC after the militia harassed Vietnamese fishermen during the 1981 fishing season.

Beam was using Camp Puller near Houston in 1980 to train militia, including children as young as eight years old, in armed guerrilla tactics; the camp was shut down after publicity led to protests, and parents complaining that they were not aware of the children's activities at the camp. The Boy Scouts Council of Houston rejected a charter request from the troop at Camp Puller. Videotape shown during the shrimper hearing had Beam saying, "We're going to assume authority in this country."  He moved to Idaho afterwards and became active with Aryan Nations in the early 1980s.

In 1988, he was later acquitted in a separate case of conspiring to overthrow the government. He is considered to be the first important proponent of the strategy of leaderless resistance within the white supremacist movement.

See also
Vietnamese Fisherman's Association v. Knights of the Ku Klux Klan

References

External links
 Louisbeam.com - Essays by Louis Beam
 Entry with the ADL/LEARN
 Essays by a klansman : being a compendium of Ku Klux Klan ideology, organizational methods, history, tactics, and opinions, with interpolations by the author

1946 births
Living people
People from Lufkin, Texas
American neo-fascists
Accelerationism
United States Army personnel of the Vietnam War
Recipients of the Distinguished Flying Cross (United States)
American Protestants
American conspiracy theorists
Aryan Nations
Ku Klux Klan Grand Dragons
Patriot movement
People extradited from Mexico to the United States
United States Army soldiers
Sovereign citizen movement individuals

People acquitted of crimes