[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pavel Postyshev

Pavel Petrovich Postyshev (;  – 26 February 1939) was a Soviet politician, state and Communist Party official and party publicist. He was a member of Joseph Stalin's inner circle, before falling victim to the Great Purge. In 2010, a court in Kyiv judged Postyshev guilty of complicity in genocide because of his part in causing the mass starvation in Ukraine in the early 1930s, known as the Holodomor.

Early career
Postyshev was born in Ivanovo-Voznesensk in Vladimir Governorate in to the family of a Russian weaver.
He was a member of the Russian Social-Democratic Labour Party from 1904, and later joined the Bolshevik faction, and worked fulltime, illegally, as a party organiser. Arrested  on 24 April (old style) 1908, he spent four years in Vladimir Central Prison, and then was deported to the Irkutsk region. During the October Revolution, he played a major role in bringing Irkutsk under Bolshevik control, and then in creating the Far Eastern Republic. In 1923, he was transferred to Ukraine to supervise  organization of the Communist Party committee in the Kiev Governorate (guberniya) in central Ukraine. In 1925, Postyshev became secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party (Bolshevik) of Ukraine, or CP(b)U. In 1926–30 he became a member of the Politburo and Organizational Bureau of Ukraine's Communist Party. At the 15th Congress of the All-Union Communist Party (Bolsheviks), in December 1927, he was elected a member of the Central Committee.

In July 1930, Postyshev was transferred to Moscow, as the Secretary of the Central Committee, in charge of propaganda and organization. This was a time of upheaval in the countryside across the Soviet Union, as Joseph Stalin forced through a policy of driving the peasants onto collective farms. In May 1930, Pravda published a signed article by Postyshev castigating party officials in Ukraine who complained that collectivisation was being driven ahead too quickly. 

In Moscow, he was part of the inner leadership, despite not being a member of the Politburo. The chairman of the Russian federal government, Sergey Syrtsov, complained in November 1930 that "everything is decided behind the back of the Politburo by a tiny group", which, he said, included Postyshev, while nominally more senior figures such as Kliment Voroshilov and Janis Rudzutaks were excluded.

In December 1932, he was dispatched to the Lower Volga region, where there were particular difficulties enforcing grain collection. When a district official in Balashov complained that "we have nothing left to winnow or thresh", Postyshev sacked him on the spot. On 12 June, the territorial party committee stated that, without Postyshev's help, it would not have met its grain procurement target. The arrests and food shortages caused the population in the territory to fall by about a million over 18 months.

Role in the Holodomor 
On 18 September 1932, Postyshev sent a telegram to the Ukrainian party leadership ordering them to meet their quota for exporting grain, in spite of warnings that forced collectivisation was causing mass starvation. This was the first piece of evidence cited by the Kyiv Court of Appeal in finding Postyshev posthumously guilty of genocide. Later that month, he was sent back to Ukraine to enforce grain collection, starting in Dnipropetrovsk.

On 24 January 1933, Postyshev was appointed Second Secretary of the Central Committee of the Ukraine CP, and first secretary of the Kharkiv city and Kharkiv Oblast Party organizations. Though nominally junior to the First Secretary, Stanisław Kosior, he "functioned as Stalin's direct emissary, a kind of governor-general of Ukraine". Postyshev criticized the Ukrainian Communists for their "lack of Bolshevik vigilance" in Stalin's systematic enforcement of increased grain quotas.  His party activists conducted a brutal campaign through farms and homes, searching for suspected hiding places and confiscating every bit of grain, with disregard for the starvation they encountered. Millions died in the famine of 1932–33.

During his first tour of the Ukrainian countryside, Postyshev took his 18-year-old son Valentin with him. The youth was so distressed by the spectacle of starvation that his father assembled the family when they returned home and ordered them all not to conduct anti-Party conversations at home.

Before Postyshev's return, the Communist Party had encouraged, or at least permitted, the use of the Ukrainian language in schools, and the teaching of Ukrainian history and language in universities. The university courses were closed down in January 1933, and in June Postyshev accused the Ukraine People's Commissar for Education Mykola Skrypnyk of "wrecking" the schools and universities by allowing "Petliurite swine" to gain control - "and you often defended them". Skrypnyk committed suicide soon afterwards.