[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Benedictus (canticle)

ds of our enemies,
free to worship him without fear,
holy and righteous in his sight all the days of our life.

You, my child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High;
for you will go before the Lord to prepare his way,
to give his people knowledge of salvation
by the forgiveness of their sins.

In the tender compassion of our God
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death,
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

The United Methodist Hymnal

Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel,
who has come to set the chosen people free.
The Lord has raised up for us
a mighty Savior from the house of David.
Through the holy prophets, God promised of old
to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us;
to show mercy to our forebears
and to remember the holy covenant.
This was the oath God swore to our father Abraham
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship without fear,
holy and righteous in the Lord's sight,
all the days of our life.   R

and you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High,
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God's people knowledge of salvation
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in the darkness and the shadow of death,
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.   R

New American Bible

Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel,
for he has visited and brought redemption to his people.
He has raised up a horn for our salvation
within the house of David his servant,
even as he promised through the mouth of his holy prophets from of old:
salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us,
to show mercy to our fathers
and to be mindful of his holy covenant
and of the oath he swore to Abraham our father,
and to grant us that, rescued from the hand of enemies,
without fear we might worship him in holiness and righteousness
before him all our days.
And you, child, will be called prophet of the Most High,
for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways,
to give his people knowledge of salvation
through the forgiveness of their sins,
because of the tender mercy of our God
by which the daybreak from on high will visit us
to shine on those who sit in darkness and death’s shadow,
to guide our feet into the path of peace.

Douay–Rheims
From the Douay–Rheims Bible (Challoner Revision):

Book of Common Prayer
From the 1662 Book of Common Prayer:

See also
 Dead Sea Scrolls 4Q521

References

External links

 List of available settings at Choral Public Domain Library.
 Order for Morning Prayer in the Book of Common Prayer
 Pope John Paul II, "Reflection on Canticle of Zechariah", General Audience, October 1, 2003

Attribution

Canticles
Gospel of Luke
Vulgate Latin words and phrases
New Testament Latin words and phrases