[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cho Won-hee

uly 2020, it was officially announced that Cho would join Suwon FC, the city's second professional team, as a playing coach, thus re-uniting with main manager Kim Do-kyun (the two were team-mates when Cho started his senior career at Ulsan) and assisting him for the rest of the season in K League 2.

During his six-month spell with the Dashers, he played only twice: on 1 August, he started the home match against Ansan Greeners, but he got a yellow card and he was eventually replaced with Lee Ji-hun at the 40th minute, while Suwon FC suffered a 1–2 loss; on 24 October, he came from the bench as a substitute, replacing Lee himself, at the 77th minute of an away match against Jeju United, but could not help his side avoid a 2–0 loss. In both cases, he was used as a right-back, his original position. He also featured on the bench for other five consecutive matches, from 21 September to 10 October. Suwon FC eventually had a successful season, finishing second in the championship and winning the final play-off against Gyeongnam to obtain their second promotion ever to the top-tier rank of the K League.

In these circumstances, although Cho might have not left a very significant mark as an active player, he actually did it off the pitch: in fact, on 4 January 2021, he donated his entire incentive, consisting of 20-million won (roughly corresponding to $18,365), to the club for their sportive achievements in 2020, declaring that the special fee would be invested in their youth development sector. The following day (on 5 January), he addressed his donation in a video for his own YouTube channel, explaining what had brought him to that particular decision: moreover, in the same occasion he announced his definitive retirement from professional football at 37 years old.

Cho Won-hee's retirement closed an 18-year long career, with a total amount of 352 appearances and 10 goals distributed between South Korea, England, China and Japan.

International career

Under-20 
During the initial phases of his career, Cho represented South Korea's national Under-20 team several times and was selected by manager Park Sung-hwa to take part in the FIFA World Youth Championship (original name of the U-20 World Cup) in 2003, where he played three out of four matches as his side made it through the group stage, being one of the four best third-place finishers, but eventually lost to Japan in the round of 16.

Senior team 
Following his performances with the Sangmu and Suwon, Cho was taken in consideration for the senior national football team since 2005. Dutch manager Jo Bonfrère gave the Blue Wings affiliate his first senior call-up and made him start in an unofficial friendly against North Korea on 14 August 2005, as well as hosting him on the bench three days later, in a 0–1 loss against Saudi Arabia, a match regarding the final round of the Asian qualifications to the 2006 FIFA World Cup.

However, as Bonfrére resigned shortly after the latter match, it was his successor and fellow Dutch Dick Advocaat who gifted Cho with his official international debut, in a friendly match against Iran on 12 October 2005. On the same occasion, Cho also scored his first international goal: a shot attempted after just a few seconds from the start of the game deflected off an opposing defender and fell into the back of the net. This goal has been guessed to be the fastest one ever scored by the South Korean national team, without counting the games played during the 1950s and the 1960s (which have remained unrecorded): plus, it would eventually become the player's only goal for the Taeguk Warriors.

Cho played in the most part of the matches in preparation to the 2006 World Cup and also featured in South Korea's first match of the 2007 AFC Asian Cup qualification (a 1–2 away win against Syria). Despite this and despite being selected by Advocaat in the 23-men squad heading to Germany, he ended up not making a single appearance in the world tournament, with his side being eliminated in the group stage and their manager resigning just a few moments after.

Under another fellow Dutch manager, Pim Verbeek, Cho took part in other matches of qualification to the Asian Cup: however, the following year, due to either technical decisions and him having hard times at Suwon, Cho ended up missing the continental competition.

In 2008, following his return to form, Cho gained the attention of the new head coach Huh Jung-moo and got some new satisfactions at an international level: despite not always being a first choice in Huh's team, he featured in many of the matches regarding the World Cup qualifiers and became one of the protagonists in South Korea's success at the East Asian Football Championship in Chongqing.