[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Judith Heumann

lities Act.

On January 20, 2017, Heumann left her post at the State Department with the change of a new administration. The Special Advisor role was disestablished by United States Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in 2017. It was later reestablished under the Biden administration.

Ford Foundation 

From September 2017 to April 2019, Heumann was a Senior Fellow at the Ford Foundation. At Ford, she worked to help advance the inclusion of disability in the Foundation's work. She also promoted the intentional inclusion of disability in philanthropy work. Heumann produced a paper co-written by Katherine Salinas and Michellie Hess titled Roadmap for Inclusion: Changing the Face of Disability in Media. This paper explores the lack of representation of disabled people in front of and behind the camera, as well as prominent stereotypes of disabled characters when represented in the media, and concludes with a call to action to increase disabled representation in media.

Author 
Heumann's book, Being Heumann: An Unrepentant Memoir of a Disability Rights Activist, was published in February 2020.

Podcast 
In March 2021, Heumann began producing a bi-weekly podcast The Heumann Perspective where she spoke with disabled changemakers and their allies. The podcast featured opening music by artist Lachi, and featured guests such as filmmaker James LeBrecht, activists Lydia X. Z. Brown and Leroy F. Moore Jr., model Jillian Mercado, creator Spencer West and many others.

Personal life and death 
Heumann married Jorge Pineda in 1992. They lived in Washington, D.C. She died there on March 4, 2023, at age 75.

Media 
 The 2008 documentary The Power of 504 prominently features Heumann
 Heumann appears in the 2011 documentary Lives Worth Living.
 Heumann delivered a TEDTalk in 2017.
 Comedy Central made a 2018 episode of Drunk History on the 504 Sit-in, with Heumann played by Ali Stroker
 Heumann appeared on Bloomberg on July 6, 2019, to discuss representation of disability in the media
 Heumann was interviewed by Trevor Noah on The Daily Show in 2020
 Heumann is featured in the 2020 documentary Crip Camp
Heumann was interviewed by the Urban Institute
Heumann was interviewed by the Center for Jewish History

Awards and recognition 
 2022: Women's Entrepreneurship Day Organization's Humanitarian Pioneer Award. Received at the United Nations, celebrating her as a trailblazer and innovator in her field. The prestigious award, also recognized by the US Congress, highlights women entrepreneurs and the meaningful impact they are having on the world.
 2022: Named one of the BBC 100 Women
 2020: Named Time Magazine's 1977 Woman of the Year, in a retrospective in 2020 
 2020: Henry Viscardi Achievement Awards
 2020: Critics' Choice Documentary Award honor as one of the "Most Compelling Living Subjects of a Documentary", regarding the documentary Crip Camp
 2019: The Lurie Institute for Disability Policy gave an award "The journey to Achieving Equality: Past, Present, and Future of Disability Activism with gratitude for your leadership and activism in civil rights."
2018: Women's Caucus Award given by the National Council on Independent Living
 2018: Society for Disability Studies President's Award. SDS says of their decision to award Heumann:
 2017: U.S. International Council on Disabilities, Dole-Harkin Award
 2017: InterAction Disability Inclusion Award, in recognition of Heumann's major impact on disability inclusion in international development.
 2014: The Berkeley Rotary Club gave its annual Rotary Peace Grove Award to Heumann and the late Ed Roberts, another disability rights activist.
 Max Starkloff Lifetime Achievement Award from National Council on Independent Living In recognition of a lifetime of dedicated hard work and leadership to advance the Independent Living and Disability Rights Movements and her commitment to the protection and expansion of the civil and human rights of people with disabilities.
 Champion of Disability Rights Award from the SPAN Parent Advocacy Network. "For lifelong commitment and activism for the human and civil rights of children and adults with disabilities in the United States throughout the world."
 Advocacy Award from ALPHA Disability Section: "This award is presented to a person or a consumer-driven organization who has demonstrated excellence in the area of advocacy to improve the health and quality of life for people with disabilities."
 Heumann was the first recipient of the Henry B. Betts Award from the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago (later awarded jointly with the American Association of People with Disabilities).
Heumann was awarded seven honorary doctorates, including doctorates from Brooklyn College and New York University.

References