[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Patience Wright

ican prisoners of war held in Britain. A group of pro-American activists, including Lord George Gordon, Benjamin West, and Anthony Pasquin, would meet at her London workshop to discuss their cause.

Wright moved to Paris in 1780, where she modeled a portrait of Benjamin Franklin.

Postwar and death 

Wright returned to England in 1782 and settled with her daughter Phoebe and her son-in-law, painter John Hoppner at their home on Charles Street at St. James's Square. By 1785 she had decided to return to New Jersey. However, as she was making preparations to travel, she suffered a bad fall and broke her leg. Wright died a week later, on March 23, 1786. Her sister Rachel attempted to get financial assistance for her burial expenses, both from prominent American citizens and then from the Continental Congress, but was not successful. Wright was buried in London. Her burial place is in the St John's Wood Burial Ground, in St John's Wood, London.

Although Wright had obtained George Washington's agreement to sit for a portrait with her, she died before she could sculpt him. A similar request sent to Thomas Jefferson would go unanswered.

Selected works 
The fragility of her medium means that few of Wright's works survive today. A full-length figure of William Pitt, produced after the Earl's death, still stands in Westminster Abbey Museum. A bas-relief profile of Admiral Richard Howe in the collection of the Newark Museum is attributed to her.

Wright's also made sculptures of Prime Minister William Pitt, Lord Lyttelton, Thomas Penn, and Charles James Fox. Wright's patrons included Benjamin Franklin, Deborah Sampson, the King and Queen of England, and William Pitt.

Legacy
Wright's son Joseph Wright (1756–1793) was a well-known portrait painter who designed Liberty Cap Cent. Her daughter Phoebe married British painter John Hoppner; their son, Henry Parkyns Hoppner, went on to become a Royal Navy officer and Arctic explorer.

Her home at 100 Farnsworth Avenue in Bordentown, New Jersey still stands.

In literature
Wright was featured as a character in Lillian de la Torre's story "The Frantick Rebel," part of her series featuring Samuel Johnson as a detective, with Wright successfully tricking Johnson into supplying information to an American spy.

References

External links

Burstyn, Joan N. Past and Promise: Lives of New Jersey Women (Syracuse University Press, 1997)
Kerber, Linda K. Toward an Intellectual History of Women: Essays (Univ. of North Carolina Press, 1997)
Lepore, Jill. Book of Ages: The Life and Opinions of Jane Franklin (Knopf, 2014)
Mays, Dorothy. Women In Early America: Struggle, Survival, and Freedom in a New World (ABC-CLIO, 2004)
Sellers, Charles Coleman. Patience Wright: American Artist and Spy in George III's London (Wesleyan University Press, 1976)
To George Washington from Patience Lovell Wright (8 December 1783), Founders Online, National Archives
To Thomas Jefferson from Patience Wright (14 August 1785), Founders Online, National Archives
The Papers of Benjamin Franklin, The American Philosophical Society and Yale University

1725 births
1786 deaths
American women sculptors
People from Bordentown, New Jersey
Sculptors from New Jersey
People from Oyster Bay (town), New York
Sculptors from New York (state)
American expatriates in the United Kingdom
Accidental deaths from falls
Accidental deaths in London
People of New York (state) in the American Revolution
People of the Province of New York
18th-century American women sculptors
18th-century American sculptors