[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Sambandam

Sambandham was an informal mode of marriage followed by Nambudiris, Nairs, Samantha Kshatriyas, Kshatriyas and Ambalavasis among their own communities as well as with each other, in colonial Kerala, India. This practice was stopped during the late 1920s, and is no longer observed. The Malabar Marriage Act, 1896 defined Sambandham as, "An alliance between a man and a woman, by reason of which they, in accordance with the custom of the community to which they belong, or to which either of them belongs, cohabit or intend to cohabit as husband and wife."

Sambandham also denoted reciprocal marriage among Nairs and this term was not used just to denote hypergamous marriages between the Nambudiris and the Nairs. Alternate names for the system were used by different social groups and in different regions; they included Pudavamuri, Pudavakoda, Vastradanam, Vitaram Kayaruka, Mangalam and Uzhamporukkuka.

Practice

Among Nairs 
Among the Nairs, men could have multiple sambandham wives, who in turn could have multiple sambandham husbands. A few spouses was the norm, although Nair women could have more than ten husbands, in addition to temporary relationships with itinerant soldiers. There were prohibitions in place to prevent incest; for example, by forbidding multiple spouses or relationships with those from the same household. Sleeping customs and schedules limited contact between husbands, and there was reportedly no jealousy. If a Nair wife became pregnant, one of her husbands would claim the child as his offspring. If nobody did, then the karnavar of the woman's tharavad could conclude that the child's father was from a lower caste; and the woman could be punished, including being disowned and sold into slavery.

Among Brahmins 
The Nambudiri and other Malayali Brahmins also practiced sambandam. Due to the strict practice of primogeniture, only the oldest son of a Brahmin family was permitted to wed a Brahmin woman. This son's inheritance (including property) would pass on to their eldest son in turn and their Brahmin caste status would pass to their children. The younger Brahmin sons would have sambandam partners from among the Nair women, whom the Brahmins regarded as concubines and whose children had no inheritance rights from their Brahmin father nor were they recognised as Brahmins; the Nairs, however, recognized these sambandam relationships as marriages, and the children as members of the Nair caste. Since the Brahmin man was of a higher caste than his Nair sambandam partner, he was forbidden from eating with her or her family members and had to have a separate dining hall in her home, and he could not touch her or their children except at night or in the early morning before his ritual bath.

See also
 Kettu Kalyanam
 Malayali Brahmins

References

Sources
 Moore, Melinda. "Symbol and Meaning in Nayar Marriage Ritual." American Ethnologist. 15 (1998) 254–273
 Gough, K. (1961) Nayar: Central Kearla, in Schneider, D. M. & Gough, K. (Eds.) Matrilineal Kinship. Berkeley & Los Angeles, p298-404
 Karl, R. (2003) Women in Practice: A Comparative Analysis of Gender and Sexuality in India. 2003 Marleigh Grayer Ryan Student Prize ; Moore, M. (1998) Symbol and Meaning in Nayar Marriage Ritual, American Ethnologist 15:254-73
 Damodar Dharmanand Kosambi (1975) An Introduction to the Study of Indian History.
 Dirks, Nicholas. "Homo Hierarchies: Origins of an Idea." Castes of Mind. Princeton: Princeton University Press 2001.

Indian castes
Surnames of Indian origin
Kerala society
Telugu society