[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jean-Louis Tixier-Vignancour

he Empire, the weakening of the army, and closer ties with the communist world." At the height of the campaign, Le Pen and Tixier-Vignancour even went to London to meet members of the British Conservative Party and potentially use it as an example for a new conservative-nationalist party in France. 

Tixier-Vignancour's movement participated in the municipal elections of March 1965 and received 9.6% of the votes in Paris. This encouraging result was followed, in the summer of 1965, by poll predictions crediting Tixier-Vignancour with 19% of the presidential vote. The latter began to imagine a first-round score of up to 25%, and a victory in the second round. Acting as if he was already president, Tixier-Vignancour traveled during the campaign to Saigon, Bonn, Rome and London. He abandoned his radical far-right rhetoric to court the moderate right, his campaign managers labeling him the "national and liberal opposition" against the extremist Charles de Gaulle. A former Vichy collaborator, Tixier-Vignancour yet invoked the name of French WWII resister Jean Moulin to serve his campaign. Despite this calculated attempts at moderating his positions, commentators portrayed Tixier-Vignancour as "the alliance of Algérie française, Poujadism and the spirit of Vichy", and he was only endorsed in the media by the radical right-wing press: Rivarol, Europe-Action, Aspects de la France and Minute.

Supported by a disparate and sometimes hostile alliance of far-rights groups, and lacking the necessary party structure, Tixier-Vignancour's failed at 5.2% of the votes in December 1965 After that, he publicly called for a vote in favor of Socialist candidate François Mitterrand in the second round. Deceived by his multiple renunciations—from the moderation of stance to his support of Mitterrand—, Le Pen decided to quit the campaign. Votes for Tixier-Vignancour were heavily concentrated in the south of France, a region which had already seen the highest levels of "no" votes in the Évian Agreements referendum and where many Pieds-noirs had settled after their recent repatriation from Algeria in 1962.

Later life (1966–1989) 
Tixier-Vignancour participated in a pro-Israel demonstration in 1967 in Paris during the Six-Day War. During the May 1968 crisis, he endorsed re-elected president De Gaulle to put an end to the general disorder. In the 1969 presidential election, he supported Gaullist candidate Georges Pompidou.

He was the main instigator in the  of February 1973. He joined the far-right Party of New Forces (PFN) in June 1978, of which he became the honorary president and spokesman. In 1979, he unsuccessfully ran for the PFN in the European elections and eventually left the party in February 1982.

He died on 17 September 1989 at 81 in Paris. His funeral was celebrated in Saint-Nicolas-du-Chardonnet church, a stronghold of the Christian traditionalist Society of Saint Pius X.

Views 
Strongly anti-communist, he endorsed during his 1965 campaign the NATO military and nuclear alliance with the United States, to defend the "humanist and Christian West" against "communism and its Trojan horse, Gaullism". Arguing that France should reduce development aid towards its former colonies, he coined the slogan "la Corrèze passe avant le Zambèze" ("Corrèze comes before the Zambezi"). Tixier-Vignancour was also fervently opposed to immigration, labeling himself a supporter of "French Algeria" rather than "Algerian France". He argued for "strict and rigorously selected quotas" for Algerian immigrants to "avoid the invasion of France by a multitude of starving mouths, undesirables and invalids with no technical or social education".

Private life 
Jean-Louis Tixier-Vignancour was the godfather of Jean-Marie Le Pen's daughter Caroline.

See also 

 French 1965 presidential election
 Far-right in France

Notes

Bibliography

Further reading 

Louis-Ferdinand Céline, Lettres à Tixier : 44 lettres inédites à Me Tixier-Vignancour, texte établi et présenté par Frédéric Monnier. Paris : la Flûte de Pan, 1985. 143 pages. . (Letters to Tixier: 44 unpublished letters to Me Tixier-Vignancour)
Tixier-Vignancour, J.-L., J’ai choisi la défense, Paris, La Table Ronde, 1964.

References 

1907 births
1989 deaths
Politicians from Paris
People affiliated with Action Française
French Popular Party politicians
Party of New Forces politicians
Members of the 16th Chamber of Deputies of the French Third Republic
Deputies of the 3rd National Assembly of the French Fourth Republic
Members of Parliament for Pyrénées-Atlantiques
Candidates in the 1965 French presidential election
20th-century French lawyers
University of Paris alumni
People of Vichy France
French collaborators with Nazi Germany
Order of the Francisque recipients