[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Nels Ackerson

Nels Ackerson is an American lawyer and head of the law firm that bears his name, based in Washington, D.C. He has represented clients in 46 states and 16 countries on issues involving property rights, constitutional rights, agriculture, eminent domain, commercial and financial disputes, public policy, and international disputes. His law practice has included individual cases, class actions, mediation, appellate advocacy in state and federal courts, regulatory disputes, testimony before congressional committees and state legislatures, and international arbitration.  
Ackerson has received Martindale-Hubbell's highest rating – AV Premier – for legal ability and ethics. He has been identified by his peers as a Super Lawyer and is listed in the American Registry, the Worldwide Registry, and Who's Who in the World. He is a member of the bar of the United States Supreme Court, numerous federal courts, the District of Columbia and his home state of Indiana. He is a member of the American Bar Association, the American Association for Justice, the International Society of Barristers, and other bar associations. 
His public positions have included Chief Counsel of the U.S. Senate Subcommittee on the Constitution, nominee for the U.S. Congress, and representing the United States on trade and advisory missions to the Middle East, Africa and Eastern Europe. He organized and managed the first American law office in Egypt, and was a founder and president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Egypt.

Purdue University has recognized Ackerson as a distinguished alumnus and an "Old Master," and has awarded Ackerson its honorary degree of Doctor of Agriculture, citing his "legal accomplishments that will have lasting impact on landowner rights."

Background 
Farm: The grandson of Swedish immigrants and the son of a farmer and a teacher, Ackerson grew up on his family's small dairy farm in Westfield, Indiana, where he attended Westfield public schools, was active in 4-H and other youth organizations, and was class president and valedictorian. In 2009 Ackerson was recognized as a member of the first class to be inducted into the Westfield Washington High School Hall of Fame.

Purdue University: Ackerson earned a B.S. degree with distinction in Agricultural Economics at Purdue University, where he served as student body president, and received the G. A. Ross Award as the most outstanding male graduate. Ackerson joined FarmHouse Fraternity and later served on its International Board of Directors. During his freshman year at Purdue, Ackerson served as Indiana State President of the Future Farmers of America (FFA).

Interim Period:  During his sophomore year at Purdue Ackerson was elected National FFA President, a full-time position that required him to take a one-year leave from his formal education.  As National FFA President, Ackerson presided over the desegregation of the FFA and the New Farmers of America (NFA), a parallel youth organization for African Americans in states that had previously practiced racial segregation. He spoke at conventions and high school commencements, and he met with educators, agricultural leaders, leaders of industry and elected officials across the nation and in the White House.

Harvard Law School: Ackerson was awarded the Juris Doctor degree with distinction by the Harvard Law School where he was an editor of the Harvard Law Review. As a Harvard Law Review editor, he co-authored a student article on the role of community development corporations in economic development, which remains one of the Harvard Law Review's most comprehensive student-authored legal articles.

Harvard University, John F. Kennedy School of Government: Ackerson also received the degree of Master in Public Policy from Harvard University, as a member of the first class of students in Harvard's joint degree program through the John F. Kennedy School of Government and Harvard Law School. One of Ackerson's Kennedy School thesis papers remains listed as a teaching tool. The Kennedy School on several occasions has asked Ackerson to join its delegation to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.

Family: Ackerson lives in Potomac, Maryland. He and his wife, Sharon Carroll Ackerson, have four children and six grandchildren. Ackerson is a member and officer in of the Potomac Presbyterian Church.

Career 

1971 – 1976: Indiana Law Practice: After graduating from Harvard Law School in 1971, Ackerson joined the Indianapolis law firm Barnes, Hickam, Pantzer & Boyd (now Barnes & Thornburg), where he tried cases before judges and juries in state and federal courts. Ackerson was active in many civic and public policy issues in Indiana, which he recalls as wonderful time of growth in an excellent law firm under the guidance of highly skilled and generous colleagues in an enjoyable community. (Following his experience on the staff of the United States Senate, Ackerson returned to practice law in Indiana).