[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bannister Federal Complex

The Bannister Federal Complex was a United States federal government complex at 1500 E. Bannister Road in Kansas City, Missouri. The  complex consisted of 10 buildings at the corner of Troost Avenue and Bannister Road. The complex was occupied primarily by the General Services Administration and the Department of Energy. Ownership of the property was transferred to Bannister Transformation and Development LLC in November 2017.

The largest component, the Kansas City Plant, produced and assembled non-nuclear components of the United States nuclear bomb arsenal. This complex was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2013.

Site history

Kansas City Speedway
The site was originally home to the Kansas City Speedway, not to be confused with the modern Kansas Speedway.  Jack Prince and Art Pillsbury (who also built several such tracks including the Beverly Hills Speedway) built the track in 1922 at a cost of $500,000. The 1.25 mile wood oval track had high banked turns, two grandstands, and parking for 20,000 automobiles, including 5,000 in the infield. The racetrack itself was located near what is now 95th and Troost, and the main entrance was located at 94th and Holmes Rd.

The first race was scheduled for September 16, 1922, but rain delayed the race until the following day. More than 50,000 people attended the first of only four auto races that would ever be held at the Kansas City Speedway, which also hosted motorcycle racing. Notable attendees at the first race included the Mayor of Kansas City, Missouri Governor Arthur Hyde, and great race car drivers, including Ray Harroun, and Barney Oldfield. Seventeen drivers participated in the first race, including Tommy Milton, Leon Duray, Tony Gulotta, and Cliff Durant. The race was won by Tommy Milton, who was also the first driver to win the Indianapolis 500 twice. The first race also saw the only fatality at the track when the race claimed the life of 27-year-old Roscoe Sarles who collided with Pete Depaola on the 110th lap. The average speed for the first race was 107 mph, which was significantly faster than Indianapolis 500 races of that time.  In fact, the average speed at Indianapolis did not exceed 100 mph until 1925.

In 1924, the last race, a 250-mile event, was stopped after about 150 miles because large holes had appeared in the wood track. The nearby Blue River caused the untreated lumber used in constructing the track to warp. Jimmy Murphy won the fourth and final auto race on July 4, 1924. The speedway was sold on March 24, 1925, for only $97,500.

World War II
On July 4, 1942, following the World War II attack on Pearl Harbor, then-Senator (later President) Harry S. Truman broke ground on the site for construction of a large facility that became home to Pratt and Whitney.  The famous Double Wasp airplane engines were manufactured for the Navy at the facility through the duration of the war effort. Following the victory in Japan, the facility was closed and remained vacant until 1947.

A Department of Defense landfill was established in 1942 on a portion of the area, as a disposal site for the Bannister Federal Complex. From 1942 to 1964, when the landfill was closed, several government contractors, including Pratt and Whitney and Westinghouse, disposed of waste in the landfill. Disposal activities at the landfill resulted in contamination to soil and groundwater by solvents, metals and petroleum contaminants.

Post-war
In 1947, the Internal Revenue Service moved facilities onto the site, and in 1949 the largest portion of the plant was leased to a division of Westinghouse Electric Corporation. The plant again began producing aircraft engines, this time jet engines for the McDonnell F2H Banshee naval fighter jet, and others to be used in the Korean War. At that time, the Fairfax Storage Company also began using part of the complex as a warehouse for tires, raw rubber, sugar, and lumber.  Westinghouse also subleased part of the plant to Bendix beginning in 1949, which later became Allied Signal. Bendix began operating the facility for the Atomic Energy Commission and building nonnuclear components for nuclear weapons. This portion of the complex became known as the Kansas City Plant. The Kansas City Plant occupied the greatest portion of the complex, and in 1958 Westinghouse moved out and Bendix expanded operations at the Kansas City Plant.