[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Lebanon hostage crisis

ovember 3 – Revelation: Iran–Contra arms-for-hostage deal with Iran by Lebanese newspaper, Al-Shiraa, which reports that the United States sold arms to Iran.
 1986 November – Release: three more French hostages. Alleged motivation: the release by France of $330 million of the $1 billion loan to Iran

1987
 1987 January – Abduction: Unprecedented number of abductions of foreigners by the Hezbollah organisation. (p. 99) Declared motivation: "The hostages will perish in case of any military attempts against Muslims in the area and especially in Lebanon". (U.S. Navy warships in Mediterranean reportedly moving towards Lebanon.) Alleged motivation: "directly in response to the arrest of three leading Hezbollah member in Europe". Another alleged motivation: "clerical factionalism in Iran" in the aftermath of the Iran–Contra deal. Still another alleged motivation: Demand for the return of 400 Shi'ite and Palestinians imprisoned in Israel.
 1987 January 24 – Abducted: Three American and one Indian Professors from Beirut University College in West Beirut: Alann Steen, Jesse Turner, Robert Polhill, Mithal Eshwar Singh Declared abductor: "Islamic Jihad for the Liberation of Palestine".
 1987 January – Abduction: West German citizens Rudolph Cordes and Alfred Schmidt. Alleged motivation: retaliation for "the arrest of Mohammad Ali Hamadi in Frankfurt by West German authorities".
 1987 January 13 – Abduction: Frenchman Roger Auque. Alleged motivation: Appears to have been "related to the previous day's arrest of Bashir Al-Khodour in Milan by Italian authorities",
 1987 January 20 – Abduction: Terry Waite. Waite, Anglican mediator negotiating independently to free captive Westerners, disappears January 20 on his fifth mission to Lebanon. Alleged motivation: "mainly a consequence of his inability to affect the fate of the imprisoned 17 al-Dawa prisoners in Kuwait".
 1987 June 17 – Abduction: Charles Glass, American television correspondent. Declared abductor: previously unknown group, the "Organization for the Defense of Free People".
 1987 August 19 – Escape: Charles Glass escapes from his Hezballah captors in Beirut's southern suburbs and makes his way to the Summerland Hotel, where he calls friends to come to his assistance. The full story of his kidnapping is told in the final chapters of his book Tribes with Flags.

1988
 1988, February 17 – Abduction: Lt. Col William Higgins, American Chief of the UN Truce and Supervision Organisation's observer group in Lebanon (UNTSO) Suggested motivation: Stop UNIFIL from interfering in Hezbollah's armed attacks against the Israeli occupation of the south. Suggested motivation: Show solidarity with the revival of Islamic fundamentalism within the Palestinian intifada

1989
 1989 Mid – Killing: Video of U.S Marine Lt. Col William Higgins, American Chief of the UNTSO being hanged distributed to press. Declared dead on July 6, 1990. Alleged motivation: challenge to Amal militia's authority to maintain a stable security environment in southern Lebanon, Amal being the leading militia there. Alleged motivation: to sabotage the rapprochement between Syria and the American administration  Further alleged motivation: retaliation for kidnapping of Sheikh Obeid, senior Hezbollah cleric and regional military commander of the Islamic Resistance, by elite Israeli military units on July 28, 1989  Another motivation: to help "Iranian radicals, most notably Mohtashemi", derail attempts to improve the U.S.-Iranian relationship.
 1989 May – Abduction: British citizen Jackie Mann Declared abductor: previously unknown group, the "Cells for Armed Struggle" Suggested motivations are that he was kidnapped to demand the release of Palestinian prisoners that the kidnappers claimed were being held in Britain, accused of killing Palestinian cartoonist Naji al-Ali in 1987 or in retaliation against the UK government for providing Salman Rushdie with refuge and protection after Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini's fatwa death threat against Rushdie for the publication of book the Satanic Verses.
 1989, October 6 – Abduction: Swiss citizens Emanuel Christen and Elio Erriquez

1990
 1990 April 22 – Release: Robert Polhill.
 1990 April 30 – Release: Frank Reed.
 1990 August 24 – Release: Brian Keenan, Irish teacher of English

1991
 1991 August 8 – Release: John McCarthy – the longest held British hostage in Lebanon, having spent over five years in captivity
 1991 August 11 – Release: Edward Tracy, after almost five years in captivity.
 1991 October–December – Release: Jesse J. Turner, Joseph J. Cicippio, Thomas Sutherland, Alann Steen, Terry Waite.
 1991 December 4 – Release: last American hostage Terry Anderson. Suggested motivation: Part of Hezbollah "volteface", and entering into a new era where it participates in Lebanese democratic process while continuing its fight against Israel.
 1991 December (late) – Return: bodies of William Buckley and Lt. Col. William Higgins found dumped on Beirut streets.