[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Salwa Judum

g in camps dropped from 50,000 to 13,000, and public support dwindled. An NHRC report published in October 2008 stated that Salwa Judum had lost its earlier momentum and was now restricted to its 23 camps in the Dantewada and Bijapur districts of Chhattisgarh.

Development of Special Police Officers

The Chhattisgarh state police employed tribal youths as Special Police Officers (SPOs), essentially a militia force used to combat Naxalism. In February 2011, the Supreme Court of India declared such arming of civilians illegal, but the Chhattisgarh government continued to arm them under another name.

Former Union Minister of Home Affairs P. Chidambaram has praised the role of SPOs in fighting Naxalism and called for their appointment "wherever required", while former Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh has stated that "Salwa Judum is the answer to get rid of the Naxal menace in the state." On 5 July 2011, the Supreme Court of India ordered the state of Chhattisgarh to disband any militia force founded to combat Maoist guerrillas. As reported in The Hindu, the Supreme Court directed the Chhattisgarh police to "immediately cease and desist from using SPOs in any manner or form in any activities, directly or indirectly, aimed at controlling, countering, mitigating or otherwise eliminating Maoist/Naxalite activities" and directed the police to recall all firearms issued to these men.

Controversies

Child soldiers
There have been numerous reports that Salwa Judum recruited underage boys for its armed forces. A primary survey evaluated by the Forum for Fact-finding Documentation and Advocacy determined that over 12,000 minors were being used by Salwa Judum in the southern district of Dantewada and that the Chhattisgarh government had recruited 4,200 SPOs, many of them easily identifiable as minors. The Asian Centre for Human Rights also found that Salwa Judum had engaged in the recruitment of child soldiers. Similar recruitment findings were also reported in the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers's "Child Soldiers Global Report 2008 – India".

Human rights violations
Some human rights organisations, such as the People's Union for Civil Liberties, have made allegations against Salwa Judum. A fact-finding mission of the National Human Rights Commission of India (NHRC), appointed by the Supreme Court of India, reported that Salwa Judum was a "spontaneous reaction by the tribals to defend themselves against the reign of terror unleashed by the Naxalites." The report was submitted to the Supreme Court of India which, on the contrary, declared Salwa Judum to be illegal and unconstitutional, and ordered its disbanding.

State sponsoring of militias
In April 2008, a Supreme Court bench directed the state government to refrain from supporting and encouraging Salwa Judum: "It is a question of law and order. You cannot give arms to somebody (a civilian) and allow him to kill. You will be an abettor of the offence under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code." The state government had earlier denied Salwa Judum being a state-sponsored movement. The Supreme Court later directed the state government to take up remedial measures suggested in the earlier NHRC report. The Human Rights Commission alleged that security forces collaborated with Salwa Judum in their fight against the Maoists.

In December 2008, replying to a petition filed with the Supreme Court, the state government acknowledged that Salwa Judum and security forces had burned houses and looted property.

In an order, the Supreme Court mentioned that people take arms for survival and against inhuman implementation of law depriving the weak, and not senselessly. The court pointed out the importance of formalised state police actions, in ways that do not ignore constitutional values:

Effects
Encouraged by the highly positive results of the movement in the region, the government was planning to launch a people's movement in the insurgency-hit state of Manipur along similar lines. In 2006, Karnataka raised a similar force employing tribal youths to fight Naxalism in the state, as did Andhra Pradesh prior to it. Jharkhand is another state that has been successfully using SPOs to counter left-wing terrorists.

However, Salwa Judum appears to have been abandoned in Chhattisgarh state, with Chief Minister Raman Singh describing the movement as "over", because it was counterproductive and "innocent people were being killed"
 Singh, however, said that a "peaceful campaign" to wean locals away from supporting Maoists would continue.
 The British Channel 4's Unreported World telecast a program titled "India's Hidden War" in October 2006, on the Maoist war against the state of India.

Darbha Ghat massacre