[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Parrondo's paradox

Parrondo's paradox, a paradox in game theory, has been described as: A combination of losing strategies becomes a winning strategy. It is named after its creator, Juan Parrondo, who discovered the paradox in 1996. A more explanatory description is:

There exist pairs of games, each with a higher probability of losing than winning, for which it is possible to construct a winning strategy by playing the games alternately.

Parrondo devised the paradox in connection with his analysis of the Brownian ratchet, a thought experiment about a machine that can purportedly extract energy from random heat motions popularized by physicist Richard Feynman.  However, the paradox disappears when rigorously analyzed. Winning strategies consisting of various combinations of losing strategies were explored in biology before Parrondo's paradox was published.

Illustrative examples

According to Harmer and Abbott, other than the last two examples (i.e. the saw-tooth example and the coin-tossing example), the other examples do not truly exhibit Parrondo's paradox in its strictest definition. In particular, since Parrondo's paradox was physically motivated from the flashing Brownian ratchet, a skip free process must be used to properly preserve this ratchet action and so only a +1 or -1 unit payoff structure can be used. See the coin-tossing example for an explicit illustration of this.

The simple example
Consider two games Game A and Game B, with the following rules:
 In Game A, you lose $1 every time you play.
 In Game B, you count how much money you have left ⁠ ⁠—  if it is an even number you win $3, otherwise you lose $5.

Say you begin with $100 in your pocket. If you start playing Game A exclusively, you will obviously lose all your money in 100 rounds. Similarly, if you decide to play Game B exclusively, you will also lose all your money in 100 rounds.

However, consider playing the games alternatively, starting with Game B, followed by A, then by B, and so on (BABABA...). It should be easy to see that you will steadily earn a total of $2 for every two games.

Thus, even though each game is a losing proposition if played alone, because the results of Game B are affected by Game A, the sequence in which the games are played can affect how often Game B earns you money, and subsequently the result is different from the case where either game is played by itself.

Watering a plant
Now consider the case of a potted houseplant. There are two games that can be played with the plant:
 Game A: pour a continuous stream of water into the pot.
 Game B: pour no water into the pot.

From the point of view of keeping the plant alive, both are losing games; over time, the plant will either take on too much water and rot, or it will dry up. Paradoxically, however, the plant can be kept alive by judiciously switching between the games, alternately watering the plant and turning off the water.

Pedestrian example

Consider the situation of a pedestrian trying to get to a grocery store. The pedestrian can play two games:
 Game A: cross every street regardless of traffic.
 Game B: stand still.

If the pedestrian plays only A, then they will eventually be struck by a vehicle. However, if they only play B, then they will never move from their position, failing to get to their destination. Parrondo's paradox suggests a solution: counterintuitively, if the pedestrian waits at every red light for traffic to pass, but crosses the street when the light turns green, then they may safely make their way to the grocery store.

Another pedestrian example

This time, the pedestrian is trying to get to the office on time. The two games are:
 Game A: put the left foot on the ground.
 Game B: put the right foot on the ground.

If the pedestrian plays only A or B, they will effectively hop along on one foot. This is a losing strategy, as it is not an efficient way to travel, and they will be late for work. Rigorous analysis shows that there is a solution, namely to alternate between the two games, which permits the pedestrian to walk, run, or even leap all the way to the office.

Example of a student writing a test

Suppose a student is to write a multiple-choice test; for simplicity, assume the test is a list of statements which are either true or false. To prepare for the test, the student comes up with two games, or strategies:
 Game A: given a statement, answer "true".
 Game B: given a statement, answer "false".