[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dean Heller

Republican, Heller was ranked as the 5th most bipartisan member of the U.S. Senate during the first session of the 115th United States Congress by the Bipartisan Index, a metric created by The Lugar Center and Georgetown's McCourt School of Public Policy to better gauge congressional bipartisanship.

During the Obama administration, there was a degree of friction between Heller and President Obama. In 2010, Heller criticized President Obama for using Las Vegas as a synonym for wasting money. Heller said: “Nevada has one of the most distressed economies in the country, and the President has done little to focus on job creation over the past year.” Heller's relationship with President Trump has undergone considerable evolution. During the 2016 campaign, Heller said Trump "denigrates human beings" and suggested that he wouldn't vote for him, although he later said that he did. In February 2018, the AP noted that Heller, who “had been publicly chided by President Donald Trump months earlier” was now “working closely with the White House.” A “steady rapprochement” had taken place “between the swing-state senator and loyalty-loving president,” stated the AP.

Abortion
Heller voted against federal funding for abortion. In 2017 he supported abortion access in cases of rape, incest, or life-endangering harm to the mother.

Heller came under right-wing criticism in spring 2017, after he told a Reno audience that he had “no problem” funding Planned Parenthood.

In 2021, in launching his campaign for Governor, he shifted to much stronger opposition to abortion, saying, "As governor, I'll get the most conservative abortion laws that we can have in this state, regardless with who's controlling the Legislature at the time." He also said, "I like what Texas did," referring to the Texas Heartbeat Act, which prohibited abortion after about the sixth week of gestation. The law contains an exception for abortions carried out to save the mother's life. Although the law prohibits perpetrators of rape or incest from enforcing the law concerning fetuses they have conceived, it does not contain a carve-out allowing all abortions of fetuses conceived by rape or incest.

Cuba
Heller supported the initiative by President Barack Obama to normalize relations with Cuba, and was part of a bipartisan delegation to Havana.

Economy
Heller opposed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 that created the Troubled Asset Relief Program characterizing the bill as "a massive bailout of Wall Street". He also opposed the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act of 2008.

Energy and environment
Heller has voted in support of the development of domestic oil, gas and coal. He has also supported tax incentives for renewable energy.

Heller has confronted the former Trump administration "over its plans to reopen" the Yucca Mountain facility, a large nuclear waste repository near Las Vegas, Nevada. Specifically, Heller is against Trump seeking $47.7 billion in his administration's budget request for fiscal year 2019 "to restart the licensing process for Yucca Mountain". In a letter to the Senate's Energy and Water panel, he called the idea a "breach of state sovereignty", citing "health and safety risks and potentially catastrophic financial risks" involved with the project's approval.

Gun policy
The NRA Political Victory Fund endorsed Heller during his 2012 U.S. Senate run. From 1998 through 2016, the NRA donated $122,802 to Heller's political campaigns.

Heller voted in 2011 to allow veterans to register guns bought overseas in the U.S. During his 2012 campaign, he hosted a campaign rally at a gun store in Las Vegas.

In 2013, Heller voted against legislation to limit gun magazine capacity, ban assault weapons and to expand background checks on gun sales at gun shows and made on the internet. In the past he has supported more restrictive background checks but voted against them due to fear that a national gun registry could be created.

Relationship with President Donald Trump
During the 2016 presidential election campaign, Heller said that he was "vehemently opposed" to Donald Trump. By May 2018, The New York Times wrote that Heller had come to recently embrace Trump. CNN noted that Heller had "aligned himself closely" with Trump after the President in 2017 threatened to support a primary challenge against him. Following the threat, Heller flip-flopped on health care (ultimately supporting a conservative bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act), supported Trump's immigration reform proposal, and avoided direct criticism of Trump for several months. In March 2018, Trump endorsed Heller in his Senate bid, convincing primary challenger Danny Tarkanian to drop out of the race.

In 2018, Heller repeatedly confronted the Trump administration over its plans to reopen the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository.