[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lithuania in the Eurovision Song Contest 1999

Lithuania participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 1999, held on 29 May 1999 at the International Convention Center in Jerusalem, Israel, with the song "Strazdas" written by Linas Rimša and Sigitas Geda and performed by Aistė. Broadcaster Lithuanian National Radio and Television (LRT) returned to the Eurovision Song Contest after a four-year absence following their relegation from the 1995 contest. The Lithuanian entry for the 1999 contest was selected through the national final entitled "Eurovizijos" dainų konkurso nacionalinė atranka 1999, organized by LRT. Twelve songs competed in the national final, held on 27 December 1998 and later aired on 31 December, where a jury panel selected the winning song. "Strazdas" performed by Aistė received the most votes and was selected to represent the nation in the contest. Aistė performed as the opening entry for the show in position 1 at the international contest and at the close of the voting process, finished in 20th place, receiving 13 points.

Background

Prior to the 1999 contest, Lithuania had participated in the Eurovision Song Contest only once. Its  debut was with the song "Lopšinė mylimai" performed by Ovidijus Vyšniauskas. The nation ultimately placed last (25th) at the event. As one of the lowest-scoring countries that year, Lithuania was relegated and required to miss this 1995 contest.

Lithuanian national broadcaster LRT broadcasts the event within Lithuania and organises the selection process for the nation's entry. In 1994, LRT had selected its entry by the internal selection. However, the broadcaster opted for a national final for the first time to select nation's 1999 entry.

Before Eurovision

"Eurovizijos" dainų konkurso nacionalinė atranka 1999 
"Eurovizijos" dainų konkurso nacionalinė atranka 1999 was the national final format developed by LRT in order to select Lithuania's entry for the Eurovision Song Contest 1999. The competition, hosted by Vilija Grigonytė and Vytautas Kernagis, was recorded on 27 December 1998 at the LRT studios in Vilnius during the television program Muzikinis viešbutis, and was later aired on 31 December 1998. Both televoting and jury voting was used during the show, however only the votes of the jury decided the winner. The televote results showed that RebelHeart had won with 40%, with Aistė coming second with 33%. The jury selected Aistė with "Strazdas" as the winner, with only the points of the top four songs being announced. "Strazdas" became first entry in the contest to be performed in the Samogitian dialect.

Preparation 
Lithuania's participation in the contest was financially supported by Lithuanian Ministry of Finances, which allocated a subsidy of 14,000 litas.

At Eurovision

The Eurovision Song Contest 1999 took place at the International Convention Center in Jerusalem, Israel, on 29 May 1999. According to the Eurovision rules, the 23-country participant list for the contest was composed of: the previous year's winning country and host nation, the seventeen countries which had obtained the highest average points total over the preceding five contests, and any eligible countries which did not compete in the 1998 contest. Lithuania was one of the eligible countries which did not compete in the 1998 contest, and thus were permitted to participate. The running order for the contest was decided by a draw held on 17 November 1998; Lithuania was assigned to perform 1st at the 1999 contest, preceding Belgium's Vanessa Chinitor with "Like the Wind". Eurovision Song Contest 1999 was broadcast in Lithuania on LTV with the commentary by Darius Užkuraitis.

Due to the budget concerns, the Lithuanian delegation was permitted to arrive in Israel one day later than the other delegations. Aiste took part in technical rehearsals on 25 and 26 May, followed by dress rehearsals held on 28 and 29 May. The Lithuanian performance featured Aistė on stage performing in a black outfit designed by Juozas Statkevicius. After the voting concluded, Lithuania scored 13 points and placed 20th. At the time this result was the Lithuania's best placing in its competitive history. In regards to the result, Aiste herself stated: "I don't mind [the result] at all. The twentieth or some other place is the least of my worries. These are games that its better not to think about. [...] And what I did at Eurovision, I did the right way. I am calm because of this. I couldn't performed better." Due to a low average score, Lithuania was excluded from the Eurovision Song Contest 2000 held the next year. Lithuania ultimately returned to the contest in 2001.