[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# American Ninja 2: The Confrontation

killing them both.

Joe Armstrong does one final battle with Tojo Ken (Burke's jonin, responsible for training the brainwashed marines in ninjitsu) and kills him. The marines leave the island and celebrate, while Jackson and Armstrong say goodbye to their friends as they head back to America.

Cast

 Michael Dudikoff as Sergeant Joe Armstrong
 Steve James as Sergeant Curtis Jackson
 Jeff Weston as Captain Bill "Wild Bill" Woodward
 Gary Conway as Leo "The Lion" Burke
 Michelle Botes as Alicia Sanborn
 Larry Poindexter as Sergeant Charlie McDonald
 Mike Stone as Tojo Ken

Production

Filming
Principal photography began on the film on October 27, 1986 in South Africa. The film began production under the title American Ninja 2. By November 1986 the production was filming in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Mauritius.

Reception

Box office
The film opened on May 1, 1987 where it was distributed by Cannon Releasing Corporation. The film earned $1,850,351 in its first ten days of release, playing on 398 screens.

Critical response
In a contemporary review, Johanna Steinmetz (Chicago Tribune) stated that the film was a "shameless steal" of the film Dr. No (1962) and Star Wars (1977), such as when "Joe conjures up Shinyuki for a little moral support, much the way Luke Skywalker communed with Obiwan Kenobi". The review praised Sam Firstenberg action scenes, noting that he "lavishes such care on the shooting and editing of fight scenes ("Lethal Weapon's" Richard Donner could learn plenty by watching these)."

On Metacritic the film has a weighted average score of 39 out of 100, based on 5 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews".

In his book Horror and Science Fiction Film IV, Donald C. Willis dismissed the film noting "lackluster stunt work-lots of shots of bodies falling onto breakaway tables."

See also
 List of American films of 1987
 List of martial arts films

Notes

References

External links

 
 
 
 Cinapse, AMERICAN NINJA 2: THE CONFRONTATION IS A FORGOTTEN GEM  at Cinapse

1987 films
1987 martial arts films
American action films
American martial arts films
1980s English-language films
Films directed by Sam Firstenberg
Films set in the Caribbean
Films set on islands
Films shot in Mauritius
Films shot in South Africa
Films scored by George S. Clinton
Golan-Globus films
Ninja films
American sequel films
Films about cloning
Films produced by Menahem Golan
Films about the United States Marine Corps
American Ninja
American science fiction films
Films produced by Yoram Globus
1980s American films