[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 21]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

at did you? _H._--Sir, I told him
I did not want to hurt him; but that as he had meddled with me, I would
not let him rise till he had promised not to hurt the poor beast any
more, which he did, and then I let him go about his business.

"You did very right," said Mr Barlow; "and I suppose the boy looked as
foolish, when he was rising, as Tommy did the other day when the little
ragged boy that he was going to beat helped him out of the ditch."
"Sir," answered Tommy, a little confused, "I should not have attempted
to beat him, only he would not bring me my ball." _Mr B._--And what
right had you to oblige him to bring your ball? _T._--Sir, he was a
little ragged boy, and I am a gentleman. _Mr B._--So then, every
gentleman has a right to command little ragged boys? _T._--To be sure,
sir. _Mr B._--Then if your clothes should wear out and become ragged,
every gentleman will have a right to command you? Tommy looked a little
foolish, and said, "But he might have done it, as he was on that side of
the hedge." _Mr B._--And so he probably would have done if you had asked
him civilly to do it; but when persons speak in a haughty tone, they
will find few inclined to serve them. But, as the boy was poor and
ragged, I suppose you hired him with money to fetch your ball?
_T._--Indeed, sir, I did not; I neither gave him anything nor offered
him anything. _Mr B._--Probably you had nothing to give him? _T._--Yes I
had, though; I had all this money (pulling out several shillings). _Mr
B._--Perhaps the boy was as rich as you. _T._--No, he was not, sir, I am
sure; for he had no coat, and his waistcoat and breeches were all
tattered and ragged; besides, he had no stockings, and his shoes were
full of holes. _Mr B._--So, now I see what constitutes a gentleman. A
gentleman is one that, when he has abundance of everything, keeps it all
to himself; beats poor people, if they don't serve him for nothing; and
when they have done him the greatest favour, in spite of his insolence,
never feels any gratitude, or does them any good in return. I find that
Androcles' lion was no gentleman.

Tommy was so affected with this rebuke that he could hardly contain his
tears; and, as he was really a boy of a generous temper, he determined
to give the little ragged boy something the very first time he should
see him again. He did not long wait for an opportunity; for, as he was
walking out that very afternoon, he saw him at some distance gathering
blackberries, and, going up to him, he accosted him thus: "Little boy, I
want to know why you are so ragged; have you no other clothes?" "No,
indeed," said the boy. "I have seven brothers and sisters, and they are
all as ragged as myself; but I should not much mind that if I could have
my belly full of victuals." _Tommy._--And why cannot you have your belly
full of victuals? _Little boy._--Because daddy's ill of a fever, and
can't work this harvest! so that mammy says we must all starve if God
Almighty does not take care of us.

Tommy made no answer, but ran full speed to the house whence he
presently returned, loaded with a loaf of bread, and a complete suit of
his own clothes. "Here, little boy," said he, "you were very
good-natured to me; and so I will give you all this, because I am a
gentleman, and have many more."

Tommy did not wait for the little boy's acknowledgment, but hastened
away and told Mr Barlow, with an air of exultation, what he had done.

Mr Barlow coolly answered, "You have done well in giving the little boy
clothes, because they are your own; but what right have you to give away
my loaf of bread without asking my consent?" _Tommy._--Why, sir, I did
it because the little boy said he was very hungry, and had seven
brothers and sisters, and that his father was ill, and could not work.
_Mr B._--This is a very good reason why you should give them what
belongs to yourself, but not why you should give them what is another's.
What would you say if Harry were to give away all your clothes, without
asking your leave?" _T._--I should not like it at all; and I will not
give away your things any more without asking your leave. "You will do
well," said Mr Barlow; "and here is a little story you may read upon
this very subject:--


"THE STORY OF CYRUS."

"Cyrus was a little boy of good dispositions and humane temper. He was
very fond of drawing, and often went into the fields for the purpose of
taking sketches of trees, houses, &c., which he would show to his
parents. On one occasion he had retired into a shed at the back of his
father's house, and was so much absorbed in planning something with his
compasses, as not to be for a long time aware of his father's presence.
He had several masters, who endeavoured to teach him everything that was
good; and he was educated with several little boys about his own age.
One evening his father asked him what he had done or learned that day.
'Sir,' said Cyrus, 'I was punished to-d