[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Suzie Higgie

k Cave's live engineer for over twenty years, so I'd got to know the guys through him, I heard Conway [Savage]'s piano playing and got to know his stuff he did and I thought, 'That's something different, let's get together with Conway, if he's interested.'… And that's pretty much how it came about."

Songs of Habit (October 2001) is Higgie's second album. According to Jon Casimir of The Sydney Morning Herald, "[it] began life as a series of titles in search of songs. Wanting to challenge herself, she decided to try writing a concept album, loosely based around habits (nuns' habits, drug habits, unconscious and involuntary habits)... There are folk, country and soul echoes, even a hint of lounge music. There are electronic and acoustic songs. But mostly, it's just a collection of tender, warm melodies, the kind of record that is perfectly out of step with everything fashionable in pop and all the richer for it." AllMusic's Richie Unterberger opined, "[its] music suggestive of the moods of those between relationships, keeping pretty much to themselves as they drift through the day in relative reclusion, then sitting alone in smoky bars and clubs at night."

Soon Will Be Tomorrow was re-released in April 2012: Higgie and Savage performed the album live in concert.

Private life 

Higgie's domestic partner, Matt Crosbie, was the front-of-house audio engineer for Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, and they have two children. They lived in Mount Victoria, then Bowral and then moved to the United Kingdom in 2000.

Higgie, Crosbie and children returned to Bowral in mid-2009. By November 2017 the couple had divorced and Higgie was living in Canberra working at the National Museum – she "designs music workshops for people with mixed abilities, whether that involves preschool children or aged Alzheimer's disease sufferers."

Her niece, Anna Higgie, is a Bristol-based illustrator and street artist.

Discography

Albums 

 Soon Will Be Tomorrow (by Suzie Higgie and Conway Savage) (June 1998) – Anchor & Hope/Shock Records (AH004CD)
 Song of Habit (16 October 2001) Anagram (CDBRED 196)

References

Australian women singer-songwriters
Australian singer-songwriters
Australian women guitarists
Living people
Year of birth missing (living people)
Musicians from Canberra