[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Rick Scott

ber 31, 2016, and $232 million on December 31, 2017. For August 2018, his net worth was estimated at $255 million. Based on financial disclosure reports covering 2020, Business Insider reports that Scott has a minimum net worth of just over $200 million, making him the wealthiest member of Congress.

Creation of "blind trust"
Early in his gubernatorial tenure, Scott said he created a blind trust for his holdings to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest. In October 2018, The New York Times reported that the trust in question was blind in name only, and that there were various ways in which Scott could know what his precise holdings were. The holdings in question included investments in companies and funds that Scott could have had an impact on through his administration's policies. The trust in question was managed by one of Scott's former personal assistants from before he became governor.

In February 2019, Scott announced that he would no longer keep his holdings in a trust.

Controversial investments
In 2017, Scott and his wife held stocks in firms that did business with the Maduro government in Venezuela and a shipping firm with close ties to Russia. Scott had been a harsh critic of the Maduro regime and chastised companies that invested in Venezuela, saying, "Any organization that does business with the Maduro regime cannot do business with the state of Florida." By 2018, Scott and his wife no longer held stocks in the firms with links to Russia or Venezuela.

In a July 2018 financial disclosure statement, Scott and his wife reported earnings of at least $2.9 million in hedge funds registered in the Cayman Islands, a well-known tax haven. The financial statement said that the assets were held in a blind trust and a 2018 campaign spokesperson said Scott did not have a role in selecting particular investments.

Scott and his wife invested at least $3 million in the parent company of All Aboard Florida, a rail investment company that proposed to build high-speed rail between Orlando and Tampa. In 2018, Scott supported the efforts of the company to build the rail and get taxpayer-financing. He had previously, early in his tenure as governor, rejected $2.3 billion in federal funding to develop high-speed rail between Tampa and Orlando. Scott stated the original project was fiscally irresponsible given the recession, and he supported a public-private partnership approach when the state's finances were in order.

Scott was an investor in the firm Conduent Inc., which was awarded a $287 million Florida contract in 2015 to manage SunPass, the toll program in the state of Florida. Due to glitches in SunPass, motorists were charged bank fees and overdraft charges, and the Florida Department of Transportation was criticized for failing to take action. Scott, a Conduent investor, defended the department's handling of the SunPass controversy.

Personal life 

On April 20, 1972, Scott, then aged 19, married his high school sweetheart, Frances Annette Holland (born May 11, 1952), who was also 19 years old. The couple has two daughters and six grandsons. They live in Naples, Florida, and are founding members of Naples Community Church.

Electoral history

Awards and honors
 Time magazine, America's 25 Most Influential People, June 1996
 Financial World magazine, silver award for the CEO of the Year, 1995
 Columbia University School of Nursing, Second Century Award for Excellence in Health Care (1995)

Notes

References

External links

 U.S. Senate website
 Campaign website
 
 
 

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1952 births
20th-century American businesspeople
21st-century American businesspeople
21st-century American politicians
American adoptees
American Christians
American health care chief executives
American venture capitalists
Businesspeople from Florida
Businesspeople from Kansas City, Missouri
Dedman School of Law alumni
Republican Party governors of Florida
HCA Healthcare people
Living people
People from Naples, Florida
People from North Kansas City, Missouri
Politicians from Kansas City, Missouri
Republican Party United States senators from Florida
Texas lawyers
Florida lawyers
United States Navy sailors
University of Missouri–Kansas City alumni