[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# StandWithUs

ong the American public".

In 2017, Bethany Mandel praised SWU for being the only national Jewish group to express discontent over JVP's decision to feature Leila Khaled as a speaker at one of its conferences, and suggested that other groups follow SWU's lead if they wished to maintain credibility. 

SWU has a large social media presence and is widely reposted by pro-Israel accounts. It has been praised for "fighting for the legal rights of pro-Israel students and arming them with facts to defend themselves from anti-Semitism while remaining true to their liberal values while still defending the US-Israel relationship".

Criticism 
Steven M. Cohen, Professor of Jewish Social Policy at Hebrew Union College, has expressed his concern over the negative impact of SWU's attitude on Israel. He believes that by adhering to a stance that unquestioningly supports everything Israel says, the organization risks impeding Israel's ability to benefit from constructive input and discouraging engagement from Jewish Americans in discussions related to Israel. Cohen emphasizes the importance of having vocal Zionists from diverse ideological backgrounds, including those on the far left, as well as right-wing groups such as the Hilltop Youth, in order to succeed in the public relations battle. David Biale has stated that a paternalistic approach worsens the situation as it prevents students from learning to stand up for themselves and makes them feel as if they're being manipulated.

In their 2009 publication The Trial of Israel's Campus Critics, David Theo Goldberg and Saree Makdisi assert that the thirty-three organizations comprising Israel on Campus Coalition, which include SWU along with AIPAC, the Zionist Organization of America, the American Jewish Congress, the Jewish National Fund, are not interested in "the niceties of intellectual exchange and academic process", and that they prioritize tactics such as insinuation, accusation, and defamation over fostering intellectual dialogue and academic processes when responding to arguments and criticisms related to Israeli policies. The organization has been associated with a trend observed among various right-wing and pro-Israel organizations, which some perceive as silencing dissent at campuses in the United States. 

In 2014 Israeli columnist Bradley Burston criticized SWU for what he considered question-begging assertions passed off as facts in materials used by the organization to teach college students about Israel. In his view, the group's assertions about the legality of settlements, and the reasons why Israel refuses to allow Palestinians room for their capital in Jerusalem were in his view lies. 

According to an October 2009 investigation by Inter Press Service, SWU has received funds from a "web of funders who support organisations that have been accused of anti-Muslim propaganda and encouraging a militant Israeli and U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East."

In 2018, the right-wing Zionist Organization of America (ZOA) criticized SWU for claiming that Israel "officially supports the two-state solution". ZOA stated that Israel opposes a Palestinian state and slammed SWU's claim as "extremely harmful" and a "serious falsehood".

SWU's approach has been dismissed as "too apologetic" by Israeli diplomat Alon Pinkas, who states that "presenting Israel as the victim of Arab aggression is impossible."

SWU has used Israel's policy on LGBT rights to promote Israel to anti-Zionists, including in a 2005 tour that was allegedly part of a government campaign Brand Israel, leading to accusations of pinkwashing Israel to divert attention away from its human rights violations.

Ian Lustick has argued that StandWithUs manipulates statistics on Palestinian demography in order to buttress continued Israeli occupation and settlement of the West Bank. The group has also been accused of dehumanizing Palestinians and depicting them as terrorists.

SWU gave a 'Guardians of Israel' award to a person who was said to have intervened to defend Jewish diners against an assault by antisemites. The two men indicted were brought to trial, and sentenced to an obligatory visit to the Museum of Tolerance and 80 hours training in cultural sensitivity. According to a senior editor of The Forward, no antisemitic assault by pro-Palestinians had taken place.  Roz Rothstein expressed disappointment with the verdict, and stated that the two men deserved a period of imprisonment.

See also
 Christians United for Israel
 Hasbara Fellowships
 The David Project
 AMCHA Initiative
 Israel lobby in the United States
 Public diplomacy of Israel

Notes

References

Citations

Sources 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  *

External links