[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Robert Koren

Robert Koren (born 20 September 1980) is a Slovenian former professional footballer who played as a midfielder. Koren earned 61 caps and scored five goals for the Slovenia national team between 2003 and 2011 and played at the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Besides Slovenia, he has played in Norway, England, and Australia.

Club career

Early career
Koren played for Dravograd and Celje in his home country, before transferring to Norwegian side Lillestrøm in 2004.

Lillestrøm
He became one of the most highly rated players of the Norwegian Premier League, many regarding him as the best foreigner in the entire competition. Koren was the definitive playmaker for Lillestrøm, and has often been compared to his former idol Zlatko Zahovič. During his time in Norway he was linked with a move to English club Leeds United.

West Bromwich Albion
On 4 January 2007, Koren signed for English Championship club West Bromwich Albion in a Bosman ruling, penning an 18-month contract with a further year's option in the club's favour. He made his debut two days later as a late substitute in the Baggies' 3–1 win over Leeds United in the FA Cup third round. Koren scored his first goal for the club in a 7–0 home win against Barnsley on 6 May 2007, the last day of the league season. The victory ensured Albion's place in the Championship promotion play-offs. Koren started all three play-off games as Albion beat Wolves in the two-legged semi-final but lost 1–0 to Derby County in the Wembley final.

In July 2007 Koren suffered a freak accident in training when a ball hit him in the eye, causing internal bleeding and temporary loss of vision. Although he made a full recovery, he later admitted that he had feared for his sight. The injury meant that he missed the start of the 2007–08 season, but he returned to the side at the end of August as a substitute in a League Cup game against Peterborough. In mid-September he signed a new two-year contract at Albion, with a further year's option in the club's favour. He has been described by former West Brom manager Tony Mowbray as a "model pro". Koren's two goals in Albion's 3–2 defeat away at Southampton in October 2007 earned him a place in the Championship Team of the Week. Koren scored his first Premier League goal on 17 January 2009 and was named man of the match as Albion beat Middlesbrough 3–0. His goal in Albion's 2–2 draw with Burnley in the FA Cup earned him the ITV goal of the round. In the 2008–09 Premier League season, Koren proved his reliability and consistency by making the most appearances of the season for an outfield player at West Brom, only appearing fewer times than goalkeeper Scott Carson. Koren continued to be a regular starter during the 2009–10 season under new manager Roberto Di Matteo, making 34 league appearances and scoring 5 goals, including a brace in a 3–0 home win against Leicester City in April as West Brom sealed an immediate return to the top flight. Despite a strong end to the season, on 17 May 2010, Koren was released by West Brom after the club chose not to take up their option to extend his contract.

Hull City

On 13 August 2010, he joined Hull City on a free transfer. He signed a two-year contract, with an option of a third year, just after the start of the season following their relegation from the Premier League with one game of the Football League Championship already played. He made his debut for the club when he came on as a replacement for Will Atkinson at Millwall on 14 August 2010. He scored his first goal for the club in a 2–0 home victory over Derby County on 14 September 2010. He also scored goals away at Norwich City and Leicester City and scored a 25-yard strike at home to Ipswich Town, and also scored what proved to be the winning goal in a 2–1 away victory over Watford. On 17 September 2011 against Portsmouth at the KC Stadium, Koren picked up possession, picked his spot and fired home into the bottom corner from 25 yards.