[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of South African slang words

ulgar f-word. Used in various phrases to express anger, annoyance, contempt, impatience, or surprise, or simply for emphasis.
 force -when someone does something unnecessarily, too many times for the given situation or adds something to a conversation that is not necessary (It is a noun and verb)
 give rocks – to be indifferent. For example: "I give rocks about your concerns!" (I couldn't care about your concerns!) Can also be abbreviated to "Give rocks.", and the negative version "I don't give rocks" means exactly the same thing.
 giyn – a homosexual male
 graze – a term used in reference to food. "I'm starving, let's go get some graze."
 grafting – for a person to be working
 higher grade – a bit too complicated (from the South African matric division of exams into standard grade and higher grade. The system of dividing subjects into higher and standard grade has become non-existent as of 2008.)
 howzit – lit. "how is it". An informal greeting similar to "hi", often replied to with another "howzit". It is important to note that the last thing anyone expects is for you to actually start telling them how things are. Similar to "How do you do?" 
 hundreds – good, fine, as in 100 percent; for example: Splaff: "Howzit bru, how are you?" Bazza: "I'm hundreds boet."
 jukka – a lazy person or a loser
 just now, sometime in the near future or the near past, not necessarily immediately. Expresses an intention to act soon, but not necessarily immediately, or expresses something that happened in the near past.  Probably from the Afikaans netnou with the same meaning.
 Dutchman – derogatory term for Afrikaner
 glug-glug, ama-glug-glug – lit. the sound made by a flowing liquid through a small opening, like a bottle being emptied. Also refers to a viral television advertisement from the 1980s (involving a little boy playing with his toy Ferrari Testarossa) by the South African Oil company, Sasol. The term also became one of Sasol's signature slogans. Amaglug-glug is a youth football team.
 isit – (pronounced: \izit\) the words "is" and "it" put together. Short term for "Is that so?" (For example: John: "Bra, I just found out I have a million dollars!" Charles: "Isit?"; or: John: "Bru, you would not believe how amazing it felt to footskate in front of all those people." Charles: "Isit?") Also, it can mean "really?"
 kief – nice, good, cool
 kokie pen –  a felt tip pen, similar to a sharpie.
 lokshin – a Bantu township, from the alternate term, "location".
 now now – an immediate but not literal declaration of impending action, may be past or future tense. From the Afrikaans expression "nou nou".
 OK – lit. "okay" (alternatively pronounced in Afrikaans as "oë-kah") while its original English meaning stays intact, it is also the name of a local retail franchise owned by Shoprite. When used in conjunction with the original word "okay", the franchise's name can become a source of comedy, for example: "I'm at the OK, okay!"
 packet or "checkers packet" – a plastic bag
 penalty – refers to someone tripping (usually shouted if someone almost trips)
 Peppermint Crisp – is a milk chocolate bar invented in South Africa by Wilson-Rowntree, now produced by Swiss chocolatier Nestlé. It features thin layers of milk chocolate and tubes of mint-flavoured crunch. It is also popularly used as a topping on a milk-based tart that shares its name.
 Prestik – brand name for a sticky substance normally used to attach paper to walls, similar to Blutack
 pong – refers to a strong sense of stench or bad odor.
 pull through (pull in) – come or arrive, especially to a place/event that is amenable: "We're having a great jol here, boet. You should pull through."
 pull – to kiss someone 
 poes – an Afrikaans word for cat now turned swear word. Normally means something derogatory; "That oak was so rude bru." "Yeah no he was a proper poes bru."
 rate – when you think you should do something; "I rate we go to the club on Friday."
 robot – alongside its original English meaning, it is also used exclusively in South Africa, to refer to a traffic light. Originating from traffic guards during the British colonization period, for moving like a robot while directing traffic. Though the traffic guard has largely been replaced by the traffic light, the name stuck.
 rockspider – derogatory term for Afrikaner. Though more well known as a national Battle of the Bands-style competition called Rockspaaider that was hosted by JIP, a teen-based lifestyle series, on the Afrikaans music channel MK.
 rooinek – derogatory term for an Englishman, literally someone with fair skin whose neck is sunburned red.
 rop – nice, radical. (e.g. "That was such a rop wave.") Also used as a verb meaning 'to steal'. (e.g. "I will rop you of that kief watch.")
 saamie/saarmie – a sandwich
 scheme – to think or plan to do something (e.g. "I scheme we should go home now"; usage evolved from the hyperbole "What are you scheming?" asked of a person deep in thought.)
 schweet – a variation of