[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Foreign relations of Montenegro

In a referendum on 21 May 2006, the people of Montenegro opted to leave the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro. This result was confirmed with a declaration of independence by the Montenegrin parliament on 3 June 2006. It simultaneously requested international recognition and outlined foreign policy goals.

As enumerated in the parliamentary declaration of 3 June 2006, Montenegro's near-term primary foreign policy objectives are integration into the European Union, membership in the United Nations, to which it was admitted on 28 June 2006 and in NATO (which it joined as of 2017).

Russia gave official recognition on 11 June 2006, and was the first permanent member of the United Nations Security Council to do so. The European Council of Ministers recognized Montenegrin independence on 12 June, as did the United States. The United Kingdom extended recognition on 13 June. The last two permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, France and the People's Republic of China recognised the government of Montenegro on 14 June.

Membership in international organizations 

 On June 28, 2006, Montenegro was added to the American Radio Relay League's DXCC List as the 336th entry based on membership in the UN.

Diplomatic relations
List of countries with which Montenegro maintains diplomatic relations with:

Montenegro does not maintain diplomatic relations with the following 11 UN member states:

Bhutan
Cameroon
Equatorial Guinea
Madagascar
Marshall Islands
Nigeria 
Papua New Guinea
São Tomé and Príncipe 
Somalia 
Tanzania  
Tonga

Montenegro-Canada relations
Canadian Foreign Minister Peter MacKay wrote to Foreign Minister Miodrag Vlahović extending diplomatic recognition and agreeing to hold discussions on the establishment of diplomatic relations, which occurred later in 2007.

The Canadian Embassy in Belgrade is accredited to Montenegro.

Montenegro-China relations

The establishment of diplomatic relations between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Montenegro was confirmed on 14 June 2006.

China transformed its consulate into an embassy in Podgorica on July 7, 2006. The Montenegrin embassy in China opened in Beijing on November 13, 2007.

In 2015, total trade between the two countries amounted to 160,385,964 euros.

Montenegro-Russia relations
Initially strong from 2006, relations slipped from 2010 as Montenegro has looked westward, with Montenegro joining western sanctions in 2014 following the Annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation. The failed Russian military coup in October 2016 aiming to stop Montenegro seeking NATO membership was a turning point. Despite Russian investment into Montenegro, joining the EU became a key goal of Montenegro. 

Russia continues to spy on Montenegro, GRU officer Igor Zaytsev is known to have travelled to Montenegro on numerous occasions up to 2018, bring in encryption equipment to give to existing or potential agents, including allegedly former Foreign Ministry spokesperson Radomir Sekulović. 

Russia's invasion of Ukraine in 2022 drove relationships down further, with five diplomats expelled in March/April 2022 then six more Russian diplomats being expelled from Montenegro for alleged spying, in September, with Russia then closing its consulate in Podgorica.

In August 2023 Montenegro refused to extradite Dmitry Senin, a former Russian FSB Colonel who had fled Russia in 2017 and had been granted asylum.

Montenegro-United States of America relations

The United States recognized the Republic of Montenegro on June 12, 2006, being among the first states to do so. Diplomatic relations between the two countries were established on August 15, and have since rapidly developed. On August 28, six U.S. Senators, John McCain (R-AZ), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Mel Martinez (R-FL), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Richard Burr (R-NC) and John E. Sununu (R-NH), made an official visit to Montenegro. Their activities included a meeting with President Vujanović and with the speaker of the Montenegrin parliament.

Soon after the congressional visit, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld paid an official visit to Montenegro, seeking support for the War on Terror and overall American geopolitical goals in Europe. Following the Secretary's meeting with Montenegrin Prime Minister Milo Đukanović, it was announced that Montenegro had agreed in principle to aid the US efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, although no specific pledges of aid were made.

See also
 Montenegro Albania border
 Foreign relations of Serbia and Montenegro
 List of Ambassadors from Montenegro
 List of Ambassadors to Montenegro
 List of diplomatic missions in Montenegro
 List of diplomatic missions of Montenegro
 Montenegro in intergovernmental organizations
 Foreign relations of Yugoslavia

References