[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Scouts BSA

he Lone Scout program serves youth who cannot take part in a nearby troop on a regular basis because of distance, weather, time, disability, or other difficulties. While the Lone Scout does not participate in troop or patrol activities, they still learn the fun, values, and achievements of Scouting.

The Order of the Arrow (OA) is a program of the Scouts BSA, Venturing, and Sea Scouts divisions of the BSA. It is the BSA's national honor society for experienced campers, based on Native American traditions, and dedicated to the ideal of cheerful service. Scouts and Scouters must belong to a troop, crew, or ship to become OA members. The OA is run by youth under the age of 21 with adult Scouters serving as advisers.

From 1984 to 2017, Varsity Scouting was a part of the Scouts BSA division of the BSA. It was an alternative available to boys ages fourteen through seventeen that took basic Boy Scouting and adds high adventure, sporting, and other elements that are more appealing to older youth to accomplish the aims of character development, citizenship training, and personal fitness. Varsity Scouts were organized into teams, which were separate chartered units from a Boy Scout troop. Varsity Scouts participated in the standard Boy Scouting advancement program along with programs unique to Varsity Scouting.

Advancement and recognition

Youth advancement

Scouts BSA has seven ranks that can be earned, grouped into two phases. The first phase of
Scout, Tenderfoot, Second Class, and First Class is designed to teach Scoutcraft skills, teamwork, and self-reliance. Scout is the first rank, and requires demonstration of knowledge of Scouting's ideals, the process of rank advancement, troop and patrol structure, and some basic skills (e.g., knot-tying and knife safety). As with all other ranks, a Scoutmaster conference is also required. Further ranks have progressive requirements in the areas of Scoutcraft, physical fitness, citizenship, personal growth, and Scout Spirit. These ranks also require participation in a Board of Review. Scouts with a permanent mental or physical disability may use alternate requirements, based on their abilities and approved by the council.

The second phase of Star, Life, and Eagle is designed to develop leadership skills and encourage the Scout to explore potential vocations and avocations through the merit badge program. These ranks require that the Scout serve in a position of responsibility and perform community service.

The Eagle Scout rank requires, in addition to merit badges and a position of responsibility, a community service project planned and led entirely by the Eagle Scout candidate. After attaining the rank of Eagle, a Scout may earn Eagle Palms for additional tenure and merit badges.

Although Eagle is the highest rank, for which Scouts should strive, the number of Scouts achieving First Class within one year of joining is still one of the key measures of unit effectiveness. Studies have shown that if a Scout achieves First Class within a year of joining, they typically stay in Scouting for at least three years. Scouts who do so are more likely to retain Scout values as an adult and achieve the BSA primary mission of "producing useful citizens".

Ranks and other recognition are presented in a troop awards ceremony called the court of honor. The Eagle Scout rank is usually presented in a separate and special court of honor.

Adult recognition
Scouts BSA leaders who complete training, tenure, and performance requirements are recognized by a system of awards, often represented by "knots" on the uniform, for various accomplishments. One of the more intensive Scout leader training programs is Wood Badge, for which successful participants receive a special neckerchief, woggle and wooden beads on a thong.

Adults may also earn Order of the Arrow ranks and awards in the same manner as scouts.

Awards
Several religious emblems programs are administered by various religious institutions and are recognized by the BSA. These are generally recognized by a medal and an embroidered square knot. Other advancements and recognitions—such as the Nova (and Supernova) Awards, 50-miler award, BSA Aquatic Awards, Emergency Preparedness Award, Outdoor Ethics Award and World Conservation Award — are available to Scouts who show proficiency in special areas. BSA's National Court of Honor is responsible for lifesaving and meritorious awards. All Courts of Honor for Eagle Scout rank are convened as National Courts of Honor also.