[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# José Ber Gelbard

After many trips and secret negotiations, elections were called. As Perón was still not allowed to be president, his associate Dr. Héctor Cámpora ran and was elected president on May 25, 1973. At Perón's direction, Cámpora appointed Gelbard as minister of "economy, finance, public works and trade."

Cámpora stepped aside later that year and Peron was elected president. His third wife, Isabel Perón, ran and won as his vice president. Under Cámpora, Gelbard implemented "The Social Pact" (El Pacto Social), "cosigned in Congress by the CGE and CGT" which called for a freeze in prices and salaries so the country could progress economically, and for increased cooperation between business and government under a Three-Year Plan. Public investment was featured in a dominant role in the plan, with a government group, Corporación de Empresas Nacionales (CEN), set up to oversee this. It was to promote new industries and coordinate planning among different business sectors. The Peron government also nationalized the banking industry.

Gelbard boosted exports by unilaterally lifting the Cuban blockade and selling one billion dollars in good to Cuba, including United States-branded cars manufactured in Argentina. (The US was forced to accept this action after Gelbard threatened to close all US car factories in the country.) He planned many economic missions. Gelbard headed large groups of Argentine businessmen and industrialists on visits to Cuba, Venezuela, Chile, the Soviet Union, Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia and other countries. On 1 July 1974, Perón died, leaving a divided party. Isabel Perón, his widow, who had earlier been chosen Vice President as a compromise between feuding factions, succeeded him to the presidency. Increasingly strained by rising labor union wage demands and the 1973 oil shock alike, the Social Pact gradually was unable to contain inflation, and class cooperation declined. In November 1974, Gelbard resigned, as the country's economic indicators continued to decline and his "Zero Inflation" plan failed. 

In March 1976 the military made a coup d'etat and overthrew Isabel Perón's presidency. Later accused of having bribed military officials to be allowed to leave, Gelbard and his family left the country before the coup and obtained political asylum in the United States. All his assets in Argentina were frozen. The reigning military junta sentenced Joseph Gelbard and his son Fernando to death in absentia.

Death
On 4 October 1977, Gelbard died of a heart attack in Washington, D.C., aged 60. 
Under a Radical government, his son Fernando later returned with his family to Argentina after the return of democratically elected government. In 1989 he was appointed as Argentine ambassador to France. He filed a claim for US$20,000,000 with the Argentine government, for "all the time he could not make use of the family assets confiscated by the military." It is unclear whether he succeeded in his claim.

References

Further reading
Maria Seoane,  'The goddamn bourgeois.' The Secret History of José Ber Gelbard, Buenos Aires: Editorial Planeta, 1998
Julián Blejmar,  'José Ber Gelbard.' La patria desde el boliche, Buenos Aires: Editorial Universidad Nacional de General Sarmiento, 2019

1917 births
1977 deaths
Argentine Ministers of Finance
Argentine people of Polish-Jewish descent
Jewish Argentine politicians
Jewish socialists
People from Radomsko
Argentine activists
20th-century Argentine economists
Polish emigrants to Argentina
Argentine expatriates in the United States