[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Watkins (diplomat)

ko to have taunted Watkins about his homosexuality during a toast. In his memoirs, Pearson noted that Watkins looked "less and less happy" as the evening progressed; however, Ignatieff, who understood Russian, denied that he heard the remark and Watkins' account of the meeting expressed no concerns.

Watson's writings show that he held a view of the Soviet Union was that more trustful and generous than that of Pearson or Ignatieff. He continued to meet with "Aloysha" and wrote the DEA to explain his importance to Khrushchev; Watkins even suggested that "Aloysha" wrote parts of the Soviet leader's speeches at the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Pearson remained unconvinced about Soviet aims and told the House of Commons in January 1956 that "not a single basic objective of Soviet policy was changed". In February, Watkins sent Pearson a lengthy dispatch reiterating a meeting in which "Aloysha" voiced the Soviet's displeasure with Pearson over his continued skepticism of Soviet intentions. Pearson fired back: "My visit did not reassure me in regard to the peaceful aims of that policy, but certainly did convince me that the people themselves, whatever might be the views of their rulers, did sincerely desire peace. You might tell your friend Aloysha one day that if he wants to convince me of the pacific intentions of his Politburo friends, he should explain why they find it necessary to have 400 modern submarines." Watkins was recalled from the Soviet Union shortly afterwards.

More than a year after his affair with Kamahl and just before he was to return to Ottawa, Watkins was invited by "Aloysha" to his office. The Soviet official acted troubled and stated he had gained custody of the KGB material compromising to Watkins, but would do what he could to prevent the KGB from exploiting him. Watkins, understanding that his career depended upon the goodwill of the Soviets, had skilfully been placed into "Aloysha's" debt. Following through on the plan to get the ambassador to become an agent of influence steering Canadian policy away from the United States and towards the Soviet Union, "Aloysha" implied that Watkins could return the favour when he returned to Ottawa.

On 3 April 1956, Watkins was recalled to Ottawa to become assistant under-secretary of state for External Affairs. David Chalmer Reece, a former colleague of Watkins in the Canadian diplomatic corps who had also been one of his students at the University of Manitoba, recalled that Watkins "seemed much the same in Ottawa, gentle and charming, but a little melancholy and bothered by ill health".

Denmark
Watkins officially became the Canadian ambassador to Denmark on 30 August 1958. Having developed diabetes, his health continued to decline and he spent Christmas 1959 hospitalized in Copenhagen with a continuous nosebleed. Unwell and taking heart medications regularly, Watkins again returned to Ottawa in 1960 where he was an assistant undersecretary with External Affairs. After lengthy medical leaves, Watkins officially retired from the Department of External Affairs on 25 July 1963.

Retirement
In retirement, Watkins prepared his move to France by donating his valuable collection of Russian and Scandinavian books to various Canadian universities. His collection of paintings by Pablo Picasso and Russian avant-garde artists, including Marc Chagall, were distributed to friends for safe-keeping. Watkins retired to Paris, where he lived at the Hôtel Lenox on the Left Bank. He was a frequent dinner guest of the Canadian ambassador to France, Jules Léger, and his wife Gabrielle, and Basil Rakoczi was among the many unknown artists he befriended. After entertaining his cousins in Paris and a road trip around Europe in May 1964, Watkins suffered a heart attack that summer. In September, he moved to an apartment in Montparnasse.