[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Constantin Mille

that he had "given approval for print without reading them".

Mille completed his studies in Brussels, at the Université Libre, being awarded a diploma in Law (1884). He returned to Romania during the same year, and settled in Bucharest, joining the local Bar association.

Bucharest socialist circle

Although initially an advocate of common-law marriage, Mille allegedly accepted a Romanian Orthodox ceremony, and, according to Călinescu, "defended [his new position] through ridiculous sophistry". A founding member of the socialist circle in Bucharest (known as Cercul de Studii Sociale, the Social Studies Circle), he joined Ioan Nădejde in creating the magazine Drepturile Omului (published for several months in 1885 and reestablished in 1888, it ceased to exist in 1889).

The editors repeatedly issues calls for the creation of a working class party, and argued in favor of public ownership, but also took inspiration from Narodnik ideas (see Poporanism). According to Henri H. Stahl, during the late 1880s and early 1890s, Mille shared the vision of Vasile Morțun, Alexandru G. Radovici and Nădejde, which called on the socialist clubs to merge with progressive and radical forces such as George Panu's grouping. Nicknamed the generoși ("generous ones"), and arguing that Romanian socialism could only be established when capitalism had been fully developed, they thus disagreed with the mainstream Marxist theorist Constantin Dobrogeanu-Gherea. Most of these younger socialists associated with the socialist sympathizer Constantin Stere, and, a decade later, merged with the National Liberal Party (PNL).

With Panait Mușoiu and Nădejde, Mille founded the magazine Munca, which was published between 1890 and 1894. It followed in the wake of Contemporanul'''s 1891 disestablishment, and adhered to Dobrogeanu-Gherea's pamphlet Ce vor socialiștii români? ("What Do the Romanian Socialists Want?", 1886), which had set the tone for unifying the various socialist groups in the country. Carrying the subtitle "Organ social democrat" ("Social democratic organ"), Munca effectively relocated the center of socialist activity from Iași to Bucharest, and had among its collaborators Garabet Ibrăileanu, Sofia Nădejde, and Mihai Pastia. Associated with the labor movement and frequently reporting on strikes, the newspaper urged workers to organize into trade unions and popularized Marxist tenets. In 1891, Nădejde, Mille and Morțun issued a manifesto of the would-be socialist party (at the time, a loose rally of socialist clubs), entitled Manifest către țărani, în numele Comitetului electoral al partidului ("Manifesto to the Peasants, in the Name of the Party's Election Committee").

PSDMR episode and deputy

In 1893, Mille joined the newly created PSDMR and stood among its most radical members, calling for immediate social reform. He was to be expelled from the group two years later, due to his purchase of Adevărul (known then as Adevĕrul), which was considered bourgeois in tone. During the same period, Adevărul became involved in a heated debate with the literary magazine Vieața, after publishing an article in irreverent tone which referred to the writer and editor Alexandru Vlahuță as "a scoundrel". From that moment on, Vieața repeatedly issued unflattering reviews of works by socialist authors, and chronicled Mille's poetry under the derisive title "Pliviri" ("Weedings").

Taking over as editor-in-chief following Alexandru Beldiman's death in 1898, he led the paper into opposition to the PNL cabinet of Dimitrie Sturdza, who he argued had betrayed the generoși in his party by endorsing reactionary policies. During the elections of 1899, the newspaper, through its correspondent Ioan Bacalbașa, investigated alleged violence by government forces in Slatina. At the time, Mille was proposed as an independent candidate for Teleorman County, running for the Third Electoral College (that of peasants), and came to serve a mandate in the Chamber of Deputies. He was again elected during the 1907 suffrage.

In December, following the arrival to power of Gheorghe Cantacuzino and the Conservative Party, Adevărul investigated and denounced the practices of a French firm who had failed to respect its obligations involving public works in Constanța (see Hallier Affair). Their campaign culminated in the intervention of low-ranking police forces, who assaulted Mille and Bacalbașa — while recovering, they were visited by the PNL's Ion I. C. Brătianu, who expressed his sympathy.