[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Comando Vermelho

a clash with gang members of Comando Vermelho and crashed in a ditch. All four police officers on board were killed.
In June 2018, the Red Command launched attacks on a Bolivian Army base in Porvenir and a Brazilian police station in Epitaciolandia, in both instances stealing weapons and ammunition.

Comando Vermelho and funk carioca 
The Comando continue to attract new Brazilian youth and bring them into their ranks. In addition to sponsoring groups like neighborhood associations and special interest clubs, and organizing sporting events, one of the most common ways in which the criminal organization is able to catch the youth's attention is through the popular musical style of funk, a form of Brazilian music derived from Miami bass. Due to the genre's popularity with young Brazilians, the group "is known to have subsidized funk parties to recruit young kids for drug dealing".

In addition to these funk parties (bailes funk), "where drugs and sex attract even bourgeois or petty-bourgeois youth", held regularly by the organization every Sunday, funk artists are also sponsored by the Comando Vermelho to record songs and even entire CDs that promote the group and eulogize the group's dead members. Because the Comando pays for the production and recording of the funk songs, they "are often well recorded and of a high technical quality, and are being played on pirate radio stations and sold by hundreds of street vendors in Rio de Janeiro and in São Paulo". Thus the funk artists that are in league with Comando Vermelho sometimes garner significant sales and airplay despite making a type of music that is Proibidão, or "extremely prohibited", in terms of where it can be sold and who can play it. In addition to promoting the crime group, the funk sponsored by the Comando also challenges the ideas and laws of the Division of the Repression Against Drugs.

Notable leaders and members
 William da Silva Lima, alias “The Professor” (Deceased): Lima was a founding member of the Comando Vermelho, having been imprisoned at Cândido Mendes during the 1970s after attempting to escape another prison. He took part in several bank robberies and was a major figure during the CV’s initial rise to power. He later wrote a memoir, Four Hundred Against One, which describes his experience during the early years of the Comando Vermelho. He died of a heart attack in his home in the South Zone of Rio at the age of 76.
 Luiz Fernando da Costa, alias "Fernandinho Beira-Mar," alias "Seaside Freddy" (Incarcerated):  Beira-Ma is an imprisoned senior leader who led the CV’s business dealings with the “Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia” (FARC), the Colombian guerrilla group that entered the cocaine trade following the death of Pablo Esobar. In 2001, he was captured by the Colombian military following a shootout, and was extradited to Brazil.
 Márcio dos Santos Nepomuceno, alias "Marcinho VP" (Incarcerated): Considered the most powerful drug lord in Rio de Janeiro, he is currently the top leader of the Comando Vermelho, having taken control of this crime syndicate following the arrest of Fernandinho Beira-Mar in 2002, after Beira-Mar brutally killed Ernaldo Pinto Medeiros (a.k.a. UÉ), who was the founder and top leader of Amigos dos Amigos in retaliation for the murder of Orlando Jogador, one of the original leaders of Comando Vermelho (who would have been ordered by UÉ).
 Elias Pereira da Silva, alias "Elias Maluco"/Crazy Elias (Deceased): He was one of the most powerful drug dealers in Rio de Janeiro and one of the most dangerous members of the Comando Vermelho, until he was arrested for the murder of famous Brazilian journalist Tim Lopes. His death is one of the most mysterious in the Brazilian criminal underworld: he was found dead, hanged in his cell on September 22, 2020, but it is unknown if he committed suicide or if someone inside the prison killed him and made it look like a suicide.
 Roni Peixoto, alias "Gordo"/Fat Man (Deceased): He was known by the nickname "Gordo" (or Fat Man in English) because he was an overweight man at the time when he was the leader of the Comando Vermelho in Minas Gerais. Considered one of the biggest drug lords in the state during the 2000s, he was Beira-Mar's right-hand man, responsible for controlling drug trafficking throughout Minas Gerais and the introducer of crack in Belo Horizonte (the capital of Minas Gerais), which may have led to his brutal murder in 2022.
 Cláudio Augusto da Silva Duarte, alias "Mano C" (Incarcerated): Leader of the CV in the state of Pará (in northern Brazil).
 Ocimar Prado Junior, a.k.a. "Coquinho" (Incarcerated): Leader of the CV in the state of Amazonas (in northern Brazil).