[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Migration Period sword

nt", and scholars who interpret this as referring to this type of sword can point to it as one indication that the Beowulf poet was still drawing from an unbroken tradition of the pagan period, as ring-swords disappeared from the archaeological record with Christianization, by the late 7th century. 

Examples include:
Continent
the Beckum ring-sword, dated c. AD 475–525, found at Beckum, Germany
Wünnenberg-Fürstenberg, grave 61, 6th century
the Schretzheim sword, found in tomb 78 in the Schretzheim Alemannic cemetery, Dillingen, Bavaria, dated to between 580 and 620 AD. The sword is a rare example of a blade inscribed with an Elder Futhark inscription, four runes arranged so that the staves form a cross shape.
England
the Kent (or Dover) ring-sword
Sutton Hoo ring-sword
the Chessel Down II (Isle of Wight) ring-sword), early 6th century
Staffordshire Hoard k543, a silver sword ring fitting of fixed type, among the treasure found near Hammerwich, Staffordshire. Thought to be associated with one of the older pommel-caps in the hoard, the piece has been dated to the early 6th century. Pommel-cap k711 also displays characteristic damage caused by the installation and later removal of a ring fitting in antiquity, like the pommel-cap from the Snösbäck ritual deposit in Västergötland.
Scandinavia
the Snartemo sword, found 1933 in tomb 5 at Snartemo, Vest-Agder, Norway, dated to c. 500 AD.
Vendel ring-sword, found at Vendel, Uppland, Sweden, 6th century.
the Vallstenarum sword, found in Gotland, provides an important indication of the spread of the fashion. The sword was made in the early 6th century, and a ring was added only later, around 600 AD, damaging part of the existing hilt decoration.

Transition to the Carolingian sword

In the 8th century, Frankish sword smiths increasingly gained access to high quality steel imported from Central Asia, where a crucible steel industry began to establish itself. The earliest types of "Viking swords" according to the typology of Petersen (1919) are dated to the second half of the 8th century, while the "Viking sword" proper (and notably the Ulfberht type) emerges by the turn of the 9th century.

See also
Iron Age sword
Migration period spear
Gothic and Vandal warfare
Anglo-Saxon warfare
Viking Age arms and armour

References

Elis Behmer, Das zweischneidige Schwert der germanischen Völkerwanderungszeit, Stockholm (1939).0
H. R. Ellis Davidson, The Sword in Anglo-Saxon England: its Archaeology and Literature, Oxford (1962).

External links

5th- to 7th-century Germanic sword / seax
Reenactor's page with Migration period sword reconstructions

Ancient European swords
European swords
European weapons
Medieval European swords
Sword
Sword