[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dele Olojede

arned he had won the Pulitzer Prize.

Back to Africa
As of 2006, Olojede was living in Johannesburg with his wife and two daughters. In November 2006, the East African Standard reported that Olojede was hoping to launch a daily newspaper that would be distributed across the entire African continent.

Returning to Nigeria, Olojede launched 234Next in 2008, first on Twitter and then online and in print. Hiring 80 new journalists fresh out of college and working out of a diesel-powered 24-hour newsroom, NEXT worked to expose government corruption in the face of much resistance. Most famously, NEXT scooped the story that the president, President Yar'Adua was secretly brain dead and not "returning soon from a Saudi hospital" as promised.

In 2011, Dele Olojede won the John P. McNulty Prize, which was established by Fellows of the Aspen Institute to reward the most innovative projects driving social change. The prize was awarded for Olojede's vision and efforts in creating NEXT in Nigeria.

Under Olojede, NEXT paid its journalists a living wage, opposing the usual local practice of politicians paying journalists and expecting only favourable coverage in return. It scooped many stories of public interest, but found that advertisers would no longer support it. When it collapsed in 2011, it owed its staff more than five months' wages.

Awards
In addition to the Pulitzer Prize, Olojede has won several journalism awards.
2011: McNulty Prize
2010: Prize for Ethical Leadership, World Forum for Ethics in Business
2010: 100 Most Creative People, Fast Company
2009: Distinguished Alumni Prize, Columbia University in the City of New York
1992: Unity Award from Lincoln University
1992: Media Award from the Press Club of Long Island
1995: Publisher's Award from Newsday
1995: Educational Press of America Distinguished Achievement Award for Excellence in Educational Journalism

References

External links
Olojede's prize-winning works from pulitzer.org

1961 births
Living people
Columbia University alumni
Newsday people
Nigerian editors
Nigerian magazine founders
Nigerian newspaper journalists
Pulitzer Prize for International Reporting winners
University of Lagos alumni
Yoruba journalists