[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Edward A. Wild

s under Godfrey Weitzel that occupied the former Confederate national capital, Richmond, Virginia, holding that city through the end of the war. Wild's men were among those troops who witnessed the historic visit of President Abraham Lincoln to Richmond following the city's fall to the Union forces.

In July, Wild ordered and supervised the torture of several members of the Chennault family in Danburg, Georgia. Suspecting them of being involved in the missing Confederate gold, he had their hands tied behind their backs and their thumbs strung up. In the case of one of the prisoners, this caused the flesh to be stripped from the bones. Members of his unit forced the Chennault ladies to disrobe in search of "stolen" jewelry. Wild was honorably discharged in January 1866, receiving no punishment for his actions (which may or may not have measured up to war crimes).

Postbellum years

After the war, Wild could no longer practice medicine because of his war injuries. He engaged in silver mining in Nevada as a superintendent of operations. He operated in the Diana Mine, now part of the Berlin-Ichthyosaur State Park near Austin. He traveled extensively in South America. He died in Medellín, Colombia, and was buried in the city's Cementerio de San Pedro.

References in Popular Culture 

Wild is portrayed in Black Cloud Rising, 2022 historic fiction by David Wright Faladé. He is in command of the protagonist and narrator, Richard Etheridge, who in March 1863 was among the first enlistees in the African Brigade, later known as 36th U.S. Colored Troops.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Union)
 List of Massachusetts generals in the American Civil War

References

Bibliography
 Bowen, James Lorenzo, Massachusetts in the War, 1861-1865 (1888) pp. 1008–1010.
 Heitman, Francis, Historical Register and Dictionary of the United States Army 1789-1903, Washington, U.S. Government Printing Office, 1903.
 Fort Pocahontas web site

Further reading
 Casstevens, Frances H., Edward A. Wild and the African Brigade in the Civil War. Jefferson, North Carolina: McFarland & Company, 2005. .

External links
 Raising the African Brigade: Early Black Recruitment in Civil War North Carolina

1825 births
1891 deaths
19th-century Ottoman military personnel
American abolitionists
American amputees
American homeopaths
Burials in Colombia
Harvard Medical School alumni
Ottoman military personnel of the Crimean War
Ottoman military doctors
Physicians from Brookline, Massachusetts
Military personnel from Brookline, Massachusetts
People of Massachusetts in the American Civil War
Thomas Jefferson University alumni
Union Army generals
19th-century physicians from the Ottoman Empire
19th-century American physicians
Physicians with disabilities