[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 93]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

power to find out all the quarters of the heavens and earth."

_Tommy._--Was this discovery of any great use?

_Mr Barlow._--Before this time they had no other method of finding their
way along the sea, but by observing the stars. They knew, by experience,
in what part of the sky certain stars appeared at every season of the
year, and this enabled them to discover east, west, north, and south.
But when they set out from their own country by sea, they knew in which
direction the place was situated which they were going to. If it lay to
the east, they had only to keep the head of the ship turned full to that
quarter of the heavens, and they would arrive at the place they were
going to; and this they were enabled to do by observing the stars. But
frequently the weather was thick, and the stars no longer appeared, and
then they were left to wander about the pathless ocean without the
smallest track to guide them in their course.

_Tommy._--Poor people! they must be in a dreadful situation indeed,
tossed about on such an immense place as the sea, in the middle of a
dark night, and not able even to guess at their situation.

_Mr Barlow._--For this reason they seldom dared to venture out of sight
of the shore, for fear of losing their way, by which means all their
voyages were long and tedious; for they were obliged to make them
several times as long as they would have done, could they have taken the
straight and nearest way. But soon after the discovery of this admirable
property of the loadstone, they found that the needle, which had been
thus prepared, was capable of showing them the different points of the
heavens, even in the darkest night. This enabled them to sail with
greater security, and to venture boldly upon the immense ocean, which
they had always feared before.

_Tommy._--How extraordinary that a little stone should enable people to
cross the sea, and to find their way from one country to another! But I
wonder why they take all these pains.

_Mr Barlow._--That you need not wonder at, when you consider that one
country frequently produces what another does not; and therefore, by
exchanging their different commodities, the people of both may live more
conveniently than they did before.

_Harry._--But does not almost every country produce all that is
necessary to support the inhabitants of it? and therefore they might
live, I should think, even though they received nothing from any other
country.

_Mr Barlow._--So might your father live, perhaps, upon the productions
of his own farm, but he sometimes sells his cattle to purchase clothes;
sometimes his corn to purchase cattle. Then he frequently exchanges with
his neighbours one kind of grain for another, and thus their mutual
conveniency is better promoted than if each were to confine himself to
the produce of his own land. At the same time, it is true, that every
country which is inhabited by men, contains within itself all that is
necessary for their subsistence, and what they bring from other
countries is frequently more hurtful than salutary to them.

_Harry._--I have heard you say that even in Greenland, the coldest and
most uncomfortable country in the world, the inhabitants procure
themselves necessaries, and live contented.

_Tommy._--What! is there a part of the world still colder than Lapland?

_Mr Barlow._--Greenland is still farther north, and therefore colder and
more barren. The ground is there covered with eternal snows, which never
melt, even in the summer. There are scarcely any animals to be found,
excepting bears, that live by preying upon fish. There are no trees
growing upon any part of the country, so that the inhabitants have
nothing to build their houses with, excepting the planks and trees which
the sea washes away from other countries and leaves upon their coast.
With these they erect large cabins, where several families live
together. The sides of these huts are composed of earth and stones, and
the top secured with turf; in a short time the whole is so cemented with
frost, that it is impenetrable to the weather during the whole winter.
Along the sides of the building are made several partitions, in each of
which a Greenlander lives with his family. Each of these families have a
small lamp continually burning before them, by means of which they cook
their food, and light themselves, and, what is equally necessary in so
cold a country, keep up agreeable warmth throughout their apartment.
They have a few deer, which sometimes visit them in the summer, and
which the Greenlanders kill whenever they can catch them; but they are
almost entirely destitute of all the vegetables which serve as
nourishment to man, so that they are obliged to be continually upon the
sea, in order to catch fish for their maintenance.

_Tommy._--What a dreadful life that must be in a country which is so
cold!

_Mr Barlow._--In consequence of that extreme cold, those nort