[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# ITV Studios

ITV Studios Limited is a British multinational television production and distribution company owned by the British television broadcaster ITV plc. It handles production and distribution of programmes broadcast on the ITV network and third-party broadcasters, and is based in 12 countries across 60 production labels, with local production offices in the UK, US, Belgium, Australia, Germany, The Netherlands, Italy, Israel, France, Spain and Scandinavia.

About
ITV Studios not only makes programmes primarily for its parent company ITV plc, but also for other networks such as the BBC and Channel 4. It was formed from a gradual amalgamation of the production divisions of all ITV plc owned 'Channel 3' licensees which occurred from 1994 to 2004, and for a number of years thereafter following the creation of ITV plc.

The division is also responsible for ITV's production facilities The London Studios, 3SixtyMedia (based at ITV Granada, and co-owned with BBC Studioworks), and location hire company ProVision (based at ITV Yorkshire, with sales offices at ITV Granada and The London Studios). ITV Studios Global Entertainment (formerly Granada International and Granada Ventures) is responsible for sales of finished programmes, formats and commercial licensing deals.

History

Granada Media
ITV Studios Limited's history can be traced back to Granada Productions, which was founded in 1954 as Granada Television's in-house production arm.

Carlton International

Central Television Enterprises, Central Independent Television's international sales operations founded in 1987. Central Television Enterprises was later acquired by Carlton Communications in 1994 when they purchased Central, renaming the company as CTE (Carlton) Limited. In March 1998, CTE was renamed as Carlton International Media Limited.

ITV Studios
During the merger of Granada Media and Carlton Communications to form ITV plc in 2004, the international division of Granada Media was folded into Carlton International, which assumed the name of Granada International. Meanwhile, Carlton's TV unit was folded into Granada's but retained the "Granada Media Group" name. In March 2004, Action Time, the Carlton-owned format distributor for game shows which before the merger had operated as a semi-independent company, was folded into Granada's operations and the name was retired.

In January 2006, the company assumed the name "ITV Productions" for all produced shows airing on ITV networks, while the Granada name was retained on shows that aired on non-ITV channels, such as Channel 4's Countdown, University Challenge and The Royle Family for the BBC. However, Welsh programmes would always retain the "ITV Cymru" brand. Granada Media Limited was renamed ITV Productions Limited in December 2006.

In February 2008, ITV announced to wind up the Granada brand, and that they would merge Granada International and Granada Ventures into a then-unnamed business.
however, some of ITV Studios' subsidiaries, such as ITV Studios Australia, still carried the Granada name until 2013.

On 17 November 2009, the company announced to split its main production arm into four separate departments for factual, entertainment, daytime and scripted.

In May 2017, ITV plc acquired production company World Productions. As a result of the takeover, the company is now a part of ITV Studios, with ITV Studios Global Entertainment handling international distribution of future series. That same year, ITV Studios also acquired Swedish game show and entertainment programming producer Elk Production, a stake in Danish drama producer Apple Tree Productions, founded by former DR Drama Deputy Head Lars Hermann and Piv Bernth (producer of the hit series The Killing) who had both left public broadcaster DR (which was the home for The Killing), and another stake in Italian film and television producer Cattleya, well known for producing the 2015 crime film Suburra and the 2017 RAI/Netflix television series co-production that serves as a prequel to it.  Cattleya is also a partner in Vision Distribution, an Italian film distribution company founded in 2016 with Sky Italia, Wildside (owned by ITV Studios' rival Fremantle), Lucisano Media Group, Palomar and Indiana Production.

In 2017, American horror film production company Blumhouse Productions sold a 45% stake in their independent television studio Blumhouse Television to ITV. Blumhouse is known for their globally successful films such as Paranormal Activity and Insidious.