[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Glacial lake outburst flood

reek from  per second to   per second, as recorded at a gauging station   downstream. Debris from the flood was deposited more than  along the creek. The GLOF has been attributed to the rapid retreat of the glacier, which has been ongoing since the glacier was first accurately measured in the 1960s.

Peru 
A flood caused by a glacial lake outburst flood on 13 December 1941 killed an estimated 1,800 people along its path in Peru, including many in the town of Huaraz. The cause was a block of ice that fell from a glacier in the Cordillera Blanca mountains into Lake Palcacocha. This event has been described as a historic inspiration for research into glacial lake outburst floods. Numerous Peruvian geologists and engineers created techniques for avoiding such floods and exported the techniques worldwide.

Canada
In 1978, debris flows triggered by a jökulhlaup from Cathedral Glacier destroyed part of the Canadian Pacific railway track, derailed a freight train and buried parts of the Trans Canada Highway.

In 1994, a jökulhlaup occurred at Farrow Creek, British Columbia.

In 2003, a jökulhlaup drained into Lake Tuborg on Ellesmere Island, and the events and its aftermath were monitored. The ice-dammed lake drained catastrophically by floating its ice dam. This is an extremely rare occurrence in the Canadian High Arctic, where most glaciers are cold based, and ice-dammed lakes typically drain slowly by overtopping their dams.

It has been suggested that the Heinrich events during the last glaciation could have been caused by gigantic jökulhlaups from a Hudson Bay lake dammed by ice at the mouth of Hudson Strait.

See also

Footnotes

References
Post, A. & Mayo, L.R. Glacier Dammed Lakes and Outburst Floods in Alaska. HYDROLOGIC INVESTIGATIONS ATLAS HA-455. Anchorage, Alaska (1971) U.S. Geological Survey, Denver CO.
Rudoy, A.N. (1998) Mountain Ice-Dammed Lakes of Southern Siberia and their Influence on the Development and Regime of the Runoff Systems of North Asia in the Late Pleistocene. Chapter 16, pp. 215–234. – Palaeohydrology and Environmental Change / Eds: G. Benito, V.R. Baker, K.J. Gregory. – Chichester: John Wiley & Sons Ltd. 353 p. 
Rudoy A.N. & Baker, V.R.  Sedimentary Effects of cataclysmic late Pleistocene glacial Flooding, Altai Mountains, Siberia // Sedimentary Geology , (1993) Vol. 85. N 1–4. pp. 53–62.

External links

 The channeled scabland: a guide to the geomorphology of the Columbia Basin, Washington: prepared for the Comparative Planetary Geology Field Conference held in the Columbia Basin, 5–8 June 1978 / sponsored by Planetary Geology Program, Office of Space Science, National Aeronautics and Space Administration; edited by Victor R. Baker and Dag Nummedal.
 Рудой А. Н. Giant current ripples: A Review. Гигантская рябь течения: обзор новейших данных.  
 Рудой А. Н. Scablands. Скэбленд: экзотические ландшафты. 
 Chuya Flood Video 
 Glacial Lakes and Glacial Lake Outburst Floods in Nepal. – International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, Kathmandu, March 2011 
 Lasafam Iturrizaga. GLACIER LAKE OUTBURST FLOODS / "Encyclopedia of Snow, Ice and Glaciers"  Springer, 2011/Eds. Vijay P. Singh, Pratap Singh and Umesh K. Haritashya 

Volcanology
+
Flood