[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HMCS Prevost

Specialized training equipment, including gunnery, ASDIC, radar, communication, seamanship and engineering was installed and recruiting commenced.  Permanent force staff officers and supply officers together with their staff were appointed to assist with the administration and specialized training.

For practical training in seamanship, two  harbour craft, one  diesel motor boat, one  cutter, two  whalers and one  Admiralty dinghy were placed in commission at Port Stanley, Ontario.  In August 1949 one  Fairmile motor launch, HMCS Racoon, converted to diesel power, replaced the two harbour craft.

In October 1950 the boathouse property, situated immediately south of the lift bridge on the west side of the harbour at Port Stanley, was acquired.  The following year a building was moved from the Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) Station at Fingal, Ontario and erected at the new site.  A flag mast, two sets of davits, a crane and other items for seamanship training were provided and the property fenced in.

1953–1955 
Naval Headquarters decided, in 1952, to re-activate the competition for efficiency.  A silver replica of the Destroyer-Escort class was donated by Vice Admiral H. T. W. Grant and a system of assessment was prepared and promulgated to all naval divisions.  A second trophy was also activated for the presentation to the Division next in line and was known as the "Runner Up" trophy.

HMCS Prevost, under the command of Commander E.G. Bride, RCNR won the Efficiency Trophy for the training year 1953–1954 and tied with  for the 1954–1955 training year.

1957 
After eighteen years in the Carling Block, and many attempts to secure new and better quarters, a new construction program was launched in February 1956, and on 30 July 1957 the new building at the forks of the Thames River was accepted from the contractors, the ensign hoisted and the move from the Carling Block undertaken.  On 23 November 1957 the building was officially opened by the Minister of National Defence, Honourable George R. Pearkes, V.C., assisted by Commodore A.H.G. Storrs, RCN, Rear Admiral K.F. Adams, RCN, Mayor Ray Dennis and the Rev. R.H. McColl, RCNR.

1959–1963 
HMCS Prevost under the command of Captain G.A. MacLachlan RCNR won the Runner Up Trophy for the 1958–1959 training season and again for the 1961–1962 period.

1964 
Late in 1963, the Minister of National Defence announced a drastic curtailment of expenditures for defence purposes.  Among "economies" to be affected was the closing of six Naval Reserve divisions.  Among those six, was HMCS Prevost.

The paying off of the land-locked "stone frigate", the reality of service integration as the building was turned over to the Western Ontario Area Command Headquarters for the use of Army militia units.

1977–1988 
Prevost detachment office stood up in A Block CFB London in 1977. Staffing, and recruiting began again to enroll personnel for Prevost detachment. Bob Leckie came out of retirement to recruit and manage the detachment office in "A" block at CFB London. During the early 1980s the Naval Reserve detachment continued to grow in London. Within three years Prevost grew to 45 personnel. It was called the Prevost detachment of  located in Hamilton, Ontario. Star performed most administrative functions for the detachment. Chief Petty Officer Bill Ross was the full-time chief administrator for the growing unit. Initially only marine engineers were recruited as the Naval Reserve had a shortage at the time. These Prevost engineers, once trained, were used to augment many other units on their training weekends on board various ships on either coast.

1988–2009 
Prevost detachment moved from CFB London A Block to its present location, Prevost armories on Becher Street then home to 22 Service Battalion and 4 RCR, and the decision to recommission Prevost as a Naval Reserve division of Maritime Command was made.  HMCS Prevost was recommissioned as a Naval Reserve division of Maritime Command on 29 September 1990 by Vice Admiral C.M. Thomas, the Vice Chief of the Defence Staff.

Freedom of the city was granted to HMCS Prevost under the command of Lieutenant-Commander M. Hoare by Mayor Diane Haskett on 31 October 1998. In October 1998, the war memorial to Prevost sailors lost at sea was repatriated to the division  from St Paul's Anglican Cathedral of London, Ontario, where it had been safeguarded since 1964. The Engineering trade lost its traditional place as the largest division at Prevost in 2002, when the Operations department displaced it. Prevost adopted a new motto, "By Valour not Deception".

Battle of the Atlantic Memorial