[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# ECW Hardcore Revolution

e issues, calling the latter "One of the few games to inspire active anger and hate. Just having to handle the cart with our bare fingers made us feel dirty" (#63, March 2000); and later calling the former "A blatant insult to the intelligence of wrestling fans and Dreamcast owners" (#65, May 2000).

In one review, Lamchop of GamePro said of the PlayStation version, "If you liked Attitude and you're a big ECW fan, then you'll like ECW Hardcore Revolution—but there's little evolution here. It has a different name, but it's pretty much the same game." In another review, Lou Gubrious said of the same console version, "For all of you who liked WWF Attitude and wanted to see an ECW game, this was designed for you. Non-wrestling fans might want to rest their thumbs with a less-complex grappler like WCW Mayhem or the upcoming WWF SmackDown!." Jake The Snake said in one review that the Nintendo 64 version "is so much like Attitude, you should stick with the latter (or WWF WrestleMania 2000) unless you're a huge ECW fan or [you] must have every wrestling game that comes along." However, The D-Pad Destroyer said of the same console version in another review, "Attitude fans who dig the ECW might want to give this one a look, but if you really want to play ECW wrestlers, then try to create them in Wrestlemania 2000 or Mayhem. In an age where both wrestling games and wrestling itself are centering on the show behind the sport, Acclaim's difficult and bland engine is showing its age." Later on, Lamchop said that the Dreamcast version "isn't an improvement over Attitude. In fact, it heads in the other direction with less-popular wrestlers and done-this-before gameplay. Only hardcore ECW fans should pick this one up; everybody else should keep their Attitude."

The Game Boy Color version was heavily criticized by critics and fans alike. Players complained about sluggish controls, poor sound effects and graphics and glitches. It was rated as one of the two worst GBC games of all time by MobyGames.

See also

 List of licensed wrestling video games
 List of fighting games

Notes

References

External links
 
 

2000 video games
Dreamcast games
Hardcore Revolution
Game Boy Color games
Multiplayer and single-player video games
Nintendo 64 games
PlayStation (console) games
Video games developed in the United States