[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pact of Umar

entic version of that early treaty." Historian Abraham P. Bloch writes that "Omar was a tolerant ruler, unlikely to impose humiliating conditions upon non-Muslims or to infringe upon their religious and social freedoms. His name has been erroneously associated…with the restrictive Covenant of Omar."

According to Thomas Walker Arnold, the pact "is in harmony [with Umar's] kindly consideration for his subjects of another faith, "A later generation attributed to ‘Umar a number of restrictive regulations which hampered the Christians in the free exercise of their religion, but De Goeje and Caetani have proved without doubt that they are the invention of a later age; as, however, Muslim theologians of less tolerant periods accepted these ordinances as genuine"

Content

There are several different versions of the pact that differ both in their language and stipulations.

The points:
 Prohibition against building new churches, places of worship, monasteries, or a new cell. (Hence it was also forbidden to build new synagogues. It is known that new synagogues were only built after the occupation of Islam, for example in Jerusalem and Ramle. A similar law, prohibiting the building of new synagogues, existed in the Byzantines, and was therefore not new for all Jews. It was new for the Christians.)
 Prohibition against rebuilding destroyed churches, by day or night, in their own neighbourhoods or those situated in Muslim quarters.
 The places of worship of non-Muslims must be lower in elevation than the lowest mosque in town.
 The houses of non-Muslims must not be taller in elevation than the houses of Muslims.
 Prohibition against hanging a cross on the outside of Churches.
 Muslims should be allowed to enter Churches (for shelter) at any time, both day and night.
 Obliging the call to prayer by a bell or semantron (a kind of gong) to be low in volume.
 Prohibition against Christians and Jews raising their voices at prayer times.
 Prohibition against teaching non-Muslim children the Qur'an.
 Christians forbidden to publicly display their religion, or to be seen with Christian books or symbols in public, on the roads or in the markets of the Muslims.
 Palm Sunday and Easter parades were banned.
 Funerals to be conducted quietly.
 Prohibition against burying non-Muslim dead near Muslims.
 Prohibition against raising a pig next to a Muslims neighbour.
 Christian were forbidden to sell alcoholic beverages to Muslims.
 Christians were forbidden to provide cover or shelter for spies.
 Prohibition against telling a lie about Muslims.
 Obligation to show deference toward Muslims. If a Muslim wishes to sit, the non-Muslim should rise from his seat and give it to the Muslim.
 Prohibition against preaching to Muslims in an attempt to convert them from Islam. 
 Prohibition against preventing the conversion to Islam of someone who wishes to convert.
 The appearance of non-Muslims has to be different from that of Muslims: Prohibition against wearing Qalansuwa (kind of cap that Bedouins used to wear), Bedouin turban (Amamh), Muslims shoes, and Sash to their waists. As to the head, it was forbidden for non-Muslims to comb the hair sidewise as was the Muslim custom, and they were forced to cut the hair at the front of the head. Also non-Muslims shall not imitate the Arab-Muslim way of speech nor shall adopt the kunyas (Arabic byname, such as "abu Khattib").
 Non-Muslims obliged to be identifiable by such signs as: clipping the heads' forelocks and by always dressing in the same manner, wherever they go, with binding the zunnar (a kind of belt) around the waists. Christians to wear blue belts or turbans, Jews to wear yellow belts or turbans, Zoroastrians to wear black belts or turbans, and Samaritans to wear red belts or turbans.
 Prohibition against riding animals in the Muslim manner, and prohibition against riding with a saddle.
 Prohibition against adopting a Muslim title of honour.
 Prohibition against engraving Arabic inscriptions on signet seals.
 Prohibition against the possession of weapons.
 Non-Muslims obliged to receive any passing Muslim as a guest in his home for at least 3 days and feed him.
 Non-Muslims prohibited from buying a Muslim prisoner.
 Prohibition against taking slaves who have been allotted to Muslims.
 Prohibition against non-Muslims leading, governing or employing Muslims.
 If a non-Muslim beats a Muslim, his Dhimmi protection is removed. 
 In return, the ruler would provide security for Christian believers who follow the rules of the pact.

See also
 Charter of Medina
 Ashtiname of Muhammad
 Outline of Islam
 Glossary of Islam
 Index of Islam-related articles
Religio licita
1782 Edict of Tolerance

Notes

References

 

Mark R. Cohen, and Norman A Stillman, “The Neo-Lachrymose Conception of Jewish-Arab History,”

External links
Text of one version of the Pact, in arabic and translated into French, commentary and translation by Ahmed Oulddali (2012).