[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sager orphans

soon decided to run away and join the settlers in the nearby valley because the Whitmans were strict disciplinarians, and he didn't like living with them. Others who lived with the Whitmans including Joe Lewis who later participated in the attack against them also left complaining of ill treatment.

The Cayuse were considerably more susceptible to the diseases the settlers brought with them. In the fall of 1847 measles carried west with an emigrant train swept through the Cayuse villages. In the cold and damp weather of November 1847 the epidemic reached its peak and half the tribe died, including most of the children. Marcus Whitman and his wife treated both the white settlers and the Cayuse who came to them for medical attention, but the Cayuse had become increasingly wary of trusting the Whitmans for medical attention at this point. Henry Spalding, another missionary who worked closely with Whitman, and was with him the day before he died, claimed that Catholic priests were spreading rumors among the Cayuse people that Whitman was deliberately spreading diseases to them. He also testified on behalf of the five Cayuse men who were eventually hanged for Whitman's death at their trial, saying that the Cayuse had warned Whitman that the consequences for being a fake healer were death, and that they would have to kill him if he remained there, but he had chosen to disregard their warning. 

Catherine Sager also recorded a fight between a man she said was named Tam-a-Has and Marcus Whitman in which Tam-a-Has struck Whitman with a wooden club and Whitman struck Tam-a-Has with a metal rod.

In November of 1847, a Cayuse man named Stickas warned Marcus Whitman that Joe Lewis was convincing many of the Cayuse people that Whitman was actively poisoning them. Catherine Sager also believed that a French man named Joseph Stanfield who was an assistant to Doctor Whitman participated in spreading these stories, and that Joe Lewis and Joseph Stanfield motive for doing this was that they were conspiring to plunder the mission of the considerable resources that had been donated to it by then. On November 29, 1847, Joe Lewis along with a group of Cayuse men attacked the settlement at Waiilatpu. While the men who had been working outside were being attacked, Narcissa Whitman took frequent quick looks out the door, and according to Catherine Sager, "At such times she would exclaim: 'Oh, that Jo Lewis is doing it all!'". Catherine Sager also recorded witnessing Joe Lewis dragging the children at the mission out of hiding to be lined up and shot, and the Cayuse chief deciding to spare them instead, with that chief giving a speech again that night in favor of sparing the lives of the women and children. She described most of the deaths she witnessed as having been done by bullets without identifying who shot those bullets, she said she saw a teacher named Luke Saunders taken captive at knife point by two Cayuse men, and said she said that she looked away right before they killed him, but she also says Narcissa Whitman told her that she was mistaken about her belief about who killed Luke Saunders. The only death that Narcissa attributed to the Cayuse warriors rather than Joe Lewis while she was watching it unfold was Marcus Whitman's. Catherine Sager said that she was told more about the killings during the month she was kept as a prisoner after the attack. She again described almost all of the deaths in the passive voice as having been done with bullets, but says that the Cayuse warriors killed Marcus Whitman with traditional weapons, and that "an Indian" shot one other man. Afterwards, the Oregon Territorial government declared war on the Cayuse people, killing many of them, including according to the leaders of the Cayuse tribe at the time they made peace with the Oregon government, all of the men who had participated in this attack. Nevertheless, the Oregon Territorial government demanded that they turn over five more warriors to be tried and hanged for the attack. Those five warriors repeated at trial that everyone who had been involved in the attack had died in the war, and consistent with Catherine Sage's account specifically only attributed Marcus Whitman's death to their people, and said that he had been killed because their tribal law required bad medicine men to be put to death. John McLoughin (who was also a doctor and considered to be the founder of Oregon City), testified on behalf of those five men at their trial, and said he had repeatedly warned Whitman to quit practicing medicine among the Cayuse because they customarily executed their own healers if they did not have the healing powers they claimed to have.  The judge (Orville Pratt) instructed the jury to treat the fact that the Cayuse had turned these five men over for Whitman's death as an admission of guilt, and the jury found them guilty; but the populace of the Oregon Territory considered them sufficiently believable and sympathetic that the recently ele