[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Martín Astudillo

Martín Mauricio Astudillo (born 11 October 1977) is an Argentine former professional footballer who played as a defensive midfielder, currently a manager.

He spent one decade in Spain with Alavés, appearing in 149 matches in La Liga and 162 in the Segunda División.

Club career
Born in Mendoza, Astudillo started his career in the Primera Nacional with Godoy Cruz Antonio Tomba of Mendoza Province. In 1997, he was signed by Gimnasia y Esgrima de Jujuy of the Primera División, and two years later moved to Deportivo Alavés in Spain.

First-choice from the start, Astudillo scored four league goals in his first season, and was instrumental in the Basque side's runner-up run in the UEFA Cup the next year. In the following campaign he only missed one match and netted on five occasions, helping his team finish seventh in La Liga.

Astudillo remained loyal to Alavés throughout the vast majority of his Spanish stint, playing in the top flight as well as the Segunda División as they were twice relegated from the former (in 2003–04, he collected a season-worst 19 yellow cards). However, in January 2008, he rejoined the top tier, signing on loan with CA Osasuna who had lost another central midfielder, Javad Nekounam, severely injured in preseason.

During the season, Astudillo was instrumental in helping the Navarrese barely escape relegation as he scored the game's only goal at RCD Espanyol on 13 April 2008. In August 2009, after Alavés suffered relegation to the Segunda División B, he bought out the remainder of his contract and returned to his country after ten years, joining Rosario Central; he made a best-ever 346 competitive appearances for his main club.

References

External links
 

1977 births
Living people
Footballers from Mendoza, Argentina
Argentine men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Argentine Primera División players
Primera Nacional players
Godoy Cruz Antonio Tomba footballers
Gimnasia y Esgrima de Jujuy footballers
Rosario Central footballers
La Liga players
Segunda División players
Deportivo Alavés players
CA Osasuna players
Argentine expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Spain
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Spain
Argentine football managers
Independiente Rivadavia managers
Gimnasia y Esgrima de Jujuy managers