[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ghorahi

Biggest city of Lumbini Province.

Ghorahi (Nepali: घोराही उपमहानगरपालिका) is the seventh largest city of Nepal and largest sub-metropolitan city by area and population  of Lumbini Province. The city (formerly Tribhuvannagar) lies in Lumbini Province in the Mid-Western part of Nepal. It is the largest city of Dang Deukhuri District of southwest Nepal. Located in the Inner Terai region, it lies  south-west of Nepal's capital Kathmandu and is one of the Counter Magnets being developed as an alternative centre of growth to help ease the migration and population explosion in the Kathmandu metropolitan area. It is the largest city of the Rapti Zone and is surrounded by the Sivalik Hills to the south and Mahabharata Range to the north.

Ghorahi is located in the Dang Valley in the foothills of the Himalayas nestled between the Babai River in the east, south, and in the west which ends being the famous Sarayu and Ganges rivers in India. The city is known for its landscape and slightly milder climate and provides a gateway to the surrounding regions of Rolpa, Pyuthan, Salyan and Rukum. It is well-connected and close to tourist destinations such as Bardiya National Park in the west, Surkhet in the north-west, Thawang, Rara Lake, and the Hindu holy lands of Swargadwari and along with the Hindu temples as Pandaveshwor and Ambikeshwori.

It is one of the excellent sub-metropolitan cities based on minimum conditions and performance measurements in the assessment by the local government and financial experts of the commission in the fiscal year 2072/73 V.S. (2015/2016 AD). The city was also the first in the assessment of financial commission by the local body of the Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry held in the financial year 2067/68 V.S. (2010/11 AD).

It hosts training institutions such as Nepal Sanskrit University, Central Ayurveda College, Rapti Engineering College, Deepjyoti Nursing College, and Mahendra Multiple College. The city population makes a significant contribution to government civil servants. It is home to national factories such as the Ghorahi Cements Ghorahi, Sonapur Cement Factory, Dang Cement Industry. Ghorahi Submetropolitan City Office is locally known as Ghorahi Upa-Mahanagarpalika Karyalaya. Other urban entities involved in civic services and city governance and management include: Tripur Nagar Bikas Samiti, Rampur Gaubikas Samiti, Lakshmipur Gaubikas Samiti, Saudiyar Gaubikas Samiti, and Dharna Gaubikas Samiti. Ghorahi is best known for its high-quality honey and hemp (अल्लो) textiles.

Geography
Ghorahi is the main town of the Rapti Zone and also the headquarters of the Dang district. It is located at an elevation of  in the Mahabharat-Chure hill region.

The hills of Dang Valley are part of the Mahabharat and Chure Range.

Climate
Ghorahi has a dry-winter humid subtropical climate (Köppen Cwa).

History and prehistory
Hand axes and other artifacts dated to early Paleolithic (1.8 million to 100,000 years ago) have been found in alluvial deposits along the Babai River in Dang Valley. Archeologists classify these as Acheulean, i.e. 'second-generation' toolmaking that succeeds the very oldest Olduwan. There are more numerous, less ancient archeological sites dating to the Upper Paleolithic/Late Pleistocene (about 50,000 to 10,000 years ago). These are also along the Babai, as well as in Deukhuri Valley (Rapti River) adjacent and south of Dang Valley.

Throughout historic times, and probably earlier, the Dang and Deukhuri valleys were home to indigenous Tharu people.

The House of Tulsipur ruled one of the largest Taluqs of Oudh, India, which then included the Dang and Deukhuri Valleys. Therefore, it also counted as one of the Baise Rajya (; 22 Principalities), a confederation in what became western Nepal. The town shares its name with another Tulsipur in Dang Deukhuri District, Nepal (c.  north); the two towns are linked historically by having the same ruler. About 1760 AD,  these kingdoms were annexed by the Shah Dynasty during the reunification of Nepal. Tulsipur lands south of the Siwalik Hills were not taken. Since Dang was somewhat higher, cooler, better-drained and therefore had fewer instances of malaria than most of Inner Terai Valleys of Nepal, it was settled to some extent by Shah and Rana courtiers and other Nepalese. Deukhuri was more of a Tharu enclave until DDT was introduced to control the malaria-bearing Anopheles mosquito in the 1950s.

The municipality was established 29 January 1979 with the amalgamation of Ghorahi VDC and Sewar Bangaun VDC with a combined population of 12,279. It was named Tribhuvannagar Municipality after King Tribhuvan (ruled 1911–1955). After Nepal became a republic in 2008 the name changed back to Ghorahi Municipality.