[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ein Hod

Berlin Wall was placed in the village, and it has since been welcoming the visitors to the main museum.

The Düsseldorf-Ein Hod exchange program has brought Düsseldorf artists to Ein Hod and vice versa over the past two decades. A similar program has been inaugurated for artists from New Hampshire.

Notable residents
An early resident was the American children's writer and amateur archaeologist Nora Benjamin Kubie. One of Ein Hod's veteran artists is Ursula Malbin, whose bronze sculptures have been on display since 1978 in Haifa's Vista of Peace Garden, the first public sculpture garden in Israel dedicated solely to the works of a woman sculptor. Others include Avraham Eilat, a multimedia artist whose latest video art installation "Psychophysical Time" is shown in several leading art events in Europe, and Dina Merhav creates sculptures from old metal utensils and industrial machine parts. One of her works, Totem, was exhibited at the Olympic Sculpture Garden in Beijing, China, when the Olympic Games were held there. Yigal Tumarkin, Israeli painter and sculptor, also studied at Ein Hod.

Dan Chamizer, creator of the "Chamizer riddle," is a resident of Ein Hod. Based on an original coding system, the Chamizer riddle is widely used to teach problem-solving in schools, government agencies and high-tech companies.

Ten Ein Hod residents have won the Israel Prize, awarded annually on Israel Independence Day. According to Robert Nechin, who lives in the village, the artists working there today "are fully aware of the illustrious example of these great artists and scholars, who lived and are still living among them. Ein Hod residents who have won the prize are:
Genia Berger, in 1953 became one of the founders of the artists' colony
Zahara Schatz, for painting and sculpture (1955)
Marcel Janco, for painting (1967)
Gertrud Kraus, for dance (1968)
Simon Halkin, for literature (1975)
Haim Hefer, for Hebrew songwriting (1983)
Natan Zach, for poetry (1995)
Michael Gross, for painting and sculpture (2000)
Gila Almagor, for acting (2004)

Gallery

See also
Visual arts in Israel
Depopulated Palestinian locations in Israel
List of villages depopulated during the Arab-Israeli conflict500 Dunam on the Moon, 2002 documentary film about the fate of the 1948 Arab villageThe Promise (2011 TV serial), fictional account about the owner of a house in Ein Hod

References

Bibliography

  

 

Mülinen, Egbert Friedrich von 1908,  Beiträge zur Kenntnis des Karmels "Separateabdruck aus der Zeitschrift des Deutschen Palëstina-Vereins Band XXX (1907) Seite 117–207 und Band XXXI (1908) Seite 1–258." 
 
 
 (winner of the 1999 Albert Hourani Book Award) (p. 100)

External links

Ein Hod – The Artists' Site
Battle of Ein Hod
The Janco Dada Museum
Ein Hud – International architecture competition F.A.S.T.
 In and around Ein Hod 30 April 2006, Ynetnews
ISRAEL: An IDP village sees light at the end of the tunnel IRIN, 5 August 2007
"Hurdy-Gurdy Time", Adena Kerstein (30 September 2005), Jerusalem Post
Ein Hod: A Unique Village in Israel, Emunah magazine
 What would Janco say? Haaretz, 12 April 2007

The historic village
'Ayn Hawd in the Palestine Remembered'' database
 'Ayn Hawd, Zochrot 
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 5:  IAA, Wikimedia commons

Community settlements
Former moshavim
Populated places in Haifa District
Artist colonies