[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Mediatization (media)

e already popular. 
This has led to the large scale occurrence of echo chambers and filter bubbles. 
A consequence of this is that the political arena has become more polarized because different groups of citizens are attending to different news sources, 
though the evidence of this effect is mixed.

Other forms of communication channels 
Online political participation may affect the political standpoints of frequent media consumers, due to mass mediatization which is becoming increasingly prevalent. Blogs, videos and websites are all examples of alternative communication channels, as opposed to traditional media, such as newspapers and television. Through the means of blog, video and website communication, individuals can gain a further connection to political institutions through freely expressing their own views and opinions. This is because the Internet is bringing elites and members of the public closer together. Any ordinary person can send e-mails to a politician or a political journalist, expecting a response, or even generate millions of impressions upon regular viewers on YouTube or on the Internet through publishing their own opinions.

Through these alternative means of communication, many people find that online participation with politics and even high-status politicians is becoming increasingly common and easier to engage with. Expressive communication through the Internet proves to be more effective than communication through traditional sources, as prosumers (a combination of a producer and consumer making their own media as a consumer) are becoming powerful through their reach. This makes it more likely for false information to spread online, however, through sources that are unreliable and that anybody can post on, such as TikTok, and political participation can be damaged by this or corrupted through ideas or concepts that are not true.

Online participation has led to in-person political activities and contribution of political activists. An example is Howard Dean's Blog for America, which served as a forum for people from all sorts of backgrounds to get involved and coordinate events in the 2004 election. Online communication breeds offline communication through activism organised online, which takes place in the real world.

Physical resources 
Media materialism is a theory that addresses the media's impact on the physical environment. Media materialism covers three aspects: 
 The consumption of natural resources for industrial production of modern communication technology
 The energy consumption of communication technology in residential and institutional sectors
 The waste that is created by discarded cell phones, televisions, computers, etc.

Influence of market forces 
The economic mechanisms that influence the mass media are quite complex because commercial mass media are competing on many different markets at the same time:
 Competition for consumers, i.e. readers, listeners, and viewers
 Competition for advertisers and sponsors
 Competition for investors
 Competition for access to information sources, such as politicians, experts, etc.
 Competition for content providers and access rights, e.g. transmission rights for sports events

The economists Carl Shapiro and Hal Varian wrote that information commodity markets don't work. There are several reasons for 
this.
An important characteristic that makes information markets different from most other markets is that the fixed costs are high while the variable costs are low or zero. The fixed costs are the costs of producing content. This includes journalistic work, research, production of educational content, entertainment, etc. The variable costs are the marginal costs of adding one more consumer. The costs of broadcasting a TV show are the same whether there is one viewer or a million viewers, hence the variable costs are zero. In general, the variable costs for digital media is virtually zero because information can be copied at very low costs. The variable costs for newspapers are the costs of printing and selling one more copy, which are low but not 
zero.

Commercial mass media are competing for a limited supply of advertising money. The more media companies that compete for advertising money, the lower the price of advertising, and the less money each company has for covering the fixed costs of producing content. Free competition in a media market with many competitors can lead to ruinous competition where the revenue for each company is hardly enough to produce content of the lowest possible 
quality.

The news media are not only competing for advertisers with other news media, they are also competing for advertisers with other companies that mainly facilitate communication rather than produce information, such as search engines and social media. IT companies such as Google, Facebook, etc. are dominating the advertising market, leaving less than half of the revenue for news media.