[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 124]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

er darling up in her arms and carried him abruptly out of
the room, accompanied by most of the ladies, who pitied Tommy's
abasement, and agreed that there was no crime he could have been guilty
of which was not amply atoned for by such charming sensibility.

But Mr Merton, who now felt all the painful interest of a tender father,
and considered this as the critical moment which was to give his son the
impression of worth or baseness for life, was determined to examine this
affair to the utmost. He, therefore, took the first opportunity of
drawing the little boy aside who had mentioned Master Merton's striking
Harry, and questioned him upon the subject. But he, who had no
particular interest in disguising the truth, related the circumstances
nearly as they had happened; and though he a little softened the matter
in Tommy's favour, yet, without intending it, he held up such a picture
of his violence and injustice, as wounded his father to the soul.




CHAPTER VIII.

     Arrival of Mr Barlow--Story of Polemo--Tommy's repentance--Story of
     Sophron and Tigranes--Tommy as an Arabian Horseman--His
     Mishap--Tommy's intrepidity--The Poor Highlander's story--Tommy's
     Sorrow for his conduct to Harry--Conclusion of the Story of Sophron
     and Tigranes--Tommy's resolution to study nothing but "reason and
     philosophy"--Visits Harry and begs his forgiveness--The Grateful
     Black's Story--Tommy takes up his abode at Farmer Sandford's--The
     Grateful Black's account of himself--Mr Merton's visit to the
     Farm--The unexpected present--Conclusion.


While Mr Merton was occupied by these uneasy feelings, he was agreeably
surprised by a visit from Mr Barlow, who came accidentally to see him,
with a perfect ignorance of all the great events which had so recently
happened.

Mr Merton received this worthy man with the sincerest cordiality; but
there was such a gloom diffused over all his manners that Mr Barlow
began to suspect that all was not right with Tommy, and therefore
purposely inquired after him, to give his father an opportunity of
speaking. This Mr Merton did not fail to do; and taking Mr Barlow
affectionately by the hand, he said, "Oh, my dear Sir, I begin to fear
that all my hopes are at an end in that boy, and all your kind
endeavours thrown away. He has just behaved in such a manner as shows
him to be radically corrupted, and insensible of every principle but
pride." He then related to Mr Barlow every incident of Tommy's
behaviour; making the severest reflections upon his insolence and
ingratitude, and blaming his own supineness, that had not earlier
checked these boisterous passions, that now burst forth with such a
degree of fury that threatened ruin to his hopes.

"Indeed," answered Mr Barlow, "I am very sorry to hear this account of
my little friend; yet I do not see it in quite so serious a light as
yourself; and though I cannot deny the dangers that may arise from a
character so susceptible of false impressions, and so violent, at the
same time, yet I do not think the corruption either so great or so
general as you seem to suspect. Do we not see, even in the most trifling
habits of body or speech, that a long and continual attention is
required, if we would wish to change them, and yet our perseverance is,
in the end, generally successful; why, then, should we imagine that
those of the mind are less obstinate, or subject to different laws? Or
why should we rashly abandon ourselves to despair, from the first
experiments that do not succeed according to our wishes?"

"Indeed," answered Mr Merton, "what you say is perfectly consistent with
the general benevolence of your character, and most consolatory to the
tenderness of a father. Yet I know too well the general weakness of
parents in respect to the faults of their children not to be upon my
guard against the delusions of my own mind. And when I consider the
abrupt transition of my son into everything that is most inconsistent
with goodness,--how lightly, how instantaneously he seems to have
forgotten everything he had learned with you,--I cannot help forming the
most painful and melancholy presages of the future."

"Alas, sir," answered Mr Barlow, "what is the general malady of human
nature but this very instability which now appears in your son? Do you
imagine that half the vices of men arise from real depravity of heart?
On the contrary, I am convinced that human nature is infinitely more
weak than wicked, and that the greater part of all bad conduct springs
rather from want of firmness than from any settled propensity to evil."

"Indeed," replied Mr Merton, "what you say is highly reasonable; nor
did I ever expect that a boy so long indulged and spoiled should be
exempt from failings. But what particularly hurts me is to see him
proceed to such disagreeable extremities without any adequate
temptation--extremities that, I fear, imply a defect of