[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Glandular odontogenic cyst

th function at the odontogenic region. The analysis of PTCH, a gene that specialises in neoplasm inhibition, was carried out to determine if any existing mutations played a role in the initiation of the GOC. It is confirmed that the gene had no assistance in triggering cystic advancement.

Diagnosis

Radiology 
The performance of radiographic imaging i.e. computed tomography, at the affected area is considered essential. Radiographic imaging of the GOC can display a defined unilocular or multilocular appearance that may be "rounded or oval" shaped upon clinical observation. Scans may present a distribution of the GOC at the upper jaw as it presents a 71.8% prevalence in cases. The margin surrounding the GOC is usually occupied with a scalloped definition. A bilateral presentation of the GOC is possible but is not common at either the maxilla or mandible sites. The GOC has an average size of 4.9 cm that can develop over the midline when positioned at the mandible or maxilla region. Analysis of scans allow for the differentiation of GOC from other parallel lesions, i.e. "ameloblastoma, odontogenic myxoma, or dentigerous cyst" in order to minimise the chance of a misdiagnosis. These scans can display the severity of cortical plate, root, and tooth complications, which is observed to determine the necessary action for reconstruction.

Histology 
Histological features related to the GOC differ in each scenario; however, there is a general criterion to identify the cyst. The GOC usually features a "stratified squamous epithelium" attached to connective tissue that is filled with active immune cells. The lining of the epithelium features a very small diameter that is usually non-keratinised. In contrast, the lining of the GOC has rather an inconsistent diameter. The basal cells of the GOC usually has no association to a cancerous origin. Tissue cells can be faced with an abnormal increase in the concentration of calcium, which can cause the region to calcify. The transformation of the epithelium is associated with a focal luminal development. Eosinophilic organelles such as columnar and cuboidal cells can be observed during microscopy. Intra-epithelial crypts may be identified in the internal framework of the epithelium or at the external space where it presents itself as papillae protrusions. Mucin is observable after the application of "alcian blue dye" on the tissue specimen. The histological observation of goblet cells is a common feature with the "odontogenic dentigerous cyst". In some circumstances, the epithelium can have variable plaque structures that appear as swirls in the tissue layers. Interestingly, histologists were able to identify hyaline bodies within the tissue framework of the GOC. It is encouraged that the histological identification of at least seven of these biological characteristics is required to accurately distinguish the presence of the GOC.

Intraepithelial Hemosiderin 
Pathologists have identified hemosiderin pigments that are considered unique to the GOC. The discovery of this pigment can be pivotal to the differentiation of the GOC from other lesions. The staining at the epithelium is due to the haemorrhaging of the lining. The cause of the haemorrhaging can be triggered by the type of treatment, cellular degradation, or structural deformation inflicted during GOC expansion. Examination of the GOC tissue section indicated that red blood cells from the intraluminal space had combined with the extracellular constituents. This process is carried out through transepithelial elimination. This clinical procedure is beneficial to confirm the benign or malignant nature of the GOC.

Immunocytochemistry 
The examination of cytokeratin profiles is deemed useful when observing the differences between the GOC and the central MEC. These two lesions show individualised expression for cytokeratin 18 and 19.  Past studies observed Ki-67, p53, and PCNA expression in common jaw cysts that shared similar characteristics. There was a lack of p53 expression found in radicular cysts. Similarly, Ki-67 was seen less in the central MEC compared to the other lesions, though this discovery is not essential to the process of differential diagnosis. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen readings were established to have no role in the differentiation process. The TGF-beta marker is present in the GOC and can explain the limited concentration of normal functioning cells.

MAML2 rearrangement 
The observation of a MAML2 rearrangement is described as a procedure useful in the differential diagnosis of the GOC and its closely related lesion, the central MEC. A second cystic development displayed the presence of CRTC3-MAML2 fusion after an in-vitro application. The MAML2 rearrangement represents the developmental growth of the central MEC from the GOC. The use of fusion-gene transcript may be helpful towards the differentiation of the GOC from the central MEC of the jaw and salivary glands.

Treatment