[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Diane Black

Diane Lynn Black (née Warren; January 16, 1951) is an American politician who served as a U.S. Representative for  from January 3, 2011, to January 3, 2019. The district includes several suburban and rural areas east of Nashville. A Republican, she was previously elected to the Tennessee Senate, serving as floor leader of the Republican Caucus. She unsuccessfully ran for the Republican nomination in the 2018 Tennessee gubernatorial election.

Early life and education
Diane Lynn Warren was born on January 16, 1951, in Baltimore, Maryland, to Joseph and Audrey Warren.  Warren graduated from Andover High School in Linthicum, Maryland, in 1969 and was the first member of her family to earn a college degree. Following graduation from Anne Arundel Community College in Arnold, Maryland, with an associate's degree in nursing, went on to Belmont University, earning a bachelor's degree in nursing in 1991.

Career
Black worked as a registered nurse until she ran for the Tennessee House of Representatives in 1998. Later, she served as an educator at Volunteer State Community College in Gallatin, Tennessee.

Tennessee legislature 
Before becoming a state Senator in 2004, she had previously served as a state Representative for six years from 1998. Prior to her election as a Republican state representative, Black had voted in two Democratic primaries in 1996. Black was the Assistant Floor Leader of the Senate Republican Caucus, a member of the Senate Government Operations Committee, and the Vice-Chairwoman of the Senate General Welfare, Health, and Human Resources Committee. She was elected the Tennessee Senate Republican Caucus Chairwoman in 2006.

In May 2009, Black's legislative aide forwarded an e-mail depicting a collage of United States Presidents. President Barack Obama's section of the collage was represented by a black square with two eyeballs. Black's reprimand of her aide was criticized as too lenient by two political blogs and Tennessee Democratic Party Chairwoman Chip Forrester. Black said the e-mail did not represent her views, and that the reprimand of her aide was in keeping with the legislator's human resource policy for e-mail guideline violations.

U.S. House of Representatives
Black was one of two female U.S. Representatives who prefer the title "congressman"; the other was Republican Marsha Blackburn, also of Tennessee. Both departed the House at the end of the 115th Congress.

2010 election

In December, 2009, she became a candidate for Tennessee's 6th congressional district to succeed Bart Gordon, who did not run for re-election. Her biggest competition in the Republican primary came from former Rutherford County GOP chairwoman Lou Ann Zelenik and State Senator Jim Tracy. On August 5, 2010, Black won the Republican primary with 31% of the vote, over Zelenik and Tracy, who earned 30% each. Brett Carter won the Democratic nomination after most well-known Democratic elected officials in the district declined to run. With most Democratic observers writing off the seat as a Republican pick-up, CQ Politics rated this race as "Safe Republican".  In the November election, Black won with 67 percent of the vote.

2012 to 2019

In the 2012 general election, Black was a surrogate for Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney. Black made appearances for Romney in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and in various cable news interviews.  Black has been a member of the following committees: Committee on the Budget, Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Human Resources, Tea Party Caucus, Republican Study Committee, and the United States Congressional International Conservation Caucus.

In October 2013, Black introduced the Student and Family Tax Simplification Act (H.R. 3393; 113th Congress), a bill that would amend the Internal Revenue Code to consolidate several different education tax incentives into an expanded American Opportunity Tax Credit. The American Opportunity Tax Credit, under this legislation, would provide a maximum credit of $2,500.

Black has received endorsements from Governor Sarah Palin, The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), Governor Mitt Romney, Congresswoman Michele Bachmann, former Congressman Allen West, Susan B. Anthony List, and The U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

In October 2015, Black was named to serve on the Select Investigative Panel on Planned Parenthood.

Black was a member of the U.S.-Japan Caucus.

2018 gubernatorial campaign