[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Charles Betts Galloway

uture wife, Harriet E. Willis when they were thirteen and fourteen. However, they did not marry until September 1, 1869, on his 20th birthday. They had a son, E. S. Galloway, who attended Millsaps Collage and became a doctor in Jackson; he was also Secretary of the Mississippi State Board of Health.

When he became bishop, Galloway had offers from communities across the South, but he established Jackson as his home base in 1889. On his second trip to Asia, eight years after his first trip in 1894, Galloway took his wife with him. He wrote, "To be separated by eight thousand miles from a treasure so sacred has already caused many an aching heartthrob."

Galloway gave the commencement speech at the University of Mississippi on June 3, 1911—it was also the 100th anniversary of Jefferson Davis' birth. He closed his speech with, "Soldier, hero, statesman, gentleman, American, prince of Christian chivalry, the uncrowned Chief of an invisible republic of loving and loyal hearts, when another hundred years have passed, no intelligent voice will fail to praise him and no patriotic hand will refuse to place a laurel wreath on his radiant brow."

In 1909, Galloway died of pneumonia and a heart condition at his home in Jackson, Mississippi. He had also been ill with Bright's disease. He was buried in Greenwood Cemetery following a service at First Methodist Church in Jackson. Bishop Warren A. Candler of Georgia conducted the service.

Galloway's younger brother, James, also became a Methodist Episcopal pastor.

References

Additional resources
Leete, Frederick DeLand (1948) Methodist Bishops.  Nashville, The Parthenon Press.

1849 births
1909 deaths
People from Kosciusko, Mississippi
People from Canton, Mississippi
University of Mississippi alumni
St. Anthony Hall
Bishops of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South
American Methodist bishops
19th-century American clergy
People from Jackson, Mississippi
Millsaps College
Vanderbilt University people
19th-century American non-fiction writers
American Methodists