[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mass media in Bhutan

support the government had for the media. This symbolized the role that the government played in the development of Bhutan. The Bhutan Broadcasting Service has also been said to be the cheapest and easiest way to educate people. Privately owned FM radio stations include Kuzoo FM and Radio Valley FM.

 Electronic media 
The government issued an order to DoT MoC in April 1999 to make internet working until June 2, 1999, giving them three months to get done. Bhutan has about 295,000 Internet users, 25,200 landline subscribers, and 676,000 mobile phone subscribers. Bhutan's only Internet service provider is Druknet which is owned by Bhutan Telecom. The mobile subscriber in 2014 was at 14%. As the market began to mature in 2015 it was 5% and 2% in 2015 and 2016, as market penetration reached 88% in 2016. It has been predicted in the next five years or so there will be a moderate growth. Over this time the mobile subscriber has reached an excessive of 100% at times. Internet access in the country has had a major boost by mobile networks, largely by EDGE/GPRS and the new 3G technology platforms. Even though this is the case now because they have been isolated from the rest of the world for a long time until the 1990s. The fixed telephone lines are declining in Bhutan from a small base as the mobile segment keeps expanding. Penetrations have dropped over the years as in 2014 dropped to 3.1%, 2015 dropped to 2.9%, and 2016 dropped to 2.7%. Internet in Bhutan developed down a slow path during the beginning of the internet because the country embraced the internet cautiously which is still continuing to be low because the country is struggling economically. Fixed broadband penetration is increasing from a small base as it has continued over the past few years. Penetration has increased by 2.3% in 2012, 3.1% in 2014, 4% in 2016, and is predicted to grow in the next five years until 2021.

By January 2021 there were 373.2 thousand internet users in Bhutan.

 Social Media 
On any given day a Bhutanese spends an average of 163 minutes on social media. The most popular social media amongst the Bhutanese are Facebook, WeChat and YouTube. However the use of TikTok is on the rise 

Bhutanese have and are resorted to social media to bring about change. In 2011, a concerned citizen of Bhutan started a digital campaign on Facebook with the objective of convincing the government to amend an Act which was recently passed and was being strictly implemented. The campaign started in the form of a page on Facebook. It was called, “Amend the Tobacco Control Act.” It was the first of its kind in Bhutan since the arrival of internet in the country in 1999. The campaign was not only successful but also garnered a lot of media attention both local and international. It also influenced a lot of political discourse in the country, and it was the most discusses legislation. 

 Film 
"Gasa Lamai Singye" was the first film movie made by Ugyen Wangdi the founder of the Country's fledgling cinema in 1989. The Bhutanese lama Dzongsar Jamyang Khyentse Rinpoche is a well-known filmmaker, who produced and directed The Cup and Travellers and Magicians. While The Cup was shot in a Tibetan monastery in northern India, Travellers and Magicians'' was the first feature film to be filmed entirely in Bhutan, with a cast consisting entirely of Bhutanese people. No professional actors were used in either film. Historically, films in Bhutan were often adaptations of Bollywood films however in recent years film makers are aiming at defining Bhutanese cinema, nevertheless influence from Bollywood is still a major inspiration. More recently the popularity of Korean dramas have also had some effect on Bhutanese cinema. In 2022 the country's first nomination Lunana: A Yak in the Classroom, for best international feature for the Oscars was a debut from director Pawo Choyning Dorji.

Over The Top Platforms 
In 2021 Bhutan saw the start of two OTT platforms Songyala and Samuh The platforms, which stream live video content to any internet-enabled device, can be accessed from 60 countries across the world. The content on the platform includes entertainment and infotainment spanning across different sectors such as original films, original web series, documentaries, music videos, shows, and animation programs for children, among others  These platforms can be downloaded as apps or viewed on a browser.

References

External links
 Newspapers List of Bhutan
 https://kuenselonline.com
 https://businessbhutan.bt
 http://thejournalist.bt
 http://www.bbs.bt/news/
 http://songyala.com
 https://www.samuhbhutan.com

 
Bhutan
Bhutan