[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fox Conner

Fox Conner (November 2, 1874 – October 13, 1951) was a major general of the United States Army. He served as operations officer for the American Expeditionary Forces (AEF) during World War I, and is best remembered as a mentor to the generation of officers who led the army in World War II, particularly as "the man who made Eisenhower".

Early life
Conner was born on November 12, 1874, at Slate Springs, in Calhoun County, Mississippi. His father, Robert Herbert Conner, was a soldier in the Confederate States Army who was wounded several times during the American Civil War. In his final engagement, the Battle of Atlanta, Robert Conner was shot in the head and lost his sight. After the war he was nicknamed "Blind Bob". He learned to gauge the grades of cotton by touch, and became a successful cotton trader. In addition, he began teaching at the Slate Springs Academy. The school had been founded by Conner's uncle Fuller Fox in 1872, and several members of the Fox family were on the faculty. Robert Conner met Nancy (Nannie) Hughes Fox when both were teaching at the academy, and they married on 30 December 1873.

Conner was educated in Slate Springs, and was an avid reader of The Youth's Companion magazine. After turning eighteen, and "captivated by military history at a young age", he wanted to embark on a career in the armed forces, so his uncle recommended him to Representative Hernando Money for appointment to the United States Military Academy (USMA) at West Point, New York. Money nominated Conner on 31 May 1893. He entered the following year.

Early career

"During his final year at West Point, Conner's company tactical officer was First Lieutenant Pershing", a man who would play a significant part in Conner's future military career. Despite possessing a "towering intellect", his "overall academic record at West Point was only slightly better than average", 
 which resulted in him graduating as a second lieutenant in the USMA Class of 1898, in which he ranked 17th in a class of fifty-nine students. He was assigned to the 1st Artillery Regiment. The army, placing its own needs first, denied his several requests for transfer to the Cavalry.

Conner's first posting was to Fort Adams in Newport, Rhode Island. After brief assignments in Huntsville, Alabama, and Savannah, Georgia, he was sent to Cuba in January 1899 to serve with the United States occupation force following the Spanish–American War.

In August 1900, Conner was reassigned to Washington Barracks (today named Fort McNair) in Washington, D.C. He was promoted to captain in 1901 and was transferred to Fort Hamilton, New York in November 1901 as commander of the 123rd Coast Artillery Company. He held this assignment until August 1905 when he began attendance at the Army Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. He then served as adjutant of the Artillery sub-post at Fort Riley, Kansas from July 1906 to May 1907. Here, "he was assigned the task of revising the curriculum for the artillery officer course to incorporate the lessons of the Spanish–American and Russo–Japanese wars".

In September 1907, Conner was assigned to the Army's General Staff and also as a student at the Army War College from which he graduated in July 1911. He was then attached to the French 22nd Field Artillery Regiment in Versailles, France from October 1911 to October 1912.

Following his return to the United States, Conner commanded Artillery batteries in the Western states and on the Mexican border. In July 1916, Conner was promoted to major and assigned to the Inspector General's office in Washington. He was in this position when the United States declared war on Germany in April 1917.

World War I

In June, Conner was selected by Major General John J. Pershing to be a member of the operations section (G3) for the American Expeditionary Forces (AEF) staff in France. He was promoted to lieutenant colonel on May 15, 1917, and to temporary colonel on August 5. In November Conner was selected as Pershing's Assistant Chief of Staff for Operations (G3); his subordinates included John McAuley Palmer and George C. Marshall. Conner developed an immense respect for both men, and later referred to Marshall as the ideal soldier and a military genius.

Conner was promoted to temporary brigadier general on August 8, 1918. After the Armistice was signed in November, Conner was assigned to the Army General Staff in Washington and was promoted to permanent colonel on August 22, 1919.

Conner gained Pershing's respect and admiration during the war, causing Pershing to write to Conner that: