[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Civil resistance

Sharp, Gene, Sharp's Dictionary of Power and Struggle: Language of Civil Resistance in Conflicts , Oxford University Press, New York, 2011.  (hardback);  (paperback).
Zunes, Stephen, Civil Resistance Against Coups: A Comparative and Historical Perspective, ICNC Monograph Series, Washington DC, 2017.

Other works related to the topic
Ackerman, Peter and Jack DuVall, A Force More Powerful: A Century of Nonviolent Conflict, Palgrave, New York, 2000.  (paperback).
Ackerman, Peter and Christopher Kruegler, Strategic Nonviolent Conflict: The Dynamics of People Power in the Twentieth Century, Praeger, Westport, Connecticut, 1994.  (paperback).
 Michael Beer, "Civil Resistance Tactics in the 21st Century". ICNC Press. 
Carter, April, People Power and Political Change: Key Issues and Concepts, Routledge, London, 2012. .
Chakrabarty, Bidyut, ed., Nonviolence: Challenges and Prospects, Oxford University Press India, New Delhi, 2014. .
Davies, Thomas Richard, "The failure of strategic nonviolent action in Bahrain, Egypt, Libya and Syria: ‘political ju-jitsu’ in reverse", Global Change, Peace and Security, vol. 26, no. 3 (2014), pp. 299–313. .
Gee, Tim, Counterpower: Making Change Happen, New Internationalist, Oxford, 2011. . 
Howes, Dustin Ells, Freedom Without Violence: Resisting the Western Political Tradition, Oxford University Press, New York, 2016. .
King, Mary E., A Quiet Revolution: The First Palestinian Intifada and Nonviolent Resistance, Nation Books, New York, 2007. .
Nepstad, Sharon, Nonviolent Struggle: Theories, Strategies, and Dynamics, Oxford University Press, New York, 2015. .
Pearlman, Wendy, Violence, Nonviolence and the Palestinian National Movement, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2011. .
Roberts, Adam, ed., The Strategy of Civilian Defence: Non-violent Resistance to Aggression, Faber, London, 1967. (Also published as Civilian Resistance as a National Defense, Stackpole Books, Harrisburg, USA, 1968; and, with a new Introduction on "Czechoslovakia and Civilian Defence", as Civilian Resistance as a National Defence, Penguin Books, Harmondsworth, UK, and Baltimore, US, 1969. .)
Schock, Kurt, Unarmed Insurrections: People Power Movements in Nondemocracies, University of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis, 2005.  .
Semelin, Jacques, Unarmed Against Hitler: Civilian Resistance in Europe, 1939–1943, Praeger, Westport, Connecticut, 1993. .
Semelin, Jacques, La Liberté au Bout des Ondes: Du Coup de Prague à la Chute du Mur de Berlin, Nouveau Monde, Paris, 2009. .
Semelin, Jacques, Face au Totalitarisme: La Résistance Civile, André Versaille, Brussels, 2011. .
Sharp, Gene, The Politics of Nonviolent Action, Porter Sargent, Boston, 1973. . Also in a 3-volume edition. .
Sharp, Gene and others, Waging Nonviolent Struggle: 20th Century Practice and 21st Century Potential, Porter Sargent, Boston, 2005. .
Stephan, Maria J. (ed.), Civilian Jihad: Nonviolent Struggle, Democratization, and Governance in the Middle East, Palgrave Macmillan, New York, 2009.  (paperback).
Vinthagen, Stellan, A Theory of Nonviolent Action: How Civil Resistance Works , Zed Books, London, 2015.  (paperback).

External links
Albert Einstein Institution, East Boston, Massachusetts
 How to Start a Revolution, documentary directed by Ruaridh Arrow
CivilResistance.info, founded by the late Howard Clark, and run by a team of volunteers
International Center for Nonviolent Conflict (ICNC), Washington DC
Jack DuVall, "Civil resistance and the language of power", 19 November 2010 at openDemocracy.net
Hardy Merriman, The trifecta of civil resistance: unity, planning, discipline, 19 November 2010 at openDemocracy.net
Oxford University Research Project on Civil Resistance and Power Politics 
Stellan Vinthagen, People power and the new global ferment, 15 November 2010 at openDemocracy.net
Waging Nonviolence, an independent non-profit media platform.

Civil disobedience
Nonviolence
Nonviolent resistance movements
Political science terminology