[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Speech codes theory

of personalities and social positions or relationships)
 Ends (goals and outcomes)
 Acts (message form, content, etc.)
 Key (tone or mode)
 Instrumentalities (channels or modalities used)
 Norms (framework for producing and processing messages)
 Genre (interaction type)

Teamsterville and Nacirema 

An often cited study, the "Teamsterville" study, was conducted by Philipsen in Chicago. The study took place in the late 1960s and early 1970s. According to Miller, the "Teamsterville" nickname was given to the area of Chicago studied because the primary job of the area's men was truck driving. For three years, Philipsen spoke with everyone he could; from a kid on the corner to the women on their front porches, and men in bars.  Although the people all spoke English, Philipsen could recognize the differences between their speech codes and his. As a follow-up, another study, the "Nacirema" (American spelled backwards) study was conducted that contrasted the speech of Teamsterville with that of the average American.
The typical Nacirema speech is a "generalized U.S. conversation that is carried at the public level and at the interpersonal level in face-to-face interaction."

Six general propositions 
Using these two studies above, Philipsen outlined statements that summarize the work within speech code theory. The statements are reported by Em Griffin as follows:

1. The distinctiveness of speech codes (In any given culture, there is a speech code.)
 Each distinctive culture (community) has its own speech codes that are foreign to outsiders.
 Two distinctive questions can be asked through Proposition 1.  The first being:  Does every culture include symbols, meanings, premises, and rules about communicative conduct?  The second is:  Do such codes differ in terms of the particular words, meanings, premises, and rules about communicative conduct that they include? 

2. The multiplicity of speech codes (Multiple speech codes exist in any given speech community.)
 People are affected all the time by other speech codes and may even be involved with multiple codes at the same time.

3. The substance of speech codes (A speech code has a distinctive psychology, sociology and rhetoric.)
 Psychology. According to Philipsen, "every speech code "thematizes" the nature of individuals in a particular way."
 Sociology. Philipsen states that, "a speech code provides a system of answers about what linkages between self and others can properly be sought, and what symbolic resources can properly and efficaciously be employed in seeking those linkages."
 Rhetoric. The discovery of truth and persuasive appeal. Speech codes reveal structures of self, society, and strategic action, no matter the culture.

4. The meaning of speech codes (The speech community assesses the meanings of speech.)
 We must listen to the way people talk within a culture and also how they respond. People within that culture decide what they feel is mere communication, small talk or normal chitchat.

5. The site of speech codes (The terms, premises, and rules of a speech code are inextricably woven into the speech itself).
 In order to understand our own speech codes and even another's we must first analyze the speech of native speakers.

6. The discursive force of speech codes (Speech Codes impact life.)
 Obtaining shared speech codes, participants can guide metacommunication (the talk about talk).

Characteristics 

According to Philipsen there are three defining characteristics of the speech codes theory and he illustrated these by referencing Carbaugh's previous study. The first characteristic being that speech codes are, "grounded in the observation of communication conduct in particular times and places" (Gudykunst, 2005). Speech codes theory is concerned about observing communication conduct through noticing, describing, interpreting and explaining the findings. The second is that speech codes present, "a way to interpret or explain observed communicative conduct by reference to situated codes of meaning and value." Different meanings are interpreted in multiple ways depending on that community's discursive life. The last characteristic is that this theory, "provides a general understanding of communicative conduct."

Philipsen characterizes the Speech Code Theory by stating that, "It is general in 3 ways.  It presents a characterization of the nature of all speech codes.  It contains a general answer to the question of how an observer might systematically try to learn about the particularities of particulars, local ways of speaking.  It presents a general answer to the question of how speech codes relate to communicative conduct."