[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Friction of distance

and vary over space. The cost field (often called a cost surface) may be a continuous, smooth function or may have abrupt changes. This variability of cost occurs both in unconstrained (two- or three-dimensional) space, as well as in constrained networks, such as roads and cable telecommunications.

Applications
A large number of geographic theories, spatial analysis techniques, and GIS applications are directly based on the practical effects of friction of distance:
 Tobler's first law of geography, formalized as spatial autocorrelation, states that nearby locations are more likely to similar in many aspects than distant locations, typically being the result of a history of greater interactions between them.
 gravity models, distance decay and other models of spatial interaction are based on the tendency of the volume of interaction between two locations to decrease as the distance between them increases due to the friction of distance, often in a pattern that is analogous (mathematically, not physically) to the Inverse-square law of many of the properties in Physics, such as illuminance and gravity. 
 Economic agglomeration is the tendency of institutions that frequently interact with each other to move close together in physical space, such as the concentration of business services (advertising, finance, etc.) in large cities to be near corporate headquarters.
 Location theory includes a number of theories and techniques for determining the optimal location to site a particular activity, based on minimizing travel costs. Notable examples include the classical early 20th Century theories of Johann Heinrich von Thünen, Walter Christaller, and Alfred Weber, and GIS-era algorithms for Location-allocation.
 Network analysis includes a number of problems and techniques for modeling travel constrained to a linear network or graph, such as roads, public utilities, or streams. Many of these are optimization problems to minimize travel cost, such as the ubiquitous Dijkstra's algorithm to find the minimal cost path between two locations.
 Cost distance analysis, a series of algorithms for finding minimal-cost paths through an unconstrained space in which cost varies as a field.
 Migration of humans and animals is often seen as the result of balancing the advantages of remaining stationary (due to the friction of distance) with "push/pull" factors that encourage one to leave one location or to move to another location. 
 Spatial diffusion is the gradual spread of culture, ideas, and institutions across space over time, in which the desirability of one place adopting the traits of a separate place overcome the friction of distance.
 Time geography explores how human activity is affected by the constraints of movement, especially temporal costs.

Time-space Convergence
Historically, the friction of distance was very high for most types of movement, making long-distance movement and interaction relatively slow and rare (but not non-existent). The result was a strongly localized human geography, manifested in aspects as varied as language and economy. One of the most profound effects of the technological advances since 1800, including the railroad, the automobile, and the telephone, has been to drastically reduce the costs of moving people, goods, and information over long distances. This led to widespread diffusion and integration, ultimately resulting in many of the aspects of globalization. The geographic effect of this diminishing friction of distance is called time-space convergence or cost-space convergence.

Of these technologies, telecommunications, especially the Internet, has perhaps had the most profound effect. Although there are still distance-based costs of transmitting information, such as the laying of cable and the generation of electromagnetic signal energy (traditionally manifesting in ways such as long-distance telephone charges), these are now so small for any meaningful unit of information that they are no longer managed in a distance-based form, but are bundled into fixed (not based on distance) service costs. For example, some portion of the fee for mobile telephone service covers the higher costs of long-distance service, but the customer does not see it, and thus does not make communication decisions based on distance. The rise of free shipping has similar causes and effects on retail trade.

It has been argued that the virtual elimination of the friction of distance in many aspects of society has resulted in the "death of Geography," in which relative location is no longer relevant to many tasks in which it formerly played a crucial role. It is now possible to conduct many interactions over global distances almost as easily as over local distances, including retail trade, business-to-business services, and some types of remote work. Thus, these services could be theoretically provided from anywhere with equal cost. The COVID-19 pandemic has tested and accelerated many of these trends.