[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 30th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

fferent points on the river, from Sioux City, Iowa, to Fort Pierre, Dakota Territory, until the August 10, 1863, when companies I and К were ordered to report at Camp Washburn, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, leaving companies D and F at Fort Pierre; these companies arrived at Milwaukee on September 12, 1863.

On the May 26, companies G and E left Camp Randall, the former for Superior, Wis., and the latter for Bayfield, Wisconsin, in anticipation of trouble with the Indians at these points. They remained at these stations, respectively, until the middle of August, when they were recalled; arrived on August 31 at Camp Washburn, which was placed under command of Major John Clowney, of this regiment. The remaining companies, at various times, were sent to various parts of the state to maintain order during the enrollment and draft, under the Conscription Act. Colonel Daniel J. Dill was Post Commandant at Camp Randall during this time.

In the December, 1863, the regiment was transferred to Camp Washburn, and subsequently to Camp Reno, at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where the headquarters of the regiment were established. In March, 1864, detachments of the regiment were ordered to various points in Dakota Territory and Northwestern Minnesota, and in General Sully's campaign against the Sioux Indians, moving from point to point during the summer, performing many marches and participating in several engagements with Indians.

On October 1, 1864, detachments of the 30th Wisconsin were stationed at various places in Dakota Territory as follows: Companies A, C, F, and H, under the immediate command of Colonel Dill, at Fort Rice, of which post Lieutenant Colonel Bartlett was placed in command; Companies B, E, G and К under command of Major Clowney, at Fort Wadsworth (later renamed to Fort Sisseton) near Coteau des Prairies; Company D, under command of Captain Fulton, at Fort Sully, and Company I, under command of Captain Greer, at Fort Union. Orrin C. Hall, the First Sergeant of Company I, was killed in action during a skirmish with Sioux warriors near Fort Union on April 27, 1865.

Companies A, C, F and H, commanded by Colonel Dill, left Fort Rice, Dakota, Friday, October 12, 1864, and descending the Missouri river in flat boats built by themselves, arrived November 2, 1864, at Sioux City, Iowa, where they were joined by Company D, under command of Lieutenant Lewis O. Marshall, Captain David С. Fulton having been promoted Major of the 1st Wisconsin Heavy Artillery Battalion on October 14. Continuing their journey down the river they arrived at St. Joseph, Missouri, November 17, 1864. Company H having been detained by floating ice, Captain Bedal abandoned his boat a few miles above St. Joseph, and marched his command to the city, rejoining the other companies November 23. Leaving St. Joseph on November 24, and proceeding by rail, they arrived on the following day at Quincy, Illinois, and thence proceeded by way of Springfield, Illinois, and Indianapolis, Indiana, arriving on November 29, 1864, at Louisville, Kentucky, where they went into camp.

Companies B, E, G and K, under command of Major Clowney, left Fort Wadsworth, Dakota Territory, on the September 29, 1864, en route for Fort Snelling, Minn., where they arrived on the October 20, having marched upwards of four hundred miles in twenty days, making an average of 20½ miles per day. Embarking on steamboats at Fort Snelling, Minnesota, on October 20, they descended the Mississippi to St. Louis, Missouri, where they arrived on October 26, and were quartered in Benton Barracks. They left St. Louis on the October 29, and arrived the next day at Paducah, Kentucky, at the mouth of the Tennessee River. Here they were employed in guard duty until December 6, 1864, when they again embarked and proceeding up the Ohio River, landed at Louisville December 10, where they rejoined the balance of the regiment, with the exception of Co. I, which still remained at Fort Union, Dakota Territory.