[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mohammed el Gharani

Mohammed el Gharani is a citizen of Chad and native of Saudi Arabia born in 1986, in Medina. He was one of the juveniles held for seven years at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp where they estimated his age to be 15–16, though Al Jazeera reports his age to have been 14 at the time of his arrest. Human Rights lawyer Clive Stafford Smith identified Al Qarani as one of a dozen teenage boys held in the adult portion of the prison.

The Independent said Gharani was accused of plotting with Abu Qatada, in London, in 1999 – when he was a 12-year-old, living with his parents, in Saudi Arabia. He was detained for seven years in the United States Guantanamo Bay detention camps.

On January 14, 2009, U.S. District Judge Richard J. Leon ordered the release of Gharani because the evidence that he was an enemy combatant was mostly limited to statements from two other detainees whose credibility had been called into question by US government staff. Gharani's attorney Zachary Katznelson said after the ruling "Judge Leon did justice today. This is an innocent kid when he was seized illegally in Pakistan and should never have been in prison in the first place."

History
After his parents immigrated from Chad, Mohammed was born and grew up in Saudi Arabia. Here he was subjected to discrimination as a Chadian, and was denied schooling. Consequently, he went to Pakistan in order to study English and computer studies. It was in Pakistan that he was arrested by Pakistani police, and given over to US forces.

Following this, Mohammed was taken to the US run Bagram Air Force Base in Afghanistan. Here it is claimed that he was kept naked for days, and subjected to racial abuse. After being held in Bagram for two months, Mohammed was transferred to Guantanamo Bay where he remained for seven and a half years. Eventually, in 2009 with the help of Reprieve lawyers, Mohammed won a court order for his release. He was subsequently released and sent to Chad.

Boston Globe investigations

On July 14, 2006, the Boston Globe reported on investigations they made to test the credibility of the allegations against Guantanamo detainees. Al Gharani was one of the detainees whom they profiled.

The Globe reported that Al Gharani was alleged to have been part of a cell, in London, led by Abu Qatada, c. 1998 – when Al Gharani was 11 or 12 years old. According to the Globe:

Chito Peppler, a Pentagon spokesman, said the date referred to when 'Abu Qatada became active.' He maintained that it was possible that Gharani had been a part of the cell before his arrest at 14.

Al Gharani's lawyer, Clive Stafford Smith pointed out that Al Gharani had never traveled to England.

Smith also offered an example of how allegations arose against Al Gharani due to the DoD's lack of qualified translators. In Al Gharani's dialect of Arabic 'zalati' is a tomato. In his translator's dialect of Arabic 'zalati' meant money. His translator asked Al Gharani where he would go to get money, back home, and Al Gharani dutifully listed all the grocery stalls where he could buy tomatoes.

Questioning over the June 10th 2006 suicides

The Department of Defense reported, on June 10, 2006, that three detainees committed suicide.

The camp commander, Admiral Harry Harris, called the suicides, "an act of asymmetrical warfare". One reaction of the camp authorities to the suicide was to seize all their papers, even their confidential communication with their lawyers. Leaks from the camp authorities fuelled rumors that the camp authorities had reason to believe that detainee's lawyers had actively conspired with the detainees in arranging the suicides. The camp authorities claimed that one of the suicide notes was written on stationery that the camp authorities made available to detainee's lawyers.

The Washington Post reports that the lawyer camp authorities have focused their suspicion on was Clive Stafford Smith. Stafford Smith reports that his client Mohammed el-Gharani, one of the youngest of the Guantanamo detainees, has been interrogated, at length, trying to establish a tie between him and the suicides. In a letter to the Associated Press Stafford Smith wrote:

The interrogator said I told my clients to kill themselves, and word was passed to the three men who did commit suicide.

According to the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, Stafford Smith claims: "...soldiers have threatened to move el-Gharani to Camp 5, a maximum-security facility, if he does not implicate Stafford Smith in the suicides.".

Historian Andy Worthington, reporting on April 25, 2008, in the Lebanon Daily Star, described abuse Al Qaranhi reports experiencing.
The abuse Al Qaranhi reports include:
sleep deprivation;
having a cigarette extinguished on his body;
having freezing cold water thrown on him;
being suspended by his arms, with his feet hanging free from the floor, for extended periods of time;
having a soldier hold his penis in his hand, hold a pair of scissors, and threaten to cut it off.