[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Joan Roughgarden

ature “red in tooth and claw” in which competition and conflict dominate. In The Genial Gene, after an initial section defining and attacking sexual selection, followed by a definition of social selection as one based on differences in offspring-production, rather than differences in mating success.

A second section is focused on the genetic basis of social selection. The first chapter addresses how sexual reproduction evolved in the first place, and makes the case for Roughgarden’s Portfolio hypothesis, which emphasizes that sexual reproduction creates genetic diversity through recombination, as opposed to the more commonly favored Muller’s Ratchet, which emphasizes that sex removes deleterious mutations through recombination. The second chapter explains the binary distribution of gamete types (sperm vs. egg) as a strategy to maximize gametic contact, rather than as a result of conflicting gametic strategies. A final chapter argues that hermaphroditism, rather than gonochorism, is the primitive state of sexuality.

The third section takes a two-tier approach to developing social selection theory. A behavioral tier focuses on game theory and Nash Bargaining Solutions as outlined in her 2006 paper. A second population genetic tier is then described that operates as a result of many replays of the behavioral tier.  The book concludes by listing 26 phenomena that, according to Roughgarden, are explained differently by sexual selection theory and are better explained by social selection theory. She says that sexual selection theory derives from a view of natural behavior predicated on the selfish-gene concept, competition and deception, whereas the social-selection theory derives from teamwork, honesty, and genetic equality. As of 2012 she has continued to study if social selection as opposed to sexual selection is a more important driver of evolution for colonial species such as corals or perhaps humans.

Roughgarden's criticism of sexual selection has been rejected by the scientific community, and her papers on it have received few citations in scientific literature. In a 2019 interview, she stated that "Most biologists remain defensive of sexual selection theory”.

In 2013, Roughgarden funded a Catalysis meeting at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center with the goal of debating and reviewing "the status of sexual selection studies and to indicate challenges and future directions". The group struggled to come to a consensus definition of sexual selection, but a subgroup offered a definition that for the first time explicitly differentiated fecundity selection for sexual selection sensu strictu.

Theistic evolution 
Roughgarden has written on the relationship between Christianity and science. Her book Evolution and Christian Faith: Reflections of an Evolutionary Biologist presents scripture passages that emphasize her belief that the Bible does not conflict with evolutionary biology and relates Christianity and evolution by asserting that all life is interconnected, as members of a faith community are connected. Roughgarden opposes creationism and intelligent design, but asserts her belief in God's involvement in evolution. She was a speaker at the Beyond Belief symposium in 2006.

Holobiont Evolution 
As professor emerita, Dr. Roughgarden turned her attention to the emerging concept of the holobiont, which she defined as “an animal or plant host together with all the microbes living on or in it, exosymbionts and endosymbionts, respectively.” The concept, which originated in 1943, has had increasing recognition with the rise of second and third-generation DNA sequencing methods that allow the microbial communities (i.e. the microbiome) of a host to be examined. The close association between the microbiome and its host has led many  to suggest that the holobiont may be an evolutionary unit of selection, in which the combination of the host’s genes with those of its microbiome produce an extended genome, or hologenome. However, the hologenome concept has been criticized on the grounds that microbiomes are usually not vertically transmitted from parent to child, thereby violating what is commonly thought to be one of the key principles of natural selection: variation inherited in a Mendelian fashion.