[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Angus McBean

xperimented successfully with surrealism, indeed his work with the likes of Vivien Leigh are some of the most accessible surrealist photographic images known. Post war he reverted to a more regular style of portraiture photography, nearly always working with the entertainment and theatre profession.

In 1945, not sure whether he would find work again, McBean set up a new studio in a bomb-damaged building in Endell Street, Covent Garden. He sold his Soho camera for £35, and bought a new half-plate Kodak View monorail camera to which he attached his trusted Zeiss lenses. McBean was commissioned first by the Stratford Memorial Theatre to photograph a production of Anthony and Cleopatra, and all his former clients quickly returned. Through the late 1940s and 50s he was the official photographer at Stratford, the Royal Opera House, Sadler's Wells, Glyndebourne, the Old Vic and at all the productions of H. M. Tennent, servicing the theatrical, musical and ballet star system. (An example of his work in this genre from 1951 can be seen on the page about Anne Sharp, whom he photographed in a role in one of Benjamin Britten's operas.) Magazines such as The Sketch and Tatler and Bystander vied to commission McBean's new series of surreal portraits. In 1952 he photographed Pamela Green as Botticelli's Venus, with David Ball his boyfriend as Zephyrus.

Despite the decline in demand for theatre and production art during the 1950s, McBean's creative and striking ideas provided him with work in the emergent record cover business with companies such as EMI, when he was commissioned to create Cliff Richard's first four album sleeves. McBean's later works included being the photographer for the cover of The Beatles' first album Please Please Me, as well as commissions by a number of other performers. In 1969 he returned with the Beatles to the same location to shoot the cover for their album Get Back. This later came out as Let It Be with a different cover, but McBean's photo was used (together with an outtake from the Please Please Me cover shoot) for the cover of the Beatles' 1962–1966 and 1967–1970 compilations in 1973. In his later years he became more selective of the work he undertook, and continued to explore surrealism whilst taking portrait photographs of individuals such as Agatha Christie, Audrey Hepburn, Laurence Olivier and Noël Coward. Both periods of his work (pre and post war) are now eagerly sought by collectors and his work sits in many major collections around the world.

Christmas cards
Evidence of his innovative photographic techniques and surrealist themes can be found in the many Christmas cards he created. For these images he constructed elaborate sets along with detailed props and miniatures, often taking weeks to produce the desired effect.

End of career and death
He was an influence on the young John Shand Kydd.
In the 1960s, he bought Flemings Hall in Bedingfield, Suffolk and undertook a major restoration. He lived there until his death.

Despite reducing the number of commissions he undertook in his later years, McBean continued to work selectively on projects such as French magazine L'Officiel and French Vogue (1983). In 1984 McBean appeared, credited as "special guest", in the music video for "Red Guitar", the debut solo single by British musician-composer David Sylvian. According to his website, Sylvian had developed a strong interest in McBean's work and he and director Anton Corbijn invited McBean to appear in the video, which was an homage to McBean, and was directly inspired by his famous 1938 photographic work "Flora Robson Surrealised".

In 1990, McBean fell ill whilst on holiday in Morocco, and after returning to England, he died at Ipswich Heath Road Hospital on his eighty-sixth birthday.

Conclusion
Two figures have overshadowed McBean’s reputation: Cecil Beaton (thanks to his lavish lifestyle and work for Vogue and the British Royal Family); and David Bailey, who much later (1960s) was close to Cecil Beaton both personally and in terms of style. McBean did not enjoy this level of fame either in his life or after death, even though he was arguably the better technically and artistically. Additionally McBean's focus on the world of theatre (particularly London's West End) did not give him international recognition. In 2007, seven original colour transparencies (slides) of his photographs for the Beatles album cover Please Please Me were accidentally thrown in the bin at the headquarters of EMI.

Gallery

Exhibitions
Angus McBean Portraits, National Portrait Gallery, London, July to October 2006.
Graves Art Gallery, Sheffield, December 2006 – March 2007.
National Museum Wales Cardiff, March – June 2007. Catalogue selected and edited by Terence Pepper, including interview with Sir Paul McCartney.

References