[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Cinema of Lebanon

en Saint Joseph University students from Beirut's Rue Huvelin during the Syrian occupation of Lebanon. Né à Beyrouth produced the film.

Jean-Claude Codsi filmed his second feature, A Man of Honor, which was produced by Michel Ghosn and premiered at the Doha Tribeca Film Festival on 28 October 2011.

Beirut Kamikaze, an Experimental/Documentary by Christophe Karabache was released in cinema (Paris) on 16 November 2011.

Also in 2011, Celine Abiad's Beiroots Productions presented a different perspective of Mediterranean filmmaking by producing and experimental surrealist film (5.1 Dolby surround), shot in 35mm and fully produced in Lebanon: A Play Entitled Sehnsucht, written and directed by Badran Roy Badran. The film was picked up for international distribution at Cannes, by Albany Films International, a company dedicated to the promotion of art house and indie films from gifted and promising directors.

Documentary filmmaking was also present in 2011.  Rania Stephan won "Best Documentary Filmmaker" at the Doha Tribeca Film Festival for The Three Disappearances of Soad Hosny.   It's All in Lebanon, a documentary film directed by Wissam Charaf and produced by Né à Beyrouth Production, premiered at DIFF in 2011. Hady Zaccak's Marcedes screened at the Marché du Film. It received several awards, including Best Documentary at the International Federation of Film Critics at the Dubai International Film Festival and the Al-Jazeera Documentary Channel Award for Best Long Film at Al-Jazeera International Documentary Festival.

Thirteen feature and short films were premiered at DIFF in 2011, including Danielle Arbid's Beirut Hotel, Youcef Joe Bou Eid's Tannoura Maxi, Daniel Joseph's Taxi Ballad, Simon El Habre's Gate #5, Hady Zaccak's Marcedes, Rami Nihawi's Yamo, Christina Foerch Saab's Che Guevara Died in Lebanon, Tamara Stepanyan's 19 February,  Wajdi Elian's A Place to Go, Rodrigue Sleiman and Tarek El Bacha's Nice to Meet You, Aseel Mansour's Uncle Nashaat, and Nadim Mishlawi's Sector Zero.

2012
Steady increase in film production continued with 25 films produced in 2012. Lara Saba completed her second feature, Blind Intersections. Despite being critically acclaimed, Ziad Doueiry's film, The Attack was banned in Lebanon because it was filmed on location in Israel. 74, La reconstitution d'une lutte, a docu-fiction by Raed and Rania Rafei, recreates the student occupation of the American University in Beirut 1974.

2013
The number of films produced in 2013 were 24. Amin Dora's Ghadi, which was released in late 2013, became Lebanon's entry to the Oscars's Foreign Language category and later won the KNN Award (Audience Award) at the Busan International Film Festival. Philippe Aractingi completed and released his documentary feature film, Heritages.

2014
The number of films produced in Lebanon jumped to 31 films in 2014, and this also reflected an increase in the number of production companies, including 27 focusing only on films.  One of the most prominent films of the year was Void, written by George Khabbaz and directed by seven different directors, all of them graduates of Notre Dame University, and the film would be selected as Lebanon's entry to compete at the Oscars in 2015.  Ghassan Salhab reunited with actors Carlos Chahine and Carole Abboud in The Valley, which premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival. The Valley was shot on 35 mm.

2015
There were 31 produced films in 2015, growing 675% since 2004.

In 2015, Noura Kevorkian's drama-documentary hybrid feature film 23 Kilometres was selected for documentary competition at Karlovy Vary International Film Festival as well as Muhr Award for feature film at Dubai International Film Festival.

Amber Fares' 2015 documentary Speed Sisters won the Feature Documentary award at the Adelaide Film Festival in Adelaide, South Australia.

Ely Dagher's short film Waves '98 premiered in Official competition at the Cannes film festival and won the short film Palme d'or.

2016
Two government initiative were passed in 2016 that benefited the film industry.  The first was the memorandum of understanding (MOU) signed by the Fondation Liban Cinema and the Investment Development Authority of Lebanon (IDAL) which added the media industry, including film production, to IDAL's mandate of bringing investment to the country and offering incentives such as 100 percent tax exemption on corporate profits for up to 10 years.  The other initiative was Banque du Liban's offering of $100 million in loan guarantees at the low interest rate of 1 percent. Banque du Liban also issued Intermediate Circular 416, which subsidizes loans of up to $3 million by banks and financial institutions to support film, television and theatrical productions

In 2016, Solitaire, Sophie Boutros's first feature film, premiered at the 13th Dubai International Film Festival and Philippe Aractingi's feature film, Listen was also screened at Dubai Film Festival's Arabian Nights.