[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Craig Fitzgibbon

aig Fitzgibbon is the highest point scoring forward (1560 points)
 Has played 239 first grade games (scored 39 tries & kicked 700 goals for 1560 Points)
 Has kicked over 600 goals for the Sydney Roosters
 One of the last remaining Illawarra Steelers players (Along with Trent Barrett and Luke Patten)

Coaching career
On 24 August 2015, Fitzgibbon was named as coach for the Country New South Wales rugby league team, replacing Trent Barrett for 2016.
Fitzgibbon announced in April 2021 that he had signed a three-year contract to coach the Cronulla-Sutherland Sharks from 2022 onwards. Fitzgibbon was forced to miss coaching the Sharks' first game of the 2022 NRL season as he was in isolation due to contracting COVID-19. Assistant coach Steve Price deputized for him, with Fitzgibbon working remotely.  In Fitzgibbon's first year as Cronulla head coach, he guided the club to a second place finish on the table which qualified the club for the finals.  However, Cronulla would exit the finals series in disappointing fashion, going out in straight sets after losing to North Queensland in extra-time and then to South Sydney the following week.

On 14 February 2023, Fitzgibbon signed a five-year contract extension to remain as Cronulla's head coach until the end of the 2027 season.
Fitzgibbon guided Cronulla to a sixth place finish in the 2023 NRL season.  Cronulla would go on to be eliminated in the first week of the finals being upset by the Sydney Roosters 13-12.

References

External links

Sydney Roosters profile
 National Rugby League Profile National Rugby League Home
 Craig Fitzgibbon Rugby League Tables & Statistics
 State of Origin / New South Wales Players Rugby League Tables & Statistics
Sydney Roosters profile
 Illawarra Steelers Profile
 Craig Fitzgibbon to Hull FC Hull FC website
History → Coaches & Captains at hullfc.com

1977 births
Living people
Australia national rugby league team players
Australian people of Irish descent
Australian rugby league coaches
Clive Churchill Medal winners
Country New South Wales Origin rugby league team players
Exiles rugby league team players
Hull F.C. players
Illawarra Steelers players
New South Wales Rugby League State of Origin players
Prime Minister's XIII players
Rugby league locks
Rugby league players from Wollongong
Rugby league second-rows
St. George Illawarra Dragons players
Sydney Roosters captains