[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Foix–Chavany–Marie syndrome

ting in the FCMS syndrome include the following; tumors, trauma, encephalitis, neurodegenerative diseases, and vasculitis. Viral infections, such as Herpes and HIV can also cause FCMS. Moreover, any lesion in the cortical or sub-cortical region affecting the corticobulbar pathways will produce FCMS.

Cerebrovascular disease 
Strokes are one of the most common causes of Foix–Chavany–Marie syndrome. The type of strokes associated with this syndrome include embolic and thrombotic strokes. Strokes affecting the middle cerebral artery and the branches that pass through or near the operculum are characteristic of FCMS.

Central nervous system infection 
Symptoms of infections specifically HIV and herpes simplex encephalitis can cause FCMS. Numerous lesions can develop with HIV infections, which likely result in the development of FCMS.

Epilepsy 
Epilepsy symptoms such as seizures can spread discharges that cause FCMS. This causation results in the only reversible development of FCMS as it is the only cause that allows full recuperation from speech, swallowing, and mastication difficulties when treated. This causation is most commonly seen in children with FCMS.

Unusual Causes 
 Tumors
 Multiple Sclerosis
 Neurodegenerative diseases
 Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis
 Moyamoya disease
 Vasculitis
 Trauma

Mechanism 
FCMS is primarily originates from damages in the posterior region of the inferior frontal gyrus and inferior region of the precentral gyrus. Anatomically, the word operculum is defined as the cortices encompassing the insula, which includes the pre and post-central, inferior-frontal, supramarginal, angular inferior parietal, and superior temporal convolutions. Parts of the brain such as Heschl's gyrus, Brodmann's area, Broca's area, Wernicke's area are amongst the most relevant in the operculum. These areas are responsible for auditory functions for language and speech.

FCMS, sometimes called cortical pseudobulbar palsy, is characterized by lesions affected both sides of the operculum. These lesions typically damage the cranial nerves leading to both motor and sensory deficits. The cranial nerves that are impaired include the following; Cranial Nerve (CN) V (the trigeminal nerve), CN VII (the facial nerve), CN IX (the glossopharyngeal nerve), CN X (the vagus nerve), and CN XII (the hypoglossal nerve). Cerebral malformation, namely unilateral schizencephaly in association with contralateral polymicrogyria symmetrically in the perisylvian area is another known characteristic of FCMS. Moreover, another deformation found with FCMS includes the failure of opercularization caused by the underdevelopment of the anterior part of the opercula found in the fetal brain in the 32nd week.

Neuropathology
The anatomic basisFoix–Chavany– for the automatic voluntary dissociation is characterized by the following. Neurons that lie adjacently in the operculum project supranuclear fibers to the cranial nuclei for the voluntary movement of facial, pharyngeal, lingual, and masticatory muscles. Emotional movement of these muscles is controlled by alternative pathways that run from the amygdala and lateral hypothalamus to the brainstem via the medial forebrain bundle and dorsal longitudinal fasciculus.

The opercular cortex surrounding the insula is separated by two anatomical components: the ascending rami of the lateral sulcus and the posterior rami into three different sections of the operculum.
 Frontal operculum formed by posterior part of the inferior frontal gyrus.
 Fronto-parietal opercula formed by the lowermost part of the precentral and postcentral gyrus and the anterior and lowermost part of the inferior parietal lobule.
 Temporal opercula formed by the superior temporal gyrus.

Diagnosis

Criteria 
FCMS shares similar characteristics with the following disorders: catatonia, akinetic mutism, orobuccal apraxia, Broca's aphasia, pseudobulbar palsy, bulbar palsy secondary to myasthenia gravis, Guillain–Barré syndrome, and brainstem strokes.

In determining a diagnosis between with catatonia, akinetic mutism, and FCMS, a person must demonstrate their ability to perform voluntary function of the limbs. Patients with catatonia or akinetic mutism are not able to perform voluntary commands that involve the use of limbs, while patients with FCMS still possess voluntary usage of limbs. If a person can demonstrate ability in voluntary usage of limbs, catatonia and akinetic mutism are most likely ruled out from the diagnosis.