[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Denmark v Sweden (UEFA Euro 2008 qualifying)

e not seen the ruling in writing, so I don't know what it says.

Rainer Koch, German member of UEFA's disciplinary committee:

Denmark can just play in Aalborg. They have a race track (sic) up there, don't they? [...] Well I don't know the distances in Denmark. This will be a matter of a discussion.

The distance between Aalborg and Copenhagen is , thus it was not a viable option at the time. Aalborg Stadium does not feature a race track.

Final UEFA ruling
On 5 July 2007 UEFA released the following statement:

The Appeals Body replaced the original verdict of the UEFA Control and Disciplinary Body and its decision is final: Sweden have been awarded a 3–0 win by default; the DBU has been fined CHF50,000 (€30,222); and the Parken Stadium in Copenhagen will be closed for four official competition matches involving the senior national team. From this third sanction, two games are deferred for a probationary period of two years. The world governing body FIFA will be notified about the deferred sanction and the period of probation.

Reactions

To the match in general
Frederik, Crown Prince of Denmark, criticized the behaviour of both Christian Poulsen and the fan who attacked the referee: "It was terrible and a very embarrassing behavior on the Danish side."

To Christian Poulsen's behaviour
Copenhagen police spokesperson chief inspector Flemming Steen Munch gave the following comment:

It is about time to set an example ... It has almost become acceptable to be violent on the pitch, but violence should not be accepted on the pitch or in society. The TV images clearly show how the Swede is punched in the stomach. My immediate opinion is that according to the penal code the act will lead to a 30-day imprisonment.

Copenhagen police chief superintendent Per Larsen later said that all comments of possible charges were premature. "Football is a contact sport, so the starting point is that the sport's own courts should handle this," Larsen told Danish news agency Ritzau. Munch noted that it was "unusual" for violence on the field or hockey rink to be tried in a court of law. See violence in ice hockey for some exceptions.

The Danish Justice Minister, Lene Espersen, called for an involuntary national team-hiatus to be given to Christian Poulsen.

To security at the Parken Stadium
The Parken Stadium was included in UEFA's list of 4-star stadiums in 1993, making it eligible for hosting UEFA Cup finals.

After the fan attack, the level of security at the stadium was questioned, and considered further by the UEFA disciplinary committee. An editorial in the Danish daily Jyllands-Posten criticized the safety arrangements at Parken, saying it could have serious consequences for Denmark, but praised referee Fandel's decision to abandon the match.

To the perpetrator
The attacker stated in court that he was intoxicated by the consumption of alcohol, to a degree that he could not recall attacking the referee. The criminal court dealt out a suspended sentence of 30 days in prison. The prosecution appealed to the High Court of Eastern Denmark, which changed the sentence to 20 days, which had to be served.

The DBU first decided to sue the man for the commercial damage should Danish disqualification be confirmed.

Parken Sport & Entertainment first announced its decision to sue the man for DKK 7,000,000 (€940,000) for loss of ticket sales, and the Danish FA will sue the 29-year-old for DKK 1,900,000 (€255,000). That decision was later reverted on the advice of counsel. However, following the outcome of the criminal trial against the culprit, both Parken and Danish FA did go through with a law suit against him with those amounts.

Ultimately, only the DBU sued for just over DKK 1.6 million (€215,000). The verdict was given on 18 November 2009 in favour of the DBU, but only gave them DKK 900,000 (€120,000), because of the inadequate security at Parken. The FA said it was "very satisfied" with the verdict, while it reportedly "shocked" the perpetrator. Following the conviction, the perpetrator and the DBU reached an agreement in which the fine was lowered to DKK 250,000 (€35,000).

Match

Details

See also
UEFA Euro 2008 qualifying Group F
Denmark–Sweden football rivalry
Roligan

Notes

References

UEFA Euro 2008 qualifying
2006–07 in Danish football
2007 in Swedish football
Sweden at UEFA Euro 2008
UEFA European Championship controversies
Denmark national football team matches
Sweden national football team matches
2007 controversies
UEFA European Championship matches
Denmark–Sweden football rivalry
Association football riots
2007 riots
Association football hooliganism
Riots and civil disorder in Denmark
June 2007 sports events in Europe
2007 in Copenhagen