[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Export Wheat Commission

of the
PMR activity through the Growers Report. The Growers Report was published on the
EWC website and mailed to more than 25,000 growers. In addition, with the late closing
of the 2005/06 National Pool, the EWC published the Growers Report 2007 Addendum which was similarly distributed to growers.

Stakeholders
Beyond meeting its legislated requirements to the Minister and growers, the EWC
was also committed to delivering and communicating results to other stakeholders in
Australia's wheat export arrangements. The EWC's key stakeholders were:
 the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry
 Australian wheat growers
 AWB International Ltd
 Australian wheat exporters.
Other stakeholders included:
 grower bodies, such as the Grains Council of Australia (GCA) and the Grain Growers
Association (GGA)
 State grain merchant associations (representing small to medium grain businesses)
 various industry and exporter organisations, such as the Australian Grain Exporters
Association (AGEA)
 large and small exporters
 independent grain consultants
 other Australian Government departments and agencies with an interest in the grain industry and related transport and export arrangements.

Non-bulk Wheat Quality Assurance Scheme
By 30 June 2008 the EWC had accredited:
 62 packing companies (in 103 locations in five States)
 12 laboratories (in 31 locations)
 6 superintendence companies (in 18 locations).

By 30 June 2008, the EWC had received 4,094 notification forms for the export
of 1,929,293 tonnes to 41 countries.

The EWC's performance also included the following results:
 The development of an online service enabling wheat exporters to electronically submit their notification forms and contracts to the EWC. This streamlined the notification process and reduced processing time for both the EWC and the exporter, and enabled exporters to forward the information to packers and laboratories.
 Following deregulation, non-bulk exporters were able to export wheat in containers to overseas customers that they were previously unable to supply under the former export consent application arrangements.
 This also meant exporters could better align grain quality with specific customer requirements.
 Some non-bulk exporters developed stronger links with growers

New directions
The November 2007 Federal election resulted in a change of Government and reform
of Australia's wheat marketing arrangements towards the liberalisation of exports in bulk.
This reform included the release of draft legislation and a Senate Committee Inquiry
into the Wheat Export Marketing Bill 2008 and the Wheat Export Marketing (Repeal
and Consequential Amendments) Bill 2008. The related drafting of a new Wheat Export
Accreditation Scheme for bulk exports, became a major focus for the EWC and the
industry during the reporting period.

The EWC monitored and reported on AWBI's export performance in managing the
National Pool and presented the Minister with two Performance Monitoring Reports
(PMRs) and published two Growers Reports.

This was a significant result as the Act only required the EWC to produce one performance
monitoring report to the Minister and one related report to growers during the year.

Legislative change
On 5 March 2008, the Minister released an exposure draft of the Wheat Export
Marketing Bill 2008. The EWC was required to undertake considerable preliminary work
on new governance and other arrangements in the lead-up to the establishment of the
new body, Wheat Exports Australia.

The changes presented new challenges for the EWC, including a requirement to draft a
legislative instrument to create an accreditation scheme for bulk exporters.
The EWC consulted widely with industry in formulating the Wheat Export Accreditation
Scheme (Bulk-Scheme), undertaking preliminary consultations in March and then releasing
an exposure draft of the Scheme in June.

In June 2008, the Government passed legislation in Parliament that reformed the export
of wheat in bulk, ending the wheat export monopoly arrangement held by AWBI since
privatisation of the Australian Wheat Board in 1999.

Other outcomes
The EWC significantly improved its performance in all areas of its ongoing business
while successfully meeting the new demands of the legislative changes and without
undue disruption to the export wheat industry.

The EWC continued to refine its business processes in its
key functional areas of bulk export consents, administration the Non-bulk Wheat Quality
Assurance Scheme (Non-bulk Scheme) and the performance monitoring of AWBI.
At the direction of the Minister, the EWC also completed three Ministerial investigations
during the reporting period.