[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gonzales v. O Centro Espírita Beneficente União do Vegetal

decision of the case because he was not on the Court when the case was argued. The Court found that the government was unable to detail the government's compelling interest in barring religious usage of Hoasca when applying strict scrutiny as required by the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA).

The Court first found that the standard under RFRA for a preliminary injunction is the same as at trial, just as it would be for a constitutional claim.  Disagreeing with the District Court, the Supreme Court found that ayahuasca is covered under the 1971 United Nations Convention on Psychotropic Substances, which is implemented by the Controlled Substances Act (CSA). The Court rejected the District Court's reliance on the official commentary to the convention, reasoning that the United Nations had incorrectly interpreted the treaty when it found that tea made from plants is a naturally occurring material.  However, because the government had failed to submit any evidence on the international consequences of granting an exemption to CSA enforcement by allowing UDV to practice its religion, the Court ruled that it had failed to meet its burden on this point. The Supreme Court ruled that the government failed to demonstrate a compelling interest in applying the Controlled Substances Act to the UDV's sacramental use of the tea.

The ruling upheld a preliminary injunction allowing the church to use the tea pending a lower court trial on a permanent injunction, during which the government would have had the opportunity to present further evidence consistent with the Supreme Court's ruling.

Subsequent developments 
The ruling is not binding on states. The Act was amended in 2003 to only include the federal government and its entities, such as Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia. A number of states have passed their own version of the RFRA, but the Smith case remains the authority in these matters in many states.

Bronfman next sought to move the church's services from the yurt outside his home to a new building in Arroyo Hondo, Santa Fe County, New Mexico, prompting opposition from neighbors.  When the county refused to grant the church a building permit, Bronfman sued under the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, and Assistant 
Attorney General Tom Perez of the United States Department of Justice Civil Rights Division filed a statement of interest in support of the church.  In late 2012, a settlement was reached in which the county agreed to allow the church to be built.

References

External links
Court upholds church use of hallucinogenic tea (NBC, February 21, 2006)
"Religious Freedom and United States Drug Laws: Notes on the UDV-USA"
UDV USA official website

Court documents
 
District Court memorandum opinion and order (February 2002)
District Court memorandum opinion and order (November 2002)
10th Circuit opinion (2002) – Emergency motion for stay pending appeal
10th Circuit opinion (2003) – Appeal from the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico
10th Circuit opinion (2004) – On rehearing en banc: Appeal from the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico

United States Supreme Court cases
Drugs in the United States
United States free exercise of religion case law
United States Supreme Court cases of the Roberts Court
2006 in United States case law
2006 in religion
United States controlled substances case law
Psychedelics and religion
Ayahuasca
Brazilian-American culture
Religion in New Mexico
Santa Fe, New Mexico