[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fred Chaney

00 to 2005. Chaney left the Liberal Party in 1995, believing that his work "required engagements across party lines and without political involvement".

On 15 January 2020, it was announced that Chaney would be one of the members of the National Co-design Group of the Indigenous voice to government.

Criticism of the Liberal Party
In early May 2022, Chaney wrote an article criticising the Liberal Party, saying that the party lost its way. Chaney stated "members [of parliament] are no longer able to successfully execute what the electorate demands and it is now in the sad position of being held hostage by its extremes and those of [the National Party]", in particular the party's lack of action on climate change. Chaney called for the election of more centrist independents, against "politics as usual". Chaney announced support for his niece, Kate Chaney, running as a Climate 200-backed independent for the seat of Curtin against the incumbent Liberal member Celia Hammond in the 2022 Australian federal election. Kate Chaney subsequently won the seat at the election.

Honours
Chaney was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) in 1997 "for service to the Parliament of Australia and to the Aboriginal community through his contribution to the establishment of the Aboriginal Legal Service of Western Australia and mediating with the National Native Title Tribunal".

Chaney was awarded an honorary doctorate of laws from Murdoch University in 2003 "for services towards Aboriginal reconciliation and as Chancellor", and in 2017 the Australian National University awarded him the same honour, "for his exceptional contribution to public service through parliament and his lifelong commitment to Indigenous issues".

On 25 January 2014, Prime Minister Tony Abbott announced Chaney as the 2014 Senior Australian of the Year.

References

 

1941 births
Living people
People educated at Aquinas College, Perth
Liberal Party of Australia members of the Parliament of Australia
Members of the Australian Senate
Members of the Australian Senate for Western Australia
Members of the Australian House of Representatives
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Pearce
Members of the Cabinet of Australia
University of Western Australia alumni
Murdoch University Chancellors
Officers of the Order of Australia
20th-century Australian politicians