[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nury Turkel

rkel, "I am confident that he will continue to be a powerful voice for the Uyghur people and for the cause of justice around the world." Later that summer, Turkel thanked Trump for signing the Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act and further wrote that "It's a great day for America and the Uighur people."

Turkel supported a July 2020 United States Department of Commerce announcement sanctioning eleven Chinese companies involved in alleged human rights abuses in Xinjiang commenting that the decision, "will help ensure that the fruits of American innovation and industry are not inadvertently fueling outrageous religious freedom and labor violations." Turkel commented in July 2020 about the U.S. sanctions imposed on the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (XPCC) saying that they were a significant step and that for years Uyghur human rights advocates had been calling for sanctioning the organization. Regarding sanctions of the XPCC, Commissioner Turkel commented that, "Now, no business can claim ignorance of China's oppression of the Uyghur people. We hope the sanctions signal to other Chinese officials that there are costs associated with taking part in the Communist Party's repression of religion. The world is watching and we know which officials and entities are responsible for the abuses against the Uyghur people." In an August 2020 interview, Turkel described the camps as one of the worst global humanitarian crises and the largest incarceration of an ethnic minority since the Holocaust. In mid 2020, Turkel urged the U.S. Congress to pass the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, which would direct the U.S. Customs and Border Protection to presume that any goods produced in the Uyghur region are the product of forced labor.

In September 2020, Turkel was named one of the Time 100 Most Influential People in the World.

Personal life
Nury Turkel is a Muslim. In 2007, he married Turkish American interior designer Nazli Bilkic. They have two children.

Turkel is proficient in several languages, including Uyghur (his mother tongue), English, Turkish, and Mandarin Chinese.

Bibliography

 

See also
World Uyghur Congress
Rebiya Kadeer
Dolkun Isa

References

External links
Nury Turkel on Twitter
Nury Turkel at the 2020 Geneva Summit for Human Rights (Geneva Summit for Human Rights, 2020)
Nury Turkel - Uyghur Human Rights Project, Washington (Interview with BBC, 2018)
Treatment of Uyghurs in China (C-SPAN; Turkel speaks beginning at 39:00, 2019)
Has China detained a million Uighur Muslims? (Al Jazeera; Nury Turkel and Victor Gao discuss Xinjiang re-education camps and related issues, 2018)
The New Gulag in China (Interview with Jay Nordlinger, 2018)
The UK joins the US to condemn the PRC for the Uyghur genocide & What is to be done? @NuryTurkel Uyghur Human Rights Project and a commissioner of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (Interview on The John Batchelor Show'', 2020)
Arthur C. Helton Memorial Lecture: China's Uighurs (Council on Foreign Relations, 2019)
"The Tragedy of China's Uyghurs" (interview, 2020)

Living people
Uyghurs
Chinese emigrants to the United States
Naturalized citizens of the United States
1970 births
People from Kashgar
American Muslims