[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wildcore

oppose Tapestry. They succeed and return to Earth, but Styrian is killed and Geist follows them back to Earth. Zealot leaves the team shortly afterward.

Final mission

Wildcore assists in the worldwide emergency caused by Jacob Krigstein's super-powered agents attacking the world's major capitals.

Geist eventually joined Wildcore and Alea became an active member. Wildcore was sent to Antarctica to quell a riot in Purgatory Maximum Security Penitentiary, nicknamed Purgatory Max, a prison for dangerous superhumans. Supervillain Baron Tödt (see notes) and his group, the Axis, had entered the prison, killed all personnel and released all prisoners. Wildcore entered the prison, separating along the way. The inmates proceeded to overpower the separated Wildcore members, seemingly killing most of them. Taboo was saved by inmate Hangman, a prisoner seeking salvation. He warned her that the prison is about to explode. Backlash found the explosives a second before they detonated, and was caught in the blast, resulting in the loss of his left leg. Another inmate, former DV8 member Evo, who had been Hangman's cellmate, saved Backlash and took him outside. Being severely injured, Evo, Backlash and Taboo three collapsed outside the prison. Hangman congratulated Evo on doing the right thing, activated Backlash's beacon, and left. Department PSI arrived and found five bodies, telling his subordinates to take them back to a hospital and that all others must have died. (see notes)

While Marc convalesced at a hospital, Jodi Slayton, his daughter, who had become the super-hero known as Jet, decides to avenge her father by looking for the individuals involved in the riot and capturing them, spending months fighting criminals and searching for clues. Midnighter was asked to do the same by former Stormwatch member Jackson King and assists Jet for a while, but allows her to handle things herself as she wishes.

Marc eventually recovered from the ordeal, gaining a cybernetic leg, replacing his severed leg.

Characters
Backlash (Marc Slayton): leader of Wildcore, Colonel Marc Slayton is half-Kherubim/half-human and has been active as a warrior and superhero for centuries, even though he couldn't remember most of it. Backlash can generate whips made of energy and turn himself into mist.
Taboo (Amanda Reed): Marc's girlfriend, Taboo gains her powers from a vampiric, symbiotic costume grafted to her body. The costume allows her to fly, increases her strength and durability, and gives her psionic powers.
Zealot (Lady Zannah): A Kherubim warrior and former WildC.A.Ts member, Zealot joined to stop the D'rahn but left the team before the Purgatory Max mission and returned to the WildC.A.Ts. As she was hired by Giovanni without Slayton's consent, there were frequent clashes between Backlash and Zealot on matters of leadership.
Ferrian: Another Kherubim, Ferrian was Marc Slayton's guardian during his youth. Highly intelligent, Ferrian serves as the team's strategist. He is also a capable warrior and has psychometric powers.
Vigor (Richard Vincent): An archaeologist and friend of Ferrian. Vigor has limitless stamina and can fire energy blasts from a gem he wears on his forehead.
Brawl: former leader of the Chasers, Brawl joined Wildcore to avenge his teammates' death at the hands of the D'rahn. Brawl has superhuman strength and durability.
Styrian (Omar Kamadev): The son of Antonio Giovanni's best friend, Styrian was placed on the team without Backlash knowing anything about him. Styrian had a romantic relationship with Jodi, Slayton's daughter, which caused some tension between the two, but Styrian died saving Backlash. Styrian could fly and control the weather.
Alea (last name unknown): Fiancé of D'rahn victim Guy Blackfoot, Alea was changed into a superhuman being by the D'rahn Pildra, who intended to use her as a Trojan horse. Alea was part of Wildcore but was still training during most missions. She was with the team on the Purgatory Max mission and was killed during the mission. Her skin was changed into a ruby-like substance, giving her superhuman strength, durability, and the ability to absorb and re-emit energy.
Geist: Taboo's lover on Tapestry's world, he secretly followed her to Earth. Unable to handle Taboo's change in personality and to a human, he lashed out in anger against Wildcore but was defeated. Geist was with the team for the Purgatory Max mission and was killed during the mission. Geist had the ability to blend into the background. He also displayed incredible agility and fighting skills.
Azrum: A powerful mage, Azrum initially wasn't part of Wildcore, but he was sent to find Tapestry as the D'rahn had no defense against magic. He was with the team for the Purgatory Max mission and was killed during the mission.
Crimson/Jet (Jodi Slayton): Though officially not a member of Wildcore, Jodi went on most missions with them. She had a relationship with Styrian and was shocked by his death. She left Department PSI and chan