[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Dražgoše

a lie, since the villagers reported the Partisans’ presence, with the approval of the Partisans, so they would not be held responsible. After listing the reprisals taken, the German announcement finished with a threat to all the residents of Upper Carniola: "Whoever is against us will be executed."

After the war, a number of memorials were erected in the village, including: 1) a memorial in front of the church with the names of 41 hostages shot by the Germans, plus 16 Dražgoše residents killed as members of the Partisans from 1942 to 1945; 2) a monument at the church to 18 Dražgoše residents executed by the Germans at that spot, erected by the Partisan Veterans Association; 3) a memorial at Jelenšče to 21 Dražgoše residents executed there by the Germans after the battle, erected by the Partisan Veterans Association; 4) a memorial at the church graveyard, where the hostages and Partisans were buried before they were transferred to a common grave; and 5) a large monument where 40 hostages and 8 Partisans are buried.

Interpretations

News of the Battle of Dražgoše spread to the United States, where it was lauded as a heroic act of defiance in occupied Europe. The battle was further celebrated in communist-era and present day Slovenia. The first small monument to the killed Partisans and villagers was erected in 1947. Based on interviews with Partisans and villagers, in 1971 Ivan Jan wrote a popular book on the Dražgoše battle which drew further attention to the event, and in 1976 a large monument was raised dedicated to the nine fallen Partisans and 41 executed civilians; three other monuments were also raised for the executed villagers. From soon after the battle to decades later, German casualties were overestimated by various Slovene sources, erroneously citing anywhere from at least 100 German dead and wounded to hundreds of German casualties. Jan stated that there were hundreds of German casualties, or at least 100 dead and 200 wounded, and he repeatedly claimed that the Germans were concealing information about the extent of their losses, noting that German documents were unavailable, and thus that there were no exact data on German losses. In a 1955, account a villager stated that German soldiers had told him they had suffered 1,200 dead at Dražgoše, or that there had not been even a single Partisan casualty. Yet a 1977 article stated that German casualties were unknown. The actual, German casualty counts of 27 dead, plus 42 wounded, were established only during the 1980s, when the relevant German historical documents became available.

The battle was also highly praised after Slovenia declared independence and introduced democracy. Danilo Türk, the president of Slovenia, described the Battle of Dražgoše as the "biggest moral victory" of the Slovene nation and as the "victory of responsibility for the future of one's own nation" in 2008. He stated that it was a foundation for Slovenia as an independent country. Commemorations of the battle are held every year at Dražgoše, with thousands of participants, including the president of Slovenia and other senior leaders. Some critical Slovene commentators have described the commemorations as a "cult."

Franc Kavčič, a longtime resident of Dražgoše who lived through the battle, has more recently presented a diverging first-hand personal account of the battle and subsequent events. According to his telling, the Partisans were invited to the village by supporters, and refused to leave following a subsequent request by some villagers. The Partisans then retreated after an initial scuffle. Afterwards the Germans herded his father and 18 male villagers into the priest's residence, where they burned them alive. The Germans also sought to burn alive the 10-year-old Kavčič and his mother, along with 60 women and children, but a local official convinced them not to. Instead, the Germans expelled and imprisoned the women and children and surviving men, while burning and then blowing up with explosives the village, later returning to also blow up the church. In August 1945, a government minister of the newly established communist Yugoslav state visited Dražgoše to present a plan to rebuild the village to a handful of residents present at the time. The minister proposed that two large apartment buildings and two communal barns be built by the state, with the rest of the land converted into common pastureland. The villagers expected the government provide funds for the reconstruction of individual houses. The meeting ended when an enraged villager spit in the government representative's face. The villagers rebuilt Dražgoše without state support from 1949 to 1960, financed by revenues from a cooperative sawmill enterprise they established following the war. The state didn't see through a promise to construct a road to the village. Kavčič notes that views regarding the commemoration differ among residents, with villagers divided into two "camps" on the issue.