[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chamar

ly became the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh. Other Dalit communities, such as Bhangis, complained of Chamar monopolisation of state benefits such as reservation. Several other Dalit castes, resenting the domination of Dalit politics by Chamars/Jatavs, came under the influence of the Sangh Parivar.

Nevertheless, with the rise of BSP in Uttar Pradesh, a collective solidarity and uniform Dalit identity was framed, which led to coming together of various antagonistic Dalit communities. In the past, Chamar had shared bitter relationship with the Pasis, another Dalit caste. The root cause of this bitter relationship was their roles in feudal society. The Pasis worked as lathail or stick wielders for the "Upper Caste" landlords and the later had compelled them in past to beat Chamars many a times. Under the unification drive of BSP, these rival castes came together for the cause of unity of Dalits under same political umbrella.

Dhusia
Dhusia is a caste in India, sometimes associated with Chamars, Ghusiya, Jhusia or Jatav. They are found in Uttar Pradesh, and elsewhere.

Most of the Dhusia in Punjab and Haryana migrated from Pakistan after partition of India. In Punjab, they are mainly found in Ludhiana, Patiala, Amritsar and Jalandhar cities. They are inspired by B. R. Ambedkar to adopt the surname Rao and Jatav.

Occupations

Chamars who have adopted the weaving profession and abandoned tanning and leathercraft, identify themselves as Julaha Chamar. R. K. Pruthi suggests this is in the hope that they might in future be considered as Julaha by other communities. They believe that leatherwork is "degrading" when compared to weaving.

Chamar Regiment
The 1st Chamar Regiment was an infantry regiment formed by the British during World War II. Officially, it was created on 1 March 1943, as the 27th Battalion 2nd Punjab Regiment. It was converted to the 1st Battalion and later disbanded shortly after World War II ended. The Regiment, with one year of service, received three Military Crosses and three Military Medals It fought in the Battle of Kohima. In 2011, several politicians demanded that it be revived.

Demographics
According to the 2001 census of India, the Chamars comprise around 14 per cent of the population in the state of Uttar Pradesh and 12 percent of that in Punjab.

The 2011 Census of India for Uttar Pradesh combined the Chamar, Dhusia, Jhusia, Jatava Scheduled Caste communities and returned a population of 22,496,047.

Caste reservation
Chamar is classified as a scheduled caste in India. It is largely believed that among the scheduled castes, Chamar benefitted more from the caste reservation system as compared to Valmikis, Bhangis and other Dalit castes due to larger political representation of the group.

Chamars in Nepal
The Central Bureau of Statistics of Nepal classifies the Chamar as a subgroup within the broader social group of Madheshi Dalits. At the time of the 2011 Nepal census, 335,893 people (1.3% of the population of Nepal) were Chamar. The frequency of Chamars by province was as follows:
 Madhesh Province (4.2%)
 Lumbini Province (2.1%)
 Koshi Province (0.3%)
 Bagmati Province (0.0%)
 Gandaki Province (0.0%)
 Karnali Province (0.0%)
 Sudurpashchim Province (0.0%)
 
The frequency of Chamars was higher than national average (1.3%) in the following districts:
 Parasi (7.4%)
 Siraha (5.7%)
 Parsa (4.7%)
 Bara (4.4%)
 Saptari (4.3%)
 Dhanusha (3.8%)
 Rautahat (3.8%)
 Kapilvastu (3.7%)
 Rupandehi (3.7%)
 Mahottari (3.6%)
 Sarlahi (3.6%)
 Banke (1.9%)

Notable people
Jagjivan Ram, former Deputy Prime Minister of India
 Kanshi Ram (1934–2006), founder of Bahujan Samaj Party and mentor of Mayawati Kumari
 Mayawati, leader of Bahujan Samaj Party and Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh.
 Mohan Lal Kureel was a British Indian Army officer who served in The Chamar Regiment and later an Indian National Congress politician in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh.

See also
 Ahirwar
 Hindu Mochi
 Muslim Mochi

References

Bibliography

Further reading

 

Dalit communities
Leatherworking castes
Ethnic groups in Nepal
Ethnic groups in India
Scheduled Castes of Assam
Scheduled Castes of Haryana
Scheduled Castes of Jharkhand
Scheduled Castes of Delhi
Scheduled Castes of Rajasthan
Scheduled Castes of Punjab
Scheduled Castes of Madhya Pradesh
Scheduled Castes of Odisha
Scheduled Castes of Gujarat
Scheduled Castes of Bihar
Scheduled Castes of West Bengal
Scheduled Castes of Andhra Pradesh
Scheduled Castes of Dadra and Nagar Haveli
Scheduled Castes of Himachal Pradesh
Scheduled Castes of Chhattisgarh
Scheduled Castes of Uttar Pradesh
Scheduled Castes of Uttarakhand
Scheduled Castes of Maharashtra
Scheduled Castes of Jammu and Kashmir
Scheduled Castes of Kerala
Scheduled Castes of Mizoram
Scheduled Castes of Meghalaya