[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Adam Murray

dibly lean and has obviously looked after himself well during the close season". He scored seven goals in 51 appearances across the 2008–09 campaign, and was an ever-present in the league as the "U's" posted a seventh-place finish as they missed out on the play-offs after being deducted five points.

Following an operation on his back, Murray missed the second half of Oxford's 2009–10 campaign, in which they were promoted into the Football League via the play-offs. He was released from the club at the end of the season, after his family failed to settle into the Oxford area, and subsequently returned to Derby. Chairman Kelvin Thomas told the club's official website: "Unfortunately Adam wasn't involved in the final promotion push due to injury, but we do feel that our decision to have players live close has been justified. Adam has made a decision to put his family first, which as a family orientated club we fully understand and appreciate." Speaking in November 2015, Murray said that he had resented manager Chris Wilder for releasing him, but now saw him as one of the best managers in English football and that "when I look back now I respect that decision because I would have done the same thing".

Luton Town
On 7 July 2010, Murray joined Conference Premier side Luton Town on a two-year contract. He made only seven appearances for Richard Money's side and departed Kenilworth Road early in the 2010–11 season.

Return to Mansfield
Murray rejoined Mansfield Town, only  from his home in Derby, on a three-month loan deal on 1 October 2010, with a view to a permanent move taking place in January. On 5 January 2011, Murray made his transfer permanent despite manager David Holdsworth having been replaced by Duncan Russell. He ended the 2010–11 campaign with seven goals in 41 games for Mansfield, who went on to reach the final of the FA Trophy at Wembley Stadium. Murray was substituted 18 minutes into extra-time of the final, with the only goal of the game being scored by Darlington with just one minute left to play. He was appointed club captain in August 2011 and signed a new contract three months later. Mansfield won 13 of their last 15 matches of the 2011–12 season to qualify for the play-offs. They went on to lose to York City in the play-off semi-finals despite Murray and Gary Roberts dominating much of the midfield play.

In June 2012, Murray became assistant manager at Mansfield following Micky Moore's decision to leave. He signed a new one-year deal in November 2012, combining first-team duties with coaching the youth team. This came a month after he criticised sections of the supporters for dishing out "personal" abuse following a four match run without a win. At the end of the 2012–13 title winning season, The Non-League Paper described how "Muzza the magician grabbed games by the scruff of the neck whether playing in an advanced or deeper role". Promotion was confirmed with a 1–0 victory over Wrexham on 20 April, after which Murray stated that "this is the best without doubt. It’s the best thing I’ve ever done".

Murray fell out with manager Paul Cox early in the 2013–14 season and was loaned out to Rainworth Miners Welfare of the Northern Premier League Division One South. He had an eventful spell at Rainworth, with manager Kevin Gee resigning after Murray was red-carded in a 3–1 home defeat to Brigg Town on 10 September. On 8 November, he joined Northern Premier League Premier Division side Worksop Town on a two-month loan. His loan spell was cut short and he returned to Mansfield on 3 December after making peace with Cox. Upon becoming player-manager at Mansfield, he announced that he would step back from playing to concentrate on management.

On 21 March 2018, he came out of retirement and signed a short-term contract with Sutton Coldfield Town. Town finished the 2017–18 season bottom of the Northern Premier League Premier Division.

Style of play
Described in the Worcester News as a creative midfielder with energy and tenacity in September 2003, Murray earned an England U20 cap the previous year. His vision and range of passing was acknowledged to be largely unparalleled in non-League football.

Coaching career