[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Police Coast Guard

far-sea passages of the eastern approaches into STW (from the southwestern edge of the South China Sea) and ensure safe passage for all legitimate users. They are also tasked with protecting the Horsburgh Lighthouse on Pedra Branca in the vicinity, together with the Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN).

The PCG has an elite unit known as the Special Task Squadron (STS), which can be activated to conduct high-risk operations where high speed pursuits and increased firepower are deemed necessary to achieve their objectives. The unit played an instrumental role in the capture of one of the three armed robbers who infiltrated into Singapore by landing on Pulau Tekong in March 2004.

In June 2017, PCG introduced a new front-line unit trained in counter-assault skills and to respond to terrorist attacks in Singapore's territorial waters. This unit is known as the Emergency Response Force (ERF), similar to the Emergency Response Team (ERT) of the SPF's Land Divisions (now merged under ERT) and the first batch of ERF-trained officers started their maritime counter-terrorism patrols in that same month. In addition, the ERF is trained in boarding vessels ranging from small tugboats to large merchant ships to neutralise any terrorist or serious criminal activity aboard and to search for dangerous and/or explosive cargo, goods or items. It is expected that in the near future, all PCG officers are going to be trained as ERF members in view of increasing terrorist activity around the world, especially if it centers around Singapore.

Operations

The Police Coast Guard conducts 24-hour round-the-clock patrols in Singapore's territorial waters from its four regional bases, in an area of more than 200 square nautical miles (700 km²). It is also responsible for maintaining law and order on most of Singapore's islands, except those which are directly accessible by road from the main island, such as Jurong Island and Sentosa, although it provides them protection and security via seaborne patrols offshore.

While piracy was the main source of concern leading to the establishment of the Marine Police way back in the early part of the 20th century, it has become almost a minor issue today with practically few to no cases of piracy in Singapore's territorial waters in the last decade. Crimes on Singapore's offshore islands or in its territorial waters are also markedly low.

Maritime Border Control
The control of illegal migrants entering Singapore's waters has become one of the most visible roles of the PCG, however, aided in part by constant media reports on such arrests. On 17 August 2006, its arrest of 22 illegal migrants in four separate incidents was touted as the largest number arrested by the PCG in a day by the media. While the number of intrusions has been drastically reduced in recent years with the acquisition of radar and other sophisticated night-vision equipment, the attraction of Singapore as a migrant destination continues to pose a constant operational challenge to the PCG. In addition, the PCG also has to deal with the lesser but daily issue of small-scale illegal fishing and similar activities in Singapore's waters from bordering Malaysian and Indonesian fishing communities.

In a further bid to thwart illegal immigrants from landing on Singapore's shores, the PCG has erected physical barriers in the form of high-fencing topped with sharp razor-wire and fitted with electrical motion-sensors along critical areas of the shoreline where such intrusions are common, including in Lim Chu Kang, on Pulau Punggol Barat, Pulau Ubin and the Western Live Firing Area on Singapore's northwestern coast. Coastal surveillance cameras are also fitted along these fences to observe any suspicious or illegal movement. By the end of December in 2003, the total length of coastal fencing had reached 24.7 kilometres, although there were some protests over the potential environmental hazards the fencing may pose to natural amphibious species, particularly on Pulau Ubin and Singapore's northwestern shoreline. The PCG attempted to allay these fears by informing that the fencing is constructed in such a manner to allow small animals to pass below it safely.

Included in the bid to thwart illegal immigrants, the PCG has employed Unmanned Surface Vessels (USVs) in late-2017 to conduct maritime patrols and these robot-equipped boats can help in easing manpower issues after their field-test and the speed is 30 knots (55 km/h). The USVs have two versions in length; one is 9 metres long and the other is 16 metres long. They lack any armament, unlike current PCG boats, but are still equipped with searchlights, a radar, sensors, electro-optic cameras and loudspeakers, as well as an on-board automatic fire-extinguishing system. Besides USVs, the PCG is also rolling out the use of small police drones to assist in its checks on vessels difficult to board, such as loaded barges or vessels with low draft.