[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2007 Lebanon conflict

ity for two bombings that took place in Beirut. Then a spokesman for the group denied any responsibility for them.

A third bombing, in a Christian neighborhood northeast of Beirut called Mansouriyeh, was foiled when authorities caught a Palestinian and an Egyptian carrying a bag full of explosives.

May 23: A bomb went off near the main government building in Aley, a majority Druze town about 17 km northeast of Beirut. Reports said about five people were injured and a few buildings damaged by the blast. The security forces said the bomb was in a bag that had been left in front of a building close to a shopping district.

May 27: In Beirut, two policemen and two civilians were injured when a grenade was thrown in a mainly Muslim section of the city.

June 13: A car bomb hit Beirut's seafront Corniche al-Manara, killing Walid Eido, a member of parliament with the Current for the Future bloc known for his opposition to the Syrian influence on Lebanon. His eldest son, Khaled, and two bodyguards were also killed, along with up to six other civilians.

The blast may have been tied to the fighting in the north, or it may have been tied to the series of bombings and assassinations of anti-Syrian figures going back to Rafiq Hariri's killing.

Attacks on United Nations peacekeepers
On June 24, a UNIFIL armored personnel carrier was hit by a car bomb on the border with Israel, killing six Spanish soldiers and wounding another two Spanish soldiers. Both the Lebanese government and Hezbollah condemned the attack. Intelligence gathered from captured militants indicated that the militants were planning to attack United Nations soldiers on the Israeli-Lebanese border. Fatah al-Islam itself also said that if the fighting continued it would conduct attacks on targets outside of northern Lebanon. Al-Qaeda additionally stated that it would target the U.N. troops on the border.

Casualties 
At least 446–457 people, including 168–179 soldiers and 226 militants, had been killed in the fighting during the 105-day siege of the camp. Between 400 and 500 soldiers had been wounded and more than 215 militants had been captured.

Twelve Lebanese civilians were killed in terrorist bombings in and around Beirut, two soldiers and five militants were killed in the Ain al-Hilweh camp, seven non-Fatah Islamic militants were killed during a raid in Tripoli, and six U.N. soldiers were killed, while two were wounded in the bombing attack on the Israeli-Lebanon border.

55 civilians were killed in the fighting at the camp and in Tripoli, 47 of them Palestinians.

Most of the some 31,000 Palestinians that lived at the camp fled the fighting to other camps in the country.