[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Andrew Hunter (lawyer)

nfederate sympathizers in western Virginia because of his raids, including that which destroyed the pro-Confederate Virginia Military Institute). General Hunter in July 1864 ordered subordinates to burn Andrew Hunter's home, and Hunter was then imprisoned for a month without explanation nor charges.

Law practice
After the war, Hunter resumed his legal practice. As the county's leading attorney, he again often opposed Charles J. Faulkner in court. Beginning in 1865, when West Virginia legislators moved the Jefferson County seat from Charles Town to Shepherdstown. Hunter fought to move the county seat back, and successfully defended a later law moving the county seat back to Charles Town (from Shepherdstown); Faulkner represented the losing Shepherdstown side. Hunter was later one of the losing attorneys representing Virginia in Virginia v. West Virginia, Virginia's suit to take back the counties of Jefferson and Berkeley, which the U.S. Supreme Court decided in 1871 (Faulkner was on the winning side).

Death
Andrew Hunter died at his home in Charles Town, Jefferson County, West Virginia, on November 21, 1888. He was in good health until shortly before his death (attributed in an obituary to "old age"). He is buried with other family members in the cemetery of Zion Episcopal Church in Charles Town. He was survived by two daughters, Mary E. Kent and Florence Hunter. His son Robert Harper, Jr., died "in Confederate service"; his other son, Henry Clay Hunter, an attorney, died a year before his father. His nephew Robert W. Hunter, also a Confederate officer and delegate, would survive the war and become the Secretary of Virginia Military Records.

Writing
  Earlier newspaper versions of these recollections: 1887, more legible reprint of same story, 1888.

References

Bibliography

Further reading
 

County and city Commonwealth's Attorneys in Virginia
John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry
1804 births
Politicians from Martinsburg, West Virginia
1888 deaths
People from Charles Town, West Virginia
Virginia lawyers
People from Jefferson County, West Virginia
19th-century American politicians
People of Virginia in the American Civil War
Pendleton family
American slave owners
Hunter family of Virginia
Burials at Zion Episcopal Churchyard (Charles Town, West Virginia)
Lawyers from Martinsburg, West Virginia