[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Randall Auxier

Randall E. Auxier (born August 7, 1961) is a professor of philosophy and communication studies at Southern Illinois University Carbondale, a musician, environmental activist, union advocate, and candidate (2018) for the United States House of Representatives, nominated by the Green Party in the 12th Congressional District of Illinois. He is a radio host for WDBX Carbondale since 2001, a widely read author of popular philosophy, and also a co-founder and co-director of the AIPCT (The American Institute for Philosophical and Cultural Thought).

Born in Leitchfield, Kentucky, Auxier is the younger of two children, the son of a veterinarian, Charles David Auxier (1931-) and a professional church musician, Eileen Gunter Auxier (1933-2016). Educated in the public schools of Memphis, Tennessee, he grew up during and was deeply affected by, the civil rights movement. He was one of the many students who were bused to integrated schools by court orders that resulted from Brown v. Board of Education. Auxier was in first grade when Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, and the event had a continual impact on him and the region he lived in.

In philosophy, Auxier specializes in classical American thought, process metaphysics and theology, intensive logics, aesthetics, philosophical anthropology, and the philosophy of culture, of science, of religion, and of education. He teaches and writes on Giambattista Vico, Immanuel Kant, Georg Hegel, J.J. Bachofen, Charles Peirce, Henri Bergson, Josiah Royce, William James, John Dewey, Alfred North Whitehead, Ernst Cassirer, Susanne Langer, Charles Hartshorne, Jaakko Hintikka, Arthur Danto, and Umberto Eco.

Education and career 
Auxier attended Graves Road Elementary School (1967–73), Graceland Junior High School (1973–76), and Hillcrest High School (1976-79), all belonging to the Memphis City Schools. Court ordered busing commenced in January 1973, and Auxier remained (by his own choosing) in public schools while most of his white schoolmates were sent to all-white private schools.  Auxier attended Memphis State University (now called the University of Memphis) from 1979 to 1981, majoring in Criminal Justice. He left school in the fall of 1981, playing bass guitar and singing professionally in several local bands. He returned to Memphis State in the fall of 1984 and received an undergraduate degree in philosophy and criminal justice (magna cum laude) in 1986. He was awarded an assistantship at Memphis State to pursue a master's degree in philosophy, and began teaching in 1987. The MA was completed in 1988. He went on to receive a fellowship and assistantship to pursue doctoral work at Emory University, completing the Ph.D. in 1992. His dissertation examined the theories of signs and symbols that applied to the language of metaphysics, discussing principally the works of Cassirer, Langer, Peirce, and Eco.

In the fall of 1992 he became assistant professor and chair (1992–97) of the philosophy department at Oklahoma City University, and was the founding director of the OCU Institute of Liberal Arts (1994–99). While at OCU, he also taught philosophy courses for several years at the nearby public high school Classen School of Advanced Studies. In 2000, he accepted a position at Southern Illinois University Carbondale, in the philosophy department, where he remains. While he maintains his affiliation with the philosophy department at SIUC, his primary assignment moved to the department of communications studies in the fall of 2017.

In 2016, Auxier was a visiting professor at the American Studies Center of the University of Warsaw, and in 2017 and 2018, he was visiting professor of philosophy in the Institute of Philosophy of the university or Warsaw.

The Pluralist 
Auxier's interest in philosophical personalism led him to become editor of The Personalist Forum in 1997. The original publisher, Mercer University Press, dropped the publication that year, and Auxier was obliged to raise funds to keep the publication afloat until 2005, when the University of Illinois Press took on the publishing responsibilities for the journal. It was at this time that the title of the journal changed to The Pluralist and gained monetary support from both Oklahoma State University and Southern Illinois University Carbondale. At that time John Shook and Scott Gelfand from OSU became co-editors. After five years of publishing under the new name, The Pluralist became the official journal of the Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy in 2010. After this transition, Auxier continued to edit the journal until 2012.