[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Allen Allensworth

llensworth was used to create the California State Historic Park, Colonel Allensworth State Historic Park, which became part of the state park system in 1973. It was updated in 1985 from funding attained from historic development section of the California Parks and Recreation Facilities Act of 1984.

Death 
Allen Allensworth died at the age of 72, on September 14, 1914. He was hit by a motorcyclist in Monrovia, California. Colonel Allensworth was buried at Angelus-Rosedale Cemetery in Los Angeles, California.

Legacy and honors 

In 1914, Charles Alexander wrote Allensworth's biography, Battles and Victories of Allen Allensworth, A.M., Ph.D., Lieutenant-Colonel, Retired, U.S. Army.

The state has preserved the Allensworth site and is gradually restoring its buildings. The most important building is the school house, which the community prized as representing the future of its children. In use until 1972, it is furnished as it would have been on a school day in 1915. The park arranges events to celebrate the former community's history, and the park's visitor center features a film about the site. An annual re-dedication ceremony reaffirms the vision of the original pioneers.

Col. Allensworth's residence is preserved and furnished in the 1912-period style. It contains items from his life in the military service and the ministry. A small display of farm equipment is a reminder of the Allensworth economic base. A public monument, designed by Ron Husband, has been funded by the City of Monrovia, California.

Notes

References

Further reading

External links

 San Diego Chapter No 12, Friends of Allensworth
 Colonel Allensworth State Historic Park
 

American city founders
Buffalo Soldiers
1842 births
1914 deaths
African-American history of California
History of the San Joaquin Valley
African Americans in the American Old West
African Americans in the American Civil War
Union Navy sailors
United States Army chaplains
19th-century Baptist ministers from the United States
20th-century Baptist ministers from the United States
African-American Baptist ministers
Military personnel from Louisville, Kentucky
People from Tulare County, California
Pedestrian road incident deaths
Burials at Angelus-Rosedale Cemetery
Road incident deaths in California
People from Jefferson Parish, Louisiana
People from Georgetown, Ohio
Baptists from Louisiana
Baptists from Kentucky
19th-century American slaves
United States Army colonels
African-American United States Navy personnel
19th-century American military personnel
19th-century African-American people