[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of South African slang words

erb meaning 'to steal'. (e.g. "I will rop you of that kief watch.")
 saamie/saarmie – a sandwich
 scheme – to think or plan to do something (e.g. "I scheme we should go home now"; usage evolved from the hyperbole "What are you scheming?" asked of a person deep in thought.)
 schweet – a variation of the expression "sweet"
 siff – if something is gross or disgusting or ugly. "Did you see her oufit? It was totally siff!"
 skipper – a t-shirt
 skyrocket/sky-rocket – refers to a portable toilet.
 slops – flip-flops
 speak goat – derogatory term for speaking Afrikaans
 soutpiel – a derogatory term for someone of British descent. Lit. salt dick, one who has one foot in England and one foot in South Africa, with their penis dangling in the Atlantic Ocean. Sometimes shortened to soutie.
 spinning – alongside its original English meaning (to spin or turn), it also refers to a popular local motorsport culture. Whereby a driver would spin his car's wheels while performing a doughnut and various other drift-style manoeuvres in front of an audience.
 swak – see "swat". From the Afrikaans for "weak"
 swat – carrying out an action resulting in an undesirable or negative outcome; "when you chaffed my cherrie the other day, it was swat oke.  Totally swat"; "Moderating a list of slang words is impossible and totally swat oke"; "Changing this word to swak would be totally swat oke".
 smaak – to like something; "Did you see that car driving down the road? Yeah, I smaak it so much."
 shame – a casual South African re-action to something whether it is good or bad.
 takkies, tekkies – sneakers; sports shoes, perhaps from when the soles were made of tacky crepe rubber.  As in "slap takkie when the robot tunes favour:" hit the gas when the traffic light says go.
 tata/ta ta/ta-ta – a goodbye greeting of British origin.
 taxi – alongside the original meaning, it is also often shouted in bars or restaurants when someone accidentally spills their drink. Basically, this person is obviously so drunk that a taxi should be called immediately to take them home.
 tickey – thruppence, three pence, from the days of pounds, shillings and pence before 1960.  "You could get a tickey for returning a coke bottle and three tickeys would buy you an eskimo pie". A tickey-box was a payphone, which cost a tickey to make a call.
 town – the city centre (CBD is used in more formal contexts), e.g. "It's too much of a headache to find parking in town, so I go to the mall instead". Also used to refer to the city of Durban when in any of the smaller towns along the south coast between Durban and Port Shepstone. "Hey china, lets go for a jol in town tonight!"
 traffic circle – roundabout (road)
 chune – to talk back or give someone lip ("Are you tuning me skeef?")
 zamalek – Black Label Lager, locally brewed under licence; derived from the Egyptian football team of the same name because of the team colours. A very popular local beer because of its high alcohol content.

Slang words from Afrikaans (Afrikanerisms)