[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Human rights in Algeria

the family and society". It asked Algeria specifically to promote equal opportunity in the workplace, to eliminate sexual stereotypes from school curricula, in the media, and among the judiciary, to pass legislation on violence against women, ensure that the definition of rape includes spousal rape.

In November 2019, a new constitution was approved by 66% of voters in a referendum, with a national turnout of 23%, a historical low. The new constitution included within it protections for women from "all forms of violence in all places and circumstances" in addition to the provision of "shelters, care centres, appropriate means of redress and free legal assistance". Despite this, it was reported that feminicides continued into 2020, with at least 36 murders of women and girls.

Children's rights

A child can inherit Algerian nationality from either parent. The child of a Muslim father is automatically Muslim. Education through high school is free and, up to age 16, compulsory. Although illegal, child abuse is a problem, attributed to a "culture of violence". Child sexual abuse is technically punishable by 10-20 years in prison but offenders rarely receive such long sentences. Algeria is not a signatory of the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction.

There is no organized system of adoption in Algeria, and orphans and other children are placed with guardians in accordance with the so-called "Kafala" system, under which the children are in a "precarious" situation, with very little in the way of individual rights, according to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child. The system is inconsistent with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.

Freedom of Assembly 
Human Rights Watch said in its annual report -2015-2016- that Algerian authorities continued to suppress peaceful protests by prohibiting all kind of gatherings held without prior approval. According to Article 97 of the penal code, organizing or participating in an unauthorized gathering, even if it is peaceful, is regarding a crime and imposes a penalty of up to one year in prison. In February, a court sentenced eight members of the National Committee for the Defense of the Rights of Unemployed Workers to one-year prison after convicting them of "unauthorized gathering" and "exercising pressure on the decisions of magistrates".

Disabled people's rights

Discrimination on the basis of disability is illegal, but this law is not well enforced, and social prejudice is common.

LGBT rights

Homosexuality and lesbianism are punishable by up to 3 years imprisonment with fines up to 10,000 dinars, torture, beatings, or vigilante execution. Police join in on the attacks, are complicit, or turn a blind eye. There is intense social discrimination, and very few gay people live openly. Gender expression is banned and discrimination is rampant.

HIV/AIDS rights

There is social discrimination against people with HIV/AIDS; the government reported in 2022 that it does not take measures to specifically prevent and treat HIV/AIDS in the LGBTQI+ community.

Refugee and asylum seekers' rights

The country has provisions for helping refugees and asylum seekers, and works with the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and other groups. Algeria has helped some such individuals from sub-Saharan Africa while turning away many others. In 2020, 17, 000 mostly sub-Saharan migrants were expelled from the country, including some asylum seekers.

Employees' rights

Government approval is required to form unions, and a union can lose its legal status for various reasons. Strikes are permitted, but require government approval, and are only allowed after two weeks of mediation or conciliation. Collective bargaining is permitted. Forced labor is prohibited. The Ministry of Labor is supposed to enforce the ban on child labor, but 1.5 million Algerian children work, mostly on farms and in shops. There is a low minimum wage, but enforcement of it is inconsistent. however, the Algerian government is helping the workers with benefits. There are rules about work hours and the like which are better enforced in the public than in the private sector.

Rights of persons under arrest