[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Reliable Replacement Warhead

quirements.  In providing funds for 2006, the Appropriations Committee specified, "any weapons design under the RRW program must stay within the military requirements of the existing deployed stockpile and any new weapon design must stay within the design parameters validated by past nuclear tests".

According to a Task Force of the Secretary of Energy's Advisory Board (SEAB), the RRW program and weapon designs should have the following characteristics:
 Support an adaptable 1,700-2,200 weapon sustained force level (3.1)
 Resolve an issue with the weapons stockpile within 12 months
 Adapt a weapon to a new requirement in 18 months
 Design a new weapon within 36 months
 Be ready for full production within 48 months
 Be capable of conducting an underground nuclear test within 18 months
 Produce all new weapons using Insensitive High Explosive (see TATB and Plastic bonded explosive) and replace all existing weapons which use other explosives (3.1.2)
 Produce new weapons with the full spectrum of security and use control safety features available today, some of which are intrinsic to the basic design of a weapon and cannot possibly be retrofitted into the design of an existing weapon (3.1.3)
 Designs which trade off higher weight and larger volume to maximise: (3.1.4)
 Certification without nuclear testing
 Inexpensive manufacture and disassembly
 Ease of maintenance, surveillance, and disposition
 Modularity (primaries, secondaries, non-nuclear) across systems
 Maximizing component reuse and minimizing life-cycle costs
 Comparable or improved levels of reliability to existing designs, using larger margins and simpler components (3.1.5)
 Lower cost (3.1.6)
 Designs which can be designed and certified without necessarily undergoing nuclear testing (3.1.7)
 Consolidation of many nuclear weapon production and maintenance functions to one site (4.1)
 (in passing) Designs avoiding the use of beryllium or beryllium Oxide in the weapon fission reflector (4.6)

However, the full SEAB disavowed the Task Force's recommendations regarding the RRW, because the Task Force did not consider the program's potentially adverse impacts on U.S. nonproliferation objectives, which were beyond its expertise.

The RRW program has not to date publicly announced that it has developed any new nuclear weapon designs which are intended to be placed into production.  Presumably, once that occurs, the weapons will receive numbers in the US warhead designation sequence, which currently runs from the Mark 1 nuclear bomb (aka Little Boy) to the W91 nuclear warhead, which was cancelled in the 1990s.  RRW designs would presumably receive designations after that number, though new RNEP nuclear bunker buster weapons could conceivably be type-standardized and numbered prior to any RRW reaching that point, if the RNEP program does proceed.

Selected design

On March 2, 2007, the NNSA announced that the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory RRW design had been selected for the initial RRW production version.

One of the selection reasons given was that the LLNL proposed design was more closely tied to historical underground tested warhead designs.  It was described by Thomas P. D'Agostino, acting head of the National Nuclear Security Administration, as having been based on a design which was test fired in the 1980s, but never entered service.

LLNL staff have previously hinted in the press that LLNL was considering a design entry based on the tested but never deployed W89 design.
This warhead had been proposed as a W88 warhead replacement as early as 1991.  The W89 design was already equipped with all then-current safety features, including insensitive high explosives, fire-resistant pits, and advanced detonator safety systems.  The W89 was also reportedly designed using recycled pits from the earlier W68 nuclear weapon program, recoated in vanadium to provide the temperature resistance.  The W89 warhead was test fired in the 1980s.  It had entered Phase 2A technical definition and cost study in November, 1986, and Phase 3 development engineering and was assigned the numerical designation W89 in January 1988.  The lead designer, Bruce Goodwin, referred to the primary as the "SKUA9" design which he said had been tested a number of times.

The W89 warhead design was a  by  weapon, with a weight of  and yield of .  As noted above, major safety features inherent in the tested W89 design include:
  Insensitive and fire-resistant LX-17 Polymer-bonded explosive, a type of high explosive using TATB as its main explosive ingredient (see Insensitive munitions)
 Fire-resistant pit
 Type D Permissive Action Link
 Strong link weak link detonation chain safety mechanisms