[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neferure

lance of patriarchal power in a drastic way. Neferure's presence has been all but obliterated from the material record, however one Egyptologist has attributed a large relief in the Mortuary Temple of Hatshepsut originally depicted Neferure but was later modified to depict Hatshepsut's mother Ahmes.

Death
It is possible that Neferure died during the reign of her mother. She is mentioned in Senenmut's first tomb, which he had built in Regnal Year 7. Neferure is also depicted on a Year 11 stela in Serabit el-Khadim, but is completely absent from Senenmut's second tomb, which dates to Year 16 of Hatshepsut. No record has been found recording that she married Thutmose III, however, there is research that suggests that she did and was the mother of his eldest son. On two depictions the name Satiah is recorded as the wife of Thutmose, and seems to have replaced that of Neferure, which had been the original name recorded; one of the depictions is associated with the title “Great Royal Wife”, the other with “God's Wife”, a title which Satiah does bear later on other inscriptions. All of the titles associated with Neferure are not found ascribed to Satiah however.

Burial and tomb
A tomb thought to be constructed for her was found atop a sheer cliff by archeologist Howard Carter in Wady C of Wady Gabbanat el-Qurud. The connection of this tomb to Neferure is based on the presence of a weathered vertical cartouche containing her name cut into the cliff below the tomb entrance. The tomb itself consists of a passageway that leads to an elongated chamber, a second corridor leads off to the right ending in a bay and a niche; it was found to be mostly empty. It was noted that the tomb had been used, however, since the ceiling was smoothed and the walls plastered; traces of ochre and yellow paints could be defined. The archaeologists who inspected the tomb were certain that Neferure had not outlived her mother, Hatshepsut. Alternatively, her tomb may have been in Wady A, close to the tomb quarried for Hatshepsut as Great Royal Wife.

References

External links
Statue of Senenmut and Neferure
Hatshepsut: from Queen to Pharaoh, an exhibition catalog from The Metropolitan Museum of Art (fully available online as PDF), which contains material on Neferure (see index)
Theban Mapping Project – Plan of the tomb and other details.

15th-century BC Egyptian women
15th-century BC clergy
Ancient Egyptian priestesses
Princesses of the Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt
Hatshepsut