[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# CSS Louisiana

her too high or too low, and had to be modified. Because the workmen and their tools occupied much of the gun deck, the gun crews were unable to practice. In addition, the crew was incomplete, as a result of the hasty commissioning; to handle the guns,  soldiers had to be transferred from the forts.

After nearly a week of bombardment, Farragut concluded that it was ineffective, so he moved his fleet past the forts on the night of  24 April. Because of her position on the river bank, Louisiana could use neither her stern guns nor those on her port side. The magnitude of her contribution to the ensuing firefight between the forts and the Federal fleet is not known; General Duncan stated that she may have fired as few as twelve shots. On the other hand, testimony from her enemies indicates that she exchanged shots with at least one attacking ship,  (misidentified as  in the Confederate reports). Three shots from Louisiana went all the way through the Federal vessel, while the return broadside bounced harmlessly off the Rebel's armor. Indeed, the armor was effective; only three men were killed on Louisiana, all of them in exposed positions. One of them was her captain, Commander McIntosh.

Destruction

Once the Federal fleet had passed out of range, Louisiana had no further part in the action. Her fate was henceforth tied to that of the forts, which prepared for an expected attack by the Union army accompanying the fleet, led by Major General Benjamin Butler. However, on the night of 28 April, the enlisted men in Fort Jackson mutinied and forced the surrender of both forts to Commander Porter. The naval officers on Louisiana were not consulted at any time during the negotiations between Porter and General Duncan, so they considered themselves not bound to respect the truce declared by the two sides. While discussions of terms were going on, they decided not to let their ship fall into enemy hands. Louisiana was set afire, and her crew went ashore. The flames soon parted the lines that held her to the bank, and she drifted down the river. When she was nearly abreast of Fort St. Philip, the fire reached her magazine, and she blew up with a blast that killed a soldier there.

Assessment

Perhaps to counter charges that the Confederate Navy was responsible, by its inaction, for the failure of the forts to turn back Farragut's fleet, Commander John K. Mitchell, second in command under Commodore Whittle, pointed out several shortcomings of Louisiana, any one of which would have seriously compromised her fighting ability.
1. The arrangement of the paddlewheels meant that the after wheel was always in the wash of the other, with the result that its power was wasted.
2. The wash also created an eddy at the rudders, making it impossible to steer.
3. The gun ports were too small to allow either elevation or traverse. Consequently, she would have to fight at close range, and furthermore her guns covered only 40 degrees of azimuth.
4. The gun deck was uninhabitable in summer, particularly when the boilers were in use.

Today

The wreckage of the Louisiana lays at the bottom of the Mississippi River.  In November 1981, it was magnetically located by NUMA. The official website of the search is here.

See also
 Bibliography of American Civil War naval history

Notes
Abbreviations used in these notes:
ORN I (Official records, navies, series I): Official records of the Union and Confederate Navies in the War of the Rebellion.

References
 
 
 Official Records of the Union and Confederate Navies in the War of the Rebellion, Series I,  27 vols.; Series II, 3 vols. Government Printing Office, 1894 - 1922.
 Scharf, J. Thomas, History of the Confederate States Navy from its organization to the surrender of its last vessel, etc.. Rogers and Sherwood, 1887; reprint, Random House, 1996. .

External links
 Hunt For the Lost Confederate Fleet
 U.S. Naval Historical Center Official Website

1862 ships
Ironclad warships of the Confederate States Navy
Louisiana in the American Civil War
Louisiana-related ships
Naval magazine explosions
Maritime incidents in April 1862
Ships built in New Orleans
Shipwrecks of the Mississippi River
Shipwrecks of the American Civil War