[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

at are not of multi-unit residences and smoking in cars are exempt from the ban.
Oakland, bans smoking within 25 feet of an entrance, exit, window, or air intake of the building of most enclosed places where smoking is prohibited (e.g., workplaces, service areas, common areas and no-smoking units of multi-unit housing); exemption is made outside of bars provided the smoke does not enter prohibited areas. Smoking is also banned in certain unenclosed areas, including service areas (e.g., bus stops, cab stands, ATMs).
Palm Springs, April 2011, banned smoking in all city parks.
Pasadena, October 27, 2008, banned smoking in certain outdoor areas, including shopping malls, unenclosed areas of bars and restaurants, service waiting lines (e.g. ATMs, bus stops, etc.) and within  from them, and within  of doorways, windows, or ventilation areas of enclosed places where smoking is banned. Also banned smoking in multi-unit housing, owned or leased, and all public events, including the Rose Parade.
San Diego, July 11, 2006, banned smoking at all City of San Diego beaches and parks, including all beaches from La Jolla to Sunset Cliffs.
San Francisco, January 2005, banned smoking in all city parks. January 2013, banned smoking at all outdoor "street fairs and festivals", with exceptions for legal medical marijuana and small neighborhood block parties.
San Jose, October 2007, banned in all city parks.
San Luis Obispo, August 2, 1990, became the first city in the world to ban smoking in all public buildings. On January 15, 2010, the city's municipal code amendment included city parks and outdoor recreational facilities as smoke-free areas. In April 2010, City Council adopted an ordinance that bans smoking in all areas frequented by the public, with limited exceptions, including unenclosed areas at certain drinking establishments.
Santa Barbara & Goleta, Local laws in Santa Barbara County and in the City of Goleta prohibit smoking within 30 feet of any building or area where smoking is prohibited. Ashtrays are also banned within a 30-foot smoke-free area.
Santa Monica, 2006, banned smoking within  of entrances, exits, or operable windows of a public building (such as City Hall and the courthouse); in local parks (including parking lots); on the Third Street Promenade; on local beaches; and on the Santa Monica Pier (except within designated zones).
In 2012, the California Legislature passed the following into law, California Civil Code Section 1947.5.
(a) A landlord of a residential dwelling unit, as defined in Section 1940, or his or her agent, may prohibit the smoking of a cigarette, as defined in Section 104556 of the Health and Safety Code, or other tobacco product on the property or in any building or portion of the building, including any dwelling unit, other interior or exterior area, or the premises on which it is located, in accordance with this article.
(b) (1) Every lease or rental agreement entered into on or after January 1, 2012, for a residential dwelling unit on property on any portion of which the landlord has prohibited the smoking of cigarettes or other tobacco products pursuant to this article shall include a provision that specifies the areas on the property where smoking is prohibited, if the lessee has not previously occupied the dwelling unit.
(2) For a lease or rental agreement entered into before January 1, 2012, a prohibition against the smoking of cigarettes or other tobacco products in any portion of the property in which smoking was previously permitted shall constitute a change of the terms of tenancy, requiring adequate notice in writing, to be provided in the manner prescribed in Section 827.
(c) A landlord who exercises the authority provided in subdivision (a) to prohibit smoking shall be subject to federal, state, and local requirements governing changes to the terms of a lease or rental agreement for tenants with leases or rental agreements that are in existence at the time that the policy limiting or prohibiting smoking is adopted.
(d) This section shall not be construed to preempt any local ordinance in effect on or before January 1, 2012, or any provision of a local ordinance in effect on or after January 1, 2012, that restricts the smoking of cigarettes or other tobacco products.
(e) A limitation or prohibition of the use of any tobacco product shall not affect any other term or condition of the tenancy, nor shall this section be construed to require statutory authority to establish or enforce any other lawful term or condition of the tenancy.
(Added by Stats. 2011, Ch. 264, Sec. 2. Effective January 1, 2012.)

Colorado