[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Grand Contraband Camp, Virginia

The Grand Contraband Camp was located in Elizabeth City County, Virginia, on the Virginia Peninsula near Fort Monroe, during and immediately after the American Civil War. The area was a refuge for escaped slaves who the Union forces refused to return to their former Confederate masters, by defining them as "contraband of war". The Grand Contraband Camp was the first self-contained black community in the United States and occupied the area of the downtown section of the present-day independent city of Hampton, Virginia.

Confederate slaves in Union hands: legal status 
When Virginia seceded from the United States in 1861, the US Army retained control of Fort Monroe at the eastern tip of the Virginia Peninsula. During much of the American Civil War, the commander at Fort Monroe was Brigadier General Benjamin Butler, a lawyer by profession and an opponent of slavery. 

Three slaves, Frank Baker, James Townsend, and Sheppard Mallory had been contracted by their owners to the Confederate Army under General Benjamin Huger to help construct defense batteries at Sewell's Point, across the mouth of Hampton Roads from Union-held Fort Monroe. They escaped at night and rowed a skiff to Old Point Comfort, where they sought asylum at Fort Monroe.

Prior to the War, slave owners could legally request their return (as property) under the federal Fugitive Slave Act of 1850. However, since Virginia had seceded from the Union, General Butler took the position that if Virginia considered itself a foreign power, then he was under no obligation to return the three men. He determined to hold them as "contraband of war" since the Confederate states considered slaves to be chattel (property). When Confederate Major John B. Cary requested their return, Butler denied it. The three men worked for the Union Army but were given minimal pay.

The term "contraband" in referring to escaped slaves first entered the Official Records in U.S. Navy correspondence on August 10, 1861, when Acting Master William Budd of the gunboat USS Resolute used the term.

The US Confiscation Act of 1861 clarified the issue of slaves' status during the war; it declared that Union forces could seize any property used by the Confederate military, including slaves. Many, including slaves, saw this as a means of unofficially freeing the slaves from Southerners' control, and they began to go to Union lines.

Their journey to freedom was fraught with difficulties. Besides the risk of re-enslavement from Confederate patrols, Union pickets were apt to loot refugees when possible. A contemporary account from the American Freedmen's Inquiry Commission:

The camp is created 
The word spread quickly among southeastern Virginia's slave communities. While becoming a "contraband" did not mean full freedom, many slaves found it preferable to staying where they were. The day after Butler's decision, many more escaped slaves found their way to Fort Monroe and appealed for "contraband" status. The area attracted those slaves who could escape, which included determined families and women with children.

As the number of former slaves grew too large to be housed inside the Fort, they began to build housing from the ruins of Hampton left by the Confederates.  They called their new settlement the Grand Contraband Camp (which they nicknamed "Slabtown"). By the end of the war in April 1865, less than four years later, an estimated 10,000 slaves had applied to gain "contraband" status, and many lived nearby. The contraband slaves of the Virginia Peninsula are credited with establishing the United States' first self-contained African-American community, where they quickly created schools, churches, businesses, and other social organizations.

Other contraband camps sprang up in many areas during the Civil War, often near Union bases. One mile from Slabtown was Sugar Hill, a contraband camp established in 1861 and associated with the Union's Camp Hamilton which would later become part of the town of Phoebus. Another notable location was at Roanoke Island on North Carolina's Outer Banks. This was the former site of the "Lost Colony" of 1587, almost 300 years earlier.

Contrabands join the Union cause 
Many contraband slaves and free blacks voluntarily served in the Union Army, forming the United States Colored Troops (USCT). Some also became scouts, guides, spies, cooks, hospital workers, blacksmiths, and mule-drivers, contributing immensely to the Union war effort for the balance of the Civil War. Numerous Union officers became more aware of both the potential and plight of the contrabands, and worked for and made contributions to educational efforts for them, even after the War.