[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ștefan Voitec

till had "comradely rapports" with PCR activists. In August 1923, Voitec signed up for the League of Human Rights, founded by intellectuals of various hues, and led by Vasile Stroescu. In April of the following year, he signed a letter of protest against Pătrășcanu's arrest for communist subversion.

In the meantime, Voitec took a degree from the University of Bucharest School of Polytechnics and Mathematical Faculty (though Pandrea claims he never actually graduated). During his student years, he rallied with the Union of Independent Students, where he was colleagues with Șerban Cioculescu, Octav Livezeanu, Timotei Marin, and Dionisie Pippidi. Finding employment as a substitute teacher at Sfântul Iosif High School in Bucharest, he was forced out of the profession by the state authorities, in 1925. He worked as an editor of Socialismul in 1925–1927, while also reaching out to the "bourgeois democratic press", provided it was "independent and honest". He was for a while a junior editor of Adevărul daily, alongside Iosif Aurescu, who described Voitec as a "tiny little man, of indeterminate age". Journalist George Macovescu also notes that, "for a while", Voitec was the "staunch and careful" curator of Adevăruls reference library and reading room. He married an Italian woman, Victoria Voitec, who is said to have suffered from a chronic illness which required changes of climate; they had a daughter, born in October 1934.

By February 1926, Voitec and Lothar Rădăceanu had joined the Federation of Socialist Parties, which they represented at negotiations to form a political alliance with the PCR front organization, or Peasant Workers' Bloc (BMȚ). In July 1926, he was co-opted by the League Against Terror, alongside Pătrășcanu, Traian Bratu, Constantin Costa-Foru, Mihail Cruceanu, Elena Filipovici, Gala Galaction, Eugen Heroveanu, Barbu Lăzăreanu, Constantin Mille, Panait Mușoiu,  Constantin Ion Parhon, Eugen Relgis, Mihail Sadoveanu, Gheorghe Tașcă, and Paul Zarifopol. Voitec was also briefly affiliated with the Social Democratic Party (PSDR), created in 1927 (the year of "great efforts to unify the non-communist left") around Constantin Titel Petrescu. In July 1928, he and Leon Ghelerter formed their own Socialist Workers Party of Romania (PSMR), which attempted to unify radical socialists opposed to the PSDR's reformist stance. As a short-term goal, this group favored a cartel with the BMȚ during the December 1928 election. However, it also denounced the PCR as "sectarian", and recruited from its disenchanted members. Over the following period, Voitec and his colleagues gravitated toward Trotskyism, which deepened their ideological break with the outlawed PCR. According to Pandrea, Voitec was also an accountant for a credit cooperative "founded with Jewish American money", which also sponsored Caritas Hospital, serving Romanian Jews. Pandrea alleges that Voitec and Ghelerter used money they "pinched out" of this enterprise to finance the PSMR, a "two-, three-, four-, five-member party".

PSU years

Their PSMR was later joined by breakaways from the PCR, beginning with Gheorghe Cristescu; Constantin Popovici also joined, turning the group into a United Socialist Party (PSU). Unlike the PCR, this new alliance was viewed as harmless by Romanian authorities. Both Voitec and Ghelerter spoke at the workers' meeting in Grivița on May Day 1930, during which "a number of communists who wished to provoke scandal were removed from the location." In 1929, Voitec had been co-opted by the Amnesty Committee, an intellectuals' pressure group which demanded lenience for prisoners serving time on political charges. Serving on its Initiative Committee, he was colleagues with Costa-Foru, Cruceanu, Galaction, Parhon, Pătrășcanu, Nicolae Alexandri, and Petre Constantinescu-Iași. Reportedly, in 1933 Voitec arranged for the newly released Mihail Gheorghiu Bujor to be interned and cared for by Ghelerter.

During the 1930s, the PSU assumed an intermediary position between PCR Stalinists and independent Trotskyists. Trotskyist David Korner acknowledged that Ghelerter helped him circulate pamphlets and recruit affiliates, including inside the PSU itself, but criticized him for his trust in "bourgeois legality". By October 1934, Voitec and Popovici had sealed an alliance between the PSU and Constantinescu-Iași's National Anti-fascist Committee (CNA) and the Labor League, establishing a panel for coordinating actions against the far-right's Iron Guard and National-Christian Defense League. A month later, a delegation comprising both, alongside Constantinescu-Iași, Mihai Roller and Scarlat Callimachi, issued a public protest against perceived injustices against PSU and CNA activists. It referenced allegations that Nicolae Ceaușescu, at the time a junior CNA affiliate, had been brutalized by Police.