[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Economic history of China (1949–present)

The economic history of China describes the changes and developments in China's economy from the founding of the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1949 to the present day. The speed of China's transformation in this period from one of the poorest countries countries to one of the world's largest economies is unmatched in history.

China has been the fastest growing economy in the world since the 1980s, with an average annual growth rate of 10% from 1978 to 2005, based on government statistics. Its GDP reached  trillion in 2005. Since the end of the Maoist period in 1978, China has been transitioning from a state dominated planned socialist economy to a mixed economy. This transformation required a complex number of reforms in China's fiscal, financial, enterprise, governance and legal systems and the ability for the government to be able to flexibly respond to the unintended consequences of these changes. This transformation has been accompanied by high levels of industrialization and urbanization, a process that has influenced every aspect of China's society, culture and economy.

Since the PRC was founded in 1949, China has experienced a surprising and turbulent economic development process. It has experienced revolution, socialism, Maoism, and finally the gradual economic reform and fast economic growth that has characterized the post-Maoist period. The period of the Great Leap Forward famine negatively impacted the economy. The chaos of the Cultural Revolution also disrupted the economy. However, since the period of economic reform began in 1978, China has seen major improvements in average living standards and has experienced relative social stability. In that period, China has evolved from an isolated socialist state into a backbone of the world economy.

Economic policies, 1949–1989
When the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) came to power in 1949, its leaders' fundamental long-range goals were to transform China into a modern, powerful, socialist nation. In economic terms these objectives meant industrialization, improvement of living standards, narrowing of income differences, and production of modern military equipment. As the years passed, the leadership continued to subscribe to these goals. But the economic policies formulated to achieve them were dramatically altered on several occasions in response to major changes in the economy, internal politics, and international political and economic developments.

The urban and rural economies differed significantly. Throughout the Mao era, China's rural economy was largely demonetized and decommodified. Unlike urban residents, rural Chinese handled money and industrial commodities rarely.

Recovery from war, 1949–52
In 1949, China's economy was suffering from the debilitating effects of decades of the Chinese Civil War. Many mines and factories had been damaged or destroyed. At the end of the war with Japan in 1945, Soviet troops had dismantled about half the machinery in the major industrial areas of the northeast and shipped it to the Soviet Union. Transportation, communication, and power systems had been destroyed or had deteriorated because of lack of maintenance. Agriculture was disrupted, and food production was some 30 percent below its pre-war peak level. Further, economic ills were compounded by one of the most virulent inflation rates in world history.

As the Nationalists fled during their defeat in the Chinese Civil War, they stripped China of liquid assets including gold, silver, and the country's dollar reserves. Nationalists forces also attempted to firebomb industrial sites, but workers were able to stop them at many such locations. By the time the Nationalists were defeated, commerce had been destroyed, the national currency rendered valueless, and the economy was based on barter.

The Common Program approved in late September 1949 by the Chinese People's Political consultative Conference prioritized ownership of the state-owned economy, although it also gave consideration to some private interests. It did not seek to eliminate capitalism as a whole, instead encouraging private enterprises viewed as beneficial to the national economy and sought to implement a mixed economy. At the founding of the PRC, the Central Finance and Economy Commission under the transitional Government Administrative Council was the single central government organ in charge of national economic planning and construction management. It was led by Chen Yun and Bo Yibo. Its major priorities were restoring national economic order, price stabilization, currency stabilization, establishing a management mechanism for the planned economy, and preparing for the First Five-Year Plan.