[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# List of coups and coup attempts

: A military coup overthrew Isabel Perón and led to the National Reorganization Process.
1976 Sudanese coup attempt on 2 July, saw the fighting between one thousand insurgents of Sadiq al Mahdi followers, armed and trained by Libya, against President Gaafar al-Nimeiry government in  Khartoum, Sudan.

1977
Operation Fair Play in Pakistan: Chief of Army Staff General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq led a coup to overthrow the government of Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
1977 Seychelles coup d'état: Supporters of the United Seychelles party overthrew President James Mancham and installed France-Albert René as president.
Thailand: A group of Royal Thai Army officers, led by General Prasert Thammasiri, failed to overthrow Prime Minister Thanin Kraivichien.
October 1977 Thai coup d'état: General Kriangsag Chamanan led a bloodless military coup against Prime Minister Thanin Kraivichien.
1977 Sudanese coup attempt in Juba on 2 February, was an unsuccessful coup, led by 12 Air Force members who had previously been members of Anyanya.

1978
Saur Revolution (also known as the April Revolution) in Afghanistan: The Soviet-backed People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan overthrew and killed President Mohammed Daoud Khan, and Nur Muhammad Taraki took power. 
1978 Somali coup d'état attempt: A group of military officials failed to overthrow President Siad Barre. Most of the plotters, including coup leader Colonel Mohamed Osman Irro, were summarily executed. However, some prominent officials, including Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, survived and formed the first resistance group against Barre known as the Somali Salvation Democratic Front.
1978 Mauritanian coup d'état: Chief of Army Staff Colonel Mustafa Ould Salek led a bloodless military coup that ousted long-time President Moktar Ould Daddah. 
 Operation Galaxia in Spain: A plot to stop the Spanish transition to democracy was planned for 17 November. However, some officers present at the planning informed their superiors, and the plan was thwarted.
Bolivia: After the annulment of a fraudulent election in which term-limited Hugo Banzer ensured the win of his surrogate, Juan Pereda, then denounced Pereda and blamed him for the rigged election, Pereda launched a coup and was sworn in as president. Pereda himself was overthrown several months later by David Padilla, who briefly served as president until new elections could be held.

1979
Iranian Revolution: Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and the Pahlavi dynasty were overthrown, and Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini took power. 
Coup d'état of December Twelfth in South Korea: Major General Chun Doo-hwan led a coup against Choi Kyu-hah, and early the next year installed himself as president.
Bolivia: Alberto Natusch enacted a coup against the interim government of Wálter Guevara, but resigned after just sixteen days. As a face-saving measure, Natusch secured an agreement that Guevara wouldn't return as president, and Lidia Gueiler became interim president. 
1979 Mauritanian coup d'état: The bloodless military coup was led by Colonel Ahmed Ould Bouceif and Colonel Mohamed Khouna Ould Haidalla, who seized effective power from the President, Colonel Mustafa Ould Salek. 
June 4th revolution in Ghana: Jerry John Rawlings and others led a military uprising that removed leader Fred Akuffo from power, following an unsuccessful attempt the month before.
1979 Equatorial Guinea coup d'état: Deputy defense minister Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo overthrew his uncle, Francisco Macías Nguema, and established the Supreme Military Council.
Operation Barracuda and the overthrow of the Central African Empire: A French-led coup overthrew Emperor Jean-Bédel Bokassa on 20 September, ending the Central African Empire and restoring the Central African Republic with David Dacko as president.
1979 Salvadoran coup d'état: Military officers overthrew President Carlos Humberto Romero and established the Revolutionary Government Junta of El Salvador.
Operation Storm-333: Babrak Karmal overthrows Hafizullah Amin and established a pro-Soviet, Parcham-dominated government.

1980–1989