[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Cultural impact of the Chernobyl disaster

ities. In volume 2, The Fall, corrupt businessman Eldritch Palmer meets with "The Master", the leader of the rogue vampires, in Pripyat, to plan the vampires' takeover of the world.
 Markiyan Kamysh's novel Stalking the Atomic City: Life Among the Decadent and the Depraved of Chornobyl(2022).

Music

 Polish singer Jacek Kaczmarski wrote a song titled "Dzień Gniewu II (Czarnobyl)" (Day of Wrath II (Chernobyl), written in May 1986 and released a year later), about the day of the disaster in Pripyat, its citizens unaware of the unfolding tragedy. The song juxtaposes calm, ballada-like music with the perspective of imminent death (such as "Around the well in the backyard / wet, smiley faces / a child chases wheel / it is being killed as well"), serving as a protest song against the Soviet handling of the disaster and the secrecy that surrounded it.
The 1986 song "Jijiji" by Argentinian rock band Patricio Rey y sus Redonditos de Ricota was inspired by this incident
David Bowie's 1987 song "Time Will Crawl" was inspired by the disaster.
The incident also inspired the song "Burli" from the 1987 album Liebe, Tod & Teufel by Austrian pop group Erste Allgemeine Verunsicherung. It tells the story of a "Burli" (Austrian German for "boy") born with multiple physical deformities following a nuclear accident, concluding with his marriage to a girl with similar deformities as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. ("Auch sie hat einiges zuviel / als Andenken an Tschernobyl" "She also has a bit too much / As a souvenir of Chernobyl".) The single was denied airplay on West German radio due to being considered insensitive to victims of the disaster and people with disabilities generally.
 English heavy metal band Saxon describe their personal experiences of the disaster in the track "Red Alert" on their 1988 album, Destiny.
 The Japanese punk band The Blue Hearts' song "Chernobyl", on their 1988 single "Blue Hearts Theme", was written in protest of nuclear power. The band's record label at the time had ties to the nuclear industry, thus the group left the label to release the song.
 "Mayday in Kiev", a song by Watchtower on their 1989 album Control and Resistance. The song title is a pun on the May Day celebrations, which were held in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv only days after the explosion as if nothing had happened, and the emergency signal mayday.
Paul Simon's 1990 song "Can't Run But", found on The Rhythm of the Saints contains references to the disaster.
 The German electronic band Kraftwerk mentions Chernobyl at the beginning of their 1991 remix of their song "Radioactivity", released on the album The Mix. Chernobyl is mentioned along with other places of nuclear incidents and accidents, such as Harrisburg, Sellafield and Hiroshima. The names were included in the remix of the song because some critics had found the original version of the song to be too optimistic towards nuclear energy.
American rap group Outkast makes a reference to the disaster in the song "Millenium" on their second album ATLiens released in 1996. André 3000s lyrics start the song off with the line "Me and everything around me, is unstable like Chernobyl".
 The 1997 song "Spam" by the band Save Ferris claims that the product is made in Chernobyl, to rhyme with the line, "It's pink and it's oval."
Swedish black metal band Craft has a song referring to the disaster called "Reaktor 4" on their second album, Terror Propaganda, released in 2002.
The music video for the 2007 song "What We Made" by British rapper Example is shot on location at Pripyat, focusing on some parts of the city that has been greatly affected by the disaster.
 Crossover thrash band Municipal Waste wrote a song entitled "Wolves of Chernobyl", which was about the effects of the fallout, on their 2009 album Massive Aggressive.
The music video for "Sweet People", performed by Ukraine's Eurovision Song Contest 2010 entry Alyosha, was filmed in Pripyat.
 "Colony Collapse" from the 2014 album Lost Forever // Lost Together by British band Architects makes reference to the disaster.
 Brazilian musician Fredi Endres (of the band Comunidade Nin-Jitsu) calls himself "DJ Chernobyl" in a solo project. The nickname comes from the MTV Brasil Rockgol football championship, where the comedian hosts likened his haircut to the nuclear accident.
 Russian band Amatory dedicated a song titled "Cherno" (Russian: "Черно)" from the album DOOM (2019) to the Chernobyl disaster.
 Ukrainian band Go_A used an aerial shot of the Chernobyl power plant for their music video for the piece Shum for the Eurovision Song Contest 2021.
 South African band Kalahari Surfers released a mini-album in 2019 titled "Chernobyl" which contains the song "Human Wrongs- Chernobyl 25th Anniversary" written by W.Sony'.
 Thrash metal band Megadeth wrote a song entitled "Dogs of Chernobyl" from their 2022 album, The Sick, the Dying... and the Dead!.