[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Lord Loves the One (That Loves the Lord)

intro to Three Dog Night's 1970 hit single "Mama Told Me Not to Come". Along with Harrison, the musicians on the basic track were Jim Keltner (drums), Nicky Hopkins (electric piano) and Klaus Voormann (bass). Part of Harrison's guide vocal from the basic track was retained for the official release.

Among the overdubs, which were completed by the end of February 1973, Harrison added slide guitar and Jim Horn played various saxophone parts that Leng describes as "a straight lift from Harrison's favorite 'Savoy Truffle' model", with baritone saxophone prominent in the mix. Assisting Horn on "The Lord Loves the One", Voormann played one of the tenor saxophone parts, a role he had recently provided on Harry Nilsson's Son of Schmilsson album (1972), to which Harrison and Hopkins also contributed.

Release and representation in album artwork

Apple released Living in the Material World in May 1973 in the United States (June 1973 in Britain), with "The Lord Loves the One (That Loves the Lord)" sequenced as the first track on side two of the LP. According to authors Chip Madinger and Mark Easter, Harrison had considered an alternative running order, whereby the album opener, "Give Me Love (Give Me Peace on Earth)", began side two. The UK cassette format followed the latter sequence, which also placed "The Lord Loves the One" as the second track on side one, following "Sue Me, Sue You Blues". As with eight other songs on Material World, Harrison donated the copyright to "The Lord Loves the One" to the Material World Charitable Foundation, which he launched in April 1973 with a stated aim "to encourage the exploration of alternative life views and philosophies".

Reflecting the lyrical content of songs such as "The Lord Loves the One" and "Living in the Material World", Tom Wilkes's design for the album artwork contrasted a devout spiritual existence with life in the material world. The front of the inner-sleeve insert reproduced a painting from a Prabhupada-published edition of the Bhagavad Gita, depicting Krishna and the warrior prince Arjuna driving a chariot. Part of this image was also used on the LP's side-one face label; in addition, it appeared opposite the words to "The Lord Loves the One" in the lyrics section of the Material World songbook, published by the Charles Hansen sheet music company.

Writing in 1977, author Nicholas Schaffner described the combination of these "color representations of the Hindu scriptures" and the album-wide message espoused by Harrison in "The Lord Loves the One" as "a luxuriant rock devotional designed to transform his fans' stereo equipment into a temple". In a 1982 interview with ISKCON's Mukunda Goswami, Harrison discussed the song's lyrics and referred to his use of the Krishna and Arjuna picture, along with the credit he gave Prabhupada's book, as a "plug" for the Hare Krishna movement.

Critical reception

Contemporary reviews
The song, if not the title alone, was a source of irritation for those critics who deemed Living in the Material World overly preachy and didactic. In a full-page album review in Melody Maker, Michael Watts summarised his impression of Harrison's spiritual message: "One gets this feeling of George, somewhat remote and rarefied, indicting the world for being what it is, although if anybody could change the world it would be an old Beatle." While noting the song as an autobiographical statement on the singer's "struggle to retain personal dignity and peace of mind", Watts wrote: "He's dealing in lofty sentiments and abstractions; not everyone will want to drink of the cup."

In his 1973 album review for the NME, Tony Tyler described Material World as "so damn holy I could scream". Two years later, he and his Beatles: An Illustrated Record co-author Roy Carr remarked of Harrison's religious beliefs: "it's difficult to see why he travelled all the way to India to import a God who, by the sound of him ('The Lord Loves the One [That] Loves the Lord') is as intractable and selfish as the petulant Jehovah of Victorian Sunday schools."

To Stephen Holden of Rolling Stone, the track was "a compelling gospel-flavored rocker ... a stunning achievement that carries the authority of pop scripture". On an album that he considered "a pop religious ceremony for all seasons, one in which Harrison acts as priest, deliberately placing his gifts and his legend into public service for God", Holden added of the song: "I hope that Aretha Franklin gets her hands on it, and soon."