[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Export Wheat Commission

vative and internationally competitive
wheat export sector that continued to provide optimal returns for growers and develop
Australia's broader interests.

Mission
The EWC facilitated the operations of Australia's legislated wheat export arrangements
and informed Government and growers of outcomes.

About
The EWC was an Australian Government agency within the Agriculture, Fisheries and
Forestry portfolio. It operated under the Financial Management and Accountability
Act 1997 and was required to meet related financial management and reporting
requirements. EWC staff were employed under the Public Service Act 1999.
The EWC comprised a Chairman and four other Commissioners, appointed for a
period of up to three years by the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry. The
Commissioners were supported by a Secretariat which comprised up to 16 full-time staff
headed by a Chief Executive Officer (CEO).
The Commissioners were responsible for fulfilling the statutory requirements of the
EWC. The Secretariat assisted the Commissioners in meeting their obligations. The
Commissioners carried out major decision-making functions and provided guidance to
the Acting CEO who had delegated authority to undertake many of the functions and
responsibilities of the EWC. Day-to-day control over core areas of EWC activity rested
with a small executive team who worked closely with Secretariat staff.

Primary functions 
Under the Act the EWC had three functions:
 to control the export of wheat from Australia (other than the export of wheat in bags or containers)
 to monitor AWB International Limited's (AWBI's) performance in relation to the export of wheat and examine and report on the benefits to growers that result from that performance
 to undertake such other functions as administered by the Commission — such as the Non-bulk Wheat Quality Assurance Scheme, that commenced on 27 August 2007.

Operations
In delivering those functions the EWC:
 provided assurance to stakeholders that the export performance of AWBI and the returns to growers were independently and accurately monitored
 increased stakeholder awareness and confidence in the performance monitoring of AWBI
 received and independently assessed bulk wheat export applications from non-AWBI exporters, and made recommendations to the Minister
 granted export consents as directed by the Minister
 monitored and reported on non-AWBI exporter compliance with the conditions of export consents
 responded to stakeholder needs and changes in the EWC's operating environment and contributed to the ongoing development of Australia's wheat export arrangements
 managed operations effectively, consistent with Australian Government corporate governance principles, and sought to inform stakeholders about the EWC and its activities.

People

The Minister
Under the Act, the EWC was required to provide the Minister with a report on its
monitoring of AWBI's export performance and the impact on growers. Known as
the Performance Monitoring Report (PMR), it contained considerable commercial-inconfidence
information. With the late closing of the 2005/06 National Pool, the EWC
produced a 2007 PMR Addendum report to the Minister.

The EWC was also required to notify the Minister of significant wheat export related
events and to keep the Minister informed on the EWC's operations.
The EWC also provided the Minister with a Corporate Plan and an Annual Operational
Plan (AOP) during the year. The EWC presented the Annual Report 2006–07 for
the former Wheat Export Authority to the Minister who tabled it in Parliament on
13 May 2008.

Under the Act, the Minister held the power of veto over bulk wheat exports until
30 June 2008. The EWC processed applications to export wheat in bulk in line with the
published Export Consent Guidelines and referred these to the Minister for decision.

Growers
The EWC reported to growers on the non commercial-in-confidence findings of the
PMR activity through the Growers Report. The Growers Report was published on the
EWC website and mailed to more than 25,000 growers. In addition, with the late closing
of the 2005/06 National Pool, the EWC published the Growers Report 2007 Addendum which was similarly distributed to growers.