[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Valley of stability

I in West Germany. Research in the field flourished after this breakthrough, and to date more than 25 nuclides have been found to exhibit proton emission. The study of proton emission has aided the understanding of nuclear deformation, masses and structure, and it is an example of quantum tunneling.

Two examples of nuclides that emit neutrons are beryllium-13 (mean life ) and helium-5 ().  Since only a neutron is lost in this process, the atom does not gain or lose any protons, and so it does not become an atom of a different element. Instead, the atom will become a new isotope of the original element, such as beryllium-13 becoming beryllium-12 after emitting one of its neutrons.

In nuclear engineering, a prompt neutron is a neutron immediately emitted by a nuclear fission event. Prompt neutrons emerge from the fission of an unstable fissionable or fissile heavy nucleus almost instantaneously.   Delayed neutron decay can occur within the same context, emitted after beta decay of one of the fission products.  Delayed neutron decay can occur at times from a few milliseconds to a few minutes. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission defines a prompt neutron as a neutron emerging from fission within 10−14 seconds.

Island of stability

The island of stability is a region outside the valley of stability where it is predicted that a set of heavy isotopes with near magic numbers of protons and neutrons will locally reverse the trend of decreasing stability in elements heavier than uranium.
The hypothesis for the island of stability is based upon the nuclear shell model, which implies that the atomic nucleus is built up in "shells" in a manner similar to the structure of the much larger electron shells in atoms. In both cases, shells are just groups of quantum energy levels that are relatively close to each other. Energy levels from quantum states in two different shells will be separated by a relatively large energy gap. So when the number of neutrons and protons completely fills the energy levels of a given shell in the nucleus, the binding energy per nucleon will reach a local maximum and thus that particular configuration will have a longer lifetime than nearby isotopes that do not possess filled shells.

A filled shell would have "magic numbers" of neutrons and protons. One possible magic number of neutrons for spherical nuclei is 184, and some possible matching proton numbers are 114, 120 and 126.   These configurations imply that the most stable spherical isotopes would be flerovium-298, unbinilium-304 and unbihexium-310. Of particular note is 298Fl, which would be "doubly magic" (both its proton number of 114 and neutron number of 184 are thought to be magic).  This doubly magic configuration is the most likely to have a very long half-life. The next lighter doubly magic spherical nucleus is lead-208, the heaviest known stable nucleus and most stable heavy metal.

Discussion

The valley of stability can be helpful in interpreting and understanding properties of nuclear decay processes such as decay chains and nuclear fission.

Radioactive decay often proceeds via a sequence of steps known as a decay chain. For example, 238U decays to 234Th which decays to 234mPa and so on, eventually reaching 206Pb:

With each step of this sequence of reactions, energy is released and the decay products move further down the valley of stability towards the line of beta stability.  206Pb is stable and lies on the line of beta stability.

The fission processes that occur within nuclear reactors are accompanied by the release of neutrons that sustain the chain reaction. Fission occurs when a heavy nuclide such as uranium-235 absorbs a neutron and breaks into nuclides of lighter elements such as barium or krypton, usually with the release of additional neutrons. Like all nuclides with a high atomic number, these uranium nuclei require many neutrons to bolster their stability,  so they have a large neutron-proton ratio (N/Z). The nuclei resulting from a fission (fission products) inherit a similar N/Z, but have atomic numbers that are approximately half that of uranium. Isotopes with the atomic number of the fission products and an N/Z near that of uranium or other fissionable nuclei have too many neutrons to be stable; this neutron excess is why multiple free neutrons but no free protons are usually emitted in the fission process, and it is also why many fission product nuclei undergo a long chain of β− decays, each of which converts a nucleus N/Z to (N − 1)/(Z + 1), where N and Z are, respectively, the numbers of neutrons and protons contained in the nucleus.