[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Madeira Archipelago Liberation Front

Minister at the time, to start the talks with the local governmental authorities regarding the region's autonomy. On 20 February, following an explosion on a road in which the car of the Prime-Minister was passing, the documents granting a provisional government to the region of Madeira were signed.

Although FLAMA's activities were more sparse, the organization was still active. In the following months, merchandise featuring FLAMA's flag was distributed along with a new currency named "zarco", which was supposed to act as Madeira's new currency. On 24 March, FLAMA decided to take on a political and organized approach, and so the Political Association of the Madeira Archipelago was founded.

On 2 April, the Portuguese Constitution was approved in the Parliament, and in it, there were 10 articles which granted political and administrative autonomy to the Azores and Madeira.

FLAMA's most complex operation of the time took place in June. Involving 25 people and a bomb weighing 12 kilograms of gelignite, the bomb was placed under a bridge in Água-de-Pena, whose target was the then Presidential candidate Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho. However, the bomb was defused when it was known that a bus of 20 children would be travelling with the commission travelling with the Presidential candidate at the time.

Following several strikes at the beginning of 1977 due to the delays in the transfer of administrative powers to the regional governments and the visit of then President Ramalho Eanes, another bomb was placed on 26 August in the offices of the Portuguese National Airline, TAP. While other minor incidents followed that one, arson became the new FLAMA strategy. The targets were the cars of university professors, syndicalists, members of parliament and journalists. However, this new phase of FLAMA "escaped the control" of the directory members, with one member in particular setting fires which were no longer under FLAMA's ideological motivations. He was identified as Eduardo Mendonça.

At the end of 1977, the Portuguese Judiciary Police (from the Portuguese: Polícia Judiciária) counted 14 bombings in Madeira, perpetrated by FLAMA.

On 15 February 1978, 3 suspects were detained and accused of terrorism and 219 objects used in bombing devices were found. As a reaction to the detentions, FLAMA left two firecrackers in the Palace of Justice (Portuguese: Palácio da Justiça) in Funchal. On 5 April, two police officers and two tourists were injured in a car explosion set by FLAMA.

FLAMA's first deadly attack took place on 23 August 1978, when a car bomb was set and the 19 year-old operational, João Alberto, who was installing it was killed. Another member, Alírio Paulo Fernandes, committed suicide while detained by the police. However, suicide was never confirmed as the cause of death which led to protests during his funeral, where independents accused the police of abuse of power. Following this event, FLAMA dispersed and there are no more records of any bombings.

Recent Controversies 
While it is said in multiple sources that the organization vanished due to its diminishing importance after 1976 and the establishment of Madeira as an autonomous region, recent news indicates the opposite.

Allegedly one of FLAMA's most important activists was the controversial Alberto João Jardim, the former President of the regional government of Madeira, co-founder of the Madeiran branch of the popular centre-right-wing Portuguese party PSD and former Vice-president of the European People's Party. However, he has denied any connection to FLAMA, stating that “contrary to what my political adversaries have accused me of- it's not that FLAMA was dishonourable, on the contrary actually-, I not only have never belonged to its organizations, as I also never established any contact with them. Everyone had their role in defending democracy. Mine was ensuring the survival of PSD and of Madeira's Newspaper.” This accusation is supported by a photo in which Albert João Jardim is wearing a shirt that states "Madeira, my Homeland".

On 1 July 2011, the Region's Autonomy Day, fifty FLAMA flags were raised in several locations across the islands, and a statement was released claiming once again the Archipelago's independence. The statement released to the press was the following: “Today, 1 July 2011, the day of the autonomy that doesn't deserve to be celebrated, Madeira's people woke up to an archipelago “dressed up” with its flag, and, after 35 years, it is a good time to reflect on what FLAMA has always proposed and what was accepted with open arms by some and questioned by others". This was followed by a member of Parliament, António Fontes, displaying a FLAMA flag in Parliament to prove that displaying such a flag was a crime, as that was the “flag of bombs”.