[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mount Laurel doctrine

ble for providing affordable housing to low and moderate income households. Some have argued that developers exploit the Mount Laurel doctrine with the builder's remedy and prevent town efforts to combat overdevelopment and sprawl. Some recent "builder's remedy" lawsuits or related concerns include:

Annandale.
Bridgewater.
Cranford.  The developers Samuel and Peter Hekemian sued the Township of Cranford to allow a mass-density development. One Cranford local opined that the builder's remedy "takes the power from our township engineers, public safety officials, board of education members and budget offices and gives it to the S. Hekemian Group, a Paramus-based builder of apartment complexes. And there is nothing anyone can do about it. It is a court order based on what they refer to as builder remedy litigation. Apparently, progress is only found in concrete."
Emerson. Local officials expressed concerns over impact of Mount Laurel on development of a 19-acre patch of woods that town officials have been trying to turn into a park.
Livingston. Despite the efforts of the Livingston-Short Hills Coalition, affiliates of the Kushner Companies filed an affordable housing suit to build developments in the town.
Millburn.  Residents of Millburn, New Jersey objected to a proposed land development by Canoe Brook, which would create a 250-room hotel, 200 residential units and a multi-deck parking structure adjacent to the Mall at Short Hills.
Montvale. The S. Hekemian Group filed to intervene in Montvale's affordable-housing litigation to build 1,000 units, arguing the borough "is in violation of its constitutional duty to create sufficient realistic opportunities" for affordable housing. In June 2017, Mayor Mike Ghassali stated, "Now we are on a path to spend untold amounts of time, money and borough resources to defend our town from a monstrous development that would change our community forever" regarding the lawsuit.
New Milford.  Despite objections from a community group, "Stop Overdevelopment New Milford", the developer S.Hekemian Group (SHG), led by Robert S. Hekemian and Peter Hekemian, brought a Mount Laurel builder's remedy suit against New Milford, New Jersey.  "I certainly do feel I have a gun to my head" said New Milford's mayor, Ann Subrizi at the close of 2016.  The township ultimately settled, causing development of one of the last undeveloped tracts of land in the area.
West Orange.  The Fair Share Housing Center, and Garden Homes, an affiliate of the Wilf family, owners of the Minnesota Vikings, have brought legal action to create more affordable housing units in West Orange, New Jersey.

Regional Contribution Agreements (RCAs)

In 1985, the Fair Housing Act created the now-repealed Regional Contribution Agreement system.  The RCAs meant that towns could pay to get out of up to half of their affordable housing obligation by funding affordable housing elsewhere as required by the New Jersey Supreme Court's Mt. Laurel decision.

In 2008, at the behest of the Fair Share Housing Center's Peter O' Connor and over the objections of some suburban Democrats, Governor Corzine signed a law barring RCAs. A500. He signed A-500 into law during a ceremony at Fair Share Housing Development's Ethel R. Lawrence Homes. Some have demanded that RCAs be returned to cut down on sprawl.

Environmental concerns
In 1983, the NJ Supreme Court cautioned that, in requiring affordable housing, our State Constitution "does not require bad planning.  It does not require suburban spread.  It does not require rural municipalities to encourage large scale housing developments.  It does not require wasteful extension of roads and needless construction of sewer and water facilities for the out-migration of people from the cities and the suburbs.  There is nothing in our Constitution that says that we cannot satisfy our constitutional obligation to provide lower income housing and, at the same time, plan the future of the state intelligently."

One Parsippany resident stated, "I'm very frustrated that this significant tract of undeveloped land is being razed for development when so much property in Parsippany lies vacant," said Dave Kaplan, of the Stop the Overdevelopment at Waterview opposition group.

Sierra Club

The New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club applauded Christie's efforts to reform affordable housing law in 2010: