[Source: Gutenberg#7370 | Part 55]
# The Social Contract — Jean-Jacques Rousseau

ever
some flatterers say to princes of the world, who all together, with all
their people joined to them, are, in comparison of the great God, but as
a drop of the bucket, or a dust on the balance, inconsiderable, nothing!

Sect. 196. The short of the case in conquest is this: the conqueror, if
he have a just cause, has a despotical right over the persons of all,
that actually aided, and concurred in the war against him, and a right
to make up his damage and cost out of their labour and estates, so he
injure not the right of any other. Over the rest of the people, if there
were any that consented not to the war, and over the children of the
captives themselves, or the possessions of either, he has no power; and
so can have, by virtue of conquest, no lawful title himself to dominion
over them, or derive it to his posterity; but is an aggressor, if he
attempts upon their properties, and thereby puts himself in a state of
war against them, and has no better a right of principality, he, nor any
of his successors, than Hingar, or Hubba, the Danes, had here in
England; or Spartacus, had he conquered Italy, would have had; which is
to have their yoke cast off, as soon as God shall give those under their
subjection courage and opportunity to do it. Thus, notwithstanding
whatever title the kings of Assyria had over Judah, by the sword, God
assisted Hezekiah to throw off the dominion of that conquering empire.
And the lord was with Hezekiah, and he prospered; wherefore he went
forth, and he rebelled against the king of Assyria, and served him not,
2 Kings xviii. 7. Whence it is plain, that shaking off a power, which
force, and not right, hath set over any one, though it hath the name of
rebellion, yet is no offence before God, but is that which he allows and
countenances, though even promises and covenants, when obtained by
force, have intervened: for it is very probable, to any one that reads
the story of Ahaz and Hezekiah attentively, that the Assyrians subdued
Ahaz, and deposed him, and made Hezekiah king in his father’s lifetime;
and that Hezekiah by agreement had done him homage, and paid him tribute
all this time.




CHAPTER. XVII.

OF USURPATION.


Sect. 197. AS conquest may be called a foreign usurpation, so usurpation
is a kind of domestic conquest, with this difference, that an usurper
can never have right on his side, it being no usurpation, but where one
is got into the possession of what another has right to. This, so far as
it is usurpation, is a change only of persons, but not of the forms and
rules of the government: for if the usurper extend his power beyond what
of right belonged to the lawful princes, or governors of the
commonwealth, it is tyranny added to usurpation.

Sect. 198. In all lawful governments, the designation of the persons,
who are to bear rule, is as natural and necessary a part as the form of
the government itself, and is that which had its establishment
originally from the people; the anarchy being much alike, to have no
form of government at all; or to agree, that it shall be monarchical,
but to appoint no way to design the person that shall have the power,
and be the monarch. Hence all commonwealths, with the form of government
established, have rules also of appointing those who are to have any
share in the public authority, and settled methods of conveying the
right to them: for the anarchy is much alike, to have no form of
government at all; or to agree that it shall be monarchical, but to
appoint no way to know or design the person that shall have the power,
and be the monarch. Whoever gets into the exercise of any part of the
power, by other ways than what the laws of the community have
prescribed, hath no right to be obeyed, though the form of the
commonwealth be still preserved; since he is not the person the laws
have appointed, and consequently not the person the people have
consented to. Nor can such an usurper, or any deriving from him, ever
have a title, till the people are both at liberty to consent, and have
actually consented to allow, and confirm in him the power he hath till
then usurped.




CHAPTER. XVIII.

OF TYRANNY.


Sect. 199. AS usurpation is the exercise of power, which another hath a
right to; so tyranny is the exercise of power beyond right, which no
body can have a right to. And this is making use of the power any one
has in his hands, not for the good of those who are under it, but for
his own private separate advantage. When the governor, however intitled,
makes not the law, but his will, the rule; and his commands and actions
are not directed to the preservation of the properties of his people,
but the satisfaction of his own ambition, revenge, covetousness, or any
other irregular passion.

Sect. 200. If one can doubt this to be truth, or reason, because it
comes from the obscure hand of a subject, I hope the authority of a king
will make it pass with him