[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Intelligence Coordinating Agency

would also need the approval by the Director-General of the NICA and the Secretary of the Department of Justice (DOJ). However, since it was not enacted by the end of the 17th Congress, the bill is already considered "dead" in the House of Representatives Committee on National Defense and Security.

On June 3, 2020, President Rodrigo Duterte signed Republic Act No. 11479, also known as the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, which repealed the Human Security Act of 2007. Pursuant to the Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020, the NICA remains as the Secretariat of the ATC. However, NICA has also now been tasked to provide its recommendation on an application for proscription seeking to declare any individual or group as a terrorist before the Court of Appeals. Such application for proscription may only be filed by the DOJ, subject to the authority of the ATC.

Mandate
The NICA is mandated to:
 conduct and coordinate national intelligence activities;
 fulfill strategic intelligence needs of the Philippine government;
 provide the National Intelligence Estimate for purposes of national security policymaking;
 lead counterintelligence activities;
 serve as the Secretariat of the Anti-Terrorism Council; and
 serve as the Head of the Situational Awareness and Knowledge Management Cluster of the National Task Force to End Local Communist Armed Conflict.

Organization
The NICA is organized into the following divisions and directorates:

 Office of the Director-General – led by the Director-General
 Directorate of Operations – led by the Assistant Director-General for Operations
 Directorate of Production – led by the Assistant Director-General for Production
 Directorate of Administration – led by the Assistant Director-General for Administration
 Management and Planning Office
 Office of the Comptroller
 Various field stations in various regions – led by its respective Regional Directors

Notable Directors-General
 General Fabian Ver was believed by human rights groups to have used the NICA's predecessor, the National Intelligence and Security Authority (NISA), as the secret police of the regime of President Ferdinand Marcos, leading to various human rights abuses committed against persons opposing the autocracy in the 1970s and the 1980s.
 General Alex Paul Monteagudo - served from 2016 to 2022. 
 Colonel Vicente S. Yumul and Major General Jose T. Almonte held office as the Directors-General of NICA under President Corazon Aquino.
 Alfredo Filler, the former Vice Chief-of-Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), also served as the Director-General of NICA under President Fidel V. Ramos.

References

External links
 

Philippine intelligence agencies
Government agencies under the Office of the President of the Philippines
Government agencies established in 1949
Intelligence analysis agencies
Establishments by Philippine executive order