[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Civil resistance

n a wide range of prudential, ethical and legal considerations; and where the technical and communications infrastructure of modern civil societies provides a means of organizing resistance. Because of such considerations, the term has been used in this century in many analyses in academic journals.

What exactly are the advantages of the term "civil resistance", as distinct from its near-synonyms "nonviolent action" and "nonviolent resistance"? All these terms have merits, and refer to largely the same phenomena. Indeed, there is a long history, in many languages, of using a wide variety of terms to describe these phenomena. The term "civil resistance" has been used increasingly for two main reasons:
It emphasises the positive (civic goals; widespread civil society involvement; and civil as distinct from uncivil conduct) rather than the negative (avoidance of the use of violence).
It conveys, more effectively perhaps than such terms as "nonviolent resistance", that a movement's avoidance of violence in pursuit of a particular cause is not necessarily tied to a general belief in "nonviolence" in all circumstances, nor to a philosophy of "Gandhism", but rather arises from the particular values and circumstances of the society concerned.

There have been concerns that the term "civil resistance" might on occasion be misused, or at least stretched in a highly controversial way, to encompass acts of violence. Thus, arising from experience within the anti-globalization movement, one participant-observer has seen "new forms of civil resistance" as being associated with a problematic departure from a previously more widely shared commitment to maintaining nonviolent discipline. Because of these concerns, those who have used the term "civil resistance" have tended to emphasise its nonviolent character, and to use it in addition to – and not in substitution of – such terms as "nonviolent resistance".

See also
 Arab Spring
 Boycott
 Civil disobedience
 Civilian-based defense
 Colour revolution
 Creative disruption
 Demonstration
 Dissolution of the Soviet Union
 Nonviolence
 Nonviolent resistance
 People power
 People Power Revolution
 Resistance movements
 Revolutions of 1989
 Right of revolution
 Social defence
 Tunisian revolution
 2011 Egyptian Revolution
 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt
 Everyday Resistance

References

Bibliography
Bartkowski, Maciej J. (ed.), Recovering Nonviolent History: Civil Resistance in Liberation Struggles, Lynne Rienner, Boulder, Colorado, 2013. .
Carter, April, Howard Clark and Michael Randle (eds.), A Guide to Civil Resistance: A Bibliography of People Power and Nonviolent Protest, vol. 1, Green Print/Merlin Press, London, 2013. . See also vol. 2, Merlin Press, 2015. .
Chenoweth, Erica and Maria J. Stephan, Why Civil Resistance Works: The Strategic Logic of Nonviolent Conflict, Columbia University Press, New York, 2011.  (hardback). In August 2012 this book won the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award, given annually by the American Political Science Association for the best book on government, politics, or international affairs published in the US during the previous calendar year.
Chenoweth, Erica. 2021. Civil Resistance: What Everyone Needs to Know. Oxford University Press.
Clark, Howard, Civil Resistance in Kosovo, Pluto Press, London, 2000.  (hardback).
Doudouet, Véronique, Civil Resistance and Conflict Transformation: Transitions from Armed to Nonviolent Struggle, Routledge, Abingdon, 2015.  (paperback).
Mallat, Chibli, Philosophy of Nonviolence: Revolution, Constitutionalism, and Justice beyond the Middle East, Oxford University Press, New York, 2015.  (hardback).
Nepstad, Sharon Erickson, Nonviolent Revolution: Civil Resistance in the Late 20th Century , Oxford University Press, New York, 2011. .
Randle, Michael, Civil Resistance, Fontana, London, 1994. .
Roberts, Adam, Civil Resistance in the East European and Soviet Revolutions (PDF available), Albert Einstein Institution, Cambridge, Mass., 1991. .
Roberts, Adam and Timothy Garton Ash (eds.), Civil Resistance and Power Politics: The Experience of Non-violent Action from Gandhi to the Present, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2009.  (hardback);  (paperback, 2011).  US edition. On Google.  Reviews available at Oxford University Research Project on Civil Resistance and Power Politics.
Roberts, Adam, Michael J. Willis, Rory McCarthy and Timothy Garton Ash (eds.), Civil Resistance in the Arab Spring: Triumphs and Disasters, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2016. . US edition. Arabic language edition published by All Prints Publishers, Beirut, 2017. .
Sharp, Gene, Sharp's Dictionary of Power and Struggle: Language of Civil Resistance in Conflicts , Oxford University Press, New York, 2011.  (hardback);  (paperback).
Zunes, Stephen, Civil Resistance Against Coups: A Comparative and Historical Perspective, ICNC Monograph Series, Washington DC, 2017.