[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Narrow-gauge railways in Canada

t  from Melville Junction to Orangeville is operated by the Orangeville-Brampton Railway.  Another tourist line, the Portage Flyer, operates at the Muskoka Heritage Place museum complex in Huntsville, and runs on  of  narrow-gauge track.

Yukon

Yukon was formerly home to the Klondike Mines Railway.

The only narrow-gauge system still in operation in the country is the  gauge White Pass and Yukon Route. The WPYR was built as a common carrier but closed in 1982 only to reopen in 1988 to haul tourists from cruise ships docking at Skagway, Alaska through White Pass on the Canada–United States border to Bennett, British Columbia, and more recently onto Carcross, Yukon. It uses some rolling stock from the now-defunct  Newfoundland Railway after changing the trucks.

British Columbia
BC has had a long history with narrow-gauge railways starting with the horse-drawn and gravity-assisted Seton Lake tramway in 1858, and then to the  gauge coal mine railways at
Nanaimo. Coal was moved to the pier at Departure Bay.  Other railways sprang up including the Kaslo and Slocan Railway, the Columbia and Western Railway near Trail,
and the Leonora and Mt. Sicker Railway on Vancouver Island. Narrow-gauge lines were used extensively in mining and logging.  However, by 1910 narrow-gauge logging lines were phased out as it was found that they were unsafe for the large BC timber.  Other small industrial lines used narrow gauge for a few years—the Kitsault Mine, and the Western Peat operation in Burns Bog.  Narrow gauge worked in the Kootenays too at the coke ovens at Fernie and  logging sites of Cranbrook.  The White Pass and Yukon Route in the far north west corner of the province, connects Alaska, BC and the Yukon. It is still in operation and seasonally steam hauled.  See List of historic BC Narrow Gauge railways.

Alberta
There were several  mining systems in the Drumheller area. An extensive narrow-gauge line was built in the foothills to haul coal about 1890 but was soon re-gauged to standard and the equipment moved to the Kaslo and Slocan in BC.

The North Western Coal and Navigation Company, constructed a  narrow-gauge line which began operations from Lethbridge to Dunmore, Alberta beginning in the fall of 1885.  In 1893 Canadian Pacific Railway, leased the line and later purchased it in 1897, and then converted it to standard gauge.  Additionally the North Western Coal and Navigation Company constructed another  narrow-gauge line which ran from Lethbridge to Great Falls, Montana, and was opened for use in the fall of 1890.

The line was later converted to standard gauge in 1901, and was soon afterwards sold to two different buyers; Great Northern Railway (U.S.), for the American portion of the line, and Canadian Pacific Railway, for the Canadian portion of the line.  That narrow-gauge line included the International Train Station Depot North West Territories that sat half in Coutts and half in Sweetgrass.

This unique structure was used by North Western Coal and Navigation Company, and later on after selling the railroad by Great Northern Railway (U.S.) and Canadian Pacific Railway.  In 1915, Canadian Pacific Railway split the Train Station in half and hauled their portion north across the Canada–United States border and continued to use it until the late 1960s when it was closed.  At the same time, Great Northern Railway (U.S.) hauled their portion of the station south of the Canada–United States border, and used it until the early 1930s.

Currently the International Train Station Depot is located at the Galt Historic Railway Park, in the County of Warner No. 5, Alberta, and is open to the public.

See also

Canadian narrow gauge
List of historic BC Narrow Gauge railways

References

External links
The Narrow Gauge for Us Charles Cooper's Railway Pages
Narrow Gauge Through the Bush Charles Cooper's Railway Pages
Toronto Grey and Bruce R L Kennedy's Old Time Trains
Narrow Gauge Through the Bush R Milland Pages