[Source: PubMed]

62. Infect Dis Poverty. 2024 Jul 29;13(1):55. doi: 10.1186/s40249-024-01223-2.

Impact of COVID-19 on the neglected tropical diseases: a scoping review.

Butala CB(1)(2), Cave RNR(1), Fyfe J(1), Coleman PG(1), Yang GJ(3), Welburn 
SC(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Infection Medicine, Edinburgh Medical School: Biomedical Sciences, College of 
Medicine and Veterinary Medicine, The University of Edinburgh, 1 George Square, 
Edinburgh, EH8 9TB, Scotland, UK.
(2)Zhejiang University - University of Edinburgh Institute: Biomedicine, 
Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 718 East Haizhou Road, Haining, 314400, 
People's Republic of China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Tropical Translational Medicine of Ministry of Education, 
The School of Tropical Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, Hainan Medical 
University, Haikou, 571199, Hainan, People's Republic of China.
(4)Infection Medicine, Edinburgh Medical School: Biomedical Sciences, College of 
Medicine and Veterinary Medicine, The University of Edinburgh, 1 George Square, 
Edinburgh, EH8 9TB, Scotland, UK. sue.welburn@ed.ac.uk.
(5)Zhejiang University - University of Edinburgh Institute: Biomedicine, 
Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 718 East Haizhou Road, Haining, 314400, 
People's Republic of China. sue.welburn@ed.ac.uk.
(6)Key Laboratory of Tropical Translational Medicine of Ministry of Education, 
The School of Tropical Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, Hainan Medical 
University, Haikou, 571199, Hainan, People's Republic of China. 
sue.welburn@ed.ac.uk.
(7)School of Global Health, Chinese Centre for Global Tropical Disease Research, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, People's 
Republic of China. sue.welburn@ed.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: This study investigates the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the 
prevalence, management, and control of the neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) 
highlighting the current or prospective impact of COVID-19 on research and 
development funding for, and execution of, NTD programmes. This review was 
conducted to determine if, and how, NTDs were affected by COVID-19, and whether 
those effects will delay the elimination goals of the Sustainable Development 
goals.
METHODS: Using open-source available data from policy and documentation from 
official websites of the relevant stakeholders including but not limited to 
World Health Organization (WHO) documents and policies, government foreign aid 
documents, and the Policy Cures G-Finder reports, this scoping review explored 
ongoing challenges to supporting research and development (R&D) for the NTDs and 
in maintaining NTD control programs; examined the constraints posed for NTD 
management by the pandemic from disruptions to healthcare services, reduction of 
finance and explored the potential long-term implications and consequences for 
those poorer, neglected populations in low and middle income-countries (LMICs). 
This was done by a scoping review literature search, publications were subject 
to an initial practical screening step to ensure the most relevant publications 
were selected for full screening, with the focus on scoping the designated topic 
of the impact of COVID-19 on NTDs. We further undertook an evaluation of the 
socio-economic factors exacerbating the impact of COVID-19 on NTD burden.
RESULTS: Multiple disruptions and setbacks, likely to affect NTD programmes and 
progress towards their elimination targets were identified in this study. R&D 
funding for the NTDs and AIDs and TB has declined since the funding high point 
of 2019, and for malaria since the high point of 2018. Significant changes in 
allocation of R&D funding within the NTDs are observed post pandemic, likely 
because of prioritization among donors. Diseases for which the least R&D 
investment was reported in place, prior to the pandemic (mycetoma, 
taeniasis/cysticercosis, trachoma and Buruli ulcer) have been particularly 
impacted post pandemic. We identified specific NTDs including schistosomiasis, 
leprosy, and rabies that have been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and 
disruptions caused to on ongoing NTD control and elimination programs. Pandemic 
restrictions disrupted essential medical supply manufacturing and distribution 
impacting immunization programs and hindered efforts to control the spread of 
infectious diseases. NTD programmes have experienced numerous setbacks including 
delays in mass drug administration programs (e.g. for schistosomiasis), 
cancelled or delayed vaccination programs (e.g. for rabies) and closure of 
testing facilities has resulted in reduced diagnosis, treatment, and disease 
elimination for all NTDs. Lockdowns and clinic closures causing disruption to 
essential healthcare services restricted NTD surveillance and treatment 
programs. Community fears around contracting COVID-19 exacerbated the 
constraints to service delivery. Disparities in global vaccine distribution have 
widened with LMICs facing limited access to vaccines and disruption to 
immunization programs. Finally, the pandemic has led to increased poverty with 
poor and marginalized communities, impacting nutrition, healthcare access and 
education all of which have long term implications for NTD management and 
control.
CONCLUSIONS: The COVID-19 pandemic profoundly impacted global health research 
and global health equity. Attention and funding were diverted from all sectors, 
significantly affecting research and development efforts set out in the World 
Health Organization's NTD elimination Roadmaps. Ongoing changes to funding, 
economic crises, logistics and supply chain disruptions as well as deepening 
poverty has put a strain on already weak healthcare systems and exacerbated LMIC 
healthcare challenges. In particular, the delays and constraints to NTD 
management and elimination programs will have long-reaching consequences 
highlighting the need for global cooperation and renewed investment to put the 
NTD roadmap back on track. Targets and milestones are unlikely to be met without 
significant investment for recovery, in place.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40249-024-01223-2
PMCID: PMC11285209
PMID: 39075616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.