[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Demy de Zeeuw

in in the final, after surprisingly losing their opening game to the Ukrainian team. Following the tournament, manager Foppe de Haan praised both de Zeeuw and Ismaïl Aissati's performances. Following this, he went in to make ten appearances and scoring once for the Netherlands U21 side.

Senior team

De Zeeuw played so well for AZ that he was able to make his debut for the Netherlands national football team under then-manager Marco van Basten in August 2006. However, de Zeeuw spent the next seven months, appearing as an unused substitute. Impressive performances for AZ led to his international debut for the Dutch national team in a UEFA Euro 2008 qualifier against Slovenia on 28 March 2007, coming on as a 74th-minute substitute, in a 1–0 win.

De Zeeuw usually played as a defensive midfielder and in the national team, he had to compete with the likes of Mark van Bommel, Orlando Engelaar, and Nigel de Jong in that position. De Zeeuw made his first start for Netherlands, starting a match and played 58 minutes before being substituted, in a friendly against South Korea on 2 June 2007. In a match against Bulgaria on 8 September 2007, he started the whole game and was a key player throughout the match, as Oranje won 2–0. De Zeeuw started in the remaining UEFA Euro 2008 qualifying matches, as he helped Netherlands qualify for the UEFA Euro 2008. In March 2008, de Zeeuw said in an interview with Algemeen Dagblad that he hoped to make a good impression during UEFA Euro 2008 to earn a transfer to another club. For the first six months of 2008, de Zeeuw continued to feature regularly for the national side, playing in the midfield position. Two months later, he was included in the Oranje's provisional squad. De Zeeuw made the 23 men squad ahead of the tournament despite suffering setback to his injury. However, his appearance was limited to a single appearance in the group stage against Romania.

Following the conclusion of the UEFA Euro 2008, de Zeeuw received another call–up from the Netherlands squad on 6 August 2008. He made his first appearance of the national side in two months against Russia on 20 August 2008, coming on as an 84th-minute substitute, in a 1–1 draw. De Zeeuw appeared to make three more starts by the end of the year. On 5 September 2009, he made his first appearances for Netherlands in ten months against Japan, coming on as 64th-minute substitute and set up a goal for Wesley Sneijder to score the second goal of the game, in a 3–0 win. With Oranje qualifying for the FIFA World Cup, de Zeeuw said he determined to make it to the Netherlands squad. In May 2010, de Zeeuw was included in the preliminary squad for the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa. On 27 May 2010, Netherlands manager Bert van Marwijk announced that the player would be part of the final squad of 23 participating in the competition. Prior to the start of the tournament, he made his 25th appearance for Oranje, coming on as a 79th-minute substitute, in a 6–1 win against Hungary on 5 June 2010. De Zeeuw came on as a substitute for their first match in the competition, a 2–0 victory over Denmark on 14 June 2010. He then appeared on the substitute bench for the next four matches, as Oranje reached the quarter–final. De Zeeuw was in the starting line-up for the semi-final match against Uruguay and provided an assist for Giovanni van Bronckhorst to score the opening goal of the game, in a 3–2 win. However, during the match, the player had to be replaced by Rafael van der Vaart at half time after an incident where he was kicked in the face by Martín Cáceres and was taken to the hospital as a result. Neuropsychology concludes that de Zeeuw could have suffered multiple symptoms. But he was given an all clear by doctors and had to wear braces for six weeks. Nevertheless, de Zeeuw appeared as an unused substitute in the FIFA World Cup Final against Spain, as Netherlands lost 1–0, finishing the tournament as runners–up.

Since the World Cup, de Zeeuw was called up by Netherlands squad for the match against San Marino, but did not play. However, he struggled to earn a call up by the national team and cited lack of first opportunities at Spartak Moscow, as well as injuries, as some of the reasons for his absence and quietly retired from international football.

Personal life
De Zeeuw revealed that when he was five years old, his parents divorced and he moved with his father to Apeldoorn. De Zeeuw spoke about his relationship with his mother, saying: "My mother was only 16 years old when she got me, my father a few years older. That is why it was a logical choice that I went to live with him. In the early years I saw my mother sometimes, then only once. I was fifteen. I have never seen or spoken to her since." In April 2014, de Zeeuw became a father when his girlfriend gave birth to a girl, Roqi. In April 2018, he became a second time father when his girlfriend (now wife) gave birth to a baby boy.