[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1993–94 in English football

er League fixture against Ipswich Town at Portman Road.

3 November 1993: Ade Akinbiyi, 19-year-old London-born striker of Nigerian descent, makes his debut as a substitute for Norwich City in their UEFA Cup second round second leg fixture with Bayern Munich at Carrow Road, which ends in a 1–1 draw.

4 May 1994: Michael Duberry, 17-year-old defender, played in Chelsea's final Premier League game of the season – a 2–1 home defeat by Coventry City.

Top goalscorers

Premier League
Andy Cole (Newcastle United) – 34 goals

Division One
John McGinlay (Bolton Wanderers) – 25 goals

Division Two
Jimmy Quinn (Reading) – 35 goals

Division Three
Tony Ellis (Preston North End) – 26 goals

Honours

Notes = Number in parentheses is the times that club has won that honour (First Division & Premier League). Number after slash is Premier League only. * indicates new record for competition

England national team

Even with the 7–1 victory over San Marino (in which Davide Gualtieri scores the fastest goal in FIFA World Cup qualification history). England fail to qualify for the finals of the 1994 World Cup and manager Graham Taylor resigns within days of the failure. Terry Venables is appointed as his replacement.

Qualifying Group Final Positions

League tables

FA Premiership

The second season of the Premier League saw Manchester United retain their title, taking the lead before the end of August and not surrendering it all season, holding a double-digit lead for much of it and eventually finishing eight points ahead of runners-up Blackburn Rovers, who had managed to draw level on points with them a few weeks before the season's end. United then went on to lift the FA Cup and become only the sixth team ever to win the double of the league title and FA Cup. Their top scorer and key player Eric Cantona was voted PFA Players' Player of the Year, while colleagues including Ryan Giggs, Paul Ince and Lee Sharpe also received many plaudits. Blackburn Rovers finished runners-up, thanks to Alan Shearer, whose 31 goals earned him the FWA Footballer of the Year award but weren't quite enough to gain his team the league title.

Newly promoted Newcastle United finished third, largely thanks to the 34 goals of PFA Young Player of the Year Andy Cole who was the division's top scorer and his formidable strike partner Peter Beardsley, as well as support from the likes of Rob Lee and Barry Venison. Fourth placed Arsenal won the European Cup Winners' Cup to claim their sixth trophy in eight seasons under manager George Graham. Leeds United completed the top five, recovering from their dismal Premier League debut the previous season, while unfancied Wimbledon achieved an impressive sixth-place finish.

The previous season's runners-up, Aston Villa, dropped to 10th place in the league but compensated for this with a League Cup triumph. Norwich, who had finished third the previous campaign, started the season well but their league form slumped after manager Mike Walker left for Everton in January and they finished twelfth, while Walker's new club only narrowly avoided relegation.

Swindon Town, in the top flight for the first time, endured a hopeless season with just five wins in the league, 100 goals conceded and no wins from their opening 16 games; they went bottom of the table after three games, and never left it. Oldham Athletic's three-year spell in the top flight came to an end after they failed to defeat Norwich on the final day of the season, just weeks after they had almost reached the FA Cup final before a last-gasp equaliser for Manchester United in the semi-final forced a replay, in which they were well beaten. The last relegation place went to Sheffield United, who were relegated in dramatic fashion when they suffered a last minute defeat to FA Cup finalists Chelsea. Their late collapse meant that Ipswich Town were the lucky side to preserve their top flight status.

Leading goalscorer: Andy Cole (Newcastle United) - 34

League Division One

Alan Smith kicked off his management career by guiding Crystal Palace to the Division One title and regaining their Premiership place at first invitation. Frank Clark began Nottingham Forest's post Brian Clough era by helping them finish second to achieve promotion back to the top flight. They were joined by play-off winners Leicester City, who beat local rivals Derby County in the final which they finally won promotion to the Premiership after two successive play-off final defeats.

Notts County narrowly missed out on the play-offs, as did Wolverhampton Wanderers, who had just replaced Graham Turner as manager after nearly eight years with the former England manager Graham Taylor. Ninth placed Middlesbrough brought in Manchester United and former England captain Bryan Robson as their new player-manager at the end of the season to succeed Lennie Lawrence.