[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Microsoft PowerToys

Zone Editor, which came from the Windows NT Resource Kit.

PowerToys for Windows XP 
PowerToys for Windows XP was the second version of the PowerToys set and brought major changes from the Windows 95 version. The tools in this set were available as separate downloads rather than in a single package.

Included components 
, the following PowerToys for Windows XP were available:
Alt-Tab Replacement Task Switcher replaced the simpler Alt-Tab switcher with a more visual one which shows live window previews.
CD Slide Show Generator generated a slideshow from photos burned to a CD.
ClearType Tuner allowed customizing ClearType settings to make it easier to read text on the screen.
Color Control Panel Applet allowed managing color profiles, changing color profile associations for devices, viewing detailed properties for color profiles (including a 3D rendering of the color space gamut).
HTML Slide Show Wizard generated an HTML slideshow presentation.
Image Resizer allowed right-clicking on multiple image files inside Windows Explorer to batch resize them.
Open Command Window Here allowed starting a command prompt from any folder in Windows Explorer by right-clicking.
Power Calculator was a more advanced graphical calculator application than the built-in Windows Calculator; it could evaluate more complex expressions, draw a Cartesian or polar graph of a function or convert units of measurements. Power Calculator could store and reuse pre-defined functions, of any arity. For example, a function could be set by cube(x) = x * x * x, and later it could be used in an expression like 5 + cube(4). It did not evaluate every time an operator was entered. Rather, the entire expression must be entered for calculation. In the Numeric mode, it presented a visual keypad, in all other modes the expression had to be typed in. A scrolling text area maintained a history of all calculations. The advanced view allowed declaring and graphing functions, along with a list of all the saved functions. A flyout window provided the option of choosing either a Cartesian co-ordinate system or polar co-ordinates. It could also save a list of variables for use in expression. Unit conversions of the following types were supported: length, mass, time, velocity, and temperature. PowerToy Calc had support for typing calculations using Reverse Polish Notation (RPN). It could calculate up to 500 precision levels beyond the decimal point and supported complex numbers.
RAW Image Thumbnailer and Viewer provided thumbnails, previews, printing, and metadata display for RAW images from within Windows Explorer.
SyncToy allowed synchronizing files and folders.
Taskbar Magnifier magnified part of the screen from the taskbar.
Tweak UI customized Windows XP's user interface and advanced settings.
Virtual Desktop Manager allowed switching between four virtual desktops from the taskbar.
Webcam Timershot took pictures at specified time intervals from a webcam.

Discontinued components 
The following PowerToys for Windows XP were discontinued:
Background Switcher added a slideshow tab to Display properties and allows automatically changing the desktop wallpaper periodically. Although, Background Switcher is retired, a replacement, Wallpaper Changer, is available from Microsoft.
Internet Explorer Find Bar added a toolbar to Internet Explorer that allowed users to search for keywords in a web page. This feature is natively supported by Internet Explorer 8.
ISO Image Burner burned ISO images to an Optical disc recorder.  This feature is integrated into Windows 7. In addition, Windows Server 2003 Resource Kit includes two similar tools (CDBurn.exe and DVDBurn.exe). Although Microsoft has retired this Power Toy, it is available as the unauthorized ISO Recorder Power Toy.
Shell Audio Player was a Windows Media Player-based compact player which allows playing music from the taskbar.
Super-Fast User Switcher allowed Fast User Switching or logging on to a different account using the Windows key+Q combination without requiring to switch to the logon screen.
Virtual CD-ROM Control Panel could mount an ISO image as a virtual drive. It was designed for Windows XP, but it also worked with Windows Server 2003. It was a free alternative to software such as Alcohol 120%.

PowerToys for Windows 10 and Windows 11 
Windows 10 received PowerToys four years after its release. On May 8, 2019, Microsoft relaunched PowerToys and made them open-source on GitHub. The first preview release was available in September 2019, which included FancyZones and the Windows key shortcut guide.

Included components 
PowerToys for Windows 10 comes with the following utilities: