[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Greek refugees

e missing Greeks were soon raised in the International Red Cross, without any success and cooperation from the Turkish side. To this day, the Greek citizens who were born in Asia Minor have to apply for a visa in order to enter Turkey (something that does not apply to Greek citizens born in Greece).

The descendants of the refugees have found hundreds of organizations and institutes in Greece and in the diaspora to promote their civilization and to keep in touch with their roots. Various museums in Greece (such as the Benaki Museum) display artifacts from Asia Minor, Pontus, Cappadocia and Eastern Thrace to denote the Greek presence and emphasize the origins of about 40% of the population of modern Greece.

Nobel Peace Prize nominations
For its efforts concerning the relief of the refugees The Greek Red Cross (Croix-Rouge Hellénique) was nominated a total of 19 times from 1923 to 1930 for the Nobel Peace Prize; 16 times in 1923, 2 in 1924 and 1 in 1930. The Nobel Peace Prize was not awarded in 1923 and 1924.

In popular culture
The Greek refugees and their tragedy was depicted in the Closing ceremony of the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens.
Various successful Greek singers have sung songs about the refugees and the Asia Minor Catastrophe (mainly Alkistis Protopsalti, Haris Alexiou, George Dalaras, Eleftheria Arvanitaki, Nikos Xilouris, Glykeria).
The refugees have been the main theme of many Greek movies, since the 1920s, and especially during the Golden Age of the Greek cinema in the 1960s and 1970s.
The film America, America by the renowned Cappadocian Greek-American director Elia Kazan presents the harsh situation and the uprooting of Asia Minor Greeks in the years preceding World War I.

References

Further reading
Heirs of the Greek Catastrophe: The Social Life of Asia Minor Refugees in Piraeus, Renee Hirschon
The Exchange of Minorities: Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey, Stephen-Pericles Ladas
Greek-Turkish Population Exchange: An Analysis of the Conflict Leading to the Exchange, Safiye Bilge Temel
Population Dilemmas in the Middle East: essays in political demography and economy, Gad G. Gilbar

External links 
 Greek refugees settled in Macedonia as of 1928 - the statistic includes the old and new names of settlements, number of refugee families and family members and a marker indicating whether the settlement was inhabited only by refugees.
 Photos of Ottoman Greek refugees

 
Anatolian Greeks
Greco-Turkish War (1919–1922)
Greek genocide
Greek Orthodoxy in Turkey
Greeks from the Ottoman Empire