[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hong Kong Metropolitan University

or resource centres for the public who have needs for specialised healthcare services.

Kwai Hing Campus (KHC) 
In August 2012, the HKMU purchased floors 8 – 12 of the Block 2 of the Kowloon Commerce Centre with $770 million. Each floor is about 25,000 sq. ft. The gross area is about 124,300 sq. ft.

The Kwai Hing Campus (KHC) is located at 8-11/F, Tower 2, Kowloon Commerce Centre, 51–53 Kwai Cheong Road, Kwai Chung, New Territories. The Kwai Hing Campus opened in September 2013 and the Li Ka Shing School of Professional and Continuing Education (LiPACE) also moved from the Island Learning Centre to the Kwai Hing Campus (KHC). After from classrooms, lecture theatre, PC laboratories, study rooms, student commons and a learning resources centre, the Campus is also equipped with Jockey Club STEAM Education Laboratory, Japanese Language & Cultural Studies Centre and mock up rooms, including cabin, smart hotel room, wards, Kindergarten room and CIS room.

CITA Learning Centre (OCC) 
The HKMU-CITA Learning Centre (OCC) opened in 2010, locating at 0/F – 5/F, HKMU-CITA Learning Centre (CITA Building), 201–203 Lai King Hill Road, Kwai Chung, New Territories. The area of the Centre is around 3,530 square metres with 11 classrooms, 3 PC laboratories, a learning resource centre, studios, self-study rooms and student amenities.

HKMU Consultants (Shenzhen) Limited 
The company is located in Shenzhen, Guangdong, mainland China. It is responsible for managing programmes of the OUHK held in China and handling the admission applications of mainland students.

Non-academic Development

Student activities
The HKMU always encourages its students to form societies and organise student activities. The University provides student organisations with assistance and help by Student Affairs Committee and Student Affairs Office. By planning and participating in various activities, students can improve their knowledge and enhance their organisational skills. Currently, there are near 50 student societies and various alumni associations accredited by the University and granted for subsidy. The associations provide students with various kinds of activities, including sports competitions, academic discussions, seminars, outdoor activities and rehearsal exercises.

Since the re-establishment of the Students' Union in 2008, the current Committee on Student Affairs transforms into the joint discussion platform of both the University representatives and the principle members of the Students' Union, helping to manage the constitute politics and financial affairs of student societies.

Students' Union
Every student who is registered on a credit-bearing course of study offered by HKMU during a session shall be entitled to exercise the rights and enjoy privileges of membership during such session. The Students’ Union aims to act as a channel of communication between the students and HKMU and other bodies, to promote a school spirit amongst the students, to promote the welfare of the students, to promote and develop social and educational opportunities for the students and to represent the students.

Executive committee
The Executive Committee is the highest executive authority of the Union and shall be accountable to the general polling, general meetings and the Union Council. It is responsible for the day-to-day affairs and administrative work of the Students’ Union.

The Executive Committee will consist of 6 to 18 committee members from a cabinet to be elected by the votes of all members. The committee members of the Executive Committee will consist of one President, one Internal Vice-President, one External Vice-President, one Financial Controller, one general secretary and not less than one and not more than thirteen additional members as may be elected as part of a cabinet of candidates. There must be 1/5 cabinet members whose study mode will be different from those other cabinet members.

The quorum of a meeting of the Executive Committee will be 1/2 or above of the committee members.

The President of the Executive Committee also serves as the ex-officio member of the Council and the Court. The Executive Committee can commission its members or student representatives to attend the following university meetings to express their views. The meetings include the Senate, the Catering Committee, the University Equal Opportunities Commission, the Committee on Student Affairs and the General Meeting of the Four Schools.

The office of the HKMU Students' Union's is located at Room C0314, 3/F, 30 Good Shepherd Street, Ho Man Tin, Kowloon, Hong Kong