[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Political repression of cyber-dissidents

eral to block Russian users' access to an event page by organizers of an unsanctioned rally in support of the Navalny brothers. All reposts of the event disappeared from users' walls. In addition, the supervisory body Roskomnadzor ordered a Ukrainian news website to delete a story about the protest.

In March 2014 historian Konstantin Zharinov was charged with advocating extremism, after using the "share with friends" VKontakte feature on a public appeal by the Ukrainian militant group Right Sector. Zharinov was placed under surveillance, and his participation in anti-war demonstrations and pickets in support of Alexey Navalny featured prominently in the investigation.

On 11 March 2022, Belarusian political police GUBOPiK arrested and detained editor of Russian Wikipedia from Minsk Mark Bernstein, who was editing the Wikipedia article about the Russian invasion of Ukraine, accusing him of the "spread of anti-Russian materials" and of violating Russian "fake news" law.

Tunisia
Lawyer and human rights defender Mohammed Abbou was imprisoned for criticizing torture on a web site.

Bangladesh
Asif Mohiuddin, a winner of The Bobs-Best of Online Activism award, was imprisoned by the Bangladesh government for posting "offensive comments about Islam and Mohammed". Deutsche Welle state "Asif's blog was one of the most read web pages in Bangladesh and is known for its strong criticism of religious fundamentalism and Bangladesh's 'anti-people politics

International organisations, including Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, Reporters without Borders and the Committee to Protect Journalists have condemned the imprisonment of bloggers and the climate of fear for journalists.

The head of Reporters without Borders Asia-Pacific commented on the murder of writer Avijit Roy noting "It is unacceptable for [police] to spend so much time searching news outlets, arresting journalists, censoring news and investigating bloggers, when the many attacks on bloggers are still unpunished."

Vietnam
Nguyen Vu Binh was imprisoned for writing about violations of human rights, and Truong Quoc Huy was arrested for discussing political reforms in an Internet chat room. Nguyen Vu Binh was released in June 2007.

Pakistan

In January 2017, four bloggers known for their anti-religious and pro-democracy activism went missing. Altogether, their disappearances alarmed secular liberals involved in social activism in Pakistan.

United States
Australian whistleblower, activist and founder of WikiLeaks Julian Assange became a dissident after publishing secret documents that proved American war crimes in Afghanistan and Iraq.

See also

 Cyber-dissident
 Internet censorship
Sociology of the Internet
 SORM, Russia's electronic surveillance program

References

External links
The Internet and Human Rights by Amnesty International
Today, our chance to fight a new hi-tech tyranny by Guardian Unlimited

Internet-based activism
Internet censorship
Cyberwarfare