[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Latin American involvement in international peacekeeping

ns have also assumed a major role in UN peacekeeping in recent years, most notably in Central America. The contacts between Spanish and Latin American officers have increased through these UN peacekeeping missions, with mutual reinforcement concerning the value of such missions for their militaries.

Motivation and impact
Assessing the motivation and impact of these peacekeeping missions is somewhat speculative. It is possible to assume idealistic motivations such as support for the world body and altruistic contributions to the achievement of peace. It is also true that individual military personnel usually profit financially from UN service, as do many of their governments, depending on the arrangements made with UN Headquarters. The military institutions also benefit by the training and exposure that they derive from such service.  From a national perspective, service in UN peacekeeping missions tends to elevate the profile and prestige of the country. Finally, for a military institution like Argentina's, still laden with the baggage of years of military dictatorship, the "Dirty War", and the fiasco of the Falklands/Malvinas defeat, involvement in UN peacekeeping offers the opportunity to recover some of the prestige and self-respect lost after many years of negative image in the world and in their own country. Service in UN peacekeeping missions also reinforces the ties of military transnationalism by building on the camaraderie of shared experiences with soldiers of many nations.

References
International Peace Academy. Peacekeeper's Handbook. NY: IPA, 1978. 
International Peace Academy. Conflict in Central America: Approaches to Peace and Security, NY: St Martin's, 1986.
Rikhye, Indar Jit, The Theory and Practice of Peacekeeping. London: C. Hurst, 1984.   
United Nations. The Blue Helmets, (NY: United Nations, 1996), pp. 393–6.

Peacekeeping
Peacekeeping missions and operations involving the United Nations
Latin America