[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# MyRichUncle

al released another statement: "We are seeing more and more suspicious practices and dealings between university officers and loan companies come to light. ...This creates even more questions about the integrity of the student loan industry and the process by which colleges steer students to loans."

As the scandal unfolded, MyRichUncle took the opportunity to distinguish itself from other lenders and started to market itself as the "conflict-free" alternative. MyRichUncle was attacked in the press by the established industry players. However, between March and May 2007, a number of related stories made it to press, confirming MyRichUncle's allegations of systemic misconduct in the student loan industry.

 In March 2007, it came to light that certain lenders were operating call centers providing financial advice for students where company employees would, in some cases, identify themselves as university advisers. Nelnet was found to be operating a call center supporting ten different universities (including Texas Tech and Wayne State University). Sallie Mae was identified as operating call centers supporting approximately twenty different institutions including Pace University, Mercy College, and Seton Hall University.
 On April 11, 2007, Sallie Mae agreed to pay $2 million into a fund to educate college-bound students as part of a settlement with the New York Attorney General. The lender also agreed to no longer pay for travel and expenses for university officials, provide unpaid staffing assistance to financial aid offices, or operate call centers that provide financial advice for students where company employees identify themselves as university advisers.
 In April 2007, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo announced that his office would sue Drexel University. According to Cuomo's investigation, Drexel received over $124,000 from revenue sharing agreements with Education Finance Partners (EFP) and had accrued an additional $126,000 through March 2007. Since 2005, Drexel had sent over $16 million in loan volume to EFP as part of its preferred lender list.
 More than 60 colleges had "revenue sharing" agreements with Education Finance Partners. JP Morgan Chase was found to have spent $74,000 to "wine and dine" student loan officials from more than 200 colleges on board a Manhattan cruise ship in 2005. Additionally, the bank was shown to have employed five university loan officers while they still held positions at their respective colleges.
 At the University of Texas' Office of Student Financial Services, lenders were found to have provided gifts such as steakhouse dinners and ice cream carts in the hope of obtaining a place on the University's preferred lender list, with the office allegedly using the "treats" as a factor in evaluating lenders.
 Columbia University placed its Financial Aid Director, David Charlow, on leave and subsequently fired him after it was discovered that he held a financial interest in a student loan provider, Student Loan Xpress, that he promoted to parents and university alumni. It was discovered that he had earned more than $100,000 from sales of the company's stock in 2005, the year it was put on Columbia's preferred lender list.
 A Senate Report was released, detailing many of the unethical and deceptive practices occurring between financial aid offices and universities. One of the examples in the report describes how Nelnet, a lender based in Nebraska, created a point system to reward college officials who advised it. Contributing an idea for a product and completing an online survey each earned 25 credits. The credits could be redeemed for donations to an "alma mater or college/university of choice" at $1 each.

As a result of the corrupt practices revealed within the student lending industry, over $3 million was refunded to students and an additional $13.7 million was allocated to the National Education Fund, which New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo established to inform students about the lending industry. Cuomo also created a student lending Code of Conduct., which eventually became New York State law as the Student Lending Accountability, Transparency, and Enforcement (SLATE) Act of 2007. It contains guidelines and prohibitions regarding revenue sharing, gifts and trips, advisory board compensation, preferred lender lists, loan resale disclosures, and call center operations. On the federal level, the Student Loan Sunshine Act was passed in May 2007; it included provisions banning gifts, perks, and revenue-sharing agreements between lenders and schools, and also requires institutions to disclose all relationships with lenders and ensure that students have access to all lenders of their choice, including those not on "Preferred Lender Lists".

Bankruptcy