[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# György Sárosi

papers which makes him the MVP.

Quotes:"I had never seen a game like this in my life, I just learned what football is. — Giovanni Riccardi

"I considered Sárosi to be the greatest artist, but now I also consider him the best strategist. The smartest football player in the world!" — Referee Wüttrich

"The Ferencváros striker line is a magnificent instrument on which the unsurpassed leader, Sárosi, played the most beautiful melodies. Ferencváros deserved the victory perfectly." — II Piccolo

1939-1948 : Final years and retirement 
Ferencváros won the 1939/40 championship only with a goal difference and luck. In the last round Újpest - Hungária 3: 3 (1. FTC 39, 2. Hungária 39, 3. UTE 38). The 1940/41 championship was won by Dr. Sárosi. under his leadership, Ferencváros won by 11 points. Player of the year: dr. György Sárosi.

18 April 1948 Üllői út, Ferencváros - Vasas 2: 0. He played in this match for the last time in green and white on Üllői út. He said goodbye to his beloved audience with brilliant play. Did the "Gyurka, Gyurka" roar and was taken off the shoulder by the fans at the end of the match. No one knew it was his last match. The next day, Monday, 19 April, he left the country with a regular passport. He left for Italy and lived here until his death.

During his Ferencváros career, he played a total of 450 matches in which he scored 421 goals and distributed 190 assists.

International career

Start as a defender 
Sarosi's international career, began as an 18-year-old in a 3-2 loss to Yugoslavia in May 1931. In just his second Hungary appearance, the teenager shackled Czechoslovakia goal machine Antonin Puc as his country recorded a 3-0 win. Because of his infallible performances in defence, it was not until his 15th outing that Hungary experimented with Sarosi in attack. Predictably, he scored that day against Sweden.

World Cup 1934 
In 1934, György Sárosi played his first World Cup. Despite being injured in the first game against Egypt, he was fit to play in the quarters-final against Austria. Despite scoring a penalty at the 60th minute, Sárosi didn't play well in reason of his injury that still had an effect on his game. Hungary ended up losing the game 1-2. Nemzeti Sport was very harsh with Sárosi and criticized him for not being at his usual level:

Sárosi only played one game in that World Cup in which he managed to score a goal.

Hungary 8-3 Czechoslovakia
But if that day in Paris was not the jour de gloire Sarosi had craved, what remained his crowning Hungary exhibition was one any player would have been proud of. It unfolded in a Central European International Cup contest against Czechoslovakia in 1937. With Hungary trailing 2-1 past the half-hour mark, their infallible captain struck seven goals past Frantisek Planicka – arguably the finest goalkeeper on the planet – to seal an emphatic 8-3 victory.

"Scoring seven goals in an international is almost impossible, yet alone past the great Planicka," commented his coach that day, Karoly Dietz. "But 'Gyurka' was the greatest goalscorer of his era – just look at his statistics." In the evening at the banquet, Planicska was the first to congratulate Dr. Sárosi. With tears in his eyes, he rolled his neck and said: "For a player like you, it's not a shame, and I'll never deny it."

After the game, the newspapers gave him the rating of -1 to credit his amazing performance. Normally the system works like that: "1 = World class. 2 = Good. 3 = Average. 4 = Bad. 5 = Awful." But Képes Sport made an exception for Sárosi who scored 7 goals against the best goalkeeper in the world.

This 7-goal haul helped him to be the top goal scorer of the 1936–38 Central European Cup with a then-record of 10 goals (which was equalled in the next edition by fellow compatriot Ferenc Puskás). With a total of 17 goals in the Central European Cup, he is the competition's all-time top goalscorer.