[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hu Jia (activist)

ivities and sometimes to ensure that he is not active at sensitive times such as June 4, the  anniversary of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989) Hu demands that the police state what provision of Chinese law he is being held under. Hu says that the security officers are generally unable to do so.

In 2006, Beijing Zhiaixing Information Counseling Center (formerly called Aizhixing Institute of Health Education), a human rights advocacy group with which Hu was affiliated, received combined grant of $179,113 from National Endowment for Democracy and US State Department for conducting programs within China.

On February 16, 2006, Hu was detained for 41 days. His detention was not acknowledged by the Chinese government. After his return to his apartment in Beijing, where he lives with his wife Zeng Jinyan (also an AIDS activist), Hu Jia was kept under house arrest until March 2007. Two months later, on May 18, 2007, Hu Jia and his wife were placed under house arrest again on charges of "harming state security". Hu Jia has remained active via emails and blogs while under house arrests.

Using a web camera, Hu participated in a European parliamentary hearing in Brussels in November 2007 about human rights in China. At the hearing he said: "It is ironic that one of the people in charge of organizing the Olympic Games is the head of the Bureau of Public Security, which is responsible for so many human rights violations. It is very serious that the official promises are not being kept before the games."

Imprisonment

On December 30, 2007, Hu was arrested at his home in Beijing by the Chinese police for "inciting subversion of state authority". His trial began in March 2008 on charges of "inciting subversion of state power and the socialist system", stemming from interviews he gave to the foreign media and political articles he wrote and published on the internet. The crime carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. On April 3, 2008, Hu was sentenced to three years and six months in prison.  Hu's wife Zeng Jinyan, after an April 2009 prison visit with Hu Jia, noted that his health is deteriorating because of inadequate nutrition and medical care. He is thought to be suffering from a liver condition.

Hu was released from custody on June 26, 2011.

Illness

In April 2010, Hu's family got to know that he was sent to prison hospital for medical check of symptoms suspected to be liver cancer but no information of the medical report was released to his family.  Hu's wife Ms Zeng requested for the detailed medical report but was denied access.  She and Hu's mother requested for medical parole but the prison administration rejected by saying that Hu's disease is not liver cancer, and he might not be released for medical care even if he had liver cancer.

On April 7, Ms Zeng published an open letter on Internet, requesting medical parole of Mr. Hu.  Shortly later, Ms Ai Xiaoming and Ms Cui Weiping, two renowned university professors who are also active in human rights activities, published an open letter on Internet, appealing public support for Ms Zeng's request of medical parole of Mr. Hu.  In less than 10 days, over 700 people endorsed the open letter through email and web forms.

On December 5, 2014, notable CCP member Zhou Yongkang was expelled from the party after being accused of alleged corruption in the course of the Anti-corruption campaign under Xi Jinping. The following day, Hu commented on the recent anti-corruption campaign of the CCP stating "Zhou challenged Xi's authority and threatened his rule - that's why he's now being held responsible along with his gangs. The bottom line is: All officials are corrupt. Xi can't find a better excuse to rid of his political opponents than fighting corruption - something that helps him win the masses' hearts and minds."

Awards and honors 
Hu was made an honorary citizen of Paris on April 21, 2008, the same day as was the 14th Dalai Lama. On October 23, 2008, the European Parliament announced that its Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought would be awarded to Hu Jia in December 2008.

See also 
 Human rights in the People's Republic of China

References

External links

The Year of the Dog - A Chinese activist's story 
Chinese AIDS activist missing for six weeks returns home
Interview With AIDS Activist Hu Jia
Hu Jia's blog, translated by Google Translate.
Hu Jia's Live Spaces blog in Chinese
Friends of Nature website (in Chinese)
Prisoners in Freedom City, a documentary by Hu Jia and Zeng Jinyan (with Chinese and English Subtitles)
The full documentary, "Prisoners of Freedom City" on the WITNESS Hub - Part 1, Part 2 & Part 3
Hu Jia Arrest Indicates China Anxiety over Tibet Issue
Video: Living under house arrest in Beijing