[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gerald Guterman

isposing of savings and loan properties in bulk "wasteful" and "uncompetitive." Further, the report criticized the RTC for negotiating with Guterman while he was under investigation, though it was also noted that Guterman had been falsely accused and that all charges had been withdrawn or dismissed.

Trusteeships and charitable participation 
Guterman served as a trustee of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Adelphi University, New York City Opera, Dallas Opera, Young Men's Philanthropic League, Rippowam Cisqua School, and Harvey School. He also served as a commissioner of the United States Romania Action Commission under the sponsorship of the United States Center for Strategic and International Studies, as well as Chairman of its banking and financing committees. Guterman served as personal financial advisor to the Minister of Privatization, Government of Romania.

Guterman is a founder of Albert Einstein College of Medicine as well as a member of the Society of Founders of Miami University College of Medicine  He was awarded "Humanitarian of the Year" by the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation.  Guterman is a founding benefactor of Research Laboratory for the Study of Tumor Cell Biology and Research Laboratory for the Study of Immunodeficiency Disease at the National Asthma Center. He also established a joint Research Chair in Medical Engineering at Harvard University and The Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

References

Further reading
 Hirschman, Elizabeth C. 1990. "Secular Immortality and the American Ideology of Affluence," The Journal of Consumer Research, Vol. 17, No. 1 (Jun., 1990), pp. 31–42.

External links 
 Guterman Partners LLC
 New York Times Article: Managing Those Occupied Apartments
 New York Times Article:  A King's Fall: Tax Changes Reverse Rise Of Developer
 New York Times Article: Guterman's Troubles Jolt Client Co-ops

Living people
Adelphi University people
American Jews
American real estate businesspeople
Businesspeople from New York City
Year of birth missing (living people)