[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# International Holocaust Remembrance Day

educational mission, the Department of Public Information participated in a panel discussion with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in the afternoon of 28 January to highlight the importance of Holocaust education, organized by B'nai B'rith International.

A second exhibit, "Carl Lutz and the Legendary Glass House in Budapest", was co-sponsored by the Carl Lutz Foundation and the Permanent Missions of Switzerland and Hungary. Carl Lutz, the Swiss Vice-Consul in Budapest, had issued certificates of emigration to place tens of thousands of Jews under Swiss protection.

In 2019
In January 2019, Albanian Ambassador to the UN Besiana Kadare on behalf of Albania co-hosted together with the World Jewish Congress and the United Nations Department of Global Communications an event on the theme "A story of humanity: the rescue of Jews in Albania". Kadare delivered remarks at the United Nations at a briefing entitled "Holocaust Remembrance: Demand and Defend your Human Rights", marking International Holocaust Remembrance Day and reflecting on the genocide of six million European Jews during World War Two, and the little-known record of Albanians during the Holocaust in Albania, which took in thousands of Jews who would otherwise have ended up in the Nazi death camps.

In 2020
In January 2020, Chelsea FC unveiled a mural by Solomon Souza on an outside wall of the West Stand at Stamford Bridge stadium to commemorate Holocaust Remembrance Day. The mural is part of Chelsea's 'Say No to Antisemitism' campaign funded by club owner Roman Abramovich. Included on the mural are depictions of footballers Julius Hirsch and Árpád Weisz, who were killed at Auschwitz concentration camp, and Ron Jones, a British prisoner of war known as the 'Goalkeeper of Auschwitz'.

Commemorations outside the United Nations

Commemorations are held at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, DC, and at Yad Vashem, in Jerusalem.

In Austria, commemorations of the Remembrance Day are held at the Heldenplatz in Vienna since 2012. The broad platform Jetzt Zeichen setzen! calls for participation of the civil society. Speakers include survivors of the Holocaust, antifascist activists and politicians hailing from parties throughout the political spectrum.

In Israel, the national Holocaust memorial day is known as Yom HaShoah, which is held on the 27th of Nisan. However, the International Holocaust Remembrance Day is also held in Israel, on which day government officials, diplomats and ambassadors visit Yad Vashem and there are ceremonies throughout the country. Every year, as part of International Holocaust Remembrance Day, the Ministry of Diaspora Affairs presents the annual report on antisemitism before the Israeli government. The report reviews the main trends and incidents of the last year, in terms of antisemitism and combating antisemitism.

See also
 Days of Remembrance of the Victims of the Holocaust (United States)
 European Day of the Righteous
 Holocaust memorial days
 Holocaust Memorial Day (UK)
 International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance
 National Day of Commemorating the Holocaust (Romania)
 United Nations Holocaust Memorial
 Liberation (Holocaust memorial)
 World Holocaust Forum
 Yom HaShoah (April or May)
 Roma Holocaust Memorial Day (2 August)
 Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day (24 April)
 Bengali Genocide Remembrance Day (25 March)
 Holodomor Memorial Day (4th Saturday of November)
 International Day of Reflection on the 1994 Rwanda Genocide (7 April)
 Kwibuka, marking the start of the annual official mourning period for the victims of the Rwandan genocide (7 April)
 National Day of Remembrance (Cambodia) (20 May)
 Pontian Greek Genocide Remembrance Day (May 19)
 United Nations International Day of Commemoration and Dignity of the Victims of the Crime of Genocide and of the Prevention of this Crime (9 December)

References

23.  "Yesterdays and then Tomorrows: Holocaust Anthology of Testimonies and Readings", compiled and edited by Safira Rapoport, Jerusalem: Yad Vashem, 2002.

External links

 International Holocaust Remembrance Day on the Yad Vashem website
 International Holocaust Remembrance Day on the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum website
 The United Nations' International Holocaust Remembrance Day page
 Statement by UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan on IHRD
 U.N. Events, Messages, & More for the United Nations' International Day of Commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust
OSCE "Holocaust Memorial Days in the OSCE Region" reports

International observances
January observances
Holocaust Remembrance Day, International
Holocaust remembrance days
German flag flying days