[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Louise Richardson

rch center and special collections reading room.

Richardson insisted universities should not be afraid to look abroad for support from legitimate donors and charities. She rebuffed criticisms over donor influence saying, "Any academic who tailors research to suit a donor is not worthy of the name."

Rankings and student access
Under Richardson, investments in research resulted in the opening of a new school of medical and biological sciences in 2010, and similar investments were credited with helping to improve St. Andrews' national and international rankings. They reached as high as 85 worldwide on the Times Higher Education list of 2012 and as high as 39  for scientific performance on the Leiden Ranking of 2014.

Richardson focused on St. Andrew's global brand and its ability to attract international students.  She also prioritized increasing access among students from disadvantaged backgrounds. In 2015, after seven years as principal, the number of pupils on outreach programmes was 1772, up from 235 in 2008, the year before she took over.

Freedom of speech
In 2014, just before the referendum on Scottish independence, it was revealed that Richardson had resisted pressure by then First Minister Alex Salmond to tone down her comments on the impact of Scottish independence on research universities, and resisted pressure from Salmond to issue a statement praising the SNP government.

To protect her academic staff from external pressures to support the Scottish government's position in the referendum, Richardson issued a statement saying they were free to state their personal opinions, insisting that the public looked to universities for reasoned debate. In 2015, Richardson again criticized the Scottish government, saying it was interfering with the running of higher education institutions and creating an excessive regulatory bureaucracy.
These incidents helped define Richardson as a "champion of free thought" with a "ferocious independent spirit" according to a column about her tenure at St. Andrews published in The Daily Telegraph of London.

Vice-Chancellor, University of Oxford
On 28 May 2015, the University of Oxford announced that Richardson had been nominated as the next vice-chancellor, subject to approval, to take up the post on 1 January 2016. The nomination was approved on 25 June 2015, and Richardson became the university's first female vice-chancellor in January 2016. She was also an Honorary Fellow at Kellogg College, Oxford.

Institutional reforms
In October 2017, Richardson claimed that Oxford University was in need of reform, stating that the current system gives rise to "a waste of resources" and a "duplication of bureaucracy". At her annual Oration, she stated, "We all know that change occurs slowly at Oxford…but the world is changing rapidly around us, and I believe that if we stand still we will enter a period of slow but definite decline." By 2022, Richardson was still advocating for her "One Oxford agenda" to encourage collaboration between the central university and the university's 39 financially independent and self-governing colleges.

Funding and fundraising
In an interview with the Daily Telegraph in July 2019 Richardson addressed the issue of higher education funding in the UK, noting that "Our American competitors are so far ahead of us in fundraising". Her approach was to explore alternative sources of funding, including investments from the capital markets, public-private partnerships, and philanthropic support.

In December 2017, Oxford raised £750 million through a century bond issuance (increased to £1 billion in 2020). It was a first for the university and the biggest amount raised this way by a UK university. Richardson helped negotiate several major partnerships for Oxford: In 2017, Novo Nordisk invested £115 million in a new research center focused on type 2 Diabetes; in 2019, Legal and General agreed to invest £4 billion in staff housing and science facilities; and in 2021, manufacturing company Ineos donated £100 million to establish a center for research into the global issue of antimicrobial resistance (AMR)

As part of the Oxford Thinking Campaign, Richardson continued a fundraising campaign that started in 2004 and culminated in 2019 with £3.3 billion in gifts from more than 170,000 donors. In 2019, Richardson secured a £185 million donation from US billionaire Stephen Schwarzman to fund humanities research at the University of Oxford—the largest single donation since the Renaissance. In 2020, she also secured an £80 million donation from the Reuben Foundation to create Oxford's 39th college, Reuben College, to support applied research.