[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mitral valve replacement

valves. Using echocardiography they quantitatively analyzed the velocity field in the left heart and found that the patients with artificial mitral valves had a consistent counterclockwise circulation, as opposed to the normal clockwise circulation that is characteristic of normal transmitral flow.

To further characterize this counterclockwise circulation a numerical simulation was performed which backed up the data taken from the echocardiograph study.

This flipped vortex circulation could lead to further complications in the patient who had mitral valve replacement surgery as it was observed to cause stagnation points, crossed flows, increased energy requirements and pressure shifts from the lateral to the septal wall in the left heart.

Minimally invasive mitral valve replacement 
Since the 1990s, surgeons have been working on less invasive approaches to mitral valve surgery, known as minimally invasive cardiac surgery (MICS). Minimally invasive mitral valve replacement involves a small incision (5–8 cm) just below the right breast. The benefits of MICS over conventional surgery include reduced hospital stay and blood transfusion requirements, and a smaller scar.

Transcatheter mitral valve replacement 
Rather than removing the existing valve, transcatheter mitral valve replacement involves wedging a new valve into the site of the existing valve. The replacement valve is delivered to the site of the existing valve through a tube called a catheter. The catheter may be inserted through the femoral artery in the thigh, or through a small incision in the chest. Once the replacement valve is in place, it is expanded, pushing the old valve’s leaflets (the sections that open and close) out of the way.

Transcatheter mitral valves are still being studied in clinical trials; none are commercially available.

Alternatives to mitral valve replacement

Repair

Many mitral valves can be repaired instead of replaced. In fact, mitral valve repair is recommended by international guidelines wherever possible. Advantages of mitral valve repair over replacement include lower surgical mortality (~1% for repair vs ~5% for replacement), lower rates of stroke and endocarditis (an infection of the heart’s inner lining), equivalent or better long‑term durability, and improved long-term survival. Patients who have their valve repaired have a similar life expectancy to the general population. In addition, patients may not need to take anticoagulants long term following mitral valve repair.

Non-surgical options
For individuals with few symptoms, or those with contraindications to surgery, options exist for medical treatment in both mitral insufficiency and mitral valve stenosis, although they won't cure the conditions. Such medical treatments include diuretics, vasodilators, and ACE inhibitors.

See also
 Mitral regurgitation
 Mitral stenosis
 Artificial heart valve
 Cardiac surgery
 Heart-lung machine

References

Sources
 
 
 

Valvular heart disease
Cardiac surgery