[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# High Priest of Israel

in the city of Jerusalem. His honor required that he should spend most of his time in the Sanctuary, The high priest was subject to the jurisdiction of the courts, but if accused of a crime entailing capital punishment he was tried by the Great Sanhedrin; he could, however, refuse to give testimony.

The high priest needed to be married, and "should only marry a virgin"; to guard against contingencies, it was proposed to hold a second wife in readiness immediately before Yom Kippur; but he was to have only one wife at a time. He could perform halizah, and it could be given to his widow, as she also was subject to the Levirate; his divorced wife could marry again. When entering the Temple, he was supported to the curtain by three men. He could take part in the service whenever he desired. On Yom Kippur, he wore white garments, while on other occasions he wore his golden vestments. The seven days preceding Yom Kippur were devoted to preparing for his high function, precautions being taken to prevent any accident that might render him Levitically impure. The ceremonial for that day is described in detail in Mishnah Yoma.

Succession
The succession was to be through one of his sons, and was to remain in his own family. If he had no son, the office devolved upon the brother next of age: such appears to have been the practice in the Hasmonean period.

Late Second Temple

In this period, the high priests belonged to priestly families from the sons of Zadok. This tradition came to an end in the 2nd century BCE during the rule of the Hasmoneans, when the position was occupied by other priestly families unrelated to Zadok.

After the Exile, the succession seems to have been, at first, in a direct line from father to son; but later the civil authorities arrogated to themselves the right of appointment. Antiochus IV Epiphanes for instance, deposed Onias III in favor of Jason, who was followed by Menelaus.

Beginning with the death of Zerubbabel, there was a tendency to combine political and priestly leadership in a single office; the final link in this development was the assumption of monarchy by the Hasmonean high priests after their successful revolt. But after Hasmonean national independence came to an end, the high-priesthood changed again in character, ceasing to be a hereditary and a life office. High priests were appointed and removed with great frequency. This may account for the references to multiple contemporaneous "high priests" (ἀρχιερεῖς) in Josephus. The deposed high priests seem to have retained the title, and to have continued to exercise certain functions. Even in the latest periods, the office was apparently restricted to a few families of great distinction (probably the benei kohanim gedolim, "[members of] high-priestly families").

Herod the Great nominated no less than six high priests; Archelaus, two. The Roman legate Quirinius and his successors exercised the right of appointment, as did Agrippa I, Herod of Chalcis, and Agrippa II. Even the people occasionally elected candidates to the office. The high priests before the Exile were apparently appointed for life; in fact, from Aaron to the exile fewer high priests served than in the 60 years preceding the fall of the Second Temple.

Josephus enumerates only 52 high priests under the Second Temple, omitting the second appointments of Hyrcanus II, Hananeel, and Joazar.

Connection with Sanhedrin
The high priest was the presiding officer of the Sanhedrin. This view conflicts with the later Jewish tradition according to which the Pharisee tannaim (the Zugot) at the head of the yeshivot presided over the great Sanhedrin also (Ḥag. ii. 2). However, a careful reading of the sources ("Ant." xx. 10; "Contra Ap." ii., § 22; comp. "Ant." iv. 8, § 14; xiv. 9, §§ 3–5 [Hyrcanus II. as president]; xx. 9, § 1 [Ananus]), as well as the fact that in the post-Maccabean period the high priest was looked upon as exercising in all things, political, legal, and sacerdotal, the supreme authority, shows it to be almost certain that the presidency of the Sanhedrin was vested in the high priest (see Isidore Loeb in "R. E. J." 1889, xix. 188–201; Jelski, "Die Innere Einrichtung des Grossen Synhedrions", pp. 22–28, according to whom the Nasi was the high priest, while the Av Beth Din was a Pharisaic tanna).

See also
 List of High Priests of Israel
 Samaritan High Priest

Notes

Bibliography

External links

The Mysterious White Garments of Yom Kippur
Burial artifact inscribed 'Son of High Priest' found near West Bank fence route

Ancient Jewish history
Hebrew Bible words and phrases
 
Jewish sacrificial law
Orthodox rabbinic roles and titles
Religious leadership roles
Book of Exodus
Establishments in the Achaemenid Empire