[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Greenhorn Mountain

Greenhorn Mountain is the highest summit of the Wet Mountains range in the Rocky Mountains of North America.  The prominent  peak is located in the Greenhorn Mountain Wilderness of San Isabel National Forest,  southwest by west (bearing 238°) of the Town of Rye, Colorado, United States, on the boundary between Huerfano and Pueblo counties.  The summit of Greenhorn Mountain is the highest point in Pueblo County, Colorado.  The peak's summit rises above timberline, which is about  in south-central Colorado.

Geography
The massive Greenhorn Mountain can be seen from Colorado Springs, Pueblo, Trinidad, and also from along Interstate 25 rising over  above the great plains to the east.  The mountain's habitats are protected within the secluded Greenhorn Mountain Wilderness Area, which is only accessed by a few trails and a 4-wheel drive road on its north.

Climate
Greenhorn Mountain has a subalpine climate (Köppen Dfc) bordering on an Alpine climate (ET).

Name origin
The original name for the mountain peak was Cuerno Verde. The name comes from Cuerno Verde (Green Horn) given by the colonial Spanish of the Provincias Internas to two, father and son, Jupe Comanche band mahimiana paraibo or war chiefs. The younger Cuerno Verde was known to the Comanches  as "Man Who Holds Danger." On September 3, 1779, younger Cuerno Verde, his son, medicine man, four principal chiefs, and ten of his warriors, were killed near Greenhorn Mountain by the men of the expedition of Spanish troops and native American allies (Apache, Ute, and Pueblo) under Juan Bautista de Anza.

On April 4, 1906, the United States Board on Geographic Names decided to use the English translation, Greenhorn, for the name it carries today.

See also

List of mountain peaks of Colorado
List of the most prominent summits of Colorado
List of Colorado county high points

References

Sources
Pekka Hämäläinen, The Comanche Empire,Yale University Press, New  Haven & London 2008, pages 103-104

External links

Sangres.com: Greenhorn Mountain

Mountains of Colorado
Mountains of Huerfano County, Colorado
Mountains of Pueblo County, Colorado
San Isabel National Forest
Sangre de Cristo Mountains
North American 3000 m summits