[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# History of the Canadian dollar

serves of the government, lender of last resort to chartered banks, and issuer of notes on behalf of the government. The Dominion Notes Act and the Finance Act, which had assigned these functions to the Minister of Finance, were repealed. The Bank's mandate was summarised in the preamble to the act:

WHEREAS it is desirable to establish a central bank in Canada to regulate credit and currency in the best interest of the economic life of the nation, to control and protect the external value of the national monetary unit and to mitigate by its influence fluctuations in the general level of production, trade, prices and employment, so far as may be possible within the scope of monetary action, and generally to promote the economic and financial welfare of the Dominion;

One former Deputy Governor of the Bank of Canada has stated that the Bank implements this mandate in three ways: "first, by keeping inflation low, stable, and predictable; second, by supporting a safe and efficient financial system; and third, by issuing money that is safe from counterfeiting and readily accepted".

 First issue of Bank of Canada notes 

On March 11, 1935, the first day of its operation, the Bank issued its first series of notes. There were ten notes in the 1935 series, primarily featuring members of the Royal Family:

 a one-dollar note, featuring King George V;
 a two-dollar note, featuring Queen Mary;
 a five-dollar note, featuring Edward, Prince of Wales (later King Edward VIII);
a ten-dollar note, featuring Mary, Princess Royal;
 a twenty-dollar note, featuring Princess Elizabeth (later Queen Elizabeth II);
 a twenty-five-dollar note, featuring King George and Queen Mary;
 a fifty-dollar note, featuring Prince Albert, Duke of York (later King George VI);
 a one hundred-dollar note, featuring Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester;
 a five hundred-dollar note, featuring Prime Minister John A. Macdonald;
 a thousand-dollar note, featuring Prime Minister Wilfrid Laurier.

The previous Dominion notes, issued by the Minister of Finance, were rapidly withdrawn from circulation.

The 1935 series was the only Bank of Canada series to include a twenty-five-dollar note and a five hundred-dollar note. The twenty-five-dollar note was a special commemorative note, for the twenty-fifth anniversary of George V's accession to the throne. The five hundred-dollar note was a carry-over from the former government notes, which had included a five hundred-dollar note since 1871, to facilitate transfers of large sums between the banks. No subsequent series has had a note of the same denomination. The 1935 series was also the only Bank of Canada series issued separately in English and in French. All series since then have been bilingual. To deter counterfeiting, the Bank regularly issues new series, replacing the old ones. There have been seven more series since the initial 1935 series: (1937, 1954, 1970, 1986, 2001, 2011), and the eighth series released in 2018.

 Gradual elimination of chartered bank notes 

As the Bank of Canada became established, the federal government gradually reduced the power of the chartered banks to issue their own bank notes. In 1935, the banks were given ten years to reduce their notes in circulation to twenty-five per cent of their paid-up capital.Bank Act, Statutes of Canada 1934, c. 24, s. 61. A revision to the Bank Act in 1944 provided that the banks could not issue or reissue notes after the end of 1944, except outside Canada.Bank Act, Statutes of Canada 1944, c. 30, s. 61 The last note issued by a chartered bank for use in Canada was a five-dollar note issued by the Royal Bank of Canada in 1943. The old banknotes were gradually withdrawn from circulation. In 1953, the last remaining power to issue banknotes, for use outside Canada, was abolished and the Bank of Canada became the sole issuer of Canadian notes.

 Fixed and floating exchange rates 

Since Canada has gone off the gold standard, it has fluctuated between fixed and floating exchange rates. The Canadian dollar currently has a floating exchange rate, since 1970.

 Great Depression 

As part of the reforms associated with the creation of the Bank of Canada and the economic difficulties of the Great Depression, Parliament also passed the Exchange Fund Act in 1935. The purpose of this Act was to create a fund, derived from the profits of the Bank of Canada, which would enable the government and the Bank to "aid in the control and protection of the external value of the Canadian monetary unit", i.e. to maintain the Canadian dollar at a certain rate against other currencies, if needed. However, the government did not use this power initially, allowing the dollar to float against other currencies.

 World War II and aftermath