[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neckarwestheim Nuclear Power Plant

shutdown.

On 27 July 2004, water contaminated with two megabecquerels leaked unnoticed from Unit II into the Neckar river. As a result, for the first time in the Federal Republic, the operator company of a nuclear power plant paid a fine of €25,000 and a managing director was dismissed.

Powerlines

Power produced at GKN is transmitted over a transmission line carrying two circuits of traction current and three-phase alternating current line to the 220 kV-three phase AC and the 110 kV-traction current switchyard situated east of Neckarwestheim. This line is hung on pylons of unusual design with five cross beams. On the lowest cross bar there are two traction current circuits, while the second, third and fourth cross beam carry the three-phase circuits. These are operated, in the case of the GKN 1, with 220 kV and in the case of the GKN 2 with 380 kV. On the highest cross beam two ground conductors are installed. It is notable that the traction current circuits were insulated for 220 kV, although they are operated only with 110 kV. This measure was taken because, in case of a disturbance of the parallel 380 kV-line, overvoltages can occur which insulation designed for 110 kV cannot stand.

The traction current lines from the GKN to the traction current switching station at Neckarwestheim, and from there to the central substation in Stuttgart Zazenhausen, are implemented as four-bundle conductors.

The three-phase 380 kV circuit leading away from the nuclear power station GKN 2 runs past the 220 kV-three phase switchyard at Neckarwestheim to the transformer station at Großgartach near Heilbronn. another 110 kV-line for three phase AC with one circuit which originates in the switchgear of the coal-fired power station at Walheim also runs to the GKN. This line is not for export of the power produced by the GKN, but for start-up power for the nuclear plant.

Neckarwestheim and the GKN have never had a track connection to the railway network.

Public opposition
Geologist Hermann Behmel was a prominent opponent of the Neckarwestheim Nuclear Power Plant.

In April 2009, anti-nuclear activists blocked the entrance to the controversial Neckarwestheim Nuclear Plant with an 8-metre wall. Their protest coincided with the annual meeting of the company that runs the plant, Energie Baden-Württemberg (EnBW).

Popular culture

On April 23rd 2014, the power plant featured on an episode of The Technical Difficulties in the game 'Citation Needed' presented by  Tom Scott, Gary Brannan, Matt Gray, and Chris Joel.

References

EnBW
Former nuclear power stations in Germany
Buildings and structures in Heilbronn (district)
Economy of Baden-Württemberg