[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hoodoo Mountain

er NCVP centre. Hoodoo Mountain, Level Mountain and Mount Edziza are the only NCVP centres that contain volcanic rocks of both mafic and intermediate to felsic composition. The highest of the four complexes is Mount Edziza at , followed by Level Mountain at , Heart Peaks at  and Hoodoo Mountain at .

Hoodoo Mountain is one of ten volcanoes composing the Iskut volcanic field. This is a group of NCVP volcanoes scattered along the Iskut River and its main tributaries. They consist of both subaerial and glaciovolcanic deposits, the latter of which are in the form of pillow lavas, tuff breccias and hyaloclastite. All of these volcanoes were active in the last 150,000 years; the latest eruption occurred from The Volcano about 150 years ago. The remaining Iskut volcanoes are Cinder Mountain, Little Bear Mountain and the Cone Glacier, Iskut Canyon, Second Canyon, Snippaker Creek, King Creek and Tom MacKay Creek cones.

Like other volcanoes in the NCVP, Hoodoo Mountain has its origins in rifting of the North American Plate caused by crustal extension. This has resulted from the Pacific Plate sliding northward along the Queen Charlotte Fault, on its way to the Aleutian subduction zone in Alaska. As the continental crust stretches, the near surface rocks fracture along steeply dipping faults parallel to the rift. Several dormant volcanoes in the NCVP are potentially active, Hoodoo Mountain being one of many having erupted in the last 10,000 years. Tseax Cone, which last erupted about 240 years ago, is the southernmost NCVP volcano while Prindle Volcano in easternmost-central Alaska, which last erupted in the Pleistocene, is generally considered the northernmost.

Structure

Hoodoo Mountain is one of the largest peralkaline volcanoes in the NCVP. It is a stratovolcano composed primarily of peralkaline phonolite and trachyte lava flows and hyaloclastites, although some pyroclastic rocks are also present. Its peralkalinity is unique among other volcanoes in the Iskut volcanic field, which range in composition from alkali basalt to hawaiite. Hoodoo has also been designated as a subglacial volcano due to much of the mountain having formed subglacially in the last 85,000 years. Its involvement with glaciation has resulted in several interactions with glacial ice as much as  thick, affording multiple examples of glaciovolcanic processes. This includes the formation of ice-marginal lava flows and the interlayering of glacial till with volcanic deposits.

Hoodoo Mountain's constant struggle with surrounding and overlying ice is attested by its nearly flat summit, which attains an elevation of . Lava flows from Hoodoo Mountain partially bury Little Bear Mountain, a much smaller and older basaltic volcano immediately to the north. Both volcanoes are underlain by plutonic rocks and metamorphosed volcanic and sedimentary rocks of Stikinia. These basement rocks are of Paleozoic–Mesozoic age; pyroxene syenite composes a significant portion of the Mesozoic basement. Intruding the basement rocks are 1.8-million-year-old trachyandesite dikes, which represent the earliest known manifestations of Quaternary magmatism in the Iskut region.

Hoodoo Mountain has been described as "one of the most magnificent and interesting mountains in northern British Columbia". This is because it has a different lithological and topographical structure than most glaciated mountains in the Canadian Cordillera. In contrast to its rugged counterparts, Hoodoo is symmetrical and circular in form. It has a basal diameter of around , a volume of  and a topographic prominence of , making it the smallest of the four volcanoes composing the Stikine Subprovince. Hoodoos, pillar-like rock formations after which the volcano is named, are as much as  in height and give the mountain a unique appearance. In 1919, a landslide removed lava rock from a  section on the western side of Hoodoo Mountain.

Two sets of prominent cliffs partially circumscribe Hoodoo Mountain, which give the volcano a discontinuous, step-like topographic profile. The lower set of cliffs delimit the base of the volcano except for its southeastern margin where they have been partially overrun by younger lava flows. These cliffs form a broad bench at an elevation of approximately  and are  high. The upper set of cliffs surround the summit and are between  high. Both sets of cliffs formed as a result of lava erupting in a glaciated environment. As lava travelled down slope, the lava came into contact with glacial ice that completely surrounded Hoodoo Mountain and cooled very quickly, forming a barrier around the entire volcano. This is demonstrated by the glassy texture of the lava and columnar jointing, which indicate fairly quick cooling of an erupted lava flow. The lava cooled, pooled and as the glacial ice receded, it left behind massive lava cliffs.