[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Scarred Lands

Scarred Lands is a post-apocalyptic fantasy campaign setting in which characters live in a world recovering from a devastating war between gods and titans. Initially published by White Wolf Publishing under its Sword & Sorcery brand using the d20 System, Scarred Lands is now owned by Onyx Path Publishing. In 2017 Onyx Path Publishing released an updated version of the setting using the 5th Edition Open Game License system along with a version of the core setting book using the first edition of the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game rules. Scarred Lands draws inspiration from Greek mythology.

Setting

Scarred Lands is set on the world of Scarn in a post-apocalyptic era where the world is recovering from a horrific war between the Gods and Titans, which ended 150 years ago and left the land warped. The primary focus of the setting is the continent of Ghelspad, which was the site of numerous battles during the Divine War, also called the Titanswar by some people of Scarn.

Seeking a means to rid the world of the whimsical and dangerous titans, the gods - the children of the titans - decided to unite against their parents. Because the essence of the titans is inextricably bound to the world of Scarn due to their role as the world's creators, the gods were forced to incapacitate their parents instead of destroying them. Hacked to pieces, chained, or bound into geographic or celestial fixtures, the felled titans provide constant incentive for their worshipers to resurrect their masters. The divine peoples (those who fought alongside the gods in the Divine War) and the Redeemed (those who fought alongside the titans, but renounced their titanic masters at the end of the Divine War) continue the fight against titanic abominations including both titan-worshipers and monstrous titanspawn.

A great deal of the setting's appeal comes from the detail of cultures, cities, governments and history presented in the core setting books and their supplements. Apart from Ghelspad, where the primary books are set, there are several other continents which have been influenced in a lesser degree by the Titanswar.

Since the reintroduction of the setting, supplemental materials have been released detailing regions beyond Ghelspad. These include the Blood Sea, which is tainted red by the corrupt blood of the titan Kadum, who lies chained and mutilated on the ocean floor, as well as the continent of Fenrilik, an arctic environment where titan worship is common and the extreme weather prevents most contact with the outside world.

Titans 
In the game structure, Titans have neither alignment, nor domains. Titans as described through the game embody raw natural and universal power. Druids of Scarn draw on this power to fuel their magic. All titans but Denev, who sided with the gods, were targeted and incapacitated during the Divine War. As a result, druids who revere any titan other than Denev are reviled and considered titanspawn by the divine and Redeemed peoples.

 Denev, the Earth Mother
 Chern, The Scourge
 Gaurak, the Glutton
 Golthagga, the Shaper
 Golthain, the Faceless
 Gormoth, the Writhing Lord
 Gulaben, Lady of the Winds
 Hrinruuk, the Hunter
 Kadum, the Mountainshaker
 Lethene, Dame of Storms
 Mesos, Sire of Sorcery
 Mormo, Mother of Serpents
 Thulkas, Father of Fire

Lesser Titans 
The existence of lesser titans is introduced and discussed in the Gauntlet of Spiragos adventure and its sequels. While Spiragos is discussed in some detail, including the tale of their destruction at the hands of Vangal the Ravager, little comment is made regarding the identities and abilities of other lesser titans.

Gods 
While the Titans are kin to raw and universal power, the children of the Titans are not. Being a generation away from spontaneous birth is enough to limit the child to godhood in this game setting.

Each God was presented game statistics in the d20 System version, using the established rules for gods and NPCs, having both alignment and domains. This is also true of the Titan Denev who supported the gods in their war. No official statistics have been released for the gods or titans in the Open Gaming License or Pathfinder editions.