[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Royal Rumble (1989)

d against his former friend. Hogan defeated Savage to win the title ending Savage's reign of 371 days.

Jake Roberts and André the Giant continued their feud during the rest of the winter of 1989, with the returning Big John Studd becoming involved in their WrestleMania V match as the guest referee.

The Ultimate Warrior vowed revenge against Rick Rude for his attack after the posedown, to which Rude replied that he wanted a match for the Intercontinental Championship held by Warrior. Over the next couple of months, Rude would regularly appear at ringside midway through Warrior's matches with World champion Savage, luring the Warrior outside and causing him to be counted out (then afterwards embracing Savage to emphasise the latter's heel turn.)  At WrestleMania V, Rude won the Intercontinental title, using outside interference from manager Bobby Heenan to pin Warrior. Rude thus became the first champion in the Heenan Family.

The Rockin' Robin-Judy Martin match for the WWF Women's Championship match was the last women's match for a championship title conducted at a major WWF pay-per-view event for nearly five years. Robin left the company in June 1989 and – with little to no interest in women's wrestling at the time – the title was deactivated in February 1990. The title remained vacant until 1993, when Alundra Blayze won a tournament to become the new champion.

The Royal Rumble marked the WWF PPV debut of The Bushwhackers, who arrived in WWF in December 1988 after leaving WCW whilst in the finals of their United States Tag Team titie tournament.  The Bushwhackers would go on to feud with the Brain Busters throughout the early part of 1989 on the house show circuit.  Another PPV debut was former NWA World Heavyweight Champion "Rugged" Ronnie Garvin, who also arrived in December 1988 from a run in the AWA, after the Rumble he and Greg "The Hammer" Valentine would feud where they exchanged televised pinfall victories on WWF Superstars of Wrestling, with Valentine winning a "retirement match" on Superstars.

Steve Lombardi would be repackaged as "The Brooklyn Brawler" on an episode of Prime Time Wrestling later in January 1989 where he attacked The Red Rooster on the set of PTW at the urging of Bobby Heenan, which also "injured" host Gorilla Moonson and started a feud between the two.

Results

Royal Rumble entrances and eliminations
A new entrant came out approximately every 2 minutes.

^Jake Roberts had already been eliminated when he returned from the locker room with his bag. He then removed his pet, a boa constrictor called "Damien", from the bag and then slid into the ring to chase André The Giant away, who quickly eliminated himself over the top rope to escape Jake and his pet snake.

References

External links
Official website

1989
Events in Houston
1989 in Texas
Professional wrestling in Houston
1989 WWF pay-per-view events
January 1989 events in the United States

pl:WWE Royal Rumble#Royal Rumble 1989.5B4.5D