[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Quantum annealing

he tunneling field (kinetic part). Then one may carry out the simulation with the quantum Hamiltonian thus constructed (the original function + non-commuting part) just as described above. Here, there is a choice in selecting the non-commuting term and the efficiency of annealing may depend on that.

It has been demonstrated experimentally as well as theoretically, that quantum annealing can indeed outperform thermal annealing (simulated annealing) in certain cases, especially where the potential energy (cost) landscape consists of very high but thin barriers surrounding shallow local minima. Since thermal transition probabilities (proportional to , with  the temperature and  the Boltzmann constant) depend only on the height  of the barriers, for very high barriers, it is extremely difficult for thermal fluctuations to get the system out from such local minima. However, as argued earlier in 1989 by Ray, Chakrabarti & Chakrabarti, the quantum tunneling probability through the same barrier (considered in isolation) depends not only on the height  of the barrier, but also on its width  and is approximately given by , where  is the tunneling field. This additional handle through the width , in presence of quantum tunneling, can be of major help: If the barriers are thin enough (i.e. ), quantum fluctuations can surely bring the system out of the shallow local minima. For an -spin glass, the barrier height  becomes of order . For constant value of  one gets  proportional to  for the annealing time (instead of  proportional to  for thermal annealing), while  can even become -independent for cases where  decreases as .

It is speculated that in a quantum computer, such simulations would be much more efficient and exact than that done in a classical computer, because it can perform the tunneling directly, rather than needing to add it by hand. Moreover, it may be able to do this without the tight error controls needed to harness the quantum entanglement used in more traditional quantum algorithms. Some confirmation of this is found in exactly solvable models.

Timeline of ideas related to quantum annealing in Ising spin glasses:
1989 Idea was presented that quantum fluctuations could help explore rugged energy landscapes of the classical Ising spin glasses by escaping from local minima (having tall but thin barriers) using tunneling;
1998 Formulation of quantum annealing and numerical test demonstrating its advantages in Ising glass systems;
1999 First experimental demonstration of quantum annealing in LiHoYF Ising glass magnets;
2011 Superconducting-circuit quantum annealing machine built and marketed by D-Wave Systems.

D-Wave implementations

In 2011, D-Wave Systems announced the first commercial quantum annealer on the market by the name D-Wave One and published a paper in Nature on its performance. The company claims this system uses a 128 qubit processor chipset. On May 25, 2011, D-Wave announced that Lockheed Martin Corporation entered into an agreement to purchase a D-Wave One system. On October 28, 2011 USC's Information Sciences Institute took delivery of Lockheed's D-Wave One.

In May 2013 it was announced that a consortium of Google, NASA Ames and the non-profit Universities Space Research Association purchased an adiabatic quantum computer from D-Wave Systems with 512 qubits. An extensive study of its performance as quantum annealer, compared to some classical annealing algorithms, is already available.

In June 2014, D-Wave announced a new quantum applications ecosystem with computational finance firm 1QB Information Technologies (1QBit) and cancer research group DNA-SEQ to focus on solving real-world problems with quantum hardware. As the first company dedicated to producing software applications for commercially available quantum computers, 1QBit's research and development arm has focused on D-Wave's quantum annealing processors and has successfully demonstrated that these processors are suitable for solving real-world applications.