[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Israel Folau

e was training at both fullback and wing. Folau also said he welcomed the advice and mentorship of dual international and former Waratah Lote Tuqiri regarding the switch between league and union. Folau scored two tries in a pre-season match against Australian conference rivals, the Melbourne Rebels.

Folau's first Super Rugby appearance for New South Wales was against long-time rivals Queensland in the second round (23 February 2013) of the season at Lang Park, Brisbane. Folau's debut try for the Waratahs came in the forty-seventh minute, and was the first Waratahs try of the match. The Waratahs lost 25–17. Folau's first home appearance with the Waratahs was in the third round against the Melbourne Rebels. Although Folau didn't score, and with the Waratahs having to fight back a ten point deficit at half-time, the Waratahs won the match 31–26.

Overall, by season's end Folau had played a total of fourteen of the sixteen matches for the New South Wales Waratahs in his debut season. In the process, Folau racked up eight tries, tied second overall for the season. However, Folau's efforts were not enough for New South Wales to finish in a finals position. The Waratahs finished third in the Australian conference, and ninth overall (out of fifteen). Furthermore, the Waratahs had a balanced record of eight wins and eight losses, accruing a positive point differential of forty-five and taking five bonus points as well. A month post-season, Folau was named in the Australia squad against the British & Irish Lions, whom were on their 2013 tour of Australia.

2015–16
In July 2015, he signed a deal to play for NTT DoCoMo Red Hurricanes in the Japanese Top League. However, Folau did not play for the club due to injury and the relegation of the team to the Japanese second division.

Folau has been awarded the Rugby Australia John Eales Medal, the Wallabies' Player of the Year recognition, a record three times, in 2014, 2015 and 2017.

Japan

2021–22
On 5 July 2021 it was reported that Folau had switched back to play rugby union for Japanese club Shining Arcs Tokyo-Bay Urayasu (formerly NTT Communications). On his return to rugby union, Folau scored a double against Kobelco Kobe Steelers in round one of the 2022 Japan Rugby League One in Kobe Universiade Memorial Stadium. The Shining Arcs won 23–24.

Rugby union statistics
 denotes Super Rugby season champions.
 denotes played in seasons finals series.

International rugby union

Australia
Folau made his international debut for Australia against the British & Irish Lions on the 2013 British & Irish Lions tour to Australia. Folau, scoring the first try of the game in the first game of the series, scored twice on 22 June at Suncorp Stadium, Brisbane, Queensland.

In the 2013 Autumn tour, Folau scored his tenth try of the season against Wales and equalled the tally of Lote Tuqiri.

Folau is the fourth highest try scoring Australian international player, behind Adam Ashley-Cooper, Chris Latham and David Campese.

Tonga
In 2021 World Rugby altered the eligibility rules for players who had already played for another country. The rule allowed players to play for a second country if they had a "stand-down period of three years", among other requirements. Given the rule change, and Folau's 'parental-link' eligibility, he would be allowed to represent Tonga from 2022 onwards. Coach Toutai Kefu, keen on having Folau play for Tonga, said of the decision: "We'd definitely be interested... We're not in a position to bypass players of Israel's calibre. We'd welcome him with open arms." Folau also expressed his eagerness to play for Tonga, in a consice quip to Kefu: 'Yeah, I'm keen to go'. The rule change would allow six or seven players to immediately represent Tonga, alongside Folau.

In 2022 it was speculated that Folau would play for Tonga in the Pacific Nations Cup, which would include Australia A. Following confirmation of a four-team Pacific Nations Cup in July 2022, namely Tonga, Samoa, Fiji and Australia A, Tonga coach Toutai Kefu said Folau's eligibility is due to be reviewed by World Rugby and hopes to bring the former Wallaby in to play in the tournament. On 27 May 2022, it was announced that Folau, along with well-known former New Zealand internationals Charles Piutau, Malakai Fekitoa and Augustine Pulu, were selected for the Tonga squad ahead of the Pacific Nations Cup in July.

Folau made his international debut for Tonga in the first round (2 July 2022) of the 2022 Pacific Nations Cup against hosts Fiji. Folau was taken off after approximately a half-hour of play having obtained a hamstring injury. Folau and Tonga were kept scoreless, losing 36–0.

Sponsorships
In 2009, Folau was offered sponsorships by Adidas and Powerade and, in 2013, by Goodman Fielder.

His sponsorship deal with ASICS was terminated in 2019 after he was found guilty of breaching Rugby Australia's player code of conduct.

Personal life