[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# List of coups and coup attempts

from a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Namibia. Although the plotters succeeded in capturing Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega, the coup was quickly suppressed. Giroldi and nine others were executed, and another participant in the coup attempt died in prison after being tortured.

1990–1999

1990
1990 Nigerian coup d'état attempt: Major Gideon Orkar attempted to overthrow the government of General Ibrahim Babangida. Though successful in seizing military posts, a radio station, and the presidential residence, Orkar and others involved in the coup were captured by government troops, convicted of treason, and later executed.
1990 Afghan coup d'état attempt: On 6 March, General Shahnawaz Tanai attempted to overthrow President Mohammad Najibullah of the Republic of Afghanistan. The coup attempt failed and Tanai was forced to flee to Pakistan.
Jamaat al Muslimeen coup attempt in Trinidad and Tobago: Jamaat al Muslimeen, a radical Islamist group, held hostages (including Prime Minister A. N. R. Robinson and other government officials) at the Red House and at the headquarters of the state-owned national television broadcaster, Trinidad and Tobago Television (TTT). On 1 August, the insurgents surrendered.
Argentina: Mohamed Alí Seineldín and other Carapintadas made a second attempt at overthrowing the Argentine government, now led by President Carlos Menem. The coup failed, and Seineldín was sentenced to life imprisonment, which he served until his 2003 pardon.
1990 Chadian coup d'état: The forces of the Patriotic Salvation Movement (MPS), a Libyan–backed rebel group under the leadership of General Idriss Déby, entered the Chadian capital N'Djamena unopposed. After three months of provisional government, the MPS approved a national charter on 28 February 1991, with Déby as president.
1990 Surinamese coup d'état (also known as the Telephone Coup): Acting commander-in-chief of the Suriname National Army (SNL), Police Chief Ivan Graanoogst, dismissed President Ramsewak Shankar by telephone on 24 December. On 27 December, the government was dismissed, the National Assembly was dissolved, and Johan Kraag was appointed as president on 29 December. On 31 December, Dési Bouterse was reappointed as commander-in-chief of the SNL.
1990 Sudanese coup attempt was a bloodless coup attempt which took place in Sudan on 23 April against the RCCNS, the ruling military junta led by Lieutenant General Omar al-Bashir.

1991
1991 Soviet coup d'état attempt (also known as the August Coup): Communist leaders of the Soviet Union failed to take control of the country from Mikhail Gorbachev, who was Soviet President and General Secretary of the party.
1991 Haitian coup d'état: The Armed Forces of Haiti deposed President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Superior Court justice Joseph Nérette was installed as provisional president.
1991 Thai coup d'état: The National Peace Keeping Council, a military junta, overthrew the elected civilian government of Chatichai Choonhavan in 1991.
1991–92 Georgian coup d'état (also known as the Tbilisi War or the Putsch of 1991–92): A military coup removed President Zviad Gamsakhurdia from office.
1991 Malian coup d'état: A military coup overthrew Moussa Traoré, who had been dictator for over two decades.
Somalia: Guerrilla forces, including the Somali Salvation Democratic Front in the northeast, the Somali National Movement in the northwest, and the United Somali Congress in the south, performed a successful coup against the Siad Barre government. Mohamed Farah Aideed, the general most responsible for the coup, declared himself the ruling president.

1992
1992 Algerian coup d'état: A military coup in Algeria canceled elections and forced President Chadli Bendjedid to resign.
1992 Peruvian coup d'état: In a self-coup on 5 April, President Alberto Fujimori dissolved the Peruvian congress and judiciary and assumed full legislative and judicial powers.
Peru: On 13 November, General Jaime Salinas Sedó led a group of military officers in attempting to overthrow President Fujimori, but was unsuccessful.
1992 Venezuelan coup d'état attempts: There were two unsuccessful coup attempts against Carlos Andrés Pérez, in February and November; the first led by Hugo Chávez.
1992 Sierra Leonean coup d'état: A group of young military officers, led by Captain Valentine Strasser, took control of the government on 29 April. They deposed President Joseph Saidu Momoh and Strasser took control of the government.
1992 Sudanese coup attempt was led by Colonel Ahmed Khaled who was a sympathiser of the Sudanese Ba'ath Party.