[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 79th New York Infantry Regiment

The 79th New York Infantry Regiment was a military regiment organized on 20 June 1859, in the state of New York. Prior to the American Civil War it was one of the three regiments which formed the Fourth Brigade of the First Division of the New York State Militia. The 79th gained fame during the American Civil War for its service in the Union Army.

Organization and pre-civil war
The 79th New York was established in the fall of 1858 in response to the State of New York requiring the 2nd New York to conform to the new uniform regulations. The Highland Guard/79th New York was created with the help of the St. Andrews and Caledonian societies of New York and wealthy financial backers like Samuel M. Elliot and Roderick W. Cameron. The New York Militia organization had no connection to the 79th Cameron Highlanders of Scotland, but was recruited from British Army veterans of the Scottish Regiments living in the United States. Similarly to the Queens Own Cameron Highlanders, the 76th Regiment wore the Cameron of Erracht tartan kilt as part of their uniforms until midway through their service in the American Civil War.

The 79th New York (348 strong Spring 1859) was part of 1st Division, 4th Brigade of the New York Militia, the regiment was designated as light infantry cross trained train  as heavy artillery for the defense of Manhattan and also provided parade and guard for dignitaries such as the Prince of Wales and the Japanese ambassador when they visited Manhattan.

The 79th, without knowing it, set themselves up to take part in nearly every major engagement of the civil war and become one of the most known and traveled regiments in the Union Army.

Uniform

When the organization had their first drill on 25 October 1858, the men were in civilian clothing as uniforms were not yet available. As per the guide lines set by the New York Militia, the Highland Guard was to uniform their soldiers in tartan trousers, not kilts. The inspector was informed  by Col. McLeays that:

"Their stuff for trousers was expected to arrive from Scotland daily, when they would immediately put their uniforms under contract for manufacture". Report of inspection, 4th Brigade, NYSM, 25 October, in annual report of the AG, NYS, (1858)  The issued uniform as per the New York State Militia agreement consisted of these items:

Highland Cut Coat

The Highland Cut Coat was dark indigo blue wool broadcloth with applied false red cuffs and a blue collar which were trimmed with red facings with a small white piping line behind the red facing. The coat was trimmed with red wool spun cording on the edges of the coat body and around the circumference of the cuffs midway of the red cuff facing. It had 18 (New York State) buttons in all with 9 2.20 cm (7/8 in) buttons down the front and two on the rear and 3 1.50 cm (5/8 in) buttons on each cuff, 1 1.50 cm (5/8 in) button on the left hip for the belt loop. The jacket was lined in tan polished cotton with quilting in the front panels that extended over and onto the back of the shoulders, following the breast panels. The flaps were lined with red wool or red polished cotton. (Two different materials used on both of the two pre-war jackets still known to exist.)

Tartan Trousers

Cameron of Erracht trousers in the large military sett with a tartan repeat of nine inches. The tartan was matched and had  Victorian trousers cut to them consistent with common trousers of the late 1850s.

Glengarry Bonnet

The glengarry was knit and felted as one cover. Dicing and body as one piece. It was dark blue with dicing that were red, blue and white, in two rows high that was off set by one square to the right. The glengarry was lined in black polished cotton and while some of the originals that still exist today have quilting and other lining decorations, three of five have different lining treatments.

Leathers

The belts used were common M1839 "baby US" belts that were 1.5 inches. Also used were Springfield bayonets and scabbards with the various models of .69 weapons, shield pattern cap pouches, and the M1857 cartridge box.

Parade uniform

When on parade the 79th wore the kilt, going against the wishes of the New York Militia.

This uniform used the same jacket and glengarry but instead of trousers made of tartan, they had New York tailors make non-regulation kilts.

Kilts

The kilts were made of the same Cameron of Erracht. They were not pleated to the line as is common in Scottish military regiments, but to the sett as seen in civilian kilts. The kilts were very odd and unlike kilt before or since thanks to their unqualified manufactures. They were box pleated, and used two tartan straps that buckled into suspender buckles on either hip. Because of their lack in size variation, suspenders were worn with them.

Original kilt information:
http://emuseum.nyhistory.org

Sporran

The sporran was made of wavy white horse and or goat hair with three black tassels with a black leather cantle.