[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Terrorism in Australia

thrown a suspect into a fridge, causing a deep cut, made repeated racial slurs to an Aboriginal man and assaulted him. The Australian federal police spent years denying these accusations.
On 6 September 2016 ISIL published a new online magazine in which they urged "lone wolves" to carry out attacks:

The same statement was published in other languages naming locations in France, Germany and Indonesia.

Two days later on 8 September a man was detained at the Sydney Opera House after acting suspiciously. He was later charged with "threatening to destroy or damage property."

Sovereign citizens

In 2015 the New South Wales Police Force's Counter Terrorism and Special Tactics Command assessed that members of the anti-government sovereign citizen movement posed a potential terrorist threat. At the time there were reported to be 300 members of this movement in the state. While there had been no incidents of violence associated with sovereign citizens in Australia at that time, the NSW Police were concerned that members of the movement were becoming radicalised and could commit attacks such as those made by sovereign citizens in the United States.

Impact on Muslim community
Researchers have observed that Muslims in Australia have become a "stigmatised minority", subject to increased surveillance by state authorities as well as public discourse that constructs Muslims as a potential terrorist threat. Researchers term this the "suspect community" thesis. Researchers study how Muslims perceive themselves as a suspect community and how this influences their support for counter-terrorism efforts.

From August to September 2018, Sri Lankan-Australian IT worker Mohamed Kamer Nizamdeen was held in solitary confinement after his friend framed him as having planned a terrorist attack using a planted notebook. Commenting on the case, academic Dr Vicki Sentas opined that in Australia "being Muslim can be construed as motive for terror". After the charges were withdrawn, Nizamdeen left Australia, and has since described the ordeal as having ruined his life.

See also 

 Crime in Australia
 List of terrorist incidents in Australia

References 

 
Australia
Human rights abuses in Australia