[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Military theory

Military Theory is the study of the theories which define, inform, guide and explain war and warfare. Military Theory analyses both normative behavioral phenomena and explanatory causal aspects to better understand war and how it is fought. It examines war and trends in warfare, beyond simply describing events in military history. While military theories may employ the scientific method, theory differs from Military Science. Theory aims to explain the causes for military victory and produce guidance on how war should be waged and won, rather than developing universal, immutable laws which can bound the physical act of warfare or codifying empirical data, such as weapon effects, platform operating ranges, consumption rates and target information, to aid military planning.

Military Theory is multi-disciplinary drawing on social science and humanities academic fields through the disciplines of political science, strategic studies, military studies and history. It examines three key areas:

 What is war (its nature)?
 What forms does war take (its character)?
 How are wars won (the application of military power or warfare)?

It is distinct from, and subordinate to, Military Philosophy, which studies questions such as the reasons to go to war, jus ad bellum, and just ways to fight wars, jus in bello. Likewise, while military theory can inform Military Doctrine or help explain Military History, it differs from them as it contemplates abstract concepts, themes, principles and ideas to formulate solutions to actual and potential problems concerning war and warfare.

Use 
Prussian military theorist Carl von Clausewitz wrote,  'The primary purpose of any theory is to clarify concepts and ideas that have become, as it were, confused and entangled. Not until terms and concepts have been defined can one hope to make any progress in examining the questions clearly and simply and expect the reader to share one's views.'  Military Theory informs the political, strategic, operational and tactical levels of war. It does so by contributing to knowledge on the subjects of war and warfare.  This aids in understanding why and when force is used and what forms the use of force may take. It also aids in identifying and explaining practical outcomes to help determine how force may be applied. Military theories, especially since the 19th Century AD, attempt to encapsulate the complex cultural, political and economic relationships between societies and the conflicts they create.

Military Theorists 
Theories and conceptions of warfare have varied throughout human history. Two of the earliest military theorists/philosopher's date from the 5th Century BC; Thucydides and Sun Tzu. Thucydides' History of the Peloponnesian War and Sun Tzu's Art of War   offer enduring theories on war and how warfare may be successfully conducted. While there have been many other theorists throughout history, such as Onasander, Frontinus, Aelian, Vegetius, Maurice, Leo VI, Machiavelli, Lloyd, Berenhorst, Bülow, Clausewitz, Jomini, Mahan, Corbett, Douhet, Fuller, Liddell-Hart, Wylie, Brodie, Luttwak, Schelling, Howard,  Boyd, Lind, Creveld, Gat, Hammes, Hoffman, Kilcullen and Gray in Western military circles; each have helped lay the foundations for our contemporary understanding of policy, strategy, operational art, tactics, command and control, intelligence and logistics.

Military Theory

While there are many ways to categorize military theories, a useful way to codify them is by environment or domain:

 General, National Military Power Theory
 Integrated and or Joint Theory
 Land Power or Continental Theory
 Sea Power or Naval and Maritime Theory
 Air Power or Aeronautical Theory
 Space Power or Astronautical Theory
 Cyber Power Theory
 Information Power Theory

Alternatively, theories may be codified by their relevant level of War:

 Grand Strategic Theory
 Strategic Theory
 Operational Theory
 Tactical Theory

See also
 Military doctrine
 Military science
 List of military writers

References
Notes

Bibliography
Angstrom, Jan and Widen, J.J. (2015) Contemporary Military Theory: The Dynamics of War. New York: Routledge. ISBN 9780203080726.

Evans, Michael, (2004), Land Warfare Studies Centre Study Paper No. 305, The Continental School of Strategy: The Past, Present and Future of Land Power, Canberra: Land Warfare Studies Centre. .
Gray, Colin S. (2010). The Strategy Bridge-Theory for Practice. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780199579662.
Lider, Julian (1980). 'Introduction to Military Theory', Cooperation and Conflict, XV, 151-168.
Lider, Julian (1983). Military Theory: Concept, Structure and Problems (1st ed.). New York: Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 9780312532406.
Oliviero, Charles. (2022) Strategia-A Primer on Theory and Strategy for Students of War. Toronto: Double Dagger. ISBN 9781990644245.