[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Yellow-bellied toad

selection and rapid development are key to survival because most deaths occur at this stage. It was found that pond duration, rather than risk of predation is the most critical factor to site selection. Pond desiccation, unlike predation, has the ability to kill an entire group of tadpoles or eggs.

 Protective coloration and behavior 
The frog’s displays a darker brown or green coloration on its dorsal body allowing the species to participate in crypsis, thereby giving the frog a camouflage effect against prospective predators. The yellow bellied toad also displays aposematism in its ventral body with varying shades of yellow displayed as a warning signal to predators of its poisonous skin. Different individuals in the yellow-bellied toad species display variations of the darker dorsal and yellow ventral body, depending on their specific location. When placed in lighter or darker environments the frogs are also able to alter the shade of their coloration in an attempt to better disguise themselves. There is a natural variation in coloration amongst the species, with some individuals having a brighter coloration. It was found that these individuals adapted to enhance their crypsis, for example covering themselves with pond soil, suggesting an awareness that their dorsal body does not conceal them perfectly in comparison to their environment. This ability to rapidly change coloration when moving to lighter or darker environments is achieved by the movement of melanosomes, or pigment containing vesicles, to different parts of the cell. The ability to alter the shade of coloration is very important in reducing the amount of time the frog is vulnerable to predators as the longer they stand out amongst other individuals in the species, the higher the risk of predation is.The warts present on the dorsal side of the yellow-bellied toad allow for an opening of venom glands when threatened. The difference in coloration on the cryptic dorsal side and bright yellow ventral body allow for the yellow-bellied toad to remain camouflaged most of the time, only flashing its coloration under duress. Escape, full, and partial threat responses are the most commonly seen among yellow-bellied toads. The toad was also seen to puff up their chest, discouraging predators who prefer to capture and swallow their prey at once. Immobility is the most passive of responses, with the toad remaining still in an attempt to conceal itself as much as possible, avoiding confrontation entirely. While the toxin of the yellow-bellied toad is not fatal to humans, it can cause significant discomfort to most animals and is fatal to smaller ones.

The difference in what type of defense mechanism is used by yellow-bellied toads varies significantly among populations, even more so than species. The differences in predators among the populations is responsible for this difference. If one individual encounters snakes more often, it will employ the defense of puffing up more often than individuals that have never encountered a snake.
 Synonyms 

 Rana variegata, Linnaeus, 1758
 Bombynator pachypus'', Bonaparte 1838

References 

  Database entry includes a range map and justification for why this species is of least concern
Much of the content of this article comes from the equivalent German-language Wikipedia article (retrieved 14 February 2006)

External links 
A few pictures (German)
More pictures (German)
Pictures from Amphienschutz.de (German)
Characteristics at www.erdkroete.de (German)
Audio Recordings on Kalerne.net

Bombina
Amphibians described in 1758
Taxa named by Carl Linnaeus
Habitats Directive Species
Taxobox binomials not recognized by IUCN