[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Voice of the Free

on signed on July 29, 2016, by Senior Assistant State Prosecutor Merba A. Waga, Senior Deputy State Prosecutor Theodore M. Villanueva, and approved by Prosecutor General Claro A. Arellano, stated that there was insufficient evidence to even warrant the conduct of a further preliminary investigation.

In August 2012, the NBI probed the foundation for allegedly falsifying documents to hide the misuse of at least $2.1 Million USAID grant for the organization's pioneering anti-trafficking work. 
 
"I'm thankful to DOJ that after more than four years of patiently and humbly waiting to allow the justice system to take its course, we can put this allegation behind us. We thank our partners who stood with us during those difficult times. We can now move forward and focus our positive energies to fulfill our greater mission. As of now there are 50 victims and survivors of human trafficking as young as 2 years old under our care in the center of Visayan Forum, they are most important to us." Ma. Cecilia Flores-Oebanda. Visayan Forum Founding President said.

According, to the resolution "thus, it is clear that the alleged falsified documents which were purportedly used as supporting documents to liquidate the funds they claimed VFFI received from the USAID and made the basis of their complaint cannot support the charges filed against the herein respondents. There is no gainsaying that the complaint filed against the herein respondents has no leg to stand on."

References

External links
Visayan Forum Foundation - archived copy of official website (original no longer available)
Anti-Slavery Award

Foundations based in the Philippines
Social welfare charities
Workers' rights organizations
Child labour-related organizations
Women's rights organizations
Organizations that combat human trafficking
Organizations established in 1991
Labor in the Philippines
Human trafficking in the Philippines
1991 establishments in the Philippines