[Source: PubMed]

56. Encephale. 2025 Aug;51(4):361-367. doi: 10.1016/j.encep.2024.06.006. Epub
2025  Mar 14.

Clinical characteristics of a sample of 90 detainees for jihadist terrorism.

Monod G(1), Ambar-Akkaoui M(2), Levasseur L(3), Pham-Scottez A(4).

Author information:
(1)Unité Sanitaire en Milieu Pénitentiaire, Maison d'arrêt de Seine-Saint-Denis, 
avenue Vauban, 93420 Villepinte, France; Centre Hospitalier Intercommunal Robert 
Ballanger, boulevard Robert-Ballanger, 93600 Aulnay-sous-Bois, France; Service 
Médico-Psychologique Régional de Paris-la Santé, 42, rue de la Santé, 75014 
Paris, France; GHU Paris Psychiatrie et Neurosciences, 1, rue Cabanis, 75014 
Paris, France. Electronic address: guillaume.monod@ghu-paris.fr.
(2)VigilanS 75-93, pôle CPOA-PsyLine-SMPR, GHU Paris Psychiatrie & 
Neurosciences, 1, rue Cabanis, 75014 Paris, France.
(3)Unité Sanitaire en Milieu Pénitentiaire, Maison d'arrêt de Seine-Saint-Denis, 
avenue Vauban, 93420 Villepinte, France; Centre Hospitalier Intercommunal Robert 
Ballanger, boulevard Robert-Ballanger, 93600 Aulnay-sous-Bois, France.
(4)CPOA, GHU Paris Psychiatrie et Neurosciences, 1, rue Cabanis, 75014 Paris, 
France; Université Versailles Saint-Quentin, Université Paris-Saclay, Inserm 
U1018, CESP, team DevPsy, Villejuif, France.

INTRODUCTION: Although research into the process of jihadist radicalization has 
developed in less than 10 years, few studies on the subject have been carried 
out by psychiatrists, and the prevalence of psychiatric disorders among people 
incarcerated for terrorism in France is unknown. Our objectives were to estimate 
the prevalence of psychiatric disorders in a sample of people incarcerated for 
jihadist terrorism and to characterize and compare men and women 
(socio-demographics, psychiatric diagnoses, trauma, substances, conversion to 
Islam).
METHOD: Ninety adults in detention for jihadist terrorism were included; the 
data used were extracted from the patient file (gender, age, marital and 
parental status, level of education, employment, history of specialized 
follow-up) and from clinical interviews conducted by the same interviewer 
(history of depression, suicide attempt, psychiatric follow-up, psychotropic 
medication use, psychiatric hospitalization, current ICD-10 psychiatric 
diagnosis, substance abuse and withdrawal, trauma, lone or in group terrorism). 
Categorical variables were described with proportions, and qualitative variables 
with means, medians and standard deviations. Comparisons were made between men 
and women using the t-Student test (comparisons of means) or the Chi2 
(comparisons of proportions). Analyses were performed using R Studio software.
RESULTS: 30% of incarcerated people had a current psychiatric diagnosis. The 
most frequent diagnosis was "personality disorder" (11%), followed by 
"schizophrenia, schizotypal disorders and delusional disorders" (8%) and 
"neurotic and stress-related disorders and somatoform disorders" (6%). Women had 
a higher lifetime history of depression and psychiatric follow-up than men, but 
men were more likely to have a current psychiatric diagnosis. The marital and 
parental status of men and women also differed: men were better socially 
integrated, with higher levels of education and access to employment. Women were 
more likely to have been taken into care by the child welfare system, to have 
family responsibilities, and to be divorced or widowed. Men were much more 
likely than women to engage in addictive behaviors and were also much more 
likely to wean themselves from their substance use. Women had a very high 
prevalence of trauma, sexual violence and/or domestic or marital violence which 
was not the case for men. The phenomenon of conversion to Islam concerned a 
large and identical proportion of men and women. Finally, for the first time in 
the literature on the subject our study explored the link between male lone 
actors and the prevalence of psychiatric pathology (90%) and found a very 
significant association between being a lone actor and having a psychiatric 
diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: Our study thus contributes to the development of new criteria for 
the detection, assessment and management of people radicalized and committing 
acts of jihadist terrorism.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.encep.2024.06.006
PMID: 40089435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]