[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 33rd G8 summit

French President Nicolas Sarkozy would have preferred a binding figure for emissions reduction to have been set. This was apparently blocked by US President George W. Bush until the other major greenhouse gas emitting countries, like India and China, make similar commitments.

Missile defence system

En route to the summit, Bush attempted to assuage Russian concerns over US plans to construct a missile defense complex in Poland and the Czech Republic with remarks appearing to invite Russian participation in the project. At the summit, Russian President Vladimir Putin responded by suggesting that the radar installments for the proposed missile defence system be placed in Azerbaijan. Bush, in turn, responded by describing Putin's ideas as "an interesting suggestion".

G8+5 institutionalisation
Chancellor Angela Merkel announced the establishment of the "Heiligendamm Process" through which the full institutionalisation of the permanent dialogue between the G8 countries and the 5 greatest emerging economies will be implemented.

This process puts an end to the enlargement debate of the G8 into a hypothetical G9, G11, etc. since Merkel declared "The objective is the cohesion of all these countries into a single group which will be called G8+5".

Infrastructure Consortium for Africa
The Infrastructure Consortium for Africa (ICA) was established at the 31st G8 summit at :Gleneagles, Scotland in the United Kingdom in 2005. Since that time, the ICA's annual meeting is traditionally hosted by the country holding the Presidency of the G8—in Russia in 2007.

Controversial video of Sarkozy
Contrary to French TV, the Belgian TV network diffused a video of Sarkozy who appeared to be drunk after a chat with Putin.

Possible poisoning of American delegation
In her written memoirs, former US First Lady Laura Bush suggests that members of the United States delegation, including President and Mrs. Bush, may have been poisoned while at the summit. Later reports suggested the President and First Lady may have been victims of Havana syndrome.

Location

Heiligendamm is situated on the Baltic near the city Rostock, and is the oldest seaside resort in Germany, developed in 1793 as the seaside meeting place of nobility and high society close to Frederick Francis I, Duke of Mecklenburg. It was selected as the location for the G8 summit due to its isolated location, in anticipation of protests such as those in Gleneagles and St Petersburg. The summit site was fenced off by 12 km long barrier, costing an approximate EUR 12.4 million.

Heiligendamm used to be the summer getaway of the Russian imperial family, who were related to the Dukes of Mecklenburg. For the occasion of the G8 summit, a former summer residence of the imperial family was demolished to make space for a media centre, however it was reconstructed in 2010.

Business opportunity
For some, the G8 summit became a profit-generating event; as for example, the official G8 Summit magazines which have been published under the auspices of the host nations for distribution to all attendees since 1998.

Security precautions included a $17 million, 8-foot-high, 7.5-mile-long fence topped with barbed and razor wire, which encompassed the landward access to the resort; but no protests were reported from the suppliers of the fencing materials.

Gallery

Core G8 participants

See also
 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
 Kyoto Protocol

References

General references

External links

 Official G8 website: Heiligendamm summit, 2007; n.b., no official website is created for any G7 summit prior to 1995 – see the 21st G7 summit.
 University of Toronto: G8 Research Group, G8 Information Centre
 G8 2007, delegations & documents

General
 Official website of the related anti G8 demonstration / English version (less extensive)
 MODEL G8 YOUTH SUMMIT 2007, G8-Simulation, Berlin – May 2007 
 Reported "leaked draft" of Economic Communique
 Reported "leaked draft" of Global Warming Communique (with US Government redlining) 
 G8 TV – daily video stream from the G8
 33rd G8 summit: Issues and controversies (BBC)
 Internationalist Review: The Presence of the Past – How German fear of terrorism in the 1970s might restrict criticism of the G8 today

Security
 Mecklenburg-Vorpommern police force

In the media
 31 May 2007, Agence France-Presse: Bush pushes new climate change plan
 14 May 2007, BBC: US seeks G8 climate text changes

Movie
 Trigger Happy Production: Trouble – Teatime in Heiligendamm .

2000s in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
G8 summit
G8 summit
G8 summit
G8 summit
G8 summit 2007
Bad Doberan
G8 summit 2007
Events in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
2007
June 2007 events in Germany