[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 170]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ofessor Theobald suffered so pitiably. At that moment, as if Fate had
intended to prove to her how badly Professor Theobald really stood
comparison with any thoroughly well-bred man, even if infinitely beneath
him intellectually, Joseph Fleming happened to call. He was his old self
again, simple, friendly, contented. Theobald was in one of his
self-satisfied moods. Perhaps he enjoyed the triumph of his position in
regard to Hadria. At any rate, he seemed to pounce on the new-comer as a
foil to his own brilliancy. Joseph had no talent to oppose to it, but he
had a simple dignity, the offspring of a kind and generous nature, which
made Professor Theobald's conduct towards him appear contemptible.
Professor Fortescue shifted uncomfortably in his chair. Hadria tried to
change the topic; the flush deepening in her cheeks. Professor Fortescue
attempted to come to her aid. Joseph Fleming laughed good-naturedly.

They sat late into the evening. Theobald could not find an excuse to
outstay his colleague, since they were both guests at the same house.

"I must see you alone some time to-morrow," he managed to whisper. There
was no time for a reply.

"I shall go and rest before dinner," said Valeria.

Hadria went into the house by the open window of the drawing-room. She
sank back on the sofa; a blackness came before her eyes.

"No, no, I won't, I _won't_. Let me learn not to let things overpower
me, in future."

When Valeria entered, dressed for dinner, she found Hadria, deadly pale,
standing against the sofa, whose arm she was grasping with both hands,
as if for dear life. Valeria rushed forward.

"Good heavens, Hadria! are you going to faint?"

"No," said Hadria, "I am not going to faint, if there is such a thing as
human will."




CHAPTER XLV.


The morning had passed as usual, but household arrangements at the
Cottage had required much adjustment, one of the maids being ill. She
had been sent away for a rest, and the difficulty was to find another.
Mary went from the Red House as substitute, in the mean time, and the
Red House became disorganised.

"You look distracted with these little worries, Hadria. I should have
said that some desperate crisis was hanging over you, instead of merely
a domestic disturbance." Valeria was established on the lawn, with a
book.

"I am going to seek serenity in the churchyard," explained Hadria.

"But I thought Professor Theobald said something about calling."

"I leave you to entertain him, if he comes," Hadria returned, and
hastened away. She stopped at Martha's cottage for the child. Ah! What
would become of her if it were not for Martha? The two sauntered
together along the Craddock road.

All night long, Hadria had been trying to decide when and how to speak
to Professor Theobald. Should she send for him? Should she write to him?
Should she trust to chance for an opportunity of speaking? But, no, she
could not endure to see him again in the presence of others, before she
had spoken! Yesterday's experience had been too terrible. She had
brought pencil and paper with her, in order to be able to write to him,
if she decided on that course. There were plenty of retired nooks under
the shade of the yew-trees in the churchyard, where one could write.
The thick hedges made it perfectly secluded, and at this hour, it was
always solitary. Little Martha was gathering wild-flowers in the hedges.
She used to pluck them to lay on her mother's grave. She had but a vague
idea of that unknown mother, but Hadria had tried to make the dead woman
live again, in the child's mind, as a gentle and tender image. The
little offering was made each time that they took their walk in the
direction of Craddock. The grave looked fresh and sweet in the summer
sunshine, with the ivy creeping up the tomb-stone and half obliterating
the name. A rose-tree that Hadria and Martha had planted together, was
laden with rich red blooms.

The two figures stood, hand in hand, by the grave. The child stooped to
place her little tribute of flowers at the head of the green mound.
Neither of them noticed a tall figure at the wicket gate. He stood
outside, looking up the path, absolutely motionless. Martha let go
Hadria's hand, and ran off after a gorgeous butterfly that had fluttered
over the headstone: a symbol of the soul; fragile, beautiful, helpless
thing that any rough hand may crush and ruin. Hadria turned to watch the
graceful, joyous movement of the child, and her delight in the beauty of
the rich brown wings, with their enamelled spots of sapphire.

"Hadria!"

She gave a little gasping cry, and turned sharply. Professor Theobald
looked at her with an intent, triumphant expression. She stood before
him, for the moment, as if paralysed. It was by no means the first time
that this look had crossed his face, but she had been blind, and had not
fully understood it. He interpreted her cry and her paleness, as signs
of th