[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Constitutional history of Turkey

titution focused on issues such as fundamental rights and freedoms, working life, the right to form a trade union, the right to collective bargaining and strike, freedom of the press and communication, political rights. It also contained a long bill of rights and limited the powers of the executive.

The 1961 constitution was distinct from the previous 1924 constitution because of the relative importance it placed on the notion of democracy which shifted from majority to pluralism. In addition, it sought to expand and strengthen basic human rights. This constitution was also the first time Turkey adopted constitutional review and established the Constitutional Court. Hence, this constitution has been regarded as the most liberal constitution in Turkish history.

Nevertheless, although, the main objective of the militant leaders was to restore the democratic process, they also wished to protect their own interests. Thus, the constitution was drafted in such a way, so as to provide concessions to those in power.

This constitution was amended seven times. The first amendment was made in November 1969 and the last one in April 1974. However, due to political instability and growing tension between right wing and left wing groups, there was military intervention in September 1980, which saw the introduction of the 1982 constitution.

The Constitution of 1982 
Current Constitution of Turkey is the product of a successful military coup on 12 September 1980. After this intervention, on 9 November 1982, the military regime (the National Security Council, (NSC) regime) enacted the constitution presently in force. From inception, the NSC expressed its intent on restoring democracy and restructuring Turkey's democratic system. Hence, when drafting this constitution, it abolished the bicameral system and reintroduced the unicameral system. It also strengthened the power of the executive and asserted that Turkey was a secular and democratic republic, deriving its sovereignty from its people.

The primary aim of the constitution was to restore the state's authority and therefore protect it from the actions of its citizens, rather than protecting the individual liberties from the encroachments of the state. This was supported by the preamble which stated that "no protection shall be afforded to thoughts or opinions contrary to Turkish national interest."

Thus, in comparison to the 1961 constitution, the present 1982 constitution was more casuistic or specific in details. It was also more difficult to change, was more transitional and shifted the balance between authority and freedom towards the former. In doing so, it strengthened the power of the executive branch of government, avoided deadlocks in the political decision-making mechanism and was less lenient towards participatory democracy. 

Like its predecessor, the 1982 constitution includes a detailed bill of rights covering the social, economic, and political rights and liberties of citizens. According to Article 5, all individuals are equal before the law and possess "inherent fundamental rights and freedoms which are inviolable and inalienable." However, articles 10 through to 15 authorise the government to restrict individual rights in the interest of safeguarding the "integrity of the state" and "the public interest."

Thus, in sum, the 1982 constitution was designed to support a strong central government and limited political freedom envisaged in Turkey's previous constitutions.

This constitution has been amended nineteen times. Three of these amendments, which occurred in 2007, 2010 and 2017 were a result of a successful referendum. The most recent amendments occurred in after the 2017 referendum. The general direction of these amendments was to improve the rights and liberties afforded to individuals, strengthen the rule of law and limit the prerogative powers granted to the military.

References

External links

Constitutions of Turkey
Legal history of Turkey
Turkey