[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Paquete Habana

ith France reaffirming this act between both parties. Similarly, in 1521, a treaty between Emperor Charles V of the Holy Roman Empire and Francis I of France exempted fishing vessels from capture, on the basis that both nations would face widespread hunger if fishermen did not feel safe to set sail.

Justice Gray also relied on the theories and opinions of contemporary jurists and commentators from across the world to buttress the Court's reasoning, decades before such scholarly legal work would be codified as a primary source of international law:[A]t the present day, by the general consent of the civilized nations of the world, and independently of any express treaty or other public act, it is an established rule of international law, founded on considerations of humanity. . . and of the mutual convenience of belligerent states, that coast fishing vessels, with their implements and supplies, cargoes and crews, unarmed and honestly pursuing their peaceful calling of catching and bringing in fresh fish, are exempt from capture as prize of war.Among the most oft-cited and famous quotes of the decision concerned the relationship of international law to domestic U.S. law:International law is part of our law, and must be ascertained and administered by the courts of justice of appropriate jurisdiction as often as questions of right depending upon it are duly presented for their determination. For this purpose, where there is no treaty and no controlling executive or legislative act or judicial decision, resort must be had to the customs and usages of civilized nations, and, as evidence of these, to the works of jurists and commentators who by years of labor, research, and experience have made themselves peculiarly well acquainted with the subjects of which they treat. Such works are resorted to by judicial tribunals, not for the speculations of their authors concerning what the law ought to be, but for trustworthy evidence of what the law really is.The Supreme Court decision reversed the district court and ordered that the proceeds of the auctions, as well as any profits made from the vessels' cargo, be restored to the claimants "with damages and costs."

Fuller's dissent
Justice Fuller delivered a dissenting opinion, which was joined by Justices Harlan and McKenna. Fuller essentially agreed with the federal government's position, arguing that the capture of fishing vessels as prizes was both in accordance with customary international law and militarily necessary, and that any exemption is under the discretion of the President as the nation's executive.

See also
 Garcia-Mir v. Meese
 List of United States Supreme Court cases, volume 175

References

External links 

The Paquete Habana Case Brief
Abridged version of the case

United States Supreme Court cases
United States Supreme Court cases of the Fuller Court
United States admiralty case law
1900 in international relations
1900 in United States case law
Cuba–United States relations
Spanish–American War
Prize warfare