[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tino Sehgal

le moving in slow motion between different positions and postures from art history in a games-like form established by the artist.

This Success/This Failure (2007) 
In This Success/This Failure (2007) young children attempt to play without using objects and sometimes draw visitors into their games.

This progress (2010) 
Exhibited at the Guggenheim Museum, New York, the artist empties Frank Lloyd Wright's famed spiral gallery of all art work.  The museum visitor is met at the base of the spiral by a child, who asks a small group what they think progress is. As they begin their ascent up the spiral ramp the visitors continue their conversation until they are met by a high school student who picks up the conversation and asks further non-sequitur questions. Further still, they are met by a young adult and lastly an older adult who finishes their ascent to the upper-most point in the Guggenheim.

This variation (2012) 
For documenta XIII (2012) Sehgal orchestrated This variation, an immersive piece, developed with a group of dancers and the composer Ari Benjamin Meyers. The work places viewers in a nearly dark gallery among the performers who dance and sing a cappella arrangements and improvisations of electronic music, using a score created by Sehgal to create an evolving dramaturgy and "an electrifying aural-spatial experience of pure, unencumbered imagination in action".

These associations (2012) 
In 2012, Sehgal was the 13th artist commissioned by the Tate Modern for its annual Unilever series. The first “live” work in the vast space, These associations consists solely of encounters between around 70 storytellers and visitors to the gallery.

¥ with Tino Seghal (2021) 

Tino Seghal and Ye published a conversation with mention of a planned art piece called "The Funeral Rehearsal of Kanye West"

Exhibitions
Sehgal is the youngest artist to have represented Germany at the Venice Biennale (in 2005, together with Thomas Scheibitz).  Sehgal had solo exhibitions at a number of important venues including the Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam (2015); Museum für Moderne Kunst, Frankfurt (2007); the Institute of Contemporary Arts, London (2007, 2006, 2005); Kunsthaus Bregenz, Austria (2006), Kunstverein Hamburg (2006), Serralves Foundation, Porto (2005); Van Abbemuseum, Eindhoven and Musée des Beaux-Arts, Nantes (2004).

Sehgal refuses to publish catalogues for his exhibitions.

Collections
On the sale of his work, Sehgal stipulates that there is no written set of instructions, no written receipt, no catalogue, no pictures and no perceivable meaning. The conversation that constitutes a Tino Sehgal sale consists of his talking to the buyer (usually a representative from a museum) before a notary and witnesses, generally with about five legal stipulations of the purchase: that the work be installed only by someone whom Sehgal himself has authorized via training and prior collaboration; that the people enacting the piece be paid an agreed-upon minimum; that the work be shown over a minimum period of six weeks (in order to avoid allegations of ephemerality); that the piece not be photographed; and that if the buyer resells the concept, he does so with this same oral contract. This means that his work is not documented in any way, apart from critical reviews both admiring and negative. As of 2010, the "constructed situations" sold in editions of four to six (with Sehgal retaining an additional “artist’s proof”) at prices between $85,000 and $145,000 apiece.

Sehgal's This Progress (2010) was the first live work to be acquired by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum.

Awards
 2004 – Bâloise Prize, Art Basel
 2006 – Shortlisted, Hugo Boss Prize
 2007 – Shortlisted, Preis der Nationalgalerie für Junge Kunst
 2009 – Zurich Art Prize
 2013 – Finalist, Turner Prize (for his “This Variation” and “These Associations” exhibitions)
 2013 – Golden Lion for the best artist in the International Exhibition Il Palazzo Enciclopedico (The Encyclopedic Palace) in Venice Biennale 2013 (Central Pavilion, Giardini)

See also

References

External links
032c Conversation with Ye 
2007 "Kultureflash" interview
2005 Audio Arts interview
Frieze article
Frieze review of ICA show
The Independent review of ICA show
Sight and Sound profile
Art in America review of ICA show
Tino Sehgal at Fondazione Nicola Trussardi
"A Progress: Or, One Foot in Front of the Other" review of Guggenheim show from n+1
Tino Sehgal at the Aubette in Strasbourg

1976 births
Living people
German people of Indian descent
Bâloise Prize winners
Indian people of German descent
German contemporary artists
German people of Punjabi descent