[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nadītu

though they were not numerous. Some of them were Suteans. The walls surrounding the gagû were most likely monumentally tall, and their repair was considered an accomplishment suitable to commemorate  in year names by Babylonian rulers. One example is attested from the fourteenth year of Ammiditana.

In Sippar women typically became nadītu around the age of fifteen. To initiate a girl, a written guarantee that she will be provided for by her family was necessary. The initiation took place during a ceremony held in honor of Shamash known as sebût šattim, and involved placing a rope associated with this god on the arm of a woman entering the cloister. The new nadītu was expected to take on an appropriate name. Amat-Šamaš, "servant of Shamash", was the most popular, though Erišti-Šamaš, "requested by Shamash", is also well attested. Names invoking Aya are known too, for example Erišti-Aya, "requested by Aya". Some of the nadītu hailed from other cities, for example Babylon, Mari or Dilbat, rather than Sippar itself. They also originated in different social classes, with attested relatives including smiths, scribes, doctors, clergymen, military and judicial officials, and in some cases rulers. Daughters of kings Sumulael, Sin-Muballit and Zimri-Lim were nadītu, as was a sister of Hammurabi. However, there is no evidence that women from royal families were regarded as higher-ranked members of the community. Up to three daughters of a single family could become nadītu.

There is no evidence that any nadītu in the service of Shamash were married. As argued by Tonia Sharlach, they were effectively regarded as married into the family of the deity they served, and brought a dowry with them upon initiation, though after the death of a nadītu it was supposed to return to her family, as did anything acquired by her through her life. Therefore, it is possible that sending a daughter to become a nadītu was often a way to secure greater financial security for her brothers, which was a common concern due to economic hardships widespread in the Old Babylonian period. It is not certain if nadītu were expected to remain celibate, as no explicit references to any vows meant to guarantee that are known. They could not have biological children, though the reasons behind this taboo remain unknown. According to Katrin De Graef, at the same time it cannot be ruled out that they were allowed to engage in intercourse which did not result in pregnancy, and additionally two cases of nadītu apparently becoming pregnant and subsequently giving the child up for adoption has been identified. Adoption of children by nadītu was also permitted, with many cases of such a procedure involving either a younger nadītu (either a niece or an unrelated woman) or a slave. For example, a legal text of a nadītu named Erišti-Aya records that she both liberated a certain Surratum and adopted her. Another similar document, dated to the fourteenth year of Ammisaduqa, deals with the emancipation of Narāmtum, the adopted daughter of another nadītu, Ina-libbi-eršet. Adoptive motherhood among nadītu was seemingly primarily an economic institution, and the foster daughters were typically expected to provide their mothers with sustenance in exchange for becoming their heiresses, and in some cases they could be married off in order to acquire bride price (terḫatum). Adopting a daughter could also serve as a way to protect a nadītu'''s belongings from being seized, for example by creditors of the estate of her father, as directly attested in one case.