[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nancy Brinker

mber 24, 2008, President Bush appointed her to the board of trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts for a six-year term.

She testified before the United States Democratic Policy Committee's Congressional Breast Cancer Forum and participated in the International Women's Forum.

Awards
Brinker has received the following awards and titles:
 1995 University of Illinois Alumni Achievement Award
 The 1997 S. Roger Horchow Award for Greatest Public Service by a Private Citizen, awarded by Jefferson Awards
 The 2000 Cino del Duca Award, the James Ewing Layman Award from the Society of Surgical Oncology
 2004 Service to America Leadership Award presented by the National Association of Broadcasters Educational Foundation
 2005 Mary Woodard Lasker Public Service Award in Support of Medical Research
 The American Society of Breast Disease 2006
 2007 Trumpet Award
 2007 Castle Connolly National Health Leadership Award
 2007 Pro Cultura Hungarica Medal
 American Association for Cancer Research Centennial Medal for Distinguished Public Service in 2007
 2007 IARC Medal of Honour
 Modern Healthcare 2007 Health Care Hall of Fame
 2009 Porter Prize
 Presidential Medal of Freedom, awarded by President Barack Obama on August 12, 2009
 Reader's Digest Trust Poll: The 100 Most Trusted People in America, May 2013
 Inducted as a Laureate of The Lincoln Academy of Illinois and awarded the Order of Lincoln (the State's highest honor) by the Governor of Illinois in 2016 in the area of Social Services.
 National Women's Hall of Fame
 Texas Women's Hall of Fame
 Time magazine, 100 Most Influential People in the World
 Ladies' Home Journal's 100 Most Important Women of the 20th Century
 Biography Magazine's The 25 Most Powerful Women in America
 Anti-Defamation League Americanism Award
 The Ladies' Home Journal's Top 10 Champions of Women's Health
 Global Pathfinder Award
 The Champions of Excellence Award presented by the Centers for Disease Control
 ASCO Special Recognition Award
 Cancer Research and Treatment Fund, Inc. Cancer Survivors Hall of Fame
 The Sword of Ignatius Loyola Award from Saint Louis University
 The Albert Einstein's Sarnoff Volunteer Award
 The Champion of Prevention Award by the National Foundation for the Centers for Disease Control
 Inducted into the Cancer Research and Treatment Fund, Inc. Cancer Survivors Hall of Fame

Publications
Brinker has co-authored four books:
 Promise Me: How a Sister's Love Launched the Global Movement to End Breast Cancer , co-authored with Joni Rodgers - September 14, 2010
 The Race is Run One Step at a Time, co-authored with Catherine McEvilly Harris
 1000 Questions About Women's Health, co-authored with Dr. H. Jane Chihal
 Winning the Race: Taking Charge of Breast Cancer, co-authored with Chriss Anne Winston

Brinker wrote the forewords for:
 Tamoxifen for the Treatment and Prevention of Breast Cancer by V. Craig Jordan
 Tamoxifen: A Guide for Clinicians and Patients by V. Craig Jordan

Personal
Nancy Goodman's first husband was Robert M. Leitstein, an executive at Neiman Marcus. They had one son together but divorced in 1978.

On February 13, 1981, Nancy Goodman married Norman E. Brinker, founder of Brinker International, which provided access to capital and influence and enabled her role in public service.  Norman Brinker provided funds and methodology for building the Komen foundation. The couple were major contributors to George W. Bush's first presidential campaign. They divorced shortly after the 2000 U.S. Presidential election, but Norman Brinker remained a board member of Komen for the Cure, having served on its board since its founding in 1982 until his death in 2009.

While ambassador, Brinker began to collect Hungarian art. Her collection spans 100 years, from just before the Austro-Hungarian Empire to the present and has been on display at several museums around the United States. The collection is one of the largest outside of Hungary.

Brinker is a major funder of gay marriage initiatives. She serves on the advisory board of the Harvey Milk Foundation.

References

External links

 Nancy G. Brinker website

Papers of Nancy Brinker, 1954-2019 Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe Institute, Harvard University.

1946 births
Living people
American businesspeople in retailing
American health activists
American LGBT rights activists
20th-century American Jews
American women ambassadors
Ambassadors of the United States
People from Peoria, Illinois
Ambassadors of the United States to Hungary
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign alumni
Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients
Illinois Republicans
Texas Republicans
Chiefs of Protocol of the United States
Newsmax TV people
21st-century American Jews