[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1987 Pan American Games

The 1987 Pan American Games, officially known as the X Pan American Games, was a major international multi-sport event held in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States, on August 7–23, 1987. Over 4,300 athletes from 38 countries in the Americas competed in 297 events in 30 sports, earning 1,015 medals. Events were held at 23 venues in and around Indianapolis. The official mascot for the games was Amigo, a green parrot.

Host city selection

Santiago, Chile, was originally named the host of the tenth Pan American Games, but it withdrew in 1983 due to political and financial problems. Quito, Ecuador, was named to replace Santiago, but it also withdrew, in late 1984. Desperate, the Pan American Sports Organization (PASO) held a new election. Indianapolis was planning to bid on the 1991 Games, but, at the request of the United States Olympic Committee, submitted a bid for 1987. Since many sports facilities were already in place, PASO announced on December 18, 1984, that Indianapolis would be the host. Havana, Cuba, was also interested, but PASO appeased Fidel Castro, who had threatened to boycott the games, by agreeing to give Havana the 1991 games provided that Cuba participated at Indianapolis.

Organization 
The city of Indianapolis created an organizing committee called Pan American Ten/Indianapolis (PAX/I). It had eighteen operating divisions, 300 paid staff, and 37,000 volunteers.

Symbols 

The logo of the 1987 Pan Am Games consisted of five stylized X's, the Roman numeral for ten. Designed by Michael Hayes of the JMH Corporation in Indianapolis, the seven colors represented the wildlife and flags of western hemisphere countries. The mascot was Amigo, a green parrot, designed by Jerry Reynolds of Perennial Pictures in Indianapolis. He represented friendliness and festivity. The official music of the X Pan American Games was Pan American Fanfare by Lalo Schifrin.

Broadcasting rights 
The rights for the 1987 games were won by CBS with a bid of $4,000,000, and Brent Musburger hosted. CBS aired 26 hours of coverage, all on weekend afternoons, including live coverage of the Opening Ceremony from the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. Additionally, CBS provided the world feed. Because these games were first since the Cuban Revolution in which Cuban athletes were competing in the United States, the ratings were boosted by their participation, providing a United States-Cuba showdown in many events.

Venues
The 1987 Pan Am Games were held at a total of 23 sites. The athletes village, which provided lodging and dining for the athletes, was located at Fort Benjamin Harrison in Lawrence, Indiana.

 Brown County State Park (Nashville, Indiana) – Biking
 Bush Stadium – Baseball
 Eagle Creek Park – Archery, Canoeing, Rowing
 Circle Theatre – Weightlifting
 Hinkle Fieldhouse – Volleyball
 Hoosier Dome – Closing ceremonies, Gymnastics, Handball
 Hoosier Horse Park (Edinburgh, Indiana) –  Equestrian events
 Indiana Convention Center – Boxing
 Indiana University Natatorium – Diving, Swimming, Synchronized swimming
 IU Michael A. Carroll Track & Soccer Stadium – Athletics
 Indianapolis Motor Speedway (Speedway, Indiana) – Opening ceremonies, Speed roller skating, Cycling
 Indianapolis Tennis Center – Tennis
 Kuntz Memorial Soccer Stadium – Soccer
 Lake Michigan (Michigan City, Indiana) – Yachting
 Major Taylor Velodrome – Cycling
 Market Square Arena – Basketball

Games

Opening ceremony 

The opening ceremony was held on the main straight of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, the site of the Indianapolis 500. Crowd size reports range from 69,518, the official capacity of the stadium proper, to 80,000. The show, The Magic that is America, was produced by The Walt Disney Company at a cost of several million dollars. The 6,500 performers made it, at that time, both the largest outdoor live entertainment show held in the United States and the largest opening ceremony of the Pan Am games. The organizers had originally budgeted $2.5 million for the opening and closing ceremonies, but all the proposals by Disney exceeded that figure, so the committee decided to use that entire amount to stage only the opening ceremony.

Sandi Patty was a featured singer and the show included hot air balloons and military fighter jets. Dignitaries included IOC President Juan Antonio Samaranch, Indianapolis Mayor William H. Hudnut III, Indiana Governor Robert D. Orr, and PASO President Mario Vazquez Raña.

U.S. Vice President George H. W. Bush officially opened the games, and additional security protocols for his presence led to about 5000 people being delayed in lines, with twelve people fainting.