[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carlos R. Moreno

urt Judges Association of Los Angeles County. He was also the president of the Yale Club of Southern California, and a member of the Stanford University Law School Board of Visitors. He currently serves as a director of the Arroyo Vista Family Health Center and the Western Justice Center Foundation.

Moreno was honored with the Criminal Justice Superior Court Judge of the Year Award in 1997, from the Los Angeles County Bar Association, and was presented with the "For God, For Country, and For Yale" Award in 2001, recognizing him as a distinguished alumnus of Yale University. He also received an honorary degree from Southwestern University School of Law in May 2002 for his devotion to the justice system, young people and the community. In 2009, he was awarded the Yale Medal, which "is the highest award presented by the Association of Yale Alumni and is conferred solely to recognize and honor outstanding individual service to the University."

Possible nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court
On May 13, 2009, the Associated Press reported that President Barack Obama was considering Moreno, among others, for possible appointment to the United States Supreme Court. Despite the potential nomination, he released a controversial dissent in Strauss v. Horton the same day President Obama nominated Sonia Sotomayor.

U.S. Ambassador to Belize
On July 8, 2013, President Obama announced his intent to nominate Moreno to be United States Ambassador to Belize. On July 9, 2013, Obama formally nominated Moreno to the post. On Wednesday, May 14, 2014, the United States Senate confirmed Moreno to his ambassadorship by voice vote. Moreno arrived in Belize on June 21, 2014 and presented his credentials to Governor General Sir Colville Young on June 24, 2014. He stepped down from the post at the end of Obama's term.

See also
Barack Obama Supreme Court candidates
List of Hispanic and Latino American jurists
List of justices of the Supreme Court of California

References

Photos and video 
 Photo of Carlos Moreno. San Diego Union-Tribune, March 4, 2008.

External links 
 FJC Bio
 Biography from the Judicial Council of California.
 Opinions authored by Carlos R. Moreno. Courtlistener.com
 Past & Present Justices. California State Courts.

1948 births
Living people
20th-century American judges
21st-century American judges
Ambassadors of the United States to Belize
American judges of Mexican descent
American lawyers of Mexican descent
Hispanic and Latino American diplomats
Hispanic and Latino American judges
Judges of the United States District Court for the Central District of California
Justices of the Supreme Court of California
Lawyers from Los Angeles
Stanford Law School alumni
Superior court judges in the United States
United States district court judges appointed by Bill Clinton
Yale College alumni
Hispanic and Latino American lawyers