[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 31]
# List of Shaman King characters

themselves to be useful for tasks like spying, reconnaissance, casting curses, and simple (though not completely accurate) divinations. In combat, Conchi is able to form a bow and arrow Over Soul with Tamao's planchette while Ponchi combines with her planchette to form a cushioning shield Over Soul.

 
 
 Matamune is a Nekomata, a type of cat spirit with two tails; he also carries around a pipe with him and wears a necklace with three bear claws (which later is owned by Yoh Asakura). He has served the Asakura family for a millennium, although he spends much of his time traveling the world. He professes to have seen everything and is almost constantly reading books. One thousand years ago, Matamune had been an ordinary but sickly cat that had been abandoned by his mother and his eight other siblings had died. Hao had sensed the cat's strong spirit and fearlessness despite being able to see the terrifying spirits around him. Matamune soon became Hao's faithful companion and true friend. When Matamune died, Hao turned Matamune's spirit into a Goryoushin, a special type of spirit employed by Onmyouji to guard against demons and other spirits that would seek to harm them. Hao also imbued Matamune with a portion of his own furyoku – a type of mana – using the Bear's Claw Necklace. This mana allowed Matamune to have a physical body, and so long as Matamune's furyoku was not used up, his physical body would continue to exist. When Hao was driven mad by his abilities, Matamune sided with the Asakura family to defeat his master. Upon Hao's rebirth five hundred years later, Matamune joined Yohken Asakura to kill Hao in the Shaman Fight. However, Matamune holds himself responsible for what happened to Hao, believing that his loss of faith in Hao was part of the cause of Hao's madness and deeply regrets fighting against Hao. As such, Matamune has spent the last thousand years searching for a way to atone, and to save Hao. When Yoh went to meet Anna Kyoyama for the first time, his grandfather, Yohmei summoned Matamune to accompany him. Matamune and Yoh became good friends, and Matamune taught Yoh a number of things. Matamune resolved to help Yoh save Anna – who also had the power of reishi (spirit's sight), the ability to telepathically read hearts (a power which had ultimately led to Hao's madness) – partly as an act of penance for not being able to save Hao a thousand years ago. This power of empathy drove Anna to become withdrawn and distrustful and manifested into dangerous Oni (demonic ogres) that eventually turned on her, often terrorizing and threatening to destroy her. Matamune exhausted the remaining furyoku given to him by Hao in order to give Yoh the necessary power to save Anna.  Though doing so meant that Matamune would no longer be able to retain his form, he believed that Yoh had the power to save Hao. In their farewell, Yoh promised Matamune that one day he would become strong enough to be able to summon Matamune once again and has since worn the bear claws that belonged to Matamune as the symbol of that promise. Though Yoh and Hao have not seen Matamune since, Matamune later appears in Hell, observing Yoh's encounter with Yohken from afar and then becoming Ren and Horohoro's guide in Hell. He elects not to join the gathering of spirits who confront Hao after he becomes Shaman King, which Yoh reasons are because Matamune did not wish to fight Hao again. Matamune's character appears to have been inspired by Kenji Miyazawa's Night on the Galactic Railroad, which he is seen reading volume 19.  The 1985 animated film adaptation of Miyazawa's work depicts the main characters as cats, similar to Matamune, who is seen frequently travelling on trains during his appearances in Shaman King.

 
 
 A master swordsmith whose ability to create swords matched Amidamaru's ability to wield them. He and Amidamaru were best friends and grew up together. Their deaths resulted from Amidamaru's refusal to kill Mosuke when their lord ordered the samurai to. Mosuke, who believed that his delay in completing Harusame was the reason why Amidamaru died, spent the next six hundred years haunting the sword he had crafted for his friend until Yoh and Manta revealed that Amidamaru's spirit had continued to wait for him at Funbari Hill. He is later summoned to reforge Harusame after it is broken during the confrontation with Tokagero. In the 2001 anime, Mosuke later becomes Manta's guardian ghost, semi-trapped in Manta's laptop, and forms an Over Soul with the form of a hammer.