[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Castellgalí

n ashlar that Marc Mayer believes must read: V VILGELMO QUE, which could date from the 10th-11th centuries and could correspond to a certain Wilgemus. Different researchers think that it would refer to the owner of the area where the building was located, but after the construction of the building. 

 In the neighbourhood of Boadas we can see this chamber with an apsidal semicircular floor plan, partially standing behind the Vilaseca and Cadevall farmhouses, next to the road that leads to the Carbures factory. The facing of the wall is made up of ashlars of natural stone from the area, of medium and small sizes, which can be identified as opus vittatum. The ashlars are well cut and arranged in horizontal courses. It has a window of considerable size crowned with a round arch made of roof tiles and fired-earth bricks, in a wall that reaches a height of 4 m. The exedra is a Roman building dating from the Lower Imperial period, very characteristic from the 3rd century onwards. Most villages of a certain size have chambers with these characteristics, and a markedly stately character. 

Roman Sepulcre: In the same neighbourhood as Boadas, a small square Roman building from the 4th or 3rd century AD, with firm walls and a well-worked plinth. It had two storeys, the upper one supported by a semicircular arch. Today, it has been extensively rebuilt, and the gable roof has been completely rebuilt. Serra Ràfols considered the four silos inside to be Iberian. It is considered of the "chamber" and "cell" type within the Roman sepulchre typology.

Casa Amigant, Castellgalí Museum 
Located next to the parish church of Sant Miquel. The beginning of history of this manor house can be traced back to documents from the end of the 17th century, but it probably existed before that. In 1673 Josep d'Amigant i FeIrer, first Count of Fonollar, bought the castle of Castellgalí from the Bolet family (who had also acquired the jurisdiction of the castle from the Rajadell family). This family of Manresa origin were the lords of Castellgalí until the abolition of feudal lordships by the Court of Cadiz. Josep d'Amigant i Ferrer took public possession of Castellgalí on October, 5th, 1673. In 1711 King Charles III granted him the title of Count of Fonollar. In 1684 he converted the building into a manor house, probably because the castle was in ruins, but he never lived there; when he modified the original structure he put his coat of arms on the façade. He favoured the Christian faith by having the relics of the town's patron saints carried and sold the plots of land along the royal road to form the town centre. His brother Francesc, canon and vicar general of Barcelona, gave the relics of San Honest on July, 27 of 1673 and made this saint and San Repelión co-patron saints of the town. In 1880, the heirs of the Amigants were the Despujol family, Marquises of Palmerola. It seems that the Amigants never lived in this house, in fact, in 1763 they rented the house of the Hostal to other people. Pere Playà Vilaseheir heir the to Cal Mas, bought the Amigant in 1873. The building now belongs to the Castellgalí Town Council. The museum was inaugurated in May, 5th of 1991; the Casal de Cultura was inaugurated in November, 25th of 2002. The part occupied by the social premises was the old Hostel Café of Castellgalí and its rooms were used for dances and film screenings at the beginning of the 20th century. Today, it houses the Youth Information Point, organises talks, has exhibition rooms and a computer room. On the front of the house (the west façade) we can see on the main lintel, the inscription 16IHS84 (1684 Iesus Hristus), under a cross; there is also, under a porthole, the coat of arms of the Amigant family. It is a coat of arms cut in stone, of a noble type with a central circle with two hands clasped in friendship. The outer part of the coat of arms is surrounded by scrolls that frame it, taped at the top by a standing human figure holding a feather in one hand and a wooden stick in the other.