[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# 55th Electronic Combat Group

The 55th Electronic Combat Group, located at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, provides combat-ready aircraft, crews, maintenance, and operational support to combatant commanders. The group is a Geographically Separated Unit which falls under the command of the 55th Wing at Offutt Air Force Base. The group also plans and executes information operations, including information warfare and electronic attack, in support of theatre campaign plans.

History
The unit provides combat-ready EC-130H Compass Call aircraft, crews, maintenance, and operational support to combatant commanders. Members of the group conduct EC-130H aircrew initial qualification and difference training for 20 aircrew specialities and support operational and force development testing and evaluation for new aircraft systems.

Structure

41st and 43d Electronic Combat Squadrons
The 41st Electronic Combat Squadron was activated in July 1980, and uniformly, the 43rd Electronic Combat Squadron was activated in April 1992.

Both squadrons provide vital capabilities in electronic warfare for the Air Force and are poised for immediate deployment to specific theatre contingencies. The unit's combat missions are to support tactical air, ground, and naval operations by confusing the enemy's defences and disrupting its command as well as control capabilities. 

These squadrons operate the EC-130H aircraft, the aircraft are modified for missions with electronic countermeasure systems, specialising in jamming equipment, the capability to aerial refuel, and upgraded engines and avionics. The squadrons have participated in operations such as Southern Watch, Just Cause, Desert Shield, Desert Storm, Uphold Democracy, Deny Flight, Vigilant Warrior, Provide Comfort, Decisive Edge, Deliberate Force, Enduring Freedom, and Iraqi Freedom.

755th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
The 755th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron provides war-fighting commanders with combat-ready aircraft to expeditiously execute information warfare and electronic attack operations. The squadron plans and executes all on-equipment maintenance actions for the EC-130H and TC-130H aircraft, including launch and recovery, scheduled inspections, servicing, and component replacement. Additionally, they also conduct all maintenance training, aircrew debriefing and supply functions.

755th Operations Support Squadron
The 755th Operations Support Squadron supports the group's combat missions and contingency taskings. The squadron performs command and control warfare analysis, targeting, and intelligence support and directs operation support functions including weapons and tactics training for all United States Air Force ECH-130H Compass Call aircrews. They also conduct initial academic and flying training for 20 crew positions, and 200 students while managing 17 major command syllabi.

References

External links
55th ECG Factsheet

055
Electronic combat units and formations of the United States Air Force
Military units and formations in Arizona