[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# She (1965 film)

he film financed through MGM, with triple the usual budget for a Hammer film.

The film was announced in May 1964. Although Seven Arts had helped finance several Hammer films, this was the first one they had produced together.

John Richardson was cast after being spotted by Ray Stark of Seven Arts.

Principal photography commenced in southern Israel's Negev Desert on 24 August 1964, with scenes also shot at MGM's Elstree Studios near London when Hammer's Bray Studios proved to be too small for the project. It was the most expensive film Hammer had made up until that time, but on release, it was a hit both in North America and in Europe.

Although the studio was pleased with the look of Ursula Andress in the film – as lit by Harry Waxman and costumed by Carl Toms and Roy Ashton – they found her Swiss-German accent to be offputting, and had her entire part re-dubbed by an actress Nikki van der Zyl, who had dubbed her in Dr. No.

Critical reception
The New York Times critic Bosley Crowther wrote of the film: "It lacks style, sophistication, humour, sense, and above all, a reason for being, since it isn't even as good (excepting that it is in colour) as the last remake of She done with Helen Gahagan in 1935". The British listings magazine, the Radio Times, gave the film three out of a possible five stars, observing that Ursula Andress "acquits herself better than you might expect", and concluding that "The African backdrops are easily matched by Swiss-born Andress's own brand of exotic beauty and, while there's plenty to criticise, there's also much to enjoy."

See also
 She (1984 film)
 The Vengeance of She

References

External links
 
 
 
 

1965 films
1960s fantasy adventure films
British fantasy adventure films
Films directed by Robert Day
Films based on She
Films based on fantasy novels
Films scored by James Bernard
Films set in Africa
Films shot in Israel
Hammer Film Productions films
Films set in 1918
Films set in deserts
Films produced by Aida Young
Films shot at MGM-British Studios
Films shot at Associated British Studios
1960s English-language films
1960s British films