[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Central Security Forces

Training Institutes.
 (8) AOR Operational Regions – 
Cairo,
 Alexandria, 
 Giza, 
 Central & Western Nile Delta, 
 Eastern Nile Delta, 
 Suez Canal & Sinai, 
 Southern Upper Egypt, and 
 Northern Upper Egypt

List of Equipment of Central Security Forces ( Egypt )

Deployment and operating procedures

Similar to other central paramilitary organizations in other countries, CSF deployment is divided into three parts - Baton, Gas, and Armed. The basic unit formation of the CSF is a company which is commanded by a Police Captain (naqib) or in some cases a Major who is a commissioned officer and a graduate of the Police College. A senior Lieutenant (mulazim awwal) (or Captain when the commander is a Major), is usually second-in-command.

A CSF company consists of approximately 150 personnel and is composed of two Baton platoons, a Gas platoon, and an Armed platoon. Each platoon is also commanded by a Captain or a Lieutenant with a Sergeant (raqib) as second-in-command.

Approximately 3 to 4 companies make up a CSF Battalion, which is commanded by an officer of full Colonel rank.

The Baton platoons are equipped with batons and shields, the gas platoon is responsible for the deployment of Teargas, and the armed platoon usually carries Assault Rifles - usually the AK 47 variants, and is organized like a Light Infantry Rifles platoon. However, under emergency laws and martial law, the non-armed CSF units can be converted into armed units, and they are additionally equipped with LMGs, recoilless rifles and sniper rifles for anti-insurgency operations.

Also, the three-part deployment of CSF is not applicable in regions like the North Sinai, where all units are armed at all times.

Recruitment

The Central Security Forces personnel consists of three categories;
 Commissioned Officers (graduated from the Police College of 4 Academic years), who enter the service with the rank of Lieutenant. They are recruited via national-level exams for Police officers, they receive their commission from the President;
 Sub-officers (graduated from Police School of 2 Academic years), they are equivalent to the Non-commissioned officers of the Army; and
 Conscripts (of 6 months training) recruited entirely from the low educated recruits, as the more educated and college graduates usually end up in the different branches of the regular military service. Conscripts can later be promoted to the ranks of sub-officers if they continue in the service beyond their compulsory terms and if they get a higher education and sit for the mandatory exams for entering sub-officer ranks. There is high competition among conscripts to extend their service and to become regularized troops, this is because of the high rate of unemployment in Egypt. A conscript enters the force as a "Private Recruit" and is promoted to "Private First Class" after 2 years of service. At the time of demobilization/release from compulsory 3 years' service, many who have passed their 10th grade in school, are at the rank of Areef or Corporal and can command a section of 10-12 conscripts and 1 riot vehicle. Less educated or illiterate conscripts, however, have to retire at the rank of Private First Class. Those among the Corporals who wish can sit for exams to extend their service and receive the rank of Deputy Sergeant or Junior Sergeant. Most of the conscripts/NCOs are forced to retire at 52 years of age with the rank of Sergeant with no chance of advancement if they do not have a college degree. Less than 2% of conscripts advance into the commissioned officer ranks.

Ranks
Officers -

Director General (a Lieutenant General ranking officer) (Fariq)
Major General (Liwa)
Brigadier General (Amid)
Colonel (Aqid)
Lieutenant Colonel (Moqaddem)
Major (Raed)
Captain (Naqib)
First Lieutenant (Mulazim Awal)
Lieutenant (Mulazim)

Sub-officers-

Sergeant First Class (Raqib awwal) - this rank is held only by the two or three senior-most NCOs in a Battalion.
Sergeant (Raqib)
Deputy Sergeant/Junior Sergeant (Raqib Musaaed) - first NCO rank
Corporal (Areef) - after 3 years of compulsory service, it is usually held by Section/Troop leaders.

Conscripts -

Private First Class/Junior Corporal/Squad Leader (Musaed areef)
Private Recruit/Conscript (Mujannad)

See also
 Law Enforcement in Egypt
 Mohamed Mahmoud Graffiti

References

External links
 Paramilitary forces at ORBAT.com
Egyptian Armed Forces
CSF at Egypt Country Study
CIA World Factbook
FAS
GlobalSecurity

Government paramilitary forces of Egypt