[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 8

on, whereas others have shown that it is part of the process of terminating migration.  These conflicting results have led researchers to speculate that it plays a role in both processes through interactions with different molecules at different stages of neuronal migration.

Long-term potentiation 

After development, reelin is secreted in the cortex and hippocampus by gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic interneurons. Through binding of ApoER2 in the hippocampus, it plays a role in the NMDA receptor activation that is required for long-term potentiation, a mechanism by which two neurons gain a stronger, longer-lasting transmission due to simultaneous firing. The increased synaptic plasticity associated with this process is essential in development of memory and spatial learning.  Studies with mice have shown less expression of ApoER2 leads to impaired spatial learning, fear conditioned learning, and a mild disruption to the hippocampus.

In the hippocampus, ApoER2 is complexed with NMDA receptors through the PSD-95 adapter protein. When reelin binds ApoER2, it initiates tyrosine phosphorylation of NMDA receptors. This occurs through Dab-1 activation of Src family kinases, which have been shown to play a role in regulating synaptic plasticity. VLDLR also acts as a receptor coupled to ApoER2 as it does during development, but its role is not well understood. ApoER2 plays a more important role in this process, most likely due to its ability to bind the PSD-95 adapter protein through the 59 amino acid insert on its cytoplasmic tail. Studies with mice have shown that knocking out ApoER2 or just the alternatively spliced exon 19 causes a much greater impairment of LTP than knocking out VLDLR.

Other interacting proteins

Apolipoprotein E

Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) plays an important role in phospholipid and cholesterol homeostasis. After binding ApoER2, ApoE is taken up into the cell and may remain in the intracellular space, be shipped to the cell surface, or be degraded. ApoE binding leads to the cleavage of ApoER2 into secreted proteins by the actions of the plasma membrane protein gamma secretase. ApoE may be the signalling ligand responsible for ApoER2's role in modulating the JNK signalling pathway.

FE65

FE65 is an intracellular protein that binds to the NPXY motif of ApoER2 and plays a role in linking other proteins, such as amyloid precursor protein, to ApoER2.  This protein aids in a cell's migrational functions.  Knockout studies of FE65 have shown a link to lissencephaly.

JIP1 and JIP2

JIP1 and JIP2 are involved in the JNK-signaling pathway and interact with exon 19 of ApoER2.  For JIP2, interaction with exon 19 of ApoER2 is through the PID domain.  This interaction has led researchers to believe that ApoER2 is involved in many interactions at the surface of cells.

Selenoprotein P

Selenoprotein P transports the trace element selenium from the liver to the testes and brain, and binds to ApoER2 in these areas.  ApoER2 functions to internalize this complex to maintain normal levels of selenium in these cells. Selenium is necessary in the testes for proper spermatozoa development. Mice that have had their ApoER2 or Selenoprotein P expression knocked out show impaired spermatozoa development and decreased fertility. In the brain, deficiencies in selenium and selenium uptake mechanisms result in brain damage.

Thrombospondin and F-spondin

Thrombospondin is a protein found in the extracellular matrix that competes with reelin to bind ApoER2. It is involved with cell-to-cell communication and migration of neurons, and causes the activation of Dab1.  F-spondin is a secreted protein that also binds ApoER2 and leads to phosphorylation of Dab1.

Clinical significance

Alzheimer's disease 

Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia, and studies have shown that manipulation of pathways involving LRP8/ApoER2 can lead to the disease.  Certain alleles, such as apoe, app, ps1 and ps2, may lead to being genetically predisposed to the disease. A decrease in LRP8 expression is observed in patients with Alzheimer's disease.  An example of a decrease in expression of LRP8 is when gamma secretase cleaves LRP8 as well as the ligand amyloid precursor protein (APP).  The degradation products control transcription factors, which lead to the expression of a tau protein.  The cascade dysfunction caused by the altered gene expression may be implicated with Alzheimer's disease.