[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kansas Legislature

Bills
A proposed law is introduced in the state legislature as a bill. There are seven basic steps to the life of a bill: the introduction, standing committee action, a vote by the Committee of the Whole, floor passage, action by the second house, action by the governor and publication of the law.

When a bill is introduced its title is read, it is printed and distributed to members of the house of origin, and it is referred to a standing committee. Standing committee chairs decide whether or not to hear a bill and members of the committee can submit amendments to the bill. After consideration and discussion, the committee votes on whether or not to send a committee report to the Committee of the Whole. While under consideration by the Committee of the Whole, amendments can be submitted by state legislators in the house of origin. The final action in the house of origin is a vote by the full membership.

Bills go through an identical process in the opposite house of the state legislature. After passage by both houses, a bill is submitted to the governor, who either signs it into law or vetoes it. If vetoed, the bill only becomes law if both houses of the legislature vote to override the veto with a two-thirds majority of their membership.

Legislative Staff Support Agencies

The Kansas Legislature is supported by five non-partisan staff support agencies: Legislative Administrative Services, Legislative Division of Post Audit, Kansas Legislative Research Department, Office of the Revisor of Statutes, and Office of Information Services. The offices of the Chief Clerk of the House and the Secretary of the Senate are responsible for the operations of the respective chambers under the direction of elected leadership. 

Legislative Administrative Services Legislative Administrative Services provides administrative and technical support for the Kansas Legislature and general public, as directed by the Legislative Coordinating Council.

Legislative Division of Post Audit The Kansas Legislative Division of Post Audit is the non-partisan audit arm of the Kansas Legislature.

Kansas Legislative Research Department KLRD staff members provide nonpartisan, objective research and fiscal analysis for members of the Kansas Legislature.

Legislative Office of Information Services The office provides information technology support to Legislators and Legislative support staff. 

Office of the Revisor of Statutes The office provides legislative legal expertise to the Kansas Legislature. Attorneys in the office are responsible for drafting bills and other legislation, staffing legislative committees, publishing the Kansas Statutes Annotated, and offering legal consultation to members of the Kansas Legislature

References

External links
The Kansas Legislature
Kansas Legislative Procedure Manual
Kansas House and Senate Journals, 1913-1955 (KGI Online Library)
Kansas Oral History Project

 
Bicameral legislatures
1861 establishments in Kansas