[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mount Meager massif

nd Lillooet River area the ash occurs as a coarse-textured deposit with blocks of pumice up to  in diameter. The texture rapidly becomes finer eastward from the Bridge River. At Big Bar on the Fraser River pellets are up to  in diameter while pellets in the Messiter area have a maximum diameter of .

Situated on the northeastern flank of Plinth Peak, the Bridge River Vent has an elevation of . It has oversteepened walls covered with ice and debris from volcanic activity and slope collapses. The crater is roughly bowl-shaped, although it is breached on the northern side. Because the Bridge River Vent is located on the northern slope of the Mount Meager massif, it represents a satellite vent. The eruption that formed the Bridge River Vent was probably fed through a conduit from the magma chamber below the massif. A stress field controlled by regional tectonics has been commonly invoked to explain the dynamics of lateral flow (flowing laterally rather than vertically toward the surface) of magma from a reservoir to produce such eruptions.

Human history

Naming
The name Meager Mountain was adopted on May 6, 1924, as labelled on a 1923 British Columbia map. In 1966 the volcano was renamed . According to a BC Geographical Names letter written in March 1983, "the local name, Cathedral, was duplicated elsewhere, so the mountain was renamed Meager after the creek of that name which lies to the south of it". Meager Creek is named after J. B. Meager who owned timber licences on the creek. Despite its official name, Mount Meager is sometimes mistakenly spelled Mount Meagre or .

The massif's peak names were submitted by Canadian mountaineer Neal M. Carter, who was a member of the British Columbia Mountaineering Club. Devastator Peak was officially named on  in association with Devastation Glacier. Plinth Peak was officially named on  as identified in Carter's 1932 sketch map and article "Explorations in the Lillooet River Watershed". Mount Job and Pylon Peak were both officially named on January 17, 1957, from their labels on Carter's 1954 sketch map of the Lillooet River. Capricorn Mountain was originally identified as Mount Capricorn in the 1932 Canadian Alpine Journal, Vol XXI. According to the journal, "the name chosen for the 8440-foot mountain was Mt. Capricorn, a variation of the all-too-common appellation "Goat Mountain", applied by Bert [Perkins] to the stream which drains the Capricorn glacier at its base". Subsequently, the peak was renamed to  on June 22, 1967.

Mining and geothermal energy
A large pumice outcrop more than  long and  wide has been the subject of mining operations since at least the 1970s. The deposit was first held by J. MacIsaac. In the mid-1970s the second owner W. H. Willes investigated and mined the pumice. It was crushed, removed and stored close to the village of Pemberton. Later the bridge that was used to access the pumice deposit was washed out and mining operations were not renewed. Mining resumed in 1988 when the deposit was staked by L. B. Bustin. In 1990 the pumice outcrop was bought by D. R. Carefoot from the owners B. Chore and M. Beaupre. In a program from 1991 to 1992 workers evaluated the deposit for its properties as a construction material and as an absorber for oil and stonewash. About  of pumice was mined in 1998 by the .

The Mount Meager massif has been investigated as a potential geothermal energy resource. At least 16 geothermal sites have been identified in , the Mount Meager area being one of the five areas most capable of commercial development.  At Meager Creek, there is potential for commercial development of a 100–200 megawatt power station. Nearby  also has "very good" potential for a 200 megawatt plant. Because the two creeks offer the greatest potential for commercial development, the Mount Meager area is the most promising site for geothermal power development in British Columbia.

Volcanic history

At least 54 eruptions have occurred at the massif in the last 2,600,000 years, ranging in character from effusive to explosive. Four primary eruptive periods have been identified, with individual eruptions separated by thousands of years. Large northwest–southeast trending structures paralleling Harrison Lake and the Pemberton Valley may control volcanic activity at the volcano or at least create zones of crustal weakness that are penetrated by rising magma batches.

First record of activity
During the first eruptive period between 2,200,000 and 1,900,000 years ago, eruption of intermediate to felsic pyroclastic rocks occurred at the southern end of the massif. Basal breccia, perhaps from an exhumed vent, underlies andesite and tuffs, flows, lava domes and breccia of Devastator Peak. It has a maximum thickness of  and overlies a  high ridge of bedrock that formed between 251,000,000 and 65,500,000 years ago during the Mesozoic era.