[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Alaska political corruption probe

tion after serving six months in prison for illegal campaign contributions, allegedly forced sex on a six-year-old Sarasota girl. After being indicted on January 23, 2011, he fled to Havana, Cuba. From there he flew to Cancun, Mexico where he was arrested on his yacht and extradited back to Florida.

Jerry Ward implicated in probe
On December 15, 2008, the Anchorage Daily News reported that former Alaska state senator Jerry Ward had been implicated in the probe. Ward had been accused of a conspiracy involving Bill Weimar to accept an illegal $20,000 campaign contribution. Weimar had a $5.5 million interest, contingent only on the approval and construction of a Cornell Companies prison in Alaska. On August 23, 2004, he paid $3,000 by check toward settlement of a $20,000 invoice. Later that day he forwarded $8,500 in cash drawn from a Polson, Montana bank by express mail followed a day later by $8,500 more in cash drawn from the same bank, according to court documents. Cash transactions of more than $10,000 daily mandate federal reporting per the Bank Secrecy Act. Ward allegedly convinced a witness in the trial against Senator Ted Stevens to lie about an immunity deal in court to ensure that he was included in it and would therefore not be prosecuted. According to federal prosecutors, Ward had been under investigation for some time over his relationship with Weimar, who was convicted of two felony counts in the matter and sentenced to prison. While he was presumed to be under continued investigation, Ward was not charged.

Donny Olson refuses bribes, assists FBI
Democratic Senator Donny Olson was running for Lieutenant Governor in 2006. He was offered but refused a $25,000 campaign contribution, later cooperating with the FBI to bring cases against the conspirators.

John Cowdery pleads guilty
On December 18, 2008, KTUU Anchorage Channel 2, an affiliate of NBC, reported that John Cowdery had agreed to change his plea from not guilty to guilty in exchange for some of the charges against him being dropped. As part of his plea agreement, Cowdery did not have to testify against other defendants in the case. No sentencing parameters were agreed upon as a result of this agreement. Cowdery subsequently pleaded guilty in federal court on December 19, 2008. Due in part to his age and alleged infirmity, he was only sentenced to 6 months of house arrest and fined US $25,000.  Cowdery died on July 13, 2013.

Beverly Masek pleads guilty
On March 13, 2009, the Anchorage Daily News reported that former Alaska state representative Beverly Masek had pleaded guilty to soliciting and accepting at least $4,000 in bribes from VECO Corp. Masek, who originally rose to fame by competing in the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race while still known by her maiden name of Beverly Jerue, was first elected to the House in 1994. Masek represented a district consisting of the northern and western reaches of the Matanuska-Susitna Borough in the House from 1995 to 2005 before being defeated by Mark Neuman in the 2004 primary election. Masek was sentenced on September 23, 2009.

See also
 Alaska Legislature
 Public Integrity Section
 OpenSecrets

Notes

External links
Alaska Public Offices Commission Alaska Public Offices Commission home page.
"Judge rules "Corrupt Bastards" be tried separately"  Continuing coverage of Alaska's legislator scandal from AlaskaReport.com.
"Alaska Political Corruption." Continuing coverage on the corruption scandal from the Anchorage Daily News.
"FBI Probe on Capitol Hill." Continuing coverage on the corruption scandal from the Juneau Empire.
"Veco." Continuing coverage about VECO Corporation from the Anchorage Daily News, with particular emphasis on VECO's connections to the corruption scandal.
Lisa's Deal Sen. Murkowski's Kenai River land buy looks fishy Anchorage Daily News.
Lisa Murkowski Alaska has a new top political funder: Bob Penney. He is quite close to Senators Stevens and Murkowski.
Entire Alaska Delegation Contributed Earmarks To 3 Mile Road To cover matching costs required by some of the federal money, Murkowski's father, then-Gov. Frank Murkowski ponied up another $325,000 in state funds TPM Muckraker.
Bill Allen waiting for 'ax to fall' Anchorage Daily News story, published August 17, 2008, on the VECO sale.
Judge shows leniency in Masek sentence for corruption ADN story, published September 24, 2009, on the sentencing of Masek.

2006 in Alaska
2007 in Alaska
2008 in Alaska
Federal Bureau of Investigation operations
Political corruption investigations in the United States
Crimes in Alaska
Political scandals in Alaska