[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# May 1965

more classes of shares of stock, was introduced. The New York City offices of the British firm Samuel Montagu & Co. launched the program as the Dualvest Limited Fund.
The American version of That Was the Week That Was, hosted by David Frost on the NBC television network, was shown for the last time.

May 5, 1965 (Wednesday)
Iberia Airlines Flight 401 from Madrid crashed while attempting to land at the airport at Tenerife in the Canary Islands, killing 30 of the 49 people on board. The Super Constellation plane had aborted one landing attempt in heavy fog, and on the second approach, it struck farm equipment located about  from the edge of the runway.
The Organization of American States (OAS) voted 14 to 5 to create an "Inter-American Peace Force" to occupy the Dominican Republic until order could be restored. Opposing the measure were Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay.
Forty male students at the University of California in Berkeley stood in front of the city's draft board office and burned their draft cards, introducing what would become a common form of antiwar protest and a refusal to join the war effort. The 40 UC students were among hundreds who marched to the draft board after a noon rally on the Berkeley campus. "While Berkeley police photographers snapped their photos," an Associated Press report noted, "the students squatted in a huddle like a football team and placed their burning cards in a small pile." Although future draft-card burnings would be made in opposition to the Vietnam War, the initial protest was against the U.S. invasion of the Dominican Republic. A spokesman for the Selective Service System noted that U.S. law required "that a registrant must have his draft card with him at all times" and that the general practice when a registrant was unable to produce his draft card was to have him "reported to his local draft board, which sometimes treats me as a delinquent and speeds up his induction."
"Boss Radio", a music programming format that relied on less talking by the disc jockeys, shorter commercials, and more frequent play of the most popular songs of the week, was introduced by a Los Angeles radio station, KHJ-AM. The concept, developed by Bill Drake and Gene Chenault, along with Gary Mack and Les Turpin, relied on playing of the same 33 songs throughout the day, punctuated occasionally by older records. The planned debut had actually been for May 19, but a disgruntled news announcer at KHJ revealed the plan to rival radio station KFWB, so KHJ disc jockey Don Steele rushed the Boss Radio format on the air the same afternoon; KFWB retreated from stealing the KHJ idea. The "more music, less talk" format would quickly be adopted by other radio stations in the United States.

May 6, 1965 (Thursday)
By a margin of only four votes, Prime Minister Harold Wilson's plan for nationalization of the majority of the British steel industry was approved by the House of Commons. At 10:00 p.m., voting began and the measure barely passed, 310–306, with Wilson's Labour Party in support, and ten members of the Liberal Party joining with the Conservative Party in opposition. Six Labour MPs who were unwell did not appear for the vote. One Labour MP, Leslie Spriggs, was brought in because he was recovering from a heart attack, and announced his vote while lying in an ambulance parked in a courtyard, and Labourite Barbara Castle checked out of a hospital so that she could be present. The Labour Party had to make a compromise to its plans for a total nationalization of the industry in order to obtain the votes of two of its members, Woodrow Wyatt and Desmond Donnelly.
By day's end, the Labour Party's four vote majority in Commons was cut to only three as Conservative Party member Reginald Eyre overwhelmingly defeated his two opponents to win the by-election to fill the vacancy left when Labour's Aubrey Jones resigned to serve on the Prices and Incomes Board.
A tornado outbreak near the Twin Cities (Minneapolis and St. Paul) in Minnesota killed 13 people and injured 683. Spring Lake Park and Mound, Minnesota were hardest hit, with four fatalities apiece. 
Earlier in the day, the winds tore the roof off the elementary school in Shell Lake, Wisconsin at 9:40 in the morning while 307 students and teachers were in the ten classrooms, but there were no injuries.
Died:
Ernesto de Martino, 56, Italian anthropologist, historian, and philosopher
Una Marson, 60, Jamaican-born British feminist