[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Acts of the Parliament of England, 1603–1641

An Acte for continuynge and revivinge of divers Statutes and for repealinge of some others. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (Exchequer) c. 26 An Acte for the continuance and due observation of certaine Orders for the Exchequer first set downe and established by virtue of a Privie Seale from the late Queene Elizabeth. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 Game Act 1603 c. 27 An Acte for the better execucion of thintent and meaning of former Statuts made againste shootinge in Gunnes and for the preservation of the Game of Pheasantes and Partridges and againste the destroyinge of Hares with Harepipes and tracinge Hares in the Snowe. — repealed by Game Act 1831
 (Berwick-on-Tweed) An Acte for Confirmation of the Kinges Majesties Charter and Letters Patentes graunted to the Mayor Bayliffes and Burgesses of the Burroughe of Berwicke upon Twede and theire Successors, and of the Franchises Liberties Priviledges Jurisdictions and Customes of the saide Burroughe. c. 28
 (Increase of seamen (fish-days)) c. 29 An Acte to encourage the Seamen of England to take Fishe wherebie they may encrease to furnishe the Navie of England. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (Melcombe Regis and Radipole, Dorset (church)) c. 30 An Acte for the erectinge and buildinge of a Churche in Melcombe Regis to be the Parishe Churche of Radipoll; and for makinge the oulde Churche of Radipoll a Chappell belonginge to the same. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1948
 (The plague) c. 31 An Acte for the charitable Reliefe and Orderinge of persons infected with the Plague. — repealed by Punishment of Offences Act 1837
 Dover Harbour Act 1603 c. 32. An Acte for repaire of Dover Haven. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1948
 (Taxation) c. 33 An Acte for a Subsiedie of Tonnage and Poundage. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863

Private Acts

Confirmation of Queen Anne's jointure. c. 1 An Acte of Confirmation of the Jointure of the moste highe and mightie Princesse Anne Queene of England Scotland France and Ireland.
Assignment of sums for paying the King's household expenses. c. 2 An Acte for an Assignment of certaine Sumes of Money for the defrayinge of the Charges of the Kinges most honorable Houshold.
Restitution of the Earl of Southampton. c. 3
Restitution of the Earl of Essex's children. c. 4
Restitution of the Earl of Arundel's son. c. 5
Restitution in blood of the Duke of Norfolk's descendants. c. 6
Restitution of Lord Pagett's son. c. 7
Restitution in blood of Thomas Lucas. c. 8
Securing Simpson's debt and the safety of the Warden of the Fleet in Sir Thomas Shirley's Case. c. 9
Securing the debt of Simpson and others and the safety of the Warden of the Fleet in Sir Thomas Shirley's Case. c. 10
Naturalization of Duke of Lennox, Henry, Lord of Obigney, and their children. c. 11
Naturalization of the Countess of Nottingham. c. 12
Naturalization of the Earl of Marre and family. c. 13
Naturalization of Sir George Howme and family. c. 14
Confirmation of Sir George Howme's letters patent. c. 15
Naturalization of Sir Edward Bruce and confirmation of letters patent. c. 16
Naturalization of Sir Thomas Areskin and family. c. 17
Confirmation of letters patent to Earl of Nottingham, Earl of Suffolk, Sir John Leveson and Sir John Trevor, for use of Lady Cobham. c. 18
Naturalization of Dame Marie Aston and family. c. 19
Naturalization of Sir John Ramsey. c. 20
Naturalization of Sir James Hay. c. 21
Naturalization of John Gordon, Dean of Sarum, and family. c. 22
Naturalization of Sir John Kennedy. c. 23
Naturalization of Sir John Drummond. c. 24
Naturalization of Adam Newton. c. 25
Restitution in blood of Thomas Littleton, and family. c. 26
Naturalization of William, Anne and Barbara Browne. c. 27
Thomas Throckmorton's estate: enabling sale of lands for payment of debts. c. 28
Naturalization of Thomas Glover, Margaret Mordant, Francis Collymore, Alexander Daniell, Nicholas Gilpine and Marie Copcote. c. 29
Sir Thomas Rowse's estate: sale of lands for payment of debts. c. 30
Settlement of the late Sir George Rodney's estate. c. 31
Assurance of lands to the Dean and Canons of Windsor, and of a lease of the prebend of Bedwin (Wiltshire) to the Earl of Hertford. c. 32
Henry Jernegan's estate: sale of manors of Dages in Raveningham and Heringfleet alias St. Olav's (Norfolk and Suffolk) for payment of debts. c. 33
Mary Calthrop's jointure. c. 34
Relief of Thomas Lovell. c. 35
Edward Nevill's estate: explanation of the Act of 1601 [c. 4] [Edward Nevill and Sir Henry Nevill: disposal of copyhold lands held of the manors of Rotherfield (Sussex) and Alesley and Fylongley (Warwickshire)]. c. 36
John Tebold's estate: enabling him to sell parts for the preferment of his children and to make a jointure. c. 37
Naturalization of Katherine, Elizabeth, Susan, Hester and Marie Vincents. c. 38
Naturalization of Victor Chauntrell, Peter Martin, Mentia Van Ursell and Sabina, Edward and Peregrine Aldrich. c. 39

1605 (3 Jas. 1)