[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS Vicksburg (PG-11)

urg back to the Mare Island Naval Shipyard. The damage was found to not be as severe as initially thought, and Vicksburg was instead led back to Guaymas, where she briefly remained for repairs before returning to duty on 2 September. The gunboat later returned to the U.S. at San Diego on 3 November.

Training ship, 1912–1917
Following repairs at the Mare Island and the Puget Sound Navy Yards, she began duty with the Washington Naval Militia on 18 June. That service occupied her almost completely until the U.S. entered World War I in the spring of 1917. The only exception came in May–June 1914, when she was placed back in full commission for a brief cruise to Mexico. Upon her return to Puget Sound, she reverted to reserve status and resumed training duty with the Washington Naval Militia.

World War I, 1917–1921

On 6 April 1917, the U.S. associated herself with the Allied Powers in World War I by declaring war on the German Empire. A week later, on 13 April, Vicksburg was placed back in full commission at Puget Sound. The gunboat patrolled the western coasts of the United States and Mexico through the end of the war. That German influence was particularly strong in Mexico during the war is evidenced by the fact that Germany started reasonably serious negotiations to persuade Mexico to enter the war on the side of the Central Powers. The infamous Zimmermann Telegram—which offered Mexico the opportunity to recoup her losses in the American Southwest—contributed greatly to the United States' decision to go to war against Germany. Thus, the Navy had to flex its muscles convincingly to dissuade Mexico from assisting the Central Powers. Vicksburg and the other ships which patrolled the Mexican coasts helped provide the influence necessary to keep that nation out of the enemy camp.

As a result of her mildly pro-German attitude, Mexico became a center for German activity in the western hemisphere, particularly after the U.S. entered the war. Incidents involving German nationals occurred frequently. One such incident provided Vicksburg with the single concrete reward for her vigilance. On 17 March 1918, she anchored off the harbor at Viejo Bay, Mexico, in response to information that a ship carrying German nationals would attempt to leave the port. At 12:25, she sighted the schooner Alexander Agassiz standing out to sea under the American flag and immediately got underway to intercept her. The schooner tried to make a dash for it, but a shot across her bow forced the Alexander Agassiz to heave to and submit to a search.

Vicksburgs boarding party made some interesting discoveries. The schooner carried 14 people, of whom five were German and six were Mexican. Two others were women, one of whom was purportedly the vessel's owner. The remaining passenger was an American, probably the informant upon whose advice the capture was made since he is listed in Vicksburgs war diary as "...one American spy..." The motorized sailing vessel also carried some small arms and a quantity of ammunition as well as a "German flag". The people were taken on board Vicksburg, and the five Germans were put in irons.

Vicksburg justified the capture on the fact that the schooner carried enemy nationals and that she possessed no proper ship's papers. In a three-hour discussion held that afternoon with the Captain of the Port, the British Vice Consul, and commanding officers of other American ships in the area, Vicksburgs commanding officer supported his action further with the fact that the passengers were seen to throw articles overboard just before the boarding party arrived and with the suggestion that the Alexander Agassiz had been fitted out as a raider. That shaky proposition was later repudiated by an American prize court which ordered that restitution be made to the owner of the schooner. It now seems likely that the five Germans were simply making a desperate attempt to return home.

Later that month, Vicksburg delivered her prize to San Diego and the prisoners to Los Angeles. She then resumed her patrols off California and remained so occupied through the remaining months of the war. The gunboat continued her active service for almost a year after hostilities stopped in November 1918. On 16 October 1919, she was finally decommissioned for the last time at Puget Sound; and, four days later, she was transferred to the Washington State Nautical School. Vicksburg served as a training ship with the school until 1921. During this period, she received the designation PG-11 on 17 July 1920, when the Navy adopted the alphanumeric system of hull designations.