[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Irma Baltuttis

Elsbeth Johanna Irma Baltuttis (Lithuanian: Baltutis; 28 September 1920 — 20 May 1958) was a German singer and entertainer based in Leipzig, Germany.

Early life
Irma was born in the Leutzsch district of Leipzig, to Ernst Baltuttis and Elsa Hamann. Her parents recognized her talent and encouraged training for music early on.

Career 
After training in music during the Third Reich, her singing career took place within the German Democratic Republic after the Soviet occupation of Eastern Germany. Some of her music is featured on Spotify.

Personal life 
In the early 1950s, she married a doctor named Max Herricht. They had no children.

Death 
Baltuttis died on May 20th, 1958, after falling out of her apartment window in Leipzig. Although her death was officially classified as suicide, some speculated that her husband had pushed her out of the window. This speculation was fueled by the post-mortem circumstances: no autopsy was performed, nor a coroner's inquest held. Supposedly, her husband was remarkably taciturn about her death. Herricht was an important Communist Party member, and in a position to quash any official attention to Baltuttis's death.

Selected discography 
 Ich Hab' Mich so an Dich Gewoehnt (I've become so accustomed to you) — her first hit, recorded in 1947 in Leipzig
 Leg´ deine Hand in meine Hand (with Hanns Petersen) - recorded in 1953 (Burger, S. Schmidt)
 Spatz und Spätzin (with Hanns Petersen) - recorded in 1953 (Helmut Nier)
 Wenn du wüsstest, ach, wie ich dich liebe (with Hanns Petersen) - recorded in 1951 (Rolf Zimmermann, Günter Klein)
 Wir sind füreinander bestimmt (with Hanns Petersen) - recorded in 1951 (Gerhard Winkler, Hase)
 Die Sonne Geht Schlafen (The Sun is Going Asleep)— written by Gerhard Froboess & Leo Breiten; recorded in July 1948 in Berlin
 Komm Mit Nach Saratow (Come With Me to Saratov)— written by Fradkin (trans. from the Russian by Helmut Kießling); recorded in August/September 1951 in Berlin
 Ganz Paris Träumt von der Liebe (All Paris Dreams of Love — original English title: I Love Paris)— written by Cole Porter (German lyrics by Kurt Feltz); recorded on March 28, 1955, in Leipzig.
 Die kleine Fischerhütte in Lugano (The Little Fishing Hut in Logano)written by Brandner & Breé; duet with Peter Cornehlsen; appears as track 10 in volume 1 of the collection Kurt Henkels und sein Orchester, in the series Die Grossen Deutschen Tanzorchester (The Great German Dance Orchestras)

References

1920 births
1958 deaths
20th-century German women singers