[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Don O'Riordan

r brought in a reported one million pounds in transfer fees between them selling Goodridge to QPR before and Jack to Crewe after his departure.

Scarborough
He joined Scarborough as a player coach in December 1995, but played just once to bring down the curtain on his Football League playing career.

Gloucester City
He had a season at Gloucester City as a player and also as assistant to manager Leroy Rosenior which saw Gloucester just miss out on promotion and saw them lose the FA Trophy semi final also. O'Riordan guided Gloucester's very young Reserve team to a Cup Final victory when he played in the win against local rivals Cheltenham Town. After a loan spell at Dorchester Town he left Gloucester, having been appointed as manager of Irish side Galway United in the summer of 1997.

International career

Republic of Ireland
He captained the Republic of Ireland at under 15 and youth levels and played for three consecutive years for Ireland at youth level playing in the 1973 UEFA European Under-18 Football Championship and 1975 UEFA European Under-18 Football Championship. He was in the Republics senior squad four times but never managed to get onto the pitch and so failed to win a cap at senior level. He was reported later in his playing days that this was the biggest disappointment of his long career but when he was appointed Manager of the Republic of Ireland semi professional National Team while managing in Ireland he admitted that the appointment had made up for his disappointment as a player of never having played at senior level for his country. He took charge of his country for a four-team tournament involving England, Scotland, Wales and the Republic that took place in the UK. Having beaten Scotland in their first game and England in their 2nd game Ireland lost to Wales in the final game and so lost the chance to be champions. The Irish were disappointed but they had performed very well when they ended England's long unbeaten run at this level during the tournament. O'Riordan's skills as a manager were recognised again later when he was working in Ireland when he was appointed Manager of the League of Ireland's under 21 Team.

Managerial and coaching career

Galway United
In his first season in charge and despite his age (40) he did turn out on a few occasions for the Tribesmen. In his second season, he took Galway from the First Division into the Premier League. He had what was seen by the Galway fans as a very successful four years in charge of the club and as well as achieving promotion by reaching the semi-final of the FAI Cup twice and he sustained Galway's Premier League status for two seasons after their promotion before mutually agreeing to leave at the end of the 2000–01 season because of the financial difficulties encountered by the club. During his time in charge he was responsible for implementing a youth policy at United, which had no existed before his arrival. It reaped immediate rewards, as they were the first team from the West of Ireland to win a national cup at any juvenile level, in what was their first year of existence, when they defeated St Josephs of Dublin in the historic under 17 final, in Terryland Park.

Sligo Rovers
In July 2001, he was appointed as manager of Sligo Rovers, but never really managed to bring any real success to the club on the playing field despite a lot of hard work both on and off the pitch that also saw him work on the commercial side of the club looking to bring much needed funds into the club. As he had done in Galway O'Riordan set up the Sligo Rovers Youth Policy which has since produced many players that have gone on to play for the Rovers at 1st Team level. After three years in the north-west O'Riordan mutually agreed to leave Sligo and returned to England after spending seven years as manager of 2 League of Ireland clubs. Besides his commitment to his League of Ireland employers both in Galway and Sligo he was well known in the West of Ireland for helping the local Technical Colleges both in Galway and in Sligo and enhanced his reputation in both cities when he guided the Galway IT Men's Team to the Ireland National Senior League title and later the Senior Women's Team from Sligo IT to the National League title of Ireland.

Sheffield United
He left Ireland and in 2004 and subsequently joined the Sheffield United coaching staff under then manager Neil Warnock, whom O'Riordan played for when Warnock was in charge of Notts County.

Chengdu Blades
On 27 April 2009, after the departure of Head Coach Li Bing he was appointed as the caretaker manager of Chengdu Blades F.C. before the Blades Super League game v Henan. His interim role with the team next to bottom of the table lasted only about a week but he managed to end the team's four-game losing streak when they drew 1–1 away to the then Super League leaders. The club appointed Wang Baoshan as the new Head Coach on 4 May and O'Riordan returned to his usual role of Technical Director/ Coach..