[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Christian Tybring-Gjedde

candidates. Nominations are kept secret and not officially confirmed for 50 years; each year several hundred nominations are submitted. The White House wrote that Tybring-Gjedde was "Chairman of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly", but the assembly doesn't have a chairman and is headed by a president.

Political ideology
Tybring-Gjedde is regarded as being on the far right wing of the Progress Party, and has been described as extreme right by expert on the far right Sindre Bangstad. Since 2019 Tybring-Gjedde has been a leading figure in a party faction that seeks to replace the party's ideology with a "Norway first" ideology with an emphasis on anti-immigration and rejection of the scientific consensus on climate change, and in 2020 he spearheaded an attempt to declare Norway a "patriotic beacon". He said that the party should move in a national conservative direction and that "very few people agree" with the stated ideology of liberalism in the party programme because "liberalism in its extreme form means open borders" and because he views liberalism as a dead ideology. Tybring-Gjedde has called for his party to cooperate more with the Sweden Democrats and to invite Jimmie Åkesson to his party's national convention. He has questioned his party's decision to cooperate with the Conservative Party; the conservative magazine Minerva has described him as a representative of the "alternative right". The Christian centrist newspaper Vårt Land has compared his positions to those of Alternative for Germany.

Personal life
Tybring-Gjedde is currently married to his second wife Ingvil Smines, who was also his childhood sweetheart from their time at Kristelig Gymnasium. They re-acquainted after his election to parliament in 2005 and got married in Rome in 2009. They have four children combined with previous marriages. A fellow member of the Progress Party and former senior advisor for Innovation Norway and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, she was appointed state secretary in the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy in 2015. Tybring-Gjedde said he was proud of his wife, who refused to go to Iran in 2017, where she would have to wear the compulsory hijab. Prior to his first marriage to Randi Myklebust, Tybring-Gjedde had a Pakistani roommate for almost two years during his time as a student in Denver. He is a member of the Church of Norway.

He is currently estranged from his parents after a dispute over his divorce from his first wife. He is reported to have forfeited millions of NOK from the family business due to this. According to him, he is financially cut off from his original inheritance, although his father refuted this in 2013. He has said that he has not met or spoken to his father for several years, and that he is open about his family having "many issues".

In December 2011 it was reported that Tybring-Gjedde had gone on sick leave due to threats. He has later publicly related about becoming sick due to heated hostility towards him in the media, harassment and death threats, requiring police protection at times, as part of a backlash following the 2011 Norway attacks. His wife has spoken out against him being scapegoated and singled out by the media for his views. Diagnosed with stress syndrome, he has experienced epileptic seizures and episodes of amnesia.
His daughter from his first marriage Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde is also a member of the Norwegian parliament.

Tyvring-Gjedde and his wife were among the people threatened in connection with the play Ways of seeing  in 2019. Laila Bertheussen was later sentenced for sending the threats.

Bibliography
 Tybring-Gjedde, Christian (2014). Mens orkesteret fortsetter å spille. Cappelen Damm. .

References

1963 births
Living people
Bærum politicians
Norwegian Lutherans
Norwegian male water polo players
Loyola University Chicago alumni
University of Denver alumni
NATO Defense College alumni
Norwegian civil servants
Politicians from Oslo
Members of the Storting
Progress Party (Norway) politicians
Norwegian critics of Islam
Critics of multiculturalism
Anti-immigration politics in Norway
21st-century Norwegian politicians