[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Law of Northern Ireland

ry.

Civil law

The Defamation Act 2013 does not apply in Northern Ireland. This protections which this Act provides for free expression (e.g. the public interest defence in section 4) do not therefore apply in Northern Ireland.

Northern Irish courts have issued a small number of super-injunctions.

Discrimination law

The Government of Ireland Act 1920 prohibited religious discrimination in legislation. In 1976 the UK Parliament passed the Fair Employment (Northern Ireland) Act which prohibited religious and political discrimination in employment. The Fair Employment (Northern Ireland) Act 1989 creates a system to monitor the religious composition of the workforce so as to promote fair participation.

In 1998 the Northern Ireland Act 1998 introduced a statutory duty on designated public authorities to promote equality of opportunity on a number of grounds.

While in some aspects Northern Ireland's equality law has been in advance of developments elsewhere, there are also examples where it is not as progressive. Racial discrimination in Northern Ireland was only prohibited in 1997. The Equality Act 2010 does not apply in Northern Ireland; this means that Northern Ireland's equality legislation is split across a large number of Acts and Orders.

See also
Northern Ireland Assembly (1973–1974) (legislative power in 1974 only)
Northern Ireland Courts and Tribunals Service
Attorney General for Northern Ireland
Advocate General for Northern Ireland
Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland
Police Service of Northern Ireland
List of statutory rules of Northern Ireland
Law of Ireland prior to 1921
Law of the United Kingdom

References

Further reading
Britain's Legal Systems, Central Office of Information, 1997, 
Criminal Justice Systems in Europe, Bo Svensson, 1995, 
Law and State: The Case of Northern Ireland, Kevin Boyle, Tom Hadden and Paddy Hillyard, 1975
The Legal System of Northern Ireland, Brice Dickson, (5th edition) 2005, Belfast: SLS Legal Publications, 
Digest of Northern Ireland Law. Second Edition. SLS. Belfast. 1995 onwards.
Desmond Greer and Frederick Boyd. "Northern Ireland". In Twining and Uglow. Law Publishing and Legal Information. 1981. pp 83 – 116. 
Company law of Northern Ireland: Report of the Committee, under the Chairmanship of Donald Murray QC. Snippet view.
Legal Aid: Final Report of the Law Society of Northern Ireland for the Period 1 April 2003 to 31 October 2003. Preview.
Comerton. A Handbook on the Magistrates' Courts Act (Northern Ireland) 1964. Snippet view.
Calvert. Constitutional Law in Northern Ireland: A Study in Regional Government. Snippet view.

External links

The judicial system in Northern Ireland, by Directgov
PDF – Northern Ireland law – Law Library Guide, Queen's University, Belfast
British and Irish Legal Information Institute
legal-island.com
Law Centre (NI)
Library Guide. Queen's University Belfast.