[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Belanova

ditional Mexican Ranchera music. The album was released on September 6, 2011, throughout Mexico, the United States, and Latin America, in standard and deluxe formats. It debuted at number eight on the Billboard Top Latin Albums Chart. In Mexico, it debuted at number 20 on the AMPROFON Top 100 Chart.

Two successful singles were released from Sueño Electro I. The first, "Nada De Más", was released online and on radio on August 2, 2010. The music video premiered on television on September 27, 2010. "No Me Voy a Morir" went on to become the second single from Sueño Electro I in late 2010, and the music video premiered early the following year. It showcased several instruments new to the band, including a string orchestra and French horns. In May 2011, the band announced "Mariposas" as the first single from Sueño Electro II. The second single from Sueño Electro II released in late 2011 was "Hasta El Final", a song inspired by Mariachi music.

The band spent the final months of 2010 playing a short tour in various cities in the United States in support of Sueño Electro I. In early 2011, they toured shortly in Mexico and Latin America, most notably as part of Shakira's The Pop Festival Tour in Colombia and Mexico. The band also expressed interest in branching out into Europe and Asia. A tour entitled "Belanova Sessions" began in June 2010 to promote both Sueño Electro albums throughout Mexico, South America, and the United States. In April 2012, "Tour Sueño Electro II" began in the USA. In late 2012, the band was part of a short tour in the United States with Moderatto.

Canciones Para La Luna - Sinfónico En Vivo (2012–2014)
In February 2012, during promotion for International Designers Mexico, a fashion convention in which Denisse Guerrero was involved, she mentioned to the press that Belanova had begun work on the follow-up to the Sueño Electro albums. In an interview with Terra TV, the group confirmed that they had started writing and recording new material, focusing on dance music. For the first time in its history, the band worked with other musicians in writing songs for the album, including Jay de la Cueva of the Mexican band Moderatto. Denisse Guerrero reiterated that the album is "a step up and more geared toward dance". The band also confirmed Armando Ávila is one of the producers working on the new album after having worked together on the Sueño Electro albums.Belanova and Armando Ávila working on new album (Spanish) Canciones para la luna was revealed as the album title in an interview with El Universal in September 2013. The live album was released digitally on October 8, 2013, for free download in Mexico in partnership with Pepsi Mexico. The album is a compilation of hits from past albums that with new arrangements and performed along a symphony and guest musicians. It also features two new songs, also performed live: "Juegos De Amor" and "Sólo Dos." The album was recorded before a live audience on September 2 in Mexico City. Several songs recorded at this performance are not included in the digital release. It is currently unknown if they will be released. "Sólo Dos" was released as the first single on October 8.

 Viaje Al Centro Del Corazón (2018–present)

Other projects
Denisse Guerrero worked with Mexican electronic band Sussie 4 on their album Música Moderna, singing on the tracks "Suite Tropical" and "Escapar". The band worked with Aleks Syntek on the song "Laberinto", which appears on Syntek's album Lección de Vuelo, as well as with the Mexican band Moenia on the track "Me Equivoqué" from their album "Solar". In 2010, Denisse Guerrero sang with the Mexican band Panda for their feature on MTV Unplugged, on the song "Sistema Sanguineo Fallido." The band participated in the second volume of a tribute album to the Mexican band Caifanes, which was released in 2011, recording a cover version of the song "Viento".
Belanova provided music for a television ad campaign promoting Wella Latin America with TV ads airing upon the release of their third album "Fantasía Pop". In 2009, the songs "Yo Nunca Vi Televisión" and "Oye Tweety!" were recorded for the promotion of the Chilean TV show "31 Minutos" and a campaign involving the cartoon character Tweety Bird, respectively.  During the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, England, Belanova (as part of UMLE) partnered with Coca-Cola, recording a Spanish version of and video for the song "Anywhere in the World" as part of the promotional campaign.

In 2014 Belanova participated in the album Dancing Queens: un tributo para ABBA performing a Spanish version of "Chiquitita".

Discography