[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hydrosalpinx

done by laparotomy or laparoscopy.

Non-infertile patients who suffer from severe chronic pain due to hydrosalpinx formation that is not relieved by pain management may consider surgical removal of the affected tubes (salpingectomy) or even a hysterectomy with removal of the tubes, possibly ovaries.

IVF
Among the main causes for female infertility, tubal factors account for 25-35%. In particular, hydrosalpinx is found in 10-30% of couples with infertility; actually, this condition may impair fertility and IVF outcomes.

With the advent of IVF which bypasses the need for tubal function a more successful treatment approach has become available for women who want to conceive. IVF has now become the major treatment for women with hydrosalpinx to achieve a pregnancy.

Several studies have shown that IVF patients with untreated hydrosalpinx have lower conception rates than controls and it has been speculated that the tubal fluid that enters the endometrial cavity alters the local environment or affects the embryo in a detrimental way.  Indeed, the presence of hydrosalpinx prior to IVF treatments, negatively affects pregnancy rates and increases the risk for spontaneous miscarriage. Even if the exact mechanism remains unclear, these effects could be ascribed to a combination of mechanical effects of hydrosalpinx fluid, toxic effects on the embryo and altered endometrial receptivity Thus, many specialists advocate that prior to an IVF attempt, the hydrosalpinx should be removed. However, the benefits seem to be higher when the hydrosalpinx is bilateral, visible on ultrasound, or both. Salpingectomy removes the chronically infected hydrosalpinx, decreasing the risk of infection after oocyte retrieval and increasing the accessibility to the ovary; anyway, it is a surgical procedure and it could also affect the ovarian blood flow.

History
Regnier de Graaf may have been the first to understand basic tubal function, describe hydrosalpinx, and link the development of hydrosalpinx with female infertility. The usually infectious cause of the process was well known to physicians by the end of the nineteenth century. With the introduction of hysterosalpingography (1914) and tubal insufflation (1920) its non-surgical diagnosis became possible. Surgery was gradually displaced by IVF as the main treatment for tubal infertility after the birth of Louise Brown in 1978.

References

External links 
 fact sheet, ASRM
 Medpix pictures of hydrosalpinx

Inflammatory diseases of female pelvic organs