[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Steve Kember

y lasted a couple of months, and, after Kember was again made caretaker (this time with Terry Bullivant), Trevor Francis took over. Francis was unpopular with the fans in his 14 months with the club, and was eventually sacked in February 2003, with Kember again being made caretaker, this time alone.

At the end of the season, Kember was made manager full-time, and Palace's 2003–04 season got off to a flying start, the club winning all three of their opening games, to top the table. However, this excellent form soon ended, and by November, Palace were in 20th, and only two points above the drop-zone after losing 5–0 at newly promoted Wigan Athletic. Jordan saw this as the final straw, and Kember was sacked, clearly revoking Jordan's "job for life" pledge.

Kember coached at Cumnor House School in Purley, and later coached football and cricket at Whitgift School, South London, alongside scouting for Fulham initially, and then returning to Crystal Palace as Chief Scout after the departure of Jordan. Currently manages the Old Mid Whitgiftian Vets who won the Surrey Vets Cup season 2018-2019, his sons play in the team.

Family
Kember has three sons, Matthew, Robbie, and Paul. Robbie and Paul came through the Youth system at Palace, and went on into non-league football, while Matthew started out at Whyteleafe. Paul had trials with Middlesbrough while Robbie had spells with Woking, Basingstoke, Crawley, Lewes, Tonbridge Angels, Eastbourne Borough, Hampton and Richmond. In May 2009 Robbie moved to Bromley. Matthew and Paul are believed to be retired.

Business
In the early 1990s Kember owned a wine bar in his native Croydon called Kember's Wine Bar however the bar closed in 1993 after he was declared bankrupt.

References

● Playfair football annuals for the league clubs

External links
 Crystal Palace FC
Steve Kember Bob's '70-'71 Footballers

1948 births
Men's association football midfielders
English Football League players
Chelsea F.C. players
Crystal Palace F.C. managers
Crystal Palace F.C. players
English expatriate men's footballers
English expatriate sportspeople in Canada
English football managers
English men's footballers
England men's under-23 international footballers
Expatriate men's soccer players in Canada
Leicester City F.C. players
Living people
North American Soccer League (1968–1984) players
Footballers from Croydon
Vancouver Whitecaps (1974–1984) players
Brentford F.C. non-playing staff
Crystal Palace F.C. non-playing staff
Fulham F.C. non-playing staff
Association football scouts
Association football coaches