[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Deconstructivism

anwhile, maintains a level of self-criticism and a dystopianism of place, as well as external criticism and tends towards maintaining a level of complexity. Some architects identified with the movement, notably Frank Gehry, have actively rejected the classification of their work as deconstructivist.

Critics of deconstructivism see it as a purely formal exercise with little social significance. Kenneth Frampton finds it "elitist and detached". Nikos Salingaros calls deconstructivism a "viral expression" that invades design thinking in order to build destroyed forms; while curiously similar to both Derrida's and Philip Johnson's descriptions, this is meant as a harsh condemnation of the entire movement. Other criticisms are similar to those of deconstructivist philosophy—that since the act of deconstructivism is not an empirical process, it can result in whatever an architect wishes, and it thus suffers from a lack of consistency. Today there is a sense that the philosophical underpinnings of the beginning of the movement have been lost, and all that is left is the aesthetic of deconstructivism. Other criticisms reject the premise that architecture is a language capable of being the subject of linguistic philosophy, or, if it was a language in the past, critics claim it is no longer. Others question the wisdom and impact on future generations of an architecture that rejects the past and presents no clear values as replacements and which often pursues strategies that are intentionally aggressive to human senses.

See also

 Constructivism (art)
 Deconstruction (fashion)
 Structuralism (architecture)
 Futurism (art)
 Novelty architecture
 Khôra
 Vorticism
 Günter Behnisch
 Thom Mayne
 Rooftop Remodeling Falkestrasse
 Reconstruction (architecture)

References

Notes and citations

Bibliography and further reading

References

 Derrida, Jacques (1967). Of Grammatology, (hardcover: , paperback: , corrected edition: ) trans. Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak. Johns Hopkins University Press.
 Derrida, Jacques & Eisenman, Peter (1997). Chora l Works. Monacelli Press. .
 Derrida, Jacques & Husserl, Edmund (1989). Edmund Husserl's Origin of Geometry: An Introduction. University of Nebraska Press. 
 Frampton, Kenneth (1992). Modern Architecture, a critical history. Thames & Hudson- Third Edition. 
 Johnson, Phillip & Wigley, Mark (1988). Deconstructivist Architecture: The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Little Brown and Company. 
 Hays, K.M. (edited) (1998). Oppositions Reader. Princeton Architectural Press. 
 Kandinsky, Wassily. Point and Line to Plane. Dover Publications, New York. 
 McLeod, Mary, "Architecture and Politics in the Reagan Era: From Postmodernism to Deconstructivism," "Assemblage," 8 (1989), pp. 23–59.
 Rickey, George (1995). Constructivism: Origins and Evolution. George Braziller; Revised edition. 
 Salingaros, Nikos (2008). "Anti-Architecture and Deconstruction", 3rd edition. Umbau-Verlag, Solingen, Germany. 
 Tschumi, Bernard (1994). Architecture and Disjunction. The MIT Press. Cambridge. 
 Van der Straeten, Bart. Image and Narrative – The Uncanny and the architecture of Deconstruction Retrieved April, 2006.
 Venturi, Robert (1966). Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture, The Museum of Modern Art Press, New York. 
 Venturi, Robert (1977). Learning from Las Vegas (with D. Scott Brown and S. Izenour), Cambridge MA, 1972, revised 1977. 
 Wigley, Mark (1995). The Architecture of Deconstruction: Derrida's Haunt. The MIT Press. .
 Vicente Esteban Medina (2003) Forma y composición en la Arquitectura deconstructivista, © Tesis doctoral, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid. Registro Propiedad Intellectual Madrid Nº 16/2005/3967. Link de descarga de tesis en pdf: http://oa.upm.es/481/

External links

  Wiener Postmoderne
 (Spanish) Vicente Esteban Medina (2003) Forma y composición en la Arquitectura deconstructivista

 
Architectural styles
Art movements
20th-century architectural styles
21st-century architectural styles
 
Architectural design
Deconstructivist Architecture