[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jefferson County Schools (Alabama)

5)
 Pinson Elementary School
 Pleasant Grove Elementary School
 Snow Rogers Elementary School
 Warrior Elementary School
 West Jefferson Elementary School

Community schools
 Corner Schools
 Grantswood Community School
 Irondale Community School
 Minor Community School

Former schools (Partial List)

With the passage of years many former schools in the Jefferson County School System completely ceased to exist. This is to be expected in a system that is over 100 years old.  Most were established by the County Board of Education, yet some were first established by a local community or were built as "company schools" and ceded to the County System at a later date.  Other schools have seen their names changed or been sold or ceded to some of the other municipal systems.  This occurs for a variety of reasons some of which are demographic changes, de-segregation orders, obsolete facilities, etc.  Many of these campuses are gone without a trace and a few have been re-purposed to other uses.  This list does not include former school buildings at different sites for institutions that still exist under the same name such as Shades Valley High School (2 different campuses); Hueytown High School (3 different campuses); Minor High School (2 campuses), etc.  The list does include schools whose names and/or locations have changed such as Berry High School (now Hoover High School) or New Castle High School (now Fultondale High School).

High Schools (Partial List)

Other Schools (Partial List)

Failing schools
Statewide testing ranks the schools in Alabama. Those in the bottom six percent are listed as "failing." As of early 2018, both Center Point and Minor High Schools were included in this category.

References

External links

 Jefferson County Board of Education website

School districts in Alabama
Education in Jefferson County, Alabama
Year of establishment missing
1896 establishments in Alabama
School districts established in 1896