[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yatta, Hebron

rd at Yatta: One was timed to explode during the recess, and a second bomb several minutes later, in the expectation that teachers and students would be drawn to examine the damage. A malfunction caused the first bomb to explode earlier, and Israeli sappers managed to defuse the second bomb in time.

At least seven Palestinians were killed in Yatta during the Second Intifada in different incidents from 2002 to 2004. On March 8, 2012 Israeli soldiers shot dead 20-year-old Zakariya Abu Eram and injured two others during a raid in the town with the intent of arresting Abu Eram's uncle, Khaled Mahamra. Khaled Mahamra is a Hamas member responsible for the June 2016 Tel Aviv shooting, who was sentenced to life in prison and released as part of the exchange deal to free captive IDF soldier Gilad Schalit. The Israelis stated they fired at the men only after one of them stabbed a soldier during the arrest attempt.

In June 2016, two assailants from Yatta were apprehended after firing upon Israelis dining in a Tel-Aviv café, after which they were charged with killing four people and injuring 16 others.

In June 2019, the mayor of Yatta announced that he decided to change the name of Bahrain Street in his municipality to Marzouq al-Ghanim Street as an act of protest against Bahrain's hosting of a US-led economic workshop.

Culture
A Jillayeh dress from Yatta from around 1910 is part of the Museum of International Folk Art (MOIFA) at Museum of New Mexico at Santa Fe.

See also
Masafer Yatta, collection of 19 hamlets within Yatta's municipal boundary
Shabab Yatta, local football club

References

Bibliography

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (p. 193)

External links
 yatta-munc.org 
Welcome To The City of Yatta
Yatta, Welcome to Palestine
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 21: IAA, Wikimedia commons 
 Yatta Town (Fact Sheet), Applied Research Institute–Jerusalem (ARIJ)
 Yatta Town Profile, ARIJ
 Yatta Town aerial photo, ARIJ
 The priorities and needs for development in Yatta city based on the community and local authorities' assessment, ARIJ

Cities in the West Bank
Ancient Jewish settlements of Judaea
13 Kohanic cities
Municipalities of the State of Palestine