[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Confucius

man, and Kong Yanrong (), 59th generation descendant of Confucius in the year 1480, and are found among the Hui and Dongxiang peoples. The new genealogy includes the Muslims. Kong Dejun () is a prominent Islamic scholar and Arabist from Qinghai province and a 77th generation descendant of Confucius.

Because of the huge interest in the Confucius family tree, there was a project in China to test the DNA of known family members of the collateral branches in mainland China. Among other things, this would allow scientists to identify a common Y chromosome in male descendants of Confucius. If the descent were truly unbroken, father-to-son, since Confucius's lifetime, the males in the family would all have the same Y chromosome as their direct male ancestor, with slight mutations due to the passage of time. The aim of the genetic test was to help members of collateral branches in China who lost their genealogical records to prove their descent. However, in 2009, many of the collateral branches decided not to agree to DNA testing. Bryan Sykes, professor of genetics at Oxford University, understands this decision: "The Confucius family tree has an enormous cultural significance ... It's not just a scientific question." The DNA testing was originally proposed to add new members, many of whose family record books were lost during 20th century upheavals, to the Confucian family tree. The main branch of the family which fled to Taiwan was never involved in the proposed DNA test at all.

In 2013, a DNA test performed on multiple different families who claimed descent from Confucius found that they shared the same Y chromosome as reported by Fudan University.

The fifth and most recent edition of the Confucius genealogy was printed by the CGCC. It was unveiled in a ceremony at Qufu on September 24, 2009. Women are now included for the first time.

References

Citations

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 .

Further reading
See  and  for extensive bibliographies

 Clements, Jonathan (2008). Confucius: A Biography. Stroud, Gloucestershire, England: Sutton Publishing. .
 Confucius (1997). Lun yu, (in English The Analects of Confucius). Translation and notes by Simon Leys. New York: W.W. Norton. .
 Confucius (2003). Confucius: Analects – With Selections from Traditional Commentaries. Translated by E. Slingerland. Indianapolis: Hackett Publishing. (Original work published c. ) .
 Creel, Herrlee Glessner (1949). Confucius and the Chinese Way. New York: Harper.
 
 Csikszentmihalyi, M. (2005). "Confucianism: An Overview". In Encyclopedia of Religion (Vol. C, pp. 1890–1905). Detroit: MacMillan Reference
 
 
 
 . 
 
 Sterckx, Roel. Chinese Thought. From Confucius to Cook Ding. London: Penguin, 2019.
 Van Norden, B.W., ed. (2001). Confucius and the Analects: New Essays. New York: Oxford University Press. .

External links

 
 
 
 Multilingual web site on Confucius and the Analects
 The Dao of Kongzi, introduction to the thought of Confucius.
 
 
 
 Confucian Analects (Project Gutenberg release of James Legge's Translation)
 Core philosophical passages in the Analects of Confucius.

 
551 BC births
479 BC deaths
6th-century BC historians
6th-century BC Chinese philosophers
6th-century BC Chinese writers
5th-century BC historians
5th-century BC Chinese philosophers
5th-century BC Chinese writers
Aphorists
Chinese educational theorists
Chinese ethicists
Chinese logicians
Chinese political philosophers
Classical humanists
Confucianism
Deified Chinese people
Education theory
Educators from Shandong
Founders of religions
Gokbu Gong clan
Guqin players
Historians from Shandong
People from Qufu
Politicians from Jining
Philosophers from Lu (state)
Philosophers from Shandong
Philosophers of culture
Philosophers of education
Philosophers of law
Social philosophers
Writers from Jining
Zhou dynasty writers
Zhou dynasty philosophers
Zhou dynasty government officials
5th-century BC Chinese musicians
6th-century BC Chinese musicians
6th-century BC religious leaders
5th-century BC religious leaders