[Source: PubMed]

85. BMJ Glob Health. 2025 Mar 4;10(3):e016916. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2024-016916.

Proof-of-principle of a technology transfer of a dried blood virus 
neutralisation assay to a Gavi-eligible country.

Obodai E(1), Terstappen J(2)(3), Mensah JY(4), Versnel A(3), Antwi CN(4), Bont 
LJ(2)(5), Cianci D(6), Delemarre EM(3), Odoom JK(4), van de Ven PM(6), Mazur 
NI(7)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Virology, Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research, 
University of Ghana, Accra, Greater Accra, Ghana eobodai@noguchi.ug.edu.gh 
n.i.mazur@umcutrecht.nl.
(2)Department of Pediatric Infectious Diseases and Immunology, University 
Medical Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(3)Center for Translational Immunology, University Medical Centre Utrecht, 
Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(4)Department of Virology, Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research, 
University of Ghana, Accra, Greater Accra, Ghana.
(5)ReSViNET Foundation, Zeist, Netherlands.
(6)Department of Data Science & Biostatistics, University Medical Centre 
Utrecht, Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(7)Department of Pediatric Infectious Diseases and Immunology, University 
Medical Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands eobodai@noguchi.ug.edu.gh 
n.i.mazur@umcutrecht.nl.

BACKGROUND: Global health clinical research is commonly led by high-income 
countries (HICs) as low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) face barriers to 
participate, including lack of financial and human capacity and lack of research 
environment. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine development is also led 
by HICs, while LMICs carry the burden of life-threatening disease. 
Representative trials and research capacity strengthening in LMICs are needed to 
ensure global vaccine access and equity. This study aims to transfer an RSV 
neutralisation assay, which uses live cells and virus with inherent high 
variation, to a country eligible to receive support from the Gavi, the Vaccine 
Alliance.
METHODS: Using a train-the-trainer approach, a Ghanaian researcher was trained 
in the Netherlands on the dried blood-based RSV neutralisation assay. 
Subsequently, a Dutch researcher visited Ghana to support the process of 
adapting the technique to the Ghanaian setting. In a previously validated RSV 
neutralisation assay on dried blood, Hep-2 cells were infected with a serial 
dilution of sample-virus mixture to determine the half-maximal inhibitory 
concentration. Fifty-one dried blood and serum samples were tested in parallel 
in both countries to assess concordance.
RESULTS: Training and technology transfer was deemed successful, which was 
defined as neutralisation measurements by the Ghana team and high concordance 
(Lin's concordance correlation coefficient (CCC)>0.8). Neutralising capacity 
measured in identical samples in Ghana and the Netherlands correlated highly 
(Lin's CCC=0.87; Spearman rho=0.89) but was systematically lower in Ghana than 
the Netherlands.
CONCLUSION: We show successful transfer of an RSV neutralisation assay, thereby 
strengthening the laboratory research capacity in a Gavi-eligible country. 
Reliable measurement of RSV neutralising antibodies in a Gavi-eligible country 
and the use of dried blood can contribute to inclusion of LMICs in RSV vaccine 
development and access.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2024-016916
PMCID: PMC11881193
PMID: 40037906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: EO, JT, JYM, CNA and NIM 
have received support for attending meetings and/or travel from the ResViNET 
Foundation. UMC Utrecht has received grants from AbbVie, AstraZeneca, The Bill & 
Melinda Gates Foundation, The Gates Medical Research Institute, GSK, Janssen, 
the Lung Foundation Netherlands, MedImmune, MeMed, Merck, Novavax, Pfizer and 
Sanofi; LB and NIM have received payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
AbbVie, Ablynx, Astrazeneca, Bavaria Nordic, GSK, Janssen, MabXience, MedImmune, 
MEDtalks, Merck, Moderna, Novavax, Pfizer, Sanofi and Virology Education. LB is 
founding chairman of the ReSViNET Foundation. All other authors have nothing to 
declare.