[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Ward Churchill

r

 Re-released as 

Books, as author and co-author

 Re-released as 
 Revised and expanded edition:  

Articles
 
 First published as "Crimes Against Humanity" in  Also published under the titles "The Indian Chant and the Tomahawk Chop" and "Using Indian Names as Mascots Harms Native Americans".

 

Audio and video
Doing Time: The Politics of Imprisonment, audio CD of a lecture, recorded at the Doing Time Conference at the University of Winnipeg, September 2000 (AK Press, 2001, )
Life in Occupied America (AK Press, 2003, )
In a Pig's Eye: Reflections on the Police State, Repression, and Native America (AK Press, 2002, )
US Off the Planet!: An Evening In Eugene With Ward Churchill And Chellis Glendinning, VHS video recorded July 17, 2001 (Cascadia Media Collective, 2002)
Pacifism and Pathology in the American Left, 2003 audio CD recorded at an AK Press warehouse in Oakland (AK Press Audio)
Z Mag Ward Churchill Audio August 10, 2003 and earlier
Churchill Speaks About Academic Freedom  – Free Speech Radio News February 9, 2005
Ward Churchill Under Fire  – Free Speech Radio News, February 3, 2005.
The Justice of Roosting Chickens: Ward Churchill Speaks The Pacifica Network Show, Democracy Now! from February 18, 2005, features extended Audio/Video exclusive interview with Churchill.
"A Little Matter of Genocide: Linking U.S. Aggression Abroad to the Domestic Repression of Indigenous Peoples", recorded in North Battleford, Saskatchewan, on March 19, 2005
Debate with David Horowitz and Ward Churchill at George Washington University April 6, 2006

 Video and audio (excerpt)

See also 
 List of scientific misconduct incidents
 Pretendian

References

Further reading
Brown, Thomas. "Did the U.S. Army Distribute Smallpox Blankets to Indians? Fabrication and Falsification in Ward Churchill's Genocide Rhetoric" University of Michigan, 2006. (PDF version also available.) 
Chapman, Roger. Culture Wars: An Encyclopedia of Issues, Viewpoints, and Voices, Volume 1. Armonk, New York: M. E. Sharpe, 2010. .
Croteau, Susan Ann. "But it doesn't look Indian": Objects, archetypes and objectified others in Native American art, culture, and identity. University of California, Los Angeles, 2008.

1947 births
Living people
20th-century American non-fiction writers
21st-century American non-fiction writers
Alternative Tentacles artists
Activists from Illinois
American male essayists
American non-fiction environmental writers
American political writers
G7 Welcoming Committee Records artists
American people who self-identify as being of Cherokee descent
Members of the American Indian Movement
People from Elmwood, Illinois
People involved in plagiarism controversies
Scholars of Marxism
University of Colorado Boulder faculty
University of Illinois at Springfield alumni
Writers from Urbana, Illinois
21st-century American male writers
American people who self-identify as being of Muscogee descent
Academic scandals