[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ponders End

ee Navigation.

In August 2020, Beavertown Brewery opened "Beaverworld", a new brewery on a six-acre plot on the western bank of the Lee Navigation, creating up to 150 jobs.

Popular culture
Critchley & Simmons released an album titled Ponders End in 2017 - inspired by the area where they first met.

Musician Jah Wobble was inspired to write his (2005) album Mu by his experiences in the Lea Valley and Ponders End.

Ponders End Allotments Club is a track from the (1975) Chas and Dave album One Fing 'n' Annuver.

Historic buildings

 Wright's Flour Mill The oldest working industrial building in Enfield.
 Ponders End Pumping Station. Built in 1899 by the East London Waterworks Company. In 1995 the half-timbered building was converted into a public house called the Harvester Navigation Inn a Harvester restaurant. Located on the west bank of the Lee Navigation, with views towards the grassed embankment of the King George V Reservoir and close to Ponders End Lock.

Nearest places
 Brimsdown
 Enfield Highway
 Edmonton, London
 Enfield Town
 Bush Hill Park
 Chingford

Watercourses

 River Lee Navigation
 The Overflow Channel is approximately  long. Flowing from the River Lee Navigation above Ponders End Lock across South Marsh close to the King George V Reservoir and following the western perimeter of the William Girling Reservoir to merge with the River Lee Diversion at Edmonton.

Sport
Angling is allowed on the River Lee Navigation upstream and downstream of Ponders End Lock. Information from the River Lea Anglers Club.

Transport
Ponders End railway station
 Southbury railway station
London Bus Routes 191, 279, 349, 491, 377, 121, 307, 313 and N279 serve the area.

Local rail services

Lea Valley Lines serving all stations to Hertford East via the Southbury Loop and to Stratford
West Anglia Main Line stopping services to Bishops Stortford and to Stratford

Demography
The 2011 census showed that 45% of the population was white (26% British, 17% Other, 2% Irish), 16% Black African and 8% Bangladeshi.

Notable people
 James and John Chambers pioneers in South Australia in Stuart expeditions.
 John Hollowbread, footballer
 Christopher Hughes, former Mastermind and International Mastermind winner both in 1983
 Stephen Mangan, actor
 Dave Peacock, musician
 Norman Tebbit, politician
 Chijindu Ujah, Olympic sprinter

Local newspapers
The local newspapers are as of 2011:
Enfield Independent 
Enfield Advertiser

Politics
After boundary changes in 2010 - Ponders End became one of seven wards which form the Edmonton parliamentary constituency. The MP for constituency is Kate Osamor.

Schools
 Secondary schools: Oasis Academy Hadley and Heron Hall Academy
 Primary Schools: Kingfisher Hall Primary Academy, St Mary's RC Primary School, Alma Primary School, Southbury Primary School, St Matthew's CoE Primary School, Oasis Academy Hadley
 Special schools: Waverley School

Higher education
 Middlesex University, Enfield Campus (now closed)
 The College of Haringey, Enfield and North East London

Places of worship
 Church of St Matthew, Church of England
 Church of Mary, Mother of God, Roman Catholic church
 Jalalia Jamme Mosque
 Lincoln Road Chapel, Lincoln Road.
 Ponders End Methodist Church, High Street.
 United Reformed Church, College Close, High Street.

Open spaces

 Ponders End Park, formerly Ponders End Recreation Ground and Ryan's Park.

External links
 Ponders End photographs
 Wrights flour mill
 Ponders End a history
 Ponders End flour mill conservation area

References

Places in Enfield, London
Areas of London
Districts of the London Borough of Enfield
Places formerly in Middlesex