[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Memorial Hall (Rockford, Illinois)

reau, until early 2004. During that time, in November 2001, the Memorial Hall Board of Trustees was formed to oversee the Hall, its maintenance and its exhibits, as well as to author a report on future operations. In January 2005, Memorial Hall was officially reopened to the public for guided tours.

Exhibits include the 18 bronze plaques containing the names of those from Winnebago County who fought and died in the Civil War, along with memorabilia form veterans extending from the Civil War to the current Iraq conflict. Some unique articles on display include a commemorative plaque cast of metal from the wreck of the USS Maine, artifacts from a local soldiers time serving the Philippine-American War and Mexican–American War, and items form a local Air Force veterans that spent 6 years at the Hanoi Hilton. Other artifacts from 20th & 21st century veterans are on display, with a constant rotation of smaller exhibits.

The Future 
Many veterans, political and military-associated groups have taken advantage of the facilities for post meetings, workshops and celebrations. The hall is used as a center for many public social events for Rockford including weddings, dances, parties, and even funerals. Veterans Memorial Hall continues to host the Annual Veterans Dinner, now approaching its 80th year. Currently, Memorial Hall has a large collection of more than 10,000 items, covering all war and/or conflicts, branches of service, and personal items from the men and women who have served. For instance, personal journals from soldiers serving in the Civil War and the Philippine-American War and letters home from almost every conflict soldiers have served in. Owing to this collection of artifacts and the way they have been preserved, historians from all over still use this building as an information center and a focus for research and discovery. In 1899 the idea of a memorial was strongly supported by the people of Rockford and the dedication service was a colossal boost in the growing industrial city. For decades, Veterans Memorial Hall was one of the most celebrated buildings in all of Rockford; this historical symbol continues to serve as a place of commemoration and dedication. Memorial Hall is a fundamental part of the city’s historical collection and continues to be one of the most historical buildings in Rockford.

See also
 74th Illinois Infantry Regiment

References

External links
 
 Veterans Memorial Hall at Rockford Area Convention & Visitors Bureau
 Monuments and Memorials Tour, Rockford's Main Street District

Buildings and structures in Rockford, Illinois
Illinois
Illinois in the American Civil War
Monuments and memorials on the National Register of Historic Places in Illinois
National Register of Historic Places in Winnebago County, Illinois
Spanish–American War memorials in the United States
Tourist attractions in Rockford, Illinois
Buildings and structures completed in 1903
1903 establishments in Illinois