[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Gary Franks

Gary Alvin Franks (born February 9, 1953) is an American politician who was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Connecticut for six years, from 1991 until 1997. He is the first African-American elected to the U.S. Congress from Connecticut, the first modern black conservative elected to the House of Representatives, and the first black Republican elected since Oscar De Priest's election in 1932. Franks ran for the United States Senate in 1998, losing to incumbent Democratic U.S. Senator Chris Dodd.

Early life
Franks was born in Waterbury, Connecticut. He is one of six children of a brass mill worker and a hospital dietary aide. He was elected president of his class at Sacred Heart High School.

Franks received his Bachelor of Arts from Yale University in 1975. He was captain of the basketball team and a free agent for the New Orleans Jazz NBA team.

After Yale, Franks worked in labor relations for 10 years at Continental Can Co., Chesebrough-Pond's Inc. and Cadbury Schweppes PLC.

Career
Franks served as a member of the Waterbury board of aldermen from 1986 to 1990. He was an unsuccessful candidate for Connecticut comptroller in 1986.

U.S. House of Representatives

Elections
In his 1990 election, Franks defeated former 6th District congressman Toby Moffett, whom Franks portrayed as too liberal to represent the district. Both President George H. W. Bush and First Lady Barbara Bush campaigned for Franks.

Franks was the first African-American Republican elected to the House since Oscar Stanton De Priest, last elected from Chicago's South Side in 1932. A second African-American Republican member of the U.S. House, J. C. Watts from Oklahoma, also served during the 1990s.

In 1992, Franks won in a three-way election including the Democratic endorsed candidate Judge James Lawlor from Waterbury and A Connecticut Party candidate Lynn Taborsak from Danbury. 

James H. Maloney, a Democrat then-serving as Danbury's state senator, challenged Franks in 1994, receiving 46% of the vote in that midterm election.  Maloney successfully challenged Franks in 1996 where Connecticut also came out strongly for the re-election of President Bill Clinton.

Tenure

Franks served on the Armed Services Committee.  During his tenure, more defense contracts were awarded in Connecticut than ever before, including production of the ‘Seawolf Submarine’ (a project that continued for more than a decade) and orders of the M16 rifle for Colt Manufacturing.  He served as chairman of the Panel for Defense Conversion, and $20 million were approved for the demolition and cleanup of an old defense manufacturing site in his hometown of Waterbury, CT.  The site became home to what was, when it opened, New England’s second largest commercial mall.

Franks wrote the law that cemented Weir Farm National Historic Site in Ridgefield, Connecticut, as a place under the auspices of the National Park Service.  He also authored the SBA's New Markets Program.  It was not made law during his tenure, but most of its components were included in the Urban Entrepreneurial Opportunities law signed by President Clinton in 2000.

1998 campaign for Senate
Frank's high visibility from his time in Congress led to speculation about a run for higher office. Franks declared his candidacy for U.S. Senate in 1998, challenging incumbent Senator Chris Dodd. He ran unopposed for the Republican nomination. Franks was defeated by Dodd in the election, receiving just 32 percent of the vote.