[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jesse J. Finley

to be the colonel of the regiment. He took part in the Kentucky Campaign in Maj. Gen. Edmund Kirby Smith's column. His first significant combat came at the Battle of Chickamauga, where his regiment captured a battery of Union artillery, but was unsupported and forced to withdraw with 165 casualties.

He was promoted to brigadier general on November 8, 1863 (with date of rank of November 16), commanding all of the Florida infantry in the Army of Tennessee. Finley's Brigade, part of Maj. Gen. John C. Breckinridge's division, was caught up in the Confederate rout at the Battle of Missionary Ridge, but performed well in protecting the rearguard of the army as it withdrew. Army commander Gen. Braxton Bragg expressed his thanks to Finley for "his gallant bearing and prompt assistance in every emergency." Finley's brigade saw heavy fighting in the Atlanta Campaign of 1864. He was badly wounded at Battle of Resaca and placed on medical leave until the army reached Atlanta. At the Battle of Jonesborough, his horse was killed by artillery shell fragments, which severely wounded him again, but he refused to be evacuated to Atlanta until all of his wounded men had been taken care of. Finley was unable to return to his brigade for the remainder of the war. He tried to reach it in North Carolina after he recovered from a second wound, but Federal troops blocked his way.

Military Surrender 
Finley surrendered with Maj. Gen. Howell Cobb in Columbus, Georgia, and was paroled to Quincy, Florida on May 23, 1865.

Congressional Service to the United States of America (1876 to 1882)
Finley served in the United States House of Representatives during the 44th, 45th, and 47th United States Congress as a member of the Democratic Party (United States). Finley successfully contested the election of Josiah T. Walls to the 44th United States Congress. Finley served in the from April 19, 1876, to March 3, 1877. Finley successfully contested the election of Horatio Bisbee, Jr. to the 45th United States Congress and served from February 20 to March 3, 1879. He presented credentials as a Member-elect to the 47th United States Congress and served from March 4, 1881, to June 1, 1882, when he was succeeded by Horatio Bisbee, Jr., who successfully contested Finley's election.

Finley presented credentials on December 5, 1887, as a Senator-designate to the United States Senate for the term commencing March 4, 1887, but was not permitted to qualify because the appointment was made before the vacancy occurred.

Electoral history

Personal life
Finley had a son, Charles A. Finley, who served as an administrator at Florida Agricultural College, and a daughter.

Death (1904)
Finley died on November 6, 1904 in Lake City, Florida. He was interred to Evergreen Cemetery in Gainesville, Florida.

Legacy
In the 1930s, the School Board of Alachua County (Florida) named an elementary school for Finley. JJ Finley Elementary School was located in Gainesville, Florida at the corner of Northwest 5th Avenue and 19th Street, about 1 kilometer north of the University of Florida. On June 16, 2020, the School Board of Alachua County (Florida) removed J.J. Finley's name from the school, during protests associated with the murder of George Floyd. The School Board will convene a citizen committee to recommend a new name by August 2020.

In January 2019, the Gainesville City Commission named a city park in honor of Finley. The vote to name the park for Finley was unanimous. In February 2020, the City of Gainesville City Commission removed Finley's name from the park, by a unanimous vote. The City process to approve a new name required input from a citizen advisory board. The City suspended advisory board activity during the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States. The park remained unnamed through the pandemic. The Gainesville Sun inaccurately reported that the playground was renamed "as part of the city of Gainesville and Alachua County's truth and reconciliation process".

See also
List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

References
 Eicher, John H., and Eicher, David J., Civil War High Commands, Stanford University Press, 2001, .
 Jones, Terry L., "Jesse Johnson Finley", The Confederate General, Vol. 2, Davis, William C., and Julie Hoffman (eds.), National Historical Society, 1991, .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .
 Retrieved on 2008-02-13
 Hardy, D.C., "Simon, A Slave v. The State of Florida: The Precedent-Setting Decision Establishing Confessions Extracted by Threats or Promises Are Inadmissible at Trial", Florida Bar Review, 2019, vol. 93, no. 5, available at https://www.floridabar.org/the-florida-bar-journal/simon-a-slave-v-the-state-of-floridathe-precedent-setting-decision-establishing-confessions-extracted-by-threats-or-promises-are-inadmissible-at-trial/#u6a74

Notes

|-