[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# ECW Anarchy Rulz (video game)

Tour Mode' are also listed. When viewing a character, the character's theme song plays. The characters are listed in four categories; 'A-M', 'N-Z', 'Jobber' and 'Created'. The last one only becomes available if the player has a created character saved to the same memory card as their main game save.

Stables
The game also featured stables. These are teams of four characters that can be used in the 'Stable' portion of Career Mode. The 'Impact Players' and 'The Network' were based on actual factions that appeared in ECW. The rest of the default stables were either tag teams with additional members, or just a mixture of stars.  Players could also create their own stables, although their options were limited. They could pick four members, a logo, theme music and a team name (maximum of 10 letters including spaces).

New / Updated matches
Nearly all of the matches, match types and options have returned from ECW Hardcore Revolution. While some new options have been added, others have been updated.

Matches:
 One on Two - this is a 'One on Two' match with the added 'Toughman Match' option from the previous game. This requires the disadvantaged player to defeat both opponents before he can win, but it is now possible to add a third match type option.
 One on Three - as with the 'One on Two' match, the disadvantaged player must beat all three opponents to win. It also allows them to add a third match option. 
 VS – in an update to the previous game, Player One only needs to beat 3 opponents in order to win. As before, the other players only need to beat Player One to win.
 Team Rumble – this is the 'Stable Match' from the previous game renamed.
 Hate Match – a match where Player One must face 12 opponents. The match initially begins with Player One against 3 opponents. Once an opponent is defeated, he is replaced with another. Player One must defeat all 12 opponents individually in order to win. If Player One is defeated, only the rivals who are presently in the match are declared winners.
 Tag Tournament – as the name implies, it is a tournament for tag teams, but it is only for four teams, and has only two rounds.

Match options:
 Dumpster Match – a dumpster is placed at the top side of the ring. Opponents can be eliminated by throwing them over the top rope and into the dumpster.
 Table Match – two or four tables are placed at ringside. If any player executes a move close enough to a table, it will break and cause "Extreme" damage to the opponent. A player can also inflict "Extreme" damage to themselves by climbing out of the ring where a table is positioned. The tables cannot be moved and will replenish themselves. It is not necessary to use the table in order to win.
 Rage in a Cage – the ring is replaced with a large cage that fills the arena. While the walls can be climbed, it is not possible to leave this cage. The canvas is much tougher than the ring, so any slams performed on it cause increased damage.
 Backlot Brawl – this match takes place in the truck bay at the back of the arena. The concrete ground causes increased damage, and the area is littered with weapons. Some obstacles may be climbed on. The commentary is replaced with ambient noises.
 Brimstone Match – similar to a 'Battle Royal' but is not restricted to the 4 participants format. The area surrounding the ring is covered with hot coals. To defeat an opponent, the players must throw them out of the ring and unto the coals.

Featured music
Due to copyright constraints, Acclaim were not allowed to use many of the theme songs used by ECW wrestlers. Instead, they composed similar-sounding themes for the characters, but they were able to secure the rights to four songs which do feature in the game:
 "This is Extreme" by Harry Slash & The Slashtones - this is the main ECW theme, used as the theme song for Paul Heyman, Joey Styles, Joel Gertner, Cyrus, the 'Pure ECW' stable and the 'Commentary' stable.
 "Holy Man" by One Minute Silence - this features as the theme for Dusty Rhodes, Tajiri and Mikey Whipwreck. It is also played at the 'Press Start' screen.
 "Debonnaire" by Dope - this is used as the theme tune for Rhino and the overall game. This was Rhino's actual theme song in ECW.
 "New Jack" - this was a unique track which featured New Jack performing. It was commissioned by New Jack himself to be used as a theme song in ECW, but it never happened. It was intended to be exclusive to the PlayStation format of the game.

New moves
ECW Hardcore Revolution was heavily criticized for being too similar to WWF Attitude. Many of the moves and taunts appeared in both games, with the former having only a few additional moves. Some moves has simply been renamed (for example, the "Seated Powerbomb" was renamed "Awesome Bomb"). It also featured many duplicate moves that were stored under two different names.