[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

King Jr. Boulevard is actually on the southeast side of the city; it runs from the center of Lexington southeast to the East Center Street extension near an interchange with I-85. It is NC 8 for a part of its length, and Davidson County Road 2205 for the rest of its length.
 Maxton: US 74 Business in Maxton is Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive.
 Monroe: NC 200, circling around the west side of Monroe, is designated as Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 New Bern: Dr. M. L. King Jr. Boulevard runs from Neuse Boulevard, in the center of New Bern, southwest to its junction with US 17. The boulevard forms part of US 17 Business in New Bern.
 Pinetops: Martin Luther King Street runs five blocks, from north to south.
 Raleigh: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard in Raleigh forms an eastern continuation of Western Boulevard, looping south of the downtown area, and going east to its terminus at Poole Road.
 Rocky Mount: Martin Luther King Drive is a residential street in eastern Rocky Mount, ending in a cul-de-sac.
 Rowland: Martin Luther King street is a major north–south residential street in Rowland.
Siler City, North Carolina: Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd is a two lane road that begins in the city at 2nd Avenue and runs to 15th St. where it changes to Siler City Snow Camp Rd.
 Smithfield: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive runs from Broghden Road at its interchange with I-95, north for 11 blocks. It passes the south campus of Community High School, and ends at Harris Street.
 Selma: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Way in Selma is a residential street running four blocks near the center of town.
 Tarboro: County Route 1518, running east out of Tarboro as East Baker Street, is also designated Martin Luther King Drive.
 Thomasville: Martin Luther King Drive is a semi-rural road running north–south on the west side of Thomasville.
 Whiteville: Martin Luther King Avenue in Whiteville runs south-to-north, parallel to US 701.  North of Burkehead Street it becomes N. Memory Street.
 Wilson: NC 58 southeast of Wilson is designated the Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway.
 Wilmington: US 74 is designated the Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway, from the Cape Fear River east to US 17.
 Winston-Salem: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive is a  road that begins at the intersection of 8th Street and Trade Street downtown and reaches its terminus at Thomasville Road in the Southeast part of the city. It is predominantly African-American. The section between Liberty Street and Cleveland Avenue has been given the honorary name The Golden Mile. Every Martin Luther King Day, a parade is held on this street, marchers sing freedom hymns and carry signs calling for peace and social justice. It passes through the campus of Winston-Salem State University, a HBCU. Bowman Gray Stadium is also located on this street.

Ohio
 Akron: The Ohio State Route 59 freeway in downtown Akron, formerly the Akron Innerbelt, is now the Martin Luther King Jr. Expressway. Also, a part of SR 59 just after this expressway ends is known as Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 Cincinnati: Martin Luther King Drive is a major crosstown artery in Cincinnati. It connects the west side of the city to the east, running through several historic uptown neighborhoods.