[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# 2007 New Year Honours

e. For services to Diversity.
Gaye Stanford, Mrs. Hessay, Defence Section Translator, British Embassy, Madrid, Ministry of Defence.
David Edward Highley, lately Minerals Geologist. For services to Science.
Harry David Higman, Curator, National Cycle Museum Trust, Llandrindod Wells. For services to the Tourist Industry in Wales.
Margaret, Mrs. Bradbury-Hiles, Chair, Friends of Whitchurch Community Hospital. For services to the community in Shropshire.
Dr. Rowan Hillson, Consultant Physician and Diabetologist, The Hillingdon Hospital, Middlesex. For services to Medicine.
Ann Christine, Mrs. Hilton, Teacher, Dame Janet Community Junior School, Ramsgate, Kent. For services to Education.
Penelope Ann, Mrs. Hilton, Learning Facilitator, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Gregory Hinds, Chair of Governors, St. Alban's Roman Catholic High School Pontypool, Torfaen. For services to Education.
Jillian Isla, Mrs. Hinds. For services to the community in Kelvedon, Essex.
Ronald Michael Hitchens, Teacher, Roskear School, Camborne, Cornwall. For services to Education.
Jennifer Ann, Mrs. Hocking, Associate Dean, Warwick Business School. For services to Higher Education. 
Mary, Mrs. Hodgson. For services to disabled people in Croydon, Surrey.
Malcolm Joseph Holmes, Senior Archivist, Camden Library. For services to Local Government.
Colin Peter Honey. For charitable services.
Nicholas Peter Hopkinson. For services to Bolton Lads' and Girls' Club and to young people in Bolton. 
Kenneth Hopley, lately Area Manager, Vehicle and Operator Services Agency, Department of Transport. 
Sally, Mrs. Hopson, Retail Managing Director, East Division, Asda Stores. For services to Diversity.
Dr. William Donald Hoskins. For services to Music in East London.
Michael Huber, Grade C1, Ministry of Defence.
Hugh George Hughes. For services to the Sheep Industry in Wales.
Councillor Joseph Clifford Hughes. For services to St. Catherine's Hospice and to the community in South Ribble, Lancashire.
Miss Margaret Anne Hughes. For services to the League of Friends, Oxford Churchill Hospital.
Kay, Mrs. Hurwitz, Violin and Viola Teacher. For services to Music.
Misbah Sultana, Mrs. Hussain. For services to Asian communities in South Yorkshire.
Margaret, Mrs. Hutchins, Nursing Sister, Bellsdyke Hospital, Larbert. For services to Mental Health Nursing in Stirling.
Patricia Jean, Mrs. Hutchison, Senior Officer, Child Trust Fund Office, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Vera Margaret Pamela, Mrs. Ide. For services to the Women's Royal Voluntary Service in Reading.
Roger Mason Ingham. For services to Sport in North Yorkshire.
Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Irlam. For services to the Soldiers', Sailors' and Airmen's Families Association in Sussex.
Shelagh Dickson, Mrs. Iwanowicz, Human Resources Manager, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Edward Ewart Jackson, Chair, Royal Society of Wildlife Trusts and Chair, Lancashire Wildlife Trust. For services to Conservation.
Elizabeth Joan, Mrs. Jackson, Founder, Great Guns Marketing. For services to Business.
Mary Elizabeth, Mrs. Jackson, Supply Teacher, Shanklin Church of England Primary School, Isle of Wight. For services to Education.
Victoria Irene, Mrs. Jackson, Director, Kingston Recruitment Ltd. For services to Business and to the community in Kingston-upon-Hull.
Evelyn, Lady Jacomb, Chair, Friends of Moorfields Hospital. For charitable services in London.
Ms Darryl Jaffray, lately Director of Education and Access, Royal Opera House. For services to Dance. 
Peter Thomas John Jefferis. For services to the community in the West Midlands.
Joanna, Mrs. Jenkins, J.P. For services to the Independent Monitoring Board, H.M. Prison Parc, Bridgend, and to the National Council.
Edwin Gordon Jenner, Council Member, Natural Environment Research Council. For services to Environmental Science.
Enid Lois, Mrs. Johns. For services to the Multiple Sclerosis Society and to the community in Helston, Cornwall.
John Duncan Johnston, lately Harbour Master, Eyemouth. For services to the community in Berwickshire.
Doris May, Mrs. Jones. For services to People with Learning Disabilities and to the community in Anglesey.
Elizabeth, Mrs. Jones. For services to Education and to the community in Flintshire.
Professor Emeritus Gareth Elwyn Jones. For services to Education in Wales.
The Reverend Robert Lynton Jones, University Chaplain, Roehampton University. For services to Higher Education.
Dr. William Richard Bevan Jones. For services to the community in Sawston, Cambridge.
David Anthony Welton Joy. For services to the Environment in the North East.
Thomas Joyce. For services to the community in Doncaster, South Yorkshire.
Beryl Genevieve, Mrs. Juma, Clinical Lead, Leeds Sickle Cell and Thalassaemia Service. For services to Healthcare.
Syed Kifayat Hussain Kazmi. For services to the community in Derby.
Richard Alan Keeves, Senior Valuer, Valuation Office Agency, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Kenneth Kelley, Bandmaster, Burghclere Primary School Brass Band, Berkshire. For servi