[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Energy policy of Canada

1946, the Atomic Energy Control Act was passed and the Atomic Energy Control Board (AECB) was established to regulate the production and uses of uranium in Canada, under the premiership of William Lyon Mackenzie King. The federal government took over the jurisdiction over uranium from the provinces.

The Royal Commission on Energy (1957–1959)−the Borden Commission—established by then-Prime Minister, John Diefenbaker, resulted in new legislation—the National Energy Board Act—Canada's "first integrated federal energy statute". In 1957, oil producers in the western provinces sought federal support for the construction of a pipeline to provide them with access to eastern markets. Eastern oil refiners were purchasing cheap oil mainly from the Middle East. In 1959, the NEB was advised by a New York oil consultant Walter J. Levy to not build the proposed Edmonton-to-Montreal pipeline. Levy also recommended that "Alberta oil should go to U.S. markets."

In 1961, the National Oil Policy (NOP) was adopted through which the NEB accepted Mr. Levy's recommendations, and was the cornerstone of Canada's energy policy until the NOP ended in September 1973. The NOP fostered growth of the fledgling oil industry in Western Canada, which had begun with discovery of oil in Leduc, Alberta in 1947. According to a 2009 article in the Alberta Oil Magazine, the NOP made "consumers buy more Alberta oil and pay a premium over international prices that were depressed at the time. All of Canada west of the Ottawa River was reserved as an exclusive market for domestic production by a federal ban against cheaper imports." The NOP "established a protected market for domestic oil west of the Ottawa Valley, which freed the industry from foreign competition", while the five eastern provinces, which included major refineries in Ontario and Quebec, continued to rely on foreign imports of crude oil, for example from Venezuela. There were no major oil and gas policies made during the rest of the 1960s, a period marked stable fuel prices by increase in oil and gas consumption.

During the Premiership of John Diefenbaker from 1957 to 1963, and that of his successor, Lester B. Pearson, there was a focus on increased development of electricity resources for both domestic and export to the United States and to improve interprovincial transmission systems which many hoped would become a national electricity grid. In 1963, Pearson's administration introduced the National Power Policy. However, the installation of interprovincial transmission lines was politically sensitive. If federal policies forced provinces to comply they would be accused of being heavy-handed. Some provinces preferred to market their excess power to the United States to escape the perceived burden of federalism. The premiers of Newfoundland and Quebec were engaged in a decades-long dispute over transmission of electricity from Newfoundland's Muskrat Falls hydroelectric project on the lower portion of the Churchill River through the province of Quebec. Then Newfoundland Premier Smallwood, had appealed to Prime Minister Pearson to "strengthen provisions for interprovincial transmission of electricity".

In response to the provinces' increasing concerns about federal funding programs, the Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements and Established Programs Financing Act of 1977 was passed which gave the provinces more autonomy. It resulted in significant decentralization of government that favoured the provinces.

The 1980 National Energy Program (NEP), which was introduced during the Premiership of Pierre Trudeau, was one of the "most controversial policy initiatives in Canadian history". It was introduced by the federal Liberal government, against the backdrop of the global recession following the Energy crisis of the 1970s—which included two major oil price shocks: the 1973 oil crisis and the 1979 oil crisis, From the mid-1970s to mid-1980s, energy policies—particularly policy regarding the oil and gas industry—was a very "contentious", and "high profile" intergovernmental issue, which had a "deletrious effect on federal-provincial relations".