[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Léonce Perret

French Association for Historical Film Studies in collaboration with the Bologne Film Library under the direction of Bernard Bastide and Jean A. Gili. In 2006, Daniel Taillé published a more thorough work giving homage to such a pioneering artist. This was entitled Léonce Perret, cinématographiste.

Tributes
The Museum of Modern Art in New York City organized a film exhibition showcasing Perret's work. The Gaumont Film Company exhibits recently restored films annually at the Museum of Modern Art. In 2003, a selected collection of Perret's best films were restored from nitrite negatives and showcased at this exhibition. The films were selected by Martine Offroy, who was the curator of Gaumont Film Company. The Gaumont Film Company and the Cinémathèque française contributed in the restoration of the films, in collaboration with the Centre National de la Cinématographie and the Ministry of Culture.

Filmography
A definitive filmography for Léonce Perret would be virtually impossible given that he wrote, acted in, directed or produced more than 400 films. Of those more than 400 films, only roughly one third are still available today. The remaining copies are stored mostly at the Gaumont Film Library, the French Film Library, the National Cinematography Film Archives and in several other European film libraries such as the Nederlands Filmmuseum in Amsterdam.

Actor

Director

Screenwriter
Léonce Perret wrote the screenplays for the vast majority of his movies, with the exception of those from his early apprenticeship period (before 1913). Most of the movies from his apprenticeship period were written by Louis Feuillade, the artistic director at Gaumont at that time. Several others from that period were written by other associates at Gaumont such as Abel Gance, Étienne Arnaud and Marcel Lévesque. After gaining the Gaumont Company's trust, Perret began directing his own screenplays starting around 1911.

From 1917 on, he adapted many screenplays from novels such as Folie d'Amour (1917), La treizième chaise (1919) and Koenigsmark (1923). He also collaborated with other filmmakers on some scripts such as Koenigsmark, which was co-written with René Champigny and Madame Sans-Gêne with the American Forrest Halsey.

The screenplay for La Danseuse Orchidée from 1928 is credited to Jean-Joseph Renaud. It is one of the rare postwar Perret films where he did not write the script himself.

Producer
Léonce Perret produced many of his films, starting with his period of work in the United States. In 1917, he started his own production company Perret Picture Inc. Some of the films he produced in the U.S. were La Fayette, We Come (1918) and The Unknown Love (1918) as well as Twin Pawns (1919) and A.B.C. of Love (1919).

After his return to France, he had the opportunity to produce several movies with the Franco-Film company (Morgane la Sirène and Printemps d'Amour in 1927; La Danseuse Orchidée, Poliche and La Possession in 1928; Quand nous étions deux in 1930).

Notes

References
 Bernard Bastide and Jean Antoine Gili, Léonce Perret, Association française de recherche sur l'histoire du cinéma, 368 pages, 2003 
 Daniel Taillé, Léonce Perret cinématographiste, Association Cinémathèque en Deux-Sèvres, 2006

External links 

 A review of Léonce Perret
 A review of Léonce Perret "cinématographiste
 Films of Léonce Perret, links to newspapers related to cinema

1880 births
1935 deaths
People from Niort
French cinema pioneers
French film producers
French male silent film actors
Silent film comedians
French film directors
French male stage actors
French theatre directors
French military personnel of World War I
Schola Cantorum de Paris alumni
Slapstick comedians
20th-century French male actors