[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Exsul Familia

ignty of the State, although it must be respected, cannot be exaggerated to the point that access to this land is, for inadequate or unjustified reasons, denied to needy and decent people from other nations, provided of course, that the public wealth, considered very carefully, does not forbid this.

In a Christmas Address of 1948, Pius said, "It is better [...] to facilitate the migration of families into those countries able to provide them with the essentials of life, than to send foodstuffs at great expense to refugee camps." On June 1, 1951, in a radio address on the fiftieth anniversary of the Encyclical Rerum Novarum, Pius spoke on the right of people to migrate.According to the teaching of “Rerum Novarum,” —the right of the family to a living space is recognized...the thickly inhabited countries will be relieved and their people will acquire new friends in foreign countries; and the States which receive the emigrants will acquire industrious citizens [...] In this way, the nations which give and those which receive will both contribute to the increased welfare of man and the progress of human culture.

He then listed a number of relief and welfare projects that had been carried out: institutes to care for orphans and children crippled in the war; kitchens and tables with food for the needy; shelters for receiving newly released prisoners and refugees on their return to their homeland; Christmas presents given to children and prisoners; trips through various European nations to bring aid, food, clothing, medicine for the poor and victims of the war; recreation centers for soldiers far from home.

Guidelines
The Pope explains that many bishops throughout the world have asked the holy see, to issue guidelines for the pastoral care of those who emigrated to their shores. The second part of Exsul Familia contains these guidelines: 
 It first discusses the relocation of clergy and religious. Jurisdiction is under the Consistorial Congregation, subject to consultation with the Congregation for the Oriental Churches and the Propaganda Fide.
  The functions of the Visitors or Delegates of various languages or nationalities, previously established for the religious welfare of immigrants and refugees living in Europe and America was ended; as was the Office of Prelate for Italian Emigrants in favor of the Office of Delegate for Migration Affairs in the Consistorial Congregation. 
 The Office of Delegate for Migration Affairs oversees Directors, who in turn supervise missionaries to migrants and ship chaplains. Nonetheless, directors, missionaries, and chaplains remain under the authority of their Ordinaries.
 The diocesan bishop has the leading responsibility for the pastoral care of migrants. Assistance should be provided by priests of the same nationality as the immigrants, or who speak the same language; they must also be properly trained and work under the authority of the local Ordinary; local pastors must show the same concern for immigrants that is required of them in their ordinary pastoral duties.
 A Day for Migrants should be celebrated on the first Sunday in Advent.

See also
 Catholic social teaching

References

External links
Exsul Familia in Latin on the Vatican website
Text of the apostolic constitution in English

Pope Pius XII apostolic constitutions and bulls
Human migration
1952 documents
1952 in Christianity