[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pierre Joseph Céloron de Blainville

nailed to a tree. Below, an inscribed leaden plate was buried, declaring the claims of France. This was a traditional European mode of marking territory, but it might have contributed to Native American anxieties about the intentions of the French, and thus ultimately had a counterproductive effect.

Reaching the Monongahela River, the party boated past Shannopin's Town at the current site of Pittsburgh, and down the Ohio River. They paused at Kittanning, but found the village abandoned except for a Lenape chief, whom they invited to attend a council meeting with Céloron at Logstown. At Logstown, in present-day western Pennsylvania, Céloron discovered English traders. Incensed, he evicted the traders and wrote a scolding note to the governor of Pennsylvania. He then hectored the Native Americans about French dominance of the region. This overbearing behavior offended the Iroquois in his party, some of whom returned to their homeland in present-day New York, tearing down copper plates as they went.

A plate was buried at the mouth of the Muskingum River on August 15, 1749 and the mouth of the Kanawha River on August 18, 1749. Arriving at Lower Shawneetown at the Scioto River's mouth on August 21, he again encountered English traders. Céloron summoned them to his camp on August 25 and demanded that they leave, stating that "they had no right to trade or aught else on the [Ohio] River," but most refused.

The expedition then traveled up the Great Miami River to Pickawillany, arriving there on 13 September. They spent a week camped outside the village and met briefly with the chief Memeskia, who promised to consider returning to live near Detroit as a French ally. Céloron later remarked, speaking in general about his journey, that "the nations of these localities are very badly disposed towards the French, and are entirely devoted to the English."

Five months after the expedition began, it returned to Montreal, arriving November 10, 1749. Céloron's journal is archived at Archives of the Department de la Marine, Paris, France (Galbreath, 12).

In total, Céloron buried at least six lead plates. One was stolen by curious Indians almost immediately, possibly before it was even buried, and placed in British hands. Two more were found in the early 19th Century. Measuring about eleven inches long and seven and one-half inches wide, each lead plate was marked with an inscription as follows (Galbreath, 110-111):

The French continued to press their claim to the Ohio Valley, and colonial friction with the British finally contributed to outbreak of the Seven Years' War.

Last years and death
Upon his return, Céloron was reappointed to the important post at Detroit, and in 1753, was promoted to Major and appointed to Montreal. He died at Montreal on April 14, 1759 (Burton, 332).

Family
Céloron had three children by his first wife, Marie Madeline Blondeau, married December 30. 1724. His second wife was Catherine Eury de la 
Parelle, married in Montreal on October 13, 1743, and with whom he enjoyed nine children (Burton, 327).

See also
 Céloron de Blainville
 Shannopin's Town
 Kuskusky
 Logstown
 Kittanning (village)
 Lower Shawneetown
 Pickawillany
 Joseph Pierre de Bonnecamps

Sources
 pp. 62–73
 Chapter on Céloron, pp. 327–333
 Céloron's Ohio Expedition journal and other accounts
 Account of Céloron at Logstown, pg. 26
Hildreth, S. P.: Pioneer History: Being an Account of the First Examinations of the Ohio Valley, and the Early Settlement of the Northwest Territory, H. W. Derby and Co., Cincinnati, Ohio (1848) pp. 18–24. 
Andrew Arnold Lambing, translator. "Celeron's Journal." In Expedition of Céloron to the Ohio Country in 1749. Edited by Charles B. Galbreath. Columbus, Ohio: F.J. Heer Printing Company, 1921. Pages 12 to 77. 
Marshall, O.H. "De Céloron's Expedition to the Ohio in 1749." Magazine of American History II (3) (1878): 127-150. [ Marshall, who in 1878 wrote the first complete account of Céloron's journey, is credited with discovering the explorer's journals in the 1850s in the archives of the Department de la Marine and Grandes Archives of the Depot de la Marine in Paris.]

References

External links
 Biography at the Dictionary of Canadian Biography Online

1693 births
1759 deaths
French Canadian people of the French and Indian War
Explorers of the United States
French explorers of North America
Canadian explorers