[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Terrorism in Malaysia

This article is about the extent of terrorism in Malaysia, including historical background, laws concerning terrorism, incidence of terrorism and international terrorism from the Malaysian perspective.

Etymology

Definition of terrorism in Malaysia
The international community has not been able to come to a universally-accepted definition of terrorism. The difficulty in defining terrorism stem from the fact that it is politically and emotionally charged. The history of terrorism incidence in Northern Ireland, Middle East and South East Asia indicate that terrorism is perpetrated by a group of aggrieved people that see violence as the only means of achieving their political goals. The loose definition of terrorism resulted in the execution of State-sanctioned terrorism as well as acts of terror carried out by militant groups, each trying to legitimise their act of terror.

Linguistic definition
Linguistically, terrorism is defined as:
 Use of violence and threats to intimidate or coerce, especially for political purposes
 State of fear and submission produced by terrorism or terrorisation
 Terroristic method of governing or of resisting a government

Malaysia's effort in defining terrorism
After the terrorist attack on World Trade Centre and the Pentagon on 11 September 2001, Malaysia has actively emphasised on the need to define terrorism in view of increasingly discriminatory environment against the Muslims. During the Organisation of Islamic Conference (OIC) meeting on 4 April 2002 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia's Prime Minister at the time Mahathir Mohamad proposed 'a definition for terrorism encompassing all violence targeted at civilians, which he said included 11 September attacks, Palestinian suicide bombers as well as assaults by Israel in the Palestinian territories'. However, the proposal was met with resistance from the Arab countries, for fear that it will criminalised the Palestinian struggle for statehood.

Terrorism definition in Malaysia's Anti-Terrorism Legislation
The Security Offences (Special Measures) Act 2012 (Act 747) was enacted to specifically deal with terrorism. Under the Act, the following actions warrant the invocation of the law:
 To cause, or to cause a substantial number of citizens to fear, organised violence against persons or property
 To excite disaffection against the Yang di-Pertuan Agong (Supreme Ruler)
 Which is prejudicial to public order in, or the security of, the Federation or any part thereof
 Procure the alteration, otherwise than by lawful means, of anything by law established

Act 747 makes further reference to Chapter VI of the Penal Code (Act 574) that provides the basis for arrest for offences committed against the Federation.

However, the now-repealed Internal Security Act 1960 (Act 82) provided a clear definition of a terrorist. A terrorist, under Act 82, meant any person who:
 By the use of any firearm, explosive or ammunition acts in a manner prejudicial to the public safety or to the maintenance of public order or incites to violence or counsels disobedience to the law or to any lawful order
 Carries or has in his possession or under his control any firearm, ammunition or explosive without lawful authority therefore
 Demands, collects or receives any supplies for the use of any person who intends or is about to act, or has recently acted, in a manner prejudicial to public safety or the maintenance of public order

The National Security Council, Malaysia's top policy-making body with regard to national security, defined terrorism as:
 Unlawful use of threat or the use of force or terror or any other attack by person, group or state regardless of objective or justification aim at other state, it citizens or their properties and its vital services with the intention of creating fear, intimidation and thus forcing government or organisation to follow their impressed will including those act in support directly or indirectly (refer to Directive No. 18, issued by the National Security Council)

History

The birth of the Malaysian Communist Party
The South Seas Communist Party was established in 1922. The South Seas Communist Party gave way to the formation of Malayan Communist Party (MCP) in 1930. Throughout its formative years in Indonesia and Singapore, the party was actively involved in a failed revolution attempt in Indonesia and workers' union in Singapore. The failure of the 1925 uprising in Indonesia had caused a large influx of Indonesian communists into Singapore.

Within the fourth decade of 20th century (1930-1939), the MCP was operating illegally. Many of party members and leaders were arrested when their identities were exposed with the capture of a Kuomintang courier. In 1939, the British had managed to install one of their agents, Lai Teck, as the Secretary General of the MCP.