[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 22]
# History of baseball in the United States

arco Estrada, Justin Verlander, and Cole Hamels. Every so often, the time-honored knuckleball puts in another appearance to bedevil batters; pitchers like Phil Niekro, Jesse Haines, and Hoyt Wilhelm have made the Hall of Fame throwing knuckleballs, and who knows when the next "Knucksie" will appear?

 Summary of modern-era major league teams 
Note: The team names listed below are those currently in use.  Some of the franchises have changed their names in the past, in some cases more than once.  In the early years of the 20th century, many teams did not have official names, and were referred to by their league and city, or by nicknames created by sportswriters.
1876 – National League is established
1900 – National League "Classic Eight" lineup of teams is established: Chicago Cubs, Boston Braves, Brooklyn Dodgers, New York Giants, Philadelphia Phillies, Pittsburgh Pirates, Cincinnati Reds, and St. Louis Cardinals
1901 – American League is established with eight teams: Boston Red Sox, Chicago White Sox, Cleveland Guardians, Detroit Tigers, Philadelphia Athletics, Washington Senators, Milwaukee Brewers, and Baltimore Orioles
1902 – Milwaukee Brewers move to St. Louis and become the Browns
1903 – Baltimore Orioles move to New York and become the Yankees
1953 – Boston Braves move to Milwaukee
1954 – St. Louis Browns move to Baltimore and become the Orioles
1955 – Philadelphia Athletics move to Kansas City
1958 – New York Giants move to San Francisco; Brooklyn Dodgers move to Los Angeles
1961 – Washington Senators move to Minneapolis–Saint Paul and become the Minnesota Twins; new Washington Senators (AL) and Los Angeles Angels (AL) created as expansion teams
1962 – Houston Astros (NL) and New York Mets (NL) created as expansion teams
1966 – Milwaukee Braves move to Atlanta
1968 – Kansas City Athletics move to Oakland
1969 – San Diego Padres (NL), Montreal Expos (NL), Kansas City Royals (AL), and Seattle Pilots (AL) created as expansion teams
1970 – Seattle Pilots move to Milwaukee and become the Brewers
1972 – Washington Senators move to Dallas–Fort Worth and become the Texas Rangers
1977 – Seattle Mariners (AL) and Toronto Blue Jays (AL) created as expansion teams
1993 – Colorado Rockies (NL) and Miami Marlins (NL) created as expansion teams
1998 – Arizona Diamondbacks (NL) and Tampa Bay Rays (AL) created as expansion teams; Milwaukee Brewers switch from AL to NL
2005 – Montreal Expos move to Washington and become the Nationals
2013 – Houston Astros switch from NL to AL

See also

 Fantography
 Timeline of Major League Baseball

References

Further reading
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pepe, Phil. (2005). Catfish, Yaz, and Hammerin' Hank: The Unforgettable Era That Transformed Baseball''. Chicago, Triumph Books.

External links
 A History of How the Game Has Changed
 Library of Congress: Spalding Base Ball Guides, 1889–1939
 Cycleback's Online Museum of Early Baseball Memorabilia
 Seth Swirsky's Baseball Memorabilia Collection
 Base Ball: A Journal of the Early Game (archived 8 July 2017)
 Baseball Research Journal Archives

 
History of baseball
History of the United States by topic