[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# F. K. Otto Dibelius

Friedrich Karl Otto Dibelius (15 May 1880 – 31 January 1967) was a German bishop of the Evangelical Church in Berlin-Brandenburg, a self-described anti-Semite and up to 1934 a conservative, who became a staunch opponent of Nazism and communism.

Early years
He was born in Berlin, Brandenburg, in 1880. One of his cousins was the Protestant theologian Martin Dibelius. From 1899 to 1903 he studied at the Frederick William University of Berlin. He received his PhD in 1902. From 1904–1906, he studied at the Preachers' Seminary in Wittenberg.

Early pastorates
He was then employed as a minister by the Evangelical State Church of Prussia's older Provinces. In 1906–1907, he was the assistant pastor at the Klosterkirche in Guben. In 1907–1909, he was the archdeacon at St. Mary's Church in Crossen an der Oder. In 1909–1910, he was the assistant pastor at the Church of Ss. Peter and Paul in Danzig. From 1911 to 1915, he was the chief pastor at Lauenburg in Pomerania. From 1915 to 1925, he was the pastor of the Heilsbronnen congregation in Berlin-Schöneberg. In 1918, he was the executive secretary (part-time) of the Mutual Trust Council in the Evangelical Supreme Ecclesiastical Council (, EOK) of the Evangelical State Church in Prussia's older Provinces, which renamed after the separation of state and religion into Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union (APU) in 1922.

General superintendent of Kurmark
In 1921 he was a member of the Evangelical Supreme Ecclesiastical Council (part-time). From 1925 to 1933 he was the superintendent-general of the Kurmark within the Old-Prussian Ecclesiastical Province of the March of Brandenburg. He then also became a member of the consistory, an administrative body, of that ecclesiastical province and joined the right-wing and anti-semite German National People's Party.

One problem was the spiritual vacuum which emerged after the church stopped being a state church with the separation of religion and state by the 1919 German Weimar Constitution. Dibelius published his book Das Jahrhundert der Kirche (The century of the Church), in which he declared the 20th century to be the era when the Evangelical Church may for the first time develop freely and gain the independence God would have wished for, without the burden and constraints of the state church function. He regarded the role of the church as even more important, since the government of the Weimar Republic – in his eyes – would no longer provide society with binding norms, so that this would be the task of the church.

The church would have to stand for the defence of the Christian culture of the Occident. In this respect Dibelius regarded himself as consciously anti-Jewish, explaining in a circular to the pastors in his general superintendency district of Kurmark, "I have always considered myself an anti-Semite. It cannot be denied that with all degenerating phenomena of modern civilisation Judaism plays a leading role". His book was one of the most read on church matters in that period.

On 21 March 1933 the newly elected Reichstag convened in Potsdam's Evangelical Garrison Church, an event commemorated as the Day of Potsdam, and Dibelius, then the locally competent General-Superintendent, did the relevant preaching in front of the Protestant members of the Reichstag in St. Nicholas' Church, Potsdam, in the morning. On 1 April 1933 the Nazi regime organized a boycott of Jewish shops and on 4 April Dibelius wrote in Berlin's Evangelisches Sonntagsblatt that "the last fifteen years in Germany" had "strengthened Jewry's influence to an extraordinary degree. The number of Jewish judges, Jewish politicians and Jewish civil servants in influential positions has grown measurably". He downplayed the boycott of enterprises of Jewish proprietors and such of Gentiles of Jewish descent, when SA members stood outside Jewish shops attempting to enforce the boycott through intimidation, and when swastikas and anti-Jewish slogans were painted on shop-windows. In an address for US radio he commended the restraint shown in the boycott, with "only one single bloody incident" and he accepted the need for violence, hoping instead 'that the hour may soon come when violence is no longer necessary'. Even after this clearly anti-Semitic action he repeated in his circular to the pastors of Kurmark on the occasion of Easter (16 April 1933) his anti-Jewish attitude, giving the same words as in 1928.