[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Small Arms and Light Weapons

o address unregulated or illegal trade in conventional weapons. The treaty opened for signature on 3 June 2013. To date, two-thirds of UN member states have signed the treaty (130 states), and 72 have ratified it. The treaty entered into force on 24 December 2014.

Global distribution of small arms 

In 2018, Small Arms Survey reported that there are over one billion small arms distributed globally, of which 857 million (about 85 percent) are in civilian hands. U.S. civilians alone account for 393 million (about 46 percent) of the worldwide total of civilian held firearms. This amounts to "120.5 firearms for every 100 residents." The world's armed forces control about 133 million (about 13 percent) of the global total of small arms, of which over 43 percent belongs to two countries – the Russian Federation (30.3 million) and the People's Republic of China (27.5 million). Law enforcement agencies control about 22.7 million (about 2 percent) of the global total of small arms.

See also 
 List of firearms
 List of most-produced firearms
 Small arms
 Small Arms Survey
 Small arms trade
 Arms Trade Treaty
 Gun control
 Gun politics

References

External links 
 Arms Sales Monitoring Project at the Federation of American Scientists (FAS)
 Small Arms and Light Weapons at United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs (UNODA)
 Control Arms campaign
 Coordinating Action on Small Arms United Nations Programme of Action, Implementation Support System
 International Action Network on Small Arms (IANSA)
 Mines Advisory Group (MAG)
 Project On Government Oversight (POGO) "small arms" search results
 Small Arms Survey
 SALW Knowledge Base at South Eastern and Eastern Europe Clearinghouse for the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons (SEESAC)
 United Nations Coordinating Action on Small Arms
 United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research
 UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office: Small Arms and Light Weapons
 The Wassenaar Arrangement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual-Use Goods and Technologies

Arms control
Firearms
Gun politics