[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Bob Corker

ply with new regulations. Corker said at the time that he hoped that as an alternative to administrative regulations by the EPA, Congress would "determine a rational energy policy for the country, broadly advancing our energy security and maintaining existing policies to ensure clean air and water."

In 2008, Corker was one of the only sixteen Senators who opposed the tax rebate stimulus plan, criticizing it as "political stimulus" for electoral campaigns. He later described the stimulus package that passed Congress as "silly".

In December 2008, Corker opposed the federal bailout of failing U.S. automakers, and expressed doubt that the companies could be salvaged. Corker proposed that federal funds be provided for automakers only if accompanied by cuts in labor costs and other concessions from unions. The United Auto Workers (UAW), which had previously accepted a series of cuts in its current contract, sought to put off any further cuts until 2011, while Corker requested that cuts go into effect in 2009. Republicans blamed the UAW for failure to reach an agreement, while the UAW claimed that Corker's proposal singled out "workers and retirees for different treatment and make[s] them shoulder the entire burden of restructuring." Corker's plan to protect taxpayers through tough conditions on any federal aid, however, was ultimately embraced by both President George W. Bush, who put Corker's stipulations in an executive order, and President Barack Obama, through his auto task force.

In September 2009, Corker became the ranking member of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, replacing former Sen. Mel Martinez.

On May 20, 2010, despite his initial role as the key Republican negotiator on financial regulatory reform, Corker voted against the Senate financial regulations bill ("Restoring American Financial Stability Act", S. 3217, the Senate version of what eventually became the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act), which included provisions for increased scrutiny of financial derivatives traded by major U.S. banks and financial institutions.

Following the Senate vote, Corker expressed his disappointment with the bill, stating, among other things, that it did not adequately address concerns about the integrity of loan underwriting, or the need to strengthen bankruptcy laws, and provide for orderly liquidation. The main critique of financial reform offered by Corker on June 10, 2010, at the joint House and Senate conference on Financial Regulation, was that it would hurt industry and jobs if passed.

Corker opposes limits to credit card fees imposed by banks on merchant transactions.

Corker was one of three Republicans to support the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (New START) in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in September 2010. The treaty was given final approval by the Senate in December 2010, after the chamber disposed of a raft of Republican-proposed amendments. Amendments by Corker and fellow Republican Jon Kyl on missile defense and modernization were among the few accepted. Corker was one of thirteen Republican senators to vote for the final version.

In April 2013, Corker was one of forty-six senators to vote against a bill which would have expanded background checks for all gun buyers. Corker voted with 40 Republicans and 5 Democrats to stop the passage of the bill.

Corker has called for tempering the role of outside spending in elections by giving political candidates the right to approve advertising on their behalf made by an outside party committee.

In August 2018, Corker and Bob Menendez signed a letter warning that Congress would refuse attempts by the Trump administration to form congressional appropriations for foreign aid.

In September 2018, Corker announced that he would vote for the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, saying in a statement, "There is no question that Judge Kavanaugh is qualified to serve on the Supreme Court, and in a different political environment, he would be confirmed overwhelmingly." On October 6, hours before Corker voted to confirm Kavanaugh, he stated during an interview that Kavanaugh's confirmation would "impact our country for more than a generation" while noting the intent of Congress to confirm additional judges throughout the remainder of the year and praising the handling of the confirmation process by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.

In a November 2018 interview, Corker stated that President Trump divided Americans as part of his attempts to appeal to his base "instead of appealing to our better angels and trying to unite us like most people would try to do". He mentioned the possibility of Trump's conduct squandering good will toward the US during a period where American leadership was "more important than ever."