[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bond credit rating

ates for first-class government bonds and investment-grade bonds is called investment-grade spread. The range of this spread is an indicator of the market's belief in the stability of the economy. The higher these investment-grade spreads (or risk premiums) are, the weaker the economy is considered.

Criticism
Until the early 1970s, bond credit ratings agencies were paid for their work by investors who wanted impartial information on the credit worthiness of securities issuers and their particular offerings.  Starting in the early 1970s, the "Big Three" ratings agencies (S&P, Moody's, and Fitch) began to receive payment for their work by the securities issuers for whom they issue those ratings, which has led to charges that these ratings agencies can no longer always be impartial when issuing ratings for those securities issuers.  Securities issuers have been accused of "shopping" for the best ratings from these three ratings agencies, in order to attract investors, until at least one of the agencies delivers favorable ratings.  This arrangement has been cited as one of the primary causes of the subprime mortgage crisis (which began in 2007); some securities, particularly mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), were rated highly by the credit ratings agencies and thus heavily invested in by many organizations and individuals, but were then rapidly and vastly devalued due to defaults, and fear of defaults, on some of the individual components of those securities, such as home loans and credit card accounts. Other countries are beginning to mull the creation of domestic credit ratings agencies to challenge the dominance of the "Big Three", for example in Russia, where the ACRA was founded in 2016.

Municipal bonds
Municipal bonds are instruments issued by local, state, or federal governments in the United States. Until April–May 2010, Moody's and Fitch were rating municipal bonds on the separate naming/classification system which mirrored the tiers for corporate bonds. S&P abolished its dual rating system in 2000.

Default rates 
The historical default rate for municipal bonds is lower than that of corporate bonds. A potential misuse of historic default statistics is to assume that historical average default rates represent the "probability of default" of debt in a particular rating category. However, [...] default rates can vary significantly from one year to the next and the observed rate for any given year can vary significantly from the average.

AAA Rating 
AAA is the highest credit rating that any of the major credit rating agencies can give to an issuer's bonds.

AAA Rated Bonds 
AAA-rated bonds have a high credit rating because their issuers are able to meet their financial obligations with ease and have the lowest risk of default.

See also
 Credit risk
 Default (finance)
 List of countries by credit rating

References

External links
 "What Is A Corporate Credit Rating?", Investopedia.com
 Investment Grade Real Estate | How To Purchase Property With Credit Rated Tenants
 "As company priorities shift, fewer get AAA debt rating," USA Today (Mar 2005)
 "Fitch says confident in 'AAA' subprime ratings", Reuters (Jul 2007)

Bond market
Investment
Credit rating
Credit risk
Bond valuation
de:Rating#Ratingcodes