[Source: PubMed]

3. BMC Int Health Hum Rights. 2015 Oct 28;15:29. doi: 10.1186/s12914-015-0064-9.

Long-term mental health of war-refugees: a systematic literature review.

Bogic M(1), Njoku A(2), Priebe S(3).

Author information:
(1)Unit for Social and Community Psychiatry, WHO Collaborating Centre for Mental 
Health Services Development, Queen Mary University of London, E13 8SP, London, 
UK. m.bogic@qmul.ac.uk.
(2)Fredericton OSI Clinic, NB, Canada. dr.anthony.njoku@horizonnb.ca.
(3)Unit for Social and Community Psychiatry, WHO Collaborating Centre for Mental 
Health Services Development, Queen Mary University of London, E13 8SP, London, 
UK. s.priebe@qmul.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: There are several million war-refugees worldwide, majority of whom 
stay in the recipient countries for years. However, little is known about their 
long-term mental health. This review aimed to assess prevalence of mental 
disorders and to identify their correlates among long-settled war-refugees.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of studies that assessed current 
prevalence and/or factors associated with depression and anxiety disorders in 
adult war-refugees 5 years or longer after displacement. We searched Medline, 
Embase, CINAHL, PsycINFO, and PILOTS from their inception to October 2014, 
searched reference lists, and contacted experts. Because of a high heterogeneity 
between studies, overall estimates of mental disorders were not discussed. 
Instead, prevalence rates were reviewed narratively and possible sources of 
heterogeneity between studies were investigated both by subgroup analysis and 
narratively. A descriptive analysis examined pre-migration and post-migration 
factors associated with mental disorders in this population.
RESULTS: The review identified 29 studies on long-term mental health with a 
total of 16,010 war-affected refugees. There was significant between-study 
heterogeneity in prevalence rates of depression (range 2.3-80%), PTSD (4.4-86%), 
and unspecified anxiety disorder (20.3-88%), although prevalence estimates were 
typically in the range of 20% and above. Both clinical and methodological 
factors contributed substantially to the observed heterogeneity. Studies of 
higher methodological quality generally reported lower prevalence rates. 
Prevalence rates were also related to both which country the refugees came from 
and in which country they resettled. Refugees from former Yugoslavia and 
Cambodia tended to report the highest rates of mental disorders, as well as 
refugees residing in the USA. Descriptive synthesis suggested that greater 
exposure to pre-migration traumatic experiences and post-migration stress were 
the most consistent factors associated with all three disorders, whilst a poor 
post-migration socio-economic status was particularly associated with 
depression.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a need for more methodologically consistent and rigorous 
research on the mental health of long-settled war refugees. Existing evidence 
suggests that mental disorders tend to be highly prevalent in war refugees many 
years after resettlement. This increased risk may not only be a consequence of 
exposure to wartime trauma but may also be influenced by post-migration 
socio-economic factors.

DOI: 10.1186/s12914-015-0064-9
PMCID: PMC4624599
PMID: 26510473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]