[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William H. Face

dloff's clever evasion of Garnet.Honolulu Star-Advertiser (Honolulu, Hawaii); Sat, Jul 4, 1885; Main Edition; Page 4

After leaving Norfolk, Strelok sailed to New York harbor, soon to be followed by Garnet. Within some weeks, diplomatic temperatures had cooled, allowing Strelok to return to Russia. 

The following year, Strelok symbolically healed the rift between the two nations, when she joined in a salute to the fourth Duchess of Edinburgh during her visit to Marseilles, France – the Duchess being the daughter of Russian Czar Alexander III and the daughter-in-law of British Queen Victoria.

Skrydloff went on to become the "bulldog admiral" of the Czarist navy, commander of the Baltic Fleet and Russian Navy Minister.

Three years after the Strelok incident, William H. Face's son and fellow Virginia Pilot, George Washington Face, was also abducted by a foreign ship captain, John Owens in command of the British steamer North Erin, who evaded a U.S. marshal and absconded to Liverpool with $14,000 worth of cotton. George Washington Face was forced to cross the Atlantic twice before returning to Virginia a month later.

Family history of military service
Two of Face's great-grandfathers served as officers in the service of Virginia during the American Revolution. His paternal grandfather, William Face, was the son of Capt. Edward Face (born in 1724). In 1781, Capt. Edward Face and four hands serving on his sloop John spent 70 days "for the use of the troops at the Seege of York Town under the Command of his Excellency Gen'l Washington." William H. Face's paternal grandmother, Elizabeth Haley Face (William Face's wife), was the daughter of Capt. Samuel Haley of the Virginia Navy, who commanded Hornet and Mayflower during the Revolution.

William H. Face was the son of Edward Face (1808–1838) and Catherine Heffley Face (1805–1876).

Edward Face was the chief carpenter at Fortress Monroe while 1st Lieutenant Robert E. Lee was stationed there (1831–34). Lee played a major role in the final construction of both Fortress Monroe and its opposite, Fort Calhoun, later renamed Fort Wool. Both forts would later provide great vantage points for the Battle of Hampton Roads but neither played an important part in the action.

Later in the 1830s, Edward Face was sent by the Federal government to Chattahoochee, Florida to build an arsenal for the protection of the ammunition there. Construction of the arsenal began in 1834 and was completed in 1839, by which time it was an impressive walled compound with two external powder magazines. The Apalachicola Arsenal was used as an arms depot during the Second Seminole Indian War (1835-1842).The Apalachicola Arsenal, Chattahoochee, Florida, exploresouthernhistoyr.com

William H. Face married Sarah E. Dunbar on April 10, 1850. His brother, Edward Webster Face (1829–1907), Private, Company H, 54th Virginia Militia, CSA, married Sarah Dunbar's sister, Elizabeth Widgeon Dunbar (1831–1913) on March 27, 1851. The brothers, their wives and many of their descendants are buried in Elmwood Cemetery (Norfolk, Virginia).

A cousin, Sgt. Samuel T. Face, Longstreet's Command, Semmes' Brigade, McLaws' Division, 32nd Virginia Infantry, CSA (1843–1862), was killed on the bloodiest day of the American Civil War, September 17, 1862, the second day of the Battle of Sharpsburg (Antietam) and was buried near the battlefield.

Sources
 Virginia Pilot Association archives
 Newport News, Va. Daily Press archives
 Coski, John M., Capital Navy: The Men, Ships and Operations of the James River Squadron'', (1996), Campbell, CA: Savas Woodbury Publishers
 "The Home Bulletin" of the Hampton, Va. Soldiers Home, July 10, 1886

References

Confederate States Navy commanders
People of Virginia in the American Civil War
Military personnel from Norfolk, Virginia
1827 births
1894 deaths