[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# German occupation of the Channel Islands

0s but had been unable to leave Guernsey as part of the evacuation in 1940 because they were excluded by UK law. Eighteen months later, Steiner alerted the Germans to her presence. The three women were deported to France in April 1942, and were later sent to Auschwitz where they were killed or died.

Freemasons 
Freemasonry was suppressed by the Germans. The Masonic Temples in Jersey and Guernsey were ransacked in January 1941 and furnishings and regalia were seized and taken to Berlin for display. Lists of membership of Masonic lodges were examined. The States in both bailiwicks passed legislation to nationalise Masonic property later in 1941 in order to protect the buildings and assets. The legislatures resisted attempts to pass anti-Masonic measures and no individual Freemason was persecuted for his adherence. Scouting was banned, but continued undercover, as did the Salvation Army.

Deportations 

On specific orders from Adolf Hitler in 1942, the German authorities announced that all residents of the Channel Islands who were not born in the islands, as well as those men who had served as officers in World War I, were to be deported. The majority of them were transported to the south west of Germany, to Ilag V-B at Biberach an der Riss and Ilag VII at Laufen, and to Wurzach. This deportation order was originally issued in 1941, as a reprisal for the 800 German civilians in Iran being deported and interned. The ratio was 20 Channel Islanders to be interned for every German interned but its enactment was delayed and then diluted. The fear of internment caused suicides in all three islands. Guernsey nurse Gladys Skillett, who was five months pregnant at the time of her deportation to Biberach, became the first Channel Islander to give birth while in captivity in Germany. Of the 2,300 deported, 45 would die before the war ended.

Imprisonment 
In Jersey, 22 islanders are recognised as having died as a consequence of having been sent to Nazi prisons and concentration camps. They are commemorated on Holocaust Memorial Day:

 Clifford Cohu: clergyman, arrested for acts of defiance including preaching against the Germans
 Walter Allen Dauny: sentenced for theft
 Arthur Dimmery: sentenced for digging up a buried wireless set for Saint Saviour wireless network
 George James Fox: sentenced for theft
 Louisa Gould: arrested for sheltering an escaped slave worker
 Maurice Jay Gould: arrested following a failed attempt to escape to England
 James Edward Houillebecq: deported following discovery of stolen gun parts and ammunition
 Peter Bruce Johnson: Australian, deported
 Frank René Le Villio: deported for serious military larceny
 William Howard Marsh: arrested for spreading BBC news
 Edward Peter Muels: arrested for helping a German soldier to desert
 John Whitley Nicolle: sentenced as ringleader of Saint Saviour wireless network
 Léonce L'Hermitte Ogier: advocate, arrested for possession of maps of fortifications and a camera, died in internment following imprisonment
 Frederick William Page: sentenced for failing to surrender a wireless set
 Clarence Claude Painter: arrested following a raid that discovered a wireless set, cameras, and photographs of military objects
 Peter Painter: son of Clarence Painter, arrested with his father when a pistol was found in his wardrobe
 Emile Paisnel: sentenced for receiving stolen articles
 Clifford Bond Quérée: sentenced for receiving stolen articles
 Marcel Fortune Rossi, Jr.: deported as a person of Italian heritage
 June Sinclair: hotel worker, sentenced for slapping a German soldier who made improper advances
 John (Jack) Soyer: sentenced for possession of a wireless, escaped from prison in France
 Joseph Tierney: first member of Saint Saviour wireless network to be arrested

In Guernsey, the following are recognised as having died

 Sidney Ashcroft: convicted of serious theft and resistance to officials in 1942. Died in Naumburg prison.
 Joseph Gillingham: was one of the islanders involved in the Guernsey Underground News Service (GUNS). Died in Naumburg prison.
 Marianne Grunfeld: Jewish adult sent to Auschwitz concentration camp
 John Ingrouille: aged 15, found guilty of treason and espionage and sentenced to five years hard labour. Died in Brussels after release in 1945.
 Charles Machon: brainchild of GUNS. Died in .
 Percy Miller: sentenced to 15 months for wireless offences. Died in Frankfurt prison.
 Marie Ozanne: refused to accept the ban placed on the Salvation Army. Died in Guernsey hospital after leaving prison.
 Auguste Spitz: Jewish adult sent to Auschwitz concentration camp
 Therese Steiner: Jewish adult sent to Auschwitz concentration camp
 Louis Symes: sheltered his son 2nd Lt James Symes, who was on a commando mission to the island. Died in Cherche-Midi prison