[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wilhelm Ritter von Thoma

that is still wasted in this senseless war, (is) too bad (zu schade). The only gain, that war brings us, is that... the ten-year gangstergovernment comes to an end". Later he continued: "It would be a shame if one of them got shot. They should be made to forced labor until they peg out(verrecken)."

The British intelligence files describe von Thoma as; "very intelligent and exceedingly well-read... a striking personality and is violently anti-Nazi". He led the anti-Nazi faction at Trent Park and was appointed "camp leader" by the British following the departure of Crüwell to a camp in Canada in the summer of 1944.

In late 1945, Waffen-SS commander Kurt Meyer, captured in Belgium in September 1944 while commanding the 12th SS-Panzer Division "Hitlerjugend", arrived at Trent Park and noted that Thoma, the German camp leader, was "...highly thought of by the English. Relations between him and the guards is excellent".

Post war
In 1946 Thoma's leg was amputated while he was still in British captivity. He was repatriated later that year. Thoma lived in his hometown of Dachau until his death of a heart attack in 1948.

Reception
British military historian B.H. Liddell Hart, who interviewed him after the war, said that Thoma was "the most famous of the original German tank leaders next to Guderian":A tough but likeable type, he is obviously a born enthusiast who lives in a world of tanks, loves fighting for the zest of it, but would fight without ill-feeling, respecting any worthy opponent. In the Middle Ages he would have been perfectly happy as a knight-errant, challenging all comers at any cross-road for the honour of crossing spears with them. The advent of the tank in warfare was a godsend to such a man, giving him a chance to re-live the part of the mail-clad knight.
Churchill's high regard for Thoma is evident from his many later quotations of Thoma's opinions on strategic matters, especially in his book about the war. After Montgomery invited Thoma to dine with him in his private trailer, Churchill remarked: "I sympathize with General von Thoma: Defeated, in captivity and... (long pause for dramatic effect) dinner with Montgomery".

Awards
(First World War)
 Iron Cross, 2nd Class, 17 October 1914 
 Iron Cross, 1st Class, 3 June 1915
 Military Order of Max Joseph, Knight's Cross, 5 July 1916
 Military Merit Order, 4th Class with Swords, 16 November 1914
 Austrian Military Merit Cross, 3rd Class with War Decoration, 5 April 1916
 Wound Badge 1918 version in Silver, 22 November 1916
 Honour Cross of the World War 1914/1918, early 1935
(Spanish Civil War)
 German Spanish Cross in Gold with Swords and Diamonds
 Spanish Military Medal with Diamonds
 Spanish Campaign Medal
 Condor Legion Tank Badge, in Gold. Unique version of the standard silver badge, presented by the men of his command at the Nationalist Victory Day Parade in Madrid on 19 May 1939.
(Second World War)
 Wehrmacht Long Service Award, 4th–1st class
 Clasp to the Iron Cross, 1st class
 Clasp to the Iron Cross, 2nd class
 Eastern Front Medal, mid 1942 
 Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross on 31 December 1941 as Generalmajor and commander of the 20th Panzer Division

Notes

References

Citations

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1891 births
1948 deaths
People from Dachau
Opposers who participated in the Beer Hall Putsch
Generals of Panzer Troops
Condor Legion personnel
Military personnel from Bavaria
Military personnel from the Kingdom of Bavaria
Recipients of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross
Knights of the Military Order of Max Joseph
Recipients of the clasp to the Iron Cross, 1st class
German prisoners of war in World War II held by the United Kingdom
World War I prisoners of war held by France
German prisoners of war in World War I
Reichswehr personnel
German Army personnel of World War I