[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# History of the Spanish language

have sometimes replaced each other in words derived from Latin, French and other sources. For example, Spanish milagro, "miracle", is derived from Latin miraculum. More rarely, this process has involved consonants like  and  (as in alma, from Latin anima). Here is an incomplete list of such words:

 ancla, "anchor", Latin ancora
 albedrío, "will, whim, fancy", Latin arbitrium, "judgment, decision, will" (arbitrio is a learned form, i.e.: loanword from Classical Latin)
 algalia, "catheter",  ergaleía, "tools"
 alimaña, "pest", almaje "livestock", Latin animalĭa, "animals"
 alma, "soul", Latin anima
 alondra, "lark", Latin alaudula
 altramuz, "lupin", Hispanic Arabic at-tarmūs
 árbol, "tree", Latin arbor
 Argelia, "Algeria (nation)"
 azufre, sulfur, Latin sulphur
 azul, "blue",  lāzaward "lapis lazuli" (cf. medieval Latin azura, French azure)
 blandir, "to brandish", French brandir
 bolsa, "bag, purse", Latin bursa
 cárcel, "prison", Latin carcer (cf. English "incarcerate")
 calambre, "cramp, electric shock", French crampe
 Catalina, Latin Catharina (proper name; Catarina is a learned form; i.e. loanword from Classical Latin)
 chaflán, "chamfer", French chanfrein.
 cilantro, "coriander", Latin coriandrum
 cimbrar, "shake (a stick), sway, swish", Latin cymula, "sprout, shoot (of plant)"
 coronel, "colonel", French colonel, from Italian colonnello
 Cristóbal, Germanic Christoffer, from Latin Christopherus (proper name)
 cuartel, "quarter", French quartier
 dintel, "lintel", Old French lintel
 escolta, "escort", Italian scorta
 espuela, "spur", Gothic *spaúra (cf. French éperon)
 estrella, "star", from Latin stella (cf. Italian stella, French étoile)
 flete, "freight, cargo", French fret
 fraile, "friar", Provençal fraire, from Latin frater, "brother"
 franela, "flannel", French flanelle
 frasco, "flask", Germanic flasko
 guirnalda, "garland", older Spanish guirlanda, cf. French guirlande
 golondrina, "swallow (bird)", Latin hirundo
 lirio, "lily, iris", Latin lilium
 mármol, "marble", Latin marmor
 miércoles, "Wednesday", Latin Mercuri [dies], "Mercury's [day]"
 milagro, "miracle", Latin miraculum
 nivel, "level", Latin libellum, "little balance", from libra, "balance"
 olor, "smell, scent", Latin odor
 papel, "paper", Catalan paper, Latin papyrus
 palabra, "word", Latin parabola
 peligro, "danger", Latin periculum (cf. English "peril")
 plática, "chat, conversation", Latin practica
 quilate, "carat",  qīrāṭ "carat" <       "carob seed" (cf. Italian carato)
 recluta, "recruit", French recrute
 regaliz(a), "liquorice", Late Latin liquiritia
 roble, "oak", Latin robur, "strong"
 silo, "silo", Latin sirus from Greek siros, "pit for storing grain"
 surco, "groove, furrow", Latin sulcus
 taladro, "drill", Latin tarātrum < Celtic tarātron
 temblar, "tremble", Latin tremulāre
 templar, "temper, warm up", Latin temperō"
 tiniebla(s), "darkness", Latin tenebraeYeísmo

Documents from as early as the 15th century show occasional evidence of sporadic confusion between the phoneme  (generally spelled ⟨y⟩) and the palatal lateral  (spelled ⟨ll⟩).  The distinction is maintained in spelling, but in most dialects of Modern Spanish, the two have merged into the same, non-lateral palatal sound. Thus, for example, most Spanish-speakers have the same pronunciation for haya (from the verb haber) as for halla (from hallar). The phonemic merger is called yeísmo, based on one name for the letter ⟨y⟩.

Yeismo is a trait of the Andalusian dialect, among others. Since more than half of the early settlers of Spanish America came from Andalusia, most Spanish-speaking regions of the Americas have yeísmo, but there are pockets in which the sounds are still distinguished. Native-speakers of neighboring languages, such as Galician, Astur-Leonese, Basque, Aragonese, Occitan and Catalan, usually do not feature yeísmo in their Spanish since those languages retain the  phoneme.

A related trait that has also been documented sporadically for several hundred years is rehilamiento'' (literally "whizzing"), the pronunciation of  as a sibilant fricative  or even an affricate , which is common among non-native Spanish speakers as well. The current pronunciation varies greatly depending on the geographical dialect and sociolect (with , especially, stigmatized except at the beginning of a word).  Rioplatense Spanish (of Argentina and Uruguay) is particularly known for the pronunciation  of both  and original . A further development, the unvoiced pronunciation , during the second half of the twentieth century came to characterize the speech of "most younger residents of Buenos Aires" and continues to spread throughout Argentina.