[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Srikanth Deva

Srikanth Deva is an Indian music director of Tamil films. He made his debut as music director in the Tamil movie Doubles in 2000. He is the son of composer Deva, nephew of the famous music director duo Sabesh–Murali and the cousin of actor Jai. In 2023, Srikanth Deva was awarded Best Music Director by Indian Government for composing music for a Tamil short Film called 'Karuvarai'.

Personal life
Srikanth studied at Santhome Higher Secondary School from 6th to 7th grade, and later, he shifted to Valasaravakkam. He started his 8th to 10th grade at St. John's Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Alwarthirunagar. Srikanth studied at Santhome Higher Secondary School from 6th to 7th grade, and later, he shifted to Valasaravakkam. He started his 8th to 10th grade at St. John's Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Alwarthirunagarmarried Febi Mani on 21 February 2005 at Chennai. Their first daughter Varanya, was born in 2007.

Early life 
Srikanth Deva attanded Santhome Higher Secondary School from 6th to 7th grade, and later, he shifted to Valasaravakkam. He started his 8th to 10th grade at St. John's Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Alwarthirunagar.

In his young age, Srikanth Deva used to play musical instruments in Gangai Amaran, Deepan Chakravarthy, and Malaysia Vasudevan's Katcheri.Sriaknth had Troop (band) along with his friends called "Surabi".

Career 
Srikanth Deva started his career in film Pudhu Manithan as Keyboardist. He played song  "Angam Unathu Angam" in that film. Later Srikanth Deva started working with is father Deva on more than 300 films.

In 2000 Srikanth made his debuted as music director in Doubles (film) which is directed by Pandiarajan.

He made his next film in 2004 with silambarasan's Kuththu.Same year he worked for M. Kumaran Son of Mahalakshmi which won Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Music Director for Srikanth Deva.

Srikanth Deva made his 100th film  Priyamudan Priya is released on 5 August 2023.

Discography

Released projects

Upcoming projects

Singer
"Mummy Chellama" (Jore)
 "Aasaiyilla" (Kathavarayan)
 "Azhagazhaghai" (Madhikettan Saalai)
 "Coimbatore Coimbatore" (Githan)
 "Kadhal Kirukka" (Kadhal Kirukkan)
 "Kaalaiyum Neeye", "Nyokka Makka" (Madurai Veeran)
 "Love in minor" (Nepali)
 "Machaan" (Machaan)
 "Mayile Mayile" (Aalwar)
 "Miya Miya" (Aai)
 "Naan Tholaithuvitten" (Ivanum Panakkaran)
 "Pachaikili", "Pottuthakku" (Kuthu)
 "Sudamani" (Ragalaipuram)
 "Topclass" (Puli Vesham)

Filmography

References

External links
 

Tamil film score composers
Living people
Tamil Nadu State Film Awards winners
Tamil playback singers
1980 births