[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jimbo Fisher

ed 12th, but suffered losses to then-ranked top-10 teams including Clemson, Alabama, Auburn, Georgia, and LSU. Texas A&M became the first team to face three teams ranked #1 at the time of the matchup. The Aggies received an invitation to the 2019 Texas Bowl, where they defeated Oklahoma State 24–21.

During the COVID-19-shortened conference-only 2020 season, Fisher led the Aggies to a 9–1 record, which earned the team the No. 4 ranking in the AP Poll, the highest postseason ranking for the Aggies since the 1939 season. Texas A&M finished fifth in the College Football Playoff final poll, becoming the first team out of the field.The team qualified for the Orange Bowl, where they defeated North Carolina 41–27.

Prior to the 2021 season, the Texas A&M Board of Regents voted to extend Fisher's contract through the 2031 season. Beginning January 1, 2022, Fisher will be paid $9 million annually. If he was to be fired without cause before December 1, 2021, he would have been owed $95.6 million – the largest buyout clause in college football history. As was part of the original contract signed in 2018, if Jimbo chooses to leave Texas A&M for another coaching position, he will not owe any money to the school.

Fisher's Aggies entered the 2021 season ranked No. 6 in the preseason standings, but after a 3–0 start but losing the starting quarterback Haynes King to injury, they lost to then-ranked No. 16 Arkansas and unranked Mississippi State. Following two consecutive losses the Aggies defeated then-No. 1 ranked Alabama at home. With the win several records were broken. Fisher became the first former assistant coach of Nick Saban to defeat him, shattering Saban's then-perfect 24–0 record. The Aggies capitalized on the Alabama win with three consecutive SEC victories over unranked Missouri, South Carolina, and then-ranked No. 13 Auburn, but suffered losses to then-ranked No. 15 Ole Miss and unranked LSU. The team received an invite to the Gator Bowl, but opted out of the game due to COVID-19 issues. The 2021 team finished with an 8–4 record, ranked No. 25 in the final Coaches Poll and unranked in the final AP Poll.

The Aggies would enter the 2022 with high expectations, ranked #6 in the country. They lost six of their first nine games, including a shocking upset loss to unranked Appalachian State in the Aggies' second game. The Aggies suffered through a six-game losing streak during the season. 2022 marked the first time the Aggies had lost six consecutive games since the 1972 season. The team finished with a 5–7 mark, missing a bowl game, but ending the season on a positive note with an upset 38–23 victory over #5 LSU.

Personal life
Jimbo met his second wife, Courtney Harrison Fisher, during his coaching days at FSU. They married in the summer of 2020 and reside in College Station. Fisher has two sons from a previous marriage, Trey and Ethan, and a stepson Keller. Fisher's brother, Bryan, was the offensive coordinator at Fairmont State University and is now a teacher and runs the family farm and his mother, Gloria, teaches chemistry at Robert C. Byrd High School in Clarksburg, WV. 

Fisher's son Ethan was diagnosed in 2011 with Fanconi anemia, a rare genetic disease. The diagnosis prompted Ethan's parents, Jimbo and Candi, to begin a national foundation, https://Kidz1stFund.com Kidz1stFund.  The non-profit funds critical research of Fanconi anemia. The University of Minnesota's Masonic Children's Hospital rechristened its FA program the Kidz1stFund Fanconi Anemia Comprehensive Care Center. 

Fisher's oldest son Trey attended the University of Tennessee at Martin where he played quarterback for the football team. He later transferred to Florida A&M.

Fisher became known as "Jimbo" as a child because his family already had several members who went by "Jim." Some media outlets following a Wikipedia hoax created by Fisher's son Trey, have said that Fisher was known as "Slim Jimbo" because of an "affinity for meat snacks" (an example is Slim Jim brand beef jerky), and that Fisher planned to start an organic jerky company after leaving the coaching profession. Fisher denied these reports in an interview, noting that while he enjoyed beef jerky, he had no intention of starting a company and it had nothing to do with his nickname.

Awards
1987: Division III National Player of the Year
2001: Broyles Assistant Coach of the Year Award finalist
2013: AFCA Regional Coach of the Year
2013: Rawlings Football College Coach of the Year

Head coaching record

Notes

References

External links
Coaching statistics at Sports-Reference.com
Texas A&M Aggies bio