[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brett Finch

Channel 9 at the end of 2016, citing mental health issues.

In 2017, Finch began working for Fox Sports.

In 2018, Finch married his partner of 5 years Elli Johnston, who in 2019 gave birth to the couple's only daughter, Mackenzie. In May 2023, it was reported that the two were "no longer together".

On 24 October 2019, The Sydney Morning Herald reported that Finch checked himself into a mental health facility after an incident on an interstate flight. Concerns were raised after Finch was seen asleep with a bloody nose on a flight from Sydney to the Gold Coast. One witness was quoted as saying "He looked like he couldn’t bring himself to get off the plane. White as a ghost, couldn’t control his runny nose and (appeared) paranoid. He wasn’t abusive. He just didn’t want to get off the plane, like he was scared about something".

In late September Finch joined the YKTR Sports organisation, run by former rugby league player Isaac John. On 30 September Finch launched his podcast, Brett Finch Uncensored, with Brad Fittler featuring as his first guest. The podcast ran independently to YKTR Sports.

Child abuse material
On 14 December 2021, Finch was arrested and charged with five counts of sharing child abuse material.
In May 2022, NSW Police laid an additional two charges which included using a carriage service to make available child abuse material. In August 2022, Finch pleaded guilty to one count of using a carriage service to make available child abuse material. The other charges were dropped.
On 23 November 2022, Finch avoided a custodial sentence and was handed a two-year community sentence. A conviction was recorded with Finch also needing to obey strict probation conditions along with seeing a psychologist for a 12-month period.

References

External links
 
 State of Origin Official website Rugby League Player Stats

1981 births
Living people
Australian rugby league players
Canberra Raiders players
Country New South Wales Origin rugby league team players
Fox Sports (Australian TV network) people
Maitland Pickers players
Melbourne Storm players
NRL All Stars players
New South Wales Rugby League State of Origin players
Parramatta Eels players
Australian people convicted of child pornography offences
Prime Minister's XIII players
Rugby league five-eighths
Rugby league players from Maitland, New South Wales
Sydney Roosters players
Valentine-Eleebana Red Devils players
Wigan Warriors players