[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# T'Chaka

HYDRA invasion during World War II, before later dying under unspecified circumstances.

Film
T'Chaka appears in Ultimate Avengers II, voiced by Dave Fennoy. This version possessed the ability to transform into a humanoid black panther, and was killed by Nazi-disguised Chitauri general Herr Kleiser.

Marvel Cinematic Universe
John Kani portrays T'Chaka in media set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU):
He first physically appears in Captain America: Civil War. During a meeting ratifying the Sokovian Accords at the Vienna International Center, T'Chaka is killed by an explosion. The Winter Soldier was originally believed to be behind the attack, but it was later discovered that he was framed by Helmut Zemo.
Kani reprises his role as T'Chaka in 2018's Black Panther. In the film's prologue, T'Chaka learned his brother N'Jobu (instead of S'Yan) was plotting acts of open insurrection with plans to have Wakanda take a more aggressive foreign policy to fight the social injustice he witnessed in his assigned country. T'Chaka confronted N'Jobu. When N'Jobu attacked, he was killed by T'Chaka in defense of Zuri (who was acting as a spy the whole time). Distressed at this act and concerned about maintaining Wakanda's security above all else, T'Chaka chose to promptly return to his nation and left Erik abandoned as a child orphan. T'Challa would learn of this act and the resulting cover-up by his late father. While visiting the ancestor lands, T'Challa learned of T'Chaka's actions and tells him and the previous Black Panthers before him that he will lead Wakanda in a manner differently to them for the purpose of correcting T'Chaka's past mistakes.
Kani voices alternate versions of T'Chaka in the Disney+ animated series What If...? episodes "What If... T'Challa Became a Star-Lord?" and "What If... Killmonger Rescued Tony Stark?".

References

External links
 T'Chaka at Marvel Wiki
 T'Chaka at Comic Vine

Black characters in films
African superheroes
Characters created by Jack Kirby
Characters created by Stan Lee
Comics characters introduced in 1966
Fictional World War II veterans
Male characters in film
Marvel Comics characters who can move at superhuman speeds
Marvel Comics martial artists
Marvel Comics characters with accelerated healing
Marvel Comics characters with superhuman durability or invulnerability
Marvel Comics characters with superhuman senses
Marvel Comics characters with superhuman strength
Marvel Comics male superheroes
Jungle superheroes
Wakandans