[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006 St. Louis Rams season

in the quarter. Jeff Wilkins made the extra point giving the Rams a 14–10 lead. The Packers connected on a 32-yard field goal with 0:03 left in the quarter cutting the lead down to one.

The only points in the third quarter were on a 31-yard field goal by Wilkins, increasing the Rams lead to 17–13.

Jeff Wilkins made two more field goals in the fourth quarter, one with 14:57 remaining in the quarter and another with 9:27 remaining, which gave the Rams a 23–13 lead. Brett Favre completed a 46-yard touchdown pass to Greg Jennings with 6:42 left in the game. The extra point was good. The Packers attempted a late comeback, but Favre fumbled the ball on the Rams' 13-yard line. It was recovered by Jerametrius Butler. The Rams took a knee ending the game with the Rams winning, 23–20, and improving to 4–1.

Steven Jackson ended the game with 98 yards on the ground on 23 carries. Bulger completed 18 passes on 28 attempts for 220 yards and two touchdowns.

Week 6: vs. Seattle Seahawks 

at Edward Jones Dome, St. Louis, Missouri

Hoping to keep their three-game winning streak going, the Rams returned home for an NFC West fight with the Seattle Seahawks. The Rams struck first, as QB Marc Bulger completed a 9-yard TD pass to WR Torry Holt. Yet, the Seahawks responded with QB Matt Hasselbeck completing a 14-yard TD pass to WR Deion Branch. In the second quarter, St. Louis began pulling away, as RB Steven Jackson ran 2 yards for a touchdown and the duo of Bulger and Holt hooked up again with a 10-yard TD pass. In the third quarter, the Seahawks started to creep back as Hasselbeck completed a 42-yard TD pass to WR Darrell Jackson. In the fourth quarter, Seattle managed to take the lead with kicker Josh Brown nailing a 49-yard field goal, Hasselbeck throwing a 19-yard TD pass to Branch, and Brown kicking another 49-yard field goal. The Rams responded with Bulger and Holt completing a 67-yard TD pass. The Seahawks won as Brown kicked a 54-yard field goal as time ran out, giving Seattle a three-game winning streak against St. Louis. This game was marred by controversy as the 10-second run-off rule did not apply on the last play of the game, giving Josh Brown the chance to win the game. With the loss, the Rams headed into their bye week 4–2.

Week 8: at San Diego Chargers 

at Qualcomm Stadium, San Diego, California

Coming off of their bye week, the Rams flew to Qualcomm Stadium for their Week 8 match-up with the San Diego Chargers. From the get-go, St. Louis trailed as RB LaDainian Tomlinson got a 2-yard TD run and a 38-yard TD run in the first quarter. In the second quarter, the Rams started to retaliate as RB Steven Jackson got a 3-yard TD run for the only score of the period. In the third quarter, things started to get ugly for St. Louis as Chargers free safety Marlon McCree returned a fumble 79 yards for a touchdown. The Rams responded with kicker Jeff Wilkins nailing a 34-yard field goal, yet Chargers kicker Nate Kaeding made a 31-yard field goal. In the fourth quarter, it was back and forth with touchdowns. San Diego RB Michael Turner got a 14-yard TD run, while Rams QB Marc Bulger completed a 7-yard TD pass to WR Shaun McDonald. Afterwards, Chargers QB Philip Rivers completed a 25-yard TD pass to Tomlinson, while Bulger completed a 6-yard TD pass to WR Kevin Curtis. However, San Diego got the win, as St. Louis fell to 4–3.

Week 9: vs. Kansas City Chiefs 

at Edward Jones Dome, St. Louis, Missouri

Hoping to rebound from the road loss to the Chargers, the Rams went home for Week 9, as they fought the Kansas City Chiefs in a “Show Me State Showdown”. The Chiefs struck first as RB Larry Johnson got a 1-yard TD run for the only score of the period. In the second quarter, things got worse for the Rams as QB Damon Huard completed a 3-yard TD pass to TE Tony Gonzalez, while kicker Lawrence Tynes nailed a 42-yard field goal. St. Louis got on the board with RB Steven Jackson getting a 2-yard TD run, yet Huard and Gonzalez hooked up with each other again on a 25-yard TD strike. Rams kicker Jeff Wilkins made a 41-yard field goal to end the half. In the third quarter, QB Marc Bulger completed a 2-yard TD pass to WR Kevin Curtis for the only score of the period, yet the only score of the fourth quarter came from Huard completing an 11-yard TD pass to TE Kris Wilson. With the loss, the Rams fell to 4–4.

Week 10: at Seattle Seahawks 

at Qwest Field, Seattle