[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 39]
# Bibliography of the American Civil War

War-era ambrotype and tintype photographs of Union and Confederate soldiers. The collection's detailed portraits document the soldier uniforms, weapons, musical instruments and other possessions and include significant representation of African American troops and the families of soldiers.

Memoirs

 Anderson, Ephraim McD. Memoirs, Historical and Personal, Including the Campaigns of the First Missouri Confederate Brigade, ed. by Edwin C. Bearss. Dayton, Ohio: Morningside, 1972.
 Armes, Augustus. Ups and Downs of an Army Officer. Washington, D.C.: no publisher listed, 1900.
 Aschmann, Rudolf. Memoirs of a Swiss Officer in the American Civil War, Heinz K. Meier, ed. Bern, Switzerland: Herbert Lang, 1972.
 Baird, W. David, editor. A Creek Warrior for the Confederacy: The Autobiography of Chief G.W. Greyson. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1988.
 Ballard, Alfred. Gone for a Soldier: The Civil War Memoirs of Private Alfred Ballard, edited by David Herbert Donald. Boston: Little, Brown, 1975.
 Bancroft, Frederic and William A. Dunning, eds. The Reminiscences of Carl Schurz, five volumes. New York: The McClure Company, 1908.
 Barney, Chester. Recollections of Field Service with the Twentieth Iowa Infantry Volunteers; or, What I Saw in the Army; Embracing Accounts of Marches, Battles, Sieges, and Skirmished in Missouri, Arkansas, Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama, Florida, Texas, and along the Northern Border of Mexico. Davenport, Iowa: Davenport Gazette, 1865.
 Bassett, Edward. From Bull Run to Bristow Station, edited by M.H. Bassett. St. Paul, Minnesota: North Central Publishing, 1962.
 Bates, David Homer. Lincoln in the Telegraph Office: Recollections of the United States Military Telegraph Corps during the Civil War. New York: Century Co., 1907.
 Beale, G.W. A Lieutenant of Cavalry in Lee's Army. Boston: Gorham Press, 1918.
 Benson, Susan Williams, ed. Berry Benson's Civil War Book: Memoirs of a Confederate Scout and Sharpshooter. Athens: University of Georgia Press, 1992.
 Benton, Charles E. As Seen from the Ranks: A Boy in the Civil War. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons, 1902.
 Billings, John D. Hardtack and Coffee, or the Unwritten Story of Army Life. Boston, Massachusetts: G. M. Smith, 1887.
 Bloodgood, John D. Personal Reminiscences of the War. New York: Hunt and Eaton, 1893.
 Booth, George W. Personal Reminiscences of a Maryland Soldier in the War Between the States. Baltimore, Maryland: Fleet, McGinley and Co., 1898.
 Borton, Benjamin. Awhile with the Blue; Or, Memories of War Days, the True Story of a Private. Passaic, New Jersey: William Taylor, 1898.
 Bowen, Ronald. From Ball's Bluff to Gettysburg . . . And Beyond, edited by Gregory A. Coco. Gettysburg, Pennsylvania: Thomas Publications, 1994.
 Brainerd, Wesley. Bridge Building in Wartime: Colonel Wesley Brainerd's Memoir of the 50th New York Volunteer Engineers, edited by Ed Malles. Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press, 1997.
 Brown, Augustus C. The Diary of a Line Officer. New York: no publisher listed, 1906.
 Brown, Kent Masterson, ed. One of Morgan's Men: Memoirs of Lieutenant John M. Porter of the Ninth Kentucky Cavalry. Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 2011. .
 Buell, Augustus. "The Cannoneer": Recollections of Service in the Army of the Potomac. Washington, D.C.: National Tribune, 1890.
 Casler, John O. Four Years in the Stonewall Brigade. Girard, Kansas: Appeal Publishing Co., 1906.
 Clark, Willene B., ed. Valleys of the Shadow: The Memoir of Confederate Captain Reuben G. Clark, Company I, 59th Tennessee Mounted Infantry. Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press, 1994.
 Cochrane, John. The War for the Union: Memoir of Gen. John Cochrane. New York: no publisher listed, 1875.
 Cockrell, Monroe F., ed. Gunner with Stonewall: Reminiscences of William Thomas Poague. Jackson, Tennessee: McCowat–Mercer, 1957.
 Cole, Jacob H. Under Five Commanders: Or, a Boy's Experiences with the Army of the Potomac. Paterson, New Jersey: New Print, 1906.
 Cox, Jacob D. Military Reminiscences of the Civil War, two volumes. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1910.
 Cozzens, Peter, and Robert I. Girardi, eds. The Military Memoirs of General John Pope. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1998.
 Crotty, D.B. Four Years Campaigning in the Army of the Potomac. Grand Rapids, Michigan: Dygert Brothers, 1874.
 Dana, Charles A. A Recollection of the Civil War with the Leaders at Washington and in the Field in the Sixties. New York: D. Appleton, 1899.
 Davis, Varina H. Jefferson Davis, Ex–President of the Confederate States of America: A Memoir by His Wife, two volumes. New York, 1890.
 Dawes, Rufus R. Service with the Sixth Wisconsin Volunteers. Marietta, Ohio: E. R. Alderman & Sons, 1890.
 Douglas, Henry Kyd. I Rode with Stonewall. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1940.
 Du Forest, John W. A Volunteer's Adventures: A Union Captain's Record of the Civil War, James W. Croushore, ed. New Haven, Connecticut: Yale University Press, 1946.