[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Christianity in Australia

hat time, banded together into a loose federation known as the Toowoomba Christian Leaders' Network.  This network, views itself as having a divine mission to 'take the city for the Lord' and as such, endorses elements of religious right-wing political advocacy. Other churches in Toowooomba include:

The Christian Outreach Centre (now International Network of Churches) established a presence with the Highlands Church, which created the Christian Outreach College Toowoomba, now Highlands Christian College.
The Toowoomba Christian Fellowship has attracted publicity for the cult-like manner in which it operates. It was suggested in 2012 that it could become one of the largest mega-churches in Australia.
The Range Christian Fellowship in Blake Street, originally formed with 300 adherents in 1997 as a protest to the acceptance of homosexuality, has become known for bizarre manifestations and phenomena associated with the Toronto blessing and the North American movements mentioned above. This has included squealing, holy laughter, an inability to stand or sit, retching as though experiencing child-birth, moments of religious ecstasy and emotional euphoria, uttering apocalyptic prophecies and the use of textile banners that are believed to have special powers emanating from divinely inspired designs.  Some former adherents of this church, who have regarded themselves as spiritually elite, have at times displayed cultish tendencies.  The Range Christian Fellowship became strongly influenced by end-times conspiracy prophecies associated with Y2K, when members of this church planned for a total collapse of modern society. In the period following this, some church members displayed obsessive and highly superstitious behaviour in regard to the Prayer of Jabez doctrine.
Revival Ministries of Australia Shiloh Centre in Russel Street has a sole focus on the concept of revivalism, founded on precepts of spiritual warfare Christianity and a belief in a providential purpose for the city of Toowoomba as a hub of religious revival.  This church was formed following a schism with the Range Christian Fellowship and has carried with it some of the manifestations of religious ecstasy associated with that congregation.  Many of its members were active during the 1990s, as part of the now defunct Rangeville Uniting Church Toowoomba. They claim that through this action they took control of the demonic territorial Spirits (evil spirits) that were making the city both sinful and resistant to the gospel message. Following this, it was expected and predicted (at times through prophecies) that a great revival of Christian faith including thousands of new conversions would follow, in addition to a reduced crime rate, phenomenal church growth, improved morality, general prosperity among the population and the installation of men and women of God into government. There were further claims that this action had placed Toowoomba strategically to be a hub of the anticipated great Australian revival. This expectation of a citywide transformation, based on the teaching of North American Christian-mystic preacher George Otis Jr, failed to materialise.

Christianity and the wider culture
Christianity held strong influence in Australia society after British colonisation, but the influence of Christianity declined in the latter part of the 20th century.

Marriage 

The Anglican Church has said that churches are being sidelined in the wider debate on same-sex marriage.

The ACT Attorney-General, Simon Corbell has said, in the ACT, it will be, "unlawful for those who provide goods, services and facilities in the wedding industry to discriminate against another person on the basis of their sexuality or their relationship status. This includes discrimination by refusing to provide or make available those goods, services or facilities." During the short time that same-sex marriages took place in ACT a Uniting Church minister sought and acquired permission to perform same sex marriages.

Media 
Liberal senator Eric Abetz has said that media felt comfortable vilifying Christian politicians. Conservative politicians are often described as being "extreme" or from the "Religious Right".  He said that the Canberra press gallery gives, "more positive coverage to politicians and policies they agreed with".

Schools 
The Anglican Church has criticised the Victorian government for cutting religious education in state schools.

Some Christians have criticised the Safe Schools program (which is used in 400 primary and secondary schools)  as "radical sexual experimentation". The program includes information about human sexuality and sexual orientations, as well as gender identity.

Life issues 
Some Christians have objected to proposals to establish buffer zones around abortion clinics in both Victoria and Tasmania saying they limit the freedom to protest.

See also

 National Council of Churches in Australia
 Separation of church and state in Australia

References